ANNUAL REPORT OF THE 
BOARD OF REGENTS OF 

THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION 

SHOWING THE 

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND 
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION 
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30 

1939 




(Publication 3555) 



UNITED STATES 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON: 1940 



For (ale by the Superintendent of Documentt, Wathingtoo, D. C> ..-•-. Price ?1. SO (cloth cover) 



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington^ December ^, 1939. 
To the Congress of tTie, United States: 

In accordance with section 5593 of the Kevised Statutes of the 
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents, 
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi- 
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended 
June 30, 1939. I have the honor to be, 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

C. G. Abbot, Secreta'ry. 



ni 



CONTENTS 

Pag« 

List of oflBcials ix 

Outstanding events 1 

Summary of the year's activities of the branches of the Institution 2 

The establishment 7 

The Board of Regents 7 

Finances 8 

Matters of general interest 8 

The Smithsonian Gallery of Art 8 

Smithsonian radio program 10 

Walter Rathbone Bacon traveling scholarship 12 

Smithsonian Institution Employees Retirement System 13 

New Exhibits in the Smithsonian main hall 13 

Eighth Arthur lecture 14 

Explorations and field work 15 

Publications 16 

Library 17 

Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum 19 

2. Report on the National Gallery of Art 32 

3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts 47 

4. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art 52 

5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology 56 

6. Report on the International Exchange Service 65 

7. Report on the National Zoological Park 76 

8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory 106 

9. Report on the Division of Radiation and Organisms 112 

10. Report on the library 119 

11. Report on publications - 126 

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents 133 

GENERAL APPENDIX 

Is there life in other worlds? by H. Spencer Jones, F. R. S - 145 

Use of solar energy for heating water, by F. A, Brooks 157 

The fringe of the sun; nebuhum and coronium, by C. G. James 183 

Our knowledge of atomic nuclei, by G. P. Ham well, Ph. D 189 

Spectroscopy in industry, by George R. Harrison, Ph. D 203 

Physical science in the crime-detection laboratory, by J. Edgar Hoover 215 

Physical interpretation of the weather, by Edgar W. Woolard 223 

Hurricanes into New England: meteorology of the storm of September 21, 

1938, by Charles F. Brooks 241 

Humanity in geological perspective, by Herbert L. Hawkins, D. Sc, 

F. R. S., F. G. S 253 

Geologic exhibits in the National Zoological Park, by R. S. Bassler _ 265 

The structure of the earth as revealed by seismology, by Ernest A. 

Hodgson 281 

V 



VI CONTENTS 

FaK* 

Our petroleum supply, by Hugh D. Miser 303 

Biologic balance on the farm, by W. L. McAtee 319 

On the frontier of British Guiana and Brazil, by Capt. H. Carington 

Smith, R. E 325 

The sea bird as an individual: results of ringing experiments, by R. M. 

Lockley 341 

Birds and the wind, by Neil T. McMillan 355 

Bookworms, by E. A. Back 365 

The problem of conserving rare native plants, by M. L. Fernald, D. C. L., 

D. Sc 375 

Plankton in the water supply, by Florence E. Meier 393 

Trichinosis in swine and its relationship to public health, by Benjamin 

Schwartz 413 

Closing the gap at Tepe Gawra, by E. A. Speiser 437 

Sun worship, by Herbert J. Spinden 447 

The use of soapstone by the Indians of the eastern United States, by 

David I. BushneU, Jr 471 

The modern growth of the totem pole on the northwest coast, by Marius 

Barbeau 49 1 

Historic American highways, by Albert C. Rose 499 

Modern trends in air trausport, by W. F. Durand 513 

The story of the Time Capsule, by G. Edward Pendray 533 



LIST OF PLATES 

Secretary's Report: Pagre 

Plates 1, 2 52 

Life in other worlds (Jones) : 

Plates 1-5 156 

Solar energy for water heating (F. A. Brooks) : 

Plates 1-3 182 

Fringe of the sun (James) : 

Plates 1-5 188 

Spectroscopy in industry (Harrison) : 

Plates 1-4 214 

Science in crime detection (Hoover) : 

Plates 1-5 222 

Weather (Woolard) : 

Plates 1-4 240 

Geologic exhibits in National Zoological Park (Bassler) : 

Plates 1-8 280 

Structure of the earth (Hodgson) : 

Plates 1-3 302 

Biologic balance (McAtee) : 

Plates 1, 2 324 

British Guiana and Brazil (Smith) : 

Plates 1-4 340 

Birds and the wind (McMillan) : 

Plates 1-3 364 

Bookworms (Back) : 

Plates 1-18 374 

Rare native plants (Fernald) : 

Plates 1-7 392 

Plankton in water supply (Meier) : 

Plates 1-11 412 

Tepe Gawra (Speiser) : 

Plates 1-12 446 

Sun worship (Spinden) : 

Plates 1-6 470 

Soapstone (Bushnell) : 

Plates 1-10 490 

Totem pole (Barbeau) : 

Plates 1-5 498 

Historic American highways (Rose) : 

Plates 1-18 512 

Time Capsule (Pendray) : 

Plates 1^ ^ „-, ^ 554 

VII 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

June 30, 1939 

Presiding ofjlcer ex offlcio. — Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of tbe United 

States. 
Chancellor. — Chaeles Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States. 

Members of the Institution: 

Franklin D. Roosevej.t, President of the United States. 

John N. Garner, Vice President of the United States. 

Charles Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States. 

Cobdell Hull, Secretary of State. 

HjnsTBY Morgenthau, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury. 

Henry Hines Woodring, Secretary of War. 

Frank Murphy, Attorney General. 

Jawes a. Farley, Postmaster General. 

Claude A. Swanson, Secretary of the Navy. 

Harold L. Ickes, Secret;- ry of the Interior. 

Henry A. Wallace, Seen tary of Agriculture. 

Harry Lloyd Hopkins, Secretary of Commerce. 

Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor. 

Regents of the Institution: 

Charles Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor. 

John N. Garner, Vice President of the United States. 

M. M. Logan, Member of the Senate. 

Charles L. McNary, ISIember of the Senate. 

Alben W. Baekley, Member of the Senate. 

Charles L. Gifford, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Clarence Cannon, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Wiluam p. Cole, Jr., Member of the House of Representatives. 

Frederic A. Delano, citizen of Washington, D. C. 

John C. Merbiam, citizen of Washington, D. C. 

R. Walton Moore, citizen of Virginia. 

Roland S. Moeris, citizen of Pennsylvania. 

Harvey N. Da\t:s, citizen of New Jersey. 

Arthur H. Compton, citizen of Illinois. 
Executive committee.— FvxTmvac A. Delano, John C. Merriam, R. Walton 

Moore. 
Secretary. — Charles G. Abbot. 
Assistant Secretary. — ^Alexander Wetmore. 

Administrative assistant to the Secretary. — Harry W. Dorsey. 
Treasurer. — Nicholas W. Dorset. 
Editor. — Webster P. True. 
Librarian. — William L. Corbin. 
Personnel offlcer.— Helen A. Olmsted. 
Property clerk. — James H. Hnx. 



X ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Keeper ex officio. — Chaeles G. Abbot. 

Assistant Secretary (in charge). — Axexandeb Wetmoee, 

Associate director. — John E. Graf, 

scientific staff 

Depabtment of Anthkopology : 

Frank M. Setzler, head curator; W. H. Egberts, chief preparator. 
Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; W. W. Hill, assistant 
curator; Ai-thur P. Rice, collaborator. 

Section of Ceramics : Samuel W. Woodhouse, collaborator. 
Division of Archeology: Neil M. Judd, curator; Waldo R. Wedel, assistant 
curator ; R. G. Paine, senior scientific aid ; J. Townsend Russell, honorary 
assistant curator of Old World archeology. 
Division of Physical Anthropology: AleS HrdliCka, curator; Thomas D. 
Stewart, associate curator. 
Collaborators in anthropology : George Grant MacCurdy ; D. I. Bush- 

nell, Jr. 
Associate in historic archeology: Cyrus Adler. 
Depabtment of Biology: 

Leonhard Stejneger, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist. 
Division of Mammals: Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., curator; Remington Kellogg, 
assistant curator; H. Harold Shamel, senior scientific aid; A. Brazier 
Howell, collaborator. 
Division of Birds: Herbert Frledmann, curator ; J. H. Riley, associate cura- 
tor; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collections; 
Casey A. Wood, collaborator; Arthur C. Bent, collaborator. 
Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Leonhard Stejneger, curator; Doris 

M. Cochran, assistant curator. 
Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; E. D. Reid, senior scien- 
tific aid. 
Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator ; Edward A. Chapin, 
curator ; William Schaus, honorary assistant curator. 

Section of Hymenoptera : S. A. Rohwer, custodian ; W. M. Mann, assist- 
ant custodian ; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian. 
Section of Myriapoda : O. F. Cook, custodian. 
Section of Diptera : Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian. 
Section of Coleoptera : L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection. 
Section of Lepidoirtera : J. T. Barnes, collaborator. 
Section of Hemiptera : W. L. McAtee, acting custodian. 
Section of Forest Tree Beetles : A. D. Hopkins, custodian. 
Division of Marine Invertebrates: Waldo L. Schmitt, curator; C. R. Shoe- 
maker, assistant curator ; James O. Maloney, aid ; Mrs. Harriet Rich- 
ardson Searle, collaborator; Max M. Ellis, collaborator; Maynard M. 
Metcalf, collaborator; J. Percy Moore, collaborator; Joseph A. Cushman, 
collaborator in Foraminifera ; Charles Branch Wilson, collaborator in 
Copepoda. 
Division of Mollusks: Paul Bartsch, curator; Harald A. Rehder, assistant 
curator; Joseph P. E. Morrison, senior scientific aid. 

Section of Helminthological Collections : Benjamin Schwartz, 
collaborator. 
Division of Echinoderma: Austin H. Clark, curator. 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 XI 

Depaetment of Biology — Continued. 

Division of Plants (National Herbarium): W. R. Maxon, curator; Ells- 
worth P. Killip, associate curator ; Emmery C. Leonard, assistant curator ; 
Conrad V. Morton, assistant curator; Egbert H. Walker, aid; John A. 
Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd mycological collection. 
Section of Grasses: Agnes Chase, custodian. 

Section of Cryptogamic Collections: O. F. Cook, assistant curator. 
Section of Higher Algae : W. T. Swingle, custodian. 
Section of Lower Fungi : D. G. Fairchild, custodian. 
Section of Diatoms : Paul S. Conger, custodian. 
Associates in Zoology: C. Hart Merriam, Mary J. Rathbun, C. W. Stiles, 

Theodore S. Palmer, William B. Marshall. 
Associate Curator in Zoology : Hugh M. Smith. 
Associate in Marine Sediments: T. Wayland Vaughan. 
Collaborator in Zoology : Robert Sterling Clark. 
Collaborators in Biology : A. K. Fisher, David C. Graham. 
Depaetment of Geology: 

R. S. Bassler, head curator; Jessie G. Beach, aid. 
Division of Physical and Chemical Qeology (systematic and applied) : 
W. F. Foshag, curator ; Edward P. Henderson, assistant curator ; Bertel 
O. Reberholt, senior scientific aid. 
Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, curator ; Frank L. 

Hess, custodian of rare metals and rare earths. 
Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles E. Resser, curator; Gustav 
A. Cooper, assistant curator ; Marion F. Willoughby, senior scientific aid ; 
Margaret W. Moodey, aid for Springer collection. 

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of 
Mesozoic collection ; Paul Bartsch, curator of Cenozoic collection. 
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: Charles W. Gilmore, curator; O. Lewis 

Gazin, assistant curator ; Norman H. Boss, chief preparator. 
Associate in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller, 
Associate in Paleontology: E. O. Ulrich. 
Associate in Petrology: Whitman Cross. 
Depaetment of Engineebing and Inditstries : 
Carl W. Mitman, head curator. 
Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, curator. 

Section of Transportation and Civil Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, 

in charge. 
Section of Aeronautics: Paul E. Garber, assistant curator. 
Section of Mechanical Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in charge. 
Section of Electrical Engineering and Communications: Frank A. 

Taylor, in charge. 
Section of Mining and Metallurgical Engineering: Carl W. Mitman. 

in charge. 
Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement : Frank A. Taylor, 

in charge. 
Section of Tools : Frank A. Taylor, in charge. 
Division of Crafts and Industries: Frederick L. I>ewton. curator; Eliza- 
beth W. Rosson, senior scientific aid. 

Section of Textiles : Frederick L. Lewton, in charge. 

Section of Woods and Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, 

assistant curator. 
Section of Chemical Industries: Wallace E. Duncan, assistant curator. 
Section of Agricultural Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge. 



XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

Detabtment of Engineering and Industbies — Continued. 

Division of Medicine and Public Health: Charles Whitebread, associate 

curator. 
Division of Oraphic Arts: R. P. Tolnian, curator. 

Section of Photography : A. J. Olmsted, assistant curator. 
Division of Histoby : T. T. Belote, curator ; Charles Carey, assistant curator ; 
Mrs. C. L. Manning, philatelist. 

ADMINISTBATIVE STAFF 

Chief of correspondence and documents. — H. S. Bbtant. 

Assistant chief of correspondence and documents. — L. B. Commebfoed. 

Superintendent of buildings and labor. — II. H. Trembly. 

Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor. — Chaeles C. Sinclaib. 

Editor. — Paul H. Oehseb. 

Engineer. — C. R. Denmark. 

Acco-untant and auditor. — N. W. DonSEY. 

Photographer. — A. J. Olmsted. 

Property clerk. — Laweence L. Oliver. 

Assistant librarian. — Leila F. Clakk. 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

Trustees: 

The Chief Justice of the United States. 

The Secbetaey of State. 

The Secretaey of the Tkeasuey. 

The Seoretaby of the Smithsonian Institution. 

David K. B. Bruoe. 

Duncan Phillips. 

Donald D. Shepard. 

Finu>iNAND Lammot Belin. 

Josei'H E. Widener. 
President. — David K. E. Bruck. 
Vice President. — Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 
Secretary and treasurer. — Donald D. Shepard. 
Director. — David E. Finlby. 
Administrator. — H. A. McBride. 
Chief Curator. — John Walker. 

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 
Acting director. — Rum, P. Tolman. 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Director. — John Ellebton Lodge. 
Assistant director. — Gbace Dunham Guest. 
Associate in archeology. — Gael Whiting Bishop. 
Associate in research. — Abchibaij) G. Weniet. 
Superintendent. — John Bundy. 

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

Chief. — Matthew W. Sttei^ing. 

Senior ethnologists. — H. B. Collins, Jr., John P. Habbington, John R. 

SWANTON. 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 XIH 

Senior archeologist. — Frank H. H. Robebts, Jb, 
Senior anthropologist. — Jui^ian H. Steward. 
Associate anthropologist. — W. N. Fenton. 
Editor. — Stanley Sbabi^s. 
Ldbrarian.—MiBiAu B. Ketchum. 
Illustrator. — Edwin G. Cassedy, 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES 

Secretary (in charge). — Chabi-^s G. Abbot. 
Chief Clerk. — Coates W. Shoemaker. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Director. — William M. Mann. 
Assistant director. — Ernest P. Walker. 



ASTROPHTSICAL OBSERVATORY 

Director. — Charles G. Abbot. 
Assistant director. — Loyal B. Aldrich. 
Senior astrophysicist. — William H. Hoover. 

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS 

Director. — Charles G. Abbot. 
Assistant director. — Eabl S. Johnston. 
Senior physicist. — Edward D. McAlisteb. 
Senior mechanical engineer. — Leland B. Claeic. 
Associate plant physiologist. — Florence E. Meter. 
Junior Biochemist. — Robert L. WEaNTRAtiB. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OP THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

C. G. ABBOT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1939. 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Gentlemen : I have the honor to submit herewith my report show- 
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and 
the Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1939. The first 18 pages contain a sum- 
mary account of the affairs of the Institution, and appendixes 1 to 11 
give more detailed reports of the operations of the National Museum, 
the National Gallery of Art, the National Collection of Fine Arts, 
the Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the 
International Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astro- 
physical Observatory, the Division of Radiation and Organisms, the 
Smithsonian library, and of the publications issued under the direc- 
tion of the Institution. On page 133 is the financial report of the 
executive committee of the Board of Regents. 

OUTSTANDING EVENTS 

Another step toward the realization of the proposed Smithsonian 
Gallery of Art was taken during the year when the Commission set 
up by Congress held a competition for a design for the Gallery. 
The prize-winning design was submitted by Eliel Saarinen, of Bir- 
mingham, Mich. The superstructure of the National Gallery of 
Art, which is now being built on the Mall to house the Mellon art 
collection and which is a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, was 
nearly completed. It is hoped that the art collections may be in- 
stalled by August 1940. The Institution's latest method of carrying 
on the diffusion of knowledge — a weekly radio program in coopera- 
tion with the United States Office of Education — completed 3 full 
years on the air in June 1939. It is estimated that some 3,000,000 
people hear this educational program each week. A retirement sys- 
tem for employees paid from private Smithsonian funds was ap- 
proved by the Board of Regents and is to go into effect on July 1, 
1939. 

1 



2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

The staff of the Astrophysical Observatory completed the enor- 
mous task of recomputing the daily solar-constant values from all 
its observing stations since 1923. It is expected that the final defin- 
itive values will be published during the coming year. The Divi- 
sion of Kadiation and Organisms celebrated the tenth year of its 
existence. Many fundamental investigations have been carried out 
during that time, and in the past year emphasis has been placed on 
exact studies of phenomena connected with photosynthesis. 

M. W. Stirling, Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 
conducted a very successful archeological expedition to Mexico in 
cooperation with the National Geographic Society. The most in- 
teresting find was a stone monument containing an initial-series date. 
Dr. Ales Hrdlicka completed the final season's work in his program 
of anthropological investigations in Alaska begun in 1926. Dr. Waldo 
L. Schmitt accompanied the Presidential cruise of 1938 to the 
Galapagos Islands, bringing back very valuable collections in many 
different fields. 

One new member was appointed to the Board of Regents, namely, 
Representative William P. Cole, Jr., of Maryland, to fill the vacancy 
created by the resignation from the House of Representatives of Hon. 
T. Alan Goldsborough. 

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR'S ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES 
OF THE INSTITUTION 

National Museum. — The total appropriation actually available dur- 
ing the year was $771,880, which was $3,840 less than the amount 
available for the previous year. Accessions to the Museum collec- 
tions, received for the most part as gifts or as the result of Smith- 
sonian expeditions, numbered 368,082 individual specimens. This 
brings the estimated total number of specimens in the Museum to 
16,688,759. Some of the outstanding additions were: In anthro- 
pology, a large number of stone implements from Indian sites in 
Maryland, Virginia, and Alaska, and from Mousterian, Tardenoisian, 
and Acheulean sites in South Africa, and a set of casts representing 
the remains of the fossil ape-man of China, Sinanthropus ; in biology, 
important marine mammal material representing whales, narwhals, 
walruses, seals, and porpoises, extensive herpetological collections 
made in Mexico by Dr. Hobart M. Smith, and 11,000 plant specimens 
collected in little-known parts of Colombia by E. P. Killip of the 
Museum staff ; in geology, a 153-pound topaz crystal from Brazil, 42 
meteorite specimens, 25 of them representing falls new to the Museum, 
10,000 Paleozoic fossils from the Ohio and Mississippi Valleys given 
by John M. Nicldes, and numerous fossil vertebrates resulting from 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 6 

a field expedition to Utah ; in engineering and industries, a collection 
of relics of the aeronautical work of Samuel P. Langley, a former 
Secretary of the Institution, an original Union aircraft engine of 
the World War period, and many objects pertaining to transporta- 
tion, communication, metrology, and other branches of this depart- 
ment; and in history nearly 3,600 objects of historic and antiquarian 
interest. The usual large number of expeditions were in the field 
during the year in the interests of anthropology, biology, and geol- 
ogy. These were financed largely by the private funds of the 
Smithsonian Institution or through the cooperation of other in- 
dividuals or institutions. Visitors to the Museum buildings totaled 
2,233,345 for the year. Fourteen special exhibitions were held under 
the auspices of various scientific, governmental, and educational agen- 
cies. The Museum published an annual report, 4 Bulletins and 
1 volume of another, 2 Contributions from the National Herbarium, 
and 27 Proceedings papers. 

National Gallery of Art. — A number of changes in the personnel 
of the Gallery were made during the year. Paul Mellon, President, 
resigned in May 1939, and David K. E. Bruce, Vice President, was 
elected President. The vacancy thus created in the vice presidency 
was filled by the election of Ferdinand Lammot Belin. Harry A. 
McBride was appointed Administrator of the Gallery, John Walker 
was appointed Chief Curator, and Stephen Pichetto was appointed 
consultant restorer. Joseph E. Widener and Samuel H. Kress were 
chosen to fill the vacancies created on the Board of Trustees by the 
resignation of Paul Mellon and the forthcoming expiration on July 
1, 1939, of the term of Donald D. Shepard. The outstanding event 
of the year was the gift to the Gallery by Samuel H. Kress and the 
Samuel IT. Kress Foundation of a collection of Italian paintings 
and sculpture, stated by experts to be one of the finest private col- 
lections of Italian art in the world. The collection was accepted by 
the Board of Trustees and will be installed in special rooms before 
the opening of the Gallery. With the Mellon collection and the Kress 
collection, the Gallery will at once become a center for art study 
in this country as well as one of the great galleries of the world. 
Congress appropriated $159,000 for the administrative and operating 
expenses of the Gallery during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1939. 
Temporary offices were established, and a nucleus of the permanent 
staff was assembled for actual appointment on July 1, 1939. The 
superstructure of the Gallery building was practically completed 
at the close of the year, and it is hoped that by August 1, 1940, con- 
struction will be far enough advanced so that the art collection may 
be installed. Over $5,000,000 had been actually expended for con- 

197855 40 2 



4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

struction by the close of the year ; the total cost, it is estimated, will 
be more than $15,000,000. 

National Collection of Fine Arts. — The exhibition gallery of the 
National Collection was closed during the last 4 months of the year 
for renovation. Weak plaster was replaced, the woodwork painted, 
and the walls covered with rubber-backed monk's cloth. The eight- 
eenth annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission was held 
on December 6, 1938, and four art works submitted during the year 
were accepted for the National Collection. Two miniatures were 
acquired through the Catherine Walden Myer fund. Six special 
exhibitions were held as follows: The Eberstadt collection of 260 
naval historical prints; architectural exhibition of photographs of 
representative buildings of the post-war period; 200 prints by 
graphic artists. Federal Art Project, Works Progress Administra- 
tion ; 76 water-color paintings of the flora of the Isthmus of Panama 
by Marie Louise Evans; 173 water-color sketches of wild flowers 
of various national parks by Mary Vaux Walcott; 56 oil paintings, 
38 drawings, 4 water colors, and 3 pastels by Joel J. Levitt. 

Freer Gallery of Art. — Additions to the collections included 
Chinese bronze, jade, and paintings; an Arabic manuscript; and 
East Indian painting. Curatorial work was devoted to the study 
of these new acquisitions and to other Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, 
Persian, East Indian, and Armenian manuscripts or art objects either 
already in the collection or submitted for purchase. In addition, 
information on 1,386 similar objects and 586 photographs of objects 
was furnished to the owners, who wished to know their identity, 
provenance, quality, date, meaning of inscriptions, etc. Changes 
in exhibition involved a total of 71 objects. The total number of 
visitors for the year was 102,936. An illustrated lecture on "Essen- 
tials in Chinese Painting" was given by Dr. Osvald Siren, Curator 
of Oriental Arts, National Museum, Stockholm, on March 15, 1939. 
Eighteen groups were given instruction in the various rooms, and 
six groups were given decent service in the exhibition galleries. 

Bureau of American Ethnology. — ^Mr. Stirling. Chief of the Bu- 
reau, directed an archeological expedition to southern Veracruz, 
Mexico, in cooperation with the National Geographic Society, which 
financed the expedition. Nine major stone monuments were ex- 
cavated, and a large collection of ceramics and figurines was ob- 
tained. The most interesting discovery was a stone monument 
inscribed with an initial-series date. Dr. Swanton continued his 
field and office work connected with his study of De Soto's route, 
and completed his report as chairman of the United States De Soto 
Expedition Commission. The 400-page report was published in 
May 1939 as a House document. Dr. Harrington continued his 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5 

study of the northern provenience of the Navaho Indians, and 
in May 1939 he went to California to check with native informants 
certain recently discovered documents relating to the Sacramento 
Valley Indians. Dr. Koberts continued his investigations of Folsom 
man at the Lindenmeier site in northern Colorado, bringing to light 
more material evidence of this early American culture. Dr. Steward 
continued his archeological and ethnological reconnaissance in west- 
ern South America, in preparation for the editing of the proposed 
Handbook of South American Indians, and completed preparations 
for the actual beginning of this project. Mr. Collins, newly ap- 
pointed ethnologist in the Bureau by transfer from the National 
Museum, worked over the large collection of prehistoric Eskimo 
artifacts, several thousand in number, which he excavated on a 
previous expedition to Cape Prince of Wales and other points in 
the vicinity of Bering Strait. Dr. Fenton, appointed to the staff 
of the Bureau in February 1939, wrote up the results of his previous 
investigations among the Iroquois. Miss Densmore, a collaborator 
of the Bureau, submitted two manuscripts entitled "Choctaw War 
and Dance Songs" and "Choctaw and Seminole Songs." Mr. Carter, 
another collaborator, worked with the ethnographic and Indian sign- 
language material contained in the manuscripts of the late Maj. 
Gen. Hugh L. Scott. The Bureau published its annual report and 
six bulletins. 

International Exchanges. — The International Exchange Service 
under the Smithsonian Institution acts as the official agency of the 
United States for the interchange with other countries of govern- 
mental and scientific documents. The number of packages of such 
material passing through the Exchange Service during the year was 
714,877, and the weight of these packages was 719,694 pounds. Ship- 
ments to Spain were still suspended at the close of the year, but 
efforts were being made through diplomatic channels to resume ex- 
change relations. There are now being sent through the Exchange 
Service to foreign countries 61 full sets of United States official 
documents and 47 partial sets. One hundred and three copies of 
the Congressional Kecord and the Federal Register are now sent 
to foreign depositories. A very appreciative letter was received 
from Dr. T. L. Yuan, officially connected with the Library Associa- 
tion of China, thanking the Exchange Service for its part in assem- 
bling and forwarding a total of more than 36,000 packages of 
publications presented by individuals and establishments throughout 
this country. 

National Zoological Park. — Extensive improvements to the 
grounds, including large grading projects, building of a stone feed 
house, constructing buffalo paddocks, laying of new concrete walks, 



6 ANNUAIj report SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

repairing of roads, and other similar work, were completed during 
the year through W. P. A. assistance. The Public Works Adminis- 
tration allotted $90,000 for a much-needed restaurant building. The 
Director made a trip to the Argentine, bringing back 70 crates of 
live animals numbering 316 individuals of 58 different species. Visi- 
tors for the year totaled 2,201,080, including 37,220 students from 
699 different schools in 22 States and the District of Columbia. As 
usual, many specimens were received as gifts, among the most in- 
teresting of which were 10 Louisiana herons and 11 snowy egrets 
from A. E. Mcllhenny, Avery Island, La., and a fine collection of 
Central American reptiles from Costello Craig, Washington, D. C. 
Forty-eight mammals were born and 15 birds were hatched in the 
Zoo during the year. The total number of animals in the collection 
at the close of the year was 2,450. The Zoo now has four excellent 
exhibition buildings, but there remain three that are old and unsat- 
isfactory, namely, those housing lions, monkeys, and antelopes. The 
greatest need of the Zoo is the replacement of these three buildings 
with modern structures. 

Astrophysical Observatory. — The recomputation of all solar-con- 
stant values since 1923 was practically completed, the only remain- 
ing work being the final corrections and general discussion, which are 
expected to be concluded by October 1939. The entire revision will 
then be published. The Director spent considerable time in prepar- 
ing a reply to criticisms of the solar-constant work published by 
Dr. M. M. Paranjpe in the Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteoro- 
logical Society. Observations of the solar constant were begun at 
the new station on Burro Mountain, near Tyrone, N. Mex. Excep- 
tional snowfall occurred there during the winter, but it is expected 
that other years will be very favorable for observations. Solar-con- 
stant observing has been continued at the other two stations at Table 
Mountain, Calif., and Montezuma, Chile, on every favorable day. 
W. H. Hoover set up apparatus in the 100-inch telescope building 
on Mount Wilson for measuring the distribution of energy in the 
spectra of the brighter stars and observed with considerable success 
on August 31 and September 21, 1938. As a result, it is believed 
that with certain improvements in the apparatus it will be possible 
to obtain continuous, automatically recorded stellar spectrum energy 
curves, probably at least 10 centimeters high at maximum, for the 
brightest stars when the 200-inch telescope becomes available. 

Division of Radiation and Organisms. — ^The year 1939 marked the 
tenth anniversary of the establishment of the Division. During that 
period notable progress has been made both in developing physical 
equipment and in building up a permanent scientific staff. Numerous 
fundamental investigations have been carried out, with the result that 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 7 

members of the staff are frequently consulted on research problems 
in the field of radiation as related to living organisms. During the 
year the attention of the staff was concentrated on photosynthesis, 
factors influencing plant growth, and the stimulative action of ultra- 
violet radiation. Experimental evidence was obtained which indi- 
cates the formation during photosynthesis of a material which 
combines with or absorbs carbon dioxide. This compound, or 
"intermediate," appears to be chlorophyllous in nature. Apparatus 
and method were developed for the determination of small amounts 
of chlorophyll, the sensitivity with a 5-centimeter absorption cell 
being Vioooo milligram of chlorophyll. Further progress was made 
in the investigation of suitable artificial illumination for the growth 
of plants under controlled conditions. Studies were continued on 
the relation of light to internode development. The effect of radia- 
tion on the growth of excised roots and leaves was investigated. 
Continuation of the studies on the stimulative action of ultraviolet 
light showed that sublethal exposure of the green alga Stichococcus 
hcuoillaris to certain short wave lengths of the ultraviolet caused 
increased cell multiplication. This stimulative action is not transi- 
tory but has persisted in the cultures over a period of 2 years. 
Three papers by members of the staff on these researches were pub- 
lished, and others were in press at the close of the year. 

THE ESTABLISHMENT 

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of 
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States 
of America "to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion 
of knowledge among men." In receiving the property and accepting 
the trust. Congress determined that the Federal Government was 
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore, 
constituted an "establishment" whose statutory members are "the 
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the 
executive departments." 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS 

The only change in the Board of Regents during the year was 
the appointment by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, 
on April 12, 1939, of Representative William P. Cole, Jr., of Mary- 
land, to fill the unexpired term of Representative T. Allan Golds- 
borough, who resigned from the House of Representatives. 

The roll of Regents at the close of the year was as follows : Charles 
Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor ; John 



8 ANNUAL. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

N. Garner, Vice President of the United States; members from the 
Senate — M. M. Logan, Charles L. McNary, Alben W. Barkley ; mem- 
bers from the House of Kepresentatives — Charles L. Gifford, Clar- 
ence Cannon, William P. Cole, Jr.; citizen members — Frederic A. 
Delano, Washington, D. C. ; John C. Merriam, Washington. D. C; 
R. Walton Moore, Virginia; Roland S. Morris, Pennsylvania; 
Harvey N. Davis, New Jersey; and Arthur H. Compton, Illinois. 

Proceedings. — The annual meeting of the Board of Regents was 
held on January 12, 1939. The Regents present were Chief Justice 
Charles Evans Hughes, Chancellor; John N. Garner, Vice President 
of the United States ; Senator M. M. Logan ; Representatives T. Alan 
Goldsborough and Charles L. Gifford: Citizen Regents Frederic A. 
Delano, John C. Merriam, R. Walton Moore, Harvey N". Davis and 
Arthur H. Compton ; and the Secretary, Dr. Charles G. Abbot. 

The Secretary presented his annual report, covering activities 
during the year of the parent institution and of the several Govern- 
ment branches, and Mr. Delano presented the report of the executive 
committee, covering financial statistics of the Institution. The Board 
accepted these reports. 

The Secretary also presented the annual report of the Smithsonian 
Art Commission, the membership of which is as follows: Charles L. 
Borie, Jr., Chairman; Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., Vice Chairman; 
Charles G. Abbot (ex officio). Secretary; and Herbert Adams, Louis 
Ayres, Gifford Beal, Gilmore D. Clarke, George H. Edgell, David E. 
Finley, James E. Eraser, Frederick P. Keppel, John E. Lodge, Paul 
Manship, George B. McClellan, Edward W Redfield, Mahonri M. 
Young. 

In his usual special report the Secretary mentioned briefly the 
more important activities carried on by the Institution and its 
bureaus during the year. 

FINANCES 

A statement will be found in the report of the executive commit- 
tee, page 133. 

MATTERS OF GENERAL INTEREST 
THE SMITHSONIAN GALLERY OF ART 

On May 17, 1938, the President approved a congressional resolu- 
tion which authorized him to set aside ground on the Mall for a 
Smithsonian Gallery of Art. The resolution also created the Smith- 
sonian Gallery of Art Commission, which was authorized to obtain 
a design for a "suitable building for properly housing and displaying 
the national collections of fine arts and * * * to exhibit the 
works of artists worthy of recognition." An appropriation of $40,000 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9 

was authorized for this purpose, and that amount was provided in 
the Second Deficiency Act approved June 25, 1938. The members 
of the Commission are: 

C. G. Abbot, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution ; 

Edward Bruce, Chief of the Section of Fine Arts in the Treasury Depart- 
ment ; 

Frederic A. Delano, Chairman of the National Capital Park and Planning 
Commission ; 

Gilmore D. Clarke, Chairman of the Commission of Fine Arts; 

Hon. Alben W. Barkley, chairman of the Joint Committee on the Library, 
United States Senate; 

Hon. Kent E. Keller, chairman of the Committee on the Library, House of 
Representatives ; 

Charles L. Borie, Jr., Chairman of the Smithsonian Art Commission. 

The Commission appointed as its professional adviser, Joseph 
Hudnut, professor of architecture in Harvard University, and as its 
technical adviser, Thomas Mabry, executive director of the Museum 
of Modern Art in New York City. The duty of these two men was 
to prepare a program of the proposed competition to select an archi- 
tect for the Smithsonian Gallery of Art and to conduct the competi- 
tion itself. 

A jury of award was set up by the Commission, consisting of 
Frederic A. Delano, Chairman, and four prominent architects — John 
A. Holabird, of Chicago; Walter Gropius, of Cambridge; George 
Howe, of Philadelphia ; and Henry R. Shepley, of Boston. The pro- 
gram of competition was issued January 21, 1939, all drawings for 
the preliminary competition to be submitted by April 29. On May 
13 the Commission met at the Smithsonian Institution to receive no- 
tice of the awards in the preliminary competition. The 10 best 
designs, making those submitting them eligible for the final compe- 
tition, were those of the following: 

Paul P. Cret, Philadelphia; 

Percival Goodman, New York City; 

Phillip L. Goodwin, New York City ; 

Harry F. Manning, Chicago; 

James A. Mitchell, Pittsburgh ; 

Eliot F. Noyes, Cambridge; 

G. Holmes Perkins, Cambridge; 

Peter and Stubbins, Boston; 

Eliel and Eero Saarinen, Birmingham, Mich. ; 

Edward D. Stone, New York City. 

Honorable mention was awarded to 16 other competitors. 

The 10 prize winners entered the final competition, and on June 29, 
1939, the Commission met again at the offices of Mr. Bruce in the 
Procurement Division of the Treasury Department to receive the 
final report of the jury of award. The first prize of $7,500 was 



10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

awarded to Eliel Saarinen, the second prize of $3,500 to Percival 
Goodman, and each of the eight remaining competitors received the 
third prize of $1,000. 

The Commission then requested the Procurement Division of the 
Treasurj^ to submit a proposal for the construction of a model of the 
Saarinen design on a scale of %-inch=l foot and appropriated 
$1,600 for this purpose. As the resolution creating the Commission 
required the approval of the successful design by the Board of 
Kegents of the Smithsonian Institution, the Commission submitted a 
report of their action to that Board. 

It was contemplated in the congressional resolution that the build- 
ing for the Smithsonian Gallery of Art would be constructed with 
private funds, and the Regents of the Institution were authorized 
to solicit and receive subscriptions of funds for that purpose. At 
the close of the year no funds had been raised. 

SMITHSONIAN RADIO PROGRAM 

"The World is Yours," the Smithsonian radio program put on the 
air in cooperation with the United States Office of Education, the 
National Broadcasting Co., and the Works Progress Administration, 
completed its third year of consecutive weekly half -hour programs in 
June 1939. The Institution selects the subjects of the broadcasts, 
furnishes the necessary information to the script writer, and cor- 
rects the scripts and supplementary articles. The Office of Educa- 
tion is responsible for the writing of the scripts and supplementary 
articles and, with the National Broadcasting Co., for the production 
of the broadcasts. Time on the air is given by the National 
Broadcasting Co., and financial support by the Works Progress 
Administration. 

The series has continued to increase in popularity, as indicated 
by the larger number of letters received in the last 6 months of the 
year. At the close of the year more than 350,000 letters had been 
received as a result of the broadcasts, but for the last 6-month period 
the number was 106,000, a decided increase over any previous similar 
period. Several marks of recognition came to the program during 
the year : It was named by the National Women's Radio Committee 
as the most popular of all adult education programs; in a poll of 
750,000 votes taken by the magazine Radio Guide, "The World is 
Yours" stood fourth among the 12 leading educational programs, 
the only three ahead of it being "American School of the Air," "Great 
Plays," and "Music Appreciation Hour"; and one of the scripts re- 
ceived honorable mention at the annual meeting of the Institute for 
Education by Radio held at Columbus, Ohio, in May 1939. A num- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 11 

ber of published articles by radio education experts have praised the 
program; for example, an authority of the Ohio State University 
writes : 

"The World is Yours" * ♦ * has demonstrated beyond question that interest 
in the arts and sciences can be increased on a nationwide scale by means of 
radio. "The "World is Yours" is probably the finest example that American radio 
has to offer of the use of ingenious techniques, sound effects, and musical back- 
ground to produce a deep and lasting educational effect on the listener. 

The number of stations carrying the program every Sunday has 
steadily increased, until at the close of the year the number stood at 
78, almost the maximum possible on the N. B. C. red network. It is 
also carried on a short-wave station at Schenectady for foreign 
listeners, and is rebroadcast at a different hour by at least one in- 
dependent station. The scripts are available to schools, clubs, and 
others interested through the Office of Education script exchange. 

The subjects of the broadcasts, selected by the Institution, are 
widely diversified, as will be seen by examining the list given below, 
but they are also carefully arranged — though this may not be so 
apparent on a casual inspection of the list — so that the broad sub- 
jects covered by Smithsonian activities come around in fairly regular 
rotation. These broad classifications include physical science, astron- 
omy, biology, geology, anthropology, engineering and industries, his- 
tory, art, and exploration. The subjects covered during the past 
year were as follows : ^g^g 

Independence Hall July 3 

History of the Earth July 10 

Invention of the Steamboat July 17 

Great Astronomers July 24 

The Potter's Art July 31 

Inland Waterways Aug. 7 

Crustaceans Aug. 1 4 

Communications Aug. 21 

Seven Ages of Geology Aug. 28 

Battle against Disease Sept. 4 

Lead Sept. 1 1 

Army and Navy Uniforms Sept. 18 

Balboa and the Discovery of the Pacific Sept. 25 

Fur-bearing Animals Oct. 2 

Eskimo Oct. 9 

Insects vs. Forests Oct. 16 

Heros and Heroines Oct. 23 

Great Engineering Feats Oct. 30 

LaSalle on the Mississippi Nov. 6 

Progress in Science Nov. 13 

Aircraft in the World War Nov. 20 

Romance of Rivers Nov. 27 

Microscopic Animals Dec. 4 



12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

t9S8 

Arctic Explorers Dec. 11 

Petroleum Dec. 1 8 

History of Dolls and Toys Dec. 25 

1939 

Early Wings for Commerce Jan. 1 

Modern Wings for Commerce Jan. 8 

Pushing Back History Jan. 15 

The Geologist Detective Jan. 22 

Our Island Universe Jan. 29 

Pearls and Oysters Feb. 5 

Great American Biologists Feb. 12 

Story of Aluminum Feb. 19 

Cave and Cliff Dwellers Feb. 26 

Modern Medicine Mar. 6 

Animals of Fable Mar. 12 

The Air above Us Mar. 19 

Eli Whitney — Cotton's Man of Destiny Mar. 26 

Gems and Gem Lore Apr. 2 

First Ladies' Fashions Apr. 9 

Trail Blazing with Science Apr. 16 

Head Hunters Apr. 23 

New Frontiers of Physics Apr. 30 

From New York to Washington by Coach in 1800 May 7 

The Lewis and Clark Expedition May 14 

Model Airplanes May 21 

Salt from the Earth May 28 

Old-Fashioned Gardens June 4 

Growth of the American Flag June 11 

Fishing around the World June 18 

The Miracle of Paper. June 26 

Supplementary articles on each subject, known as listener-aids, 
were sent after each broadcast to those requesting them. In this 
way the educational value of the programs is extended and put on 
a more lasting basis, as the listener-aids can be preserved for 
reference use. 

The continuation of "The World is Yours" is assured for the com- 
ing year. The Institution has been grateful to the Office of Educa- 
tion, the National Broadcasting Co., and the W. P. A. for mak- 
ing available this new means of diffusing knowledge. In point 
of numbers reached, in interest aroused, and in lasting educational 
value, this series of broadcasts has perhaps been the most effective 
method the Institution has ever used for the "diffusion of knowledge 
among men." 

WALTER RATHBONE BACON TRAVELING SCHOLARSHIP 

The Walter Rathbone Bacon traveling scholarship of the Smith- 
sonian Institution was awarded at the beginning of the year to Dr. 
Hobart M. Smith for a period of 2 years. The purpose of Dr. 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13 

Smith's investigation is the accumulation of specimens of reptiles 
and amphibians from Mexico, on the basis of which, combined with 
material already available from Mexico, a herpetology of Mexico 
may be compiled and the biotic provinces of the country more 
accurately defined. 

Reports received from Dr. Smith in the field state that collecting 
began on October 5. Up to the close of the year he had worked in 
Chihuahua, Coahuila, Tamaulipas, central Veracruz, Morelos and 
Guerrero, as well as in the lakes of the valleys of Mexico and Toluca, 
on the southern edge of the plateau in Michoacan, and in the vicinity 
of Piedras Negras, Guatemala. Approximately 8,100 specimens had 
been taken, representing 360 species, of which at least 10 were new. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION EMPLOYIiES RETIREMENT SYSTEM 

The important matter of a retirement system for employees who 
receive all or a portion of their salaries from the private funds of 
the Institution was taken up during the year. Many of the Institu- 
tion's employees and all those of the Government bureaus under its 
administration receive their compensation from the Federal Govern- 
ment, placing them automatically under the Government retirement 
system. But for the remaining employees, who receive all their 
compensation from private Smithsonian funds, there has been no 
definite plan to cover retirement or disability. Nor has there been 
any arrangement for supplementary benefits for those who receive 
a part of their compensation from the Government and a part from 
the Smithsonian. To remedy these conditions I asked a committee 
of three employees to study the matter and draw up a plan for a 
retirement system to cover such employees. 

In November 1938 such a plan was completed and submitted to 
an actuary for expert opinion. With certain suggested modifica- 
tions, the plan was pronounced to be sound. It was then presented 
to the Permanent Committee of the Board of Regents, who recom- 
mended to the Board that it be put into operation. The Board so 
voted, and the retirement system therefore goes into effect on July 
1, 1939. 

The Smithsonian retirement system is in its general plan modeled 
on the Government system for Federal employees, but is modified 
to meet the special conditions of a private foundation such as the 
Smithsonian Institution. A retirement board is provided for, to be 
appointed by the Secretary, which, with his approval, shall decide 
questions arising under the operation of the retirement system. 

With the adoption of this system, the retirement for age or dis- 
ability of every employee of the Institution and its branches is 
definitely provided for. 



14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

NEW EXHIBITS IN THE SMITHSONIAN MAIN HALL 

For many years past the only public exhibits in the Smithsonian 
building have been those of the division of graphic arts. They were 
exhibited there only because of the crowded condition of the National 
Museum buildings, and the arrangement w\as intended to be only 
temporary. Having realized for some time that it would be desir- 
able to set up in the Smithsonian main hall a comprehensive exhibit 
that would tell visitors the story of all Smithsonian activities, I took 
steps during the year toward the accomplishment of this aim. 

As the Smithsonian Institution has grown and expanded its field 
of activity during the years, more bureaus have been placed under its 
administration, more buildings have been added to the Smithsonian 
group, and many new types of investigation have been undertaken. 
With the growing complexity of the organization, it has become very 
difficult for visitors to the several buildings to form a picture of the 
Institution as a whole or to get any definite conception of its func- 
tions and purposes. 

To remedy this situation I appointed a committee to recommend 
plans for a series of exhibits in the Smithsonian main hall that would 
portray in popular form the work of the Institution in many branches 
of science, as well as the relationship between the parent Institution 
and the National Museum, National Gallery of Art, and all its other 
branches. It was emphasized that the exhibits should be of such a 
nature that they could be changed readily to keep them up to date. 

It was planned also that as these exhibits developed, they would 
form an important part of the proposed centennial celebration of 
the Institution in 1946. 

Carl W. Mitman, Head Curator of Engineering and Industries, 
was placed in charge of the exhibit project, and he selected to work 
with him as a committee, Messrs. Foshag, Friedmann, Setzler, and 
True of the Institution's staff. One meeting of the committee was 
held during the year to discuss preliminary plans, and it was expected 
to begin the preparation of the hall and the installation of the new 
exhibits during the coming fall and winter, 

EIGHTH ARTHUR LECTURE 

The Arthur lecture, under the auspices of the Institution, was 
provided for in the will of the late James Arthur, of New York, who 
in 1931 left to the Smithsonian Institution a sum of money, a part 
of the income from which should be used for an annual lecture on 
some aspect of the study of the sun. 

The eighth Arthur lecture was given on February 21, 1939, by Dr. 
Herbert J. Spinden, curator of American Indian art and primitive 
cultures of the Brooklyn Museum, his subject being "Sun Worship." 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15 

The lecture, held in tlie auditorium of the National Museum, consti- 
tuted also the six hundred and eighty- fourth meeting of the Anthro- 
pological Society of Washington. The paper will be published in 
the General Appendix to the Smithsonian Report for 1939, 

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK 

A number of States in the United States and many foreign coun- 
tries were visited by Smithsonian representatives during the calendar 
year 1938, resulting in the acquisition of many specimens for the 
Institution's study series and in the collection of valuable scientific 
data for "the increase of knowledge." 

On the invitation of the President, Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt partici- 
pated in the cruise to the Galapagos Islands. In addition to a host 
of other scientific material — geological, botanical, and zoological — 
250 individual fish, representing about 60 different species, were 
brought back to the Museum for study and permanent preservation. 

A. F. Moore, under my direction, established a new solar observa- 
tory on Burro Mountain, near Tyrone, N. Mex., where he hopes to 
obtain good observations. The new station will be particularly 
useful from December through February, when the other two sta- 
tions lose many days. W. H. Hoover spent 5 months on Mount 
Wilson, Calif., experimenting with the growth of plants in nearly 
monochromatic rays selected from the solar spectrum, and measuring 
the distribution of radiation in the spectra of the brighter stars, 
using the 100-inch telescope. 

Dr. R. S. Bassler studied some well-known fossil areas in southern 
England and obtained, in addition to specimens needed to fill certain 
gaps in the Museum's study series, infoiTnation for more accurate 
labeling of invertebrate fossil material already in the collections. 
Dr. C. Lewis Gazin continued his investigation of occurrences of the 
earliest mammals and lizards in Utah and brought back a quantity 
of material representative of Paleocene and Cretaceous fauna, in- 
cluding one lizard specimen so nearly complete as to be worthy of 
permanent exhibition in the Museum. Dr. G. Arthur Cooper made 
a study of Middle Devonian strata in the Catskills of New York, and 
collected paleontological specimens from that region. 

Dr. William M. Mann visited zoos in 15 European cities, where 
great progress has been made in the exhibiting of animals and where 
some interesting breeding experiments are being made. Dr. Rem- 
ington Kellogg, on a visit to Norway, Sweden, England, and Scot- 
land, examined and studied cetacean skeletal material in a number 
of the museums of those countries. W. M. Perry go undertook a 
survey of a large part of Kentucky to collect bird and mammal 
specimens to add to the Museum's very meager representation from 
that Stat«. C. R. Aschemeier obtained 28 turtles and 1,862 fish from 



16 ANNUAL. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

Florida waters; and Dr. Leonard P. Schultz collected a variety of 
fishes from the rivers and streams of Virginia. Capt. Robert Bart- 
lett again conducted a cruise to northwest Greenland, and brought 
back specimens of marine life from the sea floor, as well as narwhals, 
w^alrus pups, and birds. Austin H. Clark continued his exhaustive 
study of the butterflies of Virginia. 

Dr. Ersebet Kol, of Szeged, Hungary, reported the results of her 
study of the algae on tlie snowfields and glaciers of Alaska in 1936, 
which was made under a grant from the Smithsonian Institution. 

Frank M. Setzler explored a cave in Richland Canyon near the 
Pecos River in southwestern Texas and unearthed many artifacts of 
the prehistoric cave dwellers of that region. Dr. Ales Hrdlirka, in 
his tenth season of work in the Far Northwest, directed an expedi- 
tion to the Aleutian and the Commander Islands to obtain further 
light on the existence and extension in the Aleutian Islands of the 
pre-Aleut stock, to determine definitely whether or not the Com- 
mander Islands served as a part of the bridge for the coming of 
man from Asia, and to reexamine burial caves discovered in 1936-37. 
Dr. T. D. Stewart carried on excavations on the shore of the Potomac 
in Virginia, where he uncovered the main part of the ancient Indian 
village of Patawomeke. Dr. Waldo R. Wedel excavated a group of 
small mounds in Platte County, Mo., and investigated caves, reported 
to have disclosed traces of Indian occupancy, in southeastern Colo- 
rado. Dr. John R. Swanton continued his reconnaissance of the 
territory through which De Soto passed on his journey to the Missis- 
sippi. Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., sought further information on 
Folsom man at the Lindenmeier site in Colorado, and at sites in 
Nebraska, Wyoming, and Saskatchewan, Canada, and obtained 
valuable data on this and associated cultures. Dr. Julian H. Steward 
spent several months in anthropological reconnaissance in Panama, 
Ecuador, and Peru, and visited many sites of archeological 
importance and historical appeal. 

PUBLICATIONS 

The Institution's publications constitute its primary means of dif- 
fusing knowledge. Its other methods comprise museum and art gal- 
lery exhibits, radio broadcasts, popular science news releases, and 
correspondence, but for world-wide dissemination of the results of 
its scientific researches it depends on its several series of publications. 
There are at present 13 different series, as follows : 

Smithsonian Institution : 

Annual Report (with general appendix reviewing progress in science). 

Miscellaneous Collections. 

Contributions to Knowledge (suspended). 

Special Publications. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 17 

National Museum: 

Annual Report. 

Bulletin. 

Proceedings. 

Contributions from the National Herbarium. 
Bureau of American Ethnology: 

Annual Report. 

Bulletin. 
Astrophysical Observatory : 

Annals. 
National Collection of Fine Arts: 

Catalog. 
Freer Gallery of Art : 

Oriental Studies. 

The total number of publications issued by the Institution and its 
branches during the year was 99, of which 58 were issued by the 
Institution proper, 35 by the National Museum, and 6 by the Bureau 
of American Ethnology. Detailed information regarding these pub- 
lications will be found in the report of the editor, appendix 11. The 
number of publications distributed was 162,030. 

The printing and binding appropriation for the year covered by 
this report was increased slightly over that for the preceding year, 
and a further increase has been granted for the coming year, making 
the 1940 appropriation $73,000. Although these small increases are 
of material assistance in catching up arrears of printing and binding, 
nevertheless the appropriations are still far short of the normal re- 
quirements. To keep pace with the manuscript output of the staff 
and with the binding requirements of the Smithsonian library, $100,- 
000 a year is needed. Anything short of this amount necessitates the 
holding over of many manuscripts each year, with consequent delay 
in the publication of the results of original scientific research. This 
delay — running sometimes to several years for the larger manu- 
scripts — is detrimental to the morale of the scientific staff. 

LIBRARY 

A total of 11,913 volumes and pamphlets were added to the Smith- 
sonian library during the year. These were received mainly through 
gift and exchange. The total holdings of the library now stand at 
899,327, exclusive of thousands of unbound or incomplete publications. 
Outstanding among the many gifts was that of 1,636 publications on 
the history, art, science, and literature of China, from Mrs. Eugene 
Meyer. Other important gifts were 1,294 scientific journals from 
Dr. J. R. Swanton, and 879 from Henry Otten. The exchange work 
of the library involved the receipt of 24,600 packages of publications. 
In addition to handling this material, the staff made 25,176 periodical 



18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

entries, cataloged 7,298 publications, prepared and filed 41,676 catalog 
and shelf list cards, borrowed 2,516 publications and loaned 11 559 
and substantially advanced the union catalog, in addition to many 
special activities. Volumes bound totaled 546, which was only a frac- 
tion of the number waiting to be bound. The chief need of the 
library, therefore, is increased allotments for binding. 
Respectfully submitted. 

C. G. Abbot, Secretary. 



APPENDIX 1 
KEPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the con- 
dition and operation of the United States National Museum for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1939 : 

Funds provided for the maintenance and operation of the National 
Museum for the year totaled $778,380. A compulsory administrative 
reserve of $6,500 reduced this to $771,880 actually available for the 
year, which was $3,840 less than the amount available in 1938. 

COLLECTIONS 

New material added to the Museum collections was received in 
1,766 separate accessions, totaling 368,082 individual specimens. For 
the most part these additions were gifts from individuals or repre- 
sented expeditions sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution. They 
were distributed among the five departments as follows: Anthropol- 
ogy, 13,076; biology, 318,233; geology, 31,689; engineering and in- 
dustries, 1,493; and history, 3,591. All the accessions are listed in 
detail in the full report on the Museum, printed as a separate docu- 
ment, but the more important are summarized below. The total 
number of catalog entries in all departments is now estimated to be 
16,688,759. 

Anthropology. — In archeology, a large number of stone imple- 
ments were received, representing Indian sites in Maryland, Virginia, 
and Alaska; others, of Mousterian, Tardenoisian, and Acheulean 
age, came from South Africa. Over 9,000 stone, bone, and shell 
artifacts and ornaments, previously accessioned but not until now 
cataloged, resulted from the 1933-34 Smithsonian-C. W. A. investiga- 
tions at the old Yokuts village site near Taft, Calif. Ethnological 
specimens of interest include a collection of Menominee birch-bark 
baskets and trays embroidered with porcupine quills, Aleut hunting 
paraphernalia, a large number of weapons of wild Philippine tribes, 
Persian and Moorish filigree and cutwork brasses, Chinese jewelry, 
and Eskimo artwork wrought in maromal and bird skins. About 550 
ceramic specimens were received, including a collection of American 
art pottery (1850-1920) made by the late Dr. Marcus Benjamin, 
former editor of the National Museum. The famous "gold piano," 
a Steinway concert grand No. 100000, which was used for 35 years 

197855 — 40 3 19 



20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

at the White House, was received by transfer. The division of phys- 
ical anthropoloiry received important material from sites in the Poto- 
mac River Valley, Alaska, and Georgia. An outstanding gift was 
received from the National Geological Survey of China — a set of 
casts representing the remains of the fossil ape man Sinanthropus. 

Biology. — More than 318,000 biological specimens were accessioned 
during the year. Important marine-mammal material received, 
which was obtained through the cooperation of the United States 
Coast Guard, included two complete sets each of whalebone from the 
Australian and the Alaskan humpback whales; seven fetal skulls of 
blue whales and finbacks; a pair of lower jaws measuring 24 feet 
long and weighing a ton each, from a 92-foot Antarctic blue whale; 
and 13 skulls and skeletons of narwhals, walruses, seals, and por- 
poises from the 1938 Bartlett Greenland expedition. Many repre- 
sentative series of land mammals were also added, mostly from 
Africa, India, British Columbia, and the Southeastern United States. 

Important avian accessions included birds collected in Veracruz 
by Dr. Alexander Wetmore, a collection of over 3,000 skins made 
by the late Dr. Stuart T. Danforth, about 1,050 birds from Kentucky 
collected for the Museum by W. M. Perry go and associates, and 35 
birds from Clijiperton Island taken during the Presidential cruise 
of 1938. 

Large increase in the Museum's herpetological series resulted from 
extensive collections made in Mexico by Dr. Hobart M. Smith, pres- 
ent incumbent under the Walter Eathbone Bacon traveling scholar- 
ship of the Smithsonian Institution. Another valuable collection 
of reptiles and amphibians received was made by Dr. W. Gardner 
Lynn in Jamaica. More than 3,200 fishes, mostly from Panama 
and Nicaragua, and including many holotypes and paratypes, were 
transferred from the United States Bureau of Fisheries, and 4,600 
from the Tennessee Valley Authority. The Presidential cruise 
yielded 242 fishes from the Galapagos region. In addition. Dr. 
L. P. Schultz and E. D. Reid collected nearly 6,500 fishes in ; Vir- 
ginia for the Museum. Other valuable ichthyological specimens 
came from the International Fisheries Commission, the Bass Bio- 
logical Laboratory, the British Museum, and the Academy of Natural 
Sciences of Philadelphia. 

The more important accessions of insects include the following: 
The Blackmore collection of Lepidoptera comprising about 7,000 
specimens, of which 2,100 were recorded last year; about 600 South 
American insects collected by Edward Brundage; 75,000 miscel- 
laneous insects transferred from the United States Bureau of Ento- 
mology and Plant Quarantine; the Charles R. Ely collection of 
Microlepidoptera — 2,600 pinned specimens and 400 slides; a coUec- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 21 

tion of 1,132 insects from the European Parasitic Laboratory in 
France; 14,000 miscellaneous specimens collected in western China 
by Dr. D. C. Graham; nearly 1,100 beetles from the British Museum; 
15,000 Chrysomelidae from the Bowditch collection, by exchange 
with the Museum of Comparative Zoology; and valuable donations 
from the private collections of Father Edward Guedet (598 Lepi- 
doptera and Coleoptera), A. B. Gurney (400 Ecuadorean Blattidae), 
and David G. Hall (3,700 muscoid flies). 

The collections of marine invertebrates were notably augmented 
during the year by reason of the Presidential cruise of 1938 (more 
than 10,000 specimens) and the Bartlett Greenland expedition of 
1938 (400 specimens). About 80,500 mollusks were added, includ- 
ing an important lot purchased through the Frances Lea Chamber- 
lain fund and containing cotypes of 139 species of Chinese fresh- 
water mussels of the Heude collection. About 40,000 mollusks were 
received from the Tennessee Valley Authority. The United States 
Biological Survey transferred 2,232 specimens of mollusks from 
Alaska. 

About 50,500 plants were added to the herbarium collections, the 
largest lot being 11,000 specimens collected from little-known parts 
of Colombia by E. P. Killip of the Museum staff. 

Geology. — Important additions to the mineralogical and petrolog- 
ical series were made possible by several Smithsonian funds. Among 
many purchased through the Koebling fund was a 153-pound topaz 
crystal from Brazil, as well as several rare minerals from classical 
European localities. Several fine suites came through the Canfield 
fund, the most important of which contains the finest phenacites, 
fluorites, aquamarines, and other minerals from Mount Antero, Colo. 
Through the auspices of the Chamberlain fund there were procured 
unusually cut specimens of topaz from Brazil and zircon from French 
Indochina. Forty-two meteorite specimens, 26 of which are credited 
to the Roebling fund, were added during the year. These represented 
25 falls new to the Museum collection. 

The largest and most important accession in the field of strati- 
graphic paleontology was the gift by John M. Nickles of his collection 
of Paleozoic fossils from the Ohio and Mississippi Valleys. This 
collection, containing about 10,000 specimens, largely bryozoan, rep- 
resents many years of search and contains a wealth of excellent and 
carefully labeled material including many types. Two collections 
were made for the Museum by Dr. G. Arthur Cooper — one, num- 
bering over 5,000 specimens, representing the Ordovician of the 
southern Appalachians, and the other comprising an equally large 
assemblage of Devonian fossils from the Hamilton group of the 
Catskill foothills in Pennsylvania. 



22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

Many fossil vertebrates, both mammalian and reptilian, were added 
as a result of a field expedition to Utah, including a nearly complete 
articulated skeleton of a new family of extinct lizard, a well-pre- 
served skull of Crocodihis^ and a complete shell of the turtle Baena 
inflata. 

Engineering and industries. — ^In aeronautics the outstanding acces- 
sion was a collection of relics of the aeronautical work of Samuel P. 
Langley, received as a deposit from the Smithsonian Institution. 
The material includes a catapult for launching flying-machine 
models, meteorological instruments, stuffed birds and birds' wings, 
propellers, engine parts, and many other devices used by Dr. Langley 
between 1894 and 1906 in his exhaustive researches in the field of 
mechanical flight. To the collection of aircraft engines was added an 
original and complete Union gasoline engine of the World War 
period, presented by Stanley H. Page. Several interesting models 
of historic Army and Navy airplanes were accessioned, as well as 
models of racing and commercial planes. Many miscellaneous 
objects pertaining to transportation, communication, metrology, 
mining and metallurgy, tools and crafts, medicine and public health, 
and chemistry continue to come in as gifts and loans, always welcome 
additions to these sections. To the graphic arts display many exam- 
ples of fine bookmaking, photoengraving, printing, and photography 
were received, as well as some photographic and motion-picture 
equipment of value historically. 

History/. — Nearly 3,600 objects of historic and antiquarian interest 
were accessioned, including portraits, mementos, and medals of such 
American historic characters as Maj. Gen. Winfield Scott, Admiral 
George Dewey, George Sherman Batcheller, and Matthew Fontaine 
Maury. The numismatic collection was increased by 530 coins and 
medals and the philatelic collection by 2,598 foreign postage stamps, 
cards, and envelopes transferred from the Post Office Department. 

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK 

Scientific investigations in the field during the year were varied 
in kind and resulted in highly important additions to knowledge and 
in the contribution of many valuable specimens to the national col- 
lections. The work was financed principally by grants from the 
private funds of the Smithsonian aided by contributions from friends 
of the Institution. 

Anthropology. — On August 25, 1938, Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, Curator 
of Physical Anthropology, completed his tenth season of work in 
Alaska and the Aleutian Islands. The sea transportation throughout 
these investigations was furnished by the United States Coast Guard, 
which deserves all credit for its active cooperation. The main ob- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23 

jectives during this expedition were to verify the existence of a pre- 
Aleut stock, characterized by oblong-headed skeletons; to determine 
definitely whether the Commander Islands in the U. S. S. R. could 
have served as a second migration route for the coming of man from 
Asia; and to reexamine the burial caves on several islands of the 
Aleutian Chain. Rock shelters on Shiprock Island were first re- 
visited, and several days were spent on the south shore of Amlia 
and the little island of Ilak. Three weeks were occupied in the 
excavation of pre-Aleut sites on Amchitka Island, and several more 
weeks were devoted to the extensive site near the village of Nikolski 
on the island of Umnak. A large series of skeletons was obtained, 
together with many bone and stone implements, large bone harpoon 
points, and several decorated ivory artifacts. From Umnak the 
expedition was transported on the Coast Guard vessel Shoshone to 
the Commander Islands, where the party spent 5 days. Dr. Hrdlicka 
was able to examine all the more likely locations for prehistoric 
settlements. After careful examination of these sites, he was con- 
vinced that all dated from the Russian period, and the burials located 
were found to be those of Aleuts brought there in the early part of 
the nineteenth century by the Russians. No trace of pre-Russian 
habitations could be found on either Bering or Copper Islands. This 
substantiated the previous investigations of Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, 
who between 1882 and 1922 made several visits to the Commander 
Islands. During the return trip several stops were made at various 
islands in the Aleutian Chain. This year's explorations completed 
the present series in the Alaska work, begun by the Smithsonian 
Institution in 1926. The results will contribute substantial facts to 
more detailed investigations. 

At the close of the fiscal year Dr. Hrdlicka was visiting the U. S. 
S. R. by way of Europe in order to examine and study the skeletal 
material and associated material culture on exhibition in the various 
large museums. He was f ortunte in finding sizeable collections made 
by the Russians from various sections of Siberia, which may con- 
tribute to his Alaskan research. 

During September and October Dr. T. Dale Stewart, Associate 
Curator of Physical Anthropology, continued excavations at the In- 
dian site on Potomac Creek in Stafford County, Va. In describing 
his trip up the Potomac River in 1608, Capt. John Smith stated that 
one of the Indian villages on the west shore, named Patawomeke, had 
160 to 200 able men (upward of 1,000 inhabitants) ; it seems thus to 
have been the largest village along the river at the time, but there is 
little information regarding the village, and the date of its abandon- 
ment by Indians remains unknown. Inspection of Smith's map of 
the Potomac River, on which Patawomeke appears as a king's resi- 



24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

dence, shows that this village was situated on the north side of what 
is now Potomac Ci-eek, near Marlboro Point. The Virginia land 
records indicate that the land constituting the "Potomac neck" was 
patented around the middle of the seventeenth century. About this 
time "Marlborough Town," with a courthouse, came into existence 
less than a mile away from the Indian site. 

Archeologically the old Indian village site is important because of 
its known contact with the Jamestown colonists. No extensive ex- 
cavations were undertaken, however, until 1935, when the late Judge 
William J. Graham became interested. Working intermittently dur- 
ing the next 2 years, until his death on November 10, 1937, Judge 
Graham succeeded in locating three large ossuaries, two small burial 
pits, and many post holes and trenches. From the largest ossuary 
and one of the small burial pits Judge Graham recovered European 
objects — glass beads, iron, copper, and a silver cup made at the be- 
ginning of the seventeenth century. In another ossuary he found 
what is probably the largest human skull yet recorded. 

Following Judge Graham's death, and in accord with his wishes, 
his collections from Patawomeke and their accompanying records 
were presented to the National Museum. Early in 1938 permission 
was obtained to continue the investigation begun by Judge Graham. 
By the close of the season Dr. Stewart had determined the outlines of 
what is probably the main part of the Indian site. Located on a 
30-foot bluff just above a spring that is still in use, the village was 
surrounded by one or more circular stockades. What appears to 
have been the inner stockade had a diameter of about 175 feet. He 
was not able to trace completely the outer concentric rows of post 
holes, but these may extend the diameter of the village to 280 feet or 
more. At the close of the present fiscal year Dr. Stewart resumed 
the excavations in order to complete as far as possible the outline of 
the famous stockaded village. 

Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, Assistant Curator of Archeology, during 
July and August 1938 continued the archeological survey of Kansas. 
Scattered along the timbered bluffs of the Missouri River from its 
mouth to a point near St. Joseph, Mo., are groups of small mounds in 
which excavation has revealed stone enclosures containing burials. 
Their age, origin, and tribal identity have long resisted interpreta- 
tion, though from the uniformity of construction it has been thought 
by some that they were left by a single people moving up or down 
the valley. Below the mouth of the Osage River such pottery and 
other materials as have been found in the chambers suggest affinities 
with remains usually termed "Woodland" in the eastern United 
States. Farther west there is less internal evidence, so that assign- 
ment of those in the Kansas City region to a given archeological 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25 

horizon had been well-nigh impossible. During the summer of 1937, 
however, Dr. WedeFs investigations in southern Platte County had 
disclosed village sites with artifacts evidently related to the Hope- 
wellian complex of the upper Mississippi drainage; concurrently 
amateurs nearby reported the finding of similar pottery in a stone 
enclosure. With renewed hopes that some of the mystery surround- 
ing these structures might finally be dispelled, excavations were re- 
sumed along the north bank of the Missouri between Parkville and 
Farley. 

Nine enclosures were examined; all had been dug into previously 
and two were so hopelessly plundered as to give no reliable in- 
formation. From the others it was established that the chambers 
vary from 6 to 9 feet across, are square to oval in outline, and range 
from 2 to nearly 4 feet deep. They consist of a carefully laid up 
mortarless wall of horizontal slabs, against which other large flat 
rocks were leaned. The area thus covered was about 15 feet in 
diameter. Two mounds yielded the dismembered skeletons of per- 
haps a dozen individuals, apparently of a medium-statured long- 
headed people. Artifacts were very rare and inconclusive, but it 
was noted that shell-tempered smooth and incised pottery occurred 
in portions of the structures which had been disturbed in pre- 
white days. Although direct proof is mostly lacking, it seems likely 
that the original structures in this vicinity were built by a people 
with Hopewellian affinities who were probably among the earliest 
potters and farmers in the eastern plains. 

Near Farley, on the right bank of the Platte River, a prehistoric 
village and cemetery with different cultural connections was ex- 
plored. Here the natives dwelt in earth-covered partly subterranean 
structures whose roofs were borne by four central posts. Shell- 
tempered pottery, often with incised lines, was abundant. Present 
also are small notched and unnotched points, scrapers, knives, drills, 
paired sandstone shaft-buffers, the polished adz or gouge, effigy 
pipes, fine-grained sandstone ornaments, bone awls, longitudinally 
pierced deer phalanges for cup-and-pin game, shell hoes, twisted 
cordage, maize, beans, pumpkin and sunflower seeds, and a few ani- 
mal bones. In the nearby cemetery were more than 80 primary 
extended, bundle, and flexed burials, apparently of a short broad- 
headed population. Pottery generally indicates close relationships 
to that found on certain so-called middle Mississippi sites in south- 
ern Illinois and elsewhere. 

On August 14, following intensive excavations in western Mis- 
souri, Dr. Wedel proceeded to Pueblo, Colo., to investigate caves 
reported to have disclosed traces of Indian occupancy. About 2 
weeks were devoted to reconnaissance in the Purgatoire and tribu- 



26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

tary canyons, Las Animas County, and to brief inspection of several 
open sites in Baca County, heart of the "dust bowl," where three 
open camp sites were visited. From badly blown fields local col- 
lectors claim to have taken Folsom and Yuma artifacts and, in one 
instance, remains of an extinct camel. Miscellaneous flints, scrapers, 
knives, projectile points, and hammerstones were gathered, but 
nothing of demonstrably ancient date. On one site were small scat- 
tered piles of burnt and cracked stones; others showed black soil 
areas suggestive of hearths. All sites examined were near dry 
watercourses or on old dried-up shallow lake beds. In general it 
was found that (1) local rock shelters are mostly small and shallow, 
giving little promise of producing cultural remains as old as Folsom 
or Yuma are usually believed to be; (2) local collectors unanimously 
aver that such ancient remains are exceedingly rare in the cave and 
canyon country, though many occur in the sandy blown-out region 
from Baca County north; (3) occasional rock shelters do contain 
cultural vestiges, which, while apparently not geologically ancient, 
certainly merit careful scientific scrutiny before untrained excavators 
destroy the record. On June 8, 1939, Dr. Wedel returned to central 
Kansas to continue work of recovering an outline of the various 
prehistoric and historic Indian cultures. 

Henry B. Collins, Jr., at the request of the National Park Service, 
spent a short time in checking the purported site of the former 
Chickasaw village of Ackia, near Tupelo, Miss. During this brief 
investigation he was able to verify the documentary records con- 
cerning this important village, which played an important role in 
the decisive battle of Ackia. 

Biology. — The Presidential cruise of 1938 in the U. S. S. Eotiston 
resulted in the addition of important collections to the National 
Museum. At the invitation of President Roosevelt, Dr. Waldo L. 
Schmitt, Curator of Marine Invertebrates, sen-ed as naturalist on 
this cruise, which covered 5,888 miles in 24 days, from July 16 to 
August 9, Fourteen stops were made for fishing and scientific col- 
lecting, distributed in the territories of five different nations : Mexico 
(Baja California and Socorro Island) ; France (Clipperton Island) ; 
Ecuador (Galapagos Islands) ; Costa Rica (Cocos Island) ; and 
Colombia (Old Providence Island in the Caribbean). About 10,000 
specimens were obtained, including 250 specimens of fishes represent- 
ing 60 different species. More than 30 new species, subspecies, and 
varieties of animals and plants were discovered. Outstanding among 
them was a new genus and species of palm from Cocos Island, which 
was named Rooseveltia franJdiniana by the describer. Dr. O. F. Cook, 
of the United States Department of Agriculture. Throughout the 
cruise the President took an active part and a lively interest in the 
collecting. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 27 

During April, at the invitation of Capt. G. Allan Hancock, Dr. 
Schmitt participated in a reconnaissance of the marine fauna of the 
north coast of South America and some of the adjacent islands. 
Stops were made in the Kepublic of Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, 
and the islands of Trinidad and Tobago, as well as at some of the 
smaller and lesser known islands in that region. A considerable col- 
lection of Crustacea and other marine forms was made. The 
macruran and anomuran crustaceans, about 7,000 in number, were 
brought back to the Museum for study and report. 

As in past years, Capt. Kobert A. Bartlett made a summer cruise 
to West Greenland and the adjacent Arctic regions. Captain Bart- 
lett has always most generously cooperated with the Museum and has 
brought back from his cruises an extensive series of marine inver- 
tebrates and fish life from these northern waters. This year was no 
exception, and about 400 specimens came to the Museum as a result 
of the cruise. A commercial otter trawl was used successfully for 
collecting specimens not otherwise obtainable. 

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Assistant Secretary, collected in March 
and April in southern Veracruz, Mexico, and brought back valuable 
collections, principally birds, from this region whence the Museum 
has heretofore had little material. The work was entirely in the 
tropical lowlands, with a base at the archeological camp of M. W. 
Stirling near Tres Zapotes. W. M. Perrygo, H. Deignan, and G. 
Rohwer collected in Kentucky from September 15 to November 15, 
1938, and obtained important material especially of mammals and 
birds. The work was renewed in the spring of 1939 when Perrygo 
and Rohwer spent about 3 months in the field in North Carolina. 

Dr. Leonard P. Schultz, assisted by E. D. Reid, continued his 
study of the fresh-water fish fauna of Virginia by three field trips 
during the summer of 1938. Several rare and interesting species 
were collected and unexpected facts relating to geographical 
distribution were obtained. 

Dr. Schultz left Washington on March 25, 1939, for an extended 
expedition to the South Pacific as naturalist on a naval vessel, the 
plan being to collect fishes and what other material time might per- 
mit. He had not returned at the close of the fiscal year. 

Austin H. Clark continued a survey of the butterfly fauna of 
Virginia. Two forms new to the State were found during the last 
half of the summer of 1938 and a third in the spring of 1939. One 
species described from "Virginia" in 1789 was found in what is pre- 
sumably the type locality after a lapse of 150 years. Many other 
interesting facts relating to distribution and habits were discovered. 

E. P. Killip, Associate Curator of Plants, spent about 3^ months 
in Colombia from January to early May 1939, for the purpose of 
collecting in little-explored parts of that country in connection with 



28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

his work on the flora of Colombia. Members of the staff of the 
Colombian Institiito BotJinico accompanied Mr. Killij) on various 
excursions. Most of the time was spent in the Pacific lowlands, the 
regions visited including Gorgona Island, Bahia Solano, the Dagua 
Valley, and the upper San Juan River region in the heart of the 
Choco. With Cali in the Cauoa Valley as a base, several trips were 
made to the Western Cordillera. A few days were spent along the 
Quindio Trail, in the Central Cordillera, where special attention was 
given to the wax palms. Accompanied by A. H. C. Alston, of the 
British Museum (Natural History), Mr. Killip explored the region 
about Villavicencio in the Orinoco drainage basin ; excursions were 
also made from Bogota to various points in the Eastern Cordillera. 
Altogether, about 2,600 numbers of plants were collected, these in- 
cluding many duplicates. 

Geology. — Dr. K. S. Bassler, Head Curator (vf Geology, during a 
vacation trip to England in August and September 1938, made cer- 
tain researches in the well-known southern England fossil areas 
extending from Cornwall on the west to the Chalk Cliffs at Dover. 
Excursions were made to various parts of the English lowlands, with 
brief intervals spent at the British Museum (Natural History) to 
study and check formation and locality occurrences of Paleozoic 
crinoids. The field studies included particularly the Subcarbon- 
iferous limestone area near Bristol, a Mesozoic locality at Lyme 
Regis, and various chalk outcrops south and east of London. The 
most valuable result of the trip was the information obtained for 
more accurate labeling of the National Museum's collection. 

In July 1938 Dr. G. A. Cooper, Assistant Curator of Stratigraphic 
Paleontology, went to Strouclsburg, Pa,, and there met Dr. Bradford 
Willard, of the Pennsylvania Geological Survey, for paleontological 
work at various localities. They spent a week around Stroudsburg 
and in southeastern New York examining Devonian strata. Later 
Dr. Winifred Goldring, State paleontologist of New York, joined 
Dr. Cooper in a study of detailed sections of the Hamilton Group at 
Port Jervis and at various other localities between that city and 
Albany, N. Y. At Catskill, G. H. Chadwick joined the party. Tlie 
object of the trip was to learn the sequence of strata in the Hamilton 
of eastern New York and to discover if possible the true top of the 
Hamilton in the Catskills southwest of Albany. All but the latter 
objective was attained. At the end of the New York work Dr. 
Cooper joined Dr. Willard in east-central Pennsylvania to study 
sections in the Hamilton and Tully strata. The entire work re- 
quired about 6 weeks. 

On May 2, 1939, Dr. Charles Butts and Dr. Cooper met Dr. Josiah 
Bridge, of the Geological Survey, in Bristol, Va., and from there 
continued to Montevallo, Ala. After studying Ordovician sections in 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29 

Alabama the party -went on into Georgia for a few days, then to 
Chattanooga, Tenn. Following a week's Avork in eastern Tennessee, 
the men located for 10 days in Virginia to study the Ordovician 
rocks. Many fossils to be used in studies of the Chazyan brachiopods 
were collected. 

Dr. E. O. Ulrich, Associate in Paleontology, made three trips 
partly under the auspices of the Geological Survey, but largely at 
his own expense, to forward his studies of Appalachian Valley 
Lower Paleozoic stratigraphy. These comprised a journey to Stras- 
burg, Va., and vicinity in October 1938 and a 2 months' visit to the 
southern Appalachian Valley in the spring of 1939. This was fol- 
lowed by a short trip to the Appalachian Valley in Pennsylvania 
late in the fiscal year. All these investigations were highly satisfac- 
tory in the new stratigraphic information gained, as well as in 
checking doubtful problems of the past and in securing important 
collections. 

C. W. Gilmore, Curator of Vertebrate Paleontology, accompanied 
by Dr. Eemington Kellogg, Assistant Curator of Mammals, made a 
short trip to investigate reported cetacean discoveries along the 
York River, in southern Virginia, and along the Coneto Eiver, near 
Tarboro, N. C. They found the cetacean remains at both of these 
localities to be very fragmentary. 

Dr. C. L. Gazin, Assistant Curator of Vertebrate Paleontology, 
made an important expedition in the Cretaceous, Paleocene, and 
Eocene of Utah, which met with gratifying results. From the 
Upper Cretaceous of the North Horn region there were obtained 
additional remains of extinct lizards, including one articulated 
skeleton considered the most complete found in North America. 
From newly discovered Paleocene deposits about 50 additional speci- 
mens were obtained, including several new genera and species. 
From the Eocene of the Uinta Basin a representative mammalian 
collection was obtained, including a very fine skull and lower jaws 
of CroGodilus, as well as some good turtle specimens. These ma- 
terials are an especially desirable addition to the Museum collections, 
which were previously weak in specimens from the Uinta formation. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Visitors. — A total of 2,233,345 visitors were recorded at the various 
Museum buildings during the year. Though this number is 174,825 
less than the previous year, it still represents a substantial increase 
over the number of visitors during the years following the economic 
decline of 1929. This year the high months were August 1938 and 
April 1939, when 320,746 and 337,892 visitors, respectively, were 
recorded. The attendance in the four Museum buildings was as 
follows: Smithsonian Building, 334,909; Arts and Industries Build- 



30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

ing, 1,016,048; Natural History Building, 709,139; and Aircraft 
Building, 173,249. 

Publications and pnnting. — The sum of $24,000 was available 
during the year for the publication of the Museum Annual Report, 
Bulletins, and Proceedings. Thirty-five publications were issued — 
the Annual Report, 1 volume (vol. 6) of Bulletin 100 complete, 2 
Contributions from the United States National Herbarium, 4 Bul- 
letins, and 27 separate Proceedings papers. These made a total of 
2,844 octavo pages and 283 plates, an increase of 1,404 pages and 41 
plates over last year. The Bulletins issued were as follows: No. 
170, Life Histories of North American Birds of Prey, Part 2, by 
Arthur Cleveland Bent; No. 172, Birds from Siam and the Malay 
Peninsula in the United States National Museum Collected by Drs. 
Hugh M. Smith and William L. Abbott, by J. H. Riley; No. 173, 
Catalog of the Mechanical Collections of the Division of Engineer- 
ing, United States National Museum, by Frank A. Taylor; No. 174, 
Life Histories of North American Woodpeckers, by Arthur 
Cleveland Bent. 

Volumes and separates distributed during the year to libraries and 
individuals throughout the world aggregated 69,658. 

W. P. A. assistance. — The Works Progress Administration of the 
District of Columbia continued the assignment of workers to Museum 
offices, although during the course of the year the number decreased 
from 166 to 147. The service performed totaled 174,402 man-hours 
and embraced many types of work in all departments, such as check- 
ing, labeling, and repairing library material ; preparing drawings and 
photographs; typing notes and records; model making and repair; 
preparing, mounting, cataloging, and labeling specimens; drafting; 
translating; computing; and repair of Indian pottery. 

Special exhibitions. — Fourteen special exhibitions were held during 
the year under the auspices of various scientific, governmental, and 
educational agencies. In addition, the department of engineering 
and industries sponsored 23 special exhibits — 3 in engineering, 8 in 
graphic arts, and 12 in photography. 

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF 

A reorganization effective July 1, 1938, changed the designation 
of the former Department of Arts and Industries to Department of 
Engineering and Industries, and that of the Division of Textiles to 
Division of Crafts and Industries. On June 16, 1939, Dr. Wallace 
E. Duncan was appointed to this division as Assistant Curator of 
the Section of Chemical Industries. William C. Dawson was ap- 
pointed scientific aid in the Division of Graphic Arts on June 1, 
1939. In the Head Curator's office Miss Mary C. Wallace was ad- 
vanced to clerk-stenographer on February 11, 1939. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 31 

In the Department of Anthropology the following personnel 
changes vrere made : Dr. Willard TV. Hill was appointed on Febru- 
ary 16, 1939, Associate Curator of Etlmology, to fill the position 
vacated by the transfer of Henry B. CoUins, Jr., to the Bureau of 
American Ethnology. Dr. T. Dale Stewart was advanced to Asso- 
ciate Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology, on April 1, 1939. 

In the Department of Biology Conrad V. Morton was advanced to 
Assistant Curator, Division of Plants, on March 16, 1939. Herbert 
G. Deignan was appointed to the Division of Birds as scientific aid 
on August 16, 1938. On October 1, 1938, Miss Marion F. Willoughby 
became senior scientific aid. Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology, 
Department of Geology. Miss Mary C. Breen, after serving as 
collaborator. Division of Mollusks, for nearly 29 years, resigned on 
February 13, 1939. Dr. Benjamin Schwartz was made honorary 
collaborator in the Section of Helminthology on February 8, 1939. 

Other changes in staff and in personnel status among the Museum 
employees were as follows: Mrs. Dorothy Chamberlain was ap- 
pointed senior clerk in the Associate Director's office to fill the 
vacancy caused by the resignation of Mrs. Margaret G. Shoup. In 
the editor's office. Miss Gladys O. Visel's designation was changed 
to editorial clerk on May 1, 1939. Michael Cahillane was appointed 
captain of guard and George F. Shaw lieutenant of guard on 
August 1, 1938, and William B. Stiles was made principal guard 
on January 7, 1939. 

Eight employees were retired during the year under the Civil 
Service Retirement Act: Three for disability — Clark M. Braden, 
guard, on November 30, 1938; Mrs. Bessie L. Cartter, charwoman, 
on August 31, 1938 ; and Mrs, Eva M. Wright, charwoman, on March 
11, 1939. Three on account of age — Clarence E. Bowman, guard, 
on July 31, 1938, with 17 years 2 months service ; George W. Leonard, 
under mechanic, on July 31, 1938, with 16 years 2 months services; 
and Charles H. Chapin, guard, on May 31, 1939, with 15 years 4 
months service. Two by optional retirement — George Johnson, cap- 
tain of watch, on July 31, 1938, with 42 years 6 months service; and 
Mrs. Hattie J. Brady, attendant, on February 28, 1939, with 34 years 
service. 

The Museum lost through death Glen E. Johnson, guard, on De- 
cember 21, 1938, and two honorary workers long associated with its 
activities : Hugo Worch, custodian of the Section of Musical Instru- 
ments, on November 14, 1938, and B. Preston Clark, collaborator in 
the Division of Insects, on January 11, 1939. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Alexander Wetmore, Assistant Secretary. 

Dr. Charles G. Abbot, 

/Secretary, SmitJisonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 2 
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

Sm: Pursuant to the provisions of section 5 (d) of Public Resolu- 
tion No. 14, Seventy-fifth Congress, approved March 24, 1937, I have 
the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees of the Na- 
tional Gallery of Art, the second annual report of the Board covering 
its operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1939. 

Under the aforementioned joint resolution, Congress appropriated 
to the Smithsonian Institution the area bounded by Seventh Street, 
Constitution Avenue, Fourth Street, and North Mall Drive (now 
IMadison Drive) Northwest, in the District of Columbia, as a site 
for a National Gallery of Art; authorized the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion to permit The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, 
a public charitable trust, established by the late Hon. Andrew W. 
Mellon, of Pittsburgh, Pa., to construct thereon a building to be 
designated the "National Gallery of Art" ; and created, in the Smith- 
sonian Institution, a bureau to be directed by a board to be known 
as the "Trustees of the National Gallery of Art," charged with the 
maintenance and administration of the National Gallery of Art. 
The Board is comprised of the Chief Justice of the United States, 
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secre- 
tary of the Smithsonian Institution, ex officio, and five General 
Trustees. The General Trustees first taking office, appointed on 
June 24, 1937, by the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, were : the late Andrew W. Mellon, David K. E. Bruce, Duncan 
Phillips, the late S. Parker Gilbert, and Donald D. Shepard. 

The late Andrew W. Mellon, the donor of the first great art col- 
lection given to the Gallery, as well as the funds for the erection of 
the Gallery building, died on August 26, 1937. Also, the late S. 
Parker Gilbert died on February 23, 1938. In August 1938 Paul 
Mellon was elected to serve the unexpired term of his father, the 
late Andrew W. Mellon; and Ferdinand Lammot Belin was elected 
to serve the unexpired term of the late S. Parker Gilbert. The fol- 
lowing resolutions were adopted by the Board at its annual meeting 
held on February 13, 1939 : 

That the Board of Trustees of the National Gallery of Art, in recording the 
death on August 26, 1937, of Andrew William Mellon, founder of this Gallery 
and a memher of this Board, express their profound sorrow at the loss of one 
32 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33 

whose foresight and generosity were responsible for the establishment of this 
Gallery along lines truly national in scope ; who, during the course of a long life 
of business activity and public service, found time to bring together the mag- 
nificent collection of art which, with the building now in course of erection 
and an endowment for future acquisitions, he has, with unparalleled gen- 
erosity, given to his counti-y for the benefit of all and "for the purpose of 
encouraging and developing a study of the fine arts." While he sought to efface 
himself in connection with the Gallery in order that others might be encouraged 
to contribute to this great national undertaking, he will not be forgotten but 
will always be remembered with gratitude by those who will benefit from what 
he has done, and his "story will live on, woven into the stuff of other men's 
lives." 

That the Board of Trustees of the National Gallery of Art express their 
profound sorrow at the death on February 23, 1938, of Seymour Parker Gilbert, 
a Trustee of this Gallery, whose sound judgment and experience obtained during 
his years of public service peculiarly fitted him to be a useful and distinguished 
member of the Board. His loss will be greatly felt in this work as in many 
other fields of activitiy to which he gave generously of his time and strength. 

At the annual meeting of the Board held February 13, 1939, Paul 
Mellon was elected President, and David K. E. Bruce was elected 
Vice President of the Board. Also, at this meeting Donald D. Shep- 
ard was elected a member of the executive committee, and Secretary 
Hull and David K. E. Bruce and Ferdinand Lammot Belin were 
elected members of the finance committee, Mr. Bruce to serve as vice 
chairman of the finance committee. 

At a special meeting of the Board, held May 26, 1939, the Trustees 
adopted a seal and also passed appropriate resolutions relating to 
the administrative duties and responsibilities of officers of the Gallery. 
The Board accepted with regret the resignation of Paul Mellon as 
President, and elected David K. E. Bruce President to fill the vacancy 
thus occasioned, and also elected Ferdinand Lammot Belin Vice 
President to fill the vacancy in the office of Vice President occasioned 
by the appointment of Mr. Bruce as President. Donald D. Shepard 
was appointed General Counsel for the National Gallery of Art to 
serve in that capacity, in addition to his duties as Secretary and 
Treasurer of the Gallery. David E. Finley is serving as Director 
of the Gallery, having been elected to that position by the Board last 
year. 

At an earlier meeting of the Board, held August 31, 1938, the 
Board appointed Harry A. McBride, of Pontiac, Mich., to fill the 
office of Administrator of the National Gallery of Art. Mr. McBride 
has served a number of years in the Foreign Service of the United 
States in an administrative and executive capacity, his last post being 
as Assistant to the Secretary of State. At the same meeting, John 
Walker, of Pittsburgh, Pa., was appointed Chief Curator of the 
National Gallery of Art. At the time Mr. Walker was serving as 
Associate in Charge of Fine Arts at the American Academy in 



34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

Rome. Stephen Pichetto, of New York City, well-known authority 
and expert in the restoration of art, was appointed on May 26, 1939, 
as consultant restorer of the National Gallery of Art. 

On May 26, 1939, the General Trustees chose Joseph E. Widener, 
of Philadelphia, Pa., to fill the vacancy occasioned by the resignation 
of Paul Mellon as General Trustee to serve for the remainder of Mr. 
Mellon's term expiring July 1, 1947, and Samuel H. Kress, of New 
York, was elected and chosen as a General Trustee to serve until July 
1, 1949, to succeed Donald D. Shepard, whose term was to expire July 
1, 1939. 

The most notable event of the year was the gift by Samuel H. 
Kress and the Samuel H. Kress Foundation of a collection of Italian 
paintings and sculpture, acclaimed by experts as one of the greatest 
private collections of Italian art in the world. In his letter of gift to 
the Board of Trustees of the National Gallery of Art, Mr. Kress said : 

Over a period of many years, I have quietly acquired a collection of paintings 
and sculpture, particularly works of art representative of the Italian School, 
with the object of some day donating my collection to the public for exhibition 
and study in our country. Besides bringing from Europe as many as I could, 
I have made great effort to keep in this country paintings and sculpture that 
would otherwise very probably have been returned to Europe and have become 
permanently part of the great European galleries. I have done this in order 
that my Italian collection might include as many works as possible of the great 
Italian masters. 

The collection includes important works of many of the outstanding masters 
of the Italian School, such as Giotto, Duccio, Simone Martini, Sassetta, Matteo 
di Giovanni, Neroccio, Fra Angelico, Masolino, Perugino, Filippo Lippi, Piero dl 
Cosimo, Ghirlandaio, Gentile da Fabriano, Cossa, Mautegna, Giovanni Bellini. 
Giorgione, Titian, Tintoretto, and others; also sculpture by Desiderio da 
Settignano, Luca and Andrea della Robbia, Verrocchio, Rossellino, Benedetto 
da Maiano, Amadeo, Sansovino, and others. 

I have followed with interest the establishment of the National Gallery of 
Art in Washington and the construction of the great edifice there to house 
the Nation's works of art. I have also noted with pleasure the Nation-wide 
interest exhibited in this Gallery, established by the late Andrew W. Mellon 
and dedicated to the encouragement and development of the study of the 
fine arts. 

Because the Gallery and the works of art which it will contain will be for 
the benefit of all the people of the United States and will be accessible to so 
many citizens of this and other countries visiting our National Capital, it 
seems most suitable that others should contribute to the collection being formed 
there; and it is my wish, therefore, that the works of art which I have ac- 
quired should become part of the National Gallery Collection, and be exhibited 
in the gallery building now being erected in Washington. Realizing what it 
would mean to the Gallery at its opening, I decided some months ago that if 
the arrangements of the gift were satisfactory I would give up the pleasure of 
having possession of the collection in my home, and arrange to consummate the 
gift so that rooms may be prepared for the placing of the objects of art for 
the opening of the Gallery. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35 

Following a letter from Mr. Kress to the President of the United 
States, advising him of the gift, President Roosevelt replied as 
follows : 

My Deas Mr. BIeess: Tour decision to present to the people of the United 
States your priceless art collection is in keeping with the broad spirit of the 
Congress in establishing the National Gallery of Art, primarily as the home of 
the Mellon Collection. It has been the hope of those who have the welfare of 
the National Gallery at heart that other private gifts would supplement the 
treasures included in Mr. Mellon's Collection. 

I am, therefore, most grateful for your letter of July 1st, in which you 
embody a letter to the Board of Trustees of the National Gallery of Art, 
setting forth the generous terms of your proposed gift. Not only are the 
treasures you plan to bestow on the Nation incalculable in value and in interest, 
but in their bestowal you are giving an example which may well be followed 
by others of our countrymen, who have in their stewardship art treasures 
which also happily might find a home in the National Gallery, 

I feel that your proposed donation is a decided step in the realization of the 
true purpose of the National Qallery. 
Very sincerely yours, 

(Signed) Fbanklin D. Roosevelt. 

The collection was gratefully accepted by the Board and will be in- 
stalled in special rooms and settings before the formal opening of 
the Gallery. As can be seen from the list which is attached to this 
report, almost all the important Italian masters from the thirteenth 
through the eighteenth centuries are represented, and in the opinion 
of experts no other private collection and very few museums can 
illustrate in so complete a manner as Mr. Kress' collection the de- 
velopment of the Italian school of painting during the Renaissance 
period. Indicating the high value placed on the Kress collection by 
experts in the field of art. Sir Kemieth Clark, Director of the Na- 
tional Gallery of Art in London, made the following observation after 
seeing the collection: 

There can be no doubt that it is one of the most remarkable collections of 
fourteenth and fifteenth century Italian art ever formed. It is very compre- 
hensive, containing masters hardly represented in any other American collec- 
tion ; and Mr. Kress has managed to assemble a number of real masterpieces of 
a kind one had supposed no longer available. 

Other well-known authorities and experts, such as Dr. Wilhelm 
Suida, Count Contini Bonacossi, of Florence, Prof. Roberto Longhi, 
F. Mason Perkins, and Bernard Berenson have all publicly praised 
the quality and scope of this magnificent collection. 

The paintings and sculpture in the Kress collection will be exhibited 
in such a way as to show both the growth of the different schools — 
Florentine, Sienese, Central Italian, North Italian, and Venetian — 
and the chronological development of Italian art as a whole. With 
Mr. Kress' collection and the paintings and sculpture donated by Mr. 
Mellon, the National Gallery will immediately become a center for the 

197855 — 40 i 



36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

study of art in the United States, and one of the great galleries in 
the world. 

There were no other acquisitions during the year. Other works 
of art were offered as gifts, but were not accepted because in the 
opinion of the Board they were not considered desirable for the 
Gallery. 

During the year the Board loaned the following paintings from 
the Mellon collection to the Masterpieces of Art Exhibition at the 
New York World's Fair for the period April 30 to October 31, 1939 : 
Rembrandt's "Self Portrait"; Hals' "An Old Woman Seated"; and 
Terborch's "A Gentleman Greeting a Lady"; also the following 
paintings from the Mellon collection to the Golden Gate Interna- 
tional Exposition at San Francisco, for the period February 1 to 
December 31, 1939: Rembrandt's "A Young Man at Table"; Hals' 
"Portrait of Balthasar Coymans"; Pieter de Hoogh's "A Dutch 
Courtyard." 

During the year the act of ^March 24, 1938, providing for the con- 
struction and maintenance of the National Gallery of Art, was 
amended by Congress by Public Resolution No. 9, Seventy-sixth 
Congress, approved April 13, 1939, so as to authorize the appropria- 
tion of public funds, prior to the completion of the Gallery building, 
for administrative and operating expenses and equipment prepara- 
tory to the opening of the Gallery to the public. Under this author- 
ization, the budget of the National Gallery of Art, insofar as public 
funds for the fiscal year 1940 are concerned, after approval by the 
Board at its annual meeting on February 13, 1939, was submitted to 
Congress and the sum of $159,000 for the above purposes was 
appropriated, the amount being included in the Act approved 
June 30, 1939. 

Under this appropriation, the Board immediately proceeded to 
establish temporary offices for the Gallery in quarters furnished by 
The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust. A nucleus of 
the permanent staff was employed on July 1, 1939. This staff will 
be engaged in preparatory work in the compilation of catalogs 
for the Gallery, in working with the Civil Service Commission on 
the classification of positions for the complete permanent staff, in the 
purchase of furniture and supplies to be placed in the Gallery build- 
ing upon its completion, and in setting up the accounting systems 
required by the Board and by Government regulations. This pre- 
paratory work will enable the Board to expedite the opening of the 
Gallery to the public as soon as the building is completed and the 
collections arranged therein. 

Work on the building and construction of the Gallery is proceeding 
rapidly, the superstructure being practically completed. It is hoped 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37 

that the construction of the building will be far enough advanced by 
August 1, 1940, so as to permit the installation of the collections 
preparatory to the public opening. 

As of June 30, 1939, $5,350,920.07 had been expended by The A. W. 
Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust upon the construction of 
the building, which, it is estimated, will cost in excess of $15,000,000. 
The recording of such expenditures in the books of account of the 
National Gallery of Art will be deferred until the completion of the 
construction of the Gallery. 

No appropriations made by Congress for the National Gallery of 
Art were expended during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1939, and 
no public or private funds were received or disposed of during the 
year. Pursuant to instructions, Price, Waterhouse & Co., a nationally 
known firm of public accountants, has made an examination of the 
accounting records of the National Gallery of Art, and a copy of the 
certificate of that firm dated September 8, 1939, follows : 

Pursuant to your instructions, we have made an examination of the account- 
ing records of the National Gallery of Art and other documentary evidence, 
and have obtained information and explanations from its officers. 

The books of account reflect the acquisition as of June 24, 1937, of the works 
of art donated by The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, valued 
for accounting purposes at $31,303,162.31. Pursuant to joint resolution of Con- 
gress and the trust indenture, The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable 
Trust, at its expense, is proceeding with construction of the National Gallery 
of Art. The recording of the construction expenditures in the books of account 
of the National Gallery of Art is being deferred until completion of construc- 
tion. An endowment fund of $5,000,000 is expected to be received from The A. 
W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust at about the time of completion 
of the Gallery. 

By an indenture effective June 29, 1939, Mr. Samuel H. Kress and the Samuel 
H. Kress Foundation donated certain works of art to the National Gallery of 
Art subject to completion of construction of the Gallery building on or before 
June 29, 1941. The value for accounting purposes of the works of art so 
acquired has not yet been determined and no entries in respect of this gift have 
yet been recorded in the books of account. 

Our examination disclosed no other transactions to June 30, 1939, which 
should be recorded in the books of account. 

Our examination did not include inspection of the works of art to which the 
National Gallery of Art had title at June 30, 1939. We have, however, ex- 
amined tlie deeds of trust by the donors which provide that the donors shall be 
responsible for the custody and shall bear the cost of storage and insurance 
until delivery of the works of art is made after completion of the Gallery 
building. 

In our opinion, based upon our examination, the books of account, subject 
to the fact that no entry has been made in respect of the works of art acquired 
June 29, 1939, fairly present, in accordance with accepted principles of account- 
ing consistently maintained by the Gallery during the year under review, the 
position of the National Gallery of Art at June 30, 1939. 



38 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

PAINTINGS AND SCULPTURE CONTAINED IN THE COLLECTION GIVEN TO 
THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART BY SAMUEL H. KRESS AND THE SAMUEL 
H. KRESS FOUNDATION 

PAINTINGS 

Sandro Botticelli Crucifixion. 

Ridolfo Ghirlandaio Portrait of Taddeo Taddei. 

Provincial Follower of Piero Madonna Enthroned, 
della Francesca. 

Ugolino da Siena Madonna and Child. 

Giovanni di Niccolo da Pisa_ Madonna and Child. 

Giambattijsta Tiepolo Child Moses Trampling Upon the Crown of the 

Pharaohs. 

Antonio Vivarini St. Catherine Knocking Down the Idols. 

Pseudo-Boccaccino A Saint. 

Do A Saint. 

School of Mantegna Triumph of Religion. 

Do Triumph of Time. 

Do Triumph of Mortality. 

Do Triumph of Love. 

Do Triumph of Fame. 

Do Triumph of Death. 

Niccolo di Pietro Gerini Four Saints Before a King. 

Benedetto Bembo St. John Preaching. 

Vittore Carpaccio Prudentia. 

Lombard School or Zavataro Madonna, Child, Saints, and Donor. 

Lippo Memmi Madonna and Child. 

Moretto da Brescia Madonna, Child, and Saints. 

Vittore Carpaccio Temperentia. 

Follower of Pietro Lorenzetti Crucifixion. 

Giovanni Paolo Pannini Interior of the Pantheon. 

Luca di Tomme Crucifixion. 

Paolo di Giovanni Fei Calvary. 

Sienese Sch ool A Saint. 

Do A Saint. 

Bartolommeo Montagna Madonna and Child. 

Bernardino Pintoricchio Madonna and Child. 

Giulio Bugiardini Portrait of a Young Girl. 

Domenico Morone or Paren- Adoration of the Wise Men. 
zano ?. 

Antonio da Saliba Madonna and Child. 

Pietro di Domenico da Mon- Coronation, 
tepulciano. 

School of Orcagna Coronation. 

Carlo Crivelli Two Saints. 

Jacopo di Clone Madonna, Child, and Saints. 

Bartolommeo di Giovanni __ Tribute to Apollo. 

Do A King with His Wise Men. 

Andrea di Bartolo Presentation at Temple. 

Do Birth of the Virgin. 

Do Giving of Alms by Gioacchino. 

Vincenzo Catena Portrait of a Girl. 

Sano di Pietro Crucifixion. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39 

PAINTINGS — continued 

Giovanni BattistaPiazzetta-- Sleeping Shepherdess. 

Mariotto di Nardo Crucifixion. 

Bronzino (Alessandro Allori) Portrait of a Youth. 

Sano di Pietro St. Benedict. 

Do St. Augustine. 

North Italian or Tomasso da St. Jerome in His Study. 

Modena. 

Martino di Bartolommeo or Holy Saint. 

Taddeo di Bartolo. 

Maestro di San Pietro Ovile. . St. Mary Magdalen. 

Martino di Bartolommeo Crucifixion. 

Marco and Sebastian oRicci.- Ruins and Figures. 

Girolamo Genga St. Agostino Clothes the Three Catechumen. 

Gualtieri di Giovanni _ Madonna and Child. 

Florentine School Miracle of St. Nicholas. 

Bronzino (Alessandro Allori) . Portrait of a Boy. 

Paris Bordone Diana and Nymphs. 

Moretto da Brescia St. Jerome Penitent. 

Giovanni Maria Crespi (G. Cupids with Sleeping Nymphs. 

M. Crespi). 

Pietro Longhi The Simulated Faint. 

Do Blind Man's Buflf. 

Fra Bartolommeo and Mari- Madonna, Child, and Saints. 

otto Albertinelli. 

Rosalba Carriera Portrait of a Boy. 

Giambattista Tiepolo The Virtuous One. 

Do Woman with Parrot. 

Angelo Puccinelli PredeUa. 

Agnolo Gaddi Annunciation with Donor. 

Sebastiano Ricci St. Francis of Paolo Resuscitates a Boy. 

Do St. Helen Finds the Real Cross. 

Francesco Francia Madonna and Child. 

Jacopo Tintoretto Aurora. 

Matteo di Giovanni or Coz- Madonna and Child Between Two Angels. 

zarelli. 

Piero di Cosimo or Other Madonna, Child, Saints, and Angels. 

Rosello di Jacopo Franchi Cassone Front. 

Francesco Salviati Portrait of a Young Woman. 

Pontormo (Jacopo Carrucci) _ Portrait of a Young Man. 

Michele Giambono St. Peter. 

Giusto de Menabuoi St. Paul and St. Augustine. 

Paolo di Giovanni Fei _ Madonna and Child between Two Angels, St. 

Francis and St. Ludwig. 

Correggio (Antonio Allegri) _ _ Marriage of St. Catherine. 

Bernardo Daddi Flagellation. 

Do A Holy Martyr. 

Giovanni da Milano St. Anthony Abbot. 

Rimini Artist (follower of Crucifixion with Mary and John. 

Giotto). 

Domenico Feti Banquet of Epulone. 

Master of the Rucellai Pol- Polyptych. 

yptych. 



40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

PAINTINGS — continued 

Alegretto Nuzi Resurrection of Drusiana. 

Do St. John and Philosopher Cratone. 

Do St. John Converts Azzio and Cugio. 

Do St. John Drinks Poison. 

Bernardino Licinio Portrait of a Musician. 

Bonifazio Veronese Holy Conversation. 

Lorenzo Lotto Portrait of a Man. 

Filippino Lippi St. Francis in Glory. 

Dosso Dossi Portrait of Man with Flag. 

Franciabigio Portrait of a Young Man. 

Giambattista Tiepolo Apotheosis of a Poet. 

Garofalo (Benvenuto Tisi) Baptism of Christ. 

Vittore Ghislandi Portrait of a Young Man. 

Paolo Schiavo Flagellation of Christ. 

Ugolino da Siena Christ Blessing. 

Guadenzio Ferrari The Manger. 

Matteo Balducci Venus and Cupid. 

Pietro Rotari Half Figure of Girl Asleep. 

Do Half Figure of Girl with Flower in Hair. 

Francesco Pesellino Crucifixion and Two Saints. 

Giambattista Tiepolo Portrait of a Youth. 

Andrea Vanni Adoration of the Magi. 

Andrea di Giusto Assumption. 

Francesco Guardi Bridge with Three Arches. 

Giovanni Battista Moroni Portrait of a Gentleman in Adoration before the 

Madonna. 

Francesco del Cossa Madonna, Child, and Angels. 

Vittore Carpaccio H oly Family. 

Lorenzo Lotto St. Catherine. 

Bartolommeo Vivarini Madonna and Child. 

Bernardino Fungal The Miracle of the Oxen. 

Bernardino Luini Venus. 

Follower of Angelico and Madonna, Child, and Angels. 
Benozzo. 

Dido Master Triumphal Train of a Queen. 

Canaletto View of the Ducal Palace. 

Neri di Bicci Five Saints. 

Spinello Aretino Madonna, Child, Angels, and Saints. 

Jacopo Bassano Annunciation to the Shepherds. 

Giovanni del Biondo Madonna and Child, St. John the Baptist, and 

St. Catherine. 

Agnolo Gaddi Madonna with Child, Saints, and Angels. 

Francesco Guardi Campo San Zanipolo. 

Andrea da Firenze Crucifixion. 

Giovanni Baronzio Baptism of Christ. 

Jacopo Tintoretto The Trinity Courted by the Angels. 

Sebastiano Mainardi.. Madonna with the Child, St. John, and Three 

Angels. 

Cenni di Francesco Madonna and Child. 

Andrea di Giusto Judgment Scene. 

Rosalba Carriera Allegory of Painting. 

Florentine Master, about Cassone Front. 
1420. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 41 

PAINTINGS — continued 

Benedetto Diana Holy Family. 

Pietro Lorenzetti Madonna, Child, and Saints. 

Domenico Veneziano Stigmatization of St. Francis. 

Duccio di Buoninsegna Calling of Peter and Andrew. 

Giorgione? Venus and Cupid in Landscape. 

Paolo Veneziano Crucifixion. 

Marco Basaiti Madonna and Child. 

Fra Angelico da Fiesole St. Francis and St. Dominic. 

Lorenzo Vecchietta Pieta. 

Lorenzo Lotto Maiden's Dream. 

Master of the Melzi Ma- Madonna and Child between St. Bartholomew and 

donna. St. John Baptist. 

Vittore Carpaccio St. Nicolas. 

Do St. Peter Martyr. 

Jacopo di Cione Dead Christ with Mary, St. John, and Donor. 

Bernardino Luini Madonna and Child. 

Giovanni Battista Utili Cassone Front. 

(Biagio di Antonio) 

Giovanni dal Ponte Triptych . 

Pietro Perugino The Annunciation. 

Lorenzo Lotto Allegory. 

Jacopo Tintoretto— _ Portrait of Young Man in White. 

Paolo Veronese The Assumption. 

Michelangelo Caravaggio Still Life. 

Piero di Cosimo Allegory. 

Francesco Ubertini called Allegorical Tondo. 

Bacchiacca. 

Taddeo di Bartolo Madonna and Child. 

Sano di Pietro Listed as The Annunciation (actually Madonna in 

Adoration with Saints and Angels). 

Giovanni Bazzani Mythological Scene. 

Federico Baroccio Woman with Book. 

Bernardino Zenale Virgin and Saints. 

Jacopo del Sellaio Adoration of the Magi. 

Cima da Conegliano St. Jerome in the Wilderness. 

Antoniazzo Romano Crucifixion. 

Lorenzo Costa A Saint. 

Do A Saint. 

Do A Saint. 

Do A Saint. 

Pseudo-Pier Francesco Fior- Madonna and Child. 

entino. 

Lattanzio da Rimini Madonna and Child. 

Marco Basaiti Madonna and Child. 

Cimabue? Capture of Christ in the Garden. 

Andrea Mantegna Judith and Her Servant. 

Giovanni Battista Utili (Bi- Portrait of a Boy. 

agio di Antonio). 

Jacopo Tintoretto Worship of the Golden Calf. 

Francesco Guardi Sacred Family. 

Giovanni Bellini Portrait of a Man. 

Mariotto di Nardo Madonna, Child, and Saints. 



42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

PAINTINGS — continued 

Bramantino (Bartolommeo Madonna and Child. 
Suardl). 

Francesco Salviati Portrait of a Young Man 

Jacopo Tintoretto Nativity. 

Filippino Lippi A Saint. 

Do A Saint. 

Jacopo Tintoretto Apollo and Marsyas. 

Guiseppe Bazzani Laughing Man. 

Tanzio da Varallo St. Sebastian. 

Pontonno (Jacopo Carrucci)- Portrait of a Medici. 
Vittore Carpaccio St. Stephen . 

Do St. John Baptist. 

Francesco Francia Madonna, Child, and St. John. 

Vincenzo Catena Portrait of a Man. 

Giovanni Boccatis Portrait of a Monk. 

Giovanni Battista Moroni__ Portrait of a Man. 

Geolamo Bedoli-Mazzola Portrait of a Monk. 

Cimabue? Last Supper. 

Pietro Perugino Pieta. 

Bartolommeo di Giovanni.. Epiphany. 

Agnolo Gaddi , Coronation. 

Antonello da Saliba Abraham's Meeting with the Angels. 

Giovanni Bellini Portrait of a Man. 

Albertino Piazza da Lodi.__ Madonna Surrounded by Angels. 

Maestro Esiguo Crucifix. 

Lippo Vanni Predella. 

Vittore Crivelli St. Francis. 

Bernardino Fungai A Saint. 

Leonardo Scaletti Madonna and Child. 

Paolo Veronese Baptism of Christ. 

Titian Cupid with Wheel of Fortune. 

Alesso Baldovinetti Madonna and Child. 

Pietro Perugino Madonna and Child. 

Simone Martini Announcing Angel. 

Giovanni Bellini St. Jerome Reading. 

Carrand or Barberini Mas- The Annunciation. 

ter. 
Ercole Robert! Portrait of Giov. II Bentivoglio. 

Do Portrait of Ginevra Bentivoglio. 

Domenico Veneziano Madonna and Child. 

Neroccio de'Landi Madonna and Child with St. Jerome and St. Mary 

Magdalen. 

Giovanni di Paolo The Annunciation. 

Giovanni BeUini Portrait of Condottiere Bartolommeo Colleoni. 

Masolino da Panicale Annunciation (Angel). 

Do Annunciation (Madonna). 

Francesco del Cossa St. Liberale. 

Do St. Lucy. 

Filippino Lippi Tobias and the Angel. 

Moretto da Brescia Portrait of Lady in White. 

Jacopo Tintoretto Susanna. 

Bartolommeo Vivarini Coronation. 

Filippino Lippi or Sellaio Bust of Christ. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43 

PAINTINGS — continued 

Sodoma (Giov. Ant. Bazzi) _ Leda. 

Correggio (Antonio AUegri) _ Portrait of a Young Girl. 

Giovanni da Bologna Coronation. 

Antonio Veneziano St. Paul. 

Ambrogio da Predis Madonna and Child. 

Pisan School Scene from Life of Christ. 

Giovanni di Paolo Polyptych. 

Neroccio de'Landi Naval Battle of Actium. 

Francesco di Giorgio Visit of Cleopatra to Mark Antony. 

Fra Filippo Lippi or Fra Di- Two Saints. 

amante. 

Do Two Saints. 

Correggio? Madonna of the Carnation. 

Stefano di Giovanni Sassetta. Madona, Child, and Holy Father. 

Pellegrino di Mariano Triptych. 

Jacopo del Casentino Presentation at the Temple. 

Pietro Lorenzetti or Ugolino A Female Saint. 

Lorenzetti. 

Dosso Dossi Departure of the Argonauts. 

Lippo Memmi Madonna and Child. 

Domenico Morone Madonna and Ecce Homo. 

Lorenzo Costa St. Paul. 

Giovanni Bellini Portrait of a Young Man. 

Gentile da Fabriano Madonna and Child. 

Giotto Madonna and Child. 

Bartolommeo Veneto Portrait of Maximilian Sforza. 

Giorgione and Titian A Venetian Gentleman. 

Titian A Lady at Mirror. 

Fra Angelico da Fiesole The Entombment. 

Nardo di Cione Madonna and Child with Sts. Peter and John 

Evangelist. 

Giovanni Bellini The Virgin and Child. 

Jacopo Bellini Profile Portrait of a Boy. 

Carlo Cri velli Madonna and Child. 

Benozzo Gozzoli St. Ursula and Donatrice with Angels. 

Andrea Mantegna Madonna and Child. 

Francesco Pcsellino Madonna and Child. 

Gentile da Fabriano Miracle of St. Nicolas of Bari. 

Domenico Ghirlandaio St. Michael. 

Do St. Dominic. 

Marco Zoppo St. Peter. 

Paolo Uccello and Assistants Battle Scene. 

Jarvis Master Triumph of Chastity. 

Sano di Pietro Madonna, Child, and Angels. 

Vincenzo Foppa St. Christopher. 

Luca Signorelli Birth of St. John. 

Barnaba da Modena Madonna, Child, and Five Saints. 

Matteo di Giovanni Judith. 

Fra Filippo Lippi Nativity. 

Pietro Perugino St. Jerome in the Wilderness. 

Luca Signorelli Life of St. Niccolo. 

Giovanni di Paolo Assumption of the Virgin with Two Saints. 



44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

PAINTINGS — continued 

Jacopo del Sellaio St. John in the Wilderness. 

Lorenzo Costa Apostles at Death of Virgin. 

Do Miracle of the Catafalque. 

Do Apostles at Death of the Virgin. 

Fra Filippo Lippi or Fra Di- Two Saints. 

amante 

Lorenzo Lotto Nativity. 

Giorgione Adoration of the Shepherds. 

Fra Filippo Lippi Madonna and Child. 

Simone Martini St. John. 

Titian Portrait of Giulia di Gonzaga. 

Stefano di Giovanni Sas- Meeting of St. Anthony and St. Paul. 

setta. 

Pintoricchio Portrait of a Youth. 

Cosimo Rosselli Madonna and Child with Saints. 

Fra Filippo Lippi Head of Madonna. 

Matteo di Giovanni Madonna, Child, and Saints. 

Paolo Uccello? Madonna and Child. 

Master of the Louvre Pre- Annunciation. 

dellas. 

Lorenzo Veneziano Madonna and Child. 

Barnaba da Modena Crucifixion. 

Master of the Virgil Codex. Madonna, Child, and Angels. 

Amico Aspertini St. Sebastiano. 

Francesco di Giorgio Cassone Front. 

Sodoma (Giov. Ant. Bazzi). Madonna, Child, and St. John. 

Francesco Granacci Madonna, Child, and St. Joseph. 

Giannicolo di Paolo Crucifixion. 

Cariani (Giov. Busi) Portrait of a Gentleman. 

Gentile da Fabriano Madonna, Child, and Angels. 

Giovanni Boccatis Madonna and Child. 

Alvise Vivarini St. Jerome. 

Follower of Giotto Crucifixion. 

Domenico di Michelino Seven Sciences. 

Do Seven Virtues. 

Bernardino Pintoricchio Madonna and Child. 

Francesco di Antonio Ban- Madonna and Child. 

chi. 

Pietro Perugino St. Bartholomew. 

Benvenuto di Giovanni Christ in the Garden. 

Cosimo Rosselli Holy Family and Angels. 

Neri di Bicci Life of St. Appolonia. 

Niccolo di Pietro Gerini Madonna and Child. 

Vincenzo Catena Christ and the Samaritan. 

Andrea Vanni St. Clara. 

Girolamo del Pacchia Madonna and Child. 

Borgognone (Ambrogio Madonna and Child. 

Fossano) . 

Francesco Granacci Cassone Painting. 

Alvise Vivarini St. Jerome. 

Do St. John Baptist. 

Gianpietrino Portrait of a Lady as Magdalen. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45 

PAINTINGS — continued 

Ugolino Lorenzetti The Crucifixion. 

L'Ortolano Presentation at the Temple. 

Domenico Beccafumi Cassone Front. 

Sodoma (Gio. Antonio St. Sebastian and Saints. 

Bazzi). 

Giovanni Bellini Virgin and Child. 

Girolamo di Benvenuto Portrait of a Lady. 

Vittore Carpaccio Lady Reading. 

Giovanni Bellini Portrait of a Man. 

Andrea del Sarto Madonna, Child, and Infant St. John. 

Cosimo Tura Portrait of a Man. 

Cosimo Rosselli or Ghirlan- Madonna and ChUd. 

daio. 

Giovanni Baronzio Adoration of the Magi. 

Luca di Tomme Madonna and Child with Saints and Angels. 

Piero di Cosimo The Visitation. 

Bernardino Luini The Nativity. 

Giovanni Battista Utili Nativity with Saints and Donor. 

(Biagio di Antonio). 

Bernardo Daddi Madonna and Child with Saints. 

Giambattista Tiepolo Timocleia and the Thracian Commander. 

Guariento Madonna, ChUd, and Four Saints. 

Vincenzo Foppa Madonna and Child. 

Lorenzo di Niccolo Crucifixion with Four Saints, 

Giovanni di Paolo Saint Luke. 

Giacomo Pacchiarotto Madonna and Child. 

Piero di Cosimo Nativity with St. John. 

Girolamo Romanino Madonna and Child. 

Pietro Degli Ingannati Female Saint. 

Fra Bartolommeo Creation of Eve. 

Sienese School (perhaps Nic- St. Margarete. 

cola di Segna) 

Girolamo di Santa Croce Annunciation. 

Fra Bartolommeo and Fra Madonna, Child, and Saints. 

Paolino. 
Giovanni Antonio Pordenone St. Christopher. 

Franciabigio Madonna and Child, 

Garofalo (Benvenuto Tisi).. St. Jerome in the Desert. 

Paris Bordone Venus at the Forge of Vulcan. 

Girolamo da Carpi Assumption of the Virgin. 

Alessandro Magnasco Landscape with Figures. 

Vincenzo Civerchio St. Peter. 

Giovanni Francesco Caroto- Deposition of Christ. 

Pellegrino di Mariano Small Altarpiece. 

Pontormo (Jacopo Carrucci) Holy Family. 

Dosso Dossi St. Lucretia. 

Alessandro Magnasco Storm at Sea. 

Maestro del Bambino Vispo. Adoration of the Magi. 

Girolamo da Treviso Madonna and Child. 

Mariotto Albertinelli Madonna and Child. 

Giovanni del Biondo Annunciation. 



46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

BCtJLPTURB 

Giovanni Antonio Amadeo.. Marble Angel. 

Do Marble Angel. 

Do Marble Madonna and Child. 

Andrea Sansovino Marble Madonna and Child. 

Francesco di Simone Ferrucci Marble Tondo: Madonna and Child. 

Pierino da Vinci Marble Profile of Woman. 

Desiderio da Settignano Marble Bust of Isotta da Rimini. 

Antonio Rossellino Marble Relief: Madonna and Child. 

Benedetto da Maiano Marble Relief: Nativity. 

Andrea della Robbia Glazed Majolica: St. Peter. 

Luca della Robbia Glazed MajoHca: Madonna and Child. 

Andrea della Robbia Glazed Majolica: Head of Boy. 

Do Glazed Majolica: Head of Boy. 

Andrea del Verrocchio Terra Cotta: Adoration. 

Tomassao Fiamberti Marble Relief. 

Tino da Camaino Marble Relief: Madonna and Child. 

Zuan Zorzi Lascari or other Marble Relief: Madonna, Child and Saints. 

(called Pirgotele). 

Annibale Fontana Terra Cotta: Adoration, 

Respectfully submitted, 

David K, E. Bkuce, President. 
Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 3 
REPOET ON THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

SiH : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities 
of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended June 
30, 1939 : 

The gallery of the National Collection was closed for renovation 
during the last 4 months of the year and will probably be reopened 
in the autumn of 1939. Tons of weak plaster have been replaced, and 
the woodwork is being painted to match the light-colored monk's cloth 
with which the walls are to be covered. This monk's cloth is "air- 
conditioned" in that it is backed with rubber to prevent the irregular 
collection of dirt which has been the major fault of loosely woven, 
light-colored fabrics as wall coverings. The appearance of the gallery 
will be greatly improved, and the collections will be seen to much 
better advantage. 

APPROPRIATIONS 

For the administration of the National Collection of Fine Arts by 
the Smithsonian Institution, including compensation of necessary em- 
ployees, purchase of books of reference and periodicals, traveling ex- 
penses, uniforms for guards, and necessary incidental expenses, 
$34,275 was appropriated. This amount was reduced $750, bringing 
it to $33,525, of which $16,542 was expended for the care and main- 
tenance of the Freer Gallery of Art, a unit of the National Collection 
of Fine Arts. The balance of $16,983 was spent for the care and 
upkeep of the National Collection of Fine Arts, nearly all of this sum 
being required for the payment of salaries, traveling expenses, books, 
periodicals, and necessary disbursements for the care of the collections. 

THE SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION 

The eighteenth annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commis- 
sion (formerly the National Gallery of Art Commission) was held 
on December 6, 1938. The members met at 10:30 in the Natural 
History Building, where, as the advisory committee on the accept- 
ance of works of art which had been submitted during the year, they 
accepted the following: 

Wash drawing on cardboard entitled "The Devil's Tower from Johnstons," 
by Thomas Moran (1837-1926). Gift of the estate of John Holme Maghee, 
through Mrs. John P. Marble, Chevy Chase, Md. 

47 



48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

A Mourning Pin, by an unknown artist. Gift of Edmund Bury, Phila- 
delphia, Pa. 

Statues of J. Q. A. Ward (1830-1910) and Joseph Jefferson (1829-1905), by 
Charles H. Niehaus (1855-1935). Gift of the sculptor's daughter. Miss Marie 
J. Niehaus, Grantwood, N. J. "The Driller," by Charles H. Niehaus, was in 
very bad condition, but the members of the Commission granted permission to 
have it repaired and exhibited. 

Bronze bust of Andrew Furuseth (1854-1938), by Ivan Mestrovic (1883- ). 
Gift of Charles R. Crane, New York, N. Y. 

The members then proceeded to the Smithsonian Building, where 
the annual meeting was called to order by the chairman, Mr. Borie. 
The members present were Charles L. Borie, Jr., chairman ; Dr. 
Charles G. Abbot (ex officio), secretary; Herbert Adams, Gifford 
Beal, John E. Lodge, David E. Finley, Frederick P. Keppel, Paul 
Manship, George B. McClellan, and Mahonri M. Young. Ruel P. 
Tolman, Curator of the Division of Graphic Arts in the United 
States National Museum and Acting Director of the National 
Collection of Fine Arts, was also present. 

The following resolutions on the death of Mr. Edmund C. Tarbell 
were submitted and adopted: 

Whereas the Smithsonian Art Commission has learned of the death, on 
August 1, 1938, of Edmund C. Tarbell, a member of the Commission since 1924 ; 
therefore be it 

Resolved, That the Commission desires here to record its sorrow at the loss 
of Mr. Tarbell, who was highly respected and valued alike for his exceptional 
ability as a painter, for his keen judgment regarding works of art, and for 
his deep and helpful interest in the affairs of the Commission. 

Resolved, That these resolutions be entered upon the records of the Com- 
mission and that the Secretary be requested to communicate them to the family 
of Mr. Tarbell. 

The resignation of Charles Moore was submitted and accepted 
with regret. The chairman appointed Dr. Abbot to communicate 
an expression of the regret of the Commission to Mr. Moore. 

The Commission recommended to the Board of Regents the name 
of Louis Ay res to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mr. Tarbell, 
and that of Gilmore D. Clarke to fill the vacancy caused by the 
resignation of Mr. Moore. 

It also recommended to the Board of Regents the reelection of 
Herbert Adams and Gifford Beal for the succeeding term of 4 
years. 

The following officers were reelected for the ensuing year : Charles 
L. Borie, Jr., chairman; Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., vice chairman; 
and Dr. Charles G. Abbot, secretary. 

The following were reelected members of the executive committee 
for the ensuing year: Herbert Adams, and George B. McClellan 
(Charles L. Borie, Jr., as chairman of the Commission, and Dr. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49 

Charles G. Abbot, as secretary of the Commission, are ex officio 
members of the executive committee). Mr. McClellan was elected 
chairman, and Mr. Clarke was elected to serve in place of Mr. 
Moore. 

Dr. Abbot reported in detail the meetings of the Smithsonian 
Gallery of Art Commission, and a discussion followed relative to 
the proposed plans and site for the Smithsonian Gallery of Art. 

Mr. Finley made a report on the progress of the National Gallery 
of Art building and invited the members of the Commission to 
view the Mellon collection at the Corcoran Gallery of Art during 
the afternoon. 

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MTER FUND 

Two miniatures were acquired from the fund established through 
the bequest of the late Catherine Walden Myer, as follows: 

Miniature of Mary White, wife of Governor John Willis Ellis of 
North Carolina, by J. Henry Brown (1818-1891) ; from Mrs. Sue 
Bruner Clontz, Salisbury, N. C. 

Miniature of Polly Sutton Catlin (1770-1844), mother of George 
Catlin, by George Catlin (1796-1872) ; from Miss Marion Lane, 
Washington, D. C. 

LOANS ACCEPTED 

A mourning miniature by an unknown artist (about 1804) was 
lent by Mrs. Mary Koolage House, Lansdowne, Pa. 

Three family portraits by unknown artists of Elizabeth Ann 
Kimberly, Capt. Patrick Kavanagh, and Charles Washington Kav- 
anagh and William McK. Kavanagh, were lent by Mrs. Noble 
Newport Potts, Washington, D. C. 

LOANS TO OTHER MUSEUMS AND ORGANIZATIONS 

Upon the request of the Icelandic Government, the plaster model 
for the statue of Leifr Eiricsson, by Alexander Stirling Calder, was 
dismantled by Attilio J. Contini, New York City, and taken by him 
by truck to E. Gargani & Sons, Brooklyn, N. Y., for the purpose of 
making a bronze cast to be exhibited at the New York World's 
Fair. (Keturned April 15, 1939, and assembled by Mr. Contini.) 

"Sunset, Navarro Ridge, California Coast," by Ralph A. Blake- 
lock, was lent to the Golden Gate International Exposition for in- 
clusion in the Department of Fine Arts from February 18 to 
December 2, 1939. 

"Cliffs of the Upper Colorado River, Wyoming Territory," by 
Thomas Moran, was lent to the Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa., 
from March 22 to April 30, 1939. (Returned May 8, 1939.) 



50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

"Lower Ausable Pond," by Homer D. Martin, and "September 
Afternoon," by George Inness, were lent to The Museum of Modem 
Art Gallery of Washington, D. C, for an exhibition of American 
paintings, from March 6 to April 2, 1939. (Returned April 3, 
1939.) 

"Friendly Neighbors," by Alfred C. Howland, was lent to Harvard 
University, William Hayes Fogg Art Museum, Cambridge, Mass., 
for an exhibition of New England genre by New England artists, 
from May 15 to September 1, 1939, 

Upon the request of J. V. Herring, of Howard University, the 
paintings "Portrait of a Lady," by Gilbert Stuart; "Georgia Pines," 
by George Inness; and "Moonlight," by Albert P. Ryder, were lent 
to Bennett College, Greensboro, N. C, for an exhibition of American 
paintings to be shown at the opening of their new library building 
on April 16, 1939. (Returned May 15, 1939.) 

A bronze statute of Lincoln, by Augustus Saint Gaudens, was lent, 
with the consent of the owners, the estate of Mrs. John Hay, to the 
New York World's Fair for exhibition in the Illinois Building. A 
pedestal was also lent. 

The Procurement Division of the United States Treasury, through 
Robert LeFevre, borrowed, with the consent of their owner, William 
Kemeys, of Garrett Park, Md., the following three pieces of sculpture 
by Edward Kemeys : "Fighting Panther and Deer" ; "Bronze Wolf" 
(No. 3); and "Bronze Wolf" (No. 4). A plaster statue "Grizzly 
Bear," by Edward Kemeys, the property of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, and a blue Sevres vase. No. 371 from the Pell collection, with 
a wooden base, were also selected for use in the State reception suite 
at Union Station. 

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS 

A bronze statue "Negro Mother and Child," by Maurice Glickman, 
lent in 1934 by the Public Works of Art Project, was withdrawn 
April 15, 1939, and sent to the New York World's Fair for 
exhibition. 

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND 

Approval of the loan of "Margery and Little Edmund," by Ed- 
mund C. Tarbell, was given the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass., 
for an exhibition of the work of Frank W. Benson and the late 
Edmund C. Tarbell, from November 15 through December 15, 1938. 
The painting had been purchased in 1929 by the Council of the Na- 
tional Academy of Design from the fund provided by the Henry 
Ward Ranger Bequest and had been assigned to The Grand Rapids 
Public Library, Grand Rapids, Mich. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51 

THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS REFERENCE LIBRARY 

A total of 524 publications \Yere accessioned during the year. A 
card index of auction prices brought by works of art was beg-un, which 
when completed, will save many hours of search now made necessary 
by the frequent requests for information on tlie market value of art 
objects. 

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS 

The following exhibitions were held : 

July and August 1938. — The Eberstadt collection of 260 naval his- 
torical prints, lent by the Naval Historical Foundation, was continued 
through August. 

September 3 to 26, 1938. — Architectural exhibition of representative 
buildings of the post-war period, consisting of 127 photographs assem- 
bled by the Committee on Education, American Institute of Archi- 
tects, lent by the American Federation of Arts. 

October 7 to 30, 1938. — Special exhibition of 200 prints by graphic 
artists, Federal Art Project, Works Progress Administration. 

November 8 to W, 1938. — Special exhibition of 76 water-color paint- 
ings of the flora of the Isthmus of Panama, by Marie Louise Evans, 
under the patronage of His Excellency, the Minister of Panama, 
Senor Dr. Don Augusto S. Boyd. 

January 6 to 30, 1939. — Special exhibition of 173 framed water- 
color sketches and 7 progressive proofs of wild flowers of various 
National Parks, by Mary Vaux Walcott. 

Februainj 3 to 27, i.9.55.— Special exhibition of 56 oil paintings, 38 
drawings, 4 water colors, and 3 pastels, by Joel J. Levitt (1875-1937). 

PUBLICATIONS 

ToLMAN, R. P. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts for the year ended 

June 30, 1938. Appendix 3, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian 

Institution for the year ended June 30, 1938, pp. 35-^0. 
Lodge, J. B. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 

1938. Appendix 4, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 

for the year ended June 30, 1938, pp. 41^5. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

K. P. ToLMAN, Acting Director. 
Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



197855—40- 



APPENDIX 4 
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Sm: I have the honor to submit the nineteenth annual report on 
the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1939 : 

THE COLLECTIONS 

Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows : 



38.20. Chinese, early Chou dynasty, (1122-947 B. C). A ceremonial vessel of 
the type kuei (or chiu or tui). Pale yellow bronze with a thin, scattered 
malachite and cuprite patination inside and out. Inscription of 11 
characters inside. 0.278 by 0.341 over all; base 0.198 by 0.187. (Illus- 
trated.) 

39.6. Chinese, late Chou dynasty, middle fifth century B. C. A large basin 
of the type chien. White bronze with an even, pale green patination 
sprinkled with granular encrustations. Inscription of six characters 
inside. 0.227 by 0.518 over all. (Illustrated.) 

39.6- ^^^^ 

39.34. Chinese, Shang (Yin) and late Chou dynasties, twelth to third century 
B. C. Twenty-nine carved jades. (39.16. 39.29, 39.30 illustrated.) 

MANUSCRIPT 

38.19. Arabic (Egypt), fifteenth century. The 18th juz' of the Quran. The 
text is written in black thidth script with additions in red, five lines to 
a page, on 48 paper leaves, sewed. Four illuminated head-pieces; 
illuminated verse-stops and marginal marks. 0.370 by 0.263 (average 
leaf). 

PAINTING 

38.18. Chinese, dated in correspondence with A. D. 1369. Ming dynasty. By 
Sung K'o. Bamboo. Ink on paper. Signature and seal. Forty-three 
other seals plus one on the label. Three inscriptions. Makimono: 
0.249 by 0.981. 

39.1. Chinese, dated in correspondence with A. D. 1552. Ming dynasty. By 

Wen Pi (Cheng-ming), 1470-1567. A river landscape. In ink and 
transparent color on paper. Nineteen seals on the picture proper; 30 
seals on the mount. Title and colophon written and signed by the 
artist. Makimono: 1.415 by 0.305. 

39.2. Chinese, Ming dynasty. By Shgn Chou, 1427-1509. A river landscape. 

In ink and transparent color on paper. Inscription with signature and 
9 seals on the picture proper; 6 inscriptions and 36 seals on the mount. 
Makimono: 1.690 by 0.248. 
52 



Secretary's Report, 1939— Appendix 4 



Plate i 




38.20 




39.5 



Some Recent Additions to the Collection of the Freer Gallery of Art. 



Secretary's Report. 1939— Appendix 4 



Plate 2 




Some Recent Additions to the Collection of the Freer Gallery of Art. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 53 

39.3. Chinese, dated in correspondence with A. D. 1554. Ming dynast3^ By 

Lu Chih, 1495-1576. A river landscape in spring. In ink and trans- 
parent color on paper. Signature and 4 seals on the painting; 3 inscrip- 
tions and 10 seals on the mount. Makimono: 1.001 by 0.223. 

39.4. Chinese, sixteenth century, Ming dynasty. By Ch'iu Ying, fl. 1522- 

1560. A mountain landscape. In ink and color on paper. Inscrip- 
tion with the artist's signature and 14 seals on the painting; 2 labels, 
8 inscriptions and 35 seals on the mount. Makimono: 3.067 bv 0.254. 

39.35- 

39.36. East Indian, fifteenth century. Two illustrations upon leaves taken 
from a manuscript of the Markandeya-purana. In outline drawing 
and solid color upon palm leaf. Palm leaves: 0.051 by 0.238; paintings 
each 0.051 by 0.065. 

Curatorial work during the past year lias been devoted to the study 
of the new acquisitions listed above and to other Chinese, Japanese, 
Arabic, Persian, East Indian, and Armenian manuscripts or art objects, 
either already in the permanent collection or submitted for purchase. 
Other Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Persian, Egyptian, Byzantine, Amer- 
ican, and European objects were sent or brought to the Director by 
their owners requesting information as to identity, provenance, quality, 
date, inscription, and so on. In all, 1,386 objects and 586 photographs 
of objects were so submitted, and written or oral reports upon them 
were made to the institutions or the private owners who requested 
this service. Written translations of 17 inscriptions in Oriental 
languages also were made upon request. 

Changes in exhibition have involved a total of 71 objects, as follows : 

Chinese bronze mirrors 12 

Chinese bronze vessels 6 

Chinese gold 4 

Chinese jade 2 

Chinese painting 32 

Chinese silver 2 

Chinese silver-gilt 6 

Persian pottery 7 

ATTENDANCE 

The Gallery has been open to the public every day from 9 until 4 : 30 
o'clock, with the exception of Mondays, Christmas Day, and New 
Year's Day. 

The total attendance of visitors coming in at the main entrance was 
102,813. One hundred twenty-three other visitors on Mondays makes 
the grand total 102,936. The total attendance for week-days, exclu- 
sive of Mondays, was 76,682 ; Sundays, 26,131. The average week-day 
attendance was 295 ; the average Sunday attendance, 523. The highest 
monthly attendance was reached in April, 14,483; the lowest in Jan- 
uary, 5,449. 



54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

There were 1,602 visitors to the main office during the year. The 
purposes of their visits were as follows : 

For general information 378 

To see objects in storage 393 

Far Eastern paintings 92 

Tibetan paintings 1 

Near Eastern paintings and manuscripts 15 

East Indian paintings and manuscripts 9 

American paintings 61 

Wliistler prints 6 

American pottery 2 

Oriental lottery, jade, bronzes, sculptures 149 

Syrian, Arabic, and Egyptian glass 2 

Gold Treasure and Byzantine objects 3 

Washington Manuscripts 53 

To read in tbe library 188 

To make tracings and sketches from library books 2 

To see building and installation 39 

To obtain permission to photograph or sketch 4 

To examine or purchase photographs 364 

To submit objects for examination 187 

To see members of the stalT 225 

To see the exhibition galleries on Mondays 51 

UECTUEES AND DOCENT SERVICE 

On Wednesday, March 15, 1939, an illustrated lecture upon "Essen- 
tials in Chinese Painting" was given by Dr. Osvald Siren, Curator of 
Oriental Arts, National Museum, Stockliolm. The audience numbered 
221. 

Upon request, 16 groups, ranging from 8 to 26 persons (total 260) 
were given instruction in the study room, upon Chinese Arts, or upon 
new acquisitions. Two groups, of from 6 to 17 persons (total 23) were 
given instruction in the pottery storage room, and 6 groups, ranging 
from 9 to 290 persons (total 392) were given docent service in the ex- 
hibition galleries. 

The Smithsonian Gallery of Art Commission held three of its meet- 
ings in the study and staff rooms. 

PEESONNEL 

Miss Eleanor Thompson was married on September 7, 1938, to Capt. 
James Snedeker, United States Marine Corps. 

Ednmnd O. Mueller, of Fort Atkinson, Wis., was appointed as 
painter on February 8, 1939. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55 

Changes in the daily watch force were as follows : 

C. E. Bowman, retired, July 31, 1938. 

C. H. Garduer, transferred to the United States Employees Compensation 

Commission, as junior audit clerk, on August 1, 19S8. 
William P. Bennett, appointed to the force, August 24, 1938. 
E. A. Altizer, appointed September 2, 1938. 

Grace T. Wliitney worked intermittently at the Gallery between 
October 14, 1938, and June 30, 1939, on translations of Persian texts. 
Respectfully submitted. 

J. E. Lodge, Director. 
Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 5 
BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field 
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1939, conducted 
in accordance with the act of Congress of May 23, 1938, which pro- 
vides "For continuing ethnological researches among the American 
Indians and the natives of Hawaii and the excavation and preserva- 
tion of archeologic remains. . . ." 

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES 

M. W. Stirling, Chief, left Washington on December 24 to begin 
archeological excavations at a large site near the village of Tres 
Zapotes in southern Veracruz. This work was undertaken in co- 
operation with the National Geographic Society, which financed the 
expedition. The permission to conduct the work was obtained earlier 
in the year from the Mexican Department of Public Education, 
whose generous cooperation greatly facilitated the work. With Dr. 
C. W. Weiant as assistant, excavations were begun on January 1 
and continued until April 15. 

Although detailed results of this first season of work cannot be 
announced until further study has been made of the material, far- 
reaching connections are indicated which require careful study of 
the Maya, Zapotec, Huastec, and Teotihuacan areas. Nine major 
stone monuments were excavated at the site, including the famous 
"Cabesa Colosal," and a very large collection of ceramics and figu- 
rines was obtained. The most interesting discovery was a stone monu- 
ment inscribed with an initial-series date. This is in a style closely 
related to that on the Tuxtla statuette and apparently records a 
late Baktun 7 date. 

At the conclusion of the work the collections were brought to Mexico 
City where a division was effected with the Mexican Government. 
A large carved stone box and the dated monument were sucessfuUy 
transported to the National Museum in Mexico City. 

The greater part of the year was devoted by Dr. John R. Swanton, 
ethnologist, to work connected with the researches of the United 
States De Soto Expedition Commission. During most of October and 
the first half of November 1938, he was in tlie field in the interest of that 

56 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 57 

Commission. Visits were made by automobile to points in North and 
South Carolina and southern Georgia, and a great deal of time was 
spent in researches in Florida, where he was assisted materially by 
Dr. Herman Gunter, the State geologist, and J. Clarence Simpson. 
On leaving Florida, Dr. Swanton visited Dr. Walter B. Jones, mem- 
ber of the Commission from Alabama, at Tuscaloosa, and then went 
to Aberdeen, Miss., where he was met by Col. John R. Fordyce, the 
Commissioner from Arkansas. In company with Colonel Fordyce 
and Dr. W. A. Evans, of Aberdeen, he visited several points in north- 
em Mississippi. Colonel Fordyce then drove him to Helena, Ark., 
where 2 days were spent in the examination of sites along Crowley's 
Ridge and on Wliite River. Afterward excursions were made to the 
Menard Mounds near Little Rock and points along the Little Mis- 
souri River. On October 26 Dr. Swanton and Colonel Fordyce joined 
Miss Caroline Dormon, the Louisiana member of the Commission, 
and her sister, at Jonesville, La., and spent 2 days on the Ouachita 
and Tensas Rivers in launches kindly furnished by the Mississippi 
River Commission and accompanied by some of the Commission's 
officials. Later Dr. Swanton visited Baton Rouge to confer with 
members of the geological staff of the Louisiana State University, 
and with James A. Ford, the archeologist engaged in research work 
in that State, returning from there to Little Rock and thence to 
Washington. 

The remainder of the calendar year 1938 was devoted to the com- 
pletion of the report of the Commission, and during the first months 
of 1939 Dr. Swanton was engaged in reading proof for this report, 
which appeared in May as House Document No. 71 of the Seventy- 
sixth Congress. It covers 400 pages and includes 11 maps. 

On May 30, by special invitation. Dr. Swanton attended the unveil- 
ing of a marker at Shaw's Point, near Bradenton, Fla., commemora- 
tive of the landing of De Soto, and during this trip he spoke to 
audiences at Rollins College, Winter Park, on the Indians of Florida 
and the work of the De Soto Commission, and before the Kiwanis 
Club at Bradenton and the JacksonAdlle Historical Society at Jack- 
sonville on the latter subject. 

On December 29, 1938, Dr. Swanton delivered the retiring address 
as president of section H of the American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science. 

The start of the fiscal year found Dr. John P. Harrington, ethnolo- 
gist, engaged in a study of the northern provenience of the Navaho. 
This tribe, the largest single-dialect Indian population in the United 
States, numbering some 50,000 souls, centers its present habitat in 
eastern Arizona and western New Mexico and speaks an aberrant 
form of Western Apache. It is patent that Western Apache, and also 



58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

Eastern Apache (represented by Kiowa Apache, Jicarilla Apache, 
and Lipan) are tongues of northern origin, coming from beyond the 
present northern boundary of the United States, the language-bearing 
ancestors of these so-called Navaho and Apache peoples having mi- 
grated from the north. This migration was far back of the range of 
history, and the reason for accepting this migration is found in the 
existence of the surprisingly closely related Athapascan langimges oc- 
cupying all the interior of Alaska and western Canada, a patch near 
the mouth of the Columbia, and another taking in much of the southern 
Oregon and northern California coast region. 

The study of the northern origin of the Navaho consisted of the 
assembling of documentation from historical and ethnological sources, 
interviewing of Indians, and discussions with archeologists and eth- 
nologists engaged in Siberian, Alaskan, Great Basin, High Plains, 
and Navaho region investigations. 

The nearest linguistic sisters of the Navaho language in the north 
are the Carrier and closely related Chilcotin of the southernmost 
part of the Northern Interior Plateau mentioned above, and east of 
them the Sarcee, in the Rockies and the plains just east of the Rockies. 

The Smithsonian Institution having come into possession of an 
unprinted source giving a first-hand account of the Sacramento 
Valley Indians of California in 1850, including two vocabularies of 
native Indian languages, from the pen of Prince Paul, educated Ger- 
man traveler and friend of Sutter, the founder of Sacramento, Calif.. 
Dr. Harrington left in May to check this new and important material 
with native informants. The source consisted of an account of the 
natives of the "Hok" farm, belonging to Sutter. Dr. Harrington 
discovered the old Indian rancheria mound called "Hok" on the 
west edge of the Feather River 7 miles south of Yuba City. 

July 1 found Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., archeologist, in camp 
at the Lindenmeier site, north of Fort Collins, in northern Colorado, 
continuing his excavations in search of additional information on 
Folsom man, the aboriginal nomad who hunted bison, mammoth, and 
the American camel on the western plains during the closing stages of 
the glacial period. The work was carried on until the end of Septem- 
ber when digging was stopped for the season. During the course of 
the summer's investigations 3,500 square feet of the original surface of 
occupation was uncovered. The overburden ranged from 3 to 8 feet 
in depth so that a considerable quantity of earth had to be removed 
before the stratum containing the desired archeological record was 
reached. Included in the layer were various concentrations of cut 
and split animal bones, most of them from the extinct Bison taylori, 
several hearths, places where the stone chippers had made their tools 
from different kinds of material present in the vicinity, and an assort- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59 

ment of implements. The collection of specimens of the people's 
handicraft obtained from the season's excavations comprises, in addi- 
tion to typically fluted points and a series of tools similar to those 
found in previous years, several new types of stone knives and scrap- 
ers and a number of bone fragments bearing portions of simple, in- 
cised, geometric decorations. This material serves to broaden the 
knowledge on the material culture complex characteristic of this 
group of early American peoples. The digging also produced im- 
portant evidence on the relation between the occupation level and 
certain geologic deposits and helped confirm the correlation of the 
site with definite features dating from the late glacial horizon in that 
general area. 

After the termination of the work at the Lindenmeier site. Dr. 
Roberts visited places in Nebraska, Wyoming, and Saskatchewan, 
Canada, where local collectors have found objects attributable to the 
Folsom or some other, presumably associated, complex. The sites in 
Nebraska are in the southwestern corner of the State in Chase and 
Dundy Counties. The locations inspected in Wyoming are in the 
northeastern part of the State in the vicinity of Sundance. The 
Saskatchewan sites are near Mortlach and are of interest because they 
extend the range of this type of material well toward the north along 
the postulated route of migration of peoples coming from Asia into 
(he New World. From Mortlach, Dr. Roberts returned to Washing- 
ton and resumed his office duties on November 1. 

During the winter months galley and page proofs were read and 
corrected for the report, Archeological Remains in the Whitewater 
District, Eastern Arizona, Part I, House Types, which appeared as 
Bulletin 121 of the Bureau of American Ethnology. Manuscript for 
the second part of this report, describing the artifacts and burials asso- 
ciated with the house remains, was revised, completed, and transmitted 
to the editor for publication in the bulletin series. An article, The 
Folsom Problem in American Archeology, which appeared in the 
book Early Man, as depicted by leading authorities at the Inter- 
national Symposium at the Academy of Natural Sciences, Phila- 
delphia, March 1937, was revised, augmented with new information 
and a series of illustrations, and otherwise made suitable for use in the 
appendix to the Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution for 1938. In addition several short papers on 
archeological subjects were written for various anthropological jour- 
nals. Information on Old World archeology was furnished for a 
radio broadcast on the subject Pushing Back History, and this and 
several other scripts for "The World is Yours" program were read and 
checked for errors. 



60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

In Marcli the Honorable Cordell Hull, Secretary of State, 
appointed Dr. Roberts to represent the United States on the 
International Commission for Historic Monuments. 

On June 9, 1939, Dr. Roberts left Washington for Colorado, where 
he resumed excavations at the Lindenmeier site. By the end of the 
fiscal year he had opened up another portion of the site and was 
obtaining further data on the Folsom problem. 

Dr. Julian H. Steward, anthropologist, spent the months of July 
and August 1938 in continuing an archeological and etlinological 
reconnaissance in western South America which was begun during 
the preceding fiscal year. During this period several Indian vil- 
lages of the highlands were visited, and a number of archeological 
sites were examined in both the highland and coastal regions. These 
researches were undertaken as a preliminary to the editing of the 
projected Handbook of South American Indians, and on his return 
to Washington Dr. Steward began preparation of the final plans for 
the Handbook. These plans were completed during the remainder 
of the fiscal year, and the project has now been initiated, various 
contributors having been invited to participate. 

Scientific papers prepared by Dr. Steward during the past year 
are : Anthropological Reconnaissance of Southern Utah, for a Bureau 
of American Etlinology Bulletin ; Anthropological Reconnaissance in 
South America, for Explorations and Field- Work of the Smith- 
sonian Institution in 1938; Some Observations on Shoshonean Dis- 
tributions, for the American Anthropologist; The Economic Basis 
of Changes in the Shoshonean Indian Culture, for the Scientific 
Monthly; Notes on Hillers' Photographs of the Paiute and Ute 
Indians taken on the Powell Expedition of 1873, for the Smith- 
sonian Miscellaneous Collections. 

Henry B. Collins, Jr., was appointed ethnologist in the Bureau, 
effective February 1, 1939, by transfer from the Division of Eth- 
nology, United States National Museum. From February 1 to the 
end of the fiscal year Mr. Collins spent the greater part of his time 
working over the large and varied collection of artifacts, numbering 
several thousand specimens, which he excavated in 1936 at Cape 
Prince of Wales and other prehistoric Eskimo sites in the immediate 
vicinity of Bering Strait. A statement of the activities of Mr. 
Collins during the preceding part of the fiscal year is included in 
the report of the Department of Anthropology of the United States 
National Museum. 

Dr. William N. P^enton, ethnologist, joined the staff of the Bureau 
of American Ethnology on February 6, 1939, coming to the Bureau 
from St. Lawrence University. He will continue etlinological 
studies among the Iroquois groups in New York and Canada with 
the aim of cleaning up some of the ethnological problems in the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61 

northeastern area that remain from the research of previous students. 
The Kosenwald Fund of Chicago financed a field trip to the Senecas 
at Coldspring on the Allegany Reservation in southwestern New 
York during the interim that followed the end of the first semester 
at the Universit}' and preceded removal to Washington. Dr. Fenton 
wrote up his field notes on the Seneca Midwinter Festival as a sup- 
plement to notes taken in 1934, as soon as he was established at the 
Bureau. In April and May, Dr. Fenton wrote a monograph on 
Iroquois Suicide from cases collected during 1935, as a member of the 
United States Indian Field Service, and parallel cases that occur in 
the earlier ethnological and historical sources on the Iroquois. He 
submitted the manuscript for publication in June before leaving for 
the field. Another manuscript, Tonawanda Longhouse Ceremonies: 
Ninety Years After Lewis Henry Morgan, written in 1936 and 
recently rewritten, was submitted for publication at the same time. 

SPECIAL RESEARCHES 

Miss Frances Densmore, a collaborator of the Bureau, in continua- 
tion of her study of Indian music, submitted two manuscripts entitled 
"Choctaw War and Dance Songs" and "Choctaw and Seminole 
Songs," with phonograph records and transcriptions of 31 Choctaw 
and 9 Seminole songs. The Choctaw songs were recorded near 
Philadelphia, Miss,, in January 1933, and the Seminole songs were 
recorded at Brighton, Fla., in February of the same year. Tran- 
scriptions and phonograph records of two performances on a Choctaw 
flute were also submitted. These flutes were played by medicine men 
during ball games to bring success to one group of players and 
confuse their opponents. Robert Henry, who recorded the flute 
plajdng, is a leading medicine man at the ball games. The 66 Choc- 
taw songs, now in possession of the Bureau, were listed according 
to their catalog numbers. Fourteen manuscripts on the music of 
the Winnebago, previously submitted, were combined in one manu- 
script and retyped preparatory to publication, the retyped material 
comprising about 300 pages. The 205 Winnebago songs were ar- 
ranged in final order, and listed according to serial and catalog num- 
bers. The galley and page proof, also the music proof, of Nootka 
and Quileute Music were read during the year. 

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1939, John G. Carter, a 
collaborator of the Bureau, devoted considerable time to the ethno- 
graphic and Indian sign-language material contained in the manu- 
scripts of the late Maj. Gen. Hugh L. Scott, United States Army. 
These manuscripts, together with other material, were donated to 
the Bureau by the widow of General Scott. The material donated 
consisted of newspaper clippings, pamphlets and other printed mat- 
ter, photographs, and manuscript. 



62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

This material was examined, read, and classified. The photographs 
were turned over to their proper custodian in the Bureau for filing 
and record. The pamphlets and other printed matter were disposed 
of in like manner. The manuscript was read and classified in sepa- 
rate filing jackets. Many historical references in these manuscripts 
were checked for accuracy. 

An extensive research was made into the writings of most of the 
early discoverers and explorers of the North American continent, 
beginning with the Norsemen, in order to determine the extent to 
which and the localities in which the sign language was used by the 
North American Indians. It was ascertained, as far as the records 
which have been examined to date reveal, that the sign language 
was confined to the buffalo-hunting tribes of the plains west of the 
Mississippi River, and to tribes adjacent to the plains who made 
seasonal hunts into the buffalo country. This confirms the state- 
ments made by General Scott in his manuscripts. 

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS 

The editing of the publications of the Bureau was continued 
through the year by Stanley Searles, editor. 

BULLETINS ISSUED DURING THE TE.\R 

lis. An Archaeological Survey of the Norris Basin in Eastern Tennessee, by 
William S. Webb. 

119. Anthropological Papers, Nos. 1-6. No. 1, A Preliminary Report on 
Archeological Explorations at Macon, Ga., by A. R. Kelly. No. 2, The Northern 
Arapaho Flat Pipe and the Ceremony of Covering the Pipe, by John G. Carter. 
No. 3, The Caribs of Dominica, by Douglas Taylor. No. 4, What Happened 
to Green Bear Who Was Blessed With a Sacred Pack, by Truman Michelson. 
No. 5, Lemhi Shoshoni Physical Therapy, by Julian H. Steward. No. 6, 
Panatiibiji', an Owens Valley Palute, by Julian H. Steward. 

120. Basin-Plateau Aboriginal Sociopolitical Groups, by Julian H. Steward. 

121. Archeological Remains in the Whitewater District, Eastern Arizona. 
Part I, House Types, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. 

122. An Archaeological Survey of Wheeler Basin on the Tennessee River in 
Northern Alabama, by William S. Webb. 

123. Anthropological Papers, Nos. 7-12. No. 7, Archeological Investigations 
in the Corozal District of British Honduras, by Thomas and Mary Gann. No. 8, 
Linguistic Classification of Cree and Montngnais-Naskapi Dialects, by Truman 
Michelson. No. 9, Sedelmayr's Relaclon of 1746, translated and edited by 
Ronald L. Ives. No. 10, Notes on the Creek Indians, by J. N. B. Hewitt, edited 
by John R. Swanton. No. 11, The Yaruros of the Capanaparo River, Venezuela, 
by Vincenzo Petrullo. No. 12, Archeology of Arauquin, by Vincenzo Petrullo. 

IN PRESS 

101. War Ceremony and Peace Ceremony of the Osage Indians, by Francis 
La Flesche. 

124. Nootka and Quilente Music, by Frances Densmore. 

125. Ethnography of the Fox Indians, by William Jones, edited by Margaret 
Welpley Fisher. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63 

The Index to Schoolcraft's Indian Tribes has been completed. 
Publications distributed totaled 19,527. 

LIBRARY 

The library continued under the direction of Miss Miriam B. 
Ketchum, librarian. Accessions during the year totaled 223. 

The exchange list has been completely revised and brought up 
to date, and seven new exchange sets have been added. 

The rare book section was finished early in the fiscal year, and 
the rarest items and many others of importance have been shelved 
in it. More than half of these books have been recataloged and 
classified and permanently labeled and shelved. 

All the publications of North American societies and institutions 
have been sorted and all matter not in the field of the Bureau dis- 
carded as far as possible. 

The librarian attended the meetings of the Inter-American 
Bibliographical and Historical Society at Washington, D. C., in 
February, and the Special Libraries Association at Baltimore in May. 

The usual routine work of accessioning and cataloging new mate- 
rial and entering new periodicals received has been kept up to date. 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

Following is a summary of work accomplished by E. G. Cassedy, 
illustrator : 

Topographic surveying 1 

Plates prepared 94 

Line drawings 114 

Photographs retouched 44 

Lettering jobs 126 

Graphs 12 

Maps 18 

Mechanical drawings 2 

Engrossing jobs 1 

Total 412 

COLLECTIONS 

Accession 
No. 

148,708. Potsherds, figurine fragments, and other artifacts from various sites 
in Mexico, collected in 1938 by M. W. Stirling for the Bureau. (51 
specimens. ) 

152,153. Male skeleton from deep trench west of Mound A, Shiloh National 
Monument, Tenn., and a miscellaneous archeological collection, ob- 
tained in the course of excavations conducted by F. H. H. Roberts, 
Jr., during the winter of 1933-34 in cooperation with the Civil Works 
Administration. 



64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

MISCELLANEOUS 

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem- 
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning 
the North American Indians, both past and present, and the Mexican 
peoples of the prehistoric and early historic periods. Various speci- 
mens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them furnished 
for their owners. 

PersonneJ. — Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, died July 26, 1938. 
On February 1, 1939, Henry B. Collins, Jr., was appointed by transfer 
from the United States National Museum to fill the vacancy caused 
by the death of Dr. Michelson. Dr. William N. Fenton was ap- 
pointed as etlmologist on February 6, 1939, H. B. Chappell resigned 
as clerk in the library of the Bureau on October 4, 1938, and Walter 
B. Greenwood was appointed on November 1, 1938, to fill this 
vacancy. Stanley Searles, editor, retired on June 30, 1939. 

Respectfully submitted. 

M. W. Stirling, Chief. 

Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary., Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 6 
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 

Sm : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ- 
ities of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year 
ended June 30, 1939 : 

The appropriation granted by Congress for that year was $44,600, 
an increase over 1938 of $340. The collections from repayments were 
$3,684.03, making the total available resources $48,284.03. 

The number of packages passing through the service was 714,877, a 
decrease of 4,244. The weight was 719,694 pounds, an increase of 
63,575 pounds. 

The number and weight of packages sent and received through the 
service is given below: 





Packages 


Weight 




Sent 


Received 


Sent 


Received 


United States parliamentary documents sent abroad 


311, 120 




Pounds 
121, 463 


Pounds 


Publications received in return for parliamentary documents.. 


10, 132 


32, 796 


United States departmental documents sent abroad 


137, 303 


138, 606 




Publications received in return for departmental documents 


11, 185 


36, 761 


Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad.. 


192, 129 


273, 128 




Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from 
abroad for distribution in the United States 


53,008 


117, 940 










Total- 


640, 552 


74, 325 


533, 197 


186, 497 






Grand total 


714 


877 


719 


694 







There were shipped abroad 3,023 boxes, an increase of 384 over the 
preceding year. Of these boxes, 623 were for depositories of full sets 
of United States governmental documents, and the remainder were for 
distribution to miscellaneous establishments and individuals. 

In some instances it is more advantageous or economical to send 
packages by mail, paying the postage, than to forward them in 
boxes by freight to exchange agencies for distribution. During the 
year there were transmitted in this manner 90,355 packages, a de- 
crease from the last 12 months of 21,120. In addition to transmitting 
by mail packages on which it is necessary to pay postage, a large 

65 



66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

number are sent directly to their destinations under Government 
frank, the franking privilege between the United States and certain 
foreign countries having been arranged by the United States postal 
authorities and those of the respective countries, A list of the coun- 
tries with which this privilege is in effect is as follows: Canada, 
Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Newfoundland (including 
Labrador), Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Salvador, Uni- 
guay, and Venezuela. 

Shipments to Spain are still suspended. However, efforts are be- 
ing made through diplomatic channels to resume exchange relations 
Avith that country. 

Last year mention was made that packages for the National Li- 
brary of Peiping, the Engineering Reference Library, Nanking, and 
the Library Association of China were being forwarded to the 
temporary address of those organizations in Hong Kong, in accord- 
ance with the request of Dr. T. L. Yuan who is officially connected 
therewith. Up to June 30 there were transmitted to those libraries 
251 boxes weighing 54,800 pounds and containing more than 36,000 
packages of publications presented by individuals and establishments 
throughout the United States. In acknowledging several large con- 
signments. Dr. Yuan writes as follows: 

May I take this opportunity of expressing to you once more our sincere 
appreciation and grateful tlianljs for the most efficient manner in which you 
have assisted China in the great task of rebuilding our intellectual edifice. 

Arm in arm with resistance, the Chinese people are carrying out an exten- 
sive program of reconstruction, particularly in the Southwest. We have taken 
special steps to see that the publications are placed in centers where they will 
be used to the best advantage. You may be sure of the special care and 
thought which Chinese libraries will give in preserving them and in making 
them available to the largest number of interested readers. 

Just before the close of the year Lingnan University Library, 
Canton, informed the Institution that it had moved to Hong Kong 
and requested that publications for that library be sent in care of 
the Fung Ping Shan Library, Bonham Road, Hong Kong. 

Packages for all addresses in China other than those referred to 
above are forwarded to the Chinese Bureau of International Ex- 
change in Chungking. 

The chart (fig. 1) shows the relative weight of packages trans- 
mitted through the International Exchange Service between the 
years 1850, when the service was inaugurated, and 1939, divided into 
periods of 5 years. The decrease in the weight for the 1915 to 1919 
period was due to the disturbance of international relations incident 
to the World War. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 



67 



FIVE YEAR PERIODS 


EACH COLUMN EQUAL TO 200.000 POUNDS 


WEIGHT IN POUNDS 


1850-1854 
1855-1859 
1860-1864 
1865-1869 
1870-1874 
1875-1879 
1880-1884 
1885-1889 
1890-1894 
1895-1899 
1900-1904 
1905-1909 
I9I0-I9I4 
I9I5-I9I9 
1920-1924 
1925-1929 
1930-1934 
1935-1939 




































46.596 

95.1 54 

96,609 

113,750 

159,409 

364.495 

613,888 

763.257 

1.102.742 

(.452.485 

2.261.814 

2.327,420 

2.775ri58 

1,532.483 

2.754.2(3 

2.833.276 

3,270,382 

3,206,444 




































■n 






































































































111^ 




































































— 




r" 








































































J 




















^J 




nna 










IIBH 




i^m 


IT— IT" 
















































^"^ 



































ams 




BBB 


■m 






























-, 
















































^" 








1 


*^ 




™n 












iiiia 


■1 


■"" 














„ 


BE^ 














1 








■n^ 










1 

















FiQCHB 1. — Relative weight of packages transmitted througli the International Exchange 
Service between the years 1850 and 1939, divided into periods of 5 years each. 



FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS 

There are now transmitted through the service to foreign deposi- 
tories 61 full sets of United States official documents and 47 partial 
sets — 108 in all, a decrease of 3 sets. The partial sets for the city 
of Glasgow, Assam, and Central Provinces were discontinued, and 
the partial set for Finland was increased to a full set. 

At the request of the Danish Government the depository in that 
country was changed from the Royal Library to the Royal Danish 
Academy of Sciences in Copenhagen. 

The German Government depository was changed from the Min- 
istry of the Interior to the Ministry of Science, Instruction, and 
Public Education. 

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS 

Abgentina : Ministerio de Kelaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires. 

Buenos Aiees : Biblioteca de la Universidad. Nacioiial de La Plata, La 
Plata. (Depository of the Province of Buenos Aires.) 
AtrSTBALiA : Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra. 

New South Wales : Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Queensland : Parliamentary Library, Brisbane. 

South Austkalia: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide. 

Tasmania: Parliamentary Library, Hobart. 

Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 

Western Australia : Public Library of Western Australia, Perth. 
Bexgium : Biblioth^que Royale, Bruxelles. 
Brazil: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro. 



197855 — 4C 



68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

Canada : Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Manitoba: Provincial Library, Winnipeg. 

Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto. 

Quebec: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec. 
Chile: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago. 

China: Bureau of International Exchange, Ministry of Education, Chungking. 
Colombia: Biblioteca Nacional. Bogota. 
Costa Rica: Oficina de Dep6sito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San 

Jos§. 
Cuba : Secretaria de Estado, Direccion de Relaciones Culturales, Habana. 
Czechoslovakia : Biblioth^que de rAssembl(5e Nationale, Prague. Shipments 

temporarily suspended. 
Denmaek : Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen. 
Egypt: Bureau des Publications, Minist^re des Finances, Cairo. 
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn. 
Finland: Parliamentary Library, Helsiugfors. 
France: Biblioth&que Nationale, Paris. 

Germany : Reichstauschstelle im Reichsministerium f iir Wissenschaft, Erzie- 
hung und Volksbildung, Berlin, N. W. 7. 

Austria: National-Bibliothek, Wien, I. 

Baden: Universitats-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the State of 
Baden. ) 

Bavaria: Bayerische Staatsbibliothek, Miinchen. 

Prussia: Preussische Staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7. 

Saxony : Siichsische Landesbibliothek, Dresden — N. 6. 

Wurtemburg: Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart. 
Great Britain : 

England: British Museum, London. 

London : London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository 
of the London County Council.) 
Hungary : Library, Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest. 
India : Imperial Library, Calcutta. 
Ireland : National Library of Ireland, Dublin. 
Italy: Ministero dell'Educazione Nazionale, Rome. 
Japan : Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo. 
Latvia : Bibliothfeque d'Etat, Riga. 

Le/vgue of Nations : Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland. 
Mexico: Departamento Autonomo de Prensa y Publicidad, Mexico, D. F. 
Netherlands : Royal Library, The Hague. 
New Zealand : General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
Northern Ireland: H. M. Stationery Office, Belfast. 
Norway: Universitets-Bibliothek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of 

Norway. ) 
Peru: Secci6n de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex- 

teriores, Lima. 
Poland: Bibliotheque Nationale, Warsaw. 
Portugal: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon. 
Rumania : Academia RomSna, Bucharest. 
Spain: Servicio de Cambio Interaacional de Publicaciones, Paseo de Recoletos 

20, Madrid. Shipments suspended since August 1936. 
Sweden : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm. 
Switzebi^and : BibliothC>que Centrale F^d^rale, Berne. 

Turkey: Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Education, 
Istanbul. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69 

Union or South Atrica : State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal. 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics : All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115. 
Ukraine : All-Ukraiuiau Association for Cultural Relations with Foreign 
Countries, Kiev. 
Uruguay : Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo. 
Venezuela : Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas. 
Yugoslavia: Minist^re de I'Education, Belgrade. 

depositories of partial sets 

Afghanistan : Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Publications Department, Kabul. 

Bolivia: Biblioteca del H. Congreso Nacional, La Paz. 

Brazil: 

Minas Geraes: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte. 

Rio de Janeiro : Bibliotheca da Assemblea Legislativa do Estado, Nictheroy. 
British Guiana: Government Secretary's Office, Georgetown, Demerara. 
Bulgaria : Minist^re des Affaires Etrang&res, Sofia. 
Canada : 

Alberta : Provincial Library, Edmonton. 

British Columbia : Provincial Library, Victoria. 

New Brunswick : Legislative Library, Fredericton. 

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax. 

Prince Edwabd Island: Legislative Library, Charlottetown. 

Saskatchewan : Legislative Library, Regina. 
Ceylon: Chief Secretary's Office (Record Department of the Library), Colombo. 
China : National Library of Peiping, % Fung Ping Shan Chinese Library, Hong 

Kong. 
Danzig: Stadtbibliotheek, Danzig. 

Dominican Repl'blic: Biblioteca del Senado, Ciudad Trujillo. 
Ecuador: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito. 
Germany : 

Bremen : Staatsbibliothek. 

Hamburg : Staats-und Universitats-Bibliotheek. 

Hesse: Universitats-Bibliothek, Giessen. 

LuBECK : President of the Senate. 

Thuringia: Rothenberg-Bibliothek, Laudesuniversitat, Jena. 

Vienna: Magistrat der Stadt Wien, Abteilung 47 Statistik, Wien IV. 
Greece: Library of Parliament, Athens. 
Guatemala : Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala. 

Haiti : Secretaire d'Etat des Relations Ext^rieures, Port-au-Prince. 
Honduil\s : Biblioteca y Archive Nacionales, Tegucigalpa. 
Iceland : National Library, Reykjavik. 
India: 

Bengal : Secretary, Bengal Legislative Council Department, Council House, 
Calcutta. 

Bihar and Orissa : Revenue Department, Patna. 

Bombay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart- 
ment, Bombay. 

Burma: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department, 
Rangoon. 

Madras: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public Depart- 
ment, Madras. 

Punjab: Chief Secretary to the Government of the Punjab, Lahore. 

United Provinces of Agra and Oudh : University of Allahabad, Allahabad. 



70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

Jamaica: Colonial Secretary, Kingston. 

Liberia : Department of State, Monrovia. 

Lithuania: Miuist&re des Affaires Etrangeres, Kaunas (Kovno). 

Malta : Minister for the Treasury, Valletta. 

Newfoundland: Department of Home Affairs, St. John's. 

Nicaragua : Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua. 

Panama: Secretarfa de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama. 

Paraguay: Secretario de la Presidencia de la Reptiblica, Asunci6n. 

Salvador : Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador. 

Straits Settlements : Colonial Secretary, Singapore. 

Thailand : Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok. 

Vatican City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy. 

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL 

The number of copies of the Congressional Record and the Fed- 
eral Register sent to foreign depositories has been reduced to 103. 
The Records sent to Bolivia and the Dominican Republic were dis- 
continued, and there was added to the list the Bibliotheek van de 
Tweede Kamer der Staten-General, The Hague, Netherlands. 

depositories of congressional record 

Albania: Ministrija Mbretnore e Punevete Jashtme, Tirana. 
Argentina : 

Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional. Buenos Aires. 

Cfimara de Diputados, Oficina de Informaci6a Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires. 

Boletfn Oficial de la Reptiblica Argentina, Ministerio de Justicia e Instruc- 
cion Pilblica, Buenos Aires. 
Austraua : 

Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra. 

New South Wales : Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Queensland : Chief Secretary's Office, Brisbane. 

Western Australia : Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth. 
BEI.GIUM : Biblioth&que de la Chambre des Repr^sentants, Bruselles. 
Brazil: 

Bibliotheca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro. 

Amazonas : Archive, Bibliotheca e Imprensa Publica, Mangos. 

Bahia : Governador do Estado da Bahia, Sao Salvador. 

Espieito Santo : Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria. 

Rio Grande do Sux : "A Federagao," Porto Alegre. 

Sergipe: Bibliotheca Publica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracajti. 

Sao Palxo : Diario Official do Estado de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo. 
British Hondueas: Colonial Secretary, Belize. 
Canada : 

Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa. 
China: National Central Library, Nanking. 
Cuba : Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana. 

Czechoslovakia: Bibliotheque de I'Assembl^e Nationale, Prague. 
Denmakk : Rigsdagens Bureau, Copenhagen. 
Egypt: 

Chambre des D^put^s, Cairo. S^nat, Cairo. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 71 

F'eance: 

Chambre des D^put^s, Service de I'lnformation Parlementaire Etrang&re, 
Paris. 

Bibliotheque du S(5nat, au Palais du Luxembourg, Paris. 

Bureau de Documentation Gdnerale, Ministere des Finances, Paris I. 

Bibliotheque, Direction des Accords commerciaux, Ministere du Commerce, 
Paris. 
Germany : 

Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7. 

Eeichsfiuanzministerium, Berlin, W. 8. 

Anhalt : Anhaltische Landesbiicherei, Dessau. 

Austria: Bibliothek im Parlameut, Wien I. 

Braunschweig: Bibliothek des Braimschweigischen Staatministeriums, 
Braunschweig. 

Mecklenbueg : Staatsmiuisterium, Schwerin. 

Oldenburg : Oldenburgisches Staatsmiuisterium, Oldenburg i. O. 

ScHAUiiBLTRG-LipPE : Schaumburg-Lippische Landesregierung, Biicheburg. 
Gibraltak : Gibraltar Garrison Library Committee, Gibraltar. 
Gre:at Britain : Library of the Foreign Office, London. 
Greece : Library of Parliament, Athens. 

Guatemala: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala. 
Honduras : Biblioteca del Congreso Xacional, Tegucigalpa. 
Hungary: A Magyar orszaggyiil^s konyvtara, Budapest. 
India: Legislative Department, Simla. 
Indochina: Gouverneur G«5n6ral de I'lndochine, Hanoi. 
Iran : Library of the Iranian Parliament, T^h^ran. 
Iraq : Chamber of Deputies, Baghdad. 
Irish Free State: Dail Eireann, Dublin. 
Italy : 

Biblioteca della Camera dei Deputati, Rome. 

Biblioteca del Senate del Regno, Rome. 

Ufficio degli Studi Legislativi, Seuato del Regno, Rome. 
Latvia : Valsts Biblioteka, Riga. 

League of Nations : Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland. 
Lebanon : Ministere des Finances de la Republique Libanaise, Service du Ma 

t^riel, Beirut. 
Liberia : Department of State, Monrovia. 
Mexico : Departamento Autonomo de Prensa y Publicidad. Mexico, D. F. 

Aguascaxientes : Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes. 

Campeche : Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche. 

Chi^vpas : Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez. 

Chihuahua : Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua. 

CoAHuiLA : Periodico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno, 
Saltillo. 

Colima: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima. 

Durango: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango. 

Guanajuato : Secretarfa General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato. 

Guerrero: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo. 

Jalisco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara. 

Lower California : Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali, B. C, Mexico. 

Mexico : Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca, Mexico. 

MichoacAn : Secretarfa General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacfin, 
Morelia. 



72 ANNUAL. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

Mexico: Departmento Autfinomo de Prensa y Publicidad, Mexico, D. F. — Contd. 

MoBExos : Palacio de Gobierno, Ciiernavaca. 

Nayarit: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic. 

NuEvo Lex)n : Biblioteca del Estado, Monterey. 

Oaxaca : Periodico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca. 

PuEBLA : Secretarfa General de Gobierno, Puebla. 

QuERETAEO : Secretaria General de Gobierno, Secci6n de Archivo, Queretaro. 

San Luis Potosi : Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi. 

SiNAix)A : Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan. 

Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo. 

Tabasco: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccion 3a, Ramo de Prensa, 
Villahermosa. 

Tamaulipas : Secretarfa General de Gobierno, Victoria. 

TLu\xcala: Secretarfa de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala. 

Vera Cruz: Gobernador del Estado de Vera Cruz, Departamento de Gober- 
nacion y Justicia, Jalapa. 

YucatIn : Gobernador del Estado de YucatSn, M(!^rida, Tucatfln. 
NETHE21LANDS : Bibliotheek van de Tweede Kamer der Sta ten-General, The 

Hague. 
Netherlands Indies : Volksraad von Nederlandsch-Indie, Batavia, Java. 
New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Oslo. 
Peru : CSmara de Diputados, Lima. 
Poland: Bibljoteka Narodowa, Warsaw. 
Portugal: Secretario da Assemblea Nacional, Lisboa. 
Rumania : 

Bibliothfeque de la Chambre des D^put4s, Bucharest. 

Ministfire des Affaires Etrangeres, Bucharest. 
Spain : 

Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Madrid. 

Catalunya: Biblioteca del Parlament de Catalunya, Barcelona. Suspended. 
Switzerland: BibliothSque de rAssembl<5e F^d^rale Suisse, Berne. 

Bern: Staatskanzlei des Kantons Bern. 

St. Gallen : Staatskanzlei des Kantons St. Gallen. 

Schaffhausen : Staatskanzlei des Kantons Sehaffhausen. 

ZtJRiCH: Staatskanzlei des Kantons Ziirich. 
Turkey: Turkish Grand National Assembly, Ankara. 
Union of South Africa: 

Library of Parliament, Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope. 

State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal. 
Ubuguay: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo. 
Venezuela : Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas. 
Vatican City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City. Italy. 

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES 

For several years the Robert College at Istanbul has been good 
enough to act as the exchange agency for Turkey and has promptly 
forwarded to their destinations all packages transmitted in its care. 
For this service the Institution is indebted to Robert College. The 
work is now being taken over by the Department of Printing and 
Engraving, Ministry of Education, Istanbul. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 73 

A list of the foreign exchange bureaus is given below. Most of 
those bureaus forward consignments of publications to the Insti- 
tution for distribution in the United States. 

LIST OF AGENCIES 

Algeria, via France. 

Angola, via Portugal. 

Argentina : Comision Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Canje Internacional, 

Calle Callao 1540, Buenos Aires. 
Austria : Internationale Austauschstelle, National-Bibliothek, Wien I. 
Azores, via Portugal. 
Belgium : Service Beige des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque Royale de 

Belgique, Bruxelles. 
Bolivia: Sent by mall. 
Brazil: Servigo de Permutagoes Internacionaes, Bibliotbeca Nacional, Rio de 

Janeiro. 
British Guiana : Sent by mail. 
British Honduras : Sent by mail. 
Bulgaria: Sent by mail. 
Canada : Sent by mail. 
Canary Islands, via Spain. 
Chile: Sent by mail. 

China: Bureau of International Exchange, Ministry of Education, Chungking. 
Colombia : Sent by mail. 
CosTA Rica : Sent by mail. 
Cthja: Sent by mail. 
Czechoslovakia: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque de 

I'Assembl^e Nationale, Prague 1-79. 
Danzig : Sent by mail. 
Denmark : Service Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Kongelige Danske 

Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen V. 
Dominican Republic : Sent by mail. 
Ecuador : Sent by mail. 

Egypt: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo. 
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn. 
Finland: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasiimgatan 24, 

Helsingfors. 
France: Service Frangais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Crenelle, 

Paris. 
French Gxhana : Sent by mail. 

Germany: Amerika-Institut, Universitatstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7. 
Great Britain and Ireland : Wheldon & Wesley, 2-4 Earnshaw St., New 

Oxford St., London, W. C. 2. 
Greece: Sent by mail. 
Greenland, via Denmark. 
Guatemala : Sent by mail. 
Haiti : Sent by mail. 
Honduras: Sent by mail. 

Hungary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV. 
Iceland, via Denmark. 

India: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay. 
Italy: Uflficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero dell'Educazioue Nazionale, 

Rome. 



74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

Jamaica: Sent by mail. 

Japan : International Exchange Service, Imperial Library of Japan, Uyeno 
Park. Tokyo. 

Java, via Netherlands. 

Latakia : Sent by mail. 

Latvia : Service des ^changes Internationaux, Bibliothfique d'Etat de Lettonie, 
Riga. 

Lebanon : Sent by mail. 

LiBEMA : Sent by mail. 

Lithuania: Sent by mall, 

Ltjsemboueg, via Belgium. 

Madagascar, via France. 

Madeika, via Portugal. 

Mexico: Sent by mail. 

Mozambique, via Portugal. 

Nethebij^nds : International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal 
Library, The Hague. 

Newfoundland and Labrador: Sent by mail. 

New South Wales : Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 

New Zealand : General Assembly Library, Wellington. 

Nicaragua : Sent by mail. 

Norway: Service Norv^gien des fichanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque de 
rUniversit6 Royale, Oslo. 

Palestine: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem. 

Panama: Sent by mail. 

Paraguay: Sent by mail. 

Peru: Sent by mail. 

Poland : Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque Nationale, 
Warsaw. 

Portugal: Secgao de Trocas Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisboa. 

Queensland : Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre- 
tary's Office, Brisbane. 

Rumania: Soussecr^tariat d'Etat de la Propagande, Direction de la Presse, 
Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bucharest. 

Salvador: Sent by mail. 

South Australia : South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern- 
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide. 

Spain : Shipments suspended since August 1936. 

Sumatra, via Netherlands. 

Surinam : Sent by mail. 

Sweden : Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm. 

Switzerland: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque Cen- 
trale F^d^rale, Berne. 

Syria : Sent by mail. 

Tasmania : Secretary to the Premier, Hobart. 

Thailand: Sent by mail. 

Trinidad : Sent by mail. 

Tunis, via France. 

Turkey: Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Engraving, 
Istanbul. 

Union op South Africa : Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape- 
town, Cape of Good Hope. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 75 

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics: Library of the Academy of Sciences of 

the U. S. S. R., Exchange Service, Leningrad, V. O. 
Uruguay: Sent by mail. 
Venezuexa: Sent by mail. 

Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 
Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth. 
Yugoslavia : Section des Echanges Internationaux, Ministfire des Affaires 



iStrang^res, Belgrade. 

Respectfully submitted. 



Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



F. E. Gass, 
Acting Chief Clerk. 



APPENDIX 7 
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

SiK : I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera- 
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 
30, 1939 : 

The regular appropriation made by Congress for the maintenance 
of the Park was $227,000, all of which was expended. 

IMPROVEMENTS 

Extensive and important improvements of a varied nature were 
completed during the year. These were accomplished through close 
cooperation with W. P. A. labor under excellent supervision. This 
labor was available the entire year. 

The grading between the large mammal house and the refreshment 
stand, begun in the last fiscal year, was completed. This includes a 
stone retaining wall around the base of the hill. A stone feed house 
100 feet long and 30 feet wide was constructed. It is a one-story 
building with cellar arranged for storing vegetables and with ample 
storage space for hay and grains. 

One of the largest of the jobs of the year was the grading and 
excavating of approximately 80,000 cubic yards of earth at what had 
been known as the buffalo hill. On this site one large buffalo pad- 
dock has been completed. This is an enclosure 170 by 140 to 150 
feet, with a shelter 81 by 20 feet. On this site are also being con- 
structed four paddocks, of nearly equal size, covering an area 350 
by 150 feet. These four paddocks are of the barless type with dry 
moats separating visitors from the animals. For shelter on these 
paddocks two buildings, one 20 by 40 feet, and the other 20 by 
48 feet, have been constructed. This entire unit is about 95 percent 
completed. A paddock 50 feet long and 30 feet wide has been added 
to the wild horse and zebra group. 

A group of circular enclosures, making an exceptionally fine ex- 
hibition place for raccoons, prairie dogs, and cavies, have been con- 
structed between the small mammal house and the antelope building. 
These are about 50 feet in diameter with concrete side walls of two 
of them about 3 feet deep and the other, for prairie dogs, with side 
walls in the ground about 10 feet and provision for bottom drainage. 

A reinforced concrete pool of irregular design, with a small water- 
fall was completed back of the bird house. This is about 53 by 23 
76 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 77 

feet, with open moat effect and enclosed by a paneled guard rail. 

A 3-incli water main was laid from the cockatoo cage to the rear 
of the bird house, a total of 625 linear feet. 

New concrete walks were completed back of the bird house and 
around the large mammal house covering a total area of 1,200 square 
yards. A total of 7,880 square yards of bituminous concrete was laid. 
This included roads, walks, and a splendid parking area for buses 
on the main road below the large mammal house. About 3,400 linear 
feet of reinforced concrete curbing was constructed. An important 
improvement from the standpoint of safety was the construction of 
an underground duct for the high tension, three-phase electric supply 
line from the point at which it enters the Park, to the bird house. 
Tliis covered a total distance of about 715 linear feet. 

A total of 4,900 square yards of road were repaired and resur- 
faced with bipac. In connection with the excavating and fills, and 
new road and walk work, about 1,600 feet of surface and gutter 
drains were laid. The old smokestack, in use prior to the develop- 
ment of the new shops in 1936, was demolished. 

A definite aid to the always-present parking problem was the im- 
provement of several parking areas. 

With the completion of the principal buildings and grading ad- 
jacent to the structures and landscape grading elsewhere about the 
Park, there were considerable barren areas that required planting. 
Accordingly, during the fiscal year extensive plantings were made 
of holly, flowering crab, flowering peach, dogwood, native forest 
trees, such as beech, walnut, ash, elm, hickory, Virginia cedar, Vir- 
ginia pine, red pine, red spruce, hemlocks, and ornamental shrubs 
such as hibiscus, abelia, forsythia, spirea, japonica, azaleas, and privet. 
In all, more than 400 trees and 600 shrubs were planted and about 
5 acres were seeded to grass. 

The Zoo is indebted to Dr. Francis B. Lincoln, of the Maryland 
Agricultural Experiment Station, for hollys, flowering crabs, flow- 
ering peaches, evergreens, roses, jasmine, sand cherries, ilex, and 
other shrubs; to the United States Forest Service for pines and 
spruces; to the United States Soldiers' Home for evergreens, japonica, 
amelancliier, crepe myrtle, magnolias, and figs; to Clifford Lanham, 
of the District Nursery, for Chinese elm and maples; to Dr. Ira N. 
Gabrielson, Chief of the United States Biological Survey, for sweet 
gum and pines. Mrs. Mary G. Corby very kindly permitted us to 
obtain cedars, wisterias, barberries, and pines from her estate. 

These improvements were carried on with the minimum of cost. 
All stone used was quarried in the Park. Sand and gravel were 
also obtained from the creek bed in the Park. 



78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

BESTAUKANT 

The Public "Works Administration allotted the sum of $90,000 for 
the much-needed restaurant building at the Park. 

Work on plans for this building was commenced immediately by 
the Supervising Architect, Procurement Division, Treasury Depart- 
ment, and in a short time it is expected that bids will be let and 
construction begun. 

This will be a marked improvement in the service that the Zoo 
gives to the public. 

FIELD WORK 

The appropriation bill for the Zoo carried an item of $2,000 for 
travel. With part of this money Malcolm Davis of the Zoo staff 
was sent to Calcutta to bring back an Indian rhinoceros that had 
been captured by the Forestry Service of Assam through the interest 
of United States Consul General Wliite. At the present time Mr. 
Davis is at sea with the rhino and a shipment of other animals col- 
lected by him. 

With the remainder of the money a short trip was made by the 
Director to the Argentine. A small collection of animals was taken 
for exchange with the zoos in Buenos Aires, La Plata, and Cordoba. 
United States Consul General Monnett B. Davis took an active in- 
terest in the expedition, and Dr. A. Holmberg, Director of the Buenos 
Aires Zoo, planned the field work. The Minister of Agriculture 
sent the party in his yacht down the Delta of the Parana. The Gov- 
ernor of Cordoba furnished transportation into the hills, and the 
National P.vrk Service supplied transportation to the famous Nahuel 
Huapi National Park. On all of these side trips specimens were 
obtained. The zoos presented many specimens, as did Natalio 
Botana, Jose M. Cinaghi, and Ennio Arrigutti of the Aquarium 
Kin-Yu. Tom Davis, of Buenos Aires, made a large collection of 
Argentine tortoises and terrapins which he presented to the expedi- 
tion. On the return voyage a number of specimens were obtained 
from the zoo at Rio Janeiro, and some snakes from the Instituto 
Butantan at Sao Paolo. In all, 70 crates of live animals were landed 
at Washington. There are many difficulties connected with traveling 
with animals, but the officials and the officers and crew of the Moore- 
McCormack Lines, Inc., cooperated in every way possible, and thanks 
are due to them for making the expedition such a success. 

A summary of the specimens brought back follows : 

Class Species Individuals 

Mammals 12 35 

Birds 26 177 

Reptiles 17 98 

Amphibians 3 6 

Total 58 316 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 



79 



NEEDS OF THE ZOO 

The Zoo now has four fine exhibition buildings, but there are 
three old ones, housing lions, monkeys, and antelopes, that are most 
unsatisfactor}^ and unsuitable buildings. It is hoped that appro- 
priations can be made to replace these structures with modern build- 
ings which would complete the development of the Zoo as far as 
large animal houses are concerned. 

VISnORS FOR THE YEAR 

There was a decrease in the attendance for the year compared with 
last year. The return in the fall of 1937 of the National Geographic- 
Smithsonian Institution East Indies Expedition brought out large 
crowds which continued visiting the Park far into the winter, when 
attendance is usually small. 



July 251, 000 

August 239, 500 

September 263, 400 

October 158, 100 

November 134, 400 

December 80, 200 

January 86, 950 



February 118, 530 

March 151, 700 

April 291, 600 

May 232, 100 

June 193, 600 



Total 2, 201, 080 



The attendance of organizations, mainly classes of students, of 
which there is definite record, was 37,220, from 699 different schools 
in 22 States and the District of Columbia as follows : 



state 



Alabama 

Connecticut 

Delaware 

District of Columbia 

Florida 

Georgia 

Illinois 

Indiana 

Kentucky 

Maine 

Maryland 

Massachusetts 

Michigan 



Number 
of per- 
sons 


Number 


of parties 


30 


1 


449 


9 


242 


6 


8,662 


152 


66 


2 


377 


9 


37 


1 


20 


1 


50 


1 


42 


1 


0,404 


102 


276 


6 


139 


3 



New Jersey 

New York 

North Carolina 

Ohio 

Oklahoma 

Pennsylvania.. 
South Carolina. 

Tennessee 

Virginia-.- 

West Virginia.. 
Miscellaneous.. 

Total 



Number 
of per- 
sons 



2,806 

1,965 
783 
596 
80 

6,562 
541 
137 

6,077 
742 
137 



37, 220 



Number 
of parties 



32 
25 
24 
17 

1 
134 
16 

4 

131 

19 

2 



About 3 o'clock every afternoon, except Sundays and holidays, a 
census is taken of the cars parked on the Zoo grounds. During the 
year, 27,932 were so listed, representing every State in the Union, 
Canada, Canal Zone, Cuba, Panama, Hawaii, Bahamas, Puerto Rico, 
Guam, and the Philippine Islands. 

Since the total number is merely a record of those actually parked 
at one time, it is not of value as indicating a total attendance but 



80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

is of importance as showing the percentage attendance by States, 
territories, and countries. The District of Columbia comprised 
slightly over 46 percent ; Maryland, 19 percent ; Virginia, 11 percent ; 
and the remaining cars were from other States, Territories, and coun- 
tries. During years in which counts have been made on Sunday as 
well as during the week it has been found that the percentage of cars 
from the District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia is less, and 
the percentage of more distant States is correspondingly increased. 
This is brought about by tourists coming to the Zoo on Sundays 
when other points of interest are closed to them. 

ACCESSIONS 

Gifts. — A number of specimens were received as gifts during the 
year. These were gratefully received and acknowledgement is 
made in a complete list of donors and their gifts. Among the most 
interesting additions were 10 Louisiana herons and 11 snowy egrets 
from A. E. Mcllhenny, Avery Island, La. Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, 
of the United States National Museum presented 76 land hermit 
crabs; also, as a result of the Presidential cruise to southern waters 
in the summer of 1938, in which he participated, he presented the 
Park with a Galapagos hawk, 2 species of snakes never before ex- 
hibited at the Park, one from James Island and one from Hood 
Island. From the same cruise, through Lt. L. H. Le Hardy, the 
Park received a Galapagos iguana. A fine collection of Central 
American reptiles was received from Costello Craig, Washing- 
ton, D. C. 

The United States Biological Survey, through Roy Fugit and 
Joseph L. Crummett, Pendleton, Oreg., presented 6 Nevada long- 
eared foxes. 

DONORS AND THEaB GIFTS 

H. A. Allard, Washington, D. C, gopher turtle. 

O. R. Anderson, Washington, D. C, 2 skunks. 

J. P. Andrews, Farmville, Va., bald eagle. 

Tom C. Atkinson, Toledo, Ohio, 2 massasaugas. 

Dr. L. Avery, Beltsville, Md., opossum. 

Mrs. Pedro Ayson, Washington, D. C, Cuban parrot. 

Mrs. J. H. Baden, Washington, D. C, barred owl. 

A. G. Baker, Youngstown, Ohio, 6 massasaugas. 

L. R. Baker, Washington, D. C, ovenbird. 

Edgar Bayly, Washington, D. C, 2 alligators. 

Charles Bell, Washington, D. C, Florida gallinule. 

Mrs. Boccabella, Washington, D. C, 2 grass paroquets. 

Mrs. Bon, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Jack Brown, Washington, D. C, 2 rice birds. 

Ralph D. Brown, Washington, D. C, 4 European goldfinches. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 81 

Frank H. Burch, Silver Spring, Md., raccoon. 

A. L. Burnett, Clarendon, Va., raccoon. 

D. E. Butler, Washington, D. C, Philippine monkey. 

Walter J. Butler, Washington, D. C, towhee. 

Mrs. E. Buzzone, Washington, D. C, yellow-naped parrot. 

N. W. Canter, Washington, D. C, large brown bat. 

O. W. Chesley, Fairfax, Va., broad-winged hawk. 

Donald Collier, Alexandria, Va., opossum. 

Mrs. Connole, Arlington, Va., crow. 

Walter Coombs, Washington, D. C, albino grass snake. 

James Coon, Washington, D. C, red-tailed hawk. 

R. B. Covington, Washington, D. C, 2 mallards. 

Costello Craig, Washington, D. C, 3 Central American musk turtles, 2 ornate 
turtles, 4 caimans, 3 coatimimdis, fer-de-lance, 15 emperor boas, 2 indigo 
snakes, pike-headed tree snake, vine snake, 3 night snakes, parrot snake, 
2 tarantulas. 

Lindsay Crawford, Washington, D. C, troupial. 

J. E. Darrer, Washington, D. C, barred owl. 

Malcolm Davis, Washington, D. C, 13 marine toads. 

Walter B. Davis, Washington, D. C, 2 grass paroquets. 

Freddie Deininger, Washington, D. C, opossum, rabbit. 

L. L. Derrick, Washington, D. C, 2 fox squirrels. 

Congressman John D. Dingell, Washington, D. C, opossum. 

Mrs. L. T. Ditoran, Berwyn, Md., chain or king snake. 

Mrs. H. W. Elmore, Washington, D. C, raccoon. 

Mrs. K. C. Ewing, Pikesville, Md., 2 coatimundis, 2 brown capuchins. 

Wesley Feagin, Long Beach, Calif., 2 sidewinder rattlesnakes, 2 Pacific gopher 
snakes, 3 desert leaf-nosed snakes, 2 California garden snakes, 2 lined racers, 
California king snake, desert gopher snake, banded gecko, giant rock Uta, 
2 desert scaly lizards. 

Mrs. Fisher, Washington, D. C, false chameleon. 

Geo. Fleming and Wm. Lee, Washington, D. C., purple gallinule. 

Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, Cherokee National Forest, Cleve- 
land, Tenn., wild boar. 

M. B. Foster, Orlando, Fla., worm snake. 

Miss Harriet Freebey, Silver Spring, Md., barred owl. 

Alonzo Gardner, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

J. H. Gawlor, Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 

Frank Godwin, Capitol Heights, Md., banded rattlesnake. 

Slad Goodnaugh, Fairfax, Va., 2 flying squirrels. 

W. T. Grant, Richmond, Va., kinkajou. 

Mrs. E. Gruening, Washington, D. C, 2 sparrow hawks. 

Edw. Gwynn, Washington, D. C, horned lizard. 

J. M. Hamlet, Portland, Greg., 4 Oregon rattlesnakes. 

Harold Hand, Washington, D. C, pied-billed grebe. 

W. B. Harrison, Wildwood, Fla., worm snake. 

Mrs. Daniel O. Hastings, Wilmington, Del., shama thrush. 

W. H. Hawkins, Washington, D. C, red fox. 

Mrs. H. E. Hay, Arlington, Va., 4 opossums. 

Henry Holden, Washington, D. C, coatimundi. 

A. Brazier Howell, Ruxton, Md., skunk. 

Chas. B. Hunt, Hanksville, Utah, 4 midget rattlesnakes. 



82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

Walter Ilgenfritz, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

M. Jacona, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Chester Jennings, Washington, D. C, Virginia rail. 

Mrs. H. M. Kaiser, Berwyn, Md., opossum. 

Mrs. F. Kass, Washington, D. C, grass paroquet. 

Robert Keeling. Washington, D. C, zebra finch, cut-throat finch, Java sparrow. 

Claude Keys, Washington, D. C, gray fox. 

Jimmie Koehl. Hyattsville, Md., black widow spider. 

Mr. Kunkel, Carlisle, Pa., 5 long-tailed salamanders. 

Miss J. Lawless, Washington, D. C, snapping turtle. 

Lt L. H. Le Hardy, U. S. N., Galdpagos iguana. 

C. S. Little, Waycross, Ga.. 2 alligators. 

M. Little. Washington, D. C, snapping turtle. 

O. M. Locke, New Braunfelw, Tex., 3 nine-banded armadillos, 50 horned lizards. 
James Lockheed, Washington, D. C, 2 rhesus monkeys. 
H. P. Loding, Mobile, Ala., diamond-backed rattlesnake. 
Norman Lowe, Rockville, Md., banded rattlesnake. 
Dr. Bertha Lutz, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 3 horned frogs. 
Dr. J. W. MacConnell, Davidson, N. C, red-crowned parrot. 
Miss Barbara Madden, Washington, D. C, Cooper's hawk. 
Wm. Mahaffey, South Carolina, eastern chipmunk- 
Mrs. LeRoy Mark, Washington, D. C, rhesus monkey. 
E. W. Marlowe, Jr., Washington, D. C, canary. 
Menno Martin, Mishawaka, Ind., albino meadow mouse. 
Dr. William R. Maxon, Washington, D. C, red-fronted parrot. 
Maj. S. L. McCroskey, Washington, D. C, 2 grass paroquets. 
A. E. Mcllhenny, Avery Island, La., 10 Louisiana herons, 11 snowy egrets. 
H. S. McKinley, Washington, D. C, 2 woodchucks or ground hogs. 
Meems Bros. & Ward, New York, N. Y., 4 water moccasins. 
Leroy Miller, Washington, D. C, horned grebe. 
James Moody. Baltimore, Md., brown capuchin, 2 alligators. 
H. G. Moore, Silver Spring, Md.. American coot. 
W. F. Morian, Washington, D. C. hog-nosed snake. 
R. F. Mullen, Chevy Chase, Md., horned lizard. 
J. P. Myers, Arlington, Va., barred owl. 
John H. Newlin, Fort Hunt, Va., 3 red-tailed hawks. 

Dr. G. K. Noble, New York, N. Y., 4 Surinam toads, 6 mouth-breeding fish. 
Alva Nye, Jr., Washington, D. C, golden eagle. 
Alvara Obregon, Mexico, 2 turtles. 
T. W. Odom, Washington, D. C, bittern. 

Mrs. Alma K. Palsgrove, Washington, D. C, 2 grass paroquets. 
Petroleum Heat & Power Co., Washington, D. C, alligator. 
Alan Philips, Baltimore, Md., piranha or cannibal fish. 
Mrs. Barbara Polakov, Fairfax, Va., Javan macaque. 
G. F. Pollock, Washington, D. C, red-headed lovebird. 
W. R. Poore, Betliesda, Md., 2 skunks. 
A. M. Raymond, Silver Spring, Md., horned grebe. 
MLss M. L. Reavis, Washington, D. C, opossum. 
T. M. Rees, Washington, D. C, alligator. 
A, G. Reynolds, Washington, D. C, 2 prairie dogs. 
Lowry Riggs, Rockville, Md., 3 loons. 

D. F. Rlnaca, Washington, D. C, great horned owl. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 83 

B. H. Roberts, "Washington, D. C, 4 grass paroquets. 
George A. Robinson, Falls Cburch, Va., 3 woodcocks. 

D. L. Rodgers, Washington, D, C, Pekin duck. 
Mrs. v. F. Rodrigo, Baltimore, Md., horned lizard. 

E. J. Rosen, Alexandria, Va., red-tailed hawk. 
J. S. Sallak, Washington, D. C, loon. 
Robert Sanford, Washington, D. C, opossum. 
R. F, Sappington, Chevy Chase, Md., barn owl. 

Dr. Waldo Schmitt, Washington, D. C, 76 land hermit crabs, Galapagos hawk, 

James Island snake. Hood Island snake. 
I;oyd Schneider, Washington, D. C, 2 ospreys or fish hawks. 
J. W. Scrivener, Washington, D. C, sparrow hawk. 
PI. T. Shannon, Washington, D. C, golden pheasant. 
L. A. Sharp, Washington, D. C, 3 flying squirrels, 2 white-footed mice. 
Miss Ola M. Shaw, Washington, D. C, double yellow-headed parrot. 
Col. and Mrs. J. F. Siler, Washington, D. C, 2 troupials. 
Allen Smith, Washington, D. C, garter snake. 
G. B. Smith, Washington, D. C, 2 antelope squirrels. 
Peggy Wood Smith, Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 
Robert D. Smith, Washington, D. C, horned grebe. 
Mrs. Richard Southgate, Washington, D. C, troupial. 
S. S. Spahr, Washington, D. C, blue jay. 
Donald Sparrow, Washington, D. C, red-shouldered hawk. 
E. Sullivan, Fredericksburg, Va., barred owl. 
H. F. Thomas, Washington, D. C, woodchuck or ground hog. 
H. O. Thompson, Washington, D. C, raccoon. 
I. B. Tice, Washington, D. C, false chameleon. 
R. E. Tiller, Washington, D. C, bluebird. 
W. B. Tyrrell, Takoma Park, Md., barred owl. 
U. S. Biological Survey through Roy Fugit and Jos. L. Crummett, Pendleton, 

Oreg., 6 Nevada long-eared foxes. 
U. &'. Marine Barracks, Qiiantico, Va., bald eagle. 
Virginia Upton, Lanham, Md.. 2 muscovy ducks. 
E. G. Van Noy. Washington, D. C, alligator. 
Miss Barbara Vierling, Silver Spring, Md., 3 guinea pigs. 
J. E. Vincent, Washington, D. C, Cuban conure. 
Mrs. C. B. Wagoner, Buckroe Beach, Va., 2 Amazon parrots. 
Mrs. B. Waldron, Washington, D. C, painted bunting. 
Mrs. Z. Wallace, Takoma Park, Md., screech owl. 
J. L. Ward, Washington, D. C, woodchuck or ground hog. 
Theo. A. Warner, Washington, D. C, flying squirrel. 
Washington Post, Washington, D. C, opossum. 
George Wech, Washington, D. C, double yellow-headed parrot. 
A. P. Wheatley, Hyattsville, Md., 2 Pekin ducks. 
Mrs. E. L. White, Washington, D. C, alligator. 
Norman Winkler, Huntington, W. Va., hog-nosed snake. 
Mrs. T. F. Woodward, Washington, D. C, white rabbit. 
Holland Wyatt, Woodbridge, Va., blacksnake. 
Mrs. Walter Wyatt, Washington, D. C, wood duck. 



197855—40- 



84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

Births. — There were 48 mammals born and 15 birds hatched during 
the year. 

MAMMALS 
Scientific name Common name Number 

Ammotragus lervia Aoudad 4 

Axis axis Axis deer 7 

Bison Uson American bison 3 

Bos indicus Zebu 1 

Cervus elaphus Red deer 2 

Choeropsis liberiensis Pigmy hippopotamus 1 

Dama dama Fallow deer 6 

Felis onca Jaguar 2 

Hemitragus jemlahicus Talir 1 

Magus maurus Moor monkey 1 

Macaca mordax Javan monkey 2 

Macaca mulatta Rhesus monkey 1 

Macaca nemistrina Pig-tailed macaque 1 

Ovis europaeus Mouflon 1 

Procyon lotor Black raccoon 3 

Pseiidois nahtira Bharal or blue sheep 2 

Sika nippon Japanese deer 4 

Taurotragus oryx Eland 1 

Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus middendorflii — Hybrid bear 2 

Vrsus arctos European brown bear 1 

Ursus gyas Alaska peninsula bear 2 

BIRDS 

Chrysolophus pictus Golden pheasant 5 

Nycticorax nycticorax naevius Black-crowned night heron. 9 

Spheniscus demersus Jackass penguin 1 

Exchcmges. — A most interesting lot of South American animals 
were received on an exchange basis with the zoos at Buenos Aires and 
La Plata, Argentina. These were brought to the Park by the Na- 
tional Zoological Park- Argentina Expedition. Another important 
exchange was with the Cole Brothers Circus, in which the Zoo received 
a female hippopotamus and a male yak. 

Purchases. — Specimens acquired by purchase and worthy of men- 
lion include a Malayan pangolin, one pair of Atlantic walruses, one 
pair of Bengal tigers, one pair of alpacas, a harpy eagle, and a pair 
of reticulated giraffes, the first of this species ever exhibited at the 
Park. 

REMOVALS 

Deaths. — ^Major losses during the year included one brown hyena, 
one Malayan pangolin, two walruses, one colobus monkey, a prong- 
horn antelope, and two shoebill storks. As in the past, all specimens 
of scientific value that died during the year were sent to the National 
Museum. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 



85 



ANIMALS IN COLLECTION THAT HAD NOT PREVIOUSLY BEEN EXHIBITED 

MAMMALS 
Scientiflo name Common name 

Didelphis paraguayensis '.— Paraguay opossum. 

Oiraffa reticulata Reticulated giraffe. 

Hylochoerus meinertzhageni Forest hog. 

Odobenus rosmarus Atlantic walrus. 

Paramanis javanica Malayan pangolin. 

Potamochoerus porcus keniae White-faced bush pig. 

BIKDS 

Anas traziliensis Brazilian teal. 

Anas spinicauda Chilean pintail. 

Buteo galapagoensis Galiipagos hawk. 

Buteo melanoleucus South American buzzard eagle, 

Coracias caudatus lorti Pink-throated roller. 

Daptrius americanus Carancho. 

Eucorax comrii Curl-crested manucode. 

Furnarius rufus Rufous ovenbird. 

Leipoa ocellata Mallee fowl. 

Milvago chimango Chimango. 

Phimosus infuscatus Dusky ibis. 

Threskiornis spinicolUs Straw-necked ibis. 

Trupialis defilippi Military starling. 

REPTILES 

Boa occidentalis Argentine boa. 

Bothrops neuwiedii Maximilian's viper. 

Bufo arenarum Argentine sand toad. 

Calyptocephalus gayii Chilean aquatic frog. 

Dromicus dorsalis James Island snake. 

Dromicus hoodensis Hood Island snake. 

Pseudemys d'orhignyi D'Orbigny's turtle. 

Tupinarnbis rufescens Red tegu lizard. 



Statement of accessions 



Class 


Received 
from Nation- 
al Zoological 
Park-Argen- 
tine Expedi- 
tion 


Pre- 
sented 


Born 


Re- 
ceived in 
exchange 


Pur- 
chased 


On 
deposit 


Total 


Mammals . . 


35 

177 
98 
6 


82 

125 

121 

8 

7 

3 

70 


48 
15 


11 

7 
3 


63 
22 
102 


12 
7 
17 


241 


Birds 


353 


Reptiles 


341 


Amphibians 




14 


Fislies 






30 


7 


44 


Arachnids . 








3 


Mollusks 












76 
















Total .. 


316 


422 


63 


21 


207 


43 


1,072 







86 AN2s^UAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

Summary 

Animals on hand July 1, 1938 2,754 

Accessions during the year 1,072 



Total animals in collection during year 3,826 

Removal from collection by death, exchange, and return of animals on 
deposit 1,376 



In collection June 30, 1939 2,450 

Status of collection 



Class 


Speclos 


Individuals 


Class 


Species 


Individuals 


Mammals 


226 

338 

128 

23 

25 

2 


725 

1,074 

441 

89 

79 

5 


Insects .. 


1 

1 

1 


25 


Birds 


Mollusks- 


3 


Reptiles 


Crustaceans. 


9 




Total. 




Fishes 


743 


2,450 


Arachnids. 











ANIMALS IN THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, JUNE 30, 1939 

Mammals 

marsupialia 

Didelphidae: Number 

Didelphis paraguayensis Paraguay opossum 1 

Didelphis virginiano Opossum 6 

Metachirus opossum Zorro or banana opossum 1 

Dasyuridae: 

Sarcophilus ursinus Tasmanian devil 2 

Phalangeridae: 

Petaurus breviceps Lesser flying phalanger 4 

Trichosurus vulpecula Vulpine opossum 1 

Macropodidae: 

Dendrolagus inustus Tree kangaroo 2 

Dendrolagus ursinus X D. inustus. Hybrid tree kangaroo 1 

TN8ECTIV0RA 

Erinaceidae: 

Atelerix hindei East African hedgehog 3 

CHIROPTERA 

Vespertilionidae: 

Eplesicus fuscus Large brown bat 2 



CARNIVORA 

Felidae: 

Acinonyx jubatus Cheeta 2 

Felis concolor Puma 5 

Felis leo Lion 6 

Felis ocreata Uganda wildcat 1 

Felis onca fJaguar 5 

[Black jaguar 2 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87 

OAENivoKA — continued 

Felidae— Continued. T^umUr 

Felts pardalis Ocelot 1 

Felis pardinoides Lesser tiger cat ] 

Felis pardus flndian leopard 4 

(Black Indian leopard 2 

Felis pardus suahelicus East African leopard 1 

Felis tigris Bengal tiger 2 

Felis tigris longipilis Siberian tiger 2 

Felis tigris sondaicus Sumatran tiger 4 

Herpailurus yaguarondi Eyra or yaguarondi 1 

Lynx baileyi Bailey's lynx 1 

Lynx caracal Caracal 1 

Lynx rufus Bay lynx 4 

Lynx uinta Bobcat 1 

Neofelis nebulosa Clouded leopard 1 

Oncifelis geoffreyi Geoffrey's cat 2 

Profelis temmincki , Golden cat 3 

Viverridae: 

Arciictis hinturong Binturong 4 

Civettictis civetta Civet 1 

Genetta dongalana neumanni Neumann's genet 1 

Moschothera mcgaspila Burmese civet 1 

Paradoxurus hermaphrodytus . . , Small-toothed palm civet 2 

Hyaenidae: 

Cr acuta crocuta germinans East African spotted hyena 1 

Hyaena brunnea Brown hyena 1 

Canidae: 

Canis dingo Dingo ^ 2 

Canis latrans fAlbino coyote 1 

[Coyote 8 

Canis lacrans X domestica Coyote and dog hybrid 2 

Canis lupus lycaon Timber wolf 1 

Canis lupus nuhilus Wolf 6 

Canis rufus Texas red wolf 5 

Chrysocyon jubata _ Maned wolf 1 

Cuon javanicus sumatrensis „ _ Sumatran wild dog 1 

Dusicyon sp South American fox 1 

Dusicyon sp South American fox 2 

Urocyon cinereoargenteus Gray fox 4 

Vulpes fulva Red fox 7 

Vulpes macrotis nevadensis Nevada long-eared fox 6 

Procyonidae: 

Nasua narica Coatimundi 10 

Polos flavus Kinkajou 4 

Procyon cancrivorus Crab-eating raccoon 1 

I Raccoon 9 

Raccoon (albino) 1 

Black raccoon 9 

Bassariscidae: 

Bassariscus astutus Ring-tail or cacomistle 2 



88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

Mustelidae: Number 

Ardomjx collaris Hog badger 2 

Charronia flavigula henricii Asiatic marten 1 

GalicHs barbara barbara White tayra 2 

Grisonella huronax Grison 2 

Gulo luscus — Wolverine 2 

Lidra canadensis vaga Florida otter 2 

Mellivora capensis Ratel 1 

Mephitis nigra Skunk 11 

Micraomjx lepionyx Small-clawed otter I 

Mustela eversmanni Ferret 3 

Mustcla noveboracensis Weasel 1 

Musiela vison vison Mink 1 

Ursidae: 

Euarctos americanvs American black bear 3 

Euarctos emmonsii Glacier bear 1 

Helarcios malayanus Malay or sun bear 1 

Thalarctos marilimus Polar bear 2 

Thalarctos marilimus X Ursus mid- Hybrid bear 5 

dendorfi. 

Ursus arctos European brown bear 2 

Ursus gyas Alaska Peninsula bear 5 

Ursus kidderi Kidder's brown bear 1 

Ursus middendorffi Kodiak brown bear 4 

Ursus sitkensis Sitka brown bear 3 

Ursus thibeianus Himalayan bear 3 

PINNIFEDIA 

Otariidae: 

Zalophus californianus California sea lion 2 

Phocidae: 

Phoca richardii Pacific harbor seal 3 

PRIMATES 

Lemuridae: 

Nyciicebus coucang Slow loris 4 

Perodicticus potto Potto 1 

Callitrichidae: 

Leontocebus rosalia Lion-headed or golden marmoset. _ 3 

Mica argentata Black-tailed marmoset 1 

Cebidae: 

Cebus apella Brown capuchin 1 

Cebus capucinus White-throated capuchin 2 

Cebus fatuellus.. Weeping capuchin 3 

Cebus sp Gray capuchin 1 

Cercopithecidae: 

Cercocebus fuliginosus Sooty mangabey G 

Cercopithecus aethiops aethiops Grivet monkey 1 

Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus Green guenon 6 

Cercopithecus diana Diana monkey 1 

Cercopithecus neglectus De Brazza's guenon 1 

Cercopithecus petaurista Lesser white-nosed guenon 2 

Cercopithecus pygerythra Ver vet guenon 1 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89 

PRIMATES — continued 

Cercopithecidae — Continued. Number 

Cercopithecus roloway Roloway monkey 1 

Erythrocebus patas Patas monkey 7 

Macaca fuscata Japanese monkey 1 

Macaca lasiotis Chinese macaque 2 

Macaca mordax Javan monkey 15 

Macaca mulatta Rhesus monkey 9 

Macaca nemestrina Pig-tailed macaque 7 

Macaca silenus Wanderoo monkey 1 

Magus maurus Moor monkey 4 

Mandrillus leucophaeus Drill 1 

Mandrillus sphinx Mandrill 2 

Papio comatus Chacma 2 

Papio papio West African baboon 1 

Presbytis pyrrhus Javan langur or lotong 1 

Theropithecus gelada Gelada baboon 1 

Hylobatidae: 

Hylobates agilis Sumatran gibbon 1 

Hylobates lar pileatus Black-capped gibbon 3 

Symphalangus syndactylus Siamang gibbon 1 

Pongidae: 

Pan saiyrus Chimpanzee 3 

Pongo abelii Sumatran orangutan 2 

Pongo pygmaeus Bornean orangutan 1 

RODENTIA 

Sciuridae: 

Ammospermophilus leucurus Antelope squirrel 2 

Caliosciurus melanops Sumatran tricolored squirrel 2 

Cynomys ludovicianus Prairie dog 12 

Glaucomys volans Flying squirrel 7 

Marmota flaviventris Marmot or whistler 2 

Marmota monax Woodchuck or ground hog 3 

Sciurus finlaysoni Lesser white squirrel 3 

Sciurus hoffmani Hoffman's squirrel 2 

Sciurus niger Southern fox squirrel 8 

Sciurus niger Fox squirrel 

Tamias striatus Eastern chipmunk 2 

Tamiasciurus hudsonicus Red squirrel 

Heteromyldae: 

Dipodomys deserti Desert kangaroo rat 

Dipodomys merriami Merriam kangaroo rat 2 

Perognathus parvus Great Basin pocket mouse 2 

Perognathus penicilliatus Desert pocket mouse 

Jaculidae: 

Jaculus jaculus Egyptian jerboa 

Castoridae: 

Castor canadensis Beaver 

Cricetidae: 

Cricetomys gambianus Gambia pouched rat 

Neotoma floridana attwaleri Round-tailed wood rat 

Onychomys sp Grasshopper mouse 

Peromyscus leucopus White-footed mouse 24 



90 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

EODENTiA — continued 

Cricetidae — Continued. Numler 

Sigmodon hispidus Cotton rat 6 

Synaptomys cooperi Lemming mouse 1 

Zapus hudsonius Jumping mouse 1 

Rhizomyidae: 

Nyclocleptes sumatrensis Bamboo rat 1 

Muridae: 

Rattus norvegicus (albino) Wliite rat 2 

Hystricidae: 

Acanthion brachyurum Malay porcupine 5 

Atherurus africana West African brush-tailed porcu- 2 

pine. 

Hystrix galeata East African porcupine 2 

Thecurus sumatrae Brush-tailed porcupine 1 

Myocastoridae: 

Myocastor coypu Nutria 11 

Capromyidae: 

Capromys pilorides Hutia 2 

Cuniculidae: 

Cuniculus paca virgatus Central American paca 2 

Dasyproctidae: 

Dasyprocta croconota prymnolopha.. Agouti 2 

Chinchillidae: 

Lagostomus trichodaciylus Viscacha 2 

Caviidae: 

Cavia porcellus Domestic guinea pig 26 

Cavia porcellus Domestic guinea pig (angora breed). 2 

Dolichotis magellanica Patagonian cavy 7 

Pediolagus salinicola Dwarf cavy 3 

Hydrochoeridae: 

Hydrochoerus hydrochoerus Capybara 2 

LAGOMORPHA 

Leporidae: 

Orydolagus cuniculus Domestic rabbit 7 

ARTIODACTYLA 

Bovidae: 

Ammotragus lervia Aoudad 15 

Anoa depressicornis Anoa 2 

Bibos gaurus Gaur 2 

^. ,. f American bison 19 

Dtson bison wiu- u- i 

lAlbmo bison 1 

Bos frontalis Gayal 4 

Bos indicus Zebu 5 

Boselaphus tragocamelus Nilgai 1 

Bubalus biibalis Indian buffalo 1 

Connochaetes gnu .. White-tailed gnu 2 

Connochaetes taurinus albojubatus. _ White-bearded gnu 2 

Hemitragus jemlahicus Tahr 4 

Onotragus lechee Lechee antelope 1 

Oryx beisa annectens Ibean beisa oryx 2 

Ovis europaeus Mouflon 3 

Poephagus grunniens Yak 4 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 91 

ABTiODACTYLA — continued 

Bovidae — Continued. Nutnler 

Pseudois nahura Bharal or blue sheep 4 

Synceros coffer African buffalo 2 

Taurotragus oryx Eland 4 

Cervidae: 

Axis axis^. Axis deer 15 

Cervus canadensis Wapiti 2 

Cervus duvaucelii Barasingha deer 3 

Cervus elaphus European red deer 17 

^ , /Brown fallow deer 12 

Dama dama 1 Ti7v,-i r n j i^ 

IWhite fallow deer 16 

Muniiacus muntjak Rib-faced or barking deer 1 

Muntiacus sinensis Chinese rib-faced deer 2 

Odocoileus costaricensis Costa Rican deer 1 

Odocoileus virginianus Virginia deer 2 

Rusa moluccensis Molucca deer 1 

Sika nippon Japanese deer 7 

Tragulidae: 

Tragulua javanicus Javan mouse deer 1 

GirafEdae: 

Giraffa camelopardalis Nubian giraffe 4 

Giraffa reticulata Reticulated giraffe 2 

Camelidae: 

Lama glama Llama 4 

Lama huanacus Guanaco 3 

Lama pacos Alpaca 2 

Tayassuidae: 

Pecari angulatus Collared peccary 4 

Tayassu pecari White-lipped peccary 2 

Suidae: 

Babirussa alfuriis Babirussa 3 

Hylochoerus meinertzhageni Forest hog 1 

Phacochoerus aethiopicus massaicus. East African wart hog 3 

Potamochoerus porcus keniae White-faced bush pig 1 

Sus scrofa European wild boar 1 

Hippopotamidae : 

Choeropsis liberiensis Pigmy hippopotamus 2 

Hippopotamus amphibius Hippopotamus 2 

PERISSODACTYLA 

Equidae: 

Equus grevyi Grevy's zebra 1 

Equus grevyi-asinus Zebra-ass hybrid 1 

Equus grevyi-caballus Zebra-horse h3^brid 1 

Equus kiang Asiatic wild ass or kiang 2 

Equus przewalskii Mongolian wild horse 3 

Equus quagga chapmani Chapman's zebra 8 

Equus zebra Mountain zebra 2 

Tapiridae: 

Acrocodia indica Asiatic tapir 1 

Tapir ella bairdii Central American tapir 1 

Tapirus terrestris South American tapir 2 

Rhinocerotidae: 

Diceros bicornis Black rhinoceros 1 



92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

PROBOSCIDEA 

Elephantidae : Numler 

Elephas sumatranus Sumatran elephant 1 

Loxodonta africana oxyotis African elephant 1 

EDENTATA 

Choloepodidae : 

Choloepus didactylus Two-toed sloth 2 

Dasypodidae: 

Dasypus novemcinctus Nine-banded armadillo 3 

Euphradus sexcinctus Six-banded armadillo 1 

Myrmecophagidae : 

Myrmecophaga jubata Giant anteater 1 

Birds 

struthioniformes 
Struthionidae: 

Struthio camelus South African ostrich, _ 1 



RHEIFORMES 

Rheidae: 

„, . / Common rhea or nandu 7 

Rheaamencana {whiterhea 3 

CASUARIIFORMES 

Casuariidae: 

Casuarius bennetti Bennett's cassowary 1 

Casuarius sp cassowary 1 

Casuarius sp cassowary 1 

Casuarius unappendiculatus Single- wattled cassowary 1 

Dromiceiidae: 

Dromiceius novaehollandiae Common emu 2 

SPHENISCIFORMES 

Spheniscidae: 

Spheniscus demersus Jackass penguin 6 

PELECANIFORME8 

Pelecanidae: 

Pelecanus californicus California brown pelican 2 

Pelecanus conspicillatus Australian pelican 1 

Pelecanus erythrorhynchos American white pelican 5 

Pelecanus erythrorhynchos X P- oc- American white and brown pelican 1 
cidentalis. (hybrid) . 

Pelecanus occidenlalis Brown pelican 2 

Pelecanus onocrotalus European pelican 2 

Pelecanus roseus Rose-colored pelican 2 

Sulidae: 

Morus hassanus Gannet 1 

Sula granti Blue-footed booby 1 

Phalacrocoracidae: 

Phalacrocorax auritus albociliaius Farallon cormorant 2 

Phalacrocorax auritus floridanus . . ^ . Florida cormorant 1 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 93 

PELECANiFOEMEs — Continued 

Anhingidae: Number 

Anhinga anhinga Anhinga 1 

Fregatidae: 

Fregata ariel Lesser frigate bird 2 

CICONIIFORME8 

Ardeidae: 

Ardea herodias Great blue heron 1 

Ardea-herodias X A. occidentalis Heron hybrid 1 

Ardea occidentalis Great white heron 1 

BotauTus lentiginosus American bittern 1 

Casmerodius albus egretta American egret 1 

Egretta thula Snowy egret 5 

Notophoyx novaehollandiae White-faced heron 1 

Nycticorax nycticorax naevius Black-crowned night heron 6 

Cochleariidae: 

Cochlearius cochlearius ^ Boatbill heron 3 

Scopidae: 

Scopus umbretta Hammerhead 1 

Ciconiidae: 

Dissoura episcopus Woolly-necked stork 1 

Ephippiorhynchus senegalensis Saddle-billed stork 1 

Euxenura galatea Maguari stork 3 

Ibis cinereus Malay stork 2 

Jabiru mycteria Jabiru 2 

Leptoptilus crumeniferus Marabou 1 

Leptoptilus dubius Indian adjutant 1 

Leptoptilus javanicus Lesser adjutant 2 

Mycteria americana Wood ibis 1 

Threskiornithidae: 

Ajaia ajaja Roseate spoonbill 1 

Guara alba White ibis 3 

Guar a alba X G. rubra Hybrid ibis (scarlet and white) 1 

Guara rubra Scarlet ibis 2 

Phimosus infuscatus Dusky ibis 1 

Threskiornis aethiopica Sacred ibis 1 

Threskiornis melanocephala Black-headed ibis 2 

Threskiornis spinicollis Straw-necked ibis 2 

Phoenicopteridae: 

Phoenicopterus chilensis Chilean flamingo 21 

ANSERIFORMES 

Anhimidae: 

Chaunacristata Crested screamer 10 

Anatidae : 

Aix sponsa Wood duck _ 17 

Alopochen aegyptiacus Egyptian goose 2 

Anas brasiliensis Brazilian teal 2 

Anas domestica Pekin duck 10 

Anas platyrhynchos Mallard duck 45 

Anas rubripes Black or dusty mallard 2 

Anser albifrons American white-fronted goose 4 

Branta bernicla Brant 2 

Branta canadensis Canada goose , 6 



94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

ANSERiFORMES — Continued 

Anatidae — Continued. Numler 

Branta canadensis minima Cackling goose I 

Brania canadensis occidenialis White-cheeked goose 15 

Branta leucopsis Barnacle goose 1 

Cairina moschata Muscovy duck 2 

Casarca variegata Paradise duck... 1 

Cereopsis novaehollandiae Cereopsis or Cape Barren goose 1 

Chen atlantica Snow goose 5 

Chen caerulescens Blue goose 4 

Chloephaga poliocephala Ashy-headed upland goose.. _ 2 

Coscoroba coscoroba Coscoroba 5 

Cygnopsis cygnoides Chinese goose 1 

Cygnus columbinnus Whistling swan 3 

Cygnus melancoriphus Black-necked swan 11 

Cygnus olor Mute swan 2 

Dafila acuta Pintail 1 

Dafila spinicauda Chilean pintail 1 

Dendrocygna arborea Black-billed duck 3 

Dendrocygna autumnalis Black-bellied tree duck 2 

Dendrocygna viduata White-faced tree duck 5 

Mareca americana Bald pate 1 

Philacte canagica Emperor goose 4 

Plectropterus gambensis Spur-winged goose 1 

FALCONIFORMES 

Cathartidae: 

Cathartes aura Turkey vulture 3 

Cathartes aura X Coragyps atraius. Black vulture and turkey vulture 

hybrid 1 

Coragyps atratus Black vulture 1 

Gymnogyps californianus California condor 3 

Sarcoramphus papa King vulture 2 

VuUur gryphus South American condor 3 

Accipitridae: 

Accipiter cooperi Cooper's hawk 1 

Aegypius monachus Cinereous vulture 1 

Aquila chrysaetos Golden eagle 1 

Buteo borealis Red-tailed hawk 3 

Butco galapagoensis Galdpagos hawk 1 

Buteo Uneatus Red-shouldered hawk 8 

Buteo melanoleucus South American buzzard eagle 2 

Buteo swainsoni Swainson's hawk 2 

Gypaetus barbatus grandis Lammergeyer 1 

Gyps rueppelli Ruppell's vulture 1 

Haliaeetus leucocephalus Bald eagle 13 

Haliaeetus leucocephalus alascanus - Alaskan bald eagle 2 

Haliastur indus Brahminy kite 3 

Harpia harpya Harpy eagle 1 

Milvago chimango Chimango 2 

Milvus migrans Yellow-billed kite 1 

Pandion haliactus caroUnensis Osprey or fish hawk ., 3 

Torgos tracheliotus African eared vulture 1 

Uroaetus audax Wedge-tailed eagle 1 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 95 

FALcoNrFOEMES — Continued 
Falconidae: Number 

Daptrius americanus Carancho 3 

Falco sparverius Sparrow hawk 3 

Polyborus cheriway Audubon's caracara 2 

Polyborus plancus South American caracara 1 

GALLIF0RME8 

Megapodiidae: 

Alectura lathami Australian brush turkey 2 

Leipoa ocellata Mallee fowl 1 

Megapodius freycineti Molucca megapode 1 

Cracidae: 

Crax rubra Panama curassow 1 

Crax sclateri Sclater's curassow 4 

Mitu miiu Razor-biUed curassow 3 

Mitu salvini Salvin's curassow 1 

Phasianidae: 

Argusianus argus Argus pheasant 3 

Calopezus elegans Crested tinamou or martineta 23 

Catreus walUchii Cheer pheasant 1 

Chrysolophus amhersiiae Lady Amherst's pheasant 1 

Chrysolophus pictus Golden pheasant 5 

Coiurnix coturnix Migrator\' quail 21 

Excalfactoria chinensis Blue-breasted button quail 7 

Gallus sp. X Numida galeata Chicken and guinea fowl hybrid 2 

Gennaeus lineatus Lineated pheasant 1 

Gennaeus nydhemerus Silver pheasant 1 

Hierophasis swinhoii Swinhoe's pheasant 1 

Lophophorus impeyanus Himalayan impeyan pheasant 1 

Lophura rubra Malayan fire-back pheasant 1 

Nothura maculosa Spotted tinamou. _, 18 

Pavo cristatus Peafowl 6 

Pavo muticus Green peafowl 2 

„, . , , / Ring-neck pheasant 1 

Phasianus iorquatns >Trri.-j. • ■, j t. 4. o 

^ I White nng-necked pheasant 2 

Phasianus torquatus formosanus Formosan ring-necked pheasant 1 

Phasianus versicolor Green Japanese pheasant 1 

Polyplectron nopolconis Palawan peacock pheasant 2 

Syrmoticus reevesi Reeves' pheasant 1 

GRUIFORMES 

Gruidae: 

Anthropoides virgo Demoiselle crane 8 

Balearica pavonina West African crowned crane 1 

Balearica regulorum gibbericeps East African crowned crane 1 

Grus canadensis canadensis Little brown crane 1 

Grus canadensis tabida Sandhill crane 1 

Grus leucauchen White-naped crane 1 

Grus leu^ogeranus Siberian crane 2 

Psophiidae: 

Psophia crepitans Gray-backed trumpeter 1 

Rallidae : 

Gallinula chloropus cachinnans Florida gallinule 2 

Gallinula chloropus orientalis Sumatran gallinule 3 



96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

GBtrcFORMES — Continued 

Rallidae — Continued. Number 

Limnocorax flavirostra African black rail 2 

Porphyrio polioccphalus Gray-headed porphyrio 2 

Rallus philippensis avstralis Australian rail 1 

Eurypygidae: 

Eurypyga helias Sun bittern 2 

Cariamidae : 

Cariama cristata Cariama or seriama 2 

Otididae: 

Otis cafra Denham's bustard 1 

Otis caffra jacksoni Jackson's bustard 1 

CHARADRIIFORMES 

Haematopodidae : 

Haematopus ostralegus European oyster catcher 2 

Charadriidae : 

Bedonopierus chilensis Chilean lapwing 2 

Scolopacidae: 

Philomachus pugnax Ruff 1 

Laridae : 

Larus argentatus Herring gull 1 

Larus delawarensis Ring-billed gull 1 

Larus glaucescens Glaucous-winged gull 1 

Larus novaehollandiae Silver gull 24 

COLUMBIFORMES 

Columbidae: 

Caloenas nicoharica Nicobar pigeon 6 

Chalcophaps indica Emerald dove 1 

Columba livia (domestic) Archangel pigeon 2 

Columba livia (domestic) Fan-tailed pigeon 1 

Columba maculosa Spot-winged pigeon 1 

Columba palumbus Wood pigeon 1 

Columba picazuro Picazuro pigeon 2 

Dendrophassa vernans griseicapilla.. Sumatran fruit pigeon 4 

Ducula aenea Green imperial pigeon _. 1 

Eutreron pulchella Purple-capped fruit dove 1 

Gallicolumba luzonica Bleeding-heart dove 5 

Goura cristata Sclater's crowned pigeon 5 

Goura victoria Victoria crowned pigeon 3 

Lamprotreron jambu Pink-headed fruit pigeon 1 

Leptotila rufaxilla Scaled pigeon 2 

Muscadivores paulina Celebian imperial pigeon 2 

Myristicivora bicolor Pied imperial pigeon 2 

Streptopelia chinensis Asiatic collared dove 26 

Streptopelia risoria Ring-necked dove 4 

Turtur risorius Turtle dove 2 

PSITTACIFORMES 

Psittacidae: 

Agapornissp Red-headed lovebird 1 

Agapornis lilianae Nyassa lovebird 3 

Amazona aestiva Amazon or blue-fronted parrot 3 

Amazona albifrons White-fronted parrot 1 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 97 

psiTTACiFORMES — continued 

Psittacidae — Continued. Number 

Amazona amazonica Orange-winged parrot 2 

Amazona arausiaca Boquet's parrot 1 

Amazona auropalliaia Yellow-naped parrot 9 

Amazona f estiva Festive parrot 1 

Amazona leucocephala Cuban parrot 3 

Amazona ochrocephala Yellow-head parrot 3 

Amazona ochroptera Yellow-shouldered parrot 3 

Amazona oratrix Double yeUow-head parrot 7 

Amazon viridigenalis Red-crowned parrot 1 

Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus Hyacin thine macaw 1 

Ara ararauna Yellow and blue macaw 1 

Ara chloroptera Red and blue macaw 1 

Ara macao Red, blue, and yellow macaw 2 

Ara macavuanna-manilata lUiger's macaw 2 

Ara militaria Mexican green macaw 1 

Ara severa Severe macaw 1 

Aratinga euops Cuban conure 1 

Brotogeris jugularis Tovi paroquet 3 

Calyptorhynchus magnificus Banksian cockatoo 1 

Coracopsis nigra Lesser vasa parrot 1 

Cyanopsittacus spixi Spix's macaw 2 

Domicella flavopalliata Red lory 3 

Ecledus pectoralis Eclectus parrot 2 

Eolophus roseicapillus Roseate cockatoo 1 

Eos rubra Red lory 1 

Eupsittula aurea Golden-crowned paroquet 1 

Eupsittula canicularis Petz paroquet 1 

Kakatoe alba White cockatoo 2 

Kakatoe citrinocristata Orange-crested cockatoo 2 

Kakatoe galerita Large sulphur-crested cockatoo 4 

Kakatoe leadbeateri Leadbeaters' cockatoo 2 

Kakatoe moluccensis Great red-crested cockatoo 1 

Kakatoe s ulphurea Lesser sulphur-crested cockatoo 5 

Kakatoe tenuirostris Slender-billed cockatoo 1 

Lorius domicella Rajah lory 2 

Lorius garrulus Lory 3 

Melopsittacus undulatus Grass parakeet 7 

Microglossus aterrimus Great black cockatoo 1 

Myopsitta monachus Quaker paroquet 1 

Nandayus nanday Nanday paroquet 1 

Nestor notabilis Kea 3 

Pionites xanthomera Amazonian caique 2 

Pionus menstruus Blue-headed parrot 1 

Psittacula eupatria Red-shouldered paroquet 4 

Psittacula krameri Kramer's paroquet 6 

Psittacula longicauda Long-tailed paroquet 1 

Psittacula nepalensis Nepalese paroquet 1 

Psittacus erithacus African gray parrot 1 

Tanygnathus megalorhynchus Great-biUed parrot 1 

Tanygnathus muelleri Mueller parrot 1 

Trichoglossus cyanogrammus Green-naped lory 1 

Trichoglossus haematod Ceram lory 1 



98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

CUCULIFORME8 

Cuculidae: Number 

Centropus sinensis Sumatran coucal 1 

Eudynamis scolopaceus Koel 1 

8TRIGIF0RMES 

Strigidae: 

Bubo virginianus Great horned owl 8 

Ketupa ketupu Malay fish owl 1 

Otus asio Screech owl 3 

Strix varia varia Barred owl 17 

CAPKIMULGIFORMES 

Podargidae: 

Podargus strigoides Tawny frogmouth 1 

CORACIIFORME8 

Alcedinidae: 

Dacelo gigas Kookaburra 2 

Halcyon pyrrhopygius Red-backed kingfisher 1 

Halcyon sanctus Sacred kingfisher 4 

Momotidae: 

Momotus lessoni Motmot 1 

Bucerotidae: 

Buceros rhinoceros Rhinoceros hornbill 2 

Bucorvus abyssinicus Abyssinian ground hornbill 2 

Dichoceros bicornis Concave casque hornbill 1 

Hydrocissa convexa Pied hornbill 1 

PICIFORMES 

Capitonidae: 

Thereiceryx zeylandicus Streaked barbet 2 

Ramphastidae: 

Ramphastos oriel Ariel toucan 1 

Ramphastos piscivorus Toco toucan 1 

PASSERIPORMES 

Furnariidae: 

Furnarius rufus Rufous ovenbird 20 

Tyrannidae: 

Pitangus sulphur atus Kiskadee flycatcher 1 

Pittidae: 

Pitta brachyura Indian pitta 1 

Corvidae: 

Aphelocoma calif ornica woodhousei- Woodhouse's jay 1 

Calocilta formosa Mexican magpie jay 1 

Cissa chinensis Chinese cissa 2 

Corvus albus White-breasted crow 2 

Corvus brachyrhynchos American crow 5 

Corvus coronoidea Australian crow 1 

Corvus cryptoleucus White-necked raven 5 

Corvus insolens Indian crow 3 

Cyanocitta cristata Blue jay 2 

Cyanocorax cyanopogon White-naped jay 2 

Gymnorhina hypoleuca. _. White-backed piping crow 3 

Pica nuttallii Yellow-billed magpie _ 2 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 99 

PAssEBiFOEMEs — Continued 
Corvidae — Continued. Number 

Pica pica hudsonia American magpie 2 

Urocissa occipitalis Red-billed blue magpie 1 

Xanthoura Inxuosa guatemalensis Guatemalan green jay ] 

Paradiseidae : 

Ailuroedus crassirostris Australian catbird 1 

Eucorax comrii Curl-crested manucode 1 

Ptilonorhynchus violaceus Satin bowerbird 3 

Seleucides niger 12-wired bird of paradise 1 

Uranornis rubra Red bird of paradise 7 

Pycnonotidae : 

Molpastes haemorrhous Black-headed bulbul 1 

Otocompsa jocosus Red-eared bulbul 1 

Pycnonoius analis Yellow-vented bulbul 2 

Pycnonotus bindentatus Orange-spotted bulbul 3 

Rubigula dispar Red-throated bulbul 2 

Trachycomus zeylonicus Yellow-crowned bulbul 1 

Turdidae: 

Kittacincla malabarica Shama thrush ] 

Mesia argentauris Silver-eared mesia 2 

Mimocichla rubripes Western red-legged thrush 4 

Myadestes unicolor Slate-colored solitaire 1 

Turdus grayi Bonaparte's thrush 1 

Laniidae: 

Lanius dorsalis Teita fiscal shrike 2 

Sturnidae : 

Aplonis chalybea Glossy aplonis 2 

Cosmopsaris regius Splendid starling 3 

Creatophora cinerea Wattled stai-ling 2 

Galeopsar salvadorii Crested starling 1 

Gracula religiosa Southern hill mynah 1 

Trupialis defilippi MUitary starling 16 

Compsothlypidae : 

Seiurus aurocapillus Ovenbird 1 

Ploceidae: 

Amadina fasciaia Cut-throat finch 1 

Coliuspasser ardens Red-necked whydah 2 

Diatropura procne Giant whydah 6 

Erythrura prasina Long-tailed munia 3 

Munia maja White-headed munia 26 

Munia molucca Black-throated munia 6 

,, . . /Java sparrow 1 

Muma oryzivora {x^r-,-. % 

I White Java sparrow 2 

Munia punctulatus Rice bird or nutmeg finch 9 

Ploceus baya Baya weaver 6 

Ploceus inter medius Black-cheeked weaver 2 

Ploceus rubiginosus Chestnut-breasted weaver 7 

Poephila acuticauda Long-tailed finch 7 

Poephila gouldiae Gouldian finch 3 

Quelea sanguinirostris intermedia Southern masked weaver finch 12 

Steganopleura bichenovii Banded finch 5 

Steganura paradisea Paradise whydah 7 

Taeniopygia castanotis Zebra finch 2 

197855 — 40 8 



100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

pASSEBnroBMES — continued 

Icteridae: Vumler 

Agelaius assimilis Cuban red- winged blackbird 5 

Gymnomystax mexicanus Giant oriole 2 

Icterus icterus Troupial 5 

Molothrus ater Cowbird 1 

Psomocolax oryzivora Rice grackle 1 

Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus Yellow-headed blackbird 4 

Thraupidae: 

Thraupis cana Blue tanager 2 

Fringillidae: 

Amandava amandava Strawberry finch 36 

Carduelis carduelis European goldfinch 1 

Fringilla montifringilla Brambling finch 1 

Melopyrrha nigra Cuban bullfinch 1 

Paroaria cucullata --- Brazilian cardinal. 1 

Pheucticus tibialis Yellow grosbeak 1 

Richmondena cardinalis cardinalis.. Eastern cardinal 2 

Serinus canarius Canary 1 

Sicalis minor Lesser yellow finch 6 

Sporophila aurita Hick's seed-eater 2 

Sporophila gutturalis Yellow-bellied seed-eater 2 

Uroloncha leucogastroides Society finch. _. 1 

Volatinia jacarini Blue-black grassquit 1 

Reptiles 
loricata 
Crocodylidae: 

Alligator mississipiensis Alligator 17 

Alligator sinensis Chinese alligator 3 

Caiman latirostris Broad-snouted caiman 1 

Caiman sclerops Spectacled caiman 3 

Crocodylus acutus American crocodile 1 

Crocodylus cataphr actus West African crocodile 1 

Crocodylus porosus Salt-water crocodile 1 

Osteolaemus tetraspis Broad-nosed crocodile 1 

Tomistoma schlegeli Malayan gavial 7 

SQUAMATA 

Agamidae: 

Acanthosaura armata Armed tree lizard 1 

Physignathus lesueurii Lesueur's water dragon 2 

Iguanidae: 

Anolis carolinensis False chameleon 14 

Anolis equcstris Giant anolis 7 

Conolophus subcristatus GaWpagos iguana 1 

Iguana iguana Iguana 1 

Leiocephalus cubensis Cuban curl-tailed lizard 1 

Phrynosoma cornutum Horned lizard 8 

Sceloporus magister Desert scaly lizard 1 

Sceloporus torquatus Scaly lizard 1 

Sceloporus undulatus Fence lizard 3 

Anguidae: 

Ophisaurus apus European glass snake 1 

Ophisaurus ventralis Glass snake 1 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 101 

SQTTAMATA — Continued 

Gerrhosauridae: NumJ)er 

Gerrhosaurus validus Robust plated lizard 1 

Helodernaatidae: 

Heloderma horridum Mexican beaded lizard 2 

Heloderma suspectum Gila monster 8 

Teiidae: 

Tupinambis nigropundatus Tegu lizard 2 

Tupinambis rufescens Red tegu lizard 1 

Tupinambis teguixin Yellow tegu lizard 13 

Scincidae: 

Egernia cunninghami Cunningham's skink 2 

Eumeces fasciatus Red-headed skink 1 

Tiliqua nigrolutea Mottled lizard 1 

Tiliqua scincoides Blue-tongued lizard 2 

Varanidae: 

Varanus griseus Gray monitor 1 

Varanus komodoensis Komodo dragon 1 

Varanus niloticus African monitor 1 

Varanus salvator Sumatran monitor 12 

OPHIDIA 

Boidae: 

Boa cookii Cook's tree boa 1 

Boa occidentalis Southern boa constrictor 2 

Constrictor constrictor Boa constrictor 6 

Constrictor imperator Emperor boa 2 

Epicrates cenchris Rainbow boa 10 

Epicrates crassus Salamanta 2 

Epicrates striatus Haitian boa 1 

Eryx johni Indian sand boa 1 

Tropidophis melanurus Cuban boa 1 

Pythonidae: 

Python curtus Blood python 1 

Python molurus Indian rock python 3 

Python regius Ball python 1 

Python reticulatus Regal python _ 4 

Python sebae African rock python _ 3 

Python variegatus Carpet python 1 

Colubridae: 

Alsophis angulifer Jubo or culebra 6 

Boiga dendrophila Mangrove snake 1 

Cyclagras gigas Cobra-de-Paraguay 3 

Diadophis punctatus Ring-necked snake. 1 

Drymarchon corais couperi Indigo snake 4 

Drymobius bifossatus Jararacussu do brejo 6 

Elaphe guttata Corn snake 4 

Night snake 1 

Indigo snake 1 

Elaphe obsoleta Pilot Snake 8 

Elaphe quadrivittata Chicken snake 2 

Elaphe vulpina Fox snake 1 

Heterodon contortrix Hog-nosed snake 2 

Hypsiglena ochrorhynchus 1 



102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

OPHIDIA — continued 

Colubridae — Continued. Number 

Lampropeltis triangulum Milk snake 1 

Matrix sp Water snake 6 

Natrix cyclopion Water snake 2 

Philodryas schottii Parelheira 3 

Thamnophis ordinoides California garter snake I 

Thamnophis sirtalis concinnxn Pacific garter snake 6 

Thamnophis sirtalis sirtalis Garter snake 8 

Xendon merremii Boipeva 7 

Elapidae: 

Naja hannah King cobra 2 

Naja tripudians sumatrana Sumatran black-hooded cobra — 1 

Naja tripudians (var.) Spectacled cobra 3 

Naja tripudians (var.) Siamese black-hooded cobra 3 

Crotalidae: 

AgJcistrodon mokasen Copperhead snake 2 

Agkistrodon piscivorus Water moccasin R 

Bothrops neuwiedii Maximilian's viper __ 2 

Crotalus adamanteus Florida diamond-backed rattle- 2 

snake. 

Crotalus cinereous Texas rattlesnake 3 

Crotalus horridus Banded rattlesnake 3 

Crotalus oreganus Oregon rattlesnake 3 

Sistrurus catenaius catenatus Massasauga 12 

Sistrurus miliarius Pigmy rattlesnake 2 

Viperidae: 

Atheris chlorechis West African tree viper 2 

TESTUDINATA 

Chelydidae: 

Batrachemys nasuta South American side-necked 3 

turtle. 

Chelodina longicollis Australian snake-necked turtle. . 4 

Chelys fimbriata Matamata turtle 1 

Hydraspis 8j) South American snake-necked 4 

turtle. 

Hydromedusa tectijera South American snake-necked 17 

turtle. 

Platysternidae: 

Platemys platycephala Flat-headed turtle 1 

Platy sternum megacephalum Large-headed Chinese turtle 2 

Pelomedusidae: 

Pelomedusa galeata Common African water tortoise. 2 

Podocnemis expansa South American river tortoise — 1 

Kinosternidae: 

Kinosternon sp Central American musk turtle — 4 

Kinosternon suhruhrum Musk turtle 1 

Chelydridae: 

Chelydra serpentina Snapping turtle 2 

Macrochelys temminckii Alligator snapping turtle 1 

Testudinidae: 

Chrysemys picta Painted turtle 8 

Clemmys guttata Spotted turtle 2 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 103 

TESTUDiNATA — Continued 

Testudinidae — Continued. Numler 

Clemmys insculpia Wood tortoise 1 

Clemmys muhlenbergii Muhlenberg's tortise 1 

Cyclemys aynhoinensis Kura kura box turtle 14 

Deirochelys reticularia Chicken tortoise 1 

Emys blandingii Blanding's turtle 1 

Gopherus polyphemus Gopher turtle 1 

Graptemys geographica Geographic turtle 3 

Malademmys centraia Diamond-back terrapin 7 

Pseudemys concinna Cooter 4 

Pseudemys decussata Haitian terrapin 1 

Pseudemys d'orhignyi D'Orbigny's turtle 3 

Pseudemys elegans Cumberland terrapin 3 

Pseudemys floridana Florida terrapin 2 

Pseudemys ornata 2 

Pseudemys rubriventris Red-bellied turtle 1 

Pseudemys rugosus Cuban terrapin 1 

Terrapene Carolina Box tortoise 6 

Testudo chilensis 25 

Testudo denticulata 10 

Testudo emys Sumatran land tortoise 1 

Testudo ephippium Duncan Island tortoise 2 

Testudo hoodensis Hood Island tortoise 3 

Testudo tornieri Soft-shelled land tortoise 4 

Testudo vicina Albemarle Island tortoise 1 

Trionychidae: 

Amyda ferox Soft-shelled turtle 7 

Trionyx cartilagineus Asiatic soft-shelled turtle 1 

Amphibia 

CAUDATA 

Salamandridae: 

Triturus pyrrhogaster Red-bellied Japanese newt 2 

Triturus viridescens Common newt 2 

Triturus vulgaris Salamander 1 

Ambystomidae: 

Ambystoma tigrinum Tiger salamander 1 

Amphiumidae: 

Amphiuma means Blind eel or Congo snake 2 

Amphiuma tridadylum Blind eel or Congo snake 1 

Megalobatrachus japonicus Giant salamander 1 

Cryptobranchidae : 

Crytobranchus alleganiensis Hellbender 4 

SALIENTIA 

Dendrobatidae: 

Atelopus sp Golden-striped frog 1 

Dendrobates auratus Arrow-poison frog 10 

Bufonidae: 

Bufo americanus Common American toad 2 

Bufo arenarum Argentine sand toad 1 



104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

SALiENTiA — continued 

Bufonidae — Continued. Numler 

Bufo empusus Sapo de concha 14 

Bufo marinus Marine toad 11 

Bufo peltocephalus Cuban giant toad 6 

Ceratophrydae: 

Ceratophrys ornata Horned frog 3 

Ceratophrys varius. Horned frog 4 

Hylidae: 

Hyla caerulea Australian tree frog 3 

Hyla cinerea Florida tree frog 1 

Hyla septentrionalis Cuban tree frog 1 

Pipidae: 

Calyptocephalus gayii Chilean aquatic frog 2 

Pipa aviericana Surinam toad 13 

Ranidae: 

Rana clamitans Green frog 3 

Fishes 

Acanthopthalmus kuhlii Banded loach 4 

Anguilla rostrata Common eel 3 

Anostomus anostomus 1 

Barbus laterstrigga 1 

Barbus partipentazona Red-finned barb 10 

Carnegiella strigata Striped hatchet fish 2 

Corydoras melanistius Armored catfish 1 

Elecrophorus eledricus Electric eel 5 

Hemigrammus unilineatus 1 

Hemiodus sp 1 

Hyphessobrycon innesi Neon tetra fish 12 

Hyphessobrycon sp 1 

Kryptopterus bicirrhus Glass catfish 2 

Lebistes reticulatus Guppy 12 

Lepidosiren paradoxa South American lungfish 3 

Leporinus fasciaia Leopard fish 1 

Monocirrhus polyacanthus Leaf fish 4 

Pantodon buchholzi Butterfly fish 4 

Platypoecilus maculatus Goldplaties 2 

Pristella riddlei 1 

Protopterus annectens African lungfish 2 

Serrasalmus ternetzi Piranha or cannibal fish 1 

Tilapia sp Mouth-breeding fish 3 

Trichogaster leeri 3-spot gourami 1 

Xiphophorus helleri Sword-tail 1 

Arachnids 

Eurypelma sp Tarantula 4 

Lairodectus mactans Black widow spider 1 

Insects 

Blabera sp Giant cockroach 25 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 105 

MOLLUSKS 

Number 
Achatina variegata Giant land snail 3 

Crustaceans 
Coenobita clypeatus Land hermit crab 9 

Respectfully submitted. 

W. M. Mann, Director. 
Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 8 
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the 
activities of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 1939 : 

WORK AT WASHINGTON 

EECOMPXJTATION S 

The main business was the recomputation of all solar-constant 
values since 1923, under the direction of L. B. Aldrich, referred to 
in the two preceding reports. By the end of the fiscal year new 
results had been computed for all available days since 1923 at all 
stations. But the final corrections and general discussion still re- 
mained to be done. Corrections had been applied, however, for 
sky-brightness, ozone absorption, and all other conditions for the 
results of Montezuma and St. Katherine for the years 1933 to 1939, 
so that these values are definitive, except for the final reduction to a 
uniform scale at all stations. This is to be decided upon when all 
the work is done. It is expected that the entire recomputation will 
be wholly completed by October 1939. A publication of the revised 
work will afterward be made, funds for which have been generously 
provided by John A. Roebling. 

The improvement in accuracy resulting from the revision is very 
apparent when comparing Montezuma and St. Katherine daily re- 
sults of the years 1933 to 1939, now practically final. Part of this 
improvement results from the elimination of the radiation received 
by pyrheliometers from the sky near the sun. We had always hither- 
to treated this as negligible, but it was found to be a quantity 
ranging up to about 0.5 percent and variable with the haziness pre- 
vailing, A method was devised and applied for determining this 
sky radiation. Its elimination from all the pyrheliometric observa- 
tions since 1923 has been a considerable task, and has prevented the 
completion of the revision of the solar-constant work by January 
1939 as was stated in last year's report to be expected. 

A CX)NTBOVERST 

The Director spent much time in preparing a suitable reply to 
an article by Dr. M. M. Paranjpe (Quart. Journ. Roy. Met. Soc, 
July 1938). That author concluded : 

106 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 107 

The variations observed in the solar constant by the Astrophysical Observa- 
tory of the Smithsonian Institute during the last 30 years are mainly due to the 
defects in the methods of determining the solar constant. If this conclusion 
is accepted the subsequent work based on the supposed variability of the solar 
constant is not valid. 

Dr. Paranjpe's paper was read at a meeting of the Royal Meteoro- 
logical Society and favorably received and commented upon by 
several of the principal meteorologists of Great Britain. 

Dr. Abbot's reply (Quart. Journ. Roy. Met. Soc, April 1939) 
is abstracted as follows: 

The author cites five recent papers containing many evidences of solar 
change ignored by critics. Chief among them, and in the author's opinion 
unanswerable, are evidences that day to day solar changes profoundly influence 
temperatures. Between 1924 and 1935 were found 320 dates, the beginnings 
of sequences of observed rise or of fall of solar radiation. The average march of 
departures from normal temperatures in four widely separated cities shows 
opposite trends for 16 days following, respectively, these sequences of rising 
and falling solar radiation. The separation of temperatures thus produced 
reaches from 10° to 25° F. Similar curves of temperature departure are found, 
on the average, in the years 1924 to 1930, to those found in the years 1931 to 
1935. Selecting 46 cases of especially large solar changes observed, the 
temperature effects which followed were in the same phase but about twice as 
large as usual. A crucial test is given wherein correlation coefficients are 
computed for the march of temperatures for 16 days after and for 16 days 
before observed solar changes, as between rising and falling sequences of solar 
variation. The correlation values are respectively: After, — 54.3±4.9 percent; 
before, +11.1±6.0 percent. The first is 11 times its probable error and 
therefore significant, the second less than twice its probable error and hence 
meaningless. 

From these studies it appears that day-to-day changes averaging 0.7 
percent in solar radiation are presumably real and competent to produce 
major changes of 10° to 25° F. in temperature in the temperate zone. Such 
changes may be conventionally represented by the repetition 18 times per year 
of the day-to-day sequence, 3, 6, 9, 12, 14, 12, 9, 6, 3 thousandths calorie in 
solar radiation. 

The author demonstrates that correlation of day-to-day solar constant values 
from different obserA'atories, as relied on by critics, is incompetent to refute 
the sun's important variability. For the author computes correlation 
coefficients for 110 days as between the best stations, Montezuma and St. 
Katherine, obtaining 6±6 percent. He then loads the values of each station 
simultaneously with five humps of sequences such as just numerically specified. 
The two stations are then certainly correlated, and carry assumed solar changes 
adequate to produce from 10° to 25° F. in temperature departures. The cor- 
relation coefficient now becomes 1S±6 percent, an increase of 12 percent, far 
below what critics reqtiire as being evidential. 

The author points out that multiplication of values, as in monthly means 
or in large groupings governed by magnitudes, may sufficiently reduce accidental 
errors to give trustworthy evidences of solar variation, and cites numerous 
cases of this sort not referred to by critics. 



108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

The author mentions various considerations constantly in his mind but over- 
looked by critics. He discusses the procedures used in holding the solar 
constant values to a fixed scale for long-range comparisons. 

The author points out that critics' disparagement of solar variation by the 
tabular use of standard deviations proves nothing and is merely reasoning in a 
circle, since the increase of standard deviations may quite as well be caused 
by real increase in solar variation as by increase of experimental error. Simi- 
larly, increase of correlation coeflScients between two stations may be due to 
increased solar variation rather than experimental interdependence as sug- 
gested by critics, for thereby the competitive effects of accidental error are 
made relatively less considerable. 

The author explains in detail the discovery of 12 long periods in solar 
variation. Critics having claimed on the basis of an equation of Brunt's, that 
the author's periodicities have impossibly great amplitudes, the author tabulates 
these periodicities completely, and then synthesizes them for the years 1920 to 
1934 and compares the synthetic curve with observed monthly mean values. 
With a total range of 2 percent, the synthesized periodicities reproduce the 
original observations to within an average deviation of 0.2 percent, hence 
periodicities cannot have excessive amplitudes as claimed. 

The author reiterates his conviction that solar variation is the principal 
cause of weather changes, and that with annual expenditure of $300,000 for 
solar observation, principal details of weather might be predicted all over 
the world from study of solar variation for two weeks in advance. 

Since the publication of Abbot's reply the variations of solar 
radiation have been discussed from the standpoint of terrestrial mag- 
netism by F. E. Dixon (Quart. Journ. Koy. Met. Soc, July 1939) 
who finds: 

There is evidence of a connection between changes of magnetic activity and 
the regular rises and falls in the solar constant noted by Abbot. The changes 
are appreciable only on the first two days after alterations of the solar con- 
stant commence, and, hence, continue only as the solar constant is changing. 

Dixon found in studying the averages for magnetic character fig- 
ures for each month of the year, over a period of 12 years, that op- 
posite changes of terrestrial mag-netism occur, according as the solar 
constant begins to rise or to fall according to Smithsonian 
observations. 

PUBLICATION 

With N. M. McCandlish, the Director prepared a paper on "The 
Weekly Period in Washington Precipitation." ^ A discussion of the 
daily precipitation at Washington, 1924 to 1939, indicates a perio- 
dicity of 6 days 18 hours, or approximately one- fourth the period of 
the sun's rotation. The period is such that the day of maximum 
precipitation in the monthly averages comes one day of the week 
earlier on each successive month. Unexpected changes of phase by 



* Published shortly after the close of the fiscal year as Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 98, 
No. 21. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 109 

one or two days occasionally occur. But the data were resolved into 
15 series, averaging about 1 year in length each, when in each series 
from 2.5 to 8.5 times as much precipitation fell on the day of 
maximum as on the day of minimum expected precipitation. 

NEW FIELD STATIONS 

After a reconnaissance throughout southwestern New Mexico, 
A. F. Moore located a new solar-observing station on Burro Mountain, 
near Tyrone, N. Mex., approximately long. 108°33', lat. 32°40', alt. 
8,000 ft. This station was made readily accessible to motor cars 
through the valued cooperation of the United States Forest Service. 
Water was developed about 2 miles down the road, and tanks are 
kept filled at the summit for gravity circulation. Telephone com- 
munication has also been established. 

The observatory structures, comprising a tunnel and piers for in- 
struments, bungalows for the observers' families, garages, and water 
tanks were built to specifications of Mr. Moore by Jack Heather, of 
Lordsburg. 

The observing instruments formerly at Mount St. Katherine, and 
before that at Mount Brukkaros, were installed at the new Tyrone 
Station. Observations of the solar constant were begun there in 
January 1939. 

As in old Mexico, the precipitation in southwestern New Mexico 
is almost altogether in the months July to September in normal 
years, and at Lordsburg averages only about 9 inches per year. We, 
therefore, hoped this new station would serve in a valuable supple- 
mentary way with our stations in California and Chile, where the 
months December to February are the worst, for continuous daily 
records. The past winter proved exceptional, as there was a snow- 
fall on Burro Mountain of 72 inches. No such great fall of snow, 
we are informed, has occurred there for 20 years before. 

OTHER FIELD STATIONS 

Solar-constant observing has been continued at Table Mountain, 
Calif,, and Montezuma, Chile, as in previous years, on every favorable 
day. Usually about 75 to 80 percent of the days of the year are cloud- 
less enough for observations to be made at these stations. Exception- 
ally deep snow fell on Table Mountain in this past winter, amounting 
to over 11 feet in all. 

At John A. Roebling's suggestion, all three observing stations have 
been equipped with excellent concrete tennis courts, constructed with 
grants of funds by Mr, Roebling. 



110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

STELLAR ENERGY SPECTRA 

As noted in last year's report, W. H. Hoover set up apparatus in the 
100-incli t^lescoi^e building on Mount Wilson for measuring the dis- 
tribution of energy in the spectra of the brighter stars. He observed 
on August 31 and on September 21 with considerable success. 

The apparatus comprised 10 Christiansen filters adapted to select 
narrov^ regions of spectra ranging from 0.345ju, in the ultraviolet to 
1.030/1, in the infrared. It was particularly suitable for observing the 
spectra of the blue and white stars which could not be well observed 
with the arrangements used by Abbot in 1923 and 1928. Hoover em- 
ployed a thermoelectric element made by L. B. Clark of this Institution 
in connection with a highly sensitive reflecting galvanometer made by 
Hoover himself to observe the heat in the spectral regions selected 
by the filters. He calibrated the apparatus by observing the solar 
spectrum, whose distribution is known with considerable accuracy. 

Owing to disturbances arising in the thermoelectric circuit, it was 
impossible to use the galvanometer at more than one-third its available 
sensitiveness. Yet Hoover read deflections as gi'eat as 20 millimeters 
in the spectrum of Vega. 

Measurements were made in the spectra of five stars a Aurigae, 
a Cygni, a Persei, a Aquilae, and a Lyrae, all but one of which agreed 
very closely with those obtained for the same stars by Abbot in 1928, 
except that Hoover's measurements extended to much shorter wave 
lengths than could be reached by Abbot. However, the results are 
still only provisional, and intended mainly to test whether the method 
can be used with advantage when, about the year 1941, the 200-inch 
telescope becomes available. 

Our conclusion is very favorable. It is believed that the disturbances 
encountered in the thermoelectric circuit can be minimized; that the 
full sensitiveness of the galvanometer can then be used ; that a diffrac- 
tion grating can be ruled to throw 60 percent of the incident light 
into one spectrum, and can be used with a simple optical system to 
be more saving of light than the filters; that automatic photographic 
registration will be practicable; and, in short, that continuous auto- 
matically recorded stellar spectrum energy curves, probably at least 
10 centimeters high at maximum, can be obtained for the brightest 
stars when the 200-inch telescope becomes available. 

PERSONNEL 

Harlan H. Zodtner resigned from the service on October 31, 1938. 

Hugh B. Freeman, formerly with us, was retransferred to the work 

from the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics on August 1, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 111 

1938, succeeding Zodtner at Table Mountain. James H. Baden was 
employed as bolometric assistant on January 16, 1939. He reported 
at Montezuma in March 1939, vice Stanley C. Warner, who was trans- 
ferred to Table Mountain after some weeks in Washington. Free- 
man relieved C. P. Butler at Montezuma in July 1939. Miss Nancy 
M. McCandlish was employed as special assistant to the Director 
under grant from John A. Roebling, beginning February 16, 1939. 

Respectfully submitted. 

C. G. Abbot, Director. 

The Seceetaky, 

Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 9 

REPORT ON THE DIVISION OF RADIATION AND 
ORGANISMS 

Sm : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi- 
ties of the Division of Radiation and Organisms during the year 
ended June 30, 1939 : 

On May 1, 1929, the Division of Radiation and Organisms was 
organized for the purpose of undertaking "those investigations of, 
or directly related to, living organisms wherein radiation enters as 
an important factor." This year marked the tenth anniversary of 
the Division. During these 10 years the Division has grown in its 
physical equipment and its personnel. Much of its research has been 
distinctly fundamental jn nature, and the counsel of its members is 
being sought constantly on technical and research problems in the 
field of radiation as related to living organisms. Throughout this 
period most important financial aid has been given by the Research 
Corporation of New York. 

During the past year the activities of the Division have been focused 
largely on problems dealing directly or indirectly with photosynthesis, 
factors influencing plant growth, and the stimulative action of ultra- 
violet radiation. 

PHOTOSYNTHESIS 

Work is being continued on the mechanics of photosynthesis. 
Experimental evidence has been obtained by Dr. McAlister which 
indicates the formation, during the process of photosynthesis and not 
before, of a material in relatively large quantities which combines with 
or absorbs carbon dioxide. The experimental evidence indicating the 
existence of this carbon dioxide-combining "intermediate" is the 
flow of a relatively large amount of carbon dioxide into the leaf after 
the light reaction is stopped, i. e., in darkness immediately following 
a high rate of photosynthesis. This "pick-up" is of an order of mag- 
nitude greater than any possible plant uptake due to solubility or 
other strictly physical processes. It occurs far too fast to be due to 
the action of a "buffer solution." Hence it appears to be due to a 
compound or "intermediate" that operates in the process of photo- 
synthesis. That it is chlorophyllous in nature is suggested by the 
fact that the largest pick-up so far obtained is of the order of the 
112 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 113 

amount of chlorophyll present — ^molecule for molecule. That this 
"intermediate" is probably not free chlorophyll is suggested by experi- 
ments "wherein the plant was subjected to high light in the absence of 
carbon dioxide for some time, and then carbon dioxide was suddenly 
admitted. No pick-up was here observed. Since no photosynthesis 
occurred in this treatment and no pick-up occurred, it is inferred that 
the "intermediate" is not formed under these conditions, but is formed 
during active photosynthesis and makes itself evident by a quick 
pick-up of carbon dioxide after a previous high rate of photosynthesis. 

The apparatus used in these experiments was satisfactory for de- 
termining carbon dioxide concentrations below one-half percent. Dr. 
McAlister is reconstructing this equipment so that it will be suitable 
for experiments involving concentrations of carbon dioxide as high 
as 5 percent. With this improvement, he plans to continue his in- 
vestigation to that of observing light saturation in intermittent illu- 
mination. Results from such experiments have an important bear- 
ing on all theories of photosynthesis. 

A great number of automatic records have been obtained during 
the past year by Dr. Johnston on the recording spectrographic carbon 
dioxide apparatus. As a result of this work a number of fundamen- 
tal changes have been made. Dr. McAlister has redesigned and Mr. 
Fillmen has rebuilt the spectrograph and constructed a new lamp hous- 
ing for a new infrared emitter designed and made by Mr. Clark. The 
accuracy of measuring the photographically recorded galvanometer 
deflections has been increased greatly by superimposing the print of a 
coordinately ruled plate on the record paper before development. 
This procedure eliminates the necessity of correcting for changes in 
size of paper resulting from development. This improvement fol- 
lowed a suggestion made by Mr. Brj^don. 

Plants respire (give off carbon dioxide) both in darkness and during 
the process of photosynthesis in light and thus respiration apparently 
diminishes the intake of carbon dioxide during photosynthesis. 
Since the absorption of carbon dioxide by the plant is a measure of 
its photosynthetic activity, it is essential in order to measure photo- 
synthesis precisely to determine what, if any, direct or indirect 
changes in respiration take place under the influence of radiation. Is 
the respiration in darkness the same as it is in light ? Some interest- 
ing data bearing on this moot question have been obtained both by 
Dr. McAlister and by Drs. Johnston and Weintraub. 

CHLOROPHYLL FORMATION AND MEASUREMENT 

In any extensive quantitative study of photosynthesis, the role of 
chlorophyll m^ust be considered. Work already done by Dr. McAlister 
on the induction phase of photosynthesis provides evidence for the 



114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

view that chlorophyll participates in the process of photosynthesis as 
an individual molecule rather than by units of several hundred or 
several thousand. 

The development of apparatus and method for the determination 
of small amounts of total chlorophyll by Dr. Johnston and Dr. 
Weintraub has been completed. With a 5-cm. absorption cell, the 
sensitivity is 0.1 microgram (Vioooo milligram) of chlorophyll. 
One square centimeter of leaf is sufficient for duplicate determinations 
which check within 2 to 3 percent. 

The method is based on the transmission of light in the region of 
the red absorption band of a solution of chlorophyll in acetone. The 
transmitted energy is determined by means of a galvanometer and a 
vacuum thermocouple of extremely high sensitivity that was designed 
and constructed by Mr. Clark. The percentage transmission of the 
acetone extracts of plant material is then compared with a calibration 
curve constructed from data obtained with solutions of purified 
chlorophyll. 

This method eliminates the constant use of standard chlorophyll 
solutions and is not influenced by the presence of carotenoid pigments 
in the extract. Furthermore, it is unaffected by minor fluctuations in 
the light intensity, and errors involved in subjective intensity and 
color comparisons are avoided. 

Experiments are in progress to determine the rate of chlorophyll 
formation as influenced by age and condition of plant material, 
temperature, and nutritional environment of the plant, the carbon 
dioxide content of the atmosphere, and the role played by light in- 
tensity and wave-length distribution. The relationship between 
rate of chlorophyll formation and intensity of light appears to be 
represented by a typical Blockman curve. In other words, in white 
light, the rate of formation during the first few hours of illumina- 
tion is substantially independent of intensity above 3 to 4 ergs/mm.^/ 
sec. 

Our new method of chlorophyll determination at present is limited 
to the estimation of total chlorophyll. It is very desirable to deter- 
mine the components, a and 5, separately. Plans for modifying the 
method with this end in view are now being formulated. 

PLANT GROWTH INVESTIGATIONS 
GROWTH UNDER ABTTFICIAL ILLUMINATION 

Further progress has been made by Dr. Johnston in his investiga- 
tions of suitable artificial illumination for the growth of plants under 
controlled conditions. This year work has been done with two sizes 
of fluorescent daylight lamps. Under the experimental conditions 
used for the culture of tomato plants, it was found that the intensity 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 115 

was somewhat too low for good growth. Plowever, Dr. Meier found 
the growth of algae to be better under these lamps than in daylight. 
The algae were illuminated for 12 hours daily at intensities of 150 
to 300 foot-candles. The temperature during the illumination 
periods was 24° C, and during the dark periods, 22° C. 

INFLUENCE OF LIGHT IN EARLY GROWTH OF OAT SEEDLINGS 

The oat seed on germination develops roots and a shoot. The 
latter consists of the first internode and of a sheathing structure, the 
coleoptile, in which the young leaves are enclosed. Elongation of 
the internode proceeds rapidly in darkness but is inhibited by light. 
This organ has the function of raising the coleoptile with the em- 
bryonic shoot through the soil and into the air where it may develop 
normally. Thus in deeply planted seeds the internode receives little 
or no light and therefore elongates until it approaches the soil surface 
when its growth ceases. 

Earlier studies by Dr. Johnston on the relation of light to internode 
development are being continued by Dr. Weintraub along the follow- 
ing lines: 

1. Relation between amount and rate of growth of first internode 
and intensity of continuous illumination in various portions of the 
visible spectrum. Preliminary results indicate that intensity of red 
light (6500 A.) necessary to produce a distinct inhibition is exceed- 
ingly low — of the order of 0.0000001 erg/mm."/sec., whereas the 
sensitivity appears to be considerably less at other wave lengths thus 
far studied. 

2. Influence of short periods of illumination on development of 
internodes in seedlings grown subsequently in darkness. The great 
sensitivity to light is shown by preliminary experiments in which 
marked or complete inhibition of growth is caused by a minute or 
less of low intensity (1 foot-candle) illumination. 

3. Influence of alternating light and dark periods. The precise 
effect of light has been found to depend upon the age (developmental 
stage) of the seedling and upon its previous history. Changes 
from dark to light, or the reverse, are accompanied by marked after- 
effects of the preceding treatment. 

4. Interrelationships between growth of first internode, coleoptile, 
and first leaf as influenced by light and by temperature. Evidence 
of such relationships has been obtained, and further studies are being 
made in an attempt to determine the cause and effect in them. 

5. Mechanism of the response. Attempts to explain the observed 
behavior in terms of growth-hormone content of the plants await 
the development of suitable methods for the determination of the 
hormones. Study of such methods is in progress. 

197855 — 40 9 



116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

CULTIVATION OF EXCISED PLANT ORGANS 

Excised plant organs grown in culture offer very promising ma- 
terial for many kinds of physiological problems. The growth of 
excised roots of white moonflower has been found to be very markedly 
enhanced by illumination. These roots cultured in light also develop 
chlorophyll, and it has been found that they are capable of synthesiz- 
ing vitamin C in light but not in darkness. This study, under- 
taken by Dr. Weintraub in collaboration with Dr. M. E. Reid, of 
the National Institute of Health, suggests that the vitamin C cus- 
tomarily found in the colorless roots of intact plants is synthesized 
in the shoots and thence transported to the roots. It is intended 
to continue the study with excised roots incapable of synthesizing 
chlorophyll. 

A study of the growth of excised leaves has also been initiated and 
investigation of the influence of a number of growth factors is under 
way. 

PLANT HOEMONES 

The assay method for growth-promoting substances, to which ref- 
erence was made in last year's report, has been published. The next 
step in this project, which is being carried on by Dr. Weintraub, 
namely, the development of a quantitative technique for the isolation 
of the hormones from the plant, has been undertaken, but is not yet 
completed. With the use of these methods it is hoped to examine 
the occurrence of the hormones in the plant as correlated with the 
growth and curvature under the influence of light of various in- 
tensities and wave lengths. In connection with the study of the 
growth-substance extraction, some experiments have been made to 
ascertain the identity of the naturally occurring hormone in the 
oat plant. From the results thus far obtained, it appears that the 
conclusion of other workers that the native hormone is auxin a, is 
not necessarily valid. 

The volume of detailed work necessarily connected with these plant 
growth studies could not have been done in the time these studies 
have been in progress had it not been for the able assistance of 
Messrs. Brydon and Zipf. 

STIMULATIVE ACTION OF ULTRAVIOLET RADIATION 

Dr. Meier has continued her studies on the stimulative action of 
ultraviolet light. In this research she has shown that a stimula- 
tive action causing increased cell multiplication of the green alga 
Stichococcus hacillans Naeg. results from sublethal exposures to the 
four short wave lengths of the ultraviolet experimented with, namely, 
2352, 2483, 2652, and 2967 A. The optimum stimulation point occurs 



REPORT OF THE SECRETAKY 117 

for each of these wave lengths at approximately two-thirds of the 
lethal exposure. The stimulative action is not transitory but has 
persisted in the cultures over a period of 2 years. At the end of 
2 years' time, the cells in the stimulated cultures were in better 
condition than those in the controls. The algal cells from the stimu- 
lated cultures are slightly shorter and wider than those in the con- 
trols. The description of this research will be published under the 
title "Stimulative Effect of Short Wave Lengths of the Ultraviolet 
on the Alga Stichococcus hacUlaris Naegeli." 

A series of experiments was carried out by Dr. Meier in which 
both spores and amoebae of the slime mold Polysphondylium vio- 
lacea were irradiated separately with wave length 2652 A (lethal to 
green algae in 60-second exposure). Since normal plants resulted 
from all the different exposures varying from 30 seconds to 1 hour 
at an intensity of 2,000 ergs/cm.^/sec, experimentation with this slime 
mold was discontinued. It seems possible that the ultraviolet radia- 
tion does not penetrate either the amoebae or the spores. 

EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS 

Several important pieces of apparatus have been developed in our 
laboratory and shop. The facilities available for constructing spe- 
cially devised apparatus during the progress of an experiment is so 
essential to this type of research that its importance and the services 
of Mr. Clark and Mr. Fillmen cannot be overemphasized. A much 
needed modern autoclave has been added to the physical equipment. 
Dr. Meier's collection of pure cultures of algae has been added to 
by 14 cultures of green algae from Dr. E. Kol, Szeged, Hungary, 
and 7 cultures of blue-green algae from Dr. Lee Walp, Marietta, 
Ohio. 

PERSONNEL 

No changes have occurred in the status of the Division's personnel. 
The capable services of E. R. Brydon and O. E.. Zipf have been con- 
tinued by the Works Progress Administration during the year. 

PAPERS PRESENTED AT MEETINGS 

New facts in photosynthesis. Presented by E. D. McAlister before the Botani- 
cal Society of Washington, D. C, November 1, 1938. 

New evidence of the formation of a carbon dioxide-combining intermediate 
during photosynthesis. Presented by E. D. McAlister before the American 
Society of Plant Physiologists, Richmond, Va., December 28-30, 1938. 

An apparatus and method for the determination of small amounts of chloro- 
phyll. Presented by Earl S. Johnston and Robert L. Weintraub before the 
Division of Biological Chemistry of the American Chemical Society, Baltimore, 
Md., April 3-7, 1939. 

Carbon dioxide assimilation by green plants. Presented by E. D. McAlister 
before the American Chemical Society at the University of Delaware, Newark, 
Del., May 17, 1939. 



118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

PUBUOATIONS 

Weintbaub, Kobeet L. An assay metliod for growth-promoting substances uti- 
lizing straight growth of the Avena coleoptile. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 
97, No. 11, pp. 1-10, 1938. 

MoAlisteb, E. D. The chlorophyll-carbon dioxide ratio during photosynthesis. 
Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 22, No. 5, pp. 613-636, 1939. 

Reid, Maey E. and Weintbaub, Robert L. Synthesis of ascorbic acid in excised 
roots of the white moonflower. Science, vol. 89, No. 2321, pp. 587-588, 1939. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

Earl S. Johnston, 

Assistant Director. 
Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 10 
KEPORT ON THE LIBEARY 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities 
of the Smithsonian Library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1939 : 

The various units that comprise the library have developed one by 
one in connection with the 90 years and more of the Smithsonian and 
are important factors in the work of the Institution. Although, in 
the main, independent reference collections, each serving primarily 
the group of specialists among whom it has grown up, they form 
together a system of libraries cooperating to one common end — ^that 
of the increase and diffusion of knowledge. 

The chief unit of the system is the Smithsonian deposit in the 
Library of Congress. This is the great central reservoir of material 
from which the other libraries of the Institution draw almost daily. 
Next in size and usefulness are the libraries of the United States 
National Museum and the Bureau of American Ethnology. The 
others are the Smithsonian office library, the Langley aeronautical 
library, the libraries of the Astrophysical Observatory, Freer Gallery 
of Art, National Collection of Fine Arts, National Zoological Park, 
Radiation and Organisms, and, last but not least, the 35 sectional 
libraries of the National Museum. 

PERSONNEL 

Unfortunately, the staff lost during the year, through transfer to 
positions elsewhere, two of its experienced and capable members — 
Virginia Whitney, under library assistant, and Clyde E. Bauman, 
assistant messenger. The first vacancy was filled by the promotion 
of Ruth Blanchard, minor library assistant in the Astrophysical 
Observatory. She was succeeded by Dorothy E. English. Roland 
O. J. Caraccio was selected for assistant messenger. There was one 
temporary assistant — Mrs. Marie Boborykine, who earlier in the year 
had been for a short time among the 15 W. P. A. employees assigned 
to the library. 

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS 

In its exchange work the library had a very successful year. It 
received by mail 22,406 packages and by the International Exchange 
Service 2,194, many of which contained more than one publication. 

119 



120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

Among the noteworthy sendings were those from the Royal Cornwall 
Polytechnic Society, Falmouth; Societe Forestiere Mediterraneenne 
et Coloniale, Paris; R. Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei, Rome; 
Anstalt fiir Sudetendeutsch Heimatforschung der Deutschen Wissen- 
schaftlichen Gesellschaft, Reichenberg; Deutsches Museum von 
Meisterwerken der Naturwissenschaft und Technik, Miinchen; 
Kongelige Frederiks Universitet, Oslo; and School of American 
Research, Santa Fe. 

There were also important sendings of dissertations from the uni- 
versities of Berlin, Bern, Bonn, Breslau, Cornell, Dresden, Erlangen, 
Freiburg, Gand, Giessen, Greifswald, Halle, Heidelberg, Helsingfors, 
Jena, Johns Hopkins, Kiel, Kbnigsberg, Leipzig, Liege, Louvain, 
Lund, Marburg, Miinchen, Neuchatel, Pennsylvania, Rostock, 
Tubingen, Utrecht, Warsaw, Wiirzburg, and Ziirich, and the techni- 
cal schools of Berlin, Delft, Dresden, Karlsruhe, and Ziirich. These 
numbered, in all, 5,190, of which 2,389 were added to the Smithsonian 
deposit, and the rest, being medical in character and so not desired 
by the Library of Congress, were given to the Surgeon General's 
library. 

As usual, the letters written by the staff related, for the most part, 
to the exchange work of the library. They totaled 2,290. Many of 
these were prepared in response to 725 want cards indicating the 
special needs of the libraries of the Institution. They were instru- 
mental in arranging for 263 new exchanges and in bringing to the 
collections 5,757 publications that were lacking. The number thus 
obtained was 442 more than in 1938. It should be said, however, 
that some of the items in question were found, as in previous years, 
in the west stacks, where a mass of duplicate and other material has 
recently been sorted and put in order. 

The library continued to solicit the return from colleges, museums, 
and public libraries throughout the country of duplicate copies of 
Smithsonian publications not wanted in their files. It is gratifying to 
report that the generous response to this effort — begun several years 
ago in cooperation with the offices of publications — ^lias made it possible 
for the library to secure many volumes and parts long missing in its 
own sets, as well as in sets of other institutions, and to enlarge its 
exchange activities on behalf of its collections, particularly those in 
the Smithsonian deposit, the National Museum, the Astrophysical 
Observatory, and the National Collection of Fine Arts. 

GIFTS 

The past year brought a good many gifts to the library. Out- 
standing among them was that of 1,636 publications, mostly in Chinese, 
on the history, art, science, and literature of China. This collection 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 121 

came from Mrs. Eugene Meyer and was a welcome addition to the 
library of the Freer Gallery of Art. Another important gift was 
a set of 40 publications on the history, life, and culture of Siam, from 
the Department of Fine Arts, Bangkok. Still others were 1,294 scien- 
tific journals from Dr. J. R. Swanton, 879 from Henry Otten, 85 vol- 
umes of the Engineering News and Engineering News-Record from 
John W. Berry, 20 or more volumes of The Osteopathic Physician 
from Dr. O. R. Meredith, a generous number of publications from the 
Public Library of the District of Columbia, 210 from the American 
Association of Museums, and 790 from the American Association for 
the Advancement of Science. There were large gifts, too, from Mrs. 
Charles D. Walcott and from Secretary Abbot and Assistant Secretary 
Wetmore, as well as many smaller ones from other members and asso- 
ciates of the Smithsonian staff. 

The gifts also included the following : La Parasitologia en Venezu- 
ela y Los Trabajos del Dr. M. Nuiiez Tovar, by Dr. Diego Carbonell, 
from the Honorable Eleazar Lopez Contreras, President of Venezu- 
ela; A Catalogue of the Pictures and Drawings in the Collection of 
Frederick John Nettlefold, Volume IV — the concluding volume of 
this notable work — ^by C. Reginald Grundy and F. Gordon Roe, from 
Frederick Jolin Nettlefold; The Zoology of the Voyage of H. M. S. 
Challenger^ Part LXVIII, Report on the Seals, by Sir William Tur- 
ner, from Professor James C. Brash ; Prehistoria e Historia Antigua 
de Guatemala, by J. Antonio Villacorta C, from the author ; Kokat- 
sujiban no Kenkyu (2 copies), in 2 volumes, by Kawase Kazuma, 
from Yasuda Bunko ; Y Mathiaid — The Mathews of Llandaff, and A 
List of the Birds of Australasia (2 copies), by Gregory M. Mathews, 
from the author ; The Birds of Tropical West Africa, Volume V, by 
David Armitage Bannerman, from the Crown Agents for the Colo- 
nies ; The Minor Elements — Their Occurrence and Function in Plant 
Life, with Reference Abstract Bibliography (one of 9 copies issued) — 
and Element Assimilation by Plant Life, with Reference Abstract 
Bibliography (one of 12 copies issued), by Griffith Hatton Riddle, 
from the Research Foundation, Inc.; Die Bambuti-Pygmaen vom 
Ituri, by Paul Schebesta, from M. Hayez, editor; A Guide to the 
Snakes of Uganda, by Capt. Charles R, S. Pitman, from the Uganda 
Society ; An Anthology of Japanese Poems, edited and translated by 
Asataro Miyamori, from the editor; The Birds of the Malay Penin- 
sula, Volume IV — Birds of the Low Country, Jungle and Scrub (2 
copies), by Herbert C. Robinson and Frederick N. Chasen, from the 
Federated Malay States Museums; Randers Fjords Naturhistorie, 
by A. C. Johansen, from Dr. Svend Dahl; The Molluscs of South 
Australia, Part 1, The Pelecypoda, by Bernard C. Cotton and Frank 
K. Godfrey, from the authors; Biological Survey of the Mount De- 



122 AliJ-NUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

sert Region, Part VI, The Insect Fauna, by "William Procter, from 
the author; The Swedes on the Delaware, 1638-1664, by Dr. Aman- 
dus Johnson, from the author; The Book of Record of the Time 
Capsule, from the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturinc; Com- 
pany; Moss Flora of North America North of Mexico, Volume 1, 
Part 3, by Dr. A. J. Grout, from the author; Childe Hassan, by 
Adeline Adams, from The American Academy of Arts and Letters; 
The National Geographic Society — U. S. Army Corps Stratosphere 
Flight of 1935 in the Balloon "Explorer II" (6 copies, with 6 addi- 
tional maps entitled "The First Photograph Ever Made Showing the 
Division between the Troposphere and the Stratosphere and also the 
Actual Curvature of the Earth, Photographed from an Elevation of 
72,395 Feet, the Highest Point Ever Reached by Man") — National 
Geographic Society Contributed Technical Papers, Stratosphere 
Series, Number 2 — From Maj. A. W. Stevens; Atlas der Diatoma- 
ceenkunde. Heft 1-36 (Serie I-III), by Adolf Schmidt, from Mrs. 
J. V. Parker, in memory of her father, Stephen S. Day; The Craft 
of the Japanese Sculptor (3 copies) , by Langdon Warner, from the 
Japan Society; Scientific Results of the United States Arctic Ex- 
pedition — Stenmer Polaris — Volume 1, Physical Observations (1876), 
by Emil Bessels, from Emil Brach; Government and the Arts, by 
Grace Overmyer, from the Carnegie Corporation of New York; 
Atlas Geografico del Pfcru, by Mariano Felipe Pas Soldan, from J. G. 
Braecklein; Your Hall of Fame, by Robert Underwood Johnson, 
from the author ; Poisoning the Public, by Dr. Russell C. Erb, from 
the author; A Collection of Books by Ephraim George Squier, 
edited by Frank Squier, from the editor ; Mangold and Allied Fam- 
ilies, compiled by Anna Mangold, from the compiler; A Textbook 
of Sterilization, by Weeden B. Underwood, from the American 
Sterilizer Company; The Mask of Fame, by James O'Donnell Ben- 
nett and Everett L. Millard, from Everett L. Millard ; The Collection 
of Mary Frick Jacobs, by Dr. Henry Barton Jacobs, from the au- 
thor; The Washington Directory (1822), by Judah Delano, from 
R. L. Polk and Company ; The Lengthening Shadow of Dr. Andrew 
Taylor Still, by Dr. Arthur Grant Hildreth, from the author; 
Descendants of Edward Small of New England and the Allied Fam- 
ilies, with Tracings of English Ancestry, revised edition in 3 volumes, 
by Lora A. W. Underbill, from Houghton Mifflin Company; The 
Modern Encyclopedia of Photography, in 2 volumes, edited by S. G. 
B. Stubbs, F. J. Mortimer, and G. S. Malthouse, from Frank W. 
Hines ; The Museum and Popular Culture, by T. R. Adam, from the 
American Association for Adult Education; and Selected List of 
Bibliographies on the Polar Regions, Part 1 (2 copies), compiled 
and edited by the Works Progress Administration, from The Ex- 
plorers Club of America. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 



123 



SOME STATISTICS 

The accessions to the libraries were as follows : 



Volumes 



Pamphlets 
and charts 



Total 



Approximate 

holdings, 
June 30.1939 



Astrophysical Observatory ., 

Bureau of American Ethnology 

Freer Gallery of Art 

Ijangloy Aeronautical 

National Collection of Fine Arts 

National Museum 

National Zoological Park. _ 

Kaoiation and Organisms. - 

Smithsonian Deposit, Library of Congress - 
Smithsonian office 



80 

223 

1,952 

33 

207 

2, 28,'-| 

30 

163 

2,941 

105 



108 



108 

16 

220 

1,039 

11 

4 

2,374 

14 



188 

223 

2, 000 

49 

427 

3,324 

41 

167 
6,315 

119 



9.679 

« 61, 618 

15, 437 

3,443 

6,767 

214, 034 

3,782 

436 

663. 385 

30,746 



Total - 



8,019 



3,894 



» 11, 913 



9,327 



' The holdings of the library of the Bureau of American Ethnology were reduced somewhat during the 
year by the elimination of material not pertinent to the work of the Bureau. 

» From both the accessions for the year and the total holdings are omitted thousands of publications 
waiting to be completed, bound, or cataloged. 

To the various libraries, then, the staff added 11,913 volumes, 
pamphlets, and charts, or 1,021 more than in 1938. They made 
25,176 periodical entries and cataloged 7,298 publications — an increase 
respectively of 1,184 and 849 over the previous year. They prepared 
and filed 41,676 catalog and shelf list cards. They borrowed from 
the Library of Congress and other libraries 2,516 publications and 
loaned 11,559. They made progress with the index of Smithsonian 
publications and the index of exchange relations. Finally, they 
advanced the union catalog substantially, as follows : 

Volumes cataloged 4,532 

Pamphlets aiid charts cataloged 2,507 

New serial entries made 249 

Typed cards added to catalog and shelf list 7,095 

Library of Congress cards added to catalog and shelf list 13,810 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

There were many other activities, a few of which may be men- 
tioned. The staff began for the National Collection of Fine Arts 
a card index of auction prices of works of art — a file that, when 
completed, will provide information for use in replymg to inquiries 
as to the market value of such objects; sorted out the George Brown 
Goode papers that had been stored for years in the archives room 
adjoining the west stacks and turned them over to the former librar- 
ian; made special sendings of duplicates to the Marine Biologi- 
cal Laboratory at Woods Hole and to the following colleges and 
universities: Brown, Catholic, Columbia, Harvard, North Carolina, 
Pennsylvania, "William and Mary, and Yale ; selected a large number 
of books and serials from the surplus material in the west stacks for 
inclusion in the reserve collection, against the time when they will 



124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

be needed to take the place of publications now in daily use ; removed 
the contents of the old employees' library, had the room refitted as 
a study, and prepared its shelves to receive part of the archives set 
of Smithsonian publications; returned to the Superintendent of 
Documents hundreds of Government publications not needed by the 
library; grouped a large collection of reprints and separates accord- 
ing to subject and distributed them among the sectional libraries; 
made considerable progress in reading and rearranging the shelves 
and revising the records in the natural history and technological 
libraries; examined hundreds of current serials for articles bearing 
on the work of the Institution and reported these articles to the 
curators concerned; mounted, classified, and filed more than 4,000 
clippings from the Bell aeronautical collection; carried on active 
interlibrary loan relations with 50 libraries outside of the Smithso- 
nian system, some of them in distant parts of the country ; completed 
the revision of the author file of Concilium Bibliographicum cards; 
advanced the work of sorting the contents of the administration 
library and incorporating it with the main collection; and rendered 
even more reference and informational service than the year before, 
including the compiling of bibliographies for the scientists of the 
Institution and for others and the answering of many letters. 

Two of the activities should be described in more detail. One of 
these was the preparation of a carefully revised and up-to-date list of 
the volumes and parts still needed in the serial files of the Smithsonian 
deposit and the library of the National Museum, especially the files 
essential to the work of the Institution and its branches, with a view 
to making a further effort — for in nearly all instances several efforts 
have already been made, but without success — to obtain these indis- 
pensable publications by exchange. With this objective in mind, the 
staff began the listing of important groups of surplus material in the 
west stacks. As these lists are finished, one by one, copies will be made 
for use in securing by special exchange arrangements, from institutions 
or individuals as the case may be, as many of these publications as 
possible. In fact, even before the year closed, the staff succeeded in 
obtaining through similar arrangements with certain colleges, univer- 
sities, and public libraries, including Haverford, Harvard, Leland 
Stanford, North Carolina, Virginia, and the Free Library of Philadel- 
phia, nearly 700 publications of value to the Institution, among them 
being such works as Dingler's Polytechnisches Journal, 1820-1882; 
The Earth and Its Inhabitants, in 26 volumes, by A. H. Keane ; A His- 
tory of Spanish Painting, Volumes IV to VII, Part 2, by Chandler 
Rathfon Post; The Haverford Symposium on Archaeology and the 
Bible, edited b}^ Elihu Grant; and the Annual Review of Biochemistry, 
Volume VIII, edited by James Murray Luck and Carl R. Noller. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 125 

This twofold task — that of preparing both a revised list of essential 
publications still lacking in the main collections and a list of duplicate 
holdings of single items and serial runs that may be exchanged for 
these publications — could not have been undertaken without the aid 
of a number of capable employees assigned to the library by the 
W. P. A. 

Nor without like assistance could another significant task have been 
achieved. That was the binding of 260 volumes for three or four of 
the Smithsonian collections. This work was done at the National 
Zoological Park, where a temporary bindery was maintained for the 
purpose. The result of this undertaking was most welcome — all the 
more so because of the serious arrearage into which the regular binding 
in several of the libraries has fallen. 

BINDING 

In fact, the library funds available for the year limited the binding 
to the following : for the National Museum, 400 volumes ; the Bureau 
of American Ethnology, 2; the Astrophysical Observatory, 52; the 
National Collection of Fine Arts, 71; the Freer Gallery of Art, 21. 
The total — 546 volumes — was, however, only a fraction of the number 
waiting to be bound. 

NEEDS 

A substantial increase in the amiual binding allotment should, 
therefore, be provided, that the collections may be safeguarded from 
injury and loss. This is the most crying need of the library. Another 
need, only a little less urgent, is that of two or three more trained 
catalogers, Avith one or two expert typists to assist them. If these 
additions to the staff could be arranged for, the revision of the main 
catalogs and shelf lists and the cataloging of the sectional libraries 
could be rapidly advanced. As the catalog division now stands, it is 
far too small to undertake much more than its current work. 

Respectfully submitted. 

William L. Corbin, Uhrarian. 

Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 11 
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the 
publications of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government 
branches under its administrative charge during the year ended 
June 30, 1939 : 

The Institution published during the year 27 papers in the series 
of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report, and 
pamphlet copies of 28 articles in the report appendix, and 2 special 
publications. 

The United States National Museum issued 1 annual report, 27 
separate Proceedings papers, 1 volume (complete) of Bulletin 100, 
4 bulletins, and 2 Contributions from the United States National 
Herbarium. 

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued six bulletins. 

Of the publications there were distributed 162,030 copies, which 
included 187 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Contribu- 
tions to Knowledge, 43,469 volumes and separates of the Smith- 
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, 25,563 volumes and separates of 
the Smithsonian Annual Reports, 2,876 Smithsonian special publi- 
cations, 69,658 volumes and separates of the National Museum pub- 
lications, 19,527 publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 
15 publications of the National Collection of Fine Arts (formerly 
the National Gallery of Art), 6 publications of the Freer Gallery 
of Art, 20 reports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition, 15 annals 
of the Astrophysical Observatory, and 694 reports of the American 
Historical Association. 

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS 

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, reprints of 1 paper 
from volume 74 and of volume 86 were issued. There were also 
issued 8 papers and title page and table of contents of volume 97, 
and 17 papers of volume 98, making 27 papers in all, as follows: 

VOLUME 74 

No. 1. Smithsonian Mathematical Formulae and Tables of Elliptic Func- 
tions, First Reprint, viii+314 pp. (Publ. 2672.) 

126 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 127 



VOLUME 86 

Smithsonian Meteorological Tables, Fifth Revised Edition, First Reprint 
lxxxvi+282 pp. (Publ. 3116.) 

VOLUME 97 

No. 5. Three pictographic biographies of Sitting Bull, by M. W. Stirling. 
57 pp., 46 pis. (Publ. 3482.) July 22, 1938. 

No. 6. Evolution of the Annelida, Onychophora, and Arthropoda, by R. B. 
Snodgrass. 157 pp., 54 figs. (Publ. 3483.) August 23, 1938. 

No. 7. The direct-historical approach in Pawnee archeology, by Waldo R. 
Wedel. 21 pp., 6 pis., 2 figs. (Publ. 3484.) October 19, 1938. 

No. 8. Drawings by George Gibbs in the Far Northwest, by David I. Bush- 
nell, Jr. 28 pp., 18 pis., 5 figs. (Publ. 3485.) December 30, 1938. 

No. 9. A new nuthatch from Yunnan, by H. G. Deignan. 2 pp. (Publ. 
3486.) October 10, 1938. 

No. 10. Fourth contribution to nomenclature of Cambrian fossils, by Charles 
Elmer Resser. 43 pp. (Publ. 34S7.) December 17, 1938. 

No. 11. An assay method for growth-promoting substances utilizing straight 
growth of the Avena coleoptile, by Robert L. Weintraub. 10 pp., 1 pL, 1 fig. 
(Publ. 3488.) December 31, 1938. 

No. 12. The Spence shale and its fauna, by Charles Elmer Resser. 29 pp., 

6 pi. (Publ. 3490.) January 20, 1939. 

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3529.) 

VOLUME 98 

No. 1. Two remarkable new species of marine shells from Florida, by Paul 
Bartsch. 3 pp., 1 pi. (Publ. 3524.) January 26, 1939. 

No. 2. The sunspot period, by H. Helm Clayton. 18 pp., 1 pi., 12 figs. 
(Publ. 3526.) March 27, 1939. 

No. 3. The embryology of fleas, by Edward L. Kessel. 78 pp., 12 pis. (Publ. 
3527.) May 1, 1939. 

No. 4. Five new races of birds from Venezuela, by Alexander Wetmore. 

7 pp. (Publ. 3528.) March 10, 1939. 

No. 5. Utilizing heat from the sun, by C. G. Abbot. 11 pp., 4 pis., 1 fig. 
(Publ. 3530.) March 30, 1939. 

No. 6. Decapod and other Crustacea collected on the Presidential Cruise of 
1938, by Waldo L. Schmitt. 29 pp., 3 pis., 2 figs. (Publ. 3531.) June 15, 1939. 

No. 7. A new imlm from Cocos Island collected on the Presidential Cruise of 
1938, by O. F. Cook. 26 pp., 26 pis. (Publ. 3532.) May 29, 1939. 

No. 8. Flowering plants collected on the Presidential Cruise of 1938, by 
Ellsworth P. Killip. 4 pp. (Publ. 3533.) May 27, 1939. 

No. 9. Algae collected on the Presidential Cruise of 1938, by William Ran- 
dolph Taylor. 18 pp., 2 pis., 2 figs. (Publ. 3534.) June 23, 1939. 

No. 10. MoUusks collected on the Presidential Cruise of 1938, by Paul 
Bartsch. 12 pp., 5 pis. (Publ. 3535.) June 13, 1939. 

No. 11. Echinoderms (other than Holothurians) collected on the Presidential 
Cruise of 1938, by Austin H. Clark, 18 pp., 5 pis. (Publ. 3536.) June 2, 1939. 

No. 12. A new holothurian of the genus Tliyone collected on the Presidential 
Cruise of 1938, by Elisabeth Deichmann. 7 pp., 3 figs. (Publ. 3537.) June 14, 
1939. 

No. 13. The polychaetous annelids collected on the Presidential Cruise of 
1938, by Olga Hartman. 22 pp., 3 figs. (Publ. 3538.) June 9, 19.39. 



128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

No. 14. Two new gobioid fishes collected on the Presidential Cruise of 1938, 
by Isaac Giusburg. 5 pp., 2 figs. (Publ. 3539.) May 31, 1939. 

No. 15. Sponges collected on the Presidential Cruise of 1938, by M. W. de 
Laubenfels. 7 pp., 1 fig. (Publ. 3540.) June 21, 1939. 

No. 16. A new dicrocoeliid trematode collected on the Presidential Cruise 
of 1938, by Allen Mcintosh. 2 pp., 1 fig. (Publ. 3541.) June 9, 1939. 

No. 17. Polyclad worms collected on the Presidential Cruise of 1938, by 
Libbie H. Hyman. 9 pp., 15 figs. (Publ. 3542.) June 17, 1939. 

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS 

Report for 1937. — The complete volume of the Amiual Report of 
the Board of Regents for 1937 was received from the Public Printer in 
August 1938. 

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution show- 
ing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the 
year ending June 30, 1937. xv+580 pp., 134 pis., 47 figs. (Publ. 3451.) 

The appendix contained the following papers : 

Constitution of the stars, by Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington. 

Discoveries from solar eclipses, by S. A. Mitchell. 

Changes in the length of the day, by Ernest W. Brown. 

The thunderstorm, by E. A. Evans and K. B. McEachron. 

The electron : Its intellectual and social significance, by Karl T. Compton. 

Photography by polarized light, by J. W. McFarlane. 

Measuring geologic time : Its difficulties, by A. C. Lane. 

The earth's interior, its nature and composition, by Leason H. Adams. 

Origin of the Great Lakes basins, by Francis P. Shepard. 

The biography of an ancient American lake, by Wilmot H. Bradley. 

Our water supply, by Oscar E. Meinzer. 

The first crossing of Antarctica, by Lincoln Ellsworth. 

Moving photomicrography, by W. N. Kazeeff. 

Fresh-water fishes and West Indian zoogeography, by George S. Myers. 

The breeding habits of salmon and trout, by Leonard P. Schultz. 

"What is entomology? by Lee A. Strong. 

Maize — our heritage from the Indian, by J. H. Kempton. 

The emergence of modern medicine from ancient folkways, by Walter 

C. Alvarez. 
National and international standards for medicines, by E. Fullerton Cook. 
The healing properties of allantoin and urea discovered through the use 

of maggots in human wounds, by William Robinson. 
The aims of the Public Health Service, by Thomas Parran. 
Excavations at Chanhu-daro by the American School of Indie and Iranian 

Studies and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston : Season 1935-36, by Ernest 

Mackay. 
Ras Shamra : Canaanite civilization and language, by Zellig S. Harris. 
Blood-groups and race, by J. Millot. 
Early Chinese cultures and their development : A new working-hypothesis, 

by Wolfram Eberhard. 
Origin and early diffusion of the traction plow, by Carl Whiting Bishop. 
Historical notes on the cotton gin, by F. L. Lewton. 
The world's longest bridge span, by Clifford E. Paine. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 129 

Report for 1938. — The report of the Secretary, which included the 
financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents, 
and will form part of the annual report of the Board of Regents to 
Congress, was issued in January 1939. 

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report 
of the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ended June 30, 

1938. viii+119 pp., 2 pis. (Publ. 3489.) 

The report volume, containing the general appendix, was in press at 
the close of the year. 

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS 

Explorations and field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1938. 116 pp., 
122 pis. (Publ. 3525.) April 6, 1939. 

Classified list of Smithsoiiiau publications available for distribution June 26, 

1939, by Helen Munroe. 35 pp. (Publ. 3544.) June 26, 1939. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during 
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser. 
There were issued 1 annual report, 27 separate Proceedings papers from 
volumes 85 and 86, 1 volume (complete) of Bulletin 100, 4 bulletins, 
and 2 Contributions from the United States National Herbarium, as 
follows : 

MUSEXTM REPORT 

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum 
for the year ended June 30, 1938. 111+121 pp. January 1939. 

PROCEEDINGS : VOLUME 85 

No. 3035. A miocene dog from Maryland, by Charles T. Berry. Pp. 159-181, 
fig. 68. August 10, 1938. 

No. 3039. The Cuban operculate land shells of the subfamily Chondropominae, 
by Carlos de la Torre and Paul Bartsch. Pp. 193-403, pis. 7-39. July 27, 1938. 

No. 3040. On some species of Chinese eartbvpornis, with special reference to 
specimens collected in Szechwan by Dr. D. C. Graham, by G. E. Gates. Pp. 
405-507. March 20, 1939. 

VOLUMB 86 

No. 3041. Revision of the North American beetles of the staphylinid sub- 
family Tachyporinae— Part 2 : Genus Coproporus Kraatz, by Richard E. Black- 
welder. Pp. 1-10. October 8, 1938. 

No. 8042. Descriptions of new and little-known fossil lizards from North 
America, by Charles W. Gilmore. Pp. 11-26, pi. 1, figs. 1-9, December 16, 1938. 

No. 3043. The cambaloid milliped of the United States, including a family 
new to the fauna and new genera and species, by H. F. Loomis. Pp. 27-66, 
pi. 2, figs. 10-21. December 17, 1938. 

No. 3044. Polyclads from the east coast of North America, by A. S. Pearse. 
Pp. 67-98, figs. 22-34. December 17, 193S. 

No. S045. Hopewellian remains near Kansas City, Missouri, by Waldo R. 
Wedel. Pp. 99-106, pis. 3-8. December 16, 1938. 



130 ANNUAL. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

No. 3046. The types of the polychaete worms of the families Polynoidae and 
Polyodontidae in the United States National Museum and the description of 
a new genus, by Olga Hartman. Pp. 107-134, figs. 35-41. December 7, 1938. 

No. 3047. Review of the fishes of the genera Polyipnus and Argyropelecus 
(family Sternoptichidae), with descriptions of three new species, by Leonard 
P. Schultz. Pp. 135-155, figs. 42-45. December 27, 1938. 

No. 3048. Revision of the beetles of the melolonthlne subgenus Phytalus in 
the United States, by Lawrence W. Saylor. Pp. 157-167, pis. 9, 10. February 
15, 1939. 

No. 3049. New species of polychaete worms of the genus Euphrosyne, with 
notes on Euphrosyne horealis orsted, by Aaron L. Treadwell. Pp. 169-173, fig. 
46. January 20, 1939. 

No. 3050. Notes on the birds of Tennessee, by Alexander Wetmore. Pp. 
175-243. January 31, 1939. 

No. 3051. Annotated list of Tennessee mammals, by Remington Kellogg. Pp. 
245-303. February 14, 1939. 

No. 3052. Species of the foraminiferal family Canierinidae in the Tertiary 
and Cretaceous of Mexico, by R. Wright Barker. Pp. 305-330, pis. 11-22. 
May 16, 1939. 

No. 3053. The cactus-feeding Phycitinae : A contribution toward a revision of 
the American pyralidoid moths of the family Phycitidae, by Carl Heinrich. 
Pp. 331-413, pis. 23-51. March 16, 1939. 

No. 3054. Two new ophiurans from the Smithsonian-Hartford expedition, 
1937, by Hubert Lyman Clark. Pp. 415-^18, pi. 52. April 4, 1939. 

No. 3055. New species of fiatworms from North, Central, and South America, 
by Libbie H. Hyman. Pp. 419-439, figs. 47-51. April 14, 1939. 

No. 3056. Echinoderms of the Smithsonian-Hartford expedition, 1937, with 
other West Indian records, by Austin H. Clark. Pp. 441-456, pis. 53, 54. 
April 5, 1939. 

No. 3057. A new cave isopod from Florida, by James O. Maloney. Pp. 457- 
459, fig. 52. May 26, 1939. 

No. 3058. Two new Atlantic species of dog sharks, with a key to the species of 
Mustelus, by Stewart Springer. Pp. 461-468, figs. 53-55. April 27, 1939. 

No. 3059. A new sea star of the genus Poraniopsis from Japan, by Walter K. 
Fisher. Pp. 469-472, pis. 55, 56, fig. 56. April 4, 1939. 

No. 3060. A revision of the toadflshes referred to PorichtJiys and related genera, 
by Carl L. Hubbs and Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 473-496, fig. 57. April 29, 1939. 

No. 3061. A new genus of starfishes from the Aleutian Islands, by Austin H. 
Clark. Pp. 497-500, pi. 57. May 17, 1939. 

No. 3062. Eleven new species and three new genera of oceanic fishes collected 
by the International Fisheries Commission from the northeastern Pacific, by 
Wilbert McLeod Chapman. Pp. 501-542, figs. 58-70. April 28, 1939. 

No. 30G3. New species of moths of the families Notodontidae and Bombycidae 
in the United States National Museum, by William Schaus. Pp. 543-561. May 
18, 1939. 

No. 3064. Restriction of the genus Gelechia (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae), with 
descriptions of new genera, by August Busck. Pp. 563-593, pis. 58-71. May 
23, 1939. 

BULLETINS 

No. 100, volume 6 (completed). Papers on Philippine diatoms, annelids, hy- 
droids, echinoids, and mollusks. viii-f 567 pp., 120 pis., 47 ngs. 

Title page, table of contents, and index, volume 6, Bulletin 100. Pp. i-viii, 
535-567. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 131 

No. 170. Life histories of North American birds of prey (pt. 2): Orders 
Falconiformes and Strigiformes, by Arthur C. Bent. Tiii+482 pp., 92 pis. 
August 8, 1938. 

No. 172. Birds from Siam and tlie Malay Peninsula in the United States 
National Museum collected by Drs. Hugh M. Smith and William L. Abbott, by 
J. H. Riley, iv+581 pp. December 3, 1938. 

No. 173. Catalog of the mechanical collections of the Division of Engineering, 
United States National Museum, by Frank A. Taylor, viii+203 pp., 37 pis. 
March 2, 1939. 

No. 174. Life histories of North American woodpeckers : Order Piciformes, by 
Arthur C. Bent, viii+334 pp., 39 pis. May 23, 1939. 

CONTKIBUTIONS FKOM THE U. S. NATIONAL HERBARIUM: VOLUME 26 

Part 9. A revision of Besleria, by C. V. Morton. Pp. i-ix, 395-474. May 9, 1939. 
Part 10. The Andean species of Pilea, by Ellsworth P. Killip. Pp. i-viii, 475- 
530, pis. 30-40. June 14, 1939. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

The editorial work of the Bureau has continued under the immediate 
direction of the editor, Stanley Searles. During the year six bulletins 
were issued as follows : 

Bulletin 118. An archaeological survey of the Norris Basin in eastern Tennes- 
see, by William S. Webb. 398 pp., 152 pis., 79 figs., 2 maps. 

Bulletin 119. Anthropological Papers, Nos. 1-6. No. 1, A preliminai'y report 
on archeological explorations at Macon, Ga., by A. R. Kelly. No. 2, The northern 
Arapaho flat pipe and the ceremony of covering the pipe, by John G. Carter. 
No. 3, The Caribs of Dominica, by Douglas Taylor. No. 4, What happened to 
Green Bear who was blessed with a sacred pack, by Truman Michelson. No. 5, 
Lemhi Shoshoni physical therapy, by Julian H. Steward. No. 6, Panatiibiji', an 
Owens Valley Paiute, by Julian H. Steward. 204 pp., 18 pis., 37 figs. 

Bulletin 120. Basin-plateau aboriginal sociopolitical groups, by Julian H. 
Steward. 346 pp., 3 pis., 13 figs. 

Bulletin 121. Archeological remains in the Whitewater District, eastern 
Arizona. Part 1, House types, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. 278 pp., 30 pis., 
53 figs. 

Bulletin 122. An archaeological survey of Wheeler Basin on the Tennessee 
River in northern Alabama, by William S. Webb. 214 pp., 122 pis., 25 figs. 

Bulletin 123. Anthropological Papers, Nos. 7-12. No. 7, Archeological investi- 
gations in the Corozal District of British Honduras, by Thoraas and Mary Gann. 
No. 8, Linguistic classification of Cree and Montagnais-Naskapi dialects, by 
Truman Michelson. No. 9, Sedelmayr's Relacion of 1746, translated and edited 
by Ronald L. Ives. No. 10, Notes on the Creek Indians, by J. N. B. Hewitt, 
edited by John R. Swauton. No. 11, The Yaruros of the Capanaparo River, 
Venezuela, by Vincenzo Petrullo. No. 12, Archeology of Arauquin, by Vincenzo 
Petrullo. Sm pp., 32 pis., 27 figs. 

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION 

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are 
transmitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided 
by the act of incorporation of the Association. 

197855—40 10 



132 ANNUAL REPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

The report for 1934 (Writings on American History) and the report 
for 1937, volume 1 (Proceedings) were issued during the year. The 
report for 1935, volume 2 (Writings on American History) was in 
press at the close of the year. 

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN 

REVOLUTION 

The manuscript of the Forty-first Annual Eeport of the National 
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to 
Congress, in accoidance with law, December 5, 1938. 

ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING 

The Congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian 
Aimual Reports to Congress and the various publications of the Gov- 
ernment bureaus under the administration of the Institution were 
virtually used up at the close of the year. The appropriation for the 
coming year ending June 30, 1940, totals $73,000, allotted as follows : 

Smithsouian Institution $15, 000 

National Museum 34, 350 

Bureau of American Ethnology 13,650 

National Collection of Fine Arts 400 

International Exchanges 100 

National Zoological Park 100 

Astrophysical Observatory 400 

American Historical Association 8, 000 

72,000 
Reserve 1, 000 



73, 000 

Respectfully submitted. 

W. P. True, Editor. 
Dr. C. G. Abbot, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institutio'ii. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF 
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH- 
SONIAN INSTITUTION 

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30. 1939 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re- 
port in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together 
with a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Govern- 
ment bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution. 

SMITPISONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND 

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 Ss 6d — 
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the 
claim, freights, insurance, etc., together with payment into the 
fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld during the 
lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fvmd to the 
amount of $550, 000. 00 

Since the original bequest the Instution has received gifts from 
various sources chiefly in the years prior to 1893, the income 
from which may be used for the general work of the Institution. 

To these gifts has been added capital from savings on income, 
gain from sale of securities, etc., bringing the total endowment 
for general purposes to the amount of 1, 172, 937. 49 

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the in- 
come of each being restricted to specific use. These are invested 
and stand on the books of the Institution as follows : 

Abbott, William L., fund, bequest to the Institution $105, 889. a5 

Arthur, James, fund, income for investigations and study of sun 
and lecture on the s\m 39, 763. 75 

Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for a traveling scholarship to investi- 
gate favma of countries other than the United States 49, 813. 20 

Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird— 15, 054. 58 

Barstow, Frederic D., fund, for purchase of animals for the 
Zoological Park 756. 30 

Canfield Collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield col- 
lection of minerals 38, 027. 52 

Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection 

and promotion of researches relating to Coleoptera 7, 683. 94 

Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of 
Isaac Lea collection of gems and mollusks 27, 998. 83 

Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of VirgU Hillyer collec- 
tion of lighting objects 6,534.50 

Hitchcock, Dr. Albert S., Library fund, for care of Hitchcock 
Agrostological Library 1, 262. 42 

Hodgkins fund, si)ecific, for increase and diffusion of more exact 
knowledge in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air_ 100, 000. 00 

133 



134 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 



Special research fund, gift, in form of real estate $20, 946. 00 

Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove 15,063.10 

Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of 
art for the use of, and benefit of, the National Gallery of Art 18, 847. 21 

Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane 
Pell collection 2, 399. 69 

Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Institu- 
tion when principal amounts to the sum of $250,000 74, 127. 59 

Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory 
of Asher Tunis 29, 006. 83 

Roebling fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Eoebling 
collection of minerals 119, 989. 51 

Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics 
and chemistry 96, 655. 61 

Springer, Frank, fund, for care, etc., of Springer collection and 
library 17, 829. 89 

Walcott, Charles D., and Mary Vaux, research fund, for develop- 
ment of geological and paleontological studies and publishing 
results thereof 11, 110. 49 

Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, held in trust 50, 112. 50 

Zerbee, Frances Brinckl6, fund, for endowment of aquaria 756. 69 

Total endowment for specific purposes other than Freer 
endowment 849, 629. 95 

The capital funds of the Institution, except the Freer Funds, are 
invested as follows : 



Fund 



Abbott. W. L 

Arthur, James 

Bacon, Virginia Purdy 

Baird, Lucy H 

Barstow, Frederic D --- 

Canfleld Collection 

Casey, Thomas Lincoln 

Chamberlain 

Hillyer, Virci! 

Hitchcock, Library 

Hodgkins, spociflc --- - 

Hu6;hes, Bruce 

Myer, Catherine W.. 

Pell, Cornelia Livinsston 

Poore, Lucy T., and George W - 

Reid, Addison T 

Roeblins collection _. 

Rollins, Miriam and William 

Smithsonian Unrestricted: 

Special 

Avery 

Endowment --- 

Habel --- - 

Hachenberg 

Hamilton - 

Henry .-- 

Hodgkins (general) 

Parent 

Rhees - 

Sanford -- 

Special research 

Springer - - 

Walcott, Charles D., and Mary Vaux. 

Younger, Helen Walcott 

Zerbee. Frances BrincklS. 



Total 1,000.000 



United 

States 

Treasury 



$100, 000 



26, 670 
11,000 



14,000 
""566 



2,500 



116,000 

727, 640 

690 

1,100 



Consoli- 
dated fund 



$72, 582. 18 

39, 763. 75 

49, 813. 20 

15, 054. 53 

756. 30 

38, 027. 52 

7, 683. 94 

27, 998. 83 

6, 534. 50 

1, 262. 42 



15, 063. 10 
18, 847. 21 
2, 399. 69 
47, 4.'i7. 59 
13, .506. 83 
119,983.51 
87, 155. 61 



37, 022. 91 
233, 963. 65 



3, 998, 41 
401.36 

1, 202. 47 
30, 049. 51 

1,213.76 
470. 35 
885. 07 



17, 829. 89 
11,110.49 



766. 69 



Separate 
fund 



$33, 307. 67 



4, 500. 00 



9, 500. 00 
1, 400. 00 



20, 946. 00 



50, 112. 60 



902, 801. 27 119, 766. 17 



Total 



$105, 889. 85 

39, 763. 75 

49,813.20 

15,054.53 

756. 30 

38, 027. 52 

7. 683. 94 

27, 998. 83 

6. 534. 50 

1,262.42 

100, 000. 00 

1.5,063.10 

IS. 847. 21 

2. 399. 69 

74.127.59 

29, 006. 83 

11P.9R0 51 

96, 655. 61 

1, 400. 00 

51,022.91 

233, 9G3. 65 

500. 00 

3, 998. 41 

2.901.36 

1, 202. 47 

146,049.51 

728, 853. 76 

1, 060. 35 

1, 985 07 

20, 946. 00 

17, 829. 89 

11,110.49 

50,112.50 

756. 69 



2, 022, 567. 44 



REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 



135 



CONSOLIDATED FUND 
Statement of principal and income for the last ten years 



Fiscal year 


Capital 


Income 


Percentage 


1930 


$578. 292. 40 
668, 069. 02 
712, l,S6.86 
764, 077. 67 
754, 570. 84 
706, 765. 68 
723. 795. 46 
738, 858. 54 
867, 528. 50 
902, 801. 27 


$28. 908. 87 
28, 518. 07 
26, 142. 21 
28, 185. 11 
26. 650. 32 
26. 808. 86 
26, 836. 61 

33, 819. 43 

34, 679. 64 
30, 710. 53 


5.00 


1931 


4.27 


1932 — . - - -- 


3.67 


1933 


3.68 


1934 -- - 


3.66 


1935 - 


3.79 


1936 - - 


3.71 


1937 


4.57 


1938 


4.00 


1939 


3.40 







FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND 

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave to 
the Institution his collection of Chinese and other oriental objects 
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by 
Wliistler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave 
funds for the construction of a building to house the collection, and 
finally in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and 
securities to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42 as an endowment 
fund for the operation of the gallery. From the above date to the 
present time these funds have been increased by stock dividends, 
savings of income, etc., to a total of $5,075,976.76. In view of the 
importance and special nature of the gift and the requirements of 
the testator in respect to it, all Freer funds are kept separate from 
the other funds of the Institution, and the accounting in respect to 
them is stated separately. 

The invested funds of the Freer bequest are classified as follows: 

Court and grounds fund $5G8, G57. 02 

Court and grounds maintenance fund 142,927.75 

Curator fund 578, 6S2. 13 

Residuary legacy 3, 785, 709. 86 

Total 5, 075, 970. 76 

SUMMARY 

Invested endowment for general purposes $1, 172, 937. 49 

Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer 
endowment 849, 629. 95 

Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment 2, 022, 567. 44 

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes 5,075,976.76 

Total invested endowment for all purposes 7, 098, 544, 20 



136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS 

Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as 

authorized in the United States Revised Statutes, sec. 5591 $1, 000, 000. 00 

Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value 
at date acquired) : 

Bonds (25 different groups) $371,929.17 

Stocks (44 different groups) 571,726.70 

Real estate and first-mortgage notes 75, 053. 67 

Uninvested capital 3,857.90 1,022.567.44 



Total investments other than Freer endowment 2,022,567.44 

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or 
market value at date acquired) : 

Bonds (46 different groups) $2, 443, 872. .57 

Stocks (63 different groups) 2,626,308.41 

Real estate first-mortgage notes 9, 000. 00 



5, 079, 180. 98 
Less temporary overinvestment of capital 

cash 3,204.22 5,075,976.76 



Total investments 7, 098, 544. 20 

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE FISCAL YEAR * 

Cash balance on hand June 30, 1938 $566, 492. 69 

Receipts : 

Cash income from various sources for general work 
of the Institution $67,584.69 

Cash gifts and contributions expendable for special 

scientific objects (not to be invested) 47,670.00 

Cash gifts for special scientific work (to be 

invested) 4, 600. 58 

Cash income from endowments for specific use 
other than Freer endowment and from miscella- 
neous sources (including refund of temporary 
advances) 56,828.21 

Cash received as royalties from Smithsonian Scien- 
tific Series 45, 451. 32 

Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc. (to 
be reinvested) 53,639.08 



Total receipts other than Freer endowment 275, 773. 88 

Cash receipts from Freer endowment, income from 

investments, etc $212, 751. 78 

Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc. (to 

be reinvested) 956,585.13 



Total receipts from Freer endowment 1,169,336.91 



Total 2, Oil, 603. 48 

1 This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative 
charge of the Institution. 



REPOKT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 137 

Disbursements: 

From funds for general work of the Institution: 

Buildings — care, repairs, and alterations $4, 343. 47 

Furniture and fixtures 730.71 

General administration* 31,024.53 

Library 2, 233. 83' 

Publications (comprising preparation, printing, 

and distribution) 20, 0o4. 72 

Researches and explorations 28, 134. 79 

$87, 422. 05 

From funds for specific use, other than Freer en- 
dowment : 

Investments made from gifts, from gain from 
sale etc., of securities, and from savings on 
income 35, 506. 31 

Other expenditures, consisting largely of re- 
search work, travel, increase and care of 
special collections, etc., from income of en- 
dowment funds and from cash gifts for 
specific use (including temporary advances- 131,082.98 

Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call 

of securities, etc 79. 983. 01 

Cost of handling securities, fee of investment 
counsel, and accrued interest on bonds 
purchased 2, 0O8. 21 

248, 580. 51 

From Freer endowment : 

Operating expenses of the gallery, salaries, 

field expenses, etc 50, 919. 62 

Purchase of art objects 140, 288.76 

Investments made from gain from sale, etc., of 
securities 302,765. 56 

Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, caU 
of securities, etc 847,319.24 

Cost of handling securities, fee of investment 
counsel, and accrued interest on bonds 
purchased 21, 210. 00 

1, 362, 503. 18 

Cash balance June 30, 1939 313,097.74 

Total 2, Oil, 603. 48 

2 This includes salary of the Secretary and certain others. 

EXPENDITUEE3 FOR RESEARCHES IN PURE SCIENCE, PUBLICATIONS, EXPLORA- 
TIONS, CARE, INCREASE, AND STUDY OF COLLECTIONS, ETC. 

Expenditures from general funds of the Institution : 

Publications $20, 954. 72 

Researches and explorations 28, 134. 79 

$49, 089. 51 

Expenditures from funds devoted to specific purposes : 

Researches and explorations 86, 181. 71 

Care, increase, and study of special collections $14, 727. 09 

Publications 1, 137. 55 

$102, 046. 35 

Total 151. 135. 86 



138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and 
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been continued 
during the past year, and interest on these deposits has amounted to 
$923.62. 

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts or bequests from the 
following : 

Friends of Dr. Albert S. Hitchcock, for establishment and care of the 

Hitchcock Agrostological Library. 
Research Corporation, further contributions for research in radiation. 
John A. Roebling, further contributions for research in radiation. 
Mrs. Mary Vaux Walcott, for purchase of certain specimens. 

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the 
Institution on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues 
are deposited to the credit of the same account. In many instances 
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later 
are withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury. 

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the 
Institution. 

The following annual appropriations were made by Congress for 
the Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the 
Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year 1939 : 

General expenses $343, 785. 00 

(This combines under one heading the appropriations hereto- 
fore made for Salaries and Expenses, International Ex- 
changes, American Ethnology, Astrophysical Observatory, 
and National Collection of Fine Arts of the Smithsonian 
Institution and for Maintenance and Operation of the United 
States National Museum.) 

Preservation of collections 609, 380. 00 

Printing and binding 68, 000. 00 

National Zoological Park 227, 000. 00 

Total 1, 248, 165. 00 

The Second Deficiency Appropriation Act, fiscal year 1938, ap- 
proved June 25, 1938, made an appropriation of $40,000 for the 
Smithsonian Gallery of Art Commission to carry out the provisions 
of Section 2 of Public Resolution 95 entitled "Joint resolution to set 
apart public ground for the Smithsonian Gallery of Art, and for 
other purposes," approved May 17, 1938, 

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is printed 
below : 

ExECxrrrvE Committee, Board of Regents, 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. 
Sirs : Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smithsonian 
Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1939, and certify the balance of cash 
on hand, Including Petty Cash Fund, June 30, 1939, to be $314,997.74. 



REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 139 

We have verified the record of receipts and disbui'sements maintained by the 
Institution and the agreement of the book balances v?ith tlie bank balances. 

We have examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in 
the custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records. 

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts of 
record and found them in agreement therewith. 

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the 
Institution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1939, together with the authority 
therefor, and have compared them with the Institution's record of expenditures 
and found them to agree. 

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each trust 
fund. 

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and the 
securities conveniently filed and securely cared for. 

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously fur- 
nished. 

We certify the balance sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the financial 
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1939. 

Respectfully submitted. 

WrrxiAM L. Yeager & Co., 
WiXLiAM L. Yeageu, 
Certified Public Accountant. 

August 31, 1939. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Frederic A. Delano, 
R. Walton Moore, 

Executive Committee. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 

TO THE 

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1939 



141 



ADVERTISEMENT 

The object of the GENERAii Appendix to the Annual Eeport of the 
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific 
discovery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by 
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character 
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the immerous 
correspondents of the Institution. 

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual 
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more 
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological 
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations 
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this 
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such 
papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific 
progress. 

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum- 
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by 
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of 
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely 
the prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, 
geology, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zool- 
ogy, and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not 
altogether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888. 

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of 
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi- 
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and 
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report 
for 1939. 

143 



IS THERE LIFE IN OTHEE WORLDS? ' 



By H. Spencek Jones, F. R. S. 
Astronomer Royal, Royal Ohservatory, Greenunch 



[\Yith 5 plates] 



One of the results that hfis f ollo^ecl from the employment in astron- 
omy of larger and larger telescopes is a clearer recognition of the 
vastness of the universe. We see our Sun as an average sort of star, 
eccentrically situated in a disk-shaped stellar system containing some- 
thing like 100,000 million stars and of such great extent that light 
takes more than 100,000 years to travel from one end of it to the other. 
The depths of space are peopled by myriads more of such systems, not 
differing greatly in size and general structure, at an average distance 
apart of the order of 1 million light-years. With long exposures on 
fast plates under good conditions, the 100-inch telescope can just reveal 
such systems at a distance of 500 million light-years. Within a sphere 
of this radius there are about 100 million systems, yet there is no indi- 
cation of any thinning out in the distribution at the extreme limit to 
which the largest telescope can reach. 

IS THE EARTH UNIQUE? 

The universe being on so vast a scale, the question is inevitably sug- 
gested whether life is to be found elsewhere than on our own little 
Earth. Is the Earth unique in the whole of creation? I think that 
most people would find it difficult to believe that this can be so; for 
there to be but one home of life in the great universe seems such a waste 
of creation. 

What has astronomy to say on this question? Though it does not 
provide a definite answer, we can get some evidence that at least sug- 
gests what the probable answer should be. It is not possible to discuss 
the question, however, without making certain assumptions. Suppose, 
in the first place, we could prove that there were other worlds where 
conditions resembled generally those on the Earth. Life could exist, 
of course, on those worlds but would it be legitimate to assume that, 
just as life has somehow come into existence on our own Earth, it 

I Reprinted by permission from Discovery, n. s., vol. 2, No. 10, Jan. 1939. 

145 



146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

would also have come into existence on the other similar worlds? 
There are many who take the view that life on the Earth is the result 
of a special act of creation and that only by a similar special act of 
creation could life come into being on any other world. If we accept 
this view, no further discussion is possible. On the other hand, we 
may take what seems to me the more rational view, that life somehow 
came into existence on the Earth because conditions were favorable 
for it ; and that if elsewhere in the universe the conditions are favor- 
able, there life will be found either now or in the future. 

COMPOSITION OF THE LIVING CELL 

Suppose, in the second place, we find that there are worlds on which 
conditions are so different from those with which we are familiar that 
no form of life to be found on the Earth could exist under them. Will 
it be legitimate to assume that such worlds must be devoid of life? It 
might be supposed that the forms of life that exist on the Earth have 
developed, through the slow process of evolution, in adaptation to those 
conditions and that on another world, where conditions are entirely 
different, types of life bearing no resemblance to any terrestrial forms 
might have developed. Living cells of both plant and animal life 
on the Earth, though they show a diversity in structure, all consist 
primarily of the elements carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen; 
sulphur, phosphorus, potash, soda, lime, and other substances may 
be present in smaller quantities. It is conceivable that on another 
world the living cells might have a different composition. They might, 
for instance, contain silicon in place of carbon and, as a result of this 
difference, they might be able to exist at temperatures high enough to 
destroy all terrestrial forms of life. I think that such a possibility 
must be ruled out. The same elements, subject to the same chemical 
laws, are to be found throughout the universe. Moreover, there is no 
reason why cells of such different composition should not exist on the 
Earth, yet we do not find them. 

"COMPLEX AND FRAGILE" 

Assuming, then, that there must be a general uniformity in composi- 
tion of the elementary cells, wherever life may exist, we have some 
justification for concluding that certain essential conditions are neces- 
sary for life of any sort to be possible. The molecular structure of all 
living cells is both complex and fragile. A molecule of the protein 
called albumen, for instance, is built up of 72 atoms of carbon, 112 
atoms of hydrogen, 18 atoms of nitrogen, 12 atoms of oxygen and 1 atom 
of sulphur. Such complex structures are readily broken up. High 
temperatures are very effective in breaking up these complicated mole- 
cules. All forms of life that we know are very sensitive to heat, and the 



LIFE IN OTHER WORLDS JONES 147 

surest -way of killing any form of life is to subject it to a high tempera- 
ture. We boil water of doubtful purity because germs, which may be 
resistant to many destructive agents, cannot long survive at the tem- 
perature of boiling water. The more complex the form of life the more 
susceptible it becomes to any destructive agency because, if the proto- 
plasm of essential cells is destroyed, the proper functioning of the 
organism is upset and the death of other cells, and eventually of the 
whole organism, as a rule results. 

Low temperatures are also effective in destroying life, though some 
forms of life can withstand extreme cold for long periods. In such 
cases, however, there seems to be a state of suspended animation, in 
which all vital processes cease until the temperature is raised. Life 
becomes arrested or latent; the chemical structure is uninjured but 
chemical change is stopped. We cannot conceive that, if such condi- 
tions prevailed on any world, life could develop. There cannot possibly 
be development if all vital processes are suspended. We can therefore 
conclude that a world where there is a very high or a very low tem- 
perature is unlikely to be the home of any sort of life. 

Satisfactory conditions of temperature are not in themselves suffi- 
cient. A further essential condition would seem to be the presence of 
water, either in the liquid form or as vapor. It is by imbibing water 
containing the chemical substances on which they feed that cells grow 
and divide. Neither seeds nor spores will germinate in soil that is 
devoid of moisture, and water is an essential constituent of the tissues 
of both animal and vegetable life. In the absence of moisture life, 
when not actually destroyed, becomes latent. Most forms of life with 
which we are familiar are dependent for their activity upon the pres- 
ence of free oxygen, though the absence of oxygen does not seem to be 
necessarily fatal to every form of life. Carbon dioxide is favorable for 
the existence of vegetable life. Many other gases are poisonous to life : 
ammonia, clilorine, carbon monoxide, and sulphuretted hydrogen all 
have a marked toxic action. Though their presence in the atmosphere 
of any world would not necessarily prove conclusively that there could 
be no life on it, it would provide some evidence against its probability. 

The presence in the atmosphere of any world of water vapor, oxygen, 
and carbon dioxide would therefore be evidence in favor of the possi- 
bility of the existence of life ; the absence of these, combined with the 
presence of poisonous gases, would be evidence against the possibility 
of its existence. The absence of any atmosphere would necessarily be 
conclusive proof that life could not exist. 

We can at once rule out of consideration the Sun and all other stars. 
The temperatures of the coolest stars are so high that only the simplest 
compounds can exist in their outer layers. The complicated molecular 

197855 — 40 11 



148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

structures of living cells would inevitably be broken up at these high 
temperatures, so that no life could exist. Our search for the possi- 
bility of the existence of life must therefore be directed to the cooler 
bodies — the planets and satellites, associated as in our solar system 
with a parent sun. But there we come up against the difficulty that 
the stars are so distant that any planetary systems they may possess 
are far beyond the reach of our most powerful telescopes. We cannot 
hope to see them ; still less can we hope to learn anything about their 
temperatures and atmospheres. All that is possible is to study in 
detail the planets in the solar system and then to consider what gen- 
eral conclusions may be drawn from this information, supplemented 
by general considerations. 

ATMOSPHERES OP THE PLANETS 

The quest is not altogether hopeless, for we can measure the tem- 
peratures of the planets by means of sensitive instruments, such as 
the bolometer, and we can learn something about the constitution of 
their atmospheres by spectroscopic examination. The planets are not 
self-luminous : we see a planet by means of light from the Sun that 
has fallen upon the planet and has been reflected or scattered back. 
Suppose a planet has an atmosphere: the light by which we see it 
started from the Sun, penetrated to a greater or less extent into the 
planetary atmosphere, reaching possibly, though not necessarily, the 
surface of the planet, and then came out again. This light will 
differ from the light that we receive directly from the Sun, because 
of the absorption of certain wave lengths in the atmosphere of the 
planet. By comparing the spectrum of sunlight with the spectrum 
of the planet's light, we may hope to identify the absorption produced 
by the planet's atmosphere and to be able to assign its origin. But a 
complicating factor is produced by the atmosphere of the Earth, 
through which we view both the Sun and the planet. Absorptions 
occur also in this atmosphere, produced by water vapor, oxygen, ozone, 
carbon dioxide, and other substances. We can identify in two differ- 
ent ways the absorptions in the spectrum of the Sun that originate 
in the Earth's atmosphere. If we compare the spectra of the east 
and west limbs of the Sun with that of the center of the disk, absorp- 
tion lines originating on the Sun will be slightly displaced in the 
spectra of the limbs, and in opposite directions for the two limbs, 
with respect to the corresponding lines in the spectrum of the center 
of the disk; this is merely an effect due to the rotation of the Sun. 
Lines originating in the Earth's atmosphere will occupy the same 
position in all three spectra. The second method is to compare the 
spectra of the Sun photographed at different altitudes. The lower 
the altitude, the greater the length of the path of the light through 



LIFE IN OTHER WORLDS JONES 149 

our atmosphere and the greater, therefore, the absorption produced 
by the atmosphere. 

The spectrum of the planet may show some absorptions that are not 
to be found in the spectrum of the Sun, and other absorptions that 
are present in the spectrum of the Sun but that are known to be of 
terrestrial origin. The former can be attributed at once to the atmos- 
phere of the planet; the latter may or may not be produced by the 
atmosphere of the planet as well as by our own atmosphere. We can 
endeavor to distinguish between the two possibilities by photograph- 
ing the spectra of the Sun and the planet when the two bodies are at 
the same altitude and comparing the intensities of the absorptions. 

If they are stronger in the spectrum of the planet relatively to 
absorptions of solar origin, there must be absorption in the planetary 
atmosphere superposed on absorption in our atmosphere. The 
principle is simple but its application is not always easy. 

VELOCITY OF ESCAPE 

The most detailed information about the constitution of planetary 
atmospheres can be obtained by observations at an observatory on 
a mountain or high plateau. Most of the information that we possess 
has been derived from observations at the Mount Wilson Observatory, 
and at the Flagstaff Observatory, Arizona. 

We can infer something, however, about the atmospheres of the 
planets without making any observations at all. A planet can retain 
an atmosphere only by virtue of its gravitational pull. If we could 
imagine our globe to be suddenly annihilated, leaving the atmospheric 
shell undisturbed, the atmosphere would rapidly dissipate into space. 
It is the gravitational pull of the Earth that prevents this dissipation. 
A rocket shot off from the Earth will be drawn back by the force of 
gravitation unless the velocity of projection exceeds 7 miles a second. 
This critical velocity is called the velocity of escape. For any other 
planet the velocity of escape will have a different value, the square of 
the velocity being proportional to the mass of the planet and inversely 
proportional to the radius. Because, as we shall see, this velocity is 
a very important criterion, the values for several bodies are tabulated : 

Miles per 
second 

Moon 1. 5 

Mercury 2. 2 

Venus 6. 5 

Earth 7.0 

Mars 3.1 

Jupiter 38.0 

Saturn 23. 

Uranus 13.0 

Neptune 14.0 

Sun 386.0 



150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

In every cubic inch of the air that we breathe there are some 500 
million billion minute particles called molecules, flying about rapidly 
in all directions and continually colliding with each other. The lighter 
the molecule the higher is its average speed. The average speed of a 
molecule of hydrogen is I14 miles a second, whereas the average speed 
of a molecule of oxygen or nitrogen is not much greater than one- 
fourth mile a second. Consider what is happening at the top of the 
atmosphere; there will frequently be molecules that rebound after 
a collision with a speed several times as great as the average speed. 
Suppose hydrogen molecules are present : the speed of some of these 
might well exceed 7 miles a second, the velocity of escape from the 
Earth. If they happened to rebound in a direction away from the 
Earth, they will escape from the Earth's gravitational pull, unless 
they should happen to collide with some other molecule. A slow 
escape of hydrogen from the outer layers of the Earth's atmosphere 
would therefore be expected. The atmosphere of the Earth, in fact, 
contains little or no hydrogen, the reason being that it has gradually 
slipped away into space. For nitrogen and oxygen, on the other 
hand, the velocity of escape is more than 20 times greater than the 
average speed of the molecules. Velocities so much greater than the 
average will rarely be reached, so that oxygen and nitrogen are held 
prisoners by the invisible but powerful bonds of the Earth's 
gravitation. 

THE ATMOSPHERE OF THE MOON 

Now contrast the Moon and Jupiter with the Earth. It is rather 
more difficult for the Moon to hold an atmosphere of oxygen and 
nitrogen than it is for the Earth to hold an atmosphere of hydrogen. 
The Earth has existed long enough to lose its hydrogen and so we 
may anticipate that the Moon has lost not merely hydrogen but 
also oxygen, nitrogen, and water vapor and that it may be entirely 
devoid of atmosphere. The velocity of escape from Jupiter, on the 
other hand, is so high that it is impossible even for hydrogen, the 
lightest of all substances, to be lost. We may accordingly expect to 
find a very extensive atmosphere on Jupiter. 

These expectations are fully confirmed by observation. The start- 
ling suddenness with which a star disappears when the Moon passes 
in front of it, or occults it, proves that there can be no atmosphere. 
If there were any atmosphere, the light from the star would be re- 
fracted through it and the star would disappear gradually. The Moon 
is the nearest to us of the heavenly bodies and its surface can be studied 
in considerable detail. We see mountain ranges; many ring-shaped 
mountains, both small and large ; great plains ; and narrow cracks or 
fissures in its surface. But there are no oceans, lakes or rivers ; if these 
ever existed on the Moon, they have gradually evaporated and the 



LIFE IN OTHER WORLDS — JONES 151 

water vapor has dissipated into space. If there were a lunar inhabitant 
equipped with a powerful telescope, he would be able to see many 
signs of human activity on the Earth. No signs of the activities of 
lunar inhabitants are to be seen on the Moon ; it is a dead world, with- 
out any atmosphere and without any water and therefore entirely 
devoid of life. 

THE PLANETS 

Jupiter. — The appearance of Jupiter is far different. We see mark- 
ings in the form of bright patches and dark patches, arranged for the 
most part in belts parallel to the equator. At first sight, these mark- 
ings might be thought to be surface features. But further examina- 
tion shows that they are continually changing and that the appear- 
ance is never twice the same. All that we can see on Jupiter are cloud 
formations ; we can never penetrate to the solid surface of the planet. 
Analysis by the spectroscope of the light from Jupiter reveals an at- 
mosphere very different from our own. We can find no trace of oxy- 
gen, or of carbon dioxide, or of water vapor. The absence of water 
vapor is not to be wondered at, for when we measure the temperature 
of Jupiter we find it to be about —200° F., so that any moisture would 
be precipitated as ice or snow. The prominent features of the spectrum 
of Jupiter are strongly marked absorptions characteristic of ammonia 
md of marsh gas, the poisonous gas that the miner knows as fire damp. 

Strange though an atmosphere containing pungent ammonia and 
poisonous marsh gas may seem, it is precisely the type of atmosphere 
that might have been predicted. Jupiter, in common with the other 
planets, was formed from matter ejected by the Sun. The Sun con- 
sists largely of hydrogen, and Jupiter, when it was first formed, must 
also have contained a large proportion of hydrogen. The great gravi- 
tational pull of Jupiter prevented this hydrogen from escaping. As 
Jupiter cooled, the oxygen in its atmosphere combined with some of 
the hydrogen to form water vapor and this, with further cooling, was 
deposited on the surface as a thick layer of ice. Nitrogen and carbon 
also combined with some of the excess hydrogen to form saturated 
compounds. The most volatile compounds of hydrogen with nitrogen 
and carbon are ammonia and marsh gas, respectively, and these are 
the gases that we should expect to find in the atmosphere of Jupiter. 
We infer also, though we cannot test it by observation, that there must 
be a great deal of hydrogen in the atmosphere. A poisonous atmos- 
phere, containing neither oxygen, carbon dioxide, nor moisture, com- 
bined with an extremely low temperature, must make any form of 
life quite out of the question. 

The other large planets, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune, can be 
briefly disposed of. Being more distant from the Sun than Jupiter, 
their temperatures must be appreciably lower. For the planets have 



152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

no residual heat of their own. There is a balance between the heat 
they receive from the Sim and the heat they radiate back into space. 
The farther from the Sun a planet is, the less is the heat that falls on 
unit area of its surface; the lower, therefore, must be the average 
surface temperature. These three planets are all sufficiently massive 
to have retained their hydrogen ; marsh gas is a prominent constituent 
of all their atmospheres, but ammonia becomes less prominent as, with 
an increasing degree of cold, it is frozen out of the atmosphere. The 
temperature of Neptune is so low that nitrogen could only exist on it 
in the solid state. We need not look for life on these distant frozen 
wastes. 

Mercury. — Returning to the nearer planets, it will be noticed that 
the velocity of escape from Mercury is not much higher than that from 
the Moon. Mercury always turns the same face to the Sun, so that 
one hemisphere has perpetual day and the other has ])erpetual night. 
The sunlit face is intensely hot; where the Sun is overhead it is as 
hot as a bath of molten zinc. This high temperature would facilitate 
the escape of any atmosphere, because the higher the temperature the 
faster the molecules move. We must conclude that Mercury, in com- 
mon with the Moon, is devoid of any atmosphere and is a dead, arid 
world. The surface of the planet shows nothing more than extremely 
faint markings, only observable with great difficulty; it is probably 
a uniform plain, with no very distinctive features. 

Venus. — Venus and Mars have special interest and require more 
detailed consideration. Venus is the planet most nearly equal to the 
Earth, both in size and in weight. The velocity of escape from Venus 
being nearly the same as from the Earth, Ave expect to find an ex- 
tensive atmosphere on Venus, though the hydrogen will have escaped. 
The telescope confirms this, for we find Venus to be covered with a 
dense permanent layer of clouds, which entirely obscures her surface. 
Faint, ill-defined markings are sometimes seen, but they have no 
permanence. 

There has been a great development in recent years in the use of 
photographic plates sensitive to the infrared light, the light of long 
wave length to which the eye is not sensitive, for the photography of 
distant landscapes, because the infrared light is able to penetrate 
haze or fog much more easily than the light of short wave length, the 
blue, violet and ultraviolet light to which ordinary photographic plates 
are sensitive. Venus has been photographed using these infrared-sensi- 
tive, or haze-cutting plates in the hope that something of her surface 
might be revealed. But such plates show no more than our eyes can 
see. The cloud layer is too thick. 

The temperature of Venus has been measured. The temperature 
of the sunlit face reaches 80° or 90° F., while that of the dark face falls 



LIFE IN OTHER WORLDS JONES 153 

to about 40° below freezing point. Venus has a long day; its length is 
not known exactly but it is somewhere about 30 of our days. This 
explains the great difference between the midday and midnight tem- 
peratures on Venus. The temperatures on the surface of Venus, below 
the permanent layer of cloud, are likely to be appreciably higher than 
the measured temperatures. The temperature conditions on Venus are 
certainly not such as to make life impossible. 

Wliat about her atmosphere ? No evidence of the presence of either 
oxygen or water vapor has been found. The tests for oxygen are very 
sensitive; those for water vapor are less sensitive, but the failure to 
detect the presence of water vapor is surprising because the clouds on 
Venus must almost certainly be clouds of water vapor, similar to the 
clouds in our atmosphere. The explanation is probably that the atmos- 
phere above the cloud layer is pretty dry. There may be a very humid 
atmosphere below the clouds. One important fact has been estab- 
lished — an abundance of carbon dioxide, very greatly in excess of the 
amount in our own atmosphere, is present in the atmosphere of Venus. 

The scarcity of oxygen, combined with the abundance of carbon 
dioxide, provides a clue to the conditions prevailing on Venus. On a 
cooling planet of the size of Venus we should expect to find both 
water vapor and carbon dioxide evolved from the molten rocky mass 
as it cooled and solidified. We should not expect to find oxygen, 
because oxygen is a chemically active element and does not like to 
exist alone. The surprising thing is not the absence of oxygen in 
the atmosphere of Venus, but the abundance of it in our own atmos- 
phere. The oxygen is continually being depleted from our atmosphere 
by combining with other substances and there must be a source of 
replenishment. This is undoubtedly provided by the vegetation on 
the Earth's surface, which extracts carbon dioxide from the air and 
uses the carbon for building up the plant cells, giving out oxygen. 
The supply of carbon dioxide is in turn replenished by processes such 
as combustion, respiration, and the decay of vegetable matter. When 
life started on the Earth there was probably plenty of carbon dioxide 
but comparatively little oxygen in the atmosphere. We seem to see in 
Venus a world where the conditions are somewhat similar to those that 
the Earth passed through millions of years ago. Any life on Venus 
can be, at the most, primitive plant life. It is possible that life may be 
in process of gradual development and that in the millions of years 
to come, when life on the Earth may be nearing extinction, Venus 
may be the home of higher and higher types of life. 

Mars. — The last of the planets to be considered is Mars, the most 
interesting of all the planets. In the telescope it appears as a beautiful 
orange-colored object, on which misty dark markings can be seen. 
These markings are permanent, and we see them carried round as the 



154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

planet rotates in a day that is some 40 minutes longer than our day. 
Careful observation shows that these markings undergo changes, both 
of form and of coloration, which are in part seasonal in character. 
Around whichever pole is visible there is seen a bright white cap ; the 
two polar caps show regular seasonal changes in size, growing in the 
winter and shrinking in the summer. Their appearance suggests some- 
thing similar to the regions of ice and snow around the poles of the 
Earth, though from the rate at which they melt as the summer ad- 
vances it can be inferred that the Martian polar caps are not more 
than a few inches in thickness. 

There has been much controversy over the existence of the so-called 
canals on Mars, a geometrical network of perfectly straight, narrow, 
and sharply defined lines connecting up the dark markings, which 
some observers claim to have seen. The American astronomer, Percival 
Lowell, built up a romantic theory about these canals. He regarded 
them as irrigation channels, carrying water to the dark regions or 
oases from the melting polar caps. His conclusion was that the canals 
were artificial structures, made by a race of intelligent Martian be- 
ings, who were engaged in a desperate struggle for existence on a 
semiarid planet. Lowell's geometrical network of sharply defined 
canals has not been confirmed, however, by the most keen-sighted ob- 
servers, with the largest telescopes, observing under the most favor- 
able conditions. It seems that they are an illusion of vision, arising 
from a psychological tendency for the eye, when looking at something 
that is almost at the limit of vision, to connect up detail by narrow 
lines to form a geometrical pattern. We must abandon Lowell's 
theory. What is certain is that we can see markings on the surface 
of Mars, and that these undergo seasonal changes, which seem to 
indicate the seasonal growth of vegetation. 

PROOFS OF AN ATMOSPHERE 

The low velocity of escape from Mars suggests that, if Mars has 
an atmosphere, it must be very tenuous. We obtain direct proof that 
it has an atmosphere by taking photographs in infrared and ultra- 
violet light. The infrared photographs show the surface markings 
clearly; the ultraviolet photographs do not show them at all. The 
scattering of the ultraviolet light by the atmosphere is enough to pre- 
vent its penetrating to the surface and out again. The images in 
ultraviolet light are larger than those in infrared light, and a compar- 
ison of them shows that the atmosphere has a considerable depth — not 
less than 60 miles. Comparison with terrestrial photographs taken 
under favorable conditions suggests, nevertheless, that the total atmos- 
pheric pressure on Mars does not amount to more than a few percent 
of that at the surface of the Earth. 



LIFE IN OTHER WORLDS — JONES 155 

Another proof of an atmosphere on Mars is the appearance of 
clouds. These are of two kinds. Some are shown clearly in the 
ultraviolet photographs and not in the infrared ; such clouds must be 
high up in the atmosphere and sufficiently thin to allow the infrared 
light to pass through. Other clouds are seen in the infrared and not 
in the ultraviolet photographs; they must be low-lying clouds of 
water vapor, seen through a yellowish atmosphere. 

Endeavors to detect oxygen and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere of 
Mars have so far been unsuccessful, and it can be concluded that the 
amounts of these gases in the Martian atmosphere are less than one- 
tenth of 1 percent of the amounts in our atmosphere. Water vapor 
must undoubtedly be present for, although there are no open seas on 
Mars, the polar caps must be caps of ice or snow. Water vapor has 
been detected, in fact, at the Lowell Observatory, by comparing the 
spectra of Mars and the Moon at the same altitude, under conditions 
of exceptional atmospheric dryness. The reddish color of much of 
the surface of Mars is probably due to the oxidation of iron-bearing 
ores by atmospheric oxygen and is in marked contrast to the gray 
unoxidized rocks on the Moon. It is probable that there is still a 
little, though not much, oxygen in the atmosphere. 

The extreme tenuity of the Martian atmosphere is responsible for 
great diurnal variations of temperature; a scanty atmosphere, with 
very little moisture in it, does not have much blanketing effect. Near 
noon, in the equatorial regions, the temperature rises to about 50° F. ; 
but in the afternoon, as the Sun gets lower, the temperature falls 
rapidly. After sunset the cold becomes intense and the minimum 
temperature at night is about 130° below zero. With such an enor- 
mous daily range of temperature, the conditions for any form of life 
must be very trying. Whether animal life can exist seems doubtful, 
though it is impossible to assert that life may not have evolved to 
suit those conditions. In Mars we see a world where conditions 
resemble those that will probably prevail on our Earth many millions 
of years hence, when most of our present atmosphere will have been 
lost. Mars appears to be a planet of spent or nearly spent life. 

This brief survey of the planets in the solar system has not given 
any clear indication of life elsewhere than on the Earth, with the 
probable exception of some vegetation on Mars. It seems that Mars 
is a planet where life may be on the verge of becoming extinct and 
that Venus is a planet on which life may be on the verge of coming 
into existence. Elsewhere there is no life of any sort. 

PLANETS IN OTHER SYSTEMS 

But what is the likelihood that other stars have planets associated 
with them and that life may exist on some of these? To assess the 
probability that other stars have systems of planets we must be able 



156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

to account for the origin of the solar system. This is one of the most 
difficult problems in astronomy, which has not yet been completely 
solved in a satisfactory manner. The only hypothesis which seems 
to account for the facts is to suppose that a few thousand million years 
ago another star passed close to the Sun. The passage of the star 
raised a great tidal protuberance on the Sun, which became greater 
and greater until a long jet of matter was drawn out. As the stranger 
star passed on its way, the tidal wave on the Sun subsided but the 
matter drawn out from the Sun broke up and condensed into planets. 
The stars are so far apart that such a close encounter of two stars 
can rarely happen ; calculation suggests that it may occur about once 
in 5,000 million years. Hence planetary systems are not the rule, 
but very much the exception, and in our stellar universe there can be 
but few stars, in addition to the Sun, which have systems of planets 
attached to them. 

In any planetary system, everything seems to be weighted against 
the possibility of the existence of life. If the planet is too near its 
parent sun, it will be too hot for life to exist; if it is too far away, 
it will be too cold. If it is much smaller than the Earth, it cannot 
retain any atmosphere. If it is much larger, it will have retained 
too much atmosphere, for when hydrogen cannot escape, the forma- 
tion of the poisonous gases, ammonia and marsh gas, appear to be 
almost inevitable. 

"IT SEEMS PROBABLE THAT THERE ARE OTHER WORLDS WHERE 

LIFE EXISTS" 

Amongst the vast number of stars in any one stellar universe, we 
should expect to find only a limited number with a family of planets ; 
and amongst these families of planets there cannot be more than a 
small proportion where conditions exist that make life possible. On 
the other hand we must remember the vastness of creation ; there are 
about 100 million separate universes in the region of space accessible 
to observation, and we know not how many more beyond. If in each 
universe there are not more than two or three dozen stars with families 
of planets, the total number of planetary systems within the relatively 
small region of space that we can survey is immensely great. If the 
proportion of planets on which life can exist is not more than one 
in a million — and our survey of the solar system suggests that this is 
a considerable underestimate — the total number of planets where con- 
ditions are suitable for life must be considerable. So it seems probable 
that there are other worlds where life exists, though that life may be 
entirely different from any form of life with which we are familiar. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Jones 



Plate 1 




I. Jupiter. Photographed in Ultraviolet light (Above) and in infrared 

LIGHT (BELOW). 

The markings shown are in each case atmospheric. 




2. Spectra of the Moon. Jupiter. Saturn. Uranus, and Neptune. 

The bands due to marsh gas, which become progressively stronger from Jupiter to Neptune, are marked at 
the bottom. The faint marked band in the spectrum of Jupiter is due to ammonia. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Jones 



Plate 2 




Moon. Showing Mare Imbrium. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Jones 



Plate 3 







1. Photographs of Mars in Ultraviolet Light. Showing Atmosphere 
(left). and in infrared light, showing surface (right). 

Opposite halves are juxtaposed below, to show larger size of ultraviolet image, due to the considerable depth 

of atmosphere. 



^^^ IhS i^^^ 



2. PHOTOGRAPHS OF MARS IN ULTRAVIOLET. GREEN. YELLOW (ABOVE), RED, 
INFRARED. AND VIOLET (BELOW). 

The surface details become progressively clearer with increase in wave length of light. The rotation of the 
planet (the direction of the axis indicated in the first image) causes the dark markings to move across the 
disk. The cloud, shown faintly near the center of the disk in the first image, is beginning to form near 
noon; in the last image it is well shown near the limit, havng become strong by late afternoon. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Jones 



Plate 4 




SMALL star-Cloud in Sagittarius, Showing Large Number of stars in 

Milky Way regions. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939.- Jones 



Plate 5 




Nebula in Coma Berenices, a Stellar Universe Seen Edgewise on. 



USE OF SOLAR ENERGY FOR HEATING WATER 



By F. A. Brooks 
Agricultural Engineer, California Agricultural Experiment Station 



[With 3 plates] 



Direct use of solar energy as heat is now being made by several 
thousand solar water heaters in Florida, California, and the South. 
Successful use depends, of course, on the number and regularity of 
sunshine days and on the proper design of the heating system. There 
are two common types of solar water heaters and several methods of 
combining the solar heater with other water-heating systems. 

Recommendations for installations and construction of solar water 
heaters are to be found on pages 174 to 181. Investigations and experi- 
ments in California - concerning water temperatures and the rates of 
heating water in different solar-heater systems are described on 
pages 161 to 174. Methods of steam generation, distilling, and cooking 
by solar energy in which Dr. Abbot uses aluminum reflectors to ob- 
tain high temperatures have been described in a previous publication 
of the Institution.^ 

AVAILABILITY OP SOLAR ENERGY 

The amount of radiant energy coming from the sun is almost con- 
stant — 7.15 B. t. u.* per square foot each minute — on a surface per- 
pendicular to the sun's rays outside the earth's atmosphere.^ Re- 
flection and scattering of the sun's rays occurs in the outer atmosphere 
by dust and water and gas molecules. Absorption there is mainly by 
ozone. In the lower atmosphere reflection by clouds and absorption 
by the water vapor and carbon dioxide gases and by smoke and dust 
further diminishes the solar radiation reaching the earth's surface. 

Atmospheric depletion of solar energy. — The large variation in 
energy received on the earth's surface on clear days at the same time 

1 Material selected from University of California College of Agriculture Bull. 602, 1936. 

- Brooks, F. A., Solar energy and its use for heating water in California. Univ. Cali- 
fornia, Coll. Agr. Bull. 602, 64 pp., 1936. 

s Abbot, C. G., Utilizing heat from the sun. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 98, No. 6. 
publ. 3530, pp. 1-11, 1939. 

* B. t. u., or British thermal unit, which is the quantity of heat required to raise the 
temperature of 1 pound of water 1° F. 

"Abbot, Charles G.. The Sun. 2 ed., 433 pp. (see specifically p. 296). D. Appleton & 
Co., New York, 1929. 

157 



158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

of year indicates great differences in the composition of the atmosphere 
and in the quantity of suspended particles of smoke and dust. Ob- 
servations by Coblentz and Kahler* near Washington, D. C, show 
that the total solar energy received at sea level may vary even on 
clear days 25 percent (from 3.64 to 4.86 B. t. u. per square foot 
minute) at noontime in September. The absorptive effect of heavy 
smoke over large industrial areas can be judged by the simultaneous 
observations showing that the intensity of sunshine in Chicago may be 
only 55 percent of that at Madison, Wis.^ Except during great dust 
storms, the depletion due to dust in the atmosphere is less obvious than 
that due to smoke. The usual fine atmospheric dust, when considered 
as including smoke, haze, and liquid particles, can be estimated as 
causing about 10 percent depletion ^ at midday and, of course, more 
as the sun approaches the horizon and the sun's rays pass more 
obliquely through air for a greater distance. 

Solar energy received on a horizontal surface at the ground. — The 
regular Weather Bureau pyrheliometers measure the insolation on a 
horizontal surface inside an evacuated spherical glass. The readings, 
being based on a calibration with an uncovered master pyrheliometer, 
indicate the amount of solar energy received horizontally outside the 
instrument. Figure 1 shows the average daily record for clear weather 
at Fresno, Calif., in July and December, 1933. The most important 
seasonal variation is the number of hours of sunshine per day — nearly 
15 in midsummer, but only a little more than 9 in midwint-er. Another 
seasonal variation that greatly reduces midwinter solar energy re- 
ceived on a horizontal surface is the height of the sun in the sky. At 
Fresno this is represented by cosines of the angles of incidence of 0.97 
at noon in July and of 0.60 at noon in December. 

The graphic areas under the curves of figure 1 represent the total 
energies received on clear days. Any cloudiness would reduce the 
amount of energy received, and prolonged shade at noon would se- 
riously interfere with the operation of a solar heater. The clear-day 
records in figure 1 show the winter energy to be 37 percent of the 
summer, but the total energy received during the whole month of 
December was only one-sixth of that received in July. These figures 
indicate that the average December cloudiness deprived Fresno of 
more than half the maximum total energy. This is a seasonal effect in 
the central valleys of California because cloudiness is .rare in the 
summer. 



« Coblentz, W. W., and Kahler, H., A new spectropyrheliometer and measurements of 
the component radiations from the sun. Dep. Commerce, Sci. Pap. Bur. Standards, vol. 
16, Pap. 378, pp. 240-41, 1921. 

' Kimball, H. H., The distribution of energy in the visible spectrum of sunlight, sky- 
light, and total daylight. Int. Uluminating Congr., Pap. No. 12* p. 10, 1928. 



SOLAR ENERGY FOR "WATER HEATING — BROOKS 



159 



\ 



^ /so 

\ 

5j /-fo 
\ 

Cv /BO 

% 

SO 













































/ 




^, 
























y 


/ 




> 


SvJi. 


'y 




















/ 








\ 




















/ 


f 










\ 


















/ 












\ 


















/ 












\ 
















/ 
















\ 














/ 






y 




N, 






\ 














/ 




J 


/ 




\ 


'?ece/ 
c/eat 


vier 


,\ 












j 






/ 








\ 






\ 










/ 






/ 








\ 


\ 




\ 










/ 
















\ 




\ 








j 


















\ 






\ 










i 














\ 


\ 




\ 




J 


J 




/ 
















\ 




\ 


ll 


/ 




/ 


/ 
















\ 


\ 




\ 



//../ 



Sarr> S 7 S 9 /P // /2 /loo/? / 2 S -4 ^^ 

r//77e o/' aby 

FiGDBH 1. — Average hourly solar radiation (direct plus diffuse) received on a horizontal 
surface at Fresno, Calif., in July and on clear days in December 1933. 



NUMBER OF DAYS OF SUNSHINE 

Reports of the number of clear, partly cloudy, and cloudy days for 
a large number of stations in each State are published by the United 
States Department of Agriculture as "Climatological Data" in the 
United States Monthly Weather Review. A few stations give pyr- 
heliometer measurements by the week, and several stations report 
the percentages of possible sunshine, but for a general understanding 
one must use the rough cloudiness reports. By definition ^ "partly 
cloudy" indicates sunshine, on the average, for about half the day. 
In estimating, therefore, the total number of days of available sun- 

8 "Clear" means that the sun is obscured for from to 0.3 of the day ; "partly cloudy" 
for from 0.4 to 0.7 ; and "cloudy" means that the sun is obscured for from 0.8 to the 
whole day. 



160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

shine, one may reasonably include half the number of "partly cloudy" 
days with the number of "clear" days. This arbitrary interpretation 
of the reports for 10 years shows a consistent distribution of sunshine 
throughout California. Large variations occur annually and there 
are pronounced local differences. The effect of a low coastal range is 
seen in the 10-year average of 204 sunshine daj's per year near the 
ocean at Santa Ana compared with 310 at Corona 20 miles inland. 
Another striking contrast is from 215 sunshine days annually at San 
Francisco to 302 days at Alvarado only 23 miles away across the 
lower bay. 

Where there is much more cloudiness during the winter than at 
other times of the year, it can be expected that solar heaters will be 
used only during the warmer seasons. In these cases the study of 
number of sunshine days is better restricted to the normal growing 
season from the average latest spring frost to the average earliest fall 
frost. In California the major agricultural areas have the equivalent 
of 7 months or more of sunshine between frosts. 

ABSORPTION OF SOLAR ENERGY 

The absorption and emission of radiant energy depends upon the 
temperature and surface characteristics of the body in question, the 
relation of the surface to its surroundings, and the temperature and 
radiation characteristics of the surroundings. The temperature of 
the sun's surface (more than 11,000° F.)^ is so great that the predomi- 
nant radiation is in short wave lengths largely in the visible region. 
Radiation from substances at terrestrial temperatures is relatively in 
long wave lengths, the peak being at about 10 microns. In general 
the absorptivity for solar radiation varies roughly as the visual dark- 
ness of the surface — any brightness indicating some reflection and 
consequently a deficiency in absorption or transmission of the visual 
short-wave radiation. Long-wave emissivity or absorptivity cannot 
be judged visually. Common building materials, paints, and roofg 
(except asbestos and metals) have nearly perfect emitting surfaces for 
long-wave radiation. 

Long- wave radiation from the atmosphere is in strong spectral bands 
in accordance with the radiation characteristics of water vapor, carbon 
dioxide, and ozone. The rate of incoming atmospheric radiation varies 
with moisture content and follows strongly the temperature variation 
of the air near the ground. In general the net exchange of long-wave 
radiation between the earth and the sky is outgoing — to balance the 
incoming short-wave insolation. At night during the winter radiation 
frosts in Riverside, Calif., the net radiation loss rarely exceeds 0.5 
B. t. u. per square foot per minute for a black body. 

•Abbot, Charles G., The Sun. 2d ed., 433 pp. (see specifically p. 116). D. Appleton 
& Co., New York, 1929, 



SOLAR ENERGY FOR WATER HEATING — BROOKS 161 

A wliite surface out-of-doors acts partly as a one-way heat valve 
because it reflects most of the sunshine and yet at night readily emits 
ordinary heat waves to the cold sky. However, new galvanized iron, 
for example, has a solar absorptivity of 0.65 ^° and a long-wave emis- 
sivity of 0.23,^^ indicating high daytime heating and relatively low 
nocturnal cooling by radiation. Polished metals, particularly alumi- 
num, act as radiation shields, being excellent reflectors and also poor 
emitters. Such properties are valuable for minimizing diurnal 
temperature fluctuations. 

Glass is opaque to long-wave radiation and therefore acts as a solid 
surface in emitting ordinary heat waves. Sunshine or short-wave 
radiation is readily transmitted, only a few percent being absorbed by 
the glass itself and a small amount reflected. Hence in the sunshine, 
glass acts partly as a one-way heat valve in the opposite sense to the 
cooling effect of white surfaces, although for a different reason, namely 
transmission and opaqueness instead of reflection and emission for 
short- and long-wave radiation respectively. 

The effect of angle of incidence on the amoii/nt of light tramsmitted 
hy glass and dbsorhed hy a 'blaxih surface. — The total solar energy re- 
ceived by fixed glass-covered absorbers is considerably less than the 
total radiation impinging on a surface kept perpendicular to the direct 
rays of the sun throughout the day. The essential difference is that 
the effective reception area of a fixed surface is less than that of a 
normal surface in proportion to the cosine of the angle of incidence. 
There is also greater absorption by the glass and increasing reflection 
from the glass and absorber surfaces as the angle of incidence increases, 

EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS 

The useful heat output of a fixed solar-energy absorber depends pri- 
marily upon the short-wave energy received, which changes rapidly 
during the day and differs from day to day because the intensity of the 
sunshine varies with the season and with the character of the atmos- 
phere. Second, the useful heat output is affected by the heat losses of 
the absorber, which vary with temperature and wind. No single-day 
figure or curve, therefore, can be a standard. In order to compare the 
results of different experiments on different days, three different types 
of heaters (see pi. 1) were built by Charles Barbee and H. D. Lewis.^^ 
Simultaneous observations were made throughout the late summer and 
fall and are discussed in the following sections. 

Ideal thin^ fiat-tank solar-energy absorber. — Although some of the 
solar energy falling in the space between pipes can be utilized indi- 



wFowle, Frederick E., Smithsonian physical tables, 8th rev. ed. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., 
vol. 88, 686 pp. (see specifically p. 383), 1933. 

"McAdams, Wm. H., Heat transmission. 383 pp. (see siJeciflcally pp. 45-49). McGraw- 
Hill Book Co.. New York, 1933. 

12 Staff members of the Agricultural Engineering Division, California Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Davis, Calif. 



162 



ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 











































































< 


), 




























> 


° G 


























J 




o 


X 






















J 


to < 


1 




o 


8 




















J 










\ 


















" J 


r 










\ 


















/ 












\ 


\ 
















/ 














\ 














j 


J 














\ 


\ 












OJ 


















\ 










i 


'O 




















\ 








/ 






















o\ 


\ 





y/SO 
\ 

\ 

I 



6/}-M. 7 



SfiM. 



S /O // A'oo/? / 2 -^ 4 S 6 

"" o o r//7je of i^ay 

FiGUiiE 2. — UseJiui heat output of tbin flat-tank absorber on clear days, September 

23-27, 1935. 



rectly by convection of hot air, or by conduction through a cement bed, 
or by extended fin surface, the ideal absorber has a continuous black 
surface covering a thin sheet of water. This type is seen in the center 
of plate 1. The inherent disadvantage of the flat tank is its inability 
to withstand even low water pressures without an expensive construc- 
tion using heavy plate and many staybolts. Its high efficiency, due 
to minimum heat losses, is usually not economical in comparison with 
a larger, less efficient pipe absorber. 

Heat output of thin f.at-tanh absorber. — Figure 2 indicates the 
useful heat obtainable on clear days near the end of the usual solar- 
heater season. Midsummer values would be much higher. The data 
for this curve were obtained with water constantly flowing through 
a flat, thin tank 20.9 square feet in area with a single-glass cover, as 
shown in the center of plate 1. The rate of flow was maintained 
constant at about 1 quart per minute by gravity from the float chamber 
seen in plate 1, above and to the left of G. The discharge was into an 
open funnel, visible at the upper left-hand corner of the flat absorber. 
A noon temperature rise of about 40° F. above the inlet temperature 
of about 80° F. occurred, and the average absorber temperature was 



SOLAK ENERGY FOR WATER HEATING BROOKS 163 

somewhat above average air temperature, as would be the case in a 
solar water heater. The total useful heat obtained per day, as indi- 
cated by the area under the curve of figure 2, was 1,360 B. t. u. per 
square foot. There are large heat losses from the hot absorber box 
and considerable heat absorption by the insulation. The latter, though 
not a true loss, delays and lowers the peak of the curve in relation to 
the theoretical input. 

Exposed-tank solar water heater. — Simple, bare water boilers 
mounted outdoors where they will not be shaded have long been used 
during the summer for furnishing late afternoon hot showers. The 
tanks are usually horizontal or vertical, but experiments described 
later indicate that sloped mounting (pi. 2, fig. 1) is more effective. 
These exposed tanks cool nearly to air temperature at night and are 
useless before noon. 

The temperature rise in round-tank absorbers differs from that in 
thin flat-tank absorbers mainly because of the large water quantity 
associated with a given absorber area. The common 30-gallon hot- 
water boiler 1 foot in diameter by 5 feet long has such a poor ratio of 
area to volume that the water does not warm rapidly. Since larger- 
capacity tanks have even poorer ratios of area to volume, and smaller 
diameter would be special, this study by H. D. Lewis was confined to 
the regular 30-gallon tanks. 

Figure 3 shows the performance of exposed horizontal and sloped 
tanks which on calm days furnish enough hot water for two or three 
hot showers at 102° F. The horizontal tank on days with average 
air-day temperatures of 100° F. furnished 20 percent less hot water 
than the sloped tank even on days 10° colder. The horizontal tank is 
less efficient because all the sunshine falls on the hottest part of the 
tank. If the tank is sloped (pi. 2, fig. 1), the sun shines on the lower, 
cold end as well as on the upper hot end. In this case much of the 
colder water is heated directly at low temperature and with small 
heat loss. In all cases the average water temperature reached its 
maximum before 4 p. m. 

The lowest curve (fig. 3) indicating the heat output on a cold sum- 
mer day, shows the need for protecting the tank against cold air and 
wind ; but even so there is ample water for one hot shower. 

When the quantity of hot water available from a 30-gallon tank 
heater is not sufficient but the characteristic temperature performance 
is satisfactory, a larger quantity is obtained by using several tanks 
in parallel, with all the cold-water inlets connected together in one 
direction and all the hot outlets connected together in the opposite 
direction. The tanks should be spaced well apart to avoid the shading 
of one by another in the early morning and late afternoon. 

197855—40 12 



164 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 



































































[' 


• ® 






























• 


V.-^ 


o 

• 




























• 

CD 


?>: 


fc 


°">-. 




























• 


1 


• • 




^> 


.^" 


■t^] 


S/opoe7 so/? ft, 












1 


- 


• 


^, 




> 


^\° 
















V 


+ -+.H 


h.^ + 


+-K. 


• 


• 
• 


hk 


s : 


W 


^ o 


• 
















£/t7y ^e/!7/>- /S'^, s//f^^ m 




i;, 


:i\. 


^ 


























>^ 


H. 


^» I 




« 




























pgl>^^ 




























. '^ 




^-r^4. 


























• 


• 


• 


• 

• 
• • 



































(^ /^o 



r 



{ 

-^ so 



^ SO 



O S /O /S ^0 2S so 3S 40 

FiQUKE 3. — Temperature of hot water drawn at 4 : 00 p. m. from simple uncovered 30- 
gallon tank in July ; temperature readings were taken of each gallon as drawn. 



Enclosed rmdtiple-tank solofr water heater. — An improvement of 
the exposed tank heater is seen in plate 2, figure 2. From several 
tanks enclosed in an insulated, glass-covered box, a large supply of 
water above 120° F. can be obtained in the afternoon. This system 
might be used for general domestic hot water if the clothes could be 
washed in the late afternoon when the water is hottest. During the 
night the water cools off so rapidly that morning temperatures are too 
low for clothes washing, though it yet might serve for all the other 
needs. The sunshine falling in the box space between the tanks and 
on each side indirectly furnishes extra heat for the tanks by convection 
of hot air. Although the daytime thermal efficiency of the glass- 
covered tank heaters is high, the large losses at night make the 24-hour 
efficiency less than for pipe absorbers with insulated storage tanks. 

Temperatures over 130° F. are obtainable in the late afternoon, but 
the morning temperature cannot be expected to exceed 110°, which is 
too cold for washing clothes. This system (pi. 3, fig. 2) has, however, 
the advantage of simplicity, high daytime efficiency, and self-storage, 
and is nonfreezing in most of the agricultural areas of California. 



SOLAR ENERGY FOR WATER HEATING BROOKS 



165 



Figure 4 shows the performance of three enclosed tanks connected 
in parallel. The tanks had been filled at 8 : 30 a. m. with cold water 
(67° F.). The hot-water output per tank in the insulated box at 4 : 15 
p. m. on September 12 is better than that from the exposed tank in 
July (fig. 3). Furthermore, the exposed tank cooled nearly to air 
temperature every night; and although the water temperature in the 
enclosed tank dropped 25°, this drop was less than one-half the diflfer- 
ence between the evening hot-water temperatures and the morning air 
temperatures. It is unfortunate that usual methods of insulation will 
not preserve a temperature the next morning at 8 : 30 a. m. high enough 
for eflBcient clothes washing. 

The data for figure 4 were obtained with tin-plate reflectors under 
each tank so curved that all the incident light was thrown onto the 
tanks. The entire box appeared black from all angles except at the 
east and west edges. In November these reflectors were removed, and 
the entire box was painted black. The useful heat output with or 
without reflectors was 724 B. t. u. per day per square foot of glass area. 
The amount of solar energy received by the thin, flat absorber, was 
1,020 B. t. u. during the day the triple tanks had reflectors, and 1,003 
B. t. u. per square foot during the day the triple-tank box was plain 
black. This indicates no advantage in using tin-plate reflectors in an 
insulated box. The general results of all comparisons between the 





















































0--V 


. -^ 


»^' 


















































rV 


5£ 


















































^ 


^ 




















































N 


N 












/#//• 






















<^ra^ 
















\ 












J^'f /n//)/mt/m 










/I// 


y/? a 


/ a 


JO A 


Af. 










N 


s 








































"^ 


\ 


N, 






\ 


k 










































s 


\, 








N 


s 








































V 


\ 








V 


N 


^ 








































\ 


N, 










-^ 




>v 






































\ 


s 










V 


^ 


















































___^ 




"^ 


^ 




































J 


'/tea/ 


V//7^ 


>*V7 


/<-/■ 


^/r>, 


0. 6. 


9V 



O /O 30 JO 40 SO SO 70 SO SO /OO //O /^O 

<?i/tf/>i/iy */" H^o^er tf/-o>v/} fre/n S, SO-ero//o/> ia/tfti, ^/h/fs 

FiGDRB 4. — Temperature of water drawn from enclosed triple-tank absorber, after one 
day's heating, at 4 : 15 p. m. and 8 : 30 a. m., September 11 and 12, 1935 ; tem'perature 
readings were taken of each 5 gallons as drawn. 



166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

enclosed triple tanks and the ideal thin, flat-tank absorber indicate an 
approximate relative eflBciency of YO to 75 percent for daytime heating. 

The tanks in figure 4 were on 24-inch centers, and the inside width of 
the box was 8 feet. 

Single-pipe absorber with storage tanh. — The usual "solar heater" 
consists of a flat, glass-covered, zigzag pipe-coil absorber connected 
for thermosiphon circulation with an insulated storage tank (pi. 3, 
fig. 1). In this system when the storage tank is above the absorber 
there is no appreciable reverse circulation at night, and the high day- 
time temperature is conserved by the tank insulation so that tempera- 
tures over 140° F. are available at all times if the system is properly 
designed. 

Multiple-pipe absorber with storage tank. — Wlien the required 
absorber area is too large for a single zigzag pipe, the flow resistance 
can be decreased by installing several pipes in parallel (pi. 3, fig. 2). 
The heat transfer operation is more effective than for the single-pipe 
absorber of the same area because with the faster flow the tempera- 
ture rise will be less and the heat losses from the absorber lower. 

Thermosiphon circulation and temperatures in pipe absorber with 
storage tanh. — The faults of the round-tank absorbers — namely, 
small absorption area in proportion to the tank capacity, and large 
nocturnal losses — are remedied by separating the storage tank from 
the absorber area. The absorber area can then be designed to satisfy 
the heat requirements independently of tank size; and the storage 
tank, being separate, is easily insulated to minimize heat losses. 

The separation of absorber and storage tank requires some means 
of heat transfer from absorber to tank during the day and the pre- 
vention of heat loss from tank to absorber during the night. This 
transfer can be accomplished positively by forced circulation, using 
a positive pump that is operated only during the heating period. 
For domestic installations this system is objectionable because of ex- 
pense, leaky packing glands, and the need for mechanical or electrical 
power not directly available from sunshine. 

Solar heat itself can, however, be used for producing thermosiphon 
circulation if the piping system from tank bottom to absorber and 
back to tank top is properly designed. Water warmed in the absorber 
becomes of lower density than the colder water in the pipe from the 
tank bottom, which will flow into the absorber and push the heated 
water into the top of the tank. The force available for this circula- 
tion is proportional to the difference in density of the hot and the 
cold water. 

If the absorber is well below the tank, it becomes a low, cold pocket 
at night and thermosiphon circulation ceases. The night losses are 
thus confined to the escape of heat through the tank insulation and 



SOLAR ENERGY FOR WATER HEATING BROOKS 



167 




f day 



FiGDBH 5. — Observed temperatures and thermosiphon circulation in a five-pipe absorber 
connected with a large storage tank, November 13 and 14, 1935, under a clear sky and 
light wind. 



to the cooling of tlie absorber unit, which contains but little water. 

The rise in temperature of the water in the absorber pipe due to 
the sun's heating depends primarily upon the length of time the water 
remains in the absorber pipe. These factors act together so that an 
automatic balance exists between the pipe friction and the force 
available from the difference in water density due to heating. If the 
sunshine suddenly becomes more intense, creating an excess in tem- 
perature differential, the increased difference in water density pro- 
vides more force to make the water flow faster ; and then it will be in 
the absorber for a shorter time and will be warmed to a lower degree, 
thus balancing any temporary temperature excess. 

Figure 5 shows the observed temperature differentials and rates of 
circulation for a five-pipe absorber connected to a storage tank with 
the hot circulation inlet 7i^ feet above the center of the absorbea*. 
The rate of flow, curve J., was determined by the deflection of a vane 
suspended in a horizontal glass tube, previously calibrated. 

Circulation begins slowly at 9 o'clock, gradually pushing the cold 
water in the vertical riser into the tank. Then suddenly, an hour 
later, a surge occurs when the hot water, too long in the absorber, 
fills the vertical riser, while the very cold water due to night cooling 
still fills the vertical part of the pipe from the tank to the bottom of 



168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

the absorber; thus a maximum temperature differential is provided. 
This surge quickly dies away as unheated water rushing through the 
absorber fills the vertical riser while hot water from the tank is drawn 
into the vertical drop; thus a temporary minimum temperature dif- 
ference is created. Another smaller surge occurs later for similar 
reasons, and then, except for a minor surge at 11: 15, the circulation 
builds up steadily to a maximum at noon. It gradually falls off 
thereafter as the tank water warms up and the solar intensity de- 
creases. The flow stops rather suddenly when the absorber becomes 
shaded. Because of nocturnal cooling of the vertical riser which 
enters the tank 4 feet above the pipe to the bottom of the absorber, 
slight reverse circulation occurs, reaching a maximum about sunrise. 

The temperatures of the water leaving and entering the absorber 
are shown by curves B and G^ respectively. These refle<;t the flow 
surges previously described. The temperature difference between B 
and C does not indicate properly the driving force for the circulation, 
because of the importance of the water density in the vertical riser 
shown in plate 1 from points B to C and in the vertical part of the 
cold pipe from tank bottom to pipe- absorber bottom at point A of 
plate 1. The relation observed in figure 5 between the outlet tempera- 
ture B and tank-center temperature D shows the mutual dependence 
of the two. This 120-gallon storage should have had an absorber 
nearly three times as large as the experimental 40.3 square feet, so that 
the daily rise in tank temperature would be much steeper. Then B 
and C would also rise much more sharply during the day because the 
water will not flow from the absorber into the tank unless the absorber 
is hotter than the tank. Practically, the tank temperature D shown in 
figure 5 is what might be expected in a full-sized installation when 
about 100 gallons of hot water are gradually drawn during the day. 

The rate of heat input to the storage tank is influenced by the) 
temperature of the tank water, because a high inlet temperature 
means greater losses from the absorber box. This change, however, 
is not so important in limiting the maximum storage-tank tempera- 
ture during nonuse of hot water as is the continual heat loss 24 
hours a day from the hot tank and absorber to the colder air and 
surroundings. 

The temperatures inside the absorber box at the top and at the 
bottom are included in figure 5 to indicate the heat transfer by air 
convection from the black bottom to the pipes. The minimum box 
temperature was 4° F. below minimum air temperature and the 
glass was frosted at sunrise although the pipe did not quite reach 
freezing. This absorber was exposed during the entire winter of 
1935-36 at Davis and did not burst although a minimum air tem- 
temperature of 25° F. was recorded. This, however, cannot be con- 
sidered safe practice. 



SOLAR ENERGY FOR WATER HEATING BROOKS 169 

Size of absorber in relation to quantity of water to be heated. — 
The average daily heat absorption on clear days in September can be 
judged from the curve of figure 2 to be approximately 1,400 B. t. u. 
per square foot of glass for a flat-tanker absorber. Such an absorber 
although most efficient, is not practical because of its tendency to de- 
form when subjected to internal pressure. A larger-area pipe 
absorber is more economical, and shows a simultaneous daily heating 
of approximately 1,000 B. t. u. per square foot of glass. If a supply 
water temperature of 65° F. is assumed, each gallon of hot water will 
require about 700 B. t. u. for heating. The night losses are about 
100 B. t. u. per gallon of high-temperature water, making a total 
daily requirement of about 800 B. t. u. per gallon. As some allowance 
must be made for dust on the glass and for desired operation when 
the sky is not entirely clear, an arbitrary figure of 1 square foot of 
pipe-absorber glass area per gallon of hot water can be assumed 
adequate for satisfactory solar-heater operation for 7 or 8 months of 
the year. 

LENGTH or PIPE RUN FOR SATISFACTOKT THERMOSIPHON PERFORMANCE 

There is considerable difference in hot-water temperature at the top 
of the tank when using single zizag and when using parallel pipe ab- 
sorbers, especially over a short heating period. With the single-pipe 
zigzag small quantities of water hot enough for the small demands are 
available long before the whole tank temperature builds up with the 
rapid-flow type. 

For the rapid-flow type where it is desired to heat the whole tank- 
ful as quickly as possible, probably a 30° F. minimum temperature 
rise should be obtained by noon. The experiments indicate that this 
can be accomplished on cloudless days with single %-inch pipes 
about 70 to 100 feet long when the absorber discharges into the stor- 
age tank 71/2 feet above the center of the pipe absorber coils, and the 
pipes to and from the storage tank are I14 inches for three or four 
parallel pipes and li/^ for five or six parallel pipes. Large variations 
will occur, determined by the number of return bends, the height of 
storage-tank connections, and the weather conditions. When this 
arbitrary criterion is applied to pipe absorbers containing 4 or 5 
lineal feet of 34-inch pipe per square foot of glass area (and per gal- 
lon of storage-tank capacity), with the bottom of the tank 214 feet 
above the center of the absorber, a 45-gallon system should have three 
or four pipes in parallel; a 60-gallon system, five or six pipes. In 
larger systems the storage tank may be raised to obtain greater ther- 
mal head. Each pipe run should be about 10 or 15 feet per foot of 
effective riser height from center of absorber to discharge into storage 
tank. 



170 ANNUAL KEPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

For the quick heating of small quantities of water the single pipe 
runs should, be longer or a valve used to restrict the rate of circula- 
tion. Copper tubing is often used for this service and is advantage- 
ous on partly cloudy days because of its relatively low heat capacity. 
Some domestic waters attack copper. 

In many houses there is no room in the attic above the top of the 
absorber coils for the storage tank. In such cases a false chimney 
can be built around the storage tank above the roof. 

NONFEEEZING SOLAR-ENERGY ABSORBERS 

A solar heater used in combination with an automatic heater can be 
operated to advantage throughout the winter if the danger of pipe ab- 
sorber freezing can be avoided. There is not much danger of freezing 
during ordinary nocturnal radiation frosts on calm, clear nights 
when the air temperature remains only a few degrees below 32° F. 
for a short time (fig. 5) because of the high heat capacity of the pipe, 
water, and insulation. Freezing temperatures with wind, however, 
are almost sure to do damage unless there is considerable reverse cir- 
culation at night drawing warm tank water through the cold pipes. 
Such reverse circulation occurring with low-level storage tanks is 
ordinarily very objectionable in wasting heat previously absorbed. 
Usually the ordinary pipe absorber must be drained during periods 
of freezing temperatures if damage is to be avoided. If frost warn- 
ings are not received regularly, it is good practice to drain the absorber 
as soon as the weather is cold enough for house heating. 

When it is desirable to operate a solar water heater on bright days 
during the winter, the danger of bursting absorber pipes during cold 
nights can be avoided by separating the absorber circulating fluid 
from the usable water in the storage tank, and using a nonfreezing 
solution in the absorber circuit. Figure 6 shows a commercial storage 
tank with separate heating-fluid jacket which is the only significant 
difference from the ordinary system of pipe-coil absorber with cir- 
culation directly through the storage tank. Standard tanks with 
internal heating coils or with external heat exchangers might also 
be used. 

Gorrnnercial nonfreeze type solar water heater. — The usual com- 
mercial type solar heater is of the type in which a nonfreezing solution 
is used in a separate circulating system (fig. 6). In one of these de- 
signs ^^ the absorber fluid flows through the jacket space around the 
storage tank and does not mix with the usable hot water. This cir- 
culating fluid merely transfers heat from the pipe absorber to the 
storage tank, and being separate from the usuable water in the storage 
tank it can be any suitable nonfreezing solution. Standard tanks 



^Day and Night Water Heater Co., Day and night solar water heater (advertising 
circular). Monrovia, Calif., 1932. 



SOLAR ENERGY FOR WATER HEATING — BROOKS 



171 



with internal coils but without stratification shields can be connected 
(fig. 6) with an expansion chamber for the separate nonfreezing cir- 
culating fluid, but will not give high-temperature water quickly. 

Separate -fluids for nonfreezing solar-energy ahsorhers. — ^Various 
ingredients can be added to water to lower its freezing point. The 
most common solutions are alcohol mixtures and brines. Other fluids 
not having the freezing characteristic of water might also be used, 
notably oil. Addition of alcohol to water is the simplest nonfreeze 
expedient ; but as the alcohol vaporizes rather easily in a solar heater 



£xp<7/?s/o/7 ^C7r}A 0/7</ 
////er- for jjo/j- freeze / /'<pe//'d 





FiGDKB 6. — Commercial type nonfreezing solar-tieater-system tank. 



and the solution weakens, some addition should be made every fall. 
Various brine solutions, widely used industrially for refrigeration, 
are recommended for nonfreeze solutions only where the operator is 
familiar with the operating technique to avoid corrosion in black iron 
pipe. The lightest grade of highly refined spray oil is the most suit- 
able of the petroleum products, but does not circulate readily under 
thermal density differential head, being only one-fifth as effective 
as water as a thermosiphon heat-transfer medium. This means that 
the absorber when filled with oil would operate at much higher tem- 
perature than when filled with water and would be less effective be- 
cause of larger absorber heat losses unless forced circulation is used. 



172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

HOT-WATER DEMAND 

The decision as to the kind, size, and system of solar water heater 
to be installed depends upon several interrelated factors. The nature 
of the hot-water demand is, of course, the primary question. This 
demand involves temperature, quantity, and time of day; it varies 
widely in individual cases, because of differences in personal habits, 
plumbing facilities, and the relative expense of heating water. 

Temperature of hot water Tieeded for various domestic purposes. — 
The desirable temperature of water used for various purposes is 
known within reasonably close limits. The temperature data in table 
1 were observed in common domestic practice. The water for a hot 
shower is definitely too hot at 105° F. and verges on the cool at about 
90° F. Dishwater at 120° F. requires the use of a mop because it is 
too hot to keep the hands in; and although dishes can be scrubbed 
clean in cold water every housewife would object to dishwater below 
105° F. Assuming the usual temperature of the supply water to be 
60° to 70° F., the difference in the amount of heating required to 
obtain the upper and lower limits of temperature is only about 25 
percent. 

Quantity of hot loater needed for various pu/rposes. — The variation 
in quantity of water used, however, is so great that no average 
assumption can be considered narrowly. If unlimited inexpensive hot 
water is readily available at the turn of a faucet, its use will be almost 
extravagant; the water will be left running while one is doing short 
chores, tubs will be filled to overflowing, showers will be run to heat 
bathrooms, and so on. If, on the other hand, a person must wait 
while water is being heated or must make an effort to obtain hot 
water or finds that hot water is expensive, he naturally will use a 
minimum. The quantity of hot water obtainable from a solar heater 
varies with the amount of sunshine available ; and to make up a defi- 
ciency by starting an auxiliary heater involves a time delay, personal 
effort, and expense so that the natural use tends to follow the available 
supply. This elasticity of demand greatly extends the period of use- 
fulness of solar water heaters both before the summer and afterward 
into the autumn, often until a water coil in the range or furnace can 
be depended upon during the winter (fig. 7). 

Despite the inherent variations in personal habits one must assume 
some average hot-water demand in order to estimate the size of water 
heater that will give adequate service without being unduly large. 

For late afternoon hot showers for field workers, a temperature of 
102° F. is needed, and a minimum quantity of 12 to 15 gallons per 
person. This is usually obtained by simple water tanks exposed to 
the sun (pi. 2, fig. 1). 

For general domestic purposes the average rural demand is usually 
considered approximately 40 gallons of hot and cold water together 



SOLAR ENERGY FOR WATER HEATING — BROOKS 



173 




IVa^er co// //> /i/r/roce, 
f /rap/ace, or ra/T^e. 



FiGDRB 7. — Solar absorber and furnace coil with single storage tank. 



per person per day, of which one-third is assumed to be heated. The 
American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers recommends 
an estimate of 40 gallons of hot water per person per day for apart- 
ment houses. This difference of 3 to 1 is due largely to the convenient 
availibility of hot water in apartment houses equipped with steam 
boilers operated by a janitor. 

The data in table 1 were obtained by J. R. Tavernetti from a test 
installation of a low-wattage electric water heater for the California 
Committee on the Relation of Electricity to Agriculture. These 
metered observations covering the daily springtime routine for a 
family of two adults, two small children, and a baby give a direct 
intermediate example of hot-water use when an adequate supply is 
always available from a solar heater operated in series with an auto- 
matic electric water heater, which was considered expensive to operate. 
All figures include the quantity wasted in warming approximately 
40 feet of cold pipe. 



174 



ANNUAL. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 



If the family is considered as equivalent to four or five adults, thai 
average total daily hot-water demand is approximately 20 to 25 gal- 
lons per person. This figure, though much greater than the accepted 
rural average, is only 50 to 60 percent of the demand recommended 
by the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers for 
apartment houses. Nevertheless, the observed total coincides with 
the general recommendations of a manufacturer of commercial solar 
water heaters. 

Recognizing that the figures in table 1 represent neither a scanty 
nor an extravagant use of hot water, one notes that 58l^ gallons of 
hot water is needed in the first 3 hours on wash days (three times 
a week) ; then only I414 gallons is used in the following 5I/2 hours, 
with no demand at all for the next 31/2 hours. Then another heavy 
demand of 49i/^ gallons of hot water comes with the evening baths, 
usually within 3 hours. Obviously, the solar heater cannot meet 
the first demand of 60 gallons early in the morning without an insu- 
lated tank to keep hot the water heated the previous day. Since, fur- 
thermore, the evening baths will be taken from this storage of hot 
water needed in the morning, the storage tank should be large enough, 
as a general rule, to hold the entire day's requirement. 

Table 1. — Daily Hot-Wateb Demand fob a Family of 5 



Time 



Use 



Temperature, 
degrees F. 



Quantity of hot 
water, gallons 



7:00 a.m 

8:00-8-30 a. m 

8:30-9:15 a. m 

9:30 a. m... 

9:15-10:00 a. m 

10:00 a. m 

10:15-11:30 a. m 

11:30 a. m.-3:30p. m.. 

7:00-7:30 p. m 

7:30-8:30 p. m 

8:30 p. m.-6:30a. m... 



Shavlng and incidental 

Clothes washing, 1 maehineful reused. . 

Dishwashing _ - 

Washing clothes by hand in sink 

4 trays rinse water 

Baby's bath 

Incidental-- 

Washing dinner dishes and incidental. 

2 children's baths 

Washing supper dishes.. 

2 adults' baths. 1 



100 
128 
128 
120 
100 
100 



125 

92 

»125 

95 



4, plus cold blend. 

14. 

12. 

Z14, plus cold blend. 

22, plus cold blend. 

3, plus cold blend. 

3. 

25, plus cold blend. 

7. 

17}^, plus cold blend. 



Washday total 

Average daily total. 



122H gallons hot water 
96 gallons hot water 



' An electric dishwasher requires 150° water to sterilize, but water 160° F. or hotter causes trouble. The 
total quantity including the preliminary spray (waiting for water to run hot) averages 5 or 6 gallons per 
charge. Usually an additional 3 gallons is used simultaneously for washing pans and for incidental clean- 
ing up. 

INSTALLATION AND CONSTRUCTION OF SOLAR WATER-HEATER 

SYSTEMS 



In suitable locations in the South and West a solar-heater system 
properly designed and installed will by itself adequately furnish 
hot water continually throughout the summer for domestic use. 
In the winter, however, some auxiliary means for heating water 
is usually desirable. 



SOLAR ENERGY FOR WATER HEATING BROOKS 175 

COMBINATION OF SOLAR HEATER AND FURNACE OR RANGE WATER COIL 

In the most economical water-heating system (fig. 7), the solar 
heater is depended upon from early spring to late fall; then, dur- 
ing the winter, the furnace coil or water-back in the range is used 
for obtaining hot water. If the furnace or range is in daily use, 
usually the solar heater is shut off and drained to avoid freezing. 

Location and connection of solar absorber. — The solar absorber is 
most conveniently placed on a roof sloping south and in front of 
attic windows so that the glass cover can be readily cleaned with 
a hose (attached to the storage-tank drain) or with a mop. The 
usual absorber construction is similar to that of a skylight, but 
with a special provision for an insulated pipe outlet at the top 
that permits a continuous rise in the pipe to the storage tank. 
This requirement usually interferes with standard flashing prac- 
tice. A simple method is shown in figure 7 ; the hot pipe is brought 
through the end of the absorber above the roof surface and turned 
to enter the attic through a separate hole higher in the roof, the 
pipe being insulated and enclosed in a lead sheath under which 
the rain water can pass from around the top of the absorber. The 
flashing around the lead sheath where it pierces the roof is separate 
from the flashing around the absorber box. In an alternative 
method, the hot pipe leaves the top edge of the absorber through 
a special box running from the roof slope out to the absorber frame, 
with the roof flashing arranged to drain each way from this ob- 
struction along the top edge of the absorber. 

Safe piping practice for furnace or range coil. — Valves between 
the tank and the cold-water supply line and between the auxiliary 
heaters and the tank are intentionally omitted to avoid danger of 
bursting. If a valve were provided in the supply line to the hot- 
water tank, the tank might be drained to avoid freezing; and later 
the range or furnace might be thoughtlessly started with all valves 
closed and result in an explosion. A single valve at the meter, 
shutting off all the water, is not objectionable, for the cold-water 
supply is always turned on before one thinks of starting a hot-water 
heater. If hot-water shut-off valves are to be installed, recom- 
mended dairy sterilizer connection practice should be followed, 
which specifies a check valve in a bypass around each shut-off 
valve so that in case of higher pressures in heaters the water can 
back up in the supply line even though the manually-operated valves 
are closed. This bypass and check-valve system permitting reverse 
flow is alternative to the pressure relief valve, which might not 
operate properly after long periods of nonuse. 



176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

Valves between the solar absorber and the tank are necessary to 
permit draining the absorber in cold weather without disturbing the 
rest of the hot-water system. These valves do not create a danger 
from overheating because the heat losses from very hot absorbers 
usually balance the solar-energy input at a temperature below the 
boiling point. If the absorber coils are filled with water that is con- 
fined by closed valves, solid expansion by heating might produce 
serious breaks if there is no entrained air; but this is not dangerous, 
as is the explosion of a closed dry boiler heated by a fire. 

Whenever the water freezes in the pipes between the storage tank 
and furnace or range coil, there is another serious danger of explosion 
when a fire is started. The use of tees instead of elbows at the upper 
coimections to heating coils makes it easy to inspect by loosening the 
plugs and draining enough water to notice whether the pressure 
remains constant. 

With gravity-flow water-supply systems, the highest pipe in the 
solar-heater system must be considerably lower than the bottom of 
the water-supply tank to insure full lines for thermosiphon circulation. 

Installation of extra emergency side-ann heater. — The combination 
of solar heater and furnace or range coil works w^ell during the sum- 
mer and the winter. During a few days in the spring and fall the 
sunshine is not sufficient to produce water temperatures high enough 
for clothes washing. On such occasions washing is postponed until 
the morning following a bright day, or else an emergency side-arm 
heater (fig. 7) is used. 

An extra heater of this type when connected in the furnace coil line 
often leads to unsatisfactory operation of both heating coils unless the 
hot-water pipe from each heater is carried separately into the storage 
tank or connected together very near the tank. This high comiection 
satisfies the requirement that the thermal density differential head in 
each heater riser be greater in proportion to the total circulation head 
than the ratio of heater and riser-flow friction to the friction in the 
complete circuit. One should remember that the flow friction in the 
heating coil often increases rapidly because of scale formation, thus 
requiring a higher connection point. 

Combination of solar heater with automatic water heater. — ^When a 
continual supply of hot water is essential during cloudy weather and 
the use of a furnace or range coil is not desirable, an automatic heater 
can be installed in the same manner as the side-arm heater. Since an 
automatic heater is completely adequate by itself, the only advantage 
of the solar heater combination lies in the possible saving of fuel. 
Often the fuel cost for an automatic heater is less than the carrying 
charges on the investment for a complete solar heater system with 
glass-covered pipe absorbers. 



SOLAR ENERGY FOR WATER HEATING BROOKS 177 

CONSTRUCTION OF SOLAR ENERGY ABSORBERS 

Essential features of solar absorbers are the absorber pipes or 
tanks, the insulated box, and the glass cover. The angle of slope 
toward the south is not very important except that for winter oper- 
ation the slope should favor the winter sun, which at noon is only 
about 30° above the horizon in California. Most solar absorbers are 
placed on sloping roofs and it is much simpler to keep the same slope 
than to provide a special slope for the absorber. In case of new 
construction, seasonal solar heaters should be placed on roofs of 
14 to y^ pitch, and all-year absorbers on %- or i/^-pitch roofs. 

The construction details for the insulated box should conform to 
regular structural practice, and many different designs will give ex- 
cellent results if simple requirements are met. Separate boxes 
mounted in the yard where there is no shade or on a pergola do not 
differ much in structure from the common roof box. 







/'/r?///ee/ fro/n ^'a£'). Of^e/! £/sed 
/br ^/?/>i/^^/ec/ ar/a^//?^ o/" orree/r 

pos/d/o/? i6^ /eacf c///>s. 

Figure 8. — Construction plan of pipe absorber roof box. 

Construction "procedure for a 'built-in ahsorher hox on a new roof. — 
When absorbers are built right into the roof structure the simplest 
procedure (fig. 8) is to (1) sheathe solid the underside of the rafters; 
(2) fill the rafter space with bulk insulating material such as glass 
wool, or the equivalent; (3) solid-sheathe on top of the rafters the 
same as for regular roofing; (4) frame in the sides of absorber 
box; (5) lay galvanized iron pan with edges turned up and bottom 
soldered and provided with screened drain pipe to carry off pos- 
sible leaks from pipe joints or broken glass; (6) nail on furring 
strips to support pipe coils or tanks; (7) install pipe coils, being 
sure of a continuous rise from bottom to top; (8) flash around the 



178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 



''/4'c/ose ^/^ ^/oje /?//> /'A Vgtf. 




Mffif/i/m re^i/r/j Se/tif ? 






a 



1 L 



=3 



Q 



'^" />'/"'■' -iame MngiA, /J' /ess ^ /, a^ ms,ae /tnfi/, oT iox 



o= 




1 C 



jC 




/'/f's/i/ff oc/6/ff/ e/ionf 



Figure 9. — Absorber piping diagram for three pipes In parallel. 

outside; (9) paint black all over; and (10) glaze in accordance with 
regular skylight practice. 

Removable glazed cover. — The glazed frames must be removable 
for spring cleaning of the under side of the glass and for servicing 
the pipes or tanks in case of trouble. It is also desirable to place the 
solar heater in front of an attic window to facilitate cleaning of the 
outside surface, which in some localities should be done as often as 
once a month. 

The shape of the absorber depends upon the glass sash used. 
Hotbed sash 3x6 feet is the cheapest but has considerable wood area ; 
four sashes would be needed for a 60-gallon system. If the absorber 
box can be long, single-light window sash 18 x 48 inches can be used, 
12 being required for a 60-gallon system. In this case the puttying 
at the bottom must be brought up on the glass far enough to drain 
off the water when the window sash is in its sloped position. In all 
cases the pipe must rise continuously from the drain to the storage 
tank. Any dip in the absorber coils will form an air pocket and 
seriously interfere with the thermosiphon circulation. 

Parallel-pipe absorher coils. — The common pipe absorber is a zig- 
zag of %-inch pipe, and this is suitable for small solar heaters. If 



SOLAR ENERGY FOR WATER HEATING — BROOKS 



179 



the total length of pipe in* the single-coil type is so long in compari- 
son with the effective riser height that thermosiphon flow is unduly 
restricted and provides only very small quantities of excessively hot 
water, the solar-absorber heat losses are large because of operating 
at unnecessarily high temperature. One can then improve the eflSci- 
ency by paralleling the absorber pipes to reduce the length of each 
line and also to divide the flow into multiple paths. 

Figure 9 shows the fittings and pipe lengths for three-parallel- 
pipe absorbers. The combination of fittings shown gives the closest 
pipe spacing possible and a practical covering of absorber area. The 
methods shown of making the terminal connections also permit the 
use of all equal-length pipe runs from end to end. In the three-pipe 
systems one union is located at the opposite end of the box, top and 
bottom, to preserve the equal-length feature of the main pipe lengths. 
The diagram, though not complete, gives the unit-section dimensions 
so that the full installation can be easily sketched. Such pipe sys- 







i?p/>roj( JO' x//o. af 4//7/^ sec^/o/3s. 



Figure 10. — Absorber piping for six pipes in parallel using branch T terminals. 



197855 — 40- 



-13 



180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

tems have, of course, considerable flexibility; the unit sections are 
easily stretched out or compressed a little, and ordinary inaccuracies 
in pipe lengths will give no trouble. 

Figure 10 shows the six-parallel-pipe absorbers using the standard 
branch T connection for the terminals. Complicated systems of 
separate pipe fittings might be used, but the II/2 inlet and outlet 
fitting is too large to maintain the close pipe spacing shown in figure 
9. Branch T's were commonly used for industrial wall pipe radia- 
tors, but because of the present preference for cast radiator sections 
these branch T's are not always carried in stock by plumbing-supply 
houses. They are, however, readily obtainable on order and give a 
much neater pipe absorber. With the branch T's the two pipes con- 
necting at the ends must be shorter than all the rest to allow for the 
unions. 

Methods of obtaining greater heat output from, limited absorber 
area. — Usually the most economical method of obtaining greater heat 
output is to increase the absorber area and extend the simple pipe 
coils. When, however, the available space for a solar absorber is 
limited, the equivalent of about 20 percent greater absorber area can 
be obtained on cloudless days by embedding the ordinary pipe coil to 
half-pipe diameter in cement mortar. This arrangement provides 
a means of transfer for the heat generated in the space between the 
pipes to the pipes themselves. A suitable concrete mixture is made 
of 1 part cement and 4 parts sand. After the cement has dried, the 
whole surface should be painted black. 

Such a bed of concrete is a disadvantage on partly cloudy days be- 
cause the additional heat capacity delays the warming up of the 
absorber when the shading passes. 

Thin flat tanks covering the entire absorber area need have only 
TO percent of the area specified for ordinary pipe coils. This type of 
equipment can be made to order and might prove advantageous for 
nonfreeze-type solar absorbers in which the circulating fluid is not 
subject to high water pressure. The proper thickness of metal and 
the number of staybolts required depend upon the size of the absorber 
units and the height of the overflow pipe. 

INITIAL COST AND CARRYING CHARGES OF SOLAR WATER HEATERS 

The sunshine is free, and every surface exposed to the sun is heated 
at no cost, but to obtain useful energy for heating water some appara- 
tus is necessary and this usually requires an expenditure which con- 
notes an interest charge. Then, too, the apparatus deteriorates be- 
cause of rusting and exposure, so that some annual depreciation 
charge also should be considered. There are operation costs, even 
though very low, because of the care required for cleaning the glass 
and replacing occasional broken panes. 



SOLAR ENERGY FOR WATER HEATING — BROOKS 181 

The heat output of a solar water heater cannot be specified exactly 
in comparison with auxiliary heaters because the auxiliary heater is 
operated only when needed, whereas the solar heater, operating 
whenever there is sunshine, is of value only when used. 

In many places, such as isolated cabins or houses where the fire 
hazard of auxiliary water heaters is objectionable, the relative cost 
of solar heaters is not important. In other cases where full auto- 
matic water heaters are needed anyway, the carrying charges of a 
solar absorber must be compared with the bare cost of fuel or 
electricity it saves. 

Cost of commercial solar water heaters. — The nonfreeze commer- 
cial solar water heater with special tank is sold at the factory for 
about $3 per gallon capacity. The installed prices, including insula- 
tion, extra pipe and fittings, labor, and the like are about $5 per 
gallon. The small systems have a slightly higher cost than these 
figures. 

By assuming a useful life of 18 years and servicing costs for 
renewal of alcohol and repairs at 4 cents per gallon capacity a year 
the total annual cost will average about 47 cents per gallon capacity 
a year. Each gallon capacity represents a free heat absorption of 
about 1,000 B. t. u. per day, and the nonfreeze type can be assumed 
to be fully operative for about 270 days a year. These assumptions 
indicate a solar heat cost per 1,000 B. t. u. of about one-sixth cent, 
which is equivalent to an electricity rate of 6 mills per kilowatt-hour 
when fully utilized. 

Cost of common pipe-coil solar water heater. — A standard pipe- 
coil solar heater system (fig. 7) can be installed for about $3 per 
gallon capacity. By assuming for this type a useful life of about 15 
years and 210 days per year of full operation, the solar heat costs 
about one-ninth cent per 1,000 B. t. u., which is about equal to the 
fuel cost when using natural gas in the Sacramento Valley. 

If the solar-heater system is installed by the owner and the cost 
considered is that for materials only, these annual carrying charges 
might be halved, in which case the solar heater would compete 
economically with the manual fuel-oil heater, which is bothersome 
and a fire hazard. 

Cost of solar ahsor'ber tank heaters. — The 30-gallon range boilers, 
hotbed sash, and insulation can be obtained for about 60 cents per 
gallon for the enclosed tank heater shown in plate 2, fig. 2. If fully 
utilized, this installation furnishes hot water at a cost of about one- 
twenty-fifth cent per gallon. The least expensive system, the exposed 
second-hand tank (pi. 2, fig. 1) for afternoon showers, heats water on 
sunshiny days for no appreciable cost. 







^3 

05.2 



< 9 



g? 



■saq 



-^ o 



UJ t.~ 

-I tn aj 

UJ ^ 2. 

H ^2 



(/5 <g° 









^ ad 

C3 — - (3) 



•2? 3 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — F. A. Brooks 



Plate 2 




1. Exposed Bare Tank Suitable for Heating Water for Late Afternoon 
Shower Baths on Hot, Clear Days. 




2. Triple-Tank Absorber in Insulated Box With Hotbed Sash Cover. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — F. A. Brooks 



Plate 3 




1. SiNGLE-PiPE Solar-Energy Absorber for Small Installations. 

A black background and proper length of box as seen in fig. 2 (below ) are recommended instead of the e.xperi- 
mental reflector-bottom shown in this photograph. 




Multiple-Pipe Solar-Energy Absorber. Showing Branch-T Method of 
Connecting Parallel pipes. 



THE FRINGE OF THE SUN ^ 
NEBULIUM AND CORONIUM 



By C. G. James 



[With 5 plates] 



On the clear serene night of August 20, 1864, Sir William Huggins 
was working in his observatory at Tulse Hill. His 8-inch refracting 
telescope had been fitted with the Royal Society's new spectroscope, 
an improved instrument which Huggins himself had perfected for 
astrophysical research. The telescope was first directed at the 
planetary nebula in Draco and afterward at the great nebula in 
Orion, and Huggins saw with keen satisfaction, and no little excite- 
ment, that the light from these nebulae was split into a bright line 
emission spectrum, very faint but shown unmistakably by the precise 
spectroscope he was using. 

This, indeed, was a great discovery, for as Huggins said, "These 
nebulae are shown by the prism to be enormous gaseous systems" — 
a point which had often been debated. For though, before Huggins, 
the speculative Laplace and the more prudent and practical observer 
Herschel had expressed the same opinion, there were many astrono- 
mers who thought that, given a large enough increase in telescopic 
power, all of the nebulae would eventually be shown as star con- 
glomerates, even as at that time the giant reflector of the Earl of 
Rosse had exhibited one or two of the nebulae thus partially 
resolved. 

In all, Huggins investigated 70 nebulae spectroscopically, and he 
showed that one-third of these were gaseous. The rest, possessing 
as they did continuous or absorption spectra, were found to be either 
star clusters or consisting partly of stars in different stages of evo- 
lution or decay. But of the Orion nebula, about which there had 
been much discussion, Huggins wrote, "The light from the brightest 
part of the nebulae near the trapezium was resolved by the prisms 
into three bright lines in all respects similar to those of the gaseous 
nebulae." 

Some of the spectra lines of the whole of the Orion nebulae showed 
that hydrogen was present, while further inquiry identified lines 

^ Beprinted by permission from Discovery, n. s., vol. 2, No. 12, pp. 127-134, 1939. 

183 



184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

characteristic of various other known elements. But there were 
two lines noted in the green that evaded identification, and the 
elusive matter that emitted light of those particular wave-lengths 
resisted all attempts made by astrophysicists to pin a label to it. 
These unidentified lines were later found in the spectra of many 
of the gaseous nebulae and, with improved instrumental power 
coupled with photography, similar unidentified lines were also found 
and ascribed to the same mystery element. The strong pair of lines 
in the green portion of the spectrum have been designated N^ and N2, 
their wave lengths being A 4959 and A 5007. There is another line 
A 4363; yet another close pair occurs in the ultraviolet end of the 
spectrum. 

The nineteenth century astronomers originally assumed that these 
lines were the hallmark of an element which had not then been dis- 
covered terrestrially. In fact it was given the atomic weight "three" 
in the scale of the elements, and was named nebulium — the gas of the 
nebulae. As one writer put it, "The recognition mark of nebulium 
is a vivid green ray by the emission of which it is known to have a 
concrete existence." 

Afterward, the question arose as to whether this green shining 
gas, this "element" that had cropped up so unexpectedly in outer 
space, was really something that had evaded chemical discovery on 
earth. Was it something more primitive? It must be confessed 
that, in many cases, speculation overrode sound scientific method, 
and it was suggested in several quarters, and by good authorities, 
that this celestial radiance might be due to the primeval protyle 
or "world-stuff," the cosmic protoplasmic fluid from which the uni- 
verse had been manufactured in the beginning. Indeed, Professor 
Stokes went so far as to state, "It may possibly indicate some form 
of matter more elementary than we know on earth * * *" 

However, the investigation of nebulium continued, and as new 
elements were discovered, so were their emission spectra lines 
matched with those of nebulium. But to no purpose. None were 
found to coincide. The gaps in the table of elements became fewer 
and fewer; hope began to fade. It gradually came to be accepted 
that the hypothetical nebulium was some familiar gas clothed in an 
unfamiliar fashion. 

And so it proved. This assumption was made, and the problem 
strongly attacked by Dr. Wright at the Lick Observatory. The 
assault was continued by I. S. Bowen, and nebulium began to shed 
its cloak of mystery. Bowen, in 1927, showed by the use of modern 
atomic theory, and by elegant mathematical reasoning, that first, 
the lines of nebulium were of the variety that require a huge amount 
of energy for their excitation. Second, the gas must be in a high 



FRINGE OF THE SUN JAMES 185 

state of tenuity — so diffuse, in fact, as to be millions of times more 
rare than any gas we can possibly obtain by experimental physical 
means. 

It was shown that the probable source of energy which excited 
these tenuous condensations to emit the unknown spectra lines was 
possibly the intensely hot stars which, according to the Harvard 
(Draper) stellar classification, are known as the Type "O" (Wolf- 
Rayet) stars, or the Type "B" (Orion or helium) stars, the temper- 
atures of which may be anything between 35,000° and 100,000° C. 

These high-temperature stars are found in close proximity to the 
nebulae that exhibit nebulium lines; the type "O" sometimes forms 
the nucleus of the planetary nebulae, while the type "B" is gener- 
ally connected with the irregular nebulae "without form or void" 
similar to Orion. 

The emission of a certain variety of intense energy from these 
stars, combined with the wide spacing of the atoms in a nebula, is 
the cause of the characteristic nebular lines, for the conditions postu- 
lated thus allow of relatively forbidden transitions of the satellite 
electrons of the nebular atoms. As is well known, the atom may be 
pictured as consisting of a nucleus of positive electrical charge, while 
to balance the system there are satellite electrons which are charged 
negatively, the electrons rotating in certain possible orbits round 
the nucleus. The transition of an electron from one orbit to another 
is possible. Some transitions, however, are forbidden in the normal 
state of the atom and are only possible under very special and 
and stringent conditions. This is termed a relatively forbidden 
transition. "VVlien an electron makes a forbidden move, owing, maybe, 
to the bombardment of the atomic system by a high-speed particle, 
or radiation from an outside source, it may also radiate energy in 
the form of light of a certain quality or wave length. 

The evidence produced by Bowen indicates then that the N^ and Nz 
lines are due to out-of -the-ordinary electronic movements in a gaseous 
atom, the gas being doubly ionized oxygen^ that is, oxygen that has 
lost two electrons from its normal complement of six. The A 4363 
line is also probably due to oxygen in the same state, while the lines 
in the ultraviolet may emanate from single ionized oxygen. Still 
other lines may be attributed to ionized nitrogen. These elements 
which produce the "nebulium" spectra are the main constituents of 
our earthly atmosphere, and as Sir Arthur Eddington has so de- 
lightfully put it, "The light that never was on land or sea is just 
common air." Truly, as another writer has said, nebulium itself 
has vanished into thin air * * * ! 

The mighty nebulae are very remote from the tiny planet, Earth. 
But near our home mystery still prevails. Our own star, the Sun, 



186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

has its puzzling constituent. Sir Robert Ball, in 1893 (when he was 
Royal Astronomer of Ireland), said that we have good reason to 
think that there are two other elements at least in the Sun which are 
foreign to our terrestrial chemistry. At that time these elements 
received the provisional names of coronium and helium. 

Helium is now a well-known gas. But coronium, the hypothetical 
element which is a constituent of the solar corona, has not, as yet, 
definitely yielded up its secret, although there are indications that, 
like nebulium, it is a well-known gas, or gases, acting in a strange way. 

The solar corona is only observed during a total eclipse of the Sun. 
It is an irregular halo of exquisite and delicate pearl-colored light 
arrayed round the eclipsed solar disk. Its form varies. Sometimes 
it is very prominent, whereas at other periods it is weak. It would 
appear from observations and photographs taken during totality 
that its general size changes in accordance with the number of sun- 
spots or eruptions that appear on the solar disk. These, as is well 
known, vary in average number over a cycle of approximately 11 
years. 

Some observers have noted that the corona form is constantly 
changing even during the short period of totality, but as a general 
rule it may be said that when there are the least number of spots on 
the Sun, the corona is at its largest. During this period of minimum 
sunspot activity long streamers, or wings, of the corona stretch from 
the solar equator with lesser streamers or tufts at the poles of the 
Sun. 

This winged shape has given rise to an ingenious theory (suggested 
first by E. W. Maunder) that the symbol of Ra, the Sun god, a deity 
of the ancient Egyptians, is an attempt to delineate the shape of the 
corona. If such is the case these ancients must have been keen 
observers of eclipse phenomena. 

According to various modern authorities who base their theories 
on spectroscopic observations, the corona consists mostly of gaseous 
matter with a sprinkling of meteoric or cosmic dust, shining partly 
by reflected light from the photosphere, and partly by its own in- 
trinsic light. 

Spectroscopic observations on the corona are, like those of the 
nebulae, full of interest. The main characteristic of the spectrum 
is a very strong line in the green (wave length A 5303), while other 
emission lines, some very faint, can also be seen. These lines are 
superposed upon a relatively weak continuous spectrum which can 
probably be attributed to the reflected or scattered light from the 
minute particles near the sun. 

Now the line A 5303 does not coincide with that of any of the 
known elements. There has been a suggestion in some quarters, 



FRINGE OF THE SUN JAMES 187 

however, that it may match one of the lines of the aurora borealis. 
Thus it may well be that there is some connection between the aurora 
and the corona, for both vary with sunspot activity. 

Another prominent corona line in the red has lately been studied 
closely. It was first discovered during the eclipse of 1914, but it 
would appear from later observations that it changes its intensity 
in a marked degree. Most of the corona lines vary somewhat in 
strength at various periods, as the testimonies of eclipse expeditions 
indicate. This is what might be expected, for we have already noted 
how the corona itself changes at sunspot minima and maxima. But 
the change in the red-line intensity would seem to be greater than 
the rest. A suggestion has been made that the origin of this line is 
hydrogen. 

Sir Norman Lockyer's statement that coronium was possibly an 
element lighter than hydrogen cannot be entertained in any circum- 
stances in the face of modern atomic theory. It is impossible for an 
element to exist that is lighter than the first element in the atomic 
scale, although the discovery of helium in the Sun (the next lightest 
element to hydrogen) before it was discovered terrestrially must be 
attributed to Lockyer. 

However, to review the most recent research work, it is possible 
that coronium may be diffuse oxygen in an unfamiliar ionized state, 
although this cannot yet be stated with certainty. If such proves 
to be the case, coronium, like nebulium, will have lost its status as 
an element of mystery, and the solution of the problem will have 
gone a long way to suggest that there is nothing new under the 
canopy of heaven — only change. This postulate is a far-reaching 
one. Discovery of the future will probably be directed more and 
more to the proof of this statement. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — James 



PLATE 2 




The Great nebula in Orion, M42, N. G. C. 1976. 
Exposure, 3 hours, November 19, 1920. 100-inch reflector. (Mount "Wilson Observatory.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — James 



PLATE 3 



^^^^^■H 


^^^^^^^^^oe^ 


BHHHbh 


^^^^^^^^■^^^ 


^^^^^^^^ 


^^^^^^^^^^0 


HHHHHHj 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 


^^^^^^H 


^^^ffl^^^^^^ 


^^^^^^H 


^^^^^^^^^^ 


I^UhBiiS 


^^^^^^^^^^ 


■^^^^^^^■^^■ptlwf^^^^^^^^^^^^ 


^^^^^^^^^^^2 


^^^^^SB 


^^^^^H^^/^ 


^HHHHB 


^^^^^^^■aa-^3o°j6j^| 



Spectra OF nebulae. 
36-inch reflector. (Lick Observatory.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — James 



PLATE 4 




Solar Corona. 
June 29, 1927. Jokmokk. (Hamburg Observatory.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — James 



PLATE 5 




1. Spectrum OF Corona. 

August 30. 190.5. (Dyson."! .^fa\. Tunis 




2. Coronal Line 5303 (Without Eclipse). 
Exposure, 6 minutes. August 10. 1930. (Lyot.) Pic du Midi. 



OUE KNOWLEDGE OF ATOMIC NUCLEI 



By G. P. Harnwell, Ph. D. 
Director of the Laboratory of Physics, University of PennsylvoMia 



The subject which within the past few years has come to be known 
as "nuclear physics" is an outgrowth and in many ways the culmina- 
tion of the research in atomic physics which began with the opening 
of the present century. You are familiar with many of the prac- 
tical results of this earlier work, though possibly you do not all 
realize how directly most of our recent technical developments are 
due to what at first sight seems like a highly impractical and literally 
intangible field of investigation. In consequence, I would like first 
to consider briefly why we study atoms and molecules and what evi- 
dence the pure scientist can offer the engineers, who are applied 
scientists, and also all the other nontechnical members of society 
to justify their continued support of pure science. For without this 
support we cannot continue to make fundamental advances in our 
knowledge of, and control over, our physical environment. 

The motivations of the pure scientist would appear to many at 
first thought as whimsical and abstract as the immediate results he 
achieves. The briefest explanation of why he works is curiosity 
rather than the necessity of earning a livelihood. The questions he 
asks are "Why?" and "How?" rather than "What good will come of 
all this?" The latter is the first query that occurs to most people 
and is a question that some of us must answer if the aims and results 
of pure science are to be widely understood. The gap between these 
points of view is bridged by realizing that the scientist's aim is funda- 
mentally to gain as wide and deep a knowledge as possible of our 
physical surroundings. That this alone is a justifiable aim worthy of 
everyone's support is evident, for the first step toward control over 
our environment, which results in benefit to all, is a proper under- 
standing of the phenomena and laws of the physical world. Our 
civilization, excepting our racial biological inheritance, is largely due 
to the activities of pure scientists. These scientists have not generally 

1 Presented at the Stated Meeting of the Franklin Institute held Wednesday, Novem- 
ber 16, 1938. Keprinted by permission from the Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol. 
227, No. 4, April 1939. 

189 



190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

envisaged the modern applications or developments; this has been 
the work of engineers and chemists. But without the work of investi- 
gators in pure science the engineers would have no knowledge to apply. 

That atomic research is the most profitable avenue of investigation 
of nature and its results the most useful tools for our control over 
our environment is very clearly brought out by looking briefly at the 
results that have been achieved. Our first quantitative knowledge 
of the atomic nature of matter, sketchy and imperfect as it was, can 
be attributed to Dalton at the beginning of the last century. The 
laws of the ordered proportions in which elements combine to form 
compounds pointed unequivocally to this hypothesis. It is from this 
advance more than any other that the modern science of chemistry 
is due. Dalton never dreamed of what the modern chemist can do 
with petroleum, coal tar, and cellulose but without the hypotheses 
associated with his name and those of his successors we would not 
have the fuel, power, the means of transportation, or the synthetic 
materials that make our lives more comfortable, painless, and effective 
than those of any other age. At this stage of development chemistry 
begins to branch away from the main trunk of natural philosophy 
which is physics. The ramifications of chemistry are too numerous 
for our further consideration, and we shall confine our attention to 
those results of Dalton's theory that are more immediately related 
to the later discoveries of atomic research. 

The developments of the past century were based largely on 
hypothesis of the discrete granular structure of matter, but with the 
beginning of this century we have entered on a more detailed under- 
standing of the properties and characteristics of these atoms in differ- 
ent states of agglomeration and of the actual submicroscopic struc- 
ture of these material units. The results of these pure scientific 
investigations have completely changed our material civilization 
within the past 30 or 40 years. In our homes we have incandescent 
and glow-discharge lamps, and the latter are merely at the begin- 
ning of their development. We have electric heat and artificial sun- 
light. We have communication with almost every place in the world 
by telephone, and the radio is an unparalleled disseminator of news 
and a source of information and entertainment. We have the com- 
bination of sound and moving pictures, and television which is still 
in its infancy. The power and communication industries would not 
exist as we know them without atomic research. The strength of 
large structures could not be tested without X-rays, and the electron 
microscope is just beginning to be applied to metallurgical and bio- 
logical problems. In medicine atomic research has provided sources 
of radiation for local heating. X-ray photography and the treatment 
of disease by the entire spectrum of radiation from the infrared 
through the ultraviolet to X-rays and radium. This has all occurred 



ATOMIC NUCLEI — HARNWELL 191 

within the spans of our own lives, and none of these things would 
be available had not the curiosity of such pure scientists as Becquerel, 
Thomson, Roentgen, Hallwachs, and Richardson been aroused to 
investigate seemingly trivial phenomena in their laboratories. This 
is the answer to "What good is research in atomic physics?" 

The research of the first quarter of this century may be considered 
to have laid the groundwork for our investigation of the nucleus 
or innermost core of the atom. This field is the newest and most 
fascinating and appears to have the greatest eventual possibilities 
of future benefit. Wliile something was known of it before the last 
decade, our first control over these phenomena dates from the work 
of Rutherford in 1919, Since study implies the possibility of con- 
trolling conditions, nuclear research was born in 1919 and took its 
first steps with the discovery of more powerful techniques by Ruther- 
ford's students at the beginning of the present decade. As research 
on the atomic nucleus is the result of the knowledge we have gained 
about the external structure of atoms, the methods of attack are 
fundamentally the same. These techniques themselves are of con- 
suming interest for an inquiring mind because of the difiiculty of 
the problem presented. We are investigating the completely un- 
known and must free ourselves as far as possible from all prejudices 
and preconceptions in order to make the most of discoveries as they 
are made and change our points of view, hypotheses, and methods 
of investigation to evaluate properly the implications of our data. 
Atoms themselves are so small that we know we can never see them 
with our eyes, and their cores or nuclei are as much smaller than 
atoms as they are themselves smaller than ordinary microscopic 
objects. None of our senses can ever detect single atoms, but a 
scientist is not content without the most detailed information about 
them. And this information must be quantitative and highly precise. 
When so stated, the problem appears hopeless. That it is not really 
so is partly due to the ingenuity displayed by the investigators, 
which represents one of the most remarkable intellectual triumphs 
imaginable, and partly to the common delusion that all our senses 
are able to yield us quantitative information and that the more of 
them we can bring to bear the more complete will be our understand- 
ing. Actually, our only precise sense is vision, and in the field of 
atomic physics it can only be applied indirectly. We must realize 
at the outset that we will never Iniow how an atom looks, feels, 
or smells and that such properties as precise shape, sharply localized 
boundaries, smoothness, hardness, color simply have no significance 
as atomic attributes. 

The question then arises: What can we know and how are we to 
go about finding it out? One answer is that large-scale visual 
observations on the motion of microscopic particles which act as 



192 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

intermediaries between atoms and organisms on our scale provide a 
method of approach. Also in a few instances it is possible to observe 
visually the effects produced by very rapidly moving atoms. Our 
chief quantitative information, however, is received very indirectly 
but unambiguously through the refined techniques of electrical 
measurements and consists of a series of pointer readings. The 
information that we obtained is a rough estimate of atomic size, more 
accurate information about the forces that hold atoms together and 
that atoms exert on one another, and very precise information as to 
atomic masses or weights. The result is that we know atoms are of 
such a size that about a hundred million of them laid side by side 
would extend across your finger nail, the smallest weight that you 
can feel in your hand is a million millions times greater than the 
force holding two atoms together, and about 24 zeros would have 
to be written before the figure representing the mass of a thimbleful 
of water before it would represent the mass of an atom. The 
determination of an atomic mass is representative of the complex 
indirect methods of measuring atomic quantities. In the first place, 
it must be known that an atom can be given an electric charge. 
Then we must know the magnitude of this charge. We must also 
have observed that a rapidly moving charged atom is deflected from 
a straight path into a curved one by a magnetic field. We must have 
a theory that tells us a relation between the velocity of the atom 
and an observable quantity such as a voltmeter reading, and one that 
relates the known charge, radius of curvature, magnetic field, and 
velocity with the unknown mass. Then from a voltmeter reading, a 
meter reading giving the magnitude of the magTietic field, and a 
length measurement that gives us the radius of curvature we are able 
to measure the atomic mass with an accuracy determined by the least 
accurate of all the measurements that have gone into a determina- 
tion of this quantity. In this way we can find the masses of all 
the different kinds of atoms with an accuracy of about 1 percent. 
However, relative masses, that is, the ratio of the masses of two 
different types of atoms, can be determined much more exactly, as 
these relative measurements can be made to depend, for instance, on 
the ratio of the two lengths involved in measuring the radii of 
curvature, and they can be found to 1 part in 100,000. This general 
fact is true throughout all these types of measurements; absolute 
measurements in terms of length, mass, and time are difficult to make 
accurately, but in many instances ratios are of the greatest importance 
and these can in general be found with much greater precision. 

The next question of interest is what structure if any these minute 
entities possess. In posing this question we must realize that we 
can never answer it in the detail that we can, for instance, specify 
the structure of a watch or a locomotive. In the first place we learned 



ATOMIC NUCLEI HARNWELL 193 

through the work of Sir J. J. Thomson at the beginning of the 
century that electrons are constituents of all atoms. What is an 
electron? All we know about it is that there is a characteristic 
minute invariable electric charge associated with it and that it has 
an effective mass which is about a two-thousandth that of the hydro- 
gen atom, the lightest one known. Furthermore it acts as if it 
were a minute electrically charged spinning top for it possesses an- 
gular momentum and a magnetic moment. In addition to these 
facts, we know rouglily indeed the volume of space it occupies and 
that is absolutely all we know about it of this nature. As the 
electrons associated with an atom represent less than a two-thousandth 
of the mass of the composite system, practically all of the atomic 
mass is associated with whatever is left after the electrons are 
removed. Also, as the electrons have a negative sign by the conven- 
tion generally adopted and the atom as a whole is neutral, the massive 
part of the atom must carry a positive charge. Atoms of hydrogen, 
helium, lithium, and so on up to uranium are distinguished from one 
another by their properties, which we find are almost entirely de- 
termined by the number of electrons they contain. This number is 
determined by finding how many of them we can remove in the 
simple cases and less directly for the heavier more complex atoms. 

How are the electrons and the more massive constituent or con- 
stituents held together to form an atom? As these two components 
have opposite charges and we know opposite electrical charges attract 
one another, we have here one possible type of force. Our investiga- 
tions have shown that there are other types of which we know very 
little. In the first place the identical nature of the electrons ap- 
parently gives rise to forces between them. In addition the spinning 
or vortical motion that appears to be associated with these elementary 
particles gives rise to spin forces of interaction in somewhat the same 
manner as two smoke rings can be bounced from one another. The 
fact that I cannot describe these forces better shows that we have 
much to learn about them. But that they necessitate the performance 
of work to alter an atomic system is clearly established. The amount 
of work that must be done to produce various changes is something 
that is very accurately known through our study of the light that 
can be emitted or absorbed by various types of atoms. For the color, 
or wave length, of the light emitted by an atom determines directly 
the energy change taking place. This type of spectroscopic investi- 
gation tells us many important things about the electron configuration 
of an atom from the energy point of view which is the most valuable 
type of information we can obtain, but nothing of course as to what 
the atom "looks" like. 

We have at our disposal certain bullets or projectiles that travel 
so rapidly that the ordinary atoms composing matter are relatively at 
rest with respect to them. One source of these is the natural radio- 



194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

active material found in nature, the atoms of which may be described 
as minute Fourth-of-July sparklers constantly sending out light of 
very short wave length and also ejecting with high velocities material 
fragments resulting from their internal disintegration. These frag- 
ments have been investigated and found to be of two types. One 
type is the electron and the other was shown by Rutherford and 
Royds in 1909 to be the massive portion of the characteristic atoms 
of the familiar atmospheric gas helium. The electrons are light and 
easily deflected from their paths, but the helium particles are about 
10,000 times as massive and go rending through other atoms in their 
path leaving great havoc on an atomic scale behind them. A study 
of the way in which these projectiles are scattered by the atoms of 
other matter that they encounter was shown by Rutherford to imply 
very interesting consequences. The electrons associated with these 
scattering atoms are so light as to deflect the helium particles but 
little, and the observed angular distribution of the scattered particles 
implies that the massive portions of the atoms responsible for the 
scattering are concentrated in very minute regions at the center of the 
electronic structure of an atom. The diameter of this central mass 
or nucleus is of the order of a hundred-thousandth the diameter of 
the atom as a whole. The general relative scale and tenuousness of 
an atomic system is similar to that of our solar system, where the 
central sun, though much smaller than the outermost planetary orbit, 
comprises most of the mass. 

These facts and the additional one that radioactive emanations 
are given off in a statistically predictable way were all that was 
known of the matter up to 1919. No more was known because no 
way had been found of affecting the rate or manner of decay of 
natural radioactive material or of producing any change in ordinary 
stable atomic nuclei. Without being able to observe directly, or ef- 
fect any observable alteration, no information could be obtained. 
The first step in effecting any change in an atomic nucleus was taken 
by Rutherford in 1919. In this year he observed certain phenomena 
that could be explained on the hypothesis that he had succeeded in 
transmuting a nucleus characteristic of nitrogen into one charac- 
teristic of oxygen. This simple but epoch-making experiment illus- 
trates one of the techniques early employed in this type of work and 
also the type of evidence that is obtained and the method of reason- 
ing involved. It is known that when a rapidly moving, relatively 
massive particle such as an atomic nucleus impinges on certain 
crystals such as zinc sulphide, for instance, a tiny star of light 
appears. This is visible to a dark-adapted eye under suitable mag- 
nification. These tiny sparks are known as scintillations and indi- 
cate the stopping of the atomic projectile in the crystal. Their 
intensity is not a reliable guide to the exact type of atom stopped 



ATOMIC NUCLEI — HARNWELL 195 

or to its original velocity. A crystal of zinc sulphide scintillates 
brilliantly in the presence of a bit of radioactive matter owing to 
its continual bombardment by the helium particles that are emitted 
by this decaying matter. But if the separation between the radium 
and the sulphide is increased, the scintillations stop quite abruptly 
at a critical distance due to the slowing down of the helium parti- 
cles by collisions with the gas molecules in their path. When the 
gas in their path was nitrogen, Rutherford found that a few fainter 
scintillations continued to appear long after the amount of interven- 
ing gas was sufficient to stop all the original helium particles emitted 
by the radium. The faintness of the scintillations indicated that 
they were produced by a lighter projectile than a helium atom, and 
the only lighter one known is that of hydrogen. Other confirming 
experiments showed that these were indeed the cause of the faint 
scintillations, and still further work showed that they came from 
the nitrogen and not from any hydrogen impurity. Rutherford then 
suggested the only plausible explanation, which is that a type of 
nuclear reaction occurs when a helium nucleus impinges with a suf- 
ficient velocity on one of nitrogen and that one of the resulting 
products is a nucleus of hydrogen, which is generally called a pro- 
ton. By the fundamental theorem of the conservation of electric 
charge, the entity left is most likely an atom of oxygen for this has 
a charge equal to that of the sum of helium and nitrogen minus the 
single atomic charge carried away by hydrogen. 

This was a discovery of the greatest importance which has led 
to the fascinating developments of nuclear physics in the past 10 or 
15 years. The essential correctness of Rutherford's view was verified 
by Dr. Blackett, who used a beautiful technique due to C. T. R. 
Wilson. This is a method for rendering visible and photographable 
the path of one of these atomic projectiles through a gas. From the 
length of these threadlike tracks and from the apparent density of 
their image on a photographic plate, and their curvature in mag- 
netic field, the mass, charge, and velocity of the atomic projectile can 
be determined quite unambiguously. A collision with a nitrogen 
atom resulting in a disintegration is evidenced by the track of the 
helium particle from the radium suddenly forking; the long, more 
tenuous tine represents the path of the hydrogen atom that emerges, 
and the short, heavy tine is that of the resultant oxygen atom that 
recoils in accordance with the law of conservation of momentum. 
Photographs of this type are probably the most informative evidence 
we have as to what actually takes place at an interaction between 
nuclei. 

Though it was found that many of the lighter atoms could be 
disintegrated in this way, progress was relatively slow till the advent 

197855 — 40 14 



196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

of new discoveries and new techniques 6 or 8 years ago. In 1930 
two of Rutherford's students, Cockcroft and Walton, showed that 
we do not have to depend on the helium particles shot off by radium 
to produce these effects, but that we can accelerate charged atoms 
of hydrogen and helium in electric fields until they gain sufficient 
speed to disintegrate other atoms that they encounter. These par- 
ticles available in large quantities and with controllable speeds are 
the chief agents of modern research in this field. The fact that 
Rutherford's work showed that the law of conservation of momen- 
tum is applicable to this submicroscopic world enabled Chadwick, 
one of his colleagues, to prove in 1932 the existence of a hitherto 
unsuspected atomic particle with a mass closely the same as that of 
hydrogen but incapable of acquiring an electric charge. Hence this 
received the name "neutron." In the same year, at Pasadena, An- 
derson demonstrated the existence of a new light electronic particle 
having a characteristic positive charge, the opposite of that of the 
ordinary electron which had been known for 30 years or so. On 
the heels of these discoveries progress has been so rapid that I can 
only indicate briefly our present picture of atomic nuclei and some 
of the fascinating possibilities that are emerging as a result of these 
researches. 

The fundamental and as yet indivisible particles that have 
been discovered by research and of which all atoms are probably 
composed in various proportions are the proton, which is the hydro- 
gen nucleus, and the neutron. When recited baldly, our knowledge of 
these particles does not seem extensive. We know their masses, 
which are closely the same, and their electrical characteristics, the 
proton having a characteristic positive charge and the neutron none 
at all. We also know very roughly the volume of space they occupy 
and that they have certain characteristic angular momenta, that is, 
they behave somewhat like minute spinning tops. As the proton 
has a charge and is rotating, we would expect it to behave like a 
small magnet, which indeed it does, and somewhat to our surprise 
the uncharged neutron also appears to have magnetic properties. 
This is all we can say about these particles except that there are ap- 
parently forces between them that bind them in the characteristic 
complexes that we know as the nuclei of the atoms of all the differ- 
ent elements. These forces apparently have no analogs in our large- 
scale world, being of such a short range that they only become evident 
on an atomic scale, but they are the object of present research and 
speculation by atomic physicists in many laboratories. When we 
know more about them, which we can only do by further experimental 
work, we will be able to understand much more clearly the many 



ATOMIC NUCLEI — HARNWELL 197 

fascinating phenomena that we observe. At present all we know 
is that they do hold the fundamental particles together in stable 
groups and these stable configurations represent the nuclei of all the 
known elements. The simplest is the nucleus of hydrogen, which is 
the proton itself. Then comes the nucleus of heavy hydrogen, which 
is composed of one proton and one neutron. The combination of 
three of these particles appears for some strange reason to be rela- 
tively loosely held together or fragile, for we do not observe it in 
nature, while the helium nucleus which is formed of four, two protons 
and two neutrons, is a particularly strong and compact structure ; so 
much so that it may even occur as a subunit in building other more 
complex atomic nuclei. The next lightest atom, that of lithium, is 
composed of three protons and either three or four neutrons and so 
on through the entire periodic table till we reach uranium, which is 
composed of 239 of these units, 92 being protons and the balance 
neutrons. 

A study of the periodic table of the elements reveals many regu- 
larities and periodicities among the atomic nuclei. In the early 
portion of the table protons and neutrons occur in approximately 
equal numbers in the nuclei but as the atoms become heavier and 
more complex the laws of nuclear stability, of which we know very 
little, apparently require that there must be many more neutrons 
than protons in stable nuclei. We are just beginning to learn some- 
thing about the forces that hold these complexes together, and in 
our studies we have been able to make many new kinds of atoms which 
are not stable but throw off a light fragment or absorb one of their 
surrounding electrons, thus forming again a stable configuration. 
The role of the ordinary electron and its positive counterpart is very 
imperfectly understood, for they appear to be emitted or absorbed 
by a nucleus, though we have good reason to believe that an electron 
is quite unsuitable in nature to ever form part of a stable nucleus. 
Until we have learned more, the mechanism of these processes must 
remain pure speculation. As the proton and neutron differ char- 
acteristically by their charge, the emission of a negative electron 
may be thought of as the change of a nuclear neutron into a proton 
accompanied by the simultaneous appearance and ejection of an elec- 
tron. The emission of a positive electron is the converse process. 
Small quantities of mass also appear or disappear, but with Einstein's 
relation between mass and energy we can relate this with the kinetic 
energy of the ejected particle or the very short wave length electro- 
magnetic radiation that frequently accompanies such a process. 
This relation {E=mc^), that may be considered either as a conse- 
quence of the electromagnetic nature of mass or of the special theory 



198 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

of relativity, plays a very important role in nuclear theory. It 
states that there is a simple relation of proportionality between mass 
and energy. If the kinetic and radition energies emerging from a 
nucleus are measured, the change in mass can be deduced. This 
affords a very accurate method of extending accurate mass measure- 
ments beyond the region of the lightest atoms into that of the heavier 
ones where direct comparison methods are relatively inaccurate. 
There is also the matter of the angular momentum associated with 
the particles that are ejected by a nucleus. This spin is apparently 
conserved just as we know it to be in large-scale phenomena, but it 
still presents many problems to the nuclear physicist. 

As a specific example we may consider lithium, which is one of 
the simplest and lightest elements we know, but one upon which a 
good deal of work has already been done. For the discussion of 
nuclear reactions the elements are generally laid out in a two-dimen- 
sional chart of which the abscissa is the number of protons or atomic 
number and the ordinate the number of neutrons in the nucleus. 
The sum of these coordinates is the total mass number on an arbi- 
trary scale ((9 = 16). One type of lithium has three protons and 
three neutrons — this is the so-called isotope of mass 6 — and the 
other has three protons and four neutrons, the isotope of mass 7. 
The bombarding particles at our disposal are neutrons, light and 
heavy hydrogen, and the helium nuclei. We can also shine very 
short wave length light, which is called gamma radiation, on the 
nucleus and that may disintegrate it much as ordinary light liberates 
electrons from a metal plate in the photoelectric effect. When lith- 
ium of mass 6 is bombarded by high-velocity protons so that the 
latter enter the nucleus, the charge and mass number are increased by 
one unit apiece and beryllium of mass 7 results. This is not one of the 
known stable atomic species, and we find that a helium nucleus splits 
off, leaving a residue of mass 3 and charge 2, that is, a heliumlike 
atom. We do not know this as one of the ordinary atomic species 
either, and it is likely that some subsequent event occurs to it result- 
ing in heavy hydrogen, though this process has not as yet been ob- 
served. One possibility is that the helium nucleus captures one of 
its two external electrons, decreasing its net charge by one, that is, 
becoming hydrogen of mass 3. As this is not found in nature either, 
we are led to assume that it is a very fragile structure which splits 
up into a neutron and hydrogen of mass 2 upon the slightest 
provocation.^ 

If the lithium 6 is bombarded by helium nuclei, the neutron 

' Since the preparation of this article it has been found that helium of mass 3 is stable 
and hydrogen of mass 3 is unstable, decaying into this light variety of helium. 



ATOMIC NUCLEI HARNWELL 199 

and proton numbers each increase by two, leading to boron of 
mass 10. The excess energy left with this nucleus, however, does 
not allow it to settle down stably, but a neutron emerges which 
would produce an unknown species of boron of mass 9. This disin- 
tegrates by emission of a positive electron into the familiar stable 
beryllium isotope. If heavy hydrogen is driven at a high speed 
into a target of lithium, a light and hitherto unknown beryllium of 
mass 8 would be formed. As we might expect, this is not stable and 
a proton emerges, leaving the well-known lithium atom of mass 7. 
It is apparently possible that this lithium atom is not formed in 
its ordinary configuration but is in a somewhat disorganized state 
from which it returns to normal with the emission of gamma radia- 
tion, for this is observed and can only be attributed to a process of 
this sort. Finally, if neutrons are used as projectiles, lithium of 
mass 7 results, but this is not the ordinary stable lithium of mass 7 
but again a disorganized type of greater energy. "We find that this 
can settle into a stable configuration in any one of three possible 
ways. One is by the emission of a gamma ray leaving lithium 7. 
As we find helium nuclei thrown off, this represents a second mode 
of distintegration, one product of which is the heavy variety of 
hydrogen of mass 3. As mentioned previously, this is not found in 
nature, for it in all likelihood gives off a neutron at some later time 
and becomes ordinary heavy hydrogen.^ Finally, the lithium may, 
however, give off a proton, resulting in another unknown element, 
helium of mass 6. This exhibits a new phenomenon, for it disin- 
tegrates slowly as radioactive atoms do, a neutron changing into a 
proton, which is evidenced by the external appearance of an electron. 
The mean life of this type of helium is of the order of a fraction 
of a second before this shift occurs and lithium of mass 6 again 
results. 

A study of other types of atoms when subjected to bombardment 
by these heavy-velocity projectiles yields further information of this 
general type but with the appearance in certain instances of positive 
electrons and other less well understood phenomena. Also, if our 
ideas are correct, the incidence of gamma rays on lithium of mass 7 
should result in the emission of a neutron and the production of 
lithium of mass 6. As yet a suitable source of gamma rays is not 
available to test this hypothesis. This simple discussion of nuclear 
phenomena by means of our diagram resembles to some extent 
a type of chess. One has certain squares representing stable 
elements from which we must begin and on which we must probably 
end. The possible initial moves are determined by the type of pro- 
jectile, for if electric charge and large units of mass are conserved, 



' Since the preparation of this article it has been found that helium of mass 3 is stable 
and hydrogen of mass 3 is unstable, decaying into this light variety of helium. 



200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

the end of the first move has coordinates determined by the sum of 
all the protons and neutrons involved. The second move depends on 
the element which is formed and the state of disorganization in which 
it is left. We have observed helium nuclei, protons, and neutrons to 
be emitted in various instances and also both positive and negative 
electrons, probably evidencing a proton-neutron or neutron-proton 
conversion within. In some instances we have observed two successive 
processes, but in these one or two moves the process completes itself 
and we are back on one of our permitted squares representing a known 
stable element. From observations on the energy put in or liberated 
in its various forms of motion, mass, and radiation we have learned 
something more than I have been able to tell you of nuclear 
mechanics. But it is still essentially a great unexplored field which 
is rich in scientific possibilities. 

We have seen that research in atomic physics has amply justified 
itself to society by its important applications which have almost 
remade our technical civilization. We might ask whether the field 
of nuclear physics has any such potentialities. The answer is un- 
doubtedly in the affirmative, though it would indeed be a rash prophet 
who would undertake to state exactly what developments may be ex- 
pected. It is impossible to tell how soon our knowledge of, and con- 
trol over, these nuclear processes will have any reaction on our 
everyday life, but the processes of technical development and dissem- 
ination are apt to be even more rapid than in the case of atomic 
physics. We can only consider here one or two of the possibilities 
that are at present being tentatively explored. In the first place the 
possibility of obtaining power from the nucleus is not entirely vi- 
sionary. With our present techniques the process is very inefficient, 
though great strides have already been made in this direction. Fur- 
thermore, this power is of a highly specialized kind and will require 
as yet undeveloped engines for its utilization. In the second place 
the neutron which is a little-known entity may be either directly or 
indirectly of biological significance. Its direct effect on tissue and its 
various constituents will certainly differ from that of X-radiation 
for instance, but it is too soon to say just what its effects will be and 
in what instances they will prove beneficial. 

The possibility of making a small fraction of the atoms of almost 
any substance radioactive is a development with unbounded poten- 
tialities, and many interesting applications have already been made. 
The direct therapeutic effects of the radioactive variants of ordinary 
elements are the same as those of radium, and if there were no other 
result than the production of large amounts of equivalent radium, it 
would be one of the most important discoveries ever made. The fact 



ATOMIC NUCLEI — HAENWELL 201 

that atoms can be endowed with this radioactive property without 
losing their ordinary chemical properties makes the work of much 
greater importance than the discovery of any amount of radium 
would be. As a single instance the thyroid gland is known to have 
the property of assimilating iodine. It is possible to render iodine 
radioactive in such a way that it decays with a rriean life of about 
25 minutes with the emission of ordinary electrons. Thus radioactive 
iodine injected into the body will tend to be localized in the thyroid 
gland and affect it specifically in a way not possible with ordinary 
radium. Also the atom resulting from the emission of the electron 
is no longer radioactive and peculiarly inert chemically, which re- 
moves any possible hazard of the treatment. In a similar way phos- 
phorus and calcium which are bone constituents may be rendered 
radioactive, localizing radioactive material in the bony structure. 

The applications in the closely associated field of physiology are 
of equally great interest. As it is easy to detect the presence of a 
very minute number of radioactive atoms among a great number of 
the ordinary variety characteristic of the element, it is possible to 
prepare samples of elements that retain their identity and may be 
followed through physiological reactions. It has been reported, 
though not as yet verified, that long-lived radioactive carbon atoms 
can be prepared. These may form molecules of organic compounds 
which can then be followed through the body, opening up a new 
and highly important field of biological research. The physiologist 
can investigate the details of processes for which no technique was 
previously available, and hitherto unsuspected phenomena may be 
uncovered. As an instance it is known that the thyroid assimilates 
iodine, but if other glands assimilate selectively specific elements they 
do it in such small quantities as to be undetectable at present. How- 
ever, if the elements were introduced in a radioactive form, simple 
and powerful techniques of detection could be employed which would 
bring any selective assimilation to light. 

I can only refer even more briefly to the application of this 
technique in other fields. Radioactive "tracer atoms" can be em- 
ployed in chemistry to follow chemical elements through exchange 
reactions. They may also be used to investigate the baffling prob- 
lems of catalyst poisoning and surface adsorption. In metallurgy 
and the physics of solids they may be used to study the diffusion of 
atoms through single crystals and across and along crystal bound- 
aries. Studies of this sort under various conditions of temperature 
and strain should clarify many of the problems that are now pre- 
sented by the solid state and lead to alloys with more desirable 
properties for all the various applications. Applications to many 



202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

other fields of science and also to industry suggest themselves imme- 
diately, though our time is too short to consider them. If nothing 
emerged from nuclear studies but this one technique, I doubt if the 
present equipment in all the laboratories in this country would be 
adequate to supply the radioactive material for the applications 
that will develop within the next few years. We are midertaking 
this type of work at the University of Pennsylvania to the extent 
that our rather limited funds permit, and we are convinced that 
this vast unknown field has even more important possibilities in store 
for us. We hope that we shall be able to interest sufficient support 
not only to contribute this technique to physics and our sister sciences, 
but to go on and explore the very promising field of the nucleus 
with every confidence that the understanding gained thereby will 
lead to still more important developments in the future. 



SPECTROSCOPY IN INDUSTRY 



By Geobge R. Harrison, Ph. D. 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass. 



[With 4 plates] 



The spectroscope, long recognized as one of the most powerful 
tools of scientific investigation, has been used during the past 40 
years to obtain information which has revolutionized physics, chem- 
istry, and astronomy, and greatly affected biology, metallurgy, and 
medicine. Since many modern industries rest on scientific discoveries 
in these fields, it would be surprising if the spectroscope were not 
found useful in connection with technological processes. So rapidly, 
in fact, are spectroscopic methods now being adopted by industrial 
laboratories, that most manufacturers of spectroscopic equipment 
are having difficulty in keeping up with orders for their instruments, 
and some are even beginning to worry about the availability of such 
raw materials as crystal quartz, needed for prisms and other optical 
parts. Spectroscopic methods have been found particularly valuable 
in the metals industries, in those industries which involve the can- 
ning and packaging of foods, and in all other industries which use 
materials whose purity must be carefully determined and controlled. 

The spectroscope has served the physicist and the astronomer as a 
telescope, a microscope, a speedometer, a thermometer, a tape meas- 
ure, and a clock, in addition to its more usual functions ; and in each 
role it has exceeded in range and power the more common forms of 
these devices. Today in industry its greatest usefulness is found in 
applications which supplement chemical wet methods of qualitative 
and quantitative analysis, and with its aid our ability to detect and 
measure small quantities of material has been extended very greatly. 

As has often been pointed out, a teaspoonful of salt cannot hide 
from a spectroscope in a swimming pool full of water. Though 
far less gold than would repay concentration is found in sea water, 
the spectroscope has no difficulty in detecting the small amount which 



1 Presented at a meeting of The Franklin Institute held Thursday, February 3, 1938. 
Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Franlclin Institute, vol. 226, No. 1, 
July 1938. 

203 



204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

is there. Such sensitivity might appear excessive for industrial 
purposes, where ability to detect a trace of almost any element in 
any given sample would seem valueless if nothing could be done 
about its presence. Fortunately, something usually can be done. 
Though in many cases the properties of metals are greatly influenced 
by traces of impurities too minute to be eliminated conveniently by 
ordinary methods of purification, addition of minute quantities of 
other impurities will often offset undesired characteristics. In the 
case of fusible alloys for safety valves or fire sprinklers, for example, 
certain impurities if present by as much as 1 part in 10,000 will 
raise the melting point by undesirable amounts. A relatively small 
number of atoms in the crystal boundaries can produce a marked 
effect, but atoms of other materials which will depress the melting 
point again to its proper value can be added. The spectroscope is 
invaluable in determining which impurities are responsible for such 
effects, and which elements must be added to offset them. 

The outstanding value of the spectrograph comes in qualitative 
analysis. Let us watch two scientists looking at a tiny piece of 
lamp filament. To all outward appearances it is exactly the same 
as any other piece of filament, but in an incandescent lamp it was 
found to last twice as long as did filaments made from ordinary 
wire. There is not enough material to analyze chemically, for the 
sample is small and no advance hint tells what to look for. A 
chemist using ordinary methods would be forced to guess as to 
which elements were most probably present, and eliminate them 
one after another. Long before he was finished such a small sample 
would probably be exhausted. But here is a spectrograph; the 
operator loads it with a photographic plate, opens the shutter, and 
inserts a tiny piece of the filament into an electric arc placed in front 
of the instrument. There is a flash of colored light and the spectrum 
is recorded. Shifting the plate the operator repeats the process, the 
second time burning a piece of an ordinary filament. When he 
develops the spectrogram the story stands completely revealed. Each 
type of atom in each filament has sent out its own group of waves 
of different lengths, and produced its own pattern of spectrum lines. 
By looking for differences in these patterns, and identifying the 
elements from which the various lines which differ are known to 
originate, the spectroscopist can see quickly and accurately which 
elements are present in one filament and not in the other. 

The pattern of lines on a spectrum photograph may look compli- 
cated and meaningless to the layman, but to the experienced spec- 
troscopist it often tells a story as definite as that told by a line of 
printing. This was perhaps not realized by the advertising agents 
of a manufacturer of motorcars who recently strove to impress the 



SPECTROSCOPY IN INDUSTRY HARRISON 205 

American public with the scientific methods used in his factory, 
by printing in some of the leading weeklies full-page advertise- 
ments which pictured a laboratory worker gazing at a spectrogram, 
with the caption "Eyes That See Through Steel." The description 
which followed of the value of the spectroscope in perfecting auto- 
mobile parts was a very good one, but every line in the spectrum 
at which the man was looking quite obviously had come from zinc 
atoms ! 

Spectroscopic analysis indicates that no entirely pure sample of 
any metal has ever been prepared, and since single foreign atoms 
placed here and there in the lattice structure of a metallic crystal 
can greatly affect its properties, really pure metals probably have 
properties with which we are as yet not familiar. 

In the food-preserving industries the spectrograph is coming into 
very wide application. That 2 or 3 parts of aluminum or lead can 
be detected readily in 10 million parts of lobster or condensed milk 
may seem unimportant, since such concentrations are below the toxic 
limits considered dangerous to health, yet obviously tests on the 
rapidity with which the internal coatings of cans dissolve in foods 
stored within them can be made more easily and quickly when such 
sensitive methods of detection are available. Chocolate and chew- 
ing-gum manufacturers use spectroscopic analysis to insure that the 
lead content of their products is below the limits set by pure-food 
laws. Whiskey distillers, finding something in their product which 
causes it to turn cloudy, have used the spectrograph to locate the 
cause in minute amounts of cadmium, let us say (to cloak the real 
offender in anonymity) ; and by analyzing samples from various 
parts of the distillery line, have been enabled to locate the coil or 
condenser which introduced the offending element. 

Has the arsenic and lead been properly removed from sprayed 
fruits before canning? The spectrograph will tell. Is beer kept 
in cans dissolving anything more from the container than it would 
if kept in bottles? Again, the spectrograph gives an easy means 
of deciding. 

Spectroscopic analyses can be performed by two entirely indepedent 
and dissimilar means, which have different applications. In emis- 
sion analysis, use is made of the characteristic light emitted when 
the material is burned electrically in front of the slit of a spectro- 
graph. In the second method, absorption spectrophotometry, light 
waves of every length in the desired region are sent through the 
material to be analyzed (which must be somewhat transparent, like 
glass or blood serum or peppermint extract or beer) and the spectro- 
graph is used to determine how much of the light of each wave 
length has been absorbed by the material. 



206 ANITUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

By the first method, 70 of the chemical elements can readily be 
detected and measured. The permanent gases, carbon, and a few 
other nonmetallic elements produce few lines in the spectral regions 
commonly photographed, and since almost all molecules are disso- 
ciated in the arc into their constitutent atoms, organic materials are 
burned away without appearing in the analysis. When an apple 
or a cranberry is ashed in an electric arc, for example, the strongest 
lines which appear in the spectrum are those due to such elements 
as sodium and copper and iron. 

When one is interested in molecules, the second method of spectro- 
graphic analysis can be used. Though its application is limited to 
materials which are somewhat transparent, it has the advantage of 
not affecting the material which is being analyzed, since this is merely 
penetrated by a beam of light. 

The modern spectroscope is not the small brass tube standing on a 
tripod so familiar to chemistry students, who have used it to observe 
the colored lines produced by different salts when burned in a flame. 
One of the research instruments used for precise work may fill a 
room 40 feet square (as shown in pi. 1), and several laboratories 
contain more than a dozen different types of spectrographs. For 
industrial work three main types are in most common use. The 
quartz prism instrument of medium size, which records on one plate 
the spectrum between the limits 5000 angstroms and 2000 angstroms, 
is useful for absorption spectrophotometry, since the absorption 
bands of solids or liquids are usually so wide that great separation 
of the waves of different lengths is valueless. This instrument can 
also be used for emission analysis where the substances being studied 
have fairly simple spectra, such as the alkalies and alkaline earths, 
and in general those atoms which lie on the left-hand side of the 
periodic table. Iron and most other atoms of the long periods have 
such complex spectra that greater resolution of the lines is required, 
and a large quartz instrument of the Littrow type is most commonly 
used. This records in 3 settings the part of the spectrum most im- 
portant for analytical purposes, lying between 2000 angstroms and 
5000 angstroms, when a quartz prism is used, and a glass prism can 
be substituted with which the visible spectrum can also be recorded. 

The concave diffraction grating spectrograph has long been con- 
sidered one of the more convenient types of spectrograph in research 
laboratories, and this instrument is now slowly making its way into 
industrial use. It has the advantage that it can be used with light 
waves of any length from the long infrared to the shortest ultra- 
violet, a single instrument covering all the desired ranges without 
change of optical parts. Again, the grating produces almost uniform 
dispersion from the shortest to the longest wave lengths, whereas 
the dispersion of a prism decreases rapidly toward longer wave 



SPECTROSCOPY IN INDUSTRY — HARRISON 207 

length, which makes identification of the lines easier and uses the 
photographic plate more effectively. The new aluminum gratings on 
glass, ruled by R. W. Wood at Johns Hopkins, have done much to 
remove prejudice against the grating because of the comparatively 
low intensity of the spectra it produces. Several of Wood's gratings 
produce spectra more intense than those produced by prisms, and 
with such a grating exposures in which thousands of lines from an 
iron arc are recorded in 5 seconds are not uncommon. 

Some industrial users of spectographs who express great satisfac- 
tion with their prism instruments consider the grating spectrograph 
too fragile for use in their laboratories. This speaks well for the 
prism type of instrument, but usually bespeaks lack of familiarity 
with the grating. Wliere good prism and grating instruments are 
both available, the grating instrument is commonly the favorite, 
and that it cannot be the delicate apparatus sometimes supposed is 
borne out by its very satisfactory use in such metallurgical labora- 
tories as those of the Watertown Arsenal and the Cleveland Lamp 
Works. 

As a typical example of all-around use of the spectrograph in 
attacking an industrial problem, I shall discuss the spectroscopic 
procedure connected with what we may call "The Case of the Haf- 
nium Crystals." (The real crystals were not hafnium, nor were they, 
in fact, crystals.) The spectroscopic procedure used was so varied 
that the case serves as an excellent illustration. The problem was to 
locate minute deposits of hafnium in a certain transparent crystalline 
mineral and to measure the distribution and amount of the hafnium 
in typical crystals. The spectrographic method was selected as one 
of the best ways of doing this. 

First, emission analysis was used to determine the amount of 
hafnium present in the crystal material. Several milligrams of the 
material were burned in an electric arc, and the light emitted was 
photographed with a spectrograph. The wave lengths of all lines 
appearing on the plate were then determined with an accurate meas- 
uring engine, and from published catalogs of wave lengths all lines 
appearing on the plate were assigned to their parent atoms. A 
qualitative analysis of all metallic elements present in amounts 
greater than about one part in a million was thus obtained. 

A spectrographic quantitative analysis was next made. From the 
qualitative analysis the elements could be grouped into three classes 
by observing the intensities of their spectrum lines. Those which 
were present in large concentrations (above about 1 percent) were 
listed as major constituents, those present in amounts lyuig between 
1 and 0.001 percent were listed as minor constituents, and those 
present in smaller amounts as traces. 



208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

In general, one may say that for major constituents, spectroscopic 
methods of quantitative analysis are slightly inferior in precision to 
chemical wet methods, for minor constituents they are equal in pre- 
cision, and for traces they are superior, assuming sufficiently large 
samples are available to make adequate chemical analyses. Spectro- 
scopic methods have their greatest advantage when the samples 
available are small, or concentrations are low, because the precision 
of the spectroscopic method stays sensibly constant at all concentra- 
tions. With it one can distinguish as readily between 0.0010 and 
0.0011 percent concentration of material as between 10 and 11 percent, 
for example. 

The concentration of a minor constituent is determined by observa- 
tion of the intensisties of its spectrum lines relative to those of the 
matrix material (which is composed of the major constituents), and 
as these ratios vary with a number of factors, a null method must 
be used. Standard comparison samples are made up which differ 
from the sample to be measured only in regard to the contituents 
being measured, and these samples and this unknown are burned 
and photographed in identical manner. Then, if the intensities of the 
line of the constituent in question are the same in any comparison 
sample as in the unknown sample, the concentration of the constituent 
will be the same in the two samples. 

Such rigid conditions might seem impossible to fulfill, but fortu- 
nately any number of minor constituents and traces may differ in 
the known and unknown samples without affecting the result. If 
we are comparing the copper content of two bronzes, for example, 
error may result if lead be present in one sample in amounts greater 
than 1 percent, and not in the other, but in amounts less than about 
1 percent a difference in lead content should not affect the results 
appreciably. 

Returning to the crystal problem, having made up a series of sam- 
ples of the material containing various known concentrations of 
hafnium covering the range suggested by the qualitative analysis, 
we now burn these in the arc in succession, sandwiched between alter- 
nate exposures burning the unknown sample. When the plate has 
been developed, fixed, and dried, we can measure the amount of 
blackening of each of the hafnium lines on a microdensitometer, and 
plot a "working curve" of density against concentration. Or, as is 
more common, by calibrating the plates we can change densities into 
the actual line intensities to which they correspond, and plot logio 
intensity against log lo concentration. At low concentrations such a 
plot is usually a straight line (as shown in fig. 1), which aids greatly 
in interpolating between two standard intensities. By this means, 
using care, precision to 3 percent can usually be obtained, which at 



SPECTROSCOPY IN INDUSTRY — HARRISON 



209 



concentrations below 0.1 percent is ordinarily greater than that of 
chemical methods. 

Having determined the actual amount of hafnium present, we are 
now ready to determine its location in the crystals. The first method 
tried was to pick out small particles of the crystal and burn them in 
the arc, observing visually the intensities of the visible hafnium lines 
with a spectroscope. A sample the size of a pinhead was found to 




.0021 
.0001 



.001 .01 

PERCENT 



0.1 1.0 I O 

CONCENTRATION 



100 



FiGUEB 1. — A typical workiug-curve, for deterniiuing the conceutratioii of an element present 
in a sample burned in the electric arc, In terms of the intensity of one of its spectrum 
lines photographed under standard conditions. The logarithm of the percent concen- 
tration of the element is plotted against the logarithm of the intensity of the line, as 
determined from a number of samples of known concentration. At low concentrations 
the curve is theoretically a straight line having 45° slope, which greatly simplifies 
quantitative spectrographic analysis at low concentrations. 



give fairly consistent results, but particles less than 1 mm. in diameter 
were too likely to be lost from the arc. A series of runs was made 
to determine the minimum amount of hafnium which could be de- 
tected spectroscopically. A weighed sample of the material, known 
to contain 10"° gm. of hafnium, was introduced into a 2-amp. arc 
between pure graphite electrodes. Strong hafnium lines were found 
to be still visible in the spectroscope after 1,000 seconds of burning. 
The spectrum was then photographed with a high-speed spectrograph, 
and an exposure of 0.0001 seconds was found sufficient to record the 



210 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

lines. This indicates that no more than 10-" gm. of hafnium were 
required for spectrographic detection, but actually the efficiency of 
excitation of the hafnium atoms is much greater under these condi- 
tions than under conditions in which only the minimum detectable 
amount of material is introduced into the arc. 10"^ gm. can usually 
be detected without difficulty, however. 

Emission methods were thus shown to be insufficiently sensitive for 
the problem at hand. Since the crystals were transparent, the absorp- 
tion method could be tried, and this method was found satisfactory. 
Ultimately, amounts down to 10"^^ gm. of hafnium were successfully 
located in the crystals by absorption methods. 

The first step in this new attack was to determine the absorption 
spectrum of hafnium salts of the type present in the crystal. The 
hafnium-containing crystalline material was dissolved in water, and 
a quartz vessel filled with the resulting solution was placed between 
the light source (a hydrogen discharge tube, which gives a good con- 
tinuous spectrum in the ultraviolet) and the slit of the spectrograph. 
On the same plate an absorption spectrogram was taken of similar 
crystal material which contained no hafnium, as shown in plate 2, 
figure 2. The differences in absorption were obviously due to the 
hafnium salt, which was found to absorb strongly in the ultraviolet, 
a little in the violet, and practically not at all in the visible region. 

The final step was to locate spots in the crystals which showed this 
characteristic absorption. For this purpose a spectrograph and an 
ultraviolet-transmitting microscope were combined. Sections of the 
crystal were thus photographed in each individual line of the mercury 
spectrum from a quartz mercury arc. Thus the crystal was photo- 
graphed under high magnification in transmitted monochromatic 
green light, in blue light, in violet light, and in the light of several 
ultraviolet lines. 

Opaque materials in the crystal showed dark in all these photo- 
graphs. Transparent materials which were not hafnium showed 
light in all, as in plate 3, figure 1, where each bow contains a separate 
photogi-aph. The hafnium salts showed transparent in green and 
blue light, darker in the violet light, and opaque in the ultraviolet, 
as in plate 3, figure 2- Thus any particle which showed this pro- 
gressive absorption could definitely be called a hafnium carrier, and 
from its opacity its hafnium concentration could be determined. 

This method was then further simplified by using a microscope 
adapted to either visible or ultraviolet light, and taking duplicate 
photographs of each crystalline particle, immersed in an oil of the 
proper index of refraction, first with green light as in plate 4, figure 
1 (left), and then with ultraviolet light of the desired wave length, as 



SPECTROSCOPY IN INDUSTRY — HARRISON 211 

in plate 4, figure 1 (right). Magnifications up to 2,000 diameters 
could be used, and thus extremely small amounts of hafnium could be 
located, since a layer of "hafnium" atoms only 5 atoms thick will give 
an observable degree of opacity. 

Most industrial spectroscopic problems are simpler and more 
readily solved than the one sketched above, but it is described as 
illustrating a number of different methods of using a spectrograph. 

For many industrial purposes it is important that speed be com- 
bined with precision. Two hundred tons of molten copper in a 
furnace represents a large investment which can be lost through im- 
proper treatment. The copper must be removed from the furnace 
at the proper degree of purification, and several hours may be con- 
sumed in determining by chemical methods the proper time for re- 
moval. Often recourse is had to rule-of-thumb methods, for lack 
of anything better. An ideal solution would be a spectroscopic ar- 
rangement such that the furnace operator could periodically dip 
some molten copper from the furnace, burn it before a spectroscope 
and decide from the appearance of certain impurity lines exactly 
when the proper time for removal was reached. There is no funda- 
mental reason why this operation should take more than 2 minutes if 
performed visually or with a photoelectric cell. 

Eye methods can be used in certain cases only, since many of the 
important lines for analysis lie in the ultraviolet region. It is, to 
be sure, possible to use fluorescence to observe ultraviolet lines, but 
this method has not yet been well developed. It awaits an increased 
demand from industry, which in turn awaits knowledge of the feas- 
ibility of such methods. 

The photoelectric method of spectroscopic analysis has been tried 
with encouraging results in Germany and at the Watertown Arsenal 
in this country and shows considerable promise, though it must be 
considered as in only a preliminary state of development. The limi- 
tation on this technique, which is simple and should be capable of 
precision, is in getting enough light to operate photocells from a 
single line of an element which is present in the sample in only 
small amounts, when this line is in the midst of a bewildering array 
of strong lines from other elements. Spectroscopes of high speed, 
combined with improved phototubes and amplifiers, and improved 
sources will probably bring ultimate perfection of this rapid method. 

The photographic method can be speeded up greatly, and in at least 
one foundry, that of the Campbell, Wyant & Cannon Co., of Muske- 
gon, Mich., most of the routine chemical tests on the output of the 
foundry have been superseded by rapid spectrographic methods. 



197855 — 40 15 



212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

Quick results are of great importance, and by hastening the process- 
ing of the photographic plates used a method has been developed 
which gives precise quantitative analyses on 6 elements in a single 
sample in 15 minutes or less. As reported by Vincent and Sawyer,^ 
spectra for 48 analyses on 8 samples are recorded on each plate, and 
the posting of results from a plate can be completed within 35 
minutes after receipt of the samples. Repeat runs were found to 
be more consistent from the spectrographic laboratory than from the 
chemical laboratory for such elements as silicon, molybdenum, chro- 
mium, nickel, manganese, and copper. 

Such successful utilization of the spectograph 20 hours a day 
in a foundry under industrial conditions of stress, with resulting 
improvement in precision of results, speed, and decrease in cost, 
emphasizes that the spectrograph is a practical tool. 

For rapid testing of raw materials special simple types of spectro- 
scopes have been developed by various manufacturers. A notable 
example is the Spekker Steeloscope of Adam Hilger, Ltd. This is a 
small portable fixed-prism spectroscope with a movable eyepiece on 
which are engraved the various important lines of elements which are 
to be sought after. A technician of moderate skill, who needs only 
a reasonable amount of special training, can travel from one car to 
another of a freight train loaded, for example, with pig iron, carrying 
his spectroscope and dragging behind him a 220- volt cable carrying 
direct current to run an electric arc. Selecting a sample pig he strikes 
an arc between this and a rod of pure iron which he carries for the 
purpose, and observes the light through his spectroscope, with the 
eyepiece set for "nickel" or whatever element he is interested in. A 
special eyepiece can be obtained which, by a clever optical arrange- 
ment, enables the eye to compare the intensities of two lines. By set- 
ting this at some predetermined value the operator is enabled to tell 
at once whether the nickel content, for example, is within the limits 
of acceptance, and it is thus a job of but a few hours to sample and 
analyze a whole trainload of iron without even bothering to unload it. 

Such possibilities in industry are almost endless, but since special 
methods are required for special purposes, their application awaits 
the demands of industrialists. The first reaction to the spectroscope 
is usually amazement at its possibilities. Somewhat further investi- 
gation then frequently brings a reaction of disappointment, because 
it will not solve every problem which may be presented. The next 
reaction is that perhaps matters are not so hopeless after all, since a 
little special attention to each case may show how to get around the 
difficulty. 



Vincent, H. B., and Sawyer, R. A., Journ. Appl. Phys., March 1937, p. 163. 



SPECTROSCOPY IN INDUSTRY HARRISON 213 

So we see paper manufacturers wlio want to discover the scource 
of tiny black specks in their product, bakery equipment manufacturers 
who wonder if their new coating compound for pans is contaminating 
the dough, spark plug manufacturers who wish to study the effect 
of minute amounts of alkali metals in improving sparking, metal- 
lurgists who wish to trace the origins of ores, all trying spectroscopic 
methods, and usually finding them helpful. It should be remembered 
that application of such methods to industry is only beginning, and 
their full power can only be realized by detailed attention to such 
problems as are presented for solution. 




H £ 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Harrison 



Plate 2 






1. Typical portions of Spectrograms Taken in One Type of Quantitative 
spectrograph ic analysis. 

In this method each line is photographed in such a way that it decreases in intensity along its length. 



mm I 



2. TYPICAL ABSORPTION SPECTROGRAM. 

The long lower spectrum is of the unabsorbed light; the three upper spectra were taken with some of the 
"hafnium crystals" in the light beam, and show transparency in the green, beginning absorption in the 
blue and violet regions, and opacity in the ultraviolet. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939.— Harrison 



PLATE 3 




1. "Rainbow Spectrum" of Crystals Containing Hafnium salts. Taken 
With a Microscope and Spectrograph in Combination. 

Each "bow" is a spectrum line of a siven color, and the same microscoiiic reyion is photographed in each 
color. The lower bow is an ultraviolet line, the upper bows are visible lines. 




2. Same Type of Spec tromicrogram as in Fig. 1 (Abovei. but With Hafnium- 
Containing Crystals in the Field. 

Note the darkening produced by absorption of ultraviolet light by the hafnium crystals in the lower bows 
and the relative transparency of the hafnium in the upper bows. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Harrison 



^ 



' «:i^ > 




T .> 






if 



^ 















'4' 



>:i 



1. Photomicrograms Taken of Hafnium Crystals immersed in Turpen- 
tine (LEFT) Taken With Green light, and (Right) with Ultraviolet light. 

Any particle appearing transparent in photomicrograni at left and opaque in one at right contains hafnium. 



^ 


.^ 


^■^ 1 — 




1 


J 


f^^^ 




J 1 __ 


1 


^^_l^p 


.: C ' : 




^^ -— ^ IR 




^ ■ 


Plr. 


Bk^I 


^^B 




■• i 


91^^. 


■ rill 




"^ 








- .5^, 




^..•.r-' 


r^H^ .-> 


S^P^v^mH 






r;-:^- 


is ?■ 


■'' : 





2. Automatic Machine for Measuring. Computing, and Recording the 
Wave lengths of Spectrum Lines. Which Has speeded up These Opera- 
tions SOME 200 TIMES. 

Over 8 million measurements have recently besn made at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with 
this machine and an improved model, and it is e.xpected that a new catalog of wave lengths of spectrum 
lines containing the results will soon be issued. Such a set of tables is badly needed, as the last systematic 
set of measurements of this sort was made in 1911, and greatly improved methods are now available. 



PHYSICAL SCIENCE IN THE CRIME-DETECTION 
LABORATORY ^ 



By J. Edoab Hoover 
Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation, V. 8. Depai'tment of Justice 



[With 5 plates] 



During the latter part of 1937 a police department in one of the 
eastern States, in submitting to the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
for laboratory examination a pocketknife and telephone cord, advised 
that the telephone cord had been severed by a burglar in an effort to 
delay notification of the authorities of the crime, and that the pocket- 
knife had been recovered in the possession of a suspect apprehended 
during the subsequent investigation. In addition to the examination 
of other evidence forwarded at the same time, the police department 
requested that an effort be made to ascertain whether the suspected 
pocketknife had in fact been used to cut the telephone cord. 

Under the microscope there were observed on the cutting edge of 
the knife blade minute bronze-colored stains. These stains were far 
too small to permit their ready removal and identification by routine 
chemical analytical methods. However, a spectrographic examination 
of the cutting edge of the knife blade revealed the presence thereon 
of the two chemical elements, copper and tin, which elements were 
found by a similar examination of the back edge of the knife blade 
to be elements not a part of the blade material itself. Inasmuch as 
a spectrographic analysis of the telephone cord indicated that copper 
and tin were the principal constituents of the severed conductor, this 
information was immediately furnished to the contributing agency 
for use in its further investigation and prosecution of the matter. 

During the early part of 1938 an examiner from the Bureau's 
technical laboratory testified relative to his findings in the matter 
before a court hearing the evidence against the suspect, as a result of 
which, together with other evidence introduced at the trial, the sus- 
pect was found guilty of the burglary and sentenced to a penitentiary 
for a period of from 5 to 10 years. 

The above case illustrates, probably better than any other proof 
which might be brought forward, the profoundly important part 

* Reprinted by permission from The Review of Scientific Instruments, vol. 9, No. 11, 
November 1938. 

215 



216 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

which modern scientific methods, and more specifically the application 
of physical techniques, are playing in the unending war against crime. 
The contrast between present-day methods embodying scientific 
principles and those of an earlier era can be summed up no more 
aptly than in the amusing but pointed exclamation, "Shades of Wyatt 
Earp ! The old boy would turn over in his grave if he could hear 
that," which a western officer w^as heard to make upon having the 
advantages of spectrographic examination pointed out to him. 

While the spectrograph has been a familiar instrument in physical 
and chemical laboratories throughout the world for many years, be- 
cause of its fundamental importance in these sciences, consideration 
of its possible application in crime-detection problems is relatively 
recent. Cognizant of the invaluable assistance already gained from 
scientific methods, and in line with its policy of exploring new 
methods of attack, the Federal Bureau of Investigation some time 
ago installed such an instrument in its technical laboratory in an 
effort to ascertain the extent of its application to law-enforcement 
work. The rapidly increasing number of instances in which it has 
proved of value already indicates that there is a definite place for 
it in this field, in spite of the fact that only the surface has been 
scratched in exploring its possibilities. 

Although the instance cited above indicates spectrographic results 
to be important from an affirmative evidentiary standpoint, it should 
be noted that its results may be equally valuable purely from an 
investigative standpoint as exemplified in the following case in which 
an extortionist identified the proposed pay-off spot by the simple 
process of painting a rock white at the desired location. During the 
subsequent investigation, special agents of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation removed small flakes of this white paint and submitted 
them to the Bureau's technical laboratory together with specimens 
of white paint recovered from the home of a suspect. A spectro- 
graphic analysis of the paint used by the extortionist indicated it 
to be of a zinc base type whereas a similar analysis of the suspected 
paint showed it to possess a titanium base, and therefore to be not 
identical with the paint removed from the rock, a result which could 
have been obtained only with difficulty, if at all, by the usual chemical 
procedures because of the limited amount of material available for 
analysis. 

Although the science of physics has contributed in some manner 
or other to almost every branch of crime detection, it is difficult, be- 
cause of the overlapping nature of the various sciences today, to 
isolate and attribute specific improvements or techniques to physics 
alone or to any other single branch of scientific endeavor, such im- 
provements or techniques in most instances having been rather the 



SCIENCE IN CRIME DETECTION — HOOVER 217 

result of a gradual development in several allied fields. However, 
by noting the relation and application of various portions of the 
electromagnetic radiant energy spectrum to specific crime detection 
problems it is believed that a fairly representative, even if necessarily 
somewhat brief and incomplete, picture of the subject as a whole 
may be presented. 

Leaving the fascinating subject of spectrographic analj'sis which 
in its broadest sense may encompass a relatively large portion of the 
spectrum, and disregarding possible application of cosmic and radio- 
active gamma radiation which at the present are of little more than 
academic interest in relation to crime detection, there is found at 
the short wave length end of the spectrum a powerful ally to law- 
enforcement work in the X-ray. Probably the most important use 
to which this valuable aid is put in police work lies in its application 
to the examination of packages suspected of containing explosives. 
Each year finds its quota of persons horribly mutilated or of homes 
and business establishments wrecked bj^ such bombs, and the problem 
confronting the oflScer who is charged with the responsibility of 
investigating and destroying these weapons of a crazed mind is a 
very real one. Fortunately, it is now possible in many instances 
through the agency of the X-ray to ascertain the contents of a sus- 
pected package without opening or otherwise disturbing the package 
in any way, thereby permitting appropriate action to be taken in 
the event the parcel is actually found to contain dangerous explosives. 

Plate 1, figure 1, is an X-ray photograph taken of a model bomb 
showing the possibility of tracing the ignition wiring thus permitting 
the bomb to be opened harmlessly. Plate 1, figure 2, on the other 
hand, is an X-ray of a package received by a high Government official 
and suspected of containing explosives, but found as indicated to 
contain onlj^ a gavel presented by an admiring constituent, much to 
the relief of the recipient. 

Above the X-rays in the radiant energy spectrum there is found 
a type of radiation known as ultraviolet light, so named, of course, 
because of its relation to the violet end of the visible spectrum which 
will be discussed later. This portion of the spectrum, in addition to 
exhibiting in general different selective reflection and transmission 
characteristics from those encountered in the visible region, further 
possesses the ability to excite to a state of luminescence many ma- 
terials which are normally nonluminous, a phenomenon which is 
known as fluorescence. 

Both of these properties find wide application in crime-detection 
problems. Inasmuch as the fluorescent radiation is in general dif- 
ferent in wave length or color from the incipient radiation and in 
many instances is highly characteristic of the material illuminated. 



218 ANNUAL REPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

it therefore offers one method of analysis to determine the nature 
of unknown materials received for examination. For instance, in 
connection with the investigation of rape cases, it frequently becomes 
necessary to examine clothing for the presence of seminal stains. 
Advantage is taken of the fact that such stains fluoresce brilliantly 
under the ultraviolet light, to localize certain areas which are then 
subjected to specific tests for the stain in question. The time saved 
by virtue of such a preliminary examination is immediately obvious. 

Again, drawing on the field of document examination, we find the 
fluorescence of certain materials permitting their use as secret inks, 
invisible when viewed by ordinary lighting but standing out vividly 
in glowing contrast when subjected to ultraviolet illumination. Thus, 
the ultraviolet affords a rapid and convenient method of examination 
of documents or other evidence suspected of carrying a secret message. 
A special case of this application of ultraviolet is found in the exami- 
nation of evidence containing obliterated writing, that is, writing 
which for some reason or other has been removed by physical or 
chemical processes. In many such cases there remain imbedded in 
the surface of the document, invisible to the eye, one or more con- 
stituents of the original writing ink which when viewed under the 
ultraviolet light reveal the fluorescent outline of the original. Plate 
2, figure 1, is a photograph taken by the usual methods of a portion 
of a page from an account book belonging to the subject of a case 
under investigation by this Bureau. Evidence in the case indicated 
that the subject had represented the bank account to be much larger 
than it actually was. From a preliminary examination of the first 
entry shown in plate 2, figure 1, it was apparent that a number had 
been placed before the entry and then subsequently removed, although 
it was not possible to tell definitely what the number had been. 
Wlien placed under the ultraviolet light, however, a "4" was seen to 
stand out in a faint fluorescent glow, before the original entry. This 
"4" is clearly visible in illustration plate 2, figure 2. The evidence 
made available through the use of ultraviolet light in this instance 
was of material assistance in the subsequent prosecution and convic- 
tion of the subject. 

In order to utilize the selective reflection and transmission charac- 
teristics which several materials exhibit for the ultraviolet region, it 
is necessary to employ the action of the ultraviolet light directly on 
a photographic plate or other suitable recording medium. This 
process is readily carried out, of course, by the utilization of quartz 
optical systems and appropriate filters, resulting in incontrovertible 
evidence in those instances where the materials involved are such as 
to yield to this method of attack. Used to supplement each other, 
the two ultraviolet techniques outlined above have proved so valuable 



SCIENCE IN" CRIME DETECTION — HOOVER 219 

that they have become an indispensable part of many routine exami- 
nations. 

Immediately above the ultraviolet portion of the spectrum, there 
appear in orderly sequence the visible colors ranging from violet 
through extreme red, and inasmuch as these colors are directly in- 
volved in the all-important process of vision, it obviously would be 
futile to attempt, even in a much more comprehensive discussion than 
space permits here, to touch upon more than a very few of the 
applications to crime detection. Some of these, how^ever, are so 
outstanding as to demand consideration. 

Foremost among these is the microscope as we know it today. 
With these "seven-league glasses" it becomes possible for the expert 
to ascertain whether the wisp of hair found clinging to the door 
hinge of a suspected hit-and-run automobile is identical with com- 
parison specimens of hair removed from the head of the child found 
lying unconscious with a fractured skull at the edge of the road near 
a small southern community; whether the printed fabric found 
wrapped around a murdered victim's neck in another instance is 
identical with similar fabric found at the home of a suspect; or 
whether the stain appearing upon an ax recovered at the home of a 
suspect is only rust, as claimed by the suspect, or is in fact a stain 
caused by blood of human origin received when the ax was utilized 
in a vicious attack on one of the suspect's neighbors. 

By adding polarizing elements to the microscope, the petrographer 
is able to examine the colored interference patterns produced by 
biref ringent crystalline materials and thereby determine, for example, 
whether the soil removed from the shoes of a suspect is similar in 
mineral content and structure to soil taken from the area where a 
safe, which had been stolen from a mercantile store, had been forced 
open and the contents looted. 

In the field of firearms identification, we find a somewhat different 
modification of the microscope employed. Of several problems 
which properly fall within the scope of this work, the principal one 
deals with the examination of evidence — ^bullets and cartridge cases — 
in an effort to ascertain whether they have been fired from a suspected 
weapon recovered during the investigation. Such an examination is 
based upon the existence on both bullet and cartridge case of many 
minute markings, arising in the case of the bullet from its passage 
over the microscopic imperfections present in the gun barrel, and in 
the case of the shell from various imperfections in the breech face, 
firing pin, and similar sources. It has been amply demonstrated 
that each weapon creates a combination of such microscopic marks 
which is not duplicated by any other weapon; accordingly, each 
weapon, in effect, places its "fingerprint" upon all projectiles or shells 



220 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

which are fired from it. The immediate problem thus resolves itself 
into a determination of whether the microscopic markings on the 
questioned bullet or shell coincide with similar markings upon test 
specimens fired by the examining expert from the suspected gun. 

To meet this problem, which demands enlargement of the charac- 
teristic markings and provision for directly observing the coincidence 
or lack of coincidence between the sequence of the marks, the crime- 
detection laboratory has drawn upon the field of applied optics in 
creating an ingenious device known as the comparison microscope. 
This instrument not only furnishes the required magnification to 
make the minute markings distinctly visible, but in addition optically 
"splits" the specimens being compared in such a manner that images 
of opposite halves of the specimens are placed in proper juxtaposition 
to permit direct comparison of the marking sequence. In plate 3 is 
shown a photograph illustrating the manner in which the character- 
istic markings are seen to flow smoothly from one bullet into the 
other when both have been fired from the same weapon. 

To illustrate the extreme value of this type of examination, atten- 
tion is invited to a case in which a trapper in Alaska was found mur- 
dered in his cabin. Two suspects were located, each of whom w^as 
in the possession of a rifle of the type from which the fatal bullet 
had come. However, suspicion was directed more strongly toward 
one suspect than the other because of a prior criminal record which 
he was found to have and further because of the presence of blood- 
stains on his clothing. Upon receipt of the two suspected weapons 
in the technical laboratory of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
test specimens were fired from each and by means of the comparison 
microscope were compared with the fatal bullet. When this exam- 
ination had been completed, it was found that the fatal bullet had 
been fired from the weapon belonging to the suspect toward whom 
the finger of suspicion had pointed less strongly, thereby completely 
exonerating the suspect with the prior criminal record. The blood- 
stains appearing upon the latter's clothing were found not to be of 
human origin, the suspect having previously claimed that they were 
caused by reindeer blood. Thus, it will be seen that the examination 
not only assisted very materially in the solution of the case, but even 
refuted circumstantial evidence tending to point to another suspect. 

It is also of importance to note that the comparison microscope 
is not by any means limited in its application to the examination of 
firearms evidence. Whenever two objects of differing hardness are 
forcibly placed in contact, markings characteristic of the surface 
imperfections of one are invariably impressed upon the other. For 
example, a pair of bolt clippers used by a burglar to gain access 
to a business establishment may readily be identified as the instru- 



SCIENCE IN CRIME DETECTION HOOVER 221 

ment actually used, by virtue of the microscopic marks which 
small dents and other imperfections in its cutting edges leave upon 
the severed ends of the window bars. 

Case after case could be cited, each with a different story to tell, 
illustrative of the endless manner in which applied optics in the 
visible region of the spectrum has yielded a welcome solution to 
an otherwise difficult problem. However, space will not permit a 
more detailed discussion. 

Corresponding to ultraviolet light lying beyond the short wave 
length at the end of the visible spectrum, there appears above the 
limit of visibility at the long wave length end, light which is known 
as infrared. This portion of the spectrum also has been found to 
possess certain characteristics which are of value to the scientific 
investigator; chief among these is the ability of infrared radiation 
to penetrate materials which are normally opaque to the unaided 
eye. As an example of this property, plate 4, figure 1, shows a 
photograph by ordinary process of an obliterated return address 
appearing upon an envelope in which an anonymous derogatory 
letter was mailed. It will be noted that the obliteration has been 
carried out by marking over the original form with ink. Aware of 
the characteristics of the infrared portion of the spectrum, the 
examiner immediately photographed the questioned area utilizing 
suitable optical filters and special photographic plates sensitized to 
this type of radiation. Plate 4, figure 2, shows the resulting pho- 
tograph, clearly revealing the original printed return address 
through the overlayer of ink which now appears only as a light 
smudge. Here again by properly applying familiar principles of 
selective optical absorption, the source of the stationery employed 
by the anonymous writer was readily ascertained. Without the 
utilization of infrared photography much time and effort might 
have been required to accomplish the same end. 

Another instance involves the examination of a leather money 
bag found on the person of a desperate criminal following his 
arrest. Other equipment in the possession of this criminal included 
24 sticks of dynamite, a supply of nitroglycerin, numerous travelers 
checks, and a supply of weapons. 

Visual examination of the money bag, as indicated in plate 5, 
figure 1, disclosed no identifying data which would be of assistance 
in tracing it. However, upon its receipt in the technical laboratory 
of the Bureau, infrared photographs clearly disclosed the name 
of the bank where it had originated, as shown in plate 5, figure 2. 

Moving to the long wave length portion of the radiant energy 
spectrum, the contribution of radio to law enforcement must be 
acknowledged. The rapidity with which radio as a means of com- 



222 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

munication has been accepted by law-enforcement agencies through- 
out the country is ample proof of its value to such organizations. 
The ability to transmit to the farthest corners of the State, per- 
tinent information relative to a crime almost before the perpetrator 
has completed the act, thereby rendering it extremely difficult, if 
not impossible, for him to escape, is a development of the utmost 
importance, particularly in view of the swift modes of transpor- 
tation available to the criminal of today. In addition to furnishing 
an unparalleled means of communication the principles of radio 
have been utilized to throw protecting "fields" about homes or other 
specific areas, permitting actuation of almost any desired type of 
alarm upon the entry within the protected area by an intruder. 

It is again to be emphasized that the few examples given above 
represent only a very small number of the myriad applications 
through which physical science has been of assistance to law en- 
forcement. Indeed, reviewing the results which modern scientific 
methods have brought to crime detection, one is constantly tempted 
to ask with an earlier school of thought, "What more is there to be 
discovered?" only to be answered with a new development, star- 
tling in its implication and promise. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Hoover 



Plate 1 




1 X-Ray photograph of a Package Containing a model bomb. 




2. X-Ray Photograph of a Package Suspected of Containing Explosives 
BUT Shown To Contain only a Gavel. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Hoover 



Plate 2 




1. Photograph of an Account Book, Showing the Removal of A'Figure 

Before the 15139. 




2. The same page of an Account Book Under Ultraviolet Light; the 
Removed Figure Is seen To Be a 4. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939.— Hoover 



PLATE 3 




Photograph of Two Bullets Fired From the Same Gun as Seen under 
THE Comparison microscope. 

The characteristic markings flow smoothly from one bullet into the other. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Hoover 



Plate 4 



•^"Y'* ^*4«'" 






mn^mi i i i i i]i| iiii r i On i i i^iiii ii io 






.4.„. 



^•ViTMMVMit 




1. Ordinary Photograph of an Obliterated Return Address. 




2. Photograph of Same Return Address Using Optical Filters and 
Photographic Plates Sensitized to infrared Radiation. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Hoover 



Plate 5 




1 . Money Bag Found on a Criminal upon his Arrest, Containing No Identi- 
fying Data. 




2. SAME Money Bag Photographed With infrared Radiation, showing 
lettering that permitted the deciphering of the name of the bank 
From Which It Came. 



PHYSICAL INTERPRETATION OF THE WEATHER ^ 



By Edgab W. Woolabd 
IJ. S. Weather Bureau, Washington, D. C. 



[With 4 plates] 



In the days of ancient Greece, the word "meteorology" — or, rather, 
its Greek equivalent, (itTecapoKoyla — was introduced to designate a 
subject that, even then, was already old, namely, knowledge and lore 
of the weather and other phenomena of the atmosphere. The word 
"meteor" was then used as a general term for any atmospheric 
phenomenon; this still is the preferred meaning given in modern 
dictionaries, but the more common usage now is for astronomical 
meteors, which in ancient times were, like comets, thought to be 
entirely of atmospheric origin and were included under meteorology 
along with a number of other phenomena not now considered to 
come within its field. During the centuries since Aristotle wrote the 
earliest laiown formal treatise on meteorology, the scope of the sub- 
ject has gradually been narrowed, until the modern tendency is to 
restrict it to only the phenomena that are directly involved in the 
weather, excluding even other atmospheric phenomena and drawing 
more or less of a distinction between meteorology and climatology. 

It is not difficult to show that meteorology, in the preceding mean- 
ing, is a branch of physics (principally "classical" physics), and it 
is significant that many of the most notable contributions to meteor- 
ology in the past have been made by physicists. The state of the 
weather at a given time and place is specified by the values of six 
quantities known as the meteorological elements, namely, air temper- 
ature, barometric pressure, wind velocity (direction and speed), 
humidity, clouds, and precipitation (rain, snow, hail, etc.). Now, 
these elements are completely determined by the temperature, pres- 
sure, density, and three velocity components of the air, and its total 
solid, liquid, and gaseous water content; clearly, therefore, the 
weather is essentially a dynamic and thermodynamic phenomenon. 

Unfortunately, formidable difficulties are encountered in attempt- 
ing to base the systematic development and the practical applications 



^ Reprinted by permission from Journal of Applied Physics, vol. 9, No. 1, January 1938. 

223 



224 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 




Figure 1. — Typical synoptic weather map, showing extratropical cyclone and anticyclone. 
The attendant wind circulations are shown by the arrows, which fly with the wind ; 
isobars (solid lines) connect stations that have equal barometric pressures ; isotherms 
(dotted lines) connect stations that have equal temperatures ; shaded circles indicate 
clouded skies, R, rain, 8, snow, and cross-hatched areas are regions over which precipi- 
tation has fallen during the preceding 24 hours. CW indicates cold wave warning ; 
and the heav^y dotted line encloses a region of marked temperature fall during the pre- 
ceding 24 hours. (Compare with examples of analyzed maps, figure 3 and plate 3, 
figures 1 and 2.) 



of meteorology explicitly on principles of physics ; even an empirical 
understanding of the storms and irregular weather changes of temp- 
erate regions was slow to develop. The standard method of repre- 
senting the weather conditions over a given region at any particular 
time is by means of the familiar synoptic map which is prepared 
from observations taken simultaneously at a network of stations dis- 
tributed over the region, and which shows the geographic distribu- 
tion of the meteorological elements (fig. 1). The synoptic map was 
introduced into meteorology early in the nineteenth century by 
Brandes and Eedfield; and after the invention of the electric tele- 
graph it came into daily use, for delineating and forecasting weather 
conditions, among the national meteorological services that were 
established in the principal countries of the world soon after daily 
telegraphic charts were first regularly issued in France in 1863. The 
daily synoptic map has been a powerful aid to meteorological in- 
vestigation, while weather forecasting from these maps has rendered 
invaluable service ever since its inception ; but even long after the de- 
velopment of theoretical meteorology on an exact physical basis had 



WEATHER — WOOLARD 225 

been initiated (largely through the work of William Ferrel in the 
United States about 1855, pi. 2), progress was relatively slow in the 
attempt to interpret the current weather phenomena shown on the 
synoptic charts in terms of the physical processes in operation. 

Weather forecasts were based fundamentally on the fact of obser- 
vation (demonstrated by Benjamin Franklin, Leverrier, Fitzroy, and 
Buchan) that existing weather conditions travel over the globe in a 
fairly regular manner from day to day, altering more or less as they 
move (fig. 1 and pi. 3, figs. 1 and 2) ; and from a detailed study of 
the daily movements and transformations recorded on series of past 
synoptic charts, it is possible to estimate from a given current map 
the weather that will occur in the near future. For the most part, 
weather phenomena were empirically associated with the barometric 
pressure distribution, particularly with the cyclones or "lows" (re- 
gions of relatively low pressure), and anticyclones or "highs" (re- 
gions of relatively high pressure) , which are continually moving over 
the temperate regions; and the emphasis was mainly on the weather 
conditions that had in the past been observed usually to accompany 
the particular movements and developments of these pressure forma- 
tions that were to be expected on the basis of past experience, with 
little consideration of physical explanations and almost no attempt 
to make direct use of any physical principles. 

The obstacles arise partly from the complexity of the phenomena, 
and partly from the difficulty of securing adequate observational 
data and effectively utilizing them. A complete investigation of the 
weatlier phenomena over a given region requires regular observations 
at fairly frequent intervals, both from the surface of the earth and 
aloft to moderately great heights in the free air, over a territory that 
extends far beyond the limits of the area under immediate consider- 
ation; a satisfactory understanding of the weather over the entire 
continental United States, therefore, would necessitate adequate data 
for at least the region from the mid-Pacific Ocean to Bermuda and 
from northern Alaska, Canada, and Greenland to Mexico and the 
West Indies, and it would be desirable to extend this area over a still 
larger part of the northern hemisphere. This ideal is far from hav- 
ing yet been attained, and much remains to be learned as to how to 
interpret and apply even all the data that now are available; but 
during recent years, notable increases have been effected in the niun- 
ber of reporting stations, including ships at sea and stations for 
upper air soundings, as well as in the extent of territory covered by 
the observing network, and in the completeness and frequency of the 
observations; and steady progress has been made in utilizing the 
data effectively, from both the empirical and the physical viewpoints. 

The empirical association of weather conditions with pressure dis- 



226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

tribution, which prevailed from the earliest days of synoptic meteor- 
ology, was naturally suggested by the daily maps. It is, moreover, 
consistent with the fact of common experience that the "winds" are 
one of the principal immediate factors in daily weather ; because it is 
the field of pressure which directly determines the flow of the air 
that constitutes the wind, while other weather phenomena are more 
or less directly produced by, or are incident to, the motions of the 
air. Great difficulty has been encountered in attempting to obtain 
from observations of the winds a satisfactory comprehensive knowl- 
edge of the atmospheric circulation over the globe, but for the pur- 
poses of the present discussion it is sufficient to recognize that the 
air motions which make up the circulation of the atmosphere as a 
whole constitute a complex and ever-varying system of innumerable 
different interacting currents by which great quantities of air are 
often transported from place to place over long distances ; and during 
recent years, attention has been directed more and more to these air 
streams themselves — their motions, extent, and physical properties, 
and the relations of weather phenomena thereto — instead of being, 
as in the earlier days of synoptic meteorology, almost wholly concen- 
trated on pressure formations as such. 

It has been more or less vaguely realized for more than a century 
that on many occasions two atmospheric currents, markedly different 
in velocity and temperature, and sharply separated, may flow ad- 
jacent to each other and produce distinctive weather phenomena as 
one succeeds the other at a given place ; this idea was clearly expressed 
as early as 1828 by H. W. Dove, who ascribed the storms of temperate 
latitudes to conflicts between polar currents and equatorial currents. 
Only very limited observation is needed to reveal striking instances 
in which all of the meteorological elements change simultaneously 
and abruptly in a pronounced manner (fig. 2), as the boundary be- 
tween two different currents sweeps over the observing station, the 
transition from one to the other amounting practically to an actual 
discontinuity. Such moving discontinuities, often hundreds of miles 
in length, between adjacent currents, frequently are quite conspicuous 
on synoptic charts (fig. 3) ; they have long been recognized by the 
forecaster, and were the subject of extensive theoretical investigations 
by Helmholtz and Margules. It was not until during the World 
War, however, that an intensive effort was made to investigate the 
separate currents in detail, explicitly as a basis for the interpretation 
of the phenomena shown on the daily maps. The investigation was 
initiated in Norway, after the Scandinavian countries had ceased to 
receive meteorological data from other countries because of the war. 
On very detailed surface charts, prepared from unusually compre- 
hensive observations at an exceedingly dense network of stations, it 



WEATHER — WOOLAKD 



227 



i;::i!ii"i;^n:;:Ti .,„ , 




FiGDRE 2. — Variations of tlie meteorological elements at Washiiigton, D. C, January 22-23, 
1936, recorded by self-registering instruments. Note the simultaneous abrupt changes 
in all the elements at about 8 p. m., January 22, 75 meridian time, as the boundary 
between a weak southerly current and a strong northwesterly current passed over the 
city; the total drop in temperature was nearly 50° F. Considerable property damage 
from wiud occurred. See also figures 3 and 4. 



was found that a number of individual currents ordinarily could be 
identified and followed from day to day; they differed more or less 
from one another in direction of movement, speed, temperature, and 
other characteristics; and often ended abruptly against one another, 
with the clouds, precipitation, and other weather phenomena defi- 
nitely related to these discontinuities. 

It may be shown from dynamical theory that two atmospheric cur- 
rents with different temperatures and velocities may, on the rotating 
earth, flow side by side in mutual dynamical equilibrium, provided 
the surface of discontinuity between them is inclined at an appropri- 
ate (in general, small) angle to the horizontal, with the colder cur- 
rent lying in wedge form under the warmer (fig. 4). If the 
conditions necessary for this dynamical equilibrium are not fulfilled, 
however, a disturbance develops at the boundary between the two 
currents, and may result in the formation of a traveling cyclone. 
The warm current advances against, and flows up over, the cold 
current, while in the rear of the disturbance the cold air sweeps in 
under the warm current (figs. 5, 6). In the regions where warm 
air is forced to ascend, the adiabatic cooling may lead to condensa- 
tion and precipitation of the admixed water vapor. This general con- 
ception of the cyclone is the outgrowth of ideas successively expressed 
and elaborated during the past hundred years by Dove, Helmholtz, 
Blasius, Margules, Shaw, J. Bjerknes (1919), Solberg, (Bjerknes and 



197855— 4( 



-16 



228 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 



Solberg, 1922) and others; in an idealized schematic form, it is repre- 
sented in figures 5 and 6, although of course actual cyclones usually 
depart more or less from the ideal. Much yet remains to be learned, 
however, about the detailed structure and the dynamical mechanism 
of the cyclone, concerning which several different theories exist. 

Thus, it is not the cyclones and anticyclones as such that are im- 
portant in determining the weather, but rather the interactions be- 
tween the various moving air masses that are involved in the systems 




Januari/_^2, /936 - S /FM 



2 /?M. pos/f/'or? ofco/c/ fronf 



Figure 3. — Synoptic map of easteru United States at 8 p. m., 75 meridian time, January 
22, 1936. The heavy solid line shows the boundary or "front" of advancing cold air, 
just before it reached Washinston and produced the eflEects shown in figure 2. Arrows 
fly with the wind, and the number of barbs indicates the wind strength ; the number 
to the right of each station is the Fahrenheit temperature ; the number to the left or 
below is the net change in the barometer (in hundredths of an inch) during the pre- 
ceding 3 hours, and the accompanying symbol shows the character of the barograph 
trace during that interval. Note the comparative uniformity in temperature over large 
areas ahead of the front, and the abrupt decrease at and behind the front ; note also 
the abrupt change in the barometric tendencies at the front. See also figure 4. 



WEATHER — WOOLAED 



229 



January 22j /S3S 



St 



7A9/*y 





Far 


go 

?/77. 






Om 


iha 


Oklahoma 
■^a m. 


San An 

.J 


tonio 














































































. 










"- 


JdT 


.... 






















-'-■'- 


• ,^ 








'^A 


w/ 


/OffSf -'^ 






\ 


/ ^ -i'/ 








- ■ -24 






t -^^ 


'^ 
















~% 






\ 


Vr 




J J 


. .^ 


^ 




x 


-/i 




Su£>sVc^/na 




\ 




'" * /*5r//i'<? 


/=» ' 


-/<y, 




s 


Sno^ -/7 


P 


- 






'■■'=' v 


so 










-i9 




"S' • - 








-& 


1 


s ** 


' '' . " ^/ 


/.4 






^.-v 


s 














s 
















'.J. 










^ 


W.J 


''^^j/ir^v y 










R 




- N. 


-«/ 




^ 




so 




^ 




«.ff ^ 








'f^ao f^a ¥mo V^o 


s/ 


03 




X 




• \\ x \ 








V 




^^^.\ \ 


' " •■ J-^ 


02 




" 


V,:, _[. \ , 


/O 


\\ \ \ 






N S9 


■3S 




^■* \\\\ 


«^ 


o / 


\ -, 




\\\\ 


^ 






"" •^^^S'o — ' — TS 2T~ 


' — -< . r^- 


W^— —3% 




■■V,-. ■ ■■■ , ^^ 






^■, 













FiGUKB 4. — Vertical (north-south) cross section through the cold front shown in 
figure 3, constructed from data obtained by airplane soundings in the early morning 
of January 22, 1936. The numbers show centigrade temperature, relative humidity, 
and moisture content in grams of water vapor per kilogram of air, at the points indicated, 
arranged as shown at the bottom of the diagram. Note how the cold (Pc) air lies 
In wedge form under the warmer air ; the vertical scale is greatly exaggerated (see scale 
of slopes in lower right corner). 



of winds that attend barometric pressure formations. The elabora- 
tion of a systematic technique for the delimitation of the individual 
currents on the daily maps, and the study of the weather phenomena 
produced by their interactions, have led to "air mass analysis," to 
wliich so much prominence has been given in recent years. Over 
large areas of the earth, especially in polar and in tropical regions, 
the meteorological conditions are so nearly uniform and steady, and 
the circulation so relatively weak or restricted for long periods that 
the atmosphere up to great heights above these areas takes on dis- 
tinctive properties of temperature, moisture, and stability that are 
characteristic of the regions. For example, when air either stag- 
nates, or else circulates for a long period, over the regions of the 
Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean Sea, it becomes warm, moisture-laden 
and unstable. Frequently an atmospheric current originates in one 
of these areas and transports large quantities of air to distant parts of 
the earth, as, for example, when a great body of intensely cold air 
pours out from the Arctic and flows down over the globe to lower 
latitudes, sometimes covering the larger part of the North American 
continent with its frigid winds (figs. 1, 3). Moving masses of air 
from different localities tend as they travel to retain many of the 
initial physical properties characteristic of their respective source 



230 



ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 



regions, especially at upper levels, although of course they gradually 
become more and more modified as time goes on by the conditions 
encountered during their progress. When air masses from widely 
separated places of origin, and with distinctly different properties, 
are brought into juxtaposition by the currents that are continually 
traversing the atmosphere, these bodies of air do not freely mix, but 
tend to retain their identity and to remain separated from one an- 
other throughout much of their history by more or less well-defined 
surfaces of discontinuity or sharp transition zones in temperature, 
humidity, and velocity; until eventually, after profound modifica- 
tion by the long continued action of external influences, they are 




Figure 5. — Formation of an extratropical cyclone from a disturbance on the boundary 
between a cold and a warm current. See figure 6. 



subject to mixture, dissipation, and ultimate disappearance as sepa- 
rate bodies. It is at the interfaces where different air masses meet, 
or so-called "frontal surfaces," that the processes involved in weather 
phenomena are in general most active, although many important 
phenomena also frequently take place within the body of an air mass. 
In the analysis of synoptic maps, it is necessary to identify and 
delimit the separate air masses, assign them to their places in some 
recognized classification of air masses according to source region and 
characteristics, trace their movements and progressive modifications 
from day to day, and determine the associated physical processes and 
their relations to the attendant weather phenomena. 

With respect to their physical characteristics, air masses may be 
classified (Willett, 1933, 1936) first into tropical and polar, and each 
of these types further subdivided into continental and maritime, 



WEATHER — WOOLARD 



231 



according as the source region was over land or ocean; still further 
subdivision may be made on the basis of the geographical location 
of the source region. For example, in the United States, two types 
of tropical maritime air are important — tropical Pacific (Tp) and 
tropical Atlantic (Ta) . When an air mass becomes significantly 
modified from its original state, it is designated as a transitional 
mass and is distinguished by prefixing a capital N to its symbol— 
as, for example, NTa. A wholly satisfactory classification is difficult 





Figure 6. — Idealized estratropical cyclone formed by the process illustrated in figure 5, 
•with vertical (east-west) cross sections through the northern part (above) and the 
southern part (below). 



to achieve; and at the present time the tendency is to classify air 
masses on the basis of whether they are warmer or colder than the 
surface over which they are flowing, rather than on the geographical 
basis used in the diagrams accompanying this paper. 

The development of air-mass analysis has greatly stimulated 
efforts to obtain more adequate data and to devise effective means 
for their application to the physical analysis of day-to-day weather 
and the interpretation of synoptic maps. The daily location of the 
"fronts," or lines on the surface of the earth which bound the different 
air masses, presents a difficult problem in practice. The contrasts 



232 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 




Figure 7. — East-west vertical cross section through the atmosphere, showing conditions 
aloft shortly before the time of the map in plate 3, figure 1 (cf. explanations in legend to 
figure 4). 



frequently are obscure and may not exist in all of the physical prop- 
erties; broad and diffuse transition zones sometimes take the place 
of true fronts. Success in the analysis requires that appropriate and 
adequate data be available to a trained and experienced personnel. 
In particular, a network of aerological soundings to fairly great 
heights is indispensable, and until upper-air data could be made 
quickly available by the introduction of airplane soundings, air-mass 
analysis could not receive extensive application in daily work. The 
current characteristics of an air mass depend on both its source and 
the modifications it has undergone during its progress away from the 
source region ; these modifications, which usually tend to weaken the 
distinctions, are in general much more rapid and extensive near the 
surface of the earth than aloft. Furthermore, surface observations 
alone frequently do not reveal conditions and physical processes aloft 
which on many occasions are the principal cause of important phe- 
nomena at the surface, and without a knowledge of which the latter 
cannot be explained or foreseen, nor the surface map interpreted. 
Methods are now being rapidly perfected for obtaining aerological 
observations under all conditions of weather, and from a denser net- 
work, by means of the radiometeorograph or "radiosonde" — a mech- 
anism which is carried aloft by a small balloon, and by which 
pressure, temperature, and humidity are caused to actuate a short- 
wave radio transmitting apparatus that conveys a record to radio 
receiving apparatus on the ground. Vertical cross sections through 
the atmosphere (figs. 4, 7), so far as they can be constructed from 
data now available, are being used to supplement the surface map 
and the mere pilots of upper-air data against height (Willett, 1935, 
1935a). 

Examples of analyzed maps are shown in plate 3, figures 1 and 2. 
When the movements of the currents are such that colder air is ad- 



WEATHER — WOOLARD 233 

vancing over regions occupied by warmer air, the front between the 
two air masses is called a cold front ; if warmer air is advancing into 
regions occupied by colder air, the discontinuity is called a warm 
front. Advancing warm air always tends to overrun colder heavier 
air; while advancing cold air tends to imderrun warm air. The dis- 
continuity formed when a cold front overtakes a warm front and dis- 
places the warm air formerly between them to a higher level is known 
as an occluded front. Cold fronts often give rise to the well-known 
squall lines or wind-shift lines. Along the separating frontal surfaces, 
the overrunning of warm air over the slopes of cold air masses, or the 
lifting of warm air by underrunning cold air, leads to adiabatic cool- 
ing and eventually cloud and perhaps precipitation. The interaction 
of a cold and a warm air mass often leads to the development of a 
cyclone, with its center on the front. In the search for the fronts, im- 
portant evidence is provided by temperatures, winds, dewpoints, pres- 
sure tendencies (that is, the pressure changes during the 3 hours pre- 
ceding the observations), cloud forms and sequences, precipitation, and 
other auxiliary information (Byers, 1937). 

A number of special procedures have been devised for putting the 
data, especially those from the upper air, into a form that will facili- 
tate their effective and convenient application in practice, both for the 
identification of air masses from place to place and time to time, and 
also for the purpose of analyzing the physical conditions and proc- 
esses; investigations for this purpose have in recent years led to a 
particularly noteworthy development of the thermodynamics of at- 
mospheric phenomena, and of practical means for applying it. 
Meteorological thermodynamics involves the investigation of the 
energy transformations and sequence of thermodynamic properties 
and states, during specified processes, in the atmosphere (Brunt, 1939 ; 
Humphreys, 1929). When, for example, humid air is forced to ascend 
in the atmosphere, it comes under less and less pressure and expands 
and cools adiabatically ; if this process continues, condensation and 
precipitation eventually take place. The resulting mixture of dry air 
and widely variable amounts of water distributed in continuously 
changing proportions between the gaseous, liquid, and solid phases, in 
the gravitational field of the earth, forms a highly complicated sys- 
tem; and the derivation of mathematical equations of state to show 
the condition of the system and the sequence of phenomena through- 
out the process is an intricate problem which involves relations far 
more complex than the familiar PV=RT of elementary physics. 

For purposes of air mass identification, conservative properties of 
the air are of especial importance. Some properties are more con- 
servative than others during the modifications to which air masses are 
usually subject; in seeking an index which will remain as nearly as 



234 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

possible constant, two quantities known respectively as specific hu- 
midity and equivalent potential temperature have been found espe- 
cially useful: The specific humidity is the mass of water vapor per 
unit mass of humid air; the equivalent potential temperature is the 
temperature to which air would come if subjected to a pseudoadiabatic 
lifting (that is, a lifting which is adiabatic except that all condensa- 
tion products drop out immediately upon formation) until all mois- 
ture was precipitated, followed by an adiabatic return to a standard 
pressure. 

In developing methods for representing the data from upper air 
soundings in a form that will show the meteorological import of the 
physical conditions and be adapted to practical needs, a number of 
special thermodynamic diagrams have been devised and have come 
into regular use (Refsdal, 1935; Rossby, 1932; Woolard, et al., 1926). 
In general, these diagrams consist of networks of lines, referred to 
appropriate coordinate systems, which show the thermodynamic 
states of atmospheric air over a wide range of conditions and by 
which the changes of state and the energy transformations during any 
prescribed process may be traced out; they correspond to the "indi- 
cator diagrams" of physics and engineering, but are much more com- 
plex. By plotting the data from a sounding on one of these diagrams, 
the conditions in the vertical with respect to stability, available 
energy, etc., at different levels in the atmosphere may be determined ; 
and many of the phenomena to be anticipated under the existing 
meteorological circumstances may be inferred. On the so-called 
tephigram, for example (fig. 8), the sounding is plotted on a chart 
with absolute temperature as abscissa and entropy as ordinate, and 
with a background of lines that show pressures, water vapor contents, 
and irreversible adiabats of saturated air; on the "Rossby diagram," 
which is particularly useful for bringing out significant properties of 
the air, the sounding is plotted with the so-called mixing ratio (mass 
of water vapor per unit mass of dry air) as abscissa and potential 
temperature of the dry-air component of the atmosphere as ordinate, 
and with a background of lines that show equivalent potential tem- 
peratures, and pressure and temperature at the condensation level. 
Other widely used charts include the adiabatic chart, the emagram, 
and the Refsdal aerogram. 

One of the methods most recently applied in daily practice as an 
aid in the representation and physical analysis of phenomena is the 
construction of charts that show the meteorological conditions on se- 
lected isentropic surfaces (surfaces of constant potential temperature) 
in the upper air, instead of on horizontal surfaces. These isentropic 
charts were suggested by Sir Napier Shaw some years ago, but their 
practical construction and use requires, of course, a network of daily 



WEATHER — WOOLARD 



235 



36 30 25 30 \5 10 



10 -15 -20 -25 -30 -35 -40 -45 



.7'OAir 




Figure 8. — Thermodynamic diagram for plotting the so-called tephigram of an upper 
air sounding. The observed temperatui-e (centigrade) Is plotted as abscissa, against 
entropy as ordinate (an equivalent logarithmic scale of potential temperature is added 
for convenience). The curved lines show the socjuences of tliermodynaniic states fol- 
lowed by saturated air in pseudoadiabatic processes under different initial conditions, 
as specified by realized entropy of the air, temperature, pressure in millibars (shown 
by sloping solid straight lines) and saturation water vapor content (sloping dashed 
straight lines). An area on this diagram represents energy. The relations of the 
graph of the sounding to the isentropic lines and pseudoadiabats indicate conditions of 
stability in the atmosphere, and the amount of energy available or required for the 
occurrence of meteorological processes. 



aerological soundings. The charts show (among other things) the 
elevation contours of the selected isentropic surface as indicated by 
the barometric pressure distribution over the surface ; the distribution 
of specific humidity as indicated by the values of the pressure at 
which condensation would begin in an adiabatic expansion; and the 
wind velocity over this surface (fig. 9). The motion of the upper air 
is in general so nearly adiabatic, as long as no condensation occurs, 
that the flow must everywhere be practically along an isentropic 
surface. The flow of individual dry and humid currents in each sur- 
face, and the gradual lateral mixing of these currents over the surface, 
can be followed from day to day by means of the specific humidity. 
The extent to which the motions of the currents are upward or down- 
ward along the slopes of the isentropic surface, together with the 
conditions of relative humidity, condensation levels, and motion of 



236 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 




ffrrar^ment of s/af/on cfafa 
Specific Hum/c/ifi/ 
Pressure » Concfensaf/or) Pressure 
ffe/afiVe /fumiV/fy 
^ _ _ /soiiars of acfuo/ Pressure 
— — • " " com/snsaffon Pressure 
S/}acfecf area - Pey/on of Safuraf/on 



Feb. J, /938 
Q = 29S 



Figure 9. — Au isentropie chart : A synoptic map of the surface in the upper air over 
which the potential temperature at the time was everywhere 295°. The places at which 
the condensation pressure becomes equal to the current pressure outline a cloud-covered 
region in most of which precipitation occurred at the surface of the earth. 



the surface itself, is intimately related to the occurrence of cloudiness 
and precipitation, and other meteorological processes. Isentropie 
charts have shown considerable promise both for purposes of hydro- 
dynamical investigations of atmospheric motions and for practical 
forecasting. 

It must be emphasized that the physical analysis of maps and 
cross sections is quite distinct from the making of a forecast; the 
analysis must be followed by a determination of the expected dis- 
placements, transformations, and developments of the fronts, air 
masses and pressure formations, and an estimate of the weather 
conditions that will accompany them. Important progress has been 
made in developing methods for this purpose also on a quantitative 
physical basis; but the unusual demands of practical meteorological 
work, particularly the exceedingly limited time within which fore- 
casts must be completed and issued, together with the extraordinary 
complexity of the phenomena involved, the great volume of data 
necessary and the wide areas from which they must be gathered, 
make it peculiarly difficult to adapt the results of theoretical investi- 
gations to meet the needs of applied meteorology. The majority of 
attempts to achieve anything that approaches an exact mathematical 
calculation of future weather on the basis of dynamical and physical 



WEATHER WOOLARD 237 

theory have not been successful in practice, although some of 
thern are of great theoretical importance (Woolard, 1936). Among 
the investigations with the greatest immediate practical promise, the 
most noteworthy, perhaps, are those by Sverre Petterssen of the 
Norwegian Meteorological Service, following earlier similar work 
by Giao and Angervo. On the basis of the ordinary kinematical 
theory of fluid motion, he has developed rigorous methods for a 
kinematical analysis of the synoptic chart in conjunction with the 
frontal and the thermodynamic analyses, and has derived procedures 
for detecting indications of important developments, and for calculat- 
ing the movements and transformations of pressure systems and of 
fronts. His formulae (Petterssen, 1933, 1936), when used with 
judgment by an experienced forecaster, are a valuable aid (Weight- 
man 1936, 1936a), although they do not contribute to the dynamical 
interpretation of the kinematic phenomena. Plate 3, figure 1 shows 
some results of applying Petterssen's methods which may be com- 
pared with the actual occurrences shown in plate 3, figure 2. 

Under the influence of these and other modern developments, 
weather forecasting, at first exclusively empirical, is now progressing 
along sound physical lines; and it has become practicable during 
recent years to supplement, though not replace, the empirical methods 
of weather forecasting, as developed in the nineteenth century on 
the basis of experience alone, with practices based on an understand- 
ing and an explicit application of the physical laws to which the 
phenomena conform (Weightman 1936, 1936a). For a long time 
to come, however, weather forecasting must continue to be a com- 
bination of physical reasoning with methods based on accumulated 
practical experience with synoptic charts. We cannot yet, and per- 
haps may never, safely do without the empirical judgment of the 
experienced forecaster. 

Meanwhile, it maj' reasonably be expected that all investigations 
designed to elucidate the physical mechanism of weather phenomena 
will not only contribute toward a better understanding of these 
phenomena, but also lead, because of this increased understanding, to 
an eventual increase in the precision, and an improvement in the 
accuracy, of forecasts; and will moreover have the distinct advan- 
tage of making weather forecasting less of an esoteric art, irrespective 
of the extent to which they may effect actual improvements over 
the results already obtainable by empirical practices. The problems 
presented by weather phenomena and their prediction offer a fertile 
field of research for the application of the classical physics. In addi- 
tion, the weather provides many examples of physical phenomena, 
on an impressive scale and often of a spectacular character (pis. 1, 4), 
which afford excellent illustrations of important physical principles ; 



238 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

some of these illustrations are of peculiar interest and educational 
value, because the operation of familiar physical principles in the 
atmosphere frequently leads to results quite at variance with what 
is to be expected on the basis of ordinary experience, since, on the 
scale of atmospheric phenomena, many influences that are negligible 
in the laboratory become the dominating factors (Humphreys, 1934). 
Weather phenomena are constantly in evidence, and vitally affect the 
daily life of everyone ; the immeasurable pleasure to be derived from 
an abilitj^ to understand and appreciate this familiar element of 
our physical environment is ample reason for devoting attention to 
it in the general teaching of physics. 

REFERENCES 
Bjebknes, J. 

1919. On the structure of moviug cyclones. Geofys. Publ., vol. 1, No. 2. 
Bjerknes, J., and Solbeeg, H. 

1922. Life cycle of cyclones and the polar front theory of atmospheric circu- 
lation. Geofys. Publ., vol. 3, No. 1. (Cf. Month. Weather Rev., 
vol. 47, pp. 90-100, 1919.) 
Brunt, D. 

1939. Physical and dynamical meteorology, chaps. 2-4. Macmillan Co., New 
York. 
Byers, Horace R. 

1937. Synoptic and aeronautical meteorology. McGraw-Hill Co., New York. 

1938. On the thermodynamic interpretation of isentropic charts. Month. 

Weather Rev., vol. 66, pp. 63-68. 
Humphreys, W. J. 

1929. Physics of the air. 2d ed. McGraw-Hill Co., New York. 

1934. Weather proverbs and paradoxes. 2d ed. Williams & Wilkins, 

Baltimore. 
Petterssen, Sveebe 

1933. Kinematical and dynamical properties of the field of pressure with 
application to weather forecasting. Geofys. Publ., vol. 10, No. 2. 
1936. Contribution to the theory of fr ontogenesis. Ibid., vol. 11, No. 6. 
Piercte, C. H. 

1938. The use of vertical cross sections in studying isentropic flow. Month. 
Weather Rev., vol. 66, pp. 263-267. 
Refsdal, a. 

1935. Das Aerogramm. Met. Zeitschr., vol. 52, pp. 1-5. 
ROSSBY, C.-G. 

1932. Thermodynamics applied to air mass analysis. Meteorol. Pap. Massa- 
chusetts Inst. Techn., vol. 1, No. 3. 
RossBY, C. G., et al. 

1938. Aerological evidence of large-scale mixing in the atmosphere. Trans. 
Amer. Geophys. Union, 18th Ann. Meeting, pt. 1, pp. 130-136. 
Weightman, R. H. 

1936. Forecasting from synoptic weather charts. U. S. Dep. Agr. Misc. 

Publ. 236. Washington. 
1936a. Advances and developments in weather forecasting. Journ. Frank- 
lin Inst., vol. 222, pp. 527-549. 



WEATHER — WOOLARD 239 

WiLLETT, H. C. 

1933. American air mass properties. Pap. Phys. Oceanogr. Meteorol., Massa- 
chusetts Inst. Techn., Woods Hole Oceanogr. Inst., vol. 2, No. 2. 

1935. Routine daily preparation and use of atmospheric cross sections. 

Month. Weather Rev., vol. 63, pp. 4-7. 
1935a. Discussion and illustration of problems suggested by the analysis 
of atmospheric cross sections. Pap. Phys. Oceanogr. Meteorol., Mas- 
sachusetts Inst. Techn., Woods Hole Oceanogr. Inst., vol. 4, No. 2. 
1986. Characteristic properties of North American air masses. Bull. Amer. 
Meteorol. Soc, vol. 17, pp. 213-238. 
WooLARD, Edgar W. 

1936. Recent progress in the physical interpretation of synoptic weather 

charts. Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union 1936, pt. 1, pp. 25-31. 
WooLARD, Edgar W., Samuels, L. T., and Stevens, W. R. 

1926. Graphical thermodynamics of the free air. Month. Weather Rev., 
vol. 54, pp. 454-457. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939.— Woolard 



PLATE 1 




1 . Tornado Cloud, Oklahoma City. May 12. 1896. 




2. Lightning Flash in a Thunderstorm Cloud. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939— Woolard 



PLATE 2 




WM.IAMFERREL 1 8 1 7 -9 1 ; A M ERICAN PIONEER 1 NVESTIG ATOR OF TH E DYN AM ICS 
WILLIAM hERKtL. loi/ qF AT MOSPHERIC PHENOMENA. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. -Woolard 



Plate 3 




«■ 



1 . Analyzed Synoptic Map. September 15, 1936, 8 a. m.. 75th Meridian Time. 

(See also fig. 2, below, and fig. 7.) 






^^"\ 



^~.j 




. 'm 



Tm 






9.9 



ss^r 't^^ yyr^ - s ^ jt^ 



2. .Analyzed Synoptic Map. 24 Hours later Than Fig. l (Above) 

(.^ee also fig. 7.) 



HURRICANES INTO NEW ENGLAND 
METEOROLOGY OF THE STORM OF SEPTEMBER 21, 1938^ 



By Chables F. Beooks 
Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory, Harvard University 



The hurricane of September 1938 was a whirling, circular storm 
with very destructive winds spread over a diameter of 200 miles. 
At its center was the usual calm eye, some 40 miles in breadth. This 
vortex rushed northward to Long Island and New England with the 
speed of an express train, augmenting wind velocities to extremes 
of about 120 miles an hour on the east of the path of the center. 
The wind drove the sea water with such force that, when added to 
the rise in sea level due to the low pressure and thrown against the 
coast, the sea rose 10 to 17 feet above the expected level, in itself 
high water, the time being high tide.^^ Towering surges on this com- 
bined astronomical tide and storm wave threw the sea to such heights 
that demolition was general along the exposed coast, and they came 
so suddenly that hundreds of persons, some of them at the shore to 
watch the fine surf, were engulfed and drowned. Flying spray 
incrusted windows ; salt killed vegetation 20 miles inland, and traces 
were found even 50 miles from the raging sea. Inland, the rivers, 
already flooded by 4 days of tropical rains, added to the destruction. 

The gale, roaring in great gusts over the countryside, broke off or 
uprooted some 275 million trees, damaged or destroyed thousands 
of buildings, and directly or indirectly downed nearly 20,000 miles 
of electric-power and telephone lines, darkening the homes of seven- 
eighths of those served by power lines and cutting off nearly one- 
third of the telephones. Many people were killed or injured by 
falling trees and chimneys, or flying debris. Twenty-six thousand 
autos were smashed. The damage was most extensive on the tops 
and flanks of hills, in and beyond gaps through which the wind was 
funneled, on leeward shores and the corresponding margins of 
meadows, golf courses, and other open stretches — even broad high- 
ways and railroad right-of-ways where they were approximately 

1 Reprinted with changes from The Geographical Review, vol. 29, January 1939. 

la por general summary see Neuman, F., Storm wave data for the New England hurri- 
cane of September 21, 193S. Bull. Amer. Meteorol. Soc., vol. 20, pp. 357-358, October 
1939. 

241 



242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

parallel to the wind. There were also lanes of destruction where 
a succession of vicious gusts had plowed into the woods, breaking 
off the first trees or uprooting them from the sodden ground, thereby 
opening the then unprotected trees to leeward to the destructive 
attacks of the subsequent blasts. Some 2.6 billion board feet of 
timber were thrown down, leaf pulp turned white houses green, 
and leaves that were not blown to pieces were "scorched" by the 
beating, desiccating, salty gale. 

There were some 600 lives lost. The American Bed Cross places 
the deaths at 488, with 100 additional missing and 1,754 injured. 
The W. P. A. survey 2 places the loss of human life at 682. The 
Red Cross also finds that 93,122 families suffered more or less serious 
property losses; that 6,933 summer dwellings, 1,991 other dwellings, 
and 2,605 boats were destroyed; also 2,369 barns and 7,438 other 
buildings ; and 75,000 were damaged. One thousand six hundred and 
seventy-five head of livestock and one-half to three-quarters of a 
million chickens were killed. Eailroad service between New York 
and Boston was interrupted for 7 to 14 days while 10,000 men filled 
1,000 wash-outs, replaced nearly 100 bridges, and removed thousands 
of obstructions from the tracks, including a number of cottages and 
30 boats — 1 a fairly large steamer, which remained for 17 days on 
the track. The air lines carried 1,000 passengers a day. The total 
property damage is reliably estimated to have been at least $400,- 
000,000.^ Although the loss of life has been greater in a few other 
hurricanes, the damage to property in this storm was the greatest 
that ever occurred in a single storm anywhere in the world. 

Such things had happened before — in 1815 and 1635 — and had been 
vividly recorded in newspapers, meteorological records, and town 
chronicles,* and in Sidney Perley's Historic Storms of New England." 
In fact, Perley describes 10 storms of hurricane intensity in 2^^ cen- 
turies, and Tannehill lists 8 more, and there have been 4 more in the 
last 50 years," which makes 5 or 10 New England hurricanes to a 
century and 1 that is especially fierce and widespread in each century 
and a half. 



* New England hurricane, a factual, pictorial record. Federal Writers' Project, W. P. A., 
Boston, 1938. Thi.s is the Largest of a great number of booklets, usually on a particular 
town, or area, or industry. A partial, briefly annotated list of these, and articles on the 
hurricane, compiled by Charles Rufus Harte, of New Haven, runs to more than 120 titles. 
Perhaps the best general illustrated magazine article is by F. B. Colton, The geography 
of a hurricane . . . Nat. Geogr. Mag., vol. 75, pp. 529-552, 21 figs., April 1939. 

^ Figures from Fierce, Charles H., The meteorological history of the New England hurri- 
cane of September 21, 1938. Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 67, pp. 237-285, 48 figs., August 
1939. This is a very comprehensive discussion, including daily pressui"e and wind maps 
for the 6,000-foot and 10,000-foot levels and isentropic charts, and twice daily to hourly 
sea-level synoptic charts with air-mass fronts and station details of the weather. 

* Quoted by Walter Channing in New England hurricanes, 1635, 1815, 1938. 16 pp. 
Boston. 1939. 

8 Salem, Mass., 1891. 

« Tannehill, I. R., list of West Indian hurricanes, in Hurricanes : Their nature and his- 
tory. Princeton, 1938. 



HURRICANES INTO NEW ENGLAND — BROOKS 243 

ORIGIN OF THE STORM 

Tlie hurricane that devastated Long Island and New England on 
September 21, 1938, had its origin far east of Puerto Rico. On the 
morning of the 16th it was already of full hurricane strength; in 
fact, as early as the 13th a cyclonic circulation was in evidence in 
37° W., 19° N/ This whirl was almost certainly that which formed 
on the night of the 7th over French West Africa, lat. 10°-20° N., 
long. 10°-20° W., between the northeast trade, the southwest monsoon, 
and the equatorial easterlies. The disturbance initiating the whirl 
formed in the interior, however, and moved westward to the coast. 
It was first noted as a weak low at Bilma oasis, in the south-central 
Sahara, on September 4.^ 

The direction (W. by N.) and speed (15 to 20 miles an hour) of 
progression of the hurricane as a whole were practically the same as 
the gradient wind in the general pressure field at the southern and 
western margins of the North Atlantic high. This high, centered 
south of Newfoundland, was attended by a broad stream of tropical 
air, which curved northward east of Florida. The hurricane moved 
along in this stream more or less as would have a floating balloon. 
Its entry into the stream may be considered as essentially accidental. 
But once in the stream, the effect of the hurricane was marked. The 
storm became a great whirl that sucked air into itself from a belt 
about 300 miles wide and discharged it upward, thereby putting it 
through the cyclonic "wringer." Within the Tropics this process did 
not alter the warm, moist character of the tropical air stream — the 
supply of moist tropical air was ample for long distances on each side. 

Once the storm left the Tropics, however, it no longer had an un- 
limited supply of tropical air on its left. Polar air reached the 
southeastern States as the hurricane recurved. In fact, the arrival 
of this air probably helped the recurving; for its lower temperature 
increased the density of the atmosphere and thereby favored a slope 
in the upper-air pressure surfaces from east to west, a direction of 
slope that calls for a northward movement of the upper air. 

The drawing of cool, dense air into the storm from the northwest 
and west favored a more and more rapid rise in pressure south of it 
as the incoming air got cooler and cooler with higher and higher 
latitudes — pressure at Hartford, for example, fell 0.4 inch one hour 
and rose 0.75 inch the next. This raising of the pressure on the south 
should have accelerated the northward movement of the center of 



'Tannehill, I. R., Hurricane of September 16 to 22. Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 66 
pp. 286-288, 2 maps, September 19^8. 

* Hubert, H., Sur I'origlne afrlcaine d'un cyclone tropical dgvastatenr dans la region de 
New York. Comp. Rend. Acad. Scl., Paris, vol. 208, pp. 456-457, 1939; Origlne Afrlcaine 
d'un cyclone tropical Atlantique. Ann. Phys. Globe France d'Outre-Mer, vol. 6, pp. 97- 
115, 17 figs., Paris, 1939. Reviewed In Geogr. Rev., New York, 1940. 

197855 — 40 17 



244 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 




500 KILOMETERS 



Figure 1. — rressure map for September 21, 1938, at 7 : 10 a. m., and track of hurricane. 
(After Tannehill.) Pierce (op. cit., fig. 12) places the center farther east, on the 73d 
meridian, along which it moved straight northward tUl 7 p. m., when it was in west- 
central Vermont. 



lowest pressure, even making it go faster than the general current. 
Moreover, the cool, dry air could not furnish more than half as much 
latent heat, the lifeblood of a tropical storm, as the warm, moist air 
had been providing. On the other hand, the 20° F. contrast in tem- 
perature between the east and west sides of the storm created potential 
energy that made up in part for the loss of latent heat, so that the 
rate of decrease in intensity was not rapid,^^ Also, the storm moved 
northward so fast that the reduced energy had little time to make 
itself felt. 

The gradual weakening of the storm over New England could have 
been accounted for altogether by the increased friction of the wind 
with trees, buildings, and hills of an average roughness of 9 m. (about 
30 ft.) height, according to computations by Raymond Wexler.® 

The circular pressure field of the cyclone merged, naturally, into 
the general pressure trough extending northward through New Eng- 
land. The pressure gradient on both sides steepened rapidly, par- 
ticularly on the east side, where the stronger high was. The wind 

** See Pierce, op. cit., flg. 40. 

» Wexler, Raymond, Friction and the filling up of the hurricane of 1938 over New 
England. Bull. Amer. Meteorol. Soc, vol. 20, pp. 277-281, September 1939. 



HURRICANES INTO NEW ENGLAND — BROOKS 245 

velocity was thereby considerably increased on the east side and 
moderately increased on the west side; around the center the high, 
rotary velocity continued. The mean wind velocity computed from 
the combination of the general and the cyclonic gradients on the east 
of the storm as its center passed across Massachusetts should have 
been 102 miles an hour if no friction had reduced it. This 102-mile 
velocity, expected from pressure gradient, was reduced by friction 
to 80 or 90 miles an hour along exposed coasts and a general average 
of 60 miles an hour inland. There were, however, occasional puffs 
of extraordinary velocity, apparently due to the penetration of pro- 
jectiles of freely moving air from a height of a few thousand feet 
through the friction-hindered surface layer. These puffs had veloci- 
ties of more than 100 miles an hour at the time of greatest intensity 
and may have engendered certain eddies, whicli still further aug- 
mented the local velocity and destructiveness. Such eddies were 
surmised by Farrar, who described the effects of the tempest of Sep- 
tember 23, 1815, in New England as follows : ^^ 

It was very violent at places separated by a considerable interval from each 
other, while the intermediate region suffered much less. Its course through 
forests in some instances was marked almost as definitely as where trees have 
been cut down for a road. In these cases it appears to have been a moving 
vortex and not the rushing forward of the great body of the atmosphere. 

Similar features occurred in the recent hurricane, but most of them 
seem to have been caused by local topographic funneling or by local 
weakness within a forest that permitted the entry of the destructive 
wind into the forest along a lane down wind from the initial break. 

The same explanation for the violent gusts of a West Indian 
hurricane is offered by Vazquez." Eddies, at least on a small scale 
on both sides of the great gusts, were present in the storm of 1938, 
for the wind direction during the passage of each gust varied con- 
siderably. An eyewitness told me that, as the gusts came across a 
meadow, eddies could be seen plucking and wliirling grass into the 
air. Spray was picked up off the water in the same fashion. There 
seems to be no evidence of tornadoes in this storm, such as have 
been observed in one hurricane in Florida and in two or three at 
Charleston, S. C. No incipient funnel clouds were observed from 
Blue Hill, though the lowest cloud layer was visible through the mostly 
rainless air for a distance of several miles. The turbulently mixed 



1" Mem. Amer. Acad. Arts Sci., vol. 4. Quoted by Henry Piddlngton in The sailor's 
hornbook for the law of storms, 2d ed., p. 3, Loudon, 1851, and by Channing, loc. cit, 
p. 5. 

" Vazquez, P. E., Naturaleza de las rachas cyclonicas In Nueva 0rientaci6n en los 
estudios cicl6nicos. Obs. Col. Montserrat, Cienfuegos, Cuba. pp. 58-66, 3 figs., 1940 ; also, 
not quite so complete, in Bol. Observatorio Nacl. [de Cuba], ser. 3, vol. 1, pp. 113-127, 
1936. Vazquez' diagram of "tornados" in the cyclone is reproduced by P. J. Darling- 
ton, Jr., in Quart. Rev. Biol., vol. 13, p. 280, 1938. 



246 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 



lower air (about 1 mile thick) was apparently stable (potential 
temperature lower) relative to the layers above, a condition adverse 
to strong convection and the growth of eddies. 

Where descending blasts of wind impinged on steep hill slopes and 
were concentrated by the topographical configuration, their velocity 
was greatly increased locally, and trees and structures on exposed 
slopes or shoulders of hills or cliffs or just beyond were blown down 
or greatly damaged."* At the Blue Hill Observatory, where such 
gusts might have been expected to show about their maximum in- 
crease, velocities of more than 150 miles an hour were almost cer- 



SKY {^ 






"■A-AVV.V.' AlS>?^^ 



m 



@ 






10 11 M'd't 



(3 



K\ \\V.---'S.\\\\\ ^If I t t t t t t t t f /f 




FiGUBE 2. — Weather sequence at the Blue Hill Observatory September 21, 1938, noon 
to midnight, eastern standard time (plotted by H. S. Rice and C. F. Brooks). 

The topmost line indicates the hourly cloudiness, except that there was a minor break 
shortly before 6 : 00 when the wind was shifting most rapidly from southeast to south. 
The second line indicates the general nature of the lower clouds (upper clouds could 
only be seen about 1:00 and 5:40). Numerals and arrows roughly indicate cloud 
velocity in miles per hour and direction of movement (as on a map). The occurrence 
of rain is indicated by the slant lines under the clouds. 

The third line shows the wind direction by half-hourly Intervals. The Initial swing 
from southeast to nearly east occurred as the circular portion of the storm approached ; 
the fairly steady veering from east-southeast to south, as the storm passed on the west. 
Wind velocity (from a 3-cup anemometer) is shown in miles per hour by 5-minute 
periods, the maximum having reached 121 between 6 : 11 and 6 : 16. Considerable irregu- 
larity is evident. The pressure record indicates a rather rapid fall until about 4 : 30, 
followed by a period of nearly stationary pressure, reaching a minimum of 29.01 inches 
at 5 : 17, then a rapid rise as the center of the storm passed and the cooler air swinging 
around south of the storm increased the density of the air column. The next line shows 
the amount of precipitation. Below is temperature, showing a rather marked drop 
around 6 p. m., as the main cold front arrives. At the bottom is the humidity trace. 
The air, though still tropical, was appreciably drier than it had been the previous day. 



"» Further details in Brooks, C. F., The hurricane — Meteorological postscript. 
Alumni Bull., vol. 41, pp. 1165-1168, July 7, 1939. 



Harvard 



HURRICANES INTO NEW ENGLAND — BROOKS 247 

tainly indicated by the record from a 3-cup anemometer. The veloc- 
ity (corrected by Weather Bureau tables) was 186 miles an hour, with 
an uncertainty, however, of 30 or 40 miles an hour. At Mount Wachu- 
sett also the wind showed a considerably augmented velocity as it 
flowed over the mountain. Similarly, Mount Washington, even though 
the storm had weakened somewhat when it reached northern New 
England, experienced winds with hourly velocities in excess of 118 
miles and measured gust velocities of as much as 163 miles an hour, 
and later, a velocity of about 190 miles an hour surmised from the 
increase in pressure fluctuations inside the building.^^ The wind 
was so violent that it blew down a long section of the trestle of the 
Mount Washington cog railway, including Jacob's Ladder, and dam- 
aged half a mile of track and cut curving swaths in the forest 
beyond. 

Along the south coast the wind velocity is reported to have been 
more than 100 miles an hour at several points from Fall River to 
New London. It was estimated to have reached 120 miles an hour 
at the Weather Bureau's airways station on Fishers Island, near 
New London, after the weather tower had blown down. In Cam- 
bridge a velocity of more than 100 miles an hour was recorded 5 
times by a bridled anemometer. Gusts of 75 miles or more an hour 
were recorded 76 times in 4 hours, and 48 of these came in a single 
hour. 

On the west side of the storm the increase in wind velocity owing 
to the western pressure gradient was moderate and amounted to 
about 20 miles an hour. Consequently, there was no great damage 
except by flood from the great rains there. The extreme velocities 
even on such exposed points as the tops of skyscrapers were not more 
than 90 miles an hour in New York City, except for the Empire 
State Building (1,248 feet), where the maximum gust velocity was 
120 miles an hour. At Central Park the extreme was 60, and in 
the Bronx 78. 

The hurricane had a central eye of considerable diameter. Over 
Long Island it extended at least 43 miles from a point west of Brent- 
wood, where for 50 minutes there was "calm," partly without enough 
wind to blow out a match, to Mattituck, where a calm of 5 minutes 
was reported. As the eye moved over the Connecticut coast, there 
was a decrease in wind velocity extending from somewhere west 
of Fairfield to Saybrook, a distance of 48 miles. The calmest point, 
or center of rotation of the wind with respect to the earth's sur- 
face, was necessarily on the western margin of the inner edge of 
the vortex, where the rotary velocity southward just balanced the 
forward velocity northward. The most destructive winds necessarily 

^ Further details in Moant Washington Obs. News Bull. No. 4, pp. 19-20, December 1838. 



248 



ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 



occurred in the vortex near its eastern inner margin, where the rotary 
velocity and forward movement coincided. Thus the track of the 
"center" passed west of New Haven and Hartford, while that of great- 
est destruction passed northward 60 to 70 miles farther east. How 
far north the eye lasted I do not know, but Northfield, Vt. — in a deep 
valley, to be sure — had a light wind for 18 minutes as the direction 
shifted from northeast to south; and on Mount Whiteface, N. Y., 




FiGCKB 3. — Weather map for September 21, 1938, 4 p. m., eastern standard time. This 
weather map is based on the airways observations of the U. S. Weather Bureau in 
the area, kindly sent to the author on request. Each long barb on the wind markers 
Indicates two units on the Beaufort scale ; a large dot at the end indicates moderate to 
heavy rainfall, a small one, light or intermittent rain. The closeness of the isobars 
suggests the great velocity of the wind. On account of the high wind velocity and 
great turbulence, the frontal boundaries between different air masses were not at all 
sharp. The isobars and fronts on this map were drawn by Raymond Wexler. The corre- 
sponding map by Pierce (op. cit., fig. 18) bulges the (northern) warm front westward 
near the center and the eastern cold front northward over Rhode Island, the latter 
apparently without justification. Pierce did not find a sufficient contrast south of the 
center to Justify him in marking another cold front, as in Wexler's analysis. Neverthe- 
less, he marked a trough of low pressure in this area, marking, apparently, a strong 
secondary vortex about 100 miles SSW. of the main center and moving northward at 
the same speed, causing marked changes in pressure, wind direction, and velocity from 
New Jersey to central Connecticut. 



there was a 10-minute calm between hurricane winds from the North- 
east and southwest. 

As the hurricane entered the trough, it traveled along the general 
north-south front between the tropical air on the east and the modi- 
fied polar air, 20° F. cooler, on the west. The rapid rotation began 
to turn the fronts : the warm front, originally toward the northeast, 
turned toward the north ; the cold front, originally toward the south, 
turned toward the east as the storm passed over southern New Eng- 
land. As the tropical air passed up the warm-front slope, its fairly 



HURRICANES INTO NEW ENGLAND — BROOKS 



249 



stable lapse rate was increased, and the increased rate resulted in 
deep convective overturning and extraordinarily heavy rains, amount- 
ing to 4 to 6 inches or more over the central and western highlands 
of New England. These amounts added to the 8 to 11 inches that 
had fallen in the preceding 4 days gave 5-day totals of as much as 
17 inches and resulted in record floods. 

The lowest pressure reported from a land station was 27.94, shown 
at a Coast Guard station, Bellport, on the south shore of Long 



RAINFALL 

SEPT. 21, 1938 
Inches 




SEOGR.REVIEVy, JAN! 1939 <^J4- 



FiGUEE 4. — Rainfall map of New England and New York for the 24 hours ending about 
7 p. m., September 21, 193S. The maximum rainfalls with the passage of the tropical 
storm came near the highlands of southeastern New York (Scarsdale, 6.6 inches), 
the southern portion of the central highlands of New England (Storrs, Conn., 6.2 
inches), and in south-central New Hampshire (over 5 inches). The zone of heavy 
rainfall from north-central Connecticut into New Hampshire was in contrast to the 
light rainfall of Rhode Island and eastern Massachusetts, because the tropical air was 
forced to ascend rapidly only where the hurricane winds were rapidly converging near 
the center, and especially where the tropical air had to ascend over the obstructing 
polar air along the warm front. The highlands of central New England augmented 
this ascent. 

Island. At New Haven the sea-level pressure fell to 28.11 and at 
Hartford to 28.04. It seems that the center went closer to Hartford 
than to New Haven and that there was relatively little filling up 
of the storm during the first half hour after it struck land. There- 
after the successive low pressures observed at stations in Massachu- 
setts and Vermont were appreciably liigher, though the lowest 
pressures were not represented by the distribution of the observing 
stations. Though the reduced energy available must be recognized 
as permitting friction to weaken the storm, the greatly increased 
drag over the tree-covered hilly to mountainous surface slowed the 
whirl more rapidly than would have been the case at sea. 



250 A.'N-NUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

HURRICANE HAZARDS IN NEW YORK AND NEW ENGLAND 

The conditions under which a West Indian hurricane will strike 
our North Atlantic coast with full vigor are that (1) the general 
pressure gradient from east to west must be great throughout the 
troposphere; (2) the terrain in front of the storm must be well 
bathed in moist tropical air; and (3) the storm remains over the open 
sea all the way from the West Indies to its northern landfall. With- 
out the rapid progressive movement the storm would have a chance 
to lose much of its whirling velocity over the cooler waters north 
of the Gulf Stream. The presence of moist tropical air over the 
region helps to prevent a too rapid reduction in energy. Friction 
with the land is a quick reducer of the velocity of the wind at the 
surface, causing a decrease in both the deflective effect of the earth's 
rotation and the centrifugal force of the whirling wind. This results 
in a considerable flow of air across the isobars into the low-pressure 
center and, consequently, in a marked reduction of the pressure 
gradient, which is immediately felt on all sides of the storm. In 
order to have one of these hurricanes strike the North Atlantic coast 
from the open sea it is, of course, first necessary that the general 
winds in the middle levels of the troposphere shall be directed essen- 
tially northward or perhaps northwestward, so as to give the storm 
a movement from the south or from the southeast. 

In terms of the hazards to New York City this is a very fortunate 
circumstance ; for not only is New York protected by the New Jersey 
coast on the one side and by Long Island on the other, but also the 
chances of the storm's coming from the southeast are slender. Never- 
theless, a high storm tide can reach New York, even if surf and the 
strongest winds from the open ocean cannot. If such a storm tide 
should coincide with high spring tide and the Hudson in flood, lower 
Manhattan and its subway entrances might be inundated suddenly. 
In 1821 the tide rose 13 feet in 1 hour as a hurricane center passed 
over New York; in 1938 it rose about 6.9 feet in half an hour when 
the storm center passed into central New England. 

Other lessons taught by this catastrophe are: That the North 
Atlantic States should have a hurricane observing and warning serv- 
ice equal to that of the South ; that especial attention should be paid 
to cloud motions, to be observed and reported whenever visible, as 
indicators of the direction and velocity of the middle and upper 
levels of the air stream in which a hurricane may be traveling; that 
the network of radiometeorograph stations for deep soundings of 
the temperature and humidity of the atmosphere be extended to 
include the northeastern States, so that the potential energy available 
for the storm can be computed and weather maps for levels aloft can 
be drawn and winds computed when not observable through low 



HURRICANES INTO NEW ENGLAND — BROOKS 251 

clouds; and that reports be made of the tide levels relative to those 
predicted and to the occurrence of storm swells all along the coasts 
where a hurricane might come ashore, by using the valuable rules 
worked out by Cline for predicting the landfalls of hurricanes in 
the Gulf States.^^ A teletype, or equivalent intercommunicating sys- 
tem, under the control of the Weather Bureau is required for direct- 
ing the observers to make the special observations needed at times 
of tlireat, for the rapid and sure collection of the observations, and 
for the dissemination of forecasts of distributing points. 

In the year and a half since the hurricane, the Weather Bureau 
has already made, or is about to make, provision for practically all of 
these obvious needs and for increased reports from vessels as well. 
Also, in the restorations of buildings, and even of forests, hurricane 
hazards have been taken into account. Therefore, when a great hurri- 
cane next reaches the North Atlantic States the people will have the 
warnings adequate to prevent great loss of life, even though the tre- 
mendous damage to property resulting from such a catastrophic 
visitation cannot be materially reduced. 

"> Cline, I. M., Tropical cyclones. New York, 1926 ; includes relation of changes in storm 
tides on the coast of the Gulf of Mexico to the center and movement of hurricanes, 
reprinted from Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 48, pp. 127-146, 1920. 



HUMANITY IN GEOLOGICAL PERSPECTIVE 



By Herbert L. Hawkins, D. Sc, F. R. S., F. G. S. 



It is a curious corollary to our system of education that a large part 
of the population should be almost completely ignorant of geological 
science. This ignorance is common to all classes, not least among 
those who have suffered intensive mental cultivation. Without un- 
duly stressing the sentimental consideration that ordinary people 
might be expected to take an interest in the nature and history of 
their mother, we must marvel at the lack of curiosity of those who 
use and enjoy the material amenities of civilization. In an age of 
petrol engines and ferroconcrete, an intelligent interest in the nature 
and origin of essential raw materials would be expected to extend 
beyond the few whose business it is to locate and exploit them. 

A bare catalog of the necessities of life today or at any time in 
the past, under any form of civilization or none, is but a list of 
materials that are directly or indirectly the concern of geological 
research. For geology is the science of the earth and all that it 
contains, inanimate or animate, past and present. Fuel, metal, stone, 
water, and soil are necessary to our various activities and for our 
very lives; so that the practicing geologist (whether called by that 
name or not) is and must always be at the back of every enterprise. 

No intelligent person can fail to realize the inimense importance 
of applied geology in such matters as mining or civil engineering; 
but the uninitiated may be forgiven for doubting the utility of some 
branches of geological research. The character and evolution of 
extinct micro-organisms seems a topic that can serve little useful 
purpose save to keep some crank out of worse mischief; while the 
molecular and atomic readjustments of minerals subjected to violent 
treatment far underground appear suitable to be dismissed as "aca- 
demic," a word often considered synonymous with "useless." Never- 
theless, petroleum companies find it advantageous to employ experts 
on the evolution of the f oraminif era ; and the discovery and exploita- 
tion of mineral wealth depends on knowledge of the processes involved 



1 The eighth Alexander Pedler lecture, delivered under the auspices of the South- 
Eastern Union of Scientific Societies at Worthing, June 24, 1938. Reprinted by per- 
mission from report of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, 1938. 

253 



254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

in its production. There is, indeed, no such thing as "useless knowl- 
edge" ; for knowledge is a tool ready to the craftsman's hand, always 
effective if skillfully used. 

In addition to, and transcending, the material contribution of 
geological science to civilization, is the esthetic influence of the study ; 
for geology is a stimulant to the imagination. Without intelligence 
man is but an unsatisfactory animal; intelligent but unimaginative 
he is a dangerous nuisance; imaginative and unintelligent he is futile; 
but with imagination controlled by intelligence he is truly human. 
The glories of nature, whether expressed in a landscape or a sand 
grain, are wasted on a mind that fails to respond with intelligent 
curiosity. There is better and more inspiring entertainment to be 
derived from the works of nature than was ever provided by the 
art of man. Boredom and disillusionment, those ravaging diseases 
that kill body and mind, can never approach a man trained to appre- 
ciate his environment. No very profound geological knowledge is 
needed to transform a country walk from mere exercise of the legs 
into an adventure of the mind. Everywhere in this world is a happy 
hunting ground for a geologist. The average expectation of life 
among geologists is such that it has fostered the superstition that 
geology, like bowls, is a pastime of senility ; it is due to the perpetual 
interest that keeps life worth living. 

My purpose tonight, however, is neither to extol the study of geology 
as a gateway to long and happy life, nor as the basic factor in the 
material aspect of modem civilization. I wish to direct your thoughts 
rather to the reaction on our philosophy of life of such geological 
facts as can be claimed to be established. Man's place in nature, his 
whereabouts in time and space, is, and has always been, his funda- 
mental problem. Early and medieval attempts to solve that problem 
were foredoomed to failure, for next to nothing was known of nature, 
and philosophical speculation savored of vacuous bombination. We 
still know very little about the material universe, but we do know 
something; and our few established data afford a solid basis for the- 
oretical deductions that are as worthy of serious consideration as 
some of the older speculations are of ridicule. 

Most psychologists, and all parents, will agree that a young child, 
as soon as he acquires independent consciousness, is in his own esti- 
mation the center of the universe. All phenomena that he experiences 
are aimed, benevolently or maliciously, at him and at him only. He 
is, in his own conceit, the only pebble on the beach. Experience and 
training will in time tend to modify this attitude; and indeed, if and 
when wisdom comes, egotism will be banished. But knowledge is 
usually in advance of wisdom, and there is often a regrettable stage 
in childish development when budding knowledge is mistaken for 



GEOLOGICAL PERSPECTIVE HAWKINS 255 

omniscience. This phase can also be modified by experience. After 
the disappointment and humiliation have subsided, the adolescent is 
in a position to find his place in the scheme of things, and to adapt 
himself to it. The clever animal may become transmuted into a man. 
His success in that sphere may be measured in direct proportion to 
the reversal of his childish instincts. 

It is not surprising that the earliest philosophers, the first thinkers 
in the childhood of the race, should have fallen into childish errors. 
Scarcely removed from the supreme egotism of animals, but capable 
of correlation and imagination, they saw themselves as the ultimate 
climax of creation, for whose especial accommodation the whole uni- 
verse was designed. They could not conceive of any reason for the 
existence of the world apart from themselves; so that, for them, the 
world and the universe were made expressly for their habitation, 
scarcely antedating their arrival. By precisely similar reasoning, the 
only habitable part of the world, perhaps all the world there was, 
centered around their homes and extended not many days' journey 
beyond their horizon. Early voyagers must have experienced excep- 
tional thrills from excursions into regions that did not even exist; 
doubtless their tales were given no more credence than the reports of 
geologists who described terrestrial events that preceded the creation 
of the world. 

It is surprising to realize that less than 2,000 years ago our pred- 
ecessors had scarcely any reliable knowledge of world geography, 
and less of the configuration of the globe. An interesting study could 
be made of the influence on philosophical ideas of the vast increase 
in the conception of space that resulted from medieval exploration. 
Our modern ideas of cosmic space, whether curved or infinite, are in 
some sense but a sequel to the revolutionary discovery that there was 
anything of the sort to discover. 

Realization of the immensity of geological time is relatively recent, 
and it is far from universal even today. Whereas a conception of the 
size, and even of the cosmic relations, of the world is subject to daily 
experience and confirmation, that of past time is more subtle to obtain. 
Modern transport and other inventions enable us to span in a day 
distances greater than early conceptions of the size of the universe ; 
but we are still time-bound by the three score years and ten of our 
earthly experience. It may be doubted if anyone, even a geologist 
or a historian, can form a clear idea of the significance of a thousand 
years of time; while it is probable that the four or five thousand 
years canonically ascribed to the earth's existence seemed an almost 
infinite period to those who decided upon it. And yet today we know 
that an interval of, say, 100,000 years represents an infinitesimal part 
of world history, and does not cover even the duration of mankind. 



256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

We know, thanks to archeological research, of complex human civili- 
zations antedating the official creation of the world; and we know, 
through geological research, of animals and plants that postulated 
the earth in eras a thousand times more remote. We know, but we 
cannot truly comprehend. 

Although we must stand bewildered before the actual figures of geo- 
logical time, more hopelessly than before those of cosmic space, there 
is no serious difficulty in appraising relative time values. A million 
years may be inconceivable, but they are obviously fewer than ten 
million or a hundred million. We can mentally dispense with the 
ciphers, and reduce the totals within the limits of our understanding. 
So that if we estimate the duration of mankind at 1,000,000 years, 
and that of the Cenozoic era (the "age of mammals") up to the 
present at 60,000,000 years, the ratio of 1 to 60 is a true and intelligible 
expression of the data. Whether we give credence to the estimates of 
the length of preceding eras or not, we can readily understand that 
they were collectively vastly longer than the Cenozoic. And who 
shall say what vistas of time are behind and beyond the mists of 
the pre-Cambrian ? Without pretending to ascribe to geologists an 
abnormal share of the attributes of Deity, it is within the truth to 
say that they think in terms of time where "a thousand ages" are lost 
in the total. 

The calculations of astronomers and physicists have, of course, a 
profound interest for geologists, and we may be gratified if their re- 
sults accord with ours. But we must be forgiven if we regard them 
as giving but uncertain confirmation, or negligible denial, of our own 
deductions. Too often in the past century did the physicists attempt 
to limit the duration of the world, and of the solar system, within 
impossibly small scope, basing their conclusions on the elusive and 
superficially convincing principles of mathematics. Doubtless their 
arithmetic was beyond cavil ; but the premises were inevitably incom- 
plete and even inaccurate. The hoary imposture of the accuracy of 
the "exact" sciences still deludes mankind, through the wildly illogi- 
cal belief that a rigidly logical argument must reach a correct result 
whatever errors may have existed in the premises on which it is based. 
Nevertheless, however askance we may look at the current theories 
of astrophysics, we can recognize with satisfaction, that their bearing 
on time is consistent with the conception of the world's duration 
deduced from geological facts. 

Three considerations that are inspired by our present knowledge of 
geological history may be emphasized here. In the first place, the 
human race, though of far greater antiquity than our forebears 
taught, has existed for a minute fraction of the time during which 
the world has been essentially like it is today. Indeed, the "human 



GEOLOGICAL PERSPECTIVE — HAWKINS 257 

period" requires the myopic vision of an archeologist ; it is too near 
and too small to focus clearly on a geologist's retina. Secondly, the 
world was a "going concern," with successive waves of prolific popu- 
lation, for vast periods of time before the appearance of mankind. 
Thirdly, and perhaps most significantly, throughout the whole 
sequence of these incalculable ages, physical, chemical, and biological 
laws have remained the same. A rhythmic orderliness pervades the 
trivial and ephemeral details of the earth's history — without it all 
scientific endeavor would be in vain. 

This is a very different view from that prevalent but a few gener- 
ations ago; and since it is, as far as it goes, demonstrably true, the 
old ideas must be wrong. They served their purpose in the childhood 
of mankind ; but now that we are growing into intelligent adolescents, 
with a glorious prospect of new truths to be learned, they are out of 
date and must be put away. It is grievously hard to discard a dis- 
proved theory, but much more difficult to get free from the philo- 
sophical deductions that sprang from it. When the theory is based on 
self-esteem, and the philosophy designed to justify conceit, conversion 
becomes painful in the extreme. Some, blinded by prejudice, employ 
the childish ruse of denying the truth offhand, in the pathetic hope 
that truth is destructible. Others, more circumspect but even less 
respectable, ignore the facts even when they see them, or pretend that 
they have no bearing on their philosophy of life. Others again, in- 
tellectually convinced but emotionally hide-bound, strive to force the 
old beliefs into the new container. 

Most of us believe, and almost all pretend, that the world, and 
indeed the universe, was devised expressly for our convenience. Per- 
haps a thief may consider that the trinkets he purloins were made for 
him to steal ; but was that the jeweler's original intention ? One can 
but gasp at the effrontery of a person who considers, for example, that 
the coal measures were laid down in far-seeing preparation for human 
needs. If for a moment one grants that preposterously egotistic 
assumption, what is to be said of the millions of tons of coal that 
were destroyed by denudation long before their rightful owner was 
ready to use them? Indeed, when arguments of this sort are 
employed (and they are usually the stock-in-trade of those most seri- 
ously anxious to give reverence where it is due), the result is a 
dilemma from which blasphemy affords the sole escape. Philosophy 
is the clothing of truth ; a baby's vest is inadequate and indecent on 
an adolescent. 

We must reconcile ourselves, and our philosophies, to the fact that 
from the world's standpoint we have only just arrived. Although 
during our brief career we have made an unconscionable mess of parts 
of its surface, the globe continues to revolve unperturbed, and we 



258 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

cannot imagine that our disappearance would cause it a passing 
tremor. To those who have grown up in the belief that the world 
was made solely for their occupation and benefit, this conclusion 
seems humiliating ; but only the conceited can experience humiliation. 
Moreover, the third scriptural criterion for a satisfactory and moral 
life involves humility. There can be no incentive to progress for 
those who think that they have already arrived, and there is no pros- 
pect but a fall for the arrogant. But to those who are not blinded 
by conceit there is stimulation in the tliought that they are playing a 
part, however humble, in a vast drama ; and elation in the knowledge 
that they alone, of tlie actors, can be more than puppets in the show. 

If the first two of our considerations tend to induce humility, the 
third surely inspires confidence. The constancy of natural laws, the 
reiteration of cause and effect, the simplicity of the outline of history, 
show that there are some principles at least in which we can trust. 
There is an orderliness in nature that we can appreciate without 
knowing its origin or aim. One has but to read some of the cos- 
mogonies of the last few centuries, when the catastrophic school was 
trying to compress the gallon of geological facts into the pint pot of 
canonical time, to realize how profoundly our views are altered. 
These earnest attempts to reconcile fiction with truth led to a concep- 
tion of the world staggering from one supernatural cataclysm to 
another, and make ludicrous reading today. They evoke a picture of 
a Creator learning by trial and error, with no set plan and very little 
patience — surely the butt of ribaldry rather than the inspirer of 
reverence. There could be no security under so fickle a tyrant, and 
no point in trying to understand a policy that might be reversed at 
any time. 

Just laws must bind the legislator no less than his subjects; and it 
is a heartening thought to realize that even in Cambrian times the 
sun shone and the rain fell with the same sort of effects as they pro- 
duce today. It gives confidence to know that, come what may, effect 
follows cause as day follows night, and that in a world of seeming 
change and decay there are principles and processes that are eternal. 
In the material world at least we can know where we are, and what 
to expect. There are laws that neither time nor circumstance can 
alter. We can discover their gist, learn to obey them, and so acquire 
power beyond imagination ; and on the other hand we can ignore them 
or defy them, and perish. 

The geological record shows that we have but a small, perhaps 
transient, part to play in the world drama; but it also reveals the 
grandeur of the theater and the impartiality of the management. It 
induces humility, but gives security. The establishment we have so 
recently entered is soundly constructed and consistently managed; 
with reasonable observation we can learn the way to our own rooms 



GEOLOGICAL PERSPECTIVE — HAWKINS 259 

and the sure results of our actions. But valuable and salutary as this 
knowledge may be, it leaves us completely at the mercy of our en- 
vironment, like passengers in a train going they know not whither 
with almost ominous smoothness. Our surroundings are impersonal, 
insensitive, and inevitable; it is for us to make the best we can of 
them. And here another aspect of geological history, paleontology, 
is available to give warning and advice. The story of life through 
the ages of the earth's history touches us more nearly than does that 
of the inanimate fabric; for we are living creatures, and our bodily 
lives are held on the same terms as those of the rest of the animate 
world. 

Before attempting to discuss the influence of the paleontological 
record on our own case, it is necessary to meet certain objections that 
may be raised. The same childish conceit that supposes the universe 
to be a playground made for mankind alone automatically believes 
that man is so far superior to all other creatures that the episodes of 
their obscure lives have no bearing on the problems of his exalted 
existence. It is of course true that man has certain attributes and 
capacities that are scarcely developed among other animals; but so 
have all other types, else how could we distinguish and classify 
them? 

For convenience we may admit that a man consists of two parts, 
commonly called body and soul, and that these two parts are largely 
antithetic. All respectable religions have always stressed the conflict 
between the carnal and the spiritual; and yet many most earnest 
enthusiasts insist that their enemy, the body, must be as peculiar and 
sacred as their friend the soul. Confusion of thought such as this is 
not only strange, but disastrous, for it is the beginning and end of 
materialism. The human body, in its anatomical and physiological 
characters, is an animal's body ; as such it is strictly comparable with 
that of any other animal, and subject to the same laws. Anyone who 
believes otherwise, and lives in accordance with his beliefs, will be 
dead within an hour. 

Such evidence as is available to show the history of living creatures 
during the course of geological time will therefore have at least a 
partial bearing on the problems of our own lives. It will be apt for 
comparison with our bodily and racial lives, and our reactions to our 
physical environment, whatever complications may be introduced by 
our special human attributes. 

A comprehensive survey of the paleontological record shows con- 
clusively that there, as in the physical history of the earth, inviolable 
laws are in continuous operation. Paramount among these laws is 
that of cause and effect ; which, in its biological aspect, is called the 
law of evolution. 

197855—40 18 



260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

In many cases, and for various reasons, our apprehension of the 
causes of evolutionary change is far less complete than in the case of 
physical processes ; but the constant repetition of similar effects gives 
presumptive evidence of oft-recurring cause. The chief difficulty in 
appraising the determinants of evolution lies in the dual nature of 
life, expressed in the legacy of heredity and the impact of environ- 
ment. Opinions differ widely as to the relative importance of these 
twin influences, but there is no room for doubt that both exist, and 
that they may often prove incompatible. 

An unfortunate but inevitable weakness of paleontological evidence 
enables it to show very little of the early history of groups of organ- 
isms, although its record of their decline and fall is often clearly dis- 
played. We are far from knowing how or why new types appear; 
but on the other hand we have plentiful illustration of how they dis- 
appear, and convincing indication as to the way in which nemesis 
overtakes them. 

The record of evolution is, in essentials, the same for all groups of 
organisms. Indeed, it is the same when expressed in the changes that 
befall the several organs of which organisms are built. Phylogeny 
and morphogeny are mutually dependent, for the whole, though 
greater than the parts, consists of them and is directly affected by 
their condition. Hyperbolic though it may sound, it is a bare fact of 
experience that the life story of an individual, or of a single cell in 
its body, is a precis of that of a phylum, or of any taxonomic grade. 
Families and orders, like species and individuals, may possess the 
contrasted qualities of "perennials" or "annuals"; but the general 
trend of their lives is the same. They have their youth, a stage of 
growth and adaptation; their maturity, when equilibrium has been 
attained; and their senility, when persistent development beyond 
perfection leads to decline and death. 

In the youthful stage groups or individuals are plastic, producing 
much diversity by the reaction of their intrinsic vitality with the 
molding influence of environment. In the senile stage their char- 
acters have become stereotyped, and their reaction to an ever changing 
environment is extinction. The same inexorable range of variation 
in physical surroundings acts as a tonic to the young and a poison to 
the old. For life is a competition between the mysterious quality 
called "vitality" and the insensitive environment that encompasses it. 
The struggle is exhilarating, creative, and usually successful, in 
youth; but old age fights a losing battle. The secret of perpetual 
youth is no mystery, for all that is needed is perpetual plasticity, 
giving ready adaptation to environment. But in the nature of things 
this is impossible. It is true that simple forms of life can adjust 
themselves and their needs to varying conditions more readily than 
more complex forms; they have a greater expectation of racial life; 
but there is a term to their duration. Life itself, transmitted from 



GEOLOGICAL PERSPECTIVE HAWKINS 261 

one generation to another, may be everlasting; but all living things 
are mortal. 

This sounds like a somewhat morbid summary of the course of an 
ordinary human life ; but actually it is a description of the evolution 
of every large or small group of organisms of which we have adequate 
paleontological knowledge. 

There are two harmonies essential for successful living, one internal 
and the other external; both must be kept consonant. The several 
organs of an organism must maintain their proper proportions, and 
the organism as a whole must conform to its surroundings. Internal 
discord, due to the modulation of one ingredient independently of 
the rest, cannot fail to produce inefficiency and final collapse; while 
external discord brings the individual into mortal conflict with an 
invincible opponent. One or the other of these disasters is in store 
for every living thing, be it a cell, a body, a race, or a species. To 
be alive is to be changing, and there is a limit to the range of possible 
harmonies. 

Recognition of the orderliness of animate nature, and of the inevi- 
table sequence of change, decay, and replacement, does not engender 
optimism when we think of ourselves, our institutions, and our species. 
A complicated mammalian mechanism with an overdeveloped nervous 
system seems like a diagnosis of a very short-lived race. 

If we despairingly claim that our wits have enabled us to reduce the 
risks of environment, the records of our history are open to show that 
the internal dangers develop none the less. Diseases of dispropor- 
tionate development, such as cancer, attack individuals ; and civiliza- 
tions crumble through overcomplexity and dissension. Our clever- 
ness may make our success spectacular, but it speeds on the ensuing 
collapse. 

By virtue of our overdeveloped intelligence we accelerate the 
processes of evolution, especially in our social relations ; and whatever 
hope evolution may hold for the unborn, a tomb is all that it can offer 
to the living. The history of the decline and fall of empires makes 
familiar reading for a paleontologist ; it illustrates in a condensed and 
diagrammatic form the late phases of evolution in other creatures 
that are the normal subjects of his study. Regrettable though it may 
be, the human animal seems to a paleontologist superior to a dinosaur 
or an ammonite merely in the speed with which it rushes toward 
extinction. 

This is a tragic outlook; but there is nothing unfamiliar about it. 
All individuals realize, when they choose to think, that they are not 
immortal; every philosophy and religion lays emphasis on the tran- 
sient nature of "man's earthly hopes." It is not only the paleontol- 
ogist who knows that the prize awaiting the winners in the struggle 
for existence is death. Nor need we be morbid in our outlook ; a man 



262 a:nnu.\l report Smithsonian institution, 1939 

wlio has made his will can still enjoy life. "The play's the thing," 
not to be spoilt by regrets that the actors will not hold the stage 
forever. But whether or not we can derive comfort from such con- 
siderations, the fact remains that all available evidence, paleontolog- 
ical and historical, racial and personal, indicates the inevitable doom 
of man the animal, and of all his works. 

Must we then reconcile ourselves to the belief that we are such stuff 
as paleontological collections are made of, and that in the geologically 
near future a few fossil relics will be all that remains of our species ? 
A creed so desperate would demand extinction as an escape from a 
farcically hopeless existence. Before finally abandoning ourselves to 
utter pessimism, we may try to review our position from another 
angle. 

Once, very long ago, even as a geologist reckons time, a strange 
thing happened. We do not know why or how ; but a certain com- 
bination of substances acquired the quality that we call life. In many 
ways the first organisms, doubtless unicellular and microscopic, defied 
the ordinary laws of physical nature. Especially was this the case 
in their capacity for sexual reproduction and its consequent succession 
of everchanging individuality; in other words, in their quality of 
evolution. The organic world, surrounded, influenced, and in no 
small measure controlled, by the inorganic, started on an adventure 
that led it ever further from the mechanical principles of insensate 
forces. Today that same "life," spread among a myriad of individ- 
uals, is still flourishing, and shows no signs of decline. It is an im- 
portant, though superficial, part of the economy of the globe. Its 
more progressive exponents, elaborating their structural and mechan- 
ical diversities, have acquired an enhanced sensitiveness that has be- 
come concentrated into a definite nervous system, and has gradually 
attained the faculty of intelligence. Being mammals ourselves, we 
can recognize in our fellow mammals mental capacity and consequent 
behavior that appeal to us as comparable with our own; it is not 
possible to appreciate the mentality of creatures utterly unlike our- 
selves, even if such mentality exists. Nevertheless, it seems evident 
that reception of sensations and response to them become more acute 
and intelligent with improving brain structure. Increasing faculties 
of locomotion stimulate perception, and life becomes less automatic 
and more emotional. The brain comes to dominate the organism. 

The earliest forms of life must have striven against their physical 
surroundings, for life is an irritating alien in the inorganic world. 
But when, by virtue of the faculty of multiplication, living things 
came to exist in great quantity and congestion, internecine competi- 
tion was added to environmental problems, and the complicated 
anarchy of the "struggle for existence" began. Structural advan- 
tages, or (in later stages) mental superiority, help to bring success to 



GEOLOGICAL PERSPECTIVE — HAWKINS 263 

their possessors; but the struggle is ultimately unavailing. For al- 
though the winners may crush, and perhaps even exterminate, the 
losers in any particular rivalry, the factors that gave them victory 
ensure their collapse. Unobtrusive types endure, but aggressive and 
domineering types achieve success and disaster in direct proportion. 
We can liken the course of evolution to the use of a cylinder of gas. 
If the gas is allowed to escape slowly under control, it may bum 
steadily, giving a feeble light, for a long time ; if it all ignites at once, 
there is a brilliant flash, a crash, and then darkness. Such were the 
records of Lingula and Productus^ or of the turtles and dinosaurs. 

Mental acumen is a better means to success than mere structural 
advantage. The rapid rise and fall of hosts of mammalian types, con- 
trasting as it does with the considerable stability of the invertebrate 
fauna during the Cenozoic era, seems a clear illustration of the para- 
dox of the struggle for existence, where the prize is death. 

And so once more we reach the depressing view of the human species, 
surely the most spectacular and record-breaking winners yet evolved, 
hastening toward the reward of victory. Insofar as it has entered the 
lists, matching its capacity for selfish greed against the individualism 
of other animals or of its fellows, the human race is bound by the rules 
of the competition, and the prize is within its grasp. Man is a su- 
premely successful animal; such success, whether involving murder 
or not, is the precursor of suicide. 

There can be no doubt that the introduction of life marked a crisis 
in the earth's history. Perhaps its significance can be best expressed 
by the suggestion that to the eternal changelessness of physical laws 
there was added the eternal changefulness of organic evolution. 
Bound by the insensitive chains of material environment, living or- 
ganisms possessed a sort of individuality of which they became in- 
creasingly conscious with the improvement of their nervous mecha- 
nism. Sensation and reaction were limited to physical and material 
phenomena, and so were ultimately subject to the inexorable rules 
that propelled their possessors from birth to death. 

But the nervous mechanism of mankind can transcend the sensuality 
of the animal brain. It is perhaps not too extravagant to claim that the 
faculty of imagination is an acquisition as far advanced beyond that 
of sensitiveness as life is beyond nonlife. Wlien an abstract conception 
was formulated for the first time, a man was born, and a marvelous 
new quality introduced into the world. For imagination, though ex- 
pressed through the medium of material and ephemeral apparatus, 
can break the bonds of physical restraint, finding freedom and im- 
mortality among the eternal verities. Imagination is the gateway to 
wisdom, and an antidote to cleverness. 

The growth of the imaginative faculty has produced, or perhaps 
can produce, a remarkable revolution ; for its most obvious result has 



264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

been a complete inversion of the technique of life. The quality of a 
man is measured by his recognition and exposition of such qualities 
as honesty, sympathy, and unselfishness, rather than by his skill in 
ruthless self-aggrandizement. Truth, chivalry, and kindness are in- 
consistent with the struggle for existence ; but they are recognized as 
desirable attributes even by those underdeveloped minds that class 
them as impracticable ideals. A "realist," who boasts that he "faces 
facts," denies his humanity and takes pride in beastliness ; an "idealist," 
who faces noble thoughts, is a man. 

The human race is very young, and few of its members have as yet 
shown enough precocity to visualize, let alone to attain, the ideal that 
is humanity. To mankind in the mass a real man is a sort of "foreign 
devil," to be treated as animals treat aliens in their preserves. Proph- 
ets are stoned by their generation, even though they are sentimentally 
canonized by the next. Philosophers are "such stuff as dreams are 
made on," and therefore unintelligible and irritating to animals, how- 
ever clever. But men can learn ; their capacity for appreciating wis- 
dom shows that its acquisition is not beyond their powers. And 
wisdom, which makes men human, is better than the rubies of material 
success that may leave him bestial. 

The contrast between the attitude of imaginative insight and that 
of animal instinct is nowhere more clearly seen than in the realm of 
ethics and morality. Every action that savors of the struggle for 
existence is a sin, and every effort in the reverse direction is a virtue. 
There could be no clearer illustration of the power of the imagination 
to see beyond knowledge than the pronouncement that "the wages of 
sin is death," made centuries before the laws of evolution were 
suspected. 

The exponents of religion, in spite of the Laodicean spirit of com- 
promise that lessens their effectiveness, give more than lip service to 
the creed that man should be different from the other animals. A 
multitude of organizations directly or indirectly sponsored by the 
churches attempt to translate this pious belief into practical service. 
Science, especially in its medical branches, caters to all sorts and con- 
ditions of men with selfless devotion. Some enactments of legislation 
definitely encourage humanity as an alternative to brutality, and extol 
principles above opportunism. Perhaps some day even financiers and 
statesmen may discover that their choice is between the Mammon of 
deceit and animal avarice and the God of truth and human sympathy, 
and that there is no middle course. Until then they will continue to 
lead their dependents and subjects along the well-worn track that 
opens before all the "beasts that perish." 

The alternative is a great adventure, whose end none can foresee, 
along the trail blazed by martyred pioneers who have had the courage 
to be men. 



GEOLOGIC EXHIBITS IN THE NATIONAL 
ZOOLOGICAL PARK 



By R. S. Bassler 
Head Curator, Department of Geology, U. S. National Museum 



[With 8 plates] 
INTRODUCTION 

Geologic features illustrated by exhibits in the several buildings of 
the United States National Museum and the Department of the In- 
terior are well known to Washington visitors, but few are aware 
of the many out-of-doors rock displays in the vicinity of the Nation's 
Capital, especially those in the Zoological Park under the supervision 
of the Smithsonian Institution. In a previous article, "A Geologist's 
Paradise," ^ the general geology of Washington and its environs was 
discussed, but that part of Rock Creek Park occupied by the Zoo 
offers so many special points of geologic interest as to make this 
comparatively small area worthy of a more detailed description. 
The exhibits here are in almost all cases natural outcrops,^ which, 
however, in some instances have been better exposed by man or pro- 
tected against destruction. 

A large part of Rock Creek Park is occupied by a typical V-shaped 
stream valley cut in the low plateau upon which the higher north- 
western part of Washington is built. Here, the greatly folded hard 
rocks representing the oldest recognizable periods of earth history 
are well exposed by stream erosion^ but the whole region, formerly 
the site of high mountains, the older Appalachians, as indicated by 
the tilted strata, has been so completely planed off during the course 
of geologic time that it is a plain surface, although elevated now- 
about 400 feet above sea level. This is the Piedmont Plateau^ so 
called because of its position at the foot of the Blue Ridge Moun- 
tains to the west. Like the Blue Ridge, the Piedmont is an example 
of the physiographic provinces^ the large natural geographic divisions 
of our country that result from their geologic structure and the 

1 Smithsonian Ann. Rep. for 1933, pp. 327-332, 1935. 

■ The italicized words throughout this sketch call attention to the various geologic 
features illustrated near the entrances or within the Zoo Park. An alphabetical list 
of these Items closes this article. 

265 



266 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

weathering to which they have been subjected. The Zoological Park 
is located near the fall line marking the eastern edge of this plateau, 
where the hard, less soluble Piedmont rocks are overlapped by the 
unconsolidated, easily eroded sands and gravels of the coastal plain 
to the east, the Atlantic Coast Plain province, made up of practically 
horizontal sediments deposited mainly by the sea. Slight uplift along 
the fall line in comparatively recent time, geologically speaking, has 
sufficiently elevated the area to cause vigorous stream action resulting 
in deep valleys such as that of Rock Creek, although in its lower 
reaches the stream descends almost to sea level, the ultimate l)ase 
level of erosion. As a result of this stream cutting, here are many 
exposures of the underlying rocks. These, acted upon by the weather 
and other surface phenomena, illustrate particularly the features of 
physical geology^ that part of the science dealing with the forces 
operating on the outer part of the earth and the changes produced 
by them. Historical geology^ which is concerned more with the sedi- 
ments deposited by water and wind, and their contained record of 
life of the past in the form of fossils, may also be studied here but 
not under such exceptional conditions. 

The logical student, in considering the features of physical geology, 
commences with the cooled crust of the earth formed of the once 
molten igneous rocks. He learns that when the earth's temperature 
became low enough for moisture to condense and fall as rain {mete- 
oric water), weathering of these igneous rocks ensued by decomposi- 
tion through solution and chemical means. This was continued 
through disintegration of the rocks with the aid of physical agents, 
such as the wind and variations in temperature, both processes result- 
ing in the surface configuration and the formation of soils. Part of 
the rain, the run-off, remained at the surface and as running water 
on its way to lower levels carved out valleys, while the rest sank into 
the earth as ground water to perform the geologic work of solution, 
cementation, mineral precipitation, and the like. Ultimately, both 
the run-off and ground water reached the ocean or other bodies of 
water where the materials dissolved or eroded from the older rocks 
were laid down in horizontal parallel layers or strata of sedimentary 
rocks by the process of stratification. Such rocks are known as ma- 
rirm deposits if deposited under the sea, or fresh-water deposits if 
in lakes or streams. In the course of time the sedimentary rocks as 
well as the igneous rocks sometimes were changed, usually by pres- 
sure and heat, into another form called metamorphic rocks, for ex- 
ample, the granites into gneiss, and the clays and shales into slates 
and schists. Sometimes all three types of rocks become so folded, or 
fractured, or elevated by the processes classified under diastrophism, 
that with uplift, plateaus resulted, or with uplift or folding followed 



GEOLOGIC EXHIBITS IN NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PAEK — BASSLER 267 

by erosion, mountains were formed, or, finally, with continued erosion 
all elevated areas were again reduced nearly to base level to form 
a peneplane. 

HARVARD STREET GEOLOGY 

Many geologic items may be studied by the actual outcrops in the 
immediate vicinity of the Harvard Street entrance as noted in the 
following short trip through the eastern part of the Zoo. At Six- 
teenth and Harvard Streets, the more or less plain surface of the 
Piedmont province, once worn down to base level or peneplaned, as 
evidenced by its even sky line, and later elevated, is now a marked 
feature. From here one descends Harvard Street into the stream 
valley of Rock Creek. The artificial grassed terraces on the right 
of the street cover former rock outcrops, one of which, on the slope 
opposite Eighteenth Street (pi. 1, fig. 1), has been left exposed as an 
outdoor exhibit. Here, in a circular area protected by a low hedge 
and a row of granite blocks, is seen a small section of the earth's crust 
illustrating a geologic section including a great geologic unconform- 
ity of the angular type. The ancient pre-Cambrian schists of thin, 
compressed micaceous layers representing perhaps the oldest rock 
formation of the District are noted standing on end. Overlying 
these are horizontal beds of stratified sediments, consisting of sand, 
gravel, pehhles, cohhles, and houlders, these being classified by size 
from minute sand particles to 10-inch or larger boulders, all repre- 
senting clastic material so called because broken up from former 
rock formations. The schists belong to the Proterozoic, the second 
of the great eras of geologic time, and the overlying sand and boulder 
beds to the Mesozoic, the fourth era. The line of contact separating 
the two thus represents a great hiatus in earth history during which, 
particularly in the Appalachian region to the west, as shown by 
measurements, over 25 miles of sediments were laid down in the 
oceans of the long intervening Paleozoic era. The pre-Cambrian age 
of the scliists is determined by the occurrence above them to tlie west 
of the earliest Paleozoic Lower Cambrian sandstones changed into 
qaartzites, and fossil plants such as cycads and occasionally bones 
of dinosaurs of Upper Mesozoic Cretaceous time date the boulder 
beds. The latter, often called the dinosaur gravels, frequently start 
with a conspicuous hasal conglomerate formed of boulders cemented 
together and representing the initial deposit of the Cretaceous sands 
on the schist. This same geologic section when better exposed in 
former years (pi. 1, fig. 2) showed other geologic features character- 
istic of initial deposits, such as the occurrence of a thin bed of bog 
iron ore, composed of the impure hydroxide limonite, and sometimes 
the carbonate siderite. These ore beds occur in depressions in the 
eroded, undulating surface of the upturned schists, where they 



268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

formed, as today, in low flats or swamps of that time. Sometimes 
they are thick enough to have been of economic importance in the 
early history of our country. Occasional clay balls, sometimes sev- 
eral feet in diameter, occurring in the sand layers above, indicate 
probably the course of ancient waterways and today are a fertile 
source of fossil leaf impressions. Fragments and sometimes entire 
trunks of petiif^ed trees may also be found in sandy layers. These 
trees are true petrifactions^ as the original wood structure has been 
replaced by mineral matter which in this case is silica. More fre- 
quently the tree trunks have been changed into brown coal and jet, 
the black compact variety which frequently takes a polish. Some of 
the pebbles and boulders contain the guide fossils of Silurian and 
Devonian strata now outcropping in the Appalachians, thus showing 
their origin. In most cases, however, the boulders are of quartz from 
the many veins exposed on the Piedmont. In these fossiliferous 
boulders the fossils occur as molds and casts^ the first referring to the 
hollow imprint of the organism and the latter when this has been 
filled subsequently with mineral material. 

ENTRANCE GATES 

The Harvard Street entrance to the Zoo (pi. 2) is now close at 
hand with its gates, a favorite place of assembly and study for 
visiting groups of university students. The stone pillars which sup- 
port the gates, when rebuilt in 1932, were constructed of hand- 
trimmed blocks of the three main rock types, selected as a visible 
demonstration of the classification of rocks. Furthermore, slabs of 
each type have been placed in both vertical and horizontal positions 
in order to show the varying effects of weathering under these dif- 
ferent conditions. The adverse effect upon the slabs placed vertically 
interests the students particularly, for they take delight in prying 
off slivers of rock which have been loosened at the surface by the 
two processes of alternate heating and cooling, and freezing and 
thawing {mechanical disintegration). Weathering by solution 
{chemical decomposition) is also evident in many of the slabs where 
in a few years' time the hard rock is softened by rain water which 
dissolves away the cementing material or reduces the feldspar in the 
granite to clay. Sedimentary strata are so poorly represented in 
the Zoological Park that there is little opportunity to study them 
in natural outcrop, but a few varieties are included in these pillars. 
The capstone (6) is a sedimentary rock of continental deposits^ 
mainly wind-blown sands, the grains rounded by abrasion and con- 
solidated by cementation into solid cross-bedded layers of red to 
brown sandstone. A marine sandstone made up of angular grains 
deposited under the sea, where the buoyancy of the water prevents 



GEOLOGIC EXHIBITS IN NATIONAL, ZOOLOGICAL PARK BASSLER 269 

such rounding, is shown in the light blue blocks (2) ; a sandstone 
formed on an ancient sea beach is the yellow material (5) illustrat- 
ing stratification and closely arranged 7'ipple niiarhs. The intrusive 
igneous rocks are represented by the blocks of coarse-grained granites 
composed of the essential minerals^ quartz and feldspar^ with small 
fragments of accessory minerah, white muscovite mica and black 
biotite mica (3). Metamorphic rocks originating from both ig- 
neous and sedimentary rocks are present in the column, one (1) being 
micaceous schist with occasional pebbles, the latter indicating their 
sedimentary origin, and another (4) thin-banded gneiss derived 
from the metamorphism of granite. 

ROCK CREEK AND VICINITY 

As we pass through the Harvard Street gates. Rock Creek comes 
into view, with many evidences of the phenomena of running water 
and atmospheric erosion, as well as the deposition of sediments. Most 
of the exhibits in the park are of natural origin, but by blasting 
away the rocks and in other ways some of them have been rendered 
more conspicuous. Sprmgs bubble forth here and there, arising 
either in the porous sedimentary beds at the top of the hills or in 
the joint planes of the igneous rocks, which thus serve as water bearers 
{aquifers). Here and there in protected areas in the stream, gelat- 
inous masses of diatoms may be found, their remains in the muddy 
bottom recalling the diatomaceous earth found abundantly on the 
coastal plain around Washington. The subjects of sedimentation 
and sedimentary rocks may be studied on the plain to the left at the 
base of the cliff recently containing the bear pits (fig. 1, P). Here, 
Rock Creek in its annual flood periods, as seen in the outcropping 
edges along the stream banks, has deposited in horizontal layers 
alternating strata of sand, silt^ and clay,, the last sometimes com- 
pressed into shale. All these various forms of stream sediments are 
called alluvium., and the resulting plain, an alluvial plain. The 
sandy layers when examined under a lens are mainly composed of 
angular fragments of quartz, indicative of their deposition in water 
which, buoying them up, did not permit much wear. An occasional 
layer does contain rounded grains showing origin by wind distribu- 
tion, in this case forming an eolian sandstone. The stream-borne 
material of this plain mixed with the leafy mold of present-day 
trees is sufficiently fertile to be classified as a transported soil. This 
small section of stratified rocks also shows several thin beds of vege- 
tation composed of leaves and twigs representing the annual deposit 
of the nearby trees. These layers now slowly being compressed into 
peat., and this, with the pressure of future years, into coal,, are sep- 
arated by sand strata marking the intervening coarse deposits of 



270 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 




GEOLOGIC EXHIBITS IN NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK — BASSLER 271 

winter and spring floods. Land shells and plants occur as fossils 
in some of the beds and give further evidence of their origin as 
fresh-water deposits. They also show the very recent age of the 
strata, since the same species of shells may be found in the present- 
day creek and the leaves belong to the trees now growing on the 
plain. These strata constitute a geologic formation^ since they are 
a mappable unit formed in the same period of time and hold the 
same assemblage of species of plants {jlora) and animals {fauna). 
These layers have a wide enough extent throughout the park to illus- 
trate correlation of strata from place to place by fossils, by noting 
that the same stratum throughout the area contains the same 
assemblage of species. 

A slightly developed ridge along the stream border of this plain 
illustrates a levee. Similar to those of large size and considerable 
height along the Mississippi and other rivers, this one was formed 
by the material dropped when the swiftly flowing current at flood 
time able to carry much mud, sand, and gravel in suspension, 
struck the still waters of the flood area which no longer had this 
power. When tributaries enter Rock Creek, deltas on a small scale 
may sometimes be formed. Near the edges of the stream are seen 
miniature sand hars, due to change or slowing down of the current 
with consequent deposition as in the case of the levees. Occasion- 
ally, the flooded stream leaves a mud layer on the plain, which, 
upon drying, contracts, causing sun cracks outlining polygonal areas 
with upturned edges. These may be broken up and scattered over 
the plain by wind action, forming still another type of continental 
deposit similar to loess. From this alluvial or flood plain, built up 
by stream deposits, the Piedmont Plateau, a plain worn smooth by 
erosion, can be seen capping the surrounding hills, and not far 
to the east is the Atlantic Coast Plain, an uplifted sea beach of 
horizontal marine sediments, these representing the three impor- 
tant types of flat lands classified under plains. Potholes are oc- 
casionally seen in the hard rock stream bed where crevices in the 
granite or other solid rock contained imprisoned pebbles which, 
whirled round and round by water, wore out circular areas by 
abrasion. Above, along the stream valley, are terraces of sand and 
pebbles representing stream deposits of former times accumulated 
when their waters flowed at higher levels. Near the stream is a 
lake for the waterfowl (fig. 1, 15) where the deposition in lakes by 
water is shown to be more active than erosion as the bottom rapidly 
fills with sediment. 

Upstream, beyond the Zoo grounds. Rock Creek develops falls and 
rapids as it tumbles over the granite outcrops and boulders. The 
old bear pits (fig. 1, B, and pi. 3, fig. 1) at the foot of the cliff on 



272 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

the eastern edge of this flood plain, and the extension of the cliff 
to the south show the downward extension and hard rock phase of 
the weathered outcrops described later as exposed along Adams 
Mill Road (fig. 1, A, and pi. 8). The bear pits were built in the 
granite by the removal of a few of the rectangular joint blocks 
formed by twisting of the earth's crust, the cavities thus affording 
an idea of their size, shape, and position. The hard granite here 
is cut by thin veins of quartz sometimes crisscrossing each other. 
Metamorphism through pressure and heat has changed some of 
the layers into gneiss with its minerals compressed into thin parallel 
bands. At the top of the outcrop, Aveathering from the surface 
waters becomes more evident, and with the removal of the soluble 
feldspar the quartz gi^ains and mica flakes become loosened, al- 
though the rock still retains its jointed structure. At the very* 
top of this outcrop along the edge of the Zoo on Adams Mill 
Eoad the disintegration has become complete with the formation 
of a residual soil of sand and mica flakes mixed with present-day 
vegetable matter. On either side of this granitic igneous intrusion 
the rock formation changes to highly foliated, hard layers of dark- 
colored mica schist speckled with iron pyrite crystals and sparkling 
in the sun upon fresh fracture. The scMstosity of the rock, due to 
the parallel arrangement of the particles because of the enormous 
pressure it has undergone, and the bedding planes of the original 
sediments possibly coincide in this area ; at any rate, the nrica schist 
outcrops here have the aspect of an upfold or anticline overturned 
to the northwest. Mica schist outcrops continue for some distance 
to the south (fig. 1, C)^ first as highly tilted strata representing a 
compressed fold, and then with less inclined strata in the form of 
a low downfold or syncline. Here, as in the granite, fractures in 
the rock of various length and thickness have been filled with vein 
quartz which weathers so slowly that it stands out above the general 
surface; some of these are auriferous quartz veins, as rarely small 
particles of gold can be seen intertwined with the quartz. Through 
weathering in the course of the ages such veins have contributed 
enough gold to the stream sands to make placer tnining possible if 
not profitable, as a slight color of gold can be obtained by panning 
the gravels of certain streams in this area. Elsewhere in the park 
these quartz veins sometimes attain considerable thickness and be- 
cause of their slow disintegration remain well-defined hills. At 
still other places where the schist comes in contact with either 
granite or gneiss, minerals are developed through contact meta- 
morphism,, garnets being found usually in such circumstances. 
Again, here and there former deep fractures in the earth's crust 
have been filled by the intrusion of magma, deeply buried, molten 



GEOLOGIC EXHIBITS IN NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK — BASSLER 273 

igneous material, cooling slowly into pegmatite dikes in which 
quartz, mica, and feldspar, with crystals larger than in ordinary 
granite, are the prevailing minerals. 

Along the base of this cliff quite different phenomena are in 
evidence. Temperature changes resulting from the alternate heating 
and cooling of the rocks on the face of the cliff due to the hot sun 
of the day and the cold of the night cause fragments of rocks to be 
splintered off as the first stages of clastic material and to fall to the 
bottom, where they accumulate as a talus slope at a definite angle, 
the angle of rest. In the winter, frost actioii in the form of freezing 
and thawing of water percolating through the rocks gives the same 
results. In a ravine the fragments may slide to the base by gravity, 
forming a rock glacier. This slope, furthermore, often shows creep 
of soil, a geologic phenomenon of considerable importance when 
developed on a large scale. In this process, it will be remembered 
that water seeping into the soil freezes and the resulting expanded 
ice crystals raise rock particles up on edge. Then, with melting, 
these particles drop again but slide a little farther down the slope. 
Still another example of weathering may be noted along such a 
slope where pebbles or rock fragments cap a series of pillars of softer 
material giving a castellated effect. In such a case the capstone 
protects the soil particles underneath it from being washed away by 
the rain, imitating, on a small scale, the 'badlands scenery of the 
west. Here, also, on the face of the cliff the action of life on rocks 
in the process of weathering is shown by the roots of trees forcing 
their way between the layers and following the joint planes at high 
angles. However, water is the more important factor here because 
in percolating along the joint planes it disintegrates the rocks by 
solution. 

Turning now to nearby Rock Creek, the natural exposures 
illustrate particularly weathering by erosion. The creek bed itself 
is sometimes covered with large angular blocks of granite torn from 
their native ledges by the force of the water and borne some distance 
with the volume and strength of the current. Wlien these frag- 
ments drag along the stream bottom, they wear the underlying rocks 
by actual scratching or abrasion, specifically called corrasion- (pi. 4, 
fig. 2). Here occurs still another type of boulders, usually much 
smaller, which show from their composition that they have been 
derived in other ways or from far-away sources. Most of those in 
the stream bed today were washed out from the nearby gravels of 
the Potomac formation or from the more recently deposited Pliocene 
and Pleistocene gravels, but all in turn were previously derived from 
older formations outcropping to the west and deposited by streams of 
ancient times. Pebbles of smoky quartz, amethyst, milky quartz, 



274 AiTNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

jasper^ rose quartz^ yellow {citrine) quartz, and chalcedony from 
veins in the igneous rocks, and several types of the more insoluble 
rocks of the Piedmont Plateau among these afford a field for the 
mineral collector. Boulders of the sedimentary formations are 
represented by quartzite with Scolithus worm tubes from the Lower 
Cambrian of the Blue Ridge, iron-stained sandstone of the Silurian 
Clinton strata of the Appalachian Valley, saccharoidal sandstone 
from which glass is now made, and -flints and cherts with character- 
istic Devonian fossils (trilobites, corals, etc.), from the Allegheny 
Mountains. Limestones and other soluble rocks, even including the 
granites and gneisses, are absent because, although originally present, 
they have been dissolved away long ago. The water thus has another 
erosional power through its ability to dissolve rocks by the process 
called corrosion. An example is seen in the joint block of granite on 
the flood plain previously described (fig. 1, F, and pi. 4, fig. 1), 
dragged here in 1902, which has weathered to such an extent in the 
intervening time that the edges are rounded and the whole surface is 
pitted with spaces once occupied with feldspar crystals. A narrow 
quartz vein, now standing out conspicuously on account of its slight 
solubility, exhibits the process of differential weathering. 

The many granite outcrops in the Park, exhibit other important 
phases of weathering of the hard rocks into soils. Along Tilden 
Street leading down to Pierce's Mill (pi. 5, fig. 2) is an old quarry 
exposure which lends itself to photography better than those in the 
Zoo. Here within a few feet the change from the solid granite with 
jointed structure into the decayed subsoil above still retaining the 
outlines of the joint planes., and, finally, the soil with present-day 
plant growth, is quite evident. In this process of weathering by solu- 
tion, boulders are sometimes formed which, when carried away by 
streams, may be deposited with boulders of other origin to form the 
sedimentary rock, conglomerate. The formation of such residual 
hotdders (pi. 5, fig. 1) occurs when water percolating, for example, 
along the joint planes of the granite, slowly disintegrates by solution 
the outer parts of the blocks into decayed material, leaving the central 
part the last to be attacked. This then, unless the waters have had 
time to permeate to the very center and cause the decay of the entire 
block, remains as a hard rounded mass to be washed out as a boulder 
at some later time. This process results in spherical boulders, whence 
the name spheroidal weathering. Since water is a necessity in the 
process, such weathering is an indication of a moist climate. In 
dryer climates or where there is considerable alternation of heat and 
cold, as in the very hot days and cold nights of desert regions, 
exfoliation., a special type of weathering, occurs. Here the outer 
layers of such a boulder expand under the action of heat but upon 



GEOLOGIC EXHIBITS IN NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK — BASSLER 275 

contracting with the cold of night fail to occupy the same space as 
before and tend to exfoliate or split off in thin sheets. Boulders of 
this type rarely occur under the moist conditions of the park. 

In the northern part of the Zoo occur narrow bands of a darker 
colored crystalline rock which may be recognized at the surface by the 
slippery soil into which it weathers. This is dionfe, an igneous rock 
composed of more basic minerals (feldspar and hornblende) intruded 
into the surrounding rocks and weathering at the surface into soap- 
stone. This basic rock with its weathered soil is quite in contrast 
with the light-colored acid granite so prevalent throughout the park. 
A still more basic type, gahhro, is one of the igneous intrusive rocks 
elsewhere in the park. One band of diorite continues to the north- 
east, where outcrops in the vicinity of Albemarle Street and Connec- 
ticut Avenue outside of the park supplied the impure soapstone blocks 
which the Indians in former days carved into pots and kettles. 
Traces of the old Indian quarries are still extant, and it is not improb- 
able that the park itself contained such quarries. The boulder beds 
overlying the ancient granites and other rocks of the park have also 
been the site of Indian quarries, notably along Piney Branch near 
Sixteenth Street, where incomplete hatchets and arrowheads 
{artifacts) are found, particularly in the streams draining from 
this region. 

ADAMS MILL ROAD GEOLOGY 

Coming back to the bear pits and following the path to the Adams 
Mill Road entrance at the top of the hill, one first notes several faults 
and folds in the schists (fig. 1, C) as indicated by their various angles 
of tilting. Another feature is the evidence of recent erosion by 
human agency in the worn stone steps cut in the original rock. The 
pillars at the Adams Mill Road gates again give opportunity for the 
study of rock classification (pi. 6) and the effect of the weather upon 
them just as at the Harvard Street entrance. As we leave the park, 
good exposures a short distance to the right along Adams Mill Road 
(fig. 1, O) show the normal occurrence of the Potomac formation 
pebble beds over the pre-Cambrian schist, but a few feet to the left 
of the gates (fig. 1, F) this succession is seen to be reversed by fault- 
ing. This particular fault although of small magnitude is of such 
interest that a protection against the weather and the small boy has 
been built around it. Here, along an oblique fracture in the earth's 
crust, pressure from the southeast has thrust the rocks on one side 
forward over the other, producing a thrust fault. After present-day 
weathering and removal of the upper part of the rocks, the normally 
underlying schists are now seen to overlie the Lower Cretaceous sands 
and gravels. The movement along this fault line is plainly registered 
on the boulders and schists at the point of contact by scratched sur- 

197855 — 40 19 



276 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

faces, called slichensides. It is also indicated by the finely powdered 
crushed rock (gouge) now represented by clay. This faulted struc- 
ture is sketched on the label just within the protecting screen (pi. 7), 
where the fault plane is shown cutting across several of the layers 
producing a fault zone along which water could percolate freely and 
minerals might be deposited. Other features related to faults may be 
studied here, such as the dip^ the angle between the fault surface and 
the horizontal plane, the hanging waU., the side that overhangs in an 
inclined fault, the footwall^ the other side, the heave^ the horizontal 
displacement of the rocks, and the throw^ the vertical displacement. 
Proceeding down Adams Mill Road (pi. 8) a rock cut along the 
east side near its junction with Harvard Street (fig. 1, ^) shows 
a considerable thickness of metamorphic rock, folded schists, on each 
side of a mass of the igneous rock, granite, capped at the near end 
by horizontal sandy sedimentary layers. These outcrops, the surface 
extension of the bear pit exposures in the park below, embrace all 
three classes of rocks, besides exposing an instructive geologic 
structure section. The granite is an instrusive rock, since it shows 
it had been thrust from below into the schist, and is also a crystalline 
rock, composed of the constituent pHmary minerals, quartz and feld- 
spar, and accessory minerals, mica and sometimes black hornblende, 
in crystal form. As now exposed the fair-sized granite joint blocks 
indicate their intrusion into the metamorphic schists by the bending 
of the latter into an anticline. A master joint block made up of 
many small blocks may be noted in this general area as well as cases 
of the metamorphosed granite changed into granite gneiss. Wliether 
these schists are of igneous or sedimentary origin is still a debated 
question, but the fact that some of the layers contain small quartz 
pebbles, apparently of stream origin, seems to indicate that at least 
certain parts of the schist were originally mud deposits bearing 
water-worn pebbles. Considered as sedimentary beds these layers 
show a definite dip, registered by the angle of entrance in the surface, 
and strike, the direction of surface outcrop of any particular layer. 
The top of this anticline plainly has been worn away and the general 
surface of the old rocks is undulating. Prolonged weathering by 
water solution and the absorption of water by hydration has reduced 
most of the originally hard granite and schist to material so soft 
that the finger can easily penetrate it, although the original form 
and structure of both the igneous and metamorphic rocks are still 
evident. Many of the rocks, both hard and soft, are stained brown 
to red, showing oxidation of the small amount of iron in them. The 
gradation from hard rock at the street level up through the over- 
lying disintegrated subsoil to soil at the top of the outcrop called 
residual soil because formed in place, is also evident. These together 



GEOLOGIC EXHIBITS IN NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK — BASSLER 277 

form the rock mantle as distinguished from the hard underlying 
rocks. Here this is also an acid soil because composed mainly of the 
acid mmeral silica derived from the acid rock granite beneath. 
Veins of hard insoluble quartz cross both types of rock but remain 
so unchanged upon weathering that they can easily be detached from 
the enclosing weathered rocks. Associated with such quartz veins in 
the granite here and elsewhere around Washington are interesting 
minerals, particularly hornblende, and in a few places small particles 
of gold. The feldspar portion of the granite, however, often 
weathers into pure kaolin. Now and then quartz crystals {rock 
crystals) line cavities in veins where they have had enough space to 
form. Although not visible at this particular outcrop, dikes, frac- 
tures filled with crystalline material from intruded igneous rocks, are 
visible elsewhere in the park. At the near end of this outcrop may 
be seen a depression in the schists filled with boulders, and the sand 
beds of the Lower Cretaceous Potomac formation. These probably 
fill an ancient stream valley, but at any rate the outcrop shows the 
same unconformity between the pre-Cambrian and Mesozoic noted 
on Harvard Street (pi. 8). Concretions, rounded boulderlike objects 
formed of concentric layers of clay or other material segregated 
around a central nucleus, are occasionally found in these sandy layers. 

Transverse movements within the earth's crust are also recorded in 
this section, as the schists on the south side of the intrusion show a 
distinct break along a fault line parallel to the street. Tliis can be 
demonstrated visually by the dislocation suffered by a quartz vein 
exposed in the bank (pi. 8). Harvard Street is now at hand, and 
this excursion ends close to the starting place, the unconformity on 
the terraced slope. 

In conclusion, it will be noted that in this short field trip the follow- 
ing items of physical geology are illustrated : Weathering, the rmi-off 
or surface water, ground water, the work of the wind, igneous rocks, 
sedimentary rocks, diastrophism, metamorphism, mountain structure 
and land forms, comprising, with the exception of glaciation, work 
of the sea, earthquakes, and vulcanism, the major subjects of this 
science. For historical geology, rocks and deposits of the pre-Cam- 
brian eras as recorded in the several granites, gneisses, and schists, 
various formations of the Paleozoic studied by means of pebbles from 
the Appalachians, boulder deposits of the Mesozoic Potomac forma- 
tion, the sands and gravels of the Cenozoic and, lastly, the modern 
flood plain alluvial sediments, and the Indian quarries, comprise the 
available record. 

So many geologic items are visible in this small part of the Na- 
tional Zoological Park, that the following alphabetized index of 
those italicized in this article seems an appropriate conclusion. 



278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 



ALPHABETICAL LIST OF GEOLOGICAL ITEMS NOTED IN THE 
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 



Abrasion. 

Accessory minerals. 

Acid rocks. 

Acid soil. 

Action of life on rocks. 

Alluvial plain. 

Alluvium. 

Amethyst. 

Angle of rest. 

Angular unconformity. 

Anticline. 

Aquifers. 

Artifacts. 

Atlantic Coast Plain. 

Auriferous quartz veins. 

Badlands. 

Basal conglomerate. 

Base level. 

Basic rocks. 

Biotite mica. 

Boulders. 

Casts. 

Chalcedony. 

Chemical decomposition. 

Chert. 

Citrine. 

elastics. 

Clay. 

Coal. 

Coastal plain. 

Cobbles. 

Concretions. 

Conglomerate. 

Contact metamorphism. 

Continental deposits. 

Corrasion. 

Correlation of strata. 

Corrosion. 

Creep of soil. 

Crystalline rocks. 

Delta. 

Deposition in lakes. 

Diastrophism. 

Diatoms. 

Differential weathering. 

Dikes. 

Dinosaur gravels. 

Diorite. 

Dip. 

Eolian sandstone. 



Erosion. 

Essential minerals. 

Even sky line. 

Exfoliation. 

Fall line. 

Falls and rapids. 

Fault. 

Fault line. 

Fault plane. 

Fauna. 

Feldspar. 

Flint 

Flood plain. 

Flora. 

Fold. 

Footvrall. 

Fossils. 

Fresh-water deposits. 

Frost action. 

Gabbro. 

Garnets. 

Geologic formation. 

Geologic section. 

Gneiss. 

Gold. 

Gouge. 

Granite. 

Granite gneiss. 

Gravel. 

Ground water. 

Guide fossils. 

Hanging wall. 

Heave. 

Historical geology. 

Hornblende. 

Hydration. 

Igneous intrusion. 

Igneous rocks. 

Indian quarries. 

Intrusive rock. 

Jasper. 

Joint blocks. 

Joint plane. 

Kaolin. 

Levees. 

Limonite. 

Loess. 

Magma. 

Marine deposits. 

Marine sandstone. 



Master joints. 

Mechanical disintegration, 

Metamorphic rocks. 

Meteoric water. 

Mica schist. 

Milky quartz. 

Molds. 

Muscovite mica. 

Outcrops. 

Oxidation. 

Peat. 

Pebbles. 

Pegmatite dike. 

Peneplane. 

Petrifaction. 

Petrified trees. 

Physical geology. 

Physiographic provinces. 

Piedmont Plateau. 

Placer mining. 

Plains. 

Potholes. 

Primary minerals. 

Pyrite. 

Quartzite. 

Residual boulders. 

Residual soil. 

Ripple marks. 

Rock crystal. 

Rock glacier. 

Rock mantle. 

Rose quartz. 

Run-off. 

Saccharoidal sandstone. 

Sand. 

Sand bars. 

Sandstone. 

Schistosity. 

Schists. 

Sedimentary rocks. 

Sediments. 

Shales. 

Siderite. 

Silt 

Slickensides. 

Smoky quartz. 

Soapstone. 

Soils. 

Solution. 

Spheroidal weathering. 



GEOLOGIC EXHIBITS IN NATIOIS^AL ZOOLOGICAL PARK — BASSLER 279 



Springs. 
Strata. 

Stratification. 
Stream erosion. 
Stream valley. 
Strike. 
Structure section. 



Subsoil. 

Sun cracks. 

Syncline. 

Talus slope. 

Temperature changes. 

Terraces. 

Throw. 



Thrust fault. 
Transported soil. 
Unconformity. 
Vein quartz. 
Veins. 

Weathering. 
Wind action. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Bassler 



Plate l 




1 . Terraced Slope on North Side of Harvard street. With Student Group 
STUDYING Outcrop of Unconformity Between Pre-Cambrian Schists (S) 
AND Sedimentary Potomac Formation (P). 




2. View of Above Before Terracing. Exhibiting the Uneven Eroded Sur- 
face OF THE Old Schists (S). the Sand and Boulder beds of the Creta- 
ceous Potomac Formation (P). and the Iron Ore. Limonite. Deposits at 
the Base of the Same in Depressions on the Schist. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Bassler 



Plate 2 




The Pillars to the Right of the Harvard Street Entrance to the Zoo. 
With building Blocks Numbered as Explained in Text. 




2. Left Side. Harvard Street Zoo Entrance With Group of University 

students. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Bassler 



Plate 3 




1. Hard Rock Outcrops at Old Bear pits in Zoo Near Harvard Street 
Gate. Showing Granite Intrusion With Metamorphic Schists on Either 
Side. 




2. Alluvial Plain Along East Side of Rock Creek With Schist Cliffs 
Capped by piedmont Plateau. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Bassle 



Plate 4 




1 A Weathered Granite joint Block With i hin Quartz Vein in Relief. 
This weathering occurred within the last quarter century. 




2. Typical rock Creek view, showing Erosion (Corrasion) by Angular 

Boulders. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Bassler 



Plate 5 




1 . Outcrop of Jointed Granite Blocks Exhibiting Formation of Boulders 
(b) by spheroidal weathering and the accumulation of a talus slope (t). 




2. Old Quarry Along Tilden Street (Near Connecticut Avenue). Illus- 
trating Weathering of the Hard Jointed Granite (G) Into Subsoil (SS» 
AND Then soil (S). 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Bassler 



Plate 6 




1 . A Pillar at Adams Mill Road Entrance to Zoo. With Stones Numbered 

AS IN PL, 2. Fig. 1. 




2. STONE Pillars on Right side of Adams Mill Road Entrance to Zoo, With 
Donald F. Mchenry of national Park Service. 



Smithsonian Report, l939.^Bassler 



Plate 7 



■-0,--- - 



■^?L?!v :. I on/£:/? C/iETACEOaS (POTOMAC) 
i| Vi " : • j; ■ 3 A NDS A ND GRA VELS 



;j^^:m^^ 



■^^ 



ti'. i'- 

P/^ECAMBRIAN SCHIST 
NORMAL POSmON BEFORE FAULTING 



SCHIST , i 







.^ .-^. 



LiS'''-^'^ SAND AND GRAVEL 



SCHIST 
POSITION AFTER FAULTING 



1 COPY OF THE EXHIBITION LABEL EXPLAINING STRUCTURE OF THE AREA ALONG 
ADAMS MILL ROAD NEAR ZOO GATE. BEFORE AND AFTER FAULTING. 




2. Shelter Containing Overthrust Fault Exhibit Along Adams Mill 
Road near Zoo Gate. Fault Indicated by Dotted Line. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Bassler 



PLATE 




1 Near View of S<-Hii3i Ouicrop Along Each Side of Adams Mill Road at 
Harvard Street. With Quartz Vein (V) Dislocated by a Transverse 
Fault (F). 




2. Outcrop Along East side of Adams Mill Road at Harvard Street, With 
Weathered surface Outcrop of the igneous Intrusion (G) and Sur- 
rounding schists (S), and the Dinosaur Sands (D) Filling an Ancient 
Channel. 



THE STKUCTUEE OF THE EARTH AS REVEALED BY 
SEISMOLOGY ^ 



By Ernest A. Hodgson 
Department of Mines and Resources, Ottawa, Canada 



[With 3 plates] 



You remember what Doc said of Dopey ,^ "He don't know if he 
can talk or not ; he ain't never tried." For the same reason I do not 
know whether I can succeed or not — having never tried to deal with 
this phase of seismology before a general audience — but I hope it will 
be possible for me, without recourse to technical details, to present a 
clear and convincing picture of the means by which we have learned 
something of "The Structure of the Earth as Revealed by Seismology." 

As usual, "The Greeks had a word for it." Their word for earth- 
quake was seismos; hence, seismology, the study of earthquakes. 
There is no reason, however, why seismology should be "all Greek" 
to the layman. 

Why study earthquakes? Coming closer home, let us ask the 
very pertinent, perhaps sometimes disconcerting, question, "Wliy 
study earthquakes in Canada?" Throughout this presentation as 
opportune moments present themselves we shall note phases of the 
answer — in a series of brief asides. 

Earthquakes merit study. According to good authority approxi- 
mately 800 earthquakes, strong enough to destroy cities and towns, 
have occurred on land since the beginning of the Christian era. 
Historj' shows that an average of 30,000 persons have been killed 
each year during the past 2 centuries by these phenomena. More 
than 20,000 earthquakes occur each year; a widely recorded shock 
each 14 hours ; a destructive earthquake each 6^/^ days — on the aver- 
age, of course. 

Perhaps, then, it may be assumed without argument that major 
earthquakes should be studied. Why be prepared to study them in 
Canada? Since Cartier's first voyage in 1534, an earthquake of 
major proportions has occurred in Canada every 50 or 60 years — on 



^ Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of 
Canada, vol. 32, No. 6, July-August 1938. 

' Walt Disney's Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. 

281 



282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

an average. These earthquakes have been, in general, more severe 
than the one which, in 1933, caused 50 million dollars damage at 
Long Beach, Calif. It has just so happened that structures liable 
to damage were not situated near the origins or epicenters of these 
shocks. Canada is building up rapidly; the earthquakes will con- 
tinue. You may draw the obvious and inevitable conclusion. 

It was an attempt to ameliorate in some measure the damage 
caused by earthquakes which led initially to their being studied by 
scientifically trained men. Progress was slow at first, but there has 
gradually evolved a branch of the subject which may be called 
"engineering seismology." Considerable progress has been made of 
late years, particularly in Japan, in Italy, and in California. It is 
now possible to design houses which, except in the most extreme 
cases, will not be destroyed by an earthquake, will not be set on fire 
thereby, and will not kill their inmates or passers-by with falling 
debris. Moreover, the specifications for such structures are now 
written into some building codes, for example those in parts of 
California. 

But, as someone once remarked that Kipling said — "That is another 
story." It is well to remember that this presentation is limited to 
a very sketchy resume of but one phase of seismology. Much will 
be left unsaid. These "other stories" are not unimportant but at 
this time we must pass them over. They form part of the answer 
to the question, "Why study earthquakes?" but not part of the sub- 
ject, "The Structure of the Earth as Revealed by Seismology." 

Taking for granted part of that which we shall later find to have 
been revealed by seismology, we may consider the earth to be a sphere 
consisting of three main divisions: A central core, with a radius of 
about 2,200 miles; surrounded by the mantle, a concentric sphere a 
little less than 1,800 miles thick; which is, in turn, surrounded by a 
crust of a varying thiclviiess which may be set down roughly as 25 
miles. We take in our stride the responsibility for the approxima- 
tions as to the sphericity of the earth and the various dimensions 
given. We shall discuss the theory and the teclinique of determining 
earth structure under four different conditions and in the order 
named: the crust, the mantle, the core, and, finally, returning again 
to the upper part of the crust — that region which is within reach 
of the drill. 

One of the first things that men learned about the crust of the 
earth is that it does not have uniform stability. Frequent earth- 
quakes occur only in certain seismic zones. One of the routine activi- 
ties of seismological investigation is that of locating as accurately 
as possible all recorded earthquakes. To do this, international coopera- 
tion is necessary. At the present time more than 250 seismic stations 



STRUCTURE OF THE EARTH — HODGSON 283 

are in operation, reporting regularly to each other and to a central 
station at Oxford, England, where an agency under the joint auspices 
of that university and of the International Union of Geodesy and 
Geophysics determines the position of all locatable shocks and pub- 
lishes a statistical summary of the data. We now know that the most 
active seismic regions of the world may be defined as a belt about the 
Pacific with an offshoot zone across Asia and Europe north of India 
and along the north shore of the Mediterranean to meet another belt 
running north and south through the relatively shoal water of the 
mid-Atlantic. We know, further, that all earthquakes are not con- 
fined to these more active belts. We have very good reason for say- 
ing that there is no region of the earth in which a major earthquake 
might not take place. This international service was begun in 1895 
and has been growing steadily ever since. Canada has participated 
since 1897. 

How then can seismic stations determine from their records where 
an earthquake has occurred ? It would take much too long to sketch 
the slow degrees by which men learned to construct seismographs and 
deduce the method of interpreting from their records the distance 
from the recording station to the source of an earthquake. The ab- 
stract mathematical foundations of the theory were laid as early as 
1849, but it was not until 1889 that, by chance, the first record of an 
earthquake was made at a distance. At that time an earthquake in 
Japan was found to have been recorded on a very sensitive instrument 
at Potsdam, Germany, set up for the purpose of determining to what 
extent the land itself has tides similar to, though smaller than, those 
caused on the sea. Not until 1900, however, was such a distant earth- 
quake record interpreted to yield a value of the distance from station 
to origin. 

Before explaining how distance can be read from the record, we 
must know just a little about the instrument known as a seismograph. 
Suppose someone asked you to describe a lady's hat — not some par- 
ticular hat — just a hat. That difficulty is comparable with an attempt 
to describe the appearance of a typical seismograph. Such instru- 
ments vary in size from one you could hold in your hand to one which 
stands more than 6 feet high and weighs 20 tons. One thing, how- 
ever, seismographs have in common. A relatively heavy weight is 
held very delicately suspended from a framework which is, itself, 
in firm contact with the earth. When the earth moves, the weight 
stays behind as you tend to do when the streetcar starts suddenly. 
The relative motion of the weight and the frame attached to the earth 
is recorded continuously and gives the record. When the earth is at 
rest the record line is straight. When a shock impulse arrives, the 
line is deflected. At regularly timed intervals, usually once a min- 
ute, a slight motion is given the recording mechanism so that a small, 



284 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 



recognizable offset (or in some cases, a short interruption) occurs on 
the line. A diagram of one sort of seismograph is shown in figure 1 
together with a small section of a record showing the timing marks. 
All we wish to emphasize here is that an instrument has been devel- 
oped which enables the inertia of a weight to give us a record indi- 
cating that an impulse has arrived at the recording station and telling 
us the exact moment of its arrival. 

The earth is an elastic body — almost as elastic as steel. That is 
to say, if any part of it be deformed slightly by force, that deforma- 
tion will vanish when the force is removed. It is the elastic properties 




ELEVATION 



'R 




— Jfi 



-R-- 



PLAN 



.-ctl3 



-n — t 




Figure 1. 



-Schematic diagram of a typical horizontal seismograph and a section of a 
record showing time breaks and an earthquake. 



of steel, for example, which cause a suspended bar of the material to 
give off a ringing note when struck by a hammer. It is the elastic 
properties of the earth which cause it to transmit earthquake waves. 
As early as 1849 it was deduced mathematically that an elastic body 
should transmit two kinds of waves, and mathematical expressions 
for the speeds of the two waves were found. These two classes of 
waves are known as longitudinal and transverse. The first is propa- 
gated by the back-and-forth motion of the earth particles in the 
direction of the wave, somewhat after the manner in which a bump 
from an engine is transmitted down a long line of freight cars. The 



STRUCTURE OF THE EARTH HODGSON 285 

second is propagated by a transverse motion of adjacent particles 
somewhat after the manner in which a water wave travels ; the floating 
debris shows that the water particles move at right angles to the 
direction of propagation of the wave. 

The difference in velocity depends on the elastic properties of the 
body through which the waves travel. For short distances it is a 
sort of neck-and-neck race. No laboratory is large enough to enable 
the waves to separate sufficiently for the fact to be established experi- 
mentally. So for many years there was no experimental verification 
of the two types of waves. After earthquakes were registered at con- 
siderable distances, it was found that a second burst of energy showed 
on the record among the dying vibrations of the first impulse (see 
fig. 2). The greater the distance from earthquake to station, the 
greater was found to be the separation of these two impulses. It was 
finally established that these were the arrivals of the two types of 
waves which had left the origin of the earthquake together but had 



-nA^Wi^'*f<*>/^>'vv«^' 



vA^iW<AA^^ 



Figure 2. — Section of a selsmogram showing the P and S phases. 

traveled at different speeds. The difference in time of arrival is thus 
a measure of the distance. 

The two types of waves of which we have been speaking are 
designated, respectively, P and S waves by seismologists since, in 
point of time of arrival, they are primary and secondary. It is readily 
seen that, if observers possess a timetable showing the time required 
for the P wave to reach various distances on the earth's surface and 
a similar one for the S wave, a table could be prepared showing the 
relation between S — P times and the epicentral distances. The first 
table of this sort was prepared by Oldham in 1900, and since then a 
steady improvement has been effected. Such compilations are called 
time-distance tables or, if plotted on graph paper, time-distance 
graphs. Given tlie table, it is easily seen how the distances from 
each station to the epicenter can be deduced. Now, if it be known 
how far the epicenter lies from any station, then the epicenter must 
lie on a circle drawn about that station with the proper distance 



286 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 



radius. If the circles for all the stations be drawn, their point of 
intersection makes the x which marks the spot (see fig. 3). 

A well-defined earthquake can be located no matter where it may 
have occun-ed. Thus, routine statistical seismology is piling up 
accurate records of where earthquakes occur and when. Further- 
more, we are now able to deduce the depth at which the shocks 
originate. 

The point within the earth from which the earthquake energy is 
liberated is called the focus; the point vertically above it on the 




FiGDKE 3. — Intersection of distance circles indicating the epicenter of the Timiskamini 
earthquake of November 1, 1935. (Plotted on stereographic projection.) 



earth's surface is called the epicenter. Now if the focus be at or 
near the surface, we have what may be called, for want of a better 
name, a normal earthquake. To simplify our discussion we shall 
from this point confine our attention to the P wave — the first impulse 
on the record. Obviously, the time-distance graph of a normal earth- 
quake begins at the zero-zero point — at the origin of coordinates. 
Suppose another earthquake should happen with the focus at a depth 
of, say, 100 miles. All distances for our time-distance graph are 
measured from the epicenter. The epicenter is thus at zero distance. 
The time required for the impulse P to reach the epicenter at distance 
zero is in this case more than nothing and the time-distance graph 
must begin a certain distance up on the time axis, that is, it must 



STRUCTURE OF THE EARTH — HODGSON 



287 



begin above the graph for a normal earthquake. But, at the anti- 
podes of the epicenter, the shock must arrive earlier for a deep focus 
than for a normal one and the second curve must here lie below 
the first. The curves must cross. If the focal depth were 200 miles, 
the new time-distance graph would start even later and arrive earlier 
than before — and so for successively greater depths of focus. A 
typical pair of graphs is shown in figure 4. If the arrival times of 
the P wave at a sufficient number of stations can be obtained, it is 
possible to determine from such a set of curves not only the distance 
to the epicenter but also the focal depth. In passing, let us note that 
Canada with her great expanse of territory would leave a wide gap 
in many of these curves did she not maintain a certain number of 







DISTANCE 



FiGUHB 4. — Characteristic form of the time-distance curve for normal focus and for 

deep focus. 



stations at strategically spaced positions. Her seven stations are little 
enough coverage for a country of such dimensions. 

Depths of focus as great as 500 miles and more have been established 
and are a distinct contribution to the knowledge of the structure of 
the earth. Tliey show that the earth can sustain built-up strain at 
depths previously considered impossible. We can no longer maintain 
that the crust alone is crystalline and that the mantle is plastic. At 
least the mantle is not plastic in the sense it was thought to be until 
deep-focus earthquakes were established as a fact. Probably no con- 
tribution of the science has aroused a greater interest among those 
concerned with learning something of the structure of the earth. 

But such depths are taking us into the mantle of the earth, and 
we are not yet finished with our consideration of the problem of 



288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

determining the structure of the crust. It is interesting to go back 
to an early experiment which is in a sense the beginning of our probing 
of the earth's crust by elastic waves. In 1859 Robert Mallet, an Irish 
investigator, undertook to measure the velocity of elastic waves caused 
by blasting in a quarry at Holyhead Island. His methods were crude 
but carefully carried out, and his distances were short — a little over 
a mile. He found velocities of from 825 to 1,660 feet per second. In 
1878 Henry Abbot, an officer of the United States Army, carried out 
some experiments to determine the velocity of elastic waves caused 
by gunfire. His distances were greater than those of Mallet — of the 
order of 13 miles. His deduced velocities were much greater — up to 
5,900 feet per second. Mallet learned of these results and disputed 
them. We need not go into details regarding the controversy further 
than to say that, each being prepared to stand beside his respective 
determination, the conclusion adopted was that the higher velocities 
of Abbot's experiment were the result of using gi-eater explosions. In 
other words: the velocity of elastic waves depends on the intensity 
of- the generating force. This conclusion was in error. It was con- 
sidered doubtful at the time and led to further experiments. After 
some years sufficient data were obtained to establish the true explana- 
tion vv^hich Ave may now examine. 

Suppose that the upper stratum of the earth transmits elastic 
waves at a velocity which is less than that for the deeper-lying mate- 
rial. In this case, deeper means something of the order of 50 to 100 
feet. The diagram in jSgure 5 shows the approximate path of two 
rays of the waves propagated from an explosion at the surface. Let 
us take for granted that the rays are of the form shown and concen- 
trate on visualizing the speed with which the nose of the advancing 
wave radiates over the surface. 

If the surface were a calm lake, we could see the water waves 
radiate in ever widening circles from the shock. Those waves 
would be gravity waves, not the elastic waves which we are now 
considering; but the same sort of ever widening circles marks the 
progress of the energy transmitted by the earth. If the surface 
were covered with a thin layer of mercury we could actually see the 
nose of the disturbance spreading out from the source. If we were 
to put a dish of mercury on the ground at a not too great distance, 
we could see a segment of the expanding circle pass over it. If we 
wish to know very exactly when the energy passes regularly spaced 
points on a line extending outward from the source to a considerable 
distance, say 20 miles or more, we place sensitive seismographs at 
those points and have them record on a strip of moving paper on 
which time marks are simultaneously recorded. In this way we can 
tell when the initial impulse reaches each station and, if the seismo- 



STRUCTURE OF THE EARTH — HODGSON 



289 



graphs be properly designed, we can also discern the arrival of later 
impulses — points on the common radius through the source, of the 
familiar circles-within-circles which can be seen when gravity waves 
radiate from a stone thrown into still water and are reflected from the 
shore or other obstacles. 

A little consideration is sufficient to show that, near the source, the 
arrival of the wave at successive stations will be at the rate Fi, if we 











\ 






1 








1 
J 














































^ 


'F 










































































A 












































































' 










































































.' 














































































' 














































































' 














































































, '' 
















^ 


^ 


n 
























































, 


'- 












- 


- 






- 




















































• 








^ 


— - 




















































, 






1 — 








































































V' 




^ 


■^'^ 






































































^■ 


r-^ 
































- 










































-^ 


*- 




































































.4-1 


" 


y 








































































' 


y 












































bJ 


















■\ 


, 


L- 








'' 


7^ 












































































X' 






















































4 






















^ 


y 














































































Y" 






























































1 


■ 


- 


>- 










y 


y' 












































































^ 


Y^ 








































































■ 






y 














































































^ 


< 


















































' 
























' 


^ 
































































■ 












5: 






- 








































































k> 




DISTANCE 

SURFACE 


\5i 









-— 7 






/ / 



/ / 



/ / .' / .' .' .' / / ' ' -^ / / / / / / ' 

\.l -^ '' ^ / ' -^ ^ / ^ '' ^ / -^ ^' / / '' / / '' / 
y^< I. L/-.<.j../ / ^. ^ ^ ^ ' ^' ' '' ' / '' / 



/ / / / / / 



FiGORE 5. — Diagram illustrating tlie refraction method of probing surface layered structure. 
Velocities in the upper and lower layers are respectively Fi and Fa. At distance C the 
energy by surface and subsurface paths arrives simultaneously. For lesser distances, 
the earlier arrival is by the surface path. For greater distances, the earlier arrival is by 
the subsurface path. The critical angle a depends on the velocities Y\ and 7- which are 
given by the two graph slopes. Having Yx, Vs, C, and a, the thickness of the upper 
layer may be computed. 



may so designate the velocity in the upper layer. At a particular dis- 
tance from the source is some station at wliicli the energy, traveling 
along the surface with velocity Fj, will arrive at the same instant as 
that which has traveled down to the surface of discontinuity at ve- 
locity Fi along the under surface of that layer at velocity F2, to a 
point from which it rose again to the surface with velocity Fi. The 
greater distance traveled is just compensated for, by part of the path 
being traversed at greater velocity. 

We can readily see that to get from one point to another in New 
York City for short distances we can travel to better advantage by 



290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

surface streetcar, but for greater distances we make up for the time 
spent in going down to the subway and climbing out at the other end 
by the higher speed with whicli the subway carries us. At some point 
not too far distant it would be an even race to go via the surface or via 
the subway ; beyond that point the subway would be the quicker route. 

Let us suppose that we are equipped with properly designed seis- 
mographs at each station, from the source outward. The records for 
the very near stations will show only one arrival — the wave through 
the surface layer. At a certain minimum distance (which depends on 
the thickness of the upper stratum and also on the angle with which 
the ray reaches the surface of discontinuity, the latter depending, 
in turn, on the ratio of the two velocities F^ and Fj) energy will 
begin to arrive via the lower path; but it will arrive after the 
surface-transmitted energy and will appear on the record as a sec- 
ond impulse. Farther out will be a station at which the energy by 
the two paths arrives simultaneously. Beyond that point, the first 
impulse will be that arriving via the lower stratum ; but there will still 
be a second impulse on the records, due to the energy via the upper 
stratum. The arrival times of the two classes of impulse may be 
plotted and will result in defining two intersecting straight lines as 
shown in the diagram. The slope of these lines gives the velocities 
Vi and V2. The point of intersection G defines the distance at which 
the arrivals by the two paths are simultaneous. The two velocities 
enable us to define the angle with which the ray impinges on the 
surface of discontinuity. Knowing the distance to the point of inter- 
section, the two velocities and thence the angle of incidence, we can 
determine the depth of the upper stratum. 

It is now clear why Abbot's velocities were greater than those of 
Mallet. Abbot was working at greater distances (8 to 13 miles) and 
was measuring the velocities, at depth, in a high-speed stratum. 
Mallet was working at distances of about a mile and was measuring 
the velocity in the upper, slow-speed stratum. 

Considerable time has been devoted to explaining this seismic 
method of determining the thickness of a surface layer and the veloc- 
ities in the upper and lower strata because it is so important and far 
reaching in its application. The method can be extended to more 
than two layers — three, four, or even more — yielding the thicknesses 
of the layers and the velocities in each. It can be used to determine 
also whether the surfaces of discontinuity are parallel to the surface 
or tilted and it will give the angles of tilt. It is known as the refrac- 
tion method and will, henceforward, be referred to by that name. 

In attempting to explore the entire thickness of the crust (about 
^ miles) a difficulty presents itself — the explosions we can safely and 
economically use are inadequate to produce energy sufficient to travel 



STRUCTURE OF THE EARTH — HODGSON 291 

to the depths and distances required. Recourse must be had to 
earthquakes — not severe, but well located. Such small shocks usually 
follow a severe earthquake and are known as aftershocks. Imme- 
diately after a major earthquake, portable seismographs may be 
rushed to the epicentral region, a timing system arranged, and con- 
tinuous records made. The aftershocks will originate not far from 
the original source. Several hundred, sharply defined, will often 
be experienced. The data obtained jdeld much information as to 
the structure and thickness of the earth's crust in that particular 
vicinity. 

Studies of this kind have been made in Japan, in central Europe, 
and in California. The crustal structure determined for Japan 
seems to be the simplest, that in California the most complex. No 
such studies have been made in Canada, but the data obtamed from 
the records of the Timiskaming earthquake of 1935 show that the 
velocity in the outer edge of the mantle immediately under the crust 
is higher in Canada than in the outer edge of the mantle under 
Japan, central Europe, or California. However, we are here con- 
sidering the methods of determining earth structure, not the results 
obtained, so we shall pass on to the methods of probing the mantle 
of the earth: that spherical shell about 1,800 miles thick below the 
crust and above the central core. 

Before doing so it is necessary to note one further very necessary 
contribution from crustal analysis. In speaking of the methods used 
for locating earthquakes care was taken to say, "given a dependable 
time-distance graph." Science gives nothing gratis and yields her 
most valued and most valuable data only to those who seek ; though 
sometimes, it is true, they do not know exactly for what they are 
looking or why they require it. One of the difficulties of obtaining 
a time-distance graph has been mentioned — the great areas on 
both land and sea unserved by seismograph stations at which 
to record the exact time of arrival of the elastic waves from an 
earthquake for which is accurately known the epicenter, focal depth, 
and time of occurrence. Even had we the optimum distribution of 
stations, it would still be necessary to have, for each of a series of 
selected earthquakes, the position of the epicenter, the focal depth, 
and the focal time. In other words, to locate an earthquake we must 
have accurate time-distance graphs, and to construct such gi-aphs we 
must accurately locate an earthquake or earthquakes. It appears to 
be an impasse ; but seismology has advanced, nevertheless, by a series 
of approximations — applications of the method of "cut and try." 

Progress has been slow but steady over the years, as seismologists 
have gradually arranged for more stations, devised more efficient 
seismographs, and perfected timing arrangements. We may not 

197855 — 40 20 



292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

here enter into details. Suffice it to say that remarkably good time- 
distance graphs are now available — so good that it is becoming nec- 
essary to take account even of the fact that the earth is not quite 
spherical. 

The location of epicentral position and the determination of focal 
depth and focal time (for earthquakes which can serve to improve 
the existing time-distance graphs, yielding more accurate values for 
focal depth which we have seen to be of so much interest) are to be 
accomplished only by means of seismographs concentrated over an 
actively seismic area. The instruments must be in place at stations 
situated near a prospective earthquake source and must operate con- 
tinuously until a shock occurs sufficiently strong to be recorded up to 
great distances. The near-station data can then be used, after the 
mamier of the refraction method previously described, yielding 
definite knowledge of the epicentral position, focal depth, and focal 
time. These, with accurately timed registration at stations over the 
entire distance range (or as much of it as possible), will permit a new 
refinement of existing time-distance graphs. 

A sufficient concentration of seismographs over a seismic area is 
found at only a few places in the world — at the present time in 
Japan, central Europe, and California. Now, for an earthquake at 
any one of these places, some parts of the distance range must lie 
over water-covered areas where seismographs cannot be placed and 
also over other regions where, as yet, no stations are in operation. 
It is for this reason that efforts are being made by all seismologists 
to continue the operation of existing stations at as high an efficiency 
as possible and also to arrange for the inauguration of new stations 
at strategic points. Canadian stations are particularly valuable, as 
yielding data for important parts of the distance range otherwise not 
covered, for earthquakes in Japan and California. 

In order to cooperate in the attack on this major problem of 
seismology — the perfecting of the basic time-distance tables — a 
seismologist may decide to make a complete study of all records of 
some earthquake which appears from preliminary reports to be a 
promising source of fresh data. Requests are sent out to all the 
seismograph stations of the world asking for the loan of their records 
for this particular earthquake. Such a thorough study may extend 
over as much as 2 years. Canada has made complete studies of three 
major earthquakes and has loaned records of many others to seismolo- 
gists engaged in research. Studies of this kind are most efficient 
means of obtaining data for furthering our knowledge of earth 
structure. 

Let us, then, take for granted that we have a perfected time-dis- 
tance graph for the P waves of a normal earthquake. That is taking 
a great deal for granted, but we already have very good graphs and 



STRUCTURE OF THE EARTH HODGSON^ 293 

we fully expect to have better ones as time goes on. The hypotheti- 
cal, perfect graph tells us the rate at which the nose of the ever 
widening circle of P waves is radiating outward from the epicenter 
about the surface of the earth. That is all we ask to know. It is 
this we crave to apprehend better year by year. 

If we knew the varying velocity with which this surface circle of 
energy progresses throughout the entire distance range from the 
epicenter to its antipodes, we should be able to deduce the rate at 
which the waves travel at various depths within the earth and 
through what surfaces of discontinuity they pass. We may speak 
of the nose of surface energy as the trace of the waves and speak 
of its velocity as the trace velocity or apparent surface velocity in 
contradistinction to the true wave velocity at any point within the 
earth. 

The time-distance graph gives the data for determining at any 
given distance the trace velocity; for we have only to find the rate 
at which distance varies with time at that particular distance range. 
For example we can take as our distance say 2,500 miles. We find 
how long it takes the trace to reach a distance of 2,500 miles by simply 
reading the ordinate of the graph for this distance. Now we read 
off the time it takes to go to 2,600 miles. The difference in these 
gives the time it takes the trace to travel 100 miles at the distance 
2,500 miles. For those who are used to the process we simply say 
that the tangent to the time-distance curve at any distance value 
gives the apparent surface velocity or trace velocity at that distance. 
Suffice it to note that it may be deduced from the time-distance graph. 

The most difficult part (3f the task set by this discussion now 
appears: that which the speaker so far "ain't never tried yet." It 
is hoped, however, that it may prove feasible tO' present, without 
recourse to technical details, a clear and convincing picture of just 
how the time-distance graph contains in its very shape the data 
from which may be deduced the velocity at any given depth within 
the mantle of the earth. 

Before doing so, it is necessary to take drastic liberties with the 
earth. We have a time-distance curve for an earth, the cinist of 
which varies from one point to another. We require for considera- 
tion a time-distance curve for an earth stripped of its outer crust. 
We may not be able to do this physically but we can use our knowl- 
edge of surface structure to cut off a little bit of distance and a little 
bit of time from each end of every focus-to-station path, obtaining 
time-distance values for that part of the earth which lies below the 
crust. 

If you had a timetable showing the actual time it would take you 
to go, via subway, from Times Square to the surface levels at various 
subway stations in New York, you would not have a fair appraisal 



294 



ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 



of the various rates of travel on the subways concerned; for some 
subway platforms are deeper than others and some are more difficult 
of access. If you took off from the tabulated values the distances 
traveled forward in going down the steps on entry and in ascending 
on exit you would have new distance values in each case. If you 
deducted the time spent in entering and leaving you would have new 
time values in each case. Using these corrections to make adjust- 
ments to the original timetables, you would have, in effect, stripped 
off New York to the subway level. At least you would have developed 
a subway-level table from a surface-level table. 

After a procedure somewhat analogous, we may assume we now 
have a new and hypothetically perfected time-distance graph for an 
earth stripped of its crust. We know that by applying the refraction 
method we can obtain the time velocity just at the bottom of the 




FiGDEB 6. — Diagram illustrating the method of deducing the angle of emergence, e, of a 
ray at any chosen cplcentral distance, EA. 



crust and in the outer edge of the mantle. We assume that, through- 
out any part of a concentric spherical shell defined by any given 
radial distance from the earth's center, the conditions are the same — 
the true velocities are uniform over the whole shell. Thus, the 
velocity deduced just below the shell is taken as uniform over the 
entire earth. 

You will remember that it has been stated that we have recently 
learned that this is not so. The true velocity at the outer edge 
of the mantle under Timiskaming is greater than that for the outer 
edge of the mantle in Japan. Very well ! we shall have to continue 
this process of stripping the earth and adjusting our time-distance 
curve to a still greater depth until our premised conditions are 
satisfied. It will be sufficient if it is here made plain : That we can 
use seismological methods to get a time-distance curve for an earth 



STRUCTURE OF THE EARTH — HODGSON 295 

stripped of all lack of uniformity throughout any concentric shell; 
that we can find the trace velocity at any distance from the tangent 
to such a curve; and that we can determine the true velocity at 
the very surface of our stripped earth by application of the re- 
fraction method described for surface conditions. We have also, 
in effect, moved the origin from some point within the earth — the 
focus — to a point exactly in the surface of our stripped earth. Our 
amended time-distance graph begins at zero-zero — at the origin of 
coordinates. We may choose any point on the surface of our stripped 
earth and image an earthquake focus there. Proceeding to some 
distance about the surface of the stripped earth, we come to a point 




Figure 7. — The Herglotz-Wiechert method applied for any chosen epicentral distance 
E8 yields the value of the vertex radius rv and ttie true velocity of the earthquake 
waves V at that depth. 

where the conditions of figure 6 obtain. Here two separate rays 
from the focus, E, emerge at the hypothetical surface of the stripped 
earth. It is assumed that they are chosen so that the second ray 
reaches B just one second after the first ray reaches A. Thus the 
distance AB is a measure of the trace velocity; for it is the distance 
traveled by the trace in 1 second. We draw the line AC perpendic- 
ular to CB; thus the distance CB is a measure of the true velocity at 
the surface ; for it is the distance traveled by the wave along the ray 
CB in 1 second. Now if we know the sides AB and CB of a right- 
angled triangle we can measure the angle of emergence, e, which is 
equal to angle CAB. We know the trace velocity from the amended 
graph and the true velocity from the refraction method so we can in 



296 



ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 



this way find the angle of emergence of the rays at all distances, pro- 
vided they do not dip into the core and become deflected. Up to more 
than half the distance around the earth from the epicenter chosen, 
we can deduce the angle of emergence of the rays. 

As we saw in the refraction method, a ray passing from a stratum 
of lower velocity to one of higher velocity is bent toward the surface. 
If the true velocity increases at successively deeper levels the ray 
will be bent more and more until it is at right angles to the radius. 
This is its deepest point. It then traverses the second half of its 
path, which is the mirror image of the first half; and it emerges 




FiGUEB 8. — Velocity-depth curve by Witte, 1932, based on Jeffreys' P curve. 



at the surface (of the stripped earth let us remember) at the same 
angle of emergence with which it started. That is to say, the ray is 
symmetrical about its center radius through the vertex. (Se© fig. 7.) 
Clearly the amount of bending to which the ray is subjected is 
the sum of all the effects within its path ; and the angle of emergence 
of the ray at any given distance is determined by the velocity at 
every depth through which the ray passed. If we could set up a 
mathematical expression giving the value of the radius to the vertex 
Tv and the velocity Y at that vertex, of any chosen ray defined by its 
epicentral distance of emergence, in terms of the emergence angle 
for that epicentral distance, we could get one value of a true veloc- 



STRUCTURE OF THE EARTH HODGSON 



297 



ity at a known depth. For, as we have seen, we can determine 
emergence angles at every epicentral distance on the stripped earth. 
That, very briefly, is exactly what has been done. It is known 
as the Herglotz-Wiechert method. 

Applying the Herglotz-Wiechert method once for one arbitrarily 
chosen epicentral distance, we get one vertex depth and the one 
corresponding true velocity. Applying it repeatedly, we get other 



,in Foctts 




FiGDKE 9. — Cross sectiou of the earth showing rays and wave fronts of earthquake waves 
and the "blind zone.'" The last direct P wave to emerge at the surface is the one 
grazing the core whos^e wave front is marked 14'" indicating that the transmission time 
from the focus to this point is 14 minutes. 



depths and their corresponding velocities and thus bit by bit we get 
the complete graph, which shows the variation of velocity with depth 
at all distances down to the core. The velocity depth curve deduced 
by Witte in 1932 is reproduced in figure 8. 

Down to the core, why no farther? Because the ray which barely 
grazes the core is the last direct P wave to reach the surface. All 
others are deflected into the core in such a way that, beyond a 
certain distance range, no direct ray emerges at the surface. There 



298 



AI^NUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 



exists a "blind zone" as shown in figure 9. No single part of the 
earth structure defined by seismology is quite so certain as the 
presence of the core. The blind zone is very clearly demarcated. 
It is possible to read off directly from a velocity-depth curve, such 
as that of figure 8, the depth to the core. The fact that the blind 
zone begins abruptly shows the surface of discontinuity to be 
sharply defined. 

If a mathematician be given the dimensions of the earth, the 
structure of the crust, the variation of velocity in the mantle, and 



Herd 




Stismomttir- 
S^a^ion 

Longi^udinalwell^ -■ — --Transversalwelle 

FiGURH 10. — Some typical complex earthquake rays from the focus (Herd). The subscript 
4 Indicates the passage of the so-called fourth surface of discontinuity within the earth 
(Unstetlgkeitsflilche 4), which marks the boundary of the core. 



the depth to the core, he can compute the time it should take various 
waves, reflected within the earth, to reach the surface, and the 
seismograms may be searched to see if they confirm the work which 
gave us the velocity-depth curve — not only the reflected P waves, 
but the S waves which we have nearly forgotten; for, as we got 
a velocity-depth curve for the P waves, so we can get one for the 
S waves. Furthermore, when an elastic wave either of F or ^iS type 
is reflected or refracted it generates other waves of both types. Thus 
we may have a P wave reflected at the under side of the surface as 



STRUCTURE OF THE EARTH — HODGSON 



299 



an S wave, and so on. The number of such possible complex wave 
paths is very great, and the times, once computed, may, as we have 
said, be checked on seismograms. Some of the possible paths are 
shown in figure 10. 

So, step by step, by cut and try, by modification of theory and data, 
we have the means of probing the earth not only in the crust but in 
the mantle down to a depth of about 1,800 miles. But we stand at 
the barrier — the margin of a core of radius 2,200 miles. What can 
we learn about the core? 

We can learn something of the nature of the material in the crust 
and mantle by knowing the velocity with which earthquake waves 
traverse them. We know from gravity measurements the total mass 




FiGtJBB 11. — Path of PKP-TB.y, sometimes designated PtPtP or PcPcP. 



of the earth. The mantle and crust do not nearly make up their 
share of mass per volume (density). The core must be very heavy; 
the density must be great. We can deduce the approximate average 
density of the core. If we had a time- distance curve for the core 
and knew the true velocity just inside its boundary, we could apply 
the Herglotz-Wiechert method again to an earth stripped to the 
core and find a velocity-depth curve for those greater depths. So 
far no means has been found to do this. We know the total time for 
a wave such as that shown in figure 11 to reach the surface. We 
can compute the time required for the sections outside the core, and 
we can find the end points of these branches at the core boundary. 
We know thus the time required for a wave to traverse the core 



300 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 



along a path which has its end points fixed. But, not knowing the 
variation of velocity with depth in the core, we cannot say what shape 
the path has therein. 

However, to make a long story short, there are, as we have partly 
indicated, a certain number of conditions which must be met if 
an assumed variation of velocity with depth within the core can be 
true. Over 20 such variations have been assumed by Gutenberg, 
checked with end data, and the most probable one selected. The 
research continues. We have still much to learn about the core. 

Returning to the surface, let us see how we may use seismographs 
to probe the outer layers of the crust to depths which the drill may 




Figure 12. — Ray from blast to seismograph. The average Telocity from the reflecting 
layer at R to the surface is found from shots fired in dry wells in the region, or by 
refraction shooting. The elapsed time, shot to seismograph, is known. Hence the 
distance BRS is linown. The distance BS is measured. Hence the depth CR may be 
calculated. 



reach and confirm. We may use the refraction method which was 
described; and indeed it was used to excellent effect up to about 
1929, when researches in radio made possible a new method which 
is now so useful that, in the United States alone, more than a million 
dollars a month are being spent in applying it to probe the upper 
earth strata in search of oil. 

It is known as the reflection method. A shock generated from 
the explosion of from a quarter to a half pound of dynamite is 
recorded on a series of seismographs placed a measured number of 
feet apart at a measured distance from the blast. A very common 
"spread" is to have six seismographs at intervals of 50 feet with 
1,000 feet from the nearest seismograph to the shot point. The shot 



STRUCTURE OF THE EARTH^ — HODGSON 



301 



is buried in a hole, drilled usually 50 feet deep; and the recording 
is done on very rapidly moving paper with time marks recorded 
each hundredth of a second. Space fails here to do more than say that 
this method uses electrical seismographs which feed their impulses 
through wave filters and amplifiers so that the direct gromid motion 
is killed out and those waves enhanced which have been reflected 
from a selected subsurface stratum which is thought to have oil- 
bearing possibilities. 

The average velocity within the upper strata above the reflecting 
layer being studied can be measured by the refraction method or, 
where dry wells exist in the area, by measuring "up-hole time" from 
a shot in the well. KJnowing the average speed and the elapsed 
time, and the distance from shot to seismograph, we have sufficient 
data to solve the conditions shown in figure 12 and learn the depth 
to the reflecting surface. 

The crews work over the networks of country roads, finding the 
depth from point to point to the selected layer or "horizon" within 




FiGUEB 13. — Section of a typical six-instrument seismogram. 



the earth, until they find some place where it up-bulges about the 
same way as a large carpet would up-bulge if you were to put an 
inverted soup plate in its center. Imagine a carpeted dining room 
with a table on the center of the carpet and with an inverted plate 
under the carpet and under the table. The table top represents the 
earth's surface — the carpet represents the oil-bearing reflecting layer. 
The geophysicist seeks the invisible, up-bulged part represented by 
that hump in the carpet pushed up by the inverted plate. In prac- 
tice, the layer may be at any depth up to a couple of miles. The 
bulge may be only 50 feet above the general level of the layer. But 
if such a bulge exists in those invisible depths, to learn of it is worth 
money ; for that is where the oil will be — if there is any. 

Plates 1, 2, and 3 show reproductions from photographs taken in 
the field, and figure 13 shows a typical record. To deal adequately 
with this subject would take a whole series of lectures, for it is a 
very live business ; and new technique and new discoveries are being 
reported every month. Some idea of the magnitude of the business 
may be given when it is stated that more than 200 seismograph crews 



302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

are working in the United States alone, and that it costs at least 
$30,000 to equip a crew and $3,500 a month to run it. Crews with 
equipment may be hired at an inclusive charge of $9,000 per month. 
No companies are organized for this work in Canada, but some 
United States companies and also some from Germany have oper- 
ated here. 

It has been a long story, with many very summary and sketchy 
flights over details. We have seen how seismology penetrates to 
depths of a mile or two so quickly and surveys wide areas so rapidly 
that the expensive wielding of pick or drill need not be resorted to 
without some reasonable hope of reward. Aftershocks permit the 
extension of such methods to the bottom of the crust, which we have 
found to be of varying stability, varying thickness, and varying 
structure. The work on the crust permits us to arrive at a time- 
distance curve for a hypothetically stripped earth, after which the 
Herglotz-Wiechert method enables us to obtain a velocity-depth 
curve for the mantle. With these data at hand, we may compute the 
arrival times for various complex waves which should record at the 
surface, thus checking the previous deductions. We know some 
things about the core but it still remains to a large extent an un- 
solved problem — by no means the only one in seismology of c "lurse. 

So, step by step, year by year, slow but steady progress is eing 
made, by cooperative international effort, toward a more accurate 
knowledge of earth structure. This is one of the main reasons for 
studying earthquakes, whether in a seismic region or in relatively 
quiescent Canada. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Hodgson 



PLATE 1 






Automotive Equipment. 

Top: The .surveying truck. 

Middle: The exi)losives truck and the recording truck. 

Bottom: Nearer view of recording truck. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939.— Hodgson 



Plate 2 




SEISMIC Shooting. 

Top left; Attaching dynamite to loading pole and preparing firing cap and wires. 

Top right: Lowering charge with loading poles. 

Bottom left: Method of measuring dynamite charges by cutting sections from 2i/2-pound sticks. 

Bottom right: Set up-for a regulation shot (in this case bedded with an overload of water). 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Hodgson 




Drilling Shot Holes. 

Loft top: Digging sump hole for flushing water. 
Loft bottom: Applying pressure to rotating drill. 
Kight: Truck with drilling mast hoisted. 



OUR PETROLEUM SUPPLY 



By Hugh D. Miser 
Z7. S. Geological Survey 



The petroleum supply of the United States is of great importance 
whether we express the volume and value of the annual output in 
barrels or dollars, or measure the service of petroleum in terms of 
human welfare and progress. 

Petroleum is produced in many countries, and its products are used 
in factories, on highways, and in homes in all lands. Although the 
petroleum industry thus encircles the earth, it is outstandingly an 
American industry. The drilling of wells for oil in the United 
States began in 1859. Our country leads in the development of the 
industry, and it produces and consumes three-fifths of the world's 
annual output. Also, the United States possesses about half of the 
world's known reserves of petroleum. 

PRESENT PRODUCTION AND USES OF PETROLEUM IN UNITED STATES 

Our domestic petroleum production is obtained from about 360,000 
wells in 22 States; only a small part — about 5 percent — of our do- 
mestic consumption is imported from other countries. 

The value of our petroleum output for 1937 measured in dollars is 
one-fourth the value of the entire annual mineral production of the 
United States. It exceeds the total value of all the metallic mineral 
products combined for that year. The next mineral product in point 
of value is coal, the next is iron, and then follows natural gas. 

Chief among the many uses of petroleum is the production of 
power. Such power drives our 30,000,000 motor vehicles on the land, 
our Navy on the ocean, and our planes in the air. Altogether, one- 
third the mechanical energy produced in the United States comes 
from petroleum and its companion mineral product, natural gas. 

Our domestic production through 1937 totals 19,972,000,000 bar- 
rels. Texas stands first, having produced 5,127,000,000 barrels, a 



* Address of the retiring president of the Geological Society of Washington, delivered 
December 14, 1938. Published by permission of the Director, Geological Survey, United 
States Department of the Interior. Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the 
Washington Academy of Sciences, vol. 29, No. 3, pp. 93-109, March 15, 1939. 

303 



304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

quarter of all the nation's output of oil. California has produced 
4,872,000,000 barrels, 24 percent, and Oklahoma 4,341.000,000 bar- 
rels, 21 percent. The output of no other State has equaled the do- 
mestic demand of petroleum products for the year 1937 — namely, 
1,169,000,000 barrels. 

Altogether, Texas, California, and Oklahoma have contributed 72 
percent of all the oil output of the United States. The total produc- 
tion of each of these States is greater than that of the U. S. S. R. — 
3,771,000,000 barrels through 1937— which ranks next to the United 
States in point of cumulative production. Mexico ranks third in 
total world output, with 1,863,000,000 barrels, and Venezuela fourth, 
with 1,491,000,000 barrels. No other oil-producing country has 
produced as much as 1 billion barrels. 

The principal petroleum products and their uses form long lists 
whose presentation time does not now permit. A general grouping 
of the refined products includes gasoline, kerosene, fuel oils, lubricants, 
paraffin wax, petroleum coke, asj^halt, road oil, petrolatum, absorp- 
tion oil, and medicinal oil. 

Kerosene, the first petroleum product to be utilized in important 
quantities, is still extensively used for lighting. In addition, it is 
utilized in increasing volumes to provide power and heat. 

The domestic demand for gasoline in 1937 was 519,000,000 barrels, 
for use chiefly in our motor vehicles. The automobile depends 
heavily on the petroleum industry; it consumes 89 percent of our 
gasoline, 40 percent of our lubricants, and requires natural-gas- 
derived carbon black which lengthens two and one-half to three 
times the lifetime of our tires. The domestic demand for gasoline 
is directly related to the number of motor vehicles, which average one 
to about every five persons. The volume of consumed gasoline, since 
the introduction of the first American automobile in 1892, parallels 
the increasing numbers of motor cars. In late years the slight depar- 
ture from parallelism is due to the greater volume of 
gasoline used by each car and to the increased use of gasoline in 
airplanes, tractors, motorboats, and stationary engines. Second only 
to gasoline were the requirements for fuel oil — 442,000,000 barrels in 
1937 — which is used by railroads, steamships, gas and electric power 
plants, mines, smelters, manufacturing plants, oil companies, and 
United States Navy, and for domestic heating. The development of 
our machine age has depended on a plentiful supply of lubricants 
made from petroleum. The great volume of demand — 23,323,000 
barrels in 1937 — can be met only by obtaining it from petroleum. 

Our petroleum output, as thus briefly described, is provided by one 
of the Nation's most important industries. The investment in the 
United States in the five divisions — the producing, natural gasoline, 



OUR PETROLEUM SUPPLY MISER 305 

transportation, refining, and marketing divisions — of the petroleum 
industry totals about $14,000,000,000. 

EARLY DEVELOPMENT AND USES OF PETROLEUM 

Before 1859 petroleum and its associated hydrocarbons had been 
used by the peoples of many lands for at least several thousand years 
before the Christian era. Seepages and hand-dug pits and shafts 
provided the entire supply of these materials, except in India and 
China where oil was obtained from drilled wells. The Chinese, by 
sinking wells to depths of 1,500 to 2,000 feet for brine, oil, and gas, 
were recognized as the ancient world's most accomplished well 
drillers. 

The early uses for petroleum and its products were many, as will be 
noted below. 

Asphaltic pitch was used to waterproof the ark of Noah, the cradle 
of Moses, and the cisterns and silos of ancient Egypt and Mesopo- 
tamia. Also, it was used by the Egyptians in the process of mummi- 
fication. Asphalt was used as a mortar in the construction of Nineveh 
and Babylon and also in the buried cities of Ur, as early as 4000 
B. C. Oil from Sicily was used by the Romans to light the temple of 
Jupiter, and many centuries later flame throwers fed by naphtha 
were employed against the Crusaders when they stormed the walls of 
Constantinople. Petroleum was distilled into products of commerce 
at Baku as early as the eighteenth century; oil was there used in 
lamps and also was utilized for cooking in 1723. In Rumania the 
exploitation of oil by shafts dates as far back as the second half of 
the sixteenth century. To Rumania is ascribed the first recorded 
volume of output of crude petroleum. In 1857 that country pro- 
duced 1,977 barrels, and since then it has an unbroken record of 
production. 

The early American Indians were familiar with natural petroleum 
seepages. They set their mosaics in asphaltum; they used it as an 
adhesive substance; they lined their baskets with it; and they had 
great faith in petroleum for performing all manner of cures. 

Oil and gas were known and used before 1859 in many other coun- 
tries. A search and study of the literature concerning their recovery, 
transportation, treatment, and utilization before that date reveals a 
fascinating story of the progress of human civilization. 

At the beginning of the nineteenth century, when the supply of 
whale oil for lighting needs was dwindling, the world was faced with 
the necessity of finding a reasonably priced substitute for it. This 
necessity stimulated the research — already being conducted — in the 
distillation of oil from coal and shale. Paraffin was extracted from 
both bituminous shale and crude petroleum in France in 1830. Bum- 



306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

ing oil in commercial quantity was first produced from shale in 
France in 1838. The refining of oil at the Biddings Colliery in 
Derbyshire was begun in 1848 by James Young, and he later obtained 
oil from coal and bituminous shales. He founded in 1851 the Scotch 
industry for the extraction of oil and paraffin from boghead coal. 
His process for obtaining illuminating oil was rewarded with com- 
mercial success, and during the next 10 years its use expanded rapidly 
in Great Britian and was introduced into the United States. Ameri- 
can coals were treated in plants in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, 
Kentucky, and OMo. This rising industry was soon replaced by the 
petroleum industry. 

During the first half of the nineteenth century increasing quantities 
of crude petroleum, known as rock oil, were obtained from seepages 
and from wells drilled for salt brines in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Ken- 
tucky, and West Virginia, but very little of it was marketed. Be- 
tween 1850 and 1855 petroleum from a salt well at Tarentum, Pa., 
was refined in Pittsburgh and sold for lamp use. Also by 1850 some 
oil from the locality was bottled and sold by druggists; and about 
1855 the oil was refined by methods used for the recovery of oil 
from coal. 

The salt wells in Pennsylvania and the nearby States had been 
drilled with equipment designed for the purpose. This equipment, 
which embodied the fundamental features of the modem standard 
cable drill rig, was developed in 1806-8 in the Kanawha Valley, W. 
Va. Accordingly, salt well drillers and their equipment were em- 
ployed for the drilling in 1859 of the Drake well near Titusville, Pa., 
in which it was hoped that there would be obtained a larger supply 
of oil than that afforded by the oil springs of the locality. The 
Drake well, on reaching a depth of 691/^ feet, discovered oil and its 
initial daily output was 25 barrels. This was America's first commer- 
cial oil well. 

RELATION OF GEOLOGY TO PETROLEUM INDUSTRY 

The phenomenal growth of the petroleum industry in the United 
States has been aided greatly by engineering and science. In the 
words of W. C. Teagle, formerly President of the Standard Oil Co. 
of New Jersey, "The operation of the world's oil industry is now very 
largely in the hands of technical experts, geologists, physicists, chem- 
ists, and engineers. This change in the complexion of the responsible 
operating personnel has occurred more rapidly, perhaps, than in any 
othei- field of comparable importance" (18).^ On the same subject 
Lord Cadman, head of many British petroleum companies and past 

■ Numbers in parentheses refer to list at end of article. 



OUR PETROLEUM SUPPLY — MISER 307 

president of the Institution of Petroleum Technologists, comments, 
"In no branch of human endeavor has the application of exact knowl- 
edge been so apparent as in the exploring, winning, refining, transport, 
distribution, and utilization of mineral oil. At every point in the 
long road that leads from the oil well to the consumer investigation 
and research have been employed with almost spectacular results" (3). 

The recognition of the value of the geologists' contribution to the 
industry finds concrete expression in the fact that most of the com- 
panies have geological departments. Oil companies, however, have 
employed great numbers of geologists only in the last 25 years. 

The general acceptance of geology in the search for oil took place 
about 1915, more than 50 years after the completion of the Drake 
well. This acceptance was not so much a whole-hearted welcome as it 
was a necessity, for the oil companies were being pressed to meet the 
rapidly increasing demands for gasoline required for the growing 
numbers of motor vehicles. 

Although geology was utilized only to a limited extent in the selec- 
tion of drilling sites during the first half century of the petroleum in- 
dustry, geologic observations concerning the occurrence of petroleum 
date back to 1842. In that year William Logan observed the occur- 
rence of oil on anticlines near Gaspe. In 1860 H. D. Rogers noted that 
the newly discovered fields in Pennsylvania were located on anti- 
clines. In the following year T. Sterry Hunt outlined the first clear 
statement of the anticlinal theory of the accumulation of petroleum, 
but during the next 25 years Hunt and the other geologists who ac- 
cepted the anticlinal theory made little application of it in reporting 
on the oil possibilities of certain areas in the United States and Can- 
ada. In the early eighties I. C. White made practical application of 
the principles of the theory in the location of new oil and gas fields, 
but still the industry in general continued to ignore geology. From 
1900 to 1915 the significance of the relation of petroleum to anticlinal 
structure was clearly demonstrated for many areas by the investiga- 
tions and publications of the Federal Geological Survey. 

The number of geologists now serving the industry in the United 
States, in the employ of companies and in the employ of govern- 
mental, State, and other institutions, appears to exceed 3,000 — a num- 
ber somewhat larger than the number of geologists in the United 
States who are members of the American Association of Petroleum 
Geologists. Altogether, 2,354 geologists living in the United States 
were members of this organization on March 1, 1938. 

It is noteworthy that the States having the greatest oil production 
are the ones that have most oil geologists, as indicated by the mem- 
bership of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists as of 
March 1, 1938. 

197855 — 40 21 



308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

Texas, ranking first in production — 510,318,000 barrels of oil in 
1937 — has 868 geologists; California, standing second — 238,521,000 
barrels of oil in 1937 — has 314 geologists ; Oklahoma, standing third — 
228,839,000 barrels of oil in 1937— has 430 geologists; Louisiana, stand- 
ing fourth— 90,924,000 barrels of oil in 1937— has 124 geologists; 
Kansas, standing fifth— 70,761,000 barrels of oil in 1937— has 134 
geologists. In these five States there is 1 geologist for every 600,000 
barrels of oil produced in 1937. 

METHODS EMPLOYED BY THE PETROLEUM GEOLOGISTS 

The oil geologist, in the application of his science to the recovery of 
petroleum, has a wide field of opportunity before him and he makes 
use of facts and conclusions from many phases of geology, including 
structure, stratigraphy, paleontology, sedimentary petrology, sedi- 
mentation, geomorphology, and metamorphism. In his search for, 
and his location of, oil deposits he has from time to time abandoned or 
modified old methods and has adopted new methods of exploration. 
The available time will not permit the presentation of a full list of 
these methods ; it will permit no more than brief mention of some ma- 
jor developments during the present century. Important develop- 
ments during the early years of the century were the adoption of the 
structure contour to portray the structural features of prospective or 
producing oil and gas areas and also the application of the plane table 
and alidade as instruments for determining accurately the altitudes 
of the "key beds" that were contoured. 

Airplane photography, first employed during the World War, was 
utilized about 1920 by the oil geologist. Subsequently its utilization 
by governmental agencies and by oil and other companies has in- 
creased rapidly, and at present about half the area of the United 
States has been covered by aerial photographs. To the geologist 
such photographs record a wealth of essential details of geologic 
features that are not obtainable by any other method of mapping. 
As the years pass, he relies more and more on such pictures and 
employs fewer and fewer plane table maps. 

Surface structural mapping reached its peak application between 
1920 and 1925, and it has thus for many years occupied a place of 
decreasing importance in the search for new oil fields. This decline 
is attributable to the gradual decrease in number of favorable struc- 
tural features that can be recognized by surface geologic mapping. 

Core drilling for the determination of structure was introduced in 
the United States in 1919 and was employed on an extensive scale 
for many years in portions of the midcontinent region. 

The microscopic examination of well cuttings was begun on a large 
scale in 1917 and since that time it has reached a place of fundamental 
importance. To it the oil geologist now gives about half of his effort. 



OUR PETROLEUM SUPPLY — MISER 309 

The practice of obtaining cores of oil sands and other important beds 
in order that their character may be accurately noted is used in all 
producing areas. The microscopic study of insoluble residues ob- 
tained by dissolving in hydrochloric acid well cuttings of limestones 
and dolomites was begun in 1924 by H. S. McQueen (10) . It has been 
successfully utilized by the oil industry in the midcontinent region — 
from Ohio and Tennessee on the east to Kansas and New Mexico on 
the west — for the determination of underground stratigraphy and 
structure. 

Micropaleontology, first introduced in universities and also by 
companies to a limited extent as early as 1919, became an integral 
part of the oil business in the United States in 1924. 

Geophysical methods, magnetic, gravimetric, electrical, and seis- 
mic, are widely used in the United States by the oil industry as a 
means of locating and mapping buried structural features. The 
adoption of the seismograph followed the discovery of its applica- 
bility during the World War for locating long-range guns. In its 
use by the oil industry the long-range guns are replaced by explosive 
charges in prospective oil localities. The first applications of gi*avi- 
metric methods in the detection of anticlinal structure in this country 
were made in 1917 and 1919 by the Coast and Geodetic Survey when 
stations on Damon Mound, Tex., and Paleozoic folds in Maryland 
were occupied at the request of David White of the Geological Survey 
(22). In 1924 oil companies located three salt domes by geophysical 
methods, the Nash dome by means of the torsion balance, the Orchard 
dome by the seismograph, and the Long Point dome by both the 
torsion balance and the seismograph. Since 1924 a total of about 
100 salt domes in the Gulf Costal Plain and many other structural 
features from New York to California have been found by means of 
geophysical methods. 

A type of well record or log, known as an electrical log, was devel- 
oped in 1928. This type of well record is a great aid in exploratory 
drilling and the exploitation of oil fields. It shows the electrical 
resistivity and the relative porosity of the beds passed through by the 
drill. It permits the identification of oil- and water-bearing sands 
and gives useful information concerning the character of the beds. 
This information, in many areas, is more accurate than that provided 
by sets of cuttings. 

PROGRESS OF PETROLEUM GEOLOGY 

The progress of the science of petroleum geology is revealed in 
many publications, particularly those of the Federal and State Geo- 
logical Surveys and the American Association of Petroleum Geolo- 
gists. This Association was organized in Tulsa, Okla., in 1917 with a 
membership of 94 and now (December 1938) has a domestic and 



310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

foreign membership of about 3,000 — a number greater than that of 
any other geological society in the world. The association issues a 
monthly bulletin containing about 150 pages in each number, and in 
addition it has issued 12 special volumes. The reports of the Fed- 
eral and State Geological Surveys dealing especially with petroleum 
geology are numerous and constitute a major portion of the literature 
on the subject. 

An important factor in the development and progress of petroleum 
geology has been the mounting store of geologic data supplied by 
wells that have constantly increased both in number and depth. The 
number of wells that have been drilled for oil and gas in the United 
States exceeds 900,000. The world's deepest well, completed this year 
in the southern San Joaquin Valley, Calif., reached a depth of 15,004 
feet. This well is nearly 9,000 feet deeper than the mine workings 
(slightly more than 6,150 feet) of the Quincy Mining Co., Hancock, 
Mich., and is about 6,500 feet greater than the 8,530-foot workings 
of one of the Crown Mines on the Rand. The producing zone of this 
deep California well is from 13,092 to 13,175 feet, but a more recently 
completed well of the Fobs Oil Co., in Terrebonne Parish, La., is pro- 
ducing from a slightly greater depth — namely, 13,254 to 13,266 feet. 

CONTRIBUTIONS OF PETROLEUM GEOLOGY TO GENERAL 
SCIENCE OF GEOLOGY 

Petroleum geology, because of its wide field of opportunity for the 
investigation of geologic conditions on the surface and also geologic 
conditions to the depths penetrated by wells — 15,004 feet — and to the 
depths reached by geophysical methods — more than 30,000 feet — 
has made notable contributions to the general science of geology. 
Some of the more important contributions will be mentioned briefly. 

Anticlines, as already noted, were first sought as favorable struc- 
tural features on which to locate drilling sites for oil; but, with 
further drilling and the consequently increased knowledge of the oc- 
currence of petroleum, it was learned that oil occurs not only on sim- 
ple anticlines but also on many other types of structural features 
which include terraces, anticlinal noses, faults, unconformities, salt 
domes, lenticular sands, and buried hills. 

Buried hills and the superposition of surface anticlines over them 
were brought to the attention of geologists by Sidney Powers (13) 
following the discovery of granite hills underneath the Eldorado line 
of folding in Kansas and of hills of Ordovician rocks underneath the 
Pennsylvanian sand production at Healdton, Okla. 

Our knowledge of the geology of the salt domes in Louisiana and 
Texas has been revolutionized in the last quarter of a century. Now 
the domes are generally regarded as intrusive plugs of salt that moved 



OUR PETROLEUM SUPPLY MISER 311 

upward from bedded salt of probable late Jurassic or early Creta- 
ceous age. The salt is believed to have moved upward as much as 
30,000 feet in the coastal portions of Louisiana and Texas. Formerly 
the salt masses were believed to have been formed as a result of vol- 
canic activity, gas uplift, or the crystallization of the salt along zones 
of weakness in the rock strata. 

The Gulf Coastal Plain may be cited as an example of an area 
whose tectonic map has undergone great transformation as the result 
of oil exploration. To the tectonic map of the Gulf Coastal Plain such 
structural trends as the Mexia fault zone, the buried course of the 
Ouachita belt of Paleozoic rocks, and the Gulf Coast geosyncline, have 
been added. 

From the determination of the effect of regional structural defor- 
mation and the attendant metamorphism on deposits of petroleum 
and coal in the eastern United States, David White drew, in 1915, a 
"deadline" beyond which oil may not be expected in the Appalachian 
and Ouachita regions (22). This oil "deadline," or extinction zone, 
lies between the 60- and 65-isocarbs, lines connecting points where 
the coals have 60 to 65 percent of fixed carbon. 

Also the composition of the hydrocarbon gases in the northern 
Appalachian region bears a close relation to the structure and the 
degree of metamorphism of the associated strata. This has been 
pointed out recently by S. H. Hamilton (7), Charles K. Fettke (5), 
Paul H. Price and A. J. W. Headlee (14). 

From the measurements of the temperatures of deep wells by Van 
Orstrand (21) and others in the United States it has been shown that 
relatively high temperatures are generally associated with faults, 
salt domes, sand lenses, and anticlines of both large and small closure. 
It appears that both the local and regional variations of earth tem- 
peratures of the sedimentary strata thus penetrated by wells are re- 
lated to thermal conductivity and to the depth to the underlying 
crystalline basement. Differential uplift on either a large or a small 
scale would tend to elevate the isotherms irregularly. 

Stratigraphy, of a refined character, has received impetus in conse- 
quence of the requirements of the oil industry for exact information 
concerning the thickness and character of the rock strata of prospec- 
tive oil regions and of areas under development. This type of infor- 
mation is required for an interpretation of geologic history and for 
the preparation of precise structure maps. The geologic history has 
a bearing on the origin and migration of oil and the structure maps 
may reveal favorable places for its accumulation. 

Time will permit mention of only three interesting types of strati- 
graphic work. One of these is to be found in western Kansas where 
petroleum geologists have matched the intervals between bentonite 
beds in the Niobrara chalk in a way suggestive of the matching of 



312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

tree rings by archeologists in dating ancient pueblos in New Mexico 
and Arizona, In this way the geologists obtain extremely accurate 
data for mapping structure on the surface and in core drilling. 

An investigation by N. W. Bass (1, 2) and his coworkers of the 
shoestring sand bodies that yield much petroleum in Greenwood and 
Butler Counties, Kans., and Osage County, Okla., has shown that 
these elongated lenticular sand bodies represent sand bars along an- 
cient shore lines during the Pennsylvania epoch. A study of 22,000 
well logs in and near the oil fields supplemented by an investigation 
of nearly the full length of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts has made 
possible the mapping of land features and shore lines of the ancient 
seas as they existed in Kansas and Oklahoma 250 million years ago. 

The recognition and determination of changes in facies of sedi- 
ments occupy the attention of all stratigraphic geologists. Many 
such changes may be noted in the exposed rock strata, as in the 
Permian section of Utah and in the Cretaceous section of the Book 
Cliffs of Colorado and Utah. The most striking and best-known 
example of such facies changes in this country is offered by the 
Permian rocks of the Delaware Basin of New Mexico and Texas. 
The basin was surrounded by a reef zone, and this in turn by a back 
reef zone. Each of these — the basin and the two zones — is character- 
ized by different kinds of deposits. These relations are exceptionally 
well displayed in the Glass and Guadalupe Mountains and also by 
the records of thousands of oil wells in the plains east of the 
mountains. 

Stratigraphic information and also areal geologic maps have been 
contributed generously by oil companies to State and Federal Geo- 
logical Surveys for use in connection with official investigations in the 
petroleum-producing States. The publication of such modern State 
geologic maps as those of Oklahoma (11), Kansas (12), and Texas 
(4) was greatly facilitated through the active interest and support 
of the petroleum geologists and companies in those States. The 
great stock of information acquired by oil companies in California 
has been drawn upon in large measure in the preparation of two 
recently issued volumes — one entitled "Geology of California," by 
K. D. Reed (15), and the other "Structural Evolution of Southern 
California," by E. D. Reed and J. S. Hollister (16). 

The stratigraphic information supplied by the wells drilled for oil 
and gas enables the geologist to draw geologic maps of the past. 
Such maps are areal geologic maps and they thus differ from paleo- 
geographic maps which show the distribution of land and water. 
An early, and perhaps the first, aerial geologic map based almost 
entirely on well data was one for northeastern Oklahoma compiled 
by Luther H. White. It was published in 1926 by the Oil and Gas 
Journal (23) and also by the Oklahoma Geological Survey (23). 



OUR PETROLEUM SUPPLY — MISER 313 

More recently, such maps of Kansas (9), Oklahoma (9), Texas (17), 
and a large portion of the United States (8) have been published. 
The deep drilling for oil and gas provides not alone stratigraphic 
information but also structural data that permit the preparation of 
subsurface structure maps, both local and regional in character. 
In the words of R. A. Daly at the banquet of the Geological Society 
of America in Tulsa, Okla., on December 30, 1931, the petroleum 
industry has contributed the third dimension to geology. 

DEEP DRILLING AND SEARCH FOR PETROLEUM DISCOVER 
OTHER MINERAL PRODUCTS 

The petroleum industry, in its addition of this new dimension to 
geology, has had an unusual oportunity to discover mineral products 
that lie deep below the surface. Commercially important deposits of 
five mineral products thus discovered with the advent of deep drill- 
ing and search for petroleum are natural gas, helium, natural carbon 
dioxide, potash in New Mexico, and sulfur in the coastal areas of 
Louisiana and Texas. The five industries centering around these 
may thus be regarded as quintuplets of mother petroleum in the 
household of the mineral industry. A few vital and other statistics 
of interest about each of the quintuplets will be mentioned. 

The commercial utilization of natural gas, one of our principal 
sources of light and power, dates back as early as 1821 when gas 
from a shallow well at Fredonia, N. Y., was used in homes in that 
village. Our present marketed output of natural gas, amounting in 
1937 to 2,370 million cubic feet, comes from 24 States and is trans- 
ported through 85,000 miles of trunk lines to consumers in 35 States. 
The known reserves of this convenient and efficient source of heat and 
energy are, according to E. W. Richards,^ at least of the order of 
100 trillion cubic feet. 

Gas wells suitable for producing solid carbon dioxide, known gen- 
erally as dry ice, have been drilled in Montana, Colorado, Utah, New 
Mexico, and California; and plants for the manufacture of dry ice 
from gas supplied by such wells have been constructed in recent 
years at Wellington, Utah, "Witt and Bueyeros, N. Mex., and Niland, 
Calif. Dry ice is a convenient refrigerant and is being produced 
in increasing quantities, owing in part to the growing demand for 
it by transcontinental and transoceanic shippers. 

Sulfur was discovered on a salt dome at Sulphur, La., in 1865 by 
the Louisiana Petroleum & Coal Co. while prospecting for oil. Sul- 
fur production was begun in Louisiana in 1903. To January 1, 1938, 
41,163,000 long tons of sulfur valued at over three-quarters of a 
billion dollars has been produced from the cap rock of salt domes on 
the gulf coast of Louisiana and Texas. Before the development of 

» Personal communication. 



314 ANN^UAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

the Louisiana and Texas deposits 95 percent of the world's supply of 
sulfur came from Sicily. At present these two States supply the 
greater part of the world's sulfur and more than 99 percent of the 
domestic output. 

The United States possesses the only known natural gas fields in 
the world that yield gas sufficiently rich in helium to warrant the ex- 
traction of this element on a commercial scale. The richest helium- 
bearing gases, those containing 1 to 8 percent, are found in southeast- 
ern Kansas, southeastern Colorado, eastern Utah, and in the Texas 
Panhandle. The production of helium on a large scale was bom of 
the necessity to find during the World War a noninflammable substi- 
tute for the extremely inflammable hydrogen gas in balloons and 
dirigibles. The operation of experimental plants in Texas and Can- 
ada, beginning in 1918, led to the erection in 1919 of a production 
plant at Fort Worth, Tex., and later other plants, one by the Heliiun 
Co. at Dexter, Kans., in 1927, and the other by the Bureau of 
Mines near Amarillo, Tex., in 1928. 

American potash, like our helium, was first produced during the 
World War and it now supplies a major portion of our domestic re- 
quirements. An energetic search for possible sources of potash in 
this country began in 1911. One of the possible sources thus investi- 
gated was the Permian salt of Texas and New Mexico. Information 
about the extent and character of the potash deposits in these States 
acquired from oil company wells and from Government and private 
core tests revealed commercial deposits of potash in New Mexico. 
Shipments began in 1931 and they totaled 700,000 tons of crude pot- 
ash salts in 1937. 

PETROLEUM RESERVES OF UNITED STATES 

Our petroleum reserves, because of the nature of the occurrence of 
petroleum, are imperfectly known. Petroleum is a liquid contained 
in the rocks deep below the surface in many small widely scattered 
areas. It is discovered by the driller who is aided in his search by 
the accumulated knowledge about oil and its occurrence. 

A number of estimates of the total petroleum resources of the 
United States were prepared between 1909 and 1921. During this pe- 
riod, however, it became evident that the unproved reserves in un- 
known fields awaiting future discovery could not be estimated with 
any degree of accuracy whereas the quantity of oil in the proved re- 
serves, recoverable by then current methods of production, could be 
estimated with reasonable accuracy on the basis of the past produc- 
tion experience of depleted fields. The first estimate in which the 
proved reserves were separated from estimates of undiscovered fields 
was made in 1921 by the Geological Survey with the cooperation of 
the American Association of Petroleum Geologists. In this estimate 



OUR PETROLEUM SUPPLY MISER 315 

5 billion barrels were classified as oil "in sight" on January 1, 1922, 
and 4 billion barrels additional as "prospective and possible" and re- 
coverable by current methods of production (19). A number of esti- 
mates have been prepared since 1921. 

The individual estimates of the petroleum reserves that have been 
made in 1921 and subsequent years differ somewhat, but they all 
possess a similar order of magnitude. Since 1930 the estimates of 
proved reserves have ranged from 10 to 15.8 billion barrels. 

The proved reserves in the ground, like the stocks of petroleum 
held above ground, are constantly changing in quantity. They 
are depleted by the output of producing wells and increased by the 
discovery of new fields and deeper pools. During the period 1922 
to 1938, for which figures of proved reserves are available, many 
large fields were discovered so that, notwithstanding the consequent 
greatly augmented production, the proved reserves have increased. 

FUTURE PETROLEUM SUPPLY OP UNITED STATES 

The continued discovery of new fields and deeper oil-bearing 
zones is required to meet future demands, just as it has since the 
beginning of the industry in the United States. The extent to 
which new sources of supply are discovered and produced depends 
upon the payment of such prices by the consumer as will permit the 
industry to carry the heavy and increasing expense of new explora- 
tion and to maintain profits. 

Much oil remains to be discovered in new fields and in deeper 
pools, but the exact location of these fields and the quantity of 
petroleum they will yield are not known; they will not be known 
in advance of drilling. Nevertheless, their number, whatever it 
may be, is definitely limited and each newly found field leaves 
one less to be discovered. 

The answer to the question "When will the day of petroleum 
shortage in the United States be reached?" lies not alone in the 
supply of oil remaining in the ground. It rests also with the 
geologist to continue to aid in the increasingly difficult problem 
of discovery, with the engineer to improve drilling technique and 
to increase recoveries, and with the chemist to continue improve- 
ments in refining practice. In part, it rests on the price that the 
public can pay in the future for oil products, and that in turn 
depends in part on increased efficiency in use. In a large measure 
it rests on conservation and efficiency in the discovery, development, 
and production of our future oil fields. 

The future undoubtedly will see continued advances in science 
and technology affecting the discovery, recovery, refining, and 
utilization of petroleum. Thus far, these advances have enabled 



316 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

US to keep supplies ahead of needs, but they afford us no assurance 
that the same record can be maintained indefinitely. 

In this connection it is of interest to call attention to some of the 
concrete accomplishments of recent years. The recovery of gasoline 
from a barrel of oil has more than trebled in the last 40 years — from 
about 51/2 gallons in 1899 to about I81/2 gallons in 1937. In the 15- 
year period from 1922 to the end of 1936 the geologist and the petro- 
leum engineer have aided the driller in the addition of 10.8 billion 
barrels to our petroleum reserves, despite the production of 12.8 
billion barrels during that period. Also, from 1920 to the end of 
1936 the chemist, by the introduction and improvement of cracking 
processes, has conserved 8.5 billion barrels of crude oil (20). The 
petroleum engineer is meeting energetically the challenge to recover 
the 65 to 85 percent of oil remaining in the ground after a field no 
longer yields oil by the older methods of production. Each year 
witnesses the improvement and extension of recovery methods, such 
as acid treatment and repressuring by the introduction of gas, air, and 
water into the oil-bearing zones. The increased adoption and refine- 
ment of such methods in areas where geologic and other conditions 
permit their use wiU lead to the recovery in places of 50 percent or 
more of the total oil content of the producing zone. 

Moreover, when a shortage of domestic crude petroleum arrives 
and there is a consequent rise in prices of petroleum products, substi- 
tutes will be drawn upon just as they are now drawn upon to some 
extent in some countries that are supplied with little or no oil re- 
sources. Some of these substitutes are oil products from coal and 
oil shale, alcohol from farm products, and gases from wood. Our 
future resources of coal and oil shale have been so determined by 
geologic evidence and exploration that we know their approximate 
extent and quantity. According to Dean E. Winchester (24), the 
oil-shale deposits of the United States will yield 92,144,935,000 barrels 
of oil, if and when the price of oil permits. Should coal be called 
upon to supply the demands now met by oil and gas, the coal reserves 
of the United States would, according to independent estimates by 
T. A. Hendricks* and Arno C. Fieldner (6), last about 2,000 years. 
These two estimates are based on the assumption that the consump- 
tion of energy from mineral fuels will equal the maximum rate of 
consumption in the past (approximately 23,400 trillion B. t. u. in 
1929) and also are based on the assumption of a 30 percent loss of 
coal in mining. Concerning the cost of motor fuel substitutes. Doc- 
tor Fieldner (6) comments as follows: 

Keliable information on the cost of making gasoline from coal in British and 
German plants is not available, but it is believed that it is three or four times 



* Personal communication. 



OUR PETROLEUM SUPPLY MISER 317 

the present cost of producing gasoline from petroleum in the United States. 
These costs will be reduced by further research, but no other liquid motor 
fuel, whether it be from coal, oil shale, or vegetable matter, can hope to be 
as cheap as our present petroleum fuels. 

The following significant statement on this subject is contained in 
a recent press memorandum of the Department of the Interior rela- 
tive to the work of the Bureau of Mines (October 24, 1938) : 

By the time that depletion of our petroleum resources reaches the point 
when a motorized Nation must begin to look to other sources for some of its 
fuel, it is hoped that motor fuel can be supplied from coal so efficiently and 
cheaply that the transfer can be made from the old fuel to the new without 
drastic adjustments. 

LITERATURE CITED 

1. Bass, N. W. 

1934. Origin of Bartlesville shoestring sands, Greenwood and Butler 
Counties, Kansas. Bull. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., vol. 18, No. 
10, pp. 1313-1345. 

1936. Origin of the shoestring sands of Greenwood and Butler Counties, 

Kansas. State Geol. Surv. Kansas Bull. 23. 

2. Bass, N. W., LEATHBitocK, Constance, Dillaed, W. Reese, and Kennedy, 

Luther E. 

1937. Origin and distribution of Bartlesville and Burbauk shoestring oil 

sands in parts of Oklahoma and Kansas. Bull. Amer. Assoc. 
Petrol, Geol. vol. 21, No. 1, pp. 30-66, January. 

3. Cadman of Su.vebdale, The Rt. Hon. Lord 

1938. Foreword, The science of petroleum, I. Oxford Univ, Press. 

4. Darton, N. H., Stephenson, L. W., and Gardner, Julia 

1937. Geologic map of Texas. U. S. Geol. Surv. 

5. Fettke, Charles R. 

1938. Oriskany as a source of gas and oil in Pennsylvania and adjacent 

areas. Bull. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., vol., 22, No. 3, pp. 
241-266, March. 

6. FlELDNER, ArNO C. 

1937. Fuels of today and tomorrow. Proc. Amer. Soc. Test. Materials, 
vol. 37, No. 1. 

7. Hamilton, S. H. 

1937. Oriskany explorations in Pennsylvania and New York. Bull. Amer. 
Assoc. Petrol. Geol., vol. 21, No. 12, pp. 1582-1591, December. 

8. Levobsen, a. I. 

1933. Studies in paleogeology. Bull. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., vol. 17, 
No. 9, pp. 1107-1132, September. 

9. McCLEaiLAN, Hugh W. 

1930. Subsurface distribution of pre-Mississippian rocks of Kansas and 

Oklahoma. Bull. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., vol. 14, No. 12, pp. 
1535-1556, December. 

10. McQueen, H. S. 

1931. Insoluble residues as a guide in stratigraphic studies. Missouri 

Bur. Geol. Mines 56th Bienn. Rep., Appendix 1. 

11. Miser, H. D. 

1926. Geologic map of Oklahoma. U. S. Geol. Surv. 



318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

12. MooEE, Raymond C, and Landes, Kenneth K. 

1937. Geologic map of Kansas. State Geol. Surv. Kansas. 

13. Powers, Sidnett 

1917, Granite in Kansas. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 44, No. 4, pp. 146-150. 
1917. The Healdton oil field, Oklahoma. Econ. Geol., vol. 12, pp. 594-606. 
1922. Reflected buried hills and their importance in petroleum geology. 

Econ. Geol., vol. 17, pp. 233-259. 
1926. Reflected buried hills in the oil fields of Persia, Egypt, and Mexico. 

Bull. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 422-442, April. 

14. Peice, Paul H., and Headlee, A. J. W. 

1938. Regional variations in composition of natural gas in Appalachian 

province. Bull. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., vol. 22, No. 9, pp. 
1153-1183, September. 

15. Reed, Ralph D. 

1933. Geology of California. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Tulsa, Okla. 

16. Reed, Ralph D., and Hollister, J. S. 

1936. Structural evolution of southern California. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. 

Geol., Tulsa, Okla. 

17. Sellabds, E. H. 

1938. Maps showing distribution of Upper Cambrian, Lower, Middle, and 
Upper Ordovician, Silurian, and Devonian in Texas. Advance 
prints from Geology of Texas. IV. Petroleum Resources. Univ. 
Texas, Bur. Econ. Geol., April. 

18. Teagle, W. C. 

1938. Foreword, The science of petroleum. I. Oxford Univ. Press. 

19. United States Geological Sukvet 

1922. The oil supply of the United States. Bull. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. 
Geol., vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 42-46. 

20. Van Covekn, Feed 

1937. Status and outlook of petroleum supply, demand, and stocks. 

Quart. Amer. Petrol. Inst., vol. 7, No. 2, p. 9, April. 

21. Van Oesteand, C. E. 

1934. Some possible applications of geothermics to geology. Bull. Amer. 

Assoc. Petrol. Geol., vol. 18, No. 1, pp. 13-38, January. 
Temperature gradients. In Problems of Petroleum Geology, pp. 
989-1021. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Tulsa, Okla. 

22. White, David 

1915. Some relations in origin between coal and petroleum. Journ. 

Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 5, pp. 189-212, Mar. 19. 
1924. Gravity observations from the standpoint of the local geology. 

Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer. vol. 35, No. 2, pp. 207-277, June 30. 

1935. Metamorphism of organic sediments and derived oils. Bull. Amer. 

Assoc. Petrol. Geol., vol. 19, No. 5, pp. 589-617, May. 

23. White, Ltjtheb H, 

1926. Oklahoma's deep horizons correlated. Oil and Gas Journ., vol. 
24, No. 45, Apr. 1. 
Oil and gas in Oklahoma: subsurface distribution and correlation 
of the pre-Chattauooga ("Wilcox" sand) series of northeastern 
Oklahoma. Oklahoma Geol. Surv. Bull. 40-B. 

24. Winchestee, Dean E. 

1928. The oil possibilities of the oil shales of the United States. Report 
II of the Federal Oil Conservation Board to the President of the 
United States, pp. 13-14. 



BIOLOGIC BALANCE ON THE FARM 



By W. L. McAteb 
v. S. Biological Survey 



[With 2 plates] 



Biologic balance is the term heard today for what yesterday was 
called the balance of nature. Some would so closely associate the 
condition with yesterday, as to deny its present existence. That is, 
however, not exactly what they mean. What they really have in 
mind is that the primitive balance of nature such as obtained in 
America in precolonial times has been destroyed by civilized man 
and under his domination cannot return. 

That may well be, for in all probability man's abrupt and whole- 
sale remodeling of the landscape and his ruthless interference with 
its plant and animal inhabitants can never be assimilated into 
nature's more deliberately adjusted system of checks and balances. 
No sooner, however, does man's disturbing influence anywhere cease 
than recovery begins. 

Unless all fertility has been swept away, bare ground is soon 
occupied by weeds. Grasses come in next and if there is enough 
moisture they are followed in time by shrubs and trees. Cut-over 
woodland, if not too much damaged by fire, will produce a new crop 
of trees in a human generation. Practically all of the deciduous 
forest in the eastern United States is this so-called second growth — 
a vast tribute to nature's power of recovery. 

Where a little herbage is established, insects will be attracted, and 
soon birds will drop in to snap them up. Wlien the grasses and 
weeds make a fair crop of seeds, mice will come to take toll, and when 
there are enough mice, weasels will prey upon them. Juicy greens 
and the tender shoots and bark of shrubs will draw cottontails, and 
in turn the bunnies attract foxes. 

None of these things happen suddenly, nor until the way has been 
prepared for them. They come about in a gradual and orderly man- 
ner, that is, naturally, in the truest sense of the word. As a phi- 
losopher once put it, "Nature abhors a vacuum," but these hard 
words mean, in the present connection, only that life pushes in any- 
where it has a chance. All life provides food for other life, and it 

319 



320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

is evidently a natural law that no food supply is left untouched. 
Further, the natural law seems to decree that although all food 
supplies may be utilized, none may be utterly consumed. 

It is a general habit of animals to sample foods here and there; 
rarely do they make a clean sweep of anything. This habit con- 
tributes to biologic balance, as the toll taken is not so great but 
that the remainder is sufficient to maintain the food species in about 
their average abundance. Thus the greenery about us looks much 
the same from year to year; the insects dependent on that foliage 
neither increase nor decrease except sporadically; and birds that 
prey upon the insects maintain their average numbers. 

These things speak eloquently of biologic balance, and there is a 
reason. Nature, while tolerant and slow, is inexorable. If a species 
too largely consumes its food supply, its own numbers will decrease. 
It may live comfortably on "interest" for years, but let it eat into the 
"principal" and its own account in the bank of life will soon be 
overdrawn. 

The workings of nature's balance are evident not merely in a 
broad sense but also locally. In fact natural law is the summation 
of local happenings. Living things, as a rule, are very localized; 
as to plants the condition is obvious, but it is likewise true that 
individual animals do not range widely. Migrants are an apparent, 
rather than a real, exception, for individuals and groups keep 
to certain areas in both summer and winter homes ; even their migra- 
tion routes are relatively fixed. In general, territorialism rules, and 
it contributes a great deal toward balance. 

Territorialism is the name we have for nature's system of parceling 
out places to live. An individual plant occupies a comparatively small 
territory — that traversed by its roots and branches. Usually, condi- 
tions are not so uniform but that some other plant is a little better fitted 
to occupy an adjacent nook, whether made by vertical or horizontal 
variations in soil or moisture. Mixtures are the rule, pure stands the 
exception. Each plant draws certain substances from the soil and adds 
others to it, thus maintaining average fertility. To resume the banking 
metaphor, demands and repayments by each living thing are different, 
but in the long run a fair balance is struck. 

In contrast to plants, animals seem very free-moving, but even their 
movements are limited. The territory of a pair of small birds in the 
breeding season may be less than an acre in extent, and a family of 
bobwhites may never range more than a quarter of a mile. Mice may 
be restricted to a fraction of an acre, squirrels to a radius of a few hun- 
dred yards, and cottontails to from one to several acres. In general, 
the larger the animal the more extensive the territory ; but in no event 
is the individual range indefinite. 



BIOLOGIC BALANCE — McATEE 321 

Territories seems to depend upon the degree of intolerance animals 
have for their own kind. When the bounds are overstepped, conflict 
soon results and the trespasser, as a rule, retires to its own domain. 
The result is that creatures are confined almost as by a fence, inside 
of which they must comport themselves so as not to spoil their own liv- 
ing. If they materially damage the range, it will then be lost to their 
species for a time. With such a system in operation almost everywhere, 
it is apparent why natural balance usually prevails, and why if dis- 
turbed it tends to return to equilibrium. Unbalance automatically 
brings correction. 

Balance results from equalization of opposed forces, and in nature 
these may be conceived of as a tendency for life to remain localized 
and hold its place, offset by another under which it spreads and fills 
any unoccupied habitat. The former leads to the holding of territory, 
the latter to pioneering, and as a result of their interweaving, the woof 
of life always pretty well fits the warp of environment. This is cer- 
tainly balance. 

The web is woven only as life is sustained by air, soil, water, and 
other life. In the realm of sustenance also, balancing factors prevail. 
Where there is food, something will come to feed on it. If feeding goes 
too far, the feeders must retreat. Under natural conditions consump- 
tion is more or less in proportion to the supply and does not materially 
encroach upon it. That is balance. 

Where encroacliment is noticed, it may usually be traced to some un- 
natural condition produced by man. That is unbalance. Wherever 
there is unbalance, nature seeks to correct it. Balance, if not always 
evident, may be said to be ever imminent. 

When, regardless of change, a working balance becomes established, 
it may be at a new level, and whether on that level it is advantageous 
or not to man depends greatly on what man has done. If, for 
instance, he has practiced clean farming to the extent that there is 
little nesting cover for birds, there will, nevertheless, remain suffi- 
cient cover for insects and they will increase. Their own internal wars 
will produce some sort of balance, but it will be at a higher level — 
there will be more insect mouths to feed. The farmer will have given 
aid and comfort to the enemy. If he allows the fertility of the soil 
to fall, as by uncontrolled erosion of the loam, the inhospitable sub- 
soil will support fewer and less desirable plants. Vegetation will do 
its best to reoccupy the land, but for a period the plant cover will be 
sparse and weedy and will support little animal life of value to the 
farm. The web of life is stretched thin to cover a barren place. 
There may be balance but it will be at a low^er level than before. If 
destructive influences cease, conditions will unprove slowly under 
nature's management, though more rapidly under man's, if he will 



322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

but make the effort. Enrichment instead of depletion of environment 
should be his conscious goal; and when that ideal steadily prevails, 
there will be a different, a far more satisfactory tale to tell of man's 
progress in getting along with nature. 

The phrase "balance of nature" admittedly is a figure of speech, 
but it is a justifiable one. Balances always tip up and down before 
they equalize. The balance of nature is such a tipping balance 
because all animal and plant populations are ever fluctuating. But 
just as truly as does a weighing balance, that of nature seeks 
equilibrium. 

This is no more difficult to understand than if the grass is scanty 
here and lush yonder, grazing animals will feed there; automatic 
equalization takes place at once. If sumac bushes along the edge of 
the woodlot are shaded out, cottontails, which feed so much on their 
bark, may have to leave the dying thickets and come perchance to a 
hedge near the garden where they may do damage. If mice in grass- 
land are killed by burning, weasels that would prefer to feed upon 
them may be forced to look elsewhere for food, possibly in the chicken- 
yard. If some isolated, densely branched, and prickly trees, as thorn- 
apples or red haws, are preserved or grown, kingbirds will build 
their nests in them and from these airy castles harass crows, hawks, 
and buzzards, so that they no longer can do as they please ; the king- 
birds will also consume thousands of insects during the summer. 

The operations of nature's balance are going on before our eyes all 
the time. To realize it we need only to take a little thought as to 
causes and effects. Everything that happens has a cause and pro- 
duces an effect, and these effects in turn become causes. The far- 
reaching effects of a hard winter or of a drought are familiar 
examples. As a result of such climatic severities, trees may die at 
once or be so injured that they succumb later. Every tree that perishes 
has been host to many kinds of insects that must then find another 
home or die. The insect populations have regularly paid an endur- 
able toll to various predators and parasites. These must now levy 
their tax elsewhere or cease tO' exist. The trees that die have shaded 
the ground; now the sun strikes through their leafless branches 
stimulating to rapid growth plants previously suppressed and seeds 
that have been waiting, possibly years, for this opportunity to sprout, 
grow, and reproduce their kind. 

Each new thing attracts a company of dependents, so that under 
the dead tree a plant and animal society very different from that 
previously dominant may come to rule. The lifeless bole and 
branches themselves provide homes and food for fungi, insects, and 
other organisms that could not successfully attack the tree in life. 
Each being in the association depends upon others, and prepares the 



BIOLOGIC BALANCE— McATEE 323 

way for still others. This is just as true of the farm as of the wood- 
land; a source, perhaps difficult to trace, may have a great result, 
though acting through a number of links in the chain of cause and 
effect. Such a series is like the file of wooden soldiers familiar in 
childhood; let one topple and down go the rest. To return to the 
warp and woof metaphor, the web of life is so involved that no thread 
may be added, none withdrawn, without in some degree affecting the 
whole pattern. No wonder then that man's usually unconsidered 
and ruthless alterations lead to unfortunate results. 

Observation teaches that natural balance, like good housekeeping 
and good husbandry, is guided by the rule of "A place for everything 
and everything in its place." It takes every kind of place or 
"habitat" natural to an area to insure the presence of all factors nec- 
essary to working of the biologic balance. The farm that keeps all 
natural nooks and produces wildlife food and cover as widely dis- 
tributed and abundant as compatible with successful farming will 
come nearest to attaining the biologic balance that is so necessary 
to wild creatures, and so beneficial in maintaining the farm. In the 
light of the balancing principles of holding territory and pioneering, 
it is encouraging to the individual landholder to realize that attrac- 
tive territories for numerous kinds of wildlife can be established 
entirely within the boundaries of his own place, that he can success- 
fully practice wildlife management whether his neighbors do or not, 
and that the keenness of wildlife in finding all favorable places in- 
sures that the territories he preserves or creates will be found and 
occupied. 

The farmer who, as far as possible, preserves natural conditions 
and encourages biologic balance, contributes not only to his own wel- 
fare but also to that of the nation. 



197855—40 22 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — McAtee 



Plate l 




Courtesy Soil Conservation Service. 

1. Gully Eating Up Good Tama Silt Loam. 
Almost a desert for wildlife. Marion County, Iowa. 




2. Same Gully 2 Years Aftlrvvard. Stabilized With Trees, Shrubs. 

AND Grasses. 

An easis for wildlife. 

revegetating eroded areas contributes to balance 



Smithsonian Report, 1939.-— McAtee 



PLATE 2 




Courtesy Soil ConservationService . 

1. Left. Ungrazed. Right. Grazed Woodlot. 
A feast for wildlife in one, a famine in the other. Mecklenburg County, Va. 




2. Trees. Worm Fences, and strip Cropping Go To Make This Well- balanced 

Farming Country. 

Its diversity provides homes for a variety of wildlife. .Muskinsum County, Ohio. 
UNBALANCE AND BALANCE ON THE FARM. 



ON THE FKONTIER OF BRITISH GUIANA AND BRAZIL 



By Capt. H. Cabington Smith, R. E. 



tWitli 4 plates] 



British Guiana, between Venezuelan Guiana and Surinam, or Dutch 
Guiana, on the Atlantic seaboard, has an area of about 90,000 square 
miles, divided into the coastal alluvial plain, the central sand and clay 
belt, and the mountain plateau. The coastal plain, from 10 to 40 miles 
wide, contains practically all the towns, villages, population, and cul- 
tivated land. It is flat and low, scarcely rising to 50 feet above sea 
level, while along the coast much of it is actually below high-tide level, 
necessitating sea defenses and intertidal drainage. The sand and clay, 
or center, belt is covered with dense tropical forest, and has an average 
elevation of about 200 feet above sea level. It is uninhabited except 
for a few lumber camps and bauxite, gold, and diamond workings. 

The mountain region rises to the watershed of the Amazon, culmi- 
nating in the southwest in the Roraima massif 8,600 feet high and in 
the south in the Akarai highlands, which contain mountains touching 
3,000 feet, though for the most part the land averages only 1,000 feet 
above sea level. This belt is also covered with dense tropical forest, 
except for some savannas or grasslands to the southwest, which 
make fair cattle country and are sparsely inhabited. Wliile every 
available cleared acre of the coastal plain is under cultivation, this 
amounts to only a three-hundredth of the colony, the rest, except for 
the small savanna lands, being impenetrable forest. Owing to this 
unbroken extent of forest, the rivers form the only means of communi- 
cation in the interior, or did so until the advent of the amphibian 
airplane, the use of which is very limited owing to the scarcity of 
stretches of river on which it is possible to alight. 

Until 1835 very little was known of the interior. In that year Sir 
Robert Schomburgk, on a commission for the Royal Geographical 
Society, made extensive river surveys. Among other journeys he 
ascended the Essequibo to its source, crossed the watershed and trav- 
eled down one of the tributaries of the Amazon and up another, re- 
crossing the watershed near the source of the Courantyne, by which 
he returned to the Atlantic coast. 



^ Reprinted by permission from The Geographical Journal, vol. 92, No. 1, July 1938. 

325 



326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

In subsequent years the savanna lands in the southwest were pene- 
trated by settlers, more from the Brazilian side than from the British, 
and the Essequibo and Rupununi Rivers became fairly well known. 
Balata bleeders ascended the Courantyne as far as Wonatobo Falls, 
and a few hardy pioneers, including Barrington Brown, explored the 
upper Courantyne and its tributary, the New River ; but for the most 
part very little was known of the southeast corner of the colony. 

In 1901 a treaty was concluded between Brazil and Great Britain 
whereby these countries agreed to survey and demarcate their common 
boundaries, defined as follows from geographical information then 
extant: From Mount Roraima eastward along the watershed to the 
source of the Ireng River; down the Ireng to its junction with the 
Takatu River; up the Takatu to its source at Mount Wamariaktawa 
and thence eastward along the watershed between the tributaries of 
the Amazon and the several rivers draining British Guiana to the 
source of the Courantyne. The Venezuelan and Dutch boundaries 
were also defined. His Majesty the King of Italy was to act as referee. 

However, it was not until 1930 that field work began. In the fol- 
lowing year a commission, set up by the colony itself, met Brazilian 
and Venezuelan commissions at Roraima, the western tri junction 
point. This point was fixed and the survey of the Brazilian bound- 
ary was commenced. 

On the west side of the colony the mountain plateau drops abruptly 
to the sand and clay belt in a rock escarpment 1,000 feet high. The 
rivers draining the plateau and the foothills of the Roraima range 
plunge over this shelf in falls rarely equaled for height or beauty, the 
best known being the Kaiteur Falls on the Potaro; there are many 
others, some higher, but none of such perfect proportions of volume 
and height. 

To reach the Kaiteur Falls from Georgetown used to mean a 7-day 
journey by steamer and motorboat. This is now reduced to 3 days 
by overland transport between Bartica and Garraway Stream, a small 
settlement on the Potaro; but the most convenient and impressive 
route is by air. The flight takes 2% hours, and the plane alights on 
the river above the falls. The take-off for the return flight is an 
experience itself, for the plane taxis down the river and takes off 
over the brink of the falls. At one moment the macliine is flying 100 
feet off the water, the next it is 900 feet up over the mist-filled gorge. 
It continues down the gorge shut in on either side by steep green 
cliffs streaked with the white streamers of cascading forest streams. 

The line of communication of the first commission leading to Ro- 
raima went up the Potaro, and these falls presented an obstacle of the 
first magnitude. All stores, instruments, rations, and the materials 
for building boats to navigate the upper river had to be carried over 




FiGCBB 1. — Sketch-map of British Guiana to illustrate the work of the British Guiana and 
Brazil Boundary Commission. 



328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

the portage and up the 1,000-foot escarpment by manpower. It is to 
be hoped that the work of the first commission will some day be 
chronicled. The fact that the boundary which they surveyed lay 
largely along rivers made their survey technique and the difficulties 
which they encountered rather different from those of the second 
commission. In 2I/2 years' work they reached the headwaters of 
the Essequibo and were exploring the Courantyne and New Rivers 
with a view to opening them up when a major tragedy occurred. 
Most of the officers and some of the men developed beriberi, a disease 
usually due to certain diet deficiencies. The cause of this disaster 
is a mystery, for the diets of both officers and men were apparently 
well balanced. One theory which has obtained considerable weight 
attributes the outbreak to local deposits of pitchblende which im- 
pregnated the water. It is of interest to note that the worst and 
majority of cases occurred in the officer ranks, in spite of their higher 
standard of living as compared with that of the men. In the face of 
such a catastrophe there was no alternative but retreat, which was 
carried out at the beginning of 1934, but not before several lives had 
been lost. 

In the following year the Colonial Office took over the administra- 
tion of the commission, and in July 1935 three officers and four non- 
commissioned officers of the Royal Engineers arrived in Georgetown 
and commenced preparations for the following season. While a 
small advance party under a native boat captain ascended the Cour- 
antyne to recommission the boats and engines and recover the stores 
left at the portages by the former commission, frantic preparations 
went forward in Georegtown. One of the first problems was the re- 
cruitment of labor. The colony has a population of 300,000 composed 
of very heterogeneous elements. Originally inhabited by Indians of 
whom only between 6,000 and 7,000 survive today, it received a large 
influx of African Negroes in the slave trade days, and today they 
account for 40 percent of the total population. 

In 1850 East Indian apprentices emigrated to the sugar estates on 
indenture, and their numbers now equal or slightly surpass those of 
the Negroes. The remainder of the population consists of about 10 
percent mixed and non-European, including a large number of 
Chinese, and about 6 percent of Europeans, three-quarters of whom 
are Portuguese. 

The laborers of the commission were recruited principally from 
aboriginal Indians and Negroes, in about equal proportions. The 
Indian is a likeable fellow. Dignified, reserved, and quiet, he is a 
good bushman and a keen naturalist, though his small stature limits 
the load he can carry, and he becomes discouraged and morose 



BRITISH GUIAISTA AND BRAZIL SMITH 329 

quickly. He is usually a good axman, a fair hunter and boatman, 
and is very handy at constructing huts and camp furniture from 
local materials. The majority are intelligent, and have a very keen 
perception and a sense of humor. A few of them who had come into 
contact with mission schools could read and write a little, and only 
one or two could not understand pidgin English, the lingua franca 
of the colony. No Indian willingly accepts the responsibility of 
leadership or authority over his fellows; they prefer to work as a 
soviet, none giving orders but each doing his particular job in mutual 
but silent agreement. 

The Negro has an entirely different character. His strength enables 
him to carry the heavy load, but he is of childish mentality, quick 
of temper, excitable, and delights in nothing better than making 
a great noise about nothing. Some were good axmen and watermen, 
but the majority were not at all at home in the bush and grumbled 
continually. There were, however, notable exceptions. A few drawn 
from the independent farmer class were splendid all-around men and 
better than any Indian. Blacks and Indians worked together more 
or less in harmony, but usually lived in separate tents by choice. 
Such different characters are not belied by physical appearances. 
The black's negroid countenance and curly hair are in striking con- 
trast to the straight hair and Mongolian features of the Indian. The 
Indian has rather finely shaped feet and ankles, but the black stands 
splayed and firm on large, shapeless pads of gristle. 

At a preliminary conference the Brazilian, Dutch, and British 
sections arranged to rendezvous at the eastern tri junction of the 
Brazil-Guiana boundary as soon as possible after the close of the 
wet season in August. The Dutch started upriver in a fleet of canoes 
propelled by paddlers in July. The British followed in August by 
motorboat. 

A camp was established at the head of deep-water navigation at 
Hepsiba, 50 miles from the coast. It soon became apparent that the 
most difficult and expensive part of the commission was going to be 
the transportation on the line of communication — the movement of 
personnel and stores from the coast to the boundary. 

From a geologic viewpoint the rivers of British Guiana are not 
rivers at all, but simply large streams flowing through the bush in 
shallow rock and sand channels. There are no river valleys proper, 
the banks of these channels being only a few feet high and the to- 
pography along either side indistinguishable from that of anywhere 
else. The country is intersected by a series of parallel out-cropping 
rock reefs running east and west, over which the rivers flow in swift 
rapids. 



330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

An annual rainfall of 100 to 140 inches concentrated largely be- 
tween the middle of May and August causes great variations in the 
volume of run-off. Seasonal variations of as much as 30 feet were 
measured quite far inland, and rises of 4 feet in a day were not un- 
common. During the rainy season the rivers became rushing tor- 
rents carrying all before them and flooding the bush on either bank. 
At the end of the dry season, on the other hand, navigation is difficult 
and slow owing to lack of water. The keels and bottom planking of 
the boats soon wear out or become stove-in by frequent groundings, 
and propellers are often damaged. 

Stores and personnel were brought to Hepsiba by a schooner which 
once a month beat down the coast against the trade winds and sailed 
up the river. Here the cargo was transhipped to bateaux driven by 
10-horsepower outboard motors and manned by a crew of paddlers 
for emergency. Constructed of gTeenheart with mora frames, the 
bateau is remarkable for its stability, handiness, and toughness. Not 
having a deck, it is very resilient and can absorb an enormous fore- 
and-aft twist. It is steered by a large paddle lashed to the stem 
and another manipulated by the bowman. This double leverage act- 
ing on the hull of small keel depth and long overhanging prow pro- 
duces a very quick turn, necessary when descending swift and 
tortuous rapids. 

In ascending the river, the bateau is laboriously hauled over the 
rapids by warps. This requires a crew of anything up to 20, depend- 
ing on the state of the river. First the cargo is off-loaded and 
portaged to the top of the fall, then the bow and stern line and the 
warp are run out, and the boat is hauled up inch by inch against the 
rushing water. At the top it is reloaded, always a lengthy process, 
and the journey proceeds to the next rapid, probably less than an 
hour's steaming distant. At low water a day may be taken to nego- 
tiate one rapid less than 2 miles long, the crew camping exhausted 
at the top at nightfall. Thus transportation is not only precarious, 
but exasperatingly slow. 

Descending; the river the labored slowness of the upward journey 
is replaced by a swift journey of thrills and exhilaration. The 
rapids are run with engines full ahead to give steerage way, and 
paddlers keep blades poised ready for the command of the captain. 
The bowman streams with perspiration as he struggles with his large 
paddle, first one side, then the other, at the same time trying to main- 
tain his balance on his precarious foothold. Submerged rocks are 
indicated by the whirl of water below them. The captain must pick 
his line and think and act quickly, much as the rider following 
hounds does, or the skier making a difficult descent ; but unlike these 



BRITISH GUIAFA AND BRAZIL — SMITH 331 

sportsmen lie cannot stop. To act too late means being stove-in and 
sunk in the swift water. Rapid-running as a sport, especially in a 
canoe, is almost unequaled. The Courantyne contains two falls or 
large rapids so swift and high that their passage is impossible, one 
at Wonatobo and the other at King Frederick William. Here it was 
necessary to establish intermediate camps and to portage baggage 
overland by gangs of men. 

When the river becomes too small for the bateaux, dugout canoes 
or corials continue the communication. The construction of these 
craft is a skilled job only understood by some Indians. First a suit- 
able tree is found and felled. The log is cut to length, flattened on 
top, and tapered at the ends by a broad ax. Then it is hollowed out 
by adz, leaving a shell about II/2 inches thick. A fire is then kindled 
below the whole length and later in the hollow. Wlien everything 
is hot and steaming, pointed sticks are sprung athwartships into the 
hollow, forcing the gunwales apart and at the same time drawing 
the ends up. Thwarts are then added to retain the shape, and some- 
times plank gunwales to increase the freeboard. The finished article 
is a strong, serviceable craft, surprisingly stable and easily handled. 
These canoes, carrying 500 to 1,000 poimds of cargo, penetrated the 
creeks toward the source till they would no longer float and had to 
be dragged by men wading. 

Where the river narrows to a creek so that the forest roof closes 
overhead, the real difficulties of river transport begin. The channel 
is completely blocked every 50 yards by a fallen tree. Trees grow- 
ing along the bank invariably fall inward owing to the scour of the 
stream. In the course of time the sapwood rots away, leaving the 
heartwood or tacuba, which apparently lasts forever when submerged 
from the attentions of parasites. These trees must be cut with ax 
and saw to allow a passage, and as much of the cut is done under 
water it takes a long time. A day's hard work may produce less 
than a mile of progress, nor is the job then by any means finished. 
A week later the water level has changed by several feet. Logs which 
spanned the creek well above water and allowed the canoes to pass 
beneath are now awash and have to be cut; or a series of formidable 
obstacles, formerly deep below water, are revealed and block the way. 
And so it goes on, ax and saw being as indispensable to the canoemen 
as their paddles. 

Above canoe navigation everything was carried by manpower. 
The British Guiana Negro, unlike his African cousin, cannot "head- 
carry," but slings his load from the shoulders in a wickerwork frame 
called warishye or panegu. His working load is thus only about 
70 pounds, although some stout fellows habitually managed more; 
70 pounds for 5 miles was a standard day's work for carriers. 



332 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

It is not surprising then that the line of communication was a 
source of constant anxiety and a tremendous item in the expenditure 
of the commission. Every man on the boundary had to be main- 
tained by five or more men on line of communication. On occasions 
when there was a shortage of labor from sickness or other causes, 
and when boatbuilders worked overtime to repair damaged bottoms, 
it is no exaggeration to say that the commission would have had to 
stop for want of rations if air transport had not been used. 

The commission was fortunate in obtaining the services of Arthur 
Williams, a free-lance American pilot operating a small flying boat 
on tourist flights and the transport of diamonds and gold out of the 
interior. Both plane and pilot were ideally suited to this dangerous 
and arduous task, and Mr. Williams never stinted his efforts to "run 
his freight." An airport was established at Wonatobo, the first 
major portage, and the journey from there to Aramatau Camp was 
reduced from the 3 weeks taken by boats, even under the most suit- 
able conditions, to 2 hours and 20 minutes. The plane carried only 
1,000 pounds in addition to pilot and flight mechanic. Two trips a 
day were made in favorable weather, the start being at dawn and 
the final return often during the last 10 minutes of daylight. The 
day's work was then over for everyone except Williams and his 
mechanic, Harry Wendt. After dinner they would often work 
till midnight tuning the engine and servicing the hull. 

No praise is too high for these two intrepid airmen. Landing at 
Aramatau Camp in the confined upper river was thrilling, but the 
take-off went to the extreme of being unpleasant. The river here is so 
narrow that to turn the plane on the water required the mechanic on the 
wing tip ; before he had a chance to scramble to the cabin the machine 
was taxiing on the step, and as he settled into the seat it took off. 
The 80-foot bush fencing a bend in the river was charged with com- 
plete unconcern, and just when the unfortunate passenger had 
abandoned all hope and got as far as regretting past economies, 
the plane rose to it like a good hunter, and flattened out above. The 
proximity of stalling speed was betrayed by the cloud of dust which 
floated up from the floor of the cabin. 

The open river was always a source of new and ever-changing 
interest. British Guiana is a fisherman's paradise if his ambition is 
to land large fish rather than consider delicacy in technique. The 
tackle consists of stout cord approximating clothesline, a piano-wire 
trace to resist the teeth of some fish, and a hook reminiscent of a small 
grapnel. Fish vary in size from the small voracious perai weighing 
2 pounds to mudfish as large as 150 pounds. The former, although 
one of the smallest fish in the colony, is perhaps the fiercest. Short, 



BRITISH GUIANA AND BRAZIL — SMITH 333 

narrow, but deep, with a powerful, well-shaped tail, he is armed with 
two single rows of interlocking teeth reputed to be so sharp and 
powerful that the removal of a man's big toe is done at one snap. 
Perai are best caught with a metal spinner, which after some use 
becomes scratched and dented by teeth marks. They were a source 
of continual apprehension to the boats' crews when hauling up rapids, 
and should a shot bird fall in the water it soon disappeared unless 
retrieved at once. Perai are quite edible, but not a delicacy, and 
very bony. 

Another very fierce and even more fearless fish is the hymara, 
which inhabits the forest creeks. They average 10 to 12 pounds, 
are covered with scales as large and almost as tough as penny pieces, 
and have teeth like the perai, but not so long or close fitting and 
Bet in much broader jaws. The body ends abruptly in a rudimentary 
tail, spoiling otherwise graceful lines. Hymara will go for almost 
anything, and have been known to attack a crosscut saw. To clean 
the carcass of a bird over the side of a canoe is to risk losing it and 
to endanger the hands. Their flesh is firm and tasty, but full of 
Y-shaped bones. Lukanani are most prized for the pot ; but cartabac, 
looking very like the perai, the graceful koraimai, and, on the lower 
rivers, the basher are all delicious. 

The larger fish are the skeet and lau-lau, skin fish with enormous 
mouths, armored heads, and grinders in place of teeth. The skeet 
makes a loud honking noise when caught. The lau-lau is so strong 
that one hooked at Wonatobo drowned his captor by pulling him into 
the swift water of a rapid ; the unfortunate man had wound the line 
around his wrist and was never seen again. Two unpleasant fish 
which must be given a wide berth are the sting ray and the electric 
eel, or numbfish of the Indian. The spiny tail of the former gives a 
nasty wound into which poison is injected. The latter gives a power- 
ful electric shock until landed, when he is quite harmless. 

Fishing methods include shooting by bow and arrow, a fascinat- 
ing thing to watch but extremely difficult to do with success, owing 
to the effect of refraction when aiming and the patience reqiured 
to stand motionless balanced on a precarious foothold. Chop- 
ping fish with a cutlass also requires patience. The victims are 
lured into shallow water by some noisome ground bait and des- 
patched by a well-aimed stroke of a cutlass after an exciting stalk. 
The night line is as effective but less spectacular. A fair-sized 
living sapling close to the bank is stripped, bent down, and hooked 
on a notched stake driven in the shallow water. The line is attached 
to its top end and the bait thrown wide. The vicious strike springs 
the trap and the wretched fish describes an arc at high speed to 
land far in the bush. 



334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

The mammals and reptiles of the river are equally interesting. 
The waterhass, rather like a large guinea pig, reputed to be the 
largest living rodent, is occasionally seen swimming. The otter or 
Indian water dog, noisy and inquisitive, is a fine swimmer with a 
beautiful pelt. The lucky traveler may surprise a tapir or a puma 
crossing, or even a small adouri swimming bravely between long 
rests on a moca-moca leaf or tacuba, in constant fear of being 
attacked by perai or hymara from below or the cayman on the 
surface. 

The water kamoodie or American python sleeps between meals, 
his distended body coiled in a nest surrounded by the bones of 
former repasts. One we shot was over 18 feet long. They are 
easily killed by a well-aimed bullet in the head, but there is always 
danger of mistaking the tail for the head when the snake is coiled 
in sleep. The cayman, in spite of his ferocious appearance, is a 
great coward; those encountered did not exceed 8 feet from snout 
to tail, although bigger ones are said to exist on the coast. 

The iguana is a truly extraordinary beast, who usually advertises 
his presence by dropping unexpectedly from a high tree over the 
river with a mighty splash. His only defensive weapon is his tail, 
which also propels him when swimming. The iguana lays a clutch 
of some 24 shell-less eggs, the size of marbles. Both flesh and eggs 
are excellent to eat when properly curried. 

Bathed in brilliant sunshine and bounded by perpendicular green 
walls of tlie creeper-hung forest, the river gives a first impression 
of tranquility. Watch it for some time and one is conscious of the 
constant movement of teeming life — the pitiless war which is waged 
day and night for survival. Here a sudden darting furrow betrays 
the attack of a perai on the smaller fish in the shallows; there a 
large white heron, until now motionless, pounces on his fishy prey; 
or a family of otters on the far bank chase some unwelcome intruder, 
following it downstream with loud doglike barks. 

At some seasons of the year a continuous procession of small 
white and yellow butterflies passes across the river. They emerge 
from the forests on one side and drifting northwesterly disappear 
in the forest on the far side. They fill the air for 20 feet above 
the water as far as the eye can see up and down stream, giving the 
effect of a mild snowstorm. Wliere they go and from whence they 
come is a mystery, but they are always headed northwest. 

The forest itself is not at peace. Aloft the trees sag under their 
weight of creeper, trees and parasites struggling to present their 
leaves to the sunshine. Where the last floodwater has washed away 
the bank, the cross section shows a solid snarl of roots, twisted. 



BRITISH GUIANA AND BRAZIL SMITH 335 

knotted, and contorted in the fight for moisture and air. The pali- 
sade of moca-moca stalks vibrates slowly in the inshore current. On 
the broad leaf of one, 50 ants scurry in hysterical confusion; they 
have gained the leaf by swimming from their nest, which, dislodged 
from above by a falling branch, now floats downstream. In twos 
and threes they leave the leaf and strike out for the bank, their ranks 
being steadily depleted by the attacks of little fish from beneath. 

During the first month or two in the forest one is conscious of 
oppression and uneasiness. In contrast with the brightness of the 
open river the forest floor is wrapped in gloom relieved here and there 
by the bright dots of sunlight which filter through the roof above. 
The thickly packed trees average 100 feet in height, their upper 
branches merging into an almost solid roof. Here and there indi- 
vidual giants rise to 300 feet, their trunks 45 feet in circmnference 
at ground level ; a silk cotton tree of these dimensions was actually 
measured. The ground between the trunks is covered by slender 
saplings and cluttered with the debris of fallen and decaying vegeta- 
tion. Visibility is about 20 yards, beyond which stealthy movement 
is difficult to detect. Here and there a pimpler palm rises, its bole 
well protected by long slender poisonous needles arranged in clusters 
of seven at regular intervals; or the friendly tauri, its giant fronds 
spreading in graceful curves. Everywhere there is creeper twining 
everything in its path in a relentless grip. It swarms up the tree 
trunks and spreads outward through the roof above or hangs in 
festoons, tying each tree firmly to its neighbors so that the whole 
roof is one tangled mass. 

The forest consists of many different kinds of trees in haphazard 
arrangement, but areas where one or two kinds are in preponderance 
are sometimes met. Thus Wonatobo is surrounded by mora forest 
almost to the exclusion of all else ; and at the source of the Oronoque 
the pimpler palm is everywhere. The mora is a magnificent tree 
standing firmly on a base of solid buttresses which radiate like veins 
from, the trunk 10 feet above ground level, spreading outward and 
decreasing in height, twisting in freakish folds until they disappear 
below ground level 10 feet from the bole. Mora is much prized for 
boat building and is reputed to be superior to English oak. An- 
other truly magnificent tree is the cedar, the reddish-colored wood 
of which gives off a delightful odor. The yariola tree makes ex- 
cellent ax handles and paddles. The trunk is not solid, but consists 
of many smaller trunks joined to each other at intervals, the whole 
sweeping aloft like a beautiful fluted cathedral column. The boles of 
some trees are rough, others smooth and slippery, while some are 
studded by enormous conical spikes for several feet above ground 



336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

level ; some do not touch the ground at all but stand supported on a 
multipod of roots. 

Creepers vary in size from the thickness of a man's thigh to that 
of a shoelace. Some are coarse ribbons 4 inches wide and half an 
inch thick, their centers indescribably tuckered to look like a fairy 
staircase; others are large and soft like the warps of a ship. One 
freak 6 inches in diameter tied itself in a perfect thumb knot 20 feet 
above ground, then continued upward, to curl around its host, the 
tree. One kind of creeper contains water, and if a length is cut and 
inverted over the mouth, it gushes out, giving a satisfying drink. In 
its struggle to reach the upper air and sunshine, the creeper often kills 
its host, the tree. The gaunt trunk remains standing connected to its 
fellows by a hundred ropes till a sudden squall of wind will bring it 
and many of the supporting neighbors crashing down in tangled 
confusion. 

Amongst this riot of vegetation surprisingly little food edible by 
man is found. A wild red plum and a green bean appear in isolated 
places. The plum has a tart sickly taste, and the pod of the bean is 
very sweet. Neither can be recommended. The Brazil nut is unfor- 
tunately rare, but each tree yields an immense number of nuts. 
Monkeys pick the ripe pods, the size of small melons, and hammer 
them against the trunk till they break, when there is a wild scramble 
for the falling contents. A few of the palms have edible cabbages, 
rather like celery and quite pleasant to eat. Only one wild cocoa tree 
was found. The soil is said to be poor, but if a clearing is made, pine- 
apples, bananas, tomatoes, and the starchy vegetables peculiar to the 
colony can be readily grown. There are very few flowers on the forest 
floor, but many of tree and creeper can be seen from the air in the 
forest roof. 

The results accomplished in the first season's work were disappoint- 
ing ; base camp was established at King Frederick William Falls and 
the trijunction party started upriver from there at the end of October. 
The Dutch and Brazilian sections were met at the source of the Kutari 
at the end of the year. The source of the Courantyne was decided 
upon and an astronomical fix obtained. A large concrete pillar was 
constructed there and suitably engraved. The Dutch then departed to 
the east along their boundary, while the British began to work west- 
ward. In the meantime the second British party explored the Arama- 
tau, marked its source, and started to trace the boundary eastward. 
Some idea of traveling speeds can be obtained from the progress of this 
party : Aramatau Camp was left on January 16, but the boundary was 
not reached until April 14. The Oronoque was also explored and sur- 
veyed to within 10 miles of its source in preparation for the following 



BRITISH GUIANA AND BRAZIL — SMITH 337 

season. Field work stopped in May, when survey parties returned to 
Georgetown for 10 weeks, leaving fresh boats' crews to provision all 
camps during the high water. Base camp was moved to Oronoque. 
During the recess the British and Dutch sections placed pillars at 
the mouth of the Courantyne to mark the direction of the boundary 
through territorial waters. In August 1936 the survey parties again 
took the field, but with a very different outlook. All ration depots were 
well stocked; Indian and Negro labor was more plentiful and better 
understood by the officers; and much of the upper river was cleared 
for canoe communication. The international watershed was located 
at the source of the Oronoque by the beginning of September, and an 
astronomical pillar erected. The boundary was traced eastward, and 
rapid progress made through a country of small lumpy hills 200 to 
300 feet high, separated from one another by creeks and swamps. 

Bush survey has a rough-and-ready technique of its own. A visi- 
bility of 20 yards, often less, is not conducive to rapid topography, 
and forcing a passage through the tangled undergrowth is so slow 
and fatiguing that the extent of the day's excursion is very limited. 
Nevertheless, it is surprising what good results can be obtained with 
care and a simple routine. The boundary was to be marked by 
buried stone on the international watershed at not less than 5-mile 
intervals, the position of such marks to be indicated by a small con- 
crete pillar. Every fifth mark or 25 to 30 miles of boundary was to 
be fixed in position by astronomical observations and the whole con- 
nected by an instrumental traverse to the order of 1/250. In addi- 
tion it was the practice of the British section to map the topography 
for 1 to 11/^ miles on either side of the watershed, but during the last 
season this was discontinued. 

The biggest problem was to find the boundary. Running water 
was plentiful, but to establish whether it was British or Brazilian 
without tracing its course for some miles was impossible. The creek 
heads of each country were twisted and contorted into a maze of 
steep little hills, saddles, and swamps, and every hill was, of course, 
a watershed. A creek would often wind its way in a general south- 
erly direction for a mile or more, only to turn and prove itself to 
be British. One well-remembered creek actually split in two, the 
main branch flowing north to the Atlantic 400 miles away, while a 
smaller branch bubbled under some stones and commenced its 2,000- 
mile journey to Para at the Amazon's mouth. In desperation the 
boundary was placed up the center of its bed. 

Boundary location was done by Indians, and it was a very arduous 
task, as it entailed cutting through virgin bush from morning to 
night, finding creek heads and tracing the water till it declared its 



338 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

nationality by joining a larger creek which was already known, or by 
maintaining one direction for so long as to preclude the possibility of 
its turning back. A small party of four Indians equipped with com- 
passes, and fondly referred to as the Advance Guard Cavalry, kept 
ahead of the boundary cut doing this work. They never stuck it for 
long and usually became badly infected by bush yaws and sores. It 
was their job to mark saddles on the international watershed, and 
connect their marks by a sirrahee or line just cut sufficiently to allow 
passage. 

The Indian has one great failing. He has no idea of direction or, 
if he has, is quite incapable of explaining his wanderings or of mak- 
ing the simplest of diagrams to illustrate them. Time and again 
they would report that they had discovered a big creek ahead. When 
asked where they invariably answered, "Right away back," and 
usually pointed straight above their heads. Comparisons of size 
were conveyed entirely by inflexion of the voice: Thus a "big" hill 
was not uncommon; but a "BIG" hill meant something quite 
remarkable. 

The boundary locaters' sirrahee was traversed by rope and sound 
for planimetry, and by aneroid barometer for height. Next came 
boundary cutters, who cleared the line sufficiently for the carriers 
and instrumental traverse. A day's work for a line clearer was 250 
meters, and it was not easy. The boundary traverse was made with 
a 3-inch vernier theodolite set up on magnetic north at every second 
station. Distances were obtained by stadia, and heights were carried 
forward by vertical angles. 

In the meantime the two topographical parties worked on either 
flank, running a chain of rope and sound, and aneroid traverses with 
their apexes on the boundary and bases parallel thereto. The tech- 
nique of rope and sound is simple but effective. The rope is one-third 
of 100 meters, minus what it is expected to stretch, plus an allowance 
for not being laid in one straight line. The party is preceded by 
two cutters with a compass, who cut a sirrahee on an ordered bearing. 
Two men lay the rope down the requisite number of times, then the 
front man commences to sing. A compass bearing is taken on this 
sound from the last station and booked, together with the aneroid 
reading. The station is numbered and the party moves on. The 
traverse is plotted as the party moves along, streams and hill features 
being rapidly sketched by intelligent guessing. The Indian took 
well to such work, although he found the compass difficult to master. 

The instrumental traverse was computed on magnetic north as 
the work progressed, and finally adjusted between the astronomical 
positions. The topographical traverses were plotted on scale 1/50,000, 



BRITISH GUIANA AND BRAZIL SMITH 339 

fitted to one another, and finally to the adjusted boundary. The 
results were very encouraging. The finished boundary cut was used 
as a line of communication for the carriers. As this increased in 
length, another creek farther to the east would be explored and 
opened up from its lower end, and a depot of rations placed as near 
the boundary as possible. When this was found by the locaters, 
the old line of communication was broken and the new one used. 

The astronomical stations offered a welcome rest from energetic 
traversing. Moreover the big clearing necessary for a glimpse of 
the sky permitted kit, bedding, instruments, and books to be dried 
in the sun. Observations were made by a 314-inch Tavistock theodo- 
lite for exmeridian longitudes and circummeridian latitudes. The 
criterion was a probable error of about 0.^02 of time and O.^'S of 
arc respectively from means of 18 to 24 pairs of stars. Observations 
for azimuth were also taken. 

Over 85 miles of boundary were surveyed and marked eastward 
from the source of the Oronoque during the season 1936-37. In the 
meantime the Brazilians progressed westward from Aramatau source. 
At the beginning of the following season the cuts were joined and 
the British struck westward from Oronoque source toward the head- 
waters of the Essequibo. Next season ought to see the field work 
completed, and the surrender of this fascinating but rather trying 
part of the world once more to nature. 

The temperature on the forest floor has surprisingly small diurnal 
or annual variations. Midday temperatures are 88° to 90° F., mid- 
night 82° to 84° F., with a 2° variation between midsummer and 
midwinter values. The humidity is very high, occasionally reaching 
saturation point, when small gray clouds of vapor form and drift 
between the trunks. This high humidity is one of the most un- 
pleasant factors of bush life. To perspire gives no relief; clothes, 
bedding, and food are perpetually damp, and books fall to pieces 
after a few months. Unprotected metal corrodes overnight, and 
leather and glass grow whiskers of mold at an alarming rate. 

Photography is beset with difficulties, and disappointments must 
be expected. Tlie shutter mechanism and diaphragm of a camera 
corrode rapidly in the damp atmosphere, and finally cease to function. 
All glass is attacked by a black fungus which spreads and engraves 
its surface in blotches and spidery lines. On fine days intense sun- 
light filtering through the forest roof produces a brilliant dapple 
of dazzling contrast to the gloom of the forest floor. For this reason 
the best results are obtained by long exposures in slightly overcast 
weather. These are made possible by the absence of breeze on the 
forest floor. 

197855 — 40 23 



340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

Photographic films and plates keep as long as they are stored in 
an airtight canister and their seals are unbroken. Once they are 
opened they deteriorate rapidly, and if not developed soon after ex- 
posure the emulsion, celluloid, and paper backing become a limp, 
sticky mass. Except near the boundary where the springs are clear 
and cold, it is difficult to obtain water clean enough and at a tempera- 
ture below 75° to 80° F. for development. At this temperature the 
process is difficult to control, and even an acid hardening bath will 
not eliminate reticulation and frilling. It is also almost impossible 
to wash negatives adequately and quite impossible to dry them. 
Finally, when packed away under double seals they form an excellent 
medium for the growth of fungus. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Smith 



Plate t 





1 . Kaiteur Fall.s. 




Imimg. Frederick William Falls. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939.— Smith 



PLATE 2 




1. Bateau Ascending the Falls. 




2. The airplane at Wonatobo. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939.— Smith 



PLATE 3 




1. Boundary Pillar. 




2. Boundary Mark. 



THE SEA BIRD AS AN INDIVIDUAL: RESULTS OF 
RINGING EXPERIMENTS ^ 



By R. M. LocKijrr 
Skokholm Island, PemlyrokesMre 



We are accustomed to think of the sea bird plurally. We think and 
speak of a crowd of sea birds, or a flock of sea birds, or a host, a raft, 
a bunch, and so on through the list of appropriate or inappropriate 
nouns of assemblage. This use of vague and general terms is forced 
on us by the habits of sea birds, the majority of which spend half 
their lives, the winter half, on the sea at a distance from us, and the 
other half of their lives, the summer half, on lonely shores and re- 
mote islands not commonly visited by man. For this reason man has 
not been able to give much consideration to the idea of the sea bird as 
an individual. Nor is it easy to see how we may make close enough 
contact with the gull, the auk, and the petrel at sea to recognize and 
study individuals. It remains for us to study them in their terrestrial 
summer homes, and there they are generally packed together so 
closely, nesting in scores, hundreds, and even thousands, that at first 
glance we are quite bewildered by this apparently promiscuous com- 
munal home life, and we may wonder if they have individual exist- 
ences at all. 

I happen to have lived long enough on an otherwise deserted island 
to have been able to penetrate beneath this first impression. I now no 
longer think of sea birds vaguely, collectively. You have only to men- 
tion gannets, shearwaters, puffins, razorbills, or storm petrels, and I 
am immediately remembering certain individuals of these species 
with whom I am acquainted, and wondering how they are faring at 
sea at this moment and whether they will turn up for inspection on 
the island next spring. Such an individual, for instance, as the Manx 
shearwater that flew home from Venice, or the razorbill inhabiting 
a certain crevice on the island year after year. 

But I must not anticipate. Skokholm Island lies a few miles off 
the coast of Pembrokeshire. It is rock-bound, about 240 acres in ex- 
tent, and has only two houses on it, a lighthouse at the most westerly 

* Address given at the Weekly Evening Meeting, Royal Institution of Great Britain, 
Friday, November 18, 1938. Reprinted by permission from Proceedings of the Royal 
Institution, vol. 30, pt. 3, 1938. 

341 



342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

point, which is a mile from my own house on the east side of the island. 
There is good soil above the old red sandstone rock of which the visible 
cliffs are composed. 

I had a great deal to do when I first landed on the island 10 years 
ago, for the cottage was in ruins, but I am not going into that aspect 
of my island life tonight. SuflBce it to say that I was attracted to the 
island in the first place by its great wealth of sea bird life. Later, as 
opportunity afforded, I began to look into the individual lives of these 
birds. 

The first essential in such a study, since individual sea birds of one 
species are more exactly alike than peas in a pod, was some method of 
marking. Color marking of plumage, which we at first tried, was un- 
reliable — the birds soon preened off the most tenacious pigment when 
they got back to the sea. Clipping portions of certain feathers was 
open to objection as mutilating the plumage, and anyway these marks 
were lost in the annual molt. Then I heard of Mr. Witherby's scheme 
for marking birds with numbered leg rings. This scheme, which is 
now taken over by the British Trust for Ornithology and is housed in 
the British Museum of Natural History, is not as well known as it 
deserves to be, for it has certainly revolutionized bird study. 

There are seven sizes of rings to suit all species of British birds 
from a wren to an eagle. Each ring has a serial number and the 
inscription "Inform British Museum Natural History, London," so 
that those who capture alive or find dead a bird with such a ring will 
know what to do in the interests of scientific bird study. I may add 
there are similar ringing schemes in operation today in many other 
countries. 

All birds are not easily caught and so do not lend themselves to 
ringing, but some sea birds do. I started with the Manx shearwater, 
Pv^nus puffiiius puffimis (Brunn) , a bird whose habits were at that 
time very little known (1, 2).^ It is rather a helpless bird on land 
and is easily killed by predatory gulls and hawks. For that reason 
it spends the day at sea or in the depth of a rabbit burrow on the 
island, only returning from sea or coming out of its nesting hole 
when the night is sufficiently dark to make it difficult for the predators 
to see it. I say sufficiently because I soon found that if the moon 
were visible on any night the shearwater refused to appear, even 
though earlier in the evening, just before sunset, it had assembled 
ready to land, gathering in great flocks on the sea near the island. 
But on a dark night the shearwaters arrive in thousands, making a 
great uproar with their unearthly screams, and for the few hours of 
summer night carrying on the business of nesting. There are proba- 
bly 10,000 pairs breeding on Skokholm. 

* Numbers in parentheses refer to list at end of article. 



THE SEA BIRD LOCKLEY 343 

The shearwater nests in a hole in the ground, sometimes deep in 
a rabbit hole, but it will also excavate a hole for itself in soft ground. 
A small colony nested in shallow burrows within a few yards of my 
back door. So it was not difficult for me to trace with a stick the 
winding of each burrow to the nesting recess at the end, and to cut 
out a turf immediately above the nest and then to use that turf as 
a convenient inspection lid. I wish I could tell you how much 
pleasure my wife and I got out of this acquaintance with the indi- 
vidual bird. In successive seasons individuals returning to the same 
burrows became almost tame and quite used to handling. Of course 
we had to lift them out of the nest very frequently in order to note 
the ring number by which we identified them as individuals. 

By degrees we were able to work out something of the Manx 
shearwater's life history. The burrow would be inhabited as early 
in the year as February, the paired birds meeting each dark night as 
if they were determined to make sure of their nesting territory in 
good time for another season, although laying does not take place 
until late April and May. Ringing has since told us that the old 
breeders always arrive first. 

There seems to be a shortage of desirable burrows. Ringing told 
us that, in the absence of the legitimate pair, their burrow might be 
seized by another home-hunting couple. We ringed these wandering 
couples, of course, and found that they were moving from hole to 
hole like the newly married in search of the ideal home. This spring 
hunting was not without its comedies. We would surprise lovesick 
couples trying to convince each other with much crooning — for that 
is not an unfair description of the bird's powers of conversation — 
that the shelter of an old box, a plank or some other inadequate 
recess, was the real thing. But the light of morning would prove 
that these places were not dark enough and the lovers would fly 
out to sea before the predatory gulls and hawks discovered them. 
Sometimes, too, we would find a bird of one pair, which we had 
registered in our books as an established married couple, sitting in 
its burrow with a strange bird, an unringed bird, or at least a bird 
recently ringed as a newcomer to the colony. It was easy to interpret 
this new bird as an interloper enterprisingly on the lookout for a 
ready-made home, if not also a ready-made mate. This promiscuity 
was frequent up to the time the egg was laid. We found that after 
that date the pair which was properly registered, the pair which had 
done the donkey work, if I may use the term, the digging and en- 
larging and the nest lining, and performed the evening concert of 
crooning, this pair settled down to incubate. The occasional visitor 
now seldom or never intruded upon the domestic scene. Sexes are 
indistinguishable in the field, but in some cases we knew the female 



344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

by finding her on a new-laid egg. Only one egg is laid and incuba- 
tion is equally shared. Thus, for instance, the male would spend 2, 3, 
or 4 days on the egg without quitting the burrow, then the female 
would take over. On dark nights the bird at sea would return and 
converse with the sitting bird for an hour or two, but would not 
necessarily relieve it. Nor could we get any evidence that it fed its 
sitting mate. We came to the conclusion that the sitting bird stuck 
to the egg as long as hunger permitted, or as long as it could retain 
possession of the egg against its mate's determination to brood it. 
This at least appears to be the explanation of the irregular shifts or 
watches by one or other of the pair on the egg on dark nights. 

On moonlit nights, however, this ardor to incubate was cooled by 
what we presume must be the bird's fear of being seen and killed 
by the predatory gulls and hawks which frequent the island, as 
already mentioned. So when a period of moonlit nights intervened 
the bird at sea never visited the bird on the nest at all. Thus for 
5, 6, 7, and more rarely up to 10, and once 12 nights and days, when 
the moon happened to be near or at the full and the skies cloud-free, 
the sitting bird remained brooding but starving at the nest. We 
even weighed some of these starving birds and proved an average 
loss of a very small fraction of an ounce every 24 hours. Starving 
is really the wrong word, though at the time it seemed appropriate 
in our view. Now we have learned that a sea bird can easily endure 
long fasts and no doubt this fact will help us to understand how the 
sea bird survives long storms at sea, when the weather conditions are 
such that feeding may be impossible and the bird's energies may be 
entirely directed to fighting the storm. 

The incubation period of the shearwater we found to be a record 
for a British breeding bird — 50 to 54 days. One parent remained in 
the burrow by day to brood the downy chick for the first week of 
its existence, but afterward it was only visited by night. Wlien the 
moon was bright at night, the same thing happened as during incu- 
bation — the burrow was not visited at all. The young chick thus 
early had its first lesson in fasting. However, it was fat from the 
day of its birth, and showed no perceptible sign of going back during 
the occasional enforced fasts, in fact it seemed simply to sleep and, 
so to speak, consolidate the position already gained. At any rate 
this program of cramming interspersed with an occasional fast re- 
sults in the chick becoming enormously fat by the time it is 60 days 
old. To our surprise we now found that the parents deserted the 
chick. They had spent 60 days busily gathering fish for it and 
many nights feeding it from the supply of semidigested food stored 
in the parental crop. Now suddenly and completely they gave up 
all this, and stopped visiting the burrow, and probably the island. 



THE SEA BIRD LOCKLEY 345 

since the burrow, after all, is the only point on the island that has 
ever attracted them. They went off to sea and certainly would not 
appear on the island again until the following spring. Probably, 
in their winter quarters at sea they would soon be plunged deep in 
their molt, which takes place in the autumn. We can surmise, if 
we like, that the physiological state immediately preceding the molt 
has something to do with this, to us, rather unnatural desertion of 
the tender nestling. 

And yet if it seems unnatural, it is at least not improvident. At 
this age the chick is so fat that it could scarcely waddle to the sea. 
If it did so and plunged over the cliffs it would drop like a pound of 
butter and go to pieces on the rocks below. 

The chick has never been out of its burrow yet. Since its parents 
vanished, the matchsticks which we have placed at the entrance to 
the burrow have remained upright. (We used matchsticks a great 
deal in these experiments to enable us to prove whether a burrow 
had been visited by night, for of course it was impossible for us to 
remain watching every night personally.) After about 6 days the 
fledgling is beginning to thin down, and probably feeling hungry 
and cramped it now comes out of its burrow for an hour or two each 
dark night. It not only proves this exit by pushing over our match- 
sticks, but it leaves additional evidence in a trail of the natural 
down which it has lately molted. These deserted chicks, sitting 
outside their homes at night, are a regular, if rather pathetic, feature 
of the island on dark nights in August and September. In the open 
air they can try their wings at last. They flap their wings a great 
deal, but do not move from near the entrance to the burrow, into 
which they retire before dawn. After a week of this fasting and a 
week of this combined fasting and exercising, the fledgling is fully 
feathered and has very little down visible. It takes off for the sea 
at night, blundering along on all fours, using wings and legs and 
beak to scramble over rough ground, for it cannot fly yet. When 
it reaches the cliffs, over it goes and flaps down on a long plane to 
avoid the rocks below. 

Once in the sea the young bird is safe. We have taken shearwaters 
at this stage and put them in the sea by day. How thirsty they 
are — I wonder if thirst may not be for them an important factor in 
drawing them to the sea, the sound of which they must hear before 
they leave the nest? At any rate their first action is to drink, then 
to wash, then suddenly they discover that they can dive. They half 
open their wings so that the quills remain partly spread, like a half- 
opened fan, and with these strong paddles they swim under water 
with the agility of penguins. They come up for air, and dive again, 
and so gradually work off to sea, making haste to leave behind the 



346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

land, of which they have perhaps unpleasant memories of hunger 
and thirst. When a gull has swooped at a young shearwater so 
released by us, the shearwater has simply dived deep and swum 
away under water. 

Although we have ringed these young birds, for the time being 
we have lost them as individuals. They have vanished into the 
ocean (3). However, by ringing hundreds of them we are now begin- 
ning to get some returns at sea of both adults and young. One 
youngster ringed on Skokholm on September 1 got blown by a 
gale into the Rhondda Valley 9 days later. That, of course, was 
an obvious mishap. Another young shearwater took only 3 days 
to get to the north of France, at St. Valery. We look forward to 
more recoveries from large numbers recently ringed, and we are 
expecting that the young birds will be proved to join up with the 
adults, which wander as far south as the Bay of Biscay, and there 
a good number of our breeding birds have been recovered (4) . They are 
reported from various sources. French and Spanish fishermen shoot 
or capture alive many kinds of sea birds. These men open the birds' 
stomachs to find out what they have been feeding on. If the fisher- 
men find edible fish therein they set their nets in the place where 
the birds were feeding. Perhaps the most curious recovery was that 
of a ring found in the stomach of an angler fish caught from the 
pier at Douarnenez, in Brittany. Now the angler fish weighed 40 
pounds, so it was large enough to swallow not only a shearwater, 
but even another fish which may have attacked the shearwater and 
bitten off its leg with the ring attached. I say this because when 
ringing shearwaters on the island at night we have sometimes found 
birds with mutilated feet, the webs between the toes missing, and 
even a leg severed at some point on the tarsus. An angler fish feeds 
normally at the bottom of the sea, but it may have swallowed a sur- 
face-swimming fish which had previously snapped the leg off the 
shearwater. This is mere speculation, of course. 

Curiously enough, ringed shearwaters have been reported to us 
from the Spanish coast as late as the month of May, when you would 
expect them to be back breeding on Skokholm. But these appear 
to be young birds 1 and possibly 2 years old, which are not quite 
ready to breed yet. Certainly our old ringed birds are always back 
in their burrows in February and March. But no shearwaters ringed 
as nestlings have been recovered on Skokholm so far earlier than the 
middle of July of the year following that of their birth. This sug- 
gests that in the second summer these youngsters are only visiting 
the island in order to familiarize themselves with the breeding 
ground for future years. In confirmation of this we have found 
young pairs with quite undeveloped breeding organs indulging in 



THE SEA BIRD — LOCKLEY 347 

what might be described as "calf" courtship in burrows at or after 
midsummer. Of course no egg was hiid. But we need more ringing 
records before we can speak positively as to this adolescent period. 

By means of ringing, however, we have, as I have shown, at least 
traced the shearwater to its winter haunt as far south as the Bay of 
Biscay. And we have found that the old breeding birds return 
faithfully to their nesting burrows early in the spring. But do the 
same individuals pair for another season, for life? Ringing says 
yes. The breeding bird has built up an association of memories — I 
hardly like to call them visual memories in view of the fact that 
some of the most important events take place in the pitch blackness 
of the burrow — an association of memories which lead it back to the 
same burrow. It must lose contact with its mate at times at sea in 
winter, possibly altogether — I do not know. But at least the nest 
is the focal point, the well-remembered place of meeting, and, allow- 
ing for frequent gaps caused by death, we have proved by means of 
ringing that the shearwater pairs for life. 

You may ask what about the young bird? Does it, too, in suc- 
ceeding years return to the nesting burrows in one of which it was 
reared? So far we have not recovered a young bird in the imme- 
diate neighborhood of its birthplace. But it is obvious that in order 
to keep up the numerical strength of the species a great many young 
birds must return to breed on the island. It is interesting to specu- 
late as to whether they are guided to the island in the spring by the 
movements of the adult shearwaters or by memories of fledging days. 
Possibly both these factors operate, and the young bird gradually 
builds a fresh association of memories during the preliminary visits 
to the island which I have already mentioned. It discovers an empty 
crevice or hole one night and finds a mate, or more properly I should 
say a sweetheart, and plays at housekeeping. Next year it will re- 
turn to this spot, search for or dig a more suitable hole, and start 
a home in earnest. 

To return to more definite information. At present we have adult 
shearwaters under observation which have bred with us for 3, 4, and 
5 years running, and there are two individuals which have bred 7 
years running. Assuming that the shearwater does not breed until 
nearly 2 years old, we thus have individuals 5, 6, 7, and 9 years old. 
So that in time we may well be able to work out the average duration 
of life of this species. 

This ringing study of the Manx shearwater, if it has enabled us to 
discover something of the bird's life history, has also revealed our 
lack of knowledge of many aspects of its life ; for instance, its ability 
to find without error its own burrow among thousands of other 
burrows crowded close together, as they are in some parts of the 



348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

island. We can take it that the shearwater has an eye well adapted 
for nocturnal work, but I do not think that the power of its eye can 
account entirely for the ease with which it picks out the entrance to 
its burrow in a crowded warren on a dark night, and the ease with 
which, having alighted beside the entrance, it finds its way in the dark 
labyrinth underground to its particular nesting recess. There is 
some other power there, probably not unconnected with its wonderful 
sense of orientation. 

I have seen sea birds such as puffins, razorbills, and shearwaters 
flying confidently through thick mist in the direction of their breed- 
ing grounds when I only knew that direction by a study of the 
compass. How is this done? How, indeed, does another shear- 
water, the great shearwater which winters in the North Atlantic 
during our summer, find its way back to its breeding ground in the 
Tristan da Cunha group of islands, a group which is but a needle in 
the haystack of the South Atlantic Ocean ? If we knew the answer, 
we should know the mechanism of the bird's power of orientation. 
One worker. Dr. Riviere, has called this power "a sense of geograph- 
ical position" (5). Dr. Riviere was working with homing pigeons 
flying over land or within sight of land. But the sea bird may be 
out of sight of land for days on end. Moreover, it does not usually 
fly high like a pigeon ; more usually it skims the tops of the waves, so 
that its horizon must be very limited. 

We have conducted some experiments with ringed sea birds in an 
attempt to learn something more of this homing power (6). I can- 
not give tonight more than a short sketch of the more important re- 
sults. An adult shearwater was taken from its egg on Skokholm 
and released at Start Point, in Devon, which is about 220 miles from 
the island by the sea route around Cornwall, or 125 miles overland 
as the crow flies. When released it flew low over the waves making 
for sea. It did not attempt to rise up and strike overland in a bee- 
line for the island. Yet that bird was back on its egg at Skokholm 
within 10 hours, so that if it continued by the sea route it must have 
flown steadily at 22 miles per hour. Of course its speed by this sea 
route must have been much greater, since a shearwater normally does 
not travel in a straight line but has a curved deviating flight, and 
probably it paused to drink if not to feed. 

Two birds released at Frensham Pond, Surrey, performed a simi- 
lar feat and were back at their nests the following night, but in this 
case, before reaching the sea after release, these birds had to cross 
40 miles of land. But land masses interposed between shearwaters 
and the sea do not seem to disturb the homing faculty. Shearwaters 
released at Birmingham, Evesham, and Manchester, as well as at 
Limerick, in Eire, have safely homed to Skokholm, though not with 



THE SEA BIRD — LOCKLEY 349 

the rapidity of the Start Point and Frensham releases. Other birds 
released in the Firth of Forth and as far north as the Faeroe Islands, 
and as far south as France and North Spain, have also got back to 
their nests on Skokholm in varying times. All these homing experi- 
ments were vrithin the known range of the species. We needed to go 
farther afield and see what would happen to birds released outside 
that range. The farthest distance by sea for which we could easily 
arrange without transport hardships for the birds — for we had to 
be sure the birds were in good condition for a long flight — was Venice, 
in Italy, approximately 3,700 miles from Skokholm via the Adriatic 
and the Straits of Messina and Gibraltar. By courtesy of Imperial 
Airways, two shearwaters from separate nests were sent to Venice, 
the distance by air being a little under 1,000 miles. As far as I 
know the Manx shearwater does not enter the Mediterranean and 
therefore is not found in the Adriatic. Certainly ringing has so far 
proved that our Skokholm birds in their winter wanderings do not 
go beyond the Bay of Biscay. One of these two shearwaters is an 
individual of some interest to us, for it has returned to its burrow 
on Skokholm for five consecutive summers. It had already returned 
safely from Frensham. Now it returned from Venice in 14 days. 
It is impossible to say whether it homed over the Alps in a beeline 
for Skokholm, or whether it found its way out through the Straits 
of Gibraltar, or whether it crossed the backbone of Italy and then 
over the Pyrenees to the Bay of Biscay. In any case it was a won- 
derful performance. You can imagine our anxiety as night after 
night we waited at Skokholm, and I must say that I did not expect 
it to return. Meanwhile its mate had carried on very nobly, after 
a w'eek hatching the egg, and then carefully tending the chick alone. 
I can assure you that there was a great to-do in the burrow on the 
fourteenth night when I went out on my regular inspection round 
and discovered the parents together with the chick. Even before I 
opened the nest I could hear their crooning conversation. I have no 
idea what this may have been about, but an imaginative person might 
have concluded that there was expostulation as well as congratulation 
going on, and even the chick was chiming in with an odd squeak 
here and there. 

The other shearwater may have returned from Venice in that 
summer, but we did not catch it until the next spring, when it was 
back at its usual nest. 

Similar experiments with sea birds have been made by workers 
in America (7) and with similar results. Yet while these experi- 
ments have proved a remarkable homing ability, we still have nothing 
but theories to explain it, and the physiological mechanism remains 
obscure. 



350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

There is much more that might be said of that interesting and 
unusual individual the shearwater, but I must pass on to a brief 
mention of our work with individuals of other species of sea birds — 
the storm petrel, Hydrohates pelagicus (L.), for instance, which 
breeds in numbers in the rock crevices and old farm walls of Skok- 
holm. In a similar study (8) of individuals it has shown a life 
history not unlike that of its cousin the shearwater: nocturnal on 
land — a long incubation period of 38 to 40 days — and an average 
fledging period of 61 days. The chick is deserted in the end, and 
flies off to the sea on its own when sufficiently thinned down from 
its over-fat nestling stage. The storm petrel is more nervous and 
difficult to observe than many sea birds, but we have individuals 
on our books that have been breeding in the same crevice on the 
island for 4 vears. 

So, too, with the puffin, Fratercula arctica grdhm (Brehm). Our 
ringing study of this bird enabled us tO' discover several new facts 
(9) : an incubation period of 40 days and fledging period of 49 
days; also that this bird, too, is deserted by its parents, although 
other members of the auk family to which it belongs, the razorbill 
and the guillemot, feed and accompany their chicks at sea when these 
leave the rocks where they were hatched. The puffin follows the 
petrel family in deserting its single chick, but this desertion, as with 
the petrel family, is a wise provision. The guillemot and razorbill 
chicks, hatched on the precipitous ledges of the cliffs, can and do eas- 
ily jump or flutter down to the sea and their waiting parents. Wlien 
they take off like this they are fully feathered but only half-grown, 
and are so small and light that even if they hit the rocks a hundred 
feet below on rare occasions, they generally bounce off unhurt, and 
scramble off to the safety of the sea. They leave in broad daylight, 
when they may best see their parents on the sea below. But the 
puffin is often reared in burrows some distance from the edge of the 
cliffs, and so has a long walk to get to that edge, and during that walk 
it would be exposed to the attacks of gulls and hawks. Moreover, it 
is full-grown and very fat when it is deserted by its parents. It 
certainly needs a fast of a week or so to make it light enough to take 
off without fear of crashing on the rocks below the cliffs. So the 
young puffin solves these problems (the problem of its excessive 
weight, and the problem of the predatory gull) by starving for some 
days before selecting a dark night for its lonely and unseen, but 
momentous, stroll to the cliff edge, where it takes the plunge to that 
friendly element, the sea. 

One of the most attractive birds to study has been the razorbill, 
Alca torda (L.). It is a handsome looking bird and nests in the 
pleasant environment of the rocky slopes of the island shore, where 



THE SEA BIRD — LOCKLEY 351 

wild flowers form a natural garden of great beauty about the boulders 
and crevices under and in which the razorbill lays its single egg. 
But the individual razorbill has not been the easiest bird to study, for 
it has the annoying habit of wearing out its ring on the sharp sand- 
stone rocks of Skokholm, owing to its method of walking with its 
tarsus close to the ground. For this reason practically all our earlier 
records of individuals have been lost, the numbers on the rings having 
been obliterated in a single year, and in 2 years the rings were worn 
through and dropped off. Stronger rings are now being made, and 
by giving the birds a new ring every year in place of the old, we are 
keeping track of some promising individuals who have returned 
to the same crevice year after year. In the winter individual razor- 
bills have been recovered as far north as Norway and as far south 
as the Gulf of Genoa, Italy. 

The guillemot, Uria aalge albionis (With.), breeds on less accessible 
rock ledges, but we are keeping account of such individuals as we have 
been able to capture here, and we try to ring all the young guillemots 
just before they fly. 

The gannet, Sula hassana (L.), does not actually breed on Skokholm 
but on the neighboring islet of Grassholm, which is the only site of 
this species in England and Wales, and one of the most important of 
the 20 colonies known to exist in the world. On Grassholm there 
are today approximately 6,000 pairs of gannets. Since 1933 we have 
ringed large numbers of gannets there in most summers. An analysis 
of the returns from this marking suggests a very interesting migra- 
tion. In their first winter the young gannets go a long way south, 
several individual young birds from Grassholm having been recovered 
off the coast of West Africa in latitude 20°]Sr. Gannets in their sec- 
ond and third years, however, do not seem to travel so far south. 
At least we have no records of Grassholm gannets of this age farther 
south than the Straits of Gibraltar and the coast of Algeria, at Oran. 
While older birds, gannets in and past their fourth year, remain 
nearer home, no ringed gannets of this age have been recovered farther 
south than the most northerly comer of the coast of Portugal. 

While it is never safe to dogmatize from these records, we can 
suggest that, as the gannet reaches a mature state of plumage and 
breeding condition in and after its fourth year, it may be disinclined 
to wander far from its breeding site. This is to some extent con- 
firmed by the fact that adult gannets assemble at Grassholm as early 
as February, and they do not leave until the end of October or the 
beginning of November. 

We have on Grassholm at the moment some individual adult gan- 
nets which have nested there 3 and 4 years in succession. If the gannet 
does not breed until 4 years old, these individuals must be 7 and 8 



352 AN-NUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

years old. However, we may have to wait some time to get longevity 
records of the gannets — if we are to believe one writer (10) who, from 
an examination of the ovaries of a shot gannet, considered that it had 
laid 150 eggs. A gannet, of course, only lays one egg a year, so this 
bird, if we add the years of its adolescence to this total, would be well 
over 150 years old ! However, in this instance the circumstantial 
evidence was not conclusive. 

If we can only continue our ringing work in the years ahead we may 
be able to answer definitely another much-disputed question, that is, 
the age of the gannet when it first breeds. Ringing should eventually 
prove this, if we are lucky enough to catch an adult at Grassholra 
which was marked by us as a nestling there. 

I have spoken of ringing large numbers, even thousands, of sea 
birds, and it may be wondered how it is possible for one person to 
do this and keep account of so many individual birds from year 
to year. It certainly would be difficult for one person to do this. 
When I began this study of the individual sea bird I had only my 
wife's help, and very valuable this was. But we should scarcely have 
been able to carry on this work as well as our normal duties had not 
we received some encouragement from outside, an encouragement 
which we were most grateful to have. In the last few years more 
students have come along, until a voluntary organization has grown 
under the name of Skokholm Bird Observatory. It is now so organ- 
ized as to permit us to endeavor to ring every breeding bird on Skok- 
holm, from a rock pipit to a gull, and to the gannets of Grassholm. 
We also catch many migratory birds which use the island as a tem- 
porary resting place. For instance, we ringed this year over 6,000 
birds of 61 species. This is a figure comparable with figures achieved 
by subsidized observatories in foreign countries. In Germany and 
Italy and the United States ornithological w^ork of this nature is rec- 
ognized officially as having an educational and scientific value, and 
it is blessed with the practical support of the government concerned. 
Here in Britain ornithology outside of museums depends entirely on 
voluntary support. So that the running of an observatory on a re- 
mote island is not without its anxieties in more than one direction. 
Rings at three farthings each add up to a considerable figure in 
1 year; there is a large amount of clerical work in the recording and 
card indexing of thousands of individual ringed birds, and there is 
even the danger that some of the vast amount of information gained 
will be buried for lack of time and volunteers to sort, collate, and 
publish it. 

Nevertheless, this voluntary organization is being carried on for 
the present and is about to issue its third modest annual report (11). 
It is also proposed to publish in due course further papers of a scien- 



THE SEA BIRD LOCia^EY 353 

tific nature placing on record the results of bird marking and other 
investigations being carried out at Skokliolm. Some small evidence 
of this work you will have seen in the graphs, maps, and other material 
exhibited in the library this evening. 

Finally, it may be suggested that catching and handling birds must 
disturb them unduly. On the contrary, by gentle handling many 
birds have become so used to us that they are almost tame ; as tame, 
in fact, as wild animals become in nature reserves where they have 
learned that no harm will come to them from human beings. Indeed, 
if the birds did not become reasonably tame it would be impossible to 
study them individually. This way of studying birds by ringing them 
is a good deal better than the old way of studying them by means of 
the gun and the collecting box. Ringing establishes a new kind of 
contact, a sort of friendly conspiracy with the living bird. 

REFERENCES 

1. Lockley, R. M. 

1930. On the breeding habits of the Manx shearwater. British Birds, vol. 

23, pp. 202-218. 

2. Lockley, R. M. 

1931. Further notes on the breeding habits of the Manx shearwater. Brit- 

ish Birds, vol. 24, pp. 202-207. 
8. Lockley, R. M. 

1935. Movements of Manx shearwaters. British Birds, vol. 29, pp. 105-107. 

4. Witherby, H. F., and Leach, E. P. 

1934. Recoveries of marked birds. British Birds, vol. 28, No. 2, pp. 36-^8. 
(See also subsequent numbers and volumes.) 

5. Riviere, B. B. 

1929. The "homing faculty" in pigeons. Verhandl. VI Internat. Ornithol. 
Kongr. Copenhagen 1926, pp. 535-555. 

6. Lack, David, and Lockley, R. M. 

1938. Skokholm Bird Observatory homing experiiaents. British Birds, 
vol. 31, pp. 242-248. 

7. Watson, J. B., and Lashley, K. S. 

1915. Homing and related activities of birds. Carnegie lust, Dep. Marine 
Biol., Pap. 7. 

8. Lockley, R. M. 

1932. On the breeding habits of the storm-petrel. British Birds, vol. 25, 

pp. 20(>-211. 

9. Lockley, R. M. 

1934. On the breeding habits of the puffin. British Birds, vol. 27, 
pp. 214-223. 

10. Gurney, J. H. 

1913. The gannet. p. 451. London. 

11. Lockley, R. M. 

1936-1938. Skokholm Bird Observatory Reports. Dale, Pembrokeshire. 



BIKDS AND THE WIND 



By Neil T. McMiixan 
Captain, Eastern Air Lines 



[With 3 plates] 



Wind is the major influence in the life of a bird. It is a strong 
factor in his daily activities. His range and habits are controlled by 
the use he can make of the wind. During migration it is wind that 
sets the routes and schedules and is the primary cause of delays and 
accidents. In reality, it is the air that goes places and the birds go 
with it. Unless forced, a bird will not fly any great distance. When- 
ever possible, he rides the wind. 

These are not statements of established fact made by an accom- 
plished ornithologist but the personal beliefs of an aviator who 
freely admits that he has a better knowledge of wind that he has 
of the birds. Because his own work is controlled by wind, he is 
certain to regard both it and the bird in a different way than a bird 
student who spends the major part of his time at the bottom of the 
great ocean of air. Neither view is likely to be wholly correct nor 
is it likely to be entirely wrong. Because his beliefs may have some 
value, the writer welcomes this opportunity to tell of them. 

To a bird on the wing, the wind is a vehicle or means of transpor- 
tation — not a propelling agent. Through countless generations of 
living on the surface of the globe where two elements — air and land 
or air and water — are in collision, man came to associate wind with 
a pushing force that could vary in intensity, from a breeze that ca- 
ressed his cheek to a tornado that hurled him to destruction. Wlien 
he learned to fly, he found that as soon as he was free of the earth 
his old conception of the wind was wrong. What is true in aviation 
is true in ornithology. A bird is carried. He is never pushed or 
blown. 

Although A. Landsborough Thomson and a few others have rec- 
ognized it, there is much in the literature on birds to indicate that 
this essential truth has been missed. Such expressions as "flying in 
the teeth of a gale," "buffeted by high winds," and "blown far in- 

* Reprinted by permission from Bird-Lore, vol. 40, No. 6, November-December 1938. 
197855—40 24 355 



356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

land," are frequent. Several ornithologists have predicated their 
explanations of the way in which birds maintain their directions on 
the false assumption that a flying bird can feel the pressure of the 
wind. At least one has used mathematics to determine how much 
lift a bird can get from winds of varying velocities when the wind 
cannot strike a bird in the air. One authority has made the extreme 
statement that "strong winds blowing in the direction in which the 
birds are traveling are bad, since they interfere seriously with bal- 
ance, and disarrange feathers." 

A flying bird, which is essentially a part of the wind, cannot be 
struck by it any more than a man can be struck by the automobile 
in which he is riding. To obtain a true picture it might be better 
if the word "wind" could be discarded and "air current," "air stream," 
or "air river" substituted. This nomenclature may make it easier 
to understand that anything suspended in air cannot feel its move- 
ment. A log floating in the water of a river has no pressure exerted 
upon it. There is no water piled up in front. There is no wake. 
Viewed from the shore the log may seem to move but it is the water 
that is moving. In relation to the water, the log is stationary. The 
same liquid surrounds it at all times. 

A balloon in the air is like the log in water. Although it may 
move over the face of the earth at 50 miles an hour the flag on its 
halyards will hang in a dead calm. It is the air that is moving, not 
the balloon. A bird cannot float like a balloon but he can accomplish 
the same result at the point where his own air speed is sufficient to 
give him enough lift to balance gravity. He moves through the air 
while the air itself moves, just as a boat on a river moves through 
the water while the water moves. Like a boat, which will have the 
same pressure on the bow for any set speed in any direction, a bird 
will feel pressure on the forward part of his body in ratio to his own 
air speed whether he moves upwind, downwind, or crosswind. 

Even if he rides a hurricane that is spinning at well over a hun- 
dred miles an hour, the bird will feel not an ounce more of pressure 
or have a single feather ruffled. So long as he stays aloft he will be 
in no danger from the wind but an attempted landing would be cer- 
tain to result in disaster. The bird must ride out the storm or reach 
its calm "eye" before he can alight. As a possible explanation of 
the many instances of birds being found in the "eye" it might be of 
interest to note that the air of a hurricane spins inward and a bird 
riding the storm for any length of time must inevitably be carried 
to the center. 

Only in collision can moving air exert pressure. That collision 
can occur with the earth and objects attached to it, or it can occur 



BIRDS AND THE WIND McMILLAN 357 

when a moving air mass meets air moving in a different direction. 
Just as eddies and rip tides are visible evidence of opposing currents 
in water, so are many of our storms eloquent testimony of a battle 
of winds. A bird changing from one current to another is analagous 
to a man stepping from an escalator moving in one direction to 
another moving in the opposite. There is a distinct shock which is 
gone as soon as the change has been made. The bird, even though 
he may be flying slowly, is relatively fast for his size and makes the 
change quickly. Long dirigibles, slow for their size, have been liter- 
ally sheared apart when straddling strong opposing currents. It is 
possible that birds receive painful wrenches under like conditions 
and endeavor to avoid them. 

Horizontal flight requires the most frequent change on days when 
the currents are vertical. An ornithologist has made the guess that 
migrating birds fly high on clear warm days because they are using 
rising air to give them lift. It is the guess of the writer that they 
fly high for the same reason that he does, to escape those currents. 
Nature abhors a vacuum. Air rising from the surface must be re- 
placed and on the days in question the replacement comes from aloft. 
A "thermal," whether it is a steady stream or a series of bubbles of 
hot air, resembles a fountain. The air goes up, but it also comes 
down. For every updraft there are compensating downdrafts and 
flight through them is a continual jarring and bumping. 

The upper limit of these convection, or mixing, currents is usually 
marked by a layer of smoke and dust that has been carried aloft. 
Above it there will be a horizontal current of air into which the ther- 
mals cannot rise and where smooth flight can be maintained. The 
highest elevation at which the writer has seen birds was at 7,200 feet, 
just above the dust level near Port Arthur, Tex., where he passed a 
flock of 20 or more in light brown plumage. At an air speed of 160 
miles an hour he was upon them and had scattered and passed them 
before they could be identified. The significant feature of the occur- 
rence is that the birds were going with a 22-mile-an-hour wind out 
of the west-southwest. 

What were the birds ? Whence had they come and where were they 
going? The writer would very much like to know, just as he would 
also like to know how, in April of this year, a lone goose happened 
to be on top of a solid overcast riding a 30-mile-an-hour east-southeast 
wind over southern Alabama. Snap judgment would say that the 
goose was lost and bewildered. But he may have known exactly 
what he was doing when he chose to ride a wind, above the clouds, 
that was totally different from that miderneath. He may have 
known that wind never travels in a straight line, that a small arc of 



358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

it, like a section of the horizon, may appear to be straight but is in 
reality curved. If so, he knew that the wind he was riding would 
carry him to the Mississippi flyway, that it would shift to southeast 
before he reached the valley, then to south-southeast and south. 

This is, of course, pure guesswork and may sound visionary, except 
that it is no more preposterous to grant the goose full knowledge of 
horizontal winds than to give definite knowledge of vertical winds 
to soaring birds. Obviously, a turkey buzzard gains altitude on a 
rising current of air. Using gravity for motive power, he noses 
down slightly in a remarkably flat glide and descends more slowly 
than the air is rising. When he has exhausted the lift of the ascend- 
ing current or wishes to change position, the buzzard sharpens his 
descent and glides swiftly across the neighboring down-draft. 
Whether he gains or loses altitude in the long run will depend on the 
length of time he is in the opposing currents rather than on the 
strength of those currents. When using a thermal too small in diam- 
eter for him to turn in, the buzzard employs the same tactics. In the 
part of his spiral that is out of the current he moves rapidly. Wlien 
he strikes the rising air he pulls up sharply, so sharply, in fact, that 
the end flight feathers of his wings open like the slots of a "fool- 
proof" airplane to prevent a stall and loss of control. Watching a 
buzzard will give evidence that he has a knowledge of, and is using, 
moving air. 

It is certain that, in the daily life of soaring birds, wind is a neces- 
sity. They must have rising air. Without it they are all but helpless. 
Their large, high-lift wings make them excellent sailplanes and ex- 
ceedingly poor flyers. A kingbird can make life miserable for them. 
A difference in wings gives the advantage to the smaller bird. 

It is the way in which he is designed that will govern how much or 
how little the bird can use the wind. Wing loading, or the ratio be- 
tween wing area and weight ; aspect ratio, or the relationship between 
length and breadth ; camber, the thickness of the wings ; dihedral, the 
angle between the wings; and the other problems that beset the air- 
plane designer, must surely control the efficiency of the bird. If he 
can make but little use of the wind his range will be restricted. If he 
can remain aloft with only slight effort he will roam like the wind 
from one far corner of the globe to the other. 

A quail takes off and climbs with the speed and steepness of a pur- 
suit plane but he cannot long maintain the great amount of energy 
which this entails. He gains altitude rapidly and then glides, prefer- 
ably downhill or downwind. This necessarily confines the quail to 
short flights and he does not wander far from his birthplace. His 
neighbor, the dove, climbs at a lesser angle and uses less energy. But 



BIRDS AND THE WHSTD McMILLAN 359 

without a great amount of lift, the dove must fly rapidly to remain 
aloft. On his whistling wings he ranges farther than the quail but 
he falls far short of the yearly journeys of birds with more efficient 
wings, which use less energy and can maintain lift with less speed. 

Apparently, this speed is, in many cases, surprisingly low. Watch- 
ing herring gulls from the docks in New Orleans, the writer has seen 
them hover in light breezes which he estimated to be between 5 and 10 
miles an hour. Beating their wings very slowly, the gulls matched 
the velocity of the wind with their own air speed and remained over 
one spot in relation to the earth without gaining or losing altitude. 
Even if the larger estimate of the wind's velocity is taken, the resulting 
figure of 10 miles an hour is far short of the 40-mile speed with which 
migrating gulls have been credited. 

From personal observation on the airport of New Orleans, where 
the gulls flock when a stiff wind blows off Lake Pontchartrain, the 
writer believes that 40 miles an hour is too high for even the maximum 
speed of the gull. On two occasions when the airways weather station 
was reporting winds of 27 and 28 miles an hour, only a few of the 
gulls, when forced to take off, could make headway. These were the 
young in brown plumage. A few of the adults were able to match the 
wind but the majority were carried backward and dived to a landing. 
The maximum air speed of the gull, therefore, would seem not to 
exceed 30 miles an hour, and may be less. The anemometer is on the 
roof of a three-story building; none of the birds reached that height, 
but stayed low where friction was reducing the velocity of the wind. 

The conclusion the writer draws from these observations is that 
when the migrating gull was timed at 40 miles an hour, he was 
riding a 30-mile wind. It may be argued, of course, that the gull 
was flying 30 miles an hour on a 10-mile wind, but that seems 
contrary to efficiency. Under the dynamic law that pressure in- 
creases as the square of the velocity, it would take something like 
nine times the energy to propel the gull at 30 miles an hour that 
it does at 10. Even if it is granted that a bird can change both his 
angle of attack and angle of incidence — the angle at which his 
body and wings strike the air and the angle at which his wings 
are set to his body — the energy necessary to fly at full speed must 
be out of proportion to the gain in velocity. To the writer it seems 
illogical to suppose that a bird, unless forced, frightened, or playful, 
will fly at anything but the speed at which he uses the least energy. 
A man can run, but he usually walks. The writer prefers, there- 
fore, to believe that the gull, when timed, moved through the air a 
distance of not more than 10 miles while the air itself moved 30 or 
more and that the gull rode the wind as surely as a man rides who 
walks through a speeding railroad train. 



360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

In an hour the gull flew 10 miles and covered 40. In 5 hours of 
effortless flying he could have traveled 200 miles, or in 10 hours, 
400. If, for the gull, we substitute a land bird and increase the 
velocity of the wind, we have a natural answer as to how and why 
migrants, without becoming exhausted, cross the Gulf of Mexico 
in a single night. They ride the overhead gales that pour spring 
into the eastern half of the United States. 

This explanation was forced on the writer after a spring night 
2 years ago. On that night he took an airliner off at New Orleans, 
bound for Atlanta, in a fresh southerly wind that increased in veloc- 
ity to 60 miles an hour and shifted to south-southwest at 3,000 feet. 
Even with throttles pulled back to reduce his air speed, he arrived 
at Mobile and Montgomery far ahead of time. Northeast of Mont- 
gomery the warm air began to overrun cold air at the surface, as 
scud clouds beneath him attested. At Atlanta he landed down 
through these clouds into a cold, northeast wind, although the 
southerly gales were still aloft. The next morning the woods around 
his home just outside of Atlanta were literally alive with migrants, 
noisily happy in spite of the cold rain that was falling. There was 
a natural deduction to be made — the birds had ridden across the 
Gu^.f and as far inland as they could before being forced too far aloft 
by the warm air running up the slope of the cold. 

From this deduction it is only a step to the general hypothesis 
that, whenever possible, migrating birds ride the wind. It is, per- 
haps, the most natural explanation that can be given, not only for 
their crossing the Gulf of Mexico on what is a veritable Gulf Stream 
of the air, but also why they seem to follow rivers on valley winds — 
why they use mountain ridges and seacoasts when a quartering wind 
creates a surf that will give them both lift and direction — why the 
golden plover can ride nonstop from Nova Scotia to South America 
around the rim of the "Bermuda High" but cannot come back the 
same way — why land birds caught in a "cold front," or strong wind- 
shift, over water must perish because the battling winds will not 
allow them either to retreat or advance — why migrants land and 
wait for days with a change of weather, for a change of weather is a 
result of a change of winds — and finally why the bird's arrival and 
departure dates fluctuate just as the schedule of the winds fluctuates. 

Spring and the birds came earl}'^ in 1938. Was one the cause and 
the other the effect? Wliy not say that both are effects of the same 
cause — that the influx of tropical air came early in 1938? The 
birds migrate and the wind migrates. While it is a tilted earth 
moving in its orbit that is the actual performance, the effect to us is 
that the sun also migrates. The solar equator comes north in our 



BIRDS AND THE WIND McMILLAN 361 

spring and goes south in our fall, carrying with it the doldrums, the 
trade and antitrade winds, and the prevailing winds in both hemi- 
spheres. Just as offshore and onshore winds or mountain and plain 
winds are the effort of nature to equalize temperatures between ad- 
jacent areas during night and day, so are monsoons an attempt to 
balance the heat of the atmosphere over the seasons. Just as land 
and sea breezes attain their maximum not at midday or midnight but 
in the afternoon and early morning, so do the prevailing winds flow 
fastest in spring and fall exactly in time with heaviest migration of 
the birds. In a large-scale picture the two phenomena appear to fit 
exactly. Will they also match when examined in detail ? The writer 
believes that they will if we are careful to look at those details from 
the viewpoint of the bird and not our own. 

There can be a wide difference in the two viewpoints. On the night 
of September 8, the surface wind on the Atlanta airport was 3 miles 
an hour out of the southeast, while the wind aloft from Washington 
to New Orleans was out of the northeast quadrant of the compass 
with an average velocity of 20 miles an hour. Wliile circling the 
field, the writer turned on his landing lights to warn other pilots of 
his position. At 900 feet off the ground, two small birds streaked 
like meteors through the glare of the lights. At 700 feet a third 
struck the under side of the fuselage with a pistol-like report. Three 
birds do not make up a migration nor can it be proved that those 
three were flying downwind. All that is certain is that the air was 
moving southwest, that there were at least three birds in it, and that 
a ground observer could have been ignorant of both facts unless he 
had examined the weather map and the "winds aloft" report and 
had been able to see the birds against the face of the full moon that 
was shining. 

It is easy to add two and two although the sum obtained may not 
be the correct answer. It is easy to conclude that migrants ride the 
wind when birds are found going with it. Wlien it is known that 
wind and weather are practically synonyms, it is easy to run through 
"The Season" reports in Bird-Lore and change "cold weather" to 
"northerly winds" and "warm weather" to "southerly winds" and be 
pleased to see that migrants arrive with them. When one is looking 
for just such a similarity it is easy to see the sameness between a map 
of the migration routes and a map of the pervailing winds. Wlien 
it is known from experience and study that an advancing cold front 
crowds and lifts the warm air in front of it, it is natural to assume 
that bird traffic should be crowded into a wave as automobile traffic is 
jammed in a bottleneck, and find verification for this assumption in 
the reports of watchers. To be conservative, it must be admitted that 



362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

such similarities between the movement of the wind and the move- 
ment of the birds may be indications that the migrants are riding the 
wind, but they are not proofs. 

Positive proof will be difficult to obtain, for it will be necessary 
to know the starting and arriving points, the exact time and the 
weather conditions over the entire route at the level at which the 
birds fly. Most observations must, of necessity, be made from the 
ground at the very point where conditions are the most likely to be 
different from those under which the birds travel. Weather not only 
has length and breadth but height, and the most rapid change is 
vertically. Temperature, humidity, wind direction, and wind velocity 
will all be different at 500 feet when there is but little change in miles 
along the surface. Seacoasts are a vantage point for observations 
and seacoasts are notorious for windshifts close to the surface. All 
of this imposes a handicap to proving beyond question that whenever 
possible birds migrate by riding the wind, but it is a handicap that 
should work both ways. It should be equally difficult to prove that 
they do not. 

The writer has been told that it is the general belief of bird stu- 
dents that the contrary is true — ^that, while migrants prefer a quar- 
tering wind to the rear, wind and weather are really of little concern 
to them. If this belief is founded on a correlation of bird move- 
ments with surface conditions a shadow of doubt can fall upon the 
correctness of it. If an observer sees birds from the south land into 
a cold northeast wind during a warm-front snowstorm, it would 
be natural to assume that the headwind and the storm meant little 
to the birds. But somewhere over that observer's head there is 
certain to be air that has come from the same general region as the 
birds. Contrary to what our heritage has taught us, snow does not 
come from the cold, dry regions of the earth but from, the warm and 
moist. The cold air at the surface is only the precipitating agent that 
is forcing the warm air aloft and chilling it by expansion to the 
point where it can no longer hold its moisture. As the average slope 
of a warm front is 1 to 300, the birds can be 90 miles from the actual 
front and still have a tail wind as low as 1,500 feet. 

Just as the observer could be wrong in his deduction while watch- 
ing descending birds on stormy days, so he could be wrong while 
watching migrants on clear days when one air mass is in full posses- 
sion of his territory. The gradient wind tends to follow the isobars, 
or lines of equal barometric pressure, while surface wind cuts across 
them at an angle. The truth of this statement can be easily verified 
by reference to a weather map as meager in details as that which 
appears in our daily newspaper. Immediately off the surface the 
wind begins to turn until between 1,700 feet and 3,000 feet it has at- 



BIRDS AND THE WIND McMILLAN 363 

tained its true direction and velocity. A quartering wind on the 
ground will, in all probability, be a direct tail wind aloft. Is it not 
possible, therefore, that bird students have actually observed that 
migrants prefer tail winds ? 

Perhaps it is true that they do. Perhaps it is only fancy born of 
the writer's own natural desire for a clear sky and a tail wind. 
Whether true or false, there is one fact that is certain : the winds are 
there for the birds to use. All they have to do is choose. Sir 
Napier Shaw in his book, The Air and Its Ways, has likened the cir- 
culation of the atmosphere to a steam engine run by the heat of 
the sun. The spinning cyclonic and anticyclonic areas he has called 
the flywheels of that engine. In his own words, he says, "the con- 
stituent parts of the flywheel at any time are the natural airways of 
the world." He was speaking of aviation when he made the state- 
ment but, in the opinion of the writer, he might better have spoken 
of the birds. Perched on the spinning wheels and the whirling 
belts, they are riding the natural flyways of the world. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — McMillan 



Plate l 




Photograph by Allan D. Cruickshauk. 

"HE Moves Through the air While.the air itself Moves 



Smithsonian Report. 1939.— McMillan 




Photograph by W. H. Nichulsuu. 

1 . "A Kingbird Can Make life Miserable for Them 




5*?^^ -%. 




Photograph by W. L Finley. 

2. "A Quail Climbs With the Speed and Steepness of a Pursuit Plane 



Smithsonian Report. 1939.— McMillan 



Plate 3 




Photograph by Allan D. Cruickshank. 

1 . "The Dove 



USES Less Energy. 




I'liotDgraph by R. T. Peterson. 



2. Herring Gull. 



BOOKWORMS 



By E. A. Back 

Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, V. 8. Department of Agriculture 



[With 18 plates ]i 



When one enters such thoroughly modern structures of stone, steel, 
and cement as the Congressional Library or the National Archives 
in Washington, D. C, or the Huntington Library in California, to 
mention only three repositories of documents embodying the best 
information available to the librarian, he is so overwhelmed by a 
sense of beauty and permanence that he finds it hard to believe the 
often repeated statement that insects have destroyed more books and 
papers than fire and water. Yet the concrete examples of book des- 
truction by insects which have come to the attention of the Federal 
Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine of the United States 
Department of Agriculture during the past 15 years leaves little 
doubt as to the soundness of the belief that insects are in the front 
rank of book enemies. Persons living in northern climates see less 
of the ravages of book insects, but no lover of books located in the 
Tropics need have his attention called to their importance. 

Insect attack upon books and papers increases as the climate be- 
comes warmer and more humid. No part of a country such as the 
United States appears entirely free from library pests. Some of 
the most serious infestations have been found in little-used libraries 
in New York City, New England, and the northern tier of States, 
although the number of such infestations is exceeded by far by those 
that occur along the Gulf coast northward to the Mason-Dixon line. 
There is no well-informed librarian anywhere who is not constantly 
on the watch to detect infestations by insects, either in books already 
on the library shelves, or in books newly acquired from outside 
sources. 

The importance of insects as destroyers of books has been recog- 
nized for years. Many of the. earliest manuscripts have been 

* Photographs taken under supervision of author by Marcel L. P. Foubert, Division of 
Illustrations, Office of Information, U. S. Department of Agriculture, unless otherwise 
credited. 

365 



366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN" INSTITUTION, 19 39 

destroyed by insects. Among the very early writers, Aristotle, writ- 
ing in Athens about 335 B. C, mentions creatures in books resembling 
grubs found in garments. Horace (65-8 B. C.) expressed the fear 
that his writings would eventually become "food for vandal moths." 
Ovid (43 B. C.-A. D. 18), while in exile, likens the "constant gnaw- 
ing of sorrow" at his heart to the gnawing of the bookworm "as the 
book when laid away is nibbled by the worm's teeth." Moses, ad- 
dressing Joshua, gave instructions regarding the preservation of the 
books of the Pentateuch by anointing them with cedar oil and storing 
them in earthern vessels. Philippus of Thessalonica early in the 
first century A. D. compared satirically the grammarians of that day 
to bookworms, thus first voicing so far as is known a comparison 
now used so often that instinctively one thinks of a very studious 
person as a "bookworm." Ausonius, who lived in the fourth century 

A. D., scoffs at the tutor who prefers to bury himself in "worm-eaten 
and outlandish scrolls" rather than give himself to more familiar 
pursuits and refers to a choice between preserving writings with cedar 
oil or allowing them to perish as food for worms. Even Pliny the 
Elder stated that dust is productive of worms in wools and cloths and 
"these will breed in paper also," thus giving rise to a theory con- 
cerning the generation of worms still believed today by not a few 
persons. All evidence indicates that insects have always been foes 
of the written and printed word. 

The seriousness of the bookworm problem led the Royal Society of 
Gottingen in 1774 and the International Library Congress in 1903 
to offer prizes for a satisfactory solution. William Blades in 1888 
wrote The Enemies of Books in which he has a chapter entitled "The 
Bookworm." But it was C. V. Houlbert who made the most serious 
attempt to discuss this group of insects in his book entitled "Les 
Insectes Ennemis des Livres," published in 1903, doubtless inspired 
by the prize offered by the International Library Congress held that 
year in Paris. But when one reviews the long list of articles dealing 
with book insects, "in fact or fancy," as set forth in the truly tine 
bibliography of 493 items prepared by Ralph H. Carruthers and Harry 

B. Weiss and published in 1936 in the fortieth volume of the Bulletin 
of the New York Public Library, there comes the conviction that book 
insects are a menace not confined to the past and that their destructive 
work still continues in libraries of the unwary. 

Although bookworms have figured much in prose and poetry, the 
informed person reading the literature about them must confess that, 
in the light of modern entomological knowledge, most of the earlier 
writers had more knowledge of books than of the insects attacking 
the books. The best works are those that are confined to a discussion 
of specific instances of destruction by authoritatively identified in- 



BOOKWORMS — BACK 367 

sects. There has been a tendency at times to record as pests of books 
insects that harm books only under the most accidental of conditions. 
Tliis may have resulted from the thorough disregard for the preserva- 
tion of books and manuscripts known to exist quite generally even as 
late as a hundred years ago, wliich sometimes resulted in the storing 
of books in unsanitary surroundings. It is to be regretted that even 
today the records of many colonial probate courts and the vital statis- 
tics of many small towns and counties, to say nothing of State records 
in some capitol buildings, are stored in basement rooms so poorly venti- 
lated and insulated against moisture that instances of their injury, and 
often of their utter destruction, by insects are by no means rare. The 
late George S. Godard, for years librarian of the Connecticut State 
Library, preached constantly to the town clerks and judges probate 
the necessity of exercising great care to house public records where 
insects, fire, and water could not harm them, and did more than any 
other one person, in all probability, to bring the valuable town and 
county records of Connecticut together in the well-guarded State 
library. One has only to search for early records in many parts of 
the United States to appreciate how many books of records of his- 
torical value have already been destroyed by insects because of im- 
proper housing. 

Blades, the Englishman, already referred to as writmg in England 
in 1888, states: "Our cousins in the United States, so fortunate in 
many things, seem very fortunate in this — their books are not attacked 
by the 'worm' — at any rate, American writers say so." He even calls 
attention to the statement in Ringway's Encyclopaedia of Printing 
that in Philadelphia the slightest ravages of bookworms "are looked 
upon as both curious and rare." Even if this were true in that day, 
such a state of affairs has long since passed. In the colonial days of 
this country books were not commonly possessed by the average house- 
hold in the numbers possible today. In fact, books in many homes 
were limited to the Bible, church hymnals, American printed histories, 
and a few school books. These were given such hard usage that book- 
worms made no headway in them, and the books were so valued that 
they became a part of many an itemized inventory of a man's estate 
and were mentioned in his will. 

Early writers have done much to instill into the public thought 
the idea of mystery and elusiveness surrounding bookworms. Often 
the discovery of a single living grub (pi. 12) has been thought 
worthy of record. Too few writers have associated the bookworms 
with very commonplace, cosmopolitan pests of articles of commerce 
and of stored or refuse vegetable matter and animal matter or with 
the wood of buildings. The cigarette beetle, responsible for thous- 
ands of dollars worth of damage annually to raw and manufactured 



368 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

tobaccos and upholstered furniture, and the drugstore beetle, which, 
with the cigarette beetle, is the ever present foe of farinaceous food 
products — seeds, grains, dried vegetable drug supplies, condiments, 
and many home furnishings of vegetable origin — are so abundant 
numerically that at times they swarm from warehouses by the millions 
and so fill the air that the flying beetles are carried considerable dis- 
tances by the wind and on the clothing and vehicles of travelers. 
Others, like termites, cockroaches, and silverfish are such cosmopolitan 
and constantly injurious pests of the home that they are accepted the 
world over more as common household pests than as book destroyers. 

It is a source of wonder to many that books and old manuscripts 
can be so badly damaged by insects and yet, when examined, reveal 
not a living bookworm. So often nothing is readily visible but the 
havoc left behind by the feeding grubs. More old books will be so 
found than with active feeding bookworms. There is no mystery, 
however, in this state of affairs. Nature has provided enemies of 
bookworms in the form of tiny parasites never seen by the untrained 
eye. They ferret out the grubs of bookworms and kill them off, 
and after they have done their work they too pass on to other fields 
of activity and along come the scavengers of nature, the dermestids 
such as the cabinet beetle {Trogoderma) or the small larvae of the 
carpet beetles {Attagenus and A?ithrenus), known better to us all as 
destroyers of carpets and clothing, which devour most of the animal 
tissues left in the book except the chitinou? jaws of the bookworm. 
In many a book, completely free of bookworms but badly burrowed 
by them, will be found the remains of cocoons of parasites to indicate 
the battle for supremacy that occurred perhaps only a year ago, per- 
haps 50 or a 100 years ago according to the age of the book, date of 
original infestation, and condition of subsequent storage. Yet, 
each book, unless too vigorously tampered with by man, carries such 
evidence that the kind of insect causing the damage can be determined, 
if not by the naked eye, then surely with the aid of the microscope. 

Untreated books often carry bookworms from country to country. 
Several such instances are interesting to record, for they indicate 
how careful persons should be in purchasing old books. In 1937 a 
letter received from St. Leo Abbey, St. Leo, Fla., stated that many 
books in its library were being ruined by insects. The insect causing 
the damage ^ proved to be new to science, and a visit of investigation 
revealed that the injured books had been presented to the Abbey from 
the estate of Bishop Moore of St. Augustine, Fla., who died in 1901. 
This fact, supplemented by the statement by the Rt. Rev. Abbot 
Francis Sadlier, head of the institution at St. Leo, that books in the 
rectory of the cathedral at St. Augusthine were infested, led the 

* Neogastrallua Wbrinoceus. 



BOOKWORMS — BACK 369 

writer to visit St. Augustine. With tlie cooperation of the Rev. I. 
Nunan and the Rev. John H. O'Keefe, the books of the rectory were 
examined and found in some instances to be badly infested. Later, 
the library of St. Joseph's Academy, St. Augustine, was found to be 
very generally infested. It was also learned that the early cathedral 
records, including the vital statistics of early inhabitants, had been 
so damaged by the insects that they were reconditioned during 1937 
by the National Archives to prevent their utter destruction. Wlien 
it was found that books in the public libraries of other Florida cities 
were not infested with the same insect, everything pointed to the col- 
lections of the late Bishop Moore and the cathedral records as the 
original sources of the infestation at St. Leo and St. Augustine. 

Upon further inquiry, it was learned from Father Nunan that 
Bishop Moore's aptitude for historic research had led him to dis- 
cover that all the records of the cathedral, including the vital statis- 
tics and church furnishings, had been loaded into the ship Out Lady 
of Light^ under the command of Don Marcos Capitillo, and carried to 
Havana, where they arrived February 6, 1764. This effort of the 
Bishop of Havana, in charge of the Catholic diocese then including 
the West Indies, Florida, and Louisiana, to protect the possessions 
of the St. Augustine Mission from destruction by the English when 
they took over the rule of Florida, resulted in the depositing of the 
records, in the form of handwritten, bound volumes, in the archives 
of what is now called Columbus Cathedral in Havana. There they 
remained until Bishop Moore, discovering them and recognizing their 
great historical importance to the State of Florida, negotiated their 
return to the Archives of the St. Augustine Cathedral in the year 
1913, As no other books in Florida had been found infested by this 
destructive bookworm except those originating in the St. Augustine 
Cathedral or in the house of Bishop Moore, it was suspected that 
when the records were returned from Cuba, they carried an infesta- 
tion which later was carried in gifts of books to the Catholic institu- 
tions above mentioned. A visit to Havana in 1938 proved the pest 
to be widely distributed in many book stalls, in the National Library 
in the Capitol Building, and in the Columbus Cathedral. In the 
closely guarded archives of the Columbus Cathedral itself some of 
the unused volumes of old records, some dating back to the sixteenth 
century, were so badly riddled that the pages could not be turned. 
There seems little doubt but that this bookworm was introduced into 
Florida at St. Augustine with the return of the cathedral records 
after storage in the Columbus Cathedral, Havana, from 1764 to 1913, 
and that from St. Augustine, infestations were carried to St. Leo, Fla. 
In 1939 the same insect was found to be causing great destruction in 
the unused books of the library of St. Charles College at Grand 



370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

Coteau, La. This infestation undoubtedly owes its origin to infested 
books taken there from Havana many years ago. 

It is said that there is no finer collection of books and manuscripts 
dealing with Jewish literature and history than that in the library 
of the Jewish Theological Seminary in New York City. Many of 
the ancient volumes have come to this country from those portions 
of Europe known to be overrun with bookworms. When these books 
were moved to the new and very beautiful and modern seminary 
library building in 1933, many were found to be carrying active in- 
festations which had their origin across the Atlantic. A sojourn in 
this country had in no way impaired their capacity for injury. 

While engaged in investigational work in Honolulu, the writer made 
the acquaintance of the late Dr. William T. Brigham, for many years 
director of the Bemice Pauahi Bishop Museum, and was shown his 
valuable collection of books in which he took great pride. After Dr. 
Brigham's death, these books were boxed and stored in Honolulu for 
several years until, in 1927, they were sold to a firm of book sellers in 
Boston. Upon arrival in Boston, hardly a book of the estimated 8,000 
volumes, valued at over $25,000, was found free from the ravages of 
Catorama bookworms. One damaged book is shown natural size in 
plate 4. It is hard to believe how quickly bookworms can ruin books 
in certain warm and humid climates and how easily they can be shipped 
to distant lands. A shipment of books, similarly infested and injured, 
was received late in 1939 by the Congressional Library from Kio de 
Janeiro, Brazil. 

Not all insects that infest books are true bookworms. Book insects 
may be divided into three groups: (1) the true bookworms, (2) 
termites, and (3) surface feeders. 

The true bookworms are all tiny creatures (pis. 4, 5). In no stage 
of their life do they exceed, usually, one-tenth or one-eighth of an 
inch in length. The adults, almost never seen without a close search, 
are brownish or blackish beetles. The adult beetles are inconspicuous 
and are seldom active in the bright light of midday. They possess cer- 
tain adornments which make it possible to distinguish the species, once 
the beetles are captured and placed beneath the microscope. In like 
manner, the white grubs (pis. 4, 5, 12) or immature forms look alike 
to the average person. Wlien disturbed by the turning of the pages 
through which they have been building their tunnels, they curl into 
tight balls and roll out of the book, or roll just enough from their 
tunnels to be crushed when the book is closed. The grubs hatch from 
eggs laid by the parent beetles and at once begin burrowing into the 
covers, seemingly preferring covers in which there is considerable 
glue, paste, or casein. They frequently center their attack along the 
backs or hinges of the book covers, cutting the threads which bind the 



BOOKWORMS BACK 371 

pages together, thus causing the pages to fall apart (pi. 6). From 
these original points of attack the grubs, as thej^ get more mature and 
voracious, extend their tunnels through covers and pages, according 
to the habit of the particular species, and so line their tunnels and 
pupal chambers with a gluelike secretion that badly affected books may 
literally become solid blocks of paper, to be opened only by main 
strength, and then not without ripping and rending the pages into 
worthlessness. Even a page as moderately damaged as that shown 
in plate 8 can be separated from the next page only with care. Some 
books (pi. 16) must be soaked in clear gasoline before any further 
attempt is made to recondition their pages. 

Fortunately the bookworms most commonly attacking sheepskin 
and cloth-bound books in law libraries and other collections through- 
out the United States confine their ravages to the leather and the card- 
board of the cover (pi. 15) and seldom burrow into more than a few 
of the pages closest to the cover. When a number of the grubs are 
burrowing in leather-bound books left for months without being re- 
moved from the shelving, they will push out, from the holes they make 
in the leather, chewed particles which fall and lie in small heaps on the 
shelving between the exposed book ends. The excrement of bookworm 
grubs gathers in their tumiels and between the pages as a fine dust 
that may be as varied in its color as the differences in the type of paper 
or the printing ruined by their feeding. From badly damaged books 
this powder or dust will sift out when the book is shaken over paper 
and can sometimes be collected by the quart. In plate 12 is shown the 
well-grown white grub of a typical bookworm surrounded by the dust 
it has formed as it has eaten out a cavity along the edges of the pages 
where these are sewed together. All real destruction is caused by the 
dust-making grubs. The adult beetles which mature close beneath 
the cover or the edge of the pages escape from the book by eating 
small round holes as shown in plates 1, 14, 16. The adults must reach 
the exterior to mate, and they lay their eggs about the covers and 
edges of the pages. 

The insects known as surface feeders are the common household 
pests — cockroaches, silverfish, and psocids or book-lice. Although 
psocids are very frequently seen running over books in some libraries 
and in many homes and have been called lice because they are whitish, 
tiny creatures, hardly as large as the head of an ordinary pin, their 
importance as book pests has been exaggerated. They are frail 
creatures that today are considered incapable of causing physical in- 
jury to book covers. Since they do not bite people, carry disease, or 
harm books, they are objectionable only in the annoyance they may 
cause nervous persons who do not know that they are harmless. 
Warmth and dampness favor their increase. 

:l978o5 — 40 25 



372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

Cockroaches and silverfish are world-wide in their distribution. 
They can seriously deface book covers but rarely do more, even when 
most abundant. They do not eat into the pages of books: they eat 
the sizing out of book covers. If these are of paper, the insects may 
actually devour the paper itself as indicated in plate 7, where an 
envelope is shown ruined by silverfish. But usually both silverfish 
and cockroaches confine their attack to removing the sizing from 
cloth bindings as indicated in plate 2 or to eating off labels pasted 
onto books or files (pi. 13, c). The large American cockroaches may 
become very destructive in closed library spaces and may actually eat 
off the backs of cloth-bound books (pi. 13, a). Cockroaches emit an 
inklike liquid which further defaces books (pi. 13, b). No one can 
sympathize with the librarian in northern climates who permits cock- 
roaches and silverfish to deface books, for the presence of these insects 
in numbers is the result of neglect for which there is no excuse. But 
in tropical areas, or even in the Gulf coast States, where cockroaches 
and silverfish are abundant ever3^where outdoors as well as indoors, 
the protection of books from defacement is a continuing battle that 
is won only by eternal watchfulness and application of remedial 
measures. 

Termites have ruined more books than any other group of book 
insects. There are two kinds, the subterranean and the dry-wood 
termites, which, however, look veiy much alike (pi. 3, a, c). Because 
the worker forms, which cause injury, are creamy white in color, they 
are frequently called "white ants," although they are very distinct 
from true ants, which do not harm books. Termites are never seen 
running about over books and furniture unless their feeding cham- 
bers have been broken open. The subterranean forms are so called 
because they must maintain contact with the moisture in the soil be- 
neath the building in which they are causing destruction. In modern 
libraries built with the intention of "building termites out" and 
equipped with metal shelving, the subterranean termites cause no 
harm. It is true that cracks in basement floors and side walls may 
offer entry to subterranean termites even into buildings thought to 
be termite-proof, but it requires little inspection to guard against 
such attack. Usually, subterranean termite destruction takes place 
in libraries in wooden buildings with books stored on wooden shelv- 
ing. In private homes, or in public institutions that store valuable 
old records in basement rooms, or even on first-story floors, termites 
may attack with a suddenness that is astonishing. Their natural 
food is wood, which is cellulose, but the pages of many books are also 
cellulose. Private collections of books left packed in wooden boxes 
over wooden basement floors infested with termites have been ruined 
during a four-months' storage period. Types of injury caused by 



BOOKWORMS — BACK 373 

subterranean termites are indicated in plates 9 and 10. No two 
books will show the same pattern of destruction, but subterranean 
termite injury can be identified by the thin deposit of mud with 
which the termites line the cavities eaten out in books. This mud 
is formed from earth particles carried from the soil beneath the 
building in which the damage has occurred and is used as a plaster 
to air-condition the termite home. 

Dry-wood termites require no contact with the soil and may be 
destructive wherever they occur. Fortunately, instead of being 
found in most parts of the United States as are the subterranean 
termites, they are more tropical forms and are found mainly in 
tropical areas, being troublesome in the United States from Charles- 
ton, S. C, southward. In southern Florida, Cuba, and parts of 
California, and in Hawaii and the Philippine Islands, they are de- 
structive. They do not line with mud the cavities they eat in books, 
but can be identified at once by the peculiar appressed whitish or tan 
pellets of excrement which will flow in a stream from a book as it is 
opened (pi. 3, b). The cavities that they eat into books are of endless 
variation as to size and contour (pi. 11). 

Although more instances of injury by insects to books have been 
recorded during the past few years in private homes, the ravages 
of book insects have been greatly lessened in large public and private 
institutions, where much attention is being given to perfecting 
methods designed to eliminate insects. Subterranean termites have 
been eliminated from modern termite-proofed buildings using steel 
shelving. Modern construction and care in selecting shelving with- 
out open hollow spaces that can be used as hiding places for cock- 
roaches and silverfish make possible the complete subjection of these 
defacers of books in most parts of the country. The National 
Archives has installed modern vacuum fumigation vaults in which 
every lot of newly acquired material is fumigated for the destruction 
of insects before it is allowed to be unpacked. These steel vaults, 
two in number, are shown in plate 18. Each vault is 4i^ by 5i^ by 11 
feet. As told by Arthur E. Kimberly, Chief of the Archives' Divi- 
sion of Repair and Preservation : 

The records are placed in a vault in their original containers and the vault 
Is evacuated until a vacuum of approximately 29.9 in. of mercury is obtained. 
A mixture of ethylene oxide and carbon dioxide is then released into the cham- 
ber until the vacuum falls to 21 in. of mercury. The gas is then agitated for 
15 minutes by pumping it out at the top and in at the sides of the chamber. 
After the records have been exposed for a total of 3 hours the chamber is reevac- 
uated to 29.8 in. of mercury, the vacuum is broken with air, and the fumigated 
materials are removed. 

This method was developed for destroying insects in agricultural 
products by the experts of the Bureau of Entomology and Plant 



374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

Quarantine of the United States Department of Agriculture. It was 
first applied to the fumigation of books in a library by Thomas M. 
liams, who has charge of the preservation of rare books and manu- 
scripts in the Huntington Library. The cylindrical vacuum fumi- 
gator installed in 1931 at that library is shown in plate 17. Although 
vacuum fumigators are expensive and may represent an outlay 
greater than is practicable for smaller institutions, all libraries and 
book lovers can arrange to treat effectively in small rooms, or even 
in very tight chests, books requiring treatment for the destruction 
of borers or bookworms within their covers and pages. 

The insects responsible for some of the most serious infestations 
in books as they stand on the library shelves have been effectively 
destroyed in 24 hours by fumigation of the library space as a single 
unit; and this method of combating bookworms is highly recom- 
mended when funds are available for the employment of a profes- 
sional fumigator. The w^riter knows of no instance where such 
fumigation has failed. 

For libraries loaning books that must be subjected to all sorts of 
conditions in homes, or for home owners themselves, there have been 
perfected formulas for washes that may be applied to book covers 
to prevent or retard the attack of insects. A letter of inquiry ad- 
dressed to the United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, 
D. C, will bring details of treatment. It should always be remem- 
bered in combatting book insects that frequent inspection of books, 
and prompt action if insects should be found, will prevent the ruin 
of valuable books. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939.— Back 



PLATE 1 




TAX BOOKS DAMAGED BY THE DRUGSTORE BEETLE .STEGOBIUM PAN.CEUMj 



° 'tnio^n'o^^'eToflTdor'bo^k'S^^^^^^^^ '" '-t*^- njade by eseapin. beetles; 

reduced in size.) remo\ed to show typical damage to cover. (Figures a and c slightly 



Smithsonian Report, 1939.— Back 



Plate 3 




Photograph b} 



TERMITES. 



a, Dry-wood termites in a recently made cavity in wooden bookcase; b, excreta! pellets of dry-wood 

termites: c, a young termite. 



Smithsonian Report, ] 939. —Back 




BOOK NaturalSize Showing the Destructive burrowing ofthe HAWAIIAN 

Catorama Bookworm. 

Insert: Larvae and adults of Catorama bibliothccaruin. (2 X natural size.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Back 



PUATE 5 




a. Pages of book ruinoil by feciliiiff of grubs of Ne.ogaslTalliis librinncens. Eight larvae are shown in cells iu 
which they are about to transform to the adult beetle stage. 6, A single feeding grub of GaMraUns laevi- 
gatus in the burrow it has made; c, four grubs and four adults of the drugstore beetle, Stegobium 
patiiceum. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Back 

r 



Plate 6 






th( 

tO] 

an 


i' Y 


Tl 


¥'!» 


ST 
Cc 
an 


tt."Ja 


ttS 


pa 


ill 


to 


i^ 


\vJ 


^m 


!o^ 


Ngi% ^ 


its 



Bookworm Destruction ofThreads Used To bind Pages of Book Together, 
Causing the pages Thus Freed To Fall Out. 

a, Left, heavy jute thread from sack damaged by larvae of Lasioderma serrkorne, indicating ease with which 
threads are cut and ruined by boolcworm larvae as they burrow in books. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Back 



Fide Hum. Vmufcpi-ij,,,^*, 

>rum quhritfnj.dej^m* ' 

difciplin*. Alti^ de 

.^ot JTtfnnt eiymm 

tuto. ExpulfiQferrfmn 

■Ifi cum tUis/tiiim P^- 



"-^^ 




/"v 



anxie admoduriiTS lol- 
Ua fibi cHi-t cu m iqipu. 
;atio , quos nor? lolum ^ ^J" v 

afpcdtu arcere folebant. * ■'^s.^ 
ia undiquc claufa erant , • _. 

e imbutus , aut aliqua for-^^ z^ 

entur eorumdem myfte'^^v^ i^ 

eiicicbaatur , donee pri^- . • — 

iflent. Hincorta duplies ^^^'^- — ^ 

I Catechu menorum, ^^ • ^r.^" 

bus vel trifius primis "Ec^ '' 'liT \ ""^ 

nftabat j quibus abfolutis 

k alii qui Miflx fidclium 

atres & Epifcd^i ajii<]j^M^ 

iones ad uifiielium Col^M-* ' 

tdtum eSnferre, admilll "*" 

> fiew ^fer mo ; q Uo habi-> , 

Ita fancitum mit m *-t^i^^^ ^ 

mprohibea^ingredi Eccte-^ 'fj'.^ 

? hAretkum -.five JudmjA, * 

m ediftirationenffe' 

iicSns*: Hoc inter »£ter. 

li^^nte^tthefum ilUtio-. 

^pnum PoU ^poftolum le- 

/ Ufu chiifiUvel fermSnfm 

""^i^c PcsnitemeSiCr ^{pn^ 



V-i 



2-' 










il^/r^;. 



Icpnlueycrant. Quamvi 
ieR;u tucijid i u^itterer 
clu?iiJCnis'^^onT?n aceej 
nbn)>u»nqMm contingc 
ni. Vbts ^cda //( 
\\t9z audutores 
eft ac L.^^inc auditor. 
Cat echiifnemx^chts pro 
ntcii biiptifmiim pcrTi- 
•nusli D. depoenir. cap. < 
c r/'iin a eputatur. Htpau 
jrxjit merc o po(tet . Cypri 
frAisenh ^ in exitu cor. 
,Optatum inter le 51 ores 
fciiicet Catechumenor 
- Alexandria; viri celeber 
autcm Catechumen i C 
^ertuilianus : J^tcqm 
fijfendam O'perpetm cok 
ditos Domino fpeliM , fea 
ai-irmps fermonibm aures 
mum , nifi pr^miflb tyr 
^ res feJiUos doduros ipoi 
y , Xff Nori omnia tarn 
' '-<ieni Symbolum fidei 

* circa finem ryro?:inii , ^ 

• qffic.EccL cap. 21. ^/^i 

cum mox baptizandi er 

5 ,3 3- ad Marceilinam i 

'^imijl^ Cdtechumenis y S 

^^^fgfde^m . Sozomemis 

xens Symbolumoniitti 

initial mjjrernsJoHnc li. 

Symboli fervabatur, a 

mflinatione Scriftinii a( 

• i!i[ti/quatuorEYang«li, 



r 



Opened Book, indicating Destructive Feeding by "Neogastrallus 

librinocens." 

Pages thus injured can be turned only with great difficulty because of the gluelike secretion with which 
the bookworms line some of their cavities. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939.- Back 



Plate 9 




TWO Books, Showing Exterior Evidence of attack by subterranean 

Termites. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Back 



PLATE 10 



Vw «w,™,. 

Nor l<.nger ^hall m^JW ^J";^ ^ 
WbrteerUwu art * 
Thou bast l-Tn 1' 




1 . Book Opened to Show Havoc Caused by Subterranean Termites. 

(4 natural size) 




2. Indicating How Thoroughly subterranean Termites Can Destroy 
Records Not Properly Guarded. 

Note thin deposit of mud lining burrows in this and above illustration. {I2 natural size.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1039.— Back 



PLATE 13 




Damage Done to Books by the American Cockroach -periplaneta 

americana." 

a, Showing the clotli binding eaten from the backs of two books; b, inkliko stains on' edges of pages; 
c. label of book file damaged by cockroaches. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939— Back 



PLATE 14 








I" AMERICAN- C 

:-:^iGEgT__ /^ 

I658;to 1896.. -J 







GENTURY ...\ 
EDITlOISf '. ' 



•-S^' 



./' 



i 




Leather-Bound Law Book Damaged by the Bookworm "Lasioderma 

serricorne," 

o, Showing burrows of grubs beneath the labels; b. outward appearance of labels showing the small, round 
holes permitting escape of adult beetles from the burrows shown in a. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Back 



Plate 15 




Sheepskin-Bound State records. 

a. External appearance of books damaged by the drugstore beetle, SUgohium pankeum; b, burrows of the 
grubs on inside of cover; c, burrows in outside of cover where two bool<s are closely apprer-sed. 




If '• . f -, ,-^' •. '^ •':'! fj 
• - • !' •! '♦♦ •. * •% 

/vV, 






•*• 



^« 






r.V 



V, 



m 



i»J1. 



•/'.• 



•** 



t- 



:,^ 



- t< 



^% 




*- *. .• 



*•. 



*^ 



mi 



^>^ 



,.'*^b. 






3lSp»ii*^.'iv 



THE PROBLEM OF CONSERVING RARE NATIVE PLANTS 



By M. L. Febnald, D. C. L., D. Sc. 

Fisher Professor of Natural History and Director of the Gruy Herbarium 

Harvard University 



[With 7 plates] 



In the autumn of 1765 John Bartram and his son William discovered 
near the Altamaha River in Georgia a splendid low tree or tall shrub 
which, raised in the Bartram Garden, proved to be a close relative 
of the Asiatic Camellia. So handsome were the richly fragrant white 
flowers, described as 5 inches across, that, in the words of Humphrey 
Marshall, "William Bartram, who first introduced jt. * * * has 
chosen to honour it with the name of that patron of sciences, the truly 
great and distinguished character, Benjamin Franklin." Writing of 
it in 1773 William Bartram said : 

I have traveled by land from Pensylvania to the banks of the Missisipi, over 
almost all the Teritory in that distance between the Seashore «& the first moun- 
tains, cross'd all the Rivers, and assended them from their capes a many miles, 
& search'd their various branches Yet never saw This beautiful Tree growing 
wild but in one spot on the Altamaha about 30 miles from the Sea coast neither 
has any other person that I know of ever seen or heard of it.- 

Because of the great beauty and delicious fragrance of its flowers 
Franklinia (pi. 1, fig. 1) was in great demand in horticulture. It is 
recorded that from 1787 to 1789 London nurserymen were ordering 
iiundreds of plants from Humphrey Marshall and his nephew and 
partner, Moses Marshall. In 1790, the year of Franklin's death, Moses 
Marshall visited the Altamaha, presumably to fill conunercial orders, 
and it is generally conceded that he was the last person to see Frank- 
linia in its native haunts. Whether the wild shrubs and trees were 
greedily exterminated by Moses Marshall for commercial gain or 
whether the genus was already so near its natural end as a living 
tree that other factors closed its existence we shall never actually 

^ The original address upon which the present paper is based was given before the 
Franklin Institute of I'hiladelphia, on Friday, May 20, 1938, under the title, "Must all 
Rare Plants Suffer the Fate of 1-Yanklinia ?" The original paper, of which this is an 
amplification and modification, was published in the Journal of the Franklin Institute, 
vol. 206, No. 3, September 1938. 

*From mss. at British Museum (Nat. Hist.) quoted by Harper and Leeds in Bartonia, 
No. 19, p. 2, 1938. 

375 



376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

know. The bald fact is that Moses Marshall, in 1790, was the last 
man to see it growing where nature had preserved it through millions 
of years. 

Franklinia^ as stated, is related to the Asiatic Camellia. It be- 
longs in a natural family of shrubs and trees displaying the amaz- 
ing disruption of range shown by hundreds of eastern North 
American groups which, in Cretaceous or Tertiary time, had a wide 
distribution across Eurasia and North America. Owing to the cli- 
matic and physiographic changes accompanying late Tertiary 
uplifts of western America and various parts of Eurasia, followed by 
the refrigerations of Pleistocene glaciations, these hundreds of groups 
have now disappeared from living floras except for disrupted rem- 
nants, sometimes in southeastern Europe, but more generally in 
southern and eastern Asia and in eastern North America. As long 
ago as 1750, Halenius, in his doctor's thesis defended before Lin- 
naeus at Upsala, pointed out this similarity in the floras of eastern 
Asia and eastern North America, but it remained for the genius 
of Asa Gray to bring this relationship vividly before the scientific 
world. 

Many closely related, if not identical species of this eastern or 
southern Asiatic and southeastern North American relationship are 
in no danger of extermination : such groups, for instance, as Lirio- 
dendron, the tulip tree, Hammnelis, the witch hazel, Sassafras., Nyssa, 
the sour gums, and Symplocar'pus., the skunk cabbage. Others, how- 
ever, after millions of years of competition with more youthful 
types, have retained such tenuous footholds in America that they 
are rightly looked upon as last remnants of the ancient flora which 
have grown old where they now linger but which lack the capacity 
to resist the invasions of more youthful or aggressively dominating 
genera and species, and least of all the invasion of "that most de- 
structive of all creatures, 'man.' " * Many of them are the rarest of 
plants and some of the most remarkable have already suffered the 
fate of Franklinia. 

In order to make quite clear the varying capacities to meet pres- 
ent conditions of plants in the wild (and, I take it, a parallel 
grouping can be made of mammals, birds, and lower groups of 
animals), it is necessary briefly to consider the composition of the 
wild flora of eastern America. To the layman the words "plants" 



=• The late C. S. Sargent placed Franklinia in the genus Oordonia, as O. altamaha 
(Bartr.) Sargent. Melchior, however, reviewing (in Die Natiirlichen Pflanzenfamilien, 
1925) the whole family Theaceae. with 23 genera and about 380 species, maintains 
Franldinia altamaha Bartr. as a monotypic genus and in a different subtrlbe from the 
chiefly Asiatic genus Gordonia (with 1 North American, 30 Asiatic species). This state- 
ment seems important, since a correspondent of horticultural Journals, seeking to dis- 
credit the statements in the original paper, asserts that I am in error in maintaining 
Franklinia as a genus. 

* Scharff, R. F., Distribution and origin of life in America, p. 194, 1912. 



RARE NATIVE PLANTS FERNALD 377 

and "flora" too often mean garden flowers, farm crops, timber trees, 
and weeds. These, although the most obvious of plants, are to the 
thoughtful student the least interesting, unless, perchance, his out- 
look is strictly pragmatic. 

By far the most familiar element in our wild flora in the neigh- 
borhood of old settlements is the great population of weeds. Brought 
chiefly from the roadsides, fields, and waste lands of Europe within 
the last three centuries, they are covering the disturbed soils of large 
sections of the North American continent: Common dandelion, bur- 
docks, daisy or white weed, witchgrass, mustards, hawkweeds, wild 
carrot, Canada thistle, bull thistle, common plantain, English plan- 
tain, pigweed, docks, smartweed, and many others, including the 
various cultivated (and escaped) fodder plants, like the clovers, 
timothy, and orchard grass. The invasion of newly disturbed or 
cleared land by the hawkweeds (devil's paintbrush, king devil, and 
others), dandelion, witchgrass, and others of their ilk is too obvious. 
They are the youngest species of our flora, the rapidly reproducing, 
aggressive, uninvited, and unrestrained vagrants, the ultrademocratic 
and unsophisticated intruders. Their number is well over 1,000, and 
their army is reenforced by every arrival of uncleaned European 
seeds, in the stockings, trouser-bottoms, skirt-hems and blankets of 
immigrants, in the litter and old straw used in packing from abroad. 
Arrived in a new country they know no restraints and after a short 
period of adjustment become the bulk of our plant population wher- 
ever natural conditions have been destroyed, and they will even in- 
vade and obliterate relict colonies of our original native flora. 

There is no possible question of the present-day biological success 
of the introduced weeds. When I was a boy in Maine, in the late 
seventies and early eighties, one of the beautiful garden perennials, 
raised in a few favored borders and coveted by all who had flower 
gardens, was Hieracium aurantiacum^ a plant with broad clusters of 
orange and scarlet tassellike erect heads. It was handsome and at 
that time unusual, and it was scrupulously shared only with those 
who would really appreciate and nurture it, as Venus' paintbrush. 
Soon, however, in the eighties and early nineties, it had become 
acclimated and began to appear in the fields. It has now ruined 
thousands and thousands of acres of fallow field and clearing from 
the tip of Gaspe to Michigan and southward to Pennsylvania; and, 
whereas it first came to America as Venus' paintbrush, it is now 
known to all farmers as devil's paintbrush. Furthermore, in that 
wonderful region containing Oakos Gulf, Bigelow's Lawn, and the 
Alpine Garden on Mount Washington, where are assembled a great 
colony of the rarest of arctic-alpine species of plants (of most great 
groups), small mammals, and insects, the devil's paintbrush repeat- 
edly comes in from below. Only by close watching by the few who 



378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN" INSTITUTION, 19 39 

appreciate a choice and distinctive habitat can it be kept in restraint. 
Similarly, in the bleak alpine chimneys of the high mountains of 
Gaspe, the home oi a splendid colony of rare alpines, another of the 
vagrant hawkweeds, this time the king devil, blows in from the low- 
land fields. The last time I visited the mountains I carefully ex- 
terminated all the king devil I found — there suppressing or crowding 
out Oassiope. It is feared that no one has subsequently done such 
policing there. 

One of the handsomest plants of pastures, hillsides, and open 
mountain slopes of the British Isles is a large groundsel {Senecio 
Jacobcea), known as ragwort or by 50 other local and colloquial 
names. One of its older cognomens was the dignified St.-James's- 
wort (whence the Latin name.) In the late seventies St.-James's-wort 
appeared as a waif or stowaway on ballast, thrown out from a ship 
at Pictou, Nova Scotia. For several years it remained a local colony ; 
but by 1884 it had begun to spread along the local roadsides ; by 1900 
it had become one of the worst pests of northern and eastern Nova 
Scotia, eastern New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island. Brows- 
ing animals avoid it and it has full sway, completely dominating, 
along with one or more of the European hawkweeds, much of the 
cleared land of the Maritime Provinces, where no one now calls it 
St.-James's-wort; it is everywhere appropriately known as "stinking 
Willie.'* Soon after 1900 stinking Willie reached the waste land 
about the union station in Portland, Maine, and it now colors a 
pasture slope in Essex County, Mass. 

Among the most remarkable elements of the flora of eastern 
North America are the estuary plants, a few very distinct species 
which grow only on the flats of rivers where twice a day the incom- 
ing tide pushes back the fresh or but slightly brackish waters. Only 
a few species can tolerate the rapid changes from drowning and im- 
mersion in mud and silt, alternating with drying off or toasting in 
the sunshine. Consequently the distinctive estuary species are a re- 
stricted and biologically significant group. The finest estuary in our 
region is that of the St. Lawrence, from slightly below Montreal to 
many miles below Quebec; others of note are the estuaries of the 
Penobscot, the Kennebec-Androscoggin system, the Merrimac, the 
Hudson, the Delaware, and Chesapeake Bay. Twenty years ago 
any of these estuaries would yield abundant material of their endemic 
(or epibiotic) species. But Montreal became a great fresh- water 
port for trans-Atlantic liners. Straw and litter from Europe thrown 
into the St. Lawrence quickly found lodgment, and the seeds or tubers 
of meadow plants of England and France discovered a new home. 
Today for many miles, from above Montreal to below Quebec, the 
formerly unique and endemic flora of the estuary is being rapidly 



KARE NATIVE PLANTS FERNALD 379 

obliterated by the crowding and handsome but overwhelming flower- 
ing rush {Butomus unibellatus) and the purple loosestrife {Lythrwm 
Salicana) ^ both gorgeous to look upon but unscrupulous and without 
mercy for the insignificant endemics, which cannot last many years 
longer. Similarly, on the lower Merrimac the same purple loose- 
strife, a joy to the artistic and unscientific eye, has obliterated the 
fastidious and localized endemics, which had become isolated there 
since the last withdrawal of the Champlain sea. 

Unfortunately, these vagrant, aggressive, and opportunist weeds 
from Europe are destined to be the cosmopolitan flora of temperate 
regions as soon as man has a little further interfered with the natural 
habitats of our long-established native floras. They are our thor- 
oughly successful wild plants, and their success is to be compared 
with that of the European man, the European rat, the European 
mouse, the European house (or "English") sparrow, the European 
starling, the European gypsy moth, the European brown-tail moth, 
the European house fly, and other invaders which, wherever they can 
get an opening, are rapidly replacing our indigenous Indians, rodents, 
birds, and insects which had long ago established an equilibrium. 

In our native flora, likewise, there is a group of aggressive invaders, 
certain plastic and pioneering species which, along with the vagrants 
of European origin, often take possession of newly cleared and dis- 
turbed land: Pasture brake, flyaway grass {Agrostis scabra), aspen 
(Populiis tremuloides) , gray birch {Betula popuUfolia), hardback 
(Spiraea to?nentosa), wild strawberry, raspberry, blackberries, bird 
cherry, yellow ladies'-sorrel {Oi'olis europaea)^ poison ivy, fireweed, 
pennyroyal, horseweed, and a hundred more. These are our native 
invaders but they are relatively harmless. They have been longer on 
the ground and, although showing some of the unrepressed traits of 
aggressive youth, they are surely less obnoxious in their behavior than 
are many of the recently arrived European invaders. 

Then there are the dominant but unaggressive species, abundant 
over vast areas but show^ing little or no tendency to push in where 
they are not wanted: Cinnamon fern, various club mosses, ground 
yew, Indian poke, bayberry, hazel, beech, common clematis, colum- 
bine, sugar maple, and hundreds of others. These are the common 
species of appropriate wild habitats, the backbone of our flora, the 
bourgeois, vigorous, fertile, dependable, chiefly of late Tertiarj^ dis- 
persal and eminently respectable. 

After them I should place the quiescent species, locally abundant 
over large areas, absent from equally extensive areas: Maidenhair 
fern, adder's-tongue fern, shagbark hickory, marsh marigold, blood- 
root, climbing bittersweet, wicopy or leatherwood, ginseng, bottle 
gentians, fringed gentian, and three or four hundred others. These 



380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

are the plants familiar to everyone in certain areas, quite unknown 
in other areas, conservative as to habitat, holding their own and 
prospering under the conditions they have always known. Follow- 
ing the social classification adopted, they might be called the upper 
middle class, too fastidious to be "go-getters" but with enough 
vitality and reproductive capacity to prosper where conditions are 
favorable. This conservative but prospering element in the flora 
consists largely of genera or subgenera which have the interrupted 
eastern Asiatic-eastern American range. Whenever fossils of these 
groups — Adiantum^ Chamaecyparis^ Carya (hickory), the hornbeams, 
the black birches, Celastrms, Tilia, etc. — have been found they indi- 
cate a general occurrence in Tertiary time (sometimes Cretaceous) 
over the Northern Hemisphere, often including areas which are now 
the Arctic. It is significant, therefore, that these plants of consider- 
able antiquity have largely lost the pioneering capacity of younger 
types. 

Then come the various groups of local species, plants of wide 
general range but always w^ith restricted areas, not abundant over 
large tracts : Isotria afjinh^ the small whorled pogonia, Cypripediurn 
aristinuTn^ the ram's-head lady's slipper, Trollius Icuxus^ globe flower, 
Poly gala hrevifolia^ Polemonium Vmi-Bruntice and many more. 
Isotria aifinis (pi. 1, fig. 2) has altogether about a dozen known 
eastern stations, scattered from Virginia to Maine. Its northern out- 
liers are a patch of 35 plants in Oxford County, Maine, one of a few 
individuals in central New Hampshire, and one of a single individual 
in northwestern Vermont. These plants are exclusive, undemocratic 
as to their associates, and show the social isolation and the limited 
reproduction of the aristocracy. 

My chief concern today, however, is not with the ultrademocratic 
intruders from Europe or the bourgeois, the upper middle class, or 
even the lesser aristocrats in our indigenous flora. My plea is for 
wholehearted protection of that helpless but tremendously interesting 
group which may be called the fugitive aristrocrats, the completely 
isolated and usually entirely overlooked small colonies, doing no one 
any harm but of utmost importance to the student of life and its 
history through the last 100,000,000 years. Benjamin Franklin was 
himself a democrat, but Franklinia^ named in his honor, was a fugi- 
tive aristocrat. Even if we try to overlook the commercial implica- 
tion of Moses Marshall's last visit to the refuge of Franklinia on the 
Altamaha, it is perfectly evident that the unrestrained pressure of 
bourgeois and vagrant species about it and the unintelligent intrusion 
of aggressive man would soon have wiped it out. Its fate has been 
that of hundreds (no one can guess how many) of relict species, and a 
similar fate threatens the whole series of highly localized rarities. 



RARE NATIVE PLANTS FERNALD 381 

The limestone ledges of Rock Island at the falls of the Ohio near 
Louisville, Ky., and New Albany, Ind., were, a century ago, the home 
of a remarkable number of highly localized plants. At least two of 
them have never been found elsewhere. One was Psoralea stipulata 
(pi. 2, fig. 1), the other Solidago Short ii. Each is a unique species, 
the Psoralea so peculiar that our most intensive student of the group 
has doubted ^ whether it is a Psoralea at all or whether it may be- 
long to a wholly different tribe. The solution depends upon securing 
fruit of the plant, which is now out of the question. "Rock Island 
* * * was blasted away some years ago when the Ohio was made 
more navigable." As to Solida.go Shortii, the layman would say 
"Wliat of it? It is merely another goldenrod of which there are 
already too many." But consider a moment. When Edison started 
his studies of new sources of rubber he had as botanical adviser the 
late Dr. John K. Small. Shortly before his death Small told me that, 
of the hundreds of species of quickly growing plants which might 
serve, Solidago Gattingeri had been found to give the greatest yield of 
rubber. To the layman, again, Solidago Gattingeri is merely another 
goldenrod; to the economist it is a most promising quickly grown 
source of rubber; to the student of the flora it is a highly localized 
plant of a few limestone glades and knobs of Tennessee and adjacent 
Missouri. Luckily for the future of the rubber industry this golden- 
rod had not been exterminated before its economic importance was 
discovered! Incidentally, where would man and his civilization be 
today had not our "primitive" peoples of the past rescued, before 
their extermination in the wild state, such seemingly indispensable 
cereals as wheat and maize (Indian corn) ? Who, in our present 
rudimentary state of intelligence, can predict what rare, localized, and 
usually overlooked species has economic possibilities? 

Instances of the destruction of the last or only living colonies of 
other rare plants by the blasting away of ledges or the building of 
dams will occur to every experienced field botanist ; and the pollution 
of rivers by strong chemicals from pulp mills and factories has been 
as fatal to the native flora of river gravels as to the salmon, shad, 
and other important fishes of the river channels. Some of the most 
amazing of plants grow only near rivers. On the upper St. John, 
between Maine and New Brunswick, there is a unique species of wood 
betony, Pedicularis Furhishiae (pi. 2, fig. 2), named for its discoverer, 
Kate Furbish. Under the manufactured English name, "Miss Fur- 
bish's lousewort," it does not sound very interesting. Its only close 
relative, however, is on the other side of the world, in the mountains 
near Lake Baikal in southern Siberia. It is, then, one of the most 
telling evidences that life on the upper St. John was not wholly 

^See Rydberg. Torreya, vol. 26, p. 89, 1926. 



382 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

destroyed, as we were taught, by Pleistocene ice. To the student of 
biogeography it is a most important plant. Luckily, no factories, 
vomiting poison into the river, have yet been built upriver from it. 
Let them once start to pollute the waters and then develop a freshet 
to overflow the banks; immediately the last plant of Pedicularis 
Furbishiae will die and this living witness to the past wide dispersal 
of its group will be gone. 

Another danger to plants of river gravels is the mechanical one of 
log driving. In 1905, on one of the Gaspe rivers, my companion and 
I found, among other extraordinary plants, a half-shrubby straw- 
berry. Frag aria multicipita (pi. 3), with many erect long-lived fruit- 
ing branches but no slender runners, such as a conventional straw- 
berry plant should have. It is not closely related to any known 
species. Near it was a single small colony of an equally remarkable 
willow, Salix obtusata^ a shrub which the great monographer of the 
willows. Dr. Camillo Schneider, can relate to no living species. 
Twenty years later, taking a party of botanists to see these two 
unique plants, we found that the heavy teaming of a logging crew 
and the use of the beach as a lumber camp had quite extinguished 
them. None but the botanist mourns the loss of these species ; their 
burial ground is now covered with aggressive weeds of European 
origin brought there by the lumber crew. 

Another notable plant, partly destroyed by the activity of man, 
aided perhaps by nature, is the handsome mallow, Phymosia (or 
Sphaeralcea) remota (pi. 4, fig. 1), related only to plants a thousand 
miles or more away. Originally known only from a gravelly island 
in the Kankakee in Illinois, the species suffered from its distinguished 
beauty and its shifting habitat and there eventually became nearly 
extinct. In 1927 a second station for it was found more than 450 
miles to the southeast, in western Virginia, a region originally rich 
in these highly localized species. In the Virginia habitat "the in- 
dividual specimens grow vigorously and attain a height of 6 feet or 
more. * * * Although there is an abundant supply of seeds each 
year, reproduction seems to be at a low ebb for there is apparently 
no spread of the plants and the number during the years from 1927 
to 1931 has remained fairly constant, the total number at the present 
time being not more than 50." To be sure, brought into the garden 
and given artificial aid in germinating, the plant succeeds. But in its 
natural habitat, which alone interests the student of historical phyto- 
geography, it is constantly in danger of a raid by some overzealous 
and commercially minded seeker for rare plants for the garden. 

Among the most remarkable descendants of the ancient flora which 
once girdled the whole northern hemisphere, is the beautiful yellow- 
flowered shrub, Kerria japonica, brought from eastern Asia to our 



RARE NATIVE PLANTS FERNALD 383 

gardens. But Kerria, has a very close ally lingering at the southern 
margin of the Appalachian Upland. At a few spots near Tusca- 
loosa, Ala., Neviusia alabamensis (pi. 4, fig. 2), like an apetalous 
Kema, occurs, discovered in 1858. It is a dramatically interesting 
and biologically most significant plant; and no one has ever found 
it in adjacent States. Let an impulse to blast away the cliffs where 
it grows lead to fatal action, some one may become momentarily 
richer thereby but Neviusia will be gone. In 1934 Bayard Long and 
I found a singular plant in a very restricted bit of peat near large 
fresh-water ponds in Princess Anne County, Va. Unlike anything 
known to us, it eventually proved to be a member of Hypoxis^ sub- 
genus lanthe^ of the Australian region and South Africa. One other 
member of lanthe occurs as one of the very rarest of plants in the 
southeastern States. Otherwise the group belongs in the antipodes. 
To the botanist the little colony of Hypoxis Longii in Princess Anne 
County is of great significance, as one of the living descendants of 
the flora of Cretaceous dispersal which reached Australia before it 
was cut off from connection with other lands. It was discovered in 
1934; it prospered in 1935; but in 1936 word came to me that the 
neighboring ponds were being drained and the Hypoxis area ditched. 
Fortunately the little Hypoxis is still holding on ; but it is inevitable 
that the time will come, with the "improvements" now going on, when 
it must completely disappear. In fact, deep ditching and consequent 
lowering of the water table, such as the powers that be have exten- 
sively carried forward on the Atlantic Coastal Plain, spells ruination 
to the highly specialized and sensitive descendants of ancient stocks 
which, undisturbed, have been able, until the advent of the white man, 
to hold on in specially favorable spots. Incidentally it is ruining 
the breeding and feeding haunts of the vast group of organisms, 
both animal and vegetable, which have always lived together and de- 
pended upon one another. Kecent pages of journals devoted to the 
saving of natural conditions are replete with such facts. 

Strongly suggesting the geographic relationships of Hypoxis^ sub- 
genus lanthe, are many other pantropical groups represented on our 
Atlantic Coastal Plain. As thrilling as any are the Burmannmceae^ 
tiny plants of a family closely related to the orchids. Burmannia 
hi-flora was based by Linnaeus upon three specimens collected by 
Clayton in Virginia. Except for material said to have been obtained 
by Thomas Nuttall somewhere in the State more than a century ago, 
we have known of no other collections since Clayton's until the recent 
discovery of four stations for it, two in Greensville County, one in 
Southampton, one in Nansemond. At its really extensive station in 
Greensville County it is in a sphagnous bog still persisting at the 
margin of a cultivated field. Burmannia there nestles in the shade 



384 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

of Laxilinocaulon anceps and RJiexia ciliosa, and its associates are as 
notable a group of pine-barren and bog species as any in Virginia. 
Among them are the two characteristic and highly localized species 
of Utricularia: the tropical U, jiincea, with conspicuous yellow 
flowers, and the very rare smaller-flowered imitation of it, U. vir- 
gatida. Here is the northernmost known station for the remarkable 
Oxypolis temata (pi. 5, fig. 1). Although originally described by 
Nuttall as coming from "bushy margins of swamps, in the pine for- 
ests of North and South Carolina," the plant is so very local that 
in 1900 Coulter and Kose were able to cite specimens of it only from 
Apalachicola ! There are perhaps 25 plants in the Greensville 
County bog. Near them there occurs a colony, about 1 rod in diam- 
eter, of the excessively rare Calamovilfa hrevipilis. 

Typical Calamovilfa hrevipilis is confined to the pine barrens of 
New Jersey. In southeastern North Carolina there is a very rare 
plant resembling the New Jersey series, but with characters of the 
spikelet setting it apart as a distinct geographic variety. We know 
it from only a single station. The plant of Greensville County, 
occupying 1 square rod of bog, is an extreme departure in its flower- 
ing parts from both the others. In their bases and vegetative char- 
acters the three really distinct plants are inseparable, but the details 
of their spikelets are so different as to mark three highly localized 
varieties of one ancient type. 

As another member of this remarkable assemblage which has not 
yet wholly gone under the plow I will mention Zigadenus angusti- 
folius or Amianthium angusti folium. Occurring on the Coastal 
Plain from eastern Louisiana to Florida, thence to southeastern Vir- 
ginia, the plant has relict colonies on the ancient Appalachian core 
of eastern North America. It is an ancient type still persisting. 
Originally put into Helonias., the species has been placed at times in 
AmiantUimi, at times in Zigadenus. It is atypical in any of them, 
and Small constitutes of it a genus by itself, Tracyanthus. Whether 
it belongs to a new or an old genus, the species is obviously old. So 
far as we yet know there is a solitary small colony of it in Virginia. 

The bog where these plants still persisted in Virginia in October 
1938 was discovered in the preceding July. In August it was intact ; 
in September it had been invaded by hogs. In April 1939 a band 
20 feet wide had been plowed at the upper margin, but in July it 
was noticed that the newly plowed land had yielded no crop except 
corn 8 or 10 inches high. For agricultural purposes the soggy, acid 
land is absolutely useless, but the plowing has now been done. A 
broad strip of Burmminia hiflora and its very rare associates is 
ruined. Weedy types will now occupy the 20-foot belt where they 
formerly grew. 



RARE NATIVE PLANTS FERNALD 385 

The persistence of Zigadenus angustifolius at spots on the ancient 
Appalachian Upland suggests many other plants of similar Coastal 
Plain and upland or montane occurrence. Pamassia asarifoJia^ pri- 
marily a species of bogs along the mountains of western Virginia 
and the Carolinas, occurs in at least one springy bog in Tidewater 
Virginia. Within a few rods of it there is a fine colony of Helonias 
hullata, a montane plant of western Virginia and North Carolina, a 
local Coastal Plain plant from eastern Virginia to Long Island. 
Among their companions, in this case in eastern Henrico County, 
are J uncus caesariensis, which, until Grimes got it near Williamsburg, 
was looked upon as an endemic of southern New Jersey, and typical 
Solidago ElUottii which, according to Mackenzie (in Small's Manual) 
has been known only from Parris Island in southeastern South Caro- 
lina. Not far away, in Whiteoak Swamp, Styrax americana reaches 
its northern limit and the little-known Thalictrum macrostylum 
abounds. Carex Collinsii^ always an interesting plant, is in the thicket 
near Helonias; and Xyris platylepis^ a beautiful southern species 
with large castaneous bulbs, abounds. These are only a few of the 
specialties of these springy and boggy slopes. Most happily, they 
are along the right-of-way of a great railroad and are unlikely to 
be invaded by hogs, cattle, and plows. 

In Sussex County, Va., there is an extensive area most difficult to 
define. In June it is a soaking-wet quagmire which has some traits 
of a sphagnous bog, others suggesting a savanna, but with more or 
less open pine woods. In August it is a sun-baked and exsiccated 
argillaceous woodland ; in October we called it a damp pineland. The 
flora is as difficult to classify. In June it is a solid swale of Juncus 
ElUottii (Coastal Plain from Texas to Florida, thence north to eastern 
Virginia, with a local station in Delaware and a single one in Coffee 
County, Tenn.), mingled with Carex Ban^attii (Connecticut to Mary- 
land; isolated in southeastern Virginia and in southern North Caro- 
lina, with rare upland stations in Tennessee and Alabama), Carex 
Buxhaumii (northern Eurasia; Greenland to British Columbia, 
south, very rarely to Delaware and the District of Columbia and at 
one station in North Carolina). Those are the significant plants in 
mid-June. In August one specialty prevails, Manisuris rugosa^ the 
northernmost member of a tropical genus. Returning in October 
one will find the wet pineland covered with a very unusual closed 
gentian with linear-lanceolate leaves and azure-blue flowers striped 
with a darker blue. Unlike anything heretofore recognized in Vir- 
ginia, it proves to be a close match for an isotype of the "Cherokee 
gentian," Geoitiana cherokeensis (pi. 5, fig. 2), described in 1935 from 
the mountains of northwestern Georgia, the name given to the species, 
to use its author's words, "because apparently restricted to tlie terri- 



386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

tory anciently occupied by the Cherokee Indians." The "Cherokee 
gentian" is now likewise known in the ancient land of the Powhatan. 

The white sandy pinelands and barrens of southeastern Southamp- 
ton County, Va., are the northern limit for many rare southern species. 
Here was a colony of Physalis nwnticola^ the first one known outside 
northeastern Alabama, whence Carl Mohr described it from the table- 
land of Lookout Mountain in DeKalb County. The isolation of 
Physalis 7iwnticola on the Coastal Plain of Virginia at once recalls 
the "Cherokee gentian," just discussed. The latter has a real strong- 
hold in Virginia; but someone, thinking to raise crops in the white 
sand of southeastern Southampton, cleared and plowed a patch of 
it, thus destroying all but a few roots of the Physalis. The crop 
raised was like that at the margin of the Burmannia bog, Indian corn 
6 to 10 inches high, but here freely interspersed with dismembered 
and gloriously sprouting prickly pears. Physalis monticola, a real 
rarity, is almost destroyed ; the prickly pears have been vastly multi- 
plied; the crop of Indian corn came to nothing. But the harm has 
been done and vagrant weeds, with Opuntia, will now occupy the 
area. 

Only a few colonies (and these varying from a single individual 
to a dozen or two scattered plants) are known in Tidewater Virginia 
of the rare orchid, Cleistes (or Pogonia) divaricata (pi. 6, fig. 1), 
the largest-fiowered orchid north of the subtropical areas. Altogether 
too many people for the good of the plant are aware of its largest 
station. In September 1937, a small colony was found within 2 rods 
of the Petersburg-Suffolk highway. But it is necessary that our 
automobiles go faster and without delay if w^e are to keep up the 
hectic pace of so-called civilization. Moderation and calm are out 
of fashion, and no mere plant, however interesting, should retard 
the pace. The Wakefield colony of Cleistes divaricata is now closely 
crowded by the soft shoulder of the new lane of the trunk road to 
Suffolk. It will not long tolerate flying clots of tar and oil and the 
gradual slipping down of wastage from the soft shoulder. Only 
two persons know the colony ; and they are mere botanists. 

Another instance where modern road construction has threatened — 
in this case exterminated — a rare plant is that of the American lotus 
or water chinquapin (Nelinnbo) on Cape Cod. One of the two native 
colonies of Nelumho (pi. 6', fig. 2) along the Atlantic slope north of 
the local stations in New Jersey was a muddy pond-hole near Mash- 
pee, on Cape Cod. But the summer visitors who throng Cape Cod 
to enjoy its unspoiled native simplicity must have more trunk roads, 
and the single native Massachusetts station for Nelwribo is now an 
up-to-date stretch of concrete. 



RARE NATIVE PLANTS FERNALD 387 

As a last illustration of what science has lost and is helplessly 
losing I will mention a little wintergreen whose ancient home has 
literally become a graveyard. Throughout the vast order Ericales 
or heaths, a world-wide group, the anthers are erect, except in Pyrola 
and its allies. In this group, differing from the others in its 
herbaceous instead of woody habit, the anthers in bud are erect 
and extrorse (opening outward) but in the opening flower they be- 
come inverted so that their morphologically basal pores are at the 
top, the morphologically uppermost points at the bottom, and their 
dehiscence is introrse instead of extrorse. All over the Northern 
Hemisphere Pyrola is consistent in reversing the direction of its an- 
thers; but, apparently, it used to have them as in the ancient woody 
heaths. In 1860 the late Coe F. Austin discovered on a wooded 
slope in the Delaware Valley a most amazing Pyrola^ which he de- 
scribed as P. oxypetala. In leaves and petals it is unlike other species 
of the genus but, strangest of all, it has the mature anthers erect. 
Unfortunately, this remarkable and only known link between modern 
Pyrola and the ancient heaths has never been rediscovered; but 
fortunately, Dr. Austin preserved good material of it. Many bota- 
nists have sought it, and I have personally had a try for it. The 
locality best fitting Austin's account is now^ a suburban cemetery, with 
carefully scraped and groomed banks and landscaped effects, with 
everything possible done to discourage a native plant or animal of 
fastidious habits and specialized requirements.^ The people of the 
neighboring city do not care; they never heard of Pyrola oxypetala. 
It has nothing to do with their lives, and w^here it originally grew 
they have a conventionalized or standardized area in w^hich to lie 
after their earthly careers are finished. Pyrola oxypetala would have 
seemed an insignificant "weed" to the landscape architect who wanted 
foreign plants put in its place. 

Eight here is the most serious problem for those who regret the 
unnecessary destruction of our sensitive and retiring species of 
plants and animals. For it has been too much the custom to overlook 
the fact that the oldest and most interesting of animals and plants 
are what I have called the fugitive aristocrats. These are the rare 
and ecologically most retiring and specialized species, known only to 
a few special students of a region; and anything which upsets the 
equilibrium to which, through millions and millions of years, they 
have gradually become adjusted, is fatal to them. If the experi- 
enced botanist were first consulted, no conventional planner of man- 
made landscape and unintentional destroyer of these inconspicuous 

« In the case of Pyrola, dependence on mycorrhiza. 
197855—40 26 



388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

relict species and of nature's equilibrium would have a place on any 
board which is to control the destinies of preserves for wild life. 
When I first knew eastern Massachusetts, many public-spirited citi- 
zens gave freely to the State wild forest lands for State reservations 
which were to be kept forever wild. The project was put into the 
hands of a commission, with a distinguished landscape architect at 
its head. To the commission the maintenance of wild, natural con- 
ditions was indeed a "project." Original donors of land and lovers 
of nature protested in vain. Undershrubs were cleared out, destroy- 
ing the nesting haunts of various native birds ; the dead leaves, which 
supply the humus for many rare plants and the hiding places 
of many small animals, were raked up; and everything unwittingly 
done to make the areas forbidding to sensitive and retiring species. 

Naturally, we cannot expect all so-called human progress to be 
held up because nature is in the way. Man's mastery over nature is 
one of his proudest boasts. The highly trained and often over- 
cultured landscapist is in one respect only a step removed from the 
unschooled French-Canadian habitant. The latter will cut down, 
with almost religious fervor, his enemy, the native forest; then, 
almost instantly, he will plant foreign trees and shrubs about his 
church and home! So long as man has the passion to alter the 
perfectly balanced conditions of life which nature, through count- 
less ages, has developed, the rare and retiring plant or animal has 
no more chance of survival than has the human fugitive aristocrat 
in the dictator-ruled countries which are so upsetting to lovers of 
human liberty. Let the conventionalizer of landscape confine his 
useful art to areas which may appropriately be conventionalized and 
where nature is admittedly "conquered" by man. 

The plights of the bison, the prairie hen, the Labrador duck, the 
passenger pigeon, the great auk, and scores of other birds and mam- 
mals are familiar. Our last refuge of the great auk or penguin was 
Funk Island, off the coast of Newfoundland, There it was far from 
settlements ; but Nordic fishermen, realizing the wickedness of fishing 
on the Sabbath, spent their Sundays on Funk Island and gave exer- 
cise to their fervor by clubbing to death the last remnants of these 
ancient and primitive birds. This wicked slaughter can in no way 
be attributed to their resentment that Anatole France in Penguin 
Island had ascribed human attributes and human souls to these 
dignified birds. The slaughter was finished before the publication of 
Penguin Island, 

In the well-meant enthusiasm to "do something," altogether too 
many of the restricted spots which still retain some elements of the 
original life bequeathed to us from the past are being converted into 
artificial and man-made tracts. Rare and relatively inconspicuous 



RARE NATIVE PLANTS' — FERNALD 389 

plants are destroyed to make way for conspicuous foreigners, arti- 
ficial ponds are constructed, modest wood paths are altered to con- 
crete roads, that the public may speed rapidly through the intended 
beauty spot, where, under the now popular but often misinterpreted 
slogan "conservation," man has done his best to make the face of 
nature unnatural. 

Think carefully for a moment. The building of artificial ponds, 
roads, artificial bridges, and artificial beaches, and the planting of 
introduced trees and shrubs is not conservation. It is just the op- 
posite of true conservation, for it upsets the natural equilibrium 
which had become established long before man, proud of a supposed 
resemblance to God, came to ruin it. True conservation^ leaves 
nature, mother of us all, uninjured and the true conservationist is a 
lover and defender of uninjured nature. 

If groups of otherwise unemployed young men are to be encouraged 
to hew, rake, and alter areas set aside as natural preserves, they will 
unconsciously become destroyers of the natural equilibrium of nature. 
Put them to work destroying the vagrant pests which crowd us and 
which are a worthy foe. Our open lots and roadsides are overrun 
with ragweed, the most prolific cause of hay fever, as well as by 
poison ivy, tent caterpillars and scores of other nuisances. No one 
really cherishes ragweed; but it is a formidable task for a few in- 
dividuals to clear it all up. It is a quick-growing annual and by 
concerted action its eradication, or the reduction of poison ivy or of 
tent caterpillars would be accomplished. Or consider the Japanese 
honeysuckle (pi. 7). So long as it is kept in restraint this Asiatic 
migrant is a handsome vine; but it has invaded the Southeast like a 
horde of Huns. Everywhere from the Gulf States to Long Island 
this rampant and unrestrained foreign twiner is strangling the native 
vegetation and producing a monotonous landscape in place of the 
diversified landscape of many native species which nature bequeathed 
us. It has become what I have elsewhere called the yellow peril of 
the South. Its destruction would be a notable achievement. Its con- 
tinued toleration is a menace to the native plants and animals. 

^ In view of the evident misinterpretation of the meaning of "conservation," as evidenced 
by numerous comments in papers and magazines and in scores of personal letters received 
by the vsrriter since the delivery of this paper, it is well to quote from the Century 
Dictionary : 

"conservation ... [ . . . L. conservatio (n — ) , < conservare, pp. conservatus, keep : see 
conserve, v]i. The act of conserving, guarding, or keeping with care ; preservation from 
loss, decay, Injury, or violation ; the keeping of a thing in a safe or entire state." 
"conserve ... i. To keep in a safe or sound state ; save ; preserve from loss, decay, waste, 
or injury ; defend from violation : as, to conserve bodies from perishing." 
As soon as man, or his implements, disturbs the long-established interrelation of 
organisms in the wild, he innocently but nevertheless effectively prevents the conservation 
of these delicately interrelated animals and plants. In the brief space available this 
important question can hardly be expanded. The spread of youthful and aggressive 
"weeds" already referred to and the destruction of the feeding grounds of shore birds are 
pertinent illustrations. 



390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

I have preached enough. The problem is most difficult. The 
country is awakening, we hope, to a belated appreciation of its pre- 
cious birthright, now largely wasted. Lovers of birds and mammals 
have made the right start. Lovers of the rare and scientifically most 
significant plants urge that all rare native species be given a real 
chance. 

The few out of thousands of instances of destruction of or im- 
minent threat to our rarest and often choicest native plants above 
noted are unfortunately wholly typical. The problems are not 
merely for Virginia or Maine or Quebec. They concern us all. The 
layman and the practical developer of roads, farms, clearings, deep- 
ditching, and draining of ponds and swamps know nothing of them 
and, if they did, it is not probable that they would consider the 
conservation of a few rare plants as counterbalancing the more 
"practical" demands of so-called progress. When nature is in the 
way it seems, as already noted, to be man's passion to conquer her. 
From earliest times his two proudest boasts have been his mastery 
over nature and his resemblance to God, who must often be ashamed 
of the resemblance. I have heard self-styled sportsmen in Virginia 
argue against protection of ducks and other shore birds, saying: 
"God made them for us to kill ; why shouldn't we do what he wanted 
us to do?" If this is the correct doctrine, then we should make all 
haste to kill the shore birds and with them the rarest of plants. 
Might it not be better, however, to take the opposite line of reason- 
ing? If God (working through unhampered nature) preserved the 
rarer and biologically often the most significant of plants and ani- 
mals until the Nordics came to America to kill them out, is it not 
clear that their complete destruction was not a part of the original 
scheme? The extermination of many of them has already been 
complete. Isolated and tiny colonies of others still occasionally 
persist. It is surely the part of wisdom and of consideration for 
our descendents for our boasted civilization to see that something 
besides the commonplace and the economically immediately useful 
is left in our flora and fauna for them to study and enjoy. In sym- 
pathetically preserved large tracts, like some of the national parks, 
this is possible, and in some of them the obligation is, happily, rec- 
ognized. Furthermore, on the splendid old plantations along the 
James and other southern rivers many unspoiled tracts of woodland 
and marsh are preserving their native plants intact. But is there 
any hope for the small and isolated pockets here and there amidst 
cultivated fields and pig and cow pastures? I introduce the ques- 
tion. Let us all think, and think hard, until some wise solution of 
the problem is found. 



RARE NATIVE PLANTS FERNALD 391 

Tlie words of the sixteenth century herbalist addressed to his 
patron, "the right Honorable his singular good Lord and Master, 
Sir AVilliam Cecil Knight," conveyed in the stilted and elegant style 
of the period the healthy attitude: 

Among the manifold creatures of God (right Honorable, and my singular 
good Lord) that have all in all ages diversly entertained many excellent wits, 
and drawne them to the contemplation of the divine wisdome, none have pro- 
voked mens studies more, or satisfied their desires so much as Plants have 
done, and that upon just and worthy causes : For if delight may provoke mens 
labor, what greater delight is there than to behold the earth apparrelled with 
plants, as with a robe of embroidered worke, set with Orient pearles, and gar- 
nishee! with great diuersitie of rare and costly iewels? If this varietie and 
perfection of colours may affect the eye, it is such in herbs and flowres, that 
no Apelles, no Zeuxis euer could by any art expresse the like: if odours or if 
taste may worke satisfaction, they are both so soueraigne in plants, and so 
comfortabel, that no confection of the Apothecaries can equall their excellent 
vertue. But these delights are in the outward sences: the principall delight 
is in the minde, singularly enriched with the knowledge of these visible things, 
setting forth to vs the inuisible wisedome and admirable workmanship of 
almighty God. 




z~ 



l§ 








0.2 g 



; C oj 



7^ W QJ 



" m2 






QJ W O 



1? 


? 


4 


■*~Z 


•'■'<■;,. f :■■■..'.■■> ■ 


;i 


^A 


jioaaQBnB:j 






)«^^ ^^\ 


^ 




^' >-., ■'■'^ 


-". 







UJ -r- -■ r-~ 




<- 
u 


•2 a 


7 









(1 


■-J *^ 


< 


;:; 


-) 




< 


•s ^ 


QL 




hi 


Ct3 











7 


a^T! 


n 


Sm 


J 


j:: o 



S =! 



PLANKTON IN THE WATER SUPPLY 



By Flobence E. Meier 

Associate Plant Physiologist, Division of Radiation and Organisms, 
Smithsonian Institution 



[With 11 plates] 
INTRODUCTION 

"It is good to keep water in copper vessels, to expose to sunlight and 
to filter through charcoal," are the words of an ancient Sanskrit 
author written in 800 B. C, more than 27 centuries ago. Water has 
been a necessity since the beginning of life, and the problem of ob- 
taining pure water free from disease germs has increased in magni- 
tude with the complex growth of civilization and the crowding of 
people into towns and cities. The importance of a good water supply 
has long been recognized, as testified by Caesar's aqueducts, but the 
importance of a standard of purity in drinking water is more recently 
indicated by the statistics showing the decrease in death rates of 
cities, a decrease due to the elimination of water-borne disease germs 
from city water supplies. 

Nature is abundant in her gift of water, but since water is the home 
of countless living organisms, many of them harmless, others directly 
injurious to man, it is essential to determine means for their elimina- 
tion in order to insure a satisfactory domestic water supply. 

In medieval times the smaller populations caused comparatively 
little contamination of the water. When epidemics of dysenteiy and 
typhoid fever did occur, owing to pollution of the water, they were 
accepted more or less as a matter of course. Our ancestors would be 
amazed at the science of modern waterworks, involving engineering, 
bacteriology, biology, and chemistry, which has been developed to 
ascertain water purity. Very often an expensive installation that has 
been constructed for the storage and delivery of water serves its pur- 
pose for a time, but then the quality of the water deteriorates or the 
supply dwindles or even abruptly ceases. The installation set up by 
man, instead of preventing, may propagate the microorganisms in the 
water that cause spoiling of the water or interference with its flow. 

393 



394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

Because of the extent of water-borne diseases caused by the gradual 
increase in stream poHution and the necessity of utilizing polluted 
streams as sources of public water supply, it was found necessaiy at 
an early period in our history to place the responsibility in the State 
and city boards of health for the inspection and supervision of water- 
sheds to prevent further pollution of water supplies. 

EARLY HISTORY OF MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINATION OF WATER 

The first written record that called attention to the necessity of 
water-supply control was an anonymous pamphlet published in Lon- 
don in 1827 under the title : "The Dolphin ; or Grand Junction Nuis- 
ance: Proving that Seven Thousand Families in Westminster and 
its Suburbs are Supplied with Water in a State, Offensive to the 
Sight, Disgusting to the imagination, and Destructive to Health." 
A view of the left bank of the Thames River at Chelsea was depicted 
and in the foreground was a "dolphin," a small wooden Martello- 
tower-like construction rising from the water a few yards from the 
shore and marking the site below water of the intake pipe of the 
Grand Junction Water Co. In the background were shown Chelsea 
Hospital and the pmnping works of the company, separated by the 
great Ranelagh sewer, whence a flood of sewage poured into the river 
abreast of, and within about 3 yards of, the dolphin. The author 
sent samples of the water, just as it came from the company's pipes 
into his house cistern, to several eminent doctors. 

One of these doctors replied to the author giving a description of 
his tap water as follows : "Scarcely a week passes that I am not pre- 
sented with a leech; a shrimp-like skipping insect nearly an inch in 
length ; a small red delicate worm, which I believe is lumbricus fluvia- 
tilis or some other animalcula ; and the water is most opaline, muddy, 
or otherwise impure." 

In 1829 James Simpson set up the first working sand-filter in 
London. 

It was not until 1850, however, that the first adequate account of a 
thorough microscopical examination of any water supply was pub- 
lished by Dr. Hassall in London. This was followed by MacDonald's 
work entitled : "Guide to the Examination of Drinking Water." In 
the meantime various Germans carried on research relating to the 
biology of water supplies ; especially noteworthy is the contribution by 
Professor Cohn, of Breslau, under the title : "Microscopical Analysis 
of Waters," which anticipated later findings on the effect of environ- 
ment on the character and quantity of organisms in drinking water. 
This paper w^as followed by others, by Farlow and numerous writers 
in the United States, on the presence of disagreeable odors and tastes 
in drinking water. By 1878, 60 cities and towns in the United States 



PLANKTON IN WATER SUPPLY — MEIER 395 

had recorded serious trouble due to vegetation in their reservoirs. 
Since that time, thousands have recorded similar difficulties. To the 
Massachusetts State Board of Health belongs the credit for having 
begun as early as 18S7 a systematic examination of all the water 
supplies in that State. 

THE PLANKTON 

The uninvited guests which cause so much difficulty in our water 
supplies are classed under the term plankton. In 1887 Hensen, of 
Germany, jjublished a new method for studying the minute floating 
organisms found in lakes. He gave these organisms the name "plank- 
ton" from the Greelc word "planktos," which means "wandering." 
Plankton includes the free-floating or weakly swimming organisms, 
algae and bacteria (minute plants), and protozoa (minute animals) 
that form an independent group in a body of water. Plankton rarely 
causes disease nor does it often spread organisms that do. The pres- 
ence of plankton is generally made known in the water supply by the 
appearance, taste, or odor of the water and interference with the 
operation of the filter plant. 

ALGAE 

Algae (pis. 4, 5, 6) make up the largest number of the plankton in 
the water supply. They represent one of the lowest divisions of plant 
life and are characterized by the absence of roots, stems, leaves, 
flowers, and seeds. Some species are composed of single cells, which 
are microscopic in size; others consist of clumps of cells; and still 
others consist of numerous cells bound together in long threads or 
filaments, which are able to attach themselves to submerged objects. 
We are all familiar with algae that form the green scum of ditches 
and fish ponds and make a green coating on old stone walls and trees. 

Algae have differences in pigment that serve as a basis for their 
classification although they all contain the green pigment, chlorophyll, 
even when it may be screened from view by another pigment. The 
Chloro'phycecie are the true green algae, the Cyanophyceae are the 
blue-green, the Phaeophyceae are the brown, and the Rhodophyceae^ 
the red algae. The two latter classes of algae consist mainly of the 
marine forms, therefore the ChJ'Orop'hyceaje and the Cyanophyceae are 
the two classes of algae occurring most frequently in our water sup- 
plies. The diatoms (pi. 3) often associated with the algae have a 
yellow pigment and a siliceous shell constructed like a pill box. 

One important characteristic of the algae from the point of 
view of the waterworks engineer is their power of rapid multiplica- 
tion, which enables great numbers to appear in a very short time 
provided environmental conditions are favorable. Their simplest 



396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

method of reproduction is for a single cell to divide into two cells. 
In the unicellular algae the two cells so formed separate at once; 
in multicellular forms, the cells remain attached to each other in 
arrangements that give the plants their characteristic spherical, fil- 
amentous, or leaflike shape. Rapid multiplication of the cells in a 
filamentous form, as in the blue-green algae, is often accompanied by 
the breaking up of the filament into short rodlike pieces, each of 
which forms a new filament. Other means of reproduction, both 
sexual and asexual, exist in the algae, in the process of which, special 
reproductive bodies unlike the parent cells are formed. The essen- 
tial feature of their sexual reproduction consists in the fusion of 
two cells to form one. This is normally followed by vigorous new 
growth. In asexual reproduction one cell divides to form several 
bodies, which may grow into new plants without any fusion of the 
cells occurring. 

Thick-walled resting spores are frequently formed. These cells 
can remain at rest for some time, often withstanding cold and dry- 
ness until favorable conditions arise for their germination. They 
increase greatly the power of the algae to maintain themselves in the 
waterworks, for they can be blown with the wind in the dust and 
be carried on the feet and feathers of birds from one body of water 
to another, and they can survive the emptying of reservoirs and the 
drying of reservoirs and filters. 

BACTERIA 

The bacteria (pi. 7, fig, 1; pi. 10, fig. 3), the tiniest of microscopic 
organisms to be found in the water supply, are of interest in that 
they may include the BaciUus coli. Pollution of the water introduces 
large numbers of bacteria of the colon group, usually harmless 
organisms when confined to the intestinal tract of man, but definitely 
pathogenic when liberated into the serous cavities of the body. The 
bacteria of this group are frequently found in the water supply in 
greater numbers and variety than the bacteria that produce diseases, 
such as those causing typhoid fever. The bacteria of the colon group 
are also more hardy than the disease-producing bacteria. Treated 
water, after filtration, should be examined daily for Bacilhts coli. 
If the purified water is free from them, it is safe to assume that it 
will not contain the harmful bacteria, which are less resistant. 

Crerwthrix, one of the higher bacteria, is a microscopic threadlike 
organism closely related to true bacteria and fungi. It can live 
in the dark and in the absence of dissolved oxygen but does not 
thrive in water containing large quantities of dissolved oxygen. 
It requires iron as an essential food and so will live inside distribu- 
tion systems that contain iron. It can grow on the inside of water 



PLANKTON IN WATER SUPPLY MEIER 397 

mains in gelatinous masses, which seriously reduce the caliber of the 
mains as well as causing objectionable tastes, odors, and precipita- 
tion of iron in the water. Its presence can ordinarily be assured 
when well water containing iron and little or no dissolved oxygen 
is pumped into the distribution mains. 

ANIMAL FORMS 

Microscopic animal forms flourish among the algae, since the two 
kinds of life are interdependent in the exchange of gases and other 
sources of their food supply. The animals consist chiefly of the one- 
celled Protozoa (pis. 8, 9), which occasionally cause trouble in the 
water supply. There are also Kotifera, which are common but not 
troublesome, Crustacea (pi. 7, fig. 3), which include the waterfleas, 
the Porifera or fresh-water sponges, the Bryozoa, and miscellaneous 
organisms such as worms and insect larvae. 

FACTORS INFLUENCING PLANKTON GROWTH 

Since algae are plants containing chlorophyll or green coloring 
matter, they are able to manufacture their own food. The most 
essential factor of their environment for carrying on the process of 
photosynthesis or food production is light. Turbid waters allow less 
light to penetrate, thereby decreasing the amount of algal growth. 
Ground waters do not permit algal growth unless exposed to light. 
For this reason, covered reservoirs are effective in algal control. 

Temperature is another important factor in the environment of 
algae; it may either accelerate or retard their amount of growth. 
Some algae thrive beneath the ice, while other varieties prefer warm 
temperatures of 50° to 70° F. Although different kinds of algae 
grow at different seasons of the year and in different places, there 
is generally a spring maximum of diatoms, an early summer maxi- 
mum of green algae, a late summer and early fall maximum of blue- 
green algae, and sometimes a second wave of diatoms in the fall. 

Recurrences of plankton are not entirely due to temperature 
conditions. The physical conditions of the stream feeding the water 
supply may be responsible. The fluctuating levels of a stream, caus- 
ing changing velocity and turbidity of the water, affect the numbers 
of the plankton. The velocity of the current is important, as rich 
growths of plankton are often completely destroyed by passing 
through a series of rapids or sharp falls. 

Kofoid, after a 5-year study of the Illinois River, decided that 
the age of the water is an important factor in plankton production 
in streams. There is very little plankton in young streams. Barren 
waters impounded for 10 to 30 days develop a large plankton crop, 
which is affected by the rate of run-off and displacement, the plank- 



398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

ton being greatest where run-off and renewal are least. In other 
words, a swift stream allows little time for the production of plank- 
ton, Avhereas a sluggish stream affords greater time. The plankton 
productivity of a stream is proportional to the age of the water and 
inversely proportional to its velocity, as Reinhard also found in his 
study of the upper Mississippi River. 

Inorganic elements are required for the growth of the algae just 
as they are essential for the growth of higher plants. In addition 
to water, carbon dioxide, oxygen, nitrates, sulfates, and phosphates 
are necessary parts of their food supply. The inorganic materials in 
solution in the water vary in kind and concentration according to the 
type of soil present in the drainage areas of the streams. Birge and 
Juday, in their extensive studies of Wisconsin lakes, reported that 
many soft-water lakes contain less plankton than the hard-water 
lakes. The growth rate is increased in the hard-water lakes by the 
presence of bicarbonates and greater amounts of carbon dioxide in 
the water. On the other hand, soft water and bog drainage pro- 
mote the growth of some green algae. An excess of chlorides is also 
found where there is great production of algae. Although chlorides 
are not utilized directly by the algae, an excess of chlorides in the 
water usually indicates that the water contains a relatively large 
mass of fertilizing substances coming from sewage contamination. 
Small amounts of these fertilizing substances are beneficial for plank- 
ton growth. Minder, in his biochemical stud}'^ of the Lake of Zurich, 
concluded that nitrogen in the form of nitrates is the principal factor 
that regulates the quantity of plankton. There is a direct relation- 
ship between the diatom production and the silica content of the 
water, since diatoms utilize silica to form their cell walls. Pearsall, 
in his study of English lakes, reported that diatoms were more abun- 
dant in the silted lakes than in the rocky lakes. 

Algae give off oxygen in the growth process. This sometimes 
accumulates to the point of supersaturation in the water. The ani- 
mal life, Protozoa as well as fish, use this oxygen and give off in 
turn carbon dioxide, which the plants use in their manufacture of 
food. When the balance of this mutually beneficial exchange of 
gases is upset, either the plants or the animals suffer. If the algae 
are destroyed in a pond supporting many fish, the subsequent lack of 
oxygen affects the fish directly as well as by indirectly limiting their 
food supply. 

Olson has made interesting observations on the interrelationships 
of sunlight, algae, and fish. The amount of oxygen dissolved in 
the water varies with the temperature from 7.63 parts per million at 
86° F. to 14.62 parts per million at 32° F., showing that the solubility 
of oxygen in water is greatest at low temperatures. In a lake or 



PLANKTON IN WATER SUPPLY MEIER 399 

stream at the end of a bright sunny day where the food-manu- 
facturing activities of the algae have progressed at maximum rate, 
the oxygen eliminated by the plants loads the water beyond the 
point of saturation. At night when there is no sunlight, and photo- 
synthesis or food manufacture ceases, the plants use a considerable 
amount of the oxygen thrown off during the day for respiration. 
Thus both the animal and plant life in the water are making de- 
mands on the available oxygen supply. When sewage or large 
quantities of decomposing organic matter present in the water make 
an increased demand on the oxygen supply, the nightly reduction 
in oxygen becomes serious. This is especially true when, owing to 
continued cloudy weather during the day, the oxygen supply is de- 
creased and the water does not contain sufficient oxygen to last the 
night. When there is sewage pollution in a shallow body of water 
with little circulation, the oxygen is completely used up and the fish 
are exterminated. An extensive growth of blue-green or yellow- 
green algal bloom or scum is generally observed in ponds or lakes 
where high oxygen concentration occurs. 

Thus it may be seen that when the proper balance between the 
amount of sunlight, concentration of plants, and number of fish in 
a pond is upset by cutting down the light so that the plants cannot 
perform their photosynthesis, they then enter into competition with 
the fish for oxygen, or the balance may be upset by an increase in 
plant organisms, or the fish may upset the balance by destroying the 
plants. 

THE pH 

The active acidity of a solution is usually indicated by the negative 
logarithm of the normal concentration denoted by the sign pH, the 
hydrogen ion exponent. The concentration of the hydrogen ions at 
neutral reaction is denoted by pH=7. As pH is a negative logarithm, 
the lower the designation of the pH, the higher the concentration of 
hydrogen ions and the more acid is the reaction. Organisms usually 
grow in a solution with a pH of 6 to 8.5. 

TASTES AND ODORS IN THE WAT-ER SUPPLY 

The most familiar way in which algae make their presence known 
to us in the home is by their taste and odor so affecting the pota- 
bility of the water that it is impossible to use it for drinking pur- 
poses. Consumers often prefer to drink water from private wells 
and springs, which may be of questionable sanitary quality, if they 
consider that their municipal water supply has an unpleasant odor 
or taste. The senses of taste and smell, although intimately asso- 
ciated, are distinct. Salt, for example, has a ver}^ definite taste but 



400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

no odor, while vanilla has a strong odor but no taste. The tastes of 
some substances are really odors due to gases perceived by the ol- 
factory nerves through the nose or the posterior nares as the substance 
is placed on the tongue. The majority of the disagreeable tastes 
observed in water supplies are caused by organic matter in suspension, 
which produces both odors and tastes. 

Water obtained from ground sources when used immediately is 
generally odorless. If it is kept in storage under certain conditions, 
or allowed to stagnate in parts of the distribution system, there is 
a resulting unpleasant odqr. There are deep well waters that have 
an odor of sulfur and wells that may be polluted from surface 
drainage, which smell and taste moldy. The surface waters most 
frequently develop objectionable odors due to the presence of or- 
ganic matter caused by decayed or living organisms (usually plank- 
ton), or to the chemicals used for disinfection of the water supply. 

Complaints are made to the waterworks engineers by a few per- 
sons who are unusually sensitive to odors when microscopic organ- 
isms are present in 500 to 1,000 units (a standard unit is an area of 
20 by 20 microns on a slide, or 400 square microns). When the organ- 
isms are present in 1,000 to 2,000 units, complaints become more 
numerous, and when above 2,000 units, complaints are general. Usu- 
ally algicides are used when the concentration of algae reaches 1,000 
units. 

The chief odors noticed are aromatic (like geranium), caused by 
diatoms and a few Protoza; grassy, caused by blue-green algae 
principally, and by a few green algae ; and fishy, caused by diatoms, 
green algae, and, chiefly, Protozoa. Among the diatoms, the most 
common offenders are Asterionella (pi. 3, fig. 5) and Tdbellaria. 
They first make known their presence by an earthy odor which is 
generally characteristic of diatoms. As they increase in number, 
they produce an odor very similar to that of the geranium, then as 
they continue to multiply in great numbers, their odor is distinctly 
fishy. Most numerous offenders among the blue-green algae are 
Anahaena (pi. 4, fig. 2) , Aphanizomenon, Coelosphaerium, Clathrocys- 
tis, and Microcystis. Their odor of fresh-cut grass changes to that of 
pungent nasturtium as they increase, until finally when they start de- 
caying in large numbers, they smell like a vile pigpen. Uroglena and 
Synura are the worst offenders among the Protoza. TJroglena gives the 
water an oily, fishy taste and odor. In larger amounts, the flavor 
becomes more disagreeable, resembling cod-liver oil. A very small 
amount of Synwu'Cb causes difficulty, as it gives a cucumber, musk- 
melon, or fishy taste that leaves a bitter after-taste at the back of 
the tongue. When the Protozoa are alive, the bitter taste is delayed 
a few moments, but when they are dead and decaying, the bitter 



PLANKTON IN WATER SUPPLY MEIER 401 

taste is observed immediately. The distasteful oil of Synura per- 
sists in a water supply for some time, so if Synura makes its presence 
known in the water supply in any small amounts, it should be im- 
mediately checked. 

OTHER ALGAL NUISANCES 

Masses of organisms in the water supply cause turbidity, and 
even a small amount of them may result in the formation of stain 
and scum on white porcelain basins and bathtubs. The tiny, slen- 
der plant, Aphunizomenon, which floats in the water even when 
dead, is able to accumulate in hot-water systems to such an extent 
as to appear in the surface water of a full bathtub. 

In industry, the presence of algae in the water may cause trouble. 
They have been known to interfere with proper cleaning of clothes 
in laundries. Algae have prevented the formation of correct colors 
by dye manufacturers and have hindered the proper dyeing of goods. 
Bad results in the process of developing in photography have also 
been traced to the presence of algae in the water. 

Because of the Avarm temperature of the water and the optimum 
lighting conditions, swimming pools are favorite places for algae 
to grow. The organisms become seeded on and between the tiles, 
which should be scrubbed with an algicide when the pool is emptied 
and cleaned. 

Swimmer's itch, in one instance, was found to have been caused 
by Cercariu elvas^ a parasite belonging to the group Schistosoma. 
It was found that snails carried these parasites, but the use of an 
algicide, such as copper sulfate, in doses of 0.5 to 2.0 parts per million 
destroyed the snails within 48 hours. 

RED WATER 

Often when complaints about the water are made to the water 
engineer, the cause of the difficulty is found to lie in a defective pipe 
line that delivers the water to the consumer. Due to the electrolytic 
action, iron from the pipe may go into solution. Some of the oxygen 
in the water then helps to change the soluble ferrous hydroxide to 
insoluble ferric hydroxide which precipitates in the pipe. If the 
water is very soft, the high content of the carbon dioxide increases 
the rate of corrosion. If the water is not treated, a deposit of organic 
matter may be found in the pipe line. The relatively high tempera- 
ture increases this deposit during the summer, thus causing a further 
decrease in the amount of dissolved oxygen and an increase in the 
amount of carbon dioxide. The increased carbon dioxide further 
accelerates corrosion and the acid environment favors the growth of 
iron bacteria. The corroding action of the acid water produces a 



402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

red-colored water. Scraping and cleaning the pipes in order to 
regulate the operation of the reservoir so that only water containing 
low amounts of carbon dioxide enters the system somewhat reduces 
the difficulty. In the late summer months, the addition of lime to 
the water also prevents trouble. 

SOURCES OF WATER SUPPLIES 

The main reliance for the water supply is on rivers of various kinds, 
large and small, rapid and sluggish, pure and polluted. They also 
vary in the number and kinds of organisms to be found in them. 
The free-floating plankton population drifts with the current, feeding 
and reproducing as best it can. There is no stability or permanence 
for it even when the river is low and flowing fairly slowly but stead- 
ily, and floods are disastrous to the plankton. The river is fed from 
ponds and streams with quiet backwaters, and from all of these, 
plants of different kinds are passing into the main stream and re- 
plenishing the supply. Most rivers receive land washings, street 
drainage, and sewage drainage that carries the intestinal bacteria 
usually found in human and animal excrement. All of these intestinal 
bacteria soon lose their vitality in the water and sink to the bottom, 
thus decreasing in number between towns. The construction of 
large quiescent basins in which sedimentation can occur assists in the 
natural recovery from pollution, or the so-called self-purification of 
rivers. The water of such rivers is, hov/ever, unfit for domestic use 
until it has been chemically treated. 

The towns in hilly districts are able to obtain their water from 
natural or artificial lakes. Usually, the land immediately surround- 
ing and emptying into lakes and reservoirs is cleared of dwellings. 
Access to the lakes and reservoirs is restricted so that the water may 
be kept uncontaminated. In the temperate zone all lakes of con- 
siderable depth overturn twice each year, usually in the spring and 
in the fall. This phenomenon is caused in the autumn by the chilling 
of the surface waters, which makes them heavier than the lower 
waters. In the spring the slight warming of the surface waters, 
usually from 35° F. to 39° F., the temperature of the greatest density 
of water, causes a similar overturn. Normal stratification of the 
organisms in the lake is restored in 3 or 4 weeks' time in each case. 
This vertical movement causes a temporary commingling of the plant 
and animal organisms at the surface with those at the bottom. 

STORAGE OF WATER 

The advantage of storing water was demonstrated by Percy Frank- 
land, who pointed out that the leap over Niagara Falls left the bac- 
teria unharmed, whereas they disappeared very quickly in the quiet 



PLANKTON IN WATER SUPPLY MEIER 403 

waters of Lake Ontario. One of the first steps in the purification of 
"water is its preliminary storage in reservoirs for at least a month 
before filtration. This gives suspended particles of all kinds time to 
settle. In addition, the water mixes so that possible variations in the 
supply are equalized. The numbers of intestinal bacteria decrease 
markedly. 

The plankton passing from running water into still water tends to 
increase, and differences in the proportion of the different kinds 
result. Free-floating diatoms and algae might increase in the reser- 
voir until it would teem with them but for the animals, especially the 
Crustacea, which abound in reservoirs and feed upon the plant life. 
On the sides of a reservoir may be found snails and creeping Crus- 
tacea, sessile diatoms, and larger attached plants. Fixed animals 
such as sponges flourish where there is solid support, and worms and 
duck mussels, as well as diatoms and bacteria, thrive in the accumula- 
tion of mud and detritus on the bottom. 

All these living things eventually die and decay, to the advantage 
of the bacteria, but their increase is useful to the water supply. The 
plants help to aerate the water. Animals use up the oxygen for their 
respiration. They aid only in the measure that they prevent the 
algal growth from becoming too excessive. The kind of plankton 
in the reservoir also serves as an indicator to the engineer of the 
contamination of the source of the supply, as we have already seen 
in the case of the presence of Bacillus coli. 

The plants and animals are not evenly distributed in the reservoirs 
but collect at particular levels. Algae usually abound where the 
light is most favorable; animals are in the places where there is 
plenty of food or where the chemical conditions (aeration) are most 
suitable. This is a useful fact to know, for by constructing the 
reservoir with outlet valves at different depths it is possible to draw 
water from the level that, as shown by the examination of the samples, 
is most suitable for filtration. Bottom water where the sedimented 
matter accumulates is not desirable, but generally the water should 
be drawn at a depth of 30 feet in a 40-foot reservoir. This takes the 
water at a level below that in which the algae are found. Since the 
levels poor in algae abound in their unused food material, their with- 
drawal aids in preventing abundant growth of algae. 

These algal foodstuffs, chiefly phosphates and silicates, important 
as they are to the algae, do not affect the flavor of the water, since 
the quantities needed are negligible from the human standpoint. A 
water fairly rich in phosphates from the point of view of the algae 
may contain only 0.02 parts per 100,000. Such small quantities of 
phosphates are essential to human nutrition also. The silicates are 
harmless. 

197855 — 40 27 



404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

THE WATER SUPPLY AND FILTRATION PLANT AT DALECARLIA 

A typical modern city water supply system is that of the Dale- 
carlia Water Plant at Washington, D. C. The water supply of 
Washington, D. C, comes from the Potomac River, whose watershed 
extends back to the Shenandoah River, receiving streams from West 
Virginia and Pennsylvania as well as from Maryland and Virginia. 
The intake is at a low dam at the head of Great Falls, 16 miles 
above the center of the city. The average discharge at this point 
is 7,690 million gallons per day. At the time of the record low 
flow during the drought of the summer of 1930, the discharge dropped 
to 525 million gallons per day. Since the present daily maximum 
water consumption during the summer months is from 100 to 105 
million gallons per day, or only one-fifth of the record low flow, it 
is evident that this river supply will suffice many generations. 

The water flows by gravity through two conduits from an eleva- 
tion of 151.6 feet above sea level at Great Falls for a distance of 9 
miles to the inlet of the Dalecarlia Reservoir, which is at an eleva- 
tion of 143.0 feet. This reservoir, which has a capacity of 210 mil- 
lion gallons, holds the water for 1 day before it goes into the filtra- 
tion plant. This retention period with its change in velocity allows 
a heavy reduction in the turbidity of the water at periods of high 
mud content when the weight of suspended matter is often 3,000 
parts per million. Not all the mud, however, is settled out, nor does 
much improvement result at times of low turbidity in the water 
when the weight of the suspended matter is 30 parts per million 
or less. 

About 80 to 100 million gallons flow from the reservoir, part being 
drawn into the Dalecarlia filtration plant, part going to the Mac- 
Millan Park filters. An additional 120 million gallons is diverted 
daily to the hydroelectric plant. 

As the water is drawn from the large Dalecarlia Reservoir for a 
distance of several hundred feet through a 6-foot conduit and Venturi 
meter to the rapid sand-filtration plant at Dalecarlia, a stream of 
aluminum sulfate is added. This coagulating agent mixes with the 
water as it passes through the conduit to the mixing basins, which 
are covered rectangular concrete basins about 10 feet deep, so built 
that the water passes backw^ard and forward around a series of 
wooden baffles, causing the intermingling of all the water with the 
chemical. The amount of the aluminum sulfate or alum added 
varies, according to the amount of mud and the composition of the 
water as shown by the laboratory tests, from 145 to 450 pounds per 
million gallons. The time of the flow of the water through the mix- 
ing basins varies from 10 to 20 minutes, the time being governed by 



PLANKTON IN WATER SUPPLY MEIER 405 

the rate of filtration. Leaving these basins, the water flows into two 
large settling basins (pi. 1) built in pairs so that cleaning may be 
carried on without interruption of service. The water mixed with 
the alum enters these large basins, each of about 4 million gallons 
capacity. It requires about 3 hours to pass through, thus causing a 
low velocity which gives an opportunity for the settling of the 
aluminum floe formed when alum is added in properly regulated 
amounts to river water. In the formation of the floe, which is a 
chemical decomposition of the alum, all of the aluminum element is 
removed from the sj^stem and does not harm the water either from 
the point of view of potability or of hardness. When the water comes 
into these two basins, it is muddy, but when it goes out, it is clear, 
as it contains only a fine suspension of the floe. 

With about 10 percent of the floe in suspension, this partly clari- 
fied water flows by gravity into 20 slow sand-filter units (pi. 2). The 
remaining floe forms a filtering mat on the sand surfaces, which 
strains out all suspended matter and entraps most of the bacteria. 

Chlorine plus ammonia (chloramine) are also added to the water 
as it leaves the settling basins and goes into the filters. After the 
water has passed through the filters and sand beds, more chlorine is 
added. The amount of chlorine necessary to kill the small numbers 
of harmful intestinal bacteria present in this water is small. 

Readjustment of the acidity is the final step at this plant. The 
water when it enters the plant usually has a low pH (h3^drogen ion 
concentration or acidity) value. However, when alum is added 
to the water, hydrolysis occurs, for the aluminum sulfate is broken 
up into aluminum hydroxide and sulfuric acid. The former is the 
floe, which, settling, carries down the mud and the bacteria in the 
water. The sulfuric acid combines immediately with the lime or 
calcium carbonate normally present in river waters passing through 
limestone country and forms lime or calcium carbonate and frees 
carbon dioxide, which partially remains in solution and makes the 
water slightly acid. To remove this carbon dioxide, sufficient lime 
water is added to remove the gas but not enough to cause boiler- 
scale trouble. 

The average turbidity of the water when it enters the plant is 
140 parts per million; average hardness, 72; and average bacterial 
count, 2,500 per cc. The pH or acidity value is 7.6. After filtra- 
tion, the turbidity is ; hardness, 72 ; and the number of the bacteria 
is reduced to an average of 2 per cc. The pH of the filtered 
water is 8.0. 

Lauter, from observations made at Dalecarlia, believes the covered 
reservoir is preferable to the open reservoir, since the covered type 
has a much smaller plankton count than the open type. 



406 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

A TYPICAL INVASION OF DIATOMS 

The troubles of a water engineer usually occur suddenly and with- 
out warning. An example of this occurred at the MacMillan Reser- 
voir in Washington, D. C, in July 1938. During the early part of 
July there was no unusual evidence of organisms in the water. On 
July 26, however, there appeared, together with an upset oxygen 
and carbon dioxide balance in the water, large quantities of the 
diatom Synedra pulchella (pi. 3, fig. 1), which consists of several 
cells each 40 microns in length fastened together like a comb. Cop- 
per sulfate in large amounts was used to kill these diatoms. It was 
distributed from a skiff with an outboard motor which circled the 
reservoir and cross-hatched the dead pockets. The response of the 
organisms to the copper sulfate is shown by the following : 

Pounds 
Single of copper 

cells sulfate 

Date per cc. added 

July 26 1, 692 

July 27 338 500 

.July 28 352 500 

July 29 1(X) 200 

July 30 58 

July 31 0.9 

Aug. 1 0.0 

Total 1,200 

A study of the bacterial records for the previous month showed that 
there had been a decided decrease in the bacterial efficiency and that 
the dissolved oxygen of the filtered water was as low as 50 percent and 
on some filters even 40 percent, whereas the normal summer-dissolved 
oxygen is usually never lower than 70 percent. The increased amount 
of carbon dioxide in the water undoubtedly caused increased diatom 
production which was already favored by the large silica content of 
the streams. 

In 1934, when a large outbreak of Synedra delicatissima (pi. 3, fig. 
2) occurred at Dalecarlia, one part per million of copper sulfate was 
added to the water for 3 days. The diatoms blocked the filters so 
completely that it was necessary to wash them every 15 minutes. Al- 
though the copper sulfate killed the microorganisms, they were not 
deposited in the settling basins, since they were about the same density 
as water. 

As a rule, a dosage of 0.2 to 0.5 part of copper sulfate per million 
is sufficient to kiU the plankton at Dalecarlia. Microorganic analysis 
is part of the regular routine. Samples of the water are collected from 
the river daily and nm through the Sedgwick-Eafter filters for 
examination. Usually, the treatment is necessary only when turbidity 
is between 15 and 50 parts per million. "Wlien heavy waves of mud 



PLANKTON m WATER SUPPLY MEIER 407 

come through, the algae entirely disappear and treatment can be 
omitted until the muddy waters subside. 

JELLYFISH IN THE WATER SUPPLY 

Occasionally, rare forms of plankton appear without apparent 
cause or warning in the filter beds only to disappear as quickly. In 
July 1927, when one of the filter beds was opened at Dalecarlia, 
thousands of the tiny jellyfish, Craspedacusta sowerbii (Lankester), 
came crowding to the light from all directions. After 2 weeks all 
had disappeared. No jellyfish were found in any of the reservoirs. 
The filter beds were in total darkness and there is very little circu- 
lation of air in them. At that time, their temperature varied from 
71" to 75° F. During the time that the jellyfish were found in the 
filtration plant, the water 8 miles above this point was not being 
treated with alum and their sudden disappearance coincided with the 
resumption of the alum treatment. Scrapings of the filter beds re- 
vealed no trace of the hydroid generation, and their sudden visita- 
tion remains a mystery to this day. 

CONTROL OF ALGAE 

When there is difficulty with your water supply and you make a 
complaint to your city water department, each complaint is recorded 
and investigated. Four types of examinations are included in this 
investigation. The physical examination concerns the temperature, 
turbidity, color, and odor of both the hot and cold water. The micro- 
scopical examination relates to the quantity of microscopic organisms 
per cc, as well as to the amount of inorganic and amorphous matter. 
The bacteriological examination has to do with the number of bac- 
teria per cc. and the presence of Bacillus coli and other bacteria 
associated with pollution. Finally, the chemical examination may 
include tests to show the total residue on evaporation, loss on ignition, 
fixed solids, alkalinity, hardness, incrustants, chlorine, iron, nitrogen 
as free ammonia, nitrogen as nitrites, total organic nitrogen, oxygen 
consumption, dissolved oxygen, and free carbonic acid, depending 
on the nature of the complaint. 

Excessive growth of algae in reservoirs is usually controlled by 
the application of coagulants or algicides to the water. A coagulant 
acts indirectly by causing a chemical change in the water by which 
a flocculent or floe, a gelatinous material, is formed. This acts as 
a net entangling the algae, and then the whole mass sinks by its own 
weight to the bottom. Coagulants are generally those compounds 
that at contact with water form hydroxides of iron or aluminum in 
colloidal form. The compound used and the resultant reaction varies 
according to the chemical qualities of the water. 



408 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 



An algicide acts directly by killing the algae. Chloramine (am- 
monia and chlorine) and copper sulfate, used separately or together, 
and potassium permanganate are the algicides usually used. Very 
minute quantities of them are effective, and remaining traces of them 
are usually removed in the course of the subsequent sand-filtration. 
A few bacteria may remain after slow sand-filtration. Small quan- 
tities of chloramine are generally used to destroy these survivors. 
The chloramine treatment is preferable to chlorination (the use of 
chlorine alone) because the chloramine has greater power of destroy- 
ing bacteria and does not leave the bad taste of chlorine in the water. 

The following table, published by Hale and based on his experience 
and on data published by Moore and Kellerman, Whipple, and 
others, indicates the amount of copper sulfate and clilorine necessary 
to destroy some of the most frequently occurring plankton forms. 



CHEMICALS REQUIRED FOR TREATMENT OF DIFFERENT GENERA 

OF PLANKTON 



Organism 


Odor 


Copper sulfate 


Chlorine 


Diatomaceae: 

Asterionella 

Cyclotella 


Aromatic, gera- 
nium, fishy. 
Faintly aromatic. . 


Paris 

per 
million 

0. 12- 0. 20 


Pounds 

per 
million 
gallons 

1. 0- 1. 7 


Parts 

per 

million 

0. 5-1. 

1. 


Fragilaria 




.25 
.20 
.07 
.50 

.36- .50 
.33 

. 12- . 50 

.50 

. 17 

. 05- . 33 

. 25 

2.00 


2. 1 

L7 

.6 

4.2 
3. 0- 4. 2 

2.8 
1. 0- 4. 2 

4.2 

L4 

. 4- 2. 8 

2. 1 

16.6 




Melosira 




2.0 


Navicula 






Nitzschia 






Synedra 


Earthy,, 


1. 


Stephanodiscus 






Tabellaria 


Aromatic, gera- 
nium, fishy. 


. 5-1. 


Chlorophyceae: 

Cladophora 




Closterium _. 






Coelastrum 




1.0 


Conferva - 






Desmidium . . 






Diciyosphaerium. - 


Grassy, nasturtium, 
fishy. 


. 5-1. 


Draparnaldia.. 


33 

2. OQ-IO! 00 

.50 

. 10 

.40 

2.00 

2. 00-10. 00 


2.8 

16. 6-83. 

4.2 

.08 

3.3 

16. 6 

16. 6-83. 




Eudorina 


Faintly fishy 




Enteromorpha 




Hydrodidyon 


Very offensive 




Microspora . _ 




Palmella ._ . 






Pandorina . 


Faintly fishy 




Protococcus 


1. 


Raphidium.. . 




1.00 

1.00 

. 12 

1.50 


8.3 

8.3 

1.0 

12. 5 




Seenedesmus 






Spirogyra.. . _ 




. 7-1. 5 


Staurastrum. . 


Grassy 




Tetrastrum 


1. 


Ulothrix 




.20 
.25 
.50 


1.7 
2. 1 
4.2 




Volvox . 


Fishy 


. 3-1. 


Zygnema 







PLANKTON IN WATER SUPPLY MEIER 



409 



CHEMICALS REQUIRED FOR TREATMENT OF DIFFERENT GENERA 
OF PLANKTON— Continued 



Organism 



Cj'anophyceae: 

Anabaena 

Aphanizomenon _ _ 

Clathrocystis 

Coelosphaerium . . 
Cylindrospermum . 
Gloeocapsa (red)_. 

Microcystis 

Oscillaria 

Protozoa: 

Ceratium 



Chlamydomonaa. 

Cryptomonas 

Dinobryon 



Endamoeba histoly- 
tica (cysts). 

Euglena 

Glenodinium 

Mallomonas 



Peridinium. 
Syniira 



Uroglena. 



Rotifer: 

Stentor 

Crustacea: 

Cyclops 

Daphnia 

Schizomycetes: 

Beggiatoa 



Cladothrix. 
Crenothrix. 



Sphaerotilis natans. 



Spirophyllum 

Thiothrix 

Fungus: 

Achlya 

Leptomitus 

Saprolegnia 

Miscellaneous: 

Chara 

Nitella flexilis 

Potamogeton 

Nais 

Blood worm, chiro- 

nomus. 
Blood worm, gnats - 



Odor 



Moldy, grassy, vile 
Moldy, grassy, vile 
Sweet grassy, vile.. 

Sweet grassy 

Grassy 



Fishy, vile, rusty 
brown color. 



Candied violets 

Aromatic, violets, 
fishy. 



Fishy 

Aromatic, violets, 
fishy. 

Fishy, like clam 
shells. 

Cucumber, musk- 
melon, fishy, bit- 
ter taste. 

Fishy, oily, cod- 
liver oil taste. 



Very offensive de- 
cayed. 



Very offensive de- 
cayed, medicinal 
with chlorine. 

Very offensive de- 
cayed. 



Objectionable. 



Copper sulfate 



Parts 

per 

million 

0. 12- 0. 48 



. 12- 
. 12- 
. 20- 



20- 
24- 



50 
25 
33 
12 
24 
20 
50 

33 



36- 1.0 
.50 

. 18 



.50 
.50 
. 50 

50- 2. 

12- . 25 

05- . 20 

. 24 



33- 



2.00 

5.00 

. 20 
. 5 

.40 



.40 
. 18 

10- . 50 
10- . 18 
30- .80 



Pounds 

per 
million 
gallons 

1. 0- 4. 

1. 0- 4. 2 

1. 0- 2. 1 

1. 7- 2. 8 

1.0 

2.0 

L7 

1. 7- 4. 2 

2. 0- 2. 8 

3. 0- 8. 3 

4.2 
1. 5 



Chlorine 



Parts 

per 

million 

0. 5- 1. 

.5- 1.0 

.5- 1.0 

. 5- 1. 



1. 1 
.3- 1. 



4.2 
4. 2 
4.2 

4. 2-16. 6 

1. 0- 2. 1 

0. 4- 1. 6 

2.0 



16. 6 

41. 5 

1. 7 
2. 8- 4. 2 

3.3 



3. 3 

1. 5 

. 8- 4. 2 

.8- 1. 5 

2. 5- 6. 7 



.3- 1. 

25. 0-100. 

1. 



O 3- 1. 



a 3- 1. 



1. 0- 3. 
1. 0- 3. 



. 5- 



.25 
1.0 



1.0 
15. 0- 50 

3.0 



410 



ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 



Sometimes fish are killed by the chemicals used in sterilization of 
the water. Moore and Kellerman prepared the following table, 
which shows the susceptibility of fish to the chemical, copper 
sulfate. 

LIMITING SAFE DOSAGE OF COPPER SULFATE 



Fish 


Parts 

per 

million 


Pounds per 
million 
gallons 


Trout - - _ 


0. 14 
0.33 

0. 33 
0.40 
0.40 
0.50 
0.67 

1. 35 
2.00 




1 ? 


Carp __-__ 


7, 8 


Suckers- - ___ - 


? 8 


Catfish -- -_ 


3 5 


Pickerel __ . .- . - 


3 5 


Goldfish _-_-_ -- -- 


4 ? 


Perch . . .- 


5 5 


Sunfish __ _- 


n 1 


Black bass - - - - 


16 fi 







More and more in recent years, scientists and waterworks engineers 
have become concerned with the interrelationship of microscopic 
plants and animals and their relationship to their environment, which 
in turn is very intimately related to our own daily life. The quest 
for knowledge regarding these tiny organisms in our water supply 
continues daily, and in the meantime our provision of pure water is 
made more secure. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Anonymous 

1933. Standard methods of water analysis. 7th ed., pp. lx-180. 

American Public Health Association and American Water Works. 
BiEGE, E. A., and Juoay, C. 

1911. The inland lakes of Wisconsin. The dissolved gases of the water 
and their biological significance. Wisconsin Geol. Nat. Hist. Surv., 
Bull. No. 22, XX +259 pp. 
1922. The inland lakes of Wisconsin. The plankton. I. Its quantity and 
chemical composition. Ibid., Bull. No. 64, ix+222 pp. 
Conger, Paul S. 

1937. Significance of shell structure in diatoms. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian 
Inst, for 1936, pp. 325-344. 
Godfrey, Edward S., Jr. 

1937. The protection and chlorination of public water supplies. New York 
State Dep. Health Bull. No. 21, pp. 1-60. 
Hale, Frank E. 

1939. The use of copper sulphate in control of microscopic organisms. 
Phelps Dodge Refining Corp., pp. 1-43. 
Harrington, G. E. 

1935. Interesting experiences with microorganisms in the Washington 
water supply. Proc. 9th Ann. Conf. Maryland-Delaware Water 
and Sewage Assoc, Annapolis, Md., pp. 74—79. 



PLANKTON IN WATER SUPPLY MEIER 411 

Hastings, Anna B. 

1937. Biology of water supply. British Mus. (Nat. Hist.), Econ. Ser. 
No. 7A, pp. 1-48. 
H^wvLEY, John B. 

1926-27. Microscopic life in Texas waters. Proc. 32d Conv. Amer. Soc. 
Municipal Improvements, pp. 247-277. 
JuDAY, C, and Schomkb, H. A. 

1935. The utilization of solar radiation by algae at different depths in 

lakes. Biol. Bull., vol. 69, No. 1, pp. 75-81. 

KiBKPATBICK, li, 

1917. The biology of waterworks. Brit. Mus. (Nat. Hist.), Econ. Ser. 
No. 7, pp. 1-58. 
KOFOID, C. A. 

1903. Plankton studies. IV. The plankton of the Illinois Jliver, 1S94- 

1899, with introductory notes upon the hydrography of the Illi- 
nois River and its basin. Pt. I, Quantitative investigations and 
general results. Illinois State Lab. Nat. Hist., Bull. No. 6, Art. 
2, pp. 95-629. 
1908. Plankton studies. V. The plankton of the Illinois River. Pt. II. 
Constituent organisms and their seasonal distribution. Ibid., No. 
8, Art. 1, pp. 2-360. 
Lauteb, Cakl J. 

1929. Open and covered reservoirs at Washington, D. C. Journ. Amer. 

Water Works Assoc, vol. 21, No. 7, pp. 947-954. 

1930. Purification of water at the Dalecarlia filtration plant, Washington, 

D. C. Mimeographed sheet distributed at Dalecarlia Reservoir, 
D. C. 
1937. The significance of micro-organismis in plant design. Proc. 11th 
Ann. Conf. Maryland-Delaware Water and Sewage Assoc, Wilm- 
ington, Del., pp. 67-74. 
ilACQXn:EN, P. O. 

1931. The water supply system of Washington, D. C. Mimeographed 

sheet distributed at Dalecarlia Reservoir, D. C. 
Meier, Flohence E. 

1936. Those ubiquitous plants called algae. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. 

for 1935, pp. 409-427. 
Minder, L. 

1926. Biologisch-chemische Untersuchungen im Ziirichsee. Rev. Hydrol., 

vol. 3, pp. 1-70. 
Moore, George T., and Keixerman, Kael F. 

1904. A method of destroying or preventing the growth of algae and cer- 

tain pathogenic bacteria in water supplies. U. S. Dep. Agr., Bur. 
Plant Ind. Bull. No. 64, pp. 1-44. 
Needham, James G., and Needham, Paul R. 

1927. A guide to the study of fresh-water biology. 88 pp. American View- 

point Society, Inc., New York and Albany. 
Olson, Theodore A. 

1932. Some observations on the interrelationships of sunlight, aquatic 

plant life and fishes. 62nd Ann. Meet. Amer. Fish. Soc, Balti- 
more, Md., September 1932, pp. 1-11. 
Peabsall, W. H. 

1929. Dynamic factors affecting aquatic vegetation. Proc. Int. Congr. 
Plant Sci., Ithaca, N. Y., August 1926, No. 1. pp. 667-672. 



412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

Reinhaed, Geoege Edwaed 

1931. The plankton ecology of the upper Mississippi, Minneapolis to 

Winona. Ecol. Monogr. No. 1, pp. 391-464. 

RiTTEE, CaSSANDEA 

1934-35. The significance of plankton in Kansas waters. Bien. Rep. 
Three-Day Water and Sewage Schools, Kansas Water and Sew- 
age Works Assoc, No. 4, pp. 67-71. 
Sette, F. J. 

1932. A study of the Pulaski Reservoir. Bull. Virginia Polytechn. Inst., 

vol. 25, No, 5, Exp. Stat. Ser. Bull. No. 8, pp. 5-67. 
Whipple, Geoege C. 

1927. The microscopy of drinking water. 409 pp. John Wiley and Sons, 
Inc., New York. 



Smithsonian Report. 19 39. —Meier 



PLATE 3 



/ ,'• 




^: 



^ l.-'t.i^- 



^.,'. 





Courtesy of U. S. Public He.alth .Service. 

Diatoms Commonly Found in Water Supplies. 

1, Synedra pulchella with a solitary Pediastruin, an alca; 2, Synedra deHeatmima with alum floe. (Photo- 
micrographs by Carl J. Lauter.) 3, Navkula; 4, Gomphnnema: 5, Asterionella. Greatly magnified. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Meier 



Plate 4 



■>k 



■^'t- 










Courtesy of U. S. Piil>lic Hp.ilth Service. 

NUISANCES IN Water supplies 
1 Stauraslrum, a desmid; 2, Anabaena, a blue-green agla; 3, Rivutaria, a blue-green alga. Greatly magnifleil. 



'!jftft»Ti>^>*'W^*^is^~'"^^*'* 




Smithsonian Report, 1939.— Meier 



Plate 1 l 



/. 



Z^'^^^.^-.^^m 




y 




















Courtesy of U. S. Public Health Service. 

Protozoans. 

], Three stages of a nonpathogenic endanaoeba of man; 2, four stages of spore formation of a nonpathogenic 
endamoeba of man; 3, stages of Entamoeba dysenteriae, the parasite of amoebic dysentery of man. Greatly 
magnified. 



TKICHINOSIS IN SWINE AND ITS RELATIONSHIP TO 
PUBLIC HEALTH^ 



By Benjamin Schwaktz, 
Chief, Zoological Division, Bureau of Animal Industry, U. S. Department of 

Agriculture 



' INTRODUCTION 

Trichinosis is a disease of human beings, swine, and other animals, 
and is of interest, therefore, to physicians, veterinarians, and public 
health and livestock sanitary officials and workers. This disease 
concerns also farmers and other swine growers because it is contracted 
by hogs as a result of certain swine husbandry practices. The meat 
and meat-packing industries are also vitally ajffected by the presence 
of trichinae in hogs, the transmission of these parasites to human 
beings through the consumption of raw or inadequately cooked or 
processed pork resulting in lawsuits for the recovery of damages on 
account of illness or death. This paper discusses trichinosis from 
the biological standpoint and as a problem concerning public health, 
livestock sanitation, veterinary medicine, and the meat and meat- 
packing industries, and outlines methods of controlling this important 
human and animal disease. 

THE DISCOVERY OF TRICHINAE AND THE DEMONSTRATION OF THEIR 

LIFE CYCLE 

Trichinae were first discovered in swine by Joseph Leidy, an 
American physician and naturalist. Leidy communicated his dis- 
covery to the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences in October 
1846; the published report (1) ^ of this communication prepared by 
the Academy's secretary is as follows : 

Dr. Leidy stated that he had lately detected the existence of an Entozoon in 
the superficial part of the extensor muscles of the thigh of a hog. The En- 
tozoon is a minute, coiled worm, contained in a cyst. The cysts are numerous, 
white, oval in shape, of a gritty nature, and between the 30th and 40th of an 
inch in length. 



* Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Asso- 
ciation, vol-. 92. n. 8:- 45, No; 3, pp. 317-337, March 1938, with slight revision and 
amplification by the author (August 1939). ■ 

'Numbers in parentheses refer to list at end of article. - • • 

413 



414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

The EntozooD he supposes to be the Ti-ichina spiralis, heretofore considered 
as peculiar to the human species. He could perceive no distinction between it 
an(d the specimens of T. spiralis which he had met with in several human 
subjects in the dissecting-rooms, where it has also been observed by others, 
since the attention of the scientific public has been directed to it by Mr, Hilton 
and Professor Owen. 

In March 1866, 20 years after Leidy communicated his finding of 
trichinae in pork, that investigator (2) explained at a meeting of 
the same academy the circumstances under which he had made this 
important discovery. Briefly the circumstances were as follows: 
While eating a slice of pork, Leidy observed some minute specks in 
the meat which reminded him of similar spots that he had seen in 
the muscles of a human cadaver only a few days previously. He 
saved part of the pork, and upon examining it microscopically he 
found it to be copiously infested with trichinae. The parasites were 
all dead, since the piece of pork in question had been thoroughly 
cooked. It is noteworthy that Leidy was quoted as observing that 
all meats were liable to be infested with parasites. He stated, how- 
ever, that there was no danger in this to human beings, provided the 
meats were thoroughly cooked. Leidy stated that he had satisfied 
himself by experiment that parasites were destroyed when subjected 
to the temperature of boiling water. 

As far as is known, Hilton (3), a prosector in Guy's Hospital, Lon- 
don, was the first to investigate the white, gritty specks found by 
him in a human cadaver; there is some evidence that similar specks 
were found by Tiedemann, in 1822, and by Peacock, in 1828. In 
1832,^ Hilton examined these pathological spots without recognizing, 
however, any parasites within them. In 1835, Paget, then a medical 
student in London, found whitish spots in a human cadaver which 
he dissected in St. Bartholomew's Hospital. With the aid of Brown 
and Bennett, Paget demonstrated that the white, gritty spots were 
capsules which contained spiral worms. These worms were described 
in the same year by Kichard Owen (4), and named by him Trichina 
spiralis. In 1895, Railiiet (5) renamed these parasites Trichinslla 
spiralis because the generic name Trichina^ proposed by Owen, was 
preoccupied and, under the rules of zoological nomenclature, was not 
available for the parasite under discussion. 

From the time of the discovery of trichinae in human cadavers 
until 1860, these worms were regarded as zoological curiosities, 
although, according to Leuckart (6), Wood, in Bristol, discovered 
numerous trichinae in the body of a young man who died in 1835, 
after a 3-weeks illness characterized by rheumatic symptoms, accom- 
panied by cardiac and pulmonary inflammation. According to 

" Ills observations were published in 1833. 



TRICHINOSIS — SCHWARTZ 415 

Leuckart, Wood expressed the opinion that the presence of the 
trichinae might have been related to the rheumatic and inflammatory 
condition of the patient. It was not until 1860, however, that 
trichinae were definitely recognized as pathogenic. This came about 
as follows : 

On January 27, 1860, a 20-year-old girl died in the municipal 
hospital of Dresden, Germany, the suspected cause of death being 
typhoid fever. On microscopic examination of the girl's muscles, 
Zenker (7) found numerous trichina larvae in various stages of 
development, including larvae that had apparently invaded the mus- 
cles recently. However, Zenker failed to find the usual pathological 
picture of typhoid fever in the course of this necropsy. On investi- 
gating this matter further, Zenker determined that, 38 days before 
her death, the girl had eaten sausage and ham prepared from a hog 
that had been slaughtered on a farm where she had been a servant. 
Others who had partaken of this pork also became ill and Zenker was 
able to demonstrate numerous trichinae in the remaining portions of 
the meat that were still available. Later Zenker demonstrated 
trichinae in the girl's intestines that had been preserved in cold 
storage. With material obtained from the girl's muscles, Zenker, 
Virchow, and Leuckart worked out the essential facts in the life 
history of trichinae. Leuckart (8) experimentally infected a hog 
with trichinous meat and, several days later, he observed symptoms 
suggestive of an intestinal infection, and fever. The symptoms 
gradually increased in severity and became complicated by the 
appearance of muscular stiffness, the animal in question being hardly 
able to move 4 weeks following experimental infection. On post- 
mortem examination, 5 weeks after the beginning of the experiment, 
Leuckart demonstrated unencysted trichinae in the muscles of the 

pig- 
On the heels of these important discoveries concerning trichinae 
and their mode of transmission, serious epidemics of tricliinosis came 
to light in Germany. In 1862 there occurred in the town of 
Hettstadt a massive epidemic of trichinosis with a mortality of 16 
percent, due to the consumption of raw pork. Two years later, 337 
individuals in a small town in Saxony, having a total population of 
2,000, developed trichinosis and, of those that became so affected, 
101 died. These two epidemics forcefully demonstrated the role of 
uncooked, trichina-infested pork in the transmission of a serious 
disease to human beings. 

LIFE HISTORY OF TRICHINAE 

Knowledge of the life cycle of TrichineUa spiralis is the result of 
scientific investigations carried out by various parisitologists and 



416 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 



medical investigators, in addition to those already mentioned. 
Briefly the life cycle is as follows (fig. 1) : 

Infection in a human being, pig, or other susceptible animal, 
takes place as a result of the ingestion of meat containing live, infec- 
tive larvae. The infective larvae, 1 mm. (about V25 of ^n inch) 
long, are located in the muscle fibers where they are spirally rolled, 
and enclosed in connective tissue cysts. On reaching the stomach 
of a susceptible host that happens to ingest trichinous meat, the 




FiGDKE 1. — Life cycle of TricMnella spiralis. (After Schwartz.) 



larvae become free as a result of proteolytic enzyme activity, and 
the liberated worms pass into the intestine with the chyme. Here 
they become localized, at first among the folds and villi in the upper 
part of the small intestine, and become sexually mature in the course 
of 2 or 3 days, meanwhile increasing somewhat in size. Following 
the mating of the worms, the females rapidly attain their growth, 
reaching a length of 3 to 4 mm. (about Yg to Yq of an inch), bur- 
rowing more or less deeply into the intestinal mucosa, and commonly 
reaching the lymph spaces of the villi. The fiill-grown males, which 



TRICHINOSIS — SCHWARTZ 417 

attain a length of 1.5 mm. (about i/ie of an inch), tend to pass out 
of the intestine shortly after their reproductive functions have been 
completed. However, adult worms of both sexes may persist in the 
intestine for several weeks. 

The fertilized eggs develop within the uterus of the mother worm, 
and the larvae begin leaving the maternal uterus 4 to 5 days after 
the mating of the sexes, or 6 to 7 days after the ingestion of trichin- 
ous meat by a susceptible host. While the birth of young worms 
may continue for several weeks, most larvae are apparently dis- 
charged by the adult females during the first 2 weeks of their fertile 
period. 

The new-born larvae, 0.1 mm. (about 1/250 of an inch) long, are 
deposited in the lymph spaces through the vaginal aperture of the 
female trichina, this aperture being located in the anterior part of 
the worm. The larvae are carried by the lymph to the thoracic duct, 
thence through the venous system into the heart, and finally into the 
arterial circulation. Those larvae which are carried to the striated 
muscles leave the capillaries and penetrate into the primary muscle 
bundles. The muscle fibers become most heavily invaded 9 to 10 days 
after infection, or 3 to 4 days after the birth of the young worms 
lias begun. Within 10 to 14 days after their penetration into the 
muscles, the larvae have attained their maximum length, which is 
10 times their original length; each larva rolls itself into a spiral 
and becomes enclosed in a capsule. 

While the origin of the capsule is still a somewhat debatable point, 
it is certain that the presence of the parasites in the muscle fibers 
stimulates the formation of connective tissue around each worm; 
sometimes, however, two, and more rarely more than two, worms are 
enclosed in a single capsule. Capsule formation begins about 1 
month after infection, and a thin-walled capsule is readily recogniz- 
able about 6 weeks after infection. Sooner or later, but not earlier 
than 6 months after infection, as a rule, the capsules begin to calcify, 
calcium being deposited at first at the poles, the entire process of 
calcification requiring about li/^ years. This accounts for the failure 
to find the white, oval cysts in infested pork, since most hogs that 
come to slaughter in this country are approximately 6 to 10 months 
old. In the experience of the author of this paper, only one speci- 
men, among the numerous samples of pork examined for trichinae 
in the laboratory of the Zoological Division and elsewhere, contained 
calcified cysts, visible to the naked eye as small, oval, chalky spots, 
such as were observed and described by Leidy in 1846 (1) . The larvae 
may remain alive in the calcified cysts for a number of years. Sooner 
or later, however, the larvae die and become absorbed, or undergo 
calcification and break down into crumbled masses. 



418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

Wandering trichinae have been found also in the mesenteric 
lymph-nodes, peritoneal cavity, pericardial cavity, pleural cavity, 
myocardium, lungs, the central nervous system and other locations. 
In these locations only the young noninfective larvae have been en- 
countered; the infective larvae are known to occur only in muscle 
fibers that are surrounded by sarcolemma. While trichina larvae 
are known to penetrate the tissue of the heart, they are unable to de- 
velop there and degenerate rapidly. As a result of their penetration 
into the heart tissue, the larvae produce profound inflammatory and 
degenerative changes, and these parasites may be one of the factors 
in cardiac diseases in man and animals. 

It is evident from this account of the life cycle that the entire 
development of Trichi/nella spiralis takes place in a single host ani- 
mal which harbors at first the developing and sexually mature worms 
in its intestine, and later harbors the new generation of worms in the 
lymph, the blood, and finally in the voluntary muscles. 

FACTS LEADING TO THE DETERMINATION OF THE PREVALENCE OF 
TRICHINAE IN HOGS IN THE UNITED STATES 

It could hardly be expected that the discovery of trichinae in hogs 
would be without its effect on the American meat industry, partic- 
ularly following the alarming outbreaks of trichinosis in Germany. 
When Europe became trichina-conscious and alarmed, American 
meat exporters had already carried on for a number of years a brisk 
trade with various countries on that continent. According to Moh- 
ler (9) the export trade in bacon alone from the United States to 
Europe had become well established in 1879. As a result of the 
trichinaphobia which held the peoples of certain European countries 
in its grip, restrictive measures against American pork began to be 
promulgated, Italy, Germany, Austria, and France following each 
other in rapid succession. The prohibition against American pork 
was operative in the countries mentioned by 1881. These restrictions, 
together with the "Slaughter Order" of Great Britain in 1892, which 
required that cattle imported from the United States be slaughtered 
at a port of entry because of the fear of contagious pleuropneumonia, 
are considered by Mohler (9) "as the potent and exciting factors in 
securing legislation for the scientific inspection of meats for foreign 
and domestic use, and, incidentally, in advancing the cause of veteri- 
nary science in the United States." Thus, an observation by Leidy 
and the subsequent scientific discoveries which followed in its wake 
were responsible, at least in part, for giving the American people the 
protection that is afforded by the Federal Meat Inspection Service. 

On August 30, 1890, the Congress of the United States passed an 
act providing for the inspection of salted pork and bacon, and on 
March 3, 1891, the Congress passed a more effective meat inspection 



TRICHINOSIS — SCHWARTZ 419 

act that provided, among other things, for a microscopic inspection 
of meat from all hogs for export in order that certificates could be 
issued setting forth their freedom from trichinae. 

PREVALENCE OF TRICHINAE IN HOGS IN THE UNITED STATES 

As a result of systematic microscopic examinations of samples 
of muscle tissue from millions of hogs, there accumulated in the 
records of the Bureau of Animal Industry a vast array of data show- 
ing the prevalence of trichinae in swine in this country. These data, 
which were made public from time to time, showed that out of the 
total of over 8,000,000 hogs, samples of which were examined micro- 
scopically from 1898 to 1906, 1.41 percent contained live trichinae; 
in addition, 1.16 percent contained bodies resembling trichinae or 
disintegrating trichinae. The total percentage of infection with live 
and dead or disintegrating trichinae was more or less uniform from 
year to year during the 9-year period mentioned. 

Since it is well known that microscopic inspection is inherently im- 
perfect, and that light and occasionally moderate infections are likely 
to be overlooked, it is safe to conclude that during the period covered 
by the data mentioned, approximately 1 out of 75 hogs contained 
trichinae probably in sufficient numbers to cause clinical trichinosis in 
human beings following the consumption of such pork in a raw or in- 
sufficiently cooked state. Under the meat inspection act passed by 
Congress in 1906, there was no specific provision for microscopic in- 
spection for trichinae of pork intended for export, and the inspection 
previously made was discontinued. 

Following the abandonment, in 1906, of microscopic inspection for 
trichinae of pork intended for export, no up-to-date information was 
available up to 1933 regarding the prevalence of these parasites in 
swine. In 1933, there was inaugurated in the Bureau of Animal 
Industry, under the direction of the writer, a research project involv- 
ing a thorough examination of samples of pork muscle tissue for 
trichinae by the laborious teclmique of digesting from each carcass 
about 200 to 250 grams of muscle tissue taken from the pillars of the 
diaphragm. While microscopic examination of pork for trichinae is a 
hit-and-miss method, the digestion method as described by Ransom 
(10), with certain modifications introduced by workers in the 
Zoological Division, is the most accurate technique known at present 
for determining the presence or absence of trichinae in pork and any 
other meat. The information obtained by the writer and his associates 
on the prevalence of trichinae in swine is applicable to research only. 
This method gives a far more accurate insight into the incidence of 
trichinae in hogs than was obtained by the routine microscopic inspec- 
tion practiced by Bureau inspectors from 1892 to 1906. 

197855—40 28 



420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

Out of 6,622 samples of diaphragm muscle tissue obtained from 
1933 to 1937 from as many grain-fed hogs originating in Alabama, 
Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, 
New Jersey, New York, and Ohio, and slaughtered in officially in- 
spected establishments, only 60 (0.91 percent) were found to be in- 
fested with trichinae. Of those found to be so infested, nearly one- 
third contained between only 1 and 5 larvae per 100 grams of 
diaphragm muscle tissue ; slightly over one-sixth of the positives con- 
tained only between 6 and 25 larvae per 100 grams of diaphragm 
muscle tissue; of the remainder, constituting 52 percent of the posi- 
tive samples, one or more trichinae were found per gram of dia- 
phragm muscle tissue, and only about two-thirds of these contained 
in excess of more than one larva per gram of muscle tissue. 

Out of 6,484 samples obtained from as many hogs that had been 
fed on uncooked garbage, 286 (4.41 percent) were found to be in- 
fested. Of the samples so infested more than two-fifths contained 
only from 1 to 6 larvae, and more than one-fifth contained only from 
6 to 25 larvae per 100 grams of diaphragm muscle tissue; of the 
remaining samples which contained one or more larvae per gram 
of muscle tissue, only two-thirds contained more than one larva per 
gram of such tissue.* Out of 1,987 samples obtained from as many 
hogs known to have been fed cooked garbage, 11 (0.55 percent) were 
found to be infested. Of those so infested, nearly 45 percent con- 
tained only from 1 to 5 and about 18 percent contained only from 
6 to 25 larvae per 100 grams of diaphragm muscle tissue. Of the 
remaining 29 percent, which contained 1 or more larvae per gram of 
diaphragm muscle tissue, only 0.9 percent contained more than 1 
larva per gram of such tissue. 

These data show an incidence of trichinae in garbage-fed hogs 
about five times as great as that in grain-fed hogs, and an incidence 
of these parasites in hogs fed uncooked garbage about eight times as 
great as that in hogs fed cooked garbage. The data show, therefore, 
that the feeding of uncooked garbage favors the spread of trichinae 
to swine and that the cooking of garbage is an effective method of 
sharply curtailing the incidence of trichinae in garbage-fed hogs. 

* Since this paper was written a total number of 13,162 diaphragms from as many 
ii:rain-fed hogs were digested with the following results : Only 126 (0.95 percent) were 
found to contain trichinae and nearly two-thirds of the positives contained only 1 to 5 
larvae per 100 grams of tissue ; less than 25 percent of the positives contained 1 or more 
trichinae per gram of tissue. Out of 10,500 diaphragms from as many garbage-fed hogs 
obtained from important garbage-feeding centers, 599 (5.7 percent) were found to be 
infected. Of the positives 228 (38 percent of the whole) contained only 1 to 6 larvae per 
100 grams of tissue ; slightly over 25 percent of these positives contained 1 or more 
trichinae per gram of tissue. 

The available evidence shows that the majority of the positive grain-fed hogs had light 
infections with trichinae, this being correlated with the preponderance of low-grade 
human trichina infections brought to light by the examination of human diaphragms. 
Grain-fed hogs constitute the vast bulk of swine in the United States. 



TRICHINOSIS — SCHWARTZ 421 

In general, the incidence of trichinae involved in the series of hogs 
in question is low. Data to be presented in another section of this 
paper show that hogs that developed infections with trichinae pro- 
duced by the experimental feeding of trichinous meat did not show 
clinical sjanptoms when the resulting infection was characterized by 
less than 800 to 900 larvae per gram of diaphragm muscle tissue. In 
the entire series of over 15,000 hogs involved in the digestion tests to 
determine the presence of trichinae, only one contained as many as 
805 larvae per gram of diaphragm muscle tissue. With the possible 
exception of this particular hog, not one of the other infested animals 
under consideration would have been diagnosed as suffering from 
trichinosis even if all of these hogs had been under the careful scrutiny 
of a competent veterinary clinician during the period of active infec- 
tion. The trichina infections in the 357 positive hogs, with the pos- 
sible exception of the one hog already mentioned, were evidently of the 
nonclinical type, as far as can be judged by the number of larvae 
present in the diaphragms of these individual host animals. 

Data obtained by the writer and his associates in the Zoological Divi- 
sion showed that when the infection with trichinae in the pillars of the 
diaphragm of hogs was such that less than 1 larva was present per 
gram of muscle tissue, only 1 out of 11 positive samples, examined 
microscopically three times, actually showed trichinae. "Wlien the 
infection was characterized by as many as 3 larvae per gram of 
diaphragm muscle tissue, only approximately 50 percent of the known 
positives showed trichinae on miscroscopic examination. Out of a 
total of 319 diaphragm samples from as many trichina-infested hogs 
found to be positive by the digestion technique, only 67 (21 percent) 
were found to be positive by the press preparation method when three 
preparations, each containing between 100 and 150 milligrams of 
muscle tissue, were examined. Assuming these findings to have gen- 
eral application, the positive samples in the series under discussion 
would have been sharply reduced, had these samples been examined 
only microscopically. 

TRICHINOSIS IN SWINE 

Considering the fact that a positive diagnosis of trichinosis in human 
beings can be made with certainty only when the parasites are actually 
fomid in the patient, usually following a biopsy, it is not surprising 
that Hutyra and Marek (11) state that trichinosis has not been diag- 
nosed in living swine. In a human being a tentative diagnosis of 
trichinosis is made on the basis of a chain of clinical symptoms, not a 
single one of which, or even several taken together, can be regarded as 
pathognomonic of this disease. However, when all the symptoms are 
considered together, a presumptive diagnosis is warranted, particu- 



422 a:nnual report Smithsonian institution, 1939 

larly if the patient can recall having eaten, prior to the onset of 
symptoms, raw or insufficiently cooked pork, or an inadequately proc- 
essed or cooked meat food product containing pork muscle tissue. In 
the final analysis, however, a definite diagnosis of trichinosis involves 
the finding in the patient of the parasites at some stage of their 
development. 

The clinical manifestations of trichinosis in swine have been estab- 
lished only as a result of observations following experimental feeding 
of trichinous meat to these animals. The severity of the symptoms 
in swine, as in human beings, is related to the number of encysted 
larvae ingested. This accounts for the somewhat conflicting reports 
relative to the seriousness of trichinosis in swine, as recorded by dif- 
ferent investigators. In general the work of the early investigators 
showed that swine manifest symptoms following the ingestion of 
relatively large numbers of trichinae, and that indefinite or no symp- 
toms are shown by these host animals following the ingestion of rela- 
tively small numbers of these worms. 

Thus, Leuckart (6) concluded that only about 50 percent of hogs that 
had been infected experimentally showed visible symptoms. Accord- 
ing to Leuckart, the hogs that were seriously affected showed intestinal 
disturbances 3 to 4 days after eating trichinous meat. In the severest 
cases, Leuckart noted intestinal irritation, fever and pain, and on the 
eleventh day after infection, he observed a sharp increase in tempera- 
ture with evidence of muscular inflammation, stiffness, difficulty in 
masticating and breathing, and severe emaciation. Leuckart found 
that about 50 percent of the hogs showing severe symptoms succumbed 
to trichinosis. In recovered cases, this investigator observed the sub- 
sidence of the symptoms beginning about 6 weeks after infection ; re- 
covery was complete, the recovered animals taking on good weight. 

In the course of experimental investigations on trichinae in hogs 
carried out during the past few years by Lloyd A. Spindler, of the 
Zoological Division of the Bureau of Animal Industry, under the 
direction of the writer, observations were made on the reactions of 
these host animals to various doses of larvae administered. Although 
these observations were incidental to other objectives, they are of 
value in showing the varying degree of susceptibility of pigs to dif- 
ferent-sized doses of trichinae. When the pigs in question were killed, 
an estimate was made of the number of larvae per gram of diaphragm 
muscle tissue by the digestion method proposed by Ransom (10). 
The results of these observations, together with other pertinent data, 
are given in table 1. 

An examination of the data presented in table 1 shows that pigs 1 
to 6 weighing from 100 to 150 pounds, showed no readily observable 
symptoms following the ingestion of trichinous meat containing vary- 



TRICHINOSIS — SCHWARTZ 



423 





o 


» 


T3 


•d 










O 

CI 

a 


0) 


o 
o 






fB 


u 


f^ 


iM~ 






S u: 


4) ««, 


gj « e4 CJ M^ -s*^ 








As 


. . . .^o . 


-t? 6 6 6 6 d 


o 






|l 


o d> d> 


O* 






— IOOOOO(NO^J CO 


-ki (M 


o o o 


O 




CO 


— (i-HfCMCOOO 00 


O 00 


00 (NO 






^ 


^ 


^ ^ ^ 


(N 






I 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 !>> »- 


m 1 1 1 1 1 f- 


_- t- 43 (N 


•O ' be 








>i 1 \ , I I <:■' 


So > — 1 


a; fl'-r 






x) c a c c c 03 


.2**- -B 

^_- ."S bC 
•2 43+i G 5 

.a 3^ C 

fells 1 


S 03 a. 






; ; ; ; : ; i^-gl^ 

, tw .,-1 3; OS 

1 ' ' ' ' ' ' OJ O f- 00 


o .2 2 .2 .2 .2 r^ 

'^Coooi^«o3 

'C.2^«£^.2-a 


T3 cr-t: 

43 03 43 


^ 




1 1 1 1 1 f 1 **-i ^3 +3 


g^'^I^^^-*^ 


2^J^= c^-^ 


•--^ s 


Q 




, 1 1 1 1 1 1 Bj-^C O 


-kJCOa3<i3a)Q;73 


04 X & 52 C3 « 

2-o.a-..-(N 


i^J S £ 




.Sf 
a 


; ; ; : : : : ^ f s.:^ 
' ■ -a a ^2 

1 1 1 1 1 'i ' ?; '%t>- a 


2 ^'3'S'S 5S OS'S 
^+^ CO aj K tn a; • - 

fl^os^sseiscjo 
O coTS'OXl'Cid'^ 


.2 2 a 




o 


,1 o .2'*-' 




s^ofit 


^ 43 03 


O) 


X3 


' ' ' ' ' ' '^.2 — .^ 

: : 1 ; '. ; :^2a§ 

'''■''' flS S-2 
, , a p o3 . 

ih a, £- c 


'So'^'CTJ'O'a.S 


-go la ^-u 

>>o -+3 ibis- 
's'*' =° o3o-a 

3 o .. to (M o 

•2"^^o£ 


sj.a s 




1 

a 

a 
>. 




. 0) « 5 a 

"^iS 03 43 


S 


ta:^ « o (U a> <» « 

"^ > > > > > CO 
a!.-.00000>i 


1. 




: r-g-l:" 




«• 




1 . 1 1 1 1 iT3 C o-o 


.t^O(Se«o3e3o3^ 


g-g-a-^^^^ 

^ — aj 01 ~ £: "tr. 

^ a ^ S.S'"-Sf' 


<- aj(N ^[2 


•«• 




r 1 1 1 r 1 1 a; Ci 43 <v) 

1 1 . 1 1 > .^- «« Q, 


C - K-i n2 X 00 03 CO ~ 

2^.a a a s a a « 

*? 03 o o o o o^ 

s^'ssaaa as 




1 




3 1 1 1 i 1 1 5C.2 o3 be 


43 ., — . 

« 43^ S-a 

'S St; o .-^ OS 


3 
«.~, 






O CO CO O 00 'H lO Ti< o o 


CO coeocoeoeoo 


o 00 CO 


CO 


o* 






C^ t>. C^ •* lO ■* (M iC CO Tt< 


^ 1-lrt — 1^^ Tj< 


CO Tf CO 


*n 


00 




s 


— 1 CC ■>* -* CO 00 CO t> CO 


O) C^ OS OS C) OS CO 


?. ^ CO 


M 
















*■•** 




& 


-^ ,-H Cvl 


^ ^ ^ ,_ ^rt (M 


^_^ 1-H *— < 


TJ( 


?! 


T3 


u< 










« 


£ 


_o 






o 




1 


1 

a 








-1^ 

o 




1^ 

1-H 


S 


p- 






CO 




H 


i 








-^* 




hJ 


s 












n 


> 




ooooooooo o 


o ocoocc 


o o o 


o 


•< 


aS 




oocoooooo o 


o oooooc 


o o o 


o 


Eh 


>J 


"5 


csoooooooo o 


o oooooo 


o o o 


o 






«j 














o 


-HOOOOiCiOOO o 


o ooooco 


O" O" lO 


Tfl 






E- 


--^ (N CO (N CO l> 00 00 a> 


O OOOOOfN 


IM <N C^ 


t^ 






OC^JcOOOiCLl-HOSiO OS 


»>. t^ t^ t^ l^ t~- LO 


(M Tj< 00 


,_ 






■* OOCO— 1 lOOOSO-* o 


(N N(N<NlM(Nrf 


I> lO ^ 


OS 






S 1^5 CO -^' 00 ■*■ T}i O 05 UO -^ 


(M" im' c^' <n c<i im' lo 


<m' tj! 00 


o 




J3 


e-^iococoiciocsLOTji CO 


lO lO U5 O »0 >C ■^ 


t^ o CO 


■^ 




be 


^ 




O ""' 






» 


o 




-u 






^ 


3 




00 

00 

CO 






.t£ 




; ;;::;: 


1 1 1 

1 1 

IN 1 ' 






H^ 




1 r 1 1 1 1 1 


O 1 1 








1 1 1 f 1 ( 1 1- O 


-H f 1 CO -^ L-- ir t^ 


CO 'r?* LO 


«c 








-< «<i fo ■* U5 to r^ 00 c» --^ 


.— 1 ,—i^,,—lr-ly-'T-< 


-1 «<1 (N 


IN 



£l 



5-^ 
o a 
a5 



o e 



as 



424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

ing numbers of infective larvae, the number of larvae ingested by 
individual pigs of this group ranging from 1,200 to 35,000. Since 
a single female trichina may give birth to about 1,000 larvae, the 
individual pigs in question might have contained from about 500,000 
up to about 17,000,000 larvae in their muscles. This estimate is 
based on the assumption that 50 percent of the larvae administered 
developed into females and that each of the latter developed to fertile 
maturity and produced a normal brood of young worms. It is doubt- 
ful, however, that such theoretical expectations are ever realized in 
the case of experimental and natural infections. It is fairly safe 
to conclude that pig 6 that received 35,000 infective larvae probably 
developed an infection characterized by the encystment of several 
million larvae in its muscles, without exhibiting, however, any 
noticeable clinical symptoms. 

Although a 200-pound hog (No. 7) was apparently unaffected 
following the ingestion of 75,000 larvae, two pigs weighing 100 
pounds (No. 9) and 130 pounds (No. 8), respectively, showed symp- 
toms, those in the lighter pig being decidedly pronounced and termi- 
nating in death 7 days after infection. The remaining pigs of this 
series received doses of from 90,000 up to 174,000 larvae and all of 
them showed more or less severe symptoms. Each of six pigs (Nos. 
11 to 16), weighing about 115 pounds and receiving a dose of 100,000 
larvae, succumbed to the infection at various times between the tenth 
and twentieth days following the ingestion of larvae. It is interesting 
to note that the top of the mercury column in the thermometer used 
in taking the temperature of pig 16, about 1 hour before this animal 
died, was above the mark 110° F. Pig 26, weighing 90 pounds and 
receiving 174,000 larvae, showed severe symptoms but it did not 
succumb to the infection. 

It is evident from these data that infections resulting from the 
administration of trichinae may be measured by the number of larvae 
per gram of diaphragm muscle tissue. Applying this yardstick to 
the data given in table 1, it is clear that in the series of experimental 
infections under consideration, infections characterized by the presence 
of up to 900 larvae per gram of diaphragm muscle tissue developed 
without any noticeable symptoms (pigs 1 to 7). With a single excep- 
tion (pig 7), however, all the pigs that were found to contain 860 or 
more larvae per gram of diaphragm muscle tissue did show more or 
less severe symptoms. 

While the number of larvae per gram of diaphragm muscle tissue 
bears in a general way a relation to the estimated size of the infecting 
dose (table 1), particularly in the case of the lighter infecting doses, 
this relationship is subject to rather wide variations. For instance, 
pigs 18 to 23, weighing between 150 to 160 pounds at the time of ihfec- 



TRICHINOSIS— SCHWARTZ 425 

tion with the 120,000 larvae each, showed up to 2,700 larvae per gram 
of diaphragm muscle tissue, while pig 26, weighing 90 pounds at the 
time of infection with 174,000 larvae, contained only 2,100 larvae per 
gram of diaphragm muscle tissue. That many larvae may go astray 
in the course of their migration through the body has already been 
mentioned in the account of the life cycle of Trichinella spiralis. It 
is probable that other factors, including the host's defense mechanism, 
may be involved in the degree of the resulting infection. 

In the hope of securing more precise information on the symptoms 
of experimental trichinosis in swine than was afforded by the data 
already presented, the writer, in collaboration with Underwood and 
Cross, infected seven pigs with varying doses of trichina larvae. 
These host animals were under careful observation at the Agricultural 
Research Center, Beltsville, Md., tliroughout the period during which 
the severe symptoms would be expected to manifest themselves, and 
for some time after this period. During the period of observation, 
the pigs were carefully scrutinized, temperature, pulse, and respiration 
rates being taken at frequent intervals and a general physical 
inspection being made at each observation. 

Four pigs weighing 20.45, 20.91, 22.27, and 22.27 kilograms (45, 46, 
49, and 49 pounds), respectively, were fed trichinous meat, the. num- 
ber of larvae administered to the individual pigs being 10,000, 15,000, 
20,000, and 25,000, respectively. The four pigs were under careful 
observation for 50 days, 2 days prior to and 48 days following the 
feeding of the infected meat. During this period the animals were 
examined on 37 different days, without showing the slightest devia- 
tion from the normal. On postmortem examination, 50 days after 
infection, no macroscopic lesions of any kind were found. The 
trichina content of these pigs per gram of muscle tissue was estimated 
by obtaining and digesting 200 grams of muscle tissue taken from 
different portions of the body, including the diaphragm. The num- 
ber of trichinae per gram of mixed muscle tissue was 52, 46, 77, and 
149, respectively. The weights of these host animals, determined 
shortly before they were killed, were 37.25, 30.91, 35.91, and 36.82 
kilograms (72, 68, 79, and 81 pounds), respectively. Considering the 
ration fed, the increase in weight was nearly normal. 

Three other pigs, weighing 22.73, 22.5, and 19.32 kilograms (50, 
491/2, and 42i/^ pounds), respectively, were infected Avith larger doses 
of larvae, the doses being 50,000, 75,000, and 100,000 larvae, respec- 
tively. These pigs were kept under observation for 83 days, during 
which they were carefully scrutinized 3 times before and 19 times 
after infection. The examinations of these host animals were made 
about 4 to 5 days apart in most instances, except during the second 
and third weeks of infection, when more frequent observations were 



426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

made. Three days after infection, the pigs developed diarrhea. 
These host animals showed pale or slightly injected mucous mem- 
branes at various times. About 18 days after infection, some evidence 
of poor physical condition began to manifest itself and, 4 days later, 
the pigs appeared to be "off color" with indefinite symptoms; there 
was evidence of a slight edema of the eyelids and vulva. Five weeks 
after infection the pigs appeared normal. 

The temperatures of the pigs remained normal except in the case 
of the pig receiving 75,000 larvae and developing the heaviest infec- 
tion, as determined later by the number of larvae per gram of mixed 
muscle tissue. This animal showed a temperature of 105 °F., or 
slightly above or below this on the eighth, eleventh, fifteenth, and 
forty-first days after infection; occasionally this animal showed a 
rapid pulse. When these three pigs were killed, 79 days after infec- 
tion, they were found to contain 840, 1,535, and 1,215 larvae, respec- 
tively, per gram of mixed muscle tissue. The weights of these pigs 
immediately before they were killed were 31.7, 23.41, and 22.04 kilo- 
grams (69.75, 51.5, and 48.5 pounds), respectively, indicating a failure 
to gain weight at a normal rate. It is evident from these data that 
even careful observations of pigs following experimental infection 
with large doses of trichinae failed to reveal any s^Tiiptoms that were 
definitely suggestive of trichinosis or any other specific disease. 

CONTROL OF TBICHINAE IN SWINE 

It is evident from the data on the prevalence of trichinae in grain- 
fed swine that the persistence of these parasites in nearly 1 percent 
of these host animals is conclusive proof that much still remains to 
be done to reduce, if not to eliminate altogether, the small residuum 
of these parasites which, under certain conditions, may be distinctly 
pathogenic to their porcine hosts. Without minimizing the impor- 
tance of trichinae to the livestock industry of the United States from 
the viewpoint of their injuriousness to hogs, the chief importance 
that attaches to these parasites is their bearing on human health. 
In the United States, human beings acquire trichinae as a result of 
eating raw or inadequately cooked pork, the only conclusive excep- 
tions to this statement being a small outbreak of trichinosis in Cali- 
fornia which was traced to the consumption of jerked bear meat 
(Meyer, 12), and several sporadic cases traced to bear meat. 

Although the evidence presented in this paper shows that the 
vast majority of the infested swine examined by the digestion 
method had light or practically negligible infections, the data in- 
dicate conclusively that sources of trichina infection exist on farms 
in the Atlantic seaboard States, the north central States, the Middle 
West and elsewhere. Among the possible sources of trichina in- 



TRICHINOSIS — SCHWARTZ 427 

fection on farms in the areas mentioned are the contents of the 
scrap barrel, offal from hogs butchered on farms and in country 
slaughterhouses, dead hogs, dogs, cats, and rats which are not prop- 
erly disposed of and are available to pigs, and are probably eaten 
by them, particularly when the latter are affected by some nutritional 
deficiency. 

Since the incidence of trichinae in the 6,484 hogs fed on raw 
garbage was 4.41 percent, nearly five times as great as that in the 
series of grain-fed hogs, it is safe to conclude that the feeding 
of uncooked garbage favors the spread of trichinae to swine. Al- 
though the bulk of garbage that is fed to swine consists of vegetable 
matter, raw pork bones with adhering meat, and trimmings con- 
taining small portions of swine muscle tissue are also likely to be 
present. As a small percentage of swine muscle tissue may contain 
living trichinae, the continued feeding of uncooked garbage is apt 
to result and does result in the continuation of the vicious cycle of 
trichinae in a relatively large proportion of such hogs. 

As an alternative to the elimination of garbage feeding alto- 
gether, cooking of garbage to a temperature sufficient to destroy 
the vitality of all live trichinae that may be present in pork con- 
tained in it is a procedure that should be given careful considera- 
tion by garbage-feeding establishments and adopted as an alternative 
to the feeding of garbage as collected. The data already presented 
show that out of nearly 2,000 samples of diaphragm muscle tissue 
obtained from hogs known to have been fed on cooked garbage, only 
about 0.5 percent were found to be infested with trichinae, and of 
those so infested nearly 50 percent contained negligibly small num- 
bers of these parasites. Another possibility, more applicable to the 
farm than to garbage-feeding establishments, is the elimination of 
meat from feed intended for hogs. 

The control of trichinae in swine has been of interest to the United 
States Government since 1881. As already stated, the earlier inves- 
tigations on trichinae by scientists of the Bureau of Animal Industry 
were stimulated largely by the restrictions placed by various foreign 
governments on the importation of pork from this countr3\ Ac- 
tually, however, nearly all the pork shipped from the United States 
to Europe in the last few decades of the nineteenth century was 
exported in the cured state, and it has been known for a long time 
that thorough curing is destructive to trichinae. To meet the slurs 
cast by certain European countries on the United States livestock 
industry, Dr. Daniel E. Salmon, the first chief of the Bureau of 
Animal Industry, detailed to Gennany Dr. Charles W. Stiles, at 
that time zoologist of the Bureau, to investigate outbreaks of trichi- 
nosis in that country, alleged to have resulted from the consumption 



428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

of pork imported from the United States. Dr. Stiles (13) was un- 
able to trace definitely a single case of trichinosis occurring in 
Germany between the years 1881 and 1898 to pork from the United 
States. He did, however, trace about one-third of over 6,000 cases 
of trichinosis that occurred in that country, during the/ period men- 
tioned, to pork Avhich had been examined microscopically by German 
inspectors and certified by them as free from trichinae. These facts, 
elicited by the Bureau of Animal Industry, strengthened the Bureau's 
position as regards the futility of microscopic inspection of pork as 
an effective safeguard against human trichinosis, and led to investiga- 
tions which established the present method of handling the trichina 
problem under federal meat inspection procedure. 

As a result of discoveries by Ransom (10, 14) that trichinae in pork 
could be destroyed by refrigeration for a continuous period of not 
less than 20 days at a temperature not higher than 5° F., the estab- 
lishment by Ransom and Schwartz (15) that the thermal death-point 
of trichinae is 131° F. (137° F. for official purposes), and finally the 
work of Ransom, Schwartz, and Raffensperger (16) on a number of 
practical methods of curing various pork food products customarily 
eaten without cooking, the following procedures have been adopted. 

Fresh pork, and ordinary varieties of cured pork intended to be 
cooked in the home and elsewhere, are subjected to no treatment or 
inspection, since no practical treatment to destroy trichinae and no 
economically practical system of inspection to discover these para- 
sites have as yet been devised. All products containing pork muscle 
tissue, to be sold as cooked products, are heated or cooked under the 
supervision of inspectors, according to methods which are known to 
insure a sufficiently high temperature to destroy in all parts of the 
meat the vitality of any trichinae that may be present. For all 
products which are not cooked or heated to a sufficiently high tem- 
perature, but which are nevertheless intended to be eaten by the 
consumer without being /cooked, various alternative methods of 
preparation are prescribed, including the refrigeration procedure 
already mentioned, smoking, curing, drying, and other processes. 
All the individual methods prescribed have been shown by careful 
experimentation to be destructive to the vitality of trichinae. 

In addition to the protection thus afforded to consumers of the 
classes of products mentioned, the Bureau of Animal Industry has 
called attention at frequent intervals to the danger of acquiring 
trichinosis as a result of the consumption of raw pork or meat food 
products containing raw or inadequately cooked or cured pork muscle 
tissue. Through leaflets, bulletins, press releases, posters, radio 
broadcasts, and official correspondence with health officers and the 
public generally, the facts available in the Bureau's files have been 



TRICHINOSIS SCHWARTZ 429 

given wide publicity. The statistical information on the prevalence 
of trichinae in swine in this country has been published repeatedly as 
a warning to the public that the consumption of raw or inadequately 
cooked pork may be fraught with serious, if not fatal, consequences. 
Practically all the constructive measures designed to protect the 
American public from the danger of acquiring trichinosis originated 
in the Federal Bureau of Animal Industry. 

Recently several writers either stated or implied that the persist- 
ence of trichinosis in man, despite the warnings issued by the Bureau 
of Animal Industry as to the importance of cooking pork as a health 
safeguard, is evidence that these warnings are not heeded and are, 
therefore, futile. In the opinion of this writer such a conclusion is 
erroneous and contrary to a sound public health policy. Thorough 
cooking of pork in the home and in public eating places is the most 
effective known weapon against human trichinosis and is entirely 
practical. A systematic and persistent campaign on the importance 
of thorough cooking of meat, sponsored by public health agencies, 
would in all probability reduce the incidence of trichinosis and of 
nonclinical trichina infections. It is suggested that public health 
officials and practicing physicians may properly emphasize that the 
eating of raw or partially cooked meat is an unliygienic habit that 
may be fraught with unpleasant if not serious consequences, not only 
as regards trichinae and other parasites transmissible from food ani- 
mals to man, but also as regards the danger of acquiring infectious 
diseases. 

Since, as already stated, trichinosis and nonclinical trichina infec- 
tions in human beings in this country are due to the consumption 
of raw or inadequately cooked pork or inadequately cooked or cured 
meat food products containing pork muscle tissue, it is evident that 
the eradication of trichinae from hogs would eliminate trichinosis 
from human beings. The ultimate eradication of trichinae from 
hogs in the United States is a problem confronting livestock sanitary 
officials. Bureau of Animal Industry inspectors engaged in field 
work and others have emphasized for years the advantages of the 
swine sanitation system for profitable swine production. Under the 
sanitation system of swine management, most of the known sources 
of trichinae are precluded. Livestock sanitarians throughout the 
United States could, by concerted effort, sharply reduce the preva- 
lence of, and ultimately eradicate, trichinae from swine by educating 
swine producers on sanitary methods of management. . 

The eradication of human trichinosis is a problem confronting 
public health officials primarilj^ with supplementary aid from live 
stock sanitary officials. Adequate cooking of pork in the home and 
in public eating places, adequate processing under State or local 



430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

meat inspection of meat food products containing pork muscle tissue, 
if of kinds that are customarily eaten without cooking, and estab- 
lishment of meat inspection in communities that lack this public 
service, will help to reduce and ultimately eliminate trichinosis from 
man. A more comprehensive campaign of education under the aus- 
I^ices of public health workers and educators on the importance of 
adequate cooking of pork as a health safeguard will do much to 
reduce the danger of trichinosis to a minimum. 

Wliile clinical trichinosis in human beingsi in the United States is 
far from being an alarming problem, it is nevertheless a medical 
problem that should not be neglected, because trichinosis is a serious, 
painful, and, sometimes, a fatal disease. The definitely known cases 
of clinical trichinosis in human beings in this country probably do 
not exceed 5,000 or 6,000. The more or less recent findings on the 
incidence of trichinae in over 6,000 human cadavers that were necrop- 
sied in hospitals in California, the District of Columbia, Massachu- 
setts, Missouri, Minnesota, New York, and elsew^here (table 2) are 
of greater interest from zoological and statistical standpoints than 
from a medical standpoint. These data do show, however, that a 
strikingly large percentage of the cadavers in question contained 
varying numbers of trichinae, too small, however, in most instances 
to have had, or been known to have had, any medical significance. 

It is obvious from these findings that some individuals intention- 
ally or unwittingly eat pork that has not reached in all of its parts 
a temperature of 137 °F., which is known to be lethal to trichinae. 
The need of adequate cooking of pork in the home, in restaurants, 
and elsewhere should be emphasized by public health physicians, 
nurses, school teachers, and others engaged in medical and educa- 
tional work. A well-directed campaign of this sort will be produc- 
tive of constructive results, particularly if coupled with vigilance on 
the part of public health officers in the regulation of the operation 
of garbage-feeding establishments on the outskirts of cities and 
towns in such a manner as to eliminate feeding of garbage containing 
scraps of uncooked meat. 

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS 

This paper contains information on the discovery of trichinae 
in swine and in human beings, the recognition of the pathogenicity 
of these parasites, their life history, important outbreaks of human 
trichinosis in Germany due to the consumption of raw pork, the 
restrictions imposed by various European countries on the importa- 
tion of pork from the United States, the establishment and abandon- 
ment in this country of microscopic inspection of pork intended for 
export to the countries that imposed these restrictions, and data con- 



TRICHINOSIS — SCHWARTZ 



431 




03 O to 

0+? o 


00 CQ 


S ^a 


c o 




-tJ -t^ 


p,a 


S6 




>.>. 


^ 03 


00 oo 


« H«« 


be be 


^ jZJ O 


a c 






^-s- 





?? « 4; 
« ^ •- 

.::- OS cs 
-»^ ■+i -*i 

fto o 






•^ "2 •-< O 
CO rH <N 



O 00 O O 
O — I O O 

rH ,-( ^ O 



OO 

















CO 














1 ID 
















CO 














1 1^ 
















0; 














<y 
















U 














' t- 
















a 














; & 




a 






a 










a 








a 






o 






o 






•n 




o 








Q 


't) 




03 






03 






a 

03 


a 


03 








08 


: a r^ 




(1 






u 








L. 








p 




03 






03 








"-< 


03 








d 




a 




»H 


a 




a 


a 


rH 


f^ 


C 




fl 




a; 


a a g 


o 




o 


o 


t1 


o 


o 


O 


0. 






o 




fc. 


.2.2 § 

-»J -fJ Dh 


•+J 


a 


-4J 


+3 


a, 


+= 


■+J 


-*i 


C 




-*s 




Ph 


35 




» 


CO 




CO 


CO 


to 








ro 




OQ 


CO 00 


(U 


rr! 


1) 


0) 




<p 


o 


o 


L 






O 




(U c £; 


bC 


a> 


bil 


bo 


o; 


bfl 


bl) 


bn 


pL <U 




bC 




11 


bl bJD Q, 
































^ 


f^L, 


a 





p^ 


Q 


« 


tt 




Ph 




« 




fl^ 


QQ 


T3 


1 




1 












-|j 












C 


1 




' 












r/.> 




3 








03 






S:; 
















H 








>^ m 

CQ 




4 

a 


0(3 

o 

c" 

CQ 


c 


^ 
"o 


08 

a 


IS 
O 




T3 

a 


d 
a 


T3 
C 
S3 

a 


< 


o 


; 


to ^ 

-a o 
oca 

Pi 


o 

03 

a; 
c 
c 


03 

o 

4) 


[in 

a 


CO 


(-T 
> 

a 
Q 


o3 
O 


•X3 

1 

> 

O 




'd 
a 

o3 

<o 
a 

.5 


1 


oi 

bp 

a 


CO 

O 


.2" 



CO 


.S be 

'S 03 
CO « 

^0 



05 



-OOOt-i 

cC - 
05 a 

■*! 03 

l2a 



Q I 

a ;!:;' 

aSt- 

03 f^ 

jl CO r— I 

(^ o ^ 
U OQ o3 



Gf tf K S ^ O" 



t'co 

a'.^S '^. 

-co g 

CZ2 






Q 



(>) 



o 



a OQ 



CQ 
a^c5 

oj '-'CO 

>« c; t-H 

;::: '^ aT 
03 'E ■'^ 



<N a 

'--' o 

go 

rHT3 

^ a 



432 ANNUAL REPORT SI^IITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

cerning trichinae in about 8,000,000 hogs from which samples were 
examined up to 1906. In addition, information is given on recent 
findings on the incidence of trichinae in hogs, as follows : 

Out of 6,622 samples of pork obtained from grain-fed hogs origi- 
nating in various hog-growing centers of the United States, only 
60 (0.91 percent) were found to be infected with trichinae. Out of 
6,484 samples of pork obtained from hogs fed on garbage as collected, 
286 (4.41 percent) were found to be infected, while out of 1,987 
samples of pork obtained from hogs that had been fed on cooked 
garbage, only 11 (0.55 percent) were infected; the samples from 
the garbage-fed hogs, like those from the grain-fed hogs, were ex- 
amined by the digestion method. Additional data involving the 
examination of a total of 13,162 diaphragms from as many grain-fed 
hogs and 10,500 diaphragms from as many hogs fed on garbage as 
collected show an incidence of trichinae in the latter six times 
that in the former. 

The logical inference from these data is that the feeding of un- 
cooked garbage favors the spread of trichina infection among hogs, 
and that cooking of garbage is an effective method of sharply reduc- 
ing the incidence of trichinae in this class of hogs. 

An analysis of the data, with reference to the samples of pork 
that contained trichinae, shows that the degree of infection with 
these parasites was rather light, and that if the samples in question 
had been examined microscopically, a large proportion of the posi- 
tives, discovered by the digestion technique, would have been 
overlooked. 

Data obtained as a result of experimental infection of pigs with 
varying doses of trichina larvae, show that the host animals in ques- 
tion showed no readily recognizable symptoms when the resulting 
infection was characterized by the presence of less than 800 to 900 
larvae per gram of diaphragm muscle tissue. Pigs with heavier 
infections did show clinical symptoms during the active stage of the 
disease, including digestive disturbances, muscular stiffness, inap- 
petence, fever, edema, and other conditions, all the symptoms not 
being shown by each animal experimentally infected with relatively 
large doses of larvae, and the symptoms as a whole not being diag- 
nostic of any particular swine disease. 

The evidence presented in this paper shows that swine may suc- 
cumb to heavy infections with trichinae, death occurring as early as 
7 to 10 days after infection. 

Considering the minimum number of trichinae per gram of dia- 
phragm muscle tissue associated with clinical symptoms during the 
active stage of the disease, only 1 out of the 357 trichina-infested hogs 
that came to light as a result of digesting samples from 15,333 hogs. 



TRICHINOSIS — SCHWARTZ 433 

had an infection sufficient to have been productive of symptoms, 
the infections in the remaining 356 positive hogs being apparently 
of the nonclinical type, as far as can be judged by the data presented 
in this paper. 

The control of trichina infection in swine and the ultimate eradi- 
cation of this disease from these host animals involve improved live- 
stock sanitation on farms, the elimination of meat from the scrap 
barrel, the control of rats, burning or deep burial in quicklime of 
animals that die on the farm, and an adequate diet for swine to pre- 
vent the development of a capricious appetite. Since the feeding to 
hogs of garbage as collected appears to be the main source of trichina 
infection, garbage fed to swine should be cooked to kill trichinae 
that may be present in scraps of pork in the garbage. Garbage that 
is definitely known to contain no meat or bones need not be cooked. 
The sale, by cities and towns, of uncooked garbage for the feeding 
of hogs is a dangerous procedure and should be discontinued in the 
interest of the livestock industry and as a public health measure. 

Since human beings acquire trichinosis as a result of eating raw 
or inadequately cooked pork or inadequately cooked or processed 
meat food products containing pork muscle tissue, a comprehensive 
campaign to educate the public regarding the danger of acquiring 
trichinosis from the sources mentioned should be undertaken by pub- 
lic health officials, teachers, nurses, and others engaged in educational 
work. Public health officials should regulate the operation of gar- 
bage-feeding establishments so as to prohibit the feeding to swine of 
garbage that has not been properly cooked, unless the garbage is 
known not to contain meat scraps and bones. 

REFERENCES 

1. Leidy, J. 

1846. [EntozoQn in the superficial part of the extensor muscles of the 
thigh of the hog.] (Secretary's abstract.) Proc. Acad. Nat. 
Sci. Philadelphia, vol. 3, No. 5, pp. 107-108. 

2. Leidt, J. 

1866. [Remarks on trichina.] (Secretary's abstract.) Proc. Acad. Nat. 
Sci. Philadelphia, vol. 10, No. 1, p. 9. 

3. Hilton, J. 

1833. Notes on a peculiar appearance observed in human muscle, proba- 
bly depending upon the formation of very small cysticerci. Lou- 
don Med. Gaz., vol. 11, No. 270, p. 60.5. 

4. Owen, R. 

1835. Description of a microscopic entozoon infesting the muscles of 
the human body. Trans. Zool. Soc. London, vol. 1, pp. 315-324. 

5. Railliet, a. 

1895. Traits de zoologie m^dicale et agricole. 2d ed. Paris. 

6. Leuckart, R. 

1876. Die menschlichen Parasiten und die von ihnen herrfihrenden 
Krankheiten, vol. 2, pp. 513-883. Leipzig. 



434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

7. VON Zenker, F. A. 

1860. Ueber die Trichinen-Krankheit des Mensclien. Arch. Path. Annt., 
vol. 18, pp. 561-572. 

8. Leuckart, R. 

1860. Untersuchungen uber Trichina spiralis. Zugleich ein Beitrag zur 
Kenntniss der Wurmkrankheiten. Leipzig and Heidelberg. 

9. MOHLER, J. R. 

1913. I7i Ostertag's Handbook of Meat Inspection. 4th ed. London. 

10. Ransom, B. H. 

1916. Effects of refrigeration upon the larvae of TrichineVa spiralis. 
Journ. Agr. Res., vol. 5, No. 18, pp. 819-854. 

11. HuTYBA, F., and Maeek, J. 

1926. Special pathology and therapeutics of the diseases of domestic 
animals. 3d ed., vol. 3. Alexander Egcr, Chicago. 

12. Meyer, K. F. 

1930. Trichinose nach Genuss des Fleisches eines Baren aus der freien 

Wildbahn. Zeitschr. Fleisch-u. Milchhyg.. vol. 40, No. 19, pp. 
405-406 ; vol. 41, p. 3. 

13. Stiles, C. W. 

1901. A statistical review of trichinosis in Germany during the eighteen 
years, 1881-1898. In Trichinosis in Germany. U. S. Dep. Agr., 
Bur. Animal Industry Bull. 30, pp. 35-155. 

14. Ransom, B. H. 

1914. The effect of cold upon the larvae of Trichinella spiralis. Sci- 

ence, vol. 39, pp. 181-183. 

15. Ransom, B. H., and Schwartz, B. 

1919. Effects of heat on trichinae. Journ. .\gr. Res., vol. 17, No. 5, 

pp. 201-221. 

16. Ransom, B. H., Schwartz, B., and Raffensperger, H. B. 

1920. Effects of pork-curing processes on trichinae. U. S. Dep. Agr. 

Bull. 880, 37 pp. 

17. QuicEN, F. B. 

1931. The prevalence of human infection with Trichinella spiralis. 

Journ. Parasitol., vol. 18, p. 128. 

18. RiLET, W. A., and Scheiflet, C. H. 

1934. Trichinosis of man, a common infection. Journ. Araer. Med. 
Assoc, vol. 102. pp. 1217-1218. 

19. Hinman, E. H. 

1936. Trichiniasis in Louisiana. New Orleans Med. and Surg. Journ., 
vol. 88, pp. 445-448. 

20. McNaught, J. B., and Anderson, E. V. 

1936. The incidence of trichinosis in San Francisco. Journ. Amer. 

Med. Assoc, vol. 107, pp. 144&-1448. 

21. Magath, T. B. 

1937. Encysted trichinae. Tlieir incidence in a private practice and the 

bearing of this on the interpretation of diagnostic tests. Journ. 
Amer. Med. Assoc, vol. 108, pp. 1964-1967. 

22. Sawitz, W. 

1937. Are post-mortem statistics on trichinosis valid for the living popu- 
lation? Amer. Journ. Publ. Health, vol. 27, pp. 1023-1024. 



TRICHINOSIS — SCHWARTZ 435 

23. Evans, C. H., Jb. 

1938. Trichinosis in Cleveland. Post-mortem examination of diaphragm 
and skeletal muscle from 100 consecutive autop.sies. Journ. 
Infect. Diseases, vol. 63, pp. 337-339. 

24. SCHEIFLEY, C. H. 

1938. The prevalence of trichinosis. Amer. Journ. Hyg., vol. 27, pp. 
142-148. 

25. Walker, J. H., and Breckenbidge, C. G. 

1938. Preliminary report on the incidence of trichinosis in Alabama. 

Journ. Parasitol., vol. 24, suppl., p. 10. 

26. PoTE, T. B. 

1939. The present incidence of Trichinella spiralis in man as determined 

by a study of 1,060 unselected autopsies in St. Louis hospitals. 
Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., vol. 197, pp. 47-52. 

27. Weight, W. H. 

1939. Studies on trichinosis. XI. The epidemiology of Trichinella 
spirali.s infestation and measures indicated for the control of 
trichinosis. Amer. Journ. Publ. Health, voL 29, pp. 119-127. 

28. Hood, M., and Olson, S. W, 

1939. Trichinosis in the Chicago area. Amer. Journ. Hyg., vol. 29, 
sect. D, pp. 51-56. 



197855 — 40 29 



CLOSING THE GAP AT TEPE GAWRA ^ 



By E. A. SPEISB3 
University of Pennsylvania 



[With 12 plates] 



In October 1927, I had the experience of starting excavations on a 
hitherto unknown ancient mound. The place was Tepe Gawra, "The 
Great Mound," in the Turkomanized dialect of the local Kurds. It is 
situated 14 miles north of modern Mosul, in northern Iraq, and 2 miles 
east of the remains of Dur Sharrukin, one of the capitals of old As- 
syria. The site had been chosen a few months earlier, out of several 
hundred mounds surveyed, as the one most likely to constitute a guide 
through prehistoric Assyria. Our sole basis for this optimistic esti- 
mate was the nature of the potsherds found on the slopes and at the 
foot of Tepe Gawra. The name itself could not be regarded as an 
indication of expected contents; for it was due entirely to appear- 
ances — the mound stood 70 feet above the surrounding plain, and this 
circumstance made it a "great" landmark. 

The first campaign was conducted by a staff of three, which included 
a European architect just out of school and a 13-year-old son of a col- 
league at the University of Pennsylvania. It lasted 2 weeks because 
at the end of that period our budget of $500 had been exhausted. But 
the results of this brief preliminary dig, for which the American 
Schools of Oriental Research and the Dropsie College of Philadelpliia 
were sponsors, were suflSciently impressive to justify a systematic ex- 
ploration which began in January 1931, with the Museum of the Uni- 
versity of Pennsylvania as an added partner in the undertaking. The 
successive campaigns which followed have been directed alternately 
by me and by Charles Bache, a former assistant. I had the good for- 
tune of being out in the field in the season of 1936-37, and the latest 
campaign was opened by Mr. Bache, with only a quarter of the 
mound's original height remaining (pi. 1), in October 1937, exactly 
10 years after Tepe Gawra had first been brought to the attention of 
the archeological world. 

Ten years is not a long time in the necessarily slow process of scien- 
tific excavation. Yet Tepe Gawra, which in 1927 could not be found 

* Reprinted by permiBsiou from Asia, vol. 38, No. 9, September 1938. 

437 



438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

even on the larger military maps, is today a common term in numerous 
technical publications and not a stranger to the lay reader. A recent 
popular history of Assyria, published in Germany, has introduced the 
designation "Tepe Gawra culture" for one of the significant stages of 
prehistoric Mesopotamia. Such a rapid rise to prominence has to be 
well founded. The reason indeed is not far to seek. To put it in a 
single sentence, Gawra furnishes the longest continuous record of 
superimposed occupations known to science. What is more, the latest 
of these settlements was abandoned 3,500 years ago, and only the first 
six building levels, counting from the top, date from after 3000 B. C. 
The rest, more than 90 feet out of a total height of 104 feet of occupa- 
tional deposits, witness for us the fourth and fifth millennia B. C, 
periods that are little known or entirely unknown except for the testi- 
mony of this mound. No other site can be said to duplicate, or even 
approach, this notable record. Ancient Nineveh was settled probably 
as early as Gawra and attained to its greatest fame in Assyrian times 
when the latter mound was already a long-abandoned tell ; but Nineveh 
suffered from lengthy periods of desertion, so that her testimony is 
not continuous. Famed Uruk, in southern Mesopotamia, started out 
long after Gawra, as did all the other sites in the south, even though 
it was to remain inhabited down to the first millennium B. C. More- 
over, the testimony of Uruk has to be pieced together from the remains 
of several distinct areas ; it is not neatly stratified in a single layered 
deposit as is Gawra. Here alone is the record unified and uninter- 
rupted. Of the approximately 7,000 years which separate the end 
of the neolithic age from our own times, Gawra covers tlie first 3,500 — 
a cultural contribution wholly without parallel.^ 

Today we can estimate the significance of the mound as a whole, 
although one more season is required before the expedition to Tepe 
Gawra will have completed its original task. That the results can 
be viewed at this time in their correct perspective is due primarily 
to the work of the past season, which served to close the gap between 
the lowest strata, reached in a trial trench in the spring of 1937, and 
the upper levels, whose systematic removal from the top dowjn 
has been going on since 1931 (pi. 2). We are thus in a position 
not only to survey the entire contents of the site, with special 
emphasis on the accessions of the past season, but to sense as well 
their far-reaching cultural implications. But, before such a sum- 
mary review is attempted, it is in order to recall the outstanding 
results of the previous campaigns. 

The three uppermost levels contained material remains of the 
Hurrians, a leading factor in the extremely complicated history of 
the second millennium B. C. It is fairly characteristic of the im- 



» See Smithsonian Ann. Rep. for 1933, pp. 415-427, 1934. 



TEPE GAWRA — SPEISER 439 

mense antiquity of Tepe Gawra that the mound ends with a civiliza- 
tion which modern archeology has barely begun to appreciate. 
Levels IV-V represent the Old Assyrian period, and levels VI-VII 
take us back to the Early Dynastic age, at the beginning of the third 
millemiium. All the remaining strata are predynastic and hence 
prehistoric. In the southern lands of Sumer and Akkad excavations 
have established the presence of three main predynastic civilizations, 
the first and latest of which is called Jemdet Nasr, the second Uruk, 
and the third and earliest Obeid, the names being derived from the 
respective significant sites. It follows that man first settled in those 
areas in Obeid times, when the marshlands of Lower Mesopotamia 
had at length become suitable for occupation. It should be pointed 
out, however, that general designations of this sort do not necessarily 
imply cultural or ethnic uniformity. As a matter of fact, the Jemdet 
Nasr and Uruk periods were characterized even in the south by the 
presence of several disparate elements, each of which can be traced 
by its own distinctive contribution to the civilization of the age in 
question. In the north, where Nineveh and Gawra were important 
contemporary centers, the situation was further complicated by the 
circumstance that other independent groups, which had never 
reached Kish or Ur or Uruk, helped to shape the local civilizations. 
We know, for instance, that Gawra VIII-XI flourished in Jemdet 
Nasr and Uruk times; but, while cultural contacts with the south 
were numerous and manifest, there was here also an important inde- 
pendent residue. These Gawra levels show an exclusive use of the 
stamp seal, as against the cylinder seal of the Early Dynastic period. 
In Jemdet Nasr and Uruk proper the cylinder seal is used also in 
late predynastic times, alongside the stamp. Moreover, the stamps 
of Gawra differ basically from those in the south in spirit and execu- 
tion, so much so that the respective craftsmen must have belonged 
to different racial groups. 

The temple architecture of Gawra VIII-XI is of outstanding 
significance. In each of these four levels, not to mention a number 
of sublevels, the design is essentially the same: a severely symmet- 
rical structure with the entrance on the narrow side and a podium 
in the center of the long cult chamber. The walls are decorated 
with double-recessed outside niches, regularly spaced. The shrines 
of contemporary Uruk bear only a general and superficial resem- 
blance to this long succession of Gawra temples. 

Gawra XI-A was dominated by a unique Kound House, which 
combined the features of a temple and a citadel. With Gawra XII 
we come down to an age which was given over in the south to the 
Obeid civilization. If it were not, however, for the discoveries in 
the north, this interesting period could not be seen in its proper light. 



440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

It should be remembered that at this stage writing had yet to be in- 
vented and the knowledge of metallurgy was but inchoate. The 
marshlands of the south were being rendered habitable by slow and 
laborious effort, and the first dwellings were flimsy mud huts. Since 
these settlements of the Obeid age were obviously the oldest in that 
area, it was assumed at first that the Obeid civilization was the 
earliest in the whole of Mesopotamia and that it represented a 
primitive stage in the progress of man. Inasmuch as the char- 
acteristic pottery of the time was painted, and bore some resemblance 
to other painted wares strewn over vast sections of the East, the 
Painted Pottery People became the carriers of the oldest civilization 
of Asia. 

All these misconceptions have been changed by the results of Mr. 
Mallowan's excavations at Arpachiya and particularly by those of 
our two most recent seasons at Gawra. The Obeid culture is pre- 
ceded by at least two still older civilizations known in the north, 
where human occupation was possible much earlier than in the south- 
ern alluvium. The term "Painted Pottery People" is meaningless 
as an ethnic designation ; for there was more than one early civiliza- 
tion specializing in painted wares, each originating perhaps with a 
different ethnic group. Lastly, far from being primitive, the Obeid 
age was highly advanced and elaborate, especially with regard to 
architecture, glyptics, and pottery. The impressive acropolis of 
Gawra XIII, with its beautifully arranged temples displaying red- 
painted walls and floors, and utilizing deep niches, piers, and pilasters 
for functional as well as decorative purposes, is sophisticated to an 
anachronistic degree. The ground plan of such a temple ^ presup- 
posses a long period of evolution. It differs from the basic design of 
the shrines found in Gawra VIII-XI in that the entrance is on one 
of the long sides, near the corner, the worshiper having to make a 
turn of 90 degrees in order to face the inner sanctum. In this respect 
the temple of Gawra XIII was not unlike the later sanctuaries of 
the Early Dynastic age, as known from Khafajeh and Tell Asmar, 
in the neighborhood of Baghdad, and the still later shrines of his- 
toric Assyria. It is worth stressing that such divergencies in archi- 
tectural design are a positive indication of corresponding cultural 
and ethnic differences. In other words, the civilization of Gawra 
VIII-XI was not related directly to the culture of contemporary Ur or 
Uruk; and it differed notably from the civilization of Obeid times. 
This is a surprising commentary on the allegedly simple conditions 
of prehistoric life. 

To carry still further the absorbing study of the Obeid period 
was one of the main tasks of the campaign which began in October 

8 See Asia, December 1937, p. 836. 



TEPE GAWRA — SPEISER 441 

1937. Another problem was to determine the total number of inde- 
pendent building levels preserved at Gawra. The preceding cam- 
paign had reached virgin soil, but that vras accomplished by means 
of a small sounding simk down from the eastern edge, and not in 
the regular excavation from the top. The side cut revealed six pre- 
Obeid levels of the so-called "Halaf" period, with a still earlier, 
purely neolithic, stratum resting on virgin soil. Simultaneously, the 
systematic removal of layers in the main dig had brought us down 
to level XVI. But this stratum was still too late to dovetail with 
the top layer of the sounding. Definite correspondence had to be 
sought in level XVII or below that. Until the two excavations had 
been linked by material remains, there was no means of determining 
the full length of the Obeicl occupation and the termination of the 
preceding Halaf culture, the fourth long stage of prehistoric 
Mesopotamia.* 

The season of 1937-38 brought the solutions to these questions and 
contributed additional information that was altogether unexpected. I 
shall outline the principal results in the remainder of this account, 
with the aid of illustrations and field notes kindly submitted to me by 
Arthur J. Tobler, the assistant director of the expedition. 

The Obeid age, to retain this name for want of a more comprehensive 
term, proves to have lasted at Gawra from the beginning of level XIX 
to the end of level XII. This long series of substantial settlements 
must have spread over a long period of time. Wliile it is impossible 
to assign absolute dates to prehistoric periods, the span between the 
middle of the fifth millennium and the first quarter of the fourth 
should be safe enough for purposes of general orientation. The ac- 
companying material remains have their own peculiar eloquence at a 
time when the introduction of written records was still some centuries 
away. 

The period as a whole, the third in the order of remoteness from 
the Early Dynastic age, has now definite boundaries at either end. It 
was preceded by the Halaf civilization, which was predominant up to 
the end of Gawra XX ; and it was followed by the northern counter- 
part of the Uruk culture beginning with Gawra XI-A, Its own sway 
extended thus over eight occupations. The guiding and unifying ele- 
ment is furnished by pottery. There are certain characteristic features 
of ware and decoration which persist throughout the eight superim- 
posed settlements, but are not found either before or after. Other 
features come up and vanish within the main period, without affecting 
all of its stages. 

A common shape is a deep bowl with vertically arranged decoration 
in black or plum-red (pi. 5, fig. 2). The designs consist of various 

* See now The beginning of civilization in Mesopotamia, Journ. Amer. Oriental Soc, vol. 
59, No. 4, suppl., pp. 17-31. 1939. 



442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

geometric patterns, but naturalistic representations, especially of birds, 
are not infrequent, and human figures are also present occasionally. 
On one bowl, painted upside down, we find a curiously stylized picture 
of a human being dancing (pi, 6, fig. 2) . From level XVII come frag- 
ments of beakers decorated near the rim with rows of long-necked 
birds, preciselj^ as on the celebrated tumblers from earliest Susa. 
This correspondence should settle once and for all the protracted dis- 
pute concerning the relative age of Susa I. We know now that the 
magnificent fabrics from the lowest deposits of Susa date from about 
the same time as early Obeid, and are consequently later than the 
remains of the Halaf period. 

Fairly common are globular jars with long and rather narrow necks 
and curvilinear ornamentation (pi. 3, fig. 2). A novel shape is pro- 
vided by a number of boat-shaped vessels displaying a variety of geo- 
metric designs (pi. 5, fig. 1). Most interesting, however, are the 
tortoise-shaped vessels with long, obliquely set necks and separate, nar- 
row openings in the sharply carinated bodies. They are profusely 
decorated (pi. 4, fig. 1). Other pottery products include curved nails, 
which are so intimately associated with the Obeid sites of the south 
(pi. 4, fig. 2), painted figurines of the mother goddess (pi. 6, fig. 1) 
and, finally, a rattle and a toy animal figurine found in a child's grave 
from level' XVII (pi. 7, fig. 1). 

Perhaps this is a good time to comment on the appropriateness of 
the designation "Obeid" which we have been using for the entire period 
extending from Gawra XIX to XII. It commends itself by the inner 
unity of some of its ceramic products, and by the further relationship 
to significant elements of the Obeid deposits in southern Mesopotamia. 
The main objection to this term, however, when applied to Gawra 
and the north in general, is the implied suggestion that the corre- 
spondence between north and south was complete in substance as it 
was in time. This is not the case by any means. Gawra had been 
settled, as was explained above, long before human occupation was 
possible in the south. A strongly individualized civilization, termed 
"Halaf," had been displaced by the inhabitants of Gawra XIX-XII. 
Those predecessors did not disappear without leaving tangible traces 
of their own achievements, and pottery had been one of the glories 
of the Halafians. It follows that motifs of Halaf times were bound 
to survive and carry over into the Obeid period. As a matter of fact, 
Halafian pottery commingles with the new wares all the way up to 
Gawra XV. Nor is this the only heterogeneous ingredient. Fully 
as early as Obeid was the civilization named after Samarra, 80 miles 
north of Baghdad. Now Samarra pottery differs basically from 
Halaf wares, but exhibits numerous connections with Obeid fabrics, 
so much so that the latter may be regarded as a southern specializa- 
tion of Samarra. If we were to make minute distinctions, we should 



TEPE GAWKA — SPEISER 443 

link Gawra XIX-XV with the Samarra province, adding that demon- 
strable contacts with the south are not found as a rule until later on, 
specifically Gawra XIII. For our present purposes it will suffice to 
state that, after the decline of the Halaf culture, Gawra was domi- 
nated by a mixed Halaf- Samarra civilization, which gave way in 
turn to one with a pronounced Obeid tendency. Toward the end of 
the lengthy and syncretistic period represented by Gawra XIX-XII 
we witness the intrusion of yet another element, this time from the 
Iranian highlands. These manifold changes and combinations were 
taking place 6,000 years ago. The comforting thought that early 
civilizations were uniform and local is thus driven out by the composite 
picture which modern archeology has succeeded ui reconstructing. 

Our conclusions based on the examination of pottery are borne out 
by the study of contemporary architectural remains. In this respect 
in particular, the early Obeid levels of Gawra have much to offer. 
As early as level XIX we get a surprisingly clear plan of a house 
with an enclosed courtyard in front of it (pi. 8, fig. 2). By the side 
of this secular building, we find in the same level the remains of a 
temple, the oldest religious structure known to man so far. In later, 
historic times temple areas were not to be used over for private dwell- 
ings. This type of taboo proves now to have existed also in remote 
prehistoric periods. For on the ruins of the shrine from Gawra XIX 
there was erected, in the succeeding level, a temple of closely similar 
design (pi. 7, fig. 2). It is exceedingly interesting that these temples 
of XIX-XVIII recall by their podia and entrances from the short 
side, not the units of the Gawra XIII acropolis but the series of 
shrines of Gawra XI- VIII. In other words, there appears to be a 
cultural relationship between the builders of early Obeid and those 
of Uruk times; the intervening structures of late Obeid times point, 
on the other hand, to a different and unrelated tradition. In the face 
of these facts, one hesitates to guess at the nature of the transforma- 
tion that was responsible for the revolutionary developments embodied 
in the acropolis of Gawra XIII. Such an upheaval could be brought 
about only by new ethnic forces. 

Gawra XVII poses a problem no less acute. Here were uncov- 
ered the remains of a tholos, or a circular building which originally 
may have resembled a beehive dwelling (pi. 8, fig. 1). Now, pre- 
historic tholoi are known otherwise only from the Halaf levels of 
Arpachiya, near Nineveh. At Gawra, pure Halaf levels do not 
occur after stratum XX. Thus architecture confirms the evidence 
of pottery in characterizing the early Obeid deposits of Gawra as 
composed of Obeid-Samarra as well as Halaf elements. 

Burials yielded many of the smaller objects recovered during the 
season, including the best specimens of pottery. In fact, one of 
the graves appears to have been a potter's burial; for the funerary 



444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

furnishings include a palette for mixing paints and a few pottery 
smoothers (pi. 10, fig. 2). The bodies, mostly from the cemetery 
of level XVIII, were placed, with but one exception, in a contracted 
position (pi. 11), and this is true of the woman who had been 
placed in her grave holding her child in her right arm. The tiny 
bones of the infant are barely visible in the photograph (pi. 10, 
fig. 1). The single extended burial was found in level XVII 
(pi. 9, fig. 2). Since the position of the body is almost invariably 
a distinctive racial custom, it appears that this one departure rep- 
resents a stranger, very likely from the south. Besides pottery, 
the commonest grave furnishings were pendants and beads (pi. 9, 
fig. 1) of limestone, shell, and obsidian. 

Numerous remains of the later Obeid period at Gawra were found 
in a well sunk down from level XIV. By far the most valuable 
of these finds were seal impressions on clay, which came up liter- 
ally in basketfuls. Seals afford a representative picture of con- 
temporary art, and we can hardly learn too much about the art 
of a remote prehistoric period. Of special int,erest among the 
finds from the well is the skull of a saluki, or oriental gazelle hound 
(pi. 12, fig. 2). This swift and graceful breed of hunting dog is 
to this very day a favorite with the Kurds and Arabs, to whom 
any other kind of dog is the uncleanest of animals. The breeding 
of salukis proves to have been a very ancient sport indeed. As far 
back as Gawra XVI this hound was depicted on seals, together 
with the animals which he was used to pursue (pi. 12, fig. 1). 

Level XX brings us down to a true Halaf settlement. This 
fact is established by the pottery of the stratum, and by its char- 
acteristic pendants, some of which bear the design of the swastika, 
obviously an ancient and purely oriental symbol (pi. 3, fig. 1). 
Identical remains were uncovered in the season of 1936-37, in the 
side cut at the eastern edge of the mound. Like the levels in the 
cut, Gawra XX contains no pottery of the Obeid-Samarra type. 
It follows that the twentieth stratum corresponds to the top layer 
of the sounding. We have thus at last a correct count of the total 
number of building levels which Gawra had stored up for modern 
archeology. Adding the 5 other Halaf layers revealed in the sound- 
ing, and the one underlying pre-Halafian deposit, to the 20 occu- 
pations sliced down from the top of the mound, we obtain the as- 
tounding figure of 26, which represents so many distinct stages in 
the progress of prehistoric and early historic man. 

The long ascent had begun with a neolithic settlement, which 
used a brittle orange ware with wavy red decoration, such as has 
been found also in the fourteenth stratum of Judeideh, in north- 
ern Syria. The first inhabitants of Gawra were thus a group that 



TEPE GAWRA — SPEISER 445 

had spread from the shores of the Mediterranean to the valley of 
the Tigris, a remarkable expanse for neolithic times. From that 
time on, Gawra managed to attract all the important early civili- 
zations now known to Eastern Asia : the Halafian, Obeid-Samarra, 
the northern phases of the Uruk, Jemdet Nasr, and Early Dynastic 
cultures, and representatives of Akkadian, Old Assyrian, and Hur- 
rian times. Here the story breaks off, because the conical mound 
had grown too tall and limited for practical occupation. And 
well it might break off at this point. From here on, hundreds of 
scattered mounds and tens of thousands of inscriptions take up 
the tale. The middle of the second millennium B. C. is a compara- 
tively modern period in the light of today. Nor are the preceding 
millennia so obscure now as they once were. A brooding Sargon 
may have pondered over the secrets buried in Gawra, as he viewed 
the mound from his palace in nearby Dur Sharrukin. Shepherds 
watching their flocks from this tall vantage point may have mused 
drowsily about the treasures within. Today these treasures are no 
longer imaginary. Archeology has rescued them from their ob- 
scurity and turned them into so many milestones of ancient times. 
But the essential mystery of it all remains undiminished. 




h. 




() 






X 


1- 




X 


^ 





^ 






I 




1 


O) 


< 


j= 


Z 


a 


5 


o 






ir 


„ 





t-l 






U) 


K'. 


h 


(3 










IL 


[^ 





>> 






(T 


s 


hi 


S3 


1- 


y 


rr 


X 


< 




-) 


u 


O 


u 

c3 


hi 


Ti 


7 







P. 


>- 


dJ 


_i 


:;! 


/ 


.„ 











(/) 


a 


< 


>^ 



J s 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Speiser 



Plate 3 




1. A Swastika, Obviously an Ancient and Purely Oriental Symbol, 
IS the Design on a Pendant from level XX. 




2. JAR OF THE OBEID PERIOD FROM LEVEL XVllI, TEPE GAWRA. 



Smithsonian Report, l939.^Speiser 



Plate 4 




1. Jar of the Obeid Period from Level XVI II, Tepe Gawra. 




2. Terra Cotta Pegs of the Obeid period from Level XVI I. Tepe Gawra. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Speiser 



PLATE 5 





ft' 


'^ ' ' """ 


- •- nu — ^ 


i 


i 




r 







Bowl of the Obeid Period from Level XVIII, Tepe Gawra. 




2. TWO Typical Bowls of the Obeid Period: Left, from Level XVII; 
Right, from Level XIX, Tepe Gawra. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Speiser 



Plate 6 




1. A PAINTED Figurine of the Mother Goddess, Obeid Period. 
FROM Level XVil, Tepe Gawra. 




2. A Bowu Decorated Upside Down with a stylized Figure of a Dancer, 
Obeid Period, Tepe Gawra. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Speiser 



PLATE 7 




1. Left. Rattle, and Right. Toy Animal Found in a Child's Grave in 
Level xvn, Tepe Gawra. 




Level XVI 1 1 Revealed a Temple with Features which Had Appeared in 
Higher Levels of Much Later Date: Tepe Gawra. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Speiser 



Plate 




1. Level XVII of Tepe Gawra Posed a Problem with the Discovery of a 
"Tholos" which Originally May Have Resembled a Beehive Dwell- 
ing — For prehistoric Tholoi Are Known Otherwise Only from the 
Halaf Levels of Arpachiya. 




A Surprisingly Clear Plan of a House with an Enclosed Courtyard 
IN Front of it, from Level XIX, Tepe Gawra. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Speiser 



Plate 9 




1. Beads from a Tepe Gawra Grave. Level XVI I i. 




'^^> 



2. a single extended burial, found in level xvii; it appears that this 
One Departure from a Distinctive Racial Custom Represents a 
stranger. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Speiser 



Plate 10 



■■ 


^^Hn^T^^^^^^^^^H 




i^^P'^-''. 1 


li 


^HB 


kIHPI^I "^^I^^H 




H 


^Hi^n 






^H 


I "W 






9 


• J2 


mm^^^^aSm^ 


-■"'f^^m" ""' ^ -■ 


'^•^fclJS. 






-w».-.-J*S5 - 


^ 



1 . Body of a Woman with an Infant on Her Right Arm, from a Tepe Gawra 
Grave, Level XVI ih Bodies Were placed. With But One Exception (See 
PL. 9, Fig. 2), IN A Contracted Position. 




2. A Palette for Mixing Paints and a few Pottery smoothers from 
A Tepe Gawra Grave. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Speiser 



Plate 12 




1. A SEAL Depicting Several Hounds, From Level XVI 




2. The skull of a Gazelle Hound Found in a Well Sunk Down 
From Level XI v. 



SUN WOKSHIP 



By Herbert J. Spinden 
The Brooklyn Museum 



[With 6 plates] 



The first men, the first really intelligent men, advanced toward 
knowledge of the world they lived in by remembering their experiences, 
especially such experiences as normally were repeated in nature. 
These recurrent events became the facts of life, and for these facts 
they found words. And among the greatest facts of life were the 
alternation of day and night, of summer and winter, which inevitably 
men learned to link with a certain bright thing coming and going in 
the sky in an orderly and predictable way. 

But I do not think that sun worship was the first religious impulse 
of man newly awakened to intelligence and with a growing means of 
communicating deeds, inferences, and emotions in articulated speech. 
I think that much which we call religion and much which we call art 
sprang from an assumption that reality is at once spiritual and phj^si- 
cal — that everything in the world parallels an apparent duality of 
mind and body in man himself. Now human beings are gregarious 
animals with a social life fed by interacting personalities. Leader- 
ship and followership are responses to a psychology which makes this 
human herd assume a functional status as a superorganism. When 
an old trusted leader lies inert, there always has been the question 
whether the spiritual double of his quiet body might not continue to 
exist and retain power. And since men cannot be sure, they bury the 
corpse and placate the ghost. At any rate purposeful burial is the 
first archeological evidence of religious emotion. Also there are to- 
day numerous human societies who believe that the universe is ani- 
mate and that ghosts of the dead inhabit animals and plants, stones, 
clouds, and streams, even stars and the greater luminaries of heaven. 

Religion arose, it seems to me, in the effort to use the souls of the 
dead for the benefit of the living. Art arose, it seems to me, as a 
vehicle of magic, of flattery and coercion over immaterial forces. To 
be sure, both spread far beyond these first intentions. But while pur- 



=^The eighth Arthur Lecture, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, Feb- 
ruary 21, 1939. 

447 



448 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 



poseful burials and objects of magical art have been common enough 
since modern man appeared on earth some 25,000 years ago, more or 
less, obvious references to the sun are relatively recent. No Aurig- 
nacian artist hit upon the device of sun representation as a thauma- 
turgical means of hastening the end of the ice age. 

ANCIENT AND RECENT SUN SYMBOLS 

Disks of bone and stone, plain or marked with internal or external 
rays, are found but rarely in Upper Paleolithic and Mesolithic de- 
posits, and in no case where they do occur can they be linked safely 
with a cult of the sun. Nevertheless on the subsequent Neolithic 
horizon similar but more richly varied devices, commonly explained 
as sun symbols, are found around the world. They are met with as 
pictographs and petroglyphs in regions where agriculture and the 
higher arts never have been practiced and among retarded tribes 
whose culture never has risen above the hunting plane. In other 




FiGDEB 1. — Sun, stars, and cosmic symbols from the Chalcolithic art of western Asia. 
These symbols, with others, lay the ground for the first writing. 



regions, both in the Old and New World, where man uses tamed 
plants and animals for food and where ceramic and textile arts flour- 
ish, the same motives are still further elaborated with considerable 
evidence of special evolutions. What is the answer ? Did these cere- 
monial figures arise spontaneously and diffuse from one or several 
centers ? Are they true evidences of sun worship ? 

Some of the simpler sun pictures, such as circles fringed with rays, 
and circles marked with crosses, are still in use among primitive 
peoples of both hemispheres who do not hesitate to explain them fully 
to ethnologists. Others in more complicated forms, but with begin- 
nings as simple, intergrade in richly documented art of the past or the 
present. Still others enter into the ancient construction of hiero- 
glyphic writing belonging to apparently independent systems, such as 
the Cuneiform and the Egyptian, the Chinese, and the Mayan. A last 
group expresses the expanding knowledge and terminology of astron- 
omy with attempts to figure not only the sun, moon, and stars, but also 
concepts of the earth and the universe. 



SUN" WORSHIP — SPINDEN 



449 



So much that is fanciful or uncertain has been published concerning 
the migration of sacred symbols that a rule may be drawn wisely: 
when a symbol is a valid representation of the sun or other celestial 
body, it is open to independent reinvention. Nevertheless, examina- 
tion of the early development of sun cults, in the general regions where 
the most ancient civilizations resting on agriculture arose in the Old 
World and the New, certainly indicates diffusion for the higher 
and more artistic concepts, albeit combined with closely parallel 
reinventions. 

BIRDS AND ANIMALS OF THE SUN 

The association of birds and animals with the sun is found around 
the world in myths and pictures. Several explanations are given, but 
in each case it is easily seen how the same thought might have been 
reached by different peoples. 

Once the sun is accepted as a god, or the sky as the residence of gods. 




FiGCRB 2. — Sun symbols and cosmic symbols of the Mound Builders, painted on pottery, 
executed on copper and shell gorgets, etc. The sun gives rise to the concept of the four 
directions, and the four directions furnishes a pattern for the world. 



high-flying birds such as hawks and eagles become appropriate mes- 
sengers. In Egypt the falcon, called Horus, was a sun god ever alert 
to protect the pharaoh as a soaring, pouncing bird of prey. Homer 
calls the hawk "the swift messenger of Phoebus." The same thought 
presented itself to the observant red man. Francis La Flesche ex- 
plains that the hawk is the tribal emblem of the Osage Indians and of 
it he writes: "Accordingly those men of ancient days gave to their 
sacred emblem the hawk, child of the Sun and the Moon, a shrine that 
was to typify not only the earth, but the space between the earth and 
the sky; the vast dome of blue wherein move singly or in groups all 
the celestial bodies." He records three "little songs of the Sun," say- 
ing that they refer to the birth of the hawk. 

We also find the hawk associated with the sun in Peru. Sarmiento 
de Gamboa says the Incas regarded falcons as their guardian spirits. 
These were called inti, and since they invaded the realm of the sun, 
their name was transferred to that luminary. 



450 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 



In Europe and northern Asia during the Bronze and Iron Ages 
the duck, the goose, and the swan were considered birds of the sun 
because of their seasonal migrations. That is, they seemed to lead 
the sun northward for the summer and southward for the winter. 
The combination of these birds with sun symbols is seen in patterns 
which become so conventionalized that in their later stages only the 
bird heads are retained to reveal the meaning. In eastern Asia the 
cock is associated with the sun by reason of his crowing before the 
dawn, and in the decorative art of tribes living along the Amur River 
this domestic fowl is the most conspicuous single subject. In America 
the duck, at least, was characteristically associated with water rather 
than with the sun, and there was no pre-Columbian equivalent of 
the cock. 









10 



8 



FiGDHB 3. — The 13-part zodiac of the Mayas as given in the Codex Peresiauus. Each 
animal is associated with a period of 28 days, 13 of these making a 364-day astrological 
year. The first five signs are definitely associated with the rainy season, and in agree- 
ment with this we know that the Pleiades formed the rattles of the Serpent (2) and 
that the Turtle (3) was in Gemini. 



By far the more important source of bird and animal association 
with the sun takes place by means of the stars. There is the track 
of the sun, moon, and planets among the stars which we call the 
zodiac. To be sure, the sun on rising seems to erase this track, but 
it can always be caught just before sunrise or just after sunset in 
the phenomena known as heliacal risings and heliacal settings. Now, 
all mankind has one thing in common — the lowest peoples join with 
the highest in constructing out of the stars the creatures and things 
which they know on earth. Actually, there is nothing more com- 
plicated about this than giving names to familiar hills and streams. 
At any rate here is a game of imaginative art at which all peoples 
can and do play with great diversity in the results. In consequence, 
those star groups close to the sun lead to association of the animals 



SUN WORSHIP — SPINDEN 



451 



after which they are named with the sun. In classical lands we have 
the Bull, the Lion, the Scorpion, the Ram, the Crab, etc., while in 
Tibet or China the list changes. Perhaps the formal 12-part zodiac 
is one story in the Old World — with an earlier chapter dealing with 
star groups independently decided upon in different regions. Cer- 
tainly the Mayas of Central America developed for themselves a 




FiGDHB 4. — Human sacrifice made to the sun by the Mixteca. Below, Lord Thirteen Deer 
is sacrificed by Lord Nine House. The eagle and the turtle carry hearts and blood to the 
thirsty sun god. 



different 13-part zodiac, using the same stars, to be sure, but con- 
structing them into different creatures. There is a picture of this 
New World zodiac in the Codex Peresianus from which it appears 
that every 28 days the sun enters the mouth of a different zodiacal 
animal. The Scorpion sign alone is common to the Babylonian sys- 
tem and the Mayan but curiously enough falling on opposite sides 
of the sky — that is, the Mayan Scorpion is the Babylonian Crab. 

197855 — 10 30 



452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

Among the Central American nations sun animals originating in 
the zodiac include the Eagle, the Turtle, the Deer, the Bat, the 
Jaguar, etc., some being more important than others. The Jaguar 
is, indeed, the most important sun animal from Mexico to Peru; 
perhaps it would be closer to say that the Jaguar is the sun. The 
Eagle comes next, and it may be that the importance of this bird 
is partly derived from other associations than the zodiac. In a 
Mixtec manuscript we see the Eagle and the Turtle acting as mes- 
sengers in delivering the blood and hearts of sacrificial victims to 
the sun. The Deer is pictured as the sun-bearer, and the Rabbit 
carries the moon or resides within it. 

WHAT SUN MYTHS TELL US 

There are other associations involving men and animals with the 
sun which develop out of myths and ceremonial usages. A good 
story may incorporate knowledge, or it may be an acceptable sub- 
stitute for knowledge. Ethnologists working among primitive peoples 
find that myths furnish important leads in many fields of research 
even though they contradict each other. Some myths try to explain 
how the universe was created, who was responsible as creator, how 
modifications making things better or worse were introduced. Myths 
may even explain the nature of the sun and other heavenly bodies: 
for instance the sun may be a person or an object that is carried. 
The sun may be either male or female, and the moon as well. These 
two orbs may be brother and sister, husband and wife, or they may 
be friends or enemies in various mythical explanations and they 
may have adventures taking them far from astronomical orbits. 

Mythology once was explained as an esoteric art in which demi- 
gods act out subtle allegories of nature. Some justification for 
this belief is found in Persian, Greek, Roman, and Teutonic tales 
which survive in polished literary forms ; also there are really prim- 
itive tales in which aspects of nature are personified. For several 
generations the fashion held to psychoanalyze nearly all myths into 
sun myths, explaining broadcast features not by transmission in 
social intercourse but by reinventions with the psychic unity of 
man as a controlling factor. 

Illustrating how far this kind of explanation formerly was carried, 
Brinton even explained the Toltecs, a civilized nation who ruled in 
Mexico and Central America before the Aztecs, as part and parcel 
of a sun myth. He admitted that the inhabitants of a certain 
Mexican town might have been called Toltecs but denied them any 
supremacy either in power or the arts. Their empire, he insisted, 
was a baseless fable, the product of a tendency to merge ancestors 
into divinities and of a confusion between ToUan, City of the Toltecs, 



SUN WORSHIP — SPINDEN 453 

and Tonallan, City of the Sun. He concluded that "the ever-living 
light-and-darkness myth of the gods Quetzalcoatl and Tezcatlipoca" 
had glorified legend. 

But Brinton's etymology was erroneous. Moreover, there actually 
was a supremacy in Toltec arts while Nacxitl Quetzalcoatl was an 
historical ruler although confused with a Maya divinity whose wor- 
ship he introduced into Mexico. Perhaps Tezcatlipoca also was a 
real politician whose scheming was disastrous. Shortly after 1900, 
students began to suspect that solar symbolism has been laid on too 
thickly. Ehrenreich, comparing American and Old World myths, 
accepted some proofs of diffusion which broke the pattern of psychic 
unity. Lowie in 1908 took solar and lunar myths in which heros 
had been tested, and tested the myths themselves. He concluded that 
"solar and lunar heros are human beings named after or somehow 
identified with Sun and Moon" — the pendulum had swung to an 
opposite extreme ! 

But primitive myths help to define the kind of ideas which early 
man held about nature. We cannot even give in summary the vast 
array of ancient and modern tales in which the sun figures. Of 
course, the possession of a sun myth does not prove the existence of 
sun worship among a given people, although when sun worship does 
exist it is generally reflected in vivid tales. Let us take the Navajo: 
they live in proximity to the Pueblo Indians among whom well- 
developed sun cults are practiced. A digest of their solar mythology 
is typical of knowledge and imagery found in an early stage of sun 
worship. 

The Navajo have a powerful god called Day-bearer who carries 
the sun, which is described as a disk made of clear stone with inlaid 
turquoise around the edge and a fringe of rays consisting of red 
rain, lightnings, and many kinds of snakes. This Day-bearer is 
a somewhat impersonal god who travels a sunbeam or rainbow path 
across the sky and who has an eastern and a western wife. He re- 
ceives little direct worship, but his western wife, Woman-who-reju- 
venates-herself, is the most powerful of the Navajo deities, and their 
son is also most conspicuous. Washington Matthews translates the 
son's name as Slayer-of-the-alien-gods. Here is a verse from a 
Navajo song: 

The Slayer of the Alien Gods, that now I am, 
The Bearer of the Sun, arises with me 
Journeys with me, goes down with me 
Abides with me, but sees me not. 

The sun does not appear in the cosmic myth of the Navajo until 
the Twelfth or Uppermost World has been reached in the ascent of 
rudimentary human creatures. "When First Man had made all 



454 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

things for the Earth and sky and given them stability, he selected 
the Gourd Children * * * to carry the Sun and Moon. These 
he placed on their left shoulders, leaving their right hand free to 
enable them to eat when traveling. Thirty-two trails were assigned 
to the Sun for his daily travels. To compensate themselves both 
the Sun and the Moon (carriers) stipulated one human life for every 
journey." This sounds like human sacrifice, but the actual ritual 
of sun worship may be hinted at in a song of the Mountain Chant : 

Where the Sun rises Where the Sun sets 

The Holy Young Man The Holy Young Woman 

The Great plumed arrow The Cliff rose arrow 

Has swallowed Has swallowed 

And withdrawn it. ^nd withdrawn it. 

The Sun The Moon 

Is satisfied. Is satisfied. 

A sober analysis of Navajo ideas of the sun contained in their 
mythology and reinforced by the fine body of sand paintings and 
song sequences used in their ceremonies shows little in common with 
the ideas of other Athabascan tribes living in the north but much 
in common with ideas found among their Pueblo Indian neighbors. 
These in turn have elements in common with artistic conventions 
prevailing in Mexico and Central America before the Spanish con- 
quest, in each case the inspiration resulting in an incomplete transfer. 
The Mexican nations accepted little of the science of the Mayas, the 
Pueblo Indian communities little of the astrology of the Mexicans, 
the Navajo bands little of the agricultural aim developed in the 
Pueblo community — in each case there had been a step-down trans- 
formation. Yet enough had been implanted to assure a new growth 
under color of a new collective personality. This can be illustrated 
objectively by the way in which representations of suns succeed 
each other in Maya, Toltec, Aztec, Pueblo, and finally Navajo art. 

THE BEGINNINGS OF ASTRONOMY 

The reader will understand that the nature of the available evi- 
dence on sun worship prevents a steady advance in the argument. 
It is necessary to move backward to archeological beginnings, for- 
ward to ethnological stages that seem to present a recapitulation of 
developmental stages, and then test the whole in the light of history. 

Anthropology combines arguments from many sources to reveal 
the truth concerning man — a medley from all sciences and all arts 
brought to bear on the animal with a flowering psyche. Heliotrop- 
isms, or unintelligent responses to stimuli of the light and heat of the 
sun, relieve many lower forms of life from the necessity of thinking. 
Man alone in the animal kingdom makes rational and ceremonial 



SUN WORSHIP — SPINDEN 455 

responses which rise above occult seasonal urges in most of his deal- 
ings with nature. 

True solar cults doubtless await the domestication of food plants 
and the establislmient of fixed abodes, but primitive hunting tribes, 
as one may still learn by field work in ethnology, normally make 
offerings and vows to the sun, also acquiring a practical knowledge 
of solar and other celestial movements by continuous observation. 
There are some areas in which primitive man seems strangely inert 
to solar appreciations, aboriginal California being a good example. 
But here where solar motives are inconspicuous in art and ceremony, 
we find calendars of moons in general use. And calendars with 
moons are relatively advanced. 

But the Australian blacks are primitive enough. They have no 
months as we understand the term. Nor do the Indians who live 
along the Amazon have months, and as for numbers, some tribes 
lose all interest when these run above six. Yet both the Australians 
and the Amazonians construct many marvelous constellations, and 
both take note of the season when this or that star group makes its 
first appearance in the east before sunrise. Each constellation in 
order brings, they think, a food or an activity. These lowly human 
societies correlate the year of the stars with the year of the sun. 
Actually there is a 20-minute difference, amounting to 1 day in a 
lifetime, which they do not recognize. 

The slightly erroneous belief that the sidereal year coincides 
with the tropical year also was held 6,000 years ago in western 
Asia. Ultimately, the testing of this concept produced the science 
of astronomy or at least tremendously enriched it. Ultimately at- 
tention to the sun and stars built up the power of kings and led to 
high forms of religion. For out of the star groups that lay along 
the path of the sun was formed the measured speedway of the 
zodiac where the planets raced. Although this zodiac with its 12 
classical signs is familiar enough to the modern man of the city, 
he is less likely to associate it with studious astronomy than with 
her flighty sister astrology. 

At first it was not the full, formal zodiac. The constellation of 
the Bull marked the vernal equinox and those of the Lion and the 
Scorpion the summer solstice and the autumnal equinox, respectively, 
all determinable stations of the tropical year.^ Doubtless the first 
appearances of other constellations were signals for dances honormg 
various animal gods. Elsewhere in Asia, Europe, and Africa the 

' The swinging points of sunrise and sunset with the solstices at the two extremes, 
and the equinox when sunrise and sunset shadows form a straight east-west line, are 
universally recognized and the solstices commonly observed in ceremonies that pay 
respect to the sun. 



456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

stars may have been grouped quite dijfferently, but seemingly the 
same principle of association obtained, by which times of the year 
could be plotted in the sky. We know that many constellations 
of the Egyptians were sufficiently distinct from those of the Baby- 
lonians and the Greeks. Yet the fact that dwellers on the Nile con- 
nected the bright star Sirius, which they called Sothis, with the 
flood stage of that great river shows clearly enough that they, too, 
naively considered the sidereal and tropical years to be one and the 
same. Also, I think, it is not impossible that Hathor and Sekhmet, 
anthropomorphic cow and lioness wearing the sun disk on their 
heads, may once have had some connection with the vernal equinox 
and the summer solstice paralleling the Bull and Lion signs of 
Mesopotamia. Sekhmet was goddess of devouring desert heat, and 
when would that be worse than under the high sun? Wainwright 
gives evidence to the effect that Heliopolis was originally a center 
of solar worship identified with a Pillar of the Bull. The pillar 
in solar symbolism refers, I believe, to a column used to test and 
measure shadows. At the equinoxes morning and evening shadows 
make a straight line, at the solstices noontime shadows are shortest 
or longest of any during the year. 

The recognition of the sidereal year as a practical concomitant 
of the tropical year was common before the effort to balance the 
movements of moon and sun in compromising luni-solar calendars. 
The star cluster Hyades was so named by the Greeks because it 
appeared at the rainy season. They also paid their respects to the 
Pleiades because these stars rose with the sun at the planting season 
and set with the sun at harvest time in the northern hemisphere, 
whereas in south Africa where the seasons are reversed the Pleiades 
are known as the Ice Maidens. Historically early and culturally 
primitive evidence supports the conclusion that the sun's movements 
were correlated, first of all, with constellations taking the forms 
of animal gods. This, in itself, is not enough to constitute sun 
worship. 

THE SUN AS DYNASTIC FATHER 

The earliest high civilizations of the world were theocratic; in 
other words the kings operated as the spokesmen of divinity. A 
shamanistic origin for such great power is indicated, for the shaman 
gains prestige through magic, and magic has a stronger hold on 
the imagination of men than mere physical prowess or the advantages 
of wealth or the respect due a patriarch. 

Anthropomorphic gods and divine kings are pretty closely linked 
at different stages in their historical development. During the 
nomadic hunting, fishing, and root-gathering stage the gods, if you 
will, are generally animals and birds — natural creatures who can 



SUN WORSHIP — SPINDEN 457 

help man because they are his double in spiritual and intellectual 
qualities while also possessing their own personal skills which they 
willingly teach to man if properly approached by a shaman. In 
this way the pelican becomes a fishing god and the lion a hunting 
god. It is the shaman who gets in touch with these animal deities 
and who manipulates the transference to them of the spirits of the 
dead. It is the shaman who by disguises and medicines can convert 
liimself into the animal invoked. 

When man first turned from hunting to farming, he found himself 
more and more exposed to those vagaries of climate that we call 
weather. Too much or too little sunshine or rain during the grow- 
ing season spelled failure for his crops ; too early or too late planting 
brought other misfortunes. The result was that the old masters of 
all magic, the shamans who had laid ghosts, and who overcame 
disease and looked after the game supply, were now given new jobs 
in crop protection. It seems that the help of the dead was asked 
in the matter of germinating seeds. It seems that female figurines 
became fetishes of fertility coercive on Mother Earth. It seems that 
the movements of the sun and stars were studied and astronomical 
facts were discovered which greatly enhanced the prestige of suc- 
cessful shamans. It seems that animal gods became specialized as 
totems, as district protectors, as patrons of crafts, as weather ani- 
mals, as personalities for stars and planets. 

Also an assured food supply let populations increase and gave 
time for arts and ceremonies. Pottery, replacing basketry, gave a 
new vehicle for design, magical or decorative as the case may be. 
According to a theory now coming into vogue, the agricultural civi- 
lizations of the Fertile Crescent did not really begin on the flood 
plains of the Euphrates or the Nile but on the hills of Elam, Anato- 
lia, Palestine, and Libya. Here there had been, first of all, a gather- 
ing of wild crops. Perhaps some plants were tamed in situ in 
natural gardens, others by hand planting in irrigated fields. Then 
the lowlands were occupied, but only after considerable progress 
had been made in the upbuilding of concepts of divinity on the one 
hand and sacred leadership on the other. The part which astronomy 
played was doubtless great as is indeed hinted in predynastic pottery 
designs found in the lowest Chalcolithic ^ levels in western Asia. 
Sacred animals, trees, stars, suns, and sometimes patterns that may 
involve a concept of the world or the universe are found here. 
Among comparable Egyptian remains sacred animals are prevalent ; 



* The Cbalcolltliic Is the cultural equivalent of the Neolithic of northern and western 
Europe but may fall considerably earlier on the time scale. Native copper, which does not 
mean a metal age because there Is no smelting, sometimes leads to the designation 
Eneolithle. Actually the word Chalcolithic is applied to early remains with accomplished 
flint chii)ping distributed from the Mediterranean to the Indus. 



458 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

there are boats, trees, and standards which some explain as totemic 
crests. Few predynastic Egyptian references to the sun or to the 
stars are found ; nevertheless, the earliest godheads of dynastic times 
are connected with the sky. In both Mesopotamia and Egypt half- 
animal, half-human gods walk through the gloaming as civilization 
dawns. 

In arranging Mesopotamian seals in chronological order, Legrain 
really gives data on the evolution of gods. The first predynastic 
seals are flat stones with the backs carved to represent the lion, the 
bull, and the eagle, the fronts having geometric patterns, simple 
scenes with mountains, animals, hunters, huts, nets, suns, stars, 
crescents, double-headed eagles, and bull-men. In the next group, 
early Sumerian and shortly before dynastic times, which began about 
3000 B. C., there are designs which portray the prototypes of Gilga- 
mesh and Eabani, commonly explained as solar heros who are 
humanized bison and bos and who fight wild animals. Later still 
comes Shamash the sun god, described as: "Shamash, the young 
hero of light, opening the gates of dawn, rising at morn over the 
Persian hills armed with his golden saw, the divine archer who 
pierces with his golden arrows the powers of darkness, the mists 
and the stormy cloud brooding over the mountain, who breaks the 
backs of his enemies and their clubs, pulls off their crowns and their 
beards, the triumphant warrior who passes at noon the tops of the 
stage towers, the great divider between day and night, the supreme 
judge from whom nothing is hidden." 

SUN WORSHIP IN MESOPOTAMIA AND EGYPT 

But when gods such as that are represented in human form, an 
essential process of change has been completed; for gods in kingly 
guise are a reciprocity for kings in godly guise. After the opening 
of the dynastic period the kings of Mesopotamian states were not 
only the representatives of gods but effectively they were themselves 
gods. The Sumerian word patesi which means "vice regent of a 
deity" continued to be used by Assyrian rulers. To be sure the record 
of identification of the king with the god is not as complete in 
Mesopotamia as in Egypt. Hammur-abi appears before the sun god 
and calls himself the sun god. On early sculptures the blazing 
sun star protects the king, and on later ones the winged disk of 
the sun, imported from Egypt, serves the same purpose. Sun wor- 
ship is pictured on splendid monuments where the sun god seated 
on a throne has libations poured in his honor (see pi. 1). 

One main difference between sun worship in Mesopotamia and 
Egypt is that in Mesopotamia Shamash and other gods with solar 
attributes are in human form, whereas in Egypt we have original ani- 



SUK WORSHIP — SPINDEN 459 

mal deities, Horns the Hawk, Hathor the Coay, Sekhmet the Lioness, 
etc., who at best are only semihuman and who wear the solar disk. 
Another difference is that the nations of ^Mesopotamia developed a defi- 
nite astronomical science, recording the movements of Venus and other 
planets, learning to predict eclipses, etc. — achievements that depended 
on their having a zodiac. Their ritualistic astronomy became astrol- 
ogy as the planets were plotted in the heavens to determine fate. 
The Egyptians developed a rigid priestly year of exactly 365 days 
which they attempted in one formula to correlate both with the rising 
of Sirius and the flooding of the Nile. These natural events during 
one 1,460-year cycle of Sathis grow 12 days apart. Yet sun worship 
was more purely and completely a state religion in Thebes and 
Memphis than it was in Babylon or Nineveh. 

As a relic of dynastic beginnings in Egypt the Serpent King's 
ivory comb nicely supplements his fine stela. On the comb Hoinis, 
the Falcon, rides above the title in a boat which one is tempted to 
identify as the boat of the sun in later Egyptian art. If this identifi- 
cation is made, the masonry ship of the sun shrine complex has a 
fuller meaning and Horus commences his career, so to speak, as a 
sun god instead of a sky god. Also we find the very early Scorpion 
King with hoe in hand inaugurating, perhaps, an agricultural 
season as the master farmer. Irrigation called for regimentation of 
labor and must have been a factor in the upbuilding of kingly power. 
Titles indicate a priority of Horus and a somewhat later rise of Re 
as sun god. The first Re kings belong to the Second Dynasty begin- 
ning with Neb-re. The great Zoser of the Third dynasty called him- 
self Re-nub, the Sun of Gold. Some writers claim that there was a 
violent turn-over in the priesthood as each early Re king was followed 
by others who did not carry this specific sun title. 

The Egyptian pyramids are associated definitely enough with sun 
worship, as are also the obelisks. This fact comes out in the inscrip- 
tions, but in addition the orientation at Giza is almost perfect. The 
Great Pyramid has a deviation of 0°3'43", averaging the four sides, 
from the cardinal points. Although the epithet "pyramidiots" has 
been proposed for astronomical theorists, the orientation of this group 
of pyramids is too close to be dismissed as accidental ; the associated 
temples face true east.* The sun shrine of Ne-user-re is placed with 
pyramids, but really it is a ceremonial enclosu"e with a massive 
obelisk also showing orientation. The architectural sun ship is 
outside the enclosure. The inscription, associated with stars and 
standards, deals with ceremonies planned to renew the forces of the 
king. 

* In Archeology and Astronomy, Dinsmoor reexamines orientation theories and data. 
He shows, for Instance, that th« ails of the Parthenon was derived from the sun on 
the natal day of Athena. 



460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

There is every evidence that religion in Egypt was a matter of 
priestly manipulation. It is true that the pharaoh was considered 
divine from first to last, but it is not true that he was free. Whether 
or not he was sacrificed after the manner of a dying god is not yet 
clear. But the modem African examples of sacrificed kings cer- 
tainly cannot be considered a survival from early Egyptian times — 
the one thing which doQs not distinguish Negro culture is social 
continuities. 

The really tremendous innovations of Amenophis IV, better known 
as Ikhenaton, resulted in a sun god who was the only god recog- 
nized by the state. It was, I suppose, the world's first taste of 
monotheism. The symbolism of the sun's rays ending in human hands 
was an invention of Iklienaton. Tliis king according to a recent 
commentator was "a revolutionary leader who took the temporal 
and religious power into his hands, overthrew an age-old, absurdly 
elaborate religion and founded a monotheistic cult of the Sun, as the 
great central force of the human world." 

On a tomb at Amarna, the capital of this king, are written these 
verses : 

Bright thou dawnest, my Father, 
Thou life-teeming Sun, 
Thou art the only one. 
Yet thou art all life. 
Thou art my life ! 

The beautiful Hymn to Aton, written, it seems, by Ikhenaton him- 
self, has often been quoted. I give three passages: 

The daw-ning is beautiful on the horizon of heaven, O living Aton, Be- 
ginning of Life ! When thou risest in the eastern horizon of heaven, thou 
flilest every land vs^ith thy beauty ; for thou art beautiful, great, glittering high 
over the earth ; thy rays they encompass the lands, even all thou hast 
made • • * 

O thou sole god, whose power no other possesseth, thou didst create the earth 
according to thy desire while thou wast alone; men, all cattle large and small, 
all that are upon the earth, that go about upon their feet ; all that are on high, 
that fly with their wings ♦ * * 

Thou makest the beauty of form through thyself alone, cities, towns, and 
settlements on highway or river. All eyes see thee before them, for thou art 
Aton of the day over the earth. Thou art in my heart, there is no other that 
knoweth thee save thy son Ikhnaton. * * * 

The appeal of sun worship was in the example of resurrection 
which the sun furnished. This is brought out in the wonderful 
sarcophagus of Taho, son of Peteheka, a work of the Saite revival. 
Of the purpose of the rich designs Boreux writes: "One gathers 
that in order to assert that the deceased is as indestructible as the 
Sun or, indeed, perhaps to make him so, every carving represents or 
suggests the Sun's daily birth." One picture shows the sun disk being 



SUN WORSHIP SPINDEN 461 

passed from the evening bark to the morning bark by two female 
divinities — perhaps at the moment of midnight on the underworld 
river. Another picture shows the sun's disk raining a golden blessing 
on the soul of Taho which takes the form of a bird. 

From the cultural foci of Mesopotamia and Egypt influences went 
north and east.^ Evidences of solar worship in northern Europe 
have been left in the magnificent memorial of Stonehenge, in the sun 
chariot of Trundliolm with its gilded disk and its horse mounted 
over six wheels like a Christmas toy, in the clay cult-wagon of 
Duplaj in Yugoslavia drawn by three ducks with a roughly fashioned 
sun god standing over his symbol as he drives. Lesser evidences of 
sun worship during the Bronze and Iron Ages are seen in Swedish 
rock carvings with suns held aloft in boats, not to mention the 
numerous amulets that represent the sun as a wheel, or rising above 
a boat, etc. The designs become richer as we draw near Greece and 
come under Mycenaean and Cycladic art; now there are suns and 
swastikas, suns and ducks, suns and funeral processions. 

THE SUN AS A RADIANT PERSONALITY 

We come at last to a sun god who truly is a radiant personality — a 
god in human form with a ring of light about his head. The 
Egyptians, as we have seen, balanced a sun disk on the heads of 
various part-animal, part-human sun gods. Then the inspired Ikhe- 
naton invented an elevated sun disk with numerous pendant rays end- 
ing in small human hands. At this point the humanization of the 
sun god stopped in Egypt until the late vogue of Amun. In Mesopo- 
tamia, as we have also seen, the gods enter the dynastic period essen- 
tially in human guise. Shamash, the sun god, may have the flaming 
orb above or before him or he may be pictured with rays of light 
streaming upward from his shoulders. In late Assyrian representa- 
tions he is sometimes shown with a halo around the upper part of his 
body, an especially clean example dating from the reign of Asur- 
banipal (668-626 B. C). 

But I think, for all this, we should credit the Greeks with essential 
refinements that produced the halo as a living convention in religious 
art. References to Helios go back to Homer, but on a black-figured 
Grecian vase (circa 600 B. C.) the charioteer is identified as Helios 
by an overhead disk. Next he is pictured in all splendor on a famous 
red-figured vase of the British Museum, with spiked rays of light 
shooting out from his head. We may imagine that the Helios of the 
Parthenon pediment was of this general style. The island of Rhodes 
was sacred to Helios and its coins before 304 B. C. show the god with 
streaming locks like Apollo. After that date he wears his spiked halo. 



• The writer wishes to acknowledge important help from John D. Cooney and Mrs. 
Elizabeth Riefstahl, of the Brooklyn Museum staff, in the bandling of classical data. 



462 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

The Colossus of Rhodes, a harbor statue, named as one of the seven 
wonders of the ancient world, must have represented Helios, and we 
may speak of New York's Liberty Enlightening the World as the 
sun god's sister in an artistic sense. Helios in his chariot was carried 
as an artistic motive to Dura-Europos, to India, to Turkestan, even to 
China. Also it survives in various adaptations down to modern times. 
This is no denial of the fact that miniature sun chariots, employed as 
cult objects during the Bronze and Iron Ages, may have been respon- 
sible originally for the Helios convention. 

Can any earlier god be called radiant in the same sense as Helios? 
Did the light from the shoulders of Shamash develop into a true 
halo ? Apparently not. The leading possibility of a source anterior 
to the date when the artistic characteristics of Helios became fixed 
among the Greeks would naturally be sought in representations of the 
Iranian god Ahura-mazda under Cyrus and his successors. The sculp- 
tures dealing with Darius exhibit the winged sun disk combined with 
a long-robed priestly figure and are a carry-on of the Assyrian con- 
vention derived originally from Egypt. Royal memorials and tombs 
on the Persian plateau reflect the contemporary usage in the lowlands 
in picturing the sun, with simple forms of the winged sun disk on 
the tombs of early Medic kings. 

Herzfeld in The Throne of IQiosro brings together many curious 
references concerning Helios. It seems that the first Persian sun god 
with rays about his head was Mithra, mostly a derivative of Ahura- 
mazda, but touched by Greek artistry and dating from the end of the 
Greek dynasty of the Seleucidae. Even if Mithra, as some claim, 
is ancient in Cappadocia the sun god pictured with Ardashir II 
(d. A. D. 383) is in the Helios tradition. The Sassanian kings re- 
stored the Zoroastrian religion and the winged sun disk adorns the 
crown of Kliosro II (d. A. D. 628). Mithraism was an active religion, 
and the slaying of the heavenly bull by Mithra is a vernal equinox 
ceremony inspiring monuments in Syria and several parts of Europe. 
The Mithraic festival of the winter solstice gives rise to our Christmas. 

When Alexander the Great became an Egyptian pharaoh, he auto- 
matically was made a god after death. Apotheosis was regular among 
his Ptolomaic successors and was also adopted by the Romans. Nor- 
mally, these deified beings reached heaven in the chariot of Helios. 
This vehicle is pictured on the Altar of Malachabel at Palmyra. 
Another representation on a tablet of ivory in the British Museum 
is called the Apotheosis of Romulus and may refer to a certain M. 
Aurelius Romulus Caesar who died in A. D. 308. The ghost is swept 
upward across the zodiac in the chariot of Helios. 

Another adaptation of the chariot of the sun god is an early mode 
of depicting Christ's Ascension. In the Coptic church at Bawit in 
upper Egypt, belonging to the Monastery of St. ApoUonaris, there 



SUN WORSHIP — SPINDEN 463 

are two paintings of the Ascension. In both cases we see Christ 
against a great auriole like the disk of the sun. The wheels of the 
chariot are diminished in size but still visible, and Eoos, Aithiops, 
Bronte, and Sterope, the four steeds of Helios, are in process of being 
transformed into the animals of the evangelists (pi, 4, fig. 1). 

During the Middle Ages the chariot of Helios in modified fashion 
is pictured on an Alexandrine textile of the seventh century. In the 
Saxon World Chronicle, Khosro, the Sassanian king, is shown on his 
throne under the name of Cosdras. The design represents this ruler 
on a divine seat between the sun and moon and surrounded by the 
stars — a final echo of the Helios tradition. 

Chinese religion centers around the worship of heaven rather than 
of the sun. In Chinese art the sun disk generally encloses a three- 
legged crow to which there are ancient references and of which there 
is an example in early Han sculpture. Sun disks containing ravens 
are frequent at Tun Huang, the site of the Thousand Buddhas, more 
particularly as emblems held in the hands of the Bodhisattva of 
Mercy. On a silk coffin cover from Astafia an attractive painting 
of Fu-hsi and Niiwa, a legendary emperor and his wife, shows inter- 
twined serpentine bodies surrounded by the sun, moon, and stars 
(pi. 4, fig. 2). 

The Japanese religion called Shinto recognizes the sun goddess 
Amaterasu as the head of the pantheon. A mirror at the national 
shrine at Ise is sacred to this goddess, who is regarded as the ancestor 
of the Imperial family. Amaterasu is adored by pilgrims who climb 
Fujiyama to view the sunrise from its summit. The raven is the 
messenger of Amaterasu, and the cock announces her coming. 

Elsewhere in the Old World there are sun gods and sun cults of 
minor standing. The Arabs cultivated astronomy as a science and 
astrology as a ritual and implanted the latter wherever they went. 

SUN WORSHIP IN AMERICA 

"The details of Sun-worship among the native races of America," 
says Tylor, "give an epitome of its development among mankind at 
large. Among the ruder tribes of the northern continent, the Sun 
is looked upon as one of the great deities, as representative of the 
greatest deity, or as that greatest deity himself." Much information 
has been collected since the above was written, but the conclusions are 
still valid. 

Among some American Indian tribes the sun is treated with con- 
tinuous respect and adoration without being the object of any highly 
dramatic ceremonies. The Pueblo Indians of New Mexico and Ari- 
zona greet the sun ceremoniously at dawn with thrown offerings of 
sacred meal and hold special rituals at the solstices. Then the sun 
reaches a sun house and rests for several days before reversing his 



464 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 



journey. These sun houses are points on the horizon which for each 
village mark the extreme northwesterly or southwesterly sunrise posi- 
tions. Foot races in late autumn have the sympathetic purpose of 
relieving the travel-weary sun. The Summer People's Song of the 
San Juan Race Dance is concerned with this magic : 

Old Man of the Sun ! 

Stand ready at dawn 

On Cactus Ridge ! 

Old Man of the Moon ! 

Stand ready at dawn 

On Cactus Ridge ! 

Stand ready at dawn, 

Thence for San Juan ! 

Stand ready at dawn 

For Eagle-Tail-Rain-Standing Road! 





Figure 5.— Buffalo-hide shields of the Pueblo Indians, New Mexico. Left, decorated with 
band of galaxy, with sun in center, buffalo ho<-ns at side, bear's paws at bottom ; right, 
the sun with buffalo horns wearing the sun's shirt, streamers of light over clouds. 



In the dead of winter there is a New Fire Ceremony which has the 
purpose of recovering the sun's heat. The Sun Katchina Man, a 
masked personifier, is a splendid figure with a round, feather-fringed 
face. On Pueblo war shields the sun wears bison horns and a shirt 
that consists of streamers of light. 

The Sun Dance of the Plains Indians was also a summer solstice 
ceremony with other purposes intervening. Originally the Plains 
Sun Dance regulated nature for man's benefit. "The dancers," says 
Dorsey, "collectively overcome an enemy, generally the Sun, and by 
their medicine compel the Thunderbird to release rain." Partici- 
pants represent gods of four directions, and details of costume as 
well as painted decoration are not only symbolic but also coercive. 
The self-torture elements of the closing ceremony derives from an 
ancient American Indian belief that the sun is a helper of warriors. 



SUN WORSHIP SPINDEN 



465 



The Natchez tribes on the lower Mississippi had intensified sun- 
worship, perhaps a survival of Mound Builder religion. Inheritance 
of the kingship was on the female side and there was compulsory 
out-marriage in the ranks of nobles. The Great Sun was succeeded 
by the male child of his sister and a commoner. The worship con- 
sisted in the maintenance of a never-dying fire, and the nobles were 
accompanied in death by their strangled mates and other victims. 




FiGDRE 6. — Maya representation of the Heavenly Canopy. The sun disk at upper left, moon 
at upper right, and sky god — a humanized jaguar — between. Below are signs of the 
planets and the faces of the sky god. Yaxchilan, fifth century. 



The origin of high-plane sun worship in America should be ascribed 
to the Mayas, who developed astronomy to the highest perfection of 
any ancient people. They had a system of writing and a notation of 
numbers, the latter in place values, and their astronomical accuracy 
rested on a day count, in which celestial happenings were recorded. 
They had a zodiac and handled the sidereal and synodic revolutions 
of planets, the recurrence of eclipses, and true measures of the year. 
The Maya sun god was a jaguar who became more and more human- 



466 



AN-NUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 



ized. He ruled the phenomena of the unclouded sky and was opposed 
by a serpent god of the clouded sky who also manipulated some of 
the planets as covert enemies of the sun, especially Venus. 

The social situation during the First Empire of the Mayas which 
ended about A. D. 630 was purely theocratic, with rulers often wear- 
ing the masks of gods, especially the jaguar mask of the sun god. 
There was a collapse and a rebuilding, but in later times less religious 
intensity is manifest. 

It appears that the jaguar sun god became established among the 
nations of Mexico and Central America and that certain controlling 
ideas probably passed south along the Andes to Peru and beyond. 

The evidence of the transfer of sun worship to the Toltecs, the 
Zapotecs, Mixtecs, Totonacs, Aztecs, etc., is clear and detailed. The 
sun god becomes more and more a protector of those warrior societies 



J^ 



v^y (M3 m (#)(^_fe ^vg^ 




Figure 7. — Sun worship of the Toltecs. Two priests pray for flowers and scatter water 
and seed. The sun disk raised on an alter has pointed rays such as are characteristic 
of later Mexican sun symbols. A fresco painting at Teotihuacan of about A. D. 1200. 
At Chichen Itza contemporary representations show transition to the sun disk with 
serpent rays. 



called the Jaguars and the Eagles. Human sacrifice was introduced, 
it seems, by the Toltecs, being connected especially with the rites of 
apotheosis for eminent war chiefs, which also were rites of rejuvena- 
tion and fertilization benefiting agriculture. 

The Aztecs had a sun god proper called Tonatiuh and several 
other divinities with solar aspects. This sun god was not the most 
powerful deity of their pantheon, yet several of their grestest monu- 
ments present the conventionalized disk of the sun. The Calendar 
Stone is one of these, and another the great Stone of Tizoc recording 
early victories of Aztec arms. The face of the sun in Aztec ideo- 
graphic writing carries the general meaning of god rather than the 
specific meaning of sun. 



SUN WORSHIP — SPINDEN 



467 



The southern movement is more dramatic, being documented in the 
art of Panama, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, and Argentina. 
A striking similarity in subject matter exists between the Jaguar 
Stairway at Copan and numerous South American monuments. The 
former shows a sun god's head engaged between Venus symbols, and 
at either side are rampant jaguars. The date is a round number in 
the Maya day count corresponding to March 27, A. D, 511, Gregorian 
calendar, which fell at an inferior conjunction of Venus and the sun 
in the Maya zodiacal asterism of the Jaguar. Jaguars flanking the 
sun god, who is himself a jaguar, occur in Peruvian art on the Tiahu- 
anaco level in combination with sun disks having serpent rays, the 
latter also a Maya convention (see pis. 5, 6, and figs. 6-9). 





Figure 8. — Bronze plaques of the Calcliaqui culture, area of northwestern Argentina. Two 
jaguars supporting the sun god. The motive shown here may talie its origin at Copan, 
Honduras, where the magnificent Jaguar Stairway shows two large rampant jaguars on 
either side of the stairway, and in the center above, the sun god between two Venus 
symbols. The monument is part of a dated group. Jaguars guarding the jaguar sun 
god are common in Peru on pottery, stone lintels, and monolithic statues, where sun 
disks with serpent and jaguar rays also abound. 

Sun worship was the state religion of the Incas of Peru at the time 
of the Spanish conquest. Part of the great Coricancha or Sun Temple 
at Cuzco survives in the Monastery of Santo Domingo. A diagram of 
the high altar is probably preserved in a drawing of Santa Cruz 
Pachacuti-yamqui Salcamaja with some explanations of its astronomi- 
cal details. In this temple were displayed all the dead Incas in jewel- 
covered mummy bundles either genuine or simulated, together with a 
golden image of the sun. Of course the Spaniards lost no time in 
despoiling this cultural center of its negotiable contents. A certain 



197855—40 31 



468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 




Figure 9. — The sun god amid his worshipers. Chibchan gold object believed to refer to 
El Dorado, the gilded sacrifice to the sun at Lake Guatavita, Colombia, but similar to 
representations at Recuay, Peru (see pi. 6, fig. 1), may relate to a ceremony in a 
tower. 

Mancio Sierra de Leguizamo gambled away his share of the loot, "a 
figure of the Sun, made of gold which the Incas had placed in the 
house of the Sun in Cuzco." 

Rituals were controlled by Incas of high rank, for this Peruvian sun 
worship was family, or rather dynastic worship. Human sacrifice 
has been denied and affirmed for the sun cult of the Incas. At any rate 
there were the convents of the Chosen Women, sometimes called 
Virgins of the Sun, who wove fine textiles. It seems they served only 
for a few years and finally were allowed to marry. 

The lesson that the Mayas learned in studying the sun and stars in 
Yucatan was the lesson the Sumerians learned on the Euphrates: if 



SUN WORSHIP — SPINDEN 469 

there is order in the universe there also should be order in the destiny 
of man. All this is said in Viracocha's hymn : 

The Sun, the Moon 

The Day, the Night 

Summer, Winter 

Not vainly in proper order 

Do they march to the destined place 

To the end ! 

They arrive wherever Thy royal staff 

Thou bearest. 

My conclusions are : 

1. Practical observations involving the sun and stars for direction, 
time of day, time of year, etc., precede sun worship but should not be 
called sun worship. 

2. On the earliest levels of agriculture shamans developed a re- 
ligious interest in the sun as a factor in crop protection. 

3. Nonagricultural tribes were infected from the higher centers of 
culture with certain solar concepts which they developed in their own 
ways. 

4. Shamans developed into divine kings, and by a parallel process 
animal gods developed into anthropomorphic gods. 

5. Sun worship as a dynastic cult had various independent origins. 

6. Sun worship contributed greatly (a) to monotheism; (b) to 
godhead as a mechanical abstraction; (c) to godhead as an ethical 
abstraction. 

7. Increased knowledge of the sun lessens its relative importance in 
the greater universe and drives abstractions farther back without 
reducing them in grandeur. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Spinden 




Upper Part of Neo-Sumerian Stela, twenty-third Century b. C, Showing 
Shamash, the Sun God, Surmounted by the Sun. 

He is seated on a throne and a worshipper olTer^- a hhation before hiiu. (Encyclop6die Photographi(iue de 

TArt. Paris, vol. 1, p. 247.) 






Ceo 



egg 

2 03 M 

-^ c — 



S2& 

.2S C O 



e S '-' 






IS--" I 

-■^ « 
.S.H £ 

^ C o "^ 
-- „ Q t- 

"" Ci r-. 

«- i-i_o' 3 
Sop 
» n "^i 



ryj 



s (>i 



£S3o 
3 "" Oi =s 

■S "^ . o 






Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Spinden 



Plate 3 




1. The Sun Chariot of Trtndholm, Denmark, Dated Rather Early in the 
Northern Bronze age. 

The sun disk has remains of gilding and shows technical influence from the Mycenaean culture of Greece. 




2. Helios, Greek Sun God. in His Chariot. 

The other figures are alegorical. Atiout 500 B. C. Red-figured vase in British Museum. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Spinden 



Plate 4 




1. The Ascension, Monastery of St. Apollonaris, BawTt, Egypt. 
In the oriental manner the Ascension follows the chariot of Helios tradition, as developed in Greek art. 




2. A Legendary Emperor of China and His Queen, pictured Among the 
Stars With the Sun Overhead. 

They are Fu-hsi and Nuwa, the founders of Chinese polity. Painted silk cloth Astana. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Spinden 



Plate 5 




1. Pottery Vessel, Recuay. Peru, Showing Sun god With 
Jaguar Protectors. 

The decoration is by negative painting with wax, a process distributed from isrexico to Peru. 




2. The Court of the Jaguars at Copan, Honduras. 

In the center of the stairway is seen the sun god with Venus sjTnbols on each side of his face; at the sides 
of the stairway are rampant jaguars. The event was an inferior conjunction of Venus and the sun in 
the constellation of the Jaguar, March 27, A. D. 511, Gregorian calendar. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Spinden 



PLATE 6 




1. The Sun God Among His Worshippers. 
A Recuay pot from Peru. 




2. The Sun God in the Earuy Peruvian art of Tiahuanaco. 

Left, the central figure of the sun god on the Gateway of the Sun, at Tiahuanaco. Bolivia; rieht, the sun 
god with jaguar-headed serpents, eagles, flowers, etc., as rays. The Tiahuanaco culture antedates that 
of the Inca. 



THE USE OF SOAPSTONE BY THE INDIANS 
OF THE EASTERN UNITED STATES 



By David I. Bushneix, Jb. 



[With 10 plates] 
INTRODUCTION 

Steatite, generally called soapstone, is a variety of talc usually of 
a gray, grayish green, or brownish color. It varies in hardness 
according to its purity and composition and occurs in many localities 
from Georgia and Alabama in the south to the New England States, 
thence northward to the Arctic coast, and in Newfoundland. The 
composition and physical properties of soapstone vary greatly : ^ 

Soapstone, properly speaking, is a massive rock, the chief mineral component 
of which is talc, usually present in suflScient quantity to give the rock a soapy 
feel. The term "soapstone" is sometimes incorrectly applied to massive talc. 
The composition of soapstone is exceedingly variable and its talc content may 
be as low as 50 percent. In fact, many soft, easily cut rocks in which chlorite 
predominates over talc are loosely called soapstone. Ordinarily, a soapstone of 
good quality contains, in addition to talc, varying amounts of chlorite, tremo- 
lite, pyroxene, magnetite, quartz, calcite and dolomite. Melting point, 1,350° 
to 1,400° C. 

Soapstone was exposed on the surface in innumerable localities, and 
being so widely distributed and so easily obtained, was utilized by 
the Indians wherever found. In some instances pieces were removed 
from small, exposed masses; but in many localities, where the soap- 
stone was of a proper quality and was well suited to the wants and 
requirements of the people, the work of quarrying continued over a 
long period and as a result a quarry workshop covering hundreds of 
square feet was developed. Sites have been discovered where quanti- 
ties of broken, partly finished vessels were intermingled with pieces 
of unworked stone which had been removed from the quarries. Fin- 
ished vessels are not encountered at the quarry workshops, but frag- 
ments of them are frequently recovered from ancient village sites, 
often far distant from the probable source of the material. 

The age of the soapstone vessels, or rather the period to which 
they belonged, has not been definitely determined. This, and other 

* Ladoo, Raymond B., Non-Metallic Minerals. New York, 1025. 

471 



472 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

questions presented by the occurrence of the stone and its use by the 
native tribes, will be briefly discussed in the present article. 

All specimens illustrated, with the exception of several from 
Virginia, are in the collections of the United States National Museum, 
Washington, D. C. 

AGE OF THE QUARRIES 

In connection with the wide distribution of steatite and the great 
number of places where it was obtained by the Indians, two questions 
are presented : the age of the quarries, large and small ; and the iden- 
tity of the tribes or groups of tribes by whom they were opened and 
worked. 

The extent of the country in which the quarries occur precludes the 
possibility of all having been worked by a single group of tribes, nor 
is there reason to believe that all had been opened contemporaneously. 
The use of soapstone is thought to have developed in the north and to 
have advanced southward. Knowledge of the material and of the 
manner in which it could be employed would have passed from tribe 
to tribe, or from region to region. Centuries elapsed between the 
time the first soapstone was removed by the Indians from a mass in 
situ and the abandonment by them of the last quarry. 

There are no known references in the early narratives to Europeans 
having witnessed the actual use of soapstone by the Indians, although 
it may have been known to the native tribes in some regions until 
contact with the whites. 

One reference, in a book written nearly two centuries ago,^ alludes 
to the use of soapstone utensils during an earlier generation, about 
the latter part of the seventeenth century. This was the work of the 
Swedish scientist, Peter Kalm, who wrote, when describing customs 
in New Jersey (vol. 1, pp. 343-344) : 

A few of the oldest Sivedes could yet remember seeing the Indians boil their 
meat In these pots. They are very thin, and of different sizes ; they are made 
sometimes of a greenish, and sometimes of a grey pot-stoue, and some are made 
of another species of apyrous stone; the bottom and the margin are frequently 
above an inch thick. The Indians, notwithstanding their being unacquainted 
with iron, steel, and other metals, have learnt to hollow out very ingeniously 
these pots or kettles of pot-stone. 

This obviously referred to the use of soapstone vessels similar to 
others so widely distributed. But they were not in use when Kalm 
visited the Colony in 1749, and it is evident that the Indians of the 
region ceased making them soon after the establishment of the 
European settlements. Early narratives often referred to earthen- 
ware bowls and utensils of different forms being made and used by 



'Kalm, Peter, Travels into North America. 2d ed., 2 vols. London, 1772. 



SOAPSTONE BUSHNELL 473 

the Indians, but no mention is known to have been made to the use 
of soapstone; consequently, the great majority of fragments of such 
vessels which are recovered from ancient sites are attributed to a 
period before the coming of the whites. 

Another bit of evidence comes from a different source. Some 20 
years ago archeological research in the Upper Tennessee Valley dis- 
closed proof of three distinct periods of occupancy,^ the most recent 
being that of the Olierokee. The form of burial practiced during the 
earFiest of the three periods differed from the others. The graves 
were cylindrical and of small diameter, and the remains were forced 
into them after being closely bound with the chin between the knees. 
The name "Eound Grave" was given to this culture by reason of the 
distinctive form of burial. Many fragments of soapstone vessels 
were found associated with material which belonged to the "Round 
Grave people" — the earliest recognized culture in the Upper Tennessee 
Valley — but no soapstone was encountered on sites attributed to the 
later inhabitants of the region. Certain types of objects which be- 
longed to the "Round Grave people" comiect them with "the Algon- 
kian culture of the middle Atlantic seaboard and point to decided 
influence if not to actual relationship." This suggests that the knowl- 
edge of soapstone was carried southward by early Algonquian tribes 
who entered the region centuries ago and from whom other groups 
would have acquired the art of making soapstone vessels. 

WORK AT THE QUARRIES 

The quarrying of soapstone and the subsequent work necessary to 
create the finished vessels were evidently the most laborious tasks per- 
formed by the Indians who occupied or who visited the localities 
where the material was obtained. The quarries, so numerous and 
often of great size, extended for hundreds of miles from Alabama 
to New England and had been frequented by different tribes through 
many generations. Innumerable utensils had been formed at the 
quarries and later carried to the distant villages, but more pieces had 
been broken and left near the source of the stone. The latter, scattered 
over the ground, are now weathered to the same degree as is the exposed 
surface of the stone which remains in situ nearby. 

In some localities rough, irregular pieces of stone were taken from 
the quarries, then trimmed and reduced to the desired size, and later 
fashioned into smoothed vessels. This appears to have been the 
practice when a new site was discovered, where pieces of stone pro- 
truded from the surface and were easily detached, but the same method 

' Harrington, M. R., Cherokee and earlier remains on Upper Tennessee River. Indian 
Notes and Monogr., Mus. Amor. Indian, Heye Found, 321 pp., 1922. 



474 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

was sometimes followed even though it was necessary to cut blocks 
from the solid mass. 

The second and more characteristic way of shaping and removing 
the blocks was practiced when the stone was compact, relatively soft, 
and easily worked with the primitive tools. A spot was selected on 
the exposed surface of the soapstone, and the outline of the desired 
block was channeled, or rather grooved, by the use of stone imple- 
ments. The groove was widened and deepened to the depth of the 
piece to be removed. During the preliminary cutting the block as- 
sumed the form of the intended vessel, often with projections at the 
ends which were later fashioned into lugs or handles. 

Many stone implements have been discovered in the vicinity of the 
quarries which had been used in preparing the blocks of stone and later 
in trimming and shaping the utensils. Some are deeply weathered, 
indicative of age. A large number of the objects are made of quartz- 
ite, often crudely flaked boulders with slight secondary chipping. 
These differ in size; some are rather massive and heavy, and others 
are slender, chisellike implements. They appear crude, but were so 
formed to serve definite purposes during the process of shaping and 
reducing the blocks of stone. 

When viewing an exposed surface of an ancient quarry, it is not 
difficult to visualize a scene that would have been presentxid centuries 
ago when the quariy was being worked by Indians. Some of the 
workers would have been engaged in cutting and removing blocks 
of stone from the mass, after the earth and mold had been cleared 
away; others would have been near the pits pecking and battering 
the pieces thus removed with crude stone implements, in the endeavor 
to hollow and shape the vessel. It was during this stage of the work 
that many partly formed vessels were broken and abandoned. The 
restoration of a typical scene at an ancient quarry is shown in plate 1, 
after a painting by E. G. Cassedy. 

FINISHING THE VESSELS 

After the outside of the vessel had been roughly shaped, the more 
difficult process of hollowing the inside was begun. This work 
resulted in many pieces being broken and abandoned as useless. It 
is evident that few, if any, vessels were carried from the vicinity of 
the quarry until after they had been entirely formed and were in a 
condition to be used, although the surfaces, both inside and outside, 
remained very rough and irregular. The finishing of the surface 
was accomplished at the village, after the return from the quarry, 
and obviously much of the smoothing resulted from the long use of 
the vessel. 



SOAPSTONE — BUSHNELL 



475 



The more compact and softer the stone the easier it could be 
worked, and consequently the more symmetrical the finished vessel, 
but, conversely, the more impure and less uniform the stone the more 
irregular and misshapen the vessel. This is proven by typical speci- 
mens recovered from widely separated quarries. Thus the nature of 
the stone rather than the skill of the workers often determined the 
quality of the utensils produced. 

The majority of vessels from many quarries are rather long and 
narrow, having a length greater than the width, and being less in 
depth, with rounded sides and bottom. Handles extend from the 
narrow ends, some being placed well below the upper edge while 
others are at or very near the top. The two forms, restored diagram- 
matically, are shown in figure 1. 





FIGUEE 1. — Two types of handles shown diagrammaticaUy. 



Soapstone vessels varied in form and size as will be shown by 
photographs of specimens brought together from many sites and 
now preserved in the collections of the United States National Mu- 
seum. However, some types found in other collections are not in- 
cluded in these illustrations, and many quarries, both large and small, 
are not mentioned in the text. 

The first quarry to be described in detail, some 60 years ago, was 
located in Virginia, and later discoveries proved it to have been 
typical of others in Virginia and elsewhere. 

Quarries in Virginia will now be briefly described, to be followed 
by references to some northward to New England, after which 
material from south of Virginia will be mentioned. 



476 ANIJUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

VIRGINIA AND NORTHWARD TO NEW ENGLAND 
VIRGINIA 

Professor Haynes in a short article some years ago * referred to the 
use of soapstone by the Romans and expressed the belief that the 
stone mentioned by Pliny was obtained from a quarry not far from 
Lake Como, near Chiavenne, the ancient Clavenna. The quarry was 
worked for many centuries. The stone was steatite or soapstone. 
As stated by Professor Haynes : 

The reference to Pliny will be found in his Natural History, book 36, chap- 
ter 44: "At Siphnos there is a kind of stone which is hollowed and turned in 
the lathe for making cooking utensils and vessels for keeping provisions; a 
thing that to my own knowledge is done with the green stone of Comum, in 
Italy." 

Siphnos, an island in the Aegean Sea, was far distant from Comum, 
the present Como, in northern Italy. But soapstone was used where- 
ever found. Thus we have two references to its use in making food 
vessels soon after the beginning of the Christian era, and it is easily 
conceived that it had been similarly employed during a much earlier 
period. 

In concluding his article Professor Haynes wrote : 

Professor Baird, of the Smithsonian Institution, first directed attention to 
the site of a soapstone quarry worked for similar purposes by the Indians of 
our own country. This is at Chula, Amelia County, Va., and it has been 
thoroughly explored and described by Mr. F. H. Gushing in the Smithsonian 
Report for 1878. 

Amelia County. — As told in the report prepared by Secretary 
Baird : "^ 

During the spring of 1875, some specimens of steatite were received from 
the quarry of John B. Wiggin, in Chula, Amelia County, Va. Among these 
were fragments of rude vessels, which from their number and unfinished condi- 
tion, were regarded as indicating that the place in question was once an 
aboriginal mine * * * 

Inasmuch as, at the time, no quarry of this kind had been discovered, and 
as, moreover, aboriginal methods of mining and working pot-stone were entirely 
unknown, it was thought advisible to have a careful exploration of the place 
undertaken, which was intrusted to Mr. F. H. Cushing, who visited the locality 
in June last [1877], causing excavations of sufiicient extent to be made to 
reveal a large portion of the rock surface worked by the Indians. 

Shallow excavations 10 to 70 feet in diameter, filled with vegetal 
mold, indicated the quarries of the Indians. A space about 40 by 60 
feet was cleared, and "everywhere over the rock surface, thus exposed, 

* Haynes, Henry W., Notes upon ancient soapstone quarries, worked for the manu- 
facture of cooking utensils. Proc. Amer. Antiq. Soc, n. s., vol. 2, pt. 3, p. 364, Apr. 25, 
1883. 

"Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst, for 1878, pp. 44-45, 1879. 



SOAPSTONE — ^BUSHNELL 477 

he found grooves and hollows made by the Indians in taking out 
sugarloaf-shaped masses of the rock; and throughout the soil re- 
moved he found numerous fragments of the masses mostly hollowed 
as the beginning of pots, together with numerous quartz picks, some 
broken axes and mauls, and a few hammers of soapstone, which had 
been used in quarrying and working the material." 

Three of the many speciments collected by Gushing and now in 
the United States National Museum are illustrated in plate 5. 

Goochland County. — During the spring of 1881 George W. Eeid, 
<vriting from Galedonia, Goochland County, to Professor Baird, de- 
scribed one or two extensive quarries of soapstone in that county. 
They were known locally as "Payne's Quarry or the Indian Dens," 
and were evidently similar to those some 30 miles southward in Amelia 
County. At that time, 1881, part of the surface of the quarry had 
been cultivated, but much of it remained covered with brush. Many 
specimens, some of which were in a more finished condition than 
usual, were found in the vicinity of the quarries. One bowl, recovered 
from the bed of the creek, was 15 inches in length and weighed 
about 40 pounds. There was likewise discovered "an axe and a 
broken bowl lying just as they had been left by the Indians." Ma- 
terial collected by Reid at that time is in the National Museum. 

Bedford County. — A large quarry workshop occurs on a ridge a 
few miles southeast of Bedford, between Little Otter and Big Otter 
Rivers, near the junction of the streams. No excavations have been 
made to ascertain the extent of the work done by the Indians. Many 
fragments of unfinished vessels, intermingled with quantities of un- 
worked stone, have been found scattered over the surface. A view 
of the site, looking along the ridge and showing piles of stone, is 
reproduced in plate 3.® Examples of the unfinished, broken vessels 
are shown in plate 2. They form an interesting series and illustrate 
clearly the work done at the quarry. All are greatly weathered and 
show the effect of long exposure to the elements. One specimen that, 
if completed, would have been a long narrow vessel with handles 
extending from the rim, is shown, restored, in figure 2. 

Albemarle County. — In 1926 extensive quarries were being operated 
by the Virginia Alberene Corporation in the vicinity of Schuyler. 
Nelson County, Va. One of the quarries is shown in plate 4, figure 1. 
Another quarry was soon to be opened about 2 miles northeast of 
Schuyler, on a high ridge a short distance south of Damon, in Albe- 
marle County. This was \\\q site of an ancient Indian quarry and 
was between 5 and 6 miles from the nearest point on the left bank 



« I am indebted to R. L. Updike, Bedford, Va., for all information concerning the quarry 
and for the photograph. The six specimens from the site were presented by Mr. Updike 
to the U. S. National Museum. 



478 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

of James River. The site was visited at that time and proved to be 
of interest : ^ 

Here great masses of soapstone, outcropping on the surface, follow the general 
direction from southwest to northeast and have a dip of about 60° to the south- 
east. The area is heavily timbered, the surface very irregular and broken, 
with one or more springs nearby. For a distance of nearly a thousand feet 
along the ridge it is possible to trace pits dug by the Indians, generations ago, 
when getting soapstone. More than 20 such excavations were discovered, the 
majority being within the northern half of the distance, and becoming less clearly 
defined southward. They vary in diameter from 10 to 30 feet and at present are 
from 2 to 4 feet in depth, some are distinctly separated while others merge and 
may in reality be parts of a greater excavation. The surface surrounding the 
pits is covered with pieces of stone which had evidently been rejected and thrown 
from the quarries, but now all is covered with thick vegetal mold, the spaces 
between the pieces are filled, and very little of the stone is visible between the 
mold and moss. The ancient pits are similarly covered and consequently it was 
not possible to ascertain the actual extent of the quarries. 



v.. •_ 




V. 



Figure 2. — Virginia. Part of a vessel from' the quarry near Bedford, restored to show 
probable shape if it had not been broken. U. S. N. M. No. 379261. 



Depressions at the Indian quarry are shown in plate 3. 

Typical examples of the broken and partly made vessels were col- 
lected and are now in the National Museum. One unusually complete 
specimen is illustrated in plate 5, figure 3. Several crude quartzite 
implements that had been used in shaping the blocks of stone were 
encountered near the pits. 

Some years ago a very large quarry was operated a few miles north 
of those now being worked near Schuyler and Damon, but it was later 
abandoned. The excavations appear larger than any of the more 
recent quarries, and when they were last visited by the writer, huge 
blocks of stone weighing several tons each, were piled on the surface 
nearby, covered with vines and lichens, and suggested an ancient 

'' Bushnell, David I., Jr., Ancient soapstone quarry in Albemarle County, Virginia. 
Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 16, No. 19, pp. 525-528, Nov. 18, 1926. 



SOAPSTONE — BTJSHNELL 479 

Pelasgic ruin. The stone, which was probably the same as that 
worked by the Indians at the quarry workshop near Damon, was 
analyzed and described in 1895. Part of the account may be quoted,^ 

The "soapstone" at the first-named locality [Alberene, Albemarle County, 
Va.] is not a pure steatite, but rather an admixture of various alteration products, 
among which a colorless tremolite and light-green talc are most conspicuous. 
What the original rock may have been is not apparent from a study of thin sec- 
tions, but the appearance in the field is such as to suggest it to have been a 
pyroxenite. It occurs in the form of a broad dike or sheet, parallel and dipping 
with the gneiss ( ?) in which it is inclosed, and, as displayed in the quarry opening, 
is traversed by numerous irregular veins of coarsely crystalline calcite. The 
rock is very massive, in general appearance eminently suggestive of an eruptive 
pyroxenite which has undergone extensive hydration and carbonatization, whereby 
a considerable portion of its calcium has separated out in the form of calcite. 
As is almost invariably the case in rocks of this class, the mass is traversed by 
numerous joint planes, some of which are pronouncedly slickensided. 

The following note was attached to the preceding and refers to 
stone from the Alberene quarry : 

A chemical analysis of the stone, by R. L. Packard, yielded SiOj, 39.06 percent ; 
AL03, 12.84 percent ; FeO, 12.93 percent ; CaO, 5.98 percent ; MgO, 22.76 percent ; 
Ignition, 6.56 percent. Total 100.13. All iron calculated as FeO. 

Fairfax Cownty. One of the most interesting ancient quarries in 
Virginia, and certainly the one most carefully examined and studied, 
was located about 2 miles northwest of Clifton and 22 miles west of 
"Washington. The steatite was exposed in the bed and on the banks 
of a small branch of Bull Run and varied in thickness from 20 to 50 
feet. 

The examination of the quarry was begun late in March 1894^ — 

and in a few weeks a most striking illustration of the enterprise and skill of 
our aboriginal tribes was exposed to view. A trench or gallery some 25 feet 
wide and reaching in places a depth of 16 feet had been carried into the face of 
the hill to a distance of 60 or 70 feet, and a second pit, inferior in dimensions, 
had been opened beyond this. Almost the entire excavation had been carved 
out of the solid steatite by means of stone picks and chisels, and all the evidence 
of the cutting and sculpturing — even the whitened surfaces of the tool marks — 
were as fresh as if the work of yesterday * * ♦ . 

Much impure stone had been cut away in efforts to reach the purer masses, 
and this was a most laborious work * * » The whole surface, with its nodes 
and humps and depressions, covered everywhere with the markings, groovlngs, 
and pittings of the chisel, presented a striking example of the effectiveness of 
native methods and the persistence of native effort 

Quantities of unfinished vessels, broken during the process of shap- 
ing, were recovered from the site ; also a great number of stone imple- 
ments, large and small, which had been used in trimming the blocks 



* Merrill, George P., Notes on asbestos and asbestiform minerals. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 
vol. 18, pp. 281-289. 1895. 

•Holmes, W. H., Stone implements of the Potomac-Chesapeake tidewater province 
15th Ann. Rep. Bur. Ethnol., pp. 13-152, 1897. 



480 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

of stone. A photograph of the quarry as it appeared in 1894, soon 
after the beginning of the examination, is reproduced in plate 4, figure 
2. Two specimens from the quarry are shown in plate 5, figure 1. 
Both are parts of unfinished vessels and reveal clearly the marks left 
by the stone implements used in shaping the blocks of stone. 

Finished vessels. — There are many localities in Virginia where soap- 
stone was obtained by the Indians in prehistoric times, and some of 
the more important of these have now been mentioned, but other quar- 
ries of equal extent and interest may remain hidden beneath moss 
and vegetal mold to be revealed at some later day. 

The vast amount of work that was done at the quarries is indicated 
by the numerous excavations in the stone, and by the quantities of 
fractured, partly made vessels that have been encountered nearby. 
And although many were broken at the quarries, others were com- 




PiGURH 3. — Virginia. Part of a soapstone vessel found on the site of Nandtanghtacund, 
on right bank of the Rappahannock River, Caroline County. U. S. N. M. No. 378093. 
One-third natural size. 



pleted and carried away to be fashioned into comparatively symmetri- 
cal, smoothed vessels. This is revealed by the few entire specimens, 
and the many fragments of such utensils, that have been found on the 
sites of ancient villages. Three examples, all discovered on ancient 
sites in the James River valley, are illustrated in plate 6, 

No entire soapstone vessel is known to have been recovered in the 
valley of the Rappahannock, but fragments of finished utensils are 
numerous. One piece of exceptional interest was found at the edge 
of the water of Port Tobago Bay, on the right bank of the Rappa- 
hannock, in Caroline County. Tliis was the site of the village of 
Nandtanghtacund in 1608. Two views of the specimen are shown 
in figure 3. The projection, of which there was probably a duplicate 
at the other end of the vessel, had been cut to represent a human head 
or face. 



SOAPSTONE — BUSHNELL 481 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

In the Smithsonian Report for 1878 Professor Baird first described 
the soapstone quarry at Chula, Amelia County, Va., and tlien 
continued : 

Attention being drawn to these explorations wliile in progress by notices in 
some of the Washington newspapers, Mr. Elmer R. Reynolds, of this city, brought 
to notice some similar specimens of vessels which he had found within the 
District, on Soapstone Run, a branch of Rock Creek. 

The quarry was located just north of the present Bureau of Stand- 
ards, on the summits of two adjoining hills 100 yards or more apart 
and separated by a small stream known as Soapstone Run. The hills 
were partly removed in 1891, when Connecticut Avenue was extended 
northward, and were more greatly reduced a few years ago when 
Albemarle Street was graded from east to west across the avenue. 

The quarry was discovered by Reynolds during the summer of 
1874.^° The surface was covered with brush, ferns, and fallen leaves, 
with quantities of soapstone scattered about and "hundreds of frag- 
ments cropped out through the leaves, nearly every one of which 
showed well defined traces of having been worked " by the Indians. 

Reynolds worked on the south hill, and in 1890 Holmes did sim- 
ilar work on the north hill, finding quantities of broken, unfinished 
vessels, together with innumerable stone implements which had 
been used in and about the quarry." 

In a later account of the quarry and of the material found. Holmes 
referred to the method of making soapstone vessels and drew this 
conclusion : ^^ 

So far as the evidence obtained on the site shows, work was confined 
almost exclusively to procuring material for use in vessel making, but 
apparently the pots were not often shaped or even partly shaped in place, 
to be afterward detached by undercutting and wedging as observed in many 
other places. It appears that as a rule the rough block was first obtained, 
then trimmed down to the approximate size and form, and afterward hol- 
lowed out ready for the finishing operations, which were in most cases con- 
ducted elsewhere. There were naturally many failures from breaking, from 
splitting along partially developed cleavage planes, and from imperfections 
in texture ; and many hundreds of these failures yet remain on the site, 
in the pits, in the heaps of debris, and scattered far down the slopes of 
the hill and along the stream bed. 

Northward from the District of Columbia, soapstone is plentiful 
in Maryland, and many quarries were opened by the Indians on 

*" Reynolds, Elmer R., Aboriginal soapstone quarries in the District of Columbia. 12th 
Ann. Rep. Ptabody Mus. Arch, and Ethnol., vol. 11, No. 3, pp. 526-535, 1880. 

" Holmes, William H., Excavations in an ancient soapstone quarry in the District of 
Columbia. Amor. Anthrop., vol. 3, pp. 321-330, October 1890. 

" Holmes, William H., Stone implements of the Potomac-Chesapeake Tidewater province. 
15th Ann. Rep. Bur. Ethnol., pp. 13-152, 1897. 



482 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

both sides of the Patuxent River in the present Howard and Mont- 
gomery Counties. Quarries have likewise been discovered in the 
adjoining counties of Baltimore and Carroll, and large collections 
of partly made vessels from the sites are preserved in the National 
Museum. Two specimens are shown in plate 7. 

Ancient quarries and quantities of fragments of soapstone ves- 
sels have been discovered in York, Lancaster, and Chester Counties, 
Pa. The three counties adjoin Maryland on the south, and the 
material from the entire region is similar. One vessel from Lancas- 
ter County is illustrated in plate 7. Fragments of soapstone utensils 
found on sites farther up the valley of the Susquehanna, in Juanita 
and Clinton Counties, are in the collections of the National Museum, 
also some pieces from near Easton, on the Delaware River in 




FiGunB 4. — New York. Part of a small vessel from Jefferson County. U. S. N. M. No. 8903. 

Natural size. 

Northampton County, which proves the wide distribution and gen- 
eral use of the stone. 

Soapstone was used extensively by the Indians who once occupied 
the present State of New York. A piece of a small bowl, found in 
Jefferson County, is shown in figure 4. The handle, which projects 
from the side of the vessel below the rim, resembles specimens from 
Virginia and elsewhere. 

EASTWARD FROM THE HUDSON RIVER 

Soapstone occurs in the Connecticut Valley, and the quarries 
which were operated in that area by the Indians were undoubtedly 
the source of the material found on nearby sites. An interesting 
and apparently very old quarry was discovered in 1892 at Bristol, 



SOAPSTONE — BUSHNELL 483 

Hartford County, west of the Connecticut River. The quarry was 
briefly described in a letter written by F. H. Williams to W. H. 
Holmes. It read in part: 

Bristol, CqNN., June 28, 1892. 
Bristol has always knowu of an old Indian soapstone quarry in its limits. 
From its surface many articles have been gathered. A man has recently 
begun the construction of a road across the face of the side hill over the 
quarry. He has uncovered under 4 feet of solid earth a sloping side of the 
rock, upon which are a number of vessels all blocked out, ready to be cut 
away. The peculiarity of the thing is in the extreme depth beneath the soil 
in which they lie on the solid ledge. Above is towards one foot of mold 
black, and then 3 or 4 feet of solid loam ♦ * * i can not keep it long 
from being blasted, but shall photograph it ♦ * * 

Photographs of the quarry were made and one is reproduced in 
plate 8. An oval piece of stone, shaped and ready to be removed, 
is clearly visible in the lower left corner of the picture. 

Vessels, large and small, made of soapstone, were used by the 
native tribes of eastern Massachusetts, and fragments of such uten- 
sils have been found on widely separated sites. One example from 
Bristol County, which touches Rhode Island on the west, is shown 
in plate 7. This may have come from the large quarry at Johnston, 
a short distance westward in the latter State. 

On December 4, 1879, a committee of the Rhode Island Historical 
Society presented a report on the soapstone quarry which was opened 
in February 1879, "in Johnston, R. I., about one-eighth of a mile 
west of the Greek Tavern, north of the Hartford turnpike." 

The several pits, the largest of which measured about 10 by 6 feet, 
and 5 feet in depth, were filled with vegetal mold and pieces of 
stone, and in the largest pit were encountered "some whole stone 
pots, some partly finished pots, some only blocked out, numerous 
stone hammers, and horns of a deer, the bones of an animal and a 
few shells. * * * The sides and bottom of this excavation contain 
about 60 distinct pits and knobs of places where pots and dishes 
were cut from the rock." 

The quarry must have been of great size, and the report states 
that "from the excavations and their surroundings have been re- 
moved about three hundred horse cart loads of stone chips left by 
the Indian workmen." The quarry, with other known sites, was 
described by Putnam." 

SOUTHWARD FROM VIRGINIA TO THE GULF OF MEXICO 

Having sketched the distribution and use of soapstone from Vir- 
ginia to the Connecticut Valley and eastward, it will now be of 

^ Putnam, F. W., The manufacture of soapstone pots by the Indians of New England. 
11th Ann. Rep. Peabody Mus., p. 273, 1878. 
197855 — iO 32 



484 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 



interest to return to Virginia and refer, briefly, to the occurrence 
of similar material southward to Tampa Bay. 

Conditions in North Carolina are not different from those en- 
countered in Virgina. Four stone vessels from the western part of 
the State are illustrated in plate 9. In addition to these the National 
Museum collections include many fragments of soapstone utensils 
from other western counties, and from Stanly and Franklin Counties 
in the central part of the State; also specimens from a village site 
one mile northeast of Stella, Carteret County, on the Atlantic coast. 
Thus it is possible to trace the use of soapstone across the entire 
width of the State, from the mountains to the sea. 




Figure 5. — Tennessee. Fragment of a vessel, Cocke County. U. S. N. M. No. 34748. 



Much material has been recovered from village sites in eastern 
Tennessee. One fragment, from Cocke County which touches the 
North Carolina line, suggests the large vessel from Burke County in 
the latter State. A drawing of this vessel, restored as suggested by 
its form, is shown in figure 5. The two localities are only a short 
distance apart, and the specimens undoubtedly belonged to the same 
period. 

Decorated soapstone vessels are seldom found, and consequently 
fragments of two examples from South Carolina are of much in- 
terest. Both are shown in figure 6. One is a rim fragment with a 
handle extending from the edge. The entire surface is smoothed 
and polished. The flat surface of the handle, flush with the edge 



SOAPSTONE — BUSHNELL. 485 

of the vessel, is decorated with incised lines. The second piece is 
a small fragment, decorated with incised lines. This is similar to 
a specimen found with material attributed to the "Round Grave 
people" in Loudon County, Tenn,^* Both are decorated with un- 
dulating lines, rather broad and shallow, and both appear to be 
equally old. 




Figure 6. — South Carolina. Two fragments of decorated soapstone vessels, a, Chester 
County. U. S. N. M. No. 91843. b, Anderson County. U. S. N. M. No. 34905. Natural 
size. 



Ancient soapstone quarries in Alabama had been recognized as 
such some years before others in Virginia had been discovered and 
described. Examples of large broken vessels from the quarry work- 
shop near Dudleyville, Tallapoosa County, are in the National 
Museum collections. Also one complete vessel, crudely made with 
handles roughly shaped. A drawing of one handle is reproduced 
in figure 7. Although very rough and irregular, the vessel had been 
used, and it appears to be very old, as shown in plate 10. 

" Harrington, op. cit., fig. 16, p. 151. 



486 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 



Similar material, has been discovered in Georgia, and fragments 
of beautifully made utensils have been found on sites in the upper 
Savannah Valley. 

Soapstone or steatite does not occur in situ in Florida, and the 
nearest deposits are northward in central Alabama. Consequently, 
all soapstone vessels found in Florida had been carried from some 
distant point. Two remarkable specimens from Florida are illus- 
trated in plate 10. No similar pieces are known. 

CONCLUSION 

The occurrence of steatite or soapstone in the Eastern United 
States, from New England southward to Alabama, furnished the 




Figure 7. — ^Alabama. Detail of vessel from Tallapoosa County. U. S. N. M. No. 32280. 



native tribes with a material which could be worked with their prim- 
itive stone tools. The extent to which it was utilized is revealed by 
the quarries and quantities of broken, unfinished vessels that have 
been discovered and by the many fragments of finished utensils 
encountered on ancient village sites. 

Soapstone was used in the far North, and the knowledge of its 
adaptability for making utensils, and the comparative ease with which 
it could be worked, may have been brought from the North by early 
Algonquian tribes and later communicated from tribe to tribe until 
it became known to all by whom it could be obtained. This is sug- 
gested by discoveries in Tennessee, previously mentioned when re- 
ferring to the age of the quarries, and if the hypothesis is correct, 



SOAPSTONE — BUSHNELL 487 

the stone was used in the North long before it was quarried in the 
South. Consequently, some of the utensils found in New England 
may be much older than similar pieces discovered in the valley of 
the Savannah, but it is not possible at this time to even approximate 
the age of the material. 

The quarries which have been discovered throughout the region 
where the stone occurs are similar to those which have been de- 
scribed in the Piedmont Plateau of Virginia and in the District of 
Columbia, differing only in extent and the composition of the stone. 
The quarries, so widely distributed, were obviously the work of many 
different tribes, but the descriptions of the Virginia and District of 
Columbia quarries are applicable to all — which indicates that a cus- 
tom, or practice, developed by one group would in time be transmitted 
to others, often far distant and unrelated. 

EXPLANATION OF PLATES 

Plate 1 

Work at an ancient soapstone quarry as suggested by discoveries made at the 
quarry near Clifton, Fairfax County, Va. Tliree phases of the work carried on 
at the quarry are shown in the group: Shaping the stone before removal from 
the mass, taking the block from the quarry, and beginning the process of hol- 
lowing the block to form the vessel. Painted by E. G. Cassedy, of the Bureau 
of American Ethnology. 

Plate 2 

Unfinished vessels from the Bedford County quarry, Va. 

1. a, Block of stone as removed from the quarry. The flat top surface had been 

detached from the mass. Size 11% by 7% inches, depth 5% inches. U. S. 
N. M. No. 379258. &, A block similar to a but having a slight concavity, the 
beginning of the hollowing. Size 12 by 7% inches, deptli 4^,^ inches. U. S. 
N. M. No. 379259. 

2. Parts of two vessels broken while being hollowed, both designed to have flat 

bottoms, c. Length 151/2 inches. U. S. N. M. No. 379260. d. Depth 41/2 
inches. U. S. N. M. No. 379261. A sketch of this vessel as restored is 
shown in text figure 2. 

3. Fragments of two partly finished vessels intended to have rounded bottoms. 

e, Depth 5% inches. U. S. N. M. No. 379262. /, Width 12 inches, height at 
handle 51/2 inches. U. S. N. M. no. 379263. 

Plate 3 

Ancient soapstone quarries in Virginia. 

1. A view of the ancient soapstone quarry southeast of Bedford, Bedford County, 

Va. It is on a ridge between Little Otter River and Big Otter River, near 
the junction of the streams. Photograph by R. L. Updike. 

2. One of the large pits or excavations, now filled with mold, at the ancient 

quarry south of Damon, Albemarle County, Va. 

3. Another pit at the quarry near Damon, with pieces of soapstone scattered 

over the surface. 



488 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

Plate 4 

Modern and ancient soapstone quarries in Virginia. 

1. Soapstone quarry operated by the Virginia Alberene Corporation. It is south 

of Damon, Albemarle County, near the Nelson County line. Photographed 
September 1928. 

2. Ancient quarry near Clifton, Fairfax County, Va. Examined and photo- 

gx-aphed during the spring of 1894. 

Plate 5 

Unfinished vessels from Virginia quarries. 

1. Fairfax County. From quarry near Clifton, 1894. a, Size 9^/^ by 6 inches. 

b, Size 6V2 by 3 inches. U. S. N. M. No. 150368. 

2. Amelia County. From the first quarry described in Virginia, near Chula, 

1877. a, Size 71/2 by 7 inches. U. S. N. M. No. 31555. b, Size 4 by 3 inches. 
U. S. N. M. No. 31552. c, Size 9 by 7 inches. U. S. N. M. No. 31556. 

3. Albemarle County. From quarry near Damon, 1926. Size 16 by SVi inches. 

U. S. N. M. No. 332023. 

Plate 6 

Finished vessels from sites in James River Valley, Va. 

1. Goochland County. Now in the Valentine Museum, Richmond. Size 6 by 4 

Inches. 

2. Fluvanna County. Found near the mouth of the Rivanna, at Columbia. Size 

9% by 51/2 inches. U. S. N. M. No. 136085. Goochland and Fluvanna Coun- 
ties adjoin, on the left bank of the James River. 

3. Buckingham County. Restored from fragments collected by Maj. Wirt Rob- 

inson on a site near the foot of Buck Mountain. They were found over a 
period of many years when some pieces would be uncovered by the plow and 
others exposed by the rain. Size 18% by 12i/4 inches. U. S. N. M. No. 
342083. 

Plate 7 

Vessels from Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Massachusetts. 

1. Pennsylvania. Crudely made vessel from Lancaster County. Size 12 by 7 

inches. U. S. N. M. No. 17236. 

2. Maryland, a, Baltimore County. Size 16y2 by 14iA inches. U. S. N. M. 

No. 208361. &, Carroll County. Size 12 V2 by 5 inches deep. U. S. N. M. 
No. 208353. 

3. Massachusetts. Bristol County. Size 9% by 5 inches. U. S. N. M. No. 17972. 

Greatly worn from use. 

Plate 8 

Ancient soapstone quarry near Bristol, Hartford County, Conn. The quarry 
was exposed and photographed in 1892. Many stone implements which had been 
used in working the stone were discovered at the site. 

Plate 9 

Finished vessels from North Carolina. 
1. Burke County. The specimen is complete, rather symmetrical, and without 
handles. It shows the effect of long use. Size 15 by 12 inches. U. S. N. M. 
No. 35644. 



SOAPSTONE — BUSHNELL 489 

2. a, Wilkes County. Size 14 by 9i^ inches. U. S. N. M. No. 339003. b, Cald- 
well County. Size 11% by 7% inches. U. S. N. M. No. 82912. Wilkes and 
Caldwell are adjoining counties and are within the old Cherokee country. 

8. Mitchell County. Size IGVo by 11 inches. U. S. N. M. No. 27016. This is an 
unusually massive, rough vessel, and although it may not have been finished 
it had been used. 

Plate 10 

Finished vessels from Florida and Alabama. 

1. Florida. Putnam County. Collected by Prof. S. F. Baird in 1877. The vessel 

is symmetrical, of uniform thickness, and smoothed from use. The rim is 
hexagonal in outline, wall divided into six well-defined sections. Size SM: 
by 4^ inches. U. S. N. M. No. 30217. 

2. Florida. Found on Pinellas Point, Pinellas County, on the north side of 

Tampa Bay, 1869. The stone is soft and the walls are thin and very rough. 
The vessel may not have been finished. A small circular base permits it to 
be placed in an upright position. Size 14l^ by 71/2 inches. U. S. N. M. 
No. 7974. 

3. Alabama. A large rough vessel found in Tallapoosa County. Size 11% by 

7 inches. U. S. N. M. No. 32280. A detail of the vessel, showing one handle, 
is given in text figure 7. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Bushnell 



Plate 2 




1. Bedford County. 




Bedford County. 




3. Bedford County. 
UNFINISHED Vessels From Ancient Soapstone Quarry in Virginia. 

(For explanation, see p. 487.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Bushnell 



Plate 3 




1. Bedford County. 




Albumarlc Cuuiitv. 



WBf 


HHI 


^^^^HJ^H 




mKt 


RRHH 












:^^-',f "■'^ ,- -■/:.'''""'" - "> y^^^fH^ 




B^^bijt.:''-^ . 


IT*" ■'**' 




*'^^-^^*~'. "^i^atjir:,-- 


—I--- ..^v^-#^^i.:..>^ ^A^I?Zi 



3. Albt'marlc County. 

Ancient Soapstone Quarries in Virginia. 

(For explanation, see p. 487.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Bushneil 



Plate 4 




1. Albemarle County. 



!-at«»7|P 



M 


■ ! 


I ■ 





■'•^IK?^ 



'■".*;. ^ '.'--ii-^'. 'W' % ^^ *ii 




2. Fairfax County. 
Modern and Ancient Soapstone Quarries in Virginia. 
(For explanation, see p. 488.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Bushnell 



Plate 5 




1. Fairfax County. 




2. Amelia Countv. 




3. Albemarle County. 

Unfinished Vessels From Ancient Soapstone Quarries in Virginia. 

(For explanation, see p. 488.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Bushnell 



Plate 6 




1. Goochland County. 




2. Fluvanna County. 




3. Buckingham County. 
Finished Vessels From Sites in James River Valley, Va. 

(For explanation, see p. 488.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1939— Bushnell 



PLATE 7 




1. Pennsylvania. Lancaster County. 




2. Maryland, a, Baltimore County; b, Carroll County. 




3. Massachusetts. Bristol County. 

Vessels From Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Massachusetts. 

(For explanation, see p. 488.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Bushnell 



Plate 9 




1. Burke County. 




2. a, Wilkes County; h. Caldwell County. 




3. Mitchell County. 
Finished Vessels From North Carolina. 

(For explanation, see pp. 4'*S-489.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Bushnell 



PLATE 10 




1. Florida. Putnam County. 



4giii 


^^^_liggHMaM|^|MH' ^ 


*^ ^iiMiijiiiMfcif 



2. riorida. Pinellas County. 




3. Alabama. Tallapoosa County. 
Finished Vessels From Florida and Alabama. 

(For explanation, see p. 4S9.) 



THE MODERN GROWTH OF THE TOTEM POLE ON THE 
NORTHWEST COAST ^ 



By Mabius Bakbeau 
Dominion Ethnologist, National Museum, Ottawa, Canada 



[With 5 plates] 



Totem poles were once a characteristic form of plastic art, among 
the tribes of the northwest coast, in British Columbia and southern 
Alaska. The natives took pride in them and strained every nerve 
to make them worthy symbols of their own social standing and 
achievements. 

But the carvers were not artists in our present meaning of the term ; 
they were not permitted to give free rein to their imagination or 
fancy. They had nothing to do with the choice of the cedar tree they 
were to carve, nor the spot in the village where it was to be erected 
after it was carved, nor even the selection or the number of the figures 
they were hired to execute. Their art was not considered esthetic; 
it was useful. Regulated by custom, it fulfilled a social purpose and 
was the chief vehicle of a system of heraldry which in a short time 
grew to abnormal proportions. Hence its vital importance in the 
life of the natives. 

The totems: ichat they loere. — The totems, whose figures appear on 
the poles, were not, as often misrepresented, pagan gods or fetishes, 
nor did they usually stand for clan ancestors. Their spiritual signifi- 
cance was quite secondary ; they were not worshipped or even revered 
for their own sake. First of all they were symbols in the nature of 
European coats of arms or badges of ownership, and they usually 
illustrated historic events, true or fictitious. 

When a new totemic emblem was introduced — this happened only 
seldom — an explanation of its origin and significance was furnished ; 
this was purely stereotyped. The people were not credulous enough to 
believe their own tales, nor presumably most of the other folk at large. 

The Raven, the Wolf, the Grizzly Bear, the Blackfish, the Eagle, 
and the Thunderbird were six of the outstanding totems of the 



^ Reprinted by permission, with slight revisions by the author and the addition of some 
illustrations, from the Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences, vol. 28, No. 9, 
Sept. 15, 1938. 

491 



492 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

North Pacific coast. They were used in most places from Alaska to 
the Strait of Georgia. Yet hardly any effort was made to explain 
how they had become the exclusive badges of definite families. They 
were hereditary and taken for granted. Nor was a Raven or a Wolf 
god supposed to exist in that country. At best, the Raven was a 
culture hero of ancient folk tales, quite apart from heraldry. And 
I wonder whether the Eagle emblem, admittedly recent, is not a mere 
imitation of the Russian imperial crest. Like that crest, it often 
appears as a double-headed eagle, and it originated in the country 
occupied by the Russians, about the time of their occupation. 

Wlien a stereotyped explanation is given of the origin of an 
emblem, it runs like this: 

A man named Small-Frogs long ago was starving with his family, 
up the Nass. As he stood at the edge of the lake, a monster emerged 
from the water — Large-Eyes, with a huge human face. Assisted by 
his human family, he cut this being in half and succeeded in pulling 
the upper part of its body out of the water. Later he gave a feast 
to the people, and adopted Large-Eyes as an emblem. It was repre- 
sented pictorially with a large human face and a body without legs — 
just a trunk. 

A story of this kind was of little importance to the people. What 
mattered was the feast given and the presents distributed to confer 
prestige upon the emblem which was supposed to illustrate it. With- 
out this consecration no emblem ever came into existence, for it would 
have had no status, no social recognition. It would have been an 
object of ridicule. 

The figures or totems most commonly used, besides the above- 
mentioned, were those of familiar animals : the Frog, the Beaver, the 
Mountain Goat, the Shark, the Halibut, the Owl, and the Starfish. 
A number of other themes, localized, were derived from the fauna, 
the flora, and the traditions of the country. The Fireweed and the 
Water Lily were used as crests by at least two clans of the Haida and 
the Tsimsyan. Such phenomena as the Rainbow, the Stars, the 
Earthquake, the Glacier, casually appeared in the list of clan and 
personal badges. Among many odd crests we find the Wliite Man's 
Dog, the Palisade and the Wagon Road, Captain Vancouver, Russian 
Priests, and Guardian Angels. 

The totem 'poles: where and hoiv they stood. — There were carved 
house poles, grave posts, and totem poles proper, detached, that stood 
in front of the houses, and others that served as house-front 
entrances. Smaller poles with grave boxes were also found among 
some of the tribes, mostly in the southern districts. House-front 
paintings, carved house posts, and graveyard structures were more 
ancient than detached poles. The detached totem poles as a fashion 
were fairly recent. 



THE TOTEM POLE — BARBEAU 493 

The village houses stood in a row along the waterfront, usually close 
to the edge of the water, either in the coves or along the rivers. The 
Tsimsyan were the only people of the true northwest coast nations 
whose habitat consisted of rivers as well as of the adjacent seacoast. 
The villages of two of their subnations (the Niskse and the Gitksan) 
were situated exclusively on two rivers — the Nass and the Skeena — on 
the Canadian side, close to the Alaskan boundary. It is only there 
that we find totem poles away from the coast, up the rivers as far as 
250 miles from the tidewaters. 

The detached poles stood in a row a few feet in front of the owners' 
houses. They extended the whole length of the village, in an impres- 
sive, though irregular, row of carved columns sometimes surmounted 
by detached figures of birds, animals, and people. 

Totem poles until recently stood along the village fronts of only a 
few nations in the north : the Haida of the Queen Charlotte and Prince 
of Wales Islands, the Nass River people, the upper Skeena tribes, and 
the southern Tlingit of Alaska. Elsewhere they were either nonex- 
istent or very few, or very recent, as among the Kwakiutl. The only 
way of showing the owners' crests where poles did not exist was 
by means of painted designs on the house fronts, or a few carved 
portals. 

A pole was left to stand as many years as nature would permit. 
Sometimes two or three poles belonged to the same family, but had 
been erected at different times as memorials to chiefs after their death, 
one generation apart from the other. They stood side by side and 
were part of the village cluster. Some of the poles leaned to one side, 
ready to fall, sometimes supported by props. It was not the custom to 
mend or transplant a pole, however precarious its condition. Once 
fallen, it was pushed aside, if it were in the way ; it decayed gradually 
or was cut up and burned as firewood. 

The totem poles of the Haida of the Queen Charlotte Islands and 
Alaska, and of the Niskae of the Nass River, have mostly fallen and 
disappeared, or they have been removed to museums and parks 
abroad. Some of the Tlingit poles, on the Alaskan coast, have been 
moved away from the old village sites to Ketchikan, Sitka, and other 
modern towns and are being preserved there, usually under a gaudy 
coat of modem paint. The only collection that is still fairly intact 
is that of the Gitksan tribes, on the upper Skeena River, in northern 
British Columbia. It consists of over 100 poles, in isolated village 
groups of from a few to about 30, in the 8 tribal villages of the 
upper Skeena. Some of these are also being preserved by the Cana- 
dian Government and railways. 

The natives, many years ago, abandoned their old villages and 
moved to new quarters. The old village sites are now deserted; the 
plank houses have fallen in, and the totem poles were forsaken in 



494 ANNUAL REPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

those former abodes of native life. They fall down and decay, while 
others lean precariously or totter in the wind, soon to come down 
with a crash. A few of the finest clusters, among the Tsimsyan, 
were willfully destroyed in recent years. They reminded the modern 
villagers too much of their breechclout ancestors whom they were 
anxious to deny and forget, in their haste to ape the white people. 

The art of totem-pole carving now wholly belongs to the past. As 
it is not really ancient, it has covered altogether less than a hundred 
years, mostly from 1840 to 1880. For the Haida and the Niskae it 
came to an end soon after 1880. Elsewhere it actively survived until 
after 1900. The Gitksan near Hazelton have erected a few poor 
specimens in the past 10 years. 

The age of totem poles. — It is a mistake to say that totem poles are 
hundreds of years old. They could not be. A green tree, cut down, 
carved, and planted without preservative could not stand very long, 
as it is highly perishable. It rots at the base, and its weight, to- 
gether with the force of the wind, brings it down within a fairly 
definite span of years — often less than 50 years on the coast, where 
the moisture is intense and the muskeg foundation is corrosive. Up 
the rivers, where the climate is drier and the soil is sandy, some of 
the poles, the oldest, have stood as long as 70 or perhaps 80 years. 
They are among the most archaic specimens of the kind. A minute 
examination of each one of them on the upper Skeena has made it 
clear that the art of totem-pole carving there evolved out of humble 
beginnings mostly after 1840. In a short period of intensive devel- 
opment it passed through two or three phases or styles. Those of 
the Kwakiutl of Alert Bay, well known though they are, were erected 
about 1895 or later. 

The growth of the system of native heraldry. — The growth of her- 
aldry on the North Pacific coast coincides with that of the art which 
served it as a vehicle. On the whole it can hardly be said to be very 
ancient or prehistoric. 

Archeologists so far have failed to unearth anything like the pres- 
ent totems, even in miniature form. The small stone or bone carvings 
and rock engravings that have been found in many places, when they 
are old, are of a different type — rather formless and naturistic. They 
have very little in common with the highly stylized art of such tribes 
as the Haida, the Tsimsyan, and the Tlingit. 

The generation of woodcarvers that worked from 1860 to 1880 is 
acknowledged by the natives as the best. The names of the crafts- 
men have been partly compiled, details on their lives have been 
recorded in recent years, and their work often can be identified. 
They belonged in majority to the Niskse, the Haida, and the southern 
Tlinffit tribes. 



THE TOTEM POLE — BAKBEAU 495 

The best-known carver of the Haida of Queen Charlotte Islands 
was Edenshaw. This name is hereditary, as are the personal names 
among the natives. Out of three generations of Edenshaws, who 
were reputed craftsmen, the second, from 1840 to 1880, was a reputed 
totem-pole carver and canoe maker. The earliest of the three was an 
expert metal worker or large copper-shield maker, evidently some 
time after the introduction of metals by European sea traders; and 
the third, Charles Edenshaw, who died a very old man in 1924, was 
the finest craftsman of the three, and the beauty of his argillite carv- 
ings and of his silver work was seldom surpassed. With him and a 
few of his contemporaries, native art reached the peak of its excel- 
lence. In other words, its progress was contemporary with impres- 
sionism, and even with the work of Gauguin and Van Gogh, in 
France. 

Some of the older tribes of the Tsimsyan still remember a time when 
their ancestors were not totemistic, had few, if any, emblems, and 
did not observe the rule of exogamic marriage, which is the outstand- 
ing feature of totemic organization. Yet the Tsimsyan are now one 
of the only three totemistic nations of the coast. 

If this type of social organization and its counterpart in heraldry 
existed at all before the coming of the Russians, at the end of the 
seventeenth century, no evidence can be found to prove it, whereas 
every indication points to its spread and rapid development since. 

Nearly all the early mariners and discoverers, from 1775 to 1800, 
failed to observe real detached totem poles among the Haida, the 
Tsimsyan, or the Tlingit. 

Some of them, like Jacinto Caamano ^ in 1792, had ample oppor- 
tunities to visit Haida villages; yet, after minutely describing canoes, 
costumes, songs, dances, masks, and headdresses in his journal, and 
having stopped at Kyusta (opposite North or Langara Island) where 
many totem poles stood in the 1880's, he described native houses 
(pp. 221, 293) without a mention of totem or carved poles. That is, 
with the single exception of what must have been a carved house- 
front entrance (p. 289) : "To pass through the narrow doorway of 
the chief's house, over which was painted a huge mask, it was neces- 
sary to make a litter or hammock of the deerskin. Two of the 
strongest of the Indians did this, with the other four assisting as 
best they could, while I was shrinking myself into as small compass 
as possible * * * to avoid being bumped against the door posts." 

Only a very few house posts and portals, roughly carved, crude masks 
and carved objects were seen in some places and in house-front 



» The Journal of Don Jacinto Caamano, translated by Capt. Harold Grenfell, R. N., 
edited with an introduction and notea by Henry R. Wagner and W. A. Newcombe. Reprints 
from the British Columbia Hist. Quart., July and October 1938, pp. 189-301. 



496 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

paintings. Two or three drawings were made by the visitors at the 
time, in particular the sketch by Webber, in Captain Cook's Voyages, 
showing the carved posts inside a Nootka house on Vancouver Island. 
Haswell,^ in 1787-1789, wrote: "* * * For ornaments they (the 
sides of the houses) have pillars supporting the poles carved into the 
shape of human faces with distorted features, beasts and imaginary 
animals * * *." Hoskins,* in 1790-1793, noted that: "their head 
villages are neatly and regularly built ; the houses end on with pitched 
roofs ; in front is a large post reaching above the roof, neatly carved 
but with the most distorted figures ; at the bottom is an oval or round 
hole which is either the mouth or the belley of some deformed object. 
This serves for a doorway * * *." W. A. Newcombe ° states that 
in "a Quimper Manuscript" (re house poles on Clayoquot Sound, 
1790), Wicananish house is said to have had "carved house supports 
as well as the doorway pole * * *." 

Capt. Joseph Ingraham's'^ description may imply that two totem 
poles, in 1790-1792, already were of the detached type, standing away 
from the house front. "I went to view two pillars which were situated 
in front of a village * * * on the north shore ; they were about 40 
feet in height, carved in a very curious manner, indeed representing 
Men, Toads, etc., the whole of which I tho't did great credit to the 
natural genius of these people. In one of the houses of this village, 
the door was through the mouth of one of the before-mentioned images 
* * *"(p. 107). "* * * Before one of the Houses were 4 Images 
resembling the Human form and otherwise curiously carved." 

From a few of those records,'' it is clear that the typical stylization 
of west coast art already existed in the neighborhood of the present 
Alaskan frontier. But it must have been fairly restricted in scope, 
at the time, and also in the area of its diffusion. Was this stylization 
aboriginal or derivative? It had every chance of being derivative. 
Yet it is difficult to say whence it would have been derived, for the 
lack of sufficient comparative data. Advanced stylization can be the 
result only of intense cultural development, such as never had hap- 
pened on the North Pacific coast in prehistoric times. 

From distant resemblances, it seems that some of the designs, like 
the culture itself, are of an Asiatic type. The use of masks is fairly 
modern among the northernmost nations of the coast, but it seems to 
have been common on Vancouver Island at the time of the discovery. 

* Voyages round the World in Oolumlia Rediviva and sloop, 1787-1789. Transcript In 
the Provincial Archives, Victoria, B. C, observed by Dr. Diamond Jenness. 

* Voyage to the Northwest Coast of America and China, 1790-1793. (He was, according 
to Dr. Jenness, officer on the same vessel, Columbia RecLiviva, under Captain Gray.) 

» Victoria, B. C. 

•Journal of the brigantlne Eope of Boston, 1790-1792. Stated to be in the Library 
of Congress, Washington, D. C. (Transcript in the Provincial Archives. Victoria, B. C.) 

' See Voyage round the World, performed in 17S5, 1786, 1787, and 1788, By Capt. Geo. 
Dixon ; ill. facing p. 188 ; lA, a cai-ved dish, from Queen Charlotte Isles ; 2A, front view. 



THE TOTEM POLE — BARBEAU 497 

Masks are also commonly used in Asia. The Tlingit patterns on 
Chilkat blankets, among other things, resemble those on the garments 
of the Ainiis in northern Japan. The northwest coast people are not 
the only ones at the edge of the Pacific to have erected tall carved 
memorials or totems. These are also known under various forms in 
Japan, Korea, and in the South Seas. Some of the New Zealand 
carved poles so closely resemble the older poles on the Nass Eiver, in 
British Columbia, that one might easily be mistaken for the other. 
The technique of erecting them, besides, was identical. It is quite pos- 
sible that the Hawaiians and Kanakas of the South Seas, brought over 
to the coast of British Columbia and Alaska by the early circumnavi- 
gators, may have had something to do with the development of this 
local art in America, or vice versa. 

Indeed, the sea hunters and seamen on board the sailing ships 
cruising the Pacific and following the schools of sea otters and hair 
seals in their migrations around the Pacific — from the northwest 
coast to South America and to the South Seas — consisted largely of 
Haida, of Coast Tsimsyan, and of Hawaiians; and this for many 
years. In the course of this prolonged intercourse, cultural ex- 
changes must have taken place. Many Kanakas settled and inter- 
married among the natives on the North Pacific coast. Indian 
families at widely scattered points — on the Nass, on the lower Skeena, 
among the Kwakiutl and on Burrard inlet near Vancouver — now 
claim a Kanaka for an ancestor. For instance, Oyai, the best carver 
of totem poles on the Nass, is said to have been partly of Kanaka 
extraction; as was also the noted Kamano family of Alert Bay, 
among the Kwakiutl. Charles Edenshaw, Massett, was fond of rep- 
resenting his canoemen with curly hair (like the Kanaka's), in his 
argillite carvings. The Kanakas, from the earliest days of circum- 
navigation almost to the present time, were numerous on the North 
Pacific coast. Not a few wood carvings found on the coast of British 
Coliunbia and Alaska undoubtedly were from the hands of South 
Sea islanders. And it is possible that South Sea carvings may be 
from the hands of Haidas, as it is still remembered on the Queen 
Charlotte Islands that at least a shipload of Haidas, once not so long 
ago, started on a long hunting cruise across the Pacific and never 
came back. The Haidas themselves picked up, in the tropical seas, 
the abalone shells, which were extensively used in the decoration of 
their wood carvings and ceremonial blankets; these shells were also 
used in the same way by the South Sea Islanders. A further study 
of exchanges between northwest coast Indians and the Polynesians, 
from the end of the eighteenth to the end of the nineteenth centuries, 
would disclose that obvious cultural resemblances among them are 
recent and due to the stimulus of incessant contacts and mutual 
inspiration. 



498 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

Where the detached totem poUs first appeared. — It is possible that 
the custom of erecting detached poles as memorial columns to the 
dead originated among the Tsimsyan of the lower Nass River, close 
to the present Alaskan frontier on the coast. Or perhaps among 
the Haida. But if it were more ancient there than elsewhere, it does 
not date back very far. The old people have heard of the time when 
two out of three of the Tsimsyan nations had no totem poles. One 
of those nations along the coast in fact never quite adopted that 
custom, as it passed under the banner of Christianity about 1850, a 
decade or so before totem poles became the fashion in the north. 

It is more likely that the Tlingit in this respect imitated the Nass 
Eiver people or the Haida than the reverse. Candlefish or ulaken 
fishing made of the estuary of the Nass the most important thorough- 
fare of native life in the north. Ulaken was a universal and 
indispensable staple. Tribes of several nations gathered every spring 
for the ulaken run in the neighborhood of the present Fishery Bay. 
During several weeks, exchanges of all kinds, barter, social contacts, 
and quarrels were normal. Cultural features of the Nass as a result 
were observed by the strangers and imitated, the technique of weav- 
ing ceremonial blankets later known as Chilkat blankets,® and wood 
carving, in particular. The Nass Eiver carvers are known to this 
day to have been about the best in that whole country, and their 
totem poles were the finest seen anywhere. The 20 that stood there 
until recently were on the whole the tallest and the best on the sea- 
coast. They were also among the oldest. 

* The Nass River people claim to have been the earliest to weave this type of blanket ; 
and it is stated, in Alaska, that the Chilkat (Tlingit) tribe merely "cashed in on it" at 
a later date. The author, several years ago, collected one of the old Niskse blankets 
at Gitlarhdamks ; and this specimen, with designs at variance with those of the later 
Chilkats, is now at the Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto. 




o) q; c 







V. 


^■<:^' 




X 




^^^^jd*r:\f.: .-^^B 




* 


(sd-^^^mm 


imi 


MH 


■^^ 












^ 2 



HISTOKIC AMERICAN HIGHWAYS 



By Albekt C. Rose 
Senior Eightvay Engineer, Public Roads Administration, Federal Works Agency 



[With 18 plates] 



William Shakespeare, the bard of Stratford on Avon, whose por- 
trayal of the human character and mastery of the art of expres- 
sion has delighted the lovers of the best in English literature for 
generations, once made the observation that : 

All the world's a stage, 
And all the men and women merely players. 

The great playwright well knew the power of the drama to plumb 
the depths of the human emotions through the sense avenues of sight 
and hearing. He was adept in the use of a stage setting to portray 
ideas which words alone never could express. 

To this day these pictorial tools give a dramatist a decided advant- 
age over the writer who strives bit by bit to build up a word picture 
in the mind of the reader with the aid of a pen or pencil alone. The 
author accomplishes liis purposes progressively by means of skillfully 
associated words, phrases, sentences, and paragraphs in which the 
original thought germ grows until it is revealed full-fledged in its final 
form. This mental scene which the writer builds gradually the 
artist presents instantly by means of a picture blurred by no barrier 
of language, latitude, period, or age. Thus the Eskimo in Greenland 
and the Hottentot of South Africa may be instructed to see the same 
physical elements in a picture even though their emotional reactions 
to the sight may be strangely different. The ancient Chinese no doubt 
had these ideas in mind when they formulated many centuries ago 
their celebrated proverb : "Hua-i neng ta ch'ien yen." This old say- 
ing, according to Dr. A. W. Hummel, Chief of the Division of 
Orientalia of the Library of Congress, means literally, "Picture's 
meaning can express a thousand words," or a more familiar translation 
is, "One picture tells a thousand words." 

It is because pictures express ideas in the clearest and most summary 
form that this effort has been made to present the story of American 
highways with the aid of a series of dioramas — a teclinical term used 

197855—40 33 499 



500 ANNUAL REPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

by artists to signify a scenic background combined with a modeled 
foreground. The thread of the historical narrative may be traced 
through the following text wherein the plate numbers in parentheses 
refer to the pictures of the dioramas arranged in chronological order 
at the conclusion of this article. 

This series of 35 historical dioramas, arranged to be viewed progres- 
sively with the aid of an elaborate mechanism combined with mirrors, 
and described by a well-modulated sound record, was displayed first 
at the Golden Gate Exposition in San Francisco, Calif., in 1939. In 
the same year a three-color motion picture of the dioramas was shown 
at the New York World's Fair. 

THE HISTORICAL NARRATIVE ILLUSTRATED BY THE DIORAMAS 

The story of the development of transportation in Colonial Amer- 
ica and the United States during the past four centuries is a moving 
word picture which flashes upon our mental screens successive images 
illustrative of our thoroughfares as they grew from the status of 
primitive wild-animal and Indian trails into the present high-speed 
highways suitable for motor vehicles. This historical narrative 
covers a period during which European civilization marched west- 
ward from the Atlantic coast line to the shores of the Pacific Ocean 
and along the way overcame mountain, desert, and forest barriers. 
In the wake of this extensive and intensive pioneer movement there 
arose great industrial cities to supplant the earlier scattered log- 
cabin settlements. 

The story begins with North America in the condition of a vast 
wilderness inhabited only by the Indian aborigines, annuals, birds, 
and fishes. Spain was the towering world power of the time, and 
her explorers were seeking to extend the empire to the ends of the 
earth. Christopher Columbus had sailed a due west course toward 
the fabulous wealth of the Indies and had stumbled upon an un- 
known land which later became known as America. 

Throughout this so-called New World the horse species had been 
extinct since prehistoric times. Only fossil remains bore witness to 
their previous existence. The cause for the disappearance of the 
equestrian animals defies identification and may remain always a 
mystery. However, a number of hypotheses have been advanced. 
Perhaps there occurred some sudden change in climate such as a 
prolonged drought. The lives of the new-born foals might have 
been destroyed by vicious insect pests. The steady pressure of the 
increasing population of other animal species may have made life 
less tenable. Death from widespread disease is another theory that 
has been suggested. Whatever may be the true inwardness of the 
nature of the cause which brought about the disappearance of the 



HISTORIC AMERICAN HIGHWAYS ROSE 501 

genus EquuSj historians are agreed that the Spaniards introduced 
the forefathers of the modern horse into the New World. The 
Spanish conquistador Hernando de Soto (pi. 1, fig. 1) probably 
transported across the Atlantic Ocean the first horses which survived 
to renew the species on the soil now occupied by the United States. 
His fleet of caravels entered a sheltered body of water which De Soto 
named "Espiritu Santo" (Holy Ghost) and which we call today Tampa 
Bay. Probably on May 28, 1539, the landing of more than 200 
horses was made at Gadsen's Point. Numbered among this group 
of magnificent Arabian horses was De Soto's favorite mount 
Aceituno, from a strain of great longevity, productiveness, and hardi- 
hood and like the evergreen olive tree the symbol of wisdom, peace, 
and majesty. 

Many years elapsed, however, before horses were used for travel 
and transportation by the American Indians. When the English 
established their first permanent settlement at Jamestown, Va., in the 
year 1607, the Atlantic Ocean and its tributary streams supplied the 
main highways to and into the newly discovered continent. In the 
region where the birch tree grew to suitable proportions, and on 
rough bodies of water, the birchbark canoe was the favorite vehicle. 
In the locality where the surface of the streams and bays remained 
relatively placid the southern Indians used dugout canoes made by 
building a fire upon a sound log and scraping away the charred 
remains with a clam shell or other rude instrument (pi. 1, fig. 2). 
When Captain John Smith met the gi-eat chief Powhatan at his 
principal Indian village 1 mile downstream from the present site of 
Richmond, Va., on the James River, his daughter Pocahontas used 
a log bridge to cross a stream. The dusky forest denizens roamed 
the forests on foot, resorted to hand litters to move the sick, and 
transported heavy burdens on their backs. 

When another 70 years had elapsed, the land of America remained 
still an unknown wilderness in which distances were traversed only 
with extreme hardship. At the risk of their lives Old World ex- 
plorers continued to seek a direct route overland toward China and 
eTapan by paddling their canoes up the rivers and portaging or carry- 
ing their equipment and supplies across the land divides separating 
the main water courses. On January 22, 1679, Robert Cavalier, 
Sieur de La Salle, the celebrated French explorer (pi. 2, fig. 1), in 
search of a short-cut to the Far East, stood on the portage path 
around Niagara Falls in company with his bosom companion, the 
Franciscan Father Zenobe Membre. La Salle's enthusiasm might 
have been dampened had he the foreknowledge that the venture 
would cost him his life. Undaunted by anticipated danger, however, 
his forceful character won the confidence of his followers. At his 



502 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

command the baggage of the expedition and the canoes were carried 
across the portage path on the backs of the common laborers or 
engages. The packs were balanced by tumplines encircling the fore- 
heads of the burden bearers. 

While the French in the north and the Spaniards in the southwest 
were extending their dominions in North America, the English were 
establishing lucrative possessions along the Atlantic seaboard. 
Throughout the southern group of Colonies the plantation system 
retarded road development. The extensive acreages of privately 
owned farms bordered upon navigable streams, on the banks of which 
were private docks where the products of the soil were loaded on 
board ocean-going ships. Tobacco was the money crop of the Vir- 
ginia planters, and hogsheads filled with the precious weed were 
rolled (pi. 2, fig. 2) from field warehouses over tobacco-rolling roads 
to the river landings for shipment to the English mother country far 
across the sea. A rope attached to the hogshead and held in the 
hands of a Negro was used as a brake to prevent the hogshead from 
overrunning the oxen when traveling downhill. 

Toward the close of the eighteenth century road improvement in 
the northern colonies was undertaken by the township authorities. 
This work speeded the Colonial mail service which had been estab- 
lished in North America first, in 1673, on the famous Boston Post 
Road leading from New England to New York. In less than a cen- 
tury the postal system had become so extensive that Colonial Post- 
master Benjamin Franklin (pi. 3, fig. 1), in 1763, seated in a well-kept 
one-horse shay and accompanied by his daughter on horseback, made 
a long inspection tour of the Colonial post offices. While he was 
journeying over the Boston Post Road, a tireless post rider delivered 
an urgent message to his chief. 

The growth of the mail service in the eighteenth centuj.y was the 
natural accompaniment of a corresponding increase in the volume of 
business carried on between the Colonies. Although the bulk of the 
passenger and freight movement was cared for in coastwise vessels, 
attempts to improve land transportation began at an early date. The 
first venture in rapid transportation was made, in 1766, by the crude 
box-shaped covered wagon called the Flying Machine (pi. 3, fig. 2), 
on the road between the cities of Philadelphia and New York. This 
lumbering vehicle, with springs only under the crosswise board seats, 
covered in 2 days the 90-mile distance between the Quaker City and 
the Paulus Hook Ferry, now known as Jersey City. The two trips 
a week were multiplied into daily runs by 1773. 

For the century and a half and more outlined in the preceding 
paragraphs the British settlements in North America had been con- 
fined to a narrow strip of land, 150 miles wide, sprawled along the 



HISTORIC AMERICAN HIGHWAYS^ — ROSE 503 

Atlantic seaboard. The general movement of travel was in a north- 
and-south direction. Then, just before the Revolutionary War when 
there was widespread unrest because of the congestion of population 
and the burden of illegal taxes, the courageous pioneer Daniel Boone 
began the westward emigration into the unknown country beyond 
the Allegheny Mountains. He led his followers through the Cum- 
berland Gap (pi. 4, fig. 1) and over the blazed trail now known as 
Boone's Wilderness Road. 

Prior to the War of the American Revolution travel throughout the 
Colonies was accomplished principally on foot or horseback, and the 
average rate of travel did not exceed 4 miles an hour. Improvement 
in the means and methods of transportation was retarded by the 
chaotic social and economic conditions which were a natural aftermath 
of the war. It was not until 1795 that organized road improvement 
may be said to have begun. In that year a privately owned turnpike 
company finished the first extensive broken-stone roadway in this 
country. This was the 6214-mile Lancaster Turnpike leading west- 
ward from Philadelphia (pi. 4, fig. 2). Weary and hungry travelers 
were entertained by the hospitable host at the Eagle Tavern standing 
beside the road about 14 miles from the City of Brotherly Love. The 
improved stage wagons in use at this time, averaging 5 to 7 miles an 
hour, represented the next step in the development of this type of 
vehicle from the primitive covered box wagon to the later Concord 
coach. 

With the Lancaster Pike as a beginning, stone-surfaced roads grew 
in number and extent east of the Appalachian Mountains. It was 
not until work was started on the National Pike, in 1806, that the 
western transmountain settlers were given hope of relief from their 
isolation. The new States of Kentucky and Tennessee, with their 
commercial connection with the East restricted to the long rough 
wagon road through the wilderness across the Appalachian divide, 
sought a southwestern water outlet by way of the Mississippi River. 
Flatboatmen who made the successful journey downstream sold their 
products at New Orleans and returned home by the short cut through 
the woods beginning at Natchez, the farthest southern town on the 
hard ground bordering the swampy region below. Travel over this 
forest path grew to such proportions that shortly before the Louisiana 
Purchase was consummated, in 1803, the Congress of the United 
States ordered the formal opening of this so-called Natchez Trace 
leading northeasterly to Nashville, in Tennessee, for a distance of 
less than 500 miles. On this beaten path or trace, through the leaf- 
mold in the woods, Gov. Meriwether Lewis of Louisiana Terri- 
tory lost his life on the night of October 11, 1809, at Griner's Tavern 
(pi. 5, fig. 1) situated in Tennessee about 72 miles south of Nashville. 



504 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

This celebrated partner of the Lewis and Clark expedition into the 
Pacific Northwest was on his way to the National Capital at Wash- 
ington to make a report to President Thomas Jefferson. 

The subsequent improvement of the Natchez Trace was hastened 
to some extent by the Napoleonic Wars which raged in Europe and 
which were responsible indirectly for our War of 1812 with England. 
Gen. Andrew Jackson moved American troops southwest over the 
Natchez Trace for the defense of New Orleans. The decisive opera- 
tions of the struggle, however, consisted of naval engagements, and 
the British blockade bottled our coastwise sailing packets in the 
American harbors. These operations were so successful along the 
Atlantic seaboard that the freight business between New England 
and the southern States had to be transferred to Conestoga wagons. 
This abrupt increase in coastwise land travel soon overtaxed our in- 
fant highway system. An example of this was to be seen at Trenton, 
N. J. (pi. 5, fig, 2), where the heavy freight wagons, carts, and stage- 
coaches rumbled beneath the elaborate facade of the Delaware River 
bridge. 

With the signing of the treaty at Ghent, in December 1814, which 
concluded the War of 1812, there began a century that was to be 
characterized by revolutionary improvements in transportation and 
communication. This was a logical corollary to the growth of the 
new factory system. An expanding market for the industrial civili- 
zation in the East was provided by the emigrants to the new lands 
in the West which were being opened for settlement and trade. The 
first of the great overland roads to the Far West was the Santa Fe 
Trail which connected the western frontier of the United States at 
Independence, Mo., with Mexico. At the starting point on the 
American frontier the traders unloaded their covered wagons and 
supplies from steamboats plying on the waters of the Missouri River 
(pi. 6, fig. 1). The steel tires were tightened on the wagons to pre- 
vent their shackling, or loosening and rattling, when the wooden 
wheels shrank on the long journey across the deserts parched dry by 
the burning sun. 

Soon the struggle to improve the methods of transportation became 
more intense, and well-built canals challenged the supremacy of the 
horseways in the East. To tap the vast region surrounding the 
Great Lakes the Erie Canal was opened to travel in 1825 (pi. 6, fig. 
2). This new waterway provided almost a level connection across 
the barrier of the Appalachian Mountains. New York City, at the 
mouth of the Hudson River, became the nearest Atlantic seaport for 
the new States carved from the Northwest Territory. Philadelphia 
had been displaced previously as the leading metropolis of the 
country. 



HISTORIC AMERICAN HIGHAVAYS — ROSE 505 

As settlers began to stream into the Great Lakes region by way of 
the Erie Canal there arose a need for a more direct route for emi- 
grants from the East and South. An overland connection was 
established across the narrow land bridge of Indiana which separated 
Lake Michigan from the Ohio River valley. This route, called the 
Michigan Road, after the name of the lake, was laid out along the 
shortest practical route between the two water thoroughfares. The 
location of the northern leg of this road had been established un- 
wittingly by the French Canadian Pierre Frieschutz Navarre, when, 
as an agent of the American Fur Co., he built his trading cabin on 
the east bank of the St. Joseph River. The native trappers trans- 
ported packs of beaver pelts across the portage trail leading from 
the Kankakee River and then floated their wares in canoes across 
the St. Joseph River to Navarre's cabin (pi. 7, fig. 1). Around this 
location as a nucleus grew the present city of South Bend, Ind. 
Settlers, called "movers," left the eastern States and floated down 
the Ohio River to begin their northward journey into Indiana over 
the Michigan Road. Over the same road emigrants swarmed from 
the southern States of Kentucky, Virginia, and the Carolinas. 

The growth of the new commonwealths in the Northwest was 
balanced in some degree by the new States formed in the South- 
west from the territory acquired by the Louisiana Purchase. The 
mouth of the Mississippi River had grown in commercial impor- 
tance to such an extent that by 1827 there came a demand for a 
great mail road, which was intended to branch from the National 
Pike, leading westward from Cumberland, Md. From Zanesville, 
Ohio, the new road was to pass through Maysville and Lexington 
in Kentucky, Nashville in Tennessee, to Florence in Alabama, and 
thence to New Orleans in Louisiana. The Maysville Pike section 
of this road became a national household word when Federal aid 
for its construction was vetoed by President Andrew Jackson on 
May 27, 1830. With this action as a precedent, private corpora- 
tions were forced to take over the financing of the main public 
roads. This legislation was influential in placing the subsequent 
construction of the railroads in the hands of private corporations. 
The accompanying illustration (pi. 7, fig. 2) of a tollhouse and an 
oval-shaped stagecoach, typical of the period, on the Maysville 
Pike, shows the tollgate-keeper refusing to accept in payment some 
of the worthless Spanish coins in circulation at the time. 

Now a mechanical rival arose to challenge the right of the 
horseway and the waterway to serve the growing Nation's trans- 
portation. On August 28, 1830, an open car, filled with the directors 
of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad and their friends, was hitched 
to Peter Cooper's diminutive Tom Thumb locomotive. This new 



506 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

combination lost the race to a horse-drawn railroad car on the 
tracks between Baltimore and EUicott's Mills, Md. (pi. 8, fig. 1). 
The horse, owned by Stockton and Stokes, the great stagecoach 
proprietors of the day, won the race by a fluke caused by the failure 
of the belt that operated the blower of the engine. The race dem- 
onstrated, however, the superiority of the railway beyond the per- 
adventure of a doubt. 

While the struggle for the survival of the best kind of trans- 
portation was raging east of the Mississippi Kiver, settlers, in 1836, 
were pushing their way southwestward into Texas. Slow-moving 
covered wagons, creaky Mexican carreta carts, and grunting pack 
animals (pi. 8, fig. 2) wound their leisurely way along El Camino 
Real past the Alamo, stormed shortly before by the Mexican Gen- 
eral Santa Ana and his troops, and today the sacred shrine of Texas 
liberty. 

For another three decades, the white canvas-topped covered 
wagons were relied upon as the most dependable vehicle by the 
emigrants to the West. In the East, however, the reaction had set 
in and wagons had begun to yield first place to the more efficient 
railroads. The recession was obvious on the National Pike, begun 
in 1806, to serve the territory northwest of the Ohio River and 
the first main highway to be built with Federal funds. By 1840, at 
the eastern extremity near the stone-arch bridge over Will's Creek, 
west of Cumberland, Md. (pi. 9, fig. 1), Conestoga freight-wagon 
and stagecoach owners began to feel the loss of business to the 
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad. 

Many of the vehicles placed on the auction block by the bank- 
rupt horse-transportation companies in the East found their way 
across the Mississippi River, where they were used in that extensive 
population movement which by the middle of the nineteenth cen- 
tury had pushed the frontier of the United States westward until 
it touched the shores of the Pacific Ocean. Beginning with a trickle 
of trappers to the Northwest when Astoria was founded, in 1811, 
the movement had swelled to a mighty stream of settlers by the 
time of the great emigration in 1843. The Oregon Trail, across 
the Rocky Mountains and down the Coliunbia River (pi. 9, fig. 2), 
joined with the extended National Pike to provide the first overland 
route connecting the Atlantic and the Pacific coasts. 

Now that the railroads east of the Mississippi River were far in the 
lead of their opponents in the race to provide better transportation 
facilities, feeble efforts were made to better the condition of the 
wagon roads. It was natural that recourse should be had to wood 
in the region where trees were plentiful and sawmills dotted the 
forests. Following the example of the Canadians who built the 



HISTORIC AMERICAN HIGHWAYS^ ROSE 507 

original planlv road in North America, after the example of the 
Eussians, the first plank road in the United States was laid, in 1846, 
from Syracuse, N. Y., to the foot of Oneida Lake (pi. 10, fig. 1). The 
road was completed in July of that year by a corporation known as 
The Salina & Central Square Plank Road Co. 

These half-hearted improvements in the character of the horseways 
failed, however, to overcome the tremendous handicap which the 
steam railways had gained during a period of three decades. By 
1850 the speed of the fastest trains averaged about 25 miles an hour, 
and the railroads were carrying passengers and freight over long as 
well as short distances. Faced with such formidable competition, the 
Conestoga-wagon and stagecoach companies were failing everywhere, 
and the highways often were becoming so rough, impassable, and 
muddy that a partial load could be hauled by four horses only with 
the greatest effort (pi. 10, fig. 2). The main highways began to fall 
into such a state of neglect and disrepair that this period has been 
dubbed the twilight of the dark ages of road travel in the United 
States. 

Although the steam railroad dominated the whole system of trans- 
portation in the eastern States, not a single locomotive had puffed its 
way over a steel track as far as the Mississippi River prior to 1854. 
Stretching beyond the Father of Waters as far as golden California 
was a vast wilderness of 2,000 miles of plains, deserts, forests, and 
mountains which only the fastest overland stagecoach relays could 
span in 20 days. The need for fast mail communication between the 
Pacific coast and the center of goverimient, at Washington, had been 
growing ever since gold had been discovered in California, in 1848, at 
Sutter's sawmill on the south fork of the American River near 
Coloma. To speed news to the new gold region a Lightning Drome- 
dary Express (pi. 11, fig. 1) was tried first on the route between 
Albuquerque, N. M., and Los Angeles, Calif., in 1857, by Secretary 
of War Jefferson Davis. The camels were expected to travel 100 
miles without water, to feed on sagebrush, and, racing across the 
parched desert at the rate of 10 to 15 miles an hour, to reach their 
Pacific destination within 2 weeks from a starting point on the 
Missouri River. The experiment failed partly because the easygoing 
but stubborn camels, lulled into obedience by the dulcet, liquid Arabic 
language of their drivers in Egypt and Arabia, became balky when 
abused in a strange land by the forceful and impetuous American 
mule handlers. 

Undismayed by the failure of the camel express and determined to 
exhaust every possible means that promised to speed communication 
with the Pacific coast, Californians promoted another experiment in 
rapid mail transportation. At this time there was doubt that the 



508 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

steam railroad ever would solve their problem. On April 3, 1860, 
west coast citizens witnessed the first fruits of their efforts when the 
Pony Express set out on its maiden trip. This first overland mail 
service between St. Joseph, Mo., and Sacramento, Calif., brought San 
Francisco 10 days nearer to New York (pi. 11, fig. 2). The pony 
rider covered about 250 miles a day of 24 hours, whereas the stage- 
coach traveled only 100 tO' 125 miles in the same time. After racing 
past Independence Rock, in Wyoming, for IG months, the Pony 
Express was put out of business by the completion of the Pacific 
telegraph line. During its comparatively short life the messages 
carried by the daring riders on their wiry western ponies helped to 
preserve the Union at the outbreak of the Civil War, 

With the flower of the manhood of the South and the North en- 
gaged in a titanic economic struggle, the Federal Govermnent relaxed 
its vigilance with respect to the Indians in the Far West. As a 
result savage outbreaks began to threaten the lives and property of 
emigrants and settlers over a wide range of territory. These red- 
skinned marauders, however, were placed at a decided disadvantage 
when the last spike was driven at the junction between the Union 
Pacific and Central Pacific railways, at Promontory Point, Utah, 
on May 10, 1869 (pi. 12, fig. 1). The new gleaming steel rails 
captured the business of the 8-year old stagecoach lines that had 
shifted, because of the War Between the States, from the southern 
ox-bow route to the central road between the Mississippi River, 
Denver, and the Pacific coast. The Concord stages were the acme 
of perfection reached in the manufacture of that type of vehicle. 
They were the equivalent of the Pullman railroad parlor cars in 
use today. 

With the passing of the three-quarter mark of the nineteenth 
century, the country began to bear the earmarks of the industrial 
revolution brought about by the introduction of steam, machinery, 
and electricity. The old-fashioned handicraft work in the home 
was on the way out. The factory system now attracted large num- 
bers of workers to industrial centers, where the raw materials were 
brought to be processed by machines driven from central power 
plants. There was a steady emigration of workers from the rural 
districts, and farm work lost much of its appeal to the younger 
generation now come to manhood. The country roads were now in 
a most wretched state. Four million devotees of the "safety" bicycle 
often in the nineties found crossroads signs puzzling, maps unintel- 
ligible, and the farmers indifferent to their plight (pi. 12, fig. 2). 

The cyclists, organized into a League of American Wheelmen, made 
vociferous demands for improved roads and bicycle paths radiating 
from the towns and cities. The Good Roads Movement which they 



HISTORIC AMEEICAN HIGHWAYS^ ROSE 509 

initiated soon was given a tremendous impetus by the new horseless 
carriages which Charles E. Duryea introduced in Springfield, Mass., 
in 1892, and Elwood Haynes drove through the streets of Kokomo, 
Ind., in 1894. By the dawn of the twentieth century the new road 
machines had been so improved as to warrant acceptance as the first 
successful mechanically driven vehicles ever to be used on the wagon 
roads. For the first time in all recorded history the problem of 
mechanical transportation had been solved. There was introduced 
now a radical change in the method of highway transportation. 
Much experimentation was needed, however, before the new machines 
were to be made foolproof and capable of traveling over long dis- 
tances without danger of a break-down. Propelled by the newly 
discovered internal combustion engines, the pioneer "benzine bug- 
gies," or "horseless carriages," had many a mechanical defect to tax 
the patience and ingenuity of their drivers and make them the 
laughingstock of the countryside (pi. 13, fig. 1). 

Used first to transport passengers from place to place, the motor 
vehicle soon became recognized as a practical means for transporting 
freight. Motortrucks began to make their appearance first on the 
city streets and later on the rural roads. In 1911 the first transcon- 
tinental motor-vehicle tour was made by a Sauer motortruck, called 
the Pioneer Freighter, which weighed 7 tons loaded. This primitive 
gasoline-engine-driven truck covered the 1,500-mile distance from 
Denver, Colo., to Los Angeles, Calif., in 66 days. The four-man 
crew reported there was a great need for road improvement in the 
Southwest. The diorama illustrates an actual scene on the way 
through New Mexico (pi. 13, fig. 2) where the road was cleared of 
obstructions with the aid of shovels and crowbars. 

As the output of the automobile plants was increased steadily by 
improved methods of mass production, the average daily journey of 
all motor vehicles was lengthened far beyond the 20-mile limit cus- 
tomary in the heyday of the horse and wagon. Good roads, fostered 
by State-aid road laws since the advent of the bicycle, had crossed 
the boundaries of counties and, by 1916, had reached the borders of 
some States. At the State line travelers often found their progress 
halted by a muddy, neglected section of road, which was the product 
of the lack of initiative on the part of the adjoining State (pi. 14, 
fig. 1). To bridge these gaps and promote the continuous improve- 
ment of an interstate system of through roads the Congress of the 
United States passed the Federal-Aid Road Act on July 11, 1916. 

For some years the fast-multiplying heavy loads on solid-rubber 
motortruck tires had created problems never raised before by wagon 
loads on tires made of steel. The suction of the rubber tires dis- 
integrated the water-bound stone surfaces and caused them to be 



510 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

dissipated in clouds of dust. Also the impact of the heavy concen- 
trated wheel loads of the motortrucks exceeded the powers of resist- 
ance of the old-style wagon road. Modifications were needed in both 
the old road surface and the new motor vehicle. To discover a 
rational solution to these problems the first large-scale highway re- 
search was begun, in 1920, in Federal laboratories at Arlington, Va., 
and on experimental roads at Bates, 111., and Pittsburg, Calif, (pi. 14, 
fig. 2) . These tests were instrumental in bringing about the adoption 
of pneumatic balloon tires and the thickened-edge design of 
pavements. 

Faced now with the popular desire for travel on rubber, road- 
building agencies were converting as rapidly as possible the early 
disconnected roads of each State into continuous long-distance routes. 
In the neighborhood of towns motorists were able to find their way 
in spite of the crude direction signs. When a long journey was ven- 
tured, however, the highway traveler was confused by the motley 
array of informational signs erected independently in each State. To 
bring order out of chaos and thus speed the tourist on his way uni- 
form numbered United States shields, and warning, danger, and in- 
formational signs were adopted, in 1925, for Nation-wide use by the 
Joint Board on Interstate Highways appointed by the Secretary of 
Agriculture. Soon maintenance crews were at work dismantling the 
old markers and erecting new ones (pi. 15, fig. 1). 

The volume of road construction spurred on by the growing num- 
ber of motor-vehicle registrations had grown steadily over a long 
period of years when a sharp increase in Federal road-building 
activities was authorized as an antidote to the protracted business 
depression following the financial crash of 1929. All road improve- 
ment was quickened, in 1933, by large appropriations made by Con- 
gress to provide work for the unemployed. Speeding work on the 
main highways and city streets, the Federal Government also for 
the first time extended Federal aid to the improvement of the farm- 
to-market roads (pi. 15, fig. 2). 

To provide further gainful employment special Federal funds were 
appropriated to make railroad grade crossings safer (pi. 16, fig. 1). 
The need for this work was emphasized by the mounting heavy toll 
of traffic accidents. The thousands of bridges that have been built 
each year, since 1934, with these funds will safeguard many lives 
and limbs and also save motorists annoying stops while waiting 
for passing trains. 

In cities, too, the new Federal funds for the elimination of hazards 
at railroad grade crossings made possible the construction of long 
viaducts. These structures, as early as 1935, began to do away with 
many dangerous crossings. Furthermore, these viaducts put a stop 



HISTORIC AMERICAN HIGHWAYS^ — ROSE 511 

to the congestion of traffic at level crossings where long queues of 
motorists used to be blocked while waiting for an opening through 
lines of shifting freight trains (pi. 16, fig. 2). 

The fruits of comparatively small expenditures for roadside im- 
provement became noticeable even before 1937. Encouraged by the 
Federal Government this landscaping and planting work is restoring 
rapidly the natural beauty of American roadsides. Gently rolling, 
grass-covered side slopes are built to replace water-worn steep em- 
bankments. This skillful treatment pleases the eye and pays extra 
dividends in added safety and the prevention of soil-destroying 
erosion (pi. 17, fig. 1). 

A prediction concerning future trends and innovations in road 
building can be ventured only with the utmost caution. The 
long-distance view beggars the imagination. In the immediate 
future, however, it seems certain that there will be continued 
the present efforts to speed the free flow of traffic. Many express 
highways soon will conduct entering traffic safely and quickly 
to the hearts of the big cities. Alternate belt-line routes will speed 
travel around metropolitan areas within the suburbs. Complete 
separation of opposing and intersecting traffic streams and the con- 
struction of pedestrian and bicycle paths, as illustrated in plate 17, 
figure 2, will make future main highways ideally safe and efficient. 

In proof that these future predictions have a solid foundation 
there is presented an engineering masterpiece of the twentieth cen- 
tury — the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge (pi. 18). As a 
dramatic conclusion to this pictorial history of the highways of 
America this product of the young and vigorous West symbolizes in 
all its strength and beauty and by its self-evident usefulness — the 
highways of tomorrow ! 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Rose 



PLATE 1 




1. 1539. The Coming of the Horse. 





)|*^^ 



ISPW!?"" 



i 



i*h. 




2. 1607. The Indian Canoe. 



^Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Rose 



PLATE 2 




1. 1679. The portage Path. 




2. 1760. The Tobacco-Rolling Road. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Rose 



PLATE 3 




1. 1763. The Boston Post Road. 




2. 1766. The Flying Machine. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Rose 



Plate 4 




1. 1774. The Wilderness Road. 




2. 1795. The Lancaster Pike. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939.— Rose 



PLATE 5 











1. 1809. The Natchez Trace. 




2. 1814. Growth of Coastwise travel. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Rose 



Plate 6 




1. 1822. The SANTA FE Trail. 




2. 1825. The Erie Canal. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Rose 



Plate 7 




1. 1826. The Michigan Road. 




2. 1830. The Maysville Turnpike. 



Smithsonian Report, 1 939. — Rose 



Plate 




1. 1830. The Iron Horse. 




2. 1836. El Camino Real. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Rose 



PLATE 9 




1. 1840. The National Pike. 




2. 1843. The Oregon Trail. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Rose 



PLATE 10 




1. 1846. The Plank Road Craze. 




2. 1850. Dark Age of the Road. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Rose 



Plate 1 1 




1. 1857. The Camel. Express. 




2. I860. The Pony Express. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Rose 



PLATE 12 




1. 1869. The Meeting of the Rails. 




.■_v-..'«s.s*;'93ta*»**". »a-t~.<33gji a B i i M» *J» 'i m : .jbhiv,.." "v.**" "^ 



2. 1892. BICYCLING Days. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939.— Rose 



PLATE 13 




1. 1900. THE HORSELESS CARRIAGE. 




2. 1911. THE MOTOR PATH FINDERS 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Rose 



Plate 14 




1. 1916. Mud at the state Line. 




2. 1920. Beginnings of Highway Research. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Rose 



Plate 15 




1. 1925. Adoption of Uniform Signs 




2. 1933. Roads To serve the Land. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Rose 



Plate 16 




1. 1934. Railroad Crossings Bridged. 



« _ i 



^- -^^ -a' W-^i 




2. 1935. Viaducts in Cities. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Rose 



PLATE 17 




1. 1937. Roadside Beauty Restored. 




2. 1938. City Entrances and Belt Lines. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Rose 



Plate 1i 







;;iiWniS! 



1939. A HIGHWAY Masterpiece. 



MODERN TRENDS IN AIR TRANSPORT 



By W. F. DuKAND 
Leland Stanford University 



In a domain as varied and as active as is air transport at the pres- 
ent time, I can only hope, in the time which I must occupy this after- 
noon, to touch on some of the more important phases of the subject. 
And first, by way of introduction, I should like to rehearse with you 
a few simple and elementary points regarding the airplane — a body 
heavier than the air, yet which, for service in air transport, must 
depend on sustained movement through the air. 

Let us then picture the airplane as a complex of four systems as 
follows : 

1. The lifting system. 

2. The nonlifting system. 

3. The propulsive system. 

4. The control system. 

The lifting system is, of course, represented by the wings. The 
nonlifting system is represented by the body or fuselage, the purpose 
of which is to provide a central structural member, with space for 
personnel and pay load, to provide suitable support and location for 
the rudder and elevator as parts of the control system, and often to 
house, at the nose, an engine and propeller shaft. The propulsive 
system comprises the engines and propellers with function as indi- 
cated by the name. The control system comprises rudders, elevators, 
ailerons, flaps, slots, etc., all intended to place in the hands of the 
pilot control over the movement of the plane in the air and also in 
taking off from the ground and returning thereto. 

Now, what are the things about an airplane and its performance 
in which we have a special interest? I shall put them down in this 
order : 

1. Safety. 

2. Carrying capacity. 

3. Speed. 

4. Range. 

5. Economy. 

6. Comfort. 



1 Address given at the 39th annual convention of Sigma Xi at Richmond, Va., December 
28, 1938. Reprinted, with author's revisions, by permission from Sigma Xi Quarterly, 
vol. 27, No. 1, March 1939. 

513 



514 ANI^UAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

This may or may not be the order of relative importance, accord- 
ing to the viewpoint from which "importance" is judged. Thus the 
order of importance for planes in commercial service and in military 
or naval service would not, in general, be the same. It will, moreover, 
be convenient to discuss the present trend with regard to these various 
characteristics in a somewhat different order, and I shall take first 
No. 2, carrying capacity. 

The laws of fluid mechanics t«ll us immediately that the lift of 
an airplane wing increases directly with the area, with the square 
of the speed, and, over most of the practical working range, with 
the angle of attack of the air on the face of the wing. This angle 
may be represented by the angle between the direction of motion of 
the plane and a fore and aft line touching the under face of the wing. 
It represents what may be called the attitude of the wing relative 
to its direction of motion. 

It would appear then, that in order to increase the lift of an air- 
plane wing, we have only to select some combination of larger area, 
higher speed, and greater angle of attack. It is not, however, quite 
so simple. What we are ultimately concerned with is not so much 
the gross lift of the plane as the useful part of this lift — that is, 
the balance of the total lift over and above what is necessary to sus- 
tain the weight of the plane as a whole, including engines and pro- 
pellers. In thus approaching the economics of airplane operation, 
we recognize three subdivisions of the total lift : 

1. The weight of the plane, including power plant (engines and propellers). 

2. The useful load subdivided into — 

a. Fuel and oil, operating personnel, supplies. 

b. Pay load — i)aBsengers, mail, express matter, etc. 

Again, the weight of the plane together with its power plant may 
be viewed as a dead load which must be sustained in the air simply in 
order to realize the purposes of flight ; whereas the useful load repre- 
sents the part of the total lift disposable as may be desired, between 
fuel, supplies, and personnel on the one hand, and pay load on the 
other. Thus with a small fuel load, a relatively large pay load may 
be carried for a short distance; with a large fuel load, a relatively 
small pay load may be carried for a long distance. 

Now to return to the results following an increase in wing area, or, 
in general, an increase in the size of the plane. As we have seen, 
other things being equal, the lift will increase with the area. But 
the weight of the structure will increase likewise, and the results on 
the useful load are, therefore, by no means assured. In order to follow 
this point more closely, we must now discriminate between the weight 
of the plane simply as a structure and the weight of the power plant 
which it carries. I have referred to the sum of these two weights as 



AIR TRANSPORT — ^DURAND 515 

the weight of the plane in contradistinction to the amount of useful 
load which it can carry. We may now refer to the aggregate weight 
of the structural elements of the plane simply as the weight of the 
structure. With these conventions, then, weight of plane equals 
weight of structure plus weight of power plant, and the total lift 
must equal weight of the structure, plus weight of power plant, plus 
the useful load. 

Let us now turn to the relation between weight of structure and 
wing area. We have seen that gross lift, other things being equal, 
will increase with the area — that is, with the square of a linear dimen- 
sion. Now it is an inescapable consequence of the laws of structural 
mechanics that, for wing structures carrying the same load per unit 
of area and with the same geometry of design and materials of con- 
struction, the dimensions of all structural elements must vary in the 
same ratio as that for the over-all dimensions. This means, for ex- 
ample, that if the over-all dimensions were increased twofold, the 
wing area would be increased fourfold, whereas the volume and 
hence the weight of all structural elements would be increased eight- 
fold. This is often referred to as the square-cube law, implying, as 
it does, that with increase in over-all dimension, the lift will increase 
with the square of the linear dimension and the weight of the structure 
with the cube. According to this law, then, with increase in size, the 
weight will increase at a much faster rate than the lift, and, unless 
some escape is found, this excess weight would soon absorb the differ- 
ence between the total lift and the weight of the plane and thus reduce 
the useful load to zero. The law is inexorable under the conditions 
stated, and in the early years of airplane development, led to proph- 
ecies of sharp limitation in the increase in size of airplane structures. 
The ways and means whereby the consequences of this law have been 
evaded form one of the most brilliant achievements in the develop- 
ment of airplane design and construction. I must take only the time 
to indicate them in briefest outline. They comprise, first, more effi- 
cient methods of design whereby the material employed is more effec- 
tively distributed with reference to the loads to be carried; second, 
improved materials of construction; third, improved aerodynamic 
design whereby for the same power, increased speed may be obtained, 
and with increased speed, increased lift with the same wing area. 

There is a further factor which helps in the same direction. The 
structure of the plane, under certain conditions, as we have seen, 
would be subject to this square-cube law. The power plant would 
not be so subject. Power is related primarily to surface or, broadly, 
to wing area. For the same speed, therefore, the power required 
will increase with the wing area, or as the square of the linear 
dimension rather than as the cube. One part of the weight of the 

197855 — 40 34 



516 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

plane is, therefore, not subject to this law, even under the conditions 
where the weight of the structure would be. This helps to reduce 
the rate of increase of weight of plane with increase in size. 

Another factor in increase of lift is higher speed, and this has 
been used with telling effect since lift increases as the square of the 
speed. However, increased speed means larger engines and more 
weight of power plant, as well as more lift per unit of area and, 
therefore, more loading per square foot of wing area. The law of 
compensation holds here; if 'we would obtain more lift we must 
buy it at a price. 

A third factor in increase of lift is increased angle of attack 
between the air and the wing. This is indeed effective, but it 
demands too heavy a price. With the increase of lift comes also 
an increase of drag or resistance to the motion of the plane. This 
means more engine and more power plant weight for the same 
speed, or a reduced speed for the same power plant weight. The 
price is too high and can only be afforded during periods of 
maneuver at low speed, as in taking off from the ground, or landing 
thereon, where the decrease in lift due to decreased speed is com- 
pensated by the increase due to greater angle of attack. 

Other contributing causes have helped along in the same direction 
of evading the consequences of this square-cube law, and it would 
be a brave man who would now attempt to place a limit to future 
increase in size. 

Twenty yeare ago, during the Great War, there was no commer- 
cial aviation. The total lift, that is, the total loaded weight of 
military planes was, for the most part, from 3,000 to 5,000 pounds. 
The earliest commercial transport planes had a total loaded weight 
from 5,000 to 10,000 pounds. The planes in current transport 
service weigh loaded 20,000 to 40,000 pounds; the China Clipper 
has a loaded weight of 52,000 pounds. The new Boeing flying boat 
will weigh loaded 82,000 pounds, the new Douglas 4, which has been 
undergoing test flights, will have a loaded weight of 65,000 pounds. 
Beyond these figures, new designs have been submitted by four 
builders for trans- Atlantic service, the loaded weight of which will 
be about 200,000 pounds. 

Some further particulars of these latest planes may be of interest. 
The present standard Douglas 3, of 24,000 total lift, has a wing 
spread of 95 feet, a wing area of 985 square feet, a wing loading of 
24.3 — that is, each square foot of wing area supports in flight 24.3 
pounds. It has engines developing 2,000 horsepower, a cruising 
speed of 170 miles per hour, a range of 500 miles with a pay load 
of 5,200 pounds including 21 passengers. Corresponding figures 
for the present China Clippers are : weight 52,000, wing spread 130 feet, 



AIR TRANSPORT — DURAND 517 

wing area 2,320 square feet, wing loading 22.5, power, 4 engines devel- 
oping 3,600 horsepower, cruising speed 130 miles per hour, range 
2,400 miles, and pay load 2,600 pounds including 8 passengers. The 
new Douglas 4 of 65,000 pounds has wing area 2,130, wing spread 
138 feet, wing loading 30.5, power, 4 engines developing 5,600 horse- 
power, cruising speed 170 miles per hour, range 1,000 miles with a 
pay load of 9,400 pounds including 40 passengers. The new Boeing 
flying boat, with a total lift of 82,500 pounds, has a wing area 2,880 
square feet, wing spread 152 feet, wing loading 28.8 pounds, 4 
engines developing 5,950 horsepower, cruising speed 150 miles per 
hour, range 2,400 miles with a pay load of 10,000 pounds including 
40 passengers. 

The recent Boeing 307, intended especially for stratosphere flight, 
with a total lift of 42,000 pounds, has a wing area of 1,390 square 
feet, a wing spread of 107 feet, wing loading 30.3 pounds, 4 engines 
developing 4,150 horsepower, cruising speed 175 miles per hour, range 
1,000 miles with a pay load of 9,200 pounds including 33 passengers. 

Then passing to the future, the new designs, referred to above, 
proposed for trans-Atlantic flight, with a total life of 200,000 pounds, 
will have a wing area approximately of 4,450 square feet, a wing 
loading of 45 pounds, engines developing 11,750 horsepower, cruising 
speed 250 miles per hour, range 3,700 miles with a pay load of 25,000 
pounds including 100 passengers. 

In these figures for horsepower and speed, it should be noted that 
the power is the maximum developed by the engines, used normally 
only when taking off. The cruising power usually varies from 50 to 
60 percent of this. With full power, the top speed would be some 
25 to 30 percent higher than the cruising speed. 

These illustrations are all of American design and manufacture. 
It must not be supposed, however, that we stand alone in this march 
of progress. England, France, Germany, Italy, and Russia are 
all thinking and designing along these same general lines. I shall 
attempt no comparisons since my purpose is simply to indicate the 
trend of progress, and for this purpose the American designs will 
serve as well as, or perhaps better than, those from abroad. I may, 
however, go so far as to say that no foreign design actually built 
appears to have the promise of the Boeing boat No. 314, and no 
designs, especially for trans- Atlantic service, appear to be in the class 
with those submitted in competition for the contemplated 200,000- 
pound type, to which I have just referred. 

In summarizing the characteristics of these modern airplanes, the 
wing loading was noted as one of the significant features. This, 
we remember, is the total lift or total weight divided by the wing 
area — that is, the lift per square foot of area. Perhaps no character- 



518 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

istic of an airplane shows more clearly the advance during the quarter 
century than does this figure. Twenty or 25 years ago each square 
foot of wing area was expected to lift some 8 to 10, perhaps 12 
pounds. But with improved form and increased speed, these figures 
have been raised to 30 and 40 and above in recent designs. It may be 
of interest to note that for flying birds, this ratio is of the order of 
2 to 4. This is due, in part at least, to the lower speed at which the 
bird flies, especially as compared with the modern trend in airplane 
speeds. 

This brings us to the question of speed. A quarter of a century 
ago, airplane speeds were of the order of 50 to 80 miles per hour, and 
airplanes were chiefly for military or naval use. Today, cruising 
speeds of 150 to 200 miles per hour are the accepted normal, with 
top speeds considerably higher. What then is the outlook for the 
future? Is there a limit to the speed of the airplane? Here again, 
no one can safely predict. Suppose, however, we put the question a 
little differently, in this way. Assuming available the present con- 
tent of the domain of science, engineering, and technology, with 
everything sacrificed to the one feature of speed, and supposing all of 
the factors affecting speed combined in the optimum manner and 
degree; what speed might we then expect? With the question put 
in this manner, it is possible to give at least an approximate answer 
and it works out to be somewhere about 500 miles per hour. How 
closely has this figure been approached? What is the present speed 
record ? Here the answer is 424 miles per hour ^ held by an Italian 
seaplane. It should be noted, however, that such a plane has no 
commercial value. Everything has been sacrificed to speed. Almost 
the entire useful load has been given over to engine weight, leaving 
only a small margin for a few gallons of fuel and the pilot. The 
course is 2 kilometers or about a mile and a quarter. And thus, 
by a tour de force, as we may term it, with everything made sub- 
servient to this special purpose, this speed of 424 miles per hour has 
been attained, and speeds closely approaching 500 miles per hour 
appear to be quite within the framework of possible modern achieve- 
ment, if we are willing to pay the price. 

At the same time we should perhaps remember that outside the 
possibilities of commercial stratosphere flight, which are as yet un- 
proven, it does not appear probable, in any near future and with the 
present content of science, engineering, and teclmology, that we shall 
much exceed 300 miles per hour for commercial planes and perhaps 
400 miles per hour for the fastest military or naval fighting planes. 
In planes for actual service, the margin between total lift and the 
weight of the structure cannot be almost entirely given over to power 

' Considerably higher speeds have been attained since the date of writing this paper. 



AIR TRANSPORT — DURAND 519 

plant. Some sensible part of the total lift must be allotted to fuel 
and to pay or fighting load and this means reduced power-plant 
capacity as compared with the plane where a short burst of speed is 
the sole object. 

Let us now turn to another item of airplane performance — range, 
by which is meant the distance flown without grounding or refueling. 
Here again the answer depends on the special conditions imposed; 
and in particular on the division of the useful load between fuel and 
pay load. If we go to the limit, with no pay load whatever, with all 
of the margin between the total lift and the weight of the plane 
devoted to fuel, consumable supplies, and minimum crew, it again 
becomes possible to give an approximate answer to the maximum dis- 
tance which can be flown. This distance works out to be from 8,000 
to 9,000 miles ; and this again, we must note, is a performance worked 
out within the framework of our present-day science, engineering, 
and technology. It does imply, however, everything made subservient 
to long-range flight — the maximum possible load of fuel, no head 
winds or adverse weather conditions, every element contributing to 
the desired result combined in the optimum manner and degree, and 
everything operating with the highest attainable efficiency throughout 
the entire flight. It also implies flying constantly with a speed such 
that there will always obtain a certain fixed optimum ratio between 
two characteristic coefficients of airplane performance — the so-called 
lift and drag coefficients. The first of these relates the lift of the 
plane to the speed, to the wing area, and to the density of the air in 
which the plane is moving. The second relates the drag, or resist- 
ance to motion, to the same conditions of the flight. Now it works 
out that for maximum range, or otherwise for maximum distance 
per pound of fuel, the ratio of these two coefficients — lift divided by 
drag — should be a maximum; and this implies a speed continuously 
changing with fuel consumption and with the consequent lightening 
of the plane — high speed at first when the plane is heavy and decreas- 
ing as the plane becomes lighter with the consumption of fuel, but 
always so adjusted as to meet this condition between these two 
coefficients. 

When we ask how near has present achievement approached such 
a range as 8,000 or 9,000 miles, we find a somewhat wider gap. The 
present record is about 7,000 miles. When we realize, however, the 
remote chance, for a period of 60 to 80 hours, of a complete absence 
of all adverse weather conditions and a continuous perfect function- 
ing, during this period, of all factors contributing to the desired end, 
the larger margin between actual and ideal performance is not sur- 
prising. It should also be noted that it is too much to expect prac- 
tically a continuous exact regulation of the speed of the plane in 



520 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

relation to its weight in such way as to give the required relation 
between the two coefficients of lift and drag referred to above. 

Again, it is obvious that a performance such as this is without com- 
mercial or economic value. The plane with only its operating 
personnel is all that reaches the ultimate point. For economic pur- 
poses, there must be something in the way of pay load, and this 
necessarily reduces the possible supplj^ of fuel and hence, correspond- 
ingly, the distance which can be flown. Eeference to this point has 
already been made in speaking of carrying capacity. Here again, it 
is clear that with a large fraction of the useful load allotted to fuel, 
the plane will be able to carry a small pay load a relatively long 
distance, whereas with ony a small part allotted to fuel, a large pay 
load can be carried a relatively short distance. The question of pay 
load and range are therefore mutually dependent, the one varying 
inversely to the other within the limits of the total useful load 
available. 

When we pass, then, to the question of commercial possibilities, 
we find, for example, that the present China Clippers, making the 
flight across the Pacific in successive steps of which the longest is 
something over 2,000 miles, can, for this distance and with a reason- 
able margin of fuel for adverse weather conditions, carry only a pay 
load so small that, admirable as they have been as engineering 
structures, they can scarcely be considered as economically suited to 
this service. For successive steps of the order of 1,000 miles, on the 
other hand, they would presumably be found economically well suited. 

It is confidently expected by both designers and operators that 
the new Boeing flying boats already referred to, with a total lift of 
82,500 pounds and carrying some 10,000 pounds of pay load over a 
range of 2,400 miles at a speed of 150 miles per hour, will prove 
distinctly superior in economic performance to the smaller boats 
which they are expected to replace for this service. 

When we come to the question of trans- Atlantic service with an 
uninterrupted flight of about 3,000 miles, it will be safe to say that 
there are at present available no commercial craft capable of under- 
taking such service with a pay load sufficient to give good promise 
of economic success. For step-wise flight by way of Bermuda and 
the Azores or for the shortest possible flight from Newfoundland to 
Ireland, there are some possibilities. With reduced pay load or with 
no pay load, the trans-Atlantic crossing is becoming almost a 
commonplace. 

Earlier reference has been made to the competitive designs that 
have been called for covering a structure that should give good 
promise of successful economic performance. It will be remembered 
that the specifications call for a structure weighing about 200,000 



AIR TRANSPORT — DURAND 521 

pounds and carrying a pay load of 25,000 pounds (including 100 
passengers) at a cruising speed of 200 to 250 miles per hour and with 
a normal range of 3,700 miles but with fuel for a range in still air 
of 5,000 miles. 

While we are thinking of the economic aspect of these matters, a 
few figures of cost may be of interest. 

Thus if we take some of the most recent examples ranging in total 
lift from 42,000 pounds to the giant trans-Atlantic plane of 200,000 
pounds, we find investment costs range between $7.15 and $8.65 per 
pound of gross lift, making the cost of the Boeing 307 of 42,000 
pounds lift, $300,000, that of the new D. C. 4 of 65,000 pounds lift 
(now undergoing trials), $470,000, that of the present China Clippers 
of 52,000 pounds lift, $450,000, that of the new Boeing boat, No. 
314, of 82,520 pounds lift, $612,000, and an estimated cost of the 
proposed trans- Atlantic craft of 200,000 pounds lift, $1,500,000. 

For operation, the cost per hour for these planes, without stopping 
for the individual figures, ranges from $108 to $337 with a cost per 
mile from $1.62 to $1.23, and per passenger seat per mile from ll^ 
cents to nearly 3 cents. 

It is fair to say that the economics of these largest structures is by 
no means yet fully assured. Thus estimate places the cost per seat 
mile for the new Douglas 4 of 65,000 pounds total lift at 2,10 cents, 
which is practically the same as the figure 2.05 cents given for its 
predecessor the Douglas 3, with a total lift of only 24,000 pounds. 

The same thought has apparently governed the design of a new 
Curtiss- Wright 30-passenger twin-engined plane which is approaching 
its first tests at St. Louis. 

The total lift is 36,000 pounds with a cruising speed of 200 miles 
per hour at an altitude of 10,000 feet. 

It appears to be a not unreasonable assumption that a structure 
of this relatively moderate size and capacity, but designed in the 
light of modern scientific advances, may prove economically well 
adapted to many types of air transport service. 

Perhaps brief note may be made of a characteristic of airplane 
performance closely allied to range. That is, duration — the maxi- 
mum time a plane can remain in the air regardless of distance flown. 
It will be seen that this characteristic is of no great economic sig- 
nificance. Obviously the economic purpose of an airplane is trans- 
port. It will be clear also that this requirement calls for the 
minimum consumption of fuel per unit of time rather than per unit 
of distance as in the case of range. Here again, if we assume every- 
thing subordinated to this one feature, and with similar assumption 
as before regarding the optimum combination of all factors affecting 
this one characteristic of performance, and likewise with no untoward 



522 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 3 9 

weather conditions to influence the result — with all these conditions 
assumed, it again becomes possible to determine with a fair degree 
of approximation the maximum duration of flight, regardless of dis- 
tance flown. The answer works out to be from 90 to 100 hours. The 
present record is in the neighborhood of 85 hours. 

In connection with range, note was made of a condition to be ful- 
filled affecting the relation between the two coefficients of lift and 
drag, and it will be recalled that for maximum range the speed must 
always be such as to put the plane in an attitude of flight such that 
the ratio of these two coefficients has its maximum value. For maxi- 
mum duration there is a similar condition, but not the same. For the 
latter the fraction which must have its maximum value has for its 
numerator the coefficient of lift multiplied by its own square root 
and for the denominator the coefficient of drag as before. It may 
also be noted that the speed of the plane will be less for maximum 
duration than for maximum range. 

The gap between present record performance and the figures given 
above is again readily explained by the difficulty of insuring almost 
perfect functioning of all the factors entering into the final result 
during a period of say 60 to 100 hours, including the absence of un- 
toward weather conditions, and further by the fact that, owing to its 
small economic importance, there has been but little real attempt to 
extend this particular performance to its ultimate limit. Range is 
a much more important item of performance for all economic and 
commercial purposes, and has, therefore, attracted the major effort 
in this direction. 

Let us now turn to another item of airplane performance — altitude. 
How high can a plane rise above the level of the sea? The extreme 
achievement here can hardly be said to have any economic or 
commercial significance. So-called stratosphere or substratosphere 
flights, to which I shall recur in a moment, are in the immediate fore- 
ground of present-day practice; but the extreme of possible and even 
present achievement in this direction lies far beyond the possibilities 
of immediate utilization commercially. 

As in the preceding case of extreme performance, we assume every- 
thing about the plane and its loading made subservient to high alti- 
tude climb ; and that these conditions are all combined in the optimum 
manner and degree and that throughout the climb all of these factors 
function together with the highest attainable efficiency. One more 
condition must be noted. The engine must be supercharged — that is, 
the air supplied to the engine for the combustion of the fuel must not 
be the thin rarefied air of the higher altitudes, but air at sea-level 
pressure or as near to that condition as may be found attainable. 
The logic of the situation is clear. Power is developed through the 
combustion of fuel, that is, its chemical union with oxygen. A fixed 



AIR TRANSPORT — ^DURAI^D 523 

volume of air is drawn into a cylinder of an airplane engine for every 
cycle of engine operation. Of this air about 23 percent is oxygen. 
At sea-level pressure and density, this will provide for the burning 
of a proportionate amount of fuel with the corresponding develop- 
ment of power. The same volume of air drawn in at the density of 
20,000 feet elevation would have only 45 percent of the weight of 
oxygen at sea level with a corresponding reduction in power de- 
veloped. The corresponding figures for altitudes of 30, 40, and 50 
thousand feet would be respectively, 13, 18, and 11 percent of the 
oxygen at sea level. 

It is, therefore, evident that if anything approaching full engine 
power is to be maintained at high altitudes, the air going to the 
engine must be precompressed to something approaching sea-level 
pressure and density. Or, put otherwise, the more nearly these con- 
ditions can be approached, the greater the power developed at alti- 
tude and the higher the altitude ultimately reached. 

So then, combining this condition with those previously noted, it 
works out that an altitude approaching 60,000 feet is within the 
framework of possible achievement without trespassing on what might 
be considered the fantastic. The present record is close to 53,000 
feet (52,937) held by an English pilot. 

There are many difficulties and limitations against which the 
struggle for high altitude must be made. Only a few of the more 
serious can be here noted. 

1. Of the total power developed by the fuel burned, only a part 
can be used for climbing, since a part must be made available for 
the precompression of the air, a part which grows ever larger and 
larger the higher the altitude achieved. 

2. No matter where it is in climbing flight, the weight of the 
plane together with the vertical component of the drag must be 
balanced by the reaction of the air on the plane together with the 
vertical component of the pull of the propeller. But the weight of 
the plane remains constant, except for the decrease by way of the 
combustion of fuel, while the density of the air, on which lift de- 
pends, grows less and less with increasing altitude, thus calling for 
higher and higher speeds through the air. The resistance to motion, 
for the same speed, is indeed correspondingly reduced, so that higher 
speed becomes possible; but the actual relations are complex, and 
it works out that there is difficulty at the propeller (even with the 
modern variable-pitch forms) in transforming with high efficiency 
such power as it receives from the engine into useful propulsive 
work; and this difficulty increases the higher the altitude. Add to 
these difficulties reliable oxygen equipment for the pilot with cloth- 
ing for protection against temperatures somewhere about 67° below 
zero, Fahrenheit, and it is seen that the attempt to scale the ultimate 



524 ANNUAL REPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

in airplane altitude carries a challenge that can only be met by a 
combination of adequate engineering design with supreme judgment, 
skill, and daring on the part of the pilot. 

This question of altitude flying brings us naturally to that of 
commercial flying at altitudes much less than those just noted, but 
still at an altitude that will permit of drawing a real advantage 
from the decreasing resistance to motion with decreasing density of 
the air and thus, within the conditions of commercial requirements, 
of realizing higher speeds of transport than would be possible with 
the same engine power at sea level. Already altitudes of 12,000 to 
15,000 feet are the rule on long-distance flights. 

We remember that the word "stratosphere" is used for an indefi- 
nite stratum of the atmosphere lying above an altitude varying 
somewhere about 35,000 feet, and above which the temperature of 
the air is nearly constant at about 67° below zero, Fahrenheit. 
Substratosphere flights may then be considered as those made in that 
stratum of the atmosphere lying perhaps between altitudes of 20,000 
and 30,000 feet; though undoubtedly first approaches will be made 
at altitudes of 15,000 to 20,000 feet. 

Within these limits the difficulties which are met with at altitudes 
of 40,000 to 50,000 feet and above are present in lesser degree, and 
it does appear possible to realize, commercially and economically, 
higher speeds of transport than at lower levels. The interaction of 
the various factors is very complex, and I shall make no attempt to 
discuss them in detail, but the general results of flights at altitudes 
of the order of 20,000 feet are already in the way of being put to 
commercial test. 

For passenger transport, however, certain special conditions must 
be met. Most people can tolerate without difficulty altitudes of 
10,000 to 12,000 feet. It is, of course, quite out of the question to 
provide passengers individually with oxygen masks and equip- 
ment. The only practicable solution for both passengers and operat- 
ing personnel is to place the entire personnel, passengers and crew, 
within an airtight compartment of the plane in which, above say 
10,000 feet, the air is kept, by the operation of a suitable compressor, 
always at a pressure and density corresponding to this altitude. 
This means a closed metallic structure capable of withstanding the 
excess pressure within the cabin against the reduced external pres- 
sure of higher altitudes. Thus with the cabin at the pressure for 
10,000 feet and with the plane at 20,000 feet, this excess would be 
about 500 pounds per square foot. With the plane at 30,000 feet, the 
corresponding figure would be about 800 pounds per square foot. 

Then again the engine must have its own quota of air; but here 
no compression up to the conditions for 10,000 feet will be accept- 
able. Full sea-level conditions, or as nearly so as may be practicable, 



AIR TRANSPORT — ^DURAND 525 

will be required. All of this means, of course, extra weight of plane 
and mechanical equipment, and here is where the limitation will 
enter with reference to extending such operation to extreme altitudes. 
But this is only the beginning of difficulties. The excessive cold of 
these higher altitudes means again artificial heat for the personnel, 
trouble with gasoline and lubricants, with possible serious trouble 
in de-icing windows and pilot's lookouts. 

However, all these are merely hurdles to be passed over and in 
the very near future we may expect to see such flights on a com- 
mercial basis, at least in the lower altitude ranges. 

The first plane, presumably, to achieve this distinction will be the 
Boeing No. 307, which has been designed definitely with reference 
to this character of service. As already noted, this plane has an 
ordinary cruising speed of 175 to 180 miles per hour. With 9,200 
pounds of pay load, including 33 passengers, it will have a range of 
about 1,000 miles. The cost of this plane is given as $300,000 and 
it is understood that a certain number of these so-called "strato- 
liners" will very soon be put into actual service. 

I have listed comfort as one of the requirements of air transport, 
but I shall not tarry long over this feature. It will be enough to 
say that the developments during the past 10 years have held 
constantly in view increased comfort and convenience for the pas- 
senger. Soundproofing, reclining chairs by day or bunks for sleep- 
ing accommodations by night, meals as usual, the attentions of 
courteous and capable stewardess-hostesses — these, especially in 
modem large transport planes, have gone far to give to the air 
passenger a close approach to Pullman accommodations by rail, 
though naturally with less freedom of personal movement. Comfort 
and convenience, though counted on to attract and hold passenger 
patronage, are, after all, of minimum interest technically. It will 
always be a simple matter to provide these features, up to the limit 
of weight and space available, in competition with other and per- 
haps more important requirements. 

We have thus passed rapidly in review some of the problems in 
modern air transport with indications of the direction of recent 
advance. We must now turn to what is, after all, the most important 
consideration of all, and that is safety. 

If we ask what is the most common menace to safety, the natural 
answer will be the weather. But the weather is simply one of the 
conditions under which the plane must render its service. Our guid- 
ing principle, in the matter of the relation between weather and 
safety, should, I think, be this: We must strive to secure a degree 
of safety in what we may call "proper flying weather" which will at 
least approach that in the safer modes of land travel; and we must 
strive to perfect our methods of observation and analysis of weather 



526 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

conditions and of the transmission and reception of such intelligence 
to such degree as shall serve for a reasonably adequate determination 
of the quality of the weather over any proposed route with reference 
to this standard; and if, over the proposed route, the weather falls 
outside this characterization, the flight should be canceled. 

Now from the viewpoint of the plane and its services, in what way 
may accidents arise? Without attempting too much detail, we may 
say that accidents find their causes chiefly in — 

1. Faulty aerodynamic characteristics. 

2. Failure of the structure. 

3. Failure of motive power. 

4. Failure of, or inadequate, navigational equipment. 

5. Inadequate or erroneous information received from the services on the 

ground. 

6. Human errors. 

Again with regard to weather conditions, those which present 
major hazards are : 

1. Rain, snow, and fog, especially the two latter in degree requiring blind 
flying. 
• 2. Violent winds, air vortices, extreme turbulence. 

3. Temperatures below freezing under atmospheric conditions which may 

involve the loading of the plane with ice or frozen snow. 

4. The electrical state of the air — not primarily with reference to the hazard 

of a lightning stroke, but chiefly by reason of the interference with the 
services of radio communication. 

A brief word with reference to these sources of potential hazard. 

With our present knowledge of the aerodynamic characteristics re- 
quired for safety and with the intensive study which is being given to 
refinements in these matters, we may, I think, feel confident that 
present design is, and future design will be, free of fault in its 
aerodynamic characteristics in any degree likely, with proper hand- 
ling, to involve a major hazard in service. 

With regard to the structure of the airplane, I think we may also 
say that the problems involved in the design and construction of the 
major parts of an airplane structure are now so well in hand that, 
in commercial service especially, major structural failures should 
become almost unknown. In this particular we may claim close 
approach to an entirely reassuring condition — a condition indicated 
by the rarity, in recent years, of accidents resulting from major 
failures of the structure of the plane itself. 

Failure of the motive power, including engine and propeller, may 
have its source either in the structural elements themselves (for 
example a broken crankshaft or propeller blade), the exhaustion of 
the fuel supply, or in stoppage due to disturbance in the somewhat 
delicate conditions involved in carburetion and ignition, or, again, 
in failure in the adequate lubrication of all rubbing surfaces. 



AIR TRANSPORT — DURAND 527 

Structurally, the element of hazard here should be brought close 
to a point comparable with that in the main airplane structure. In 
the matter of operation, as long as we employ a type of fuel involving 
carburetion and electric ignition, it now seems difficult to see how all 
hazard of interruption is to be avoided. However, an answer here is 
found in multiple power units. At the present time the accepted 
standard in large air transport structures is four independent power 
units, any two of which should insure adequate power for the safe 
handling of the plane, at least to the nearest landing field. It seems 
hardly within the limits of probability that two power units would 
fall into trouble at the same time, and thus, with four such units, of 
which three or in any event two, would always be available, we 
should have assurance of adequate power for safety under any condi- 
tions which can be foreseen. 

Hazards resulting from carburetion, ignition, and the danger of 
fire following a crash, could be minimized by the use of the Diesel- 
type engine with fuels of the so-called safety type. At present, 
however, this would involve some sacrifice either of performance or 
of pay load and seemingly in our present temper we are slow to 
forego the service which present conditions give us, in exchange for 
this added margin of safety. 

With regard to navigational equipment, there is no excuse for 
any lack of the best of such equipment now available, and certainly 
on all major lines of transport, there is no such lack. It is obvious 
that at all times the pilot must have the means of knowing his 
speed, his altitude, the direction in which he is flying and whether 
in a straight or curved path. He must also know where he is, as 
nearly as possible, and hence the distances and directions of nearby 
landing fields. He must also be able to ask for and receive informa- 
tion by radio on any and all matters affecting his flight. 

Normal instrumental equipment with adequate services from the 
ground will give him all this, except as weather conditions (fog, 
snow, electrical disturbances, etc.) may interfere. 

There is room here, however, for improvement, for which we may 
look with confidence in a near future. One of the most important 
of these problems is that of bringing a pilot from altitude, under 
blind flying conditions, to a safe landing on the field beneath him. 
It is relatively easy to guide a pilot to a point in the air over an 
airport. It is less easy to guide him down, blind, to a safe landing. 

Very definite progress has been made toward the solution of 
this problem, and quite recently a most noteworthy advance has been 
reported — a new form of radio beam for blind landings — bringing 
the plane safely to the landing field in fog or thick weather. I must 
not take the time for detail, but this promises to be an outstanding 
advance over all previous methods for blind landings, and to give 



528 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

good assurance of safe landings under all conditions of visibility. 
At the present time the chief navigational hazards result from 
conditions requiring blind flying, and from electrical conditions of 
the atmosphere interfering with radio transmission and reception. 
Steady improvement is being made in equipment designed to meet 
these and other conditions affecting safety, and only this past fall 
four distinct advances in equipment making for safety were an- 
nounced. These are: 

1. The radio echo altimeter for indicating the absolute distance from the 

ground, instead of the altitude above sea level, as with the standard 
type of instrument now used. 

2. A new form of static suppressor which it is hoped will go far toward 

eliminating this serious hazard to radio communication between the 
plane and sources of needed information. 

3. A new form of automatic direction finder for guiding the pilot to a source 

of radio wave with which he is in tune. This device may also be con- 
nected up with the automatic gyropilot in such way as to provide auto- 
matic blind flying toward the source of the radio waves. 

4. A device for indicating approach to the dangerous condition known as 

the "stall" — meaning an approach to an angle of attack so great that 
the plane will pass out of control of the pilot and probably fall into 
a spin. 

These are all steps forward along the general line of greater safety 
in air transport. 

Turning for a moment to services on the ground, we find here, 
perhaps, at the present time, the largest opportunity for improve- 
ment. In recent years, funds far too small have been made avail- 
able for improvement in the various agencies which are intended 
to supply the pilot at all times with reliable information on all 
matters affecting the safety of his flight. This condition must be 
corrected and improved ; and with an adequate utilization of all that 
is now known and available in the science and art of meteorology, 
radio, and airport equipment, the causes of many casualties in the 
past would be removed. 

There remain, to be reckoned with, human errors. We can hardly 
hope that we can ever entirely eliminate this potential hazard to 
safety. Rigid requirements for license as a transport pilot with retests 
from time to time have given us a highly trained and highly reliable 
body of pilots for this service; but there is, and, so far as I can see, 
there will always remain some residual hazard of human error — a 
hazard, however, which may be minimized in some degree by the 
presence always of a copilot ready to assume control in any case where 
corrective control might save the day. 

Not to delay too long over this matter of safety, I can summarize 
my own feelings in the matter by saying that I cannot see, in any 
future within the scope of present vision, a reduction of the margin 



AIR TRANSPORT DURAND 529 

of air-transport hazard to a point comparable with the safest of land- 
transport means. There are too many additional avenues of potential 
hazard. On the other hand, there is hazard in all agencies of trans- 
port, a hazard in automobile transport for example ; but we do not on 
that account hesitate to freely employ the automobile. In comparison 
with the service which it stands ready to afford, we accept this means 
of transport, with such marginal hazard as there may be. In the same 
way, it is obvious that the air-traveling public now accepts such 
measure of hazard as may inhere in this mode of transport, in view of 
the service which the airplane is prepared to offer. And in this 
respect, I believe that we may look for continuing improvement in all 
of these matters affecting the safety and security of air transport ; and 
that with the continued application of the resources of science and 
art to these problems, the residual margin of hazard in this form of 
transport will be reduced to a point where it will be accepted rather 
generally and without hesitation in view of the service which it is 
prepared to render — possibly with almost the same readiness with 
w^hich we now use the automobile in the affairs of our everyday life. 
In this connection some figures published in the last report of the 
National Safety Council will be of interest. They are admittedly 
based on incomplete and somewhat uncertain data, but may perhaps 
be accepted as showing the general trend. The figures in column A 
are passenger fatalities per 100,000,000 miles of travel ; those in column 
B, total fatalities, including operating personnel. 

B 




Railroad trains 0. 09 9. 9 

Automobiles and buses 4.5 7.8 

Scheduled air-transport planes 10. 1 13. 6 

Nonscheduled planes 162. 2 165. 2 



Thus, according to these figures, the hazard in scheduled air trans- 
port planes is about twice that in automobiles and buses and about 
100 times greater than in railroad trains. It may also be noted that 
these figures are based on total estimated mileages as follows: 

Railroad trains 22, 460, 000, 000 

Automobiles and buses 408,000,000,000 

Scheduled air-transport planes 435, 740, 000 

Nonscheduled planes 99, 900, 000 

The time which I should occupy in this address is near its term. 
Perhaps, however, I should say a word regarding lighter-than-air- 
craft, the airship. The tragic end of the Hindeiiburg is still fresh 
in our minds as well as our own story of disaster in the Shenandoah^ 



530 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

the Akron, and more recently the Macon. Two questions present 
themselves. Can the airship be built with a reasonable margin of 
safety? And, granting this, what is its promise for economic and 
effective commercial service ? 

First we must specify that the airship shall be inflated with helium 
gas. Our world monopoly of the supply of this gas is, of course, 
a matter of common knowledge. The use of this chemically inert 
gas will completely dispose of the hazard which caused the loss of 
the Hindenhurg, inflated, as she was, with hydrogen gas. With this 
hazard eliminated, we have left the normal hazards of failure of the 
structure under adverse weather conditions. The record of the Graf 
Zeppelin in her around-the-world trip and later in regular com- 
mercial service between Germany and South America, together with 
the record of the Hindenbiirg aside from the fatal hydrogen con- 
flagration, go far to prove, in commercial service, a high degree of 
safety and security. Thus, for the Graf Zeppelin, we have a record 
of about 17,000 hours of flying service over about 1,000,000 miles of 
distance with safe carriage of 13,000 passengers on 144 ocean cross- 
ings. Similarly for the Hindenburg up to the time of her destruc- 
tion, the record shows 3,000 hours in flight, 210,000 miles distance, 
with the safe carriage of 3,059 passengers. Mention may also be 
made of the record of the small airships comprising our own Good- 
year "blimp" fleet, with the appearance of which, at least, I presume 
we are all familiar. This shows, to the end of 1937, 112,379 flights 
covering 67,847 hours in the air and 3,010,000 miles of distance, with 
a total of 302,248 passengers carried with no casualties or even 
injuries. 

If you ask me to explain our own less favorable record with a 
loss of three naval ships out of four which we have operated, I 
could perhaps make the attempt, but it is too long a story. The 
designs of the AJcron and Macon, the most recent ships designed 
and built in this country, date back now 10 years. During that 
period we have learned much with regard to the hazards for which 
airships must be prepared. Especially is this the case with regard 
to the stresses on the control surfaces in gusty, turbulent air. We 
know now that the structure of these surfaces with their supporting 
framework was not adequate to meet the stresses to which they might 
be subjected under such adverse weather conditions as must occa- 
sionally be expected, especially when serving as an adjunct to a 
naval fleet, rather than on commercial service. 

Not only has experience taught dearly bought lessons regarding 
these matters, but certain programs of research carried on in the 
Airship Institute at Akron, Ohio, have thrown much additional 
light on this subject. Still other recent programs of research at 



AIR TRANSPORT — ^DURAND 531 

the Goodyear Zeppelin Corporation in Akron have helped to bridge 
the gap between the loads which the elements of the structure must 
sustain and the dimensions of these elements in order that such loads 
may be carried with a suitable margin of safety. 

The story is too long and the subject is too complex for any dis- 
cussion in detail. I believe, however, that a fair conclusion is that 
with the full utilization of recent advances in both the science and 
art of airship design and construction, we can now design and build 
airships with a margin of structural safety and security at least 
equal to that for the airplane. So far as further comparison goes, 
the airship is relieved of two possible hazards affecting the airplane — 
propulsive failure followed by a forced landing, and control failure, 
followed by the too often fatal spin. 

On the whole, there seems to be no reason why our future air- 
ships — in case any such be built — should not show an excellent record 
as regards safety and security in operation. 

With regard to the field for successful commercial service, present 
opinion in the United States is divided. I shall not take the time 
to discuss the pros and cons but will only venture my own opinion 
that for transocean service on relatively long nonstop runs (3,000 
to 6,000 miles) with relatively heavy loads at speeds three times 
those of surface ships though perhaps only one-half to one-third 
those of the airplane, but with greater passenger freedom and com- 
fort than for the airplane, there may well be found a useful and 
effective place for the airship in our complex system of modern 
transport. 

Something might also be said regarding the possible use of the 
airship in naval warfare ; but here again the question is highly con- 
troversial and I shall not venture into this domain. 

Perhaps, also, if you will bear with me, I should say a word about 
the autogyro and the helicopter. The former is sustained by rotat- 
ing wings or vanes, maintained in rotation by the motion of the 
structure under the pull of an air propeller, driven by an engine 
much as in the conventional airplane. 

The latter is, in effect, simply a flying propeller. The shaft, 
nearly vertical, is tilted so that the upward component of the total 
pull provides sustenation, while the horizontal component provides 
transport. 

The autogiro, now some 10 years old, seems to be in the way 
of acquiring a fairly well-assured place among the varied forms 
of aircraft available for air transport. I^t appears to have special 
qualities which go far to adapt it to individual use: take-off from, 
and landing in, confined areas, and relative safety against casualty 
from loss of control as may occur with conventional airplane forms. 

197855 — 40 35 



532 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

Presetit speeds are moderate — 125 miles per hour perhaps — and 
it is not easy to see, in this type of construction, a serious rival to 
the conventional form for either high speed or heavy weight carry- 
ing, as in the modern conventional forms referred to earlier. As 
a relatively safe "family carriage," however, this type does appear 
to have possibilities, and its future development will bear close 
watch. 

The true helicopter appears finally to have made its appearance 
in Germany, though detailed information is lacking. With the 
shaft vertical in still air, this type of structure is capable of ver- 
tical ascent or descent. In moderate wind with the shaft inclined 
against the wind, the same results are possible. When a suitable 
altitude has been reached, the shaft is inclined so as to give a for- 
ward component to the pull of the propeller, and a horizontal com- 
ponent to the motion results. This type of structure has long 
been the subject of repeated effort. It is too soon to prophesy as 
to what place it may be able to take in the field of air transport. 
As with the autogiro, it does not seem likely that speeds compa- 
rable with those attainable with conventional forms can be hoped 
for. With the development, however, and satisfactory solution of 
the problem of control in the air — a problem somewhat trouble- 
some with both the autogiro and the helicopter — it may well take 
its place with the autogiro in types of service where the special 
characteristics of these forms meet peculiar and limiting conditions. 

Air transport is the newest of those agencies whereby we move 
things about (ourselves included) over the face of the earth. 
Transport is one of the major factors which has given us the pro- 
found differentiation between the physical conditions of our modern 
life as compared with the life of our forebears of the centuries gone 
by. Until 1903 our movements were, so to say, two-dimensional. 
With the achievement of the Wright Brothers, in 1903, a third 
dimension was opened up. Man began to fly. And so air transport 
is only an infant among other and older agencies, one regarding 
which many problems yet remain for study and solution ; but, withal, 
an infant of lusty growth and seemingly destined to go far. The 
mission of air transport is to serve the public; and to render such 
service acceptable, continuously improving combinations must be 
found of the distinguishing characteristics: safety, economy, 
weight-carrying capacity, speed, and comfort. The story of the 
past 36 years gives good ground for faith in the future and that 
the unfolding years will indeed bring such improving combinations 
in full measure with basic advances in science and technology — 
advances on which all improvement in the material content of our 
lives must depend. 



THE STORY OF THE TIME CAPSULE ' 



By G. Edward Pendkay 
Assistant to the President, Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Co.; Chair- 
man, Westinghouse Time Capsule Committee 



[With 4 plates] 



E\'ER SINCE archeologists and historians turned their talents to 
deciphering the unrecorded past, human beings have dreamed of 
simplifying the problem for scientists of the future, deliberately 
preparing a message from our time to theirs. 

Until recently this perennial dream has been only a dream. The 
problem of preserving such a record is extremely difficult. Crypts 
on the earth's surface, no matter how strong, offer obvious tempta- 
tion to vandals. Most materials suitable to be deposited in the 
earth are subject to rapid corrosion, or are too brittle or too difficult 
to find after burial. Too little was known about the effects of time 
to permit anyone confidently to design a vessel for the future. 

A few months ago engineers of the Westinghouse Electric & Manu- 
facturing Co. decided that the advance of teclinology had removed 
these difficulties at last, and what hitherto had seemed impossible 
could now be done. 

Early in 1938 they decided upon building a "Time Capsule" cap- 
able of lasting 5,000 years — a period of time almost as long as that 
of all recorded history. Five thousand years ago the pyramids were 
still unbuilt. The peoples of that time had discovered metals, and 
were using metallic alloys. They had learned how to write down 
human speech, and record language on clay tablets and stone. They 
understood commerce ; they knew how to build huge cities. But they 
had not yet devised the alphabet, and they did not know of the 
existence of iron. 

Five thousand years from now the peoples of the future will look 
back upon us as we look back on the early Egyptians, Sumerians 
and Babylonians. It was the plan of Westinghouse engineers to pro- 
vide them with more knowledge of us than we have of any of the 
ancient peoples who lived before us. 

• Reprinted by permission of Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Co. 

533 



534 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

THREE MAJOR PROBLEMS 

This project clearly required the solution of three great problems. 

The first was, how to build a vessel capable of lasting 5,000 years, 
and how to preserve it for posterity. 

The second, how to leave word of its whereabouts for historians 
of the future. 

The third, the selection and preservation of its contents. 

Each of these problems was carefully considered. At each step, 
counsel was taken with archeologists, historians, technical and 
scientific men, hundreds of whom participated with Westinghouse 
in the working out of this project. A Time Capsule Committee was 
formed, which established subcommittees to study the various 
questions relating to the plan. 

A subcommittee headed by M. W. Smith, Westinghouse manager 
of engineering, undertook the solution of the first problem: that of 
designing and constructing the Time Capsule. It was decided that 
the best material would be a metallic alloy of high corrosion resistance 
and considerable hardness, nonferrous (containing no iron), and 
preferably consisting principally of copper, oldest of the metals 
used by man. 

A new alloy of copper, known as Cupaloy (copper 99.4 percent, 
chromium 0.5 percent, silver 0.1 percent) was found most nearly to 
fulfill the specifications. Like that reputed to have been used by 
the ancient Egyptians, the secret of which has been lost, this metal 
can be tempered to the hardness of steel, yet has a resistance to 
corrosion equal to pure copper. Also — of great importance — in 
electrolytic reactions with iron-bearing metals in the soil it becomes 
the anode and therefore will receive deposits instead of wasting 
away, as do buried water pipes and other iron alloys. Moreover, 
Cupaloy is especially resistant to corrosion in salt water. 

For reasons of strength and convenience, the Time Capsule was 
shaped like a torpedo, 7^/2 f^et long and 8% inches in diameter. The 
outer shell consists of seven cast segments of Cupaloy, threaded, 
screwed together hard, and sealed with molten asphalt. The nearly 
invisible joints have been peened out and the outer surface burnished. 
The walls of the Cupaloy segments are 1 inch thick, thus leaving an 
iimer crypt 6% inches in diameter and 6 feet 9 inches long. The 
crypt is lined with an envelope of Pyrex glass, set in a water- 
repellent petroleum base wax. Washed, evacuated and filled with 
humid nitrogen, an inert, preservative gas, this glass inner crypt 
contains the "cross section of our time." 



TIME CAPSULE — PENDRAY 



535 



Cupaloy eyebolt 
for lifting 



Message 
to finders 



Threaded 
sealed joints 

Contents 



Pyrex glass 
inner shell 

Water proof 
mastic 



Glass wool 
nose cushion 




Cupaloy 
capsule 



Figure 1. — Schematic cross section of the Time Capsule, 
showing coDStruction. 



536 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

FOR THE GUIDANCE OF "FUTURIANS" 

The second great problem, that of how to leave word of the where- 
abouts of the Time Capsule, was met by preparing a Book of Record 
of the Time Capsule, printed on permanent paper with special inks. 
Copies have now been distributed to libraries, museums, monas- 
teries, convents, lamaseries, temples, and other safe repositories 
throughout the world. 

The Book of Record was prepared after detailed consultation with 
libraries, museum authorities, printers, and bookbinders. Sugges- 
tions for binding and general treatment were obtained from the 
office of the National Archives, the New York Public Library, the 
American Library Association and other sources. The United States 
Bureau of Standards furnished specifications for the permanent 
paper and inks. A special run of 100-pound rag book paper was 
manufactured for the book. The pages of each copy were sewn 
together by hand with linen thread. A portion of the edition was 
bound in royal blue buckram stamped with genuine gold. The 
remainder was bound in handmade flexible paper, stamped with 
aluminum. 

In order that the appearance of the Book of Record might match 
its permanence, Frederic W. Goudy, one of the foremost type de- 
signers, typographers, and printers of our time, consented to design 
the book and set a portion of the type. Exactly 3,650 copies were 
printed, of which 2,000 (including one buried in the Time Capsule) 
were bound in flexible paper, and 1,650 in buckram. 

The Book of Record contains a message to posterity asking that it 
be preserved and translated into new languages as they appear; a 
description of the Capsule's contents, and the exact latitude and longi- 
tude of the deposit as determined by the United States Coast and 
Geodetic Survey to the third decimal point in seconds. The geodetic 
coordinates are tied into the Survey's national network, on which 
astronomical as well as geodetic data are given. In addition, instruc- 
tions are included for making and using instruments to locate the 
Time Capsule by the methods of electromagnetic prospecting. 

That our tongue may be preserved, the book contains an ingenious 
Key to the English Language devised by Dr. John P. Harrington, 
of the Smithsonian Institution. By means of simple diagrams the 
peculiarities of English grammar are explained ; a mouth map shows 
how each of the 33 sounds of English are pronounced. A 1,000- word 
vocabulary of High Frequency English spelled in the ordinary way 
and neophonetically, is provided. In itself the key is believed to con- 
tain all the elements archeologists of the future will need to translate 
and pronounce 1938 English, but, to make doubly certain, the Time 



TIME CAPSULE — PENDRAY 537 

Capsule itself also contains multilingual texts, a dictionary and a 
lexicon of slang and colloquial English. 

Also contained in the Book of Kecord are messages to the future 
from three famous men of our time : Dr. Albert Einstein, Dr. Robert 
Millikan, and Dr. Thomas Mann. A table of common measures in 
the English and metric systems is given, including a statement of the 
length of the standard meter in terms of the wave length of red 
cadmium light — a constant that will never vary, no matter what other 
systems of measurement are in use 5,000 years from now. 

SELECTING THE CONTENTS 

Choosing what was to go into the limited space of the Time Capsule 
crypt proved perhaps the most difficult problem of all, because nothing 
short of an enormous gallery of vaults could accommodate all the 
objects and records of any civilization. 

The Time Capsule Committee turned for advice to archeologists, 
historians, and authorities in virtually every field of science, medicine, 
and the arts. On the basis of their helpful suggestions, the Com- 
mittee chose to include some 35 articles of common use, ranging from 
a slide rule to a woman's hat, each selected for what it might reveal 
about us to the future archeologists. Also included are about 75 
samples of common materials, ranging from fabrics of various kinds, 
metals, alloys, plastics, and synthetics, to a lump of anthracite and a 
dozen kinds of common seeds. 

These material items, however, are only supplementary to a volumi- 
nous essay about us and our times, reduced to microfilm. On three 
and a half small reels there are reproduced books, articles, magazines, 
newspapers, reports, circulars, catalogs, pictures ; discussing in logical 
order where we live and work, our arts and entertainment, how infor- 
mation is disseminated among us, our general information, our reli- 
gions and philosophies, our education and educational systems, our 
sciences and techniques, our earth, its features and peoples ; medicine, 
public health, dentistry and pharmacy, our major industries, and other 
subjects. This "Microfile" comprises more than 2^2,000 pages of text 
and 1,000 pictures; a total of more than 10,000,000 words. It would 
take an ordinary person more than a year to read all of it; more 
than a decade to assimilate all this knowledge. Probably no man 
living knows as much about us as those who study this Time Capsule 
will know. 

A small microscope is included for reading the microfilm ; also in- 
structions for making a larger, more comfortable reading machine, 
such as those used in libraries and newspaper offices for this purpose. 
There are likewise instructions for making various kinds of modern 
instruments, including a motion picture projection machine. For 



538 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

use with this, three reels of newsreel are contained in the Time Cap- 
sule, showing about 20 characteristic, significant, or historic scenes 
of our times, complete with sound, and ranging all the way from an 
address by President Eoosevelt to a Miami fashion show. The news- 
reel was especially edited for the Capsule by RKO-Pathe Pictures, 
Inc. 

PACKING THE TIME CAPSULE 

The utmost care was taken in packing the contents. Under the 
direction of representatives of the United States Bureau of Standards 
each object was examined to determine whether it could be expected 
to last 5,000 years. All articles containing volatile solvents were 
ruled out; also all materials which might decompose with the pro- 
duction of fumes or acids that might attack other articles in the 
crypt. No liquids of any kind were permitted in the crypt. Organic 
objects, such as seeds, were sealed in special gas-tight glass capsules. 

Every object enclosed in the Capsule was then fully labeled and 
described. The glass capsules containing seeds and other objects 
contain labels sealed into the glass. All other objects were indi- 
vidually wrapped in heavy 100-percent rag ledger paper and tied 
with linen twine, with the label wrapped inside. Where it was nec- 
essary to use paste to attach a label, only pure gum arable was used. 
Film, including both the microfilm and newsreel, was enclosed in 
special spun aluminum containers, lined with rag paper. 

The position of each object in the crypt was determined by its 
weight. The heavier objects are packed in the bottom, resting on a 
cushion of glass wool. The seven containers of film rest about mid- 
way in the crypt. The lighter objects, including the woman's hat, 
are placed on top. The hat was stuffed with surgical cotton to pre- 
serve its shape, and wrapped in paper. All spaces between the ob- 
jects in the crypt were cushioned and made firm with glass wool. 

The process of packing was conducted in the presence of three 
official witnesses: C. G. Weber, of the United States Bureau of 
Standards ; F. D. McHugh, managing editor of the Scientific Amer- 
ican, and Grover Whalen, president of the New York World's Fair 
1939. A checklist of contents, bearing the signatures of the witnesses, 
was the last thing included in the crypt. 

Immediately following the packing, the Pyrex inner crypt was 
placed upon a glass-lathe, heated and sealed. The air was then 
drawn out through a small tube, the contents washed with inert gas, 
and the crypt filled with nitrogen, to which just enough moisture 
was added to equal the humidity of an ordinary room. Protected 
from oxygen and excess moisture by this inert, humid atmosphere, 
the contents are expected to remain in their present condition 



TIME CAPSULE — PENDRAY 539 

indefinitely. Wlien arclieologists of the future open the Time 
Capsule they ^Yill probably find the film, fabrics, metals and other 
materials as fresh and "new" as the day they were put in. 

The final step in the preparation of the Capsule was the insertion 
of the glass inner crypt into the outer Cupaloy shell. Before this was 
done, the Pyrex envelope was wrapped with several layers of glass 
tape to increase its strength. Both the Cupaloy outer shell and the 
packed crypt were then gently warmed in electric ovens to encourage 
the flow and penetration of the waterproof wax. After the inner 
crypt was in place, the Capsule was raised upright, and the wax 
poured in around the glass. "Shrink-fitting" the final Cupaloy joint 
was then accomplished by chilling the heavy cap to several degrees 
below zero with dry ice, then turning it into place on tapered threads. 
When permitted to warm up to the same temperature as the rest of 
the Capsule, the natural expansion of the metal caused the tlireads 
to seize so tightly as to form an air-and- water-tight joint. 

DEPOSITING THE CAPSULE FOR THE FUTURE 

The Time Capsule is preserved for posterity at the site of the New 
York World's Fair 1939 ; chosen because New York will certainly be 
an attractive place for arclieologists 5,000 years from now, as are the 
sites of ancient Athens, Rome, and Troy in our own time. 

It was lowered 50 feet into the earth on the site of the Westinghouse 
Building at the grounds of the World's Fair at high noon on Septem- 
ber 23, 1938, the precise moment of the autumnal equinox. While a 
Chinese gong tolled solemnly, A. W. Robertson, chairman of the 
board of the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Co., committed 
the Time Capsule to posterity with these words : "May the Time Cap- 
sule sleep well. When it is awakened 5,000 years from now, may its 
contents be found a suitable gift to our far-off descendants." 

The Capsule made its descent into the earth through a steel pipe 10 
inches in diameter, and came to rest upon a block of waterproof 
cement. Before this well is finally closed, the Capsule will be entombed 
in pitch and an additional layer of concrete, after which the steel pipe 
will be cut off and withdrawn. The land where it lies will become 
a city park after the fair, and the site of the Time Capsule may be 
marked with a shaft or boulder. During the fair a replica of the 
Capsule, and duplicates of all the objects, books, and other items it 
contains, will be on view at the Westinghouse Building. 

SAFE FROM VANDALISM AND SINKING 

Many questions are asked about the Time Capsule project, the prin- 
cipal one being, how will it be protected from thieves or persons whose 
curiosity is greater than their sense of obligation to the future ? 



540 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

The problem of keeping the Capsule safe from vandals is believed 
to be well taken care of by the site selected for burial. Sunk 50 feet 
below the surface of the ground, in swampy soil, recovery will involve 
an expensive and difficult engineering operation, costing many times 
the possible intrinsic worth of the Capsule for its metal and salable 
contents. 

Another question often discussed is whether, 5,000 years from now, 
the coast will have smik so far as to drown the area. Consultation 
with geologists and the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey 
indicate that there is probably no foundation for the common notion 
that the east coast is sinking. Surveys extending over the last 40 
years show that if there is any sinking at all, the rate is so slow that 
the change in level in 5,000 years would be only a few feet. The eleva- 
tion at the site of the Time Capsule is about 20 feet above sea level. 

As to the third question frequently asked: Will it ever be found 
again? Westinghouse engineers can only reply that every precaution 
has been taken through the Book of Record to guide archeologists of 
the future to the exact spot. If the people of the distant future wish 
to find it they can probably do so, even though it should migrate in the 
earth, or sink. And even if all else fails, we may depend on the 
perennial curiosity and the digging and burrowing habits of the human 
race to unearth it sooner or later. In the words of Dr. Clark Wissler, 
dean of the scientific staff of the American Museum of Natural History, 
and one of the foremost archeologists in the United States : 

We have been told that such efforts as ours here are futile; that, after all 
existing civilizations have died out and new civilizations come to be, no one will 
find this record, or if they do perchance discover it, they will not be able to make 
anything out of it. But the chances are good that these records will be found 
and that they can be interpreted. 

COMPLETE LIST OF CONTENTS 

The contents of the Westinghouse Time Capsule fall into five 
groupings : 

1. Small articles of commnon ibse that we wear or use, or which 
contribute to our comfort, convenience, safety, or health. About 35 
in number, these articles are separately described and pictured in 
the microfilm essay. In addition, labels and descriptions are wrapped 
with each. 

2. Textiles and materials. About 75 in number, these comprise 
swatches of various types and weaves of cloth, samples of alloys, 
plastics, cement, asbestos, coal, etc. Each is described in the micro- 
film essay, and a further description of the composition, nature, and 
use is wrapped with each sample. 



TIME CAPSULE — PENDRAY 541 

3. Miscellaneous items. Seeds, books, money, type, special texts, etc. 

4. An essay in microfilm., comprising books, speeches, excerpts from 
books and encyclopedias, pictures, critiques, reports, circulars, time- 
tables, and other printed or written matter; the whole producing 
in logical order a description of our time, our arts, sciences, tech- 
niques, sources of information, and industries. The essay, divided 
into 15 subsections, contains the equivalent of more than 100 ordinary 
books ; a total of more than 22,000 pages, more than 10,000,000 words 
and 1,000 pictures. A microscope is included to enable historians 
of the future to read the microfilm; also included are instructions 
for making larger reading machines such as those used with micro- 
film in modern libraries. 

5. Newsreel. Characteristic or significant scenes in sound film 
prepared by EKO-Pathe Pictures, Inc., for the Time Capsule. In- 
structions for making a suitable projection machine to use this film 
are included in the microfilm Microfile. 

Details appear on the following pages, in the order above described. 
Note. — Where several competitive items of equal archeological value 
were available, but only one could be included, the item selected was 
chosen by lot. The name of the maker, when given in the following 
list, is provided only for type and style identification. Choice of any 
article for the Time Capsule is not to be interpreted either as a special 
endorsement of that article or a reflection on the quality of any com- 
peting article. 

1, ARTICLES OF COMMON USE 
CoNTKIBUTING TO CONVENIENCE, COMFORT, HEALTH, SAFETY: 

Alarm clock. 

Can opener. 

Eyeglasses, bifocals (Bausch & Lomb). 

Fountain pen (Waterman). 

Mazda electric lamp (Westiughouse, 60- watt, 110-volt). 

Mechanical pencil (Waterman). 

Miniature camera (Eastman, Bantam K. A., special f.4.5. lens). 

Nail file. 

Padlock and keys (The Yale & Towne Manufacturing Co.). 

Safety pin. 

Silverware — knife, fork, spoon (Heirloom plate, Grenoble pattern, by 

Wm. A. Rogers Ltd., Oneida Ltd. Successor). 
Slide rule (Keuffel & Esser). (Also instructions for use.) 
Tape measure (Keuffel & Esser). 
Tooth brush. 

Tooth powder in small container. 

Transmitter and receiver of ordinary handset telephone. 
Watch (small wrist vpatch for woman). 
Westiughouse Sterilamp (bactericidal). 



542 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTIOI^, 193 9 

Fob the pleasure, use, and education of childken : 

Boy's toy — a mechanical, spring-propelled automobile. 

Girl's toy — a small doll. 

Mickey Mouse child's cup of plastic material (Bryant Electric Co.). 

Set of alphabet blocks. 

Pertaining to the grooming and vanity of women : 

Woman's hat, style of autumn 1938 (designed specially by Lilly Dach^). 
Cosmetic make-up kit (Elizabeth Arden Daytime-Cyclamen Color Harmony 

Box, including two miniature boxes of face powder, lipstick, rouge, eye 

shadow). 
Rhinestone clip (purchased at Wool worth's). 

Pertaining principally to the grooming, vanity, or personal habits of men : 
Container of tobacco. 
Electric razor and cord (Remington-Rand Close Shaver with Westinghouse 

motor. General Shaver Corporation). 
Package of cigarettes. 
Safety razor and blades (Gillette Aristocrat one-piece razor, Gillette Safety 

Razor Co.). 
Smoking pipe (Drinkless Kaywoodie, Kaywoodie Co.). 
Tobacco pouch, closed with zipper (Alfred Dunhill, of London). 

Pektaining to games pictured and described in miceofile : 
Baseball. 
Deck of cards. 

Golf ball (Kro-flite, A. G. Spalding & Bros.). 
Golf tee. 
Poker chips. 

2. MATERIALS OF OUK DAY 

Fabrics : 

Asbestos cloth (Johns-Manville). 

Cotton swatches (Jas. McCutcheon & Co.). 

Glass fabric samples (Westinghouse glass tape). 

Linen swatches (Jas. McCutcheon & Co.). 

Rayon swatches (Du Pont and Celanese). 

Rubber fabrics (Lastex cloth. United States Rubber Products, Inc.). 

Silk swatches (Jas. McCutcheon & Co.). 

Wool swatches (American Woolen Co.). 

Metals and metallic alloys: 
Hipernik ( Westinghouse ) . 

Aluminum (commercially pure sample from Aluminum Co. of America). 
Aluminum high-strength alloy (ST 37 alloy furnished by Aluminum Co. 

of America). 
Carbon steel (Electro Metallurgical Co.). 
Chromium (Electro Metallurgical Co.). 
Copper (Westinghouse Research Laboratories). 
Ferromanganese (Electro Metallurgical Co.). 
Ferrosilicon (Electro Metallurgical Co.). 
Ferrovanadium (Electro Metallurgical Co.). 
Iron (pure sample from Westinghouse Research Laboratories). 
Magnesium high-strength alloy (Dowmetal, furnished by Dow Chemical 

Co.). 



TIME CAPSULE PENDRAY 543 

Metals and metallic alloys — Continued. 
Manganese (Electro Metallurgical Co.). 
Silicon (Electro Metallurgical Co.). 
Stainless steel (Electro Metallurgical Co.). 
Temperable copper (Cupaloy, furnished by Westlnghouse). 
Hipersil ( Westlnghouse ) . 
Tungsten wire (filament for Westlnghouse Mazda Electric lamp). 

Non-Metallio Materials and Substances : 

Airplane pulley of laminated phenol plastic Micarta — Westinghouse. 

Anthracite coal (sealed in glass, furnished by Anthracite Institute). 

Artificial cellulose sponge (E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Inc.). 

Artflcial leather. 

Asbestos shingle (furnished by Johns-Manville). 

Beetleware — a specimen of urea plastic (Westinghouse). 

Carborundum (The Carborundum Co.). 

Glass wool. 

Linen packing thread. 

Leather samples — tanned cowhide, genuine morocco (goatskin). 

Lucite — a specimen of methyl methacrylate plastic (du Pout). 

Manufactured rubber (tire section furnished by Fisk Tire Co., Inc.). 

Micarta — a specimen of phenol plastic (Westinghouse). 

Noiseless gear of laminated phenol plastic Micarta — Westinghouse. 

Paper — four kinds of permanent rag paper used in money, books, perma- 
nent ledgers, and for special wrapping. 

Portland Cement (sample furnished by Portland Cement Co., sealed In 
glass). 

Raw rubber (furnished by United States Rubber Products, Inc.). 

Transite^ — a specimen of material made of asbestos and cement (Johns- 
Manville). 

Rock wool (Johns-Manville). 

Synthetic "rubber" (Neoprene Chloroprene, furnished by du Pont). 

3. MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS 

Money op the Unites States : 

Dollar bill, silver dollar, half dollar, quarter dollar, dime, nickel, penny. 

Blecteical Items: 

Electric wall switch (Bryant Electric Co.). 
Electric lamp socket (Bryant Electric Co.). 

Seeds (selected and furnished by U. S. Department of Agriculture. All 

SAMPLES sealed IN GLASS TUBES) : 

Wheat, corn, oats, tobacco, cotton, flax, rice, soybeans, alfalfa, sugar 
beets, carrots, barley. 

Books (all other books, reports, etc., reduced to microfilm) : 
Selected leather-bound rag-paper copy of the Holy Bible. 
Copy of the Book of Record of the Time Capsule. 

Type (supplementary to discussions in microfile) : 

Handset type — capital and lowercase alphabets of Goudy Village No. 2 

type, 14 point. 
Linotype — 8 point Caslon 13 em slug set on standard Linotype in the shop 

of the Tuckahoe Record, Tuckahoe, N. Y. The line reads: "This tyi)e 

set by Linotype Machine." 



544 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

Optical Instrument (other optical instruments described in microfile) : 
Magnifier and viewer for use with microfilm and newsreel film. 

Special Texts (written on permanent paper in nonfading ink) : 

Special messages from noted men of our time (Albert Einstein, Robert A. 

Millikan, Karl T. Compton, Thomas Mann). 
Certificate of official witnesses at packing of the Westinghouse Time 

Capsule. 
Message from Dr. Thornwell Jacobs, president of Oglethorpe University. 
List of Westinghouse men whose suggestions, guidance, engineering, and 

other special skills made the Time Capsule possible. 

4. SCENARIO OF MICROFILM SEQUENCES 
INTRODUCTION 

1. Greetings. 

2. Directions for making a larger projection machine. 

aids TO TRANSLATION 

3. Explanation of keys. 

4. Fable of the North Wind and the Sun, in 20 languages. 

5. The Lord's Prayer in 300 languages. 

6. The Practical Standard Dictionary. Funk & Wagnalls, New York, 1938. 

7. Dictionary of Slang and Colloquial English, by John S. Farmer and W. E. 

Henley. 6th Impression. E. P. Dutton & Co., New York. 

WHEaiE WE LIVE AND WORK 

8. Introduction. 

9. Individual homes. Architectural Forum, pages from various 1937-38 issues. 

10. Apartments, by Harvey Wiley Corbett. Encyclopaedia Britannica,^ vol. 20, 

pp. 870-881. 

11. The Trailer. Catalogue of Kozy Coach, Kalamazoo, Mich., 1938. 

12. Offices, by Harvey Wiley Corbett. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 2, pp. 

274-287. 

13. The story of Rockefeller Center, 1938. 

14. Office Equipment, by W. H. Leffingwell. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 16, 

pp. 71^719. 

15. Office machines. Catalogue of International Business Machines Corporation, 

1938. 

16. Factories. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 9, pp. 29-31. 

17. Photograph of Westinghouse East Pittsburgh Works. 

18. Photograph of Westinghouse Transformer Works, Sharon, Pa. 

19. Photograph of Westinghouse Elevator Works, Jersey City, N. J. 

20. Photograph of headquarters of General Motors Corporation, Detroit, Mich. 

21. Photograph of first stages on assembly belt in General Motors factory. 

22. Photograph of press that makes automobile tops out of cold steel. 

23. Photograph of rolling cold steel, American Iron & Steel Institute. 

24. Photograph of pouring molten iron into a furnace, American Iron & Steel 

Institute. 

OUR ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT 

25. Introduction. 

26. The Arts, by Hendrik Willem van Loon. Simon & Schuster, New York. 



^ Wherever references is made to the Encyclopaedia Britannica, we have used the 14th 
Edition, 1937. 



TIME CAPSULE — PENDRAY 545 

27. Painting. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 17, pp. 36-65. 

28. Arozco Frescoes. 

29. "Guernica" — Pablo Picasso. 

30. "American Landscape" — Charles Sheeler. 

31. "Summer Wind" — Alexander Brook. 

32. "Promenade"— Charles Burchfield (1928). 

33. "Lower Manhattan"— John Marin (1920). 

34. "Persistence of Memory" — Salvador Dali (Catalan), 

35. "Daughters of the Revolution" — Grant Wood (American 1932). 

36. "Composition Black, White & Red"— Piet Mondrian (Dutch). 

37. "Dr. Meyer-Hermann" — Otto Dix. 

38. Sculpture. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 20, pp. 198-231. 

39. Music. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 16, pp. 3-24 (with score). 

40. Harmony. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 11, pp. 203-212. 

41. Finlandia, by Jean Sibelius. 

42. The Stars and Stripes Forever, by John Philip Sousa. 

43. The Flat-Foot Floogee, by Slim Gaillard, Slam Stewart and Bud Green. 

44. Photograph of Arturo Toscanini, one of our great directors, conducting a 

symphony orchestra. 

45. Photograph of a string quartet. 

46. Photograph of vocal soloist accompanied by orchestra, with audience in fore- 

ground. 

47. Photograph of diners dancing to the accompaniment of an orchestra in a 

famous New York night club. 

48. Catalog of instruments, showing construction, range, and how to manipulate. 

49. Literature: introduction. 

50. The essay. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 8, pp. 716-717. 

51. Freud, Goethe, Wagner, by Thomas Mann. Alfred A. Knopf, New York, 1937. 

52. The short story. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 20, pp. 580-583. 

53. Verse. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 23, pp. 96-98. 

54. The novel. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 16, pp. 572-577, 

55. Arrowsmith, by Sinclair Lewis. Grosset & Dunlap, New York, 1925. 

56. Gone with the Wind, by Margaret Mitchell. Macmillan, New York, 1938. 

57. The Theater, by George Jean Nathan. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 22, pp. 

21-il. 

58. Best Plays (1936-37), by Burns Mantle. Dodd, Mead, New York. 

59. Motion Pictures, by Terry Ramsaye. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 15, pp. 

854-871. 

60. Music Hall program for "You Can't Take It With You," September 1, 1938. 

61. Radio. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 23, pp. 663-668. 

62. The Story of Radio, by Orrin E. Dunlap, Jr. Dial Press, New York, 1935. 

63. A radio studio. National Broadcasting Co., New York City. 

64. Radio Corporation of America Building, Rockefeller Center, New York. 

65. Master switchboard of the National Broadcasting Co. 

66. Director of radio dramatic program, National Broadcasting Co. 

67. Radio broadcasting antenna. 

68. Radio actors "on the air." 

69. Standard Bridge Rules. R. H. Macy & Co., New York, 1938. 

70. Photo of a bridge tournament. Acme. 

71. Hoyle's Card Rules. R..H. Macy & Co., New York, 36th Edition, 1938. 

72. Typical poker scene. Acme. 

73. Spalding's Rules of Golf— 1938. 

74. Typical golf match. Acme. 



546 AI^NUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 39 

75. Spalding's Football Rules— 1938. 

76. Scene from football game. 

77. Spalding's Baseball Rules— 1938. 

78. Scene from baseball game. 

HOW INFOKMATION IS DISSEMINATED AMONG US 

79. General introduction. 

80. Magazines : introduction. 

81. Saturday Evening Post, May 7, 1938. 

82. Collier's, September 3, 1938. 

83. Ladies' Home Journal, September 1938. 

84. Woman's Home Companion, September 1938. 

85. Vogue, September 1, 1938. 

86. McCall's, September 1938. 

87. Good Housekeeping, September 1938. 

88. Adventure, September 1938. 

89. Love Story, September 3, 1938. 

90. True Confessions, October 1938. 

91. Complete Western Book Magazine, September 1938. 

92. Detective Story Magazine, October 1938, 

93. Amazing Stories, October 1938. 

94. Weird Tales, September 1938. 

95. American Mercury, September 1938. 

96. Time, February 28, 1938. 

97. Newsweek, July 25, 1938. 

98. Reader's Digest, September 1938. 

99. Harper's Magazine, August 1938. 

100. The Atlantic Monthly, July 1938. 

101. Scientific American, September 1938. 

102. Life, May 23, 1938. 

103. Look, September 13, 1938. 

104. Your Life, September 1938. 

105. Fortune, February 1938. 

106. New Yorker, September 3, 1938. 

107. Introduction: A Magazine of the prehalftone era. 

108. Leslie's Weekly, several issues. 

109. Newspapers: introduction. 

110. New York Herald Tribune, August 24, 1938. 

111. New York Times, August 19, 1938. 

112. New York World-Telegram, August 10, 1938. 

113. New York Sun, January 8, 1938 (complete final). 

114. New York Post, September 6, 1938, sports extra. 

115. New York Journal American, July 14, 1938. 

116. New York Daily News, August 30, 1938. 

117. New York Mirror, August 29, 1938. 

118. Daily Worker, August 30, 1938. 

119. The cartoon: introduction. 

120. Batchelor's "In the Spring a Young Man's Fancy * * *" Chicago 

Tribune-New York News Syndicate, 1938. 

121. Talburt's "Land of the Rising or Setting Sun?" New York World-Tele- 

gram Syndicate, 1938. 



TIME CAPSULE — PENDRAY 547 

122. Kirby's "Laughter for the Gods," New York World-Telegram Syndicate, 

1938. 

123. The "Funny Paper" : introduction. 

124. Caniff's "Terry & the Pirates," Link's "Tiny Tim," and "Dill and Daffy," 

Chicago Tribune-New York News Syndicate, June 25, 1938. 

125. Willard's "Moon Mullins" and Branning's "Winnie Winkle the Bread- 

winner," Chicago Tribune-New York News Syndicate, June 25, 1938. 

126. Gray's "Little Orphan Annie," and Gould's "Dick Tracy," Chicago Tri- 

bune-New York News Syndicate, June 25, 1938. 

127. King's "Gasoline Alley," and Edson's "The Gumps," Chicago Tribune-New 

York News Syndicate, June 25, 1938. 

128. Segar's "Sappo," and "Thimble Theater," King Features, Sunday, Sep- 

tember 18, 1938. 

129. Knerr's "Dinglehoofer & His Dog," and "The Katzenjammer Kids," King 

Features, September 18, 1938. 

130. Disney's "Mother Pluto" and "Mickey Mouse," King Features, September 

18, 1938. 

131. DeBeck's "Bunky" and "Barney Google," King Features, September 18, 

1938. 

132. Cady's "Peter Rabbit," New York Herald Tribune Syndicate, September 

4, 1938. 

133. Webster's "Timid Soul," New York Herald Tribime Syndicate, August 

7, 1938. 

134. Webster's "The Thrill that Comes Once in a Lifetime," New York Herald 

Tribune Syndicate, August 27, 1938. 

135. Our books : introduction. 

136. Methods of Printing, by G. Leonard Gold. 

137. Design and Beauty in Printing, by Frederic W. Goudy. Press of the Woolly 

Whale, March 8, 1934. 

138. A History of the Printed Book, by Lawrence C. Wroth. Limited Editions 

Club, New York, 1938. 

139. Color in Use. International Printing Ink Corporation, copyrighted 1935. 

140. Color as Light. International Printing Ink Corporation, copyrighted 1935. 

141. Color Chemistry. International Printing Ink Corporation, copyrighted 1935. 

BOOK OF GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT US 

142. A book of general information about us : introduction. 

143. The World Almanac for 1938. 

OUR BELIGIONS AND PHILOSOPHIES 

144. Introduction. 

145. The World's Living Religions, by Robert Ernest Hume. Charles Scribner's 

Sons, New York, 1936. 

146. A History of Philosophy, by Alfred Weber & Ralph Barton Perry. Charles 

Scribner's Sons, New York, 1925. 

QUE EDUCATION AND EDUCATIONAL SYSTEMS 

147. Introduction. 

148. Education. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 7, pp. 964-1005. 

149. All the Children. 39th Annual Report of the Superintendent of Schools, 

New York City, School Year 1936-1937. 
197855 — 40 36 



548 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

OUB SCIENCES AND TECHNIQXra:8 

150. Introduction. 

151. Science. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 20, pp. 115-123. 

152. Scientific method. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 20, pp. 127-133. 

153. The Story of Science, by David Dietz. Dodd, Mead, 1938. 

154. The Smithsonian Physical Tables. Smithsonian Institution, publication 

3171, Washington, 1934. 

155. Meteorology. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 15, pp. 343-356. 

156. Matliematics. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 15, pp. 69-89. 

157. Portraits of Eminent Mathematicians, by David Eugene Smith. Scripta 

Mathematica, New York, portfolios 1 and 2. 

158. Telescopes. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 15, pp. 904-909. 

159. Microscopes. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 15, pp. 433-443. 

OUB EARTH, ITS FEATURES AND PEOPLES 

160. Introduction. 

161. The World Atlas. Rand McNally, New York. 

162. Our races : introduction. 

163. The world's races. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 2, pp. 41-50. 

164. Explanation of the fundamental triangulation net of the United States 

(with map). 

165. Methods of Surveying. Coast & Geodetic Survey booklets, Nos. 502, 529, 562, 

583, Special No. 23, Department of Commerce. 

166. Geology. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 10, pp. 155-173. 

167. Exploring Down, by Sherwin F. Kelly. Reprint from The Explosives 

Engineer, September-October 1935. 

168. The Earth, by Chester A. Reeds. The University Press, New York, First 

Trade Edition, 1935. 

OUR MEDICINE, PUBLIC HEALTH, DENTISTRY AND PHARMACY 

169. Introduction. 

170. Frontiers of Medicine, by Dr. Morris Fishbein. Williams & Wilkins, Balti- 

more, June 1933. 

171. Men of Medicine. The March of Time, Issue No. 11, vol. IV. 

172. Work of the United States Public Health Service, Reprint 1447. 

173. Report of the Surgeon General of the United States, June 30, 1937. 

174. Dentistry. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 7, pp. 222-225. 

175. 1937 Year Book of Dentistry. 

176. United States Pharmacopaea. 

177. X-Ray and Fluoroscopy: catalogs of the Westinghouse X-Ray Co. 

OUR INDUSTRIES 

178. Introduction. 

179. Explanation of Sears, Roebuck catalog. 

180. Sears, Roebuck catalog No. 177— Philadelphia— Fall & Winter 1938-39. 

181. Inventions and discoveries. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 12, pp. 545-547. 

182. Some basic inventions of modern times. United States Patent OflBce. 

183. Industrial revolution. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 12, pp. 303-306. 

184. Industrial relations. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 12, pp. 293-303. 



TIME CAPSULE — PENDRAY 549 

185. Management's Responsibility to the Public. An address by A. W. Robert- 

son, Chairman of the Board of the Westinghouse Electric & Manufactur- 
ing Co., September 19, 1938, before Seventh International Management 
Congress. 

186. Law and Good Will in Industrial Relations. An address by W. Q. Mar- 

shall, Vice President of the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Co., 
before the Committee of One Hundred, Miami, Fla., March 8, 1938. 

187. Westinghouse Industrial Relations : a report for 1937. 

188. The electrical industry : introduction. 

189. Electricity. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 8, pp. 182-217. 

190. Electric generator. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 8, pp. 174-182. 

191. Electrical power. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 8, pp. 144-174. 

192. Electric motor. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 15, pp. 872-878. 

193. Electrical engineering. Fiftieth Anniversary A. I. E. E., 1884-1934, May 

1934. 

194. A Life of George Westinghouse, by Henry G. Prout. Charles Scribner's, 

New York, 1926. 

195. Portions of Westinghouse 1939 Catalog. 

196. 52nd Annual Report of the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Co., 

December 31, 1937. 

197. Westinghouse Stockholders' Quarterly for August 1938. 

198. Photograph of welding the new office building at the Westinghouse Trans- 

former Works, Sharon, Pa. 

199. "Putting in the Throw" on a 7,500 kv.-a. synchronous condenser at the 

Westinghouse East Pittsburgh Works. 

200. Photograph of tightening a "steel spider" at the Westinghouse East Pitts- 

burgh Works. 

201. Photograph of assembling giant mill motors at the Westinghouse East 

Pittsburgh Works. 

202. Photograph of Ignitron tubes in the Westinghouse Research Laboratories. 

203. Photograph of testing a grid-glow tube in the Westinghouse Research 

Laboratories. 

204. Photograph of a lamp machine in the Westinghouse Lamp Works, Bloom- 

field, N. J. 

205. Photograph of bottom one-third of 800-foot vertical antenna of Westing- 

house radio station KDKA, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

206. Photograph of a 1938 hostess inspecting complete meal cooking in Westing- 

house Automeal Roaster at Merchandise Works, Mansfield, Ohio. 

207. Agriculture: introduction. 

208. Agriculture. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 1, pp. 391-420. 

209. Agricultural machinery and implements. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 1, 

p. 370-378. 

210. A graphic summary of physical features and land utilization in the United 

States. Department of Agriculture, Miscellaneous Publication No. 260, 
May 1937. 

211. A graphic summary of farm tenure. Department of Agriculture, Miscel- 

laneous Publication No. 261, December 1936. 

212. A graphic summary of farm taxation. Department of Agriculture, Mis- 

cellaneous Publication No. 262, February 1937. 

213. A graphic summary of the value of farm property. Department of Agri- 

culture, Miscellaneous Publication No. 263, July 1937. 



550 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1939 

214. A graphic summary of farm machinery, facilities, roads, and expenditures. 

Department of Agriculture, Miscellaneous Publication No. 264, July 1937. 

215. A graphic summary of farm labor and population. Department of Agri- 

culture, Miscellaneous Publication No. 265, November 1937. 

216. A graphic summary of the number, size, and type of farm and value of 

products. Department of Agriculture, Miscellaneous Publication No. 266, 
October 1937. 

217. A graphic summary of farm crops. Department of Agriculture, Miscel- 

laneous Publication No. 267, March 1938. 

218. Automobiles: introduction. 

219. Motorcar. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 15, pp. 880-901. 

220. Automobile facts and figures. Automobile Manufacturers' Association. 

1938 edition. 

221. A chronicle of the automotive industry in America 1892-1936. Eaton Mfg. 

Co., Cleveland, Ohio. 

222. Aviation : introduction. 

223. Aero engines. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 1, pp. 237-242. 

224. Aeronautics. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 1, pp. 242-250. 

225. Aeroplane. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 1, pp. 250-258. 

226. Civil aviation. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 2, pp. 801-812. 

227. The Aircraft Yearbook for 1938. Aeronautical Chamber of Commerce of 

America, Inc. 

228. TWA timetable, July 1, 1938. 

229. United Airlines timetable, July 1, 1938. 

230. Eastern Air Lines timetable, August 15. 1938. 

231. American Airlines timetable, August 1, 1938. 

232. Northwest Air Lines timetable, August 1938. 

233. Pan American timetable, July 1, 1938. 

234. Ajr France timetable, summer 1938, from March 27 to October 1. 

235. Imperial Airways timetable, July 1938. 

236. Swissair timetable, summer 1938. 

237. Swedish Air Lines timetable, March 27-October 1, 1938. 

238. Canadian Colonial Airways, July 1, 1938. 

239. Ships and shipping. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 20, pp. 505-563. 

240. Chemical industry : introduction. 

241. The chemical elements and their discoveries. Fisher Scientific Co., Jan- 

uary 1936. 

242. Chemistry. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 5, pp. 355-410. 

243. Applied chemistry. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol 5, pp. 410-412. 

244. A World of Change. An address by Dr. Edward R. Weidlein, President of 

the American Chemical Society, Rochester meeting, September 9, 1937. 

245. Industrial Chemistry, by William Thornton Read. John Wiley & Sons, 

New York, 1933. 

246. Coal and coal mining : introduction. 

247. Coal and coal mining. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 5, pp. 868-912. 

248. The formation and characteristics of Pennsylvania anthracite. The Anthra- 

cite Institute. 

249. Communications : introduction. 

250. Telegraph. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 21, pp. 880-898. 

251. Telephone. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 21, pp. 894-904. 

252. Food industries: introduction. 

253. Food preservation, service, and supply. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 9, 

pp. 457-460. 

254. Canning. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 4, pp. 748-751. 



TIME CAPSULE PENDRAY 551 

255. The story of frosted foods. Birdseye Co.. 1S3S. 

256. Nutritive aspects of canned foods. The American Can Co., 1937. 

257. More about canned foods (a pamphlet). American Can Co. 

258. Representative menus, 1938. (Fall, winter, spring, and summer menus 

furnished by Childs Restaurant.) 

259. Metals and mining: introduction. 

260. Metals. Encyclopaedia Britaunica, vol. 15, pp. 323-325. 

261. Metallurgy. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 15, pp. 310-323. 

262. Metallography. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 15, pp. 308-310. 

263. Iron, iron and steel, iron in art. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 12, 

pp. 645-682 inclusive. 

264. Aluminum. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 1, pp. 713-720. 

265. Copper. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 6, pp. 401-409. 

266. Metalliferous mining. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 15, pp. 544-551. 

267. Petroleum: introduction. 

268. Petroleum. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 17, pp. 662-669. 

269. The Rise of American Oil, by Leonard M. Fanning. Harper & Brothers, 

New York, 1936. 

270. Railroads : introduction. 

271. Railways. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 18, pp. 916-952. 

272. New York Central timetable. Form 1001, July 25, 1938. 

273. Pennsylvania Railroad timetable, August 28, 1938. 

274. Baltimore & Ohio timetable, July 17, 1938 (east and west). 

275. Union Pacific timetable, revised to June 12, 1938. 

276. Northern Pacific timetable, corrected to June 20, 1938, Form 5111. 

277. Southern Pacific timetable, August 15-September 1938, Form A. 

278. Santa Fe timetable, corrected to August 7, 1938. 

279. Streamlined Pennsylvania train. 

280. Textiles: introduction. 

281. Textiles and embroideries. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 22, pp. 1-^. 

282. Weaving. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 23, pp. 455-466. 

283. Dyeing. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 7, pp. 789-795. 

284. Synthetic dyes. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 7, pp. 796-807. 

285. Designing Women, by Margaretta Byers with Consuelo Kamholz. Simon & 

Schuster, New York, 1938. 

286. Women's Wear Style Sheet, 1938. 

287. Women's Wear for September 1, 1938. 

288. Fall textures in duPont Rayon (swatches included in Capsule as objects) 

1938. 

NEW YORK WOELD'S FAIE 1939 

289. Introduction. 

290. Message from Grover Whalen, President of the World's Fair. 

291. New York, the World's Fair City. 

292. World's Fair Bulletin, A Year from Today. 

293. World's Fair Bulletin, Participation Issue. 

294. World's Fair Bulletin for June 1938. 

295. List of officers and department heads of the World's Fair. 

THE OB.JECTS IN THE CAPSTJLE 

296. Introduction and list. 

THE MEN WHO HADE THE CAPSTJLE 

297. List. 



552 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193 9 

HOW WE APPE14.E, T-^VXK, AND ACT, AND SCENES OF OUB DAY 

298. Introduction. 

299. Technology of amateur and professional motion pictures. Encyclopaedia 

Britannica, vol. 15, pp. 867-871. 

300. Motion picture technology. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 15, pp. 854r-867. 

301. Photoelectricity. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 17, pp. 788-793. 

302. Production and Projection of the Motion Picture, by Terry Ramsaye, Edi- 

tor, Motion Picture Herald. 

303. How to build a projection machine (diagrams and photos). 

304. A projection machine. 

NEWSREEL 

Characterist'*' or significant scenes in sound film, prepared for the Time Capsule 
by RKO-Pathe Pictures. Instructions for making a suitable projection machine 
for the use of this film are included in microfilm Microfile. 

The newsreel runs about 15 minutes. It comprises the following scenes: 

1. Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States, speaking at Gettys- 

burg, Pa., July 3, 1938, on occasion of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the 
celebrated battle of the United States Civil War. Veterans of both sides, 
attending their final reunion, are present. 

2. Howard Hughes, celebrated aviator, who made around-the-world flight as 

"Air Ambassador" for New York World's Fair 1939, in 3 days, 19i/i hours, 
July 1938. 

a. Plane flying over New York City's skyscrapers as Hughes sets out on 

first lap. 

b. Hughes' return at Floyd Bennett Field, New York City, after complet- 

ing flight. 

c. Hughes' New York reception, showing enthusiastic crowds lining the 

streets and paper showering down from skyscrapers. 

3. Jesse Owens, American Negro athlete, winning 100-meter dash In 1936 

Olympic games. 

4. Collegiate football: Harvard-Yale, November 1936 at Yale Bowl, New 

Haven, Conn. Yale wins 14-13. 

5. Baseball : Big League — All Star Game at Crosley Field in Cincinnati, Ohio, 

28,000 spectators — July 1938. Nationals defeat Americans 4-1. 

6. United States Pacific Fleet setting out for 6 weeks of maneuvers, shovdng 

battleships in formation off Long Beach, Calif., in March 1938. 

7. Soviets celebrate International Labor Day, May 1938, in Red Square, 

Moscow, Russia. Two shots of soldiers marching. 

8. Greatest demonstration of military prowess in the United States since the 

World War, at Fort Benning, Ga., April 1938, showing tanks and other 
war machines. 

9. Bombing of Canton, typical episode in the undeclared war between China 

and Japan. Canton, China, June 1938. 

a. Pathe cameraman, A. T. Hull, wearing helmet, in cockpit of plane, 

about to take off to make pictures. 

b. Smoke rising from explosions off in distance. 

c. Terror-stricken civilians in street. 

d. Red Cross men and women, many of whom are injured while minis- 

tering to the victims. 



TIME CAPSULE PENDRAY 553 

10. Fashion Show at Miami, Fla., April 1938. 

a. General view of luxurious scene in which the audience is seated around 

a swimming pool, watching models displaying advance summer 
fashions. 

b. Two girls in long beach coats. 

c. Two girls in long beach coats opened to reveal bathing suits, wearing 

enormous straw hats. 

d. Afternoon dress. 

e. Flowered print afternoon dress, with large hat. 

f. Another afternoon dress with brilliantly colored accessories, and large 

hat. 

11. Preview of World's Fair 1939, May 1938. 

a. Motorcade of nearly 500 vehicles and floats, including the prize-win- 

ning Westinghouse float, going up a street in downtown Manhattan 
between sidewalks lined with crowds, under shower of paper. 

b. Sports float with Babe Ruth, baseball hero. 

c. Motorcade entering partially completed fair grounds. 

d. Fiorello LaGuardia, Mayor of New York City, and Grover A. Whalen, 

President of the Fair, in reviewing stand at fair grounds. 

e. Theme float, bearing replica of Trylou and Perisphere. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Pendray 



Plate 1 




An 800-pound "Parcel" To be Delivered in the Year 6939. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Pendray 




1. Casting the Capsule's Shell in Molten cupaloy. 




2. Westinghouse Time Capsule Begins To Take Final Form in the East 
Pittsburgh Works of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing 
Company. 



Smithsonian Report. 1939. — Pendray 



Plate 3 




1. Witnesses at the Time Capsule's Packing. 

F. D. McHugh, executive editor of Scientific American Magazine; D. S. Youngholm, vice president of 
Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company; C. G. Weber: and seated, Grover A. Whalen, 
president of New Yorli World's Fair Corporation. 




2. Sealing the packed Inner Crypt Was a Delicate Task. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939. — Pendray 



PLATE 4 




Left, a. W. Robertson, Westinghouse Chairman and Grover A. Whalen. 
Guide the Time Capsule to Its Long Resting Place. 



INDEX 

A 

Page 

Abbot, Charles G., Secretary of the Institution iii, ix, 18 

Director, Astrophysical Observatory xiii, 6, 106, 107, 108, 110, 111 

Director, Division of Radiation and Organisms xiii 

Keeper ex officio, National Museum x 

Member ex officio. Board of Trustees, National Gallery of Art 32 

Secretary (in charge). International Exchanges xiii 

Secretary, Smithsonian Art Commission 8, 48, 49 

Secretary, Smithsonian Gallery of Art Commission 9 

Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 20 

Adams, Herbert 8, 48 

Adler, Cyrus x 

Administrative assistant to the Secretary (Harry W. Dorsey) ix 

Administrative staff xii 

Air transport. Modern trends in (Durand) 513 

Aldrich, Loyal B xiii, 106 

Alston, A. H. C 28 

Animals in the National Zoological Park, June 30, 1939 86 

Arrigutti, Ennio 78 

Arthur, James 14 

Arthur lecture, eighth 14 

Aschemeier, C. R 15 

Assistant Secretary of the Institution (Alexander Wetmore) ix, x, 20, 27, 31 

Associate director. National Museum (John E. Graf) x 

Astrophysical Observatory xiii, 2, 6 

field stations 6, 109 

personnel xiii, 1 10 

publications 17, 108 

report HO 

work at Washington 106 

Atomic nuclei, Our knowledge of (Harnwell) 189 

Ayres, Louis 8, 48 

B 

Back, E. A. (Bookworms) 365 

Bacon, Walter Rathbone, traveling scholarship 12, 20 

Barbeau, Marius (The modern growth of the totem pole on the northwest 

coast) 491 

Barkley, Alben W. (regent of the Institution) ix, 8, 9 

Barnes, J. T ^ 

Bartlett Greenland expedition 20, 21 

Bartlett, Capt. Robert 16, 27 

Bartsch, Paul x, xi 

Bass Biological Laboratory 20 

Bassler, R. S xi, 15, 28 

(Geologic exhibits in the National Zoological Park) 265 

555 



556 INDEX 

Page 

Batcheller, George Sherman 22 

Beach, Jessie G xi 

Beal, Gifford 8, 48 

Belin, Ferdinand Lammot xii, 3, 32, 33 

Belote, T. T xii 

Benjamin, Marcus 19 

Bent, Arthur C x 

Biologic balance on the farm (McAtee) 319 

Biological Survey, U. S 21 

Birds and the wind (McMillan) 355 

Bishop, Carl Whiting xii 

Blackmore collection of Lepidoptera 20 

Bookworms (Back) 365 

Borie, Charles L., Jr 8, 9, 48 

Boss, Norman H xi 

Botana, Natalio 78 

Bowditch collection 21 

Branches of the Institution x-xiii, 1, 2-7 

reports of 19, 32, 47, 52, 56, 65, 76, 106, 112 

Bridge, Josiah 28 

British Guiana and Brazil, On the frontier of (Smith) 325 

British Museum 20 

Brooks, Charles F. (Hurricanes into New England; meteorology of the 

storm of September 21, 1938) 241 

Brooks, F. A. (Use of solar energy for heating water) 157 

Brown, W. L x 

Bruce, David K. E., president, National Gallery of Art xii, 3, 32, 33, 46 

Bruce, Edward 9 

Brundage, Edward 20 

Bryant, H. S xii 

Brydon, E. R 113, 116 

Buchanan, L. L x 

Bundy , John xii 

Burro Mountain solar observatory 6, 15, 109 

Bushnell, D. I., Jr x 

(The use of soapstone by the Indians of the eastern United States) _ _ 471 
Butts, Charles 28 

C 
Canfieldfund 21 

Cannon, Clarence (regent of the Institution) ix, 8 

Carey, Charles xii 

Carter, John G 5, 61 

Cassedy, Edwin G xiii, 63 

Chadwick, G. H 28 

Chamberlain fund, Frances Lea 21 

Chancellor of the Institution (Charles Evans Hughes) ix, 7 

Chapin, Edward A x 

Chase, Agnes xi 

Chief Justice of the United States (Charles Evans Hughes, Chancellor of 

the Institution) ix, xii, 7, 32 

Cinaghi, Jos6 M 78 

Clark, Austin H x, 16, 27 



INDEX 557 

Page 

Clark, Leila F xii 

Clark, Leland B xiii, 110, 113, 114, 117 

Clark, Robert Sterling xi 

Clarke, Gilmore D 8, 9, 48 

Closing the gap at Tepe Gawra (Speiser) 437 

Cochran, Doris M x 

Cole, William P., Jr. (regent of the Institution) ix, 2, 7, 8 

Collins, Henry B., Jr xii, 5, 26, 60 

Commerford, L. E xii 

Compton, Arthur H. (regent of the Institution) ix, 8 

Conger, Paul S xi 

Conserving rare native plants. The problem of (Fernald) 375 

Contributions from the National Herbarium 3 

Cook, O. F x,xi,26 

Cooper, G. Arthur xi, 15, 21, 28 

Corbin, William L. (librarian of the Institution) ix, 125 

Corby, Mary G 77 

Cret, Paul P 9 

Crime-detection laboratory. Physical science in the (Hoover) 215 

Cross, Whitman xi 

Cushman, Joseph A x 

Cushman, Robert A x 

C. W. A. investigations, 1933-34 Smithsonian 19 

D 

Danforth, Stuart T 20 

Davis, Harvey N. (regent of the Institution) ix, 8 

Davis, Malcolm 78 

Davis, Monnett B 78 

Davis, Tom 78 

Deignan, H 27 

Delano, Frederic A. (regent of the Institution) ix, 8, 9, 139 

Denmark, C. R xii 

Densmore, Frances S 5, 61 

De Soto Expedition Commission, U. S 4, 56 

report 4, 56 

Dewey, Admiral George 22 

Dixon, F. E 108 

Dormon, Caroline 57 

Dorsey, Harry W., administrative assistant to the Secretary ix 

Dorsey , Nicholas W. , treasurer of the Institution ix, xii 

Duncan, Wallace E xi 

Durand, W. F. (Modern trends in air transport) 513 

E 

Eberstadt collection 4 

Edgell, George H 8 

Editor of the Institution (Webster P. True) ix, 14, 132 

Egberts, W. H x 

Eighth Arthur lecture 14 

ElJis, Max M x 

Ely, Charles R., collection of Microlepidoptera 20 

Entomology and Plant Quarantine, U. S. Bureau of 20 



558 INDEX 

Page 

Establishment, The 7 

Ethnology, Bureau of American 4 

collections 63 

illustrations 63 

library 63, 123, 125 

personnel xii, 64 

publications 5, 62, 131 

report 56 

researches 56 

European Parasitic Laboratory 21 

Evans, Marie Louise 4 

Evans, W. A 57 

Executive Committee of the Board of Regents ix 

report 8, 133 

Explorations and field work 15, 22 

F 
Fairchild, D. G xi 

Farley, James A., Postmaster General (member of the Institution) ix 

Federal Art Project 4 

Fenton, W. N xiii, 5, 60, 61 

Fernald, M. L. (The problem of conserving rare native plants) 375 

Fillmen, L. A 113, 117 

Finances 8, 133 

Finley, David E xii, 8, 33, 48, 49 

Fisher, A. K xi 

Fisheries, U. S. Bureau of 20 

Ford, James A 57 

Fordyce, Col. John R 57 

Foshag, W. F xi, 14 

Eraser, James E 8 

Freer Gallery of Art 4 

attendance 63 

collections 52 

curatorial work 53 

lectures and docent service 54 

personnel xii, 54 

report 52 

Friedmann, Herbert x, 14 

Fringe of the sun; nebulium and coronium, The (James) 183 

G 
Gabrielson, Ira N 77 

Galdpagos Islands, Presidential cruise of 1938 to 2, 15, 21, 26 

Garber, Paul E xi 

Garner, John N., Vice President of the United States (regent of the Insti- 
tution) ix, 7-8 

Gass, F. E 75 

Gazin, C. Lewis xi, 15, 29 

General Appendix 141 

Geologic exhibits in the National Zoological Park (Bassler) 265 

Geological perspective, Humanity in (Hawkins) 253 



INDEX 559 

Page 

Gifford, Charles L. (regent of the Institution) ix, 8 

Gilbert, S. Parker 32 

Gilmore, Charles W xi, 29 

Goldring, Winifred 28 

Goldsborough, T. Alan 2, 7 

Goodman, Perci val 9 

Goodwin, Phillip L 9 

Governor of Cordoba 78 

Graf, John E., associate director, National Museum ix 

Graham, David C xi, 21 

Graham, William J 24 

Greene, Charles T x 

Guedet, Father Edward 21 

Guest, Grace Dunham xii 

Gunter, Herman 57 

Gurney, A. B 21 

H 

Hall, David G 21 

Hancock, Capt. G. Allan 27 

Harnwell, G. P. (Our knowledge of atomic nuclei) 189 

Harrington, John P xii, 4-5, 47, 58 

Harrison, George R. (Spectroscopy in industry) 203 

Hawkins, Herbert L. (Humanity in geological perspective) 253 

Heather, Jack 109 

Henderson, Edward P xi 

Henry, Robert 61 

Hess, Frank L xi 

Heude collection 21 

Highways, Historic American (Rose) 499 

Hill, James H., property clerk of the Institution ix 

HiU, W. W X 

Historic American highways (Rose) 499 

Hodgson, Ernest A. (The structure of the earth as revealed by seismology) _ 281 

Holabird, John A 9 

Holmberg, A 78 

Hoover, J. Edgar (Physical science in the crime-detection laboratory) — 215 

Hoover, William H xiii, 6, 15, 110 

Hopkins, A. D x 

Hopkins, Harry Lloyd, Secretary of Commerce (member of the Institution). ix 

Howard, L. O x 

Howe, George 9 

Howell, A. Brazier x 

Hrdhdka, Ale§ x, 2, 16, 22, 23 

Hudnut, Joseph 9 

Hughes, Charles Evans, Chief Justice of the United States (Chancellor of 

the Institution) ix, 7 

Hull, Cordell, Secretary of State (member of the Institution) ix, 33, 60 

Humanity in geological perspective (Hawkins) 253 

Hurricanes into New England: meteorology of the storm of September 21, 

1938 (Charles F. Brooks) 241 



560 INDEX 

I 

Page 

Ickes, Harold L., Secretary of the Interior (member of the Institution) ix 

International Exchange Service 5, 119 

depositories 67 

foreign exchange agencies 72 

personnel xiii 

report 65 

International Fisheries Commission 20 

J 

James, C. G. (The fringe of the sun: nebulium and coronium) 183 

Johnston, Earl S xiii, 113, 114, 115, 118 

Jones, H. Spencer (Is there life in other worlds?) 145 

Jones, Walter B 57 

Judd, Neil M x 

K 

KeUer, Kent E 9 

Kellogg, Remington x, 15, 29 

Keppel, Frederick P 8, 48 

Ketchum, Miriam B xiii, 63 

Killip, Ellsworth P xi, 2, 21, 27. 28 

Kol, Ersebet 16, 117 

Kress collection 34, 35, 38-46 

Kress, Samuel H 3, 34, 35, 38 

Foundation 3, 34, 38 

gift to National Gallery of Art 3 

Krieger, H- W x 

L 

Langley, Samuel P 22 

Lanham, Clifford 77 

Leonard, Emery C xi 

Levitt, Joel J 4 

Lewton, Frederick L xi 

Librarian of the Institution (William L. Corbin) ix, 125 

Library 17 

accessions 120, 123 

binding 125 

exchange of publications 119 

gifts.. 120 

personnel 119 

report 119 

Life in other worlds. Is there (Jones) 145 

Lincoln, Francis B 77 

Lockley, R. M. (The sea bird as an individual: results of ringing ex- 
periments) 341 

Lodge, John Ellerton, director. Freer Gallery of Art xii, 8, 48, 55 

Logan, M. M. (regent of the Institution) ix, 8 

Lynn, W. Gardner 20 



INDEX 561 



M 



Paffo 



Mabry, Thomas 9 

MacCardy, George Grant x 

Main hall exhibits 14 

Maloney, James O x 

Mann, William M., director, National Zoological Park x, xiii, 15, 105 

Manning, Mrs. C. L xii 

Manning, Harry F__ 9 

Manship, Paul 8, 48 

Marshall, William B xi 

Mather, Frank Jewett, Jr 8, 48 

Matters of general interest 8-18 

Maury, Matthew Fontaine 22 

Maxon, W. R xi 

McAlister, Edward D xiii, 112, 113 

McAtee, W. L x 

(Biologic balance on the farm) 319 

McBride, Harry A xii, 3, 33 

McClellan, George B 8, 48, 49 

McMillan, Neil T. (Birds and the wind) 355 

McNary, Charles L. (regent of the Institution) ix, 8 

Meier, Florence E xiii, 116, 117 

(Plankton in the water supply) 393 

Mellon, Andrew W 32 

Mellon art collection 1, 3, 32 

Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, The A. W 32, 36, 37 

Mellon Gallery. {See National Gallery of Art.) 

MeUon, Paul 3, 32, 33, 34 

Members of the Institution ix 

Merriam, C. Hart xi 

Merriam, John C. (regent of the Institution) ix, 8 

Metcalf , Maynard M _. x 

Meteorology of the storm of September 21, 1938, Hurricanes into New 

England (Charles F. Brooks) 241 

Miller, Gerrit S., Jr x 

Minister of Agriculture, Argentina 78 

Miser, Hugh D. (Our petroleum supply) 303 

Mitchell, James A 9 

Mitman, Carl W xi, 14 

Modern growth of the totem pole on the northwest coast (Barbeau) 491 

Modern trends in air transport (Durand) 513 

Montezuma solar observatory 6, 109 

Moodey, Margaret W xi 

Moore, A. F 15, 109 

Moore, Charles 48 

Moore, J. Percy x 

Moore, R. Walton (regent of the Institution) ix, 8, 139 

Moore- McCormack Lines, Inc 78 

Morgenthau, Henry, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury (member of the Institu- 
tion) ix 

Morris, Roland S. (regent of the Institution) ix, 8 

Morrison, Joseph P. E x 



562 ESDEX 

Page 
Morton, Conrad V xi 

Mount Wilson observatory 6, 15, 110 

Murphy, Frank, Attorney General (member of the Institution) ix 

Museum of Comparative Zoology 21 

Myer fund. The Catherine Walden 4, 49 

N 

National Broadcasting Co 10 

National Collection of Fine Arts 4 

accessions 47, 48, 49 

appropriation 47 

exhibitions 51 

library 51, 120, 123, 125 

loans 49 

publications 51 

report 47 

staff xii 

witlidrawals 50 

National Gallery of Art 1,3 

appropriation 36 

cost 37 

Kress collection 34, 35, 38 

loans 36 

personnel xii, 3, 33, 34 

report 32 

trustees xii, 3, 32, 33 

National Geographic Society, Smithsonian expedition to Mexico in co- 
operation with 2, 4 

National Geological Survey of China 20 

National Museum 2 

collections 19 

exhibitions 30 

explorations and field work 22 

library 120, 123, 124, 125 

personnel x, 30 

pubHcations and printing 30, 128, 129, 130, 131 

report 19 

visitors 29 

W. P. A. assistance 30 

National Park Service, Argentina 78 

National Zoological Park 5 

accessions 80, 85, 86 

animals in Park June 30, 1939 86 

appropriation 76 

field work 78 

Geologic exhibits in the (Bassler) 265 

improvements 76 

library 123 

removals 84 

report 76 

restaurant 78 

staff xiii 

visitors 79 



INDEX 563 

Page 

Nebulium and coronium, The fringe of the sun: (James) 183 

New exhibits in the Smithsonian main haU 14 

Nickles, John M 2, 21 

Noyes, Eliot F 9 

O 

Oehser, Paul H xii, 129 

Office of Education. United States 10 

Officials, list of ix-x 

Oliver, Lawrence L xii 

Olmsted, A. J xii 

Olmsted, Helen A., personnel officer of the Institution ix 

Outstanding events 1-2 

P 

Page, Stanley H 22 

Paine, R. G x 

Palmer, Theodore S xj 

Paranjpe, M. M 6,106,107 

Pendray, Edward G. (Tlie story of the Time Capsule) 53$ 

Perkins, Frances, Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution) ix: 

Perkins, G. Holmes 9 

Perrygo, W. M 15,20,27 

Personnel ofBcer of the Institution (Helen A. Olmsted) ix 

Peter and Stubbins 9 

Petroleum supply. Our (Miser) 303 

Phillips, Duncan xii, 32 

Physical interpretation of the weather (Woolard) 223 

Physical science in the crime-detection laboratory (Hoover) 215 

Pichetto, Stephen 3, 34 

Plankton in the water supply (Meier) 393 

Plants, The problem of conserving rare native (Fernald) 375 

Post Ofhce Department 22 

President of the L'^'nited States (Franklin D. Roosevelt) ix, 7, 26, 35 

Presidential cruise of 1938 to Galdpagos Islands 2, 15, 20, 21, 26 

Presiding officer ex officio (Franklin D. Roosevelt) ix 

Price, Waterhouse & Co 37 

Printing and binding allotments 132 

appropriations 17, 132 

Problem of conserving rare native plants. The (Fernald) 375 

Property clerk of the Institution (James H. Hill) ix 

Public Works Administration 6, 78 

Publications 16 

American Historical Association, Report of 131 

Annual Reports, Smithsonian 128 

Bureau of American Ethnology 131 

Daughters of the American Revolution, Report of 132 

National Museum 129 

bulletins 130 

Contributions from the U. S. National Herbarium 131 

Proceedings 129 

report 129 

197855 — 40 37 



564 INDEX 



Publications — Continued. Paga 

report on 126 

Secretary's report 129 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 126 

Special 129 

R 

Radiation and Organisms, Division of 2,6 

chlorophyll formation and measurement 113 

equipment and materials 117 

papers presented at meetings 117 

personnel xiii, 117 

photosynthesis 112 

plant growth investigations 114 

publications 7, 118 

report 112 

stimulative action of ultraviolet radiation 116 

Radio program 1, 10-12 

Ranger Fund, The Henry Ward 50 

Rathbun, Mary J xi 

Reberholt, Bertel O xi 

Redfield, Edward W 8 

Regents of the Institution ix, 7 

proceedings of the Board 8 

Rehder, Harald A x 

Reid, E. D x, 20 

Reid, M. E 116 

Research Corporation of New York 112 

Resser, Charles E xi 

Retirement system 1, 13 

Rice, Arthur P x 

Riley, J. H x 

Ringing experiments, results of. The sea bird as an individual: (Lockley)__ 341 

Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr xiii, 5, 16, 58, 59, 60 

Roebling fund 21 

Roebling, John A 106, 109, 111 

Rohwer, G 27 

Rohwer, S. A x 

Roosevelt, Franklin D., President of the United States (member of the 

Institution) ix, 7, 26, 35 

Rose, Albert C. (Historic American highways) 499 

Rosson, Elizabeth W_ xi 

Russell, J. Townsend x 

S 

Saarinen, Eliel 1 

and Eero 9 

Schaller, W. T xi 

Schaus, William x 

Schmitt, Waldo L x, 2, 15, 26, 27 

Schultz, Leonard P x, 16, 20, 27 

Schwartz, Benjamin x 

(Trichinosis in swine and its relationship to public health) 413 



INDEX 565 

Pagt 

Scientific stafif x-xiif 

Scott, Maj. Gen. Winfield 22 

Sea bird as an individual: result of ringing experiments, The (Lockley) 341 

Searle, Harriet Richardson x 

Searles, Stanley . xiii, 62, 131 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution (Charles G. Abbot) iii, ix, xii, 18, 32 

Secretary of State (Cordell Hull). 32 

Secretary of the Treasury (Henry Morgenthau, Jr.) 32 

Seismology, The structure of the earth as revealed by (Hodgson) 281 

Setzler, Frank M x, 14, 16 

Shamel, H. Harold x 

Shepard, Donald D xii, 3, 32, 33, 34 

Shepley, Henry R 9 

Shoemaker, C. R x 

Shoemaker, Coates W xiii 

Simpson, J. Clarence 57 

Sinclair, Charles C xii 

Sir6n, Osvald.. 4,54 

Smith, H. Carrington (On the frontier of British Guiana and Brazil) 325 

Smith, Hobart M 2, 12, 13,20 

Smith, Hugh M_ xi 

Smithson, James, will of 7 

Smithsonian Art Commission 4, 8, 47 

Smithsonian deposit in Library of Congress 123 

Smithsonian Gallery of Art. _ 1,8 

Commission 8, 54 

competition for design of building 8 

prize-winning design award 9 

Smithsonian Institution Employees Retirement System 1, 13 

Soapstone, The use of, by the Indians of the eastern United States (Bush- 

neU) 471 

Solar energy for heating water, Use of (F. A. Brooks) 167 

Spectroscopy in industry (Harrison) 203 

Speiser, E. A. (Closing of the gap at Tepe Gawra) 437 

Spinden, Herbert J 14 

(Sun worship) 447 

Stanton, T. W xi 

Stejneger, Leonhard x, 23 

Stevenson, John A xi 

Steward, Julian H xiii, 5, 16, 60 

Stewart, T. Dale x, 16, 23, 24 

Stiles, C. W xi 

Stirling, Matthew W., chief, Bureau of American Ethnology., xii, 2, 4, 27, 56, 64 

Stone, Edward D 9 

Story of the Time Capsule, The (Pendray) 533 

Structure of the earth as revealed by seismology. The (Hodgson) 281 

Summary of the year's activities of the branches of the Institution 2 

Sun, The fringe of the (James) 183 

Sun worship (Spinden) 14, 447 

Swanson, Claude A., Secretary of the Navy (member of the Institution) _ ix 

Swanton, John R xii, 4, 16, 56, 57 

Swingle, W. T xi 



566 INDEX 

T Pag« 

Table Mountain solar observatory 6, 109 

Tarbell, Edmund C ._ 48 

Taylor, Frank A xi 

Tennessee Valley Authority 20, 21 

Tepe Gawra, Closing the gap at (Speiser) 437 

Time Capsule, The story of the (Pendray) 533 

Tolman, Ruel P., acting director. National Collection of Fine Arts xii, 48, 51 

Totem pole, The modern growth of the, on the northwest coast (Barbeau) . 491 

Treasurer of the Institution (Nicholas W. Dorsey) ix 

Trembly, R. H xii 

Trichinosis in swine and its relationship to public health (Schwartz) 413 

True, Webster P., editor of the Institution ix, 14, 132 

U 
Ulrich, E. O xi, 29 

Use of soapstone by the Indians of the eastern United States, The (Bush- 

nell) 471 

V 
Vaughan, T. Wayland xi 

Vice President of the United States (John N. Garner) ix, 7, 8 

W 

Walcott, Mary Vaux 4 

Walker, Egbert H xi 

Walker, Ernest P xiii 

Walker, John xii, 3, 33 

Wallace, Henry A., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institution) _ ix 

Walp, Lee 117 

Watkins, WilUam N xi 

Weather, Physical interpretation of the ( Woolard) 223 

Wedel, Waldo R x, 16,24,25,26 

Weiant, C. W 56 

Weintraub, Robert L xiii, 114, 115, 116 

Wenley, Archibald G xii 

Wetmore, Alexander, Assistant Secretary of the Institution (in charge of 

the Museum) ix, x, 20, 27, 31 

White House Steinway piano 19-20 

Whitebread, Charles xii 

Widener, Joseph E xii, 3, 34 

Willard, Bradford 28 

Willoughby, Marion F xi 

Wilson, Charles Branch x 

Wood, Casey A x 

Woodhouse, Samuel W x 

Woodring, Henry Hines, Secretary of War (member of the Institution) ix 

Woolard, Edgar W. (Physical interpretation of the weather) 223 

Work Projects Administration 6 

Works Progress Administration 4, 10 

World is Yours, The (Smithsonian radio program) 10, 59 

W. P. A 76, 117. 119, 125 



INDEX 567 

Y Paw 

Yeager & Co., William L 139 

Young, Mahonri M 8,48 

Yuan, T. L 5,66 

Z 

Zipf, O. R 116 

Zoological Park, National 5 

accessions 80, 85, 86 

animals in Park June 30, 1939 86 

appropriation 76 

field work 78 

improvements 76 

library 123 

removals 84 

report 76 

restaurant 78 

staff siii 

visitors 79 

o 



