ANNUAL EEPOUT 



OF THE 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN^ mSTITUTION, 



SHOWING 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



FOR THE 



YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1899. 



REPORT 

OF THE 

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 
1901. 



AN ACT PROVIDING FOR THE PUBLIC PRINTING AND BINDING, AND THE 
DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLIC DOCUMENTS. 

Approved January 12, 1895. 

"Of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution, ten thousand copies; one thousand 
copies for the Senate, two thousand for the House, five thousand for distribution by 
the Smithsonian Institution, and two thousand for distribution by the National 
Museum." 



REPORT 



U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 



UNDER THE DIRECTION OF 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



YEAR ENDING- JUNE 30, 1899. 



REPORT OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR 
ENDING JUNE 30, 1899. 



SUBJECTS. 

I. Report of the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 
with Appendices. 

II. Papers describing and illustrating Collections in the U. S. 
National Museum. 



United States National Museum, 

Under direction op the Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, October 1, 1890. 
Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present 
condition of the United States National Museum, and upon the work 
accomplished in its various departments during the liscal year ending 
June 30, 1899. 

Very respectfully, 

Richard Rathbun, 

Assistant Secretary. 
Mr. S. P. Langley, 

Secretary., Smithsonian Institution. 



CONTENTS. 

Page. 

Subjects ^ 

Letter of transmittal ^'" 

Contexts ''^ 

List of illustrations ^^ 

PART I. 

Import of the Assistant Secretary. 

CiENERAL considerations. 

Buildings ^ 

The collections ^ 

Additions ' 

Installations 

Explorations and researches 1^' 

Public benefits of the Museum ^ 

Library 

Publications 

Reports of Head Curators. 

Report on the department of anthropology for the year 1898-99 17 

Field work ^"^ 

1 o 

Collections received 

Installation work 

Division of ethnology 

Division of history 

Division of mechanical technology 22 

22 
Section of graphic arts 

Division of religions •-■ - ■ 

Division of prehistoric archaeology 2.3 

Research and publications 23 

Report on the department of biology for the year 1898-99 25 

Improvements in the exhibition halls 25 

Accessions 

on 

Work on the study series 

Field work 

32 
Investigations 

Personnel 

Report on the department of geology for the year 1898-99 37 

Organization - - • 

• 37 

Accessions 

Present condition of collections - 

Research 

Sources of new material 

Assistance afforded students and investigators 47 

Storage and workrooms 

IX 



X CONTENTS. 

SUMMARY OF THE OPERATIONS OF THE YEAR. 

Page. 

The Museum staff 51 

Appropriations and expenditures 51 

Buildings 53 

Accessions and registration 53 

Distribution and exchange 55 

Visitors 57 

Students and investigators 58 

Cooperation of the Executive Departments of the Government 62 

Information furnished 62 

PubUcations 63 

Library 64 

Explorations 65 

Taxidermy and osteology 68 

Photography 68 

Expositions _ 68 

Necrology 69 

APPENDICES. 

I. The Museum staff 71 

II. List of accessions during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1899 73 

III. Statement of the distribution of specimens during the fiscal year ending 

June 30, 1899 117 

lY. Bibliography of the U. S. National Museum for the fiscal year ending 

June 30, 1899 125 

Y. Papers published in separate form during the year ending June 30, 1899. . 151 

PART II. 
Papers Describing and Illustrating Collections in the U. S. National Museum. 

1. Guide to the Study of the Collections in the Division of AppHed Geology. 

The Nonmetallic Minerals. By George P. Merrill 155 

2. A Primitive Frame for Weaving Narrow Fabrics. By Otis Tuf ton Mason . . 485 

3. An Early West Virginia Pottery. By Walter Hough 511 

4. Pointed Bark Canoes of the Kutenai and Amur. By Otis T. Mason 523 

5. Descriptive Catalogue of a Collection of Objects of Jewish Ceremonial 

Deposited in the U. S. National Museum by Hadji Ephraim Benguiat. 

By Cyrus Adler and I. M. Casanowicz 539 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



PLATES. 



Guide to the Study of the Collections in the Section of Applied GeolocxY: 
The Nonmetallic Minerals. 

By George P. Merrill. 

Facing page. 

1. View showing wall and rail cases and installation of nonmetallic minerals 

on gallery of southwest court, U. S. National Museum. Looking west.. 155 

2. View showing rail case and installation of nonmetallic minerals in gallery 

of southwest court of U. S. National Museum. Looking north 155 

3. Views in graphite mine near Hague, Warren County, New York. From 

photographs by C. D. Walcott 1"0 

4. Section of the salt deposits at Stassfurt. From the Transactions of the 

Edinburg Geological Society, V, 1884, p. Ill 204 

5. Views of brine-evaporating tanks at Syracuse, New York. From photo- 

graphs by I. P. Bishop 210 

6. View of Tripoli mines in Carthage, Missouri 218 

7. Deposit of diatomaceous earth, Great Bend of Pitt River, Shasta County, 

California. From a photograph by J. S. Diller 218 

8. Map showing distribution of corundum and peridotite in the eastern 

United States. After J. V. Lewis, Bulletin II, North Carolina Geolog- 
ical Survey 222 

9. Microstructure of emery. After Tschermak, Mineralogische und Petro- 

graphische Mittheilungen XIV, Part 4 224 

10. Section showing the formation of manganese deposits from decay of lime- 

stone. After Penrose, Annual Report Geological Survey of Arkansas, 

I, 1890 252 

11. Botryoidal psilomelane, Crimora, Virginia. Specimen No. 66722, U.S.N.M . 255 

12. Views showing occurrence of Calcite in Iceland. After Thoroddsen 259 

13. View in a cement quarry near Whitehall, Ulster County, New York. 

From a photograph by N. H. Darton 268 

14. View in a soapstone quarry, Lafayette, Pennsylvania 319 

15. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) kaolinite and (2) washed 

kaolin 330 

16. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) halloysite and (2) leda clay. 331 

17. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) Albany County, Wyoming, 

clay and (2) fuller's earth 332 

XI 



XII LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Facing page. 

18. Leda clays, Lewiston, Maine. From a photograph by L. H. Merrill 333 

19. View in a kaolin pit, Delaware County, Pennsylvania 339 

20. Map showing phosphate regions of Florida. After G. H. Eldridge 366 

21. Borax mine near Daggett, California. Interior and exterior views 398 

22. View of a gypsum quarry. From a photograph by the Iowa Geological 

Survey "^08 

23. Peat beds overlying gold-bearing gravels, Mias, Russia. From a photo- 

graph by A. M. Miller 424 

24. Map showing the developed coal fields of the United States. From the 

Report of the Eleventh Census 426 

25. Map showing areas where bitumen occurs in the United States and 

Canada. From the Report of the Tenth Census 429 

26. Plan of Pitch Lake, Trinidad. After S. F. Peckham 442 

27. Nodule of gum copal from Congo River region, Africa. Specimen No. 

62717, U.S.N.M 457 

28. Microsection of mica schist used in making whetstone. Fig. 1, cut across 

foliation. Fig. 2, cut parallel to foliation 467 

29. View of novaculite quarry, Arkansas. After Griswold, Annual Report of 

the Geological Survey of Arkansas, III, 1890 468 

30. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) Arkansas novaculite and (2) 

Ratisbon razor hone. The dark bodies in (2) are garnets 470 

A Primitive Frame for "Weaving Narrow Fabrics. 
By Otis Tufton Mason. 

1. Zuni woman weaving ceremonial belt 510 

2. Patterns of garters and belts made in heddle frames in Helsingfors 510 

3. Loom with heddle frame for weaving silk braid ' 510 

4. Patent heddle frame No. 334320 510 

5. Belt and garter patterns from Pueblos 510 

6. Construction of Pueblo heddle frame 510 

7. Types of Pueblo heddle frames 510 

8. Types of Pueblo heddle frames 510 

9. Pueblo batten knives for beating home the weft 510 

An Early We.st Virginia Pottery. 

By Walter Hougu. 

1. Ware of the first period 522 

2. Ware of the first period 522 

3. Ware of the first period 522 

4. Ware of the first period 522 

5. Ware of the first period 522 

6. Ware of the second period 522 

7. Ware of the second period 522 

8. Tools of the potter 522 

9. Tools of the potter 522 

10. Tools of the potter 522 

11. Handle dies of the potter 522 

12. Bottles for slip painting 522 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. XIII 

Facing page. 

13. Koulette wheels for ornainentin^ pottery 522 

14. Stamps for ware 522 

15. Button molds, liuttons and figure staniiw for ware 522 

16. Molds 522 

17. Pipe molds 522 

18. Separators for ware and rest for ware in the kiln 522 

Pointed Bark Canoes of the Kutenai and Amuk. 
By Otis T. Mason. 

1. Kutenai canoe in motion 538 

2. Detail of Kutenai canoe 538 

3. Tuntjus pointed canoe 538 

4. Yakut pointed canoe 538 

5. Goldi pointed canoe 538 

Descriptive Catalocu'e of a Collection of Objects of Jewish Ceremonial Depos- 
ited IN the U. S. National Museum by Had.ti Ephraim Benguiat. 

By Cyrus Adler and I. M. Casanowicz. 

Facing page. 

1. Torah with pointers 546 

2. Wrappers for the Torah scroll 546 

3. Veil of the Holy Ark (Parocheth) 546 

4. Veil of the Holy Ark (Parocheth) 546 

5. Veil of the Holy Ark (Parocheth) 546 

6. Cover for the reading desk 546 

7. Torah scroll unrolled on the reading desk 546 

8. Rolls of the Book of Esther 548 

9. Ram's horn and Hanukah lamp 548 

10. Phylacteries and prayer book 550 

11. Phylacteries and bag 550 

12. Manuscript containing Psalms and various Prayers 550 

13. Prayershawl (Tallith) 552 

14. Utensils for Kiddush and Habdalah 552 

15. Two embroidered cushions used at the Passover Meal 554 

16. Ewer and basin used at the Passover Meal 554 

17. Dish used at the Passover Meal 554 

18. Cover for the unleavened bread at the Passover Meal 556 

19 Brass dish used at the Passover Meal 556 

20. Cover for green herbs at the Passover Meal 556 

21 . Vessels used at the Passover Meal 556 

22. Glass and plate used at the Passover Meal 556 

23. Piece of brocade used at the Passover Meal 556 

24. Linen table center used at the Passover Meal 556 

25. Serviette used at the Passover Meal 556 

26. Curtain for Booth (Sukkah) of the Feast of Tabernacles 558 

27. Curtain tie 558 

28. Wrapper for carrying child to synagogue 558 

29. Mezuzah and amulet 558 

30. Tapestries illustrating Biblical narratives 560 



XIV LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Facing page. 

31. Lithograph representing the passing of the Israelites through the Red Sea. 560 

32. Embroidery representing the story of the golden calf 560 

33. Tapestry representing the Judgment of Solomon 560 

34. Embroidery representing the Prophet Elijah fed by ravens 560 

35. Tapestry representing the story of Susanna • 569 

36. Tapestry representing the story of Judith and Holofernes 560 

TEXT FIGURES. 

Guide to the Study of the Collections in the Section of Applied Geology — 
The Nonmetallic Minerals. 

By George P. Merrill. 

Page. 

1. Block of limestone with alternating bands of sulphur. Sicily, Italy. Spec- 

imen No. 60932, U.S.N. M 179 

2. Cluster of halite crystals. Stassfurt, Germany. Specimen No. 40222, 

U.S.N.M 195 

3. Geological section of Petite Anse Island, Louisiana 201 

4. Cluster of sylvite crystals. Stassfurt, Germany. Specimen No. 40223, 

U.S.N.M 203 

5. Pisolitic bauxite. Bartow County, Georgia. Specimen No. 63335,U.S.N.M- 229 

6. Map showing geological relations of Georgia and Alabama bauxite deposits. 

After C. W. Hayes 235 

7. Section showing relation of bauxite to mantle of residual clay in Georgia. 

After C. W. Hayes 236 

8. Section across paint mine at Lehigh Gap, Pennsylvania. After C. E. Hesse. 242 

9. Section of mica veins in Yancey County, North Carolina. After W. C. 

Kerr 288 

10. Asbestos fibers. After G. P. Merrill, Proceedings of the U. S. National 

Museum, XVIII, p. 283 297 

11. Serpentine asbestos in massive serpentine. Specimen No. 72836, U.S.N.M. 302 

12. Maj) of Nitrate region, Chile. After Fuchs and De Launay 393 

13. Section through Sulphur Mountain, California. After S. F. Peckham 432 

A Primitive Frame for Weaving Narrow Fabrics. 
By Otis Tui-ton Mason. 

1. Chippewa heddle frame, carved from a single piece of wood 488 

2, 3. Masquakie heddle frame and shuttle 491 

4. Heddle from Helsingfors, Finland 493 

5. Heddle from Helsingfors, Finland, with shuttle 494 

6. Heddle and shuttle from Saalfeld, East Prussia 495 

7. Heddle and shuttle, set up for weaving; also warp holder. Saalfeld, East 

Prussia 496 

8. 9. Heddles from Stettin, North Germany 497 

10, 11. Heddles from Siena, Italy, and Lancaster,. Pennsylvania 499 

12. Heddle frame from Bristol, Connecticut 500 

13. Heddle frame from Bristol, Connecticut. On solid base connected by an 

ornamental leg 502 

14. Heddle from Maine, with healds disconnected at the top 503 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. XV 

Page. 

15. Sketches showing methods of attaching the heiilds to the crosshars in 

Tuehlo heddles 505 

16. Puehlo woman sitting on the ground and working heddle in weaving a 

belt 505 

17. Rude Zuni heddle frame for narrow garter 506 

18. Heddle from Zuni 507 

19. Batten from Guadalajara, Mexico, on the plan of the Pueblo heddles 508 

Pointed Bark Canoes of the Kutenai and Amur. 
By Otis T. Mason. 

1. Outline of Kalispel pointed canoe, showing curved bottom 529 

2. Pointed canoe of the Lake Indians, Washington 530 

3. Detail of the Lake Indian canoe, Washington 530 

4-6. Tungus paddle, Yakut paddle, Goldi paddle 536 



I> A^ li T I . 



K E P 11 T 



UrON THE 



CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM 
DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1899. 



RICHARD RATHBUN, 

ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



NAT MUS D9 1 



IlE3?»ORT 

UPON 



THE CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM 
DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1899. 



Richard Rathbun, 

Assistant Secretary of the Smiihsonian Institution. 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 

Mr. Charles D. Walcott, who, following upon the death of Doctor 
Goodo, had agreed to add to his duties as Director of the Geological 
Survey those of Acting Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution in charge of the National Museum, felt obliged to relinquish 
the latter position with the year ending June 30, 1898. During his 
incumbency there was a modification in the administration of the 
Museum, which consisted in gathering the different departments under 
three heads and placing three scientific men in charge of them as head 
curators. One, the Head Curator of Biology, Dr. F. W. True, by virtue 
of his appointment as Executive Curator, took charge of the executive 
office inmiediately following the retirement of Mr. Walcott, and admin- 
istered it with zeal and fidelity. The Secretary, who is by law Keeper 
of the Museum, has always retained the direction of its poHcy and 
attended personally to many of the important acts connected with its 
administration. His numerous and exacting duties made him feel the 
necessity of further aid in this direction, and in accordance with a reso- 
lution of the Board of Regents removing the restrictions placed upon 
the appointment of the writer as Assistant Secretary, in 1897, the latter 
has given a certain oversight to the affairs of the Museum, without, 
however, being able to spare sufficient time to supervise all of its 
details. 

The Secretary in his own report has expressed his appreciation of 
the value and efficiency of the services rendered by IVh'. Walcott to the 
Museum during the year and a half in which he was connected with 
it in an administrative capacity. It should be added that the Museum 
stiH has the benefit of Mr. Walcott's services as Honorary Curator of 
the Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology, and, beyond this, that his 
advice and his valuable aid have been given to the Museum on many 
occasions since his official administrative connection with it ceased. 

3 



4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

The present National Museum is an integral part and the direct out- 
growth of the Smithsonian Institution. In the fundamental law crea- 
ting the Institution, Congress provided for the erection of a building 
suitable for natural histor}^ collections, including a geological and 
mineralogical cabinet, and further ordered that — 

Wlienever suitable arrangements can be made from time to time for their reception, 
all objects of art and of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural 
history, plants, and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to the United 
States, which may l)e in the city of Washington, in whosesoever custody they may 
be, shall be delivered to such persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents 
to receive them, and shall be so arranged and classified in the building erected for 
the Institution as best to facilitate the examination and study of them; and when- 
ever new specimens in natural history, geology, or mineralogy are obtained for the 
Museum of the Institution, by exchanges of duplicate specimens, which the Regents 
may in their discretion make, or by donation, which they may receive, or other- 
wise, the Regents shall cause such new specimens to be appropriately classed and 
arranged. 

From the results of this legislation sprang the Museum, yet several 
propositions and institutions antecedent to the establishment of the 
Smithsonian Institution contributed to the origin and development of 
the present collections. 

To Doctor Goode's careful researches into the histor}^ of American 
scientific institutions the reader desiring to know the history of the 
National Museum in detail is referred.^ As far back as 1806 Joel Bar- 
low, the well-known author of Tlie Columbiad^ put forward a plan for 
the establishment of a national institution in which a general museum 
had a prominent part. The early students and public men of the United 
States fully recognized the importance, at least for natural history 
studies, of the gathering and preservation of collections, and many 
such turned toward Philadelphia, which, even after it ceased to be the 
national capital, continued for a time the scientific and literary center 
of the country. 

The first real scientific collection, both as regards material and 
arrangement, which came into the possession of the United States 
Government was the mineralogical cabinet of James Smithson (since 
unfortunately destroyed by fire), and this, with the results of the policy 
initiated in furtherance of the act incorporating the Smithsonian 
Institution, formed the basis of the present national collections. 

It is anticipating somewhat, however, to make this statement, since 
collections began to be brought together in Washington before the 
Smithsonian Institution was actually founded, although they were 
directly traceable to the Smithson bequest. Not long after its 
announcement there was formed in Washington, chiefly through the 
exertions of the Hon. Joel R. Poinsett, an organization under the title 

^ The Genesis of the National Museum. By G. Brown Goode. Report of the U. S. 
National Museum for 1891, pp. 273-380. 



REPORT OF A8STRTANT SECRETARY. 5 

of '"National Institution,'' later rhang-ed to "National Institute," 
whii'li had for its avowed purpose the direction of the Smithson 
be(iu(\st and the pursuit of objects in consonance with the terms of that 
foundation. This organization, ten years before the Smithsonian 
Institution was prepared to receive collections, gathered together ({uite 
a quantity of historical and natural history material, which was kept 
in the Patent Office, and which in 1802, upon the expiration of the 
charter of the Institute, was delivered to the National Museum, 
although a portion of the historical collection was retained at the 
Patent Office until as late as 1883. 

The first exploring expedition affording important collections was 
that under Lieutenant Wilkes, which started out in 1838. The 
material from this source was turned over to what was known as the 
National Cabinet of Curiosities, being a part of the National Institute 
and located in the Patent Office. Serious conflicts of authority arose, 
however, 1)etween the curator of the collection, the Commissioner of 
Patents, and the authorities of the National Institute, and in 1857 these 
collections were transferred to the Smithsonian Institution. As Doc- 
tor Goode has aptly put it: "From the marriage of the National Cabi- 
net of Curiosities with the Smithsonian Institution the National 
Museum of the United States was born." 

In 1850 Prof. Spencer F. Baird was appointed Assistant Secretary 
of the Institution, and, with the approval of Secretar}" Henry, he at 
once entered into relations with the numerous surveying parties then 
exploring throughout the western country to secure through them 
natural history and ethnological collections. Added to these were the 
exertions of officers of the Army engaged in similar work, some of 
whom were themselves experts in natural history or ethnology. 

In 1871 a new important avenue for increasing the collections of the 
National Museum was opened by the establishment of the Fish Com- 
mission, under the direction of Professor Baird. Many explorations 
have been carried on by the Commission with a view to increasing sci- 
entific knowledge, in order that results useful to the people might flow 
therefrom. One of the chief factors in this work has been the steamer 
Alhatross, especially built for dredging and for making collections of 
the fauna of the deep sea. 

These and numerous other agencies, whether through surveys or 
departments of the Government, through industrial and commercial 
enterprises pushing their way into the little-known regions of the west 
and north or through the zeal of private individuals, brought together 
a great mass of valuable, if heterogeneous, material, to which was 
added at the close of the exposition in 1876, partly by gift of foreign 
countries and partly from private exhibitors, so great a quantity of 
specimens as to render imperative the erection of a separate building 
for the national collections. 



6 EEPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

This structure, though built at a time when the conditions required 
for the proper care and display of large collections of natural history 
were by no means well understood, is yet admiral)ly adapted to 
museum exhibition purposes, lending itself readily both to arrange- 
ment and adjustment, and giving ample light. But though the plan 
was good, the realization was unworthy. The building is cheap and 
unenduring, and is, besides, without storage or laboratory facilities. 
For the area covered, its cost was less than that of any other building 
ever erected b}^ the Government, and the result is commensurate with 
that fact. Of its general plan many museum experts have only words 
of praise; of its unworthiness as the home of the national collections 
of this great nation there can be no question. 

The Museum building was ready for occupancy in 1881, and it was 
then deemed adequate for years to come. Yet such has not been the 
case. The additions to the collections have so far exceeded expecta- 
tions that more than ten years ago it was already overcrowded, although 
more than three-fourths of the Smithsonian building is still devoted to 
the same purposes, and houses some of the most important collections. 

The numh)er of specimens in the Museum is now nearly four and 
one-half millions, covering every department of knowledge, although 
strongest in the fields of natural science and ethnology. It is not 
possible here to name even the most important collections nor the 
sources from which they have been derived; nor would such a state- 
ment in any way give an adequate picture of the Museum. It is not 
the possession of collections, but their availability to the public at large 
and to students which really does credit to an establishment of this kind. 
Of this fact no one had a keener perception than Doctor Goode, who 
was associated with Professor Baird directly in the management of 
the Museum from 1878 to 1887, and from that 3"ear, upon his appoint- 
ment as Assistant Secretary, had complete oversight of all the details 
of its management. He had the most profound desire to make the 
collections available to the people, to have them arranged so that they 
might be seen, and to have them labeled so that they might bo instruct- 
ive. Himself a scientific man and in sympathy with scientific work, he 
yet regarded the public use of the Museum as its primary object, and 
well was this policy rewarded by accessions and gifts from this very 
public, which have gone to enrich not onl}^ the exhibition, but the 
duplicate collections, thus benefiting both classes for which the 
Museum was intended. So skillful was his handling of this delicate 
problem that neither interest ever clashed, and the one but served the 
other. 

The writer has presented these few brief statements, not with the 
idea of giving a history of the Museum, nor any sort of adequate 
recognition to the men who have had it in charge, but simply to show 
in outline what the purposes of the Museum have been ; how the devo- 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 7 

tion of its officers has made it grow; how the other Departments of the 
Government have strengthened it; how private persons all over the 
country have aided in buikling up and increasing- the importance of 
the national collections commensurate with the growth of intelligence 
and the development of research in a country so preeminently dcA'oted 
to the arts of peace as the United States. 

BUILDINGS. 

Through the construction of four new galleries and the leasing of 
three small buildings south of B street, some additional space has been 
gained during the year, but not more than was required to meet the 
urgent current demands caused by recent increases in the collections 
and the needs of the mechanical work. All of the galleries in 
question were designed for storage purposes, two to receive mainly 
the Geological Survey collections elsewhere referred to, one in 
part for the Division of Plants, and one for the overflow from the 
Library. In this connection it is interesting to note that the ten gal- 
leries erected during the past three years have added to the Museum 
building, which contained originally 140,625 square feet on the ground 
floor, an area of only about 22,600 feet, equivalent to about 16 per 
cent, while the collections have increased over twenty-fold since the 
first occupancy of the building in 1881. 

The renting of additional outside quarters has made it possible to 
remove from the Museum building or from its immediate vicinity all 
of the shops in which the heavier or more noisy kinds of work are 
carried on or whose contents constitute an element of danger from 
fire, such as the carpenter and paint shops, as well as the laboratories 
for several branches of specimen preparation. 

It becomes necessary, unfortunately, to call attention to certain 
structural weaknesses in the roof of the Museum building, disclosed ])y 
the great storm of February, 1899, which caused a number of the main 
iron girders to ])uckle badly and gave warning of more serious trouble 
in the near future unless ample precautions be promptly taken. The 
small size of the appropriation available for the purpose rendered it 
impossible to do more at the time than repair the inmiediate damage, 
but a thorough inspection will be made to determine what further 
action may be required. This roof was built some twenty years ago, 
before the extensive use of iron or steel in such constructions and 
when the conditions of their use in buildings of so great a width were 
but imperfectly understood. 

THE COLLECTIONS. 

Additirm.'i. —ThQ scientific collections have been increased during the 
year to the extent of over 210,000 specimens, comprised in 1,497 
accessions. The total number of specimens now in the Museum is 



8 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

recorded at above 4,355,000, without full}^ taking into account many 
hundreds of bottles of small organisms, which, were it possible to 
enumerate their contents, would swell the total almost incredibl3^ 

As the custodian of all specimens obtained by Government scien- 
tific expeditions, both at home and abroad, as the recipient of innu- 
merable gifts and exchanges from private sources, many of which 
have been of very large size, and by purchase, the National Museum 
has acquired a greater fund of material than any other similar estab- 
lishment in this country, while but few in Europe can equal or surpass 
it in this regard. With adequate and appropriate quarters it would 
soon take rank with the oldest and best museums of the world. 

Among the more important accessions of the jesiv in anthropology 
have been a collection of about 1,000 pieces representing the costumes, 
implements, and ceremonial objects of the Plains and Rocky Mountain 
Indians, brought together a number of years ago by M. E. Granicr, 
now of Paris, France; a second installment of the Steiner collection 
of prehistoric stone implements and other objects from the Indian 
mounds near Grove town, Georgia; and a part of the celebrated bas- 
ketry collection of Dr. W. J. Hudson, illustrating in nmch detail the 
exquisite workmanship of the Pomo Indians of California. The above 
were acquired by purchase. 

In biology the Museum is deeply indebted to Mr. W. H. Ashmead, 
one of its assistant curators, for the generous gift of his valuable pri- 
vate collection of insects, consisting of over 60,000 specimens and 
containing a very large number of types. The Division of Insects has 
now nearly 1,000,000 specimens, of which 125,000 were received the 
past year. This is the largest numerical showing made by any branch 
of the Museum, the Division of Mollusks coming next, followed l)y 
the Division of Marine Invertebrates. 

In geology mention may be made of the large collection of verte- 
brate fossils acquired by the U. S. Geological Survey-, which had lieen 
in the custody of Prof. O. C. Marsh, at Yale College. Since the death 
of this distinguished paleontologist the transfer of this collection to 
the National Museum has been arranged for by the Director of the 
Survey, and the work of bringing it to Washington was in progress at 
the close of the fiscal year. A very large amount of space will be 
required for its installation. 

The Government bureaus to which the Museum has been chiefly 
indebted for material are the Geological Survey, the Fish Commission, 
and several divisions of the Department of Agriculture. In addition 
to the Marsh collection, alread}" referred to, the Geological Survey has 
turned over during the year several important series of invertebrate 
and plant fossils described in its recent reports, besides a number of 
rock specimens and rare minerals. The Fish Commission has con- 
tributed a ver}'^ extensive and valuable collection from the island of 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 9 

Porto Rico and its vicinitj-, comprising fishes, marine invertebrates, 
and land animals, and also mucli material from other r(^o-ions. From 
the Department of Ag-riculture manmials, insects, and plants have been 
receiv.ed. 

Exchanges have been extensively carried on with scientific institu- 
tions in all parts of the world, and, as the returns have consisted mainly 
of specimens identified by competent authorities, making them imme- 
diatidy useful for comparison in the study of new material, the 
Museum has been greatly benefited bv these transactions. 

Insfallatlon. — The display collections in anthropology now occupy 
9 halls and 4 galleries, though all of these have not yet been made 
ready for the public. Much has been accomplished during the j^ear in 
the way of adding to these exhibits and improving them in every 
branch of the department and with most effective results. The 
changes are most conspicuous in the North Hall, or Hall of American 
History, from which all the cases of small size and odd pattern have 
been removed, to give place to 30 large cases of uniform and pleasing 
design, arranged in 4 rows, with roomy aisles between. The most 
important additions to the historical collections have related to the war 
with Spain, and these, owing to their number and the large size of 
some objects, have made it necessar}^ to extend this exhil)it into the 
central rotunda. The Boat Hall, occupying the North East Range, 
has also been entirely rehabilitated, a terrazzo pavement replacing the 
old wooden floor, and a very capacious case having been built around 
the four sides of the room. The boat collection, which has been 
assembled at the cost of much time and effort, is a very large and com 
prehensive one, representing by models and actual examples the 
primitive and modern crafts of all parts of the world, and its rear- 
rangement has been carried out in a systematic and instructive 
manner. 

Although chiefly occupied with the duties of Executive Curator, 
Doctor True has still been able to make some progress in the rein- 
stallation of the oxhilntion collections which come under his immediate 
charge as Head Curator of Biology. The plans for this work, as 
described in the report for 1898, contemplate a faunal basis for the 
iww arrangement, in which the fauna of North America shall have 
special prominence. The mounted specimens of mammals have been 
replaced in the South Hall, though only temporarily, pending the con- 
struction of new cases. The American species remain on the ground 
floor, while those of the Old World have been transferred to the 
recently constructed gallery above. 

The number of birds on display has been greatly reduced, though 
the space occupied remains the same, thus remedying the overcrowded 
condition of the cases, improving their appearance, and bringing the 
exhil)it more within the comprehension of the pu))lic. Plxperiments 



10 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

are also being- made to secure an effective li.^hting- of the large central 
part of the Bird Hall, which the absence of windows has rendered 
practicall}^ valueless for exhibition purposes. A series of the game 
birds and game fishes of North America has been placed in the entrance 
hall of the Smithsonian Building, and the exhibition collection of 
marine invertebrates has been rearranged and relabeled. 

In the Department of Geology the reinstallation in new ([uarters 
of the systematic series of nonmetallic products, the geographic series, 
and the building and ornamental stones has been nearly completed. 
The collection of meteorites has now become very extensive, and that 
of gems is not surpassed either in numbers or varieties by any pul^lic 
collection in this country. 

EXPLORATIONS AND RESEARCHES. 

Though having insufficient funds for making field explorations on 
an extensive scale, some work of this character, to fill in gaps in the 
collections, has been carried on nearly every year, the direction given 
it being along lines or into regions not covered by other Government 
bureaus. Realizing the practical utility of early researches into the 
natural history of the recently acquired possessions, an appropriation 
for that purpose was asked of Congress, and its failure of passage at 
the last session will, it is hoped, only defer the project for a short time. 
Soon after the close of hostilities an agent was dispatched to Cuba and 
Porto Rico to obtain material illustrative of the historical phases of 
the war with Spain. Much success was met both in securing collec- 
tions and in interesting persons on the ground to add to them. 

Important researches in California and Mexico, with reference to 
prehistoric man as well as the modern Indians, were conducted by Dr. 
W. H. Holmes, who brought back a large and interesting collection. 
Mr. J-. B. Hatcher is carrying on extensive inquiries in Patagonia for 
l)oth Princeton University and the National Museum, and one impor- 
tant lot of specimens has alread}^ been received from him. Dr. J. N. 
Rose and Dr. Walter Hough spent some time in Mexico in botanical 
and ethnological investigations, and a number of other small expedi- 
tions were in the field at one time or another during the yeaw their 
activities relating to several different subjects. 

As before explained, the explorations by which the Museum is mainly 
benefited are those conducted by the Geological Survey, the Fish Com- 
mission, and certain scientific divisions of the Department of Agricul- 
ture. Mention should also be made of the numerous contributions 
received from officers of the Army and Navy, whose opportunities for 
collecting have been greatly increased by the present activities in the 
military service. There have been man}^ accessions from these various 
sources during the year, and references to the field work in connection 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 11 

with which the spoeimons were obtained will l)c found (^stnvhcre in 
this rciport. 

While the scientific staff is constantly occupied with the routine 
duties involved in the care and installation of the collections, a num- 
ber of its meiii])ers have found time for research work and the prepara- 
tion of important scientific papers. Persons not belonging- to the 
staff and in part attached to other bureaus of the Govermnent have 
been given facilities for study, and specimens in many groups have 
been s(Mit away to specialists, both in this country and al)road, for 
examination and report. In this wa}^ the collec^tions are ])eing worked 
up and made known through the medium of the Museum publications, 
though not nearly so fast as they are added to. 

PUBLIC BENEFITS OF THE MUSEUM. 

The primary object of the Museum is to store and safeguard the 
Government and other collections confided to its care and to arrange 
and classify these collections so as to facilitate their study. This has 
been interpreted to include the display of such parts of the collections 
as may instruct the general public, the granting to properly qualified 
students of facilities for working up materials, and the preparation of 
sets of duplicate specimens for distribution to the educational institu- 
tions of higher grade throughout the country. 

A public museum is, of course, chiefly known through its accessi- 
bility to the visiting public, and a very large part of the work of the 
National Museum consists in the proper arrangement of carefully 
selected specimens in attractive cases with suitable labels attached. 
The force necessary to guard the collections and to keep the Iniilding 
open and in presentable condition uses up a large share of its energy 
and funds, and the American public is not slow to take advantage of 
the opportunity offered. During the past year 192,471 persons visited 
the Museum 1)uilding and 116,912 the Smithsonian building. It is not 
possible to fairly institute a comparison between the num])er of visit- 
ors to the National Museum at Washington and to great public museums 
elsewhere, whether national or municipal, since the latter are usually 
situated in the very largest cities in each State or country, with vast 
populations whence visitors may l)e drawn, while in Washington there 
is a comparatively small population, and it can be safely estimated that 
a very large percentage of the visitors to the Museum are from places 
other than the Capital, so that the influence of the Museum extends to 
every part of the country. 

Of almost equal importance as to results, though restricted to a 
small number, is the policy of rendering the collections accessible to 
properly accredited investigators and students. The Smithsonian 
Institution from the outset never engaged directly in teaching in any 
form, assuming that the many educational institutions throughout the 



12 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

countiT afforded ample facilities for this pm"pose, but its collections 
and to a certain extent even the time of the members of its scientific 
staff' have been at the service of students and scholars whose training 
warranted the expectation that their researches here would lie fruitful 
in the advancement of knowledge. An ever-increasing number of 
such persons have resorted to the Museum from time to time or have 
been sent material for examination, no less than 110 having l)ecn 
engaged in studies upon the collections during the past year. Their 
names and the special studies in which they were engaged will he 
found recorded elsewhere in this report. 

Yet another class of persons have made demands upon the Museum — 
those who, being unable to come to Washington, ask for information 
by letter. These are sometimes scientific men engaged in special work; 
more often the general public desiring answers to some question, 
wishing to have some specimen which they have picked up identi- 
fied, or other matters of this sort. All subjects with which the 
Museum has to deal and, indeed, many which in no way come within 
its scope have been included in this correspondence. Whenever the 
requests for information have been at all reasonable or have come 
within the province of the Museum or the knowledge of an}^ member of 
its staff', such letters have been answered, although they entail an ever- 
increasing amount of research and time. 

In the collections which reach the Museum there are naturally many 
duplicates, and these are used for two purposes — first, for exchanges 
with other museums, thereby furnishing a means for filling gaps in 
the collections, and secondly, in furtherance of the general plan for 
the diff'usion of knowledge, being prepared in small sets, labeled, and 
sent to educational institutions of the higher grades throughout the 
United States. 

Since the first international exposition in the United States, held at 
Philadelphia in 1876, there have been many such, either international 
in scope or of sufiicient importance to receive recognition from Con- 
gress. All Congressional acts authorizing and aiding expositions in 
this country have directed participation by the Smithsonian Institution 
and its bureaus, and the collections which have been sent to them have 
invariably been drawn, in the main, from the National Museum. This 
participation of the Museum has recognized advantages to the country, 
in rendering public-spirited persons in different localities familiar with 
museum benefits and methods, and to it are directly traceable the 
founding of several museums. It has also at times resulted in con- 
siderable accessions to the National Museum, although of later years 
these have been less valuable than formerly. 

There are, however, on the other hand, certain disadvantages of which 
mention should l)e made. Expositions have followed each other so 
closely that there is hardly a time when a portion of the Museum staff 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 13 

is not cng-aged in planning- for or taking- part in one or unpacking and 
replacing the specanicns which have been returned. The collections 
which are sent out necessarily suffer to some extt^nt, and while it has 
been the policy of the Museum not to exhibit in the pei-ishahle struc- 
tures usuall}' built for such purposes any unique object or one which 
could not l)e replaced, uiany excellent specimens have been displayed at 
every exposition in which the Museum has been represented, and these 
have unquestionably deteriorated. Should the holding of expositions 
in the country continue at such brief intervals as during the past ten 
years, and the Museum be expected to participate in all of them, it 
would seem almost necessary that a special duplicate collection for 
these purposes be kept on hand, since it is not only the injury to the 
specimens which is to be deplored, but the constant interference with 
the arrangement of the collections and the great amount of labor 
expended in removing specimens from their cases and in properly 
replacing- them. 

At the Trans-Mississippi and International Exposition held at Omaha 
during the summer and early autumn of 1898 the several scientific 
departments of the Museum were extensively represented in connection 
with the Government display. 

The participation of the Government Departments and bureaus in 
two other expositions has been authorized by Congress during the past 
year. The first of these, the Pan-American, will be held at Bufialo in 
1901, and the second, the Ohio Centennial, at Toledo in 1902 or 1903. 
In each case $500,000 has been appropriated, $200,000 being for the 
buildings and 1300,000 for the exhibits. The preliminary arrange- 
ments for the Pan-American Exposition had so far progressed before 
the close of the year as to call for the appointment of representatives 
composing the Government board of management. Dr. Frederick W. 
True has been designated to act for the Museum in this capacity. 

LIBRARY. 

Through the purchase, by special act of Congress, of the scientific 
lilH-ary of the late Doctor Goode, the Museum has secured a very note- 
worthy addition. This collection comprises 2,900 bound volumes, 
18,000 pamphlets, and 1,800 portraits, autographs, etc., and contains 
many rare and valuable publications, being especially rich in the liter- 
ature of museums and of fishes. Its acquisition increases the size of 
the working library belonging to the Museum to some 15,000 books 
and 26,500 pamphlets, but besides this, in order to meet the require- 
ments of the scientific work, the Smithsonian collection has at all times 
to be largely drawn upon, and the accommodations assigned the library 
have long since been outgrown. A gallery has recently been built 
across one end of the West North Range to afi'ord relief, but it can 
only be regarded as a temporarj^ expedient. 



14 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

The publications issued during the year comprise live vohimes, 
namely: The Annutil Report for 1896; volume 20 of the Proceedings 
in bound form, and the separate papers of volume 21; and parts 2 and 
3 of the important bulletin entitled "The Fishes of North and Middle 
America," by Doctors David S. Jordan and Barton W. Evermann. 
The number of scientific papers based upon Museum collections which 
have ])cen printed, chiefly in the above volumes though to some extent 
in outside journals, is 318, representing 75 authors. 



REPORTS OF HEAD CURATORS. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY By William M. Holmes. 

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY By Frederick W. True. 

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY By George P. Merrill. 



15 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY 
FOR THE YEAR 1898-99. 

By William H. Holmks, 
Head Curator. 

During the year a number of important changes have been made in 
the manner of transacting the business of the Department of Anthro- 
polog3^ Some of the changes relate to the abbreviation of the routine, 
but the most important ones result from the introduction of the card- 
catalogue system into the work of the Department stati', and the keep- 
ing of all the catalogue books by a recording clerk in the office of the 
head curator. Formerly, separate books were assigned to the several 
divisions and independent sections. This work is now conducted l)y a 
single expert assistant, and the curators and other keepers of the col- 
lections make card catalogues for their own use. 

FIELD WORK. 

No systematic field work is provided for by the Museum, but limited 
funds are available for use when especially important results are 
promised. The work for the year has been as follows: 

The head curator spent September and part of October in California 
visiting various Indian tribes and giving particular attention to the 
question of man's antiquity in the Sierra region. Interesting ethno- 
logical collections were made representing the Digger, the Pomo, and 
the Tulare tribes, and much archreological material was secured in the 
auriferous-gravel region, in the San Joaquin Valley, in the vicinity 
of Los Angeles, and on the island of Santa Catalina. A visit to the 
Indian tribes of New Mexico and Arizona was planned, but was aban- 
doned because of the epidemic of smallpox which was discovered to 
be raging among many of the pueblos. 

On the breaking otit of the war with Spain it was recognized that 
an important epoch in our national history had been initiated, and 
measures were taken to secure for the Museum such relics and memen- 
tos of the campaign as would be of interest to the people. The War 
Department and the Navy Department were appealed to, and Mr. Paul 
Beckwith, assistant in the Section of American History, was sent to 
€uba and Porto Rico to act as agent for the Institution. Mr. Beck- 
with's visit to Cuba was cut short by the breaking out of yellow fever, 
but in Porto Rico between four and five months were spent, chiefly at 
Ponce, and many valuable additions were made to the historical series, 
and, besides, a number of archaeological objects were secured. Unfor- 
tunately, a considerable portion of the collections, delivered to trans- 
portation agents at San Juan, never reached the Museum. 

NAT MUS 99 2 ^' 



18 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899, 

After returning from Porto Rico, Mr. Beckwith paid visits to Nor- 
follv, Brookl^ni, Philadelphia, and other points, for the purpose of 
examining and securing such objects of interest as had reached the 
navy -yards from various points, and more especiall}^ from the war 
vessels destro^^ed by our fleet at Santiago de Cuba. 

In April the head curator was invited to be the guest of Mr. George 
Brackenridge, of San Antonio, Texas, on a trip to various points in 
Mexico. The journey afforded him an opportunity of revisiting sev- 
eral points of interest, including the valley of Mexico, San Juan 
Teotihuacan, and Orizaba, and of examining for the first time two of 
the most interesting archaeological sites in Mexico, namel}^, the ruins 
of Xochicalco, near Cuernavaca, state of Morelos, and the obsidian 
mines of Hidalgo. At the latter place valuable observations were 
made and many minor relics illustrative of the quarrying and shaping 
of the obsidian by the ancient Nahuatl tribes were obtained. 

Toward the latter part of May, Dr. Walter Hough, assistant curator 
of the Division of Ethnolog}", joined Dr. J. N. Rose, of the Division 
of Botan3% in an extended excursion into Mexico. Three months 
were spent in the field and Doctor Hough was enabled to make the 
acquaintance of the native peoples at many points and to secure col- 
lections of interest in ethnology, ethnobotany, and archeology. 

COLLECTIONS RECEIVED. 

The more important collections received through gift, purchase, 
and exchange during the year may be briefly mentioned: 

1. A collection of 121 specimens of Polynesian ethnological objects, 
brought together mainly b}^ Mr. Henry Adams and acquired through 
the bequest of Mr. W. H. Phillips, of which the archaeological por- 
tions were recorded during the preceding year. 

2. Two hundred and thirty-four objects illustrating the potter's 
art as practiced in early daj^s in Morgantown, West Virginia, pre- 
sented by Miss Jennie Thompson through Dr. Walter Hough. The 
period covered extends from 1790-1888. 

3. A collection of considerable importance embodying archaeological 
and ethnological materials from Mexico and Central America, pur- 
chased from Mr. E. W. Nelson, who spent a number of years travel- 
ing and collecting in these countries. 

4. A large number of well-preserved specimens of ancient mound 
potter}^, acquired by purchase from Mr. G. F. Morris, of Memphis, 
Tennessee. 

5. A collection of 18 ancient Peruvian trephined skulls, brought 
together by Dr. M. A. Munniz and acquired through the Bureau of 
American Ethnology. 

6. The most important collection received b}^ the Division of Eth- 
nology during the year was purchased from M. Emil Grauier, of 



KEPOKT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 19 

Paris. It coriisists mainly of ethnological niatorials collected from the 
Indian tribes of the middle- western section of the United States. 

INSTALLATION WORK. 

Division of EthnoJixjij. — The installation work of the Division of 
Ethnoloo-y i« under the direct supervision of Prof. O. T. Mason, 
curator, who has been ably supported by Dr. Walter Hough, assistant 
curator, and T. W. Sweeny, preparator. Dr. J. Walter Fewk(\s and 
Mrs. M. C Stevenson have most generously lent their aid in the 
Pueblo section, and the head curator has taken an active part in plan- 
ning and promoting the work. The following halls and galleries are 
occupied by the division: West North Range, North West Range, 
North West Court Gallery, West Hall, and West Hall Gallery, north 
side. 

Collections illustrating many of the Indian tribes of the United 
States and Canada have been assembled in the West North Range 
whose walls are occupied l)y the great series of Catlin paintings, an 
appropriate association, considering that the peoples represented in 
the collections are in large part those among whom Catlin worked. 
The principal series of cases have been arranged to form two sets of 
alcoves, eight on the south side and eight on the north, each alcove 
devoted to a single ethnographic province. 

Although the exhibits are not yet as complete as could be desired, 
they form undoubtedly the most complete exposition of the great 
group of tribes represented ever brought together. 

Within the alcoves the collections are grouped as to subject-matter, 
first by tribes and second by industrial or other cultural concepts, 
such as costume, weapons, and basketry. The installation unit is the 
case, the half case, and the unit box. The labels are carefully drawn 
up to serve as a key to the classification and grouping. The alcove 
labels, standing for ethnic provinces are of generous dimensions and 
are placed at the back of the alcoves, above the wall cases. The case 
or section labels, standing for ethnic and industrial subdivisions, are 
smaller and are placed against the upper edge of the cases or at other 
points in close connection with the exhibits to which thev pertain. 

Brief individual labels are employed in connection with the speci- 
mens. The system of labeling is carried out, so far as it happens to 
be applicable, in the other halls of the Department. 

The wide aisle extending lengthwise of the hall accommodates a 
series of large cases occupied mainly b}^ lay-figure groups. It is 
intended that the floor space in each alcove shall, in time, contain a 
family group illustrating some typical tribe of the province repre- 
sented by the alcove; but as this is not practicable at present, house 
groups on a small scale, showing how the people of the province live, 
are used, or otherwise miscellaneous exhibits are introduced to fill the 
spaces. 



20 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

This hall was until recently occupied for lecture purposes. Its 
permanent assignment to the Division of Ethnology has enabled the 
curators to place on exhibition a large body of material not heretofore 
shown. 

The North West Range contains exhibits from the northwest coast 
Indian tribes and the Eskimo. The only change made during the year 
had to do with the reinstallation of collections, especially the larger 
objects, the aim being to enhance the general effect of the hall. The 
removal of the long-coiled radiators which formerly occupied the 
floor along the entire west side, and the substitution of a continuous 
line of cases, was accomplished during the previous year and added 
greatly to the capacity and effect of the hall. 

The geographical order of the exhibits and the peoples represented 
are kept in mind. In passing from Alcove VIII of the West North 
Range, where the Yukon-Mackenzie province is shown, are encountered 
at the north end of the hall a large group of exhibits illustrating the 
Northwest Coast peoples. These occupy the north and west walls, 
parts of the east and south walls, and a number of floor cases. Eskimo 
collections fill most of the floor cases toward the south, and the wall 
cases and wall spaces in the east and south. In the window spaces are 
a line of transparencies, the views relating mainly to the peoples 
represented in the collections of the hall. 

The North West Court, which contains the series of exhibits from 
the Pueblo tribes of the arid region of the Southwest, has received 
much attention during the year. Doctor Fewkcs has arranged an 
extensive series of Tusayan vases on the west side and Mrs. Steven- 
son has installed a case illustrating the use of prayer sticks by the 
Pueblo tribes. The collection of modern pottery has been overhauled 
and a series of unit boxes containing baskets, textile products, cere- 
monial objects, etc. , has been placed on top of the wall case surrounding 
the hall. 

The Gallery of the North West Court has not yet been opened to the 
public. The new wall case was finished about the close of the year 
and the installation of collections from Mexico and Central and South 
America has been commenced. The case on the west and north sides 
of the gallery is temporarily occupied by the very extensive collection 
of l)asketry which Professor Mason is engaged in studying. 

West Hall is occupied mainly by collections illustrating the various 
peoples of Europe, Asia, and Africa. These have been partially rein- 
stalled during the year. The gallery on the north side has been fur- 
nished with alcoved wall cases, and collections from the Indo-Pacific 
have been placed in them. The work of installation is not yet com- 
plete. Professor Mason has prepared a great number of labels during 
the year and many of these have been typewritten and placed with the 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 21 

exhibits. Many lal)cl8 for alcoves, cases, and oroups prepared during 
the year have been submitted to the printer. 

Dirislon of Tlhfory. — In no other section of the Department has such 
decided advance been made as in that of American history. This 
branch is under the custodianship of Mr. A. Howard Clark, hut as he 
is necessarilv nuich preoccupied with editorial duties, a great deal of 
th(^ work has fallen to the share of his assistant, Mr. Paul lieckwith; 
and the head curator has from the start given all possil)le aid and 
encouragement to the work, which he regards as of first importance 
in the national collection. 

At the beginning of the preceding fiscal year the exhibits of the 
section were confined to a few cases in the North Hall. The floor 
space then accounnodated the collections of ceramics, lacquers, coins, 
and metal work, besides many things of minor importance. Now% the 
historic collections occupy the floor space almost exclusively and the 
Rotunda also is utilized by this section. Mr. Clark's report for the 
year contains the following paragraphs: 

During the last decade general interest in American history has rapidly increased, 
and to keep pace with this popular demand the Section of American History in the 
National Museum has been gradually developed until it has become one of the most 
instructive branches of the Museum. 

The year ending June .30, 1899, was an eventful one in American history, and the 
war with Spain caused public attention to be centered on the military as well as the 
political history of the country. To illustrate and perpetuate the history of events 
of the year, the head curator of the Department of Anthropology permitted an 
extension of the space heretofore allotted to historical relics and encouraged the col- 
lection of as many objects as possible that pertained to the war, and in making this 
special increase in the collection it was found possible to add considerably to the 
series of objects illustrating earlier events in the nation's history. 

The actual number of accessions during the year was 165, which included about 
1,027 individual specimens. Among the most important may be mentioned a large 
numljer of objects gathered by Mr. Beckwith during a trip to Porto Rico and Cuba, 
including a very exhaustive series of swords of Toledo steel, representing the various 
arms of the service, flags, uniforms, and the paraphernalia of military life. 

Other very interesting accessions were received from the Navy Department, ini'lud- 
ing numerous relics recovered from the battle ship Maine, destroyed in Havana Har- 
bor, bronze cannon captured from the Spanish in Manila by Admiral Dewey, relics 
from Cervera's fleet destroyed off Santiago, and numerous relics of various battles 
and events of the war with Spain. The War Department also contributed some 
Spanish rifles and other objects. Many individuals, particularly Gen. G. H. Harries, 
Capt. H. C. Wilson, Lieut. J. C. Ord, Capt. Richard P. Leary, Admiral Charles 
O'Neil, Capt. Robley D. Evans, contributed objects of special interest. 

There has been installed in the section a special case devoted to historical objects, 
loaned by the National Society of the Colonial Dames of America, including personal 
relics of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Patrick Henry, James Madison, Lord 
Fairfax, and others eminent in American history. 

The collection of the Daughters of the American Revolution has been made of 
added interest by the exhibition of personal relics of Charles Carroll, of Carrollton, 
. and some interesting objects pertaining to the colonial history of Maryland. 



22 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Perhaps the most interesting single objects received during the year were the John 
Paul Jones flag, with a musket and boarding sword, used in the battle between the 
Bon Homme Richard and the Serapis, presented to the Smithsonian Institution by- 
Mrs. Harriet Perry Stafford. 

The most striking improvement in the installation of these exhiljits 
has resulted from the removal of all cases of small size and odd patterns 
from the hall and the assembling of some thirty large cases of the Ijest 
design. These are arranged in four rows, extending lengthwise of the 
hall, having roomy aisles between, the whole effect being simplitied 
so that the groupings of furniture and objects conform properly with 
the architectural lines and proportions of the hall. The exhibits are 
arranged chronologicalh". Beginning at the left of the north entrance 
with the period of discovery the visitor passes down through illustra- 
tions of colonial and Revolutionary times to the opening of the civil 
war in 1861. Returning to the north end of the hall on the east side 
we have, first, collections relating to the civil war, including seven cases 
devoted to the relics of General Grant, one case to the meager series 
pertaining to Lincoln, and six cases to miscellaneous relics. These are 
followed by cases containing exhibits relating to great American invent- 
ors, and at the south end and overflowing into the Rotunda are collec- 
tions illustrating the late war with Spain. 

Dividon of Mechanical Technology. — This division is in charge of 
Mr. J. E. Watkins, curator, with Mr. George C. Maynard as aid. The 
notable feature of the year was the rehabilitation of the North East 
Range, called also Boat Hall. The east side is devoted to a series of 
models illustrating the water craft of the world, beginning at the 
north with the simple raft, and passing step by step through the suc- 
cessive grades of elaboration in hull, propelling devices, and steering 
apparatus to the modern steamship. This series is continued in the 
floor cases at the south end of the hall in a very important group of 
exhibits illustrating the introduction of steam power and the specializa- 
tion of modern steam navigation. A number of floor cases toward the 
north end contain models of boats of various semicivilized countries. 

The wall case of the west side displays an extensive series of models 
of fishing craft, mainl}^ those in use in American waters, and the ceil- 
ing is hung with primitive boats from many parts of America. 

This division occupies also the east half of East Hall, the principal 
exhibits relating to land transportation and electricity. Much prog- 
ress has been made, but the work of installation has not yet reached 
■^uch a degree of completion as to warrant the publication of details. 

Section of Graphic Arts. — The Section of Graphic Arts occupies the 
Northeast Court, and is in charge of the head curator, with Mr. Paul 
Brockett as assistant. The very complete series of exhibits was 
brought together ])y Dr. S. R. Koehler, curator, who retired from 
active supervision of the work on account of ill health. The cases 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 23 

have ])ccn rebuilt and are arranged in alcoves, six on the east and six 
on the west side. On the east side exhibits are presented in contin- 
uous order, ilhistrating- the technology of the engraver's art; on the 
west arc illustrations of the pictorial product, beginning at the south 
with early prints and closing at the north with the color printing of 
to-day. In the aisle which extends from north to south are exhibits 
illustrating the history of painting. 

Dimsimi of Religions.— Th^ Division of Religions, Dr. Cyrus Adler, 
custodian, and I. M. Casanowicz, aid, has been assigned to the South 
Gallery of the West Hall, where a handsome alcoved wall case has 
been built. The series of exhibits begin at the east with illustrations 
of the Jewish religion, and these are followed by Greek, Roman, Mo- 
hammedan, and Buddhistic groups. Collections of the Division of 
Historic Archaeology, also in charge of Doctor Adler, are placed in 
the east end of West Hall and remain about as installed the previous 
year. 

Division of Prehistoric Archoeology. — The exhibits of this division, 
which are in charge of Dr. Thomas Wilson, assisted by Mr. E. P. 
Upham, have not undergone any radical change during the year, 
although the work of installing new material and perfecting the 
arrangement of the old has gone steadil}^ forward. 

RESEARCH AND PUBLICATIONS. 

The usual activity has been shown l)y the anthropological staff in 
Conducting researches germane to the work of the department. Pro- 
fessor Mason, curator of the Division of Ethnology, has prepared and 
completed a paper on the curved steel knife among the Eskimo and 
Canadian tribes, in which an attempt is made to show that carving and 
etching and fine netting for snowshoes are contemporaneous with this 
knife. Before the steel knife the Eskimo did little creditable carving. 
Also a paper on a peculiar heddle frame for belt weaving was traced 
from the Pueblo country to its source in Europe. 

The Indians of the Kootenai use a bark canoe, pointed at the water 
line like a modern ram. It is unique in the Western Hemisphere, but 
photographs and descriptions have been gathered by Professor Mason 
to show its nearest congeners on the Amur. 

For some time Professor Mason has been gathering material for the 
study of zootechny among the American aborigines. This has enabled 
him to divide the continent into certain marked zootechnic areas, in 
which even the language, social institutions, and beliefs of the peoples 
are modified. Following up this idea of areas of characterization, he 
has pursued the subject of geographic distribution of hunting devices 
associated with the capture of certain species. 

It happened during the year that the Spanish- American war sud- 
denly brought into conspicuous attention the ancient history of Porto 



24 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Rico, and the Smithsonian Institution has found it advisable to repub- 
lish Professor Mason's papers on the Latimer and Guesde collections 
of West Indian antiquities. 

Dr. Walter Hough, assistant curator, completed his monograph on 
Eskimo lamps, and continued his investigation of the utilization of fire 
and the manufacture of bark textiles. 

Mr. J. D. McGuire has been engaged in making an exhaustive study 
of primitive technology. 

Dr. Thomas Wilson has carried on various researches relating in the 
main to prehistoric archaeology. 

In connection with a paper treating of Museum buildings he has 
conducted studies regarding the amount of light admitted through 
glass of various kinds, and an extended article on the use of poisoned 
arrows by primitive peoples has been prepared. Doctor Wilson has 
also elaborated a paper on the subject of prehistoric trephining, and 
has continued his investigation relating to arrow points, spear heads, 
and knives of prehistoric times. 

The head curator has been so fully occupied with administrative duties 
in the Museum that little time has been at his disposal for research work. 
The trip to California in the interest of the Museum collections gave 
him the opportunity of visiting the auriferous gravel region, from 
which a considerable body of testimony has been ol)tained relating to 
the antiquity of man. This evidence he has carefully examined, and a 
paper reviewing the general subject will appear in the American 
AnthropologUt for the year 1899. • 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY 
FOR THE YEAR 1898-99. 

By Frederick W. True, 
Head Curator. 

Tho year covered hy the last report was one of great changes, duo 
to reorganization of the scientific stati' of the Museum and the erec- 
tion of galleries in the Museum building. A new plan for the exhi- 
bition series in biology was decided upon and a beginning made in 
carrying it into effect. This plan contemplates the arrangement of 
the exhibition series on a faunal basis, the fauna of North America 
being given special prominence. Good progress in this line was made 
in several divisions during the year covered by the present report. 

IMPROVEMENTS IN THE EXHIBITION HALLS. 

In the Division of Mammals the old wall cases, which were no longer 
suitable on the floor, were transferred to the gallery and added to, so 
as to occupy the whole length of the hall on both sides. In these were 
installed the series representing the mammal faunas of the Old World, 
Africa being on the east side, and Eurasia and Australia on the west 
side. The cases were retitted throughout, the backs being covered 
with plain burlap and the floor with linoleum. Such shelves as were 
needed were made of pine and covered with burlap to correspond with 
the hack. This style of fitting is comparatively inexpensive, is pleas- 
ing in effect, and has the excellent quality of extreme durability. All 
the Old World mammals were placed in these cases, but for the small 
forms— squirrels, mice, bats, etc.— temporary floor cases were brought 
into use, pending the construction of cases especially adapted for this 
purpose. The whole series received temporary labels. On the screen 
at the south end of the gallery, which separates the exhibition space 
from the paleontological laboratories, the beautiful illustrations of the 
cat family from Elliot's Mcnwgrajyh were displayed. There is not 
sufficient space at this end of the gallery for mounted specimens. 

The floor of the South Hall, as stated in last year's report, is given 

up exclusively to American mammals. The cases on hand were 

arranged to give as good an effect as possible, but on account of the 

galleries some new cases will doubtless have to be erected for the large 

forms. The seals, sea lions, and walruses, especially, are not satisfac- 

torilv installed. 

25 



26 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

The great progress made in the study of North American mammals 
during the last decade has rendered it necessary to thoroughly revise 
the exhibition series representing this fauna, and the taxidermic work 
was almost entirely restricted to North American species during the 
past year. The object aimed at is to have on exhibition a perfect 
specimen of every known species and subspecies inhabiting North 
America. 

The exhibition series of North American fishes, reptiles, and batra- 
chians was considerably improved and completely labeled. It can 
not, however, be extended, nor can the faunas of other parts of the 
world be represented without additional space. The present quarters 
are far from ideal, either as regards lighting or arrangement of space. 

The most radical change of the year was in the Division of Birds. 
On account of the large number of specimens mounted for various 
expositions, and for other reasons, the exhibition series had become 
entirely overcrowded, so that nothing could be seen satisfactorily. 
After long consideration of the matter it seemed impossible to apply 
any other remed}^ than to withdraw a large proportion of the birds. 
This was done under the supervision of the curator and assistant 
curator, and the result lias proved most satisfactory. Although the 
lighting of the hall is not of the best, the whole exhibition series of 
single-mounted specimens can now be seen to good advantage, except 
in the quadrangular space in the center of the hall. No improvement 
of the lighting is possible at that point without artificial means. 
Experiments were made in that direction at the close of the year which 
promise to solve the difiiculty. 

The groups of birds, which are among the most attractive features 
of the series, are still poorly provided for. They are chiefly installed 
in cases made for use in temporary expositions, and are neither dust- 
tight nor sufficiently uniform in pattern. 

The exhibition series of invertebrates (other than mollusks and 
insects) was very thoroughly revised. The main series, as in other 
branches, is now North American. A new system of installation was 
devised for the dry specimens, which are exhibited in flat table cases. 
The specimens representing each species are placed in a separate shal- 
low tray. All the trays are of equal depth and uniform in size (or 
a multiple of the unit). When a case has its full complement of 
trays it has the appearance of being divided into compartments, with 
a single species in each compartment. The efl'ect is very satisfactory. 
Temporary typewritten labels were made for the larger part of the 
series during the year. Certain parts of the series, such as worms, 
entomostraca, etc., are still incomplete, as the Museum collections do 
not at present contain specimens in these classes suitable for exhibi- 
tion purposes. 

The synoptic series of invertebrates, formed}^ in the Division of 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 27 

Comparative Anatomy, has ])eon placed in the same hall with the other 
invertebrates, at the west end of the Smithsonian buildinj^, in cases 
specially constructed to receive it. It needs revision and the addition 
of numerous types. 

Nothinj^ of special moment was accomplished toward improviiio- the 
exhibition series of insects and of mollusks. 

Owing to the erection of a gallery in the East-South Range, the 
whale skeletons suspended from the ceiling near the side walls had to 
be removed to a position nearer the center of the hall. To protect 
the roof from collapse and to sustain the skeletons, specially con- 
structed wrought-iron slings were devised by the Chief of Buildings. 
The hall was necessarily in confusion while these large specimens 
were being readjusted, but at the close of the year it had been brought 
again to an orderly condition. The exhibition series of osteological 
specimens is very full and can not be much expanded in the present 
quarters, 

A special series, comprising the principal North American game 
birds and game fishes, was placed on exhibition in the hallway of the 
Smithsonian building, together with a number of mounted heads of 
large game — the moose, caribou, antelope, etc. 

ACCESSIONS. 

The accessions of the year, though not equaling those of 1898 in 
number of specimens, were of at least equal scientific interest and 
importance. 

The U. S. Fish Commission transmitted an extensive zoological 
collection made during its recent exploration of the island of Porto 
Rico. It comprised not less than 5,000 mollusks, representing some 
400 species (including a number of new forms and other rare and 
interesting material) and a large series of invertebrates of other 
classes. 

While associated with the representatives of the U. S. Fish Com- 
mission in the zoological exploration of Porto Rico, Mr. A. B. Baker 
collected an extensive series of bats, about 200 reptiles and batrachians 
(including several undescribed species), and over 100 bird skins. 

In the Division of Mammals, on account of the fact that the mate- 
rial was largely collected to supply deficiencies, the additions were of 
much interest. Some 900 small mammals were collected for the 
Museum by Mr. Loring in Norway, Germany, and Italy. These were 
chiefly from localities from which the types of the earlier European 
mamraalogists were derived, and hence of importance in determining 
the identity of descrilied species. A collection of European bats and 
an additional lot of small manmials from Norwa}' were also purchased. 
These are the first collections of European mammals of any moment 
which have found their way into the Museum. Baron de Sel3^s- 



28 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Longchamps, well known as an authority upon the rodentia, presented 
25 specimens of small mammals, identified by himself. 

A collection of 13 Alaska moose and wild sheep was obtained for the 
Museum by Mr. Dall DeWeese. One of these specimens has been 
made the type of a new species of moose — Alces gu/as Miller. 

Among the mammals received from the National Zoological Park 
were an elephant and a lion. 

The additions to the collections of birds, though less in extent than 
in some previous years, included much important material, among 
which should be mentioned a collection of 58 specimens of Colombian 
birds, presented bv Mr. Outram Bangs, of Boston, Massachusetts, and 
5 skins of the Californian Condor, purchased from Mr. F. H. Holmes, 
of Berryessa, California. 

Doctor Ralph, custodian of the Section of Birds' Eggs, as in past 
years, made a valuable contribution to the collection under his charge, 
consisting in this instance of some 200 eggs from various sections of 
North America. Mr. C. F. Baker, of Alabama, presented 127 eggs 
from the Western United States. 

The U. S. Fish Commission transferred to the Museum a large col- 
lection of reptiles and batrachians which had been assembled from time 
to time by its field agents. This contained many specimens of impor- 
tance, including unique specimens of a discoglossoid toad, the only 
representative of this suborder of batrachians which has been found 
in the Western Hemisphere. It has been described by Doctor Stej neger 
under the name of Ascaphus truei. 

A small but interesting collection of reptiles from Java, made by 
Prof. D. G. Fairchild, was transmitted to the Museum by the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. 

A series of fishes of North and Central Asia, collected by M. Chaf- 
fanjon, was received from the Musee d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris. The 
U. S. Fish Commission transmitted fishes from Florida, Lake Superior, 
Alaska, and Kamchatka, together with the types of Paralipccris rosa- 
cens, and Baf/ty/agas miUei'i and Ulocentra meaduB. Two rare fishes 
were received from the Pacific coast, a specimen of a RhampJiocottm, 
presented by Mr. O. E. Shaffer, Port Townsend, Washington, and a 
specimen of Icosteus cPMigmaticus^ presented by Mr. John Chapman, 
of San Diego, California. 

Mr. William B. Moss, of Ashton-under-Lyne, England, a valued cor- 
respondent and contributor to the Museum, donated two lots of small 
shells, comprising some 3,000 specimens, collected by Rev. and Mrs. 
James Hadfield at Lifou Island, Loyalty Group. They belong for 
the most part to species recently described and hitherto unrepre- 
sented in the Museum. 

Mr. B. H. Wright, of Penn Yan, New York, continued his donations 
of river mussels (Unionid^), including types of species described by 



REPOKT OF ASSISTANT SECKETAKY. 29 

hiui. Kov. E. II. Ashiuuii, Mr, T. S. Oldroyd, und Di-. K. A. Moarns, 
U. S. A., .should also 1h^ nuMitioned a.s contributors of valu])lc speci- 
mens. Miss Mar}' J. Kathl)ini collected some 800 mollusks in the 
waters about Grand Manan, New Brunswick. 

Regarding- accessions to the Division of Insects, Dr. L. O. Howard, 
honorary curator, reports as follows: 

Tlu' la?t fiscal year was an extraordinary one in the history of the Division of Insects, 
and it was not expected that snch another one would occur again for some time to 
come. Notwithstanding this, however, the present fiscal year surpasses it not only 
in the number of accessions, but, it is believed, also in scientific value. 

In 1897 the accessions numbered only 1.39, a large increase over previous years. 
In 1898 they mnnbered 246, while this year they reached 285, an increase of 39 over 
last year. 

On account of the vast number of duplicates in the Hubliard und Schwarz collec- 
tion, it was estimated that over 226,000 specimens were received, while this yearthey 
amount to only 125,000. The number of specimens received this year is therefore 
less than last year, although the number of species is several thousand greater. 

This is due principally to the extensive collection of Hemiptera, Hymenoptera, 
Siphonaptera, and ^lallophaga, jiresented by Prof. Carl F. Baker, and to the addition 
of the Ashmead collection, both being exceedingly rich in species and containing 
types and co-types of species described by these entomologists, as well as those of 
many other authorities. With these two collections the Museum is now well rep- 
resented in the orders mentioned above and without doubt surpasses all other col- 
lections in America. 

The gift by ]\Ir. \V. H. Ashmead, assistant curator, of his private collection, is a 
most notable one and deserves especial mention. It was largely made by this inde- 
fatigable worker in the State of Florida, and has been greatly added to by a syste- 
matic series of exchanges carried on for many years with entomologists in different 
foreign countries; but perhaps its chief value lies in the large nmnber of types which 
it contains. Mr. Ashmead's broad entomological knowledge and interest have led 
him to imdertake systematic work in a number of different groups, and the great 
value of the gift thus becomes apparent. 

Nimierous invertebrates of other classes were received during- the 
3^ear, among which should be mentioned -iO lots, chiefly Crustacea 
(including a number of type specimens), donated by Mr. W. P. Hay, 
of Washington, D. C. ; a collection of amphipod crustaceans from the 
New England coast, donated by Dr. S. D. Judd, of Washington, D. C. ; 
27 species of crustaceans, corals, and echinoderms, donated by Rev. 
W. A. Stanton, of Balize, British Honduras, and 20 species of crabs, 
shrimps, and worms, donated by Mr. H, W. Henshaw, of Hilo, Hawaii. 

The accessions to the herbarium during the past ten years have 
l)een as follows: 



1889-90 370 

1890-91 621 

1891-92 511 



1894-95 670 

1895-96 236 

1896-97 370 



1892-93 567 i 1897-98 307 

1893-94 693 | 1898-99 264 

Among the important additions of the past year was a portion of 
RugeFs Florida collection, comprising 1,049 specimens, donated by 
the British Museum. 



30 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Mr. J. G. Baker, of London, Elngland, presented a large part of 
his private herbarium. Mr. Louis A, Kengla. of San Francisco, 
California, presented a hundred specimens of algae suitable for 
exhibition. From Maj. H. E. Hasse was received the gift of 233 
specimens of California lichens. 

A large numV)erof important specimens from Samoa, Mexico, Costa 
Rica, and from varioas parts of the United States were purchased dur- 
ing the year. 

WORK OX THE STUDY SERIES. 

The principal work accomplished in the Division of Mammals, in 
addition to the usual routine operations and the rearrangement of the 
exhibition series (already referred to), was the improvement of the 
collection of small skins and a rearrangement of the study series. A 
large proportion of the skins of rodents and other small mammals which 
have been accumulating from year to year have long needed making 
over on a uniform model, in order to be thoroughly available for pur- 
poses of comparison. During the past year it was found possible to 
assign a taxidermist to this work for about six months, during which 
time some 8<XJ skins were remodeled. A rearrangement of the whole 
study series of small skins, ba.sed on Troussart's recently published 
catalogue of mammals, was begun, and the greater part of the rodents 
were put in order during the year. The collection of skulls of small 
mammals was also rearranged. 

In the Division of Birds the large amount of work done on the exhi- 
bition series left little opportunity for other than current routine work. 
The determination of type specimens was continued, and some 20 were 
located and separated out from the general collection. 

The study collection of birds' agg^ is in good condition, but the exhi- 
bition series is much in need of revision and renovation. The honorary 
curator of this section has not onlv been the largest contributor to the 
growth of the collection, but has devoted much of his time personallv 
to the current work. 

The study series of reptiles and batrachians is much in need of 
revision, >)ut up to the present time it has not been found possible to 
supply the large amount of new shelves needed before a rearrange- 
ment can }>e commenced. The cui-ator ha.s devoted his time chiefly to 
the improvement of the exhibition series and to investigations. 

Work was continued on the exhibition series of casts of American 
ti-shes under the supervision of the assistant curator. 

Much time was occupied in the Division of Mollasks in cleaning, 
assorting, and naming the very extensive collection of shells presented 
last year by Prof. R. E. Call. The shells of the family Helicidse and 
the Pyi-amidellidse of the west coa.st of America were thoroughly 
studied and rearranged and many .species identified. The important 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY, 



11 



collection made by the Fish Commission in Porto Rico was also assorted 
and identitied. The whole study series is in excellent condition. 

The same remark applies to the collections of insects, which are now 
almost entirely free from pests. More stantlard insect drawers ai^e, 
however, needed. Many thousand insects were pinned and laKded by 
the prepanitors durinir the year, but much of this material is still 
unidentitied. The collections of all orders of insects are now arranged 
tentatively and are available for study and comparison. Spoci-al men- 
tion should be made of the Lepidoptera. which has been brought into 
excellent condition through the unremunerated labor of Dr. H. G. 
Dyar, custodian. The division has not only had the bonetit of the 
gratuitous services of the honorary curator. Dr. L. O. Howard, but of 
several other members of the entomological staff of the Department 
of Agriculture and also of Mr. E. A. Schwarz. 

Mr. W. H. Ashmead, assistant curator, animged and identitied most 
of the African and Asiatic Hymenoptera during the year, together 
with some material from Central and South America. The dragon 
flies and Neuropterous insects were rearranged by Mr. Currie, aid. 

In the Division of Marine Invertebrates the card catalogue of 
Brachyuran crustaceans, comprising about 5,000 titles, was revised 
and transferred to standard library-bureau cards. The ccdlection of 
Hexactinellid sponges, which has been for some time in the hands 
of Professor Shulz for study, was catalogued. Dr. J. E. Benedit-t and 
Miss Rathbun, assistant curators, identitied the crabs collected in Porto 
Rico by the U. S. Fish Commission. 

The rearrangement of the exhibition series, necessitated by the 
erection of galleries, occupied a large share of the time of the statl of 
the Department of Comparative Anatomy. In connection with that 
work, the skeleton of the extinct Arctic sea i-ow. liht/tina, and of ihe 
tinback whale, were cleaned and remounted. The time of the curati)r 
and assistants was divided between this division and that oi ^^>rtcbrate 
Paleontology. 

The following passage from the report of the honorary lurator of 
the Division of Plants. Mr. F. V. Coville, gives a condensed statiMu.Mit 
of the work accomplished in that division during the year: 

The collection of plantt* fonuerly .stored on the soutli balcony of tlie Mnscnm. which 
was referred to in the report of la.«it year as having been transferred to the National 
Herbarium, has greatly taxed the present capacity of our cases, and it is doubtful 
whether the accunuilation of mounted material, Mexican and otherwise, now on 
hand can be distributed until the new ailjoining bah-ony is lifted up. This collec- 
tion, when linally arranged, listed, and stamped, numbered over oO.OOO spo^-imcus, 
being particularly rich in European material. The work of stamping the gi-neral 
series, with a view to ascertaining the total nund^er of specimens in the herbarium, 
has been carried forward at intervals. Thus far 21, (US sheets have been stamped. 

Three preparators have been engaged in mounting, labeling, and lepairing speci- 
mens during the year. The total number of specimens is 22,55!), of which l;>,ol4 
have been stamped and distribtUed. The large collection presented by Trof. AV. II. 



32 /REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 3899. 

Brewer, representing the types described in the Botany of the CaUfornia Survey, has 
been most carefully prepared with all the original data mounted with the specimens, 
which will be determined and distributed as rapidly as possible. 

The selection, verification, and marking of type specimens has been delayed, 
owing to the resignation last December of the preparator employed on this work. 
The total number of types thus far indicated is 1,619. It is important that this work 
be continued, both for the advantage it affords to consulting Ijotanists and for the 
desirability of ascertaining definitely the exact number of types in the collection. 

In the rearrangement of and research work on the collection considerable progress 
has been made. We have introduced genus covers printed in colors to correspond 
with the larger continental areas, the North American being black, the West Indian, 
Mexican, and South American red, and the Old World blue. An extension of this 
scheme is now under consideration. 

The herbarium is now in orderly arrangement as far as the Ericaceae, and the work 
on it will be pushed during the coming year. 

The south tower room has been fitted up for the acconnnodation of the crypto- 
gamic collections by the addition of an iron balcony supporting cases on three sides, 
with a stairway leading to an attic room provided with cases suitable for storage 
purposes. For several months Mr. O. F. Cook, now honorary assistant curator in 
charge of Cryptogamic Botany, very kindly gave his services and those of his two 
assistants in caring for these collections. Mr. Cook was commissioned to prepare an 
exhil)it of algas for the Trans-Mississippi Exposition at Omaha, and this wdrk was 
brought to completion in the early part of last summer. A supplementary series has 
been placed on the exhibition front of the east balcony. It soon became evident 
that an officer would shortly be required to devote his entire attention to the valua- 
ble cryptogamic collections, many of which still remain inaccessible for study. 
Early in January Mr. William R. Maxon was employed on a six months' contract 
to put these collections in order, and he is now, after most faithful and painstaking 
labor, able to report the practical completion of his task. In the three main groups 
of the lower cryptogams, the mosses, fungi, and lichens, all undetermined material 
has been sorted out and will be sent to specialists in those groups for identification 
and return; while the large accumulations of unmounted material have been prop- 
erly placed in pockets and labeled, ready for distribution on the shelves. Mr. Maxon 
has also distributed several thousand mounted sheets of ferns and fern allies, read- 
justing the covers and identifying dul)ious specimens. During the past few weeks 
he has l)een engaged in caring for the large collection of alcoholic material sent in by 
Messrs. Swingle and Fairchild. 

FIELD WORK. 

Several members of the scientific staff of the department engaged in 
field work during the year. The fishes of the State of New York were 
studied by Dr. T. H. Bean and Mr. B. A. Bean, on Long Island. 

Mr. W H. Dall, Mr. Robert Ridgway, and Mr. F. V. Coville joined 
the Harriman Alaska expedition and made investigations of the mol- 
lusks, birds, and plants of that Territory. Miss M. J. Rathbun spent 
a month at Grand Manan Island, New Brunswick, studying the shore 
invertebrates and dredging in shallow water. 

INVESTIGATIONS. 

A large number of scientific investigations were in progress, the 
results of some of which were published during the year. Mr. G. S. 
Miller, jr., published several short papers on mammals and partially 



EEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 33 

coniploted u revision of the froo-tailecl l)ats. IIo botran also a revision 
of European mammals and a correlation of the life zones of Europe 
and North America. 

Mr. Rol)ert Kidgway continued work on his extensive manual of 
North and Middle American birds, completing the family Fringillidas, 
and entering upon the families Corvidse and Tanagridiv;. It is antici- 
pated that the lirst part of this work will be ready for publication 
next year. Considerable progress was made by Dr. C. W. Richmond 
in the preparation of a card catalogue of described genera and species 
of birds. 

Mr. Barton A. Bean and Dr. Hugh M. Smith, of the U. S. Fish 
Commission, prepared a preliminary catalogue of the fishes of the 
District of Columl)ia. 

Mr. William H. Dall presents the following statement regarding 
his work on mollusks: 

During the year the greater portion of iny time given to investigation has ])een 
specially occupied by a revision of the species and the classification of bivalve mol- 
lusks belonging to the Tertiary beds of the United States, and incidentally of the 
marine fauna of its shores. Many of our living species are found also in several 
Tertiary strata, and therefore in studying species which are found in the Tertiary 
beds it is necessary to compare them with the living species as well as with other 
fossils in order to make sure that they are undescribed or identify them with already 
described species. For this reason the investigation of the Tertiary fauna which I 
have been carrying on for a number of years, and which is now nearly finished, has 
practically included in nearly all the groups a revision of the classification of the 
living animals of the same groups common to our coast. During the past year 
especial attention was given to some of these groups, among which may be men- 
tioned the Leptonacea, the Solens, and some groups of the Lucinidte. Nearly all the 
time available for special researches has been devoted to this subject, and such other 
researches as I may have made are comparatively unimportant. 

Mr. C. T. Simpson continued his study of the river mussels, or 
JVaiades, and reports that he has completed a classification of the 
group and will soon be prepared to publish the results of his work. 

Mr. J. E. Benedict has continued his work on the crustaceans of the 
family Galatheidte. Miss M. J. Rathbun prepared an article on the 
Decapod Crustaceans of West Africa for the New York State Colo- 
nization Society. 

Mr. F. A. Lucas has completed his study of the fossil bisons of 
North America and continued his investigations on the anatomy of the 
swifts and the development of the skull of the cormorant. 

In addition to his scientific labors as Botanist of the Department of 
Agriculture, Mr. F. V. Coville entered upon a comprehensive study of 
the genus Bibes. Mr. Rose has continued his monograph of the 
Agaves, and visited Mexico for the purpose of studying and collecting 
specimens of the more obscure forms. Mr. Pollard has progressed 
with his work on the violets, and in that connection has prepared sets 
of authentic specimens of the various species of Viola for distribution. 
NAT MUS 99 3 



34 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

USE OF THE COLLECTIONS. 

The zoological and botanical collections have been made use of to a 
very large extent during the year by naturalists from all sections of 
the United States. Some investigators have visited Washington for 
this purpose, and in other cases collections have been sent out of the 
Museum temporarily to investigators both at home and abroad. 

Among those who made use of the ornithological collections should 
be mentioned Mr. E. W. Nelson, Mr. H. C. Oberholser, and Mr. 
W. H. Osgood, of the Department of Agriculture; Mr. Outram Bangs, 
of Boston, Massachusetts, and Miss Florence Merriam, of Washing- 
ton, District of Columbia. 

Mr. Oberholser, at the request of the Museum, determined the col- 
lections of birds recently received from Liberia, the Kameruns, 
Madagascar, and Kashmir. The committee on nomenclature of the 
American Ornithologists' Union spent a week in stud3nng new sub- 
species for the purpose of determining their claims to i-ecognition. 

Frequent use was made of the collections of fishes l)y the officers of 
the U. S. Fish Commission, especially by Doctors Evermanu, Smith, 
and Kendall. 

Sir Charles Elliot, British commissioner to Samoa, prosecuted inves- 
tigations on the Nudibranch mollusks. Mr. G. A. Drew, of Johns 
Hopkins University, studied and published on the mollusks of the 
family Ledids. 

The collections of insects have been very largely consulted by ento- 
mologists throughout the country. 

Miss Harriet Richardson continued her studv of the isopod crusta- 
ceans during the greater part of the year, and prepared a special 
report on the isopods of the Pacific coast of North America, which has 
recently been published in the Proceedings of the Museum. Mr. T. 
Wayland Vaughan, of the U. S. Geological Survey, began an investi- 
gation of the West Indian corals, and Dr. H. F. Moore, of the U. S. 
Fish Commission, studied the isopod crustaceans collected bj^ the Com- 
mission in Porto Rico. Mr. W. P. Hay assisted in determining the 
crayfishes recently received, and described a new form of isopod from 
a well in Irvington, Ind. 

The herbarium has received a good share of attention from bota- 
nists. Special mention should be made of the services of Prof. E. L. 
Greene in determining various specimens for the Museum. 

The practice of lending material for study to recognized experts not 
residing in Washington was continued as heretofore. A large amount 
of material was sent out, but only the principal loans can be noticed here. 

Dr. Howard Ayers, of the University of Missouri, obtained the 
myxinoid fishes in the collection for use in connection with a mono- 
graph of that group which he has in preparation. 

Specimens of Dinolestes, AtherinajMis, Apogon^ and Exoco&tiis were 



KEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 35 

sent to Mr. E. C. Starks for dissection. Mr. Starks afterwards 
returned excellently prepared skeletons of these fishes. 

A series of specimens of mice was sent to Mr. Barrett-Hamilton, 
London, England, who is engaged in a revision of the European species 
of the genus Mti^. 

A series of 70 small shrikes was sent to Mr. R. M. Strong, Cam- 
bridge, Massachusetts, to assist him in the determination of the 
percentage of variation in that group. Dr. Jonathan D wight, jr., 
obtained the loan of some 00 specimens for use in his study of the 
molting of birds. A collection of house wrens was sent to Mr. W. E. 
Loucks, Peoria, Illinois, for examination. Messrs. Outram Bangs 
and Arthur Stone obtained the use of Colombian birds. A series of 
specimens of wrens and sparrows was lent to Mr. William Brewster, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

Mr. F. W. Gamble, of Owens College. Manchester, England, who 
is monographing certain families of annelids, was furnished the speci- 
mens of several genera. 

Dr. J. Percy Moore received additional installments of leeches. 
The Museum collection of gephyreans w-as sent to Prof. Henry B. 
Ward, University of Nebraska, who is monographing the group. 

The Caprellidw in the Museum were placed in the hands of Doctor 
Mayer, of the Naples Biological Station, to assist him in preparing a 
supplement to his monograph. 

Dr. F. Meinert, Zoological Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark, was 
accorded the use of the collection of Pycnogonida for a monograph of 
that group. 

Loans of insects were made to 12 experts during the year, among 
whom were the following: Dr. Philip P. Calvert, of the Philadel- 
phia Academy of Sciences, received all the unworked dragon-flies 
(Odonata), partly for naming and partly in connection with his work 
on the Biologia Centrali-America. In the interest also of this great 
faunal publication, the Mexican and Central American Acrididfe were 
sent to Professor Lawrence, University of Nebraska, for study. The 
specimens of the family Pyralida3 were placed in the hands of Prof. 
C. H. Fernald, of the Agricultural College, Amherst, Massachusetts, 
for monographic purposes. 

Loans of about 1,800 herbarium specimens were made during the 
year, chiefly in small lots for purposes of identification. 

PERSONNEL. 

Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., received a temporary appointment as 
assistant curator. Division of Mammals, July 13, 1898, and on October 
15, 18!>8, was regularly added to the staff. Mr. J. H. Riley was 
appointed aid August 8, 1898, and Mr. M. W. Lyon, jr., August 15, 
1898. Mr. Riley was assigned to the Section of Birds' Eggs, and Mr. 
Lyon to the Division of Mammals. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY 
FOR THE YEAR 1898-99. 

By George P. Merrili,, 
Head Curator. 

Although the j^ear just closed compares favorably with its predeces- 
sors, so far as relates to the acquisition of materials, it has not been 
possible to advance the work of installation to the extent hoped for in 
the beginning. 

ORGANIZATION. 

The department as now organized consists of the following divi- 
sions: (1) Physical and Chemical Geology (Systematic and Applied), 
(2) Mineralogy, and (3) Stratigraphic Paleontology, including the sec- 
tions of Vertebrate Fossils, Invertebrate Fossils, and Paleobotany. 

ACCESSIONS. 

In the order given, the number of accessions is as follows: 



Divisions. 



Geology 

Mineralogy 

Vertebrate Paleontology.. 
Invertebrate Paleontology 
Paleobotany 

Total 



Regular. 



147 
41 
27 
82 
37 



Tem- 
porary. 



132 

75 
5 
17 



Total. 



1898-99. 1897-98- 



279 
116 



141 
166 



In the Division of Geology a very considerable amount of the 
material received is in itself of slight commercial value. It consists 
in large part of specimens designed to show the mineral resources 
of the United States or to fill existing gaps in the systematic series of 
economic products. Especial mention should, perhaps, be made of a 
small collection of monazite sands from Brazil; asbestos from Italy; 
silver-lead-antimony ore from Zancudo mines in Colombia, South 
America; a large and miscellaneous assortment of ores and economic 
products from the Central and Western States, received from the 
Omaha International Exposition; three fine slabs of onyx marble from 
Colorado, and a series of 11) specimens of polished spheres of Japanese 
breccia, the gift of the late Prof. O. C. Marsh. 

In the Section of Systematic Geology mention should be n kIc of a 

37 



38 BEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

series of rocks illustrating the Upper Cambrian formations of the 
Lake Superior region, collected Ijy Mr. C. R. Van Hise, of the U. S. 
Geological Survey; a series of clastic rocks illustrating the geology 
of the slate regions of eastern Now York and western Vermont, col- 
lected by Prof. T. N. Dale, of the Geological Survey; a fine series 
of jointed sandstones from the Black Hills of South Dakota, collected 
by Mr. N. II. Darton, of the Geological Surve}^; and a series of vol- 
canic products from Vesuvius and other parts of Italy, collected by 
Mr. F. W. Crosby. 

The Division of Mineralogy has been enriched by the acquisition of 
samples of •! new minerals — erionite, wellsite, bixbjdte, and clinohe- 
drite — as well as of 11 other species new to the collection; and of 3 
new meteorites from Polk Count}^, Minnesota; Adams County, Penn- 
sylvania, and Mount Oscuro, New Mexico, respectively. 

Mention should be made of specimens of roscoelite on auriferous 
quartz from Eldorado County, California, and 5 specimens of crj^stal- 
lized arsenic from Japan. 

The gem collection has received, through the liberality of Dr. L. T. 
Chamberlain, a fine cut citrine quartz, weighing 139^ carats; 21 cut 
Montana sapphires, selected to show colors, and 2 cut sapphir(\s, 
weighing 3i carats, all from Yogo Gulch, Montana; 1 opal from 
Mexico, and 2 garnets of the variety rhodolite, from North Carolina. 
Four opals from Mexico were also obtained by purchase. 

In the Section of Vertebrate Fossils the accessions especially 
worthy of note are a series of mammal skulls from a new localitj" in 
the White River Miocene, from the Geological Survey; a fine skull 
of Ilyracodon nehrascensia^ the gift of Mr. A. W. Barber, and the fossil 
skull of a new species of bear and a small series of fish remains from 
the chalk formations of Kansas, collected by Mr. A. B. Baker. 

An account of the large series of fossil vertebrates forming the 
Marsh collection at Yale University, which is in progress of removal 
from New Haven, will be deferred for the report for next year. 

The collection of vertebrate fossils from the Cope estate, mentioned 
in the last report, was received early in the year. This collection, it 
will be remembered, was made under the auspices of the Hayden 
Survey, and comprises over 175 specimens, including many of the types 
of fishes and reptiles described by Professor Cope in his volume on 
the Vertebrates of the Tertiary formation of the West and in the 
Bulletins of the Survey. 

The accessions in the section of Invertebrate Fossils are reported by 
Mr. Schuchert as being neither so large nor so valuable as last j^ear. 
A large portion of the material received was deposited by the U. S. 
Geological Survey, and consists of 6,531 Paleozoic fossils, 211 Meso- 
zoic, and 16 Tertiary. Among these the most valuable is a series of 
3,990 specimens of Cambrian brachiopods, determined by Prof. Charles 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 39 

D. Walcott, and the ligurinl specimon.s, 158 in nuuibcn', of Lower Cre- 
taceous grvphtieas, described by Messrs. Hill and Vaughan in Bulletin 
No. 151 of the Geolog'ical Survey. A collection coniprisino- .some 
4,000 specimens of Cincinnati fossils was purchased from Mr. II. E. 
Dickhaut, of the Survey. This collection is particularly rich in 
pelccypods. 

Three vahiable collections of post-Paleozoic fossils were received in 
exchange from the Geological Museum at Ley den, the University 
Museum of Natural History at Turin, Italy, and the British Museum 
of Natural History, London. 

As a matter of historical interest, it may be noted that the Troost 
collection of crinoidea, which, together with the manuscript describing 
them and drawings for 107 species, was sent by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution to Prof. James Hall in 1853, was returned last November by 
the administrator of the Hall estate. 

The Section of Paleobotany, until the opening of the present fiscal 
year, has been in charge of honorary curators. In order to relieve 
them of the detailed routine work Dr. A. C. Peale was appointed aid 
and placed in charge of the collections. Much of the work which he 
has had to do has been upon material which has been in the Museum 
collections for many years. The comparatively small number of 
accessions, therefore, furnishes by no means a measure of the work 
performed. Among the principal collections which have been received 
by this section during the fiscal year were: Lower Carboniferous 
plants from Henry County, Missouri, described in Monograph 37 of 
the Geological Survey; a series of 900 Carboniferous plants from 
Indian Territory, described by Mr. David White in the Nineteenth 
Annual Report of the Survey, and 26 boxes of Carboniferous plants, 
comprising the Armstrong collection, purchased for the Museum by 
Mr. R. D. Lacoe. 

PRESENT CONDITION OF COLLECTIONS 

The progress made in caring for the collections has been all that the 
circumstances permitted. In the Section of Applied Geology the 
work of installing the systematic series of nonmetallic products in 
the new rail cases has been nearly completed. The rearrangement of 
the geographic series on the ground floor of the Southwest C'ourt is 
also completed, although several thousand labels yet remain to be pre- 
pared. The entire collection of building and ornamental stones, 
comprising between 3,000 and 4,000 specimens, has been moved and 
installed in the wall cases of the same court. 

The collections in systematic geology, occupying the West South 
Range, are not yet fully arranged, though the series illustrating the 
materials of the earth's crust is in order, as is also that illustrating 
folding and faulting and volcanic products. A magnificent group of 



40 EEPORf OF NATIOiSTAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

basaltic columns, collected for the MuseuDi by Mr. F. W. Crosby, has 
lately been added to this series. Manuscript for upward of 2,500 
labels has been prepared and is ready for the printer. The actual 
work of arranging these collections, it should be stated, has fallen 
upon Mr. W. H. Newhall, with such assistance as could be given by 
Museum laborers. 

I might add that in all the work of this department steps are being 
taken toward a reduction of the number of specimens exhibited and an 
improyement in the quality. The reduction in number in certain of 
the collections is necessitated by lack of space, but it is believed that 
on the whole a careful selection of the specimens exhibited will cause 
the collections to have more educational value than will an increase in 
number. 

The collections in the Division of Mineralogy, as stated in my last 
report, have been as well arranged as possible with the present exhibi- 
tion cases. New cases are needed along the west wall. As the collec- 
tions in this division are now well systematized, I submit Mr. Tassin's 
report upon them in full. 

The exhibition series is arranged under the following heads: System- 
atic series; comparative series; gem collection; meteorite collection. 

The systematic series is divided into two general classes — native ele- 
ments and compounds of the elements. The compounds of the 
elements are further divided and grouped under certain heads accord- 
ing to their more negative constituents, as follows: 

Compounds of the halogens, fluorides, chlorides, bromides, and 
iodides. Compounds of sulphur, selenium, tellurium, arsenic, and 
antimony, including sulphides, selenides and tellurides, arsenides, 
antimonides, sulpharsenides, and sulphantimonides; also sulphosalts. 
Oxygen compounds, including oxides and the oxygen salts, borates, 
aluminates, chromites, ferrites, manganites, plumbates, arsenites and 
antimonites, selenites and tellurites, carbonates, silicates, titanates, 
columbates and tantalates, nitrates, vanadates, phosphates, arsenates 
and antomonates, sulphates, selenates and tellurates, chromates, molyb- 
dates and tungstates, iodates, and uranates. Compounds of organic 
origin, including salts of organic acids and carbon compounds. 

Each of these classes is further separated into groups according to 
their chemical relationships. Each group is preceded by a general 
group label stating the class to which it belongs, the group name, a 
list of the minerals composing that group, together with their chemical 
formulge, system of crystallization, and a short description of the 
occurrence, association, and characteristic foi"m of each member of the 
group. Following the group label, arranged in order from left to 
right, are the several members of the group selected to illustrate, as 
completely as the conditions will permit, their occurrences, associations, 
color, habit, etc. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



41 



Each specimen is mounted on a standard hlociv, in front of wiiicli is 
a small label giving the name, locality, etc., of the individual. 

The comparative ^-dWe^s'.— Hcjm^ the properties of minerals arc^ d(ilined, 
illustrated, and compared. In each case the label containing a defini- 
tion of the property under consideration precedes a series of specimens 
and, wherever they can be used advantageously, a series of models 
illustrating that property. 

The meteorite collection, including the Shepard and Museum col- 
lections, now contains several hundred specimens representing 330 falls. 
As in the other series, the collections ai-e preceded V)y introductory 
la})els, on which are noted the more promincmt physical and chemical 
characters of meteorites, together with the classification here adopted. 
The arrangement of the two collections is somewhat different, that 
of the Museum being geographic, while the Shepard collection is 
chronologic. 

The gem vollectlon now compares favorably with any other public 
collection of this kind in the country, both in number and kinds of 
stones exhibited. It is especially rich in those gems and ornamental 
stones which occur in the United States, as is shown by the following 
tabulated statement : 



Name. 



Aragonite . 
Ber.yl 



Locality. 



Beryl aquamarine. 
Do 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 



Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Beryl emerald. 

Do 

Bervllouite 



Colusa County, Califor- 
nia. 

Avondale, Pennsylva- 
nia. 

Paris, Maine 

Stoneham, Maine 



Royalston, Massachu- 
setts. 

Fitchburg, Massachu- 
setts. 

Litchfield, Connecticut. 

Portland, Connecticut. . 

Asheville, North Caro- 
lina. 

Mitchells Peak, North 
Carolina. 

Mitchell County, North 
Carolina. 

Near Ray Mine, North 
Carolina. 

Ray Mine, North Car- 
olina. 

Stony PoHit, North Car- 
olina. 

do 



No. of 
stones. 



Stoneham, Maine. 



Color. 



Brown. 

Yellow 



Colorless 

Bluish green. 



....do 

Yellowish green. 



....do 

Bhiish green 
....do 



do 

Bhie 

BUiisli green . .. 

do 

Emerald green . 

do 

Colorless 



Remarks. 



Cut cabochon. 

2 and 3 carat stones. 

Small brilliant. 

Good brilliants, 1 and 2 

carats. 
Fine 8-carat brilliant. 

Small stones. 

Good 1 -carat brilliants. 
Pine 14-carat brilliant. 
2§-carat step-brilliant; good. 

Fine 9§-carat brilliant. 

7-oarat opaque cabochon. 

Fine brilliants. 

Do. 

Small brilliants; color fair. 

Largest example found in 

America. 
Weight, 3} to 5 carats. 



42 



REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Name. 



Locality. 



No. of 
stones. 



Color. 



Remarks. 



Cassiterite . 



Chrysolite 
Do 



Catlinite. 



Coral (fossil) 

Do 

Cyanite 



Corundum ruby . . 

Corundum s a p - 
phire. 
Do 



Chesterfield, South Car- 
olina. 

Arizona 

Fort Wingate, New 
Mexico. 

Pipestone County, Min- 
nesota. 

Iowa 

Petowsky, Michigan 

MitcheirCounty, North 
Carolina. 

Corundum Hill, North 
Carolina. 

do 



Yellow 



Bottle green . 
....do 



Reddish 



Montana 



Do 

Corundum asteria. 
Diamond 



Fluorite 



Gadolinite 

Garnet var. alman 
dite. 
Do 



Do 

Do 

Garnet pyrope . 



Garnet rhodolite . 
Garnet spessartite 



Jade 

Malachite 

Microcline 

Microcline ama- 
zonstone. 
Do 



Yogo Gulch, Montana . . 

Elijay, North Carolina. . 

Cabin Fork Creek, Ken- 
tucky. 

Amelia Court-House, 
Virginia. 

Llano County, Texas . . . 

Delaware County, Penn- 
sylvania. 

Macon County, North 
Carolina. 

Fort Defiance, Arizona . 

New Mexico 

Macon County, North 
Carolina. 

North Carolina 

Amelia Court-House, 
Virginia. 

Alaska 

Arizona 



Blue 

Blood red 

Blue and green. 
Various colors . . 



Royal blue 
Bronze .... 

Yellowish . 



Brown 

Black 

Dark red . . 

Cherry red 

Violet red . 

do 

Red 



Violet red . 
Orange red 



Olive green. 



Do 

Do 

Do 

Obsidian . 
Oligoclase 



Oligoclase moon- 
stone. 

Do 



Do 

Oligoclase sunstone 



Delaware County, Penn- 
sylvania. 

Amelia Court - Ilou.se, 
A'irginia. 

....do 

....do 

Pikes Peak j Colorado... 

Yellowstone Park 

Mitchell County, North 
Carolina. 

Delaware County, I'enn 
sylvania. 

Hanover County, Vir- 
ginia. 

Amelia Court-House, 
Virginia. 

Delaware County, I'enn 
svlvania. 



....do 

do 

do 

Brown to black. 
Colorless 



White and color- 
less. 



Mounted as a scarf pin. 

2i-carat brilliant, 
l^carat brilliants. 

1 earring and 1 ])iiie. 

Paper weights. 

Do. 
3i carat, step-cut. 

Do. 

Small stones. 

Good stones, showing com- 
plete range of color. 
3|-carat stones. 
Cut cabochon, good stars. 
J-carat polished pebble. 

5-carat stone. 

8-carat brilliant. 
4-carat eabochons. 

1 to ^ carat brilliants, good. 

1 to 2 carat brilliants, good. 
1-carat brilliants. 
Do. 

Good brilliants. 

Good stones, one 39 carats. 

Labrets or belt buckles. 
Slabs .and polished pieces. 

Cabochon cut. 

Do. 

1 dish an<l a paper weight. 

Balls. 

Ciibochon cut. 

Do. 
2^ to (> carat brilliants. 

("a))ochon cut. 

Do. 

Polished pieces and cabo- 
chon cut. 
Do. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SIOOKKTAKY. 



43 



Niunc. 



Opiil . 



Do. 



I'rehiiite . 
I'rt'luiito 
strolilo. 
I'vroxciU'. 



Pyroxoiio (Iroiisidf 

Quartz 

Do 



Quartz, iigate... 
Quartz, agatized 

■wood. 
Quartz, aiuothyst.. 
Do 



Do. 
Do. 



Quartz, cat's-eye . 

Quartz, chalcedony 
Quartz, chryso 

prase. 
Quartz, citrine... 



Do 

Quartz, moss agate 

Quartz rock crys- 
tal. 

Do 

Do 



Locality. 

Garfield County, Wash- 
ington. 

Douglas City, Washing- 
ton. 

I'aterson, New Jersey. . . 

Isle Royale, Lake Su- 
perior. 

Davidson County, 
North Carolina. 

Dekalb, New York 

Paris, Maine 

Fairfax Court-House, 
Virginia. 

Lake Superior 

Arizona 



No. of 
stones. 



Stow, Maine 

Upper Providence, 

Pennsylvania. 
Warlick, North Carolina 
Macon County, North 

Carolina. 
Alexander County, 

North Carolina. 

Cumberland, Rhode 
Island. 

Yellowstone Park 

Tulare County, Califor- 
nia. 

Alexander County, 
North Carolina. 

Florissant, Colorado — 

Yellowstone Park 



iuartz, rose 

Do 

Do 



Quartz, smoky.. 



Do. 

Do. 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 



Chestnut Hill, North 

Carolina. 
....do 

Red Hill, North Caro- 
lina. 
Paris, Maine 

Stonehani, Maine 

McDow ell Count y. 
North Carolina. 

Mount Mica, Paris, 
Maine. 

Stoneham, Maine 

Fairfa.x County, Vir- 
ginia. 

Mount Pisgali, North 
Carolina. 

Iredell County, North 
Carolina. 

Magnet Cave, Arkansas 

Pikes Peak, Colorado. . 

Florissant. Colorado 



Color. 



Light green. 



Green 

Opalescent 

Green banded.. 



Amethystine . . 
Deep amethystine 

Light amethystine 
Amethystine ...'.. 



liemarks. 



Massive. 
Do. 



Cabochon (^ut. 
Do. 



Polished slal> 



Cut brilliant and c.alxichon. 
(laboclion. 



Polished piece. 
Slabs and ornaments. 



.do. 



Dark green. 



Grayi.sh 
Green .. 



Citrine yellow. 
....do 



Colorless 



.do. 
.do. 



Rose pink . 

....do 

Light rose 



Smoke brown 



.do. 
.do . 



.do. 
.do . 
.do , 



13 and 23 carat stones. 
35-carat gem. 

14i-earat gem. 

One cut and one massive. 

All cut from same mass, 
weights from 2| to 197 
carats. 

Cabochon. 



Do. 



139^-carat top brilliant. 
Cabochon and X)olished 

pieces. 
Fine stones. 

Ball 11 cm. in diameter. 
Arrowheads. 

Opalescent cabochon. 

Do. 
Stick-pin heads. 

Step brilliant, large. 

Do. 
Small brilliants. 

Large rose, cut. 

Do. 

Do. 
Large top brilliant. 
Do. 



44 



KEPOET of national MUSKUM, 1899. 



Locality. 



No. of 
stones. 



Color. 



Remarks. 



Quartz, with inclu- 
sions 

Do 



Do. 
Do. 

Do. 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 



Do 

Rhodonite. 



Do. 
Rutile . 



Samarskite . 



Serpentine 

Do 

Do 

Serpentine v a r . 

bowensite. 
Serpentine var. 

williamaite. 
Smithsonite 



Sodalite 

Spodumene, 

denite. 
Thompsonite 



hid- 



Titanite 
Do.. 



Topaz . 
Do. 



Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Tourmaline 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 



Rhode Island 

Fairfax County, Vir- 
ginia. 

Alexander County, 
North Carolina. 

Iredell County, North 
Carolina. 

Burke County, North 
Carolina. 

Hot Springs, Arkansas. . 

Colorado 

Arizona 



California 

Cummington, Massa- 
chusetts. 

Franklin, New Jersey . . 

Hiddenite, North Caro- 
lina. 

Mitchell County, North 
Carolina. 

Massachusetts 

United States 

California 

Smithfield, Rhode Is- 
land. 

Lancaster, Pennsylva- 
nia. 

Marion County, Arkan- 
sas. 

Litchfield, Maine , 

Stony Point, North Car- 
olina. 

Grand Marais, Minne- 
sota. 

Brewster, New York 

Bridgewater, Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Stoneham, Maine 

Chatham, New Hamp- 
shire. 

Pikes Peak, Colorado. . 
do 

Utah 

Paris, Maine 
do 



.do. 
.do. 
.do. 
.do. 
.do. 
.do. 
.do. 
.do. 
.do. 




Flesh red. 



do 

Red black . 



Black. 



Lemon vcllow... 



Blue 

Emerald green . . 



Honey yellow ... 
Greenish brown . 



Colorless. 
do... 



do 

Wine red 

Colorless 

Dark green 

Wine red 

Sherry 

Colorless 

Smoky and green 

Green shades 

do 

do 

Blue 

Red 

Black.. 



With actinolite inchisions. 
With (?) inclusions. 

Witn rutile inclusions. 

Do. 

Crystal, with t<inrmaline in- 
clusions. 

With chlorite inclusions. 

With Gothite inclusions. 

With Dumortierite inclu- 
sions. 

With gold inclusions. 

Polished ellipsoid. 

Cabochon cut. 

Small i-carat lirilliants. 

6j-carat brilliant. 

Necklace and ornaments. 
Slabs and ornaments. 
Flower-shaped ornament. 
Polished pieces. 

Do. 

Cabochon cut. 

4/g-carat cabochon. 

Small brilliants, I carat and 

less. 



Step brilliants, 
■l-carat stone. 

3-carat brilliant. 
12-earat brilliant. 

ITj-carat step brilliant. 

14J-carat step brilliant. 

1-carat brilliant. 

57-carat gem. 

18-carat gem. 

IGj-carat gem. 

Small brilliants. 

Both cut from same crystal. 

4 to 7 carat stones. 

1 to 3 carat stones. 

Less than 1-carat stones. 

1 to 4 carat stones. 

Do. 
i -carat stone. 



EEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



45 



Name. 


Locality. 


No. of 
stones. 


Color. 


Remarks. 






3 
10 
3 

1 

11 

1 
•2 
3 


Particolored 

Colored 


Brilliants. 

5t-('arat stone. 
1-carat stones. 
Cabochon and ( 
pieces. 

Polished pieces. 
Small brilliants. 




Do 


Auburn, Maine . 




Do. 


Middlesex County, Con- 
necticut. 

Dekalb, New York 

INIacomb, New York 

Lo.s Cerillos.New Mex- 
ico. 

Candelaria, Nevada 


Green 




Do 


Pale yellow 

Brown 




Do. 








rnaniental 








Do 


do 




Willemite 


Franklin, New Jersey . . 


Greenish yellow.. 









The study series contains the material which appeals exclusively to 
the specialist. It comprises those specimens which serve to illustrate 
the occurrence and associations of a mineral in any one locality and 
which are not needed for the exhibition series, or which are not 
unnecessary duplicates of material alread}^ on hand. Each specimen 
in this series is numbered, lalieled, and contained in a paper tray. 
The several specimens are then arranged geographically by species; 
the species are arranged in groups, as in the systematic series, and 
placed in drawers. This series also includes all the original and type 
material belonging to the division which is not needed for exhibition. 
Those types used in the exhibition .series are here represented by cards 
giving the position of the type specimens in the cases. 

Little has as yet been done in the way of permanently installing 
the exhibition series of vertebrate fossils, -owing to the construction 
of new cases and the absence of Mr. F. A. Lucas, the Curator, for 
several weeks in New Haven. The death of Professor Marsh involved 
the immediate withdrawal and turning over to the Museum of the 
vertebrate fossils collected under the direction of the Geological Sur- 
vey, which work has naturally taken a large share of the time and 
attention of the Curator since March. This collection will be referred 
to again in the next report. 

The final arrangement of the collection of invertebrate fossils has 
l)een delayed by the need of cases. The entire Paleozoic portion has 
been removed from tlie floor of the southwest court and placed on the 
gallery in the .same court. This installation is not, however, final. 
AYith the completion of the rail cases, it is hoped to remove from the 
floor of this court the Mesozoic and more recent invertebrate fossils, 
thereby making room for the collections in vertebrate paleontology^ 
At present, the mounted exhibition series in this section consists only 
of Cambrian, Upper Carboniferous, and Tertiary forms. Mr. Charles 
Schuchert has labored most industriouslv, and reports that, with the 
assistance of Mr. Williard, he has during the year placed in final 
Museum form upward of 20,000 specimens and prepared 2,900 cata- 



46 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

logue cards, as well as manuscript for 1.319 labels. With the present 
force, however, it will not be possible to complete the installation of 
the exhibition series for at least two years. 

In the Section of Paleobotany 1 have to report the installation of 
an exhibition series comprising some 1,000 specimens in the wall cases 
occupying the south and west galleries of the Southeast Court. Some 
1,300 specimens were received and catalogued during the year, and 
four volumes, comprising 2,000 entries in the old catalogues, have 
been copied. At least 12,000 entries yet remain to be made of mate- 
rials now in the Museum. There is need of another assistant in this 
section. 

RESEARCH. 

But little opportunity has been offered for special investigation by 
officers of the Museum. Dr. E. C. E. Lord has occupied a desk in the 
laboratory of the Division of Geology and has been engaged upon the 
study of the rocks collected by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. A., of the 
Mexican Boundary Survey and other rocks collected by himself on 
the coast of Maine and by Messrs. Schuchert and White in Greenland. 

The head curator has partially revised for publication the manuscript 
for a handbook of the collection of nonmetallic minerals which was 
begun some three years ago. He has also written sundry other papers, 
the titles of which, so far as they have yet been published, are given 
in the Bi])liography (Appendix IV). Mr. Wirt Tassin, assistant curator 
in charge of the mineral collections, has now in press a handbook of the 
exhibition series, illustrating the characters of minerals, and also a 
paper showing the classification adopted in the arrangement of the 
mineral collections under his charge. He announces having in prepar- 
ation a catalogue of the mineral collections and a handbook of the 
collection of meteorites. Mr. Schuchert has been engaged, when 
opportunity offered, in reworking the Lower Helderberg and Oriskany 
collections, and has prepared two papers for publication. He has 
practically completed a paper on the Lower Devonian Aspect of the 
Lower Helderberg and Oriskany, and one on the Lower Silurian Fauna 
of Baffin Land. He is also continuing his work, begun more than three 
years ago, on the fossil starfishes of America. Mr. Lucas has com- 
pleted a study of the fossil bison; identified a series of vertebrates from 
the White River Miocene, submitted by the Geological Survey, and 
described a hitherto unknown fossil snake from the Eocene of Alabama. 

SOURCES OF NEW MATERIAL. 

AVith the exception of the collections of Kinderhook fossils made by 
Mr. Paul Bartsch, of the Division of Mollusks, while at his home in 
Burlington, Iowa, no geological explorations of consequence have 
been undertaken by members of the Museum staff", Mr. F. W. Crosby, 



I 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 47 

of this city, while travclinj^- in Europe, collected niaiiy objects of 
valiu>, iTicludiiii);- a tine series of Italian asbestos and an exceptionally 
large cluster of basaltic cohnnns from near Bonn, in Prussia. In like 
manner. Prof. C. H. Hitchcock, of Hanover, New Hampshire, while 
in the Hawaiian Islands, made important creolooical collections. 
Inasnuich as the materials have not yet arrived at the Museum, further 
notice concerning them is left for the next report. 

Through the kindness of the Geological Survey the Museum was 
enabled to detail Mr. H. E. Dickhaut, of that bureau, to collect an 
extensive series of Upper Silurian fossils in the vicinity of Lockport, 
New York. 

Mr. R. D. Lacoe has, by two important donations, continued to 
exhibit his interest in science and in the National Museum. Through 
the kindly interest of Mr. Harry Lee, the State Commissioner of 
Mines, a line series of telluride ores and other desirable materials from 
Colorado has been procured. 

As in the past, the chief source of accumidation is the Geological 
Survey, particularly for paleontological, stratigraphical, and litholog- 
ical material. Dr. L. T. Chamberlain has on three occasions manifested 
his interest in the gem collection, as noted elsewhere. 

ASSISTANCE AFFORDED STUDENTS AND INVESTIGATORS. 

The custom of lending collections to workers outside of the Museum 
has been adhered to. A small collection of Japanese marbles was lent 
to Prof. O. C. Marsh, and 116 thin sections of granites to Prof. B. K. 
Emerson. From the Division of Mineralogy a series of silicates and 
several specimens of chalcedony were turned over to Messrs. Clark 
and Diller, of the Geological Survey, to be used in special investigations 
being conducted by them. In like manner teeth of Paleozoic sharks 
have ))een lent to Prof, C. R. Eastman, of Cambridge. Invertebrate 
Paleozoic material has been lent to Mr. J. W. Beede, of the University 
of Kansas; to Dr. G. F. Girty, of the Geological Survey; to M. M. 
Cossman, of Paris; and Dr. Anton Fritsch, of Prague. 

The study of the collections has not been limited wholly to members 
of the Museum staff. As already noted, Dr. E. C. E. Lord has con- 
tinued his studies in the Division of Geology, while Doctor Fritsch, of 
Bohemia, and Doctor Matthews, of the American Museum of Natural 
History, have briefly studied methods of installation, and, in the case 
of Doctor Fritsch, the fossil Myriapoda and Arachnida in the Lacoe 
collection. 

Prof. F. W. Cragiu, graduate student of Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, has passed several weeks in the Museum, working on the 
collection of Texas Jurassic fossils. In the Section of Vertebrate Pale- 
ontology, Dr. O. P. Hay has described two new species of fossil tur- 
tles and Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., one new species of Pleistocene bear. 



48 HEPOUT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Prof. Atreus Wanner, superintendent of the public schools of York, 
Pennsylvania, has twice visited the Museum to utilize the Triassic 
materials in the collections in connection with his Work on the Triassic 
plants from near York, Pennsylvania. 

Twenty-six papers bearing upon subjects in the department collec- 
tions have been prepared during the 3"ear, either by the staff of the 
Museum or by those having access to the collections. These titles are 
given in the Bibliography and need not be repeated here. 

STORAGE AND WORKROOMS. 

Much material (several hundred boxes) belonging to the Paleonto- 
logical collections is still in storage. It is hoped that some time in 
the near future this, too, ma}^ be made available to students. 

With the renting of the Emery Building, on Tenth street southwest, 
the workrooms and all machinery used in preparatory^ work were 
removed to that building, thus affording a much-needed space for 
packing and unpacking material, and such incidental work as could 
not properly be carried on in the offices and exhibition halls. 

In the Section of Systematic Geology there are several special series 
of exhibits that could be prepared to advantage, such as collections 
illustrating the geology of special areas, to include maps, sections, 
and other drawings and photographs, besides the actual specimens. 
A very attractive exhibit illustrating the geology and physical geog- 
raphy of the Yellowstone Park has also been projected, but not yet 
carried out. 

In the Section of Applied Geology there is need of special exhibits 
illustrative of various phases of the science. Models of one or more 
important mines, or relief maps and sections of mining regions, 
together with samples of the ore and wall rocks, form desirable 
exhibits, as do also collections showing the origin and derivation of 
ore, the geological distribution of useful minerals of various kinds, 
the qualifying conditions for artesian wells, etc. 

Several such exhibits have been projected, but are still far from 
complete. 

In my report as curator for 1892 I announced the preparation of 
200 sets of rocks and ores, ranging in number from 06 to 104 specimens 
each. The last of these was sent out during the spring of 1899. Since 
1892 other materials have been gradually accumulated, in the line of 
both geology and invertebrate paleontology, for other sets, but no 
opportunity has been found to put them in order. The interest at 
present manifested in the study of soils and the problems connected 
therewith led the curator to begin, a year or more ago, the prepara- 
tion of 100 sets of rocks and their decomposition products, as described 
in his work on rockweathering. This work, too, is still unfinished. 

The death of Prof. O. C. Marsh, which occurred on March 18, 1899, 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 49 

has precipitated the work of transferring to the Museum the collec- 
tions of vertebrate fossils made by him under the authority of the 
Geological Survey during the years 1S82 to 1893, referred to in the 
last report. Representatixes of the department have been at New 
Haven since April 10, engaged in the work of packing. The lal)or of 
bringing the material here and installing it, together with the inci- 
dental work of cataloguing and looking after the records, will tax to 
the utmost the resources of the section for many months to come. As 
much of the material is still in the matrix, the services of another 
preparator are essential. With this additional help, it might be pos- 
sible to prepare one or more restorations of some of the more striking 
forms, like Trlceratoj)^, which would add greatly to the interest and 
educational value of the display collections. 
NAT MUS 90 4 



SUMMAKY OF THE OPERATIONS OF THE YEAR. 



TIIK MUSEUM STAFF. 

Dr. O. C. Marsh, professor of paleontology in Yale University and 
for many years connected with the staff of the National Museum as 
honorary curator of Vertebrate Fossils, died on March 18, 18UU. 

Dr. Frederick W. True has been appointed the Representative of 
the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum on the Govern- 
ment Board for the Pan-American Exposition to be held in Buffalo in 
1901, and Mr. W. V. Cox has been designated as chief special agent 
in the same connection. 

Mr. J. L. Willige continued to act as chief clerk until December 12, 
when he was relieved by Mr. W. V. Cox, who had then completed his 
duties awa}' from Washington in connection with the Trans-Missis- 
sippi and International Exposition. 

Mr. George C. Maynard, custodian of the Electrical Collections, 
was on August 1, 1898, also designated as aid in the Division of 
Mechanical Technology. 

Mr. J. H. Kiley and Mr. Marcus W. Lyon, jr., were appointed aids 
in the Department of Biology on August 8 and August 15, respec- 
tively, and on January 1, 1899, Miss Carrie Harrison, aid in the Divi- 
sion of Plants, was transferred to the Department of Agriculture. 

Mr. E. A. Schwarz has been placed in charge of the entire collec- 
tion of Coleoptera, as custodian, and Mr. Nathan Banks has been made 
custodian of the Collection of Arachnida. 

Prof. O. F. Cook, for some time an assistant curator in the Division 
of Plants, having accepted a position in the Department of Agricul- 
ture, was in March, 1899, made honorary assistant curator in charge 
of the Cryptogamic collections. 

Dr. A. C. Peale was appointed aid in the Section of Paleobotany on 
July 25, 1898. 

Dr. George H. Girty, of the U. S. Geological Survey, was made 
custodian of the Carboniferous collections in the Section of Inverte- 
brate Fossils on July 29, 1898. 

A complete list of the members of the scientific and administrative 
staffs will be found in Appendix I. 

ArPKOPKIATIONS AND EXPENDITURES. 

The appropriations by Congress for the past fiscal year aggregated 
1257,000, an increase of 124,000 over the total for the preceding year. 
There was an increase of $5,000 in the item for preservation of collec- 

51 



52 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



tioii.s, which also contained an added provision for the making of illus- 
trations to an extent not exceeding $5,500 in cost. For furniture and 
fixtures, including the furnishing of new galleries, $35,000 were given, 
being $5,000 more than the year before. The purchase of books was 
provided for in a separate appropriation of $2,000. The amount 
allowed for the rent of workshops w^as increased from $2,000 to $4,500, 
and for continuing the construction of galleries, etc., from $8,000 to 
$10,000. For the purchase of the library of the late Dr. G. Brown 
Goode, $5,000 were granted, and the appropriation for printing and 
binding Avas increased from $12,000 to $17,000. 

The total expenditures from these appropriations during the year 
aggregated $2-14,368, leaving a balance, subject to outstanding liabili- 
ties, of $12,632. From the appropriation for 1897-98 disbursements 
amounting to $5,385.11 were made, leaving a balance of $118.18, 
exclusive of small balances from the printing allotment and the appro- 
priation for the rent of workshops. Expenditures to the amount of 
$378.69 were made from the appropriation for 1896-97, under the titles 
of preservation of collections, and heating and lighting. 

The following tables show the expenditures during 1898-99 from the 
appropriations for the past two fiscal years and the balances on hand 
June 30, 1899: 

Appropridtioiis avd c.rpendlfnrcx fur llw fiscal year nalbig June 30, 1899. 



Object. 



Preservation of collections 

Furniture and fixtures 

Heating, lighting, and electrical service 

Books 

Postage 

Building repairs 

Rent of workshops 

Galleries 

Library of the late G. Brown Goode . . . . 
Printing 

Total 



Apjjropria- 
tions. 



S165, 000 
35, 000 
14, 000 

2,000 
500 

4,000 

4,500 
10, 000 

5,000 
17, 000 



257, 000 



Expendi- 
tures. 



sioo, 

34, 

12, 

1, 

3, 
4, 
5, 
5. 
16, 



338. 0(3 
004. 72 
219. 98 
300. 43 
500. 00 
918. 92 
389. 92 
G98. 34 
000. 00 
997. 63 



Balance on 

hand June 

30, 1899. 



M, 661. 94 
995. 28 

1,780.02 
699. 57 



81.08 

110.08 

4,301.66 



2.37 



12, 632. 00 



Dislmrsements from unexpended balances of appropriations for the fiscal year ending June 

30, 1898. 



Object. 



Preservation of collections 

Furniture and fi.xtures 

Heating and lighting 

Building repairs 

Galleries 

Rel)uilding sheds 

Total 



Balance 

June 30, 

1898. 



m, 363. 51 

1,710.46 

816. 87 

31.98 

551. 87 

28.90 



5, 503, 59 



Expendi- 
tures. 



J2, 266. 23 

1,709.23 

811.38 

27.46 

543. 00 

28. 12 



5,385,41 



Balance^ 

June 30, 

1899. 



S97. 28 
1.23 
5.49 
4.53 

8.87 



118.18 



K15POKT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 53 

Tho appropritition.s for the fiscal year (Muliiiy June 30, 1000, are as 

follows: 

Preservation of eollectiona ?^1 "0, 000 

Furniture and fixtures (including $10,000 for furnishing new galleries) 25, 000 

Heating, lighting, and electrical service 14, 000 

Postage 500 

Books, pamphlets, and periodicals 2, 000 

Repairs to buildings, shops, and sheds 6, 000 

Rent of workshops and temporary storage (piarters 4, 040 

Printing and binding 1 ' ? 000 

Total - 238,540 

BUILDINGS. 

Iron galleries have been erected in the West North Range, the West 
South Range, the East South Range, and the South East Range under 
the item of 110,000 appropriated for that purpose. The great snow 
storm of Februar}^, 1809, disclosed certain weak places in the roof of the 
Museum building and caused the buckling of several of the large iron 
girders. The damaged parts have been repaired and strengthened so 
far as the appropriation permitted. Two of the old wooden floors 
have been replaced by terrazzo pavement, and many minor repairs and 
improvements have been made. 

Three additional small buildings have been leased for workshop and 
storage purposes, thus supplying much-needed space and allowing for 
the removal of the long frame shed which adjoined the Museum build- 
insr on the east side. 



ACCESSIONS AND REGISTRATION. 

The total number of accessions during the year was 1,497, a slight 
increase over that for the preceding year. ' The number of specimens 
embraced in these accessions was 210,323, raising the grand total in 
the possession of the Museum to 4,355,463. The details are shown in 
the following table: 

Number of sjiechiiens received in 1898-99, and total iiiunt>er In the serer(d divimniii on 

June 30, 1899. 



Division. 



Anthropology: 

Ethnology 

Historic archoeology. . . 
Prehistoric archseology 

Technology 

Graphic arts 

Medicine 

Religions 

History and biography 



Received 
in 1898-99. 



Total. 



2,253 
104 

3,429 

207 

121 

19 

508 

1,027 



453, 908 
1,976 
278,018 
30,628 
7,355 
6,800 
2, 366 
37, 183 



54 



REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Nmiihrr of sjieclmeyis received in 1898-99, and total number in the several divisions on 
June 30, i55S»— Continued. 



Division. 



Biology: 

Mammals 

Birds 

Birds' eggs 

Reptiles and batrachians 

Fishes 

Mollusks 

Insects 

Marine invertebrates 

Helminthological collection . . . 

Comparative anatomy 

Plants 

Forestry 

Geology: 

Physical and chemical geology 

Mineralogy 

Stratigraphic paleontology 

Total 



Received 
in 1898-99. 



5, 031 

2, 785 

389 

85.5 

701 

14,981 

125,000 

7, 227 

c.\m 

94 

23, 000 



Total. 



638 

219 

21,536 



210, 323 



a 27,016 

/> 115,059 

01,661 

38, 977 

i5i,:?oi 

740, 017 
994,236 
.509, 331 
c 4, 945 
15, .585 
391,241 
749 

77,863 
29, .527 
376, 721 



4,355,463 



aincluding the specimens added to the Department of Agriculture series during this and the pre- 
ceding year. 
;< Including material recently added to the Department of Agriculture series, 
c Number of catalogue entries. 

The number of entries made in the catalogues of the different divi- 
sions was 26,442. In Appendix II Avill be found a complete list of the 
accessions for the year. 

The following- table shows the number of accessions annually since 

1881: 



Year. 


Accession 

numbers 

(inclusive). 


Number of 

accessions 

during 

the year. 


1881 


9890-11000 
11001-12500 
12.501-13900 
13901-15550 
15551-16208 
16209-17704 
17705-19350 
19351-20831 
20832-22178 
22179-23340 
23341-24527 
24.528-25884 
25885-27150 
27151-2S311 
28312-29534 
29535-30833 
30834-32300 
32301-33741 
33742-35238 


1,111 


1882 


1,500 


1883 


1,400 


1884 


1,650 




658 


1886 


1,496 


1887 . 


1,646 


1888 


1,481 


1889 


1,347 


1890 . . 


1,162 


1891 


1,187 


1892 


1,357 


1893 


1,266 


1894 


1,161 


1895 . 


1,223 


1896 . 


1,299 


1897 


1,467 


1898 


1,441 


1899 


1,497 







KEPOET OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



55 



Thirtoon thousand seven hundred and twenty-nine packages of 
various kinds have been received by the registrar, besides 21), (528 vol- 
umes of publications. Five hundred and fifty-seven of these packages 
contained specimens for the Museum collections. Three thousand 
one hundred and seventy-seven packages have been sent out. 

DISTRIBUTION AND KXCHANGE. 

Twenty-four thousand seven hundred and forty-five specimens were 
sent out as gifts or in exchange, and 9,850 specmiens were lent for 
study during the year. The gifts have consisted largely of collections 
of marine invertebrates, rocks, and casts of prehistoric implements, 
which have been presented to educational institutions in all parts of 
the country. The distributions are given in detail in Appendix III. 
The following statement shows the number of "lots" of specimens 
sent to each State and foreign country : 



Alabama 6 

Arkansas 1 

California - ^ 

Colorado 2 

Connecticut 5 

Delaware — 3 

District of Columbia 16 

Florida 1 

Illinois - 14 

Indiana 3 

Iowa 9 

Kansas 5 

Kentucky - 1 

Maine 2 

Maryland - 1 

Massachusetts 38 

Michigan 2 

Minnesota 11 

Mississippi 1 

Missouri 8 

Montana 3 

Nebraska 6 

New Hampshire 1 

New Jersey 3 

New York 35 

North Carolina 4 

North Dakota 1 

Ohio - 7 

Pennsylvania 16 

Rhode Island 1 



Tennessee 1 

Texas 2 

Utah 1 

Virginia 1 

AVashiugton 2 

West Virginia 1 

Wisconsin 6 

Foreign countries: 

Africa 2 

Argentina 2 

Australia 1 

Austria 3 

Belgium 2 

Canada 6 

China 2 

Denmark 2 

England 24 

France - - 2 

Germany 3 

India 4 

Italy - - 3 

Mexico 1 

Netherlands 2 

Peru 1 

Scotland... 1 

Sweden 1 

Switzerlan<l 2 

West Indies - 2 

Total 294 



Among the more important exchange receipts from foreign estab- 
lishments and individuals the following may be mentioned: From the 
British Museum of Natural History, London, England, Set No. -A of 
RugeFs Florida plants, and 100 specimens representing 63 species of 



56 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

fossil corals, in exchange for plants, Tertiary corals, bryozoans, skins 
and skulls of mammals from Patagonia, and moUusks from the United 
States and other localities. From the Musemn of Natural History, 
Paris, France, alcoholic fishes from northern and central Asia. From 
the Geological Survey of Canada, 24 specimens of Trenton fossils in 
exchange for fossils from Baffin Land. From the Rijks Ethnographic 
Museum, Leyden, Holland, a collection of ethnological objects in 
exchange for material of the same character. From the Public Gar- 
dens and Plantations, Kingston, Jamaica, 112 plants in exchange for 
botanical specimens. From the Museum Michoacano, Morelia, Mexico, 
birds' skins and insects in exchange for publications. From the Albany 
Museum, Grahamstown, South Africa, 41 birds' skins. From the 
Riksmuseum, Stockholm, Sweden, 29 species of Actinians in exchange 
for a similar collection. From Mr. G. Van lloon, Rotterdam, Holland, 
a collection of beetles from Java and South Africa in exchange for 
Coleoptera. From Mr. Jean Miguel, Barrubio, Herault, France, a 
large collection of fossils from the Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and Cenozoic 
horizons of Europe in exchange for 272 specimens, representing 147 
species, of Paleozoic fossils. From Rev. Paul D. Bergen, Chefoo, 
China, 48 birds' skins and 2 mammals' skins. From Baron R. de 
Vriere, Zedelghem, Belgium, a collection of Belgian insects in exchange 
for 112 specimens of Coleoptera. From Mr. G. Ruscheweyh, Buenos 
Aires, Argentina, a collection of Argentine Lepidoptera in exchange 
for material of the same character. From Mr. E. Y. Connell, St. 
Kitts and Nevis, British West Indies, Carib implements and pieces of 
pottery in exchange for stone implements. From Mr. C. F. Pavona, 
Museum of Natural History, University of Turin, 107 specimens of 
fossil corals, representing 95 species, from the Italian Tertiary deposits, 
in exchange for fossils. From Prof. M. F. Colunga, Lima, Peru, 24 
birds' skins. From Mr. L. Y. Ayson, Masterton, Wellington, New 
Zealand, 17 birds' skins in exchange for material of the same kind. 

Seventy-six specimens of Cambrian fossils have been forwarded to 
the Geographical-Paleontological Institute, Munich, Germany. 



REPOKT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



VISITORS. 



The nuinber of persons visiting- the Museum l)uilding- was 192,471, 
unci the Smithsonian building, 116,912. The following tables show, 
respectively, the number of visitors during each month of the past 
year, and the totals for each year since 1881: 

Number of visitor durliif/ Ihejixcdl t/e<tr 1898-99. 



Year anil iiKUith. 



Mnseum 
building. 



Smith- 
sonian 
building. 



July 

August 

September 

October 

November _ 

December 

1899. 

January 

February 

March 

April 

May 

June 

Total 

Approximate daily average on a basis of 313 days in the year 



24, 489 
14,314 
14, 357 
19,510 
12, 932 
10, 822 

11, 723 
10,394 
20, 005 
16, 273 
26, 417 
11,235 



14,870 
8,060 
7,904 

11,411 
7,365 

10, 281 

7,191 
0,071 
10,495 
12,761 
14, 396 
0,041 



192, 471 
615 



116,912 
373 



Xiuiihi'r of risltors to tlw Maseam awl Snillli.wwan JiuilduKjx tiincc the opening of tlie 

former ui 1881. 



Year. 


Museum 
building. 


Smithson- 
ian 
building. 


Total to 

both 
buildings. 


1881 


150,000 
167,455 
202, 188 
97, 661 
205, 026 
174,225 
216, 562 
249, 665 
374, 843 
274,324 
286,426 
269, 825 
319, 930 
195,748 
201,744 
180, 505 
229, 606 
177, 254 
192, 471 


100,000 
152,744 
104,823 

45,565 
105, 993 

88,960 

98, 552 
102, 863 
149, 618 
120,894 
111,669 
114,817 
174, 188 
103, 910 
105,658 
103, 650 
115,709 

99, 273 
116,912 


250, 000 


1S82 


320,199 


1883. . •- 


307,011 


1884 (half vear ) 


143, 226 


18!M-85a .. 


311,019 


1885-86 


263, 185 


1880-.S7 


315, 114 


1887 88 


352, 528 
524, 461 


1888-89 a. 


1889-90 


395, 218 


1890-91 


398, 095 


1891-92 


384,642 


1 N92-93 a 


494, 118 


1893-94 


299, 658 


1894-95.. . 


307,402 


1^95-96... .. 


284,155 


1896-97 a 


345, 315 


1897-98 


276, 527 


1898-99. . 


309,383 






Total 


4,165,458 


2,115,798 


6, 281, 256 







aYearof I'resiiU'Utial inauirurations. 



58 rp:port of national museum, 1899. 

students and investigators. 

Investigations upon collections in the Museum b}^ persons not 
employed upon its staff have been carried on extensivel3^ The Chinese 
kites were examined by Mr. A. Lawrence Rotch, of Hyde Park, 
Massachusetts, with reference to the principles of aerial flotation 
involved in their construction. The extensive collection of aboriginal 
tobacco pipes has been studied by Mr. J. D. McGuire, of Ellicott City, 
Maryland, in connection with the preparation of his monograph on that 
.subject published in the Report of the Museum for 1897. Mr. Stewart 
Culin, of the University of Pennsylvania, has continued his studies on 
aboriginal and modern games, as illustrated by specimens in the Division 
of Ethnology. 

The collections in the Division of Mammals have been constantly 
consulted by the members of the statiE' of the Biological Survey of the 
Department of Agriculture. The specimens of Drivaocliely^, a genus 
of turtles, have been studied by Dr. O. P. Hay, with regard to the 
systematic position of the genus. In the Division of Marine Inver- 
tebrates, Miss Harriet Richardson has been engaged in studying cer- 
tain Isopoda, and in the preparation of a report upon the Isopods of 
the Pacific coast of North America, which has recently l)een published 
in the Proceedings of the Museum. Dr. H. F. Moore, of the U. S. 
Fish Commission, spent several weeks at the Museum in working up 
the Isopoda collected by the steamer FkK Ilawh on the coast of Porto 
Rico A study of the very extensive collection of West Indian corals 
belonging to the Museum has been begun by Mr. T. Wayland Vaughan, 
of the IT. S. Geological Survey, whose previous researches in this field 
especially qualify him for the work. Prof. W. P. Hay, of the Central 
High School, has at intervals given attention to the crayfishes in the 
collection, naming those recently obtained. He has also described a 
new form of Isopod in a paper printed in the Proceedings of the 
Museum. 

In the Division of Insects the following persons, among others, have 
consulted the collections: Miss Ella Weeks, of Manhattan, Kansas; 
Messrs. Snyder and McDade, of the Chicago Entomological Society; 
Prof. O. S. Westcott, of Chicago, Illinois; Miss Harriet B. Merrill, 
of Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Mr. O. Reinecke, of Buffalo, New York; 
Dr. J. Branchont, of the Bergen Museum, Bergen, Norway; Mr. 
Henry Bird, of Rye, New York; Prof. John B. Smith, of Rutgers Col- 
lege, New Brunswick, New Jersey; Dr. S. C. Shumucker, of West- 
chester, Pennsylvania; Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell, of Mesilla Park, 
New Mexico; Prof. James Hine, of Columbus, Ohio; Dr. Herman 
Strecker, of Reading, Pennsylvania; Mr. Charles E. Burden, of 
Washington, District of Columl)ia; Prof. E. Dwight Sanderson, of 
College Park, Maryland; Dr. AV. J. Holland, of Pittsburg, Pennsyl- 
vania, and Mr. W. H. Wenzel, of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 



llEroKT (>:<^ ASSISTANT SKCllETAUV. 59 

III the Division of Fishes Dr. B. W. Kvin-iiiaiiii. Dr. H. M. Smith, 
iind Mr. W, C. IvciuUill, of tiic U. 8. Fisli Coiuniission, have uiiidii use 
of the collections. Mr. E. C. Starks, of the University of Washington, 
cxuniined certain fishes in working up the osteology of several aT)er- 
runt forms. 

The committee on nomenclature of the American Ornithologists' 
Union spent several days in the Division of Birds in(juiring into the 
validity of, various subspecies described during the previous year. 
Mr. K. W. Nelson, of the Department of Agriculture, was engaged 
for some time in a study of Mexican l)irds in connection with the 
determination of material collected 1)y him. Mr. H. C. Oberholser 
named several collections of birds at the request of the curator. Mr. 
William Palmer studied the small shrikes of North America and the 
eastern species of Gcotldijph. Mr. W. H. Osgood, of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, examined the wren-tits. Miss Florence Merriam, 
of Washington, studied various Western birds. Mr. Outram Bangs, 
of Boston, Massachusetts, gave attention to the rails, meadow larks, etc., 
for the purpose of ascertaining the status of certain new forms which 
he was about to describe. 

Sir Charles Elliot, second secretary of the British embassy and British 
Commissioner to Samoa, prosecuted investigations on the Nudibranchs 
represented in the Division of MoUusks. Mr. G . A. Drew, of Johns 
Hopkins University, made a study of the famil}^ Ledidai, and has 
published the results of his work. 

In the Division of Plants, Mr. A. M. Ferguson, of St. Louis, Mis- 
souri, gave some time to researches on the genus Croton; Miss 
Lewanna Wilkins, of Washington, was engaged during the winter in 
determining a set of California plants; Mr. J. J. Smith, of Washing- 
ton, studied the genus L<y])th)carpus and its allies, and Mr. Elmer I. 
Applegate, of Klamath Falls, Oregon, spent about two months in 
working up a set of Oregon plants. Mr. J. B. Leiberg, of Hope, 
Idaho, was occupied during a part of January and February with 
plants collected in the Western timber reserves. Prof. W. L. Bray 
has rccentl}^ carried on extensive studies in the herbarium. Prof. 
E. L. Greene, of the Catholic University, Washington, has consulted 
material in various genera and has made determinations for the Mu- 
seum. Prof. L. M. Underwood, of Columbia University, New York 
Cit3% visited the herbarium earl}^ in the spring for the pui-pose of 
examining certain fern groups. 

Prof. A. Wanner, who has discovered Triassic plants near York, 
Pennsylvania, where he resides, has visited the Museum on two occa- 
sions for the purpose of comparing his collections with those from the 
Richmond coal fields of Virginia. Researches on vertebrate fossils 
have been carried on by Dr. O. P. Hay, of Washington, who has 
described a new species of fossil turtle. Dr. Anton Fritsch, director 



60 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

of the National Museum at Prague, Bohemia, studied the fossil M3a'ia- 
poda and Arachnida in the Lacoe collection, and material has been 
transmitted to him for further examination. Prof. F. W. Cragin, of 
Johns Hopkins University, spent considerable time at the Museum in 
working up a collection of Jurassic fossils from Texas. 

Dr. E. C. E. Lord, of Washington, studied the rocks collected on 
the Mexican border by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. A. The results of 
Doctor Lord's studies were embodied in a paper which has been pub- 
lished in the Proceedings. 

Material has been sent out for examination as follows: 

To Mr. F. H. Gushing, of the Bureau of Ethnology, a collection of 
pipes, gorgets, ceremonial objects, etc. To Mr. Stewart Culin, of the 
University of Pennsylvania, specimens of Indian gambling implements. 
To Mr. V. K. Chesnut, of the Department of Agriculture, 27 speci- 
mens of Mexican drugs. 

From the Division of Mammals the type of Mictoinys imiultus was 
lent to Mr. E. A. Preble, of the Department of Agriculture, for use in 
connection with the determination of species from New Hampshire, 
and he was also supplied with several specimens belonging to the genus 
Zapus. Ten squirrels and more than 100 mice were furnished to 
Mr. G. E. H. Barrett-Hamilton, London, England; representatives of 
the genus 3ficrotns to Mr. Vernon Bailey, of the Department of Agri- 
culture, for use in a revision of the genus; about 50 small mammals to 
Mr. E. W. Nelson, of the Department of Agriculture; 5 pocket mice 
and 1 gray fox to Mr. W. H. Osgood, of the same Department. The 
skull of a deer was sent to Mr. Outram Bangs, Boston, Massachusetts. 

A specimen of Desmognathus was forwarded by the Division of Rep- 
tiles and Batrachiaus to Dr. J. Percy Moore, of the University of Penn- 
sylvania, for comparison; and a specimen of Amphystonia to Dr. J. D. 
Lindahl, of Cincinnati, Ohio. Three double-headed snakes were sent 
to the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

From the Division of Fishes a specimen of Nemichthys scolopaceus and 
one of Chirostoma estor were sent to Dr. David S. Jordan, of Leland 
Stanford Junior University; several Mj^xinoid fishes to Prof. Howard 
Ayres, of the University of Missouri, and a number of specimens to 
Mr. E. C. Starks, for use in determining the range of certain genera. 

The following sendings were made by the Division of Birds: Thirty- 
five specuiiens to Mr. Outram Bangs, Boston, Massachusetts, for use in 
connection with the determination of material from Colombia; 67 spec- 
imens of wrens, sparrows, etc., to Mr. William Brewster, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, who was studying the status of these groups in the 
western part of the United States; 76 specimens of small shrikes to 
Mr. K. M. Strong, Cambridge, Massachusetts, for study in determining 
the percentage of variation in that group; 13 specimens of thrushes to 
Mr. Reginald Heber Howe, jr., Longwood, Massachusetts; 60 bird skins 
to Dr. Jonathan D wight, jr.. New York City; 62 specimens of House 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 61 

Wrens to Mr. W. E. Loucks, Peoria, Illinois; 41 specinions of wrens to 
Mr. Witnior Stono, of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia. 

The transmissions from the Division of Insects were as follows: A 
collection of Mexican and Central American Acrididas to Prof. Law- 
rence Bruner, of the University of Nebraska; the unworked material 
in the Odonata to Dr. Philip P. Calvert, of the Academy of Natural 
Sciences, Philadelphia; miscellaneous material to Prof. F. H. Chitten- 
den, of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, for illustrating work in 
progress in the Department; specimens of the family Pyralidte to Prof. 
C. H. Fernald, of the Agricultural College, Amherst, Massachusetts, 
for monographic purposes; some wasps and bees to Mr. W. J. 
Fox, of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, for mono- 
graphic work; a collection of moths to Sir George F. Hampson, of the 
British Museum of Natural History, for monographic work; material 
in the family Chrysomelidte to Prof. E. Dwight, College Park, Mar}^- 
land; 15 species of Acrididas to Prof. Jerome McNeill, of Fayetteville, 
Arkansas, for use in connection with a synopsis of the species inhab- 
iting Arkansas; a specimen of Stenopehnatus fascuitus to Dr. S. H. 
Scudder, of Cambridge, Massachusetts; and 56 specimens of the genus 
Argynnh to Prof. A. J. Snyder, of Belvidere, Illinois. 

From the Division of Marine Invertebrates, annelids of the genera 
Ammotrypane, Trophonia., Ophelia^ etc., were transmitted to Mr. 
F. W. Gamble, of Owens College, Manchester, England; the collec- 
tion of leeches was sent to Dr. J. Percy Moore, of the University of 
Pennsylvania; the collection of Gephyreans to Prof. H. B. Ward, of 
the University of Nebraska; and the collection of Caprellidai to Dr. 
F. Meinert, of the Zoological Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark, all of 
these having been supplied under arrangement for monographing the 
several groups. 

A small number of specimens were sent from the Division of Mol- 
lusks to Dr. V. Sterki, New Philadelphia, Ohio, for examination, and 
a few slugs to Mr. H. A. Pilsbry, of the Academy of Natural Sciences 
of Philadelphia. 

Material has been supplied l)y the Division of Plants for special 
systematic or morphological study to the following: Royal Botanic 
Gardens, Kew, England, 22 specimens; Dr. T. Maxwell Masters, 
London, England, 18 specimens; C. De Candolle, Geneva, Switzer- 
land, 23 specimens; Prof. B. L. Rol)inson, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 
537 specimens; Mr. C. S. Sargent. Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts, 69 
specimens; Dr. George Davenport, Medford, Massachusetts, 3 speci- 
mens; Dr. J. K. Small, Botanical Garden, New York City, 15 speci- 
mens; Prof. L. M. Underwood, Columbia University, New York City, 
10 specituens; Mr. B. D. Gilbert, Clayville, New York, 88 specimens; 
Mr. W. Miller, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, 25 specimens; 
Mr. F. W. Waugh, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont, 5 
specimens; Prof. William Trelease, St. Louis, Missouri, 252 speci- 



62 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

mens; Dr. N. M. Glatfelter, St. Louis, Missouri, 8 specimens; Mr. 
H. C. Irish, St. Louis, Missouri, 2 specimens; Mr. D. T. MacDougal, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, 9 specimens; Prof. E. L. Greene, Catholic 
University, Washington, District of Columbia, 57 specimens; Mr. 
H. O. Hall, Army Medical Museum, Washington, District of Colum- 
bia, 14 specimens; Mr. Theodor Holm, Washington, District of 
Columbia, 263 specimens; Mrs. M. R. McConnell, Washington, Dis- 
trict of Columbia, 6 specimens. 

Several specimens of chalcedony have been sent to Mr. J. S. Diller, 
of the U. S. Geological Survey, for use in connection with his investi- 
gations, and thin sections of rocks have been supplied to Prof. B. K. 
Emerson, of Amherst College. 

Specimens of the teeth of Paleozoic sharks have been lent to Dr. 
C. R. Eastman, of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, and a number of fossils to Prof. J. W. Beede, of the 
University of Kansas, for use in connection with the preparation of 
a monograph on the fossils of the Upper Carboniferous strata of 
Nebraska and Kansas. 

COOPERATION OF THE EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT. 

As in past years, much valuable material has been received from 
several departments and bureaus of the Government, notably the 
Department of Agriculture, the U. S. Geological Survey, and the U. S. 
Fish Commission, under all of which extensive explorations into the 
resources of this country are continuously in progress. The collec- 
tions derived from this source are enumerated in the List of Accessions 
(Appendix H), and those of special interest are also discussed in the 
reports of the head curators. 

In this connection reference should be made to the services rendered 
by those curators and custodians who receive no compensation from 
the Museum. There are now about thirty of these honorary otficers, 
the majority of whom are in the employ of other branches of the Gov- 
ernment, and the assumption of the additional duties which they vol- 
untarily perform in this connection is only rendered possible through 
the courtesy of the heads of the several departments and bureaus. In 
accepting the care and development of the collections placed in their 
charge, they are called upon in most cases to undertake a large amount 
of arduous routine work for which the Museum has not the means for 
engaging paid assistants. 

INFORMATION FURNISHED. 

Temporary accessions, consisting almost entirely of material sent 
to the Museum for identification, have been received to the number of 
518 (numbers 5070 to 5587). Such specimens are usually returned to 
the senders unless used up in analysis or found desirable for addition 
to the collections. The amount of time consumed by members of the 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



63 



scientific staff in making these identifications is necessarily very great, 
and has proved especially so in the Divisions of Insects and (reology. 
Many requests for technical information are received daily. When 
these relate to subjects coming within the scope of the activities of the 
Museum, as is very generally the case, they are promptly complied 
with, though the public little realizes the amount of work which this 
involves. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

The publications of the Museum issued and distributed during the 
year Avere the Annual Report for 1890, together with the separates of 
the several papers composing the appendix to the same; completed 
volume 20 of the Proceedings (issued in August, 1898); the separate 
editions of papers numbered from 1140 to 1178, inclusive, constituting 
volume 21 of the Proceedings; and parts 2 and 8 of Bulletin 47, entitled 
The Fishes of North and Middle America, by Drs. David Starr Jor- 
dan and Barton Warren Evermann. Part 4 of this Bulletin, an atlas 
of plates of fishes, is well under way. 

The Annual Report for 1897 will be in two volumes, the second 
volume being in the nature of a memorial to the late assistant secre- 
tary. Dr. George Brown Goode. The proof reading of the first vol- 
ume has been finished. The second volume and the Annual Report 
for 1898 are both in the printer's hands. 

The Bibliography, forming Appendix IV of this volume, contains 
a list of all papers based upon Museum material which have been 
published during the year. The number of authors represented is 75 
and the total number of titles given 318. The following table classi- 
fies these papers in accordance with the subjects treated: 



Subject. 



Administration 

Archaeology 

Biography 

Birds 

Botany 

Comparative anatomy 

Ethnology 

Fishes 

Fossils 

General natural history .. 

Geology 

Insects 

Mammals 

Marine invertebrates 

Minerals 

MoUusks 

Reptiles and batrachians. 
Miscellaneous 



Total , 



Papers by 
Museum 
officers. 



Papers by 
other 
investi- 
gators. 



5 

122 

16 

3 



Total. 



3 
6 
1 

46 

10 

2 

6 

10 

18 

2 

8 

153 

17 

10 

1 

13 
10 
2 

318 



64 BEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Twenty-two papers by members of the staff, based upon Museum 
material, ha\'e with the approval of the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution been printed during the year in publications other than 
those of the Museum. Their titles will be found in the Bibliogfraphy. 
The names of the authors are as follows: Mr. Robert Ridgway, Dr. 
C. W. Richmond, Mr. G. S. Miller, jr., Mr. F. A. Lucas, Dr. J. N. Rose, 
Mr. C. L. Pollard, Mr. Charles Schuchert, and Mr. B. A. Bean. 

LIBRARY. 

During the past year the Museum library acquired through pur- 
chase, under a special act of Congress, the very important scientific 
library of the late Dr. G. Brown Goode, consisting of about 2,900 
bound volumes, 18,000 pamphlets, and 1,800 portraits, autographs, 
and engravings. This collection, brought together at the expense of 
much time and labor on the part of Doctor Goode, contains many rare 
and valuable publications, and is especially rich in the literature of 
museums and of fishes. 

The overcrowded condition of the library has been somewhat, 
though only temporarily, relieved by building for its use a gallery 
in the West North Range. 

Six hundred and forty books, 965 pamphlets, and 6,196 parts of 
periodicals, including the regular Museum accessions and a small part 
of the Goode library, have been catalogued, and progress has been 
made in the transfer of titles to the new catalogue cards. From the 
accessions to the Smithsonian library 231 books, 649 pamphlets, and 
8,616 parts of periodicals have been temporarily installed in the 
Museum. About 16,000 books and pamphlets were borrowed during 
the year, about one-third for the use of the sectional libraries. Among 
the purchases for the year have been a large number of works relating 
to the natural history of Cuba, Porto Rico, and the Philippine Islands. 
The number of books bound at the Government Printing Office was 441. 

Three additional sectional libraries have been authorized, the list 
now standing as follows: 

Administration. Marine invertebrates. 

Anthropology. Medicine. 

Biology. Mesozoic fossils. 

Birds. Mineralogy. 

Botany. Mollusks. 

Comparative anatomy. Oriental antiquities. 

Editorial. Paleobotany 

Ethnology. Parasites. 

Fishes. Photography. 

Geology. Prehistoric archaeology. 

History. Rejitiles. 

Insects. Stratigraphic paleontology. 

Mammals, Technology. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECKETAKY. 05 



KXPT.O RATIONS. 



Explorations yieldino- uiiiterials of iiiucli value have been conducted 
Iw members of the scientific staff of the Museum and by others. The 
impoi'tance of giving* carh' attention to the investigation of th«» eth- 
nology and natural history of the territories recently acquired by the 
United States was fully realized, })ut the lack of means has prevented 
any considerable inquiries in that direction. 

In the interest of the Department of Anthropology, Mr. W. II. 
Holmes, head curator, visited California in September, 1898, and 
secured a valuable series of objects illustrating the ethnology and 
archa?olog3^ of that State. The auriferous gravel region of Calaveras 
and Tuolumne counties was studied, and man^^ stone implements, sup- 
posed to have a bearing upon the occupation of that area ])y Tertiary 
man, were obtained. The ancient soapstone quarries and two prehis- 
toric burial places in Santa Catalina Island were examined, and a num- 
ber of relics were taken from the latter. The ethnological collection 
brought home by Mr. Holmes consisted in greater part of examples of 
the basketry, implements, etc., of the Porno, Digger, and Tulare 
Indians. 

Mr. Holmes also spent the month of April, 1890, in Mexico, where 
he obtained an important collection from the site of the ancient Aztec 
obsidian mines in the State of Hidalgo, besides a number of relics from 
the ancient cities of San Juan Teotihuacan and Xochicalco. 

The autumn of 1898 and a part of the following winter were spent 
in Cuba by Mr. Paul Beckwith, of the Division of History, with the 
object of gathering material of historical interest relating to the war 
with Spain. He was successful in obtaining many valuable objects 
and also in enlisting the cooperation of military men and others in con- 
tinuing the collecting. 

Dr. George F. Becker, of the United States Geological Survey, for 
which he has been carrying on investigations in the Philippine Islands, 
has kindly agreed to look after the interests of the Museum in the 
same region. 

Mr. J. B. Hatcher, sent to Patagonia on an extensive scientific mis- 
sion l)y Princeton University, has also entered into an arrangement 
to supply ethnological material to the National Museum, and one 
important lot has been received from him. 

In May, 1899, Dr. Walter Hough was detailed to carry on ethno- 
botanical researches in Mexico in connection with certain explorations 
by the Division of Botanv in charge of Dr. J. N. Rose. Earlier in 
the year Doctor Hough had made a collection of potters' tools and sev- 
eral hundred pieces of pottery in West Virginia. 

Mr. E. W^. Nelson, while on a l)otanical expedition to Mexico, under 
the Department of Agriculture, secured a large number of archa?ologi- 
NAT MUS 99 5 



66 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

cal sind etlinolotji'icul ()])jects, which were purchased ])y the Museum. 
Dr. Edward Pahnor, also exploring in Mexico for the same depart- 
ment, made collections for the Museum. Dr. Roland Steiner, of 
Grovetown, Georgia, conducted extensive explorations in aboriginal 
quarries, workshops, and village sites near the mouth of the Little 
Kiokec River, Georgia, where he obtained many thousands of speci- 
mens, which will 1)e included in the collection now" ])eing acquired by 
the Museum. 

Among the explorations which yielded important results to the 
Department of Biology, those carried on in connection with the cruise 
of the steamer i'T.sA Hawk to Porto Rico l)y the naturalists of the U. S. 
Fish Commission and by Mr. A. B. Baker, of the National Zoological 
Park, are especially worthy of mention. Of mollusks the Museum 
received some .5,000 specimens, representing about 400 species, many 
of which were rare and some undescribed. There were also large 
series of other marine and fresh- watei' invertebrates, about 180 birds, 
200 reptiles and batrachians, and 200 l)ats. 

A large and important series of mammals was collected for the 
Museum in Sweden, Germany, Belgium, and Switzerland by Mr. J. A. 
Loring, of Owego, New York. Mr. Dall De Weese, who visited 
Alaska during the summer of 1898, obtained for the Museum several 
specimens of the Alaska moose and a large number of the wild white 
sheep of that Territor3^ 

Ornithological collections received at the Museum were made as 
follows: ])y Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. A., in Texas; by Mr. Paul D. 
Bergen and Mr. George D. Wilder, in China; by Mr. Outram Bangs, 
in Colombia; by Mr. J. Hornung, in the Western United States; by 
Mr. R. C. McGregor, in California; by Mr. Eugene Coubeaux, in the 
Northwest Territory, Canada. 

A large series of reptiles and l)atrachians collected by field parties 
of the U. S. Fish Commission has been turned over to the Museum. 
This collection embraces a great deal of valuable material for the 
study of geographic distribution and individual variation, and includes 
a unique specimen of a discoglossoid toad,^ the first member of this 
suborder which has been discovered in the Western Hemisphere. Col- 
lections of fishes resulting from explorations in the Northern Pacific 
Ocean, Alaska, Kamchatka, Lake Superior, and Florida have also been 
transferred by the Fish Commission. Fishes ol^tained by Mr. Chaf- 
fanjon in northern and central Asia were received from the Museum 
of Natural History at Paris. 

The Division of Marine Invertebrates has l)een enriched by material 
collected by Dr. T. H. Bean and Mr. B. A. Bean, on Long Island; 
by Miss Mary J. Rathbun, at Grand Manan, New Brunswick; by Mr. 

1 Described in Proceedings paper No. 1178, by Dr. Ijeonhard Stejneger. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRKTAKY. ()7 

William Palmer iind Mr. Paul Haitsch, in the Dismal Swamp, Vir^-inia; 
by Mr. Harold Heath, in Monterey Bay, California, and l»y the Bio- 
log-ieal La])()rat()ry. at Cold Spring Harbor, New York. 

Mr. August Busek, of the Department of Agrieulture, wIkj accompa- 
nied the Fish Commission expedition to Porto Rico, obtained tlu>re a val- 
uable collection of insects, which has been transferred to the Museum. 
Agents of the Department of Agriculture, collecting in Mexico, have 
contributed small lunnbers of moUusks. som«^ of which are valual)le in 
charactei'. 

At the close of the year Dr. .1. N. Rose was engaged in botanical 
work in Mexico. Mr. Walter Evans, who visited Alaska for the 
DepartnuMit of Agriculture, brought liack with him a tine series of 
plants, which has been transferred to the Museum. The explorations 
by memljers of the Biological Survey of the same department, chiefly 
in the far West, have added much Aaluable material to the Herbarium. 
Important collections in botany have been made in Europe by Mr. W. 
T. Swingle and Mr. D. G. Fairchild. A number of Mexican plants 
collected by ]\Ir. E. W, Nelson have been obtained by purchase. 

The Department of Geology acquired an extensive series of Upper 
Silurian fossils, collected in the vicinity of Lockport, New York, for 
the ]\Iuseum by Mr. H. E. Dickhaut, of the U. S. Geological Survey; 
and a large lot of Hamilton corals from near Iowa City, and Kinder- 
hook corals from the vicinity of Burlington, in the State of Iowa, col- 
lected by Mr. Paul Bartsch. 

Explorations b}" the Geological Survey have been illustrated by two 
collections of fossil plants, one representing the Lower Coal Measure, 
of Henry County, Missouri; the other the Car))oniferous formation in 
the vicinit}^ of McAlester. Indian Territory. Both of these lots have 
been described by jNIr. David White, whose papers will be published 
by the Survey. 

Geological material obtained in Europe l)y Mr. F. W. Crosby has 
been added to the collection. 

Collectors'' outfits. — Outfits have Jjeen furnished to the following- 
persons, who have undertaken to collect material for the ^Museum: 
Mr. J. S. Holmes, Bowmans Bluff, North Carolina; Mr. D. W. 
Prentiss, jr., Washington, District of Columbia; Dr. E. A. Mearns, 
U. S. A.; Lieut. J. W. Daniel, Lynchburg, Virginia; Mr. Milton 
Whitney, Department of Agriculture; Mr. M. C. Long, Kansas City, 
Missouri; Dr. B. W. Evermann, U. S. Fish Commission; Rev. Paul D. 
Bergen, Chefoo, China; Mr. A. B. Baker, National Zoological Park; 
Lieut. H. E. Wetherill, Manila, Philippine Islands; Connnander 
George E. Ide, U. S. N., Brooklyn Navy -Yard, New York; Sir Charles 
Eliot, British commissioner to Samoa; Connnander J. C. Cantwell, 
U. S. N., Seattle, Washington; Mr. Leon .1. Guthrie, Willemstad, 



68 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Curayao, West Indies; Capt. A. C. Hansard, Lonquillo, Porto Rico; 
Mr. F. J. Tingle}, Kingston, Jamaica; Mr. W. B. Stockman, Havana, 
Cuba; Mr. James H. Kimball, Roseau, Dominica, West Indies; Mr. 
E. T. Giers. Port of Spain, Trinidad; Mr. P. McDonough, Bridge- 
town, Barbados; Mr. W. Randall, Santiago, Cuba; Mr. George Kings- 
bury, Basse-Terre, St. Kitts, West Indies; Mr. Robert Stein, Sydney, 
Nova Scotia. Outfits were also furnished to the following members 
of the Museum staff: Dr. F. W. True, Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr.. Miss 
M. J. Rathbun, Mr. William Palmer, Mr. Paul Bartsch, Mr. D. G. 
Fairchild, and Dr. J. N. Rose. 

TAXIDERMY AND OSTEOLOGY. 

Eight}" specimens in the flesh, consisting of 54 mammals, 15 birds, 
and 11 reptiles, have been received during the year, a large portion 
having come from the National Zoological Park. The skins of most 
of these were prepared for the study series, and skeletons were saved 
of an elephant, a sea lion, a beaver, and several of the birds and 
reptiles. The accessions also included 94 mammal skins, which came 
either dr}^ fresh,, or salted. The number of mammal skins mounted 
for exhibition purposes was 36. 

Besides the above the taxidermic work has included the renovation 
of a large number of specimens in the divisions of mammals, birds, 
and reptiles, with reference more especially to the exhibition series, 
which are being rearranged and placed in more acceptable condition 
for the public use. The collections in these and other divisions of 
zoolog}" which were displayed at the Trans-Mississippi Exposition, 
have been unpacked, renovated, and added to the exhibition series. 

The total luimber of osteological specimens prepared was 1,528, 
consisting of 1,504 mammal skulls and skeletons, the skeletons of 14 
birds, 3 reptiles, 3 fishes, and 4 miscellaneous objects. 

PHOTOGRAPHY. 

Mr. T. W. Smillie, photographer, reports that 473 negatives, 582 
platinum prints, 123 silver prints, and 18 cyanotypes have been made 
during the year. Several collectors have received instruction in the 
photographic laboratory, and outfits for field work have been fur- 
nished them. Mr. Smillie has continued to act as chairman of the 
United States Civil Service Board on Photograph)^ 

EXPOSITIONS. 

Tran-9-Mh^.s'i.ss!jyj}i and International Expofiltlon. — The Exposition 
opened at Omaha on June 1, 1898, and continued for five months. 
The Annual Report for 1898 contains a brief reference to the exhibits 



KEPOKT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. <>0 

display (>d by tlio Miisenmi, while a more extended account will apixnir 
in the Smithsonian Report for 1899. 

Fan- American Expotiitton, Jhrfalo.—By act of Congress approved 
March 8, 1899, the sum of $;300,()()0 has been appropriated for a Gov- 
ernment exhibit at the Pan-American Exposition to be held at Buffalo 
in 1901, besides an additional sum of $200,(»00 for the erection of a 
building. .Dr. F. W. True, executive curator, has been designated 
as the representative of the Smithsonian Institution and National 
Museum on the Government })oard of management, and Mr. W. V. 
Cox as chief special agent. 

Ohio Centennial Exjwsition. — An appropriation similar to that for 
the Pan-American Exposition has also been made by Congress for a 
Government exhibit and building at the Ohio Centennial Exposition, 
to be held at Toledo in 1902 or 1908, as may be determined upon here- 
after. This appropriation is contingent, however, upon a grant of 
$500,000 to the Exposition by the Ohio State legislature and the rais- 
ing of the same amount by subscription. 

Mention may here be made of the National Electric Light Exposi- 
tion in New York City in 1899, where the ^Museum was represented 
by a number of models of electrical apparatus belonging to the Henry 
collection. 

NECROLOGY. 

Dr. Othniel Charles Marsh, Honorary Curator of the collection of 
Vertebrate Fossils in the National Museum, died at his home in New 
Haven, Connecticut, on March 18, 1899. Dr. Marsh had held the 
position of professor of paleontology in Yale University since 1866. 
He was born in Lockport, New York, in 1831. After ])eing gradu- 
ated from Yale in 1860 he spent tive years in further study in the 
Sheffield Scientific School and in Germany. His explorations of the 
extensive fossil deposits of the AVest were begun in 1868. These led 
him into wholly unknown fields, and the record of his work from the 
time of his first connection as a professor with Yale University until 
his death forms a most important part of the history of recent 
progress in paleontological research. 

Many valuable works embodying the results of his investigations 
hav^e been published, and others were left in an advanced stage. 

In 1876 Doctor Marsh was elected president of the American Asso- 
ciation for the Advancement of Science, and in 1888 he became presi- 
dent of the National Academy of Sciences, a position which he held 
during two terms, or until 1895. He was connected with the U. S. 
Geological Survey, as paleontologist, for many years. In 1877 a 
medal was granted him by the Geological Society of London for 
most distinguished researches in geology and paleontology. He was 



70 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899, 

a member of many .scientific societies both in this country and abroad. 
The University of Heidelberg conferred upon him in 1886 the 
degree of Doctor of Philosophy, and Harvard University about the 
same time gave him the degree of Doctor of Laws. He became a 
correspondent of the Academy of Sciences of the Institute of France 
in 1898, and as winner of the Cuvier prize he was the recipient of 
one of the greatest honors ever conferred upon an Americ^m scientific 
man. 

Through the influence of Doctor Marsh, his uncle, George Peabody, 
made gifts to Yale University' which resulted in the establishment of 
the Peabodv Museum. 



APPENDIX I. 



The Museum Staff. 

[June 30, 1899.] 

S. P. Langley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Keeper Kx-OfHcio. 
Richard Rathbun, Assistant Secretary. 
Frederick W. True, Executive Curator. 

scientific; staff. 

Depakt.ment of An'tfikopolooy : 

W. H. Hohnes, Head Curator. 
((/) Division of Eilmologu : 0. T. Mason, Curator; Walter Hougli, Assistant Cura- 
tor; F. H. Gushing, Collaborator; J. W. Fewkes, Collaborator. 
{h) Division of Historic Archieology : Paul Haupt, Honorary Ckirator; Cyrus 

Adler, Honorary Assistant Curator; I. M. Casanowicz, Aid. 
{<•) Division of Prehistoric ArcJurologi/ : Thomas AVilson, Curator. 
(d) Division of Technologi/ {Mechanical phases): J. E. Watkins, Curator; George 
C. Maynard, Aid. 
Section of Electricity: G. C. Maynard, Custodian. 
((') Division of Gnqjhic Arts: S. R. Koehler, Honorary Curator. 

Section of Photography: T. W. Smillie, Custodian. 
(./') Divmon of Medicine: J. M. Flint, U. S. N., Honorary Curator. 
( g ) Division of Religions : 

Section of Historic Religious Ceremonials; Cyrus Adler, Custodian. 
(/( ) Division of History cmd Biography : 

Section of American History, A. 11. Clark, Custodian; Paul Beckwith, 
Aid. 
Dep.\ktmext of Biology : 

Frederick AV. True, Head Curator. 
{(i) Division of Mammals : Frederick W. True, Acting Curator; G. S. Miller, jr.. 

Assistant Curator; Marcus W. Lyon, jr., Aid. 
{h) Dicision of Birds: Robert Ridgway, Curator; Charles W. Richmond, Assist- 
ant Curator; J. H. Riley, Aid. 
Section of Birds' Eggs: William L. Ralph, Custodian. 

(c) Division of Reptiles and Batrachians : Leonhard Stejneger, Curator. 

[d) Division of Fisltes : Tarleton H. Bean, Honorary Curator; Barton A. Bean, 

Assistant Curator. 
((') Division of Mollnsks: William H. Dall, Honorary Curator; C. T. Simpson, Aid; 

Paul Bartsch, Aid. 
(/) Division of Insects: L. 0. Howard, Honorary Curator; W. H. Ashmead, 
Assistant Curator; R. P. Currie, Aid. 
Section of Hymenoptera: W. H. Ashmead, in charge. 
Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, Custodian. 
Section of Diptera: D. W. Coquillett, Custodian. 
Section of Coleoptera: E. A. Schwarz, Custodian. 
Section of Lepidoptera: Harrison G. Dyar, Custodian. 
Section of Arachnida: Nathan Banks, Custodian. 

71 



72 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Depaktment op Biology — Continued. 

((/) Division of Marine Invertebrates : Richard Rathbun, Honorary Curator; J. E. 
Benedict, First Assistant Curator; Miss M. J. Rathbun, Second Assist- 
ant Curator. 
Section of Helminthological Collections: C. W. Stiles, Custodian. 
(h) Division of Comparative Anatomy : Frederic A. Lucas, Curator. 
{i) Division of Plants {National Herbarium): Frederick V. Coville, Honorary Cura- 
tor; J. N. Rose, Assistant Curator; C. L. Pollard, Assistant Curator. 
Section of Forestry: B. E. Fernow, Honorary Curator. 
Section of Cryptogamic Collections: 0. F. Cook, Honorary Assistant 

Curator. 
Section of Algte: W. T. Swingle, Custodian. 
Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, Custodian. 
Associates in Zoology (Honorary): Theodore N. Gill, C. Hart Merriam, 
R. E. C. Stearns. 
Department of Geology: 

George P. Merrill, Head Curator. 
((/) Division of Physical and Chemical Geology {Systematic and Applied): George P. 

Merrill, Curator; W. H. Newhall, Aid. 
{h) Division of Mineralogy: F. W. Clarke, Honorary Curator; Wirt Tassin, Assist- 
ant Curator; L. T. Chamberlain, Honorary Custodian of Gems and Pre- 
cious Stones, 
(r) Division of Strati graphic Paleontology: Charles D. Walcott, Honorary Curator; 
Charles Schuchert, Assistant Curator. 

Section of Vertebrate Fossils: F. A. Lucas, Acting Assistant Curator. 
Section of Invertebrate Fossils: Paleozoic, Charles Schuchert, Custodian; 
Carboniferous, George H. Girty, Custodian; Mesozoic, T. W. Stanton, 
Custodian; Cenozoic, W. H. Dall, Associate Curator. 
Section of Paleobotany: Lester F. Ward, Associate Curator; A. C. Peale, 
Aid; F. H. Knowlton, Custodian of Mesozoic Plants: David White, 
Custodian of Paleozoic Plants. 
Associate in Paleontology (Honorary ) : Charles A. White. 

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF. 

Chief Clerk, W. V. Cox. 

Chief of Buildings and Superintendence, J. E. Watkins. 

Chief of Correspondence and Documents, R. I. Geare. 

Photographer, T. W. Smillie. 

Registrar, S. C. Bi-own. 

Disbursing Clerk, W. AV. Karr. 

Property Clerk, W. A. Knowles (Acting). 

Librarian, Cyrus Adler. 

Assistant Librarian, N. P. Scudder. 

Editor, Marcus Benjamin. 



APPENDIX II. 



List of Accessions during the Fiscal Year endinc; June 30, 1899. 



[All accessions marked "O' 



indicate material obtained 
Exposition.] 



primarily f<ir exhibition at the Omaha 



Abbott, Miss Millie, Vineland, N. J.: 
Small collection of medicinal plants. 
34270. 
Abel, J. C. , Lancaster, Pa. : Collection of 
rude chipped implements from the 
Conestoga Hills near Lancaster (34256) ; 
33 archfeological objects from the same 
locahty (34949). 
Adams, Harry, Mason City, W. Ya. : 
Eighty-seven archseological objects 
from Mason County. 33752. 
Ai)I»er, Dr. Cyrus, Smithsonian Institu- 
tion: Engraved portraits of Ben Jon- 
son, Ernest Mach, and Ernest Haeckel 
(34328); pictures of Ramsgate, Eng- 
land, containing views of churches and 
synagogues (34627). 
Agriculture, Department of, Hon. 
James Wilson, Secretary: Two thou- 
sand two hundred and twenty-six 
Mexican insects collected by Prof. 
Herbert Osborn (33999); 6 speci- 
mens of slugs found on tobacco 
plants (34277); South American in- 
sects collected by Prof. L. Bruner 
(34348); 9 specimens of Gelechiasol- 
anella (34416); large collection of 
Odonata, representing many species 
new to the Museum collection 
(34572); land shells from Mexico 
(34950); 1,878 specimens of Diptera 
(35025). 
Deposited in the National Herhariain: 
Three specimens of a rare fungus 
from Arizona (34152) ; 130 plants 
collected by F. V. Coville in Wash- 
ington (34259); plant from the 
grounds of the Department of Agri- 
culture (34275); dried plants from 
Oregon and Washington collected by 
E. P. Sheldon (34298); 3 specimens 
of moss from California and ]Marv- 



Agriculture, Department of — Cont'd. 
Deposited in the Natiovul Herbarium — 
Continued, 
land (34450) ; 2 type specimens of 
]ilants collected by A. B. Eaton in 
Newbury port, Mass. (34526); 2 
plants from Bering Sea and Florida 
(34877); plants obtained by Dr. A. 
Koenig, Plum Township, Pa. 
(34915); 398 plants (34981); speci- 
men of Rihes divaricatwii collected 
by W.F. Hebert (35009); received 
through A. B. Eaton, 2 plants from 
the conservatory of the Department 
of Agriculture (35138). (See under 
G. M. Bradford, B. H. Brodnax, L. 
Bruner, C. B. Bryan, Frank Burton, 
F.V. Coville, F.W. Cusack, Dr. W. 
G. Deitz, Anthony Dignowitz, A. B. 
Eaton, W. H. Evaiis, W. W. Harring- 
ton, W. F. Heathman, W. F. He- 
bert, G. Hogan, A. J. Johnson, A. 
Koenig, N. B. Lukenty, W. W. Nor- 
man, Herbert Osborn, J. C. Parlin, 
C. C. Plitt, E. N. Plank, W. Rosalsky, 
W.W. Rowles, J. Ford Sempers, C. L. 
Shear, E. P. Sheldon, Aug. Steinman, 
F. W. Thurow, S'. M. Tracy. 
Akron Pottery Company, Akron, Ohio: 

Clay. 34174. 
Albany Museum. (See under Grahams- 
town, South Africa.) 
Alexander, E. P., Greytown, Nicaragua: 
Four bats in alcohol, from Greytown 
(purchase) (33781); snake (gift) (33782) ; 
seeds of Contre-veneno, supposed to be 
an antidote for snake bites (gift) 
(34631) . 
Allen, C. H., Hon. (See under Navy 

Dei^artment. ) 
Allen, Dr. J. A. (See under American 
Museum of Natural History.) 



74 



REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Allen, J. E., Orlando, Fla. : Specimen of 
Lijcosa atrolhia Hentz. 34265. 

Allen, O. D., Ashford, Wash. : One hun- 
dred and fifteen plants from Washing- 
ton. Purchase. 34563. 

American MusEUiM of Natural History, 
New York City, received through J. H. 
Winser: Six photographs of Eskimos 
obtained by Lieutenant Peary in 1896 
(gift) (34040) ; received through Dr. J. 
A. Allen, 15 mammals from Trinidad 
(exchange) (34444) ; collection of eth- 
nological objects obtained from the 
Northern Eskimos, Port Clarence 
(exchange) (35098). 

Anderson, Samuel, White Snip h n r 
Springs, Mont.: Ores, coal, and other 
material. 34656. (0.) 

Andrus, F. J., Elkton, Oreg. : Two species 
of Anodonfa from Oregon (33927) ; 4 
species of fresh-water bivalves from 
Oregon (34135). 

Angell, J. P., Pine Bluff, Ark. : Tachinid 
fly (34022) ; specimens of ChcerocamjKi 
iersa L and Arctia nais Say (34163) . 

Angell, Miss Lillie, Orange, N. J.: 
Thirty-five specimens of violets from 
New Jersey. 35147. 

Angell, M., Pine Bluff, Ark.: Cicindel- 
lid, Tefracha Carolina Linne. 33922. 

Anthony, A. W., Portland, Oreg. : Eight 
specimens of Peromyscus austerus. 
34349. 

ANTHROPOLOCilCAL SOCIETY OF WaSHING- 

TON, Washington, I). C, received 
through F. W. Hodge, Curator: Bronze 
medal presented to the Society by the 
Numismatic and Antiquarian Society 
of Montreal. 33798. 

Armstrong, F. B., Corpus tUiristi, Tex.: 
Bird skin, and skin and skull of a skunk, 
representing the genus SpUugaJf. Pur- 
chase. 35111. 

Armstrong, L. K., Spokane, Wash.: 
Building stones, slate, and talc. 34663. 
(O.) 

Army Medical Museu.m. (See under 
War Department. ) 

Arnold, E., Battle Creek, Mich.: Seven 
birds' skins from northwestern Canada. 
33821. 

Arnold, Robert, Mathias Point, Va. : 
Larva or caterpillar of atheroma rcrjalis 
Fabr. 33961. 



Arnold, W., St. Simons Mills, Ga.: Pho- 
tograph of the skeleton of a whale 
( Mesoplodon bidens ) . 33971 . 

Ash MEAD, W. H., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: One hundred and two species 
of Algse from England, Scotland, and 
Florida (33834) ; Ashmead collection of 
insects, consisting of 60,000 specimens. 
(35236.) 

AsHMUN, Rev. E. H., Albuquerque, N. 
Mex. : Land shells from New INIexico. 
34217, 34646, 35020. 

AvoNDALE Lime and Stone Company, 
Philadelphia, Pa. : Limestone used for 
making quicklime. 34144. 

Ayres, Dr., San Juan, Porto Rico: Span- 
ish hand-press. ( See under Porto Rico 
Collection.) 35201. 

Ayres, Mrs. F. D., Peacock, N. C. : Sad- 
dle-back caterpillar, Empretia stimulea 
Clemens. 34036. 

Ayson, L. T., Wellington, New Zealand: 
Seventeen birds' skins. Exchange. 
34453. 

Aztec Club, New York City, received 
through De Lancey Floyd-Jones: Aztec 
Club medal, in commemoration of the 
fiftieth anniversary of the Aztec Club. 
34598. 

Bache, Rene, Washington, D. C. : Six 
photographs of Lapp reindeer peoi)le, 
Alaska. 34367. 

Backus, Cleo, Port Townsend, Wash., 
"received through O. E. Shaffer: Speci- 
men of RhamphocottuK richardsonl from 
Port Townsend Bay. 34947. 

Bagwell, G. D. , Fort Assinniboine, Mont. : 
Collection of objects used during the 
Spanish-American war. 34068. 

Baker, A. B., National Zoological Park: 
Vertel jrate fossils ( 34542) ; collection of 
natural history specimens, rocks, ores, 
and a rope slipper from Porto Rico 
(34779). 

Baker, Prof. C. F., Auburn, Ala.: Six 
specimens of Umbelliferaj (33817); 
large collection of insects containing 
many type specimens (33963) ; 6 plants 
from Colorado (34008) ; large collection 
of Hymenoptera, consisting of about 
24,000 specimens and including many 
new species (34091); crabs from the 
Gulf of Mexico (34047); specimen of 
Uca minax (34132) ; collection of insects 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



75 



15.VKEU, Prof. C. V. — Contimu'd. 

representiiift iil)()ut 18,000 Hpeciiiiens 
(34187); ;i large collection of Siplioti- 
aptera, coihsiytiuK of about 234 glass 
slides mounted in l)alsam (34228); col- 
lection of al)out 1B,000 specimens of 
Homoi)tera, birds, and birds' eggs ob- 
tained i>rincipally from Colorado, and a 
skin of Spermophile {Bpermopluhix clc- 
gaus) (34272). 

Baker, Prof. ('. F., St. Croix Falls, AVis. : 
Crustaceans, mollusks, sea-urchins, 
and a fisb from Santa Marta, Colom- 
bia and Haiti. Exchange. 34570. 

B.VKER, Dr. Fred., San Diego, Cal.: Two 
species of land and marine shells from 
South Coronado Island, Lower Cali- 
fornia (34630); 13 specimens of mol- 
lusks l)elonging to the genus VitrtveUa 
from California (34720). 

Baker, J. C., Royal Gardens, Kew, 
England, received through Dr. W. T. 
Thiselton-Dyer, director: A large and 
valuable collection of plants, containing 
about 5,000 specimens and constituting 
a part of Mr. Baker's private collec- 
tion. 34652. 

Baker, Dr. J. W., U. S. Navy, Erie, Pa.: 
Imago and pupa cases of May-fly, Ilex- 
agenia limbaia Pictet (33771) ; Coccin- 
ellid beetle, Anatis 15-punctata Oliv. 
(33873). 

Baker University, Baldwin, Kans., re- 
ceived through C. S. Parmenter: Forty 
specimens of insects. 35028. 

Baldwin, H. O., New Brighton, Pa.: 
Unfinished arrowhead and a Carbonif- 
erous plant found near the junction of 
Beaver River with the Ohio River. 
-35013. 

Baldwin, Walter, Mount Vernon, Ind. : 
Badge of the First Brigade, Second 
Division, Seventh Army Corps, U. S. 
Volunteers worn by the donor during 
the Cuban campaign of the Spanish- 
American war. 34968. 

Ball Brothers, Cocoanut Grove, Fla. : 
Photograph of a specimen of Lady-fish, 
Albula vulpes, from Biscayne Bay. 
34804. 

Ballinger, R. H., Seattle, Wash.: Sam- 
ple of diatomaceous earth. 34261. 



r.AL/.KR, S. M., New York City: Auto- 
mol)ile carriages made in l.Sfl4 (gift); 
extra engine accomi)anying the carriage 
(deposit). 35051. 

Banos, Outram, Boston, Mass.: Four 
parrot skins from South America 
(gift) (34014); specimen of Ori/zonu/s 
obsmrlor (gift) (34078); 54 birds' skins 
from South America (gift) (34098); 
14 small mammals from Colombia (ex- 
change) (34477); 13 mammals (gift) 
(34784). 

Bangs & Gavnor, Fayetteville, N. Y. : 
Cement rock. 34243. 

Banks, Nathan, Department of Agricul- 
ture: Four named species of Myrme- 
leonids, new to the Museum collection. 
Exchange. 34043. 

Banning, Hancock, Los Angeles, Cal.: 
Soapstone vessels from Avalon, Santa 
Catalina Island, coast of California. 
34715. (O.) 

Banning & Co., Los Angeles, Cal.: Soap- 
stone and talc. 34336. 

Barber, Mrs. A. A., Washington, D. C. : 
Part of a weatherworn skull of a buf- 
falo. 34079. 

Barber, A. AV., AVashington, D. C. : 
Leg bones of Ilippotherium (34197); 
large chipped implement of quartzite 
from the shore of White River, South 
Dakota, skull from near the Bad Lands, 
and 6 fragments of a peculiar concre- 
tion from Rosebud Indian Reservation 
(34910). 

Barber, E. A., Philadelphia, Pa.: Col- 
lection of pottery and porcelains 
(34791); collection of early American 
pottery (34926). Purchase. 

Barber, CM., Rudioso, N. Mex.: Nine- 
teen specimens of reptiles and l)atra- 
chians from New Mexico. Purchase. 
34617. 

Barber, PIerbbrt, AVashington, D. C. : 
Eight species of Odonata. 34577. 

Barbour, E. H., University of Nebraska, 
Lincoln, Nebr. : (\)ncretions and min- 
erals. 34785. 

Barlow, Hon. A. D., City of Mexico, 
Mexico, received through Department 
of State: Mexican musical instrument. 
34889, 



7(3 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Baklow, Cjikhtek, Santa Clara, Cal. : Nine 
l)ir(lH' skinH from California. 34004. 

Bakmiakt, Dr. J. II., Tarrytown, N. Y. : 
I'laiit, representing a new species of 
Utricularia. 34388. 

Bakkum, Rev. Francis, (xeorgetown 
University, Washington, D. C. : Spec-i- 
niens of I)aUia jjecforalit^ and the Arctic 
form of Ten-spined Stickleback, Pygox- 
ti'H)i paitf/lfiiin Imiclu/jxKla. 34338. 

Baku, J. A. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology.) 

Bakkktt, (). W., Museo de Tacubaya, 
Taculjaya, i). F., Mexico: One hun- 
dred and forty insects. ( 33897, 34334. ) 

Bakkktt-Hamiltox, (\. v.. II., and O. H. 
J(mes: Colku-tion of invertebrates, in- 
sects, and other specimens from Petro- 
paul(jvski and Karaga Village, Kam- 
chatka, and from the island of Karag- 
hinsky, Bering Sea. 34286. 

Baijuktt-Stkait, Miss C, Lancaster, S. C. : 
Unfinished banner-stone or butterfly 
ornament from South Carolina. 35230. 

Baktscii, Paul, U. S. National Museum: 
Two specimens of bat ( Ludurus borealis) 
ironi Miss(juri (34071 ) ; amphipods and 
isopods from Iowa (3410G) ; 72 speci- 
mens of niannnals from Burlington, 
Iowa (34154) ; mink {Putoriax vixon) 
from Burlington, Iowa (34281) ; 4 tur- 
tles and 2 frogs from Iowa (34413) ; 
natural history sjjecimens and fossils 
from Burlington and Iowa City (34699) ; 
natural history specimens (34756) ; 
turtle irom Eastern Branch, District of 
Columbia (35029) ; collection of isopods, 
sponges, shells, fishes, and plants from 
Virginia (35186). 

Baktlett, C. II., South Bend, Ind. : In- 
scribed wooden tablet. Deposit. 33980. 

Bawm, H. E., Washington, D. C. : Krag- 
Jorgensen rifle cartridge issued during 
Spanish-American war, Santiago de 
Cuba. 33996. 

Be.vch, Sumner, Denton, Mont.: Four 
arrow points and a shell l)ead found in 
the Judith Basin, Fergus County, 
Mont. Exchange. 34707. 

Beadle, C. D., Biltmore, N. C. : Two hun- 
dred and ninety-five plants (34412); 4 
specimens of violets (34451). Ex- 
change. 

' In view of ccrUiiii satisfactory ovidence subm 
of the saddle is now vested in her name. 



Beall, Miss Fannie, Washington, D. C. : 
Saddle once owned by (jreneral (jrant 
and deposited in the National Museum in 
1867 by Gen.A.H.Markland. 34665. > 

Bea.m, C. C, Bluffton, Ind. : Two lizards, 
representing the species Anolis copti and 
HceloporuK stniferun from Mexico. 34798. 

Bean, B. A., U. S. National Museum: 
Collection of fishes, mammals, reptiles, 
crustaceans, and insects from Long 
Island, New York (33975); beetle 
(34117); Purple Crackle (34213). 

Bean, Dr. T. H., Washington, I). C: 
Amphipods from Caledonia, N. Y., 
and Carolina, li. I. (33754); shells and 
cases of caddis-fly larva (33759); col- 
lection of lichens from Alaska and 
Siberia obtained in 1880 (34470); 3 
specimens of leeches, rejjresenting the 
genus BranclieUton taken from a Ray at 
Southami)ton, N. Y. (34495). (See 
under E. D. Merrill.) 

Bean, Dr. T. II., and B. A. Bean, U. S. 
National Museum: Collection of nat- 
ural history specimens from Long Is- 
land, obtained during the summer and 
fall of 1898. 34283. 

Beati'v, H. L., Bainbridge, N. Y. : Cuban 
fractional currency used during Wey- 
ler's regime, 50 centavos, issued in 
IIa})ana, Cuba, May 15, 1896. 34783. 

P>eaui'he, Edwin, Portsmouth, Ontario, 
Canada: Two sijecimens of Yellow- 
throat, (j cotldyjm trichas, from Canada. 
35195. 

Becerra-MuSoz, Diego, Aibonito, P. R. : 
Large idol. ( See under Porto Rico Col- 
lection, 35201.) 

Becker, G. F., Manila, P. I.: Skeleton of 
a male Nigrito; skeleton of a female 
Nigrito; skull of a Filipino, collected 
near Nariveles. 34441. 

Beckwith, C. IL, Omaha, Nebr. : Six 
souvenir medals (jf the Trans-Missis- 
sippi and International Exposition. 
34310. (O.) 

Beckwith, Paul, U. S. National Museum: 
Regulation army canteen used during 
the civil war, 1861-1865 (33853); 10 
crabs, representing 2 species from San 
Juan Bay, Porto Rico, and 20 bats from 
Porto Rico (34792). (See under Nor- 
folk Collection ; Porto Rico Collection. ) 
itled by Miss Beiill in .January, IfS'J'J, the ownership 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



77 



BEEcnEK, Dr. Ciiaki.es K., Yale rnivcr- 
sity, New Haven, Conn.: Model of 
specimen of Tvinrtlinis herki; cast of 
specimen of Arlhrohjcona aniiqna; 2 
speciniensof JiV»/HK;com.s-v7i7t<oBeecher; 
4 specimens of Tropidocaris hicarhuiln 
Beecher, and 5 specimens of Echhiorar'ix 
mcialis Beecher. 34342. 

Beeciier, W. L., Reading, Pa.: Specimen 
of Artias luna Linnaeus. 34092. 

Bkede, Prof. J. W., University of Kan- 
sas, Lawrence, Kans. : Eight specimens 
of Mydl'ma i^ivaUnvi from Turner, Kans. 
(exchange), (34164); 10 specimens of 
PKCudomovotis from the upper coal 
measures of Kansas (gift) (34932). 

Beek, AVilliam. New Orleans, La.: En- 
graved portrait of Pierre Margry. 34327. 

Bell, Col. James, U. S. A., War Depart- 
ment, "Washington, D. C. : Mounted 
head of AJceii amerimmnt. Deposit. 
34549. 

Benedict, J. E., I'.S. National Museum: 
Bat {Ldainruit horealis) from Omaha, 
Nebr. 34584. 

Benjamin, Mrs. Marcus, Washington, D. 
C. : Ribbon badge of the Grand Com- 
mandery. South Dakota, at the grand 
encampment of the Knights of Pythias, 
Pitts})urg, Pa., October 11-14, 1898; 
badge of jurors at theTrans-Mississij)pi 
and Intel-national Exposition; medal 
worn at the Peac* Jul)ilee, Philadtil- 
phia, October 26, 1898, and badge and 
gilt medal of the Peace Jubilee, Span- 
ish-American war, Philadelphia, 1898 
(34721); 3 specimens, in stone, of ani- 
mals manufactured by the Union Stone- 
ware Company, of Red Wing, Minn. 
(34973). 

Bexnet, (Jen. W. T., Ponce, P. R. : Span- 
ish ])uttons, insignia worn on Spanish 
summer helmets, and a ditty-ljag dis- 
tributed by the Red Cross Society to 
the soldiers of the Porto Rician cam- 
paign. (See under Porto Rico collec- 
tion 35201.) 

Benton Lead and Zinc Mining Company, 
Benton, Wis. : Lead and zinc ore. 34250. 

Bergen, Rev. P. D., Chefoo, China: 
Forty-eight birds' skins and 2 mannnal 
skins from China. Excliange. 34573. 

Berkeley Sand Company, Berkeley 
Springs, W. Va. : Sand. 34222. 



i'lHUNADof, IJcut. J. I>. (See under Lieut. 
IL C. Poundstone. ) 

Bethel, E., Denver, Colo.: Tcu plants. 
33788. 

Bethel, S., Lewiston, Idalio: Toad {llnfo 
rolumbicnsis) (33852); specimen of 
Japyx amerlrana (34768). 

Beymer, a. R., Rocky Ford, Colo.: Two 
rude arrow points and a small stone 
pendant from near the Apiskapaw 
River, Colorado. 34946. 

Bickmore, Prof. A. S., American Museum 
of Natural History, New York City: 
Two mounted ])liotographs of a mam- 
motli sk(ileton in the Museum at St. 
Petersburg, Russia. 34511. 

Biederman, C. R., Gold Hill, Oreg. : 
Grooved implement of sandstone 
(33751); collection of insects (33772); 
lizard (33825). 

BiGNELL, G. ('., Saltash, Cornwall, l^ug- 
land: Pupa; of Piere.i n(/y<T infested witli 
hymenopterous and di])terous para- 
sites. 34888. 

BiGNOLD, L. B., Montesano, Wash.: 
Specimen of Epiiira trifoliinn Hentz. 
34303. 

BiLTMORE Herbarhim, Biltiuore, N. C. : 
Sixty-four specimens of violets. Ex- 
change. 35134. 

Binney, ay. G., Burlington, N. J.: Ten 
specimens of Pobjgyrd Columbia n/t. from 
San Mateo County, Cal. 34517. 

Biological Labor.vtory, Cold Sjiring, N. 
Y. : Crustaceans. Exchange. 34016. 

Bird, Henry, Rye, N. Y. : Thirty-four 
moths with pupa;. 34637. 

Bishop, Mrs. Josephine, Albany, N. Y.: 
Three photographs of the Cohoes mas- 
todon. 34754. 

Bishop, Dr. L. P>., New Haven, Conn.: 
Song Sparrow from North Dakota. 
34033. 

Black Diamond Mining Company, San 
Francisco, Cal. : Sample of coal. 34220. 

Blair, R. A., Sedalia, Mo., received 
through Charles Schuchert: Three 
hundred specimens of Choteau fossils. 
33745. 

Blake, W. P., Tucson, Ariz.: Rose- 
colored tuff from Tucson Mountains, 
Arizona. 35083. 

Bliss, E. W., Childersburg, Ala.: Moth 
( Telea polyplieinu^) . 34991. 



78 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Bliss, Mrs. S., Bigljug, Ariz.: Specimen 
of Plusiolis f/lurid Lecoate. IW978. 

Blue, A., Bureau of Mines, Toronto, 
Canada: Corundum in granite from 
eastern Ontario. 34893. 

BoEPPLE, J. F., Muscatine, Iowa: Speci- 
mens of Unionidfe (gift) (34273); 24 
polished valves of shells of Unionidse, 
and iron concretions (exchange) 
(34550); buttons manufactured from 
fresh-water mussels (gift) (.34750). 

BoETTGER, Dr. 0. (See under Frankfurt- 
am-Main, [Museum Senckenbergi- 
anum. ) 

BoxNELL, W. B., Macon, Ga. : Bauxite 
from Demorest. 35014. 

BosTox Flint Paper Company, Hallow- 
ell, Me.: Garnets used for abrasive 
purposes. 34331 . 

BouGHXER, A. v., Greensboro, Pa.: Salt 
glaze jar made in 1860 at the Boughner 
Pottery Works, and obtained by Dr. 
Walter Hough. 34054. 

Bor(;nxER, Claude, Greensboro, Pa.: 
Glass bottle manufactured at the Albert 
Gallatin Glass Factory about the year 
1803. Purchase. 34208. 

Boughner, William, Greensboro, Pa.: 
Brown glaze jug made at the Boughner 
Pottery Works in 1849, ootained by Dr. 
Walter Hough. 34055. 

BouxDS, J. M., Chepultepec, Ala.: Fos- 
sils and fragments of soapstone. 34495. 

BouviER, E. L. (See under Paris, France, 
Musee d'Histoire Naturelle.) 

BowMAX, N. W., Massanetta Springs, 
Va. : Spechnen of Di/nastes (iti/us Lin- 
naeus. 33826. 

Boyle, W. J., Brooklyn, X. Y.: Sample 
of diatomaceous earth from Ireland. 
34600. 

Bradford, Commander R. B., U. S. N. 
(See under Navy Department.) 

Bradford, G. M., Bay City, Mich., re- 
ceived through Department of Agricul- 
ture: Plant. 33864. 

Braexdle, F. J., Washington, D. C. : 
Eleven plants (34082); Yellow-bellied 
Sapsucker, Sphyrapicus varius (34850). 

Brainard, Lieut. F. R., U. S. N.: Car- 
tridge case of shot fired from the 
U. S. S. Uncas off Maya Point, Matanzas 
Bay (gift) (34089); received through 
Mrs. Ellen Brainerd Van Arsdale, flag 



Brainard, Lieut. F. K. — Continued, 
of truce carried by Lieutenant Brain- 
ard into Havana on May 15, 1898 (de- 
posit) (34122). 

Brandegee, T. S. , San Diego, Cal. : Type 
specimen of a plant (exchange) (34087) ; 
plant from lower California (gift) 
(34528); plant from lower California 
(exchange) (34587); 3 plants (ex- 
change) (.34675). 

Brandt, E. S., Xavy Department: ^lau- 
ser rifle cartridge complete; from El 
Caney, Santiago de Cuba. 33920. 

Brelsford, W. H., U. S. National Mu- 
seum : Brass number worn on the collar 
of Spanish uniforms to designate the 
regiments numerically. 34185. 

Breton, Miss A. C, Mexico, Mexico: 
Specimen of pottery, human bones, etc. , 
from a burial place in Mexico (34171); 
16 obsidian implements from Cerro de 
Nabajas, Mexico (34487); small carved 
stone frog from Mexico (.35151). 

Briggs, Dr. A. A., East Andover, N. H.: 
Five plants. 33914. 

Briggs, C. F. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. ) 

Brimley, H. H.& C. S., Raleigh, "n. C: 
Reptiles from New Mexico. 34383. 

Bristol, Dr. C. L. (See under New 
Y^ork University. ) 

British Museum. (See under London, 
England. ) 

Britts, Dr. J. H., Clinton, Mo.: Unio, 
representing a new species. 34360. 

Brockett, Paul, U. S. National 3Iuseuin: 
"Green's Arctic Lamp," patent. 
33978. 

Brodnax, Dr. B. H., Brodnax, La.: Me- 
dicinal plants ( 33809) ; specimen of Vel- 
vet Ant or False Ant, MutUla occiil<')>(all.<t 
(34062); received through Department 
of Agriculture, plant (35159). 

Brower, J. v., St. Paul, ^linn. : One hun- 
dred and seventy-five chipped flint ob- 
jects from Kansas; also 2 bound volumes 
containing descriptions of the same. 
Exchange. 34670. 

Brown, A. T., North Bend, Pa.: Rustic 
cane carried l)y the donor through the 
campaign of Santiago de Cuba, and 
carved and lettered to illustrate events 
connected ^^•ith the campaign. 33912. 
Returned. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



79 



Bkown, II. M., .Mcndociiut, Cal. : 'riiirlccn 
l)lants (gift) (;545];^); 175 j)laiit8 (pur- 
chase) (347()1). 

Brown, Mrs. J. C\, New York ('ity: IMio- 
tograph of a New Giiinea shield, and 
photograph ( >f an African shield. 851 1 7. 

Brown, INIrs. N. M., Ashtabula, Ohio: 
One thousand six hundred and eighty- 
one plants collected by E. W. Nelson 
in Mexico. ( 33787, 33929, 34031, 34237 ) . 
Purchase. 

Brown, "\V. L., Corona, Cal. : Four species 
of insects. 34580. 

Browne, H. H. (no address given) : Speci- 
men of Hijdrornetra Uneata Say. 33747. 

Browne, Mrs. William Henry. (See un- 
der National Society of the Colonial 
Dames of America. ) 

Bruner, Prof. L., Lincoln, Nebr., received 
through Dr. L. O. Howard: Collection 
of South American Orthoptera and Hy- 
menoptera from Argentina. Purchase. 
34229. ( See under Agriculture, Depart- 
ment of. ) 

Brunetti, E., London, England: Two 
hundred and ninety-six specimens of 
Diptera. Exchange. 34578. 

Bruson, C. B., Fort McPherson, Ga. : 
Moth. 33969. 

Bryan, Rev. C. B., Hampton, Va., re- 
ceived through Dei)artment of Agricul- 
ture: Specimen of Mi/o.mrns .np. 35031. 

Bryant, F.W., Ramona, Cal. : Specimens 
of moUusks belonging to the genus 
Tnmr(itM(. 34463. 

Bryant, F. W., Ramona, Cal. : Shell from 
New Mexico. 35017. 

Buck, W. T., Freehold, N. J.: Grooved 
axes, arrow points, and other objects. 
34497. 

Bltlkley, E. W., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Me- 
dicinal plants. 33810. 

BiRDEN, C. E., Mount Pleasant, D. C. : 
Nineteen specimens of Hymenoptera, 
etc., including 5 species new to the 
Museum collection (33774); 19 sjieci- 
mens of Hymenoptera and Odonnta 
(33855); 7 dragon flies (33888); 2 speci- 
mens of Libellula phmihea Ulk and 
Fronscolombia linosa Say (34552). 

BiRTCH, Verdi, Penn Yan, N. Y. : Song 
Sparrow (partial albino) from New^York 
(34215); 3 species of Unionid.-e (34475). 



linrroN, Frank, Bcrwyii, Md., received 
through the Department of Agricul- 
ture: Two specimens of S'deiie dicho- 
lovia. 33790. 

Bush, Mrs. A. Fl, San Jose, (Jal.: Shells, 
representing the genera Anodon/a and 
Sigmu'liis. 35071. 

Bush, B. F., Courtney, Mo. : One hun- 
tlred and twenty-four ])lants. Pur- 
chase. 35179. 

Butterworth, John, Shaw, nearOldham, 
England: Sections of coal jilants from 
the Lancashire and Yorkshire coal 
fields. 34248. 

Butts, Edward, Kansas City, Mo.: 
Twenty-seven S2:)ecimens of Upper 
Carboniferous fossils, representing 9 
species. 34411. 

Calkins, Lieut. C. G., U. S. N., San 
Francisco, Cal. : Lacquered case con- 
taining several hundred playing-cards 
from Japan and 2 joints containing 
gambling sticks from China. Purchase. 
35141. 

Callis, J. M., Pendleton, Ky., received 
through Mrs. N. J. AVhitesides: Crossed 
guns: hat ornament of the regulation 
pattern of the United States Army, 
worn by the donor during the Santiago 
campaign and at the assault on the 
San Juan redoubts, July 1 , 1898. 33896. 

Calmore, C. a., Santa Monica, Cal.: 
Fifty-one specimens of Eucah/jitKs from 
California. 34704. 

Cambridge Tile Manufacturing Com- 
pany, Covington, Ky. : Thirty-five 
specimens of art tiles. 35090. 

Cammann, Dr. D. M., New York City: 
Specimen of Agrinoid, representing the 
species Ayiom<dagr)on liastatum. 34864. 

Camp, J. H., Lima, Ohio: Specimen of 
Corydalis corniUiis JAnnv (33800); speci- 
mens of Scalo])s aquaficuf! machrimis 
(34961). 

Campbell, M. R. (See under Interior 
Department, United States Geological 
Survey. ) 

Canby, W. M., Wilmington, N. C: 
Ninety-nine ]i]ants (34410); type speci- 
men of a plant from Creorgia (34941) . 
Fjxchange. 

Cardenas, Amador, received through 
Prof. F. W. Clarke: Onyx from Jim- 
ulco, Coahuila, Mexico. 34657. (O.) 



80 



REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Caeinthia, Austria: Freie Vereinigung 
Tiroler Botaniker, Dillach im Ober- 
drauthale, received through Hans Sim- 
mer: 1,132 plants collected in Europe. 
Exchange. 34515. 

Caelgren, Dr. Oscar. (See under Stock- 
holm, Sweden, Riksmuseum. ) 

Carmichael, R. D., Meadow, Ala.: Two 
hundred rude chipped implements, 
arrow points and other objects (34433) ; 
77 chipped objects, principally rude 
arrowheads (34669). 

Carnegie Museum, Pittsburg, Pa., re- 
ceived through E. B. Williamson: Tv/o 
specimens of Anodonta. 34404. 

Carson, Maj. J. M., San Juan, P. R.: 
Pair of shoulder straps. (See under 
Porto Rico Collection. 35201.) 

Carter, W. A. (See under Dr. AV. A. 
Phillips. ) 

Catrell, W. H. , Buffalo, N. Y. : Centavo, 
Spanish copper coin, recovered from 
the wreck of the Spanish steamer Al- 
2)honso XII, sunk in Mariel Harbor, 
Cuba. 34901. 

Ch AFFAN,JON, M. (See under Paris, France, 
Mus^e d'Histoire Naturelle. ) 

Chandlee, W. E., Washington, D. C. : 
One hundred and twelve South Amer- 
ican photographs and pictures. 35099. 

Chapman, John, San Diego, Cal. : Speci- 
men of Rag-fish, Icosteiis senigmaticus. 
35119. 

Chapman, N. A., Portsmouth, Ohio: Teeth 
of mammal found in an old Indian 
village. 34786. 

Chappell, S. B., Northport, N. Y. : Three 
arrowheads. 34440. 

Cheney, A. N. (See under Sportsman's 
Exposition, New York; Quebec ex- 
hibit.) 

Chilton, Dr. Charles, Edinburg, Scot- 
land : Five species of Amphipods from 
New Zealand. Exchange. 34757. 

Chissell, E. T., Bluefields, Nicaragua: 
Seven insects. 34504. 

Chittenden, F. H., Department of Agri- 
culture: Specimen of Xijlophihis ater 
Lee. 33990. 

Christy Fire Clay Company, St. Louis, 
Mo.: Fireclay. 34240. 

Claiborne, R. S., W^ashington, D. C. : 
Badge of the First Division, Second 
Army Corps, U. S. Volunteers, worn 



Claiborne, R. S. — Continued, 
during the Cuban campaign (34848); 
regulation army belt with three Spanish 
cartridge boxes; letter head and illus- 
trated card of the San Quentin Regi- 
ment of Siaanish Infantry, commemo- 
rating the action in which the Cuban 
general Maceo was killed (34861 ) . 
Clapp, G. H., Pittsburg, Pa.: Thirty-six 
species of land and fresh-water shells 
from Java (34326); specimen of Poly- 
gi/ra christyi from Tennessee (34585); 
siaecimen of Gastrodonfa clappi from 
Tennessee (34616); 2 species of North 
American land shells (34645); 3 land 
shells from Indian Territory (34767). 
Clark, G. W., Wyandale, N. Y.: Speci- 
men of ' 'Vital ore. " 34836. 
Clarke, Prof. F. W. ( See under Amador 
Cardenas and Interior Department, 
U. S. Geological Survey. ) 
Clarke, R. E., Spokane, Wash.: Speci- 
men of mispickel from Idaho. 35003. 
Claypole, Prof. E. W., Akron, Ohio: 
Specimens of Carboniferous nodules 
from Lancashire, England. 33921. 
Clendaniel, G., Dover, Del.: Ofhcial 
badge. Grand Army of the Republic, 
Thirty-fifth Encampment. 33998. 
Cobb, J. L., Lincolnton, N. C: Specimen 

of Misimiene americana Keys, 35150. 
Cobb Lime Company, Rockland, Me.: 
Limestone used for making quicklime. 
34246. 
CocKERELL, M. D., McsiUa Park, N. Mex. : 
Three specimens of PorcelUo lie vis. 
34957. 
CocKERELL, Prof. T. D. A. (See under 
New Mexico Agricultural Experiment 
Station. ) 
CocKRELL, Ernest, Madison, Kans. : 
Cecropia moth, Attacus cecropin Lin- 
naeus. 35072. 
CoHUTTA Talc Company, Spring Place, 

Ga. : Specimens of talc. 34339. 
CoLDiTZ, M. , Allardt, Tenn. : Thirty-four 
arrow-points and spear-heads. 35075. 
Cole, W. D., Bryn Mawr, Cal.: Fossil 
vertebrje of a -whale found on the foot- 
hills south of Pomona, southern Cali- 
fornia. 34892. 
Coleman, Mrs. Charles Washington. 
(See under National Society Colonial 
Dames of America.) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



81 



Collins, F. S., MahU'ii, .Mass.: Fusciclc 
No. 9 (50 specinu'iis) of I'liDcollicca 
Boreali-Amerlrava (33789); 50 plants 
comprising a colU'ction of miscellaneous 
alg;i» (84403); 50 specimens of North 
American seaweeds (34624); 50 plants 
(34988). Purchase. 

Collins, G. N., Department of Agricul- 
ture: Collection of insects from central 
New York (34201); black snake from 
Washington, D. C. (34960). 

Collins, J. Fkanklin, Providence, R. I. : 
Twenty-two plants. Exchange. 34323. 

Collins, Capt. J. W. (See under Hon. 
Chris Michelsen.) 

Columbia College, New York City. (See 
under Senff Zoological Expedition.) 

Columbian Talc Company, Gouverneur, 
N. Y. : Six specimens of crude and 
ground talc. 35047. 

CoLUNGA, Prof. M. F., Lima, Peru: 
Twenty-four birds' skins from Peru. 
34909. F^xchange. 

Commonwealth Iron Company, Com- 
monwealth, Wis. : Iron ore. 34300. 

CoMSTOCK, F. M., Cleveland, Ohio: Three 
plants. Exchange. 34828. 

CoNNELL, E. Y., St. Kitts and Nevis, Brit- 
ish West Indies: Collection of Carib 
im] dements from Barbados and West 
Indies; also a few pieces of pottery. 
Exchange. 33870. 

Cook, Capt. C. C.,V. S. Volunteers, Wash- 
ington, D. C. : Collection of swords used 
during the Cuban campaign, Spanish- 
American war. Deposit. 34741. 

Cook, Dr. E. P., Jr., Chicago, 111.: Dip- 
terous larva. 33991. 

Cook, Prof. O. F., U. S. National Museum: 
Specimen of PolyHpilota ralidimma 
Ger-st, from Clay Ashland, Siberia, ob- 
tained by Mrs. J. E. D. Sharp (33775) ; 
collection of insects from central New 
York (34201). 

CoQuiLLETT, D. W., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: One hundred and nineteen spec- 
imens of Diptera, including types of 6 
species. 34745. 

Coram, G. M., Utica, N. Y.: Egg cluster 
of Cliseocamjxi anicrinnia. 33814. 

Cokdeika, John, New Bedford, Mass., re- 
ceived through A. C. Hawes: Specimen 
of Squilla from Acushnet River, Massa- 
chusetts. 34862. 

NAT MUS 99 6 



CoKNicLL rNivEKsiTV, Itluica, N. Y. (See 
under F^. C. Townsend.) 

CouHEAUX, Eugene, St. Louis, Saskatche- 
wan, Northwest Territory, Canada: 
Thirteen birds' skins; 1 nest and eggs 
representing the genus Sturnella from 
Northwest Territory. Exchange. 
34749. 

Coville, F. V. (See under Agriculture, 
Department of. ) 

CowART, S., Co wart, Va. : Set of false 
teeth with a growing oyster attached. 
34347. 

Cox, W. v., U. S. National Museum: 
Peace Jubilee badge and medal of the 
Trans-Mississippi and International 
Exposition, Omaha, 1898 (34718) ; New 
York Herald, dated February 10, 1887, 
containing a facsimile of the Herald's 
account of the funeral of Alexander 
Hamilton; Daily (Jraphic, dated Sep- 
teml)er 22, 1886, containing a facsimile 
of the Constitution of the Confederate 
States of America, and a picture of the 
officers of the Cabinet taken at Mont- 
gomery, Ala. (35015) . 

Crandall, Prof. C. S., Fort Collins, Cole- 
Three plants. 34564. 

Crawford, Dr. Joseph, Philadelphia, Pa. : 
One hundred and twenty-live plants. 
Exchange. 34399. 

Four speciments of Viola. Exchange. 
35054. 

Crawford, Lamar, New York Citj-: Hu- 
man skull and fragments of pottery 
found in a mound near New River, Vir- 
ginia. 34074. 

Cridler, Hon. T. W. (See under State, 
Department of. ) 

Crockett, James, Irish Lane, Pa., re- 
ceived through Bureau of Ethnology: 
Two stone hoes, 2 celt-shaped j)el)bles, 
3 fragments of hammer stones, 4 arrow- 
heads, and 12 pel)bles and spalls. 
33900. 

Crosby, F. W. , Washington, D. C. : Three 
photographs of Mount Etna (exchange) 
(34619); two cases of geological mate- 
rial from Somma and Vesuvius (pur- 
chase) (34840). (See under J. B. Mc- 
Carthy. ) 

Cross, C. W. (See nnder Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 



82 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Crossas, Andrks, San Juan, P. R. : Span- 
ish flag from San Cristobal Castle, San 
Juan. (See under Porto Rico Collec- 
tion 35201. ) 
CuTCHER, Philip, Vicksburg, Miss. : One 
hundred and sixty-two fossils from the 
Vicksburg Eocene. 34112. 
CrMMixGS, Miss C. E., Wellesley, Mass.: 
Thirty lichens from North America. 
Exchange. 34703. 
Curtice, Cooper. (See under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 
Curtis, C. J., Davidsonville, Md.: Birds' 
skins, mammal skins, turtles, skull of 
a bird, and a crustacean. 35057. 
Cus.vcK, F. W., Westcliff, Colo.: Speci- 
men of Gentiana barbdlata Engelm. 
(34086); through Department of Agri- 
culture, specimen of Gentiana humiUs 
(35183). 
CusicK, W. C, Union. Oreg.: Twenty 

plants. 34512. 
Dale, T. Nelson. (See under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 
Dall, Mrs. C. H., Washington, D. C: 
Piece of calico printed in 1872 with 
certain designs relating to the life of 
Horace Greeley. 33777. 
Dall, W. H., U. S. Geological Survey: 
Forty-two lots of marine shells from 
California. 35045. 
Dalrymple, C. H., Gold Hill, Greg.: 
Photograph of interlocked deer antlers. 
33938. 
Daniel, Lieut. J. W., U. S. V., Lynch- 
burg, Va. : Collection of mammals. 
34356. 
Daniels, L. E., Brookston, Ind. : Speci- 
mens of Polyfiyra profunda (34114); 3 
species of unios (34337); 4 species of 
shells from Florida (34900); crab ( Vca 
pugllafor) (35002). 
Dann, Raymond, Rochester, N. Y.: Rel- 
ics from an old Indian cemetery at 
Honeoye Falls, N. Y. 34397. 
Darxon, N. H. (See under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 
Davis, Miss C. L., Leesburg, Va.: Cater- 
pillar of a black l)utterfly (Papifin 
troilw^ 'Linneeus). 34015. 
Davis, Homer Spencer, Rosa, Idaho: 
Black sand and gold. 35131. 



Davis, John (U. S. S. Ti'.nix) : A clip con- 
taining tive Mauser rifle cartridges 
recovered from the wreck of the Span- 
ish ship Crhtohal Colon. 34103. 
Davis, N., Ida, Mich.: Limestone used 

for making quicklime. 34251 . 
Davis, W. T., New Brighton, Staten 
Island, N. Y.: Twenty-two insects. 
34826. 
Day, a. E., Beirut, Syria: One hundred 
and forty-flve specimens of Lepidoptera 
from Syria. Exchange. .34118. 
Day, Dr. David T. (See under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey; 
Raleigh Scott; W. F. Young.) 
Deam, C. C, Bluffton, Ind.: Two lizards 

from ^lexico. .34798. 
Deaxe, Walter, Cambridge, Mass.: 
Twenty-five plants. Exchange. 35180. 
Deitz, Dr. W. G., Hazleton, Pa., received 
through the Department of Agriculture: 
Nine specimens of Tinelna. 34727. 
De Nyse, W. I., Gravesend Beach, Brook- 
lyn Borough, N. Y.: Two leeches, 
representing the genus BraiichcUinu. 
35130. 
Derby, Prof. O. A. , Rio de Janeiro, Bra- 
zil: Monazite sand and minerals from 
Brazil. 33757. 
Derr, H. B., Chicago, 111.: Specimen of 

FuKHx inarmoratus. 34123. 
Desha, Miss M., Washington, D. C. : 

Two-headed snake. 34484. 

Detroit Graphite ^Ianufacturing Co.m- 

PANY, Detroit, Mich.: Graphite. .34176. 

De Weese, Dall, Canyon, Colo.: Five 

skins and 4 skulls of moose; 8 skins 

and 8 skulls of sheep. Purchase. 

34402. 

Dewey, Admiral George. (See under 

Navy Department. ) 
Dewey, L. H., Department of Agricul- 
ture: Plant (34677) ; three violets from 
Michigan (35152). 
Dial, Mrs. M. B., San Luis Obispo, Cal.: 
Eight species of marine and fresh- 
water shells. 34782. 
Di.\z-Hellin, Manuel, Bayamon, P. R. : 
Carrying bag used in place of a knap- 
sack. (See un<ler Porto Rico Collec- 
tion 35201.) 
DicKHAUT, H. E., U. S. National Museum: 
Private collection of Cincinnati group 
1 fossils (purchase) (33859); fossils from 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



83 



DiCKHAiT, II. E. — Contimu'd. 

Middlei)ort and Lockport, X. Y. (col- 
lected) (o;>949) ; collection of Cincin- 
nati group fostiils, consisting of crinoids, 
brachiopods, and niollusk.s (purchase) 
(34574). 

DiGNOwiTZ, AxTnoNY (uo address given ) : 
Received through the Department of 
Agriculture: Plant from San Juan, 
P. R. 34944. 

DiLLER, Dr. J. S. (See under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

DiNcu'S, II. H., Nasbie, Va. : Fossil plant. 
34390. 

District of Columbia Volunteers, re- 
ceived through Brigadier-General Har- 
ries: Spanish bronze cannon, dated 
1794, taken from a Spanish trench on 
San Juan Hill, Santiago de Cuba. 
34896. 

Dodge, B. E., Richfield, Mich.: Polished 
stone needle, 2 flint drills, and an arrow- 
head found in Genesee County. De- 
posit. 34694. 

Doggett, J. O., Piedmont, S. C. : Speci- 
mens of damourite. 34046. 

DoLPH, J. JVI., Port Jervis, N. Y. : Stone 
gouge from the building grounds of the 
Lenni-Lenape Indians, Orange County, 
New York. 34394. 

Douglass, A. E., Flagstaff, Ariz.: Four 
astronomical and surveying instru- 
ments and a bromide copy of a letter 
written by Gen. George Washington to 
Andrew Ellicott, dated October 20, 
1792. Deposit. 34395. 

Drake, C. M., Gorda, Cal. : Four species 
of land shells. 34959. 

Drake, E. L., Winchester, Tenn.; Sphinx 
Moth, CJKcrocampa tersu I^innseus. 
33936. 

Driggs-Seaburv Gun and Ammunition 
Company, Washington, D. C, received 
through Ordnance Department, War De- 
partment : Driggs-Seal)ury 1-pounder 
steel shell. 34254. 

Du Bois, E., Bluffton, S. C: Specimen of 
Lycosa Carolina Hentz. 34285. 

Du BosE, J. H., Huguenot, Ga. : Collec- 
tion of hammer stones and chipped 
implements. 35058. 

Duges, Dr. A., Guanajuato, Mexico: Two 
photographs of birds and a photograph 
of a mammal (gift) (33838); fishes, rep- 



DuGES, Dr. A. — Continued. 

tiles and l)atrachians from Mexico (ex- 
change) (33976); 7 specimens of inver- 
tebrates (gift) (34018); specimen of 
Vesperiilio fusnix iiiimdorrrhsis (gift) 
(34153). 

DuERDEN, J. E., Institute of Jamaica, 
Kingston, Jamaica: Four specimens of 
Spartocera batatas Fabr, and 7 speci- 
mens of Cylas formicarius Fal). .">4009. 

Dumble, Prof. E. T., Houston, Tex.: 
Twelve specimens, representing- 3 spe- 
cies, of corals from either the Silurian or 
Devonian formation, near Cascite, So- 
nora, Mexico (33851); specimens of 
hubnerite and mesolite (34333); 2 
specimens of Devonian fossils and 2 
specimens of Upper Carboniferous fos- 
sils from the southeastern part of Ari- 
zona (34358). 

DuNLAP, Robert, & Co., Jamesville, X. 
Y. : Specimens of gypsum. 34221. 

DuBRow, G. W., Salton, Cal.: Specimen 
of Ra.sahus bigitttatuii Say. 35050. 

Dyar, Dr. H. G., U. S. National Museum: 
Insects (34417, 34554) (gift;) 125 moths 
from Venezuela (purchase) (34868). 

Eakle, a. E., Cambridge, Mass.: Speci- 
men of erinite from Durkee, Oreg. 
34755. 

Earle, J. W., Holland, S. C. : Two si^eci- 
mens of Mrlauolf.'ift'.'i picipea H. Schf. 
34992. 

Earle, F. S., Auburn, Ala.: Six hundred 
and seventy-four plants from the Roi'ky 
Mountain region (34691); 134 plants 
(34759). Purchase. 

Eastman, Dr. C. R. (See under Museum 
of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, 
Mass. ) 

Eaton, A. A., Seabrook, N. H.: Three 
plants. Exchange. 35231. 

P]aton, a. B. (See under Agriculture, 
Department of. ) 

F.DWARDs, Dr. J. J., Charleston, S. C. : 
Insect larvte from a cistern in Charles- 
ton. 33833. 

Edmonds, Walter, Norfolk, Va. : Pupa of 
I)a)ialii arcJiippiis. .33970. 

Elder, J. H. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology.) 

Eliot, Sir Charles, British EmV)a.ssy, 
AVashington, D. C. : Specimens of iiT- 
vertebrates from Kev West, Florida. 
35107. 



84 



REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Ellis, J. E., San Francisco, Cal.: Lime- 
stone used for makinji quicklime. 
34292. 
Elmer, A. D. E., Pullman, Wash.: Five 
hundred plants from Idaho and Wash- 
ington (33795) ; 225 plants from Wash- 
ington ( 34931 ) . Purchase. (See under 
C. V. Piper.) 
Elrod, M. J., Missoula, Mont. : Land and 
fresh-water shells and mollusks from 
Montana, representing 9 species. 
33926. 
Emme, D. H., Wympsgap, Pa. : Fireclay. 

34195. 
Emmons, S. F., U. S. Geological Survey: 
Fifty specimens of fossils from Payte, 
Peru. 35072. 
English, G. L., & Co., New York City, 
N. Y. : Three specimens of jeffersonite 
with garnet, willemite, franklinite, and 
calcite, from Franklin, Sussex County, 
N. J. (34590); 2 specimens of triplite 
and 1 specimen of lepidolite from Had- 
dam. Conn. (34816). 
Entvvisle, W. B., it. S. National Museum: 
Regulation belt and buckle of the U. S. 
Army, 1861-1865; 2 Minie rifle bullets, 
from the battlefield of Winchester, Va. 
35091. 
Ettinger, Charles S., Jersey City, N. J. : 
Kaolin from Texas. 34540. (See under 
Frio Kaolin Mining and Improvement 
Company, Dallas, Tex. ) 
EusTis, G. H., Boston, Mass.: A remark- 
able oyster from Charles River, INIassa- 
chusetts. 34304. 
Evans, Capt. R. D., U. S. Navy: Section 
of plate, chain lockers, from the U. S. S. 
Iowa, perforated by a Spanish shell. 
34076. 
Evans, W. II., Tusiloff, Alaska, received 
through Department of Agriculture: 
Small collection of insects, consisting of 
about 75 specimens from Tusiloff 
(34182); 2 plants from Alaska (34584). 
Everett, Wesley. (See under Leslie 

Copper Mining Company. ) 
EvERMANX, Prof. B. W. (See under Fish 

Commission, 1". S. ) 
EvERMANN, T. B., Washington, D. C. : 
Thirty dragon flies and butterflies. 
34434. 
Faber, John, Dallas, Tex.: Insect. 3391S. 



Fairchild, D. G., Department of Agri- 
culture: Five hundred specimens of 
Algje in alcohol and subtropical plants 
from the Mediterranean region (33764) ; 
collection of Javanese insects, a few 
lizards and snakes from Buitenzorg, 
Java, and the skin of a fruit-eating bat 
from the botanical gardens at Buiten- 
zorg (34330). 
Fall, H. C, Pasadena, Cal: Three spe- 
cies of Acmseodera, new to the INIuseum 
collection. Exchange. 34692. 
Fannin, John, curator Provincial Mu- 
seum, Victoria, British Columbia: 
Eleven birds' skins. 34093. 
Farmer, MissS. J., Eliot, Me. : Collection 
of electrical apparatus. Deposit. 34583. 
Faxon, Dr. Walter. (See under Mu- 
seum of Comparati^■e Zoology, Cam- 
bridge, Mass.) 
Featherstonhaugh, Thomas, Washing- 
ton, D. C. : John Brown pike and a 
Sharp's rifle. Deposit. 35097. 
Ferriss, J. H., Joliet, 111.: Eight species 
of land shells from Tennessee and other 
localities (exchange) (34446); 15 spe- 
cies of land shells from Arkansas, Ten- 
nessee, and Indian Territory (gift) 
(34833). 
Fewkes, Dr. Walter. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution, Bureau of Ethnol- 
ogy. ) 
Fire Department, Fire-Alarm Branch, 
Boston, INIass., received through H. S. 
Russell, Fire Commissioner: Channing 
& Farmer fire-alarm telegraph signal 
box used in Boston in 1852; improved 
fire-alarm telegraph signal box used in 
Boston in 1867; fire-alarm telegraph 
repeater used in Boston in 1852. 34714. 
Fischer, C. F. Hermann, New Braunfels, 
Tex. : Specimen of glauconitic marl. 
35124. 
Fish Commission, U. S., Hon. George M. 
Bowers, Commissioner of Fish and 
Fisheries: Pipe-fish, Fistularia tahar- 
caria (33951); seaweeds (33993); mol- 
lusks and marine invertebrates col- 
lected on the Pacific coast of North 
America in 1897 and 1898 (34060); 
Tile-fish (34128); type specimens of 
fishes, consisting oi Paraliparisrosaceus, 
Bathylagus mUlen, and Ulocentra meadix 
(34148); fishes from Lake Superior, 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



85 



Fish Commission, U. S. — Continued. 
Alaska, Kanu-hatka, and Florida 
(34287); aquatic animals, including 
crawfishes, crabs, shrimps, and other 
crustaceans, snakes, frogs, lizards, sala- 
manders, turtles, moUusks, insects, and 
mammals (34816); alcoholic specimens 
of crustaceans, principally crayfishes, 
from different sections of the United 
States (34603); inset-ts and larvae of 
l)eetles from Unalaska ( 34635 ) ; 6 plants 
from Porto Rico, collected by Prof. B. 
W. Evermann (34772); reptiles and 
batrachians, collected in Porto Rico by 
the steamer Fish Hawk (34778); natural 
history specimens obtained during the 
expedition of the FisJl Hawk to Porto 
Rico (34801); 20 alcoholic, reptiles and 
a bat from Porto Rico and the Bahamas, 
collected by the Fish Hawk (34824); 
collection of shells, gorgonians, bar- 
nacles, bryozoans, sponges, geological 
specimens, and plants, collected by the 
Fish Commission steamer Albatross in 
1887, 1888, 1889, and 1896 (34837); 9 
I)lants collected by B. W. Evermann 
in Porto Rico (34969); collection of 
inollusks, brachyurans, anomurans, 
crustaceans, macrurans, and tecti- 
branchs obtained during the expedi- 
tion of the Fish Hawk to Porto Rico 
(34984) ; reptiles and batrachians from 
the Bahamas and Porto Rico, collected 
by the Fish Hawk (35095). 

Fisher, Dr. A. K. , Department of Agri- 
culture: Two birds' skins from Louisi- 
ana, including the type of Ammodra- 
mus m. fisheri Chapman (33959) ; plant 
(35136) . (See under H. H. Hindshaw, 
C. W. Nash.) 

Fleisch.man, S. F. (no address given) : 
Badge of the Second Army Corps, U. 
S. Army. 34746. 

Flowers, E. P., Boiling, Ala.: Specimen 
of Lagoa opercularis Abbott and Smith. 
34090. 

Floyd-Jones, De Lancey. (See under 
Aztec Club. ) 

Florida Iron Mining and Manufactur- 
ing Company, Orlando, Fla. : Sample 
of ocher. 34296. 

FoGH, H. P., Roslyn, Wash.: Copper ore 
from Dutch Miller Mine, King County, 
Wash. 34773. 



FoLsoM, J. W., North Cam l)ridge, Mass.: 
( 'ollection of Japanese Thysanura, in- 
cluding types of tught species described 
by Mr. Folsom, all new to the Museum 
collection. 34509. 

FooTE, Dr. A. E., Philadelphia, I'a. : Four 
specimens of minerals. Purchase. 34191. 

Forney, A. H., IT. S. National Museum: 
Adult skull of Odocoih'iix (nncrlcanus. 
34582. 

Foster, Davis, Ono, Wyo. : Six spe(d- 
mens of phosphate nodules from Ono. 
34985. 

Foster, L. N., Strickland, Ga. : Specimen 
of Citheronia regalis Fab. 34101. Re- 
turned. 

Fowler, Dr. S. M., Miami, Fla.: Speci- 
mens of Ainisomorpha hupirsfoldes De 
Geer. 34199. 

Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany, Museum 
Senckenbergianum, received thruugh 
Dr. 0. Boettger: Two specimens of Sily- 
hwa pulneycnsis from India and 2 spec- 
imens of Phyllodactylus stump ffi from 
Madagascar. 34025. 

FrEIE YeREINIGUNG TiROLER B )TANIKER. 

(See under Carinthia, Austria.) 

French, Capt. F. H., U. S. Army, AVash- 
ington, D. C. : Clasp knife and a Span- 
ish flag. (See under Porto Rico Collec- 
tion 35201.) 

Frierson, L. S., Frierson, La.: Unios 
from the Southern States (33803); 3 
species of Unionidse trom the Southern 
States (34799). 

Frio Kaolin Mining and Improvement 
Company, Dallas,Tex., received through 
C. S. Ettinger: Kaolin from Edwards 
County, Tex. 34309. 

Frisbie, W. R., Washington, D. C. : Pair 
of regulation sandals issued to the 
Spanish soldiers in Cuba, obtained in 
Santiago on the day of the surrender. 
34312. 

Gane, Henry S. (See under Smithson- 
ian Institution, Bureau of Ethnology.) 

Garland, C. C, Baltimore, Aid.: Speci- 
mens of graphite from Shelby, Cleve- 
land County, N. C. 35041. 

Garner, E., Quincy, Cal. : Skin and skull 
of badger and skin and skull of mole. 
34466. 

Garner, R. L. (See under Hon. M. L. 
Ross.) 



86 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Gayle and Semple, Montgomery, Ala.: 

Sample of ocher. 34295. 
Geological Survey of Canada. (See 

under Ottawa, Canada. ) 
Georgesox, C. C, Washington, D. C. : 
Five nuggets of Alaskan and Klondike 
gold. Purchase. 34634. 
Gibson, J. H., Coney Island, N. Y.: 

Photograph of a whale. 33843. 
Gibson, Thomas J., Scottsburg, Va. : 
" Moffet bell punch," Alamo knife, and 
an old saw. 35194. 
Gilbert, G. K. (See under Interior De- 
partment, V. S. Geological Survey.) 
GiLMARTiN, Mr., gunner, U. S. Navy: 
Dummy cartridge used in target prac- 
tice by the U. S. Navy. 34108. 
GiL.MON, W. J. (no address given) : Iden- 
tification medal. ( See under Porto Rico 
Collection 35201.) 
GiRTY, Dr. G. H., U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey: Fern from Indian Territory. 34622. 
(See under Interior Department, U. S. 
Geological Survey. ) 
Glatfelter, Dr. N. M., St. Louis, Mo.: 

Nine plants. 33955. 
GoERME, Luis (no address given): Three 
photographs of the vertebra of a fossil 
elephant. 34364. 
Goldman, E. A. (no address given): 
Five hundred and sixty-eight plants 
from Mexico. Purchase. 34796. 
Goodman, R. D., Washington, D. C. : 
Springfield rifle found in the trenches 
before Santiago; Spanish belt and car- 
tridge case captured at Santiago; Mauser 
rifle clip; 2 Remington cartridges; 
Mauser cartridge; Mauser shell struck 
by a bullet, and uniform hat belong- 
ing to a volunteer from the District of 
Columbia. Loan. 34039. 
Gordon, R. H., Cumberland, Md. : Six 
specimens of Clinton and Niagara lime- 
stone with Ostracoda. 33816. 
Graham, J. G., Anthony, Fla. : Moth. 

34693. 
Grahamstown, South Africa: Albany 
Museum, received through Dr. S. 
Schonland, director: Forty-four birds' 
skins from South Africa. Exchange. 
34088. 
Granxer, Emile. (See under Smithson- 
ian Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. ) 



Grant, Gen. Frederick, U. S. V., War 

Department, Washington, D. C. : Large 

idol. ( See under Porto Rico Collection 

35201). 

Gray Herbarium, Camljridge, Mass.: 

Twenty-four plants (34474); plant from 

Mexico (34762); 300 plants (35122). 

Exchange. 

Gray, Mr. and Mrs. J. D., Washington, 

D. C. : Three hundred and thirty-five 

pearls from fresh-water mussels. 34049. 

Green, J. D., Seaside, Fla.: Specimen of 

Dynastes tityus Linnaeus. 33801. 
Griffin, W., Somerset, Ky. : Ninety 
stone implements, fossils, and a speci- 
men of mineral (fossils returned) 
(33844); 23 archaeological objects from 
Pulaski County (33886); 25 specimens 
of Lower Carboniferous brachiopods 
(33903) ; 18 fossils from the Lower Car- 
boniferous rocks of Somerset (34500). 
Griffith, Beryl, Clay City, Ind.: Pot- 
tery clay. 34293. 
Griffith, Dr. H. G., Manayunk, Pa.: 
Parasitic Hymenoptera from Arizona. 
34636. 
Guerdrum, Miss S. C, Anacostia, D. C. : 

Two young box turtles. 35177. 
Guild, Charles, & Sons, Piedmont, 

Wyo.: Asphaltum. 34196. 
Haferlandt and Pippow, Berlin, Ger- 
many: Skull of Ltsus arctos. Exchange. 
34820. 
Hagans, Hon. J. Marshall, Morgan- 
town, W. Ya. : Brown glazed jar from 
an early pottery in Morgantown, ob- 
tained by Dr. Walter Hough. 34053. 
Hagood, J. E., Pickens, S. C: Mica. 

34204. 
Hall, J. A., Morotock, Va. : Specimen 
of slate-colored silicified wood. 34596. 
Hall, J. S., Westport Point, Mass.: 
^■pecimenoiBotrychmmlinerioidessh.ow- 
ing a peculiar division of the fertile 
frond. 34051. 
Hall, William, Greensboro, Pa.: Glass 
dish made in Washington about the 
year 1833. 34209. 
Halle, PI A., Dalton, Mass.: Specimen 
of Plutijrosiera sabaUnus Scudder. 
34533. 
Hallock, C. H., Fayetteville, N. C: 
Guitar. 34639. 



LIST OB' ACCESSKWS. 



87 



Hamilton', James M., ^Manitlioii, Tex.: 
SpccioH of .EiliHn belon.Lrinti' to the fam- 
ily Ct/nid;c. 33773. 

Hamlin, Homer, Los Angeles, C'al. : Fos- 
sils, probably from the Miocene forma- 
tion, Santa ]Moniea Monntains. 34158. 

Hammers, J. E., Lnray, Va. : Rpeeimen 
of BeiiacKii griiiens Hay. 34970. 

Ha.mmono, K. W., AVinier, Oreg. : Four 
hundred and thirty-four plants from 
Oregon. Purchase. 34501. 

Haniiam, a. W., Winnipeg, Manitoba: 
Thirty-four specimens of Lepidoptera 
(gift) (34302) ; 12 specimens of Lepi- 
doptera (gift) (34376); 17 specimens of 
Lepidoptera (exchange) (34535). 

Hansen, George, Berkeley, Cal. : Plants. 
(34430,34527). Purchase. 

Harbison & Walker Company, Bland- 
burg, Pa. : Fire clay. 34165. 

Harden, J. H., Phoenixville, Pa. : Hindu 
stone image from Mopani, Central 
provinces of India, and a photograph 
of the same. Purchase. 33780. 

Harper, Thomas, Bellevue, Pa. : Natural 
white oil from Holden Run, Armstrong 
County, Pa. 34827. 

Harries, Brig. Gen. George H. (See 
under District of Columbia Volunteers.) 

Harrington, j\L W., Washington, D. C. : 
Paper money. (See under Porto Rico 
Collection 35201. ) 

Harrington, N. R. : (See under Senff 
Zoological Expedition of Columbia 
College. ) 

Harrington, W. W., Ottawa, Canada, 
received through Department of Agri- 
culture: Sixty-two specimens of Dip- 
tera, representing 50 species. 34726. 

Harris, E. D., New York City: Eighteen 
si^ecimens of Cicindelas. 34664. 

Harris, I. F., Nashua, N. H.: Pewter 
lamp in use about one hundred years 
ago. 34313. 

Harris, J. C, Debeque, Colo.: Sphinx- 
moth, Protojxtrce cdeus Hiibner. 34063. 

Harrison, Capt. E. B., Ponce, P. R. : 
Celt. (See under Porto Rico Collec- 
tion 35001.) 

Harrison, Mrs. J. T., Pontiac, Mich.: 
Pupa of a dipterous insect representing 
the species Erastulis tenax Linmeus. 
34865. 



IIakti.ev, J. Scott, New York City: I'ia.s- 
ter cast of the death mask of Cyrus W . 
Field. Deposit. :}5061. 

IL\rvard University, Hekuariu.m ok, 
Cambridge, Mass. : Violets. 33954. 

Hasse, Maj. IL E., U. S. Army, Los 
Angeles, Cal. : Two hundred and thirty- 
three plants. 35232. 

llATcnER, J. B., Princeton University, 
Princeton, N. J.: Sjiecimens, in alco- 
hol, of flying- fishes from South America ; 
specimen of Isopod ( Glossobius linearis 
Dana) from the mouth of a flying-fish. 
34764. (See under Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, Bureau of Ethnology.) 

Havens, C. B., & Co., Omaha, Nebr. : 
Specimen of bituminous coal from In- 
dian Territory. 34662. (0. ) 

Hawes, a. C. (See under John Cor- 
deira. ) 

Hay, W. p., Washington, D. C: Snakes 
from A'irginia and Maryland (33750, 
33940); jelly-fishes, crustaceans, and 
worms from Chesapeake Bay (34219) ; 
crustaceans (34271); 2 type specimens 
of Ilaploplitlialniun ])nlens Hay, from a 
well at Irvington, Ind. (34886). 

Hayden, Mrs. F. V., Philadelphia, Pa.: 
Medals presented to Dr. Hayden, con- 
sisting of a grand medal of the lirst 
class, Societe de Topographie, Congres 
de Paris en 1875; medal of honor, So- 
ciete de Topographie, Congres de Paris 
en 1875. Deposit. 34885. 

Hay'mond, Mrs. Dorcas, Morgantown, 
W. Va. : Specimen of glazed ware from 
the Thompson pottery and a glass from 
the Albert Gallatin Glass Works, at 
Greensboro, Pa., obtained through Dr. 
Walter Hough. 34056. 

Hays, T. R., Wickham, New South Wales, 
received through L. O. Howard: Col- 
lection of Australian insects. 34922. 

Heath, E. F., Cartwright, Manitoba, 
Canada: The type specimen of Astero- 
scopus horealls Smith, new to the Mu- 
seum collection. 34555. 

Heath, Harold, Pacific Grove, Cal.: Iso- 
pods from California (gift) (34216); 
100 specimens of crustaceans (purchase) 
(34872); 15 specimens of crustaceans, 
representing 3 species (gift) (35016); 
crustacean (gift) (35185). 



88 



KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Hkathman, AV. F., Santa Anna, Cal., 
received through the Department of 
Agriculture: Plant. 34530. 

Heaton, L. D., Victoria, Tex.: Luna 
Moth, Actias luna Linnseus. 34842. 

Hebert, V. F. (See under Agriculture, 
Department of. ) 

Heckman, p. Y., lasaquah, Wash.: Fos- 
sil turtle. Exchange. 34819. 

Heidemann, Otto, Department of Agri- 
culture: Six specimens of Aradus niger 
Still, representing a rare species, new to 
the Museum collection. 35035. 

Heidman, Mrs. Mica, Washington, D. C. : 
Bust of Charles Darwin. 34263. 

Heighway, a. E. (See under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey; 
Old Abe Company. ) 

Heller, A. A. , Lancaster, Pa. : Four hun- 
dred and seventy plants from Washing- 
ton and Texas. Purchase. 34353. 

Henderson, A., & Co., Dundee, Scotland: 
Abnormal tooth of a Sperm whale. 
Purchase. 34732. 

Henderson, L. F., University of Idaho, 
Moscow, Idaho: Six specimens of Um- 
belliferfe. 34340. 

Henning, a. H., Silver Cliff, Colo.: Four 
fossil teeth of a mammal. 34427. 

Henning, C. F., Boone, Iowa: Bennett's 
Nighthawk, Chordeilet^ virginianus sen- 
netii. 34252. 

Henry, Miss M. A., Washington, D. C. : 
Doll made by Mrs. Alexander Hamil- 
ton and by her presented to Mrs. Joseph 
Henry. 34543. 

Henshaw, H. W., Hilo, Hawaii: Crabs 
and shrimps from Sandwich Islands 
(34019); 2 skins of a Flycatcher from 
Hawaii (34467); 3 specimens of Leiolo- 
jjisma tiodua from Hawaii (34653); 
Weaver -bird from Hawaii (34702); 
fishes, shells, cralis, shrimps, and worms 
from Hilo, Hawaii (34843). 

Herman, W. W., Boston, Mass.: Twelve 
specimens of marine shells from the 
Pacific Ocean and other localities. 
34425. 

Herold, Mrs. James, Washington, D. C. : 
Two pieces of gun carriage from the 
U. S. S. Media, a participant in the 
bombardment of Fort Jackson, La., 
April 23, 1862. 34717. 



IIerk, John, Lebanon, Ind.: Specimen 
of waterbug (Bdostoma <nnericana). 
35088. 

Hersey, Capt. A. H., Ponce, P. R. : Grape- 
shot. (See under Porto Rico collec- 
tion 35201.) 

Hewitt, J. Y. (See under Old Abe 
Company. ) 

Hibbard, D. R., Sturgis, Mich.: Shells, 
principally from Florida. 34979. 

Highborn, Philip, Chief Naval Con- 
structor. (See under Navy Depart- 
ment. ) 

Hildebrandt, J. J., Logansport, Ind.: 
Mexican playing cards. 34551. 

Hilder, F. F., Washington, D. C. : Knife 
obtained from the Icaiche branch of 
the Chichenas Indians of Yucatan. 
34468. 

Hill, Hon. D.wid J. (See under State, 
Dei^artment of. ) 

Hill, Lieut. Col. F. A., Ponce, P. R. : 
Spanish revolver and four cartridges. 
(See under Porto Rico collection 35201. ) 

Hill, F. D., U. S. Consul, Santos, Brazil: 
Specimen of Walking-stick, an orthop- 
terous insect. 34927. 

Hill, Dr. R. T., U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey: Two species of land shells from 
San Juan Hill, Cuba (34648); collec- 
tion of flint chips from Indian work- 
shops in Travis County, Tex. (34831). 

Hills, R. C, Denver, Colo.: Meteoric 
iron from Mount Oscura, New Mexico. 
Exchange. 34318. 

Hindshaw, H. H., Baltimore, Md., re- 
ceived through Dr. A. K. Fisher: 
Skin of Point Barrow Gull, Larus har- 
rovianus, from the State of Washing- 
ton. 34424. 

HiNE, Prof. J. S., Ohio State University, 
Columbus, Ohio: Twenty-three speci- 
mens of Biltaaiti and 70 specimens of 
Odonala, representing 25 specie.s 
(34264); fly (34505). 

Hitchcock, A. S., Agricultural College, 
Manhattan, Kans. : Thirteen hundred 
plants. Exchange. 34379. 

Hitchcock, C. H., Hanover, N. H.: Phos- 
phate rocks from Redonda and vol- 
canic ashes from the Hawaiian Islands. 
Exchange. 33937. 

Hitt, J. E., Augusta, Ga.: Wheelbug 
{Prionidus cristatus Linnseus). 33924. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



89 



Ih)L)ciE, F. W., Bureau of Ktliiiulogy, 
Washington, D. C. : Mexican notice of 
church services. 34134. (See under 
Anthropological Society of Washing- 
ton, D. C.) 
HoG.-VN, George, Ennis, Tex., received 
through Department of Agriculture: 
Specimen of Pi'iitdemon mtirravanus 
from Texay. 34999. 
Holm, Theo., Brookland, D. ('. : Plant 

from Colorado. 34233. 
HoLMAN, C. H., Willard, 111.: Beetle 

{Plectodera scalatorFah.). 33876. 
Holmes, F. H., Berryessa, Cal.: Five 
skins of California vultures. Purchase. 
34469. 
Holmes, Prof. J. A., Chapelhill, N. C: 
Twenty-six specimens, representing 9 
species, of Cretaceous invertebrates 
from Wilmington, N. C. 34958. 
Holmes, Prof. W. H. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution, Bureau of Eth- 
nology. ) 
HoLWAY, E. W. D., Decorah, Iowa: Type 
specimen of Sida holwayi Rose. 34683. 
HoLZiXGER, J. M., Winona, Minn. : Forty- 
five plants from northwestern Montana. 
Exchange. 34760. 
HoRNUNG, Dr. J., San Francisco, Cal.: 
Fifty-nine birds' skins from the west- 
ern United States (exchange) (33890); 
67 birds' skins from California (gift) 
(34258); 24 birds' skins from Califor- 
nia (exchange) (34524). 
Hough, Dr. Ct. DeN., New Bedford, 
Mass. : Forty-five specimens of Diptera. 
34536. 
Hough, Dr. Walter, U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Eight lanterns and lamps pur- 
cliased for the Museum. 34034. (See 
under A. V. Boughner; William Bough- 
ner; Hon. J. Marshall Ilagans; Mrs. 
Dorcas Haymond; Mayer Pottery Com- 
pany; Miss Jennie Thompson.) 
House, H. D., Oneida, N. Y.: Plant. 

Exchange. 35234. 
Howard, E. E., Edgar, Nebr. : Specimen 

of Mus inuscidus. 35123. 
Howard, Dr. L. 0. (See under Prof. 
Lawrence Bruner; T. R. Hays; G. W. 
Kirkaldy; Prof. E. L. Rice; F. AV. 
Urich. ) 



IloWAKi), (). W., Los Angeles, Cal.: Egg 

of Olivaceous Flycatcher, 3////«rc7/M.s law- 

rencel olivascenH, from Virginia. 34324. 

Howell, Arthur, Washington, D. C, : 

Plant from Alexandria. 34139. 
Howell, E. E., Washington, D. C. : 
Specimen of o\ya\ in the matrix from 
Barcoo River, Queensland, Australia 
(purchase) (34042); meteoric iron 
from Mount Joy Township, Adams 
County, Pa. (gift) (34317). 
Hudson, Dr. A. S., Stockton, Cal.: Speci- 
men in alcohol of Heterakis perspidl- 
lum (Rudolphi, 1803), taken from a 
fresh egg. 34996. 
Hudson, J. W. (See under Smithsonian 

Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. ) 
Hughes, Edward. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution, Bureau of Eth- 
nology. ) 
Hulbert, Prof. H. E., Mount Vernon, 
N. Y. : Suit of armor worn by a Korean 
general in 1592. Purchase. 35228. 
Humphrey, Charles, Mount Catharine 
mine, Yerilla, West Australia: Twenty- 
eight specimens of Australian insects. 
35006. 
Hunt, Mrs. E. G., Providence, R. I.: 
Scale insects infesting the English haw- 
thorn. 33989. 
HusTED, J. D., New York City: Onyx 

marble from Colorado. 34939. 
Hyde, L. H., Joliet, 111.: Two hundred 
and eighty-seven specimens of Niagara 
fossils from the Chicago Drainage 
Canal. 33957. 
Iherixg, Dr. H. von, Museu Paulista, Sao 
Paulo, Brazil: Collection of Tertiary 
fossils from Patagonia and Parana 
(33883); 15 species of shells from 
Argentina and Patagonia (34143). 
Illinois Botanical Station, Urbana, 111., 
received through Dr. C. A. Kofoid: 
Microscopic slide of type specimens of 
Fleodor'ma illinmsensis l)elonging to the 
family Volvocinea;. 34003. 
Ingeksoll, Mrs. M. W^, Point Pleasant, 
N. J. : Six specimens of Schizoneurinse. 
33858. 
Interior Department, Hon. Ethan A. 
Hitchcock, Secretary: Received 
through Prof. F. W. Clarke: Chip- 
jiewa canoe. 34567. 



90 



KEPURT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Interior Department — Continued. 
United Statess Geological Survey, Mr. 
Charles D.Walcott, Director: Chipped 
and partly polished hatchet, arrow, 
and spearheads, etc., from Scioto 
County, collected by Wilbur Stout 
(33799); rocks illustrating the Pre- 
Cambrian geology of the Lake Supe- 
rior region, obtained by Prof. C. Van 
Hise (33815) ; 599 specimens of clastic 
rocks illustrating the structure, pe- 
trography, and economic geology of 
the slate belt of eastern New York, 
western Vermont, and adjacent ter- 
ritory, collected by Prof. T. Nelson 
Dale (33820) ; collection of fossil ver- 
tebrates obtained by N. H. Darton 
(33823); collection of vertebrate fos- 
sils (returned from the estate of Prof. 
E. D. Cope) (33828); 1,150 specimens 
of Ordovician, Silurian, and Carbon- 
iferous fossils from Oklahoma Terri- 
tory, collected by J. A. Taff (33840); 
60 specimens of Devonian fossils from 
eastern Kentucky, collected by M. R. 
Campbell (33841); specimens show- 
ing contact of granite and gneiss from 
Stoll's quarry, Groton, Conn. (33860) ; 
6specimensof Tertiaryfossils (33952) ; 
chrome ore and corundum in horn- 
blende transmitted by A. E. Heigh- 
way (33977); specimen of P/o«?/mriH.s 
and a specimen of Poteriocrinus from 
near Livingston, Mont. (34299); col- 
lection of rocks, concretions, etc., 
from Colorado, and fossils from Ni- 
agara County, X. Y., collected by 
G. K. Gilbert (34343) ; through O. C. 
Marsh, collection of fossil vertebrates 
(34346); fossiliferous silt from under 
gravel, from AVhite River Valley, 
Northwest Territory, British Colum- 
bia, collected July 1, 1898, by the 
Peters-Brooks party <>f the Survey 
(34361) ; 2 specimens of sandstone 
containing markings of aborigines 
(34443) ; 3,990 specimens of Cam- 
brian brachiopods (34481); fossil fish 
(34488); 18 specimens of Permian 
fo3sils from the Black Hills of South 
Dakota (34499); 13 specimens of 
either Devonian or Carboniferous fos- 
sils from the Tanana Basin, Alaska 
(34507) ; specimen of melauterite from 



Interior Department — Continued. 
United States Geological Survey — Cont'd. 
Hay ward, S. Dak., collected by N. H. 
Darton (34518) ; 2 specimens of price- 
ite coated with aragonite and one 
specimen of priceite from Lone Ranch, 
Curry County, Oreg. (34519); 450 
specimens of Chemung fossils col- 
lected by Dr. G. H. Girty in 1894 in 
the eastern portion of the Buckhan- 
non quadrangle (34532); 99 speci- 
mens of minerals from various locali- 
ties (34544) (0); specimens of jointed 
sandstones and calc tufa from Black 
Hills, S. Dak. (34546); 33 specimens 
of Devonian fossils from the Upper 
Kuskokwim River, Alaska (34547); 
47 specimens of Upper Cretaceous 
Ammonites, Scaphites, Inoceramus, 
and other fossils from near Fairburn, 
S. Dak. ; 9 specimens of Ammonites, 
Nautilus, Scaphites, and other fossils 
from the mouth of Elk Creek, Chey- 
enne River, collected by N. H. Dar- 
ton (34559); 400 plants from Califor- 
nia collected by J. B. Leiberg (34560) ; 
large collection of Carboniferous plant 
remains ol)tained 1)y J. A. Taff and 
an assistant of the Geological Survey 
in the McAlester (Ind. T.) coal field 
(34565); 95 specimens of fossil in- 
vertebrates from eastern Tennessee, 
collected by Cooper Curtice ; 75 speci- 
mens of Medina, Clinton, and Niag- 
ara fossils (34576); specimen of ros- 
coelite with native gold obtained by 
W. Lindgren from Stocklages ^line, 
El Dorado County, Cal. (34592); 70 
specimens of Oriskany fossils from 
Cumberland, Md. (34604); 3 bowl- 
ders collected by G. K. Gilbert in 
Wilson, N. Y. (34612); about 10 spe- 
cies of fossil corals from 4 miles w^est 
of Lares, Porto Rico (34668); fossils 
i-ollected by N. H. Darton in the 
White River beds southeast of Oel- 
rich, S. Dak. (34672); rocks and ores 
from Tintic, Utah, collected in 1897 
by George W. Tower and G. O. Smith 
(34708) ; sand in form of stalactites 
from a black sand mine in Cook 
County, Greg., collected by J. S. Dil- 
ler (34744); 3 species of land shells 
from McAlester, Ind. T. (34775); 



LIST OE^ ACCESSIONS. 



91 



Intkkior Dkiwrtment — Continued. 
Uniti-d StatcK Geological Suruey — Cont'd, 
black «md from the Pacific Ocean 
Beai'h, at the mouth of Pistol River, 
Orcg. (84797); specimen of albertite 
collected by David T. Day in Nova 
Scotia (84802); 180 specimens of 
Lower Silurian fossils, 68 specimens 
of Upper Silurian fossils, and 5 speci- 
mens of Devonian fossils collected by 
M. R. Campbell (34822); sand from 
Burnett and Johnson's Mine, Gilbert 
Creek, Smith River, Del Norte 
County, Cal., collected by David T. 
Day (34847); tooth of a mastodon 
(84867); rot-ks from Coon Butte and 
San Francisco Mountain, Arizona, 
collected by G. K. Gilbert (34891); 
sample of beach sand containing gold 
and platinum from Crescent City, 
Cal. (34920); 10 specimens of fish 
remains from Silver Peak Range, Es- 
meralda County, Nev. (34986); 3 
skulls, 3 geological specimens from 
White Mountain, New Mexico; 5 
small specimens of zonochrolite from 
the northern shore of Lake Superior, 
and a geological specimen from Ga- 
lena, 111., collected by F. X. Shulak 
(34971); specimens of asphaltic min- 
eral from the southern part of the 
McAlester quadrangle, Choctaw Na- 
tion, Ind. T., collected by J. A. Taff 
(35018); a series of 158 specimens of 
Lower Cretaceous Grypha^as (35059) ; 
75 specimens of fossils from the Cin- 
cinnati group of central Kentucky; 
69 specimens of fossils from the Up- 
per CarVjoniferous of Shasta County, 
Cal. (35064) ; 4 fossil plants from the 
coal measures of Sciotoville, Ohio 
(35079); 3 specimens of garnets col- 
lected by C. W. Cross in Ophir Loop, 
Telluride Quadrangle, Cblo. (85084). 
(See under M. R. Campbell, Cooper 
Curtice, T. Nelson Dale, N. H. Dar- 
ton, David T. Day, J. S. Diller, G. K. 
Gilbert, G. H. Girty, A. E. Heigh- 
way, J. B. Leiberg, Ig. Lucas, G. O. 
Smith, Wilbur Stout, G. W. Tower, 
J. A. Taff, J. A. Udden.) 
Iowa, State University of, Iowa City, 
Iowa, received through Prof. C. C. 



Iowa, State University of — Continued. 
Nutting: Five species of crabs. Ex- 
change. 34407. 
Jackson, Miss Victoria, Bowling Green, 
Ky. : Sixty specimens, representing 7 
species of land and fresh- water mol- 
lusks (33899); 8 species of shells 
(34647). 
Jacobs, W. H., Lonacoiiing, Aid.: Pea- 
cock. 84723. 
Jacobson, C. a., Northtield, Minn. : Com- 
pacted mycelium of a wood-inhabiting 
fungus. 35030. 
James, G. Wharton, Pasadena, Cal.: 
PlK)tograpli of baskets made by the 
Cahuilla Indians, and photograph of a 
Navajo l)lanket weaver. .35168. 
Jarboe, Miss Leonora, Baltimore, Md. : 
Cane used by Capt. James Jarboe, a 
soldier of the war of 1812; original let- 
ter written by Captain Jarboe, dated 
September 15, 1814. 34038. 
Jellicorse, R., Carthage, Tenn. : Seven 

pottery bowls. 33946. 
Jennings, J. H., Henderson, Tenn.: 
Three specimens of Myrmeleonids. 
33857. 
Jensen, A. S., Universitetets Museum, 
Copenhagen, Denmark: Six specimens 
of Montacuta molleri (Holboll) Morch, 
from Greenland. 34846. 
Jermy, Julius, San Antonio, Tex.: One 
thousand plants (84516); 325 plants 
from Hungary (34945). Purchase. 
Johansen, O. a., Chicago, 111.: Small 

collection of Acrididae. 34607. 
Johnson, A. J., Chetco, Oreg., received 
through Department of Agriculture: 
Seven plants from Oregon. 34964. 
Johnson, A. R., Whitesboro, N. Y.: 
Clasp knife, flint, 2 pieces of a military 
buckle, 2 l)uttons proliably of British 
manufacture, picked up on the Imttle- 
field of Crown Point. 33763. 
Johnson, Hon. Ben.iamix. (See under 

State, Department of. ) 
Johnson, C. F., Freeport, 111.: One hun- 
dred specimens of violets (35067) ; 
2 2 plants from Illinois (35148). 
Exchange. 
Johnson, Prof. C. W., Wagner Free 
Institute of Science, Philadelphia, Pa. : 
Specimen of CoeUodcs schwarzi (34024) ; 



92 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Johnson, Prof. C. W. — Continued. 

35 specimens of Diptera (34537); speci- 
men of Ptynx ajrpendicidatus Fab. 
(34640) ; 45 specimens of Hymenoptera 
(34881). 

Johnson, Cajit. M. L., U. S. N. (See 
under Navy Department. ) 

Johnston, Mrs. H. D., San Pedro, Cal. : 
Ten species of marine shells. 34351. 

Jones, Rev. D. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. ) 

Jones, M. E., Salt Lake City, Utah: 
Plant. 33984. 

Jones, O. H. (See under G. E. H. 
Barrett-Hamilton. ) 

Jones, R. L., Burlington, Vt. : Five speci- 
mens of violets. Exchange. 34589. 

JuDD, S. D., Biological Survey, Depart- 
ment of Agriculture: Amphipods from 
New England. 34225. 

JuDEN, Mrs. Amabel, New Orleans, La. : 
Twenty specimens of Cretaceous Exo- 
gyra and Anomia, from Jamestown, Ga. 
34127. 

JuNGEN, Lieut. C. W., U. S. N.: Marine 
telegraph cable cut by the U. S. S. 
Wampatuck June 1, 1898; marine tele- 
graph cable cut by the same steamer on 
May 18, 1898; cartridge case fired from 
the Wampatuck June 30, 1898. 34075. 

Johnson, C. F., Freeport, 111.: Specimens 
of violets. (35067, 35148.) Exchange. 

Karshner, H. I., Burnett, Wash.: Six 
Miocene nodules or concretions con- 
taining fossil crabs, from "Washington. 
34308. 

Kato, Kaisuka, Imperial Department of 
State for Agriculture and Commerce, 
Tokio, Japan: Specimens of twinned 
native quartz, native arsenic, and other 
deposits from Japan. 34571. 

Kavanaugh, E. G. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution, Bureau of Eth- 
nology. ) 

Kearfott, AV. D., New York City, N. Y. : 
Fifteen specimens of Lej>idoptera; 2 
larvae, 3 of pupse, and a Tachinid-Hy 
with case. 35152. 

Kearney, T. H., jr., Washington, I). C. : 
Nine plants. Exchange. 33765. 

Kelcher, Thomas, Washington, D. C. : 
Specimen of Tabanus trimaculaivs. 
33791. 



Kellogg, Prof. V. L., Leland Stanford 
Junior University, Stanford Univer- 
sity, Cal.: Sixty slides representing 
cotypes of Mallophaga. 35089. 

Kelsey, F. W., San Diego, Cal.: Shells 
from San Diego Harbor, California. 
34142. 

Kengla, L. a., San Francisco, Cal. : Col- 
lection of sea algce from Pigeon Point, 
San Mateo County, Cal. 34684. 

Kenner, B., Manti, Utah: Fossil bones 
of a turtle. 35174. 

Kent Scientific Institute, Grand Rap- 
ids, Mich., received through L. S. Liv- 
ingston : Thirty-two specimens of South 
American Lepidoptera. 34405. 

Kentucky Fire Brick Company, Ports- 
mouth, Ohio: Fire clay. 34226. 

Kerbey, J. O., Cocoanut Grove, Fla. : 
Plant. 34586. 

Kerr Brothers, Wrightsville, Pa. : Lime- 
stone used for making quicklime. 
34159. 

Kew, England, RoyalBotanicGardens, 
received through Dr. W. T. Thiselton- 
Dyer, director: Plants. 34651. 

Kilmer, F. B., New Brunswick, N. J.: 
Six plants. 35069. 

Kimble, G. W., Placerville, Cal., received 
through H. W. Turner: Seven speci- 
mens of roscoelite from Stocklages 
mine, Eldorado County, Cal. 34593. 

Kingston, Jamaica: Public Gardens and 
Plantations, Botanical Department: 
One hundred and twelve plants from 
Jamaica. Exchange. 34137. 

KiRKALDY, G. W., Wimbledon, Surrey, 
England, received through Dr. L. O. 
Howard: Ten species of exotic Hemip- 
tera. 34993. 

KizER, Dr. D. T., Chillicothe, Mo. : Fresh- 
water shells from Missouri and Kansas. 
33904. 

Knight, W. C, Laramie, Wyo. : Eight 
species of fresh-water shells. 35043. 

Knowles, Taylor & Knowles Company, 
East Liverpool, Ohio: Eleven pieces of 
l)ottery. 34492. 

Knowlton, F. H., U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey: Specimen of Linnsea boreal is from 
Washington, D. C. (34111); 500 plants 
(34253) ; 5 specimens of 3fus tnusculns 
(34455); white jasper scrajoer blade 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



93 



Knowlton, F. H. — Continued, 
from Carbonado, State of Washin^'ton 
(34491); plant from the District of Co- 
lumbia (34679). 
KoBER, Dr. G. M., Washington, D. C: 
Headdress made of an otter skin ob- 
tained from the Bannock Indians of 
North Idaho, and a 1 )asket < )I)tained from 
the Piute Indians of Southern Utah. 
Exchange. 34548. 
KoENiG, Adolf, Pittsburg, Pa.: Twenty- 
three ]ilants. 351 82. ( See under Agri- 
culture, Department of.) 
KoFoiD, Dr. C. A.: (See under Illinois 

Botanical Station. ) 
KooNS, B. F., Storrs, Conn. : Three pieces 

of brick clay in curious forms. 33910. 
Krantz, Dr. F.. Bonn, Germany: Cast of 
an Archaeopteryx. Purchase. 34344. 
"O." 
Kreite, R., Kansas City, Mo.: Twelve 
Upper Carboniferous crinoids. Pur- 
chase. 34109. 
KuNZ, G. F., New York City: Specimen 
of prosopite from Dugnay district, 
Utah; prosopite from near Park City, 
Summit County, Utah, and awarnite 
from the western coast of South Island, 
New Zealand. 34591. 
Lackland, Samuel, Bowie, La. : Two spi- 
ders (33893), specimen of Argyroepeira 
hortorum Hentz (34266). 
Lacoe, R. D., Pittston, Pa.: Two speci- 
mens of Belinurus lacoei and 2 speci- 
mens of Euproops danae from Mazou 
Creek, Illinois (34541); 26 boxes con- 
taining Carboniferous plants from the 
vicinity of Morris, 111. (35093). 
Laidecker, N. E., Greencastle, Ind. : Cu- 
ban cockade. (See under Porto Rico 
collection 35201.) 
Lama, R. W., Norfolk, Va.: Mauser clip 
recovered from the wreck of the Span- 
ish ship Reina Mercedes. (See under 
Norfolk collection ,35187.) 
Lamprey, J. P., Kensington, N. H. : Plow 
made by Henry Lamprey in 1732. 
34769. 
Lamson, C. H., Portland, Me.: Lilienthal 
air-sailer. 34952. 
• Lang, J. G., New INIarket, Tenn. : Zinc 
ore. 34311. 



Lanodale, J. W., Washington, I). C. : 
Specimen of mesolite from Ireland 
(gift) (34556) ; rutile and actinolite in 
quartz (exchange) (34940). 

L'Anglaise, Rev. L. H., Paincourtville, 
La. : Larva of an insect. 33881. 

Laurrauzi, Capt. Julio M., Coamo, P. R. : 
Shrapnell shell. (See under Porto Rico 
collection 35201.) 

Leary, Capt. R. P., U. S. N.: Piece of a 
settee from the cabin of the >Sa7i Fran- 
cisco; knife made from the armor shot 
of the ship; cartridge case belonging to 
a Hotchkiss rapid-firing mai^hine gun 
(33994); ceiling fixture of an electric 
lamp in the cabin of the San Francisco, 
wrecked by a shell fired from Morro 
Castle; 2 cartridge cases from the San 
Francisco ( 341 21 ) . 

Lee, H. a., Denver, Colo. : Cast of a silver 
nugget from MoUie Gibson Mine (pur- 
chase) (34803); photograph of a nug- 
get of native silver from Smuggler 
Mine, Aspen, Colo, (gift) (35060). 

Leech, J. F., Washington, D. C. : Speci- 
men of Cyrba txniola Hentz. 35199. 

Lehman, W. V. , Tremont, Pa. : Twelve 
specimens of Carboniferous fossil plants 
from the southern anthracite field, 
Schuylkill County, Pa. 34642. 

Leiberg, J. B. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 

Leiden, Holland: RijksEthnographisch 
Museum, received through Dr. L. Ser- 
rurier, director: Collection of ethnolog- 
ical objects from the East Indies. Ex- 
change. 33997. 

Lemon, Dr. J. H., New Albany, Ind.: 
Plaster cast of stone carvings; metal 
cast of stone carvings (34503); fluted 
brick from a mound in Washington 
County, Miss. (34618). 

Leon, P. M. De, U. S. Consul-General, 
Guayaquil, Ecuador, received through 
Alexandro Santos, Consul-General of 
Bolivia, New York City: Stuffed snake. 
33761. 

Leslie Copper Mining Company, re- 
ceived through Wesley Everett, Wal- 
lace, Idaho: Specimen of hematite iron 
ore from Montana. 35235. 

Lesueur, Alex., San Juan, P. R. : Dutch 
copper coin. (See under Porto Rico 
Collection 35201). 



94 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Leutze, Commander E. H. C, U. S. N. 
(See under Navy Department.) 

Lincoln, H. D., Cottage Grove, Oreg. : 
Larval form of a female Lanipyrid rep- 
resenting the genus Zarliipis. 33877. 

LiNDGREN, W. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 

Lindsay, Mrs. William. (See under Na- 
tional Society of the Daughters of the 
American Revolution. ) 

LiNNEMEVER, D. r.,Brooklyn,N. Y. : Blue- 
checked homer pigeon with four legs. 
33871. 

LiSACK, Major, U. S. V., Jewell, Ind.: 
Mauser clip. (See under Porto Rico 
Collection. 35201.) 

Lisle, Dr. J. D., Philadelphia, Pa., re- 
ceived through T. W. Stanton: Cast of 
a gold nugget from Reid Mine, North 
Carolina. 34479. 

LiTTLEBRANT, Lleut. AV. T. , U. S. A., Fort 
Bayard, N. Mex. : Four photographs of 
a cliff dwelling on Gila River, N. I\Iex. 
33845. 

LiviNCisTON, L. S. (See under Kent Sci- 
entific Institute. ) 

Lloyd, D. P. & Co., Fostoria, Ohio: 
Limestone used for making quicklime. 
34278. 

Lloyd, H. W., Charleston, S. C: Tineid 
case bearer. 33758. 

London, England: British Museum (Nat- 
ural History), South Kensington: One 
hundred and ninety specimens, repre- 
senting 63 species, of fossil corals, prin- 
cipally Post-Paleozoic, from England 
(34510) ; received through George Mur- 
ray, 1,049 plants, consisting of Set No. 
4 of F. Rugel's Florida plants, collected 
in 1842-1849 (34771); received through 
Dr. Henry Woodward, 3 casts of skulls 
(34839); Exchange. 

Long, M. E. (See under Museum Public 
Library, Kansas City. ) 

LooMis, Rev. H., Yokohama, Japan: 
Twenty-two specimens, representing 22 
species of marine, fresh water, and land 
shells from Japan (33908); shells and 
barnacles (34179); land and marine 
shells from Japan (34610); collection of 
Japanese Lepidoptera (34873). 

Lopez, E. Martines, Bayamon, P. I.: 
Cartridge box, belt, and buckle. (See 
under Porto Rico Collection 35201. ) 



LoRiNG, J. Alden, London, England: 
One hundred and seventy-eight mam- 
mals and a bird skin from Upsala, 
Sweden (34073); 230 mammals from 
Braunschweig, Germany (34155); 451 
European mammals and 3 birds' skins 
(34422). These specimens were pur- 
chased by Mr. Loring from a special 
allotment furnished by the National 
Museum. 

LovELL, J. H., Waldoboro, Me. : Twenty- 
five specimens of aculeate Hymenop- 
tera. 34688. 

LovETT, Edward, Croydon, England: 
Eight specimens of tallies and ligliting 
apparatus. Exchange. 34368. 

Lowe, H. N., Long Beach, Cal.: Nine 
specimens of shells, representing 4 spe- 
cies (33854); 7 species of marine shells 
from California (34186); 7 species of 
marine shells (34709). 

LrcAs, Ig., Passaic, N. J., through the 
Interior Department, U. S. Geological 
Survey : Four specimens of fossil corals. 
34245. 

Lucas, F. A., U. S. National Museum: 

Skull of a crocodile. 34125. 
Ludlow, Capt. Nicoll, U. S. N. (See 

under Navy Department. ) 
LuKENTY, N. B., Portland, Oreg., received 

through Department of Agriculture: 

Plant. 34621. 
Lyon, M. W., Jr., U. S. National Mu.seum: 

Thirty-seven mammals and 2 birds 

from Washington, D. C. (34435); 2 

frogs from Virginia (35103); toad from 

Bay Ridge, Md. (35142). 
McCann, J. J., Punta Gorda, Fla.: lo 

moth, Saiiirnia in. 34230. 
McCoMB, G. T., Lockport, N. Y.: Two 

specimens of Niagara fossils. 34072. 
McCarthy, J. B., Washington, D. C. : 

Geological material from Italy (33842); 

specimens of asbestos and sulphur from 

Italy and hematite from England 

(34241). Collected by F. W. Crosby. 
McClenden, Dr. E. F., Trinity, Tex.: 

Drinking horn, Krag shells, and the 

fragment of a shell. (See under Porto 

Rico collection, 35201.) 
McCreery, J. H., Oceanport, N. J.: 

Pounding bowl more than 150 years 

old. 34899. 



LIST OF A(iCESSIONS. 



95 



McDouGAi,, D. T., ^Hnni'apdliH, Minn.: 
Three humlred and ninety-live plants 
from Arizona. Purchane. 34401. 
McElfresh, F. M., Illinois Biological 
Station, I^rbana, 111.: Eggs of Katydid, 
represtMiting the species A ntigastei^ mirn- 
/;(7/.s Walsh, with parasites. 34396. 
McFaddkn, J. E., Sterling, N. Y. : Sphinx 

moth. 33767. 
McFarl.^n'I), Daxiel, Los Angeles, Cal.: 
Four siKH'imens of ( 'oiiorhitiKsjirotrartns. 
33915. 
McGiLLivKAY, Prof. Alex., Ithaca, N. Y. : 
Two s])ecies of Cynipids {Philonu: 
fulvicoUiK Fitch and Phi/onix nigricollis 
Fitch). 34579. 

McGregor, R. C, Palo Alto, Cal.: One 
hundred and sixteen liirds' skins (gift) 
(33S()6); 34 birds' skins (deposit) 
(35085). 

McGriRE, F. B., Washington, D. C: Pot- 
tery vase frcjm Peru, South America. 
34894. 

McKann, Mr. (no address given): Coal, 
petroleum, and other deposits. 34658. 
(O.) 

INIcKiNLEV, Hon. William, President of 
the United States: A copy of a mem- 
orial, transmitted to the President of 
the United States by p]mperor William 
of Germany, commemorative of the 
consecration on October 31, 1898, of 
the Church of the Savior in Jerusalem. 
34935. 

McKxKiHT, A. J., San Francisco, Cal.: 
Specimen of SIrc.r arrolatus Cresson. 
34183. 

McMahal, J. E., Diamond, Ariz.: Two 
specimens of Cottonwood Beetle, Lina 
scripte Fab. 35074. 

McNuTT, Frances, Rockbridge Baths, 
Va.: Five specimens of Thyrioptery.r 
ephemertvformis Hall. 33964. 

Macoun, J. M., Geological Survey, Otta- 
wa, Canada: Ninety-eight |)lants from 
Canada (34673) ; 22 plants from Pribilof 
Islands (34770). Exchange. 

Magixnis, Judge W. L., Ogden, Utah: 
Specimen of mica from Latah County, 
Idaho. 35076. 

Magrane, R. W., New York City: Rem- 
ington (Spanish) rifle captured at the sur- 
render of Ponce de Porto Rico; also 12 
Remington cartridges. Deposit. 34102. 



MA(iiiAW, A. R., Washington, 1). C: 
Specimen of Ui^per Devonian sandstone 
containing casts of shells, from Bay 
Ridge, Va. 34458. 
Mahood, F. W., Washington, 1). C: 
Siliceous sand for glass making from 
near Stapleton Mills, Va. .34406. 
Manton, H. B., Akron, Ohio: Kaolite 
slip used as a glaze in the manufacture 
of pottery. 35065. 

Marean, , AVashington, D. C. : Two 

barn owls. 35196. 
Marsh, Prof. O. C., New Haven, Conn.': 
Nineteen polished spheres of Japanese 
breccia. 34643. (See under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 
Marshall Brick Company, Rapid City, 
S. Dak. : Specimens of raw and Inirnt 
clay. 34496. 
Marshall, Ernest, Laurel, Md.: Fishes 
and leeches. 34911. (See under 
George Marshall.) 
Marshall, George, U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Maynard revolver manufactured 
by the Massachusetts Arms Company 
(34026); Pine Mouse, Microtus plneto- 
rnm, from Washington, D. C. (34382); 
specimen of ^[icrotus penvsi/lraiiicus 
(34736); fishes and leeches obtained in 
Laurel, Md., by Henry and Ernest 
Marshall (34911); Jumping Mouse, 
Z<ip>t!< Inuhonitts, from Laurel (.35027). 
Marshall, IL, U. S. National Museum: 
Nest of a wasp. 34181. (See under 
George Marshall. ) 
I Martin, Prof. K., Director des Geologi- 
schen Museums, Leyden, Holland: Fos- 
' sil corals representing 25 localities on 
the island of Curasao. Exchange. 
.34194. 
Mason, George E., London, England: 
Eleven frogs from England. Exchange. 
35238. 
Mason, Mrs. Lrcv Ord, Washington, 
D. C. : Sword of Lieut. J. (iaresche 
Ord, Sixth United States Infantry, 
killed at the battle of San Juan Hill, 
Santiago de Cuba, July 1, 1898. 
Deposit. 34126. 
Maxon, Mrs. S. A., Oneida, N. Y.: One 
hundred plants (35052); 150 plants 
from New York (35104). 



96 



REPORT 0¥ NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Maxon, W. R., U. S. National Museum: 
Three ferns from Jamesville, N. Y. 
(34380); plants (34681); fern (34685); 
12 plants (34954); collection of insects 
(35140). 

Maxson, H. B., Reno, Nev. : Ores, mar- 
bles, and petrified wood. 34659. (O. ) 

Mayer Pottery Company, Beaver Falls, 
Pa.: received through Dr. Walter 
Hough: Eight specimens of colored 
glassware. 34052. 

Meadows, E. W., Pamplin, Va. : Moth, 
Choerocampus tersa Linnaeus. 34130. 

Means, T. H., Department of Agricul- 
ture: Specimen of fuller's earth from 
Quincy, Fla. 34534. 

MEARNs,"Dr. E. A., U. S. A.: Collections 
of natural history speciinens and eth- 
nological objects (33829, 33874) ; fishes, 
insects, and shells from Fort Clark, 
Tex. (34429); 5 beetles and 39 skulls of 
manmials from Lexington, Ky. (34461) ; 
birds' skins from Lexington, Ky., and 
plants from Chickamauga National 
Park, Georgia (34482); natural history 
specimens from Texas and Georgia 
(34611, 34676); moUusks from New- 
port, R. I. (35062). 

Mearns, Louis di Zerega, Fort Clark, 
Tex. : Fifty-six birds' skins from Texas 
(deposit) (33880); 3 plants from Texas 
(gift) (34083); skin and skull of Gray 
Squirrel, Sdurus carolinensis (deposit) 
(34483) ; 28 mammal skins and 30 mam- 
mal skulls (deposit) (34706). 

Meek, A. K., Washington, D. C. : Twelve 
specimens of fungi. 34874. 

Melford, Miss A. I., Washington, D. C. : 
Three plants from New Mexico. 34145. 

Melville, W. P., Sault Ste. Marie, Mich. : 
Four birds' skins from Angola. Ex- 
change. 34907. 

Mercer, W. J. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. ) 

Meredith, H. C. (See under Smithson- 
ian Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. ) 

Merivale, Walter, Bridgeton, Barbados, 
West Indies: Specimen of Merivale 
manjak, or mineral bitumen, from Bar- 
bados, West Indies. 34897. 

Merriam, Dr. C. Hart, Department of 
Agriculture: Yellow Rail, Porzana 
noveboracensis Audubon. 34415. 



Merriam, E. D., Conneaut, Ohio: Skull 
of a Catfish, Ameirus laaistris. 33981. 

Merrill, E. D., Orono, Me.: received 
through Dr. T. H. Bean: Three speci- 
mens of Stickleback , Gasterosteus atkinsii. 
34925. 

Merrill, Dr. G. P., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Drift bowlder from Lincoln, 
N. H. 33832. 

Metcalf, J. K., Silver City, N. Mex. : 
Seven plants. 34452. 

Meyers, Max, Sheridan, Mont.: Speci- 
men of wad. 35108. 

Mexican Amola Soap Company, Peoria, 
111. : Collection of yucca roots. 33887. 

Michelsen, Hon. Chris., received 
through Capt. J. W. Collins, U. S. Fish 
Commission: Model of the steamship 
Merrimar, sunk by Lieutenant llobson 
at Santiago. 34490. 

MiDDLETON, Mrs. J. J., Washington, 
D. C. : Shell representing the genus 
Anomla. 34462. 

Miguel, Jean, Barroubio, Herault, 
France: Seven hundred and ninety- 
eight specimens of European fossils 
from the Paleozoic, Mesozoic, andCeno- 
zoic horizons. Exchange. 34712. 

Miller, A. W., Portland, Oreg.: Ores, 
building stones, ochers, and petrified 
wood. 34654. (O.) 

Miller, B. D., Peterboro, N. Y.: Speci- 
men of albinistic Red Squirrel, Sdurus 
hudsonicus, from Peterboro, N. Y. 
35160. 

Miller, C. L. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology.) 

Miller, E. E., Canton, Ohio: Plant. 
34116. 

Miller, Gerrit S., jr., U. S. National 
Museum: Plant (33742); 14 plants from 
the District of Columbia (33913); 
spiders (33923) ; skin of Coccyzus balrdi 
from Jamaica (33931); small collection 
of fishes from North Truro, Mass., and 
from the Shenandoah River (33974); 
snake from Maryland (33985); 2 plants 
from Maryland (34085); 2 specimens of 
bats {PipistuJlus stdijlavus and Lasiurus 
horealis) (34095) ; 2 specimens of 3Ius 
musculus and a specimen of Scalops 
aquatieiis from Forest Glen, Md. (34189) ; 
11 mammals (34290) ; snake from Mary- 
land (34538); specimen of Night Hawk, 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



97 



]Mll,I,KH, (iKKKlT S. , jr. — ( '( >IltilUK'(l. 

(Viordi'i/cx rirgl)iia)iits (I55()5()); mole 

(Scalops (ii/aaticitf<) and Flying Squirrel, 

Srinroi>k'rufi mlucelln (35092). 
Miller, Dr. J., U. S. National MuHcnm: 

Spider {Epeint ilnuilnlUiitu Ilentz). 

34553. 
Mills, Gen. Anson, U. S. Army: Tent 

made from buffalo skin. Loan. 34SS0. 
Mills, R. A., Orlando, Fla. : Ilammer- 

stone from Mammoth ("ave, Kentucky. 

34895. 
Mills, R. P., St. Petersljurg, Fla.: Crab- 
spider, (fiistcraanitlKt cancer Ilentz. 

34506. 

JIlNNKSOTA, (tEOLOOICAL SrKVEY OF, 

Minneapolis, Minn., received through 
Prof. W. H. Winchell: Sixty speci- 
mens (jf Lower Helderberg fossils from 
New York. Exchange. 35096. 

Minnesota, University of, Minneapolis, 
Minn. : One hundred an<l thirteen 
plants. Excliange. 35022. 

MiRiCK, Miss Nellie, Oneida, N. Y.: 
Twenty plants. Exchange. 35233. 

]\1itchell. Dr. C. T., Canandaigua, N. Y.: 
Three specimens of moUusks represent- 
ing the genus Goniobasls. 34962. 

Mitchell, G. E., Washington, I^. C: 
Four specimens of Oirpodectes nltidus 
from Nicaragua. 34202. 

Mitchell, Hon. J. D., Victoria, Tex.: 
Specimen of Callincctes s(q>idiis from near 
Dupuy Lake, Texas (34017 ) ; 2 specdes of 
fresh-water shells from Texas (34392); 
6 specimens of Callinecte.t sapidm with 
parasites from Old Indianola, Tex. 
(34729); 8 species of marine shells 
(34735); marine and land shells from 
Texas (34833); 20 crabs (13 with para- 
sites) from Texas (34871). 

MoAK, C. C, Corning, Iowa: Brass pipe- 
hatchet. Purchase. 34641. 

MoiiR, Dr. Charles, Mobile, Ala.: Speci- 
men of Viola Carolina Greene (ex- 
cliange) (34449); plant from Lookout 
Mountain, Mentone, Tenn. (gift) 
(34529); 7 plants (exchange) (34623). 

MoNTEiTH, Miss Clara, New Orleans, 
La.: Caterpillar of Enij>retia Kthntih-d 
Clemens. 34010. 

Montreal River Iron Mining Co.mpanv, 
Hurley, Wis. : Iron oi a. 34173. 
NAT MUS 99 T 



Moon, E. P., Palmer, Colo., received 
through Isaac Winston: Specimen of 
sandstone. 33884. 

Moore, B. B., Washington, I). C: Flying 
Squirrel, Sciuroptcriix volacella. 35161. 

Moore, C. B., Philadelphia, Pa.: Six 
counterfi'it ceremonial crooks. .'>3824. 

Moore, Dr. H. D., New Lexington, Pa.: 
Specimen of Clinfoiila umbellata. 35 1 46. 

Moore, J. E. , Seattle, Wash. : Specimen 
of molybdenum. 33846. 

MooRHEAi), James, Pecos High Bridge 
(Lozier j)ost-office), Tex.: Five ])lants. 
34161. 

MooREHEAi), Warren K. (See umler 
Thomas Wilson. ) 

MoRELiA, Mexico, Museo Michoacano, 
received through Dr. Manuel Martinez 
Solorzano: Seven birds' skins and 90 
specimens of insects from Mexico. Ex- 
change. 34305. 

MoRCJAN, Dr. E. L., Washington, D. C: 
Specimens of Flying Scjuirrel, Sciurop- 
terus volucdla (34280, 34644). 

Morris, G. F. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. ) 

Morrison, E. H. (See under Walker 
Electric Company. ) 

Morton, Mrs. A. E., Olney, Colo.: Speci- 
men of Mantis, tStaginoiiKoitiff carolma 
Linufeus; 2 tarantulas, and a specimen 
of Holbrook's Lizard, Ilolbrookia macu- 
lata. 34129. 

Moss, William, Ashton-under-Lyne, 
England: Shells from Lifu, Loyalty 
Islands, Oceanica (34887); 3,000 speci- 
mens of minute marine and land shells 
from the same locality (35113). 

MuLFORD, Miss A. I., Washington, 1). C. : 
Three plants from New Mexico. .34145. 

MuNiz, Dr. M. A. (See under Smithson- 
ian Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. ) 
MuRDAUH, Mrs. H. I., Luray, S. C. : 
Crab Spider, (TaMcnicantha cancer 
Hentz. 34100. 
MuRFELDT, Miss Mary, Kirkwood, Mo.: 
Fourteen specimens of insects. 35007. 
Murray, Cteorce. (See under l^ondon, 

England, British IMuseum. ) 
Musee d'Histoire Naturelle. (See un- 
der Paris, France. ) 



98 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899, 



MusEo MiciioACANo. (See under More- 
lia, Mexico.) 

Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cam- 
bridge, Mass. Received through Dr. 
C. R. Eastman: Cast of an egg of a 
fossiiostrich {Strufhiolithus chersunensis) ; 
teeth of fossil fishes (Ceratodonts) (gift) 
( 33755 ) . Received through Dr. Walter 
Faxon: 77 specimens of decapod crus- 
taceans, representing 21 species (ex- 
change) (34156); 90 specimens, repre- 
senting 26 species of crabs (exchange) 
(34789). 

Museum Public Library, Kansas City, 
Mo., received through M. C. Long: 
Electrotype of the Washington Peace 
Medal, bearing date 1793. 34980. 

Museum Senckenbergianum. (See under 
Frankfurt -am-Main. ) 

Nash, C. W., Toronto, Canada, received 
through Dr. A. K. Fisher: Snake 
{Stureria dckaiji) from Toronto. 34284. 

National Society of the Colonial 
Dames of America, Miss Elizabeth 
Bird Nicholas, Treasurer-General. Re- 
ceived through Mrs. William Henry 
Browne and Gen. Joseph Wheeler, 
chair used by William Henry Harri- 
son, President of the United States; 
coat worn by Lord Fairfax of Green- 
way Court, Va. ; bellows owned by 
Elizabeth Bradford; silver candlestick 
owned by the Delancey family; silver 
spoon owned by the Cooper family; 
silver teaspoon owned by Elizabeth 
Langdon; silver salt-cellar without the 
glass, 1745; 2 silver spoons owned by 
William Byrd; china tea caddy owned 
by Robert Carter; silver tablespoon, 
1745, owned by William Byrd, and a 
soup plate also owned by William Byrd 
(34972). Received through Mrs. Wil- 
liam Henry Browne, hand embroidery 
on home-made linen woven by Mrs. 
L. W. Knowlton; pastel portrait, on 
vellum, of Hon. Oliver Wolcott, Paris, 
1783 (35040). Received through Mrs. 
Lucy Carter Trent, in behalf of the 
Richmond branch of the society, col- 
lection of historical relics consisting of 
letter, glassware, silverware, etc. 
(35082). Received through Mrs.Charles 
Washington Coleman, autograph let- 
ters and 2)apers of 13 signers of the 



National Society of the Colonial 
Dames of America — Continued. 
Declaration of Independence (35087). 
Received through Mrs. Elizabeth Byrd 
Nicholas, collection of historical relics 
(35162). 

National Society of the Daughters of 
the American Revolution. Received 
through Mrs. William Lindsay: Piece 
of the British ship Somerset; 3 let- 
ters from daughters of Revolutionary 
soldiers; order for payment of money 
to General Lafayette; 3 dinner plates, 
a frame and photograph (33792) ; coat 
worn by Charles Carroll, of Carrollton, 
on the occasion of his signing the Dec- 
laration of Independence (34307); buff 
silk embroidered waistcoat worn by 
Copeland Parker, a descendant of the 
Earls of Macclesfield, surveyor and in- 
spector of the customs of the port of 
Norfolk, Va., by appointment of Presi- 
dent George Washington; wood from 
home of John Hancock, Boston, Mass., 
built in 1737 and destroyed in 1863; 
letters, viz, from Anna Morse, Emily 
Allen, A. I. H. Dyer, and members of 
Old South Chapter, Boston, daughters 
of soldiers of the war of the Revolu- 
tion (34613); snuffbox used in the 
Jones family, silver loving cup of Cap- 
tain Parker, 2 cut-glass wine glasses 
brought from England in 1750; coliMiial 
miniature gilt portrait frame, pewter 
tankard brought from P^ngland in 1639, 
a pair of epaulettes owned by Gen. 
Weir Smallwood, Revolutionajy A¥ar, 
pewter candlestick brought from Eng- 
land in 1750, colonial lantern brought 
from England in 1750, oil portrait of 
Susan Coates Jones (34731) ; 2 engrav- 
ings, small gilded shield, block of wood 
with 2 bullets embedded, found on 
Cowpens battlefield, plate, cup, and 
saucer (34743); collection of historic-al 
relics (34851); blue and white china 
platter with strainer (35137). 

National Geographical Society, Wash- 
ington, D. C. : Harpoon head, taken 
from a whale in Bering Sea. Deposit. 
34838. 
Navy Department, Hon. John D. Long, 
Secretary: Received from Admiral 
George Dewey, 2 brass trophy guns 



LIST OV ACCESSIONS. 



99 



Navy Dki'aktment — CoutiniUMl. 

capturiMl from the Si)anisli arsenal at 
Cavite, IM., on May 1, 1898 (34752). 
Received through Bureau of Ordnance, 
from the battleship Maine, arma and 
munitions, also sample of powder ob- 
tained from the wreck of the Maive 
(8;i948 ) . Received through Capt. Nicoll 
Ludlow, U. S. S. Mai^mchKsetts, electric 
fan used for driving smoke from the 
bores of heavy guns, piece of a Spanish 
shell (34192), soup tureen with cover 
and 2 vegetable dishes with covers 
presented to the Maine by the citizens 
of the State of Maine in 1895, also a 
silver loving cup presented to the ship 
by natives of the State of Maine resid- 
ing in New Orleans March 10, 1897 
(34345). Received from Capt. M. L. 
Johnson, commanding United States 
Navy- Yard, Boston, Mass., Innnacle and 
compass from the captured Spanish 
gunboat Sandoval (34423); received 
through Hon. Charles H. Allen, As- 
sistant Secretary of the Navy, shield, 
crown, and scrolls comprising the 
stern ornament of the Chrisiobal Colon 
(34521 ). Received from Commander R. 
B. Bradford, small steering binnacle and 
compass from the conning tower of the 
torpedoboat Winslov {:U67l) . Received 
through Rear- Admiral Charles O'Neill, 
two 3-inch cartridge cases (34753). 
Received from Chief Naval Con- 
structor Philip Hichborn, steering 
wheels of the Maine (348H0); collection 
of historical relics incident to the 
battle of Manila, collected by Com- 
mander E. H. C. Leutze (35081). De- 
posit. 

Nehkling, H., Milwaukee, Wis.: Three 
photographs of the skull of a Hump- 
back Whale. 33972. 

Neitzy, W. M., Washington, I). C. : 
Specimen of Astroscopus y-ijrsecum. 
34291. 

Nelron, Avon, Laramie, Wyo. : Ninety- 
two ])lants from Wyoming. Exchange. 
34690. 

Nelson, Chris, Fort Hamilton, N. Y. : 
One hundred and twenty-three arrow 
points of flint and obsidian, pendants 
and ornaments of shell and turquoise, 
and fragments of painted pottery from 



Nelson, Cmkis — Contiimcd. 

near Fort (irant, Arizona (34930); 3 
grooved stone axes and an arrow-shaft 
polisher from near Fort (irant (35038). 
Nei,S(jn, E. W. (See under !Mrs. N. M. 
Brown; Smithsonian Institution, Bu- 
reau of Ethnology. ) 
Newcomb, Capt. F. H., U. S. R. C. S., 
New York City: Rope bolt from the 
wreck of the Spanish cruiser Viscaya; 
4-inch cartridge case from the IT. S. S. 
Sumcnee; cartridge case of a 6-pound 
shot fired from the U. S. S. Hudson at 
the time of the rescue of the Wimlow, 
on May 11, 1898. 33995. 
New England Talc Company, Stock- 
bridge, Vt. : Talc. 34294. ■ 
New Mexico Agricultural Exteriment 
Station, Mesilla Park, N. Mex., re- 
ceived through Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell: 
Eighteen plants (33804) ; specimen of 
Eremopedes scudder i Gk\l., from viridis 
Ckll. (2 topotypes) (33895); 2 speci- 
mens of Helix miorJiyssa Dall from 
White Mountain, New Mexico (34170) ; 
12 specimens of Hymenoptera, includ- 
ing one type specimen (34355) ; New 
Mexican Hymenoptera, Hemiptera, 
and other specimens (34904) ; specimen 
of Zonites representing a new species 
(35023) . 

New York University, University 
Heights, New York City, received 
through Dr. C. L. Bristol: Polyps and 
other specimens from the Bermudas. 
Exchange. 34478. 

NiBLACK, Lieut. A. P., U. S. Navy. (See 
under Window, U. S. torpedo boat.) 

Nicholas, Miss Elizabeth Byrd. (See 
under National Society of the Colonial 
Dames of America.) 

Norfolk Collection, obtained through 
Paul Beckwith: Collection of war relics 
from Porto Rico and Cuba. 35187. 
The names of persons who contributed 
to this collection occur alphabetically 
in this list. 

Norman, W. W., Austin, Tex., received 
through the Department of Agriculture: 
Three specimens of Panorpa rafa Gray, 
and 2 specimens of Lipolexis rapx Cur- 
tis. 34728. 

North River Garnet Company, North 
River, N. Y.: Garnet rock. 34369. 



100 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899, 



Northwestern Iron Company, Milwau- 
kee, Wis. : Specimen of iron ore. 34175. 

Norton, Miss M. L., Marine, 111.: Speci- 
men of Cecropia Moth, Attacus cecropia 
Linnaeus. 35127. 

NoYES, Miss C. E., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Two unsigned ten-dollar notes 
of the Commercial Bank of Florida 
(34387) ; 6 envelopes with historical 
designs used during the civil war, 1861- 
1865 (35229). 

Nutting, Prof. C. C. (See under Iowa, 
State University of.) 

Nye, Willard, jr.. New Bedford, Mass.: 
Six specimens of mantis shrimp from 
Acushnet River. 34705. 

Nylander,0., Caribou, Me.: Specimens 
of Margaritanas (33831) ; amphipods 
from Maine (34362) ; 20 specimens of 
Cambrian fossils from near Newport, 
R. I., and 4 si^ecimens of Monograptus 
cli7itonensi >f ironi Aroostook County, Me. 
(34725) . 

O'Connor, J. J., Washington, D. C. : 
Peat from near the Lakes of Killarney, 
County Kerry, Ireland. 34436. 

O'Neil, Rear- Admiral Charles, U. S. N., 
Bureau of Ordance, Navy Department: 
Model of the new 4.7-inch shrapnel, 
U. S. A. 34000. 

O'RouRKE, Bernadou, Paterson, N. J.: 
Schenkl shell (patented October 10, 
1861), found in Virginia about 4 miles 
from Dumfrie, in dividing the line 
between Stafford and Prince William 
counties. 34951. 

Oppek, William, Miami, Fla. : Fifty-five 
species of shells from Florida. 35021. 

Ohio Cement Company, Lisbon, Ohio: 
Cement rock. 34168. 

Old Abe Company, White Oaks, N. Mex., 
received through J. Y. Hewitt, and 
A. E. Heigh way: Three specimens of 
gold in selenite from Old Abe mine. 
White Oaks, N. Mex. 34701. 

Old Dominion Mining Company, Spo- 
kane, Wash. : Silver ore. 34247. 

Oldroyd, Mrs. T. S., Los Angeles, Cal. : 
Five species of marine shells from 
Cuba. 34649. 

Olds, H. W., Woodside, Md.: Thirty- 
nine plants from Brookside, W. Va. 
(34084); 22 plants (34140); plant from 
the District of Columbia (35121). 



Ord, J. T., Monterey, Mexico: Relics of 
the Spanish-American war. Deposit. 
34080. 

Orr, H. D., Washington, D. C: One- 
pound cartridge case and a one-pound 
shell. (See under Porto Rico collec- 
tion 35201.) 

Osborn, Prof. Henry. (See under Agri- 
culture, Department of. ) 

Ottawa, Canada: Geological Survey 
OF Canada, received through Prof. J. 
F. Whiteaves: Twenty-four specimens 
of Trenton fossils from Akpatok Island, 
Hudson Bay. Exchange. 34989. 

Ottolenoui, Dr. R., New York City: 
Forty-five specimens of Lepidoptera. 
34107. 

Owen, W. O., Washington, D. C. : Four- 
teen pieces of ancient pottery, a stone 
slab; a portion of a shell bracelet found 
among the ruins at Fort Bayard, N. 
Mex. 34522. 

Owens, M. J., Mathias Point, Va.: Snake 
(33979); 2 vertebrae of a fossil whale 
(34371). 

Packard, A. S., Providence, R. I. : Fossil, 
genus Astacus, from Idaho. 33756. 

Paine, R. G., Washington, D. C. : Seaside 
Sparrow from South Carolina. 34953. 

Palmer, Edward, Washington, D. C. : 
Specimens of Bulimus from Salteo, 
Mexico; crustaceans and worms from 
Mexico (34602); 550 plants from Mex- 
ico (purchase) (34853). (See under 
Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of 
Ethnology.) 

Palmer, Dr. T. S., Department of Agricul- 
ture: Skull of Razor-billed Auk. 33935. 

Palmer, William, U. S. National Mu- 
seum : Pine-mouse, Microtus pinetorum, 
from Hainpstead, Md. (33778); 17 
birds' skins from the western section of 
the United States (33941); 14 birds' 
skins from various localities (34180) ; 
crabs, worms, jelly-fish, and holothu- 
rian from Smiths Island, Virginia 
(34486) ; 6 skins and skulls of mammals 
from Smiths Island, Virginia (34597) ; 
2 skins of Microtus pennsylvanicas nigrans 
(34633); plant from the District of 
Columl)ia (34983); 15 bats from Mary- 
land (35184); collection of isopods, 
sponges, shells, fishes, and plants from 
Virginia (35186) . 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



101 



Pax-American Medical Congress, 1896: 
A miscellaneous collection of medicinal 
plants received in response to a circu- 
lar issued by the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion at the request of the promoters of 
the meeting of the Pan-American ]VIe<l- 
ical Congress held in the City of Mex- 
ico in November, 1896. 35178. 

Parker, L. C, Saltpetre Cave, Va. : Black 
marble. 34609. 

Paris, France, Musee d'Histoire Na- 
TURELLE. Received through Leon Vail- 
lant. Collection of fishes in alcohol 
from north and central Asia, obtained 
by M. Chaffanjon (34363). Received 
through E. L. Bouvier, crustaceans, rep- 
resenting 80 species obtained from the 
dredgings of the TravaiUrnr and TaJis- 
vKDi (35078). Exchange. 

Parlin, J. C, North Berwick, J\Ie., re- 
ceived through Department of Agri- 
culture: Twelve plants from Maine. 
34943. 

Parmenter, C. S. (See under Baker In- 
stitute. ) 

Parrata-Doria, Miguel de. Ponce, P. 
R. : Rough idol and a storm collar, leg 
shackles, pistol holsters, and a revol- 
ver. (See under Porto Rico collection 
35201); copper ore, lead ore, aurifer- 
ous quartz, graphite, and phosphate 
(34884). 

Parritt, H. W., London, England: Sev- 
enteen specimens of marine inverte- 
brates. Exchange. 35010. 

Parsons, Dr. W. B., Missoula, Mont.: 
Specimen of substance, apparently a 
form of carbon, found on the edge of a 
stream in Missouri. 33944. 

Parsons, W. D. (See under Treasury 
Department, U. S. Life-Saving Service. ) 

Pavona, Prof. C. F., Museum of Natural 
History, University of Turin, Turin, 
Italy: One hundred and sixty-seven 
specimens, representing 95 species, of 
fossil corals from the Italian Tertiary 
deposits. Exchange. 34448. 

Payne, E. J., Olympia, Wash.: Mineral 
from Index, Wash. 34058. 

Peabody, Mrs. H. M., Bluff, Utah: Eighty- 
four specimens of Lei^idoptera and Neu- 
roptera. 34375. 

Pearson, A. Y., Omaha, Nebr. : Ostrich 
skin. Purchase. 34133. 



Peary, Lieut. R. E. (See under American 
Museum of Natural History. ) 

Peck, C. IL, Albany, N. Y. : Five speci- 
mens of plants, representing the genus 
Housionia. 34352. 

Peckham, Prof. G. W., Ilartland, Wis.: 
Insect, representing the genus ('rahro 
(33813); 2 wasps (33892). 

Pennsylvania, University of, Depart- 
ment OF Ethnology and Paleontol- 
o(;y, Philadelphia, Pa.: Skull of a fossil 
bison. Deposit. (Returned.) 33847. 

Perkins, A. F., Catatonk, N. Y. : Speci- 
men of Walking Stick, Diaphcromera 
fcrmorata Say. 34059. 

Peters-Brooks Party. (See under In- 
terior Department, U. S. (Teological 
Survey. ) 

Phelps, Miss Ellen, Nitta Yuma, Miss. : 
Wings of a Seventeen-year Locust, Ci- 
cada septendecim Linnaeus. 34203. 

Philadelphia CommercialMuseum, Phil- 
adelphia, Pa. : Forty specimens of vio- 
lets. Exchange. 35166. 

Phillips, Dr. W. A., Evanston, 111., re- 
ceived through W. A. Carter, Brandon, 
England: Collection of flint implements 
from England. Exchange. 33933. 

PiLSBRY, H. A., Philadelphia, Pa.: Speci- 
mens of Soniatogi/rnK from Alabama and 
Paludestrina from California. . 34595. 

Pine, George, Aripeka, Fla. : Fifteen 
specimens of shells, representing 4 
species (33885); 12 specimens of Am- 
pidlaria from the Homosassa River, 
Florida, rei^resenting a new species 
(34169). 

Piper, C. V., Pullman, Wash.: Plant 
(34408); 2 specimens of Umbellifenc, 
collected by A. D. E. Elmer in Wash- 
ington (34601); 13 moths (34923); 295 
specimens of Lepidoptera, including 2 
specimens of Arctonotus lucidus, a rare 
species ( 35049 ) . 

Pitcher, J. E., Custer City, S. Dak.: 
Skull of mammal, representing the 
genus Oreodon (purchase) (34459); 
ores, mica, clays, and other geological 
specimens (gift) (34460). 

Pittier, H. F., Director del Instituto 

, Fisico-Geografico Nacional, San Jos^, 
Costa Rica: Two hundred plants (33930, 
.34006); 102 plants from Central Amer- 
ica (34686). Purchase. 



102 



BEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Plank, E. N., Kansas City, Mo., received 
through Department of Agriculture: 
Three plants. 34966. 
Plaskett, R. a., Gorda, Cal. : One hun- 
dred and sixty-seven plants from Cali- 
fornia. Purchase. 34955. 
Plecker, W. A., Hampden, Va.: Speci- 
men of Lagoa operciilm-ii< Ashd. 34070. 
Plitt, C. C, Baltimore, Md., received 
through Department of Agriculture: 
Three plants from near Baltimore. 
34029. 
Pollard, C. L., U.S. National Museum: 
Violet (33743) ; 50 plants from Mary- 
land and the District of Columbia, and 
300 plants from Florida (33835) ; speci- 
mens of Vcsjjertilio fusms (33836); 9 
plants from Long Island (33953); 13 
plants from near Boston, Mass. (33983) ; 
26 specimens of Lepidoptera (34994) . 
Pollard, Edward, Washington, D. C. : 
Japanese dagger. Exchange. 35100. 
Pope, C. A., Trenton, N. J., received 
through Bureau of Ethnology: Speci- 
mens of "Inca" pottery. 35145. 
Porto Rico Collection, obtained by Paul 
Beckwith: Collection of Spanish war 
relics. A collection of natural speci- 
mens was also obtained by Mr. Beck- 
with in Porto Rico. 35201. The names 
of persons who c(intributed to this col- 
lection occur in alphabetical order in 
the accession list. 
Post, E. J., Tampa, Fla.: Nine species of 
shells from Florida and Honduras 
(34136) ; 5 species of marine shells from 
Florida (34975); 6 species of marine 
shells (35042). 
PosTEL, Henry. (See under Smithsonian 

Institution, Bureau of Ethnology.) 
PorNDSTONE, Lieut. H. C, U. S. N., re- 
ceived through Lieut. J. B. Bernadou: 
Specimens of powder from the Spanish 
ships Oquendo and Maria Theresa. 
34193. 
Powell, J. B. (See under Smithsonian 

Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. ) 
Powell, W. F. (See under State, De- 
partment of. ) 
Prati^ F. C, Department of Agriculture: 
Seventeen specimens of miscellaneous 
insects. 35154. 
Pratt, J. H., Chapel Hill, N. C: Two 
specimens of wellsite from a mine near 



Pratt, J. H. — Continued. 

Buck Creek, and two specimens of an- 
thophyllite from near Bakersville 
(346661 ; anorthite in forrelenstone from 
Buck Creek (34733) ; kyanite and anor- 
thite in forrelenstone (34734). 
Preble, E. A., Department of Agricul- 
ture: Three plants (33865) ; 5 specimens 
of 3Ius imiseulus ( 34350 ) ; 6 frogs ( 34956 ) . 
Prentiss, D. W., Jr., Washington, D. C: 
Mammals, snakes and batrachians, an<l 
shells. 34012. 
Preston, J. W., Baxter, Iowa: Hawk 

from Manitoba. 35128. 
Price, Miss S. F., Bowling Green, Ky.: 
Two species of fresh -water shells 
(34113) ; plant from Warren County, 
Ky. (34224); species of Goniobasis irom 
Kentucky (34485) ; 7 specimens of vio- 
lets (35135 ) . (See under J. K. Small. ) 
Pringle, C. G., t'harlotte, Vt. : Two hun- 
dred and fifty plants from Mexico 
(34030); type specimens of Polianthm 
pringlei (34234). 
Pritchett, H. S. (See under Treasury 
Department, U. S. Coast and Geodetic 
Survey. ) 
Public Gardens and Plantations, Bo- 
tanical Department. (See under 
Kingston, Jamaica.) 
PuRPUs, C. A., San Diego, Cal.: Plants. 
(35080, 35106, 35181.) Purchase. 
Quaintance, A. L., and P. H. Rolfs, Lake 
City, Fla. : Specimens of Coccidx nmeri- 
canx, representing 20 species of North 
American scale insects. 34377. 
Ramirez, Dr. Jose, Institute Medico 
Nacional, City of Mexico, Mexico: 
Thirty water-lily bulbs from Mexico. 
Exchange. 34562. 
Ramsay, T. R., Dublin, Ga.: Moth {Atta- 

cus cecropia Linnaeus) . 34933. 
Randall, F. A., Warren, Pa. : Specimens 
of Echinocaris sodalis; 2 specimens of 
Tropidocaris bicarinata; 1 specimen of 
Elymocaris siliqun, and 7 specimens of 
Lingula from the Chemung formation, 
Warren, Pa. Exchange. 34480. 
Randleman, Mrs. A. B., Lewis, Iowa.: 
Tooth of a mastodon found in Chey- 
enne County, Nebr. Purchase. 34442. 
Randolph, P. B., Seattle, Wash.: Shells 
from Alaska (33889,34398). 



LTf^T OP^ ACCESSIONS. 



103 



Rankin, K. W. (Stn- uihUt (u'ninl 
Troost, astute of. ) 

RATumN, Mit<s M. J., U. S. National Mn- 
semn: Collet'tioii of marine inverte- 
brates, nnillutsks, tiyhes, niillepores, and 
alga' from Grand Manan, New Bruns- 
wick. S4048. 

RiOAi>i\(i, H. (I., Franklin, Pa.: Two 
specimena of stone-flie.s, representing 
the species A(Tancnria (irldu Hagan. 
35118. 

Reesk, Hammond & Co., Bolivar, Pa.: 
Sample of fire clay. 35055. 

Reeves, J. A., Joplin, Mo.: Specimen of 
calamine after calcite from Aurora, 
Mo. (34605); fire clay from St. Louis, 
Mo., and mineral water from Bowling 
Green, Mo. (34695) "O". 

Reinecke, Dr. F., Breslau, Germany: 
Fi\'e hundred plants from the Samoan 
Islands. Purchase. 34276. 

Reynolds, A. J., Connersville, Ind. : Sixty 
specimens of quarry rejects (exchange). 
33839. 

Rhoads, Dr. Thomas Leidy, U. S. N., 
Washington, D. C. : Skull transfixed 
with an arrow point. 34306. 

Rice, Prof. E. L., Delaware, Ohio; re- 
ceived through Dr. L. O. Howard: 
Three .specimens of amphipods. 34730. 

Richards, W. A., Cheyenne, Wyo. : Ores, 
clays, coals, petroleum, and silicified 
palm trunk. 34655. "O." 

Richardson, Dr. D. A., Denver, Colo.: 
Two plants from Washington. 34115. 
(Returned.) 

Richardson, H., Trail, Oreg. : Sample of 
ocher. 34262. 

Richmond, C. W., U. S. National Museum: 
Five birds' skins from Smiths Island, 
Va. (34105) ; skeleton of Black Skimmer 
(.34315 ) ; skin of Snowy Owl (exchange) 
(34626). 

Ricker, Prof. Maurice, Burlington, Iowa: 
Butterfly ( Agranlin rcmillx L. ) ; bumble- 
bee ( Bombusf rimer icanorum Fab ) . 34581. 

RiDENOX'R, AV. B., Scran ton. Pa.: Speci- 
men of Dipidsti'!^ tllyns^ Linnaeus. 33973. 

Ri.iKS ETHNOfjRAPHiscH MusEUM. (See 
under Leiden, Holland. ) 

RiKSMUSEUM. (See under Stockholm, 
Sweden. ) 

Riley, J. IL, U. S. National Museum: 
Specimen of Nyciicrpis liuuiirdli^ from 



Riley, .1. H. — Continued. 

Falls Cliurch, Va. (3;>S79); set of eggs 
of Broad-winged Hawk (35011); 29 
l)atrachians, representing the species 
ricUiiodun. cinereus from Virginia 
(35109); mole {Scalops aquaticuH), and 
a red squirrel {Sdurus JnuUonicus) ; 2 
l)irds' skins and 5 eggs of Henslow's 
Bunting (35115); 7 birds' eggs (35129); 
bat ( ]'<'.<iperl ilia f uncus) (35144); 6 birds' 
skins from North Carolina (exchange) 
(35169). 

RizER, Mrs. H. C, Washington, D. C: 
Twenty-five plants from Floi'ida. 
34830. 

Roberts, C. H., Paris, Ontario, Canada: 
Plaster cast of a bird amulet. Ex- 
change. 34502. 

Roberts, W. G., Middletown, Ohio: Fos- 
sil skull of a bear. Purchase. 34866. 

Roberts, W. J., Harrisville, Pa.: Speci- 
men of Corydalts rornutns. 33856. 

Robinson, Dr. B. L., Cambridge, Mass.: 
Three specimens of violets from Massa- 
chusetts. 34081. 

Robinson, S. A., Orlando, Cai.: Two 
teeth of B.hon hitifrons and a tooth of 
Procamelus. 33830. 

Robinson, W. Russell, Wingina, Va. : 
Nest, 5 eggs, and a specnmen of Migra- 
tory Shrike (7v^(r/».s' /(///w/r/Vu/ (/.v ;» /r/rmw) 
(34937, 34948). 

Roebling's, J. A., Sons & Co., Trenton, 
N. J. : Twenty-one specimens of elec- 
trical cables and wires. 34724. 

Rogers, Maj. E. J., Michigan National 
Guard, Port Huron, Mich. : Cojiy of the 
first newspaper published in Santiago, 
as "Company F Enterprise." 33950. 

Rolfs, Prof. P. IL, and A. L. Quaintance, 
Lake City, Fla. : Specimens of Corridx 
amencanx, representing 20 species of 
North American scale insects. 34377. 

RooN, VAN, G., Rotterdam, Holland: Col- 
lection of beetles from Java and South 
Africa. Exchange. 34381. 

Rosalsky, W., Clackamas, Oreg., re- 
ceived through Department of Agri- 
culture: Plant from Oregon. .34982. 

Rose, J. N., U. S. National Museum: 
Plants (33762, 33818, 34035, 34223). 

Ross, Hon. M. L., Knoxville, Tenn., re- 
ceived through R. L. Garner: Fossil 
tooth of a mammal. 3.3942. 



104 



REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



RossER, L. K., Luray, Va. : Two speci- 
mens of Dijndstes lityus Linnanis. 34765. 

RoTHROCK, Dr. Thom.\s, Howard, Pa.: 
German fat-lamp, piece of fossil rook, 
and stone implements. 34974. 

RowLEs, W. W., Cornell University, 
Ithaca, N. Y., received through De- 
partment of Agriculture: Fifty-eight 
plants from the northwestern part of 
the United States. 35034. 

RoYAi. BoTAXic Gardens. (See imder 
Kew, England. ) 

Ruff, Mrs. T. B., Laurel, Md. : Three 
specimens of Mus musculus. 34566. 

RuuL, J. W., Covington, Ohio: lime- 
stone used for making quicklime. 
34205. 

RuscHEWEYH, G., Bucuos Ayres, Argen- 
tina: Collections of Lepidoptera (34267, 
35L55). Exchange. 

Rush, R. C, Hudson, Ohio: Specimens 
of Sphsermm. 33807. 

Russell, H. S. (See under Fire Depart- 
ment, Fire Alarm Branch, Boston, 
Mass. ) 

Russell, Mrs. M. E., Pomeroy, Pa. : Spec- 
imen of Corydalis cornutus Linnaeus, and 
a specimen of DesntoceruspaUiatus Fors- 
ter. 33802. 

Russell, Samuel, U. S. volunteer, Tel- 
ford, Tenn.: Mauser clip with fixed 
ammunition complete, captured near 
Coama, P. R. ; brass bullet, fixed am- 
munition, used by the Spanish troops, 
and captured at Santiago de Cuba during 
the campaign. 34149. 

Rust, H. N. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology.) 

Ruth, Prof. A., West Knoxville, Tenn.: 
Six hundred plants from East Tennes- 
.see and Alabama. Purchase. 35105. 

RvDiNG, H. W., Thorsby, Ala.: Larval 
specimen of Papilio iroilus Linnaeus. 
33960. 

RvERsoN, Harry, Larchmont Manor, N. 
Y.: Specimen of 100-pound rail, 5 
inches long, used by the New York 
and New Haven Railroad Company, 
with standard angle splice-bars and 
bolt attached. 34157. 

Saeger, C. M., Coplay, Pa.: Cement rock 
and products. 34919. 



Safford, Prof. J. M., Vanderbilt Uni- 
versity, Nashville, Tenn.: Ninety-six 
specimens of fossils from the Calcifer- 
ous formation; 143 specimens from the 
Lower Helderberg, and 51 miscella- 
neous specimens from the Wells Creek 
Basin of Tennessee. 34878. 

Saline River Paint Company, Saline 
River, Kans. : Sample of ocher. 34332. 

Sanders, W. C, jr. , Luverne, Ala. : Lime- 
stone used for making quicklime. 
34297. 
! Sanderson, Prof. E. Dwight, College- 
j park, Md. : Twelve specimens of neu- 
! ropteroid insects. 35198. 
! Sandusky Portland Cement Company, 
I Clevelaml, Ohio: Sample of marl. 
1 34242. 

1 Sanford, Mrs. E. L., Watertown, Conn. : 
: Specimen of Ciihrrrmta vfgaKs Fabr. 
i 33766. 

Sanford, J. A., Stockton, Cal.: Two 
plants. 34162. 

Santos, Alexandro. (See under P. M. de 
Leon.) 

Sardeson, F. W., Minneapolis, Minn., 
received through Hon. C. D. Walc-ott: 
Eighty-five specimens of Middle Cam- 
brian brachiopoda. Exchange. 34763. 

Saunders, M. B., East Norwalk, Conn.: 
Hemipterous eggs belonging to the 
family Coreidre. 34011. 

Savage Mountain Fire Brick Works, 
Frostburg, Md.: Fire-clay. 34178. 

Sawyer, E. L., Winchendon, Mass.: 
Fifty specimens of Australian Lejiidop- 
tera. Exchange. 34438. 

ScHAUM & Uhlinger, Philadelphia, Pa.: 
Six shuttles for textile machinery. 
33805. 

ScHAUPP, F. G., Shovel Mount, Tex.: 
Plant from Texas. 34942. 

Schlarbaum, Paul, Loveland, Colo, 
specimens of Euhagena nebnukx. 
change. 34419. 

Schmid, E. S., Washington, D. C. : Mar- 
moset. 34787. 

Schneck, Dr. J., Mount Carmel, 111.: 
Old-squaw duck. 34722. 

Schoenemann, W. C, Philadelphia, Pa.: 
Collection of shells for the exhil)it in 
the Children's Hall. Purchase. 34674. 

ScHOENRicH, Otto, Baltimore, Md. : Span- 
ish flag carried through the battle at 



: Two 
Ex- 



LI«T OF ACCESSIONS. 



105 



ScHOENHKni, Otto — dontiiint'd. 

(Jnayania, P. R. ; 2 niaracas, or native 
rattley, usod as a imisical instruiiu'iit; 
native pottery and a vase from I'orto 
Rico. 848()9. 
ScHONLANi), Dr. S. (See under Grahams- 
town, South Africa, Albany Museum.) 
Stiiooi.v, I. P., Ilerndon, Va. : Specimen 

of Stri.r pnifiiiciilii. o:W22. 
ScnucHEKT, Cii.vRLES, U. S. National 
Museum: Three hundred si)ecimens of 
Choteau fossils (^«744); 100 specimens 
of Lower Oriskany fossils from Be- 
crafts Mountain, near Hudson, New- 
York (34()06). (See under R. A. 
Blair. ) 
Schuyler, Colfax, South Amboy, N. J.: 
Wingless parasitic moth or mutillid, 
representing the species Miitilla ocri- 
dentalh Linnanis. 33967. 
ScHWAKz, E. A., Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. : Collection of 
exotic beetles from Java, Borneo, 
Africa, and other localities. 34689. 
Sen WAR/, H., Washington, D. C, and 
St. T^ouis, Mo.: One hundred and 
ninety-tive specimens of Lepidoptera 
from Texas and Mexico (exchange) 
(34119); 45 moths and butterflies (ex- 
change) (34232); 33 specimens of Mex- 
ican HesperidjB (gift) (34289); 2 speci- 
mens of Hymenoptera (gift) (34393). 
Scott, Capt. L. A., San Juan, P. R. : 
Ship's plate, and a poem, "Remember 
the Maine." (See under Porto Rico 
Collection 35201.) 
Scott, Raleigh, Mountain Ranch, Irnia, 
Oreg. : Specimen of i)riceite from ('urry 
County, obtained l)y Dr. David T. Day. 
34569. 
Seal, W. P., Delair, N. J.: Specimen of 
Callichthi/x fdsridliif: from Argentina 
(34391) ; specimens of }frsor/(mi>iiiux 
cJucludoii; Aphrcdoderux sdi/iiiiiiK; Bolco- 
soma; Erunyzon sticeKa; OdlirhlJn/sfas- 
rkdus (34719); collection of iishes, 
reptiles, and a shrimp from Wilming- 
ton, N. C. (34997). 
Seaman, Dr. L. L., New York City: 
Insignia of the Engineer Corps of the 
United States Army. ( See imder Porto 
Rico Collection 35201.) 



Sears, .1. II., Salem, Mass.: Sjiecimens 
of fayaiite from Rockport, Mass. 
(34041,34557). 

SELYS-LoNCiCUAMPS, BaroU EdMOND 1)E, 

Liege, Belgium: Twenty-four mam- 
mals. 34421. 

Semi'ers, J. F., Aikin, Md., received 
through Department of Agriculture: 
Plant. 34680. 

Senff Zoolocical Exi'editk)\ of Co- 
lumbia College, received through 
N. R. Harrington: Specimen of I'oly- 
lertis hicJiir. Exchange. 34898. 

Serrukier, Dr. L. (See un<ler Leiden, 
Holland, Rijks Ethnographiscli Mu- 
seum. ) 

Seymour, Henry, Norfolk, Va. : Three- 
pound cartridge and a metal label re- 
covered from the wrecks of the Spanish 
ships lie'nia Mrrccdcx and MarUt Tcrcm. 
(See under Norfolk Collection 35187.) 

Shaffer, O. E. (See under ( f us Wycoff 
and Cleo Backus. ) 

Sharen, J. M., Rocky Ridge, Md.: Barn 
Owl {Strix prathieoJd). 3442H. 

Sharp, Mrs. J. E. D. (See under Prof. 
O. F. Cook.) 

SuAW, R. E., Alberene, Va.: Snake. 
33827. 

Shear, C. L., Washington, D. C, re- 
ceiv^ed through Dei)artment of Agricul- 
ture: Seven plants from Colorado. 
34965. 

Sheets, Henry, Norfolk, Va. : Articles 
recovered from the wrecks of the Span- 
ish ships Cristobal Colon, Reina Mer- 
cedes, Maria Terexa, and Almirnnte 
Oqvendo. (See under Norfolk Collec- 
tion 35187.) 

Sheldon, E. P. (See under Agriculture, 
Department of. ) 

Short, S. H. (See under AValker VAec- 
tric Company. ) 

Shriver, Howard, Cumberland, Md.: 
Plant. 34028. 

SiiULAK, Frank X. (See under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Simmer, Hans. (See under Freie Ver- 
einigung Tiroler Botaniker, Carinthia, 
Austria.) 

Simpson, J. A., Manatee, Fla. : Seven 
hundred and three plants from Florida 
(33749, 33982, 34110, 34124, 34236, 
34274, 34321, 34432). Exchange. 



106 



REPl^RT OF XATIOXAL MUSErX, ISS^, 



SiNOLEY, J. A.. GitWinc*. Tex.: Marine 
shell<tn>mthetT mia, 33779. 

Skixxkr. Dr. H.. F .:u Psu: Four 

tspedmens of Ala^^kaii .\n"riid*. 342SS, 

Si_vcK, R«?v. W. S., Muisou, La.: Larv-a 
oimanh (E^prftitt MimHlea\. 34044. 

SuvrM, A. W., Milwaukee, Wis.: Post- 
Pliooene marl anil trts?ik. 33850. 

Su^ssox. Mrs. A. T.. New York City. 
N. Y. : Two speoiitjeiis ot AntinmomMS 
hrmrnsiru< Linell. 350C4. 

Small. J. K.. Xew York CSty. X. Y.: 
Plant obtaineil by Miss^ Sanlie F. Prii-e, 
of Bowling Gn?en, Ky. 34545. 

SsitTH. Mrs^ Alosi.\. Carthaae, N. Y.: 
Three specimea? of auuersds fiom St. 
Lawrenoe County, X. Y. S*ffi9. 

S.MiTH, C. E.. Phbaddphn. Pi*.: Speii- 
m«tt« of OMH*ri|«j^ nKKMOim J««ft¥f<i. 
S414<>. 

S3«TH. Ptxst. F. D., FnivTeraty of Mcai- 
tana. Mii^Hila. Mixit.: Pua^ate from 
Flonaioe, Mont. ;v|.^30. 

SsnTH, G, O. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S, Geological Survey. ) 

SiirrH. Hexky. clerk of supreme court, 
Honolulu. Hawaiian Lsiands: Silrer 
tioUar of the issce of 1SS3, used during 
The reign of Kalakaca I. King <]< Ha- 
waii 33SW 1 : 3 Hawaiian tx>ins (34630) . 

Smith. H. F.. Washington, D.C.: Bremne 
mt^ial ^ven to Gen. John And«sonby 
: Xew Yv<rk in reor^iiitaoa of 

:> - .i" Fort Sumter. Deposit. 

^74*L 

JSnTH, H. I-, Sew Yc*k aty, X. Y. : Am- 
phipods (3i5SSt; inveriebraies. mol- 
ha^s, aad fishe;? from Fi«t Enper 
Biiti^ Columbia 34711 u 

SjtTTH, Dr. H. M., IT. S. Fish C<Mnmi^<:i2i: 
Five spen^es of land and n«sh-water 
fiteJls. 351f5. 

Smith. Mrs. J. A., MenanlviUe, Tex.: 
Fnke 1 3*751. 3*928). 

Smtih, Prot J- R. Xew Brun^wiek. X. J. : 
Four {^ascer casts ot burrows made by 

dudisg 20 type ^neeimei-- - ~ il6 

^fiecimeais of H.\jaaiioipteti c-iTTT ; 21i3 
TJides iBo^txatu^ thesiramiial charac- 
Ters o« the Xortuidie, AoK-icycta. Hy- 
drneoa. Cut-uDia. eftr. t^lSsrS ; f type 
:<pMXineBS of On^poawtrw aw— rSlMi 
35iC^ - 



Smith. .Torx Doxxelu Baltimore. Md.: 

Plant from C<ists» tlit^. 3467S. 
Smith. JjlredG., Dei^artraent of .\grioul- 

ture: Specimen of allium from Xew 

Mexiro (33770 1; plant from Wyoming 

< 34625^: 28 i^lants i;^^^). 
Smith. L. E.. Bufcalo. X. Y.: Corps hadse 

of the First Division. Thin! .\nnyCorj^. 

34902. 
Smtthsoxi-vx" IxsnTTTiox, Mr. S. P. Lang- 
ley, Seerrtauy: 

Bronre repnxiuction of the Bruce «i»M 
meiial. IVp»>at. 34:Svi. 

Specimen of citrine quartz (cut stone ' 
from Florissant, Colo. Receive»i fn^n 
Dr. L. T. Chamberlain, Xew York 
City, for addition to the Lea Collec- 
tion. 34279. 

^jecimens of ores from the Zancndo 
mines, near Medellin. Colombia. 
South America. Receive«l through 
Hon. Charles Burtien Hart. United 
State:? niiniaer. 34374. 

Xinety-j^ven birds' ea^ front variott? 
pans of the Uniteii States. Rei-eiveti 
thiv^ugh Dr. W. L. Ralph, Ctica. 
X. Y. 34098. 

Starry Gag of the Bom Hcmtmf Ridtard 
and letter of James Meyler. dated De- 
cember 13, 17^. pnes^^nting the flag 
fnxn the Marine C<Mnmitiee to lieu- 
tenant StaSord- Received through 
Mrs- H. R. P. SiaSord. Cotla^ City. 
Mas?. 344<t0l 

Boariiing swc«d of the B<m Homtmf Rkit- 
■^rr1 an«i mosket captnivd from the 
V7np»# by John Puil Jones. Re- 
ciaved throo^ Mrs. H. R. P. Stai- 
loid. 345991 

FodsM tei^gn^ih instrument in an oval 
mahnganr case; Morse tejegn^th re- 
lay; Morae^ telegraph sounder. Re- 
ceived thioi^h Mr. D. Wilmoti^nith. 
Brerkinndge, 3Cnn. ^47^90. 

Twenty-one f«ns > sapphires* from 
Montana, and 2 ginns < rhodolites | 
from Xorth Ckroiiiia. Beceived from 
Dr. I. T. Ouunberiain, Xew Yorit 
City, forihe -'Lea coHeetioo." S077. 

^ecimea <d Bmtto h int Jumr m* ircgn 
Flonda. Bec^ved from Dr. W. I. 
Balph. Ftica. X- Y- ;iVt!*v 



LIST OF ACCESSloy^. 



1«>7 



-^•"-rentr-nine birds^ ^8? frunu Califor- 
nia and Aruooa, and SI iMrds^ «ygy 
fnmt Florida. Beceired frmn Dr. W. 
L Ralpb. Utica, X. Y. |i3S110, 

3&114.) 

Tir<r> scpecimens of Cmtopkaija ami fnxa 
Flfjirida. Beceired feom Dr. W. L 
Ralph, Utica, X. Y. ^ITO. 

TrrmJonHted fnoiM thit Bvrmni nf JEtimtoi- 
*>y9, Meq. J. W. Poirifff, Direelors 

Clrriped taken from the Frencb-Ankeri- 
can cable bv the steam^ip Minia; 
a\*tf a \>\etre of the cable, received 
throng Dr. J. Walter Fewkes 
(337^1): collection of potsherds from 
the taIoj> of Katzimo, or the En- 
chanter] Me^^a. near the poeblo of 
A com a. in Western-Central Xew 
Mexicr> f:S794>; ^one ceremonial 
s?pear, also iabers. corncobs, etc, from 
Cebollita Vallev. New Mexico 
(33806); collection of moond potterr 
and other objecte obtained through 
G. F. Morris 1 33919) ; necklace made 
of greenstone beads, panther made 
of greenstone beads, and 2 mirrors 
made of pyrites of iron. obtaine«l 
through < T. F. Morris ( 3392S > ; double 
frog pipe carved in sandstone, found 
in a mound in Crittenden County, 
and a potter}" vessel from a mound in 
MLssiisappi County. Ark., obtained 
through G. F. Morris (339:^1: collec- 
tion of Indian relics, obtained through 
Rev. D. Jones (33939 1 : saddles, horse 
trappings, skins u.«ed for belcloth- 
ing, cradles, obtained through J. B. 
Hatcher from the Tneltches Indians 
of Patagonia i ;i:i95S i : blanket wrap- 
jjing for Kiowa shieM and a calendar 
painted on buckskin by the Kiowa 
Indians of Oklahoma ( 34001 ) ; collec- 
tion of potter}- vessels, bone imple- 
ments, wooden tray, basketwork. and 
other objects from Cliff Ruins in San 
Juan County, Utah, obtained through 
HenrA'S. Gane (34002); ethnological 
objects from the Indians <:>f the plains 
and Rocky Mountains and 2 skulls of 
Aiitilorapra and a pair of antlers, ob- 
tained through EmileGranier 
(34005); 18 trephined skulls from 
Peru, obtained through Dr. M. A. 



?»«irrH.'»oTEA3r bsrmmofsf — CfNutinanL 
Maxilz ( ^•if*^ : eoOectJoo «i j **** ™* 
[xotteTT frocn Sisn Joan re^ooo (ilfoat- 
teunxDA ValLey ' . obodraed front Mr?. 
W.I^Sca&Mnit Sli30S>;eduM)fv^)ikkail 
eolkctkm from Mexico. «>l)taine«l by 
EL W. Xelaoa (i3iaOT>: ctlmalo^kal 
obgeels from Mexieo,, obtained from 
Edward Fkiiner ^^I80S>; antlirofo- 
kgKal objeete from Cklifomia,, ob- 
tained through W. H. Holm^ 
(34SQ9>; atme implement^ objects 
oi burned dav,. hone,, ^ttetl, e^-r ol>- 
tained thio«^i Edward Hi^bes,. 
Stockton, CaL ( 31S10>; moond relics 
of ^>ell, bone, and stone, obtainenl 
through H. C. Meredith, Stockton, 
GbI. (SISll); stone impJemoits and 
objects of baked clay, obtained 
throi]^ J. A. Barr, Stockton, Cal. 
(34812); hmnan' bones and fo^l 
bones of mammals, obtained throc^th 
W. J. Mercer. Murphy. Cal. (S1S13) : 
net and headband nse^l for carrying 
baskets, used by the Porno Indians, 
obtaine«l throogh W. H. Hofanes hnmi 
J. W. Hudson. Ukiali. CaL ♦>1.<14 1 : 
set of gambling bones from the same 
tribe, obtained from C. F. Briags, 
San Francisc«>, Cal. (34Slo); stone 
mortar fr»>m California, obtained 
from E. G. Kavanaugh. Forest Hill. 
Cal. (34816 1 : 4 stone implements, ol»- 
tained through J. B. Pownall, Colum- 
bia, Cal. 134817): stone implements 
and utensils from Pasadena, Cal., oV- 
tained from H. X. Rust, South Pasji- 
dena, Cal. i3481S): costtune of an 
Ojibwa warrior. Kway gway ye way 
be nung. from Minnesota (^34912*: 
mug from a pueblo in Cebollita 
(34908); Shawnee wampiuu belt, rt^ 
ceived through AVillis X. Tobias, M^v 
ra%"iantown, Ontario, Canada (34924 i : 
discoidal stone found in Cher\>kee 
County, Ga., received from C. L. 
Miller, Coulterville, Tenn. (^350t>S); 
antiquities from Mexico and Texas, 
collecteil by Mr. Holmes (3ol01 ) : ol^ 
tained through Henry Pi^stel, New 
York City, collection of Mexican and 
Peru\-ian relics (35172); obtaine<l 
through J. H, Elder, Rutleilge, Ga., 
a car veil stone pipe (3ol7G). 



108 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Smitii.soxiax Institution — Continued. 
(See under James Crockett; C. A. Pope; 

Rev. I. P. Whittemore.) 
Transmitted from the National Zoological 
Park, Dr. Frank Baker, superinten- 
dent: 
Skeletons of parrot and water snakes 
(83748); specimen of Erethizon dorsa- 
tus (33776) ; Owl Monkey and a Loon 
(33783); specimen of Nama narica 
and a Porcupine {Erethizon dorsatus) 
(33867); Ostrich in the flesh (33868); 
iguana from the Bay of Honduras 
(33966); Black Buck {AntilojH' cervi- 
capra) (33965) ; Gila monster and Ot- 
ter (33966) ; California Sea-lion, Zalo- 
phus californianus (34104); specimen 
of Ca)i is lupus grm'O-aUms (34218); 5 
mammals in the flesh (34366); speci- 
men of Oreortyx jy'ictus (34373); Wolf 
{Canis lupus griseo-alhus) (34378); 3 
mammals in the flesh (34445); Sea- 
lion, Beaver, California Jay, Plumed 
Partridge, Snake bird, Rattlesnake, 
and Pine Snake (34454) ; peccary 
{Dicotyles) (34614); specimens of 
Mephitus mephitica, Zaloplius califor- 
nianus, and Lynx rufus maeidatus 
(34738); 2 kangaroos (34788); par- 
tridge {Oreortyx pictus) (34855); par- 
tridge [Oreortyx pictiis) (34856); 
Mandarin Duck, Aix galericulala 
(34858); Sand-hill Crane, Grus ynexi- 
cana (34857); specimens of Felis leo, 
Macacus cynomolgus, and Canis lupus 
griseo-albu^ (35004); specimen of P*7- 
tiophis melanoleucus from Florida 
(35012); Wood Ibis, Tantalus loailator 
(35087); specimen of Caica xantho- 
mera from the Upper Amazons 
(35171); specimen of HaUicetus leuco- 
cephalus and specimen of Geococcyx 
calif orn ianus ( 35 1 75 ) ; Antelope 
(35172); Spoon1>ill, Ajuja (ij'U" 
(35197). 
Snyder, Prof. A. J., Belvidere, III. : Four- 
teen specimens of butterflies. 35153. 
Snyder, Dr. Elizabeth, Philadelphia, 
Pa.: Thirty-four photographs of Hava- 
supais, Navaho, Moki, and Laguna In- 
dians. 34697. 
SoLORZANO, Dr. Manium, Martinez. (See 
under Morelia, Mexico, ]\Iuseo jNIichoa- 
cano. ) 



SoLTAN, Ilucio, Louisville, Ky.: Insects, 
myriapods, and spiders. 34013. 

Southern Ice Exchange, Apalachicola, 
Fla. , received through George H. 
Whiteside: Original letters of patent 
and specification of Dr. John Gorrie; 
also bound volume of the "Commer- 
cial Advertiser ' ' of Apalachicola issued 
during the year 1844, containing the 
original articles written and published 
by Dr. Gorrie on the ice machine. 
33784. 

Spence, R. S., Paris, Idaho: Ten speci- 
mens of Triassic fossils. 34834. 

Spencer, Mrs. Gertrude, Hooper, Colo. : 
Specimen of Epeira sylvatica. 34061. 

Sportsman's Exposition New York 
(Quebec Exhibit), Glens Falls, N. Y., 
received through A. N. Cheney: Speci- 
men of brook trout {Salvelinus fontinalis) 
from Lake Edward, Canada. 34870. 

Spottswood, H. N., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Two bo])olinks. 35048. 

Stabler, J. P., Sandy Spring, Md. : 
Sharp-shinned Hawk, Accipiter velox. 
34908. 

Stafford, Mrs. W. L. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution, Bureau of Eth- 
nology. ) 

Standish, B. IL, Minneapolis, Minn.: 
Collections of ants (33746, 33786); 
specimens of Tapinoma sessile Say and 
Messor andrei Mayr (.33917). 

Stanton, T. W., U. S. Geological Survey: 
Four i)lants from Texas (34007); spec- 
imens of Holospiras from Texas 
(33925). (See under J. D. Lisle. ) 

Stanton, Rev. W. A., St. John's College, 
Belize, British Honduras: ( Crustaceans 
and a lizard from British Honduras 
(35700); collection of natural history 
specimens (34976). 

Stanton, Mr., Central Mine, Houghton 
County, Mich.: Copper bowlder with 
native silver (34456); crystallized cop- 
])er silver nugget (34457). Purchase. 

Star Clay Company, Mertztown, Pa.: 
Clay for chinaware and paper iiianu- 
facture. 34391. 

State, Department of, received through 
Hon. David J. Hill: Two specimens 
of ores from Haiti obtained by Hon. 
W. F. Powell, United States minister 
(34967); received through Hon. T. W. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



109 



Static, Dki'akt.mknt of — (\)ntiinu'<l. 
Cridler, ])it'ce of a 6-iiifh slu'll litvil at 
Cavitp; letter from Consul Wildiiian; 
Spaiiii^h shell caiitured at Cavite arse- 
nal and a small Si)anish shell from (^a- 
vite (deposit) (;i')90(i); fragments of 
pottery from Honduras obtained by 
Hon. BenjaTuin Johnson, United States 
consul (35158). (See under Hon. A. D. 
Barlow; Marquis Visuddha.) 

Steakns, Fkederick, Detroit, Mieh.: 
Eighty-three casts of Oriental seals. 
34188. 

Stearns, Dr. R. E. C, Los Angeles, Cal.: 
Four specimens of Crcpidula t/kmca Say 
from beds of oysters transplanted from 
the Atlantic coast to San Francisco 
Bay (34776); insects and 8 specimens 
of Gemma purpurea from Alameda, 
Cal. (34905). 

Steele, E. S., Washington, D. C. : Plant 
(gift) (34400); 244 plants from West 
Virginia (iwrchase) (34514); plant 
(exchange) (34682); violet (gift) 
(35133). 

Steiman, Aug., Swiss Alps, Tex., receiv- 
ed through Department of Agriculture: 
Plant from Texas. 34938. 

Steinek, Roland, Grovetown, Ga. : 
AVeapon used by runaway slaves to 
])rotect themselves from bloodhounds 
(34917 ) ; double-l)arreled tlint-lock gun, 
an<l 6 Hints (35158). 

Steitz, a., Baltimore, Md.: Eight pho- 
tographs of orchids. 34235. 

Ste.jnec;er, Dr. Leonhakd, U. S. National 
Museum: Four frogs from Bergen, 
Norway (34023); mouse (3/«.s- mui^culus) 
from Brookland, D. C. (34190). 

STE.iNE(iER, Miss TiioRA, Department of 
Agrit'ulture: Fifty-three mannnal skins 
and skulls from Norway. Purchase. 
33901. 

Sterki, Dr. v.. New Philadelphia, Ohio: 
Amphipods. 34206. 

Stevisnson, J. A. , Miami, Fla. : Five speci- 
mens of marine shells (34774) ; 9 species 
of land and marine shells (34845). 

Stitt, E. E., Columbus, Ohio: Limestone 
used for making quicklime. 34160. 

Stockholm, Sweden, Riksmitseum, re- 
ceived through Dr. Oscar Carlgren: 
T\ve:!ty-nine species of Actinians. Ex- 
change. 34020. 



Stone, R. L., U. S. National Museum: 
Seven photographic i)rints of j)ictures 
of ostriches and a large photograph of 
an ostrich. 34372. 

Stout, Wilbur. (See under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Strecker, Dr. Herman, Reading, Pa.: 
Specimens of Lepidoptera (34781, 34795, 
35156). Exchange. 

Strobridge, Mrs. I. M., IIund)oldt, Nev. ; 
Thirteen specimens of petrified wood 
frona Humboldt County (34147); 11 
mounted photographs (blue prints), 
representing views in the "Virgin Val- 
ley Forest," showing fossil tree-trunks 
in position (34172). 

Stubbs, a. p.. Ware, Mass.: Fossil shells 
from Winter port, Massachusetts. 
34821. 

SuiiR, Kin B. , U. S. National Museum: 
Korean flute. 33894. 

SuKSDoRE, W. N., Bingen, Wash.: Forty- 
three plants. 35032. 

SuMPTER, I. W., Elliston, Va. : American 
Silk - moth Altucua cecropiu Linne. 
34990. 

Sutherland, Dr. L. D., Canandaigua, 
N. Y. : Specimen of Epeira domiciliana 
Hentz. 34231. 

Sutton, W. IL, Philadelphia, Pa.: Pro- 
gram of concerts given by the Young 
Men's Christian Association to the sol- 
diers in camp at Chickamauga in 1898; 
also newspapers. (See under Porto 
Rico Collection 35201.) 

Swain, C. O., Roslyn, Wash.: Fossils 
from Washington. 34852. 

Swain, Thomas, Paradox, Colo.: Speci- 
mens of uranium ore from "Yellow 
Bay," La Sal Creek, and from " Copper 
Prince," Roe Creek. 34823. 

Swan, Ethelyn, Dallas City, Pa.: Speci- 
men of Diapheromera. femorala Say. 
34064. 

SwARTA Stone and Lime Company, Swarta 
Station, Pa.: Specimen of limestone 
used for making quicklime. 34420. 

Sweet, C. J., Fisher, Minn.: INIeteorite. 
Purc-hase. 34244. 

Sweetwater Coal Mining Company, 
Rock Springs, Wyo. : Coal. 34558. 

Syracuse Coal and S.\lt Comp.\ny, Syra- 
cuse, Ojiio: Specimen of common fine 
salt luaile from Svracuse brines. 34914. 



110 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899, 



8zoLi), Miss Henrietta, Baltimore, Md.: 
Photograph of a synagogue of the Ohel 
Shalom Congregation in Baltimore. 
34628. 

Taber, John, Dallas, Tex. : Specimen of 
Sptuvrophihalma ocddentalis. 33918. 

Taff, J. A. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological. Survey. ) 

Tait, J. A., Floral City, Fla.: Plant. 
34050. 

Talbot, D. H., Sioux City, Iowa: Speci- 
men of wolfram from near Lead City, 
S. Dak. 34963. 

Tassin, Mrs. Mary, Washington, D. C. : 
Sword, sword knot, and belt presented 
to the late Col. A. S. Tassin, U. S. A. 
(sword case and packing box). 33986. 

Tassin, Wirt, U. S. National Museum: 
Diamond crystal from De Beers Mine, 
South Africa. 34987. 

Tate, W. B., U. S. National Museum: 
Specimen of Vespn'tilio fusciis. 33878. 

Taylor, J. G., Owensboro, Ky. : Skin of 
a Passenger Pigeon. 33875. 

Taylor, W^illiam, Rockcreek, Wyo. : 
Specimens of bentonite or taylorite. 
34370. 

Tehama Consolidated Chrome Com- 
pany, Red Bluff, Cal. : Sample of ocher. 
34210. 

Tennessee Centennial Exposition, 
Nashville, Tenn. : One hundred and 
thirteen photographs from negatives 
of views of buildings and grounds of 
the Exposition in 1897. 35237. 

Tennessee Coal, Iron and Railroad Com- 
pany, Birmingham, Ala. : Coal. 34177. 

Terry, C. A. (See under Westinghouse 
Electric and Manufacturing Company. ) 

Texas Coal and Fuel Company, Weath- 
erford, Tex. : Coal. 34212. 

Thlselton-Dyer, Dr. W. T. (See under 
J. B. Baker: Kew, England, Royal Bo- 
tanic Gardens. ) 

Thompson, E. S., New York City, N. Y.: 
Two specimens of Cervus canadensis; 2 
specimens of Odocoileus hemionus; 3 
specimens of Ovis carvina, and 1 speci- 
men of AntUocapra. Purchase. 34977. 

Thompson, Miss Jennie, Morgantown, 
W. Ya. : Collection of molding tools, 
molds and dies, etc., obtained by Dr. 
Walter Hough from the Thompson 
Pottery, at Morgantown. 34057. 



Thompson, Capt. William, Norfolk, Ya., 
received through \s\ A. Wilcox: Three 
deformed claws of ('aUtnedes saj)idus. 
33768. 

TiuRSTON, G. P., Nashville, Tenn.: Fif- 
teen skulls of Stone grave Indians. 
34696. 

TiiuRow, F. W., Harvester, Tex. : Medic- 
inal plants (33808) ; received through 
Department of Agriculture, 10 plants 
(34876); 19 plants (35033). 

Tiffany & Co., New York City, N. Y. : 
Four cut opals. Purchase. 35163. 

Tilden, Miss Josephine, University of 
Minnesota, IMinneapolis, Minn.: One 
hundred specimens of American algte. 
Purchase. 34238. 

Tingle, G. R., Snug Harbor, Cook Inlet, 
Alaska: Hair worm, representing the 
genus Gordius. 35149. 

Tinsley, J. D., Mesilla Park, N. Mex.: 
Myriapod. 33916. 

Tobias, W. N. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. ) 

Tongue, Miss Amy, Washington, D. C.: 
Specimen of Psorophora ciliata Fa))r. 
33891. 

Tores y Tores, Guayanillo, Porto Ric(j: 
Sword, or hanger. (See under Porto 
Rico collection, 35201.) 

Totten, W. K. D., jr., Cincinnati, Ohio: 
Fish-moth, Lepisma sacchurinn. 34200. 

Tower, G. W. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Townsend, C. H. Tyler, Mesilla Park, 
N. Mex.: Land shells and moUusks 
(34120) ; 2 species of Polygyra from 
Sierra Blanca (34214); 10 specimens of 
Hymenoptera (34903). 

Townsend, E. C, Columbus, N. C, re- 
ceived through Cornell University: 
Four hundred plants. Purchase. 35165. 

Tracy, Prof. S. M., Biloxi, Miss., re- 
ceived through DeiDartmentof Agricul- 
ture: Plants (34568, 34740, 34793, 34875) 
(exchange); 700 plants from the Gulf 
coast (35063) (purchase). 

Trask, Mrs. Blanche, Avalon, Santa 
Catalina Island, Cal.: One hundred and 
two plants. Purchase. 35000. 

Treasury Department, Hon. Lyman S. 
Gage, Secretary: 
U. S. Coast (Did Geodelic Stirfcji, received 
through Henry S. Pritchett, superin- 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



Ill 



TlJEASrKY DiOrAIM-MKNT — ('( lilt ill iicd. 

U'lideiit: SiK'ciiiH'n of tlu' lirst traiis- 
Atlaiitif culile laid in 1858 from 
Ireland to Newfoundland (iUUtS); 4 
plaster medallions struck in com- 
memoration of Prof. Jolin E. Watson 
(35200). 
U. »S'. Ij[l'r-Siiriii<i Service, received 
through W. 1). Parsons, keeper, 
Hither Plain Station, N. Y.: Piece of 
whalelione from a tinliack whale tiiat 
floated ashore at Montauk. 34841. 
Trelease, Prof. William, Missouri Bo- 
tanical Garden, St. Louis, Mo.: Agave 
leaves from Mexico. 34389. 
Trent, Mrs. Lucy Carter. (See under 
National Society of the Colonial Dames 
of America.) 
Troost, Gerard, estate of, received 
through E. W. Rankin, acting admin- 
istrator of the estate of James Hall, 
Albany, N. Y.: "Troost collection of 
crinoids," consisting of 294 specimens; 
also manuscript and drawings of 107 
species. 34282. 
True, J. M., Branch, Pa.: Beetle (Cas- 

xkht guttata Oliv. ) 34998. 
Truesdell & Frearey, West Stockliridge, 
Mass. : Limestone used in making quick- 
lime. 34207. 
Turner, S. H., White Sulphur Springs, 
W. Va. : Photograph of a mirror struck 
by lightning. 33992. 
Turner, H. W. (See under G. W.Kimble. ) 
Turner, W. D., Ferguson's Wharf, Va. : 
Specimen of Hartford Fern, Lygod'mm 
palmatmn (34314); specimen of phos- 
jihatic marl (34464). 
Turrill, C. B., San Francisco, Cal.: 
Marine and fresh-water shells from 
Lower California and western North 
America (34257, 34359). 
Udden, Prof. J. A., Rock Island, 111.: 
Three specimens of Cardiocaris, 1 speci- 
men of Orthocerex, 1 bryozoan, and a 
sponge (34498); received through U. S. 
Geological Survey, two cut specimens 
of a structure obtained from Cedar 
Valley limestone. 35001. 
Umbach, L. M., Naperville, 111.: Plants 
(34322, 34758, 34794, 34829, 35094). 
Exchange. 



Union Sand and Emkhy Wiieki, Com- 
pany, Boston, Mass.: (hirnets used for 
abrasive jiuqioses. 34418. 
Union Soapstone Company, Chester De- 
pot, Vt.: Specimen of soapst(jne. 34431. 
Urich, F. W., Port of Spain, Trinidad, 
British West Indies: Collection of Ven- 
ezuelan Lepidoptera and Diptera 
(35008); received through Dr. L. O. 
Howard, fishes from Trinidad (35102). 
Vaillant, Leon. (See under Paris, 
France, Musee d'Histoire Naturelle.) 
Van Arsdale, Mrs. Ellen Brainard 

(See under Lieut. F. R. Brainard.) 
Van HecKeren, Baron, Sinagar, Java: 

One large Scoliid. 34385. 
Van Hise, Prof. C, Madison, Wis. (See 
under Interior Department, U. S. Geo- 
logical Survey.) 
Van Kirk, J. W., Pottsgrove, Pa.: Four 
stone implements; mammal skulls; 
beaded money purse, wooden chair, 
and a specimen of lime deposit from a 
teakettle. 34067. 
Van Pelt, J. C, Woodstock, Va.: Con- 
federate paper money. 33862. 
Vanneman, William, U. S. National 
Museum : Miniature ship's anchor, 
manufactured at the Washington Navy 
Yard from sights and sight boxes recov- 
ered from the wreck of the "Maine". 
34805. 
Vasey, Miss Flora, U. S. National :Mu- 

seum: Plant. 34739. 
Vaughan, T. Wayland, U. S. Geological 
Survey: Set of negatives' of Duchas- 
saing and Michelotti's types of Sym- 
phyllioi<l corals in the Museum of Turin 
(33848, 33849); 2 species of land shells 
from Texas (35819) ; 50 specimens of 
shells, representing 12 species from 
Texas; 2 beetles and 6 specimens of 
Homoptera from the same locality 
(33861). 
Verd Antique Marble Company, Chi- 
cago, 111.: Slab and cubes of verd 
antique marble from Holly Springs, 
Ga. 34934. 
Verrill, Prof. A. E., Yale University 
Museum, New Haven, Conn.: Four- 
teen specimens of Gorgonians and 
corals. Purchase. 34472. "O." 



' These negatives were presented to Mr. Vaughan by Count Peracca, and trans- 
ferred bv ]Mr. Vaughan to the National Museum. 



112 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSP:UM, 1899. 



Very, C. F., New Alhuny, Ind.: Two 
Horn-tailed Sawflies, representing the 
species Treine.v colinnlia Linnaeus. 33872. 

Vineyard Ocher Company, Boston, 
Mass.: Ocher. 3415L 

VisuDDHA, Marquis, Siamese legation, 
London, England, received through De- 
partment of State: Model of the monas- 
tery of Wat Chang at Bangkok. 34650. 

VoTH, Dr. H. R., Field Columbian 
Museum, Chicago, 111.: Six dozen 
small arrow jioints from Arizona. 
35143. 

Vriere, Baron Raoul R. de. Chateau de 
Baes-Veld, Zedelghem, Belgium: Col- 
lection of Belgian Coleoptera. Ex- 
change. 35026. 

Vroman, a. C, Pasadena, Cal. : One 
hundred and twenty photographs of 
California missions. Exchange. 33932. 

Wadsworth, Miss Mattie, Hallowell, 
Me. : Ninety-two dragon flies. Ex- 
change. 34439. 

AVagrorne, Rev. A. C, Bay of Islands, 
Newfoundland: Plants from Labrador. 
Purchase. 33796. 

AValcott, Hon. C. D., Director, U. S. 
Geological Survey: Photograph of an 
elk from Yellowstone National Park 
(gift) (34437); 10 rugs made of 
maiiunal skins (deposit) (35044.) (See 
under F. W. Sardeson.) 

Walker, Bryant, Detroit, Mich.: Speci- 
mens of Lhiio superiorensiii from Mich- 
igan. 34141. 

Walker, C. H., Gallon, Ohio: Specimen 
of Argiope riparia. 33962. 

Walker Electric Company, Cleveland, 
Ohio, received through S. H. Short 
and E. H. Morrison: Bound volume 
containing photographs of the Short 
electric railway motors and other ob- 
jects. Deposit. 34608. 

Wallace, William, Ansonia, Conn.: 
Three Wallace arc lights, a pair of elec- 
tric connecting rods, and a facsimile of 
a letter of Benjamin Franklin to Mr. 
Strahan, dated July 5, 1775. 35164. 
, Wallingsford, W. W., U. S. National 
Museum: Hand looking-glass and a 
copy of the New Testament, issued and 
used during the C'uban campaign in the 
volunteer service of the Enited States. 
34747. 



Wamsley, F. W., Bridgeton, N. J. : Forty- 
eight specimens of coral jjolyps etc. 
Purchase. 34473. "O." 

War Department, Hon. R. A. Alger, 
Secretary: Received through Ordnance 
Office, 2 Mauser rifles, bayonet, and 
scabbard captured at the surrender of 
Santiago (34096) ; received through the 
Army Medical Museum, reptiles in al- 
cohol (34465) . (See under Driggs- 
Seabury Gun and Amnumition Com- 
pany.) 

Ward, Prof. Lester F., U. S. (Geological 
Survey: Plants from Kansas and other 
localities (33947, 34027, 35139). 

Ward, M. J., Unadilla, N. Y.: Water 
bug. Belontoma americaiiKm. 35116. 

Ward's Natcral Science Estahlish- 
ment, Rochester, N. Y.: Nine Indian 
and African mammals (jKirchase) 
(33793); 160 specimens of Carlxmifer- 
ous cephalopods (exchange) (33863); 
924 specimens of fossils of the Trenton 
and Silurian formation from Tennessee 
and c»f the Carlxjniferous formation 
from Texas (exchange) (33945); castof 
a skull of Casioroide.'i ult ioerif<in ( purchase ) 
(34166) ; 14 specimens of Gorgonians 
and 16 casts of Protozoans (purchase) 
(34471). (O.) 

Waring, G. W., Tyrone, Pa.: Specimen 
of Epeira domiliciann Hentz. ;M-184. 

Warner, Miss A. P., Maywood, Nebr. : 
Fragments of pottery. 34501. 

Waslekar, N. N., Washington, D. C. : 
Scarf of Nana Sahib from India; turban 
worn by the Mohammedans; turl)aii of 
Brahim from the Deccam; turlxin of 
Parsee and a skirt of miisHn (34819); 
silk and gold turban belonging to a 
Rajah; II photographs of Hindoos 
(34879). Purchase. 

Watterson, R. I., Kings Mountain, N. 
C. : Specimen of Mantis, St(ii/)iio))ia)ilis 
caroliva L. 34335. 

Weaver, J. M., Oakshade, Va. : Moth 
{Chceroaniipd l('rs(( L. ). 34150. 

Weaver, W. B., Lakeland, Fla. : Speci- 
men of Cassidn </i(tt(it(i Oliv. 34447. 

Weber, L. R., P.ureka Si)rings, Ark.: 
Specimens of Arkansas fossils (34716); 
2 specimens of siliceous limestone con- 
taining fossils of the Calciferous age 
(34913). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



118 



Wkhstkk, Prof. K. M., Woostcr, Oliio: 
Eijiht sporiiiu'iis of llynieiiopteni. 
84921. 

WicKD, W. li., U. S. Geoloirical Survey: 
Siqiphire in lainprophyre dike rock 
from Yogo sapphire mines, Little Belt 
Mountains, Montana. 34882. 

WicKOKN, W. C, U. S. National Museum: 
Bat ( VenpeHiUofimms). 34667. 

Weeks, A. J., Akron, Ohio: Slip clay. 
35066. 

Weith, R. J., Elkhart, Ind.: Wasp [Pele- 
ciniui pohjinriiUif Drury), new to the 
Museum collection. 33812. 

Wells, R. L., Humeston, Iowa: Star, or 
headquarters badge of the Seventh 
Army Corps, United States Volunteers, 
1898-99, used as the official liadge of the 
Seventh Corps Association and worn 
by the donor during the Cuban cam- 
paign. 35039. 

Wesley, William, &. Sons, London, Eng- 
land: Prints of synagogues, print por- 
trait of a rabbi, leather manuscript of 
prayers on Purim, 4 photographs of syn- 
agogues, 7 souvenirs of the Zionists Con- 
gress, and a leather manuscript of the 
Book of Esther (34414); print of Ger- 
man synagogue at Amsterdam and a 
print of a Portuguese synagogue at 
Amsterdam (34508). Purchase. 

Westinghouse Electric and Manufac- 
turing Company, New York City, re- 
ceived through C. A. Terry, secretary: 
Collection of electric motors, carmodels, 
and other objects. Deposit. 34632. 

Wheeler, Gen. Joseph. (See under 
National Society of the Colonial Dames 
of America. ) 

Wheeler, J. A., Milford, N. 11. : Medici- 
nal plants. 34269. 

Whitaker, 8. F., Ogden, Utah: Ores, 
clays, hydrocarbons, and other mate- 
rial from Utah. 34661. "0." 

White, Dr. C. A., Washington, D. C. : 
Framed specimen of a rose showing the 
transformation of the flower parts into 
leaves (33869) ; sun-glass used by Daniel 
Corey, of Dighton, Bristol County, 
Mass., in 1790-1800 (35112). 
White, David, U. S. Geological Survey: 
Eight specimens of violets. 35053. 
NAT MUS 99 8 



WiiiTK, E. II., Clearwater Ilarltor, \a. ; 
Lurva of La<ju<i opcnrularlx S. it A. 
34354. 

White, James, Norfolk, Va. : Articles 
recovered from the wrecks of the Span- 
ish ships Reina Mercedes, Vmnya, Crh- 
lohal Colon, Maria Teresa, and Almi- 
rante Oquendo. (See under Norfolk 
collection 35187.) 

White, J. J., Rockledge, Fla. : Five 
speciesof land and marine shells. 34489. 

White, Mark, Winfield, Kans. : Plants. 
34525. 

Whiteaves, J. F. (See under Ottiiwa, 
Canada, Geological Survey of.) 

Whited, Kirk, Ellensburg, Wash.: Me- 
dicinal plants. 33811. 

White Pine Zinc Company, Louisville, 
Ky. : Lead and zinc ore. 34211. 

Whiteside, G. H. (See under Southern 
Ic-e Exchange. ) 

Whitesides, Mrs. N. J. (See under 
Joseph M. Callis.) 

WHiTiN(i, Dr. C. A., University of Utah, 
Salt Lake City, Utah: Fresh-water in- 
vertel)rates from Utah. 33760. 

Whittemore, Rev. Isaac T., Florence, 
Ariz., received through Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology: Col- 
lection of cliff dwellers' objects from 
Arizona (34065); plaster cast of a foot- 
print in the Casa Grande ruin, made 
by Mr. Whittemore, the finder of the 
impression (35167). 

Wickersham, Prof. H. F., Iowa City, 
Iowa: Specimens of Termites. 34539. 

Wickersham, James, Tacoma, Wash.: 
Six plaster casts of carved stone and 
bone clubs. 34523. 

Wilbur, E. P., Titusville, Fla.: Speci- 
men of Epitragus wmentosus. 33911. 

Wilcox, W. A. (See under William 
Thompson. ) 

Wild, A., Loveland, Colo.: Specimen of 
gypsum. 34594. 

Wild, Edward, Aschaffenburg, Bavaria, 
Germany: Photograph of the Tower of 
Babel. 34037. 

Wiles, George, Stratford, N. C: Speci- 
men of mineral. 33968. 

Wiley, Mrs. J. M., Atkinson, Kans.: 
Specimen of Stagmomantis Carolina 
Linnreus, belonging to the family Man- 
tilla: 34069. 



114 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSKUM, 1899. 



Wiley, Roy, Paleptine, Tex.: Skin of 
Ruby-throated Humnungbinl, Trochi- 
Jus colubris. 34167. 
WiLLCOx, Joseph, Philadelphia, Pa.: 
Eocene fossils from Santiago de Cuba. 
34849. 
Williams, C. K., & Co., Easton, Pa.: 

Odier. 3431'0. 
Williams, F. H., Bristol, Conn.: Three 
specimens of beetle, representing the 
species Odontata rubra Web. 33988. 
Williamson, E. B., Carnegie Museum, 
Pittsburg, Pa.: Two specimens of 
dragon flies, representing the species 
Tschnura MUcotti Williamson (cotypes). 
35036. ( See under Carnegie Museum. ) 
Williamson, Mrs. M. B., Los Angeles, 
Cal. : Four species of marine shells from 
CaUfornia (34710); specimen of CaUios- 
(oma canaleculatum (34863); shell, rep- 
resenting a species of the genus Ano- 
donta (35070). 
WiLLisTON, Prof. S. W., Lawrence, Kans. : 
Two specimens of Estheria from Okla- 
homa (34260); photograph of White 
River Miocene, Bad Lands, South Da- 
kota (34266). 
Willman, Ariel, South Berlin, N. Y.: 
Water l)eetle, Di/sticus varlimUs Say. 
34227. 
Wilson, CoMPTON, U. S. V. : Medal. (See 

under Porto Rico collection 35201). 
Wilson, Capt. H. C, U. S. V., Washing- 
ton, D. C. : Collection of relics of the 
Porto Rican campaign (34742); part of 
a metal shoulder knot belonging to the 
uniform of a Spanish staff officer 
(34936). Deposit. 
Wilson, K. D., Industry, Pa.: Six eggs 
(one set) of Sharp-shinned Hawk, 
Accipiter velox. 34859. 
Wilson, Thomas, U. S. National Museum : 
Archajological objects from Egypt 
(34329) ; 111 flint scrapers from various 
localities along the Ohio River, col- 
lected by W. K. Moorehead (34384); 2 
terra-cotta figures of Watcombe Torquay 
pottery (34476). Deposit. 
Wilson & Bko., Hanoverville, Md.: 

Sample of ocher. 34249. 
WiMAN, L. E., Schenectady, N. Y.: Cat- 
erpillar {Empretia stimulea.) 34099. 
Winchell, Prof. W. H. (See under 
Minnesota Geological Survey. ) 



WiNsEK, J. H. (See under American 

Museum of Natural History. ) 
WiNSLOW, U. S. torpedo l)oat, received 
through Lieut. A. P. Niblack, U. S. 
Navy: Wire hand-railing from the 
Winslow, and a section of boiler plate 
perforated by a Spanish sliell. 34077. 
Winston, Isaac. (See under E. P. Moon. ) 
Winter's Metallic Paint Company, 
Iron IMountain, Wis.: Mineral paint. 
35046. 
WoLcorr, R. H., University of Nebraska, 
Lincoln, Nebr. : Co-types of Acarina. 
34825. 
WoLTZ, George, U. S. National Museum: 
Brewer's candlestick (gift) (33837); 
soldier's combination folding spoon 
and fork (deposit) (33882); 2 Krag- 
Jorgensen rifle cartridges, a Remington 
45-caliljer revolver used during the 
Spanish-American War in Santiago de 
Cuba (gift) (33905) ; badge of the Third 
U. S. Cavalry worn by the soldiers of 
the Santiago campaign (gift) (33907); 
metal tag of the American Army Reg- 
istry of New York, in use during 
the Spanish- American War (gift) 
(33987). 
WoLTz, Miss Sadie, Washington, D. C. : 
Specimen of hard-tack furnished the 
United States Army in Santiago de 
Cuba during the Spanish-American 
War; crossed cannon of the Fifth I'. S. 
Artillery, and crossed swords of the 
First Cavalry. 34021. 
Wood, C. F., Boston, Mass.: Documents 
relating to the early history of the 
electro-magnetic telegraph. 34365. 
Wood, N. R., U. S. National Museum: 

Eighty-three dragon flies. 35126. 
Woodstock Iron Works, Rock Springs, 
Ala. : Limestone used for making quick- 
lime. 34386. 
Woodward, Dr. H. W. (See under Lon- 
don (England) British Museum.) 
WooTON, E. O., New York City: Five 
hundred and eighty-seven plants from 
New Mexico. Purchase. 33797. "0." 
WoRTHEN, C. K., Warsaw, 111.: Four 
skins and skulls of moles, representing 
the species Scajxnms orarius. 34045. 
Wright, B. H., Penn Yan, N. Y.: Four 
species of Southern unios (34131); 2 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



115 



Wrkhit, B. H. — Continiu'd. 
speck'.s of Unionidii' (34325); 3 species 
of Unionidiu (3442(5); B species of ITii- 
ioiiida- from the Southeastern States 
(34494); nnio (34(529); 12 species of 
shells from the Southern States 
(34832); 3 si)ecit'H of unios (349()(); 
nnios from the Southern States 
(35019.) 

Wright, J. ()., tt Co., New York City: 
Lithograi>li of Louis Agassiz. Pur- 
chase. 34341. 

Wycokf, (its, Port Townsend, Wash., 
received through O. E. Shaffer: Speci- 
men of Rhainphorottm rirluirdsoni from 
Port Townsend Bay. 34947. 

Yakeley, Frank, Gebo, Mont.: Speci- 
men of Anabrus purpuratus Uhler. 
33785. 

Young, Chester, Ellenville,N. Y.: Three 
species of saw-fly larva>, new to the 
Museum collection. 34687. 



YouNci, K. E., Wickford, K. I.: Speci- 
men of Sea Hare, representing a si)ecies 
of Trthi/s. 34097. 

Young, R. T., Ann Arbor, Midi.: Three 
mice, 4shrews, and act) ipmuidv. 34713. 

Young, W. F., Fairview City, Utah, re- 
ceived through Dr. David T. Day: 
Crude magnesian silicate. 34766. 

Youngs, Elphonzo, Washington, D. C; 
Specimen of Carmfamiliaris. 34737. 

Zeiller, Prof. R., Paris, France: Three 
Carboniferous plants. 33943. 

Zeledon, Jose C, San Jose, Costa Rica: 
Two lairds' skins from Costa Rica. 34032. 

Zeledon, Mrs. Jose, San Jose, Costa Rica: 
Cast of a crab-shaped mortar. 34493. 

Zell, Mrs. L. D., Lancaster, Pa.: Plant. 
34138. 

Zollikoper, Ernst, St. Gallen, Switzer- 
land: Collection of skins and specimens 
in alcohol from Switzerland and Sar- 
dinia. Purchase. 33902. 



APPENDIX III. 



Statement of the Distribution of Specimens during the Fiscal 
Year ending June 30, 189D. 



AFRICA. 

Albany Museum, Grahamstown, South 

Africa: Alaskan moose (1 specimen). 

Exchange. (D. 12720. ) 
Wood, J. Medley, Port, Durban, Natal: 

Plants (209 specimens). Exchange. 

(D. 12003.) 

AMERICA. 

North America. 



Canadian Geological Survey, Ottawa: Fos- 
sils (5 specimens). Gift. Plants (254 
specimens); fossils (17 specimens). 
Exchange. (D. 12278, 12534, 12646. ) 

Cox, Philip, Chatham: Frog (1 speci- 
men). Exchange. (D. 12313. ) 

Roberts, C. H., Paris, Ontario: Casts of 
stone objects (3 specimens); casts of 
amulets. Exchange. (D. 12419, 
12712.) 

MEXICO. 

National Medical Institute, Mexico: Mex- 
ican plants (659 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 12514.) 

UNITED STATES. 

Alabama. 

Baker, Carl F., Auburn: Isopods and 
Amphipods. Exchange. (D. 12229.) 

Earle, F. S., Auburn: Plants (14 spec- 
imens). Exchange. (D. 12602.) 

Mell, P. H., Auburn: Plants (3 speci- 
mens). Exchange. (D. 12065.) 

Mohr, Charles, Mobile: Plants (41 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12045, 
12671.) 

Museum of the University of Alabama, 
Tuscaloosa: Alcoholic fishes (64 spec- 
imens). Gift. (D. 12414.) 



Arkansas. 
McNeill, Jerome, Fayetteville: Orthop- 

tera ( 1 5 sjiecimens ) . Lent f( )r study. 

(D. 12426.) 
California. 
Brandegee, T. S.,San Diego: Plants (3 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 12066. ) 
Hornung, J., San Francisco: Bird skins 

(107 specimens). Exchange. (D. 

12128,124^7.) 
Jordan, D. S., Stanford University: 

Fishes (2 specimens). Lent for 

study. (D. 12173, 12554.) 
Leland Stanford Junior University, 

Palo Alto: Plants (111 specimens). 

Exchange. (D. 12044.) 
Stearns, R. E. C, Los Angeles: Small 

shells (about 1,000 specimens). Lent 

for study. (D. 12739.) 
University of California, Berkeley: 

Plants (50 specimens). Exchange. 

Annelids (71 specimens, 21 species.) 

Gift. (D. 12043, 11967.) 

Colorado. 
Hills, R. C, Denver: Meteorites (2 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 11984. ) 
Schlarbaum,Paul,Loveland: Moths (2 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 12339.) 

Connecticut. 

Gulliver, F. P., Norwich: Salts (5 speci- 
mens). Exchange. (D. 12033. ) 

Marsh, O. C, New Haven: Potomac 
breccia (1 specimen); Japanese mar- 
bles (15 specimens) . Lent for study. 
(D. 12400, 12401.) 

Wesleyan University Museum, Middle- 
town: Pueblo pottery (20 specimens). 
Exchange. (D. 12431.) 

Yale University Museum, New Haven: 
Crinoids ( 14 specimens ) . Exchange. 
(D. 12212.) 

117 



118 



REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Delafinare. 
Canljy, William M. , Wilmington : Plants 
(117 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12087,12299,12639.) 
District of Columbia. 
Catholic University, Washington: 
Plants (93 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12050.) 
Central High School, W^ashington: Pen- 
tacrinus decorus ( 1 specimen ) . Gift. 
(D. 12329.) 
Chesnut, V. K., Washington: Medicinal 
plants. Lent for study. (D. 12778.) 
Crosby, W.O., Washington: Geological 
and natural history material. Ex- 
change. (D. 12666.) 
Greene, E. L., Washington: Plants (26 
specimens). Exchange. Plants (57 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12428, 12627.) 
Holm, T., Brookland: Plants (60 speci- 
mens). Lent for study. Plants (92 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12112, 
12575. ) 
Kober, George M., Washington: Zuni 
pottery vase. Exchange. (D. 12395.) 
McGee, W. J., Washington: Ethno- 
logical specimens. Lent for study. 
(D. 12140.) 
Richmond, C. W\, Washington: Snowy 
owl (1 specimen). Exchange. (D. 
12463. ) 
Tweedy, Frank, Washington: Plants 
(44 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12427. ) 
U. S. Fish Commission, Washington: 
Marine invertebrates (309 specimens, 
series vi, set 54); alcoholic fish (1 
specimen); shells (2 specimens); 
crustaceans (16 specimens). (D. 
11973,12146,1217.5,12622.) 
Florida. 

Simpson, J. H., Manatee: Minerals. 
Exchange. (D. 1254.S.) 
Illinois. 
Carthage College, Carthage: Marine in- 
vertebrates (303 specimens, series 
VI, set 61). Gift. (I). 12103.) 
Coulter, John M., Lake Forest: Plants 
(3 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12064.) 
Elliot, I). G., Chicago: IManunals (:'> 
speriinens). Exchange. (D. 125S7, 
12590. ) 



Illinois — Continued. 

Ferriss, James H., Joliet: Shells (41 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12360. ) 
Field Columbian Museum, Chicago: 
Plants (142 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12051.) 
Illinois Female College, Jacksonville: 
Marine invertebrates (303 specimens, 
series vi, set 78). Gift. (D. 12436. ) 
Loucks, W. E., Peoria: Bird skins 
(62 specimens). Lent for study. 
(D. 12683.) 
Millspaugh,C.F., Chicago: Plants (161 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12675. ) 
Northwest Division High School, Chi- 
cago: Marine invertebrates ( 30O spec- 
imens, series vi, set 71). Gift. (D. 
12371.) 
Phillips, W. A., Evanston: Flints (120 

specimens). (D. 12371.) 
Snyder, A. J., Belvidere: Butterflies. 

Lent for study. (D. 12710.) 
Udden, J. A., Rock Island: Samples of 
sea bottom (84 vials). Exchange. 
(D. 12570. ) 
University of Chicago, Chicago: Plants. 
Exchange. (D. 12032.) 
Indiana. 

Bartlett, Charles H., South Bend: 
Cast of inscribed tablet. Gift. (D. 
12258. ) 
High school, Jefferson ville: Marine in- 
vertebrates (312 specimens, series 
VI, set 67). Gift. (D. 12233.) 
Indiana University, Blooniington: 
Plants (64 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12046.) 
Iowa. 

Agricultural Experiment Station, Ames: 
Plants (300 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12059.) 
Boepple, J. E., Muscatine: (.Quartz 

crystal (1 si^ecimen). (D. 12434.) 
Charles City College, Charles City: 
Marine invertebrates (103 specimens, 
series vi, .set 63); casts of stone im- 
plements (98 specimens, set 62). 
Gift. (D. 12133.) 
High school. Early: Rocks and ores 
(104 specimens, set 11). (iift. (D. 
12495.) 
High school, Lake Mills: Rocks and 
ores (104 specimens, set 17). Gift, 
(D. 12336.) 



SPECIMENS DlS'l'KIHUTED, 1899. 



119 



Lawrence: Fossils (5 
Exchange. Fossils (8 
Lent for study. (D. 

) 

S., Manhattan: Plants 
Exchange. (D. 



loira — Continued. 

High school, Manchester: Marine in- 
vertebrates (303 specimens, series vi, 
set 76); rocks and ores (104 speci- 
mens). Gift. (D. 12404.) 
High school, Sac City: Rocks and ores 
(104 specimens, set 22). Gift. (I). 
12138. ) 
Miller, Benjamin L., Oskaloosa: Sam- 
ples of sea bottom (10 vials). For 
study. (D. 12591.) 
Putnam, Mrs. M. D., Davenport: Es- 
kimo costume. Exchange. (D. 
12032.) 
A'ao.sr/.s. 

Beede, J. W., 
specimens ) . 
specimens). 
12222, r2445. 
Hitchcock, A. 
(921 specimens 
12545.) 
University of Kansas, Lawrence: Cam- 
brian fossils (51 specimens). Ex- 
change. Corals (4 si)ecimens). Gift. 
(D. 11980, 12094.) 
Kciitncky. 

Williams) )urg Institute, Williamsburg: 
Rocks and ores (104 specimens, set 
20). Gift. (D. 12248.) 
Maine. 

Bowdoin College, Brunswick: Crabs 
(60 specimens). Gift. (D. 12287). 
Wadsworth, Miss Nettie, Hallowell: 
Dragon flies (19 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 12452.) 
Maryland. 

Western Maryland C!ollege, Westmin- 
ster: Marine invertebrates (306 spec- 
imens, series vi, set 69); rocks and 
ores (104 specimens, set 18). Gift. 
(D. 12267.) 
Mdxiiachu.^i'tix. 
Bangs, Outram, Boston: Bird skins (35 
specimens); one specimen belonging 
to the genus Schirnx. Lent for study. 
Mannnal skins and skulls (14 speci- 
mens). Exchange. Deer skull (1 
specimen). Lent for study. (D. 
12179, 12182, 12239, 12314, 12369, 
12392, 12442, 12565. ) 
Botanic garden, Caml)ridge: Plants 
(553 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12056.) 



M<t.^.^(iclii(.-i(ilx — Continued. 
Brewster, William, Cambridge: Bird 
skins ( 94 specimens ) . Lent f ( )r stu( 1 y. 
(D. 12361,12368,12611.) 
Cummings, Miss Clara E., Wellesley: 
Plants (15 specimens). P^xchange. 
(D. 12661). 
Davenport, George E., Medford: Plants 
(3 specimens). Lent for study. 
Plants (84 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12381,12535.) 
Pvastman, C. R., Cambridge: Fossils 
(10 specimens). Lent for study. 
(D. 12380.) 
Emerson, B. K., Amherst: Thin sec- 
tions of rocks (116 specimens). Lent 
for study. (D. 12595). 
Fernald, M. L., Cambridge: Plants 
(104 specimens). Lent for study. 
(D. 12386.) 
Harvard University, Cambridge: Eocka 
and ores. Exchange. (D. 12615.) 
Howe, Reginald Heber, jr., Brookline: 
Bird skins ( 1 3 specimens ) . Lent for 
study. (D. 12628.) 
Johnson, Roswell H., Cambridge: 
Double-headed snakes (Sspecimens). 
Lent for study. ( D. 12531. ) 
^Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cam- 
l)ridge: C'rustacea (39 specimens; 
crabs (21 specimens); photographs of 
type specimens in foreign museums. 
Exchange. ( D. 12296, 12609, 12754. ) 
Peabody Museum, Cambridge: Collec- 
tion of stone implements, fragments 
of pottery, etc. Gift. (D. 12451.) 
Peck, James I., Woods Hole: speci- 
mens of foraminiferal sand and infu- 
sorial earth. Gift. (D. 12024.) 
Robinson, B. L., Cambridge: Plants 
(447 specimens). Lent for study. 
Plants (55 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12203, 12231, 12282, 12460, 12550, 
12598, 12623, 12660.) 
Sargent, C. S., Jamaica Plain: Plants 
(59 specimens) . Lent for study. 
Plants (2 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12636.) 
Sawyer, E. L., Winchendon: Lepidop- 
tera (54 specimens) . Exchange. 
(I). 12358.) 
State Normal School, Westfield: Marine 
invertebrates (306 sjiecimens, series 
VI, set 65). Gift. (D. 12187.) 



120 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



MassarlimeUs — Continued. 
Strong, R. M., CamV)ri(lge: Shrikes (76 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12566.) 
Michigdii. 
Melville, W. P., Sault Ste Marie: Bird 
skins (6 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12701.) 
Mulliken, W. Earle, Grand Rapids: 
Bird skin (1 specimen) . Lent for 
study. (D. 12501.) 
Minnesoin. 
Brower, J. V., St. Paul: Stone imple- 
ments and pottery (146 specimens) . 
Exchange. (D. 12556.) 
Gustavus Adolphus College, St. Peter: 
Rocks and ores (104 specimens, set 
12). Gift. (D. 12508.) 
Heatwole, Joel P., Northfield: Zufii 
and Chiriqui pottery (35 specimens) . 
Exchange. (D. 11970.) 
High School, Worth ington: Casts of 
stone implements (98 specimens, set 
64). Gift. (D. 12176.) 
Holzinger, J. M., Winona: Plants (72 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12546). 
Hyde, Louis H., Lake Benton: Fossils 
(218 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12197.) 
McDougal, D. T., Minneapolis: Plants 
(9 specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12144.) 
Sardeson, F. W., Minneapolis: Fossils 
(2 specimens). Exchange. (12543.) 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis: 
Cambrian fossils (43 specimens); 
plants (274 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 11985, 12061, 12180.) 
Mississippi. 

Mississippi Agricultural and Mechanical 
College, Agricultural College: Marine 
invertebrates (303 specimens, series 
VI, set 80). Gift. (D. 12511.) 
Missouri. 

Ayres, Howard, Columbia: Alcoholic 
fishes (22 specimens). Lent for 
study. (D. 12439.) 
Glatfelter, N. M., St. Louis: Plants 
(8 specimens). Lent for study. 
Plants (50 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 11999, 12041.) 
Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis: 
Plant ( living specimen ) . Exchange. 
(D. 12098.) 



Missouri — Continued. 

Plattsburg Public School, Plattsburg: 
Marine invertebrates (306 specimens, 
series vi, set 72). Gift. (D. 12372. ) 
Public Schools, Macon : Marine inver- 
tebrates (309 specimens, series vi, 
set 74). Gift. (D. 12370.) 
Schwarz, H., St. Louis: Butterflies (99 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12214. ) 
Trelease, William, St. Louis: Plants 
(252 specimens). Lent for study. 
(D. 12224.) 
Montana. 
Helena High School, Helena: Marine 
invertebrates (312 .specimens, series 
VI, set 52). Gift. (D. 11974.) 
State Historical Library, Helena: Ma- 
rine invertebrates (306 specimens, 
series vi, set 79); alcoholic fishes 
(75 specimens). Gift. (D. 12455.) 
University of Montana, Missoula: 
Shells (409 specimens). Gift. (D. 
12230. ) 
Nebraska. 

Bruner, Lawrence, Lincoln: Mexican 
and Central American Orthoptera (176 
specimens); insects (5 specimens). 
Lent for study. (D. 12408, 12486. ) 
Gates College, Neligh: Lamprey, eel, 
and skate (1 specimen each). (D. 
12525. ) 
Public School, Fort Calhoun: Bird 
skins (31 specimens); insects (531 
specimens); marine invertebrates 
(55 specimens); moUusks (98 speci- 
mens); minerals (4 specimens); fos- 
sils (8 specimens); archpeological 
objects (64 specimens). Gift. (D. 
12417.) 
University of Nebraska, Lincoln: 
Plants (402 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 11969.) 
Ward, Henry B., Lincoln: Gephyreans 
(570 specimens). Lent for study. 
(D. 12422.) 
New Hampshire. 

Literary Institution, New Hampton: 
Marine invertebrates (309 specimens, 
series vi, set 68); minerals (57 speci- 
mens, set 194 ) . Gift. ( I). 12247. ) 
New Jerseij. 

Edwards, Arthur M. , Newark: Infuso- 
rial eartli (7 specimens). Lent for 
study. (D. 12462.) 



SPECIMENS DISTRIBUTED, 1899. 



121 



Ncir .h'l'xiii — Continued. 

Smith, Joiiii B., New Brunswick: 
Moths (2 specimens). Lent for 
study. (D. 12478.) 

Kilmer, F. B., New lirunswick: Plants 
(14 specimens). Lent for study. 
(I). 12.W8.) 
Ncir York. 

Allen, J. A., New York: Small mam- 
mal skins and skulls (14 si)echnens). 
Exchange. (D. 12.S01.) 

American Museum of Natural History, 
New York: , Ethnological material 
(13 specimens). Gift. (I). 12770.) 

Bicknell, E. P., New York: Plants (202 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12321.) 

Bird, Henry, Rye: Larvte of Hydraela. 
Exchange. (D. 12177.) 

Britten, ]\Irs. E. G., New York: Mosses 
(20 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12562.) 

Britton, N. L., New York: Plants (435 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12060. ) 

Colgate University, Hamilton: Marine 
invertebrates (306 specimens, series 
VI, set 62). Gift. (D. 12160.) 

Cornell University, Ithaca: Plants (140 
specimens). Exchange. (Tranite (7 
specimens). Gift. (D. 12042, 12058, 
12474.) 

Brown, Mrs. John Crosby, New York: 
Facsimile of musical instrument (1 
specimen). Exchange. (D. 12680. ) 

Dwight, Jonathan, jr., New York: 
Bird skins (60 specimens). Lent for 
study. (D. 12667, 12714, 12777.) 

Ely's School, The Misses, New York: 
Marine invertebrates (303 specimens, 
series vi, set 64). Gift. (D. 12169.) 

P>asmus Hall High School, Brooklyn: 
Marine invertebrates (303 specimens, 
series VI, set 77); casts of stone im- 
plements (98 specimens). Gift. (D. 
12416, 12454.) 

(;ill)ert, B. D., Clayville: Plants (88 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12490, 12513.) 

High School, Hancock: Marine inver- 
tel)rates (306 specimens, series vi, 
set 75); rocks and ores (104 speci- 
mens, set 15). Gift. (D. 12394.) 

Holland Purchase Historical Society, 
Batavia: Casts of prehistoric stone 



Ni'w York — Continued. 

implements (90 s])ecimens, set 67). 
(iift. (I). 12744.) 

Hulst, George 1)., Brooklyn: Moths 
(157 specimens). Lent for study. 
(D. 12202.) 

Miller, Gerrit S., jr.. New York: Skins 
with skulls of Emtomyii alaacensis (6 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12461.) 

Mirrick, Miss Nellie, Oneida: Plants 
(20 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12784. ) 

Osborn, H. F., New York: Skull of 
Oredon (1 specimen). Lent for 
study. (D. 12576.) 

Porter, George F. , New York : Electri- 
cal apparatus (5 pieces). Lent for 
study. (D. 12647.) 

Putnam, F. W., New York: Left scap- 
ula of male and female musk ox (1 
specimen each). Lent for study. 
(D. 12642.) 

Small, J. K., New York: Mounted 
specimens of plants (17 specimens). 
Lent for study. (D. 12262, 12663, 
12772.) 

Underwood, L. M., New York: Plants 
(2 mounted specimens); plants (24 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12208, 12507.) 

Ward's Natural Science Establishment, 
Rochester: Two collections of fossils. 
Exchange. (D. 12130, 12398.) 

Waugh, F. H., Ithaca: Plants (3 speci- 
mens). Lent for study. (D. 12382). 

Webster Free Library, New York: 
Casts of stone implements (98 speci- 
mens, set 66). Gift. (D. 12620.) 
North Carolina. 

Ash, W. W., Raleigh: Plants (319 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12049. ) 

Beadle, C. D., Biltmore: Plants (707 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12542. ) 

Biltmore Herbarium, Asheville: Plants 
(378 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12096.) 

Trinity College, Durham: Marine in- 
vertebrates (306 specimens, series 
VI, set 81). Gift. (D. 12567.) 
North Dakota. 

Mager, Miss Ernestine, Walhalla: 
•Plant (1 specimen). p]xchange. 
(D. 122G6.) 



122 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Ohio. 

Case School of Applied Science, Cleve- 
land: Plants (15 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 12053.) 

High School, Logan: Casts of stone 
implements (98 specimens, set 63). 
Gift. (D. 12162.) 

Lindahl, Joshua, Cincinnati: Salaman- 
der (1 specimen). Lent for study. 
(D. 12438.) 

Piwonka, Thomas, Cleveland: Foram- 
inifera (3 lots). Lent for study. 
(D. 12228.) 

Ricker, Maurice, Burlington: Insect (1 
specimen). For study. (D. 12432. ) 

Western College, Oxford: Marine inver- 
tebrates (306 specimens, series vi, set 
66) ; marine invertebrates (306 speci- 
mens, series vi, set 70) . Gift. (D. 
12207, 12281.) 
Pennsylvania. 

Calvert, Philip P., Philadelphia: 
Dragon flies (1072 specimens) . Lent 
for study. (D. 12489.) 

Carnegie Museum, Pittsburg: Ethno- 
logical material (29 specimens). 
Exchange. (D. 12166.) 

Clarion State Normal School, Clarion: 
Marine invertebrates (309 speci- 
mens, series vi, set 3). Gift. (D. 
12014.) 

Crawford, Joseph, Philadelphia: Plants 
(97 specimens) . Exchange. Plants 
(19 specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12672, 12780. ) 

Culin, Stewart, Philadelphia: Collec- 
tion of games. Lent for study. (D. 
12456.) 

Fox, William J., Philadelphia: Insects 
(322 specimens) . Lent for study. 
(D. 11987.) 

High School, Harrisburg: Rocks and 
ores (104 specimens, set 13). Gift. 
(D. 12413.) 

High School, York: Marine inverte- 
brates (306 specimens, series vi, set 
73). Gift. (D. 12510.) 

Moore, J. Percy, Philadelphia: Leeches 
(54 specimens); Desmognathus hrim- 
leyorum. (1 specimen ) . I^ent for study. 
(D. 12174, 12359.) 

Pilsbry, H.A., Philadelpiiia: Slugs (2 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12729. ) 



Pen nsi/lra ni( i — Con tinued . 

State Normal School, Mansfield: Ma- 
rine invertebrates (303 specimens, 
series vi, set 82) . Gift. (D. 12592.) 
Stone, Witmer, Philadelphia: Bird 
skins (41 specimens). Lent for study. 
(D. 12456. ) 
Strecker, Hermann, Reading: Lepidop- 
tera( 60 specimens). Exchange. Lep- 
idoptera (2 specimens). Lent for 
study. (D. 12569, 12776. ) 
Rhode Island. 

Collins, J. Franklin, Providence: 
Plants (28 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12052. ) 
Tennessee. 
Library and Reading Room, Erin: 
Rocks and ores (104 specimens, set 
21) . Gift. (D. 12186. ) 
Texas. 
Price, R. H., College Station: Plants 
(62 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12673.) 
San Antonio Female College, San Anto- 
nio: Rocks and ores (104 specimens, 
set 16). Gift. (D. 12373.) 
rtuh. 
Jones, Marcus E., Salt Lake City: 
Plants (250 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12040. ) 
Virginia. 
Hampden-Sidney College, Hampden- 
Sidney: Rocks and ores (104 sjieci- 
mens,setl9). (D. 12266.) 
Washington. 
Heckman, P. Y., Issaquah: Fossil 
plants and crinoids (36 specimens). 
Exchange. (D. 12573. ) 
Wickersham, James, Tacoma: Plaster 
cast of stone club. For examination. 
(D. 12374. ) 

West Virginia. 
Pollock,W.M.,Buckhannon: Plants (50 

specimens). Exchange. (I). 12057. ) 
Wisconsin. 
Adams, C. K., Madison: Plants 

specimens). Lent for study. 

12523, 12544. ) 
High School, Janesville: Rocks and 

ores (104 specimens, set 26). Gift. 

(D. 12085.) 
High School, Kenosha: Rocks and ores 

(104 specimens, set 23). Gift. (D. 

12106. ) 



162 

(D. 



SPECIMENS DISTRIBUTED, LSDi). 



123 



Wi'^cotisiit — C'ontiiiiKHl. 
Ilitrh Hchool, Monroe: Rocks and ores 
(104 specimens, set 25). Gift. (D. 
12108. ) 
High School, Racine: Rocks and ores 
(104 specimens, set 24). Gift. (D. 
12107.) 

WEST IXDIES. 

Connell, E. Y., Basse Terre, St. Kitt's, 
and Nevis: Stone implements (62 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12139.) 

Public Gardens and Plantations, Kings- 
ton, Jamaica: Plants (78 specimens). 
Exchange. (D. 12558.) 

South America, 
argentina. 

Ruscheweyh, G., Buenos Ayres: Lepi- 

doptera (113 specimens) . Exchange. 

(D. 12280.) 
Silvestri, Filippo. , Buenos Ayres: Arguhis 

(10 specimens). For examination. 

(D. 12711.) 

PERU. 

Colunga, M. F., Lima: Bird skins (26 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12696. ) 

ASIA. 



Bergen, Paul P., Chefoo: Bird skins (48 
specimens); mammal skins (2 speci- 
mens). Exchange. (D. 12475.) 

Chinanfu Museum, Chinaiifu: Minerals 
(57 specimens, set 195); rocks and 
ores (113 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12738.) 

INDIA. 

Indian Museum, Calcutta: Decapod crus- 
taceans (171 si)eciniens); hird skins 
(4 specimens). Exchange. Decapod 
crustaceans (124 specimens). Gift. 
(D. 12334, 12653, 12765.) 

Royal Botanic Garden, Bengal: Plants 
(240 specimens ) . Exchange. 

(12689.) 

EUROPE. 



Simmer, Hans, Carinthia: T^lants (29t) 
specimens). Exchange. (12688.) 



HAVAKIA. 

Geological-Paleontological Institute, Mu- 
nich: Cambrian fossils (76 si)eci- 
mens). Exchange. (D. 12000.) 

BELGIUM. 

Selys-Longchamps, Baron Edmund de, 
Liege: Skins and skulls of Microtine 
rodents. For examination. (D. 
12724.) 

Vriere, Baron R. de, Zedelghem: Coleop- 
tera (112 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12753.) 

BOHEMIA. 

Fritsch, Anton, Prague: Fossils (6 speci- 
mens). Lent for study. (D. 12184, 
12630.) 

DENMARK. 

Meinert, F., Copenhagen: Pycnogonida 

(120 specimens). Lent for study. 

(D. 12536.) 
Warming, Eugenius, Copenhagen: Plants 

(500 s])ecimens). Exchange. (D. 

12084.) 

FRANCE. 

Miguel, Jean, Barroubio, Herault: Fos- 
sils (272 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12613. ) 

Trocadero Museum, Paris: Thirteen casts 
of ethnological specimens. (D. 
12446. ) 

(iERMANY. 

Haferlandt and Pippow, Berlin: Skull of 
Bison (1 specimen). Exchange. 
(D. 12619.) 

Great Britain. 

ENGLAND. 

Baker, E. G., London: Collection of 
plants. Exchange. (D. 12650.) 

Barrett-Hamilton, G. E. IL, London: 
Mammals, mice, and s<iuirrels (112 
specimens). Lent for stmly. (D. 
12502.) 

P.ritish Museum, London: Plants (246 
specimens). Exi'hange. Plants (12 
specimens). Lent for study. Ter- 
tiary Corals (229 specimens); creta- 
ceous bryozoa (5 vials) ; skins and 
skulls of mammals (19 specimens); 
moUusks (27 siJecimens); inverte- 
l)rates (9 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 11992, 12209, 12320, 12343, 12504.) 



124 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Brunetti, E., London: Diptera (278 si)eci- 
mens). Exchange. (D. 12494.) 

Gamble, T. W., Manchester: Collection 
of Annelids. Lent for study. (D. 
12005. ) 

Hampson, Sir George F., London: Moths 
(12 specimens). Lent for study. 
(D. 12418.) 

Masters, T. Maxwell, London: Plants (18 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12069. ) 

Parritt, H. W., London: Echinoderms 
and crustaceans ( 28 specimens ) . Ex- 
change. (D. 12726.) 

Royal Gardens, Kew, London: Plants (3 
sets). Lent for study. Plants and 
seeds (5 sets). Exchange. Living 
plants [Agave) (2 specimens). Gift. 
(D. 12148, 12251, 12363,12529,12574, 
12649, 12664.) 

Rudler, F. W., London: Onyx marble (1 
specimen) . Exchange. (D. 12105. ) 

Thomas, Oldfield, London: Skins and 
skulls of African rodents (17 speci- 
mens). Lentfor study. (D. 12168.) 

University College, Liverpool : Marine in- 
vertebrates (series v, set 97, 475 speci- 
mens); invertebrates (5 specimens 
and 1 vial). Exchange. (D. 12006, 
12210. ) 

Woodward, Henry, London: Cranium 
and cast of cranium of Castorokles. 
Exchange. (D. 12279.) 

SCOTLAND. 

Chilton, Charles, Edinburgh: Blind crus- 
taceans (15 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12232.) 



(k-stro, R., Genoa: Fish (1 specimen). 

Exchange. (D. 12743.) 
Mayer, P., Naples: Small crustaceans 

(1,154 specimens). Lent for study. 

(D. 12493.) 
University of Turin, Turin: Fossils (77 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 12612. ) 

NETHERLANDS. 

Royal Ethnographic Museum, Leyden: 

Ethnological olijects (195 specimens). 

Exchange. (D. 12741.) 
Yon Roon, G., Rotterdam: Coleoptera 

(100 specimens'). Exchange. (D. 

12553. ) 



Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, 
Stockholm: Plants (361 specimens). 
Exchange. (D. 12086. ) 

SWITZERLAND. 

Antran, Eugene, Geneva: Plants (663 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12533. ) 

Candolle, M. Casimir de, Geneva: Plants 
(23 specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12433. ) 

OCEANIC A. 

AUSTRALIA. 

Grant, F. H. McK., Melbourne, Victoria: 
Casts of stone pipes (3 si)ei'imens). 
Exchange. (D. 12393.) 



APPENDIX IV. 



Bibliography of 



TiiH U. S. National Museum for tuk Fisc^al 
Year ending June 30, 1899. 

PUBLICATIONS OF TIIR MUSEUM.i 
ANNUAL KKPORT. 



Annual Report | of the | l>uiinl of Re- 
gents I of the I yniithyonian Institu- 
tion, I Showing I the Operations, Ex- 
penditures, and Condition | of the In- 
stitution I for the I year ending June | 



30, 1898. I — I Report | of the | U. S. 
National Museum. | — | Washington: 
I Government Printing Office. | 1898. 
Svo, pp. i-xxi V, 1-1107, 198 pis., 555 figs. 



Smithsonian Institution. | United States 
National ^Museum. ] — | Proceedings | 
of the I United States National Mu- 
seum. I — I Volume XX. I — | Pub- 



PKOCEEDINGS. 

lished under the direction of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. | — | AVashington: 
I Government Printing Office. | 1898. 
8vo, pp. i-xn, 1-932, pis. i-.xcvn, figs. 1-149. 



BULLETINS. 



Smithsonian Institution. | United States 
National Museum. | — | Bulletin | of 
the I United States National iluseum. 

I >so. 47. I — I The Fishes | of | North 
and Middle America: | A descriptive 
catalogue of the species of fish-like ver- 
tebrates found in | the waters of North 
America, north of the Isthmus of Pan- 
ama. I By I DavidStarr Jordan, Ph.D., 

I President of the Leland Stanford 
Junior University and of the | Califor- 
nia Academy of Sciences, | and | Bar- 
ton Warren Evermann, Ph. D., | Ich- 
thy<jlogist of the United States Fish 
Commission. | Part II. | Washington: 

I Government Printing Otfice. | 1898. 
8vo, pp. l-xxx, 1241-2183. 



Smithsonian Institution. | United States 
National Museum. | — | Bulletin | of 
the I United States National Museum. | 
No. 47. I — I The Fishes | of | North 
and Middle America: | A descriptive 
catalogue of the species of fish-like ver- 
tebrates found in | the waters of North 
America, north of the Isthmus of Pan- 
ama. I By I David Starr Jordan, Ph. 
D., I President of the Leland Stanford 
Junior University and of the | Califor- 
nia Academy of Sciences, I and I Barton 
Warren Evermann, Ph.D., | Ichthyolo- 
gist of the United States Fish Commis- 
sion. I Part III. I Washington: | Gov- 
ernment Printing Office. | 1898. 
8vo, pp. i-xxiv, 2184-3136. 



PAPKRS BY OFFICERS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM AND OTHERS, 

MATERIAL. 



BASED UPON MUSEUM 



ADLER, Cyrus, and CASANOWICZ, 

I. M. Biblical antiquities. 

Rep. SmUluionian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
189G (1899), pp. 943-1023, pis. 1-46. 

American Ornithologists' Union (Com- 
mittee on Classification and Nomencla- 
ture). Ninth Supplement to the Ameri- 



American Ornithologists' Union — Con. 
can Ornithologists' Union Check-list of 
North American Birds. 

Auk, XVI, No. 1, Jan., 1899, pp. 97-133. 
More than 150 additions, changes in nomen- 
clature, etc., are here made. A list of pro- 
posed changes and additions not acted upon 
at this session of the committee is included. 



■ 1 The titles of the papers from the Report and Proceedings which were published in separate form 
during the year are given in Appendix V, 

125 



126 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



ASHMEAI), William II. A generic 
synopsia of the Blennocanipidse. 

Journ. N. Y.Eni. Soc, vi, No.2, July.lHOs, 
pp. 126-129. 
Twenty-two genera are characterized, ! 
of which are new, viz, Isodi/ctutm,ParazaiT<(, 
EnjIliniKjiida;. and Culozdira. 

C'lasyilieation of the Horn-tails and 

Saw-tiies, or the Hul)()rder Phytophaga. 
Paper No. 2. 

Canndinn EnUmidoijixl , xxx, No. 7, July, 
1898, pp. 177-183. 
Gives generic tables of the Oryssidcc, Siric- 
idse, Xiphydriida-, and Cephidse. Twenty- 
four genera and 3 new species are charac- 
terized. 

Chissitication of the Horn-tails and 

Saw-flies, or the suljorder Phytophaga. 
Paper No. 3. 

Canadian Ent(i)iiolo!/isl. xxx, No. 8, Aug., 
1898, pp. 205-213. 
Gives generic tables of the Xyelidtc, Lydi- 
dse, and Hylotomidse. Forty genera arc tali- 
ulated, 7 of which are new, viz, Liolydn, 
Pseudocyphona, Caloptilia, Acanihoptenos, Ne- 
optiUa, Gijmniopterug, and Micrarge. 

Thynnidai in the United States. 

Psyche, vut. No. 268, Aug., 1898, p. 251. 
Describes 1 new genus {Glyptometopa) and 
2 new species: Telephoromyia anthraeina and 
Glyptometopa americana. 

Classification of the Horn-tails and 

Saw-flies, or the sul)order Phytophaga. 
Paper No. 4. 

Canadian. EntomobKjist, xxx. No. 9, Sept., 
1898, pp. 22.5-232. 
Gives generic tables of tne Lophyridfe, Per- 
reyiidiie, Pterygophoridie, and Pergidse. 
Thirty genera are tabulated, of which 7 
are new, viz, Lophyridca, Lophyrotoma, Ptery- 
gophorhms, Syzygonidea, Paraperga, Pseudo- 
perga, and Neoperga. 

Classification of the Horn-tails and 

Saw-flies, or the suborder Phytophaga. 
Paper No. 5. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxx, No. 10, Oct., 

1898, pp. 249-257. 
This paper treats of the family Selandri- 
idse, which is divided into 4 subfamilies. 
Generic tables of all the genera are given. 
Thirty-seven genera have been recognized, 
of which 9 are new, viz, Monophadnoides, 
Paraselandria, Pcriclistoptera, Endelomyia, 
Ericampoidca, Tetraneura, Pacilostomidea, 
Zaschizonyx, and Macgillivraya. 

Two new genera of Sand Wasps. 

Entomological News, ix, 1^0. 8, Oct., 1898, 
pp. 187-189. 



ASIIMEAJ), William H.— Continued. 

Describes 2 new genera and 1 new species 
(if Sand Wasps, viz, Fn.rid jmcifica, Micophi- 
viis laticepa, M. ndif'iniinis, iind M. texaiius. 

Classification of the Horn-tails and 

Saw-flies, or the suborder Phytophaga. 
Paper No. 6. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxx, No. 11, Nov., 
1898, pp. 281-287. 
Treats of the family Neniati(l;e, which is 
divided into 2 subfamilies, (1) C'ladintc and 
(2) Nematina'; and of the family Dineuridse, 
which is also divided into 2 subfamilies, (1) 
Hemichroiiue and (2) Dineurinie. In all 28 
genera are tabulated, of which 2 are new, 
Opisthoncura and Marlattia. 

Some new genera of l)ees. 

Pmjchc, vui, No. 271, Nov., 1898, pp. 282- 
285. 
Gives a generic table of t)ie Stelitllda;, in 
which 5 genera are tabulated. In this paper 
8 new bee genera and 1 new species arc 
described, viz, Zacosmia, Melanogtelis betheli, 
Neopasitcs, Hoplopasites, llyheosoma, Cockcr- 
ellia, Philoxanthus, and Nomadopsis. 

Classification of the Horn-tails and 

Saw-flies, or the suborder Phytophaga. 
Paper No. 7. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxx, No. 12, Dec, 
1898, pp. 30.5-316. 
This par>er, which is the last of the series, 
treats of the families Tenthredinidte and 
Cimbicids. The first is divided into 4 sub- 
families, the last into 2. In all, 48 genera 
are tabulated, 11 genera being new, viz, 
Pscudosiobla, Strongylogastroidca , Diinovphop- 
teryx, Parasiobla, Aoniddi/ctinnt, Aphilodyr- 
tium, Polystichophagus, Jlypotaxonus, Ilcmitax- 
onus, and Honwconeura. 

Eeports upon the insects, si)iders, 

mites, and myriapods collected l)y Dr. 
L. Stejneger and G. E. H. Barrett- 
Hamilton on the Commander Islands. 
Report of Fur Seal Investigations 1896-1897, 
Part IV, 1898, Appendix i, pp. 328-351. 
This report is edited by Mr. Ashmead, and 
is the joint work of several of the specialists 
connected with the National ISIuseum (vide 
Banks, Cook, Coquillett, Dyar, Linell, and 
Schwarz.) 

Mr. Ashmead contributed the report upon 
the Hymenoptera and Rhynchota. In the 
former, U species are recorded, 8 being new; 
in the latter, 3 species are noted, only 1 being 
new. 

Four new entomophilous wasps. 

Entomological Neios, x. No. 1, Jan., 1899, 
pp. 9, 10. 
Describes Pisonopsis triangidaris, Niteliopsis 
gtriatijies, Hai-pactus howardi, and H. cockerelli. 



lUHLIOGKAPIIY. 



127 



ASiniEAD, \Vii,i.i.\M II.— ('(.utinufd. 

Tlin'i' lu'W s|u'c'n's in tlu' <ienus />/- 

jdcdron Fox. 

Entomoloijictd News, x, No. 3, Msir., IS',)'.), 
pp. 55, 5li. 
Oives a tablo of llif kiiowii specit'.s and <U'- 
scrilx's as th-w lHjilictniii J'irrtt(iiiicun, IK l>i- 
(Initiitiif, and lhfn.rii. 

SuiK'rfaiiiilies iu Ww llymenoptera, 

and generic synopsen of the families 

Th ynnida^ Myrniosidfe, and Mutillidte. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vii, No. 1, Mar., 

1899, pp. -ib-GO. 

In this paper Mr. Ashmead lias dividod the 

llymenoptera into ten .superfamilies: (I) Apoi- 

dea, (II) Sphegoidea, (III) Vespoidea, (IV) 

Formieoidea, (V) I'roctotrypoidea, (VI) Cy- 

nipoidea, (VII) Chaleidoidea, (VIII) Ichnen- 

monoidea, (IX) Sirieoidea, and (X) Tenthre- 

dinoidea. Generic table.s are given for the 

families Thynnidai, Myrmosidse, and Mutil- 

lida'. 

Fifty-three genera are tabulated. Si.xteen 
new genera are defined: Iswaroides, Eplm- 
toimnn, Tyjihoctes, Odontumutilla, Dolkhomu- 
lilla, Bothrionmtilla, Noinhrplunjun. Pi/rrhniiiti- 
tillu, Eurymutnia, Hop!oitiiitiU(t, Jhtsi/iiniUnd. 
Allomutilla, Trugagpidia, Alloiicurioii, and Mi- 
cromutUla. 

Four new species belonging to the 

genus Plenoculus Fox. 

Pmjchc, vni, No. 275, Mar., 1899, pp. 337-339. 

Gives a synoptic table for recognizing the 

known species of Plenoculus and describes 

4 new species: P. punctatus, P. abdominalis, 

P. iiiffcr, and P. albipcs. 

On the genera of the Cleonymidfe. 

Pi-oc. Ent. Sue. Wash., iv, No. 3 (issued May 
24, 1899), pp. 200-206. 
Mr. A.shmead separates this family into 4 
subfamilies (1) Chalcedectinse, (2) Cleony- 
minse, (3) Pelecinellina?, and (4) Colotrech- 
nina. Thirty-six genera are tabulated, of 
which 3 are new: Chalcidiscctis, Tomicubia, 
and Eutrichosoma. 

- — On the genera of the Eucharida?. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Il'asA., iv, No. 3 (issuedMay 
24, 1899), pp. 235-242. 
Tabulates all the known genera, 23 in num- 
ber. Two genera are new: Pseudometagea 
and Dicu'lothorax. 

Classification of the old family Chal- 

cidida?. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. IlVrs/i., iv, No. 3 (issued May 
24, 1899) , pp. 242-249. 
In this paper Mr. Ashmead treats the old 
family as a superfamily, Chalcidoidea, and 
then divides it into 14 distinct minor families, 
as already proposed by him in a previous 
jiaper. Tables for recognizing these families. 



.VSmiKAI), WiMJAM H.— ContiiuuMl. 
and the subfamilies into whidi tbcy are 
again divided, are given: Agaonid;e, Tory- 
midic with 5 suljfamilies, Chah'idid;e willi 2 
subfamilies, Eurytomida', Perilanipida', Ku- 
charida', Miseogasterida' with 4 subfamilies, 
Cleonymiihe with 4 subfamilies, Encyrtidic 
with 3 su))families, I'teromalidre with 5 sub- 
families, Ehismida-, Euloi)bida' witli 4 sub- 
families, Trichogrammida' with 2 subfamlies, 
and Mymaridie with 2 subfamilies. 

Classification of the entomophilous 

wasps, or the superfamily Sphegoidea. 
Paper No. 1. 

Canadian I':nt<)mol(></ist,\x\i, No. (>, .huie, 
1899, pp. 14.5-155. 
Mr. Ashmead gives an introdurtinn on the 
arrangement of these wasps 1)y previous au- 
thors, exhibits the scheme of arrangement 
proposed by Dr. Franz Kohl, and divides the 
s\iperfamily into 12 families, giving a table 
for their recognition. The families are: Oxy- 
belidee, Crabronidie, Pamphredonidee, Bem- 
becidfe, Larrida\ Philanthida', Trypoxylidse, 
Mellinidte, Nyssonidae, Stizida, Sphegidae, 
and Ampulicidse. 

A generic table of the family Panur- 

gid;e; a reply to Mr. Cockerell's critique 
on the segregation of Perdita Cockerell. 
Psyche, vni, No. 278, June, 1899, pp. 372- 
376. 
In this paper Mr. Ashmead points out par- 
ticularly the differences between Cockerellia 
and Perdita: shows that four of Mr. Cocker- 
ell's recent new bee genera belonging in this 
group are synonyms, and concludes by tabu- 
lating the genera of the Panurgidse. Nine- 
teen genera are thus tabulated. 

-,. — Classification of tlic bees, or the 
superfamily Apoidea. 

Trans. Am. Ent Soc, Phila., xxvi, May- 
June, 1899, pp. 49-100. 
Divides the Apoidea into 14 families, some 
of which are again divided into subfamilies. 
Dichotomous tables for recognizing the fami- 
lies, subfamilies, and the bee genera of the 
world are given. In all, 216 genera arc tabu- 
lated, of which 19 are new. 

BANGS, OuTRAM. On some birds from 
Pueblo Viejo, Colombia. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. ]\'ash., XII, Aug. 10, 1898, 
pp. 157-160. 
An account of 28 species of birds collected 
by W. W. Brown, jr., in Colombia. Elsenia 
browni, Automolusrufipectus, Buarrcmon basi- 
lieus, and Thryothorus Ixtiis are described as 
new. Based partly upon Museum material. 

On some birds from the Sierra Ne- 
vada de Santa Marta, Colombia. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xn, Oct. 31, 1898, 
pp. 171-182. 



128 



EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



BANGS, OuTRAM— Continued. 

Notes on 66 species of birds collected by W. 
W. Brown, jr., in Colombia, of which the fol- 
lowing are diagnosed as new: Neocrcc colom- 
biaims, Aulacoiiiamphus Imitus, Leucuria (new 
genus), Leucuria phalemta, Elxnia sororia, 
Grallaria spatiator, Spinus spinescens capitanc- 
us, Diglossa nocticolor, Merula phxopyga vii- 
nuscula, and Merula (/igas cacozela. Based 
partly upon Museum material. 

On the Hubspec'ieH of Manacm mana- 

cus (Linn.). 

Proc. Nciv England Zool. Club, i. Mar. 31, 
1899, pp. 33-37. 
This species is divided into four forms, viz: 
Manacus manacus jnanaciis (Linn.), M. M. ab- 
ditivus (new subspecies), M. M. punts (new 
sub-species), and M. M. guttm-osus (Desm.). 
Based partly upon Museum material. 

A new Rail from Southern California. 

Proc. New England Zool. Club, i, June .S, 
1899, pp. 45, 46. 
Rallus levipes is described as new. Based 
partly upon Museum material. 

BANKS, N.\THAN. Some new spiders. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxx. No. 7, July, 
1898, pp. 185-188. 
Descriptions of 7 new species from various 
parts of the United States. 

Some Mexican Phalangida. 

Journ. N. V. Ent. Soc, vi. No. 3, Sept., 1898, 
pp. 181,182. 
Descriptions of 5 new species from Mexico. 

Three myrmecophilous mites. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxx, No. 10, Oct., 

1898, pp. 265, 266. 

Descriptions of 3 new mites associated with 
ants. 

Descriptions of new North Ameri- 
can neuropteroid insects. 

Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, xxv. No. 3, Dec, 1898, 
(Jan., 1899), pp. 199-218. 
Descriptions of 5 new genera and 44 new 
species; synopses of 1 family and 3 genera. 

[Plecoptera, Trichoptera, and Arach- 

nida. ] 

Report of Fur Seal Investigations lS9f>- 
1897, Part IV, 1898, Appendix i, pp. 346- 
350, pi. A. 
These notes are included in " Reports on the 
in.sects, spiders, mites, and myriapods col- 
lected by Dr. L. Stejneger and Mr. G. E. H. 
Barrett-Hamilton on the Commander 
Islands," edited by W. H. Ashmead. Seven 
new species are described. 

A classification of the North Ameri- 
can Myrmeleonid?e. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxi. No. 3, Mar., 

1899, pp. 67-71. 

Synopses of the genera; descriptions of 2 
new genera and 1 species. 



BANKS, Nathan — Continued. 
Some spiders from northern Louisi- 
ana. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., iv.. No. 3 (issued 
May 24, 1899), pp. 188-193. 
A list of 127 species. Seven new species are 
described. 

A new species of the genus Hala- 

rachne. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., iv. No. 3 (issued 
May 24, 1899), pp. 212-214, fig. 15. 
A new species found in a West Indian seal. 

An American species of the genus 

Qi'cidus. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., iv, No. 3 (issued 
May 24, 1899), pp. 221, 222, fig. 16. 
A new species from Southern California. 

Tnrmnemus in America. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., iv. No. 3 (issued 
May 24, 1899), pp. 294-296, fig. 17. 
A new species injurious to chrysanthe- 
mums. 

A new solpugid from California. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., iv. No. 3 (issued 
May 24, 1899), pp. 314, 315. 
A new species of Cleobis. 

New Myrmeleonidse. 

Entomological News, x. No. 6, June, 1899, 
pp. 170-172. 
Descriptions of three new species. 

BARTSCH, Paul. First record of the 
Turnstone, Arenaria interprcs (Linn.), 
in Iowa (May 21, 1892). 

Iowa Ornithologist, iv, No. 3. July, 1898, p. 3. 
The paper records the capture of 2 speci- 
mens at Burlington, Iowa. 

Primitive nesting sites of the Cliff 

Swallow. 

Osprey, ui. No. 1, Sept., 1898, p. 6, 1 fig. 
This paper mentions two colonies noted on 
the Oncota River in northern Iowa, and in- 
cludes a figure showing their nesting site. 

An afternoon amongst old scenes. 

Wilson Bull., No. 22, 1898, pp. 63-65. 
This paper gives an account of the birds 
observed on an afternoon ramble in Hender- 
son County, 111. 

A piscivorous Yellow-leg. 

Wilson Bull., No. 24, Jan., 1899, p. 8. 
This paper records the Yellow-leg feeding 
upon Top minnows. 

— Xema sabinii and Chordeiles virgin- 
iamis sennetti: Two additions to the 
Iowa avifauna. 

Auk, XVI, Jan., 1899, p. 86. 



BIBLIOGKATHY. 



129 



BARTSCH, Paul— Contimu'd. 

Sabine's Gull and Scnnctt's Nighthawk 
are added to the list of Iowa birds. The 
record of the Nightliawk is l)ased upon a 
specimen now in the National Museum col- 
lection. 

A priinitivc Swift colony. 

Wilson Bull., No. 25, Mar., 1899, pp. 21, 22. 
This paper deals with the Chimney Swifts, 
nesting in hollow cypress trees, at Lake 
Drunimond, Dismal Swamp, Virginia. 

BEAN, Barton A. Notes on a collection 
of fishes from Mexico, with description 
of a new species of Platypcecilus. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mux., xxi, No. 1159, Nov. 21, 

1898, pp. 539-542, 1 fig. 

Notes on the capture of rare fishes. 

Pruc. U. S. Xat. Mas., xxi. No. 1165, Dec. 
20, 1898, pp. 639, 640. 

Myoxocephahis mednius, new species. 

Bull. U. S. Nat. Mm., No. 47, Pt. ii, 1898, pp. 
1983, 1984. 
A diagnosis of Mijoxoeephaliis mednius, in- 
cluded in .Jordan and Evermann's "Fi.shes 
of North and Middle America," published as 
Bulletin 47 of the National Museum. 

Porocoitns quadratm, new species. 

Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, Pt. ii, 1898, 
p. 1998. 
A diagnosis of Porocottus quadratus, includ- 
ed in Jordan and Evermann's " Fishes of 
North and Middle America," published as 
Bulletin 47 of the National Museum. 

BEAN, Tarleton H., and Barton A. 
Note on O.vycottus aeuticeps (Gilbert) 
from Sitka and Kadiak, Alaska. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. 3Im., xxi. No. 1167, Dee. 
20, 1898, pp. 655, 656. 

BREWSTER, William. An undescribed 
Clapper Rail from Georgia and East 
Florida. 

Proc. Neiv Emjland Zool. (Hub, i, June 9, 

1899, pp. 49-51. 

Rallies crepitans waynei is described as new. 
Based partly upon Museum material. 

CASANOWICZ, I. M. Some customs of 
the Jews in Palestine. 

American Hebrew, LXiv, pp. 641,642. 
(See also under Cyrus Adler.) 

CHAPMAN, Frank M. Kirtland's War- 
bler {Dendroica kirtlandi) . 

. Auk, XV, No. 4, Oct., 1898, pp. 289-293, pi. IV. 

An account of this rare bird is given, 

together with a list of the known specimens, 

and published records of the .same. Based 

partly upon Museum material. 

NAT MUS 99 9 



CHAPMAN, Frank M.— Continued. 

The distribution and relationships 

of Anunodfdiiiux marituimHixnd its alUes. 

Auk, XVI, No. 1, Jan., 1899, pp. 1-12, pi. I. 
A review of tlie forms of A nniiodramu.'i mar- 
iliiintx, giving the distinctive characters and 
geograpiiical distribution of each. Annnn- 
dramus maritimu.f Jislieri is described as new. 
Based partly upon Mu-seum material. 

CHESNUT, Victor King. Thirty poi- 
sonous plants of the United States. 

Farmer.')' Bull., V. S. Dept. Agric, No. 86, 
Jan. 19, 1899, pp. 1-32, figs. 1-24. 

Principal poisonous jilants of the 

United States. 

Bidl. Div. BoL, U. S. Dcpt. Agric, No. 20, pp. 
1-60, figs. 1-34. 

CHITTENDEN, Frank H. The Larger 
Apple-tree Borers. 

Circ. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (second 

series). No. 32, July 1 (5), 1898, pp. 1-12, 

figs. 1-3. 

A general consideration of Saperda Candida, 

S. cretata and Chrymbothris femorata, with 

particular attention to remedial treatment. 

Three original illustrations are given. 

A new Squash Bug. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxx, No. 9, Sept., 
1898, pp. 239, 240. 
A preliminary article on Anasa armigera 
Say. 

Insect injury to millet. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 

series) , No. 17, Dec. 1, 1898, pp. 84-86. 

Notes on injury to Panicum miliaceum and 

other species by Chxtocnema denticidata, 

Monocrepidiiis bellus. Diabrotica 12-punctaia, 

Laclinosterna .sp., iind Chlorops ussimili>^. 

Insects injurious to beans and peas. 

Yearbook U. S. Dept. Agric., 1898, pp. 233- 
260, figs. 66-82. 
Popular economic accounts of 12 species of 
bean and pea-destroying Coleoptera. with 
notices of 15 other insects. 
Author's extras of this pai)cr were issued 
May 15, 1899. 

Twig iiruncrs and allied species. 

Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 

series) , No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899, pp. 35-43, 4 

figs. 

A general popular account of Elaphidion 

villosum, with shorter notes on E. inerme. E. 

sidrpubescens, E. mucronatum, and 5 other 

species of the genus. Three of the figures are 

original. 



130 



REPORT OF TSTATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



CHITTENDEN, Frank H.— Continued. 

A destructive borer enemy of bin-h 

trees with notes on related species. 

Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
.series), No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899, pp. 44-51, 3 
flgs. 
A general consideration of Agrilus anxiits 
and its injuries to birch at Buffalo, N.Y. 

The portion of this article having reference 
to other forms of Agrilus was excluded for 
lack of space, but the corresponding change 
was unfortunately not made in the title. 

Author's extras were published January 
12, 1899. 

A Leaf-tyer on grape and elderlierry. 

Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series) , No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899, pp. 82, 83. 
Notes on Phhjctxnia tcrtialis. 

A Flea-beetle living on purslane. 

Bull. Div. Ent., V. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series) , No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899, pp. 83-85. 
Biologic notes on Disonycha caroliniana 
with descriptions of the larva and pupa. 

Biologic note on Conofrachelus ele- 

gans Say. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series), No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899, pp. 94, 95. 

Recent injury by Bark-beetles: A 

correction. 

Btill. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept Agric. (new 
series). No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899, p. 96. 
Note on injury by Dendroctonus to conifer- 
ous forest trees in the Northern States. 

A Leaf-beetle injurious to cultivated 

sunflower. 

Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept Agric. (new 
serie.s) , No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899, p. 96. 
Note on Chrysomela (Zygogramma) exclama- 
tionig. 

A new Sugar-beet beetle. 

Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept Agric. (new 
series). No. 18, Jan. 6,1899. 
. Occurrence of Monoxia puncticollis on .sugar 
beet at Hagerman, New Mexico, and on sea 
blight in the East. 

The Squash Ladybird; its literature 

and biology. 

BuU. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept Agric. (new 
series). No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 11-20, 
figs. 1,2. 
A general consideration of Epilaclina 
borealis. 

■ Life history of the common Squash 

Bug ( Anasa tristis De G. ) . 

BuU. Div. Ent. U. .'<. Dept Agric. (new 
series) , No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 20-28, 
figs. 3-5. 



CHITTENDEN, Frank IL— Continued. 

The Horned Squash Bug {Avam 

armigera Say). 

BiUl. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept Agric. (new 
series). No. 19, April' 12, 1899, pp. 28-34, 
fig. 6. 

Some observations on the life history 

of the Squash-vine Borer {Md'ttiiumty- 
rmiformis Hbn. ) . 

Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept Agric. (new 
series). No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 34-40, 
figs. 7, 8. 

Notes on the Pickle Worm and 

Melon Caterpillar. 

BuU. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept Agric. (new 
series). No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 41-14. 
Notes on Margaronia nitidaUs and M. 
hyalinnta. 

Leaf-footed plant-bugs which attack 

Cucurbits. 

Bull Div. Ent, U. S. Dept Agric. (new 
series). No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 44-48, 
figs. 9, 10. 
Notes on Leptoglossus oppositus and L. 
phyllopus. 

Notes on the Strijied C'ucumber 

Beetle {Diabrotica 'vittata Fab.). 

BuU. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept. Agric. ( new 
series). No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 48-51, 

flg. 11. 
Description of the egg and oviposition; 
notes on methods of control; note on D. tri- 
viattata. 

A new web\v(jrm enemy of cabbage 

and other cruciferous plants. 

Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept Agric. (new 
series). No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 51-.57, 

fig. 12. 
A general consideration of Hellula undalis, 
a recently discovered imported enemy of cru- 
ciferous crops in Georgia. 

Notes on the Garden Flea-hopper 

{IlaUicus nlderi Giard). 

Bull Div. Ent, U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
serie.s) , No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 57-62, 
fig. 13. 
A general account of this species. 

The Imbricated Snout-beetle {Epi- 

civrns imbricaius Say ) . 

BuU. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept Agric. ( new 
series). No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 62-67, 
fig. 14. 

The Brown Fruit-chafer (i'J'^^^/for/a 

hula Linn.). 

BtdL Div. Ent, U. S. Dept. Agric. ( new 
series). No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 67-74, 
fig. 15, 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



131 



CHITTENDEN, Frank IT.— Contimu'd. 

Biologic notes on the May Beetle 

(Lachnoxleriia arcuata Smith). 

Jiull Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 

series) , No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 74-80, 

figs. 10-18. 

A somewhat general consideration of Lach- 

nmtcrna arcuata and a note on insect enemies 

of white grubs in general. 

The Si)inach Flea-beetle {Diso)tyclia 

xanthomehrna Dalni. ). 

Bull. Div. Ent., IL ,s'. Dept. Agric. (new 
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 80-85, 
fig. 19. 

Biologic and other notes on the tlea- 

beetles which attack solanaceous plants. 

Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 

series). No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 85-90, 

fig. 20. 

Notes on tlie North American species of 

Epitrix. 

The Cherry Leaf-beetle ( Galern- 

cella cavicolli'^ Lee. ) . 

Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 90-93. 

Notes on the Plum and the Rose 

Leaf-beetles. 

Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept Agric. (new 
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 93-95. 
Notes on Nodonota tristis and N. punclicollis 
and a short note on N. clypealis. 

Notes on the Fruit-tree Bark-beetle 

and other borers affecting fruit-trees. 
Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept Agric. (new 
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 96-99. 
Notes on Scolytus rugulosus, Chion cinclm, 
Amphicerus Mcaudatus, and Oberea ocellata. 

The Squash-vine Borer [MeUttia 

salijrhdformis Hbn. ). 

Circ. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept Agric. (new 

series). No. 38, April 22, 1899, pp. 1-0, 

figs. 1, 2. 

A compilation of the article on the same 

insect in Bulletin 19 (new series), pp. 34-40, 

with elahoration of remedial treatment. 

The Squash Bug {Anam tristii Deg. ). 

Circ. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept. Agric. (second 
series). No. 39, May 11, 1899, pp. 1-6, 
figs. 1-3. 
A .similar adaptation of an article on this in- 
sect in Bulletin No. 19 (new series), pp. 20-28. 

CLARK, Hubert Lyman. The feather- 
tracts of North American Grouse and 
Quail. 

Proc. ['..S. Aa<. j1f«)i.,x.\l, No.n60,Jan.4, 
1899, pp. 641-653, pis. 47-49, figs. 1-4. 



COOK, O. F. American Oniscoid 1)1 plo- 
jioda of the order Merocheta. 

Broc. U. S. Nat Mus., xxi. No. 1154, Nov. 19, 

1898, pp. 451-168, pis. 29-32. 

[Myriajjoda.] 

Report of Fur Seal Investigations 1896-1S97, 
Part IV, 1898, Appendix I, pp. 350, 351. 
Included in " Reports upon the insects, spi- 
ders, mites, and myriapods collected by Dr. L. 
Stejneger and Mr. G. E. Barrett-Hamilton on 
the Commander Islands," edited by W. H. 
Ashmead. 

African Diplopoda of the genus 

Pachybolus. 

Proc. U. S. Nat Mus., xxi, No. 1168, Mar. 17, 

1899, pp. 657-666, pis. 50-52. 

The Diplopod family Striariidse. 

Proc. U.S. Nat Mus., xxi, No. 1169, March 
30, 1899, pp. 667-676, pis. 53, 54. 

African Diplopoda of the family 

Gomphodesm idse . 

Proc. U.S.Nat 3/ms., xxi, No. 1170, Mar. 30, 
1899, pp. 677-739, pis. 5.5-01. 

COQUILLETT, Daniel W. On the Dip- 
terous family Scatophagidse. 

Journ.N. V. Ent ,Soc., vi, No.3,Sept.,1898, 
pp. 160-165. 
Gives a synoptic table of the genera of this 
family occurring in this country, and de- 
scribes 3 new genera and 7 new species. 

Additions to my synopsis of the 

Tachinidse. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxx, No. 9, Sept., 
1898, pp. 233-237. 
Describes 9 new species, belonging to 6 dif- 
ferent genera. 

Report on a collection of Japanese 

Diptera presented to the U. S. National 
Museum by the Imperial University of 
Tokyo. 

Proc. U.S.Nat Mus., xxi. No. 1146, Nov. 4, 
1898, pp. 301-340. 

New species of Sapromyzidae. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxx, No. 11, Nov., 
1898, pp. 277-280. 
Describes 14 new species belonging to 4 dif- 
ferent genera. 

[Diptera and Siphonaptera.] 

Report of Eur Seal Investigations 1S96-1S97, 
Part IV, 1898, Appendix i, pp. 341-346. 
Included in "Reports upon the insects, 
spiders, mites, and myriapods collected by 
Dr. L. Stejneger and Mr. G. E. H. Barrett- 
Hamilton on the Commander Islands," ed- 
ited by \V. H. Ashmead. 

.\ list of 29 species is given, with descrip- 
tions of 1 new genus and 8 new species. 



132 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



COQUILLETT, Daniel W.— Continued. 
Description of a new Psilopa. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxi, No. 1, Jan., 
1899, p. 8. 
Describes Psilopa pctrolei from California, 
the larva of which lives in earth .saturated 
with crude petroleum. 

A Cecidom^did injurious to seeds of 

sorghum. 

Bull. Dm. Ent., U. S. Dcpt. Agric. (new 

series), No. 18, Jan. 7, 1899, pp. 81, 82. 

Describes Diplosis sorghicola, with notes on 

the early stages of the larva, which infests 

the seeds of sorghum, causing them to shrivel 

up and die. 

A new Trypetid from Hawaii. 

Entomological News, No. 5, May, 1899, pp. 
129, 130. 
Describes Dacus cucurbitse, the larva of 
which lives in green cucumbers. 

COULTER, J. M., and ROSE, Joseph 
Nelson. Hesperogenia, a new genus of 
Umbelliferse from Mount Rainier. 

Contrib. U. S. Nat. Herbarium, v. No. 4, 
Oct., 1899, p. 203. 

COVILLE, Frederick Vernon, and 
ROSE, Joseph Nelson. List of plants 
collected by Dr. and Mrs. Leonhard 
Stejneger on the Commander Islands, 
1895 and 1897. 

Report of Fur Seal Investigations 1896-1897, 
Part IV, 1898, Appendix ii, pp. 352-361. 

CULIN, Stewart. Chess and playing 
cards. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.1, 
1896 (1899), pp. 665-942, pis. 1-50, figs. 
1-226. 

CURRIE, RoLLA p. New species of 
North American Myrmeleonidge. III. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxx. No. 9, Sept., 
1898, pp. 241-243. 
Describes Brachynemurus hubbardii. 

New species of North American 

Myrmeleonidee. IV. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxx. No. 11, Nov., 
1898, pp. 273-276. 
Describes Brachynemurus brunneus. 

DALL, William Healey. Note on the 
anatomy of Eesania Gray and Zenaiia 
Gray. 

Proc. Malacological Soc, in, part 2, July, 
1898, pp. 85, 86. 
This is a note on the anatomy of 2 rare 
bivalves from New Zealand, which were ob- 
tained by the Museum from Mr. Suter, of 



DALL, William Healey — Continued. 
Christchurch. Some interesting anatomical 
features are described in which these mol- 
lusks seem to differ from any hitherto known. 

A new species of Ceres from Mexico. 

Nautihis, xii. No. 3, July, 1898, pp. 27, 28. 
A new species of Ceres from Mexico, Ceres 
nelsoni, which is especially interesting for the 
reason that hitherto only two species of this 
remarkable genus have been known, and the 
present one, collected in Mexico by Mr. E. W. 
Nelson, is larger and finer than either of the 
earlier known species. 

On a new species of Mylliia. 

Nautilus, xn. No. 4, Aug., 1898, pp. 40, 41. 

This paper discusses the nomenclature of 

the genus, enumerates the species which are 

already known, and describes Myllita inx- 

qualis, a new species from South Australia. 

A new species of Terehra from Texas. 

Nautilus, XII, No. 4, Aug., 1898, pp. 44, 45. 
This note describes the first typical Tercbra 
known from the tropical waters of eastern 
America. It was collected by Hon. J. D. 
Mitchell, of Victoria, Texas. The type, which 
has been named Terebra texana, is in the Na- 
tional Museum. 

A new Polygyra from New Mexico. 

Nautilus, XII, No. 7, Nov., 1898, p. 75. 
Polygyra miorhyssa, from the Sierra Blanca, 
Lincoln County, New Mexico. 

Description of a new AmpuUaria 

from Florida. 

NaiUilus, XII, No. 7, Nov., 1898, pp. 75, 76. 
This note describes AmpuUaria pinei, col- 
lected on the Homosassa River, Florida, by 
Mr. George Pine. 

A table of the North American Ter- 
tiary horizons correlated with one an- 
other and with those of western Europe, 
with annotations. 

ISth Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv., part 2, 
1898, pp. 325-348. 
This paper gives a synopsis of the main divi- 
sions of the Tertiary, defining their limits, 
and shows in a table, so far as our present 
knowledge extends, the succession of these 
beds, and correlates those of the eastern, cen- 
tral, and western portions of the country in a 
manner to show the equivalent beds in the 
same horizontal line. This table includes the 
entire Tertiary series. A series of notes upon 
names used in the table is given, indicating 
the origin of the name, mentioning any ques- 
tion which has arisen in regard to the division 
of this or some other name, giving references 
to the literature in which each name was 
defined or fully described, and mentioning 
the chief synonyms. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



138 



DALL, William IIraley — Continued. 

On the proposed University of the 

United States and its possible relations 
to the scientific bureaus of the Govern- 
ment. 

Am. NatumUM, xxiii, No. 386, Feb., 1899, 
pp. 97-107. 
This cssiiy discusses the practical methods 
by which the opportunities offered by the 
scientific bureaus of the Government could 
be utilized for the instruction of students, 
and points out the difficulties in the realiza- 
tion of any plan in which the presence of the 
.students in those laboratories forms a part. 
Although this is a feature of most of the propo- 
sitions for a National University, on the prac- 
ticability of which the success of those pro- 
jects depends absolutely, it has been almost 
universally ignored by those persons who 
have endeavored to promote*the establish- 
ment of such a university. 

On a new species of Drillia from 

California. 

Xautilus, XII, No. 11, Mar., 1899, p. 127. 
A new species of Drillin, collected by Mr. 
and Mrs. T. S. Oldroyd, off San Pedro, Cal., 
is described under the name of Drillia empy- 
rosia. 

A new Pteronolus from California. 

Nautilus, XII, No. 12, Apr., 1899, pp. 138, 139. 
This note describes Pteronotus carpenteri, 
obtained from several localities on the coast 
of California. 

How long a whale may carry a har- 
poon. 

Nat. Gcograph. Mag., x. No. 4. Apr., 1899, 
pp. 136, 137. 
This paper gives some data in relation to a 
harpoon deposited in the National Museum by 
the National Geographic Society, and found 
in a whale taken in Bering Sea in August, 1890, 
which it appears must have been carried in 
the animal's body for thirty-six years. 

The Calaveras skull. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. ScL. Phila., Apr., 1899, 
pp. 2-4. 
This note places on record the observations 
of witnesses in regard to this skull, about 
which so much controversy has gathered and 
in regard to which, recently, some new ex- 
pressions of incredulity have been published. 

Synopsis of the American species of 

the family Diplodontidse. 

Journ. Conchology, ix, No. 8, Oct., 1899, 
pp. 244-246. 

This synop.sis exhibits the groups into which 
this family is divided, the genera already de- 
scribed, and their synonyms. Section i^rfant- 
eUa, based on Felania uMa Gould, and section 
Phlyctiderma Ddll, based on Diplodonta semi- 



DALL, William Healey — Continued. 

aupcra I'hil., are described as new; Diplodimta 
verrilli is proposed as a new name for Diplo- 
donta turgida Verrill and Smith, not C-'onrad; 
Diplodonta ticniirugona Dall is proposed as a 
new name for Diplodonta semiaifpcra of Car- 
penter, not of Philippi; Diplodonta platcnsis 
from Argentina is described as new. 

Synopsis of the recent and Tertiary 

Leptonacea of North America and the 
West Indies. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Miis., xxi, No. 1177, June 
29, 1899, pp. 873-897, pis. 87,88. 

This paper gives the results of a revision of 
the groups belonging to the Leptonacea, a 
table of the revised classification and lists (A) 
of the species of the east coast of North Amer- 
ica; (B) of the west coast of North America, 
and (C) of the Tertiary American species. 

The genus Galcomma is divided into sec- 
tions, of which two, Ampliilepida and Para- 
lepida, are new; Spanioriniis and Scintillorbis 
are new subgenera of Solecardia Conrad; Vas- 
coniella is proposed as a new generic name for 
Vasconia, which is preoccupied. In the Lep- 
tonidie, Epilepton (subgenus of Lepton) is 
proposed for Lepton clarkix: Ceratobornia, a 
section of Bornia, Mancilcellia and Kelliola, 
sections of Kellia, Serridensand Dicranodesma, 
subgenera of Tliecodonta, and Pythinclla, sub- 
genus of Mytidla angas, are new. 

The following new species and varieties are 
described: Sportella pUsbryi, S. californica, S. 
stearnsil, Anisodonta corbuloidca, Erycina lin- 
ella, E. emmonsi, E. periscopiana, E. fernan- 
dina, E. compressa, Bornia barbadensis, B. 
retifera, Mysella tnmidula, var. verrilli, Mynella 
barbadensis, M. aleutica, M. pedroana, Monta- 
cuta floridana, M. ininuscula, M. limpida, M. 
percompressa. 

The following new names are applied to 
species of which the names in use are preoc- 
cupied or erroneous: Solecardia morchii for S. 
eburnea Morch, not Conrad. 

The new species are figured, the method in 
which Pseudopythina attaches itself to Crus- 
tacea, and the animal of Ceratobornia are 
illustrated. 

DILLER, J. S. Origin of Paleotrochis. 

Am. Journ. Sci., Vll, May, 1889, pp. 337-342. 
The author shows that these supposed fos- 
sils are derived from an ancient eruptive 
rock. These bodies are of the nature of 
spherulites and are therefore not organic. 

DYAR, Harrison G. Notes on some 
Saw-fly larvse, esjiecially the Xyelidse. 
Canadian Entomologist, XXX, No. 7, July, 
1898, pp. 173-176. 
Describes 4 larvae. 

Concerning Xantlwrhoe glacialis 

Hulst. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxx, No. 8, Aug., 
1898, p. 203. 



134 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



DYAR, Harrison G. — Continued. 

Six new or little-known larva? of 

Pterophoridte. 

Psyche, vill, No. 268, Aug., 1898, pp. 249, 2.iO. 
One new species is described, IHcrophorus 
rhynchosiii'. 

Life histories of New York Slug 

Caterpillars, xvi. 

Journ. N. Y. £nf.Soe., Vi,No.3, Sept.,lS98, 
pp. 151-158, pi. vni, figs. 1-11. 

Life history of Calybia slossonisc. 

Journ. N. Y. Eiit. Sor. , VI, No. 3, Sept. , 1898, 
pp. 1.58-1(;0. 

Life history of PamphUa etlilms. 

Entomological Nervs, ix. No. 7, Sept., 1898, 
pp. 163-l(vi. 

Note on the larva of Melanomma <m- 

riclnctarmrn Grote. 

Canadian Entomologid, xxx. No. 10, Oct., 
1898, p. 257. 
Description of larva. 

A new Parasa, with a preliminary 

table of the species of the genus. 

Psyche, Viii, No. 270, Oct., 1898, pp. 273- 
276. 
Describes Parasa 2»'asiiia. 

Ingurornorpha slossonil Hy. Edw. 

Entomological News, ix. No. 9, Nov., 1898, 
pp. 213, 214. 

A new Hypopta. 

Entomological Nc^vs, ix, No. 9, Nov., 1898, 
p. 214. 
Describes Hypopta anna from a specimen 
collected at Miami, Fla., by Mrs. A. T. Slos- 
son. 

Notes on certain South American 

Cochlidiidee and allied families. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vi. No. 4, Dec, 
1898, pp. 231-239. 
Contains descriptions of the following new 
genera: Dalcerina, Epipinconia, Brackycodilla, 
Episibine, Protalima, Epiperola, Paleophobe- 
tron, Pseudovipsania, and of one new species, 
Euclea viridogrisea. 

Life history of New York Slug Cat- 
erpillars. XVII. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, VI, No. 4, Dec, 
1898, pp. 241-246, pi. xi, figs. 1-12. 

[Lepidoptera. ] 

Report of Fur Seal Investigations 1S96~1S9T, 
Part IV, 1898, Appendix I, pp. 335, 336. 
Included in "Reports upon the insects, 
spiders, mites, and myriapods collected by 
Dr. L. Stejneger and Mr. G. E. H. Barrett- 
Hamilton on the Commander Islands", ed- 
ited by W. H. Ashmead. A list of 5 species. 



DYAR, Harrison G. — Continued. 

Life histories of North American 

Geometridfe. i. 

Psyche, VIII, No. 273, .Tan., 1899, p].. 310, 
311. 
Descriptive of Aphides niimosaria Guenee. 

A suggestion for the Pterophoridse. 

Entomologist's Record and .Tournal of Ya- 
riation, xi, No. 2, Feb. 15, 1899, pp. 39, 40, 
pi. 1, figs. 1-6. 
Points out t'.ie principal characters to be 
noted in describing the larv». 

Description of larva of Inrjura de- 

llneata Guen. 

Canadian Entonwlogisf. xxxi. No. 2, Feb., 
1899, pp. 27, 28. 
Description of all stages. 

On tfie larva? of North American 

Nolidff, with descriptions of new spe- 
cies. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxi, No.3, Mar., 
1899, pp. 01-64. 
Three new species arc described, viz: Xola 
clethrie, Meganola minor, and J/, dentafa. 

Life histories of New York Slug 

Caterpillars, xviii. 

Journ. y. Y. Ent. Soc, vil. No. 1, JIar., 
1899, pi. 1, figs. 1-10, pp. 61-68. 

Life history of Dlpthera fallax U.S. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vii, No. 1, Mar., 
1899, p. 68. 

Description of the larva of Calocmnpa 

curvhnacula. 

Psyche, VIII, No. 275, Mar.. 1899, p]). :a'),;a7. 

West African moths. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxi, No. 4, April, 
1899, p. 88. 
Corrective note of some previous descrip- 
tions. 

On the smallest Pyromoriihid and 

its larva. 

Entomological Kews, x. No. 4, April, 1899, 
PI). 99, 100. 
Describes the Cuban genus Setiodfs H.-S., 
and the new species, S. bahamensis, adult and 
larva. 

Spathulate Head Seta? on the larva 

of Cliamijris cerintha Treits. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, viii, No. 276, April, 
1899, p. 349. 

Some structural points in Saw-fly 

larvte. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., iv, No. 3 (issued 
May 24, 1899), pp. 218-220. 



BTBLTOGRAPHY. 



135 



DYAR, IIauiusox G. — Continued. 

Note on an external fcoilinj^ lly- 

nienopterous jiarasite. 

Proc. Eld. Soo. Wasli., iv, No. 3 (issued 
Mny 24, 1899^, pii. 2;!:!,2:M. 

A new Saw-fly. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., iv, No. 3 (issued 
May 24, 1S99), pp. 2li2,2(i3. 
Describes larva and adult Ldphtjrua pratti. 

Indentifieation of the eucleid larvte 

figured in Glover's "Illustrations of 
North American Entomology." 

Pi-oc. Eld. Soc. Wash., iv, No. 3 (is.sued 
May 24, 1899), pp. 300-302. 

Descriptions of the larvaj of fifty 

North American Noctuidfe. 

Proc. Eld. Sac. Wash., IV, No. 3 (issued 
May 24, 1899) , pp. 315-332. 
Contains also a synoptic table for the forms 
described in this paper. 

Larvae of Xyelidpe. 

Canadian EidomologM, xxxi. No. 5, May, 
1899, p. 127. 
Note in reply to F. W. Konow. 

A new Cossid from Texas. 

Entomological News, x, No. 5, May, 1899, 
p. 129. 
Describes Imjuromorpha urbcloides. 

Notes on Alaskan Arctiidse. 

Entomological News, x. No. 5, May, 1899, 
pp. 130,131. 
Contains a description of a new species. 
Hyp hora ia suhnehulosa. 

A new Lithosian. 

Psyche, vni. No. 277, May, 1899, pp. 359, 
360. 
Describes Ozodania schwarziorum, new ge- 
nus and species. 

The phylogeny of the Lasiocampids. 

Entomologist' s Record and Journal of Va- 
riation, XI, No. f), June 1, 1899, pp. 141, 
142, pi. 1. 

Spilosoma congrua Walker. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxi. No. 6, June, 
1899, pp. 155, 156. 
Note in reply to Rev. T. W. Fyles. 

DYAR, H. G. (See also under John B. 
Smith.) 

EAKLE, Arthur S. Topaz crystals in 
the mineral collection of the U. S. Na- 
tional INIuseum. 

Proc. U. S. Xat. Mils., xxi. No. 1148, Nov. 
10, 1898, pp. 361-369, figs. 1-22. 



F.VERMANN, Barton W. (See under 
David S. Jordan.) 

GILBERT, Charles H. On the occur- 
rence of Caulolejjis longidens Gill, on 
the coast (jf California. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., xxi. No. IKil, Nov. 
21, 1898, pp. 565,566. 

GILL, Theodore N. The determinants 
for the major classification of fish-like 
vertebrates. 

Rep. Brit. Assoc. Adv. ScL, 1897 (1898), p. 
696, 697. 
Nine cla.sses of vertebrates are recognized, 
of which five have been confounded under 
the designation of "fishes"— the Leptocar- 
dians, Marsipobranchs, Ostracophores, Sela- 
chians, and Teleostomes. " The gaps between 
the lower classes are very great. The least 
differences between the Selachians and Teleo- 
stomes are manifest in the Xenacanthini and 
Dipnoi of the Palgeozoic; the least differences 
between the Teleostomes and Amphibians 
in the Crossopterygians and Stegocephals." 

On the derivation of the pectoral 

member in terrestrial vertebrates. 

Rep. Brit. Assoc. Adv. ScL, 1897 (1898), p. 
697. 
The most important hint respecting the 
origin of the chiropterygium is furnished by 
Polijpterus. "The chief objection to the 
derivation of the chiropterygium from the 
pectoral member of such a form as Polypterus 
is that at present no extinct representatives 
are known. Probably future research will 
reveal such, as the genus belongs to a very 
archaic type." 

Some questions of nomenclature. 

Ann. Rep. Smithsonian J»s<., 1896 (Nov. 19, 
1898) , pp. 457-483. 

A republication, with corrections of former 
typographical errors, of the address as vice- 
president of section F (Zoology) at the Buffalo 
meeting of the American Association for the 
Advancement of Science, August, 1896. It also 
contains an additional note on Lang's "Meth- 
odus nova Testacea— distribuendi," 1722. 

After an "introduction " (p. 457), the author 
treats of the "commencement of binomial 
nomenclature" (p. 459), "trivial names" 
(p. 461), "draconian laws" (p. 462), "mis- 
applied names" (p. 465), "double names" or 
tautonyms (p. 468), " variants and similarity 
of names" (p. 469), "making of names" 
(p. 471), "typonyms" (p. 474), "choice of 
names simultaneously published" (p. 475), 
"major groups and their nomenclature" 
(p. 475), "family" (p. 478), "superfamily" 
(p. 481), " other groups " (p. 482), and "com- 
plaints of instability of nomenclature" 
(p. 482). 



136 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



GILL, Theodore N. — Continued. 

The tailless batrachians of Europe. 

Srlenrr (new series), VIII, Dec. 30, 189S, 
pp. 932-938, with 13 figs. 

A review of "The Tailless Batrachians of 
Europe, by G. A. Boulenger, F. R. S." The 
work is highly commended and the illustra- 
tions borrowed from it. 

A comparison is in.stituted between the 
European and North American batrachians. 
Dissent is expressed from previous investi- 
gators respecting the affinities of Scaphiopus. 
The families PelobatidK and Scaphiopidae of 
Cope are declared to be inseparable. 

"Further, examination of the skeletons of 
Pelodytes, Pelobatcs, and Sraphiopiis should 
convince a competent observer that the dif- 
ferences between Pdohates and Pelodytes are 
much less than those between Pelobates and 
Scajihiopus:" in fine, "if the family is to be 
divided, the two European genera should be 
combined and contrasted with the Amer- 
ican." It is further urged that an arrange- 
ment of the phaneroglossate forms into three 
superfamilies of which the arciferous family 
of Discoglossids is the most generalized, may 
Be more acceptable to some; the superfami- 
lies are Discoglossoidea, Bufonoidea, and 
Ranoidea. 

.The generic names Pediocsetes and 

Poocsetes. 

Auk, XVI, Jan. , 1899, pp. 20-23. 
Pediocxtes and Poocxles are formed on the 
model of Ammocxtes, a misspelling of Amnw- 
costes by Baird. The same author, however, 
substituted for them and first published Pedi- 
oecetes and Pocecetes, and those should be 
adopted. Pocecetes graminea affinis is a new 
combination. 

Suggestions for a new history of 

North American birds. 

Osprey, III, Feb. , 1899, pp. 88-94. 
The suggestions are arranged under the fol- 
lowing headings: Our predecessors; deficien- 
cies [of previous works] ; a new work timely; 
desirability of generized biographies; pro- 
posals for publication; cla.ssification to be 
adopted; avine orders; natural selection 
among birds; oscine families; subspecies; 
extra-limital species; synonymy; sequence 
of data; general; historical; who shall write? 

Concerning Dr. Gill's proposed his- 
tory. 

Osprey, III, Mar., 1899, p. 137. 
A letter to the editor of the Osprey, inclos- 
ing letters to the writer, with comments. 

Relative value of the different groups 

of animals from the faunistic stand- 
point. 

Proc. Ent. Sue. Wny)i., IV, May 24, 1899, p. 
194. 
Report of remarks at meeting of May 13, 
1897. 



GILL, Theodore N. — Continued. 

Larval stage of the eel. 

Science (new .series) , IX, June 9, 1899, p. 820. 
It is deduced that "Inasmuch as (1) the 
seagoing uels do not mature their ova till 
the winter season, (2) the leptoeephalus 
young are found from February to September, 
or later, and (3) the transitional form be- 
tween the leptoeephalus stage and the cylin- 
drical stage has been found in January, it 
appears tolerably certain that the elvers 
which ascend the rivers in the early spring 
are the progeny of eels that descended there- 
from not later than winter of the penultimate 
(and not last) season." 

The longevity of birds and other 

vertebrates. 

Osjwcy, III, June, 1899, pp. 157-160. 
Comments on Mr. J. H. Gurney's article 
"On the comparative ages to which birds 
live," with remarks on the conclusions of 
previous writers, and generalizations respect- 
ing relation of growth to duration of life in 
mammals, birds, and fishes. 

(Editor) Report, in part, of Samuel 

3Iitchill, M. D., professor of natural 
history, etc., on the fishes of New 
York. Washington: Printed for the 
editor. 

8vo, pp. i-x, 1-30.— Publi-shed Dec. 7, 1898. 
The editor remarks: "One of the rarest of 
American contributions to ichthyology is a 
little work published in 1814 — to be very pre- 
cise, published 'January 1, 1814' — on the 
fishes of New York; in brief, the 'Report, in 
part, of Samuel L. Mitchill, M. D., profes.sor 
of natural history, etc., on the fishes of New 
York.' The only copies of whose exi.stence 
in the United States the editor was able to 
learn are three. It contains original and de- 
tailed descriptions of 49 species, with a simple 
catalogue of 21 more." Thirty-eight are 
described or designated as new and 12 
were really so at the time. Four genera al.so 
are designated as new and 3 have been 
adopted by recent authors. 

A small edition has been published with a 
historical and critical introduction and iden- 
tification of the species, as well as a concord- 
ance of names with those by which the 
species are known at the present day. 

GOODE, G. Brown. ^ Report upon the 
condition and progress of the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum during the year ending 
June 30, 1896. 

Pep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1890 (1899), pp. 1-284, pis. 1-4. 

GRINNELL, Joseph. Geographical 
races of HarporhyncJvus redivinis. 

Auk. XV, No. 3, July, 1898, pp. 236, 237. 



1 Died September 6, 1890. 



BIBLIOOKAPIIY 



137 



GEINNELT., Joseph— Continued. 

Ilariutrliiiuchtix rriUviviix pasadcnensiK is ilo- 
scribi'il as new. Bused partly upon Muspnm 
miitcriiil. 

The San Nicolas Rock Wren. 

Aiik, XV, No. 3, July, 1898, pp. 237-239. 
iialpinctcnobsoMiin pidirriiit' is described as 
new. Based partly upon Museum material. 

HAY, Oliver P. On ProtdMeija, the sys- 
tematic position of Dt'rn)ocJii'It/f<, and 
the niori)ho.iz:eny of the Chelonian cara- 
pace and plastron. 

Aw. Nntin-dlist, xxxii, Dec, 1898, pp. 
929-9 IS. 
Observ;; lions on a young specimen of Drr- 
viochcli/s in the National Museum. 

HAY, W. P. Description of a new spe- 
cies of subterranean isopod. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., xxi. No. 1176, .Tune 

1, 1899, pp. 871,872, pi. l.xxxvi. 

This species, HaplopMhalmus piiteus, was 

obtained from an old well in Irvington, Ind. 

It is related to H. mrngii. (Zaddach) and 

//. <hiniru>i Budde-Lund. 

HENDERSON, L. F. Two new species 
of plants from the Northwestern States. 
Contrib. U. S. Nat. Herbarium, v. No. 4, 
Oct., 1899, pp. 201, 202, 

HILL, R. T., and VAUGHAN, T. Way- 
land. The Lower Cretaceous Gry- 
phseas of the Texas region. 

Bull. U. S. Geol. Surr., No. 151, 1898, pp. 
1-139, pis. 1-3.5. 
This work treats in great detail the Te.xan 
Gryphsas and the very intricate synonymy. 
The material is nearly all in the U. S. Na- 
tional Museiim. 

HOUGH, Walter. Korean clan organ- 
ization. 

vim. Anthropologist (new series), I, No. 1, 
Jan., 1899, pp. 1.50-154. 
An account of the interesting clan or family 
organization of Korea which has survived to 
the present day, paralleling the present gov- 
ernmental system. This paper grew out of 
the labeling of Korean specimens in the 
Museum by Mr. Kiu Beung Surh. 

The lamp of the Eskimo. 

Hep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 

1896 (1899), pp. 1025-10.57, pl.s. 1-24, figs. 

1-4. 

A monograph of the lamps of the Eskimo 

area, showing distribution of forms, local 

modifications, effect of latitude, uses, and 

ilhuninanls: also tlu' bearingof the lamp on 

the .social life, art. uTid religion of th(\ Eskimo. 



HOW.MvMi, Liolani) O. Remedial work 
against the Mexican Cotton - hoi! 
Weevil. 

Circ. Dir. Knt., 1'. S. /V/j^ , I r/r/r. (second 
series), No. 33, July 1.5, 1898, pp. l-(i. 
\n account of the latest and liest measures 
to Ije used against Anthonomns fironiiix. 

House flies {Mw<cn domi'stlai ct al.). 

Circ. Dir. Knt., V. .s'. Dcpl. Agric. (second 

series), No. 35, July 18, ^898, pp. 1-8, 

figs. 1-0. 

An account of the habits and life histories 

and the remedies to be used against several 

dipterous insects found in houses. 

International relations disturbed by 

an insect. 

Forum, July,a898, pp. 569-573. 
An account of international restrictions to 
])revent the .spread of the San Jose .scale, with 
a plea for scientific representation of the 
TTnited States at foreign capitals. 

On some new parasitic insects of the 

family Encj'rtina\ 

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xxi, No. 1142, Oct. 4, 
1898, pp. 231-248. 
Descriptions of ten new genera and thirty- 
four new species, together with a synoptic 
table of the species of the genus Aphycus. 

Two beneficial insects introduced 

from Europe. 

Bull. Dir. Ent., U. S. Dcpt. Agric. (new 
series). No. 17, Dec. 1, 189S, pp. 13-16, 
figs. 1, 2. 
Notes on Scutellista cyanea Mots., and Habro- 
Icpis dalmanni Westw. 

• Notes on house flies and mosquitoes. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series) , No. 17, Dec. 1, 1898, pp. .55, '-y. 
Author's abstract, treating especially of the 
use of permanganate of potash against mos- 
quitoes, indicating its uselessness in spite of 
frequent recommendations. 

Pulvhiaria acericola ( W. & R. ) and 

P. innumerab His Rathv. 

Bttll. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 

series), No. 17, Dec. 1, 1898, pp. 57, 58, 

1 fig. 

Giving evidence that these species, of which 

the first was considered a synonym of the 

second, are in reality distinct, and that the 

neimePulvinaria acericola (W. & R.) miist hold. 

(Editor) Proceedings of the Ameri- 
can Association for the Advancement 
of Science, forty-seventh meeting and 
fiftieth anniversary, held at Boston, 

1S98. 



Salem, Dec. 18, 1898, pp. 1-058, 
18 figs. 



pis. and 



138 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



HOWARD, Lklaxi) ().— Continued. 
Report of the Entomologist for 1898. 

Rep. Secy. Agric, 1898, pp. 17-25. 
An executive report of the work of the 
Division of Entomology of the U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. Published also in sepa- 
rate form. 

The San Jose scale on dried fruit. 

Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept. Agric. (new sc- 
rios), No. 18, 1898 (Jan. 6, 1899), pp. 7-13. 
An account of a series of experiments made 
upon different varieties of fruit dried by dif- 
ferent commercial methods. It was found 
that these methods invariably result in the 
death of the scale, and that therefore Euro- 
pean restrictions on the importation of 
American dried fruit are uncalled for. 

The work of Icerya purchasi in Por- 
tugal, with an account of the introduc- 
tion from America of Novius cardinaUs. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new se- 
ries), No. 18, 1898 (Jan. 6, 1899), pp. .30-35. 
An account of the introduction of Iccnjn 
purchasi into Portugal, with a statement of its 
damage and of the result of the sending Novius 
cardinaUs from America, which at the time of 
writing appeared to promise the almost en- 
tire extermination of the Icerya. 

Cotton-field insects. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new .se- 
ries) , No. 18, 1898 (Jan. C, 1899) , pp. 8,V89. 
A list of insects collected in a cotton field at 
Victoria, Texas, by the Hon. J. D. Mitchell. 
The specimens were obtained by means of a 
trap lantern on a single night in October. 

General notes and notes from cor- 
respondence. 

Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dc^jt. Agric. (new se- 
ries) , No. 18, 1898 (Jan. G, 1899), pp. 89-101. 
A number of unsigned notes. 

An insect Ijreeding in crude petro- 
leum. 

Sci. Amer., i.xxx, No. 5, Feb. 4, 1899, pp. 75, 
76, 1 fig. 
An account of Psilopa petrolei Coq., which 
breeds in crude petroleum pools in the vicin- 
ity of Los Angeles, California. 

Reprinted in the Pharmaceutical Era, Mar. 
2, 1899. 

The economic status of insects as a 



Science, ix. No. 216 (new series), Feb. 17, 
1899, pp. 23.3-217. 
Address of the retiring president of the Bio- 
logical Society of Washington, delivered Jan. 
18, 1899. 

Reprinted in the Scientific American Supple- 
ment, Nos. 1209, 1210, Mar., 1899. 



HOWARD, Lelaxi) ().— Continued. 

Allorhina as a fruit pest. 

Entomological News, No. 3, Mar., 1S09, p. 71. 

The odor of Coccidse. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxi.No. 1, April, 
1899, p. 96. 

The principal insects affecting the 

tobacco plant. 

Yearbuok U. S. Dept. Agric, 1898 (issued 

May 15, 1899), pp. 121-150, figs. 7-31. 

An account of the life histories and habits 

of the principal tobacco insects of the United 

States, with data concerning the remedies 

used. 

Author's extras of this paper were issued 
May 20, 1899. 

A dipterous parasite of Lachnn.tterna. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., IV, No. 3, :May 24, 
1899, pp. 198, 199. 
An account of undescribed dipterous eggs 
found upon the thorax of Lachnosterna in 
Greene County, N. Y. 

The Thomson-Mayr priority ques- 
tion settled. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., iv. No. 3, May 24, 
1899, pp. 207, 208. 
Showing that the encyrtine genera of Gus- 
tav INIayr take priority over those of C. G. 
Thomson. 

Butterflies attracted to light at night. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., iv. No. 3, May 24, 
1899, pp. 333, 334. 
An account of instances on record. Pholi- 
sora catullus is added to the list of species pre- 
■viously recorded. 

Notes on Rasahus thoracicus, Xylo- 

copu cubwcola, and Dichelonycha fulgida. 
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., iv, No. 3, May 21, 
1899. p. 335. 

The extermination of the mosquito. 

Sci. Am. Sup2-)l., XLXii, No. 1222, June 3, 
1899, p. 19593. 
Exposes the so-called permanganate of 
potash remedy. 

Pests of the hop crop. 

The Hop, its Culture, Care, 3Iarketi)ig, and 
Manufacture. By Herbert My rick. 
Orange Judd Co., 1899, pp. 113-141, figs. 
55-72. 
An account of the habits and life histories 
of and remedies to be used against the in- 
sects which affect the hop plant in the United 
States. 

Author's extras of this article were dis- 
tributed June 21, 1899. 

JORDAN, David Starr, and EVER- 
MANN, Barton W. Smithsonian In- 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



189 



JORDAN, David Starr, and EYEK- 
iMANN, JVvKTON W.— Continued, 
fjtitution. I Ignited States National Mu- 
seum. I — I Bulletin | of the | United 
StateH National Museum. | No. 47. | 
— 1 The Fishes | of | North and Mid- 
dle America: | A descriptive catalogue 
of the species of fish-like vertebrates 
found in | the waters of North America 
north of the Isthmus of Panama. | 
By I David Starr Jordan, Ph. D., | 
President of the Leland Stanford Junior 
University and of the | California 
Academy of Sciences, | and | Barton 
Warren Evermann, Ph. D.,-| Ichthy- 
ologist of the United States Fish Com- 
mission. I Partii. I AVashington: | Gov- 
ernment Printing Office. | 1898. 
8vo., pp. i-xxx, 1241-2183. 

Smithsonian Institution. | United 

States National ^Museum. | — | Bulletin 
I of the I United States National Mu- 
seum. I No. 47. I — I The Fishes ] of | 
Northand Middle America: | Adescrip- 
tive catalogue of the species of fish-like 
vertebrates found in | the waters of 
North America north of the Isthmus 
of Panama. ] By | David Starr Jordan, 
Ph. D., I President of the Leland Stan- 
ford Junior University and of the | 
California Academy of Sciences, | and | 
Barton Warren Evermann, Ph. D., | 
Ichthyologist of the United States 
Fish Commission. | Part in. | Washing- 
ton: I Government Printing Ofiice. | 
1898. 

8vo., pp. I-XXIV, 2184-3136. 

KNOWLTON, Frank Hall. In a coal 
swamp. 

Plant World, iii, Nov., 1898, pp. 21-23, 1 pi. 
This piiper contains a general .iccount of 
the production of coal. 

The fossil plants of the Payette for- 
mation. 

ISth Ann. Hep. U. S. Gcol. Surv., 1896-97 
(1898), Part ni, pp. 721-7-14, 4 pis. 
In this paper, which is based upon material 
eventually to be transmitted to the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum, 32 forms are enumerated, of 
which 17 are described as new. They are 
from five localities in Boise County, Idaho, 
and are said to be of Upper Miocene age. 
The relation.ship of the flora to that of Bridge 
Creek and John Day Valley, Oregon, is pointed 
out. 



KNOWLTON, Frank Hall— Cont'd. 

A catalogue of the Cretaceous and 

Tertiary plants of North America. 

Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 152, 1898, pp. 

1-247. • 

This catalogue is arranged in alphabetical 

sequence. A bibliography, e(iiisistin.L,'iif n list 

of the works and jjapers used in i>reparing the 

catalogue, is included. 

LINELL, Martin L.^ On the coleopter- 
ous insects of the Galapagos Islands. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi, Oct. 4, 1898, No. 
1143, pp. 249-208. 
Gives a list of the insects found nn the 
Galapagos Islands and describes one genus 
and 14 species as new. Descriptions of two 
allied species from Brazil are included. 

Descriptions of some new species of 

North American heteromerous Coleop- 
tera. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., iv, No. 3 (issued 
May 24, 1899), pp. 180-18.=S. 
Describes 8 new species. 

LINELL, Martin L., and SCTIWARZ, 
Eugene A. [Coleoptera. ] 

Bejiort of Fur Seal Investigations 1S96-1S97, 
Part IV, 1898, Appendix i, pp. 328-336. 
Included in "Reports upon the insects, 
spiders, mites, and myriapods collected by 
Dr. L. Stejneger and Mr. G. E. H. Barrett- 
Hamilton on the Commander Islands," edited 
by W. H. Ashmead. Gives a list, with notes, 
of 48 Coleoptera. 

LORD, Edwin C. E. On the dikes in the 
vicinity of Portland, Me. 

Am. Geologist, xxii, Dec, 1898, pp. 335, 
336, 1 map. 
Describes the petrographic nature of the 
rocks in the region noted. The work was 
done in the laboratory of the Division of 
Geology, and a type series of the rocks studied 
remains in the Museum. 

Petrographic report on rocks from 

the United States-Mexico boundary. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi. No. 1173, May 22, 
1899,pp.773-782, pi. 85. 
Gives a description of the rocks collected 
by Dr. E. A. Mearns, while connected with the 
International Boundary Commission, and de- 
posited by him in the National Museum. 

LUCAS, Frederic Augustus. Contribu- 
tions to Paleontology. 

Am. Journ. ScL, vi, Nov., 1S9S (article 
XXXIX), pp. 399,400. 
(1) A new crocodile from the Trias of 
southern Utah, to which the name Hetcro- 
dontosuchus ganei is given. (2) A new species 
of Dinictis {D. major). The types are in the 
U. S. National Museum. 



1 Mr. Linell died May 3, 1897, ami tiie papers here cited are posthumous. 



140 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



LUCAS, Frederic Arcu'STrs — Cont'd. 

A new ynake from the Eocene of 

Alabama. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mm., XXI, No. 1164, Dec. 20, 

1898, pp. U37, 638, pis. XLV, XLVI. 
Describes a large snake found associated 

with remains of Zeuglodon for which the 
name Pterosphemis schuclicrti is proposed. 

Theragra Lucas, a new genus. 

Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, Part iii, 1898, 
p. 2535. 
Gives a diagnosis of the genns of which the 
Alaskan Pollack, Tlienu/ra chalcogramma, is 
the type. The description is included in Jor- 
dan and Evermann's "Fishes of North and 
Middle America," published as Bulletin 47 
of the National Museum. 

The characters of Bkon occidentalis, 

the Fossil Bison of Kansas and Alaska. 

Kansas Univ. Quarterly, viii. No. 1, Jan., 
1899 (Series A), pp. 17, 18, pis. vni,ix. 
De.scribes this new species and contrasts it 
with Bison antiquus. 

The nomenclature of the hyoid in 

birds. 

Science (new series), ix. No. 218, Mar. 3, 

1899, pp. 223-234, 1 fig. 

Calls attention to the discrepancies in nam- 
ing the component parts of the hyoid and 
suggests the correct names for them. 

The Fossil Bison of North America. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi.No. 1172, May 

13, 1899, pp. 755-771, pis. LXV-LXXXIV, 

figs. 1,2. 

Describes and figures the various species of 

North American fossil bison and gives syn- 

onomy. 

The species recognized are Bison alleni, 
antiquus, bison, crassicornis, ferox, latifrons, 
and occidaitalis. This paper is based largely 
upon material belonging to other institutions. 

McGregor, Richard C. Description of 
a new Ammodramu.'^ from Lower Cali- 
fornia. 

Auk, XV, No. 3, July, 1898, pp. 265-267. 
Ammodramus halophilus is here described. 
Based partly upon Museum material. 

MARK, E. L. Reports on the dredging 
operations off the west coast of Central 
America to the Galapagos, to the west 
coast of Mexico, and in the Gulf of 
California, in charge of Alexander 
Agassiz, carried on by the U. S. Fish 
Commission steamer Albatross during 
1891, Lieut. Commander Z. L. Tanner, 
U. S. N., commanding. XXIV. — Pre- 



MARK, E. L.— Continued. 

liminary report on Branchiocerimdhus 
urceolus, a new type of actinian. 

Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. Coll., xxxii, 
No. 8, Aug., 1898, pp. 147-154, pis. 1-3. 
In general appearance this form resembles 
Cerianthus, but differs from it in important 
points and may be the type of a new family. 
It exhibits a pronounced bilateral symmetry 
and an incomplete circle of branching gill- 
like organs. 

The specimens were taken in the Gulf of 
Panama in 286 and 210 fathoms. 

MARLATT, Charles L. House ants. 

Circ. Div. Ent, U. S. Dcpt. Agric. (second 
series) , No. 34, July, 1898, p. 4, 3 figs. 
Gives the life habits and remedies for three 
common species. 

The true Clothes Moth. 

Circ. Div. Ent., V. S. Dept. Agric. (second 
series), No. 36, Aug., 1898, pp. l-£, 3 f.;:. 
A full account of three species. 

Japanese Hymenoptera of the family 

Tenthredinidse. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi. No. 1157, Nov. 
21, 1898, pp. 493-506. 
Includes the description of 26 new species 
of sawfiies, with a list of additional species 
based on material presented to the National 
Museum by Dr. K. Mitsukuri, of the Imperial 
University, Tokyo, Japan. 

Notes on insecticides. 

Bull. Ent. Div., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series). No. 17, Nov., 1898, pp. 94-98. 
Presents the result of experimental work 
with kerosene, fish-oil soaps, and arsenicals. 
In the case of the latter particular attention 
is called to the superior value of ar.senite of 
copper over paris green. 

Some new Nematids. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxx. No. 12, Dec, 
1898, pp. 302-304. 
Describes the following new species: JVo- 
tanta censors, P. borealis, and Pteronus carpini; 
describes also the male of the two following 
species: Pteronus quercus and Nematus 
chloreus. 

A new nomenclature of the broods 

of the Periodical Cicada. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S Dept. Agric. (new 

series). No. 18, 1898, pp. 52-58. 
Gives a review of the nomenclature adopted 
at different times for the Periodical Cicada, 
and points out the inappropriateness of the 
system in common use; suggests a renumber- 
ing of the broods, to show the relationship of 
the broods to each other, in both the seven- 
teen and the thirteen-year race. The relation- 
ship sustained between the different broods 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



141 



MARLATT, Charles L.— Continued. 

of t)(>th racos is indicated, and throe new 
seventeen-year and three new thirteen-year 
brot)ds are designated. 

A fonsideration of tlie validity of 

the old reeordn ))earing on the distribu- 
tion of the broods of the Periodical 
Cicada, with particular reference to the 
occurrence of broods vi and xxiii in 
1898. 

null. Div. EnL, U. S. Dcpl. Agric. (new 
series), No. 18, 1898, pp. 59-78. 
Points out the sources of error in the old 
records, describes the work undertaken in 
the case of broods x.xiii and vi in 1898, and 
concludes with a list, by States and Counties, 
of the occurrence of these broods in the year 
named. The author also gives a list of the 
persons reporting on these broods, with an 
indication of the nature of the report received. 

An investigation of applied ento- 
mology in the Old World. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., iv. No. 3 (issued May 
24, 1899), pp. 26.5-291. 
Summarizes the writer's experience in the 
cour-se of several months' investigation of the 
practical work in entomology in various Euro- 
pean States. 

Fitch's Cotton Scale Insect. 

Enlomoloykal News, x. No. 5, May, 1899, 
p. 146. 
Discusses the scale insect described by Dr. 
Fitch as Aspidiolus gossypii, and shows from 
examination of the original .specimen received 
from China that it is not an Aspidiolus at all, 
but an Alfurodes. The literature of the sub- 
ject is discussed. 

Some sources of error in recent work 

on Coccidae. 

Science (new series), x, June 16, 1899, 
p. 835. 
Points out various characters in scale in- 
sects, particularly the Diaspina, which have 
mistakenly been made the basis of new 
species and varieties. 



MASON, Otis Tufton. 
American zootechny. 



Aboriginal 



A7n. Anthropologist (new series), i, No. 1, 
Jan., 1899, pp. 45-81, pis. 4. 
A study of the aboriginal industries associ- 
ated with the animal kingdom on the Amer- 
ican continent before its discovery by the 
whites. In a word, aboriginal American 
zootechny embraces every phase of Indian 
life growing out of the connection between 
man and the beasts of the Western Hemi- 
sphere in pre-Columbian times. 



MEARNS, Edgar A. Descriptionsof two 
new birds from the Santa Jiarbara 
Islands, Southern California. 

Auk, XV, No. 3, July, 1898, pp. 258-264. 
Cnrpodnras clemcntis and Lnnins ludovicia- 
uiis (uilh<iin/i are described. 

Notes on the mannnals of the ('ats- 

kill Mountains, New Y(»rk, witli gen- 
eral remarks on the fauna and llora of 
the region. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi. No. 1147, Nov. 
4, 1898, pp. 341-360, figs. 1-6. 

MERRILL, George Perkins. A trip 
across Lower California. 

Osprey, in, Oct., 1898, pp. 20-25, pis. 1-5. 
A popular review of an article on the 
"Geology and natural history of Lower Cali- 
fornia," published in the Annual Report of 
the U. S. National Museum for 1895. 

Some little-known American orna- 
mental stones. 

Am. Architect and Building News, LXII, 
Dec. 10, 1898. 
A paper read before the thirty-second an- 
nual convention of the American Institute 
of Architects, Washington, October, 1898. 
The paper was also printed in abstract in 
other journals. 

Description of residual rocks and 

desert varnish. (Educational series of 
rocks. ) 

Bull. U. S. Gcol. Surv., No. 1.50, 1898, pp. 
376-385 and 389-391. 
Describes, micro.scopically and chemically, 
residual .'iand from granite (District of Colum- 
bia), and from diabase (Medford, Mass.); 
residual clay from feldspathic rock (Hoekes- 
sin, Del.), and from limestone (Virginia). 
The brown coating on quartzite pebbles, 
called "desert varnish," from the Tooele Val- 
ley, Utah, is also described. 

The physical, chemical, and eco- 
nomic properties of building stones. 

Eep. Qcol. Surv. of Maryland, ii. Part ii, 
1898, pp. 39-123. 
The article forms the introductory chapter 
to a general report on the "Building and 
decorative stone-s of Maryland, containing an 
account of their properties and distribu- 
tion," by George P. Merrill and Edward B. 
Matthews. 

— Marbles and granites.^ 

Nature and Art Mag., i. No. 4, May, 1898, 
pp. 12.5-129. 
A popular article for general readers. 



'Omitted from the bibliography of the last fiscal year. 



142 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



MILLER, Gerkit S. , Jr. List of bats col- 
lected by Dr. W. L. Abbott in Siam. 
Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. July 25, isys, 
pp. 316-325. 
Enumeration of 9 species from the province 
of Trong. Cynoptenis angulah).g, Kerivoula 
minuta, and Emballonum peninsularis are new 
to science. 

Descriptions of five new Phyllostonie 

bats. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phita., July 25, 1898, 
pp. 326-337, figs. 1-5. 
Based in part on material belonging to the 
Institute of Jamaica and to Mr. Outram 
Bangs. Chilonatalus, siibgen. nov.; Reithro- 
nyctcris, gen. nov.; Natalus brevimanus, sp. 
nov.; Micronycteris microtis, sp. nov.; Glos- 
sophaga longirodris, sp. nov.; Rcithronycteris 
aphylla, sp. nov., and Micronyteris megalotis 
mexicanus, subsp. nov., are described. 

A new chipmunk from Northeastern 

China. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Aug. 1, 1898, 
pp. 348-350. 
Based in part on material belonging to the 
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia. 
Eutamias senescens, sp. nov., is described. 

Description of a new bat from Lower 

California. 

Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (7), ii, Aug., 
1898, pp. 124, 125. 
Based chiefly on material belonging to the 
British Museum. Myot is peninsularis, sp. nov., 
is described. 

• Notes on the Arctic Red-baclced 

Mice. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Oct. 11, 1898, 
pp. 358-367, figs. 1,2. 
Evotomys wosnessenskii (Polyakoff) and E. 
alascensis, sp. nov., are recognized as distinct 
from E. rutilus. 

Description of a new genus and 

species of Microtine rodent from 
Siberia. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Oct. 11, 1898, 
pp. 368-371, figs. 1^. 
Aschizomys lemminus, gen. et. sp. nov., is 
described. 

Notes on the Naked-tailed Arma- 
dillos. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xni, Jan. 31, 1899, 
pp. 1-8, figs. 1, 2. 
Based in part on material belonging to the 
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 
phia, the American Museum of Natural His- 
tory, and Mr. Outram Bangs. 
The name Tatoua is substituted for Xenurus 



MILLER, Gerrit S., Jr.— Continued. 

(preoccupied) ; Gray's genus Ziphila is recog- 
nized as a subgenus, and Tatoua centralis, sp. 
nov., is described. 

Description of a new vole from 

Eastern Siberia. 

I^oc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xiii, Jan. 31, 1899, 
pp. 11, 12. 
Microtus tshuktshorwin, sp. nov., is described. 

A new vole from Hall Island, Ber- 
ing Sea. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xili, Jan. 31, 1899, 
pp. 13, 14. 
Microtus abbreviatus, sp. nov., is described. 

Two new Glossaphagine bats from 

the West Indies. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xni. May 29, 1899, 

pp. 33-37. 

Based in part on material belonging to the 

American Museum of Natural History. Phyl- 

lonycteris planifrons, sp. nov., and P. bombi- 

frons, .sp. nov., are described. 

A new polar hare from Labrador. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xni. May 29, 1899, 
pp. 39, 40. 
Based in part on material belonging to Mr. 
Outram Bangs. Lepus labradorius, sp. nov., 
is described. 

A new fossil bear from Ohio. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xni. May 29, 1899, 
pp. 53-56. 
Ursus procerus, sp. nov., is described. 

A new moose from Alaska. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xiii. May 29, 1899, 
pp. 57-59. 
Alces gigas, sp. nov., is described. 

MONTGOMERY, Thomas H. The Gor- 
diacea of certain American collections, 
with particular reference to the North 
American fauna. 

Bull. Mas. Comp. Zool. Ilarv. Coll., xxxil. 
No. 3, April, 1898, pp. 23-59, pis. 1-15. 
A historical review of previous researches 
on American species is followed by the sys- 
tematic portion of the paper. Seventeen 
forms are described, among which are 1 new 
genus, 10 new species, and 1 new subspecies. 
In an appendix, additions to the bibliography 
are given. 

MOORE, J. Percy. The leeches of the 
U. S. National Museum. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi, No. 1160, Nov. 21, 
1898, pp. 543-563, pi. XL. 
The systematic portion of the paper is pref- 
aced by a discussion of the annulatioii of the 
somite. 
Twenty-nine species (6 of them new) are 



BIBLIOGEAPHY. 



143 



MOORE, J. Percy— Continued. 

cinniK'rutod. They are roforrcMl to 15 genera, 
1 (if which is new. The iiiateriiU comes from 
ditTerent parts of the world. 

MURDOCH, John. A historical notice 
of Ross's Rosy Gull ( RhodoKtcthia rosea) . 
Auk, XVI, No.2, Apr.,l.S99, pp. 14G-155. 
An exhaustive history of the species. 

NELSON, E. W. Descriptions of new 
birds from Mexico. 

Auk, .wi.No. 1, Jan., 1899, p.2.'S. 
The following species and subspecies are 
described as new: CoUnusvirginianusmacula- 
tus, CaUipepla gamheli fidvipectus, Aphelocoma 
sieberi colimsc, A. s. potosina, Pachyrhamphuii 
major uropygialis, Meloitpiza adusta, Meloi^piza 
goldmani, Spizella socialis mexicana, Vireo no- 
veboracensis mierus, and Geotkijpis flaviceps. 

Descriptions of new birds from 

northwestern Mexico. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xin. May 29, 1899. 
pp. 25-31. 
Twelve species and subspecies of birds are 
described as new, viz: Aniazona albi'frons sal- 
tuensis, Antrostomus goldmani, Aphelocoma 
grisea, Pipilo fuscus udermedius, Cardinalis 
cardinalis afflnis, C. c. sinaloensis, Arremonops 
superciliosa sinalox, Basiletderus mflfrovs cau- 
datus, Thryothorns felix pallidm, Heleodytes 
stridulus, Myadestes obscurus cinereus, and 
Catharus olivascens. 

NEWBERRY, John Strong. The later 
extinct floras of North America. A 
posthumous work edited by Arthur 
Hollick. 

Monograph U. S. Gcol. Sun'., xxxv, 1898, 
pp. 1-17, 1-295, pis. 1-08. 
This is mainly a description of specimens 
originally illustrated and published without 
text, in 1876, under the title " Illustrations of 
Cretaceous and Tertiary plants of the Western 
Territories of the United States," a revised 
edition of which (with 43 additional plates) 
was published subsequently, but withheld 
from distribution. 

NUTTING, Charles Cleveland. Hy- 
droida from Alaska and Puget Sound. 
Proc. U. ,S. ^'at. Mus., xxi, No. 1171, Apr. 
29, 1899, pp. 741-753, pis. Lxn-LXiv. 
A considerable proportion of the material 
upon which this paper is based was collected 
by the Young Naturalists' Society in connec- 
tion with the University of Washington, 
which organized a dredging e.xpedition m 
Puget Sound in the summer ot 1895. 

A table of the distribution of the 17 sjiecii's 
in the collectifin previously described is fol- 
lowed by dcscrii)tions of 5 new species, and 
notes on 2 known species. 



OBERHOLSKll, Harry C. Description 
of a new North American thrush. 

Auk. \\. No. 1, Oct., 189S, pp. ;»3-30(;. 
llyUirirlilti {i.<tiil(it(i alm:r, a new subspecies, 
is descrilicd. 

A revision of the wrens of the genus 

Thryoviancs Sclater. 

Proc. II N. Nat. Mus., x.\i. No. 1153, Nov. 
19,1898, pp. 421-450. 

Descrijjtion of a new Ifi/loclrJiht. 

Auk, XVI, No. 1, Jan., 1899, pp. 23-25. 
Hylocichla ustulata cedica is described as 
new. 

A synopsis of the Blue Honey- 
Creepers of Tropical America. 

Auk, XVI, No. 1, Jan , 1899, pp. 31-35. 

A list of the forms of Blue Honey-creepers 
is given, together with their synonymy and 
correct names. 

Cyanerpes is proposed as a new term in 
place of Arbelorhina. 

OSGOOD, Wilfred H. Chamiea fasdata 
and its subspecies. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xiii. May 29, 1899, 
pp. 41,42. 
The Wren-tits are found to belong to two 
forms, one of which is here named Chanuva 
fasciata phxa. 

The form formerly described as C. f. hen- 
shawi is here shown to be true fasciata, or so 
near it as to be inseparable. 

PALMER, William. Our small eastern 
shrikes. 

Auk, XV, No. 3, July, 1898, pp. 244-258. 
A review of the small shrikes of eastern 
North America. Laniusludovicianus migrans 
is described as a new subspecies. Based 
largely upon Museum material. 

POLLARD, Charles Louis. Further ob- 
servations on the eastern acaulescent 
violets. 

Botan. Gazette {V), xxvi. No. 5, Nov., 1898, 
pp. 325-342, 1 fig. 
A synopsis of the various species of this 
group, with a key and full bibliography One 
new species, Viola insignis, is described and 
figured with a text cut, also a new variety of 
V. primula'/olia {va,T.auslralis) V communis is 
proposed as a new name for the plant vari- 
ously known as V. obliqua and V. cucultata, 
which are known to be distinct species. 

RANKIN, W. M. The Northrop collec- 
tion of Crustacea from the Bahamas. 

Ainials N. Y. Acad. Set., xi, No. 12, Aug., 
1898, pp. 225-254, pis. XXIX, xxx. 
One new sjiecies, Uca Icptodactyla (Guerin 
MS.), included by Mr. Rankin in his list, was 



144 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



RANKIN, W. M.— Continued. 

described by Miss M. J. Rathbnn, and the- type 
specimens are in the National Museum. 

RATHBUN, ISIaryJ. A contribution to 
a knowledfie of the fresh-water crabs of 
America. The Pseudothelphusinse. 

Proc. V. S. Xat. Mii!<., xx i. No. 1158, Nov. 21, 

1898, pp. 507-537, text figs. 1-18. 

The first part of this paper is devoted to a 
description of the subfamily, genera, and new 
species, with analytical keys. Four genera 
and 52 species are recognized, of which 17 
species are new. The second part deals with 
the distribution of genera and species. 

The Brachyura collected by the U. S. 

Fish Commission steamer Albatross on 
the voyage from Norfolk, Ya., to San 
Francisco, Cal., 1887-88. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., xxi. No. 1162, Nov. 

22, 1898, pp. 567-616, pis. XLI-XLIV. 

The collections made on this cruise were 

obtained in the West Indies, on the coast of 

South America, and the west coast of Mexico. 

The Brachyura number 151 species, of which 

31 are new. The new forms are chiefly from 

the shores of Lower California. Nearly all of 

them are figured. 

Notes on the Crustacea of the Tres 

Marias Islands. 

North Am. Fauna (U. S. Dept. Agric), No. 
14, Apr. 29, 1899, pp. 73-75. 
Tliese notes are part of a report on the nat- 
ural history of the Tres Marias Islands, based 
on explorations made by E. W. Nelson and E. 
A. Goldman. 

Four species of Crustacea were taken, viz: 
Gccarcinus digueti Bouvier, Ocypode occiden- 
talis Stimpson, Grapsus grapsus (Linnseus), 
and Bithynis jamaicensis (Herbst). 

RICPIARDSON, Harriet. Key to the 
isopods of the Pacific coast of North 
America, with descriptions of 22 new 
species. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi. No. 1175, June 5, 

1899, pp. 81.5-869, figs. 1-34. 

The isopods of the Pacific coast of North 
America are distributed into 16 families, 44 
genera, and 97 species. Keys are given to the 
families, genera, and species. Twenty-two 
new species are described and figured. 

RICHMOND, Charles W. Description 
of a new species of Gymnost'mops. 

Auk, XV, No. 4, Oct., 1898, pp. 326,327. 
Gymnostinops cugsini is described. 

New name for the genus Teiragonops. 

Auk, XVI, No. 1, Jan., 1898, p. 77. 
Tetragonops is found to be preoccupied and 
Pan is proposed in its place. 



RICHMOND, Charles W.— Continued. 

TJidlassidroma castro, of Harcourt. 

Auk, XVI, No. 2, Apr., 1899, pp. 177,178. 
A reproduction of the original description 

of this species. 

Pelecamis occidenlalis versus P.fiiscns. 

Auk, XVI, No. 2, Apr., 1899, p. 178. 
A note calling attention to the fact tliat the 
name P. occidentalis antedates P.fuscus. 

On the name Xenocichla. 

Auk, XVI, Apr. 2, 1899, pp. 183, 18J. 
The name Xenocichla is shown to be preoc- 
cupied by Bleda, of Bonaparte. 

Four preoccupied names. 

Auk, XVI, No. 2, Apr., 1899, pp. 186, 187. 
The following names are shown to be pre- 
occupied: Amazona aiiguda, Pachijrhamphus 
similis, Blax, and Bocagia. They are renamed 
Amazona inipcrialis, Pachyrhamphus salvini, 
Blacops, and Antichromus, respectively. 

Tyramw!^ magnhosiris d'Orb. (Re- 
named. ) 

Auk, XV, No. 4, Oct., 1899, p. 330. 
Ti/rannus magnirostris d'Orl).,1839, is found 
to be antedated by T. magnirostris Sw., 1831, 
and is accordingly given a new name, T. 
eubensis. 

RIDGWAY, Robert. Descriptions of sup- 
posed new genera, species, and subspe- 
cies of American birds. I — Fringillidse. 

Auk, XV, No. 3, July, 1898, pp. 223-230. 

The author's edition of this paper was pub- 
lished May 13, 1898. 

The following genera, etc., are described as 
new: Melanospiza, Brachij»piza, Myospisa, 
Plagiospiza, Incaspiza, Rhyncho'ipiza, Psellio- 
phorus, Lysurus, Serinojisis, Hcterospingus, 
Mitrospingus, Bhodothraupis, Hemithraujiis, 
Stelgidostomus, Aimophila ruficeps sororia, Ai- 
mophila sartorii, Allapetespileatus dilidus, Aire- 
monops venczuelensis, Arremonops richniondi, 
Cyanocompsa concreta cyanesccns, AmjMspiza 
bUineata deserticola, Amphinpiza belli clemcntex. 

Description of supposed new genera, 

species, and subspecies of American 
birds. II — Fringillidffi (continued). 
Auk, XV, No. 4, Oct., 1898, pp. 3:9-324. 
The following new forms are described: 
Pinicola enuclcator alasccnsis, P. e. montana, 
Astragalinus mexicanus jouyi, Calcarius lappo- 
niciis ala»cen»i», C. I. coloratus, Junco monta- 
nus, Brachyspiza capensis inaularis, Euetheia 
coryi, E. bryanti, Pyrrhulagra affiniit, P. do- 
minicana, P. crissalis, and P. coryi. Brachy- 
spiza capensis peruviana (Lesson) is found to 
bo the earliest name for the bird named Zono- 
trichia cajx'nsis costaricensis Allen, and Gui- 
raca cxndea lazida (Lesson) for the species 
now known as G.c.eurhyncha (Coues). 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



145 



RID( aV AY, RoHERT— Continued. 

Tlie Kt'iierie iiiinie Passerina is transferred 
fi-om the painted buntings to the snowflakew, 
and Ci/aminitiza Baird is revived for the former. 

Descriptions of supposed new genera, 

species, and su])species of American 
birds. Ill — Fringillida? (continued). 

Auk, XVI, No. 1, Jan., 1899, pp. 35-37. 
' The following forms are deseribed as new: 
Mel<»'piz<i/(i>!riat(i moprrii, M.f.pugilluln, M.f. 
caurinu, Pasucrcllti iliucafuWjinDsd, Zinuitrichia 
leucqphrys nuttalli, Sicalis chapmani, and 
Spiiius allcni. 

Description of a new species of Hum- 
mingbird from Arizona. 

Aiik, XV, No. 4, Oct., 1898, pp. 32.5, 326. 
Atthis morcomi is described as new. 

Hemithraupis — a correction. 

Auk, XV, No. 4, Oct., 1898, 330, 331. 
Hemithraupis is found to be preoccupied 
and is renamed Sporathraunis. 

On the genus Astragallnus Cabanis. 

Auk, XVI, No. 1, Jan., 1899, pp. 79, 80. 
A.stragaliniis Is recognized as a genus dis- 
tinct from Spinus. A list of the North Amer- 
ican forms is added. 

On the generic name Aimophila ver- 
sus Peuccea. 

Auk, XVI, No. 1, Jan., 1899, pp. 80, 81. 
Aimophila in considered distinct from Pfw- 
cxa, and a list of the United States forms is 
given. 

ROSE, Joseph Nelson. [Buncliomi cosfa- 
ricetms and Bunchosia macrophi/Ua.^ 

Pnmitix Florx Costaricensis, Institute Fis- 
ico-Geographico Nacional, San Jose, 
Costa Rica, 2, fasc. 1, 1898, pp. 63, 64. 

Plants of the Tres Marias Islands. 

North Am. Fauna (U. S. Dept. Agric), No. 
14, 1898, pp. 77-91. 

Agair rxpatriata and other Agaves. 

Ann. Rep. Miitnouri Botan. Garden, ii, June 
3, 1899. 1-5. 

The genus Agave. 

Ci/clojufdia North American Horticulture, i, 
1899, pp. 33-36. 

ROSE, J. N. f See also under J. M. Coul- 
ter and F. V. Coville. ) 

SAFFORD, James, and SOHUCHERT, 
Ch.\rles. The Camden Chert of Ten- 
nessee and its Lower Oriskanv fauna. 
Am. Journ. Sci., vii, June, 1S99, pp. 
429-432. 
Professor Safford describes the rocks and 

NAT MUS 99 10 



SAFFORD, Ja.mes, and SCHUClliaiT, 
Charles — Contimied. 
areal distribution, and Mr. Schuohert lists the 
fossils found by him in 1897 and shows tlicir 
Lower Oriskanv age. The fossils an; in the 
U. S. National Museum. 

SCHUCHERT, Charles. (See under 
James Safford and J)Avn) Wiittk.) 

SCHWARZ, Eugene A. Martin Larsson 
Linell. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., iv, No. 3 (issued 
May 24, 1899), pp. 11 7-1 80. 
Gives a brief biography of Mr. Martin Lars- 
son Linell and records the titles of 18 papers 
published by him. 

Note on the Cedrela Psyllids (genus 

Freysuila Aleman) . 

Proc. Ent. Soc. ]\'ash., iv, No. 3 (issued 
May 24, 1899), pp. 195-197. 
Gives a history of this Mexican genus, witli 
a full diagno.sis, and describes 2 in'w varie- 
ties from Venezuela and Trinidad. 

Descriptions of new species of Cole- 

optera. 

Psyche, viii, No. 277, May, 1899 (Supple- 
ment), pp. 8-13. 
An appendi.x to an article by H. G. Hub- 
bard on the Insect fauna of the Giant Cactus. 
Describes 1 new genus and 7 new .species of 
beetles from Arizonsv. 

Classified list of species observed by 

H. G. Hubbard on the Giant Cactus. 

Psyche, viii. No. 277, May, 1899 (Supple- 
ment), pp. 13, 14. 
Gives a list of Hymenoptera, Coleoptera, 
Lepidoptera, Diptera, Orthoptera, Neurop- 
tera, Heteroptera, Acari, and Pseudoscor- 
pionida found on the Giant Cactus. 

(See also under Martin L. Linell.) 

SMITH, Hugh M. On the occurrence 
of Amphiuma, the so-called Congo 
Snake, in Virginia. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi. No. 11-50, Nov. 
10, 1898, pp. 379, 380. 

SMITH, John B., and DYAR, Harrison 
G. Contributions toward a monograph 
of the Lepidopterous family Noctuidfe 
di Boreal North America. A revision 
of the species of Acronycta (Ochsen- 
heimer) and of certain allied genera. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi. No. 1140, Nov. 
17, 1898, pp. 1-194, pis. i-xxii. 

STARKS, EnwiN C. The osteology and 
relationships of the family Zeidae. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.. xxi. No. 1155, Nov. 21, 
1898, pp. 409-476, pis. xxxiii-x.xxviii. 



146 



EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



STEARNS, R. E. C. Description of a 
species of Actaon from the Quaternary 
bluffs at Spanish Bight, San Diego, 
Cal. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi, No. 1145, Nov. 2, 
1898, pp. 297-299, 1 fig. 
A preliminary description of this species 
appeared in the Nautilus, xi, No. 1, Philadel- 
phia, May, 1897. 

Adivon traskii occurs in the above region 
both in a living and fossil state, together with 
Adxon {Rictaxis) punctocselatus, and a variety 
of the latter — var. coronadoensis. 

Notes on the Cytherea ( Tivela) cras- 

sutdloides Conrad, with descriptions of 
many varieties. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mits., xxi. No. 1149, Nov. 
10, 1898, pp. 371-378, pis. xxni-xxv. 
In this paper the author gives the range of 
this species and a description. He divides 
the variations of color pattern into 6 groups 
and 16 different named varieties. The three 
plates illustrate the general characters of 
the shell variations in outline, and the anat- 
omy. 

Preliminary description of a new 

variety of Haliotis. 

Nautilus, xn, No. 9, Jan., 1899, pp. 106,107. 
Haliotis falgcns Phil., variety wallalensi.^, 
occurring on the coast of Mendocino County, 
Cal., is described. 

Urosalpinx cinereus Say, in San Fran- 
cisco Bay. 

Natitilus, XII, No. 10, P>b., 1899, p. 112. 
The occurrence of the so-called oyster-drill 
of the Atlantic coast, heretofore detected on 
the western shore of San Francisco Bay, has 
later been found on the ea.stern side at a dis- 
tance of .several miles from the first-discov- 
ered locality. 

Crepidula couve.ra Say, variety j/Zoifca 

Say, in San Francisco Bay. 

Nautilus, XIII, No. 1, May, 1899, p. S. 
The foregoing molluscan form is another 
incidental introduction from the Atlantic 
seaboard, as well as Urosalpiu.r cinereus pre- 
viously mentioned. Both of these Eastern 
species have been introduced witli the East- 
ern oyster, Ostrea virginica, by the oyster 
dealers of San Francisco. 

Natural history of the Tres INIarias 

Islands of Mexico. 

Nautilus, XIII, No. 2, June, 1899, pp. 19, 20. 
The above paper refers to an article pub- 
lished in North American Fauna, No. 14 (Bio- 
logical Survey, U. S. Department of Agricul- 
ture), in which the author, Mr. E. W. Nelson, 
states that himself and companion were the 
only naturali.sts wljo vjsjted the islands sub- 



STEARNS, R. E. C— Continued. 

sequent to the visits of Grayson and Farrcr, 
until May, 1897, whereas Mr. W. J. Fisher 
made an extensive collection in the group in 
1876. The molluscan species collected by 
Fisher at that time are now a part of the na- 
tional collection and are listed in the Pro- 
ceedings of the U. S. National Museum, vol. 
XVII, No. 996, pp. 139-204. Eighty-nine spe- 
cies are enumerated. 

STEJNEGER, Leonhakd. The birds of 
the Kuril Islands. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi, No. 1144, ( )ct. 4, 
1898, pp. 269-296. 
A complete list of the birds observed )jy the 
author, and others, in the Kuril Islands. 

Description of a new species of 

Spiny-tailed Iguana from Guatemala. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXI, No. 1151, Nov. 
10, 1898, pp. 381-383. 
Ct.e7iosaura pakaris, new species (Type speci- 
men No. 22703, U. S.N. M.). 

The I Asiatic Fur Seal Islands | and 

I Fur Seal Industry. | By | Leonhard 
Stejneger | of the U. S. National Mu- 
seum. I — I With one hundred and 
thirteen plates and maps. | — | (Part iv 
of the Fur Seals and Fur Seal Islands 
of the North Pacific Ocean) | — | 
Washington | 1898. 

Royal 8 vo., pp. 1-384, pis. 1-113. 
The author's final report as member of the 
Fur Seal Investigation Commission. 

Report on the Russian Fur Seal Is- 
lands. 

!Seal and Salmon Fisheries and General Re- 
sources of Alaska, iv, 1898, pp. 613-751, 
74 plates and 14 maps. 
E.ssentially a reprint of " The Russian Fur- 
seal Islands" (1896), by the same author. 

[Review of] The birds of Indiana. 

By A. Butler. 

Am.. Naturalist, xxxiil, Jan., 1899, pp. 0.5- 
69. 

A curious malformation on a snake's 

head. 

Am. Naturalist, xxxiii, March, 1899, pp. 
251, 252, 2 figs. 
The malformation consists chiefly in the 
absence of a frontal plate, and is supposed to 
be due to a wound. The specimen beloug.s. 
to the Museum of the Cincinnati Natural 
History Society. 

Relationships of North American 

Grouse and Quail. 

Am. Naturalist, xxxiii, March, 1899, pp. 
259-263. 
A review of "The Feather-tracts of North 
American Grouse and Quail," by H. L.Clark. 



biulkk; i:\PHY. 



147 



STEJN l-XiER, Leonii A kd— Continued. 

Reptiles of the Tres Marian and Isa- 

]iel Islands. 

yorth. Am. Fauna (U. S. Dept. Agric.),No. 
11, April 29, 1899, pp. (>3-71. 
The collection on which this paper is based 
was made by Mr. E. W. Nelson for the Biolog- 
ical Survey, U. S. Department of Agriculture, 
and is now in the National Museum. 

The land reptiles of the Hawaiian 

Islands. 

Pmc. U. S. Nat. Mas., xxi. No. 1174, June 5, 
1899, pp. 783-813, figs. 1-13. 
A list, with full synonomies and descrip- 
tions, of all the species occurring in the 
Archipelago. 

One new species is described: HemiphyUo- 
dacfylus Icucostictus (Type specimen 23.500, 
U. S. N. M.). All the species are represented 
in tlie National Museum collection. 

Description of a new genus and 

ajjecies of Discoglossoid Toad from 
North America. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., xxi, No. 1178, June 
20, 1899, pp. 899-901 , pi. Lxxxix, flgs. 1-4. 
A.-fcaplius truei, new species and genns, from 
Humptulips, Washington, is described (Type 
specimen No. 25979 U.S.N. M.). This is the 
first member of the batrachian suborder Cos- 
tata known -with certainty to have been dis- 
covered in the Western Hemisphere. 

Evans's birds. 

Am. Naturalist, xxxni, June, 1899, pp. 
523-526. 
A review of volume ix of "The Cambridge 
Natural History — Birds," by A. H. Evans. 

Blind Cave Salamanders. 

Popular Science, xxxin, June, 1899, pp. 
121, 122, with text figs. 
A popular account of Pruteus anguineus, Ty- 
phUitriiim spclccas, and Ti/plilomolge rathbuni, 
with illustrations of the latter from photo- 
graphs. 

On a collection of batrachians and 

reptiles from Formosa and adjacent 
islands. 

Juurn. Science College 3Ias. Univ. Tukijo 
(Japan), xii, part in, pp. 215-225. 
The collection which was made for the 
Japanese Government was submitted to the 
author to be worked up. The lirst .set of speci- 
mens belongs to the Science College Museum, 
Tokyo; the second has been presented to the 
National Mu.seum. Ita7ia longicrus, Japaiura 
iiilsnkurii, Emydocephalus ijivue are described 
, s new species. 

TEST, Fhkdekick C'LEVEi.ANn. A contri- 
])ution to the knowledge of the varia- 
tions of the Tree Frog, Hyla regilla. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi, No. 11.5G, Nov. 
19,1898, pp. 477-492, pi. 39. 



TRUE, FuEDERrcK W. On the nomencla- 
ture of the Whalebone Whales of the 
tenth edition of Liniueus's " Systema 
Natune." 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi, No. 11G3, Nov. 
4, 1898, pp. 617-635. 

An account of the United States Na- 
tional Museum. 

Rep. Smithsonian TnM. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1896(1899), pp. 287-324. 



(See under Thomas Wil- 
Wayland. (See under 



UPHAM, E. P. 

SON. ) 

VAUGHAN, T. 
R. T. Hill.) 

WALCOTT, Charles Doolittle. Cam- 
brian Brachiopoda: Obolus and Lingu- 
lella, witli descriptions of new species. 

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xxi, No. 11.52, Nov. 
19, 1898, pp. 385-420, pis. 26-28. 
In this paper the author describes 10 
American species of Obolus, and 59 species 
and varieties of Lingulella. 

Fossil Meduste. 

Monograph U.S. Ocol.Surv., xxx, 1898, pp. 
1-201, pis. 1-47. 
In this extensive, detailed, and finely illus- 
trated work by the Director of the U. S. Geo- 
logical Survey, all the species of fossil me- 
dusae are described and figured. The chief 
localities for Paleozoic species are in America, 
and in Coosa Valley, Alabama, they are abun- 
dant. The material is now in the U. S. 
National Museum. 

Pre-Cambrian fossiliferous forma- 
tions. 

Bull. Gcol. Soc. Am., x, April, 1899, i)p. 
199-244, pis. 22-28. 
In this paper the writer brings together all 
that is known regarding the American fossil- 
iferous formations beneath the Cambrian, 
and describes and figures the fossils, of which 
there are 9 species. 

WARD, Lester F. Descriptions of the 
species of Ciicadeoidea or fossil cycadean 
trunks, thus far determined from the 
Lower Cretaceous rim of the Black 
Hills. 

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xxi, No. 1141, Oct. 29, 
1898, pp. 195-229. 
This paper is based on a study of 155 speci- 
mens, 25 of which belong to the Wational 
Mu.seum. Twenty-one species are described, 
all of which, with one exception, are new to 
science. 

WATSON, Thomas L. Weathering of 
Diabase near Chatham, Va. 

Am. Geologist, xii, Aug., 1898, pp. 8.5-101. 



148 



REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



WATSON, Thomas L.— Continued. 

Gives results of studies of fresh and decom- 
posed material along lines laid down by Dr. 
Merrill, in his work on " Rocks, rock-weath- 
ering, and soils." 

The investigations were carried on in the 
National Museum laboratories, and the speci- 
mens described remain among the Museum 
collections. 

WHITE, David, and SGHUCHERT, 
Charles. Cretaceous series of the 
West Coast of Greenland. 

Bull. Geol. Soc. Am., ix, June, 1898, pp. 
343-368, pis. 24-26. 
The writers were sent to North Greenland 
by this Museum in 1897. An account of their 
geological investigations is here published. 
The lists of fossil plants are based entirely on 
material collected by them. 

The Cretaceous and Tertiary formations of 
Noursoak peninsula are described. Of sedi- 
mentary deposits the thickness is not less 
than 3,500 feet, capped by Tertiary basalts 
attaining a maximum thickness of 4,000 feet. 
The various localities and horizons for fossils 
are described. 

WHITEAVES, J. F. On some additional 
or imperfectly understood fossils from 
the Hamilton formation of Ontario, 
with a revised list of the species there- 
from. 

Contributions to Canadian Paleontology, 

Geological Survey of Canada, i, No. 7, 

Nov., 1898, pp. 361-436, pis. xlviii-l. 

Based partly on material collected in the 

vicinity of Thedford, Ontario, for the National 

Museum, by Charles Schuchert. 

WILSON, Thomas. Prehistoric art, or 
the origin of art as manifested in the 
works of prehistoric man. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1896 (1899), pp. 325-664, pis. 1-74, figs. 
1-325. 
This paper deals with art in prehistoric 
times. It approaches the subject from the 
aesthetic rather than the utilitarian point of 
view, although the two are necessarily inter- 
related. 

The introduction contains remarks on the 
theory of art. 

The first and second chapters deal with all 
kinds of art in the Paleolithic and Neolithic 
periods, and with the differences in art be- 
tween the two periods and the geometric or- 
naments employed in both. 

The third chapter treats of prehistoric mu- 
sical instruments, describing the gold and 
bronze horns of northern Europe. This por- 
tion of the work was prosecuted in collabora- 
tion with Mr. E. P. Upham, whose musical 



WILSON, Thomas— Continued. 

knowledge made its successful accomplish- 
ment possible and to whom the credit of this 
chapter largely belongs. 

Art in prehistoric times. 

Proc. Am. A.i.'iO)'. Adv. .Set., xlvii, 1898, jip. 
456-4.59. 
A summary of the author's work on " Pre- 
historic Art." 

This article was reprinted in The American 
Archxologid (formerly The Antiquarian), ii, 
Pt. 2, Nov.. 1898, pp. 281-283. 

Classification of arrowpoints, spear- 
heads, and knives. 

Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., .xi.vii, 1898, pp. 
464-470. 
Summary of the author's work on "Arrow- 
points, spearheads, and knives of prehistoric 
times." 

Archaeological museums. Modes of 

lighting. — Effect of glass upon light. 

Sci. Am. Suppl., No. 1203, New York, Jan. 
21, 1899, p. 19288. 

This paper was read before the mid-winter 
meeting of the American Association for the 
Advancement of Science, Dec, 1898, held at 
Columbia University, New York City. 

Glass may affect the transmission of light 
by reflection, by refraction, or by absorption. 
The question discussed in this article is the 
amount or proportion of light lost in passing 
through glass of different kinds. Various 
mechanical appliances were u.sed to deter- 
mine loss: (1) a camera obscura, (2) compar- 
ative photographs, (3) photometer. 

(Translator and editor). Quater- 
nary deposits at Abbeville, France, 
wherein Paleolithic implements were 
first discovered. By G. D'Ault Du 
Mesnil. 

Am. Antiq. and Orient. Joiirn., xxi, No. 3, 
May and June, 1899, pp. 137-145. 
Describes the deposits and shows the differ- 
ent strata in which appear the bones of fossil 
animals and artefacts of flint associated there- 
with. 

WILSON, Thomas, and UPHAM, E. P. 
Prehistoric musical instruments. 

Proc. Am. A.^noc. Adc. Sci., .XLVli, 1898, pp. 
459-J64. 
This article was reprinted in The American 
Archseologist (formerly The Antiquarian), 
III, Part 1, Jan., 1S99, pp. 9-14. 

Summary of tlic third chapter of Mr. Wil- 
son's work on " Prehistoric Art." 



LIST OF AUTHORS. 

Adler, Dr. Cyrus, Smithsonian Institution. 

American Ornithologists' Union, New York City. 

AsHMEAD, William H., U. S. National Museum. 

Bangs, Outram, Boston, Mass. 

Banks, Nathan, Falls Church, Va. 

Bartsch, Paul, U. S. National Museum. 

Bean, Barton A., U. S. National Museum. 

Bean, Dr. Tarleton H., U. S. National Museum. 

Brewster, William, Cambridge, Mass. 

Casanowicz, Dr. I. M., U. S. National Museum. 

Chapman, Frank M., American Museum of Natural History, New York City. 

Chesnut, Victor K., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Chittenden, Frank H., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Clark, Prof. Hubert Lyman, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass. 

Cook, Prof. O. F., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

CoauiLLETT, Daniel W., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Coville, Frederick Vernon, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Culin, Stewart, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Currie, Rolla p., U. S. National Museum. 

Dall, William H., U. S. Geological Survey. 

Diller, J. S., U. S. Geological Survey. 

Dyar, Dr. Harrison G., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Eakle, Arthur S., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. 

Gilbert, Dr. Charles H., Leland Stanford Jmiior University, Stanford University, 

Cal. 
Gill, Dr. Theodore N., Smithsonian Institution. 
Grinnell, Joseph, Pasadena, Cal. 
GooDE, Dr. G. Brown. (Deceased.) 
Hay, Dr. Oliver P., Washington, D. C. 
Hay, Prof. W. P., AVashington, D. C. 
Hill, R. T., JJ. S. Geological Survey. 
Hough, Dr. Walter, U. S. National Museum. 
Howard, Dr. Leland O., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 
Knowlton, F. H., U. S. Geological Survey. 
Linell, Martin L. (Deceased.) 
Lord, Dr. E. C. E., Washington, D. C. 
Lucas, Frederic A., U. S. National Museum. 
McGregor, Richard C, Palo Alto, Cal. 
Mark, E. L., Cambridge, Mass. 

Marlatt, Charles L., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 
Mason, Prof. Otis T., U. S. National Museum. 
Mearns, Dr. Edgar A., U. S. A., Fort Adams, Newport, R. I. 
Merrill, Dr. George P., U. S. National Museum. 
•Miller, Gerrit S., Jr., U. S. National Museum. 

Montgomery, Thomas L., AVagner Free Institute of Science, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Moore, Dr. J. Percy, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa. 

14y 



i^O REPORT OF KATIOlsrAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Murdoch, John, Pul)lic Library, Boston, Mass. 

Nelson, E. W., V. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Newberry, Dr. John Strong. (Deceased.) 

Nutting, Prof. C. C, State University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa. 

Oberholser, Harry C, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Osgood, Wilfred H., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Palmer, William, U. S. National Museum. 

Pollard, Charles Louis, U. S. National Museum. 

Rankin, W. M., Princeton University, Princeton, N. J. 

Rathbun, Mary J., U. S. National Museum. 

Richardson, Harriet, AVashington, D. C. 

Richmond, Dr. Charles W., U. S. National Museum. 

RiDGWAY, Robert, U. S. National Museum. * 

Rose, Dr. J. N., U. S. National Museum. 

Safford, James, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn. 

Schuchert, Charles, U. S. National Museum. 

Schwarz, Eugene A., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Smith, Dr. Hugh M., U. S. Fish Commission. 

Smith, Prof. John B., Rutgers College, New Brunswick, N. J. 

Starrs, Edwin C, University of Washington, Seattle, Wash. 

Stearns, Dr. R. E. C, Los Angeles, Cal. 

Stejneger, Dr. Leonhard, U. S. National Maseum. 

Test, Dr. Frederick C, Chicago, 111. 

True, Dr. Frederick W., U. S. National Museum. 

Vaughan, T. Wayland, U. S. Geological Survey. 

White, David, U. S. Geological Survey. 

Ward, Prof. Lester F., U. S. Geological Survey. 

Wilson, Dr. Thomas, U. S. National Museum. 

Walcott, Hon. Charles D., Director IT. S. Geological Survey. 

Watson, Thomas L., Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. 



APPENDIX V. 

Papers Published, in Separate Form during the Year ending 

eTuNE 80, 1899. 

FROM THE REPORT FOR 1896. 

Report iinon the condition and progress of the U. S. National Museum during the 
year ending June 80, 1896. By G. Brown Goode. pp. 1-284, pis. 1-4. 

An account of the United States National Museum. By Frederick W. True. pp. 
287-324. 

Prehistoric art; or the origin of art as manifested in the works of prehistoric man. 
By Thomas Wilson, pp. 325-664, pis. 1-74, figs. 1-325. 

Che.ss and i>]aying cards. By Stewart Culin. pp. 665-942, pis. 1-50, figs. 1-226. 

Biblical antiquities. By Cyrus Adler and I. M. Casanowicz. pp. 943-1023, pis. 1-46. 

The lamp of the Eskimo. By Walter Hough, pp. 1025-1057, pis. 1-24, figs. 1-4. 

FROM N'OLUME 21 OF THE PROCEEDINGS. 

No. 1140. Contributions toward a monograph of the Lepidopterous family Noctuidse 

of Boreal North America. A revision of the species of Acronycta (Och- 

senheimer) and of certain allied genera. By John B. Smith and Har- 
rison G. Dyar. pp. 1-194, pis. 1-22. 
No. 1141. Descriptions of the species of Cycadeoidea, or fossil cycadean trunks, thus 

far determined from the Lower Cretaceous rim of the Black Hills. By 

Lester F. Ward. pp. 195-229. 
No. 1142. On some new parasitic insects of the su])fami]y Encyrtime. By L. 0. 

Howard, pp. 231-248. 
No. 1143. On the Coleopterous insects of Galapagos Islands. By Martin L. Linell. 

l)p. 249-268. 
No. 1144. The birds of the Kuril Islands. By Leonhard Stejneger. pp. 269-296. 
No. 1 145. Description of a species of Actajon from the Quaternary Bluffs at Spanish 

Bight, San Diego, Cal. By Robert E. C. Stearns, pp. 297-299. 
No. 1146. Report on a collection of Japanese Diptera, presented to the IT. S. National 

Museum by the Imperial University of Tokyo. By D. W. Coquillett. 

pp. 301-340. 
No. 1147. Notes on the mammals of the Catskill Mountains, New York, with general 

remarks on the fauna and flora of the region. Bv Edgar A. Mearns. 

pp. 341-360, figs. 1-6. 
No. 1148. Topaz crystals in the mineral collection of the U. S. National Museum. By 

Arthur S. Eakle. pp. 361-369, figs. 1-22. 
No. 1149. Notes on Cylhcrea ( Tivela) craxmti'lloides Conrad, with descriptions of many 

varieties. By Robert E. C. Stearns, pp. 371-378, pis. 23-25. 
No. 1150. On the occurrence of Amphiuma, the so-called Congo Snake, in Virginia. 

By Hugh M. Smith, pp. 379, 380. 
No. 1151. Description of a new species of Spiny-tailed Iguana from Guatemala. By 

Leonhard Stejneger. pp. 381-383. 
No. 1152. Cambrian Brachiopoda: Oholm and LingtdeUa, with descriptions of new 

species. By Charles D. Walcott. pp. 385-420, pis. 26-28. 

151 



152 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

No. 1153. A revision of the wrens of the genus Thryomnncs Sclater. By Harry C. 

01)erholser. pp. 421-450. 
No. 1154. American Oniscoid Diplopoda of the order Merocheta. By O. F. C'ook. 

pp. 451-468, pis. 29-32. 
No. 1155. The osteology and relationships of the family Zeidee. By Edwin Chapin 

Starks. pp. 469-476, pis. 33-38. 
No. 1156. A contribution to a knowledge of the variations of the Tree Frog, Hyla 

regilla. By Frederick Cleveland Test. pp. 477-492, pi. 39. 
No. 1157. Japanese Hymenoptera of the family Tenthredinidse. By C. L. Marlatt. 

pp. 493-506. 
No. 1158. A contribution to a knowledge of the fresh-water crabs of America — The 

Pseudothelphusina\ By Mary J. Rathbun. pp. 507-537, figs. 1-17. 
No. 1159. Notes on a collection of fishes from INIexico, with description of a new 

species of Plati/fxecilus. By Barton A. Bean. pp. 539-542, 1 fig. 
No. 1160. The leeches of the U. S. National Museum. By J. Percy Moore, pp. 

543-563, pi. 40. 
No. 1161. On the occurrence of Cauloleph long id ens GiU on the coast of California. 

By Charles Henry Gilbert, pp. 565, 566. 
No. 1162. The Brachyura collected by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross 

on the voyage from Norfolk, Va., to San Francisco, Cal., 1887-88. By 

Mary J. Rathbun. pp. 567-616, pis. 41-44. 
No. 1163. On the nomenclature of the Whalebone whales of the Tenth Edition of 

Linnseus's " Systema Naturae. " By Frederick "W. True. pp. 617-635. 
No. 1164. A new snake from the Eocene of Alabama. By Frederic A. Lucas, pp. 

637, 638, pis. 45, 46. 
No. 1165. Notes on the capture of rare fishes. By Barton A. Bean. pp. 639, 640. 
No. 1166. The feather-tracts of North American Grouse and Quail. By Hubert 

Lyman Clark, pp. 641-653, pis. 47-49, figs. 1-4. 
No. 1167. Notes on Oxycotius acuticeps (Gilbert) from Sitka and Kadiak, Alaska. By 

Tarleton H. Bean and Barton A. Bean. pp. 655, 656. 
No. 1168. African Diplopoda of the genus Poc/iy^o/HS. By O. F. Cook. pp. 667-676, 

pis. 50-52. 
No. 1169. The Diplopod family Striariida3. By O. F. Cook. pp. 667-676, pis. 53, 54. 
No. 1170. African Diplopoda of the family Gomphodesmidse. By O. F. Cook. pp. 

677-739, pis. 55-61. 
No. 1171. Hydroida from Alaska and Puget Sound. By Charles Cleveland Nutting. 

pp. 741-753, pis. 62-64. 
No. 1172. The fossil Bison of North America. By Frederic A. Lucas, pp. 755-771, 

pis. 65-84, figs. 1, 2. 
No. 1173. Petrograi:)hic report on rocks from the United States-Mexico boundary. 

By Edwin C. E. Lord. pp. 773-782, pi. 85. 
No. 1174. The land reptiles of the Hawaiian Islands. By Leonhard Stejneger. pp. 

783-813, figs. 1-13. 
No. 1175. Key to the isopods of the Pacific Coast of North America, with descrip- 
tions of 22 new species. By Harriet Richardson, pp. 815-869, figs. 

1-34. 
No. 1176. Description of a new species of subterranean isopod. By W. P. Hay. pp. 

871, 872, pi. 86. 
No. 1177. Synopsis of the recent and Tertiary Lejjtonacea of North America and the 

West Indies. By William H. Dall. pp, 873-897, pis. 87, 88. 
No. 1178. Description of anew genus and species of Discoglossoid Toad from North 

America. By Leonhard Stejneger. pp. 899-901, pi. 89. 



I^^RT II 



PAPERS DESCRIBING AND ILLUSTRATING COLLECTIONS IN THE 
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Page. 
Guide to the Study of the Collections in the Section of Applied Geology: The 

Nonmetallic Minerals. By George P. Merrill 155 

A Primitive Frame for Weaving Narrow Fabrics. By Otis T. Mason 485 

An Early West Virginia Pottery. By Walter Hough 511 

Pointed Bark Canoes of the Kutenai and Amur. By Otis T. Mason 523 

Descriptive Catalogue of a Collection of Objects of Jewish Ceremonial deposited 
in the U. S. National Museum by Hadji Ephraim Benguiat. By Cyrus 

Adler and I. M. Casano wicz 539 

153 



Report of U, S. National Museum, 1 899.— Merrill. 



Plate 1. 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 899.— Merrill. 



Plate 2. 




View showing Rail Case and Installation of Nonmetallic Minerals in Gallery 
OF Southwest Court of U. S. National Museum. Looking North. 



GUIDE TO THE STUDY OF THE COLLECTIONS IN 
THE SECTION OF APPLIED GEOLOGY. 



GEORGE P. MERRII.E, 

Curator, Division of Phi/sira! <tnd <'In'iinc<(l Geology, 
and Head Curator of the Department. 



155 



PREFATORY NOTE. 



The accompanying handbook and guide is an outgrowth of the work 
of installing and lalx'ling the colh^-tions of the economic .section of the 
Division of Physical and C-luMnical (leoU)gy. The term nonmetallic, 
as used, includes those minerals which, as here exhibited, are utilized 
in other than metallic forms. The collections, comprising as now 
arranged, sonui ^^,500 specimens, include therefore some materials 
which— like the iron oxides — may ))e utilized as ores of metals. As 
such they have already been considered in Bulletin No. 42, under the 
title A Preliminary Descriptive Catalogue of the Systematic Collec- 
tions in Economic Geology and Metallurgy, by F. P. Dewey. The 
collection of l)uilding and ornamental stones which might perhaps be 
included herewith has been also the subject of a special handbook 
pul)lished in the Annual Report of the National Museum for 1880, 
and entitled The Collection of Building and Ornamental Stones in the 
United States National Museum: A Handbook and Catalogue. By 
George P. Merrill. 

It is scarcely necessary to remark that in the preparation of this 
work the curator has ))een hampered by a great dearth of information 
on certain subjects and burdened with a superabundance on others. 
Certain materials, such as the coals, phosphates, limes, and cements, 
would each require a volume, and necessarily must be very imper- 
fectly treated here. In such cases the curator has aimed to give as 
brief and concise an abstract as the reipiiniments of a handbook 
would p(!rmit, and make up for the deficiencies in the l)i])liography. 
In oth(;r cases the subjects are treated as fully as the knowledge at 
hand will allow. In descri])ing occurrences the aim has ])een to give 
in detail one or two fairly typical deposits, referring to others more 
brierty. Naturally the preference has l)een given to American mate- 
rials. Statements as to prices and annual production are (juite unsatis- 
factory and of very temporary value at best. But little space has 
therefore been devoted to this branch of the su))ject. Technical, 
chemical, and crystallographic points have been but lightly touched 
upon, such being already covered by existing literature. Only such 
statements as to hardness, color, etc., are given as it is thought may 
be of value in rough preliminary deternunations. 

The satisfactory installation and classification of collections of this 
nature are matters of no inconsiderable difficulty. As the materials 

157 



158 EEPOKT OB^ NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

are utilized for industrial purposes, it might at first thought appear 
that they should be grouped according- to the uses to which they 
are put, as is commonly done at expositions. Such a plan, however, 
involves a great amount of repetition, since many of the materials, as 
diatomaccous earths, the clays, steatite, etc., are used for a variety of 
purposes. On this account the method of installation, or grouping, 
adopted is somewhat loose, the materials being grouped (1) by kinds, 
and under kinds so far as possible (2) by uses. Further than this the 
character of the material has in many instances rendered it necessary 
to install those ^losely related and used, it may be, for quite similar 
purposes in cases of quite different type as is shown in the hydrocar- 
bon series, the coals, asphalts, etc., being in the deep- wall cases while 
the petroleums, in bottles, are exhiljited in the upright portion of the 
rail cases. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS AND SCHEME OF CLASSIFICATION. 



J. Elements: Paso. 

1. Carbon "5 

Diamond ^ '^ 

Graphite ^ '58 

2. Sulphur 1^4 

3. Arsenic 182 

4. AUeraontite - 182 

II. Sulphides and arsenides: 

1 . Realgar 183 

2. Orpiment ; auripigment 183 

3. Cobalt minerals 184 

Col)altite 184 

Smaltite - 185 

Skutterudite 186 

Glaueodot 186 

Linnante 1 86 

Syehnodymite 187 

Erythrite or cobalt bloom - - I'^i" 

Asbolite 187 

4. Arsenopyrite; mispickel or arsenical pyrites 189 

5. Lollingite ; leucopyrite - 189 

6. Pyrites 19f* 

7. Molybdenite , 193 

III. Halides: 

1. Halite; sodium chloride; or common salt 195 

2. Fluorite -13 

3. Cryolite 214 

IV. Oxides: 

1. Silica 215 

Quart/ 215 

Flint - 216 

Buhrstone 217 

Tripoli 217 

Diatomaceous or infusorial eartli 21 S 

2. Corundum and emery 220 

3. Bauxite 229 

4. Diaspore 239 

5. Gibbsite; hydrargillite 239 

6. Ocher 239 

7. Ilmenite; menaccanite; or titanic iron 245 

8. Rutile - 245 

9. Chromite 246 

10. Manganese oxides 252 

Franklinite 253 

Hausmannite 253 

159 



160 REPORT Oi^ NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

IV. Oxides — Continued. 

10. INIanganese oxides — Continued. Page. 

Braunite - "- 254 

Polianite - 254 

Pyrolusite 254 

Manganite 254 

Psilonielane 255 

Wad or l)og manganese 255 

V. Carbonates: 

1. Calcium ('arl)onate 258 

Calcite; calc spar; Iceland spar 258 

Chalk - 262 

Limestones; mortars; and cements 264 

Portland cement 266 

Roman cement 268 

Playing marbles 270 

Lithographic limestones 270 

2. Dolomite 274 

3. Magnesite 275 

4. Witherite 279 

5. Strontianite 279 

6. Rhodochrosite ; dialogite - 280 

7. Natron, the nitrum of the ancients 280 

8. Trona; urao 281 

VI. Silicates: 

1 . Feldspars 281 

2. Micas - - - 283 

3. Asbestos - 296 

4. Garnet 307 

5. Zircon 308 

6. Spodumene and petalite 308 

7. Lazurite; lapis lazuli; or native ultramarine 309 

8. Allanite; orthite 311 

9. Gadolinite 313 

10. Cerite 314 

11. Rhodonite 314 

12. Steatite; talc; and soapstone 315 

13. Pyrophyllite; agalmatolite; and pagodite 322 

14. Sepiolite; meerschaum 323 

15. Clays 325 

VII. Niobates and tantalates: 

1. Columbite and tantalite 353 

2. Yttrotantalite 354 

3. Samarskite 354 

4. Wolframite and Hiibnerite 355 

5. Scheelite 356 

VIII. Phosphates: 

1. Apatite; rock phosphates; guano, etc 356 

2. Monazite 383 

3. Vanadinite - 387 

4. Descloizite 388 

5. Amblygonite 390 

6. Triphylite and lithiophilite 391 



CONTENTS. 1<'>1 

IX. XitratOH: 



1 Niter, potassium nitrato 

■f- *:;*"";":; ::::; S' 

0. Nitro-oalcite 

X. Borates: 

1 . Iiorax or tiiical ; borate of soda '^^'^ 

•1 rioxite; l)oronatrocalc-ite •- '^'' 

397 

3. Coleinanite 

4. Boracite or stassfurtite; borate of iiiao:nesia 39/ 

XI. iTanates: 

1 . I'raninite; pitchblende 

XII. Sulphates: 

1 . Barite; heavv spar 

, ,, 406 

2. e.ypsum - 

5. Celestite ^^[ 

4. Mirabilite; or (,Tlau))er salt 

5. Glauberite 

(>. Theuardite 

7. Epsomite; Epsom salts 

8. Polvhalite '^JJ 

,,,,.'•. 416 

^^^'^'^ ::' 416- 

10. Kiesente 

11. Alums: 

Kalinite ^^'^ 

Tsehermigite ^"^^ 

419 
Aluminite 

Alunite ^^^ 

421 
Alum slate or shale 

XIII. Hydrocarbon compounds: 

1 . Coal series - 

„ , 424 

Peat 

Lignite or brown coal '* '^ 

Bituminous coals 

1 427 

Anthracite coal 

429 

2. Bitumen series 

Marsh gas; natural gas. ^^^ 

Petroleum ^'^^ 

Asphaltum; mineral pitcli _ 441 

Manjak '^"^'^ 

Elaterite; mineral caoutchouc 4'**^ 

Wurtzillite '*"*^ 

All)ertite ^^^ 

447 
Grahamite 

Carbonite or natural coke 

Uintaite; gilsonite _ 

3. Ozokerite; mineral wax; native paraffin 4ol 

4. Resins 

Succinite; amber ^" 

Retinite ^5^^ 

Chemawinite "^fl 

Gum copal ''*' 

NAT MUS 99 11 



162 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

XIV. Miscellaneous: Page. 

1 . Grindstones; whetstones; and hones 463 

2. Pumice 470 

3. Rottenstone 473 

4. Madstones 474 

5. Molding sand 474 

6. Mineral waters. 477 

7. Road-making materials 482 



LIST OF ILLUSTPtATIONS. 



PLATES. 

Facing page 

1. View showing wall and rail cases and installation of nonmetallic minerals 
on gallery of sonthwest conrt, U. S. National Mnsenm. Looking 



west 



L55 



2. View showing rail case and installation of nonmetallic minerals in gallery 

of southwest court of U. S. National Museum. Looking north 155 

3. Views in graphite mine near Hague, Warren County, New York. From 

photographs by C. D. Walcott - 170 

4. Section of the salt deposits at Stassfurt. From the Transactions of the 

Edinburgh Geological Society, V, 1884, p. 11 1 204 

5. Views of brine-evaporating tanks at Syracuse, New York. From photo- 

graphs by I. P. Bishop - - 210 

6. View of Tripoli mines in Carthage, Missouri 218 

7. Deposit of diatomaceous earth. Great Bend of Pitt River, Shasta County, 

Cahfornia. From a photograph by J. S. Diller 219 

8. Map showing distribution of corundum and peridotite in the eastern 

United States. After J. V. Lewis, Bulletin II, North Carolina Geo- 
logical Survey 222 

9. Microstructure of emery. After Tschermak, Mineralogische und Petro- 

graphische Mittheilungen XIV, Part 4 224 

10. Section showing the formation of manganese deposits from deca>- of 

limestone. After Penrose, Annual Report Geological Survey of Arkan- 
sas, I, 1890 252 

11. Botryoidal psilomelane, Crimora, Virginia. Specimen No. 66722, 

U.S.N.M 255 

12. Views showing occurrence Calcite in Iceland. After Thoroddsen 259 

13. View in a cement quarry near Whitehall, Ulster County, New York. 

From a photograph by N. H. Darton 268 

14. View in a soapstone quarry, Lafayette, Pennsylvania 319 

15. Microsections showing the apjiearance of (1) kaolinite and (2) washed 

kaolin 330 

16. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) halloysite and (2) ledaclay. 331 

17. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) Albany County, Wyoming, 

clay and (2) fuller's earth 332 

18. Leda clays, Lewiston, Maine. From a photograph by L. H. Merrill 333 

19. View in a Kaolin pit, Delaware County, Pennsylvania ^. 339 

20. INIap showing phosphate regions of Florida. After G. H. Eldridge 366 

21. Borax mine near Daggett, California. Interior and exterior views 398 

22. View of a gypsum quarry. From a photograph by the Iowa Geological 

Survey "108 

23. Peat beds overlying gold-bearing gravels, Mias, Russia. From a photo- 

graph by A. M. Miller 424 

163 



164 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Facing page. 

24. Map showing the developed coal fields of the United States. From 

the Report of the P^leventh Census 426 

25. Map showing areas where bitumen occurs in the United States and 

Canada. From the Report of the Tenth Census 429 

26. Plan of Pitch Lake, Trinidad. After S. F. Peckham 442 

27. Nodule of gum copal from Congo River region, Africa. Specimen No. 

62717, U.S.N. M 457 

28. Microsection of mica schist used in making whetstone. Fig. 1, cut 

across foliation. Fig. 2, cut parallel to foliation 467 

29. View of Novaculite Quarry, Arkansas. After Griswold, Annual Report of 

the Geological Survey of Arkansas, III, 1890 468 

30. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) Arkansas Novaculite and (2) 

Ratisbon razor hone. The dark l)odies in (2) are garnets 470 



TEXT FIGURES. 

Page. 

1. Block of limestone with alternating bands of sulphur. Sicily, Italy. Spec- 

imen No. 60932, U.S.N.M 179 

2. Cluster of halite crystals, Stassfurt, Germany. Specimen No. 40222, 

U.S.N.M 195 

3. Geological section of Petite Anse Island, Louisiana 201 

4. Cluster of sylvite crystals, Stassfurt, Germany. Specimen No. 40223, 

U.S.N.M 203 

5. Pisolitic bauxite. Bartow County, Georgia. Specimen No. 63335, U.S.N.M. 229 

6. Map showing geological relations of Georgia and Alabama 1)auxite 

deposits. After C. W. Hayes 235 

7. Section showing relation of bauxite to mantle of residual clay in (ieorgia. 

After C. W. Hayes 236 

8. Section across paint mine at Lehigh Gap, Pennsylvania. After C. E. Hesse. 242 

9. Section of mica veins in Yancey County, North Carolina. After W. C. 

Kerr 288 

10. Asbestos fibers. After G. P. Merrill, Proceedings of the U. S. National 

Museum, XVIII, p. 283 297 

11. Serpentine asbestos in massive serpentine. Specimen No. 72836 302 

12. Map of Nitrate region, Chile. After Fuchs and De Launay 393 

13. Section through Sulphur Mountain, California. After S. F. Peckham 432 



GUIDE TO THl: STUDY OP THl: COLLF£TIO\S IN THE 
SECTION OF AlTTJliD GEOLOGY. 

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



By George P. Merrill, 

Curator, Dlri>ilo)) of Phy^vcal (tnd Chemical Geology and Head Curator of the Department. 



I. ELEMENTS. 
1. Carbon. 

Tho numoroiis ooinpounds of which carbon forms tho chief constit- 
uent are widely variable in their physical properties and origin. As 
occurring in nature few of its nieuibers p >ssess a definite chemical 
composition such as would constitute a true mineral sp(H'it\s, and they 
must for the most part be looked upon as indefinite^ admixtures in 
which carl)on, hydrogen, and oxygen play the more iniportint roles. 
For present purposes the entire group may l)e l)est considered under 
the heads of (1) The Pure Carbon series; (i^) Th(> Coal series, and (8) 
The Bitumen series, the distinctions being based mainly on the gradu- 
ally increasing amounts of volatile hydrocarbons, a change which is 
accompanied by a variation in physical condition from the hardest of 
known su))stances through plastic and liquid to gaseous forms. Here 
will be considered only the members of the pure carbon series, the 
others being discussed under the head of hydrocarl)()ii compounds. 

Diamond. — This mineral crystallizes in the isometric syst<Mn, with 
a tendency toward octahedral forms, the crystals showing curved and 
striated surfaces, (Specimen No. 53558, U.S.N.M.) The hardness is 
grejit, 1(> of Dana's scale; the specific gravity varies from 3.1 in the 
carl)onados to 3.5 in good clear crystals. The luster is adamantine; 
the colors, white or colorless, through yellow, red, orange, green, 
brown to black. The transparent and highly refractive forms are of 
value as gems, and can best be discussed in works upon this subject. 
We have to do here rather with the rough, confused crystalline aggre- 
gates or rounded forms, transluc(Mit to opaijue, which, though of 
no value as gems, are of the greatest utilit}' in the arts. To such 

105 



166 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899, 

forms the name hlack diamond^ hort^ and carbonado are applied. (Speci- 
mens Nos. 53668-53671, U.S.N.M.) 

Origin and Occurrence. — The origin of the diamond has long been a 
matter of discussion. A small proportion of the diamonds of the 
world are found in alluvial deposits of gravel or sand. In the South 
African fields they occur in a so-called blue gravel, formed, according 
to Lewis, along the line of contact between an eruptive rock (perido 
tite) and highly carbonaceous shales. They were regarded by Lewis 
as originating through the crystallization of the carbon of the shales 
b}'^ the heat of the molten rock. De Launay states, however, that 
there is no necessary connection between the shales and the diamond, 
and shows with apparent conclusiveness that the latter occur often in 
a broken and fragmental condition, such as to indicate beyond doubt 
that they originated at greater depths and were brought upward as 
phenocrysts in the molten magma at the time of its intrusion. The 
primary origin of the diamonds he regards as through the crystalliza- 
tion, under great pressure, of the carbon contained in the basic magma 
in the form of metallic carbides. 

The diamond-bearing rock as above noted is a peridotite often brec- 
ciated and more or less serpentinized (Specimen No. 62108, U.S.N.M.). 
The blue and green gravel formed b}^ the decomposition of this rock is 
shown in Specimen No. 73188, U.S.N.M. With these are others of the 
associated, eruptive, and metamorphie rocks, as melaphyr (Specimen 
No. 73184, U.S.N.M.), quartzite (Specimen No. 73185^ U.S.N.M.), 
shale (Specimen No. 73186, U.S.N.M.), and basalt (Specimen No. 73187, 
U.S.N.M). 

Whether or not a similar origin to that outlined above can be attrib- 
uted to the Brazilian diamonds is as yet unproven. Their occurrence 
and association with detrital materials resulting from the breaking 
down of older rocks, with which they may or mav not have been 
originally associated, renders the problem obscure and difficult of 
solution. 

According to Kunz,^ 95 per cent of all diamonds at present obtained 
come from the Kimberly Mines, Griqua Land, west South Africa; of 
these, some 47 per cent are bort. The remainder come from Brazil, 
India, and Borneo, A few have been found in North America, the 
Ural Mountains, and New South Wales, but these countries are not 
recognized as regular and constant sources of supply. 

Uses. — The material, aside from its use as a gem, owes its chief value 
to its great hardness, and is used as an abrading and cutting medium 
in cutting diamonds and other gems, glass, and hard materials in gen- 
eral, such as can not be worked by softer and cheaper substances. 

With the introduction of machinery into mining and quarrjang there 

^ Gems and Precious Stones. New York, 1890. 



THK NONMETALLIC MINKRALS. 1 ()7 

has arisen u constant and o-rowing demand for black diamonds, or hort, 
for tb(» ciittino- edges of diamond drills, and to a less extent for teeth 
to diamond saws. (Specimens Nos. 58668 to 58670, U.8.N.M.) 

According to a writer in the Iron Age^ the crystallized diamond is 
not suitable for these purposes owing to its cleavage property. The best 
bort or ""carbonado" comes, it is said, from Bahia, Brazil, where it is 
found as small, black pebbles in river gravels. The ordinary sizes 
used for drills weigh but from one-half to 1 carat, but in special cases 
pieces weighing from -i to 6 carats are used. It is stated that the 
crowns of large drills, 10 inches in diameter, armed with the best 
grade of carbonado, are sometimes valued as high as $10,000. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

M. Babinet. The Diamond and other precious stones. 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1870, p. 333. 
A Daubree. Annales des Mines, 7th ser., IX, 1876, p. 130. 

Remarking on the occurrence of platinum associated with peridotites, he calls 
attention to the fact that Maskelyne had shown the diamonds of South Africa 
and Borneo to occur in a decomposed peridotite. 
Orville a. Derby. Geology of the Diamantiferous Region of the Province of Paranil, 
Brazil. 

American Journal of Science, XVIII, 1879, p. 310. 

Geology of the Diamond. 

American Journal of Science, XXIII, 1882, p. 97. 
R. Cohen. Igneous origin of the Diamond. 

Proceedings, Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, 1884, p. 5. 
H. Carvill Lewis. The Genesis of the Diamond. 

Science, VIII, 1886, p. 345. 
Gardner F. Williams. The Diamond Mines of South Africa. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XV, 1886, p. 392. 
Orville A. Derby. The Genesis of the Diamond. 

Science, IX, 1887, p. 57. 
Discovery of Diamonds in a Meteoric Stone. 

Nature, XXXVII, 1887, p. 110. 
Diamond Mining in Ceylon. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, XLIX, 1890, p. 678. 
A. ]\Iervyn Smith. The Diamond Fields of India. 

Engineering and ^Mining Journal, LIII, 1892, p. 454. 
Oliver Whipple Huntington. Diamonds in Meteorites. 

Science, XX, 1892, p. 15. 
Diamonds in Meteoric Stones. 

The American Geologist, XI, 1893, p. 282. (Abstract of paper by H. Moissan, 
(;\)mptes Rendus 1893, pp. 116 and 228. ) 
IIenki Moissan. Study of the Diamantiferous Sands of Brazil. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LXII, 1896, p. 222. 
Henry Carvill Lewis. I. Papers and Notes on the Genesis and Matrix of the 
Diamond, edited by Prof. T. G. Boiiney. 

The Geological Magazine, IV, 1897, p. 366. 
Sir William Crookes. Diamonds. 

Nature, LV, 1897, p. 325. 



1 Volume XXXVI, December 24, 1885, p. 11. 



168 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



L. DE LAfXAY. Les Diamants du Tap. 

Paris, 1897. 
Okvii.le a. Derby. ]>razilian Evidemv on the Genesis of the JMamond. 

The Journal of (ieology, VI, 1898, p. 121. 
H. W. FfRMiss. Carbons in Brazil. U. 8. Consular Reports, 1898, p. 604. See also 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LX VI, 1898, p. 608. 
M. J. Kmncke. Giles Dianiantiferes de la Republique sud-Africaine. 

Annales des Mines, XIV, 1898, p. 568. 

Graphite. — Graphite, phtiiibago, or black lead, as it i.s variously 
called, is a dark steel gray to l)la('k lustrous mineral with a black 
streak; hardness of but 1.2, and a specilic gravity of from 2.25 to 2.27. 
The prevailing form of the mineral is scaly or broadly foliated (Speci- 
men No. 51007, U. S. N. M.), with a bright luster, but it is sometimes 
quite massive (Specimen No. 61138, U. S. N. M.) and columnar (Speci- 
men No. 59976, U.S.N.M.) or earthy, with a dull coal-like luster 
(Specimens Nos. 61795 and 63133, U.S.N.M.). 

Its most characteristic features are its softness, greas}" feeling, and 
property of soiling everything with which it comes in contact. 
Molybdenite, the sulphide of molybdenum, is the only mineral with 
which it is likely to become confounded. This last, however, though 
very similar in general appearance, gives a streak with a slight green- 
ish tinge, and when fused with soda l^efore the blowpipe yields a sul- 
phur reaction. Chemically, graphite is nearly pure carbon. The 
name black lead is therefore erroneous and misleading, but has Ijecome 
too firmly established to ()e easily eradicated. 

The analytics given below show the composition of some of the purest 
nattiral graphites. 



Locality. 


Carbon. 


Ash. 


Volatile 
matter. 


Cevlon 


98.817 
99. 792 
97. 626 
99. Sl.'j 


0.280 
.05 

1.78 


0.90 

.158 
.594 


Do 




Do 


.076 


.109 



As mined the material is almost invariably contaminated b}' mechan- 
ically admixed impurities. Thus the Canadian material (Specimens 
Nos. 59977, 62153, U.S.N.M.) as mined yields from 22.38 to 30.51 
per cent of graphite; the best Bavarian, 53.80 per cent (Specimen No. 
52050, U.S.N.M.). The grade of ore that can be economically worker 
naturally depends upon the character of the impurities and the extent 
and accessibility <>f the deposit. It is said^ that deposits at Ticonde- 
roga. New York, ha\e l)een worked in which there was but 6 per cent 
of graphite (Specimen No. 37825, U.S.N.M.). 

Occiirrencr and origin. — Graphite occurs mainly in the older crystal- 



1 Engineering and Mining Journal, LXV, 1898, p. 256. 



THK NUNMKTALLIC MINKRALS. 169 

lino motamoi'phic rocks, l)oth silicoous iind calcaivous, soiiiotiincs in 
the form of disseminated scales, as in the ciTstalline limestone of Essex 
County, New York (Specimen No. ;nS2r), T.S.N.M), or in em])edded 
masses, streaks, and lumps, often of such dimensions that sinj^-le blocks 
of several hundred pounds weight are obtainable. (Specimen No. 
5Jt97(), U.S.N.M.) It is also found in the form of veins. 

The fact that the mineral is carbon, one of the constituents of animal 
and veo-etable lif«\ has led many authorities to regard it, like coal, as 
of vegetable origin. While this view is very plausible it can not, how- 
ever, be regarded as in all cases proven. 

That graphite may l)e formed independently of organic life is shown 
by its presence in cast iron, where it has crystalized out, on cooling, 
in the form of In-ight metallic scales. See Specimens Nos. 51298 and 
51312 in the metallurgical series of the manufacture of iron. 

Cai'bon is also found in meteorites which are plainly of igneous 
origin, and which have thus far yielded no certain traces of either 
plant or animal organisms. It is, however, a well-known fact that 
coal— itself of organic origin — has in some cases been converted into 
graphite through metamorphic agencies, and intermediate stages like 
the graphitic anthracite of Newport, Rhode Island, afford good illus- 
trations of such transitions. (Specimen No. 59099, U. S. N .M.) Certain 
European authorities^ have shown that amorphous carbonaceous par- 
ticles in clay slates have l)een converted into graphite by the metamor- 
phosing influence of intruded igneous rocks. Prof. J. S. Newberry 
descril>ed an occurrence of this nature in the coal fields of Sonora, 
Mexico.'^ He says: 

All the western portion of this coal field seems to be much broken liy trap dikes 
which have everywhere metamorphosed the coal and converted it into anthracite. 
At the locality examined the metamorphic action has been extreme, converting 
most of the coal into a brilliant ))ut somewhat friable anthracite, containing li or 4 
per cent of volatile matter. At an outcrop of one of the beds, however, the coal was 
found converted into graphite, which has a laminated structure, but is unctuous to 
the touch and marks paper like a lead pencil. The metamorphism is much more 
comiilete than at Newport (Rhode Island) [Specimen No. 59099, U.S.N.M.], furnishing 
the best exami)le yet known to me of the conversion of a bed of coal into graphite. 

In New York State, and in Canada, graphite occurs in Laurentian 
rocks, hoth in beds and in v(Mns, a portion of the latter being appar- 
ently true tissure veins and others shrinkage cracks or segregation veins 
which traverse in countless numbers the containing rocks. It is said'' 
I hat in the Canadian regions (Specimens Nos. 51007, 59976, U.S.N.M.), 
the deposits occur generally in limestone or in their immediate vicinity, 
and that granular varieties of the rock often contain large crystalline 



'Beck and Luzi, Berichte der Deutschen Chemischen Gesellschaft, 1891, p. 24. 

•■'School of Mines Quarterly, VIII, 1887, p. 334. 

^ See On the Graphite of the Laurentian of Canada, by J. W. Dawson, Proceedings 
of the Geological Society of London, XXV, 1870, p. 112, and an article on Graphite 
by Prof. J. F. Kemp in The Mineral Industry, II, 1893, p. 335. 



l70 REPORT ()¥ NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1S99. 

plates of plumbao'o. At other times the mineral is so tineW dissemi- 
nated as to give a bluish-gray color to the limestone, and the distribu- 
tion of the l)ands thus colored seems to mark the stratification of the 
rock. Further, the plumbago is not (!onfined to the limestones; large 
crystalline scales of it are occasionally disseminated in pyroxene rock 
or pyrallolite, and sometimes in quartzite and in feldspathic rocks, or 
even in magnetic oxide of iron. In addition to these bedded forms, 
there are also true veins in which graphite occurs associated with cal- 
cite, quartz, orthoclase, or pyroxene, and either in disseminated scales, 
in detached masses, or in bands or layers separated from each other 
and from the wall rock by feldspar, pyroxene, and quartz. Kemp 
describes ^ the graphite deposit near Ticonderoga, New York (Specimens 
Nos. 37825, 66759, U.S.N.M.), as in the form of a true fissure vein, 
cutting the lamination of the gneissic walls at nearl}^ right angles. 
The wall rock is a garnetiferous gneiss, with an east and west strike, 
and the vein runs at the "big mine'' north 12° west, and dips 55° west. 
The vein filling, he says, was evidently orthoclase (or microcline) with 
quartz and biotite and pockets of calcite. Besides graphite, it con- 
tained tourmaline, apatite, pyrite, and sphene. 

Walcott" describes the graphite at the mines 4 miles west of Hague, 
on Lake George, New York, as occurring in Algonkian rocks, and as 
probably of organic origin. 

At the mines the alternating layers of graphite shale or schist form a bed varying 
from 3 to 13 feet in thickness. The outcrop may be traced for a mile or more. The 
garnetiferous sandstones form a strong ledge above and below the graphite bed. The 
appearance is that of a fossil coal bed, the alteration having changed the coal to 
graphite and the sandstone to indurated, garnetiferous, almost quartzitic sandstones. 
The character of the graphite bed is well shown in the accompanying plate, from a 
photograph taken by me in 1890. It is here a little over 9 feet in thickness and is 
formed of alternating layers of highly graphitic sandy shale and schist. [See Plate 3.] 

According to J. Walther^ the Ceylonese graphite (Specimens Nos. 
66857, 62073, U.S.N.M.) occurs in coarsely foliated or stalky masses in 
veins in gneiss which, where mined, is decomposed to the condition of 
laterite. The veins are regarded as true fissures, and vary from 12 to 
22 cm. (about 4i to 8f inches) in width. 

The graphite of Northern Moravia occurs in gray to ])lack crystal- 
line granular Archa?an limestone interl)edded with amphibolites and 
muscovite gneiss, the limestone itself being often serpentinous, in this 
respect apparently resembling the graphitic portions of the ophical- 
cites of Essex County, New York. (Specimen No. 70081, U.S.N.M.). 
The material is quite impure, showing on the average but 53 per cent 
of carbon and 44 per cent of ash, the latter being made up largely of 

^ Preliminary Report on the Geology of Essex County, Contributions from the Geo- 
logical Department of Columbia College, 1893, pp. 452, 453. 
2 Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, X, 1898, p. 227. 
^Records of the Geological Survey of India, XXIV, 1891, p. 42. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 899.— Merrill 



Plate 3. 




Views in Graphite Mine near Hague, Warren County, New York. 

From {ihotogriiphs by Cluirles D. Walcott. 



THE NONMKTALLIC MINERALS. lYl 

silica and iron oxide, with a little sulphur, ma»^nesia, and aliuuina. 
This graphite is regarded as originating through the metaniorphisni 
of vegetable matter ineluded in the original sediments, the agencies of 
metamorphism biMiig both igneous intrusions and tlu^ heat and pressure 
incidental to the folding of the l)eds.' 

As to so much of the graphite as occurs in beds there seems, then, 
little doubt as to its origin from plant remains which may be imagined 
to have existed in the form of seaweeds or to have been derived from 
diffused ))ituminous matter. The origin of the vein material is not so 
evident, though it seems proba))le that it is due to the metamorphism 
of bituminous matter segregated into veins, like those of albertite in 
New Brunswick or of gilsonite, etc., in Utah. Kemp states that the 
Ticonderoga graphite must have reached the fissure as some \'olatile or 
liquid hydrocarbon, such as petroleum, and become metamorphosed in 
time to its present state, Walther believes the Ceylon material to have 
originated by the reduction of carburetted vapors. (See also under 
origin of diamonds, p. 166.) 

The total quantity of carbon in the form of graphite in the Lauren- 
tian rocks of Canada has been estimated l)y Dawson as equal to that in 
any similar areas of the Carboniferous system of Pennsylvania, 

Sources. — The chief sources of the graphite of commerce are Austria 
and Ceylon. Other sources of commercial importance are Germany, 
Italy, Siberia (Specimen No, 61138, U,S.N,M.), the United States, and 
Canada. The chief deposits of commercial value in the United States 
are at Ticonderoga, New York, where the graphite occurs in a granu- 
lar quartz rock, or, according to J, F. Kemp, in "Elliptical Chimneys 
in Gneiss which are filled with Calcite and Graphite." An earthy, 
impure graphite, said to be suitable for foundry facings, is mined near 
Newport, Rhode Island (Specimen No, 53797, U.S,N,M,). About one 
hundred years ago the material was mined in Bucks County, Pennsyl- 
vania, Other American localities represented in the collections are 
Bk)omingdale, New Jersey (Specimen No, 56272, U,S.N.M,); Clinton- 
ville. New York (Specimen No, 31597, U,S,N,M,); Hague, Warren 
County, New York (Specimen No, 63132, U,S,N.M.); Raleigh, Wake 
County, North Carolina (Specimen No. 63133. U,S,N,M,); Lehigh and 
Berks counties, Pennsylvania (Specimens Nos. 66952, 66953, U,S,N, M,); 
Salt Sulphur Springs, West Virginia (Specimen No. 63423, U,S.N,M,); 
St, Johns, Tooele County, Utah (Specimen No. 62721, U.S.N,M,), 

Graphite is a very common mineral in the Laurentian rocks of 
Canada, The most important known localities are north of the Ottawa 
River, in the townships of Buckingham. Lochaber, and Grenville 
(Specimens Nos, 59976, 51007, U,S.N.M.). At Buckingham it is stated 
masses of graphite have been obtained weighing nearly 5,000 pounds. 

ijahrbuch k. k. Geologische Reichsanstalt, 1897, XLVII, p. 21. 



172 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

At Grenville the graphite oceur.s in a o-angue consisting mainly of 
pyi'oxene, wollastonite, feldspar, and quartz, while the country rock 
is limestone. Blocks of graphite have been obtained weighing from 
700 to 1,500 pounds.' 

Graphite is also found in Japan (Specimen No. 31359, U.S.N.M.), 
Australia (Specimen No. 62177, U.S.N.M.). New Zealand (Specimens 
Nos. 1779») and 64795, U.S.N.M.), Greenland (Specimen No. 65374, 
U.S.N. M.), Guatemala (Specimen No. 33990, U.S.N.M.), Germany, 
and in almost all the Austrian provinces, the most important and l)est 
known deposits being those of Kaiserberg at St. Michel, where there 
are five parallel beds occurring in a grayish black graphite schist, the 
beds varying from a few inches to 6 vards. The only workable 
deposit in Germany is stated to })e at Passau in Bavaria. The material 
occurs in a feldspathic gneiss, seeming to take the place of the mica 
(Specimen No. 52050, U.S.N.M.). The beds have been worked chiefly 
by peasants for centuries, and the output used mainly for crucil)les.^ 

Uses. — Graphite is used in the manufacture of "lead" pencils, 
lubricants, stove l)lacking, paints, refractory crucibles, and for foun- 
dry facings. In the manufacture of pencils only the purest and best 
varieties are used, and high grades only can be utilized for lubricants 
(Specimens Nos. 51608-51619, U.S.N.M.). For the other purposes 
mentioned impure materials can be made to answer. In the manufac- 
ture of the Dixon crucibles (Specimens Nos. 51598-51600, U.S.N. M.) a 
mixture of 50 per cent graphite, 33 per cent of clay, and 17 per cent 
of sand is used. 

Preparation. — In nature graphite is usually associated with harder 
and heavier materials, which it is necessary to get rid of before the 
material is of value. In New York it is the custom to crush the rock 
in a battery of stamps, such as are used in gold mining, and then 
separate the graphite by washing, its lighter specific gravity permit- 
ting it to be floated oft' on water, while the heavy, injurious constitu- 
ents are left behind. Mica, owing to its scaly form, can not be 
separated in this manner, and hence micaceous ores of the mineral are 
of little if any value. 

An improvement in the manufacture of pliunl)ago or graphite^ has 
been described in a recent patent specification. Graphite, crushed and 
passed through a sieve of from 120 to 150 meshes per inch, is stirred 
into a saturated solution of alum or aluiuinum sulphate at a temperature 
of 212^^ F. ; steatite is then added, and more water, if required. After 
mixing, excess of water is evaporated until a consistency suited to 
grinding in a chilled steel or other mixer is obtained. More graphite 
may here be added; then, after thorough grinding, the material may 
be compressed into cakes for household use. or is ready for the manu- 

^ Descriptive Catalogue of Economic Minerals of Canada, 1876, p. 122. 
2 The Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute, 1890, p. 789. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



173 



fju'tuiv of ptMK'ils or (•rucil)l('s. Tho average fornuila of the mixture 
is: Grapliite, Sd jxirts; steatite, soapstone, or talc, 14 parts; alum, 6 
parts; but this \aries with the purpose to which the material is to be 
applied. When sevei-al ditt'erent kinds of graphite have to 1)e employed, 
tiu^ richest iu carbon is first mixed into the alum solution. By this 
process graphites previously regarded as incapable of being compacted 
are utilized, and are improved in polishing power. For pencils the 
material may be hard without being brittle, and black without being 
soft, while crucibh>s made from the treated graphite are at once harder, 
more durable, and lighter.' 

Prices. — The value of the mineral varies with its quality. In 1899 
the crude lump was reported as worth $8 a ton and the pulverized $30. 

The annual output as given" for the principal countries is as follows: 

WorWs production of graphite. 



Year. 



1892. 
1893. 
1894. 
1895. 
189(5. 
1897. 
1898. 



Austria. 


Canada. 


Ceylon. 


Metric 
tons. 


Metric 
tons. 


Metric 
tons. 


20, 978 


151 


21,300 


23, 807 


Nil. 


21,900 


24, 121 


03 


10,718 


28,443 


199 


13, 711 


35,972 


12(i 


10, 463 


38,504 


396 


619,275 


33,062 


1,107 


6 78,509 



Germany. 



Metric 
Ions. 

4,036 

3,140 

3,133 

3. 751 

5, 248 

3,861 

4,593 



India. 



Metric 
tons. 

(a) 
(a) 
1, 623 

(«) 
(a) 
61 
22 



Italy. 



Metric 
tons. 

1,645 

1,465 

1,575 

2,657 

3,148 

5,650 

6,435 



United 
States. 



Metric 
tons. 

707 

634 

349 

171 

184 

450 

824 



a Not reported in the Government statistics. 



b Exports. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



J. W. D.\w,sox. On the Graphite of the Laurentian of Canada. 

Quarterly Journal Geological .Society of London, XXVI, 1870, p. 112. 
M. BoNXEFOY. INIemoire sur la Geologie et 1' Exploitation des Gites de Graphite de 
la Boheme ]Meridi<inale. 

Annales de.s Mines. 7th Ser., XV. 1879, p. 157. 
John S. Newberry. The Origin of Graphite. 

School of Mines Quarterly, VIII, 1887, p. 334. 
Der Ciraphitbergbau auf Ceylon. 

Berg- und Hiittenmannische Zeitung, XL VII, 1888, p. 322. 
J. AV.\LTHER. Ueber Graphitgiinge in zersetztem Gneiss (Laterit) von Ceylon. 

Zeitschrift der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft, XLI, 1889, p. 359. 
A. P.\LL.\iscH. Die Graj)hitV)ergbaue ini siidlichen Bohnien. 

Berg- und Hiittenniannisches Jahrbuch, XXXVII, p. 95, 1889. 
T. Andkee. Graphite Mining in Austria and Bavaria. (Al)stract. ) 

Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute, 1890, p. 738. 

1 Engineering and Mining Journal, LVIII, 1894, p. 440. 
' The Mineral Industry, VI, 1897; VIII, 1899. 



174 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

J. PosTLETHWAiTE. The Borrowflale Plumbago; its Mode of Occurrence and Probable 
Origin. 

Proceedings of the Geological Society of London, Session, 1889-1890, p. 124. 
On the formation of Graphite in contact-metamorphism. 

American Journal of Science, XLII, 1891, p. 514. Review of article in 
Berichte der Deutschen chemischen Gesellschaft, XXIV, p. 1884, 1891. 
W. Luzi. Zur Kenntniss des Graphitkohlenstoffes. (Berichte der Deutschen Chem- 
ischen Gesellschaft, XXIV, pp. 4085-4095. 1891.) 

Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologie und Paleontologie. 1893. II, Part 
2, p. 241. (Abstract.) 
E. Weinschenk. Zur Kenntniss der Graphitlagerstatten. Chemisch-geologische 
Studien von Dr. Ernst Weinschenk. 

1. Die Graphitlagerstatten des bayerischen Grenzgebirges. Habilitations- 
schrift zur Erlangung der venia legendi an der K. technischen Hochschule. 
Miinchen, 1897. 
Fkanz Kretschmee. The Graphite Deposits of Northern Moravia. 

Transactions of the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical 
Engineer, XLVII, 1898, p. 87. 

2. Sulphur. 

Color of the mineral when pure yellow, sometimes brownish, red- 
dish, or gray through impurities. Hardness, 1.5 to 2.5. Specific 
gravity, 2.05. Insoluble in water or acids. Luster resinous. Occurs 
native in beautiful crvstals (Specimens Nos. 53115, 53116, and 60660, 
U.S.N.M.) or in massive (Specimens Nos. 16092, 60819, U.S.N.M.), 
stalactitic and spheriodal forms (Specimens Nos. 57137 and 60861, 
U.S.N.M.). Once seen the mineral is as a rule readily recognized, 
and all possible doubts are set at rest by its ready inflammability, 
burning with a faint bluish flame and giving the irritating odors of 
sulphurous anhydride. In nature often impure through the presence 
of clay and bituminous matters; sometimes contains traces of selenium 
or tellurium (Specimens Nos. 60856 and 60861, U.S.N.M.). 

Origin and mode of occurrence. — Sulphur deposits of such extent as 
to be of economic importance occur as a product of volcanic activity, 
or result from the alteration of beds of gypsum. On a smaller scale, 
and of interest from a purely mineralogical standpoint, are the occur- 
rences of sulphur through the alteration of pyrite and other metallic 
sulphides. 

As a product of volcanic action sulphur is formed through the oxida- 
tion of hydrogen disulphide (HoS), which, together with steam and 
other vapors, is a common exhalation from volcanic vents and solfataras. 
Such deposits on a small scale may be seen iucrusting fumaroles in the 
Roaring Mountain (Specimen No. 72872, U.S.N.M.) or associated with 
the sinter deposits of the Mammoth Hot Springs in the Yellowstone 
Park (Specimen No. 72877, U.S.N.M.). It may also be produced 
through the mutual reaction of hydrogen disulphide (HgS) on sulphuric 
anhydride (SO,), the product being sulphur (S) and water (H^O) as 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 175 

hoforo. To these types l)elono; the sulphur deposits of Utah, Cali- 
t'oriiia. Nevada, and Ahiska in the ITnited States, as well as those of 
Mexico, Japan, Iceland, and other volcanic regions. Sulphur is derived 
from the sulphate of lime (ovi)suni or anhydrite) through the reducing 
action of organic matter. The sulphate, through the loss of its oxygen, 
becomes converted into a sulphide, which, through the carbonic acid 
in the air and water, becomes linally reduced to hydrogen disulphide 
with the formation of calcium carl)onate. 

According to Fuchs and De Launay ^ there is formed at the same 
time with the hydrogen disulphide a polysulphide, which in its turn 
yields a precipitate of sulphur and carbonate of lime. The maximum 
amount of sulphur which would thus result from the decomposition of 
a given amount of gypsum is stated to be 24 per cent. This method 
of origin is illustrated in the celebrated deposit of Sicily, where we 
have the sulphur partially disseminated through and partl}^ interbedded 
with a blue-gray limestone. (See Specimen No. 60932, U.S.N.M.). 
Beneath the sulphur beds as they .low exist are found the older gyp- 
seous beds, which through decomposition have yielded the materials 
for the lime and sulphur beds now overlying. 

With these Sicilian sulphurs occur a number of beautiful secondary 
minerals, as celestite (Specimens Nos. 60866, 60869, 608T7, U.S.N.M.), 
calcite (Specimens Nos. 60854, 60865, 60871, IT. S.N. M.), aragonite 
(Specimen No. 60859, U.S.N.M.), and selenite (Specimen No. 60857, 
U.S.N.M.). 

Sulphur derived directly from metallic sulphides is of little economic 
interest. Kemp states- that masses of pyrite in the calciferous strata 
on Lake Champlain may yield crusts of sulphur an inch or so thick, 
and it is not uncommon to find small crystals of the mineral resultino- 
from the alteration of galena, as described by George H. Williams^ 
at the Mountain View (Maryland) lead mine. 

The minute quantities of sulphur found in marine muds are regarded 
by J. Y. Buchanan* as due to the oxidation of metallic sulphides, 
which are themselves produced by the action of animal digestive secre- 
tions on preexisting sulphates, mainly of iron and manganese. 

Localities. — The principal localities of sulphur know^n in the United 
States are, in alphabetical order: Alaska, California, Idaho, Louisi- 
ana, Nevada, Texas, Utah, and Wyoming. With the possible excep- 
tion of those of Idaho and Texas, and that of Louisiana, these mav 
all be traced to a solfataric origin. The Alaskan deposit,^ according 
to Dall, are best developed on the islands of Kadiak and Akutan. 



' Traite des Gites Min^raux et M^talliferes, I, p. 259. 
■■'The Mineral Industry, II, 1893, p. 585. 

* Johns Hopkins University Circulars, X, 1891, p. 74. 

* Proceedings of the Royal Society <if Edinburgh, XVIII, 1890-91, p. i: 
^Alaska and its Resources, Boston, 1870, 



176 



EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



California deposits have in times past been worked at Clear Lake, in 
Modoc County, in Colusa Count3% in Tehama County (Specimen No. 
30118,r.S.N.M.), and in Napa County (Specimen No. 6769T,l'.S.N.M.). 
The Louisiana deposits lie in strata of Quaternary age, and are derived 
from g-ypsum. The following facts relative to this deposit are from 
Professor Kemp's paper, already alluded to : 

Probably the richest and geographically the most accessible of the American 
localities is in southwestern Louisiana, 230 miles west of New Orleans and 12 miles 
from Lake Charles. The tirst hole which revealed this sulphur was sunk hi search 
of petroleum, of which the presence of oil and tarry matter on the surface were 
regarded, quite justly, as an indication. While more or less of these bituminous 
substances were revealed by the drill, the great bed of sulphur is the main object of 
interest. A number of holes have since been put down with the results recorded 
below, and they leave no doubt that there is a very large body which awaits exploi- 
tation. The first explorations were made by the Louisiana Petroleum and Coal Oil 
Company. It was succeeded by the Calcasieu Sulphur and Mining Company. The 
Louisiana Sulphur Mining Company followed, and now the owners are the American 
Sulphur Company. The records of four holes are appended. Nos. 1 and 2 were the 
first sunk, and were about 150 feet apart. Nos. 2, 3, and 4 were put down in 1886. 
No. 3 is n( )rthwest of No. 1 . 

Records of several of the bore holes that have penetrated the sulplnir hed. 



Strata. 



Clay, quicksand, and gravel . 

Soft rock 

Sulphur bed, 70 to 80 per cent 
Gypsum and sulphur 

Depth of hole 



Original 
well 
No. 1. 



333 
110 

108 
ti80 



Granet's Wells. 



No. 2. 



344 

84 

112 

12 



No. 3. No. 4, 



426 

70 

119 

6 



1,231 



Van 

Slooten'i 

well 

No. 5. 



332 
138 
45 

(a) 



345 
91 

110 
57 



525 



603 



American .Sulphur 
Company. 



No. 6. No. 7., No. 8. 



350 
95 

125 
32 



370 
72 

126 
30 



499 
44 
52 



596 



a Stopped in sulphur. 



Analyses from the large bed in holes No. 2 and No. 3 gave the 
following: 



Depth. 



Hole No 

428 feet 

441 feet 

459 feet 

466 feet 

486 feet 

— feet 

— feet 

— feet 

540 feet 



Sulphur. 



Per cent. 
62 
70 
80 
83 
90 
80 
75 
80 
68 



Depth. 



Hole No. S. 

503 feet 

533 feet 

549 feet 

552 feet 

604 feet 



Sulphur. 



THE NONMETALLIO MINERALS. l77 

The difficiiltios in dcvclopiiUMit lie in tiic ([uici\s;uKls iiiid oTavel, 
whirh are wet and soft, and \n th(> soft rock (hole 1), which yields sul- 
phurous waters under a head, at tiie surface, of about IT) feet. 

The Nev^ada de[)osits occupy the cratei's of extinct hot spring-s near 
Humboldt House. Tiuvse ci'aters ai'(^ descrilx'd by Russell' as situated 
on the open desert, above the surface of which they rise to a height of 
from 20 to 50 feet. 

Nearlyall of the cones are weathered and broken down, and are all extinct, the water 
now rising to the surface for miles an )nnti. The outer surface of the cones is composed 
of calcareous tufa and siliceous sinter, forming irregular imbricated sheets that slope 
away at a low angle from the orifice at the top. The interiors of these structures are 
filled with crystalline gypsum, that in at least two instances is impregnated with sul- 
phur. One of the cones has been opened by a cut from the side in such a manner as 
to expose a good section of the material filling the interior, and a few tons of the sul- 
phur and gypsum removed. The percentage of sulphur is small, and the economic 
importance of the deposit, as shown by the excavation already made, will not war- 
rant the further expenditure of capital. The cone that has been opened is surrounded 
on all sides by a large deposit of calcareous and siliceous material, thus forming alow 
dome or crater, with a base many times as great in diameter as the height of the 
deposit. These cones correspond in all their essential features with the structures 
that surround hot springs that are still active in various parts of the Great Basin, 
thus leaving no question as to their origin. They are situated within the basin of 
Lake Lahontan, and must have been formed and become extinct since the old lake 
evaporated away. 

Sulphur is reported as occurring in the chemically formed deposits 
that surrounded Steamboat Springs, situated midway between Carson 
and Reno, Nevada. The conditions at these springs must be very simi- 
lar to those that existed near Hiunl)oldt House at the time the cones 
containing the sulphur were formed. Sulphur is also said to occur in 
the Sweetw^ater Moiuitains, situated on the boundary l^etween Cali- 
fornia and Nevada, in latitude 38^ 30'. The extent and geological 
relations of these deposits are unknown. 

Another illustration of sulphur deposits of the volcanic type is that 
furnished by the Ra])bit-Hole Sulphur Mines (Specimen No. 16092, 
U.S.N.M.). These are located in northwestern Nevada, on the eastern 
border of the Black Rock Desert, and derive their name from the Rab- 
bit-Hole Springs, a few miles to the southward. The hills bordering 
the Black Rock Desert on the east are mainly of rhyolite, with a narrow 
band of volcanic tufa along the immediate edge of the desert. These 
beds of tufa are stratified and evidently water-lain, and are identical with 
tufa deposits that occur over an immense area in Oregon and Nevada. 
At the sulphur mines the tufas contain angular fragments of volcanic 
rock, and have been cemented by opal and other siliceous iniiltrations 
since their deposition, so that they now form brittle siliceous rocks, 
with pebbles and fragments of older rocks scattered through the mass. 

1 Transactions of the New York Academy of Sciences, I, 1881-1882, p. 172. 
NAT MUS 99 12 



178 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

In many places these porous tufas and breccias are richly charged with 
sulphur, which fills all the interstices of the rock and sometimes lines 
large cavities with layers of crystals 5 or 6 feet in thickness. In the 
Rabbit-Hole District sulphur has been found in paying quantities for 
a distance of several miles along the border of the desert, but the dis- 
tribution is irregular and uncertain, and is always superficial, so far 
as can be judged l)y the present openings. The sulphur has undoubt- 
edly been derived from a deeply seated source, from which it has been 
expelled ])y heat, and escaping upward along the lines of faulting has 
been deposited in the cooler and higher rocks in which it is now found, 
though whether the deposition took place by direct suljlimation or 
through the decomposition of hydrogen disulphide can not now be told 
with certainty. Judging from the siliceous material that cements the 
tufas, it is evident that the porous rocks in which the sulphur is now 
found were penetrated by heated waters bearing silica in solution pre- 
vious to the deposition of the sulphur. The mines occur in a narrow 
north-and-south belt along a line of ancient faulting which is one of 
the great structural features of the region. The association of faults 
with sulphur-bearing strata of tufa is here essentially the same as at 
the Cove Creek Mines, yet to be noted. At the Rabbit- Hole Mines, 
however, no very recent movement of the ancient fault could be deter- 
mined. This absence of a recent fault-scarp, together with the fact 
that the mines are now cold and do not give oft' exhalations of gas or 
vapor, shows that the solfataric action at this locality has long been 
extinct, though at the Cove Creek Mines, mentioned below, the depo- 
sition is still in progress. 

According to A. F. Du Faur' this Cove Creek (Utah) deposit is in 
Beaver County, near Millard County line. It was first discovered in 
1869, but owing to lack of railroad communications remained undevel- 
oped until 1883. The region is one of comparatively recent volcanic 
activity. The sulphur occurs impregnating limestone and slate to such 
a degree that very pure pieces as large as one foot in diameter are 
obtainable. It also occurs impregnating a decomposed andesite (Speci- 
men No. 14921, U.S.N.M.). The Cove Creek mines are situated about 
2 miles southeast of Cove Creek fort and to the east of the Beaver road 
in a small basin near the foot of the Sulphur Mountains, surrounded by 
low hills, with a narrow ravine opening in the west-northwest direction 
into the plain. The basin is about 6,000 feet above the level of the 
sea, while the Sulphur Mountains to the east rise about 2,000 feet 
higher. The hills surrounding the basin consist mainly of andesite, 
partly also of a very light white trachyte. 

As far as explored, the sulphur bed extends at least 1,800 feet by 
1,000 feet, and the quantity of sulphur containcHl therein was estimated 

1 Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVI, 1888, p. 33. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



179 



by Professor voni Rath, tit a time when the bed was not as fully exposed 
as it now is, to be at least 1,300,000 tons. 

A curved cut has been made throug-h the sulphur l)ed near the west- 
ern end, exposing a vertical wall 31 feet high of rich yellow sulphur. 
The sulphur extends up to the surface over part of the basin, but is 
mostly covered with sand or rather decomposed andesite. The sur- 
face of the deposit is wavy, giving the impression of an agitated mass 
graduallv cooled. The sulphur is partly mixed with sand or gypsum. 
Most of it is yellow color, while some of it is dark gray, and is called 
"black sulphur." The deposits of pure sulphur partly resemble the 
so-called ''virgin rock," which is formed as a product of distillation in 
the sulphur-flower chambers, particularly when distillation goes on too 
rapidly. Some also resemble the delicate crystals formed on the walls 
of such chambers; others are like the crystals formed in slowl}^ cooled 
masses of sulphur. Gases escape in many places in the cut and in the 
prospect holes, together with 
water holding salts in solution. 
At some points also a consider- 
ably elevated temperature is 
observed. 

Of the foreign localities of 
sulphur, the most noted at 
present are those of Sicily 
and Japan. The first-named 
deposits are descri])ed as occur- 
ring in Miocene strata involv- 
ing, from below up. sand}^ 
marls with beds of salt, limey 
marls and lignite, gypsum and 
limestone impregnated with 
sulphur, black shales, and 
micaceous sands. Overlying all these is a white, marly Pleocene lime- 
stone, while below the Miocene is the Eocene nummulitic limestone. 
The sulphur is found in veinlets and sometimes in larger masses, 
which ramify through the cellular limestone, as shown in tig. 1 and 
Specimens Nos. 60932, 60862, 60852, U.S.N.M. 

The yield in sulphur varies from 8 to 25 per cent, rarely running as 
high as 40 per cent. Below 8 per cent the rock can not be worked. 
More or less petroleum and bitumen are found in the mines. Barite 
and celestite sometimes accompanv the sulphur. 

The mining regions are in the southern central portion of the island 
Girgenti and Larcara are the chief centers. The mines are distributed 
over an area 160 to 170 kilometers (about 100 miles) from east to west, 
and 85 to 90 kilometers (55 miles) from north to south. They occur 
in groups around centers, partly because the sulphur-bearing stratum 




Fig. 1. 

BL(>( K OF LIMESTONE WITH ALTERNATING BANDS OF 
SULPHUR. 

Sicily, Italy. 

.Specimen No. 60932, U.S.N.M. 



180 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

is not continuous, and partly because the sulphur indications are con- 
cealed by later deposits. The region, moreover, is much faulted. 

According to Professor Kemp, the common methods of mining are 
of the crudest description. In most cases the deposits are reached by 
steep slopes or circular stairways (" scala"), with wide steps, up which 
boys laboriously l)ring the crude rock in l)askets or sacks. No mine 
maps are made, and no precautions taken to work beds on a systematic 
scale. Timbering or any supports for the roof are not generally 
thought of. A feeling of distrust prevails between the owners of the 
land and the operators, and between the latter and the miners. 

These objectionable features arise partly from the irregular nature 
and uncertainty of the deposits, partly from excessive subdivision of 
ownership and ill-adapted property laws, and partly from the local 
prejudices against innovations. Even in one case where an American 
and an Englishman in partnership secured the right to work a mine, 
and set about installing suitable hoisting machinery, they were ham- 
pered by a lawsuit with the owner because of this innovation, and 
had a long legal contention to establish their undoubted rights. It is 
a striking fact that in the new developments in Japan, on a remote 
island and against great natural difficulties, the most modern methods 
and management prevail, while in Sicily, in the center of the oldest 
civilization, these are to a great extent of the crudest. 

The Japanese sulphur deposits are all of volcanic origin, and the 
Abosanobori mine (Specimen No. 61941, U.S.N.M.), in Kushiro village, 
Kawakami-gori, Kushiro Province, Hokkaido, may be taken as fairly 
typical. The mine is on a conical-shaped mountain of augite andesite 
which, on its northern side is open, and looks down upon a plain cov- 
ered with lava and shut in by the walls of the old crater on the other 
sides. Sulphur is found in different parts of these walls in massive 
heaps and sulphur fumes still issue nearly everywhere about the mines. 
The ore as taken from the mines carries from 35 per cent to 90 per 
cent of sulphur, which is extracted by steam refining works at Hyocha, 
some 35 miles north of the mine. ' 

Other Japanese localities represented in the collection are the 
Aroya mines, at Onikobe village, Rikuzen Province (Specimen No. 
61945, U.S.N.M.), relined sulphur from the Mitsui Production Com- 
pany at Tokio (Specimen No. 61944, U.S.N.M.), and the active vol- 
cano of Icvo-San, in Yezo (Specimen No. 72801, U.S.N.M.). 

In addition to these localities may be mentioned the following, in 
alphabetical order: Austria, Celebes, Egypt, France, Greece, Hawaii, 
Iceland, Italy, Mexico (Specimens Nos. 57136 and 57137 from Popo- 
catepetl), New South Wales, New Zealand, Peru, Russia, Spain, and 
the West Indies (Specimen No. 33309, U.S.N.M.). 

^The Mining Industry of Japan, by Wada Tsunashiro, 1893. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 181 

E.rfracflon and pre pa rut Ion. —Sulphur rarely occurs in nature in an}^ 
quantity sufficiently pure for connuercial purposes. In freeing it from 
its impurities three methods are employed: (1) Melting, (2) distillation, 
and (8) solution. In the first the ore is simply dry washed at a low 
temperature or treated with superheated steam until the suli)hur melts 
and runs off. Specimen No. 60861 shows the rock after being subjected 
to this treatment. The first process is extremely wasteful; the second 
much more economical in the end, but demanding a more expensive 
plant. A process of fusion in a calcium chloride solution has come into 
use of late years, and bids fair to yield better results than either of 
the above. In the distillation process the ore is heated in iron retorts 
until the sulphur distills ofl:' and is condensed in chambers prepared 
for it. Specimen No. 60860 shows the rock after removal of the sulphur 
by this process. The product is mostly in the form of " flower of 
sulphur." The method is expensive, but the resultant sulphur very 
pure. In the third process mentioned the ore is treated with carbon 
disulphide, which dissolves out the sulphur and from which it is recov- 
ered by evaporation. This method, while giving good results, is expen- 
sive and somewhat dangerous, owing to the explosive nature of the 
gases formed.^ 

Zhes. — Sulphur is used mainly for making of sulphuric acid — though 
small amounts are utilized in the manufacture of matches — for medici- 
nal purposes, and in the making of gunpowder, fii'eworks, insecticides, 
for vulcanizing india rubber, etc. In the manufacture of sulphuric 
acid the sulphur is burned to sulphurous anhydride (SO^) on a grate 
and then conducted with a slight excess of air into large lead-lined 
chambers and mixed with steam and nitrous fumes, where the SO2 is 
oxidized to the condition of SO., (sulphuric anhydride) and takes up 
water from the steam forming H^SO^ (sulphuric acid). Ordinary roll 
sulphur is quoted in the current price lists at from 1^ to 2^ cents per 
pound. (See also under iron pyrites, p. 190.) 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

R. PuMPELLY. — Sulphur iu Japan. 

Geological Researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan. Smithsonian Contri- 
butions, XV, 1867, p. 11. 
I. C. Russell. — Sulphur Deposits of Utah and Nevada. 

Transactions of the New York Academy of Science, I, 1882, p. 168. 
A. Faber du Faur. — The Sulphur Deposits of Southern Utah. 

Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, XVI, 1887, p. 33. 
The Sulphur Mines of Sicily. 

Engineering and Alining Journal, XLVI, 1888, p. 174. 
V. Lamantia. Sulphur ]\Iines of Sicily. 

U. S. Consular Report No. 108, 1889, pp. 146-155. 

1 The Mineral Industry, II, 1893, p. 600. 



182 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

3. Arsenic. 

This substance occurs native in the form of a brittle, tin-white metal, 
with a specific gravity of 5.6 to 5.7 and a hardness equal to 3.5 of the 
scale. On exposure it becomes dull black on the immediate surface. 
It is found, as a rule, in veins in the older crystalline rocks associated 
with antimony and ores of gold and silver. Some of the more cele- 
brated localities for the mineral, as given by Dana, are the silver mines 
of Freiberg (Specimens Nos. 60924 and 67730, U.S.N.M.), Annaberg, 
Marienberg, and Schneeberg in Saxony; Joachimsthal in Bohemia; 
Andreasberg in the Harz; Kapnik and Orawitza in Hungary; Kongs- 
berg in Norway; Zmeov in Siberia; St. Maria aux Mines, Alsace; 
Mount Corna dei Darden, Italy; Chanarcillo, Chili; San Augustin, 
Hidalgo, Mexico, and New Zealand. In the United States it has been 
found at Haverhill, New Hampshire; Greenwood, Maine; near Lead- 
ville, Colorado; and on Watson Creek, Frozen River in British 
Columbia. 

The arsenic of commerce is, however, rarely obtained from the 
native mineral, but is prepared by the ignition of arsenical pyrites 
(FeAsg) or arsenical iron pyrites (FeS2,FeAso). The white arsenic of 
commerce (arsenious acid, As.,03), though occurring sometimes native 
as arsenolite in the form of botryoidal and stalactitic crusts of a white 
or yellowish color, is, as a rule, obtained as a by-product in the metal- 
lurgical operations of extracting certain metals, particularly cobalt 
and nickel, from their ores. Such ores as niccolite, a nickel arsenide 
(NiAs), gersdorffite (NiAsS), Rammelsbergite (NiAs^), Smaltite 
(CoASj), Skutterudite (CoAsj), Proustite (AgjAsSs), and other arsen- 
ides and sulpharsenides on roasting give up their arsenic in the form 
of fumes, which are condensed in chambers prepared for this purpose. 
Uses. — Arsenic is utilized in the form of arsenious acid (As^Og) in 
dyeing, calico printing, in the manufacture of various pigments, in 
arsenical soaps, in the preparation of other salts of arsenic, and as a 
preservative in museums, particularly for the skins of animals and 
birds. 

4. Allemontite. 

Allemontite, or arsenical antimony of the formula SbASj, = arsenic 
65.2; antimony 34.8, occurs somewhat sparsely at AUemont in France, 
Pribram, Bohemia, and other European localities associated with 
sphalerite, antimony, etc. (Specimen No. 67728, U.S.N.M.). So far 
as the writer has information the mineral has not as yet been found 
in sufhcient quantity to be of economic value. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 183 

II. sulphidp:s and arsenides. 

1. Realgar. 

This is a monosulphide of arsenic, AsS, = sulphur 29.9 per cent-, 
arsenic, 70.1 per cent; hardness, 1.5 to 2; specific gravity, 3.55; color, 
aurora red or orange yellow, streak the same. 

2. Orpiment; Auripigment. 

A trisulphide of arsenic, of the formula AsjSj, = sulphur 39 per cent^ 
arsenic, 61; hardness, 1.5; specific gravaty, 3.4 to 3.5. Color, lemon 
yellow. This mineral occurs usually associated with realgar at the 
localities mentioned below. 

Occurences. — Realgar and orpiment are very beautiful, though not 
abundant minerals which occur associated with ores of silver and lead 
in various European mining regions and also those of Japan (Specimen 
No. 11864, U.S.N. M.), Hungary (Specimen No. 66813, U.S.N.M.), 
Bohemia, Transylvania, and Saxony. They have been reported in 
the United States in beds of sandy clay beneath lava in Iron County, 
Utah, and form the so-called "" Arsenical gold ore" of the Golden Gate 
Mine, Mercur, Tooele County, this same State (Specimen No. 53363, 
U.S.N.M.); also in San Bernardino County, California; Douglas 
County, Oregon (Specimen No. 62101, U.S.N.M.), and in minute 
quantities in the geyser waters of the Yellowstone National Park. 

The realgar and orpiment of the Coyote mining district. Iron County, 
Utah, occur in a compact, sandy clay, occupying a horizontal seam or 
layer about 2 inches thick, not distinctly separated from the clay, 
but lying in its midst in lenticular and nodular masses. The bulk of 
the layer consists of realgar in divergent, bladed crystals, closely and 
confusedly aggregated, sometimes forming groups of brilliant crystal- 
line facets in small cavities toward the center of the mass. The orpi- 
ment is closely associated with the realgar in the form of small and 
delicately fibrous crystalline rosettes, and small spherical aggregations 
made up of fine radial crystals, and also in bright yellow, amorphous 
crusts in and around the mass of the realgar. Fine parallel seams of 
gypsum occur both above and below the layer, and the strata of arena- 
ceous claj'S al:)ove for 30 feet or more are charged Avith soluble salts 
which exude and efiioresce upon the surface of the bank, forming hard 
crusts. The whole appearance and association of the minerals indi- 
cates that they have been formed by aqueous infiltration since the 
deposition of the beds.^ 

Orpiment is said^ to occur at Tajowa, near Neusohl, Hungary, as 
. nodular masses and isolated crystals in clay or calcareous marl. 



1 W. P. Blake, American Journal of Science, XXI, 1881, p. 219. 
''■ H. A. Miers, Mineralugioal INIagaziue, July, 1892, p. 2-4. 



184 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



r.^es. — Realgar is used mainly in pyrotechny, yieldinjj^ a very bril- 
liant white light when mixed with saltpeter and ignited. It is now 
artificially prepared by fusing together sulphur and arsenious acid.^ 
Orpiment is used in dyeing and in preparation of a paste for removing 
hair from skins. According to the British consular reports there were 
exported from Baghdan, in 1897, some 55,600 pounds of the mineral 
for use as a pigment. As with realgar, the mineral is now largely 
prepared artificially. The name '-orpiment" is stated by Dana to be 
a corruption of aurlplgment^ golden paint, in allusion to the color. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



W 



P. Blake. Occurrence of Realgar and Orpiment in Utah Territory. 
American Journal of Science, XXI, 1881, p. 219. 
IL B. Fulton. Arsenic in Spanish Pyrites, and its elimination in the local treat- 
ment for production of copper precipitate. 
Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, V, 1886, p. 296. 
Production of Arsenic in Cornwall and Devon. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LII, 1891, j). 96. 
William Thomas. Arsenic. 

The Mineral Industry, II, 1893, ]). 25. 

3. Cobalt Minerals. 

Several minerals contain cobalt as one of their essential constituents 
in sufficient quantity to make them of value as oi'es. In other cases 
the cobalt exists in too small quantities to pay for working for this 
substance alone, and it is obtained as a by-product during the process 
of extraction of other metals, nota})ly of nickel. The common cobalt- 
bearing minerals, together with their chemical composition, mode of 
occurrence, and other characteristics are given below: 

CoBALTiTE.— Cobaltine, or cobalt glance. (Specimens Nos. 00922, 
31266, U.S.N.M.) This is a sulpharsenide of cobalt of the fornuda Co 
AsS, =Sulphur 19.3 per cent; arsenic, 15.2 per cent; cobalt, 35.5 per 
cent; hardness 5.5, and specific gravity 6 to 6.3. The luster is metallic 
and color silver white to reddish. When in crystals, commonly in 
cubes or pyritohedrons. Analysis of a massive variety from I, Siegen, 
Westphalia; II. Skutterud, Norway, and III and IV, Daschkessan, in 
the government of P^lizavetpol, Caucasus, as given by various author- 
ities, yielded results as below: 



Constituents. 


I. 


II. 


III. 


IV. 




45.31 

19.35 

33.71 

1.63 


43.46 

20. 08 

33.10 

3.23 


35.97 


31.73 




Cobalt 


17.90 
1.44 
0.22 

44.26 


17.55 
9.85 
0.26 

40.71 




Nickel 















MVagner's Chemical Technology, p. 87. 



THE NONMKTALLIO MINKHALS. 185 

Tn Saxony thomincnil (SpociuuMis Nos. (MY.)'2'2 aiul r»7T:>(), U.S.N. M.) 
occurs in lodes in o-iiciss and in wiiich heavy spar (haivte) forms the 
characteristic gant»'ue. It is associated witii other metallic sulphides, 
notably those of lead and cop})er. At Skutterud and Snarum, Nor- 
way, the cobaltiferous fahlbands, accordinu- to Phillips' 

Occur in crystalline roekn varying in character between gneiss and mica schists, ))nt 
from the presence of hornblende they sometimes pass into iiorn blende schists; among 
the accessory minerals are garnet, tourmaline, and graphite. These schists, of which 
the strike is north and south, and which have an almost perpendicular dij), contain fahl- 
bands very similar in character to those of Kongsberg. They differ from those of that 
locality, however, inasnuich as while here the fahlbands are often suftieiently impreg- 
nated with ore to pay for working, those of Kongsberg, although to some extent contain- 
ing disseminated sulphides, are only of importance as zones of enrichment for ores 
occurring in veins. The ore zones usually follow the strike and dip of the surround- 
ing rocks, and vary in breadth from 2^ to 6 fathoms. The distribution of the ores is 
by no means equal, since richer and poorer layers have received special names and 
are easily recognized. The Erzbander, or ore bands, are distinguished from the 
Reicherzl)ander, or rich ore bands, while the bands of unjiroductive rock are known 
as Felsbander. The predonnnant rock of the fahlbands is a quartzose granular mica 
schist, whicli gradually passes into quartzite, ordinary mica schist, or gneiss. The 
ores worked are cobalt glance, arsenical, and ordinary pyrites containing cobalt, 
skutterudite, magnetic iron pyrites, copper pyrites, molybdenite, and galena. It is 
remarkable that in these mines nickel ores do not accompany the ores of cobalt in 
any appreciable quantity. The principal fahlband is known to extend for a distance 
of about 6 miles, and is bounded on the east by a mass of diorite which protrudes 
into the fahlband, while extending from the diorite are small dikes or branches 
traversing it in a zigzag course. It is also intersected by dikes of coarse-grained 
granite which contain no ore, but which penetrate the diorite. 

The Skutterud mine in 1879 produced 7,700 tons of cobalt ore, which yielded 108 
tons of cobalt schlich (concentrates), containing from 10 to 11 per cent of cobalt, 
and worth about £11,000. 

At Dacshkessan the ore occurs under a sheet of diabase, the cobaltite 
being in the wall rock of this sheet, and which carries also garnets and 
copper pyrites. In 1887, 1,216 kilograms of the mineral were extracted; 
in 1888, 5^28 kilograms, and in 1889, 12,960 kilograms, besides some 
3,000 kilograms of cobaltiferous matter obtained in treating the cobal- 
tiferous copper ores.'"^ 

Smaltite. — (Specimen No. 66757, U.S.N.M.) This is essentially 
a cobalt diarsenide of the formula CoAsg, = arsenic, 71.8 per cent; 
cobalt, 28.2 per cent; hardness, 5.5 to 6; specific gravity, 6.-1 to 6.6. 
Color, white to steel gray. Through the assumption of nickel the min- 
eral passes b}^ gradations into chloanthite. 

^Ore Deposits, by .f. A. Phillips, p. 389. '^ Annales des Mines, II, 1892, p. 503. 



186 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Analyse.s of samplo.s from (I) Schneeberg, Saxony, and (II) Gunnison 
County, Colorado, as given by Dana, yielded results as below: 



Constituents. 



Arsenic 71. 53 

Sulphur I 1. 38 

Cobalt I 18. 07 

Iron ' 7. 31 

Nickel 1. 02 

Copper 0. 01 



63. 82 

1.55 

11.59 

15.99 

Trace. 

0. 1(5 



The mineral occurs like cobaltite in veins associated with other 
metallic arsenides and sulphides. 

Skutterudite is the name given to a cobaltic arsenide of the 
formula CoAsg, = arsenic, 79.3; cobalt. 20.7. It is of a tin- white color, 
varying to lead-gray, has a hardness of 6, and specific gravity of 6.72 to 
6.86. It occurs associated with cobaltite, titanite, and hornblende in 
a vein in gneiss at Skutterud, Norwa}", The name sajfiorite is given 
to a cobalt diarsenide closely resembling smaltite but differing in being 
orthorhombic, rather than isometric in crystallization. The composi- 
tion as given by Dana is quite variable, running from 61 per cent to 70 
per cent arsenic, and 10 to 23 per cent cobalt, with 4 to 18 per cent of 
iron and smaller amounts of sulphur, copper, nickel, and bismuth. It 
is found associated with smaltite in various localities. 

Glaucodot is a sulpharsenide of cobalt and iron of the formula 
(Co, Fe) AsS, = sulphur, 19.4 per cent; arsenic, 45.5 per cent; cobalt, 
23.8 per cent; iron, 11. 3 per cent. Color, grayish; hardness, 5; specific 
gravity, 5.9 to 6. Actual anaWsis of a Chilean variety yielded (accord- 
ing to Dana) As 43.2, S 20.21, Co 24.77, Fe 11.90. It is therefore essen- 
tially a ferriferous cobaltite, that is, a cobaltite in which a part of the 
cobalt has been replaced by iron. The mineral is found at Huasco, 
Chile, associated with cobaltite in a chloritic schist. The name ((lk>- 
clasite is given to a variety of glaucodot containing bismuth and 
answering to the formula Co (As, Bi) S. The composition as given is 
somewhat variable. Arsenic, 28 to 33 per cent; bismuth, 23 to 32 per 
cent; sulphur, 16 to 18 per cent; cobalt, 20 to 24 per cent; iron, 2.7 
to 3.8 per cent.^ It is reported only from Orawitza, Hungary. 

LiNN^iTE (Specimens Nos. 56159, 65309, U.S.N.M.) is a sulphide of 
cobalt with the formula CosS^, = sulphur, 42.1per cent; cobalt, 57.9 
per cent; a part of its cobalt is commonly replaced by nickel, giving 
rise to its variety siegenite. The mineral is brittle, of a pale steel- 
gray color, tarnishing red. Hardness, 5.5 and specific gravity 4.8 
to 5. When crystallized it is commonly in octahedrons. The fol- 
lowing analyses of a nickel-bearing variety {siegenite) are quoted from 
Dana: 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



187 



Constituents. 


S. 


CO. 


Ni. 


Fe. 


Cu. 


Miisen, Prussia 


41.00 
39.70 
41.54 


43. 80 
25. 69 
21. 34 


29. 56 
30.53 


5.31 
1.96 
3.37 


4.10 

2.23 

Trace. 


Mineral Hill, Murvlaiui 


Mine La Motte, Missouri 





The mineral occurs in o-neiss in Sweden; with barite and siderite at 
Miisen; in limestone with galena and dolomite at Mine La Motte, 
Missouri, and with sulphides of iron and copper in chloritic schists in 
Maryland. 

Sychnodymite has the formula (Co, Cu)^ S.,, and yields sulphur, 
■10.04 per cent; copper, 18.98 per cent; cobalt, 35.79 per cent; nickel, 
3.66 per cent; iron, 0.93 per cent. It is of a steel-gray color, metallic 
luster, and has a specific gravity of 4.75. 

Erythrite or cobalt bloom (Specimens Nos. 17698, 51909, 56463, 
63096, and 67759, U.S.N.M.) is the name given to a hydrous cobalt 
arsenate of the formula CogAsjOg+SHaO, = arsenic pentoxide, 38.4 
percent; cobalt protoxide, 37.5 per cent, and water, 24.1 per cent. 
It occurs in globular and reniform shapes and earthy masses of a 
crimson to peach-red color associated with the arsenides and sulphar- 
senides mentioned alwve and from which it is derived by a process of 
oxidation. In Churchill County, Nevada, it occurs as a decomposition 
product of a cobalt bearing niccolite. It is also found at the Kelsey 
mine, Compton. in Los Angeles County, California; associated with 
cobaltite at Tambillo and at Huasco, Chile, and under similar con- 
ditions in various p.rts of Europe. 

AsBOLiTE, or earthy cobalt (Specimen No. 60993, IT. S.N. LI.), is a 
black and earth}' ore of manganese (wad) which sometimes carries as 
high as 30 per cent of cobaltic oxide. It takes its name from the Greek 
aaftokaivoD^ to soil like soot. Roselite is an arsenate of lime, mag- 
nesia and cobalt with the formula (Ca, Co, Mg)3As20g, 2H2 O, = arsenic 
pentoxide, 51.4 per cent; lime, 28.1 per cent; cobalt protoxide, 12.5 per 
cent; water, 8 per cent. It is of a light to dark rose-red color, hardness 
3.5; specific gravity 3.5 to 3.6, and vitreous luster. Sph^erocobaltite 
is a cobalt protocarbonate of the formula C0CO3, = carbon dioxide, 37.1 
per cent; cobalt protoxide, 62.9 per cent. It is also of a rose-red color, 
varying to velvet black. Hardness 4, and specific gravity 4.02 to 4.13. 
It occurs but sparing, associated with roselite at Schneeberg in Saxon}^ 
Remixgtonite is a hydrous carbonate the exact composition of which 
has not l)ecn ascertained. Cobaltomenite is a supposed selenide of 
cobalt. Bieberite, or cobalt vitriol, is a sulphate of the formula 
CoSO^ + 7 H.^O. The color is flesh to rose red. It is soluble in water, 
has an astringent taste, and occurs in secondary stalactitic form. 
Pateraite is a possible molybdate of cobalt. 

Aside from the possible sources mentioned above, cobalt occurs 



188 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



very constantly associated with tlie ores of niclvel (niccolite, millerite, 
chloanthite, etc.), and is obtained as a by-product in smelting. Con- 
siderable quantities have thus from time to time been obtained from 
the Gap mines of Pennsylvania, Mine La Motte, Missouri, and Love- 
lock, Nevada. (Specimen No. 61324, U.S.N.M.) The nickel mines of 
New Caledonia are perhaps the most productive. The ore here (a sili- 
cate), carries some 3 per cent of cobalt protoxide. (Specimen No. 
61027, U.S.N.M.) 

A vein of cobalt ore near Gothic, Gunnison County, Colorado, is 
descrilwd as lying in granite, the gangue material being mainl}^ cal- 
cite, throughout which was disseminated the ore in the form of 
smaltite. With it were associated erythrite, a small amount of iron 
pyrites, and native silver. An analysis of this ore yielded as below: 



Cobalt 11.59 

Iron 11. 99 

Arsenic 63. 82 

Silii-a 2. 60 

Lead 2. 05 

Sulphur 1. 55 



Bismuth 1. 13 

Copper 0. 16 

Nickel Trace. 

Silver Trace. 



94. 89 



A cobalt ore, consisting of a mixture of glaucodot and erythrite, 
occurring near Carcoar Railway Station, New South Wales, has the 
composition given below: 



Constituents. 



Moisture 

Metallic arsenic 

Metallic cobalt 

Metallic nickel 

Metallic iron 

Alumina 

Metallic manganese 

Metallic calcium 

Magnesium 

Gold 

Silver 

Sulphur 

Gangue (insoluble in acids). 

Specific gravity 



.120 
51.810 
10. 447 

.590 
11.860 



Nil. 

Nil. 

1.480 

Trace. 

Trace. 

1.520 

22. 078 



99. 905 
5.43 



2.180 
29.010 
13. 830 

.390 
15.78 
Trace. 

Nil. 

.71 



11. 24 
26.31 



According to the Annual Report, Department of Mines, for 1888, 
this ore occurs concentrated in irregular hollows and bunches, often 
intimately mixed w ith diorite in a line of fissure between an intrusive 
diorite and slate, the lissure running for some distance following the 
line of junction between the two rocks, and being presumably formed 
at the time of the extrusion of the diorite. 



THE JVTONMETALLIC MINERALS. 189 

Other cobalt ores, carrying- from 13 to 15 per cent of co})alt oxide, 
occur near Nina.' 

Uses. — Col)alt is produced and sold in the form of oxide and used 
mainly as a coloring constituent in glass and earthen wares. Only 
some 200 tons are produced annually the world over. The market 
value of the material is variable, l)ut averages about $2 a pound. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

Fiu'hs et l)e Launay, Traits des Gites Min^raux, II, pp. 75-91. 

4. Arsenopyrite; Mispickel; or Arsenical Pyrites. 

Com posit ioit.Soraey^h'cii variable. Essentially a sulpharsenide of 
iron of the formula FeAsS, or FeSg, FeAs2,= arsenic, ^^ V^^ cent; 
sulphur, 19.7 per cent, and iron, 34.3 per cent. The name danaite is 
given to a cobaltiferous variety. The specific gravity of the min- 
eral varies from 5.9 to 6.2. Hardness, 5.5 to 6. Colors, silver white 
to steel gray, streak dark gray to black; luster, metallic. Brittle. 

Occurrence. — The mineral occurs principally in crystalline rocks, and 
is a conmion associate of ores of silver, gold, tin, and lead. It is at 
times highly auriferous, forming a valuable ore of gold, as in New 
South Wales and more rarely in California and Alaska. It is found 
in nearly all the States bordering along the Appalachian Mountain 
system, but in no instance is regularly mined excepting incidentally 
in the process of working other metals. Concerning its occurrence 
abroad Dana states that it is ''abundant at Freiberg and Munzig, where 
itoccursin veins (Specimens Nos. 62803, 66809, 66810, 73104, U.S.N.M.); 
at Keichenstein in Silesia in serpentine; at Auerbach in Baden; in beds 
at Breitenbrunn and Raschau, Andreasberg and Joachimsthal; at 
Tunaberg in Sweden; at Skutterud in Norway; at Wheal Mawdlin 
and Unanimity, Cornwall, and at the Tamar mines in Devonshire, 
England (Specimens Nos. 67456, 67457, U.S.N.M.) and in Bolivia. 

Uses. — The only use of the mineral is as an ore of arsenic. 

5. Lollingite; Leucopyritp:. 

The prismatic arsenical pyrites, or leucopyrlte., is essentially a diar- 
senide of iron, with the formula FeAsg, though usually contaminated 
with a little sulphur and not infrequently cobalt, bismuth, or antimony. 
It has a specific gravity of 7 to 7.4, hardness of 5 to 5.5, metallic luster 
and silver-white to steel-gra3^ color. 

The mineral has been found at Edenville, New York (Specimen No. 
67744, U.S.N.M.); Roxbury, Connecticut, and other places in the 
United States and associated with other arsenides and sulpharsenides 
in the gold and silver mines of Europe. 



^ Complete analyses of these are given in Catalogue of the New South Wales 
Exhibit, World's Coluin])iaii Exposition, Chic-ago, 1893, p. 380. 



190 



eepokt of national museum, 1899. 
6. Pyrites. 



Two forms of the disulphide of iron are oomiiion in nature. The 
first, known simply as pyrite or iron pyrites, occurs in sharply defined 
cubes and their crystallog-raphic modifications (Specimen No. .517-1:0, 
U.S.N.M.), or in granular masses of a brassy-yellow color (Specimen 
No. 62152, U.S. N.M.). 

The second, identical in composition, crystallizes in the othorhombic 
system (Specimens Nos. 17124, 55206, and73613,U.S.N.M.),butismore 
common in concretionary (Specimen No. 62976, U.S.N.M.), botryoidal 
(Specimen No. 30772, U.S.N.M.), and stalactitic (Specimens Nos. 62800 
and 67761, U.S.N.M.) forms, which are of a dull grayish-yellow color. 
This form is known as the gray iron pyrites. Both forms have the 
chemical composition, FeS2,=:iron -iij-C} per cent and sulphur 53.1 per 
cent. 

The ore as mined is, however, never chemically pure, but contains 
admixtures of other metallic sulphides, besides, at times, considerable 
quantities of the precious metals. The following analyses ^ of materials 
from well-known sources will serve to show the general variation: 



Constituents. 


I. 


II. 


III. 


IV. 


V. 


VI. 


VII. 




48.0 

43.0 

1.6 

!..'> 

5.0 


48.0 

44.0 

1.6 

1 b 


48.02 
42.01 


40.00 
3.5.0 
4.00 


47.76 

43.99 

3.69 

0.24 

1.99 


46.40 

39.00 

1..50 

9.25 
3.75 
0.10 


45.60 
38.52 


Iron 

Copper 

Zinc 

Silica 


6.00 
8.70 

Trace. 


3.7 


7.60 


20.00 






Trace. 






Trace. 
Trace. 


0.83 

Trace. 

0.10 




















0.64 













I. Milan, Coos County, New Hampshire; II. Rowe, Massachusetts; 
III. Louisa County, Virginia; IV. Sherbrooke, Canada; V. Rio Tinto, 
Spain; VI. near Lyons, France; VII. Westphalia, Germany. 

Pyrite is sufiiciently hard to scratch glass, and this, together with its 
color, crystalline form, and irregular fracture, is sufficient for its ready 
determination in most cases. Once known, it is thereafter readily rec- 
ognized. Owing to its yellow color, the mineral has by ignorant per- 
sons been mistaken not infrequently for gold — which, however, it does 
not at all ri'scml)le — and has hence earned the not very fiattering but 
quite appropriate naiiic of " fool's gold.'' In certain cases, however, 
it carries the precious metals, and in many regions is sufiiciently rich 
in gold to form a valuable ore. 

Mode of occurrence. — Pyrite is one of the most widely disseminated 
of minerals, both geologically and geographically, occurring in rocks of 
all kinds and of all ages the world over. It is found in the form of 

1 Mineral Resources of the United States, 1883-1884, p. 877. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 191 

disseminated grains throuQ-hout the mass of a rock, or along the line 
of contact l)ctwcon l)asic cruptivosand scdimentarios; as irregular and 
sporadic and concr(>tionarv masses in sedimentary rocks and modern 
sands and gravels; in the form of true fissure veins, and as interbedded, 
often iiMiticular masses, sometimes of immense size, lying conformal)ly 
with the stratihcation (or foliation) of the inclosing rock. On the 
immediate surface the mineral is in most cases considerably altered by 
oxidation and hydration, forming the caps of gossan or limonite. 

The origin of the mineral in the older crystalline rocks, as that of 
the rocks themselves, is not infrequently somewhat obscure. In sedi- 
mentary rocks it is undoubtedly due to the precipitation of the included 
ferruginous matter ])y sulphureted and deoxidizing solutions from 
decomposing animal and vegetable matter. 

Some of the pyritiferous deposits, as those of Louisa County, Virginia 
(Specimens Nos. 5428!», 54241, and 54242, U.S.N.M.), and Huelva, Spain, 
are of enormous proportions. The first named is described^ as over 
2 miles in length, and to have been exploited to upwards of 600 feet in 
depth and in width, from foot to hanging rock, as high as 60 feet of 
pure ore (see large Specimen No. 54242, U.S.N.M.). The average 
width of the two worked beds is upward of 18 feet. The rocks 
inclosing the deposits consist principally of talcose and hydromica 
slates. At Rio Tinto the ore is described^ as occurring in immense 
masses several thousand feet in length and from 300 to 800 feet in 
width, extending in depth to an unknown distance. The ore (Specimen 
No. 11427, U.S.N.M.) is very clean and massive, containing besides 
sulphur and iron only some 2 to 4 per cent of copper and traces of 
silver and gold. The material is mined wholly from open cuts and 
to a depth of some 400 feet. The country rock is described as of 
Silurian and Devonian schists near contact with diorites. 

Uses. — With the exception of the small amount utilized in the prep- 
aration of vermilion paints and the still smaller amount used for 
jewelry, almost the sole value of the mineral is for the manufacture of 
sulphuric acid and the sulphate of iron, known as green vitriol or cop- 
peras. In the process of making sulphuric acid the ore is roasted or 
burnt in specially designed ovens and furnaces until the mineral is 
decomposed, the sulphur fumes being caught and condensed in cham- 
bers prepared for the i)urpose. By the Glover and Gay-Lussac method 
from 280 to 290 parts of sulphuric acid of a density of <dQ^ Baume may 
be obtained for each 100 parts of sulphur in the ore or about 2,565 
pounds of acid to 1 ton (2,000 pounds) of average ore. 

In the manufacture of copperas the ore is broken into small pieces 
and thrown into piles over which water is allowed to drip slowly. A 

• ' Origin of the Iron Pyrites Deposits in Louisa County, Virginia, by F. L. Nason, 
Engineering and Mining Journal, LVII, 1894, p. 414. 
'' A Visit to the Pyrite Mines of Spain, Eng. and Min. Jour., LVI, 1893, p. 498. 



192 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

natural oxidation takes place, whereby the sulphide is transformed 
into a hydrated sulphate. The latter being soluble runs off in solution 
in the water, which must be collected and evaporated in order to obtain 
the salt. Thus prepared the sulphate is used in dyeing, in the manu- 
facture of writing ink, as a preservative for wood, and as a disinfectant. 
It has also been used in the manufacture of certain In'ands of fertilizers. 
The method of manufacture as formerly carried on at Strafford, 
Vermont, is given below: 

The process consists in first raising the ore from the bed, which is principally done 
with the help of gnnpowder. The l:)locks of ore are then broken up into small pieces, 
to facilitate the decomposition, by suffering the oxygen contained in water and the 
atmosphere to come more directly in contact with the material composing the ore. 
Large heaps of these pieces, called leaches, are made upon a tight plank bottom or 
upon a sloping ledge of solid rock, where the liquor or lye that subsequently runs from 
them may be saved. 

In dry weather a small stream of water is made to flow upon and penetrate these 
leaches in order to produce a spontaneous combustion, which in warm weather com- 
mences in a few days, and if properly managed will continue several weeks. When 
combustion is taking place great care is requisite in order to have the work go on suc- 
cessfully, for if too much water is suffered to penetrate the leach or heap the decom- 
position is checked by the reduction of temperature and the lye or liquor issuing from 
it is too weak to be valuable, and if there is not water enough put on the leach the 
decomposition is also arrested by the absence of the oxygen found in the water, 
which is necessary to convert the sulphurous acid into the sulphuric, that sulphate 
of iron or copperas may be produced. 

The li(iuor that runs from the leaches is collected in reservoirs, from which it can 
be taken at pleasure. Below the reservoirs upon the hillside buildings are erected, 
called evaporators, to which liquor is conducted in troughs from the reservoirs in 
small streams that are divided and subdivided by means of perforated troughs, 
brush, etc. Several tiers of brush are arranged in the building, through wliich the 
liquor is made to pass to facilitate the process of evaporation. In dry, windy weather 
the evaporation is oftentimes so rapid that the brush and other substances with 
which the liquor comes in contact during the latter part of its journey often have an 
incrustation of copperas formed upon them; but upon the return of rainy weather the 
humid atmosphere checks the evaporation, and the crust of copperas is dissolved and 
passes with the liquor into reservoirs prepared to receive it. 

The liquor, which is now very strongly impregnated with copperas, is conducted 
into leaden boilers, where heat is applied and the liquor redrced to a strength indi- 
cated by the acidimeter to be right for the production of copperas. The liquor is 
then placed in vats of lead or of brick and water cement, called crystallizers, and 
after remaining from eight to ten days a crust of copperas is formed upon the bottom 
and sides of the vats, composed of nicely formed crystals. The water remaining in" 
the crystallizers is then pumped back into the boilers, the crust of copperas removed, 
and, after being sufficiently drained, it is packed in casks ready for market.^ [See 
also under Alum shale and vitriol stone, p. 421.] 

The analyses given below show (1) the composition of fresh pyrite 
from the Coal Measures of Mercer County, Pennsylvania, and (2) and 
(3) that of two varieties of paint produced from it by calcination." 

1 Geology of Vermont, II, 1861, p. 830. 

2 Report M. M. Second Report of Progress in the Laboratory of the Survey at Har- 
risburg. Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, 1879, p. 374. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



193 



Constituents. 



Bisulphide of iron 

Bisulphide of eopper 

Sesquioxidc of iron 

Alumina 

Protoxide of iron 

Lime 

Magnesia 

Silica 

Sulphuric acid 

Water and carbonaceous matter 
Undetermined 



Total . 



96. 161 
Trace. 



.450 
.140 
.680 



1.916 



100, 000 



0.415 



66. 143 

.697 

6.S00 

.160 

.100 

3. 880 

13. 110 

9.195 



100, 000 



77. 143 

.543 

5.142 

.160 

.100 

3.980 

7.334 

5.194 



100, 000 



Pyrite on decomposing in the presence of moisture in the ground 
sometimes gives rise to an acid sulphate of iron. This may attack 
aluminous minerals when such are present, giving rise thus to solutions 
of sulphate of iron and alumina, which come to the surface as "alum 
springs," or, if no alumina is present, merely as iron or chalybeate 
springs, which are of more or less medicinal value. The presence of 
such sulphates in a soil is readily detected by the well-known astrin- 
gent taste of green vitriol and alum, even where the quantity is not 
sufficient to appear as a distinct efflorescence. Impregnation of these 
salts in soils are by ignorant persons sometimes assumed to be of great 
medicinal value, and the writer has in mind a case in one of the Southern 
States, in which the aqueous leachings of such a soil were regularly 
bottled and sold as a specific for nearly all the ills to which the flesh is 
heir, though prescribed especially for flux, wounds, and ulcers. (See 
also under Alum, p. 416.) 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



W 



J. H. 



E. D. 



H. Adams. The Pyrites Deposits of Louisa County, Virginia. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XII, 1883, p. 527. 
William Martyn. Pyrites. 

Mineral Resources of the United States, 1883-84, p. 877. 

Collins. Tlie Great Spanish Pyrites Deposits. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, XL, 1885, p. 79. 

Peters. A Visit to the Pyrites Mines of Spain. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LVI, 1893, p. 498. 
Frank L. Nason. Origin of the Iron Pyrites Deposits in Louisa County, Virginia. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LVII, 1894, p. 414. 
M. Drillon. The Pyrites IMines of Sain-Bel. 

Minutes of Proceedings of the Institute of Civil Engineers, CXIX, 1894-95, p. 
470. 

7. Molybdenite. 

A disulphide of molybdenum having the formula MoSg, = sulphur 
40 per cent, molybdenum 60 per cent. 
NAT MUS 99 13 



194 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

This mineral, like graphite, occurs, as a rule, in small, black, shining 
scales, sometimes hexagonal in outline and with a bright metallic 
luster. It is soft enough to be readily impressed with the thumb nail, 
and leaves a bluish-gray trace on paper. On porcelain it leaves a lead 
gray, slightly greenish streak. This faint greenish tinge, together with 
its property of giving a sulphur reaction when fused with soda, furnish 
a ready means of distinguishing it from graphite, which it so closely 
resembles. Through alteration it sometimes passes over into molybdite 
or molybdic ocher, a straw-yellow to white ocherous mineral of the 
formula Mo03, = oxygen 33.3 per cent, molybdenum 66.7 per cent. 

Occurrence. — The mineral has a wide distribution, occurring in 
embedded masses and disseminated scales in granite (Specimen No. 
62169, U.S.N.M.), gneiss, sj^enite, crystalline schists, quartz (Specimen 
No. 60995, U.S.N.M.), and granular limestone. It is found in Nor- 
way, Sweden, Russia, Saxony, Bohemia, Austria, France, Peru, Brazil, 
England, and Scotland, throughout the Appalachian region in the 
United States and Canada (Specimen No. 53(M6, U.S.N.M.), and in 
various parts of the Rocky and Sierra Nevada mountains. In Okan- 
ogan County, Washington, the mineral occurs in beautiful large flakes 
in an auriferous quartz vein traversing slates. (Specimen No. 53126, 
U.S.N.M.) 

On Quetachoo-Manicouagan Bay, on the north side of the Gulf of 
St. Lawrence, the mineral is reported ^ as occurring disseminated in a 
bed of quartz 6 inches thick, in the form of nodules from 1 to 3 
inches in diameter and in flakes which are sometimes 12 inches broad 
by i inch in thickness. 

Molybdenite is also found in the form of finely disseminated scales 
or small bunches among the iron ores of the Hude mine at Stanhope, 
New Jersey, sometimes constituting as high as 2 per cent of the ore. 

Molybdenum is also a constituent of the mineral wulfenite, or 
molybdate of lead. 

Uses. — The principal use to which molybdenite has as yet been put 
is in the preparation of molybdates for the chemical laboratory. It 
is stated that a fine blue pigment can be prepared from it, which 
it has been proposed to use as a substitute for indigo in dyeing silk, 
cotton, and linen. The metal molybdenum is produced but rarely and 
only as a curiosity, and has a purely fictitious value. Up to the present 
time there has been no constant demand for the mineral nor regular 
source of supply. 

^ Geology of Canada, 1863, p. 754. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



195 



m. HALIDES. 
1. Halite; Sodium Chloride; or Common Salt. 

Composition Na CI, ^sodium 60.6 per cent; chlorine 39.4 per cent. 
The natural substance is nearly always more or less impure, as noted 
later. Hardness, 2.5; specific gravity, 2.1 to 2.6 per cent. Colorless 
or white when pure, but often yellowish or red or purplish by the 
presence of metallic oxides and organic matter. Readily soluble in 
cold water, and has a saline taste. Crystallizes in the isometric system, 




Fig. 2. 

CLUSTER OF HALITE CRYSTALS. 

Stassfurt, Germany. 
Specimen No. 40222, U.S.N.M. 

usually in cubes (fig. 2, Specimen No. 40222, U.S.N.M.), but some- 
times in octahedrons, the faces of the crystals (particularl}'^ when pre- 
pared artificially) being often cavernous or hopper shaped. Sometimes 
occurs in fibrous forms, which it has been suggested are pseudomor- 
phous after fibrous gypsum (Specimen No. 64733, U.S.N.M.). Often 
found in the form of massive, crystalline granular aggregates com- 
monly known as rock salt (Specimens Nos. 67558, 64736, 62946, 
U.S.N.M.). 

Sylvite, the chloride of potassium, sometimes occurs associated with 
halite, where it has formed under similar conditions. From halite 



196 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

it can be distinguished by its crystalline form, that of a combination 
of cube and octahedron (Specimen No. 40223, U.S.N.M. See fig. 4, 
p. 203), and more biting taste. Owing to its ready solubility it is 
rarely found in a state of nature. Bischofite, the chloride of mag- 
nesium (Specimen No. 62428, U.S.N.M.) is still more soluble and 
practically unknown except in crystals artificially produced. 

Origin and occurrences. — Sodium in the form of chloride, to which 
is commonly given the simple name of salt, is one of the most widely 
disseminated of natural substances, and not infrequently occurs in 
large masses interstratified with other rocks of the earth's crust in 
such a manner as to constitute a true rock mass. 

The geological history of these beds of rock salt is as follows: 

No terrestrial waters are absolutely pure, but all hold in solution 
more or less mineral matter which has been taken up from the rocks 
and soils with which they have come in contact. The nature of these 
impurities depends on the nature of the formations permeated and 
their relative solubility. Numerous analyses of river waters have 
shown that the substances mentioned below, though sometimes exist- 
ing as mere traces, are almost invariably present; these are sodium, 
potassium, magnesium, silicon, aluminimi, and iron, which exist mostly 
in the form of carbonates, oxides, sulphates, and chlorides. 

When a stream bearing these substances in solution flows into a lake 
with no outlet, as the Great Salt Lake or the Dead Sea, the water is 
returned to the atmosphere by evaporation, while the impurities 
remain. In this way the water gradually becomes charged more and 
more heavily with mineral matter, until the point of saturation is 
reached and further concentration is impossible without precipitation. 
When such precipitation of mineral matters takes place, it is in the 
inverse order of their solubilities; that is, those substances which are 
least soluble will, under like conditions of temperature, be first precipi- 
tated. Hence a water containing the ingredients before mentioned on 
being subjected to complete evaporation would deposit its load in the 
following order: (1) Carbonates of lime and magnesia in the form of 
limestones, marls, and dolomites; (2) sulphate of lime in the form of 
anhydrite and gypsum; (3) chloride of sodium, or common salt; and 
these followed in regular order by the sulphates of magnesia and soda 
(Epsom salt and Glauber's salt) and the chlorides of potassium and 
magnesium. These last are, however, so readily deliquescent that they 
are rarely found crystallized out in a state of nature as above noted. 

It rarely happens, however, that nature's processes are sufiiciently 
regular and uninterrupted to allow a complete precipitation of the 
pure salts as above outlined. During periods of flood suspended silt 
may be poured into the inclosed basin to finally settle, forming thus 
alternating beds of saliferous clay or marl. 

Such having been the method of formation, it is scarcely necessary 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 197 

to state that salt beds are not confined to strata of any one geological 
horizon, but are to be found wherever suitable circumstances have 
existed for their formation and preservation. The beds of New York 
State and of Canada and a part of those of Michigan lie among rocks 
of the Upper Silurian Age. They are regarded by Professor New- 
berry as the deposits of a great salt hike that formerly occupied central 
and western New York, northern Pennsylvania, northeastern Ohio, 
and southern Ontario, and which he assumes to have been as large as 
Lake Huron, or possilily Lake Superior. A part of the Michigan 
beds, on the other hand, were laid down near the base of the Carbon- 
iferous series, as were also those of the Ohio Valley, and presumably 
those of Virginia, while those of Petite Anse, Louisiana, are of 
Cretaceous, or possibly Tertiary Age. The beds of the Western States 
and Territories are likewise of recent origin, many of them being still 
in process of formation. 

The English beds at Cheshire, the source of the so-called "Liver- 
pool " salt, are of Triassic Age, as are also those of Vic and Dieuze in 
France, Wurtemburg in Germany, and Salzburg in Austria, while 
those of Wieliczka in Austrian Poland, and of Parajd in Transylvania 
are Tertiary. 

Salt is now manufactured from brines or mined as rock salt in 
fifteen States of the American Union. These, in the order of their 
apparent importance, are Michigan, New York, Kansas, California, 
Louisiana, Illinois, Utah, Ohio, West Virginia, Nevada, Pennsylvania, 
Virginia, Kentucky, Texas, and Wyoming. At one time Massachusetts 
was an important producer of salt from sea waters. The industry has, 
however, been gradually languishing and may ere now be wholly 
extinct. In California salt is obtained largely from sea water, but also 
from salt lakes and salines. In Michigan, Ohio, the Virginias, Penn- 
sylvania, and Kentucky salt is obtained from brines obtained from 
springs or by sinking wells into the salt-bearing strata, while in New 
York, Kansas, Louisiana, and the remaining States it is obtained both 
from brines and by mining as rock salt. 

Of the foreign sources of rock salt the following districts are the 
most important: (1) The Carpathian Mountains, (2) the Austrian and 
Bavarian Alps, (3) western Germany, (4) the Vosges, (5) Jura, (6) Spain, 
(7) the Pyrenees and the Celtiberian Mountains, and (8) Great Britain, 
while sea salt is an important product of Turks Island in the Bahamas, 
of the island of Sicily, and of Cadiz, Spain. 

We have space here for details concerning but a few of these beds, 
preference naturally being given to those of the United States. 

The beds of New York State, of Ontario, northern Pennsylvania, 
northeastern Ohio, and eastern Michigan all belong to the same geo- 
logic group— are the product of similar agencies. They have been 
penetrated in many places by wells, and from the results obtained we 



198 EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

are enabled to form some idea of their extent and thickness. Below 
is given a smumary of results obtained in boring one of these wells to 
a depth of 1,517 feet at Goderich, Canada. Beginning at the top, the 
rocks were passed through in the following order: 

I. Clay, gravel, marls, limestone, dolomite, and gypsum variously 

interstratified 9^7 

II. First bed of rock salt 30 11 

III. Dolomite with marls 32 1 

IV. Second bed of rock salt 25 4 

V. Dolomite 6 10 

VI. Third bed of rock salt 34 10 

VII. Marl, dolomite, and anhydrite 80 7 

VIII. Fourth bed of rock salt 15 5 

IX. Dolomite and anhydrite 7 

X. Fifth bed of rock salt 13 6 

XI. Marl and anhydrite - 135 6 

XII. Sixth bed of rock salt 6 

XIII. Marl, dolomite and anhydrite 132 

Total thickness of formations passed through 1,517 feet. 

Total thickness of beds of salt 126 feet. 

The above section shows that the ancient sea or lagoon underwent 
at least six successive periods of desiccation, and especial attention 
is called to the remarkable regularity of the deposits. On the oldest 
sea bottom (XIII) the carbonates and sulphates of lime and magnesia 
were deposited first, being least soluble. Then followed the salt, and 
this order is repeated invariably. The other constituents mentioned 
as occurring in the waters of lakes and seas are not sufficiently abun- 
dant to show in the section, or owing to their ready solubility they 
have been in large part removed since the beds were laid down. 
Chemical tests, however, reveal their presence. 

Although salt was manufactured from the brine of springs, near 
Onondaga Lake, in New York, as early as 1788, and has been regu- 
larly manufactured from the brine of wells since 1798, it was not until 
subsequent to the discovery of extensive beds of rock salt in the 
Wyoming Valley, while boring for petroleum, that the mining of the 
material in this form became an established industry. In June, 1878, 
a bed of rock salt 70 feet in thickness was found in the valley above 
mentioned, at a depth of 1,270 feet. Subsequently other borings in 
Wyoming, Genesee, and Livingston counties disclosed beds at vary- 
ing depths. In 1885 the first shaft was sunk at Pifford by the Retsof 
Mining Company, the salt bed being found at a depth of 1,018 feet. 
Three other shafts have since been sunk, the first about a mile west of 
the Retsof, the second about 2 miles south of Leroy, and the third 
at Livonia, in Livingston County. The salt when taken from the 
bed is stated to be of a gray color, due to the presence of clay, which 
renders solution and recrystallization necessary when designed for 
culinary purposes. The thickness of the salt beds and their depth 
are somewhat variable. The following figures are quoted from 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 199 

Dr. Engelhardt's report/ At Morrisville, in Madison County, it is 
12 feet thick and at a depth of 1,259 feet; at Tully, in Onondaga 
County, it varies from 25 to 318 feet, at depths of from 974 to 1,465 
feet. The seven beds found at Ithaca have a total thickness of 248 feet, 
the uppermost lying at a depth of 2,244 feet. In the Genesee Valley 
the beds vary in depth from T50 to 2,100 feet and in thickness from 40 
to 93 feet. In the Wyoming Valley the depth varies from 610 to 2,370 
feet below the surface and in thickness from 12 to 85 feet.^ 

Mlcklgan. — The salt-producing areas of this State are, so far as 
now known, limited to the counties of Iosco, Bay, Midland, Gratiot, 
Saginaw, Huron, St. Clair, Manistee, and Mason, the beds of the 
Saginaw Valley lying in the so-called Napoleon sandstone, at the base 
of the Carboniferous. Professor Winchell has estimated this forma- 
tion to cover an area of some 17,000 square miles within the State 
limits. The beds of the St. Clair Valley, on the other hand, are in 
Upper Silurian strata, being presumably continuous with those of 
Canada. The manufacture of salt from brines procured from these 
beds began in the Saginaw Valley in 1860 and has since extended to 
the other regions mentioned. According to F. E. Engelhardt the 
rock salt deposits in the Upper Silurian beds, with a thickness of 115 
feet, were reached at Marine City, in St. Clair County, at a depth of 
1,633 feet; at St. Clair, St. Clair County, at a depth of 1,635 feet and 
with a thickness of 35 feet. At Caseville, in Huron County, the beds 
lie at a depth of 1,164 feet, and at Bay City, Saginaw Bay, at 2,085 
feet, the salt beds being 115 feet in thickness. At Manistee the bed 
is 34 feet thick, lying 2,000 feet below the surface, while at Muskegon, 
in the Mason well, it was 50 feet thick at a depth of 2,200 feet. 
Although of so recent development, Michigan is rapidly becoming one 
of the leading salt-producing regions of the world, the estimated manu- 
facturing capacity being now upward of 5,000,000 barrels annually. 
The total product of all the years since 1868 is given as 60,614,464 
barrels of 280 pounds each. 

In Kansas the rock salt occurs in beds regarded as of Permian age, 
and has been reached by means of shafts in several counties in the 
southern and central part of the State. The following is a section of 
a shaft sunk at Kingman in 1888-89: 

Feet. 
"Red-beds," red arenaceous, limestones, ferruginous clays, and clay shales 

with thin streaks of gray shales and bands of gypsum as satin spar 450 

Gray or bluish ' ' slate, ' ' with 2 feet of limestone at 500 feet 140 

Red clay shale 4 

Gray "slate," with occasional streaks of limestone, 2 to 8 inches thick, and some 

salt partings and satin spar with ferruginous stain 78 

^The Mineral Industry, its Statistics and Trade for 1892, by R. P. Rothwell. 

^ For a very complete historical and geological account of these salt beds and the 
method of manufacture, see Bulletin No. 11, of the New York State Museum, 1893, 
by F. J. H. Merrill. 



200 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Feet. 

First rock salt, pure white 2 

Shale and "slate," bluish, with vertical and other seams of salt, from 1 to 3 

inches thick -"*- ^" 

Rock salt 

Shales, with salt - ■'^•'■ 



Rock salt . 



7 



Shale ^ 

Rock salt - - ^ 

Salt and shale, alternate thin seams - 62 

Rock salt - 11 ^ 

Shale - lA 

Rock salt - - - - - ^ 

Shales and limestone - - - ^ 

Rock salt, bottom of it not reached 5 

Total 820 

Borings and shafts have also proven the existence of beds of salt in 
other parts of the State, as at Kanopolis, Lyons, Caldwell, Rago, Pratt, 
and Wilson. According to Dr. Robert Hays^ it is safe to assume that 
beds of rock salt from 50 to 150 feet in thickness underlie fully half 
the area from the south line of the State to north of the Smoky River, 
an area from 20 to 50 miles in width. Although the mining of rock 
salt began in this region only in 1888, the annual output has already 
reached over 1,000,000 barrels. 

Zouisiana.— Salt in this State is derived from Petite Anse, a small 
island rising from the marshes on the southern coast and connected 
with the mainland by a causeway some 2 miles in length. According 
to E. W. Hilgard "' the deposit is probably of Cretaceous age, and is 
presumably but a comparatively small residual mass of beds once 
extending over a much larger area, but now lost through erosion. 
(See fig. 3.) Exploration has shown the area occupied by the beds to 
be some 150 acres, but the full thickness, though known to be upward 
of 165 feet, has never been fully determined. 

Salt in Kentucky is obtained from the brine of springs and wells in 
Carboniferous limestone. In Meade County brine accompanies the 
natural gas, the latter in some cases being utilized as fuel for its evap- 
oration. Springs in Webster County furnished salt for Indians long 
anterior to the occupancy of the county by whites, and fragments of 
their clay kettles and other utensils used in the work of evaporation 
are still occasionally found. 

Texas. — The occurrences of salt are numerous and widespread. Along 
the coast are many lagoons and salt lakes, from which considerable 
quantities are taken annually. "Besides the lakes along the shores 
many others occur through western Texas, reaching to the New Mexico 

'Geological and Mineral Resources of Kansas, 1893, p. 44. 

2 Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, XXIII. On the Geology of Lower 
Louisiana and the Salt Deposit on Petite Anse Island. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



201 




202 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

line, while northeast of these, in the Permian region, the constant 
recurrence of such names as Salt Fork, Salt Creek, etc., tell of the 
prevalence of similar conditions." In addition to the brines there are 
extensive beds of rock salt. That which is at present best developed 
is located in the vicinity of Colorado City, in Mitchell County. The 
bed of salt was found at a depth of 850 feet, with a thickness of 140 
feet. In eastern Texas there are many low pieces of ground called 
salines, where salt has been manufactured by evaporation of the brines 
obtained from shallow wells. At the "Grand Saline," in Van Zandt 
County, a bed of rock salt over 300 feet in thickness was found at a 
depth of 225 feet. 

In England the salt occurs at Cheshire in two beds interstratified 
with marls and clays. The upper, with a thickness varying from 80 
to 90 feet, lies at a depth of some 120 feet below the surface, and the 
second at a depth of 226 feet has a thickness varying between 96 and 
117 feet. The accompanying general sections are from Davies' Earthy 
and Other Economic Minerals. 

Detailed section of strata sunk through at Witton, near Northwich, to the lower bed of salt. 

Ft. In. 

1. Calcareous marl 15 

2. Indurated red clay , - - - - - 4 6 

3. Indurated blue clay and marl - 7 

4. Argillaceous marl - 1 

5. Indurated blue clay - - 1 

6. Red clay with sulphate of lime in irregular branches 4 

7. Indurated red clay with grains of sulphate of lime interspersed 4 

8. Indurated brown clay with sulphate of lime crystallized in irregular masses 

and in large jiroportions 12 

9. Indurated blue clay with laminae of sulphate of lime 4 6 

10. Argillaceous marl - "1 

11. Indurated brown clay laminated with sulphate of lime 3 

12. Indurated blue clay laminated with sulphate of lime 3 

13. Indurated red and blue clay 12 

14. Indurated brown clay with sand and sulphate of lime irregularly inter- 

spersed through it. The fresh water, at the rate of 360 gallons a 

minute, forced its way through this stratum 13 

15. Argillaceous marl 5 

16. Indurated blue clay with sand and grains of sulphate of lime 3 9 

17. Indurated brown clay as next above 15 

18. Blue clay as strata next above 1 6 

19. Brown clay as strata next above 7 

20. The top bed of rock salt 75 

21. Layers of indurated clay with veins of rock salt running through them. . . 31 6 

22. Lower bed of rock salt 115 

Total 341 9 

At Wieliczka, in Austrian Poland, the salt occurs in massive beds 
stated to extend over an area some 20 by 500 miles, with a maximum 
thickness of 1,200 feet. At Parajd, in Transylvania, beds belonging 



THE TSrONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



203 



to the same geological horizon arc estimated to contain upward of 
10,000,000,000,000 cubic feet of salt. 

One of th(^ most remarkable deposits of the world, remarkable for 
its extent as well as for th(> variety of its prodvicts, is that of Stass- 
furt, in Prussian Saxony. On account of its unique character, as 




Fig. 4. 

CLUSTER OP SYLVITE CRYSTALS, 

Stassfurt, Germany. 
Specimen No. 40223, U.S.N.M. 



well as its commercial importance, being to-day the chief source of 
natural potash salts of the world, a little space may well be given here 
to a detailed description.^ 

Stassfurt is a small town of some 12, 000 inhabitants, about 25 miles southwest of 
the city and fortress of Magdeburg, in Prussia. It lies in a plain, and the river 
Bode, which takes its rise in the Harz Mountains, flows through it. The history of 
the salt industry in Stassfurt is a very old one, and dates back as far as the year 
806. Previous to the year 1839 the salt was produced from brine pumped from wells 
sunk about 200 feet into the rock. The brine, in the course of time, became so weak, 

^ Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, II, 1883, pp. 146, 147. 



204 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

as regards the common salt it contained, that it was impossible to carry on the 
manufacture from this source without loss. In 1839 the Prussian Government, who 
were the owners of these saline springs, commenced boring with the object of dis- 
covering the whereabouts of the bed of rock salt from which the brine had been 
obtained, and in the year 1843, seven years after the commencement of the borings, 
the top of the rock salt was reached at a depth of 256 metres. The boring was con- 
tinued through another 325 metres into the rock salt without reaching the bottom of 
the layer. At this total depth of 581 metres the bormg was suspended. On ana- 
lysing the brine obtained from the bore-hole, it was found to consist, in 100 parts by 

weight, of — 

Sulphate of calcium 4. 01 

Chloride of potassium 2. 24 

Chloride of magnesium 19. 43 

Chloride of sodium 5. 61 

A result not only unexpected but disappointing, since the presence of chloride of 
magnesium in such quantities dispelled for the time all hopes of striking on the pure 
rock salt. The Government, however, guided by the opinions expressed by Dr. 
Karsten and Professor Marchand, namely, that the presence of chloride of magnesium in 
such quantities was probably due to a deposit lying above the rock salt, determined 
to further investigate the matter, and in the year 1852 the first shaft was commenced, 
which after five years had penetrated, at a depth of 330 metres, into a bed of rock 
salt, passing on its way, at a depth of 256 metres, a bed of potash and magnesia salts 
of a thickness of 25 metres. 

On referring to the section of the mines [Plate 4], it will be seen that the lowest 
deposit of all consists of rock salt. The bore-hole was driven 381 metres into it 
without reaching the bottom of the layer. Its depth is therefore unknown. The 
black lines drawn across the rock salt deposit represent thin layers of suli:)hate of cal- 
cium 7 millimetres thick, and almost equidistant. The lines at the top of the rock 
salt represent thin layers of the trisulphate of potash, magnesia, and lime as the 
mineral Polyhallite [Sjjecimen No. 67754, U.S.N.M.]. The deposit lying immediately 
on the bed of rock salt consists chiefly of sulphate of magnesia as the mineral Kie- 
serite [Specimen No. 62417, U.S.N.M.]. Still farther toward the surface the deposit 
consists of the double chloride of potassium and magnesium, known as the mineral 
Carnallite, [Specimens Nos. 40225, 62416, U.S.N.M.] mixed with sulphate of magnesia 
and rock salt. The deposit to the right, on the rise of the strata, consists of the 
double sulphate of potash and magnesia combined with one equivalent of chloride 
of magnesium, and intermingled with common salt to the extent of 40 per cent. 
This double sulphate is known as the mineral Kainite [Specimen No. 64735, U.S.N.M.] 
and is a secondary formation, resulting from the action of a limited quantity of water 
on a mixture of sulphate of magnesia and the double chloride of potassium and 
magnesium, as contained in the uppermost deposit previously spoken of. 

The u^iper bed of the rock salt, resting on a thick bank of Anhydrite [Specimen 
No. 64740, U.S.N.M.], is also a later formation. Almost imperceptible layers of Poly- 
hallite are present in this deposit and at greater intervals than in the lower and 
older deposit. It has therefore probably originated from the action of water on the 
older deposit. This upper bed of rock salt varies in thickness from 40 to 90 metres, 
and its extent is comparatively limited. It is worked in preference to the older 
deposit, where both exist in the same mine, it being of much j^urer quality, aver- 
aging about 98 per cent in the mines of the New Stassfurt Mining Company and in 
the Royal Prussian mines. 

Sixteen different minerals have as yet been discovered in the Stassfurt deposits. 
They may be divided into primary and secondary formations. Those of primary 
formation are rock salt. Anhydrite [Specimen No. 64740, U.S.N.M.], Polyhallite 
(KjSO,, MgSOi, 2CaS04, 2H2O)" [Specimen No. 67754, U.S.N.M.], Kieserite (MgSO^, 



Report of U, S. National Museum, 1899. Merrill. 

Prussian Shafts. 



Plate 4. 




















Section of the Salt Deposits at Stassfurt. 
From the Transactions of the Edinburgh Geologieal Society, V. 1SS4, p. 111. 



THE JfOXJfETALLIC JlUiEJiAUi. 205 

U/), [f^i^nmen Xo. f/MlT, U.H.N.M-], Caraallite ^ KCL, >I«Clj, 0H/> » [Speeiittenyo- 
4</r^x r.H.N'.M.], IVinuate ^2^Mi^Ois;,MjzC\>[ffii«^.'iiiriCTi >'o.f>4742,r;..S. N.>L],aiid 
iMt^aihunUi (2KCI, FeCl,, 2H/J). Tl»o«e of iseow*4ary {r>rT/iatioii, nmhiof! fn/m the 
t\m/nu\i'mXiou of tlie priMiary miimnhi are, nine in nma\x^, namely; Kaimte ( KySO*, 
MgH^>„ Mg<;i//H/>/; Hylvifj ^Ka> [Hi^-ufKai No. 6241d, r,S.N.>L]: TarAydrite 
(fCaf;i„ 2M^;i, - 12IJ/^ [Hi*rrim«;rj No. 4ffi;j0, U.S.N.iL]: Bii^:hofit*r ' ' .'vO) 

[H[^5r.-ifw;n No. 62428, I.'. H. .V. ^f. ] : K rogjte ^ KyS^J«, iliriO,, -KaftO^, 21i . :j«ai 

No. 6242^>, r;.H.N..M.]; Rftj/;}iar'ltite Of)f?jO,, 7H/>;; fihuiltenXf: Ci>.S>,, NaySO*) 
[Hj^^.'inwfri No. 4^/^29, r;.H.N.>L]; .S^.lionite ^fCjisO,, ifgSO^, 6H/J t [.Sperimeo No. 
62418, i;.ff.N.M.],and AMrakanite '.Mjzf?<^>„4H/J; [Spe^nmftn No. f>47:iH, U.S.N.iL]. 
<'>rjly four of t^l*«e mmerala \m\h suty cftmwarfwX valofe, namely: Camallite, Kainite, 
K uri-hriUi, and nx.k Halt, Tfift yield of Jiora^-ite, which i* found in n««t#- in the cantallile 
rejfjon of the mine, i* to^> in>fignifi/aint to be claimed among those jost mtsxtifjoed. 

The niinft wiay t* divid*^! chernirrally into four regions: (Ij The rock salt, (2j tlie 
Kie»;rite, ^3; the Carnal liU;, (^4; the Kainite region. 

Thie rfxrk salt region lias almffnt the same ryjiuporition thrcn^aoat- Ite diazacter 
Ih cryHtalline, though in this region well-defined crj-stak are never met with. In 
other i*arti^ of the mine, efefie^rially in the Camallite region, it ii? faitand crystallised in 
the fonn of the cul^M; [Hi^e^amen No. 40222, U-S.N.iL] and the octahedron, so mrt i m m 
r/Aotir<^l different nYia/ldt-ot red and blue [^ijecimen No. 64731, U..S.N.>L]. Spedmoie 
)jave aliiirj Vx«n found of varie^l Ktructure, laminated, granular, and fibrous [Specimen 

No. f^*7:«, t:..s.n..m.]. 

The dejKA'it lying on the top of the rock constitute* the go-called Kieeerite region- 

The thickneHi of this dei^orit is about 56 metres, and its average oc«npoati<Mi as 

follows: 

Percent. 

Kieserite 17 

Rfx.ksalt 66 

CanialliU; 13 

Tar.hyrlrite 3 

Anhydrite 2 

100 
In the pure state Kif«erite is amorphou'- and translucent, ix.»S!e3sing a specific 
gravity of 2.517. It c/mtainH HI. I ixtr cent sulpliate of magnesia and 12.9 percent 
water, corres[ionding t^j the formula MgS<'>4, IIjO. Exposed to the air it becomes 
of/a/jue from the alsi^^rjition of moisture, and is ry^nverte*^! into Epsom salts; 100 parts 
of water diss^jlve 4^i.9 [/arts of this mineral at 18° C. The solution, however, takes 
plar* very slowly at this tem[>erature. 

This de[x^it luis not Ix^en worked to any great extent. Its composition is interest- 
ing as showing the graflual fhjf-rease of the projKirtion of common salt and the com- 
menf*njent of the sei^aration of the more soluble salts. 

Vnutli of the two divisions of the mine jast descrilje^l contains only one mineral of 
imjK^rtanrM^. The third division, calle^l the Camallite re^on, contains a variety 
of minerals, and to this dejKMdt Stassfurt owes its world-wide fame. The average 
thickness of this dejK^sit is about 25 metres, and its comj>osition is as follows: 

Per cent. 

Camallite 60 

Kies<irite 16 

Rrx;k salt 20 

Tachydrite 4 

besides small quantities of magnesium bromide. These minerals are deposited in 
the order given above, in succ<*hive layers, varying in thickness from ^h; to 1 metre, 
the different colours of these minerals giving the dejXfsit a remarkable appearance. 



206 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

The predominating mineral in this region is Garnallite [Specimen No. 40225, 
U.S.N.M.], a double chloride of jwlassium and magnesium, containing 26.76 percent 
chloride of potassium, 34.50 per cent chloride of magnesium, and 38.74 per cent water, 
corresponding to the formula KCl, MgClj, 6H2O. In the pure state it is colorless and 
transparent, and possesses a specific gravity of 1.618. It is very hygroscopic, and is 
easily soluble in water, 100 parts of which dissolve 64.5 parts of the mineral. It may 
be artificially formed from a solution of chloride of potassium, containing not less 
than 26 per cent of chloride of magnesium. The deposit which figures to the right 
of the Garnallite region is, as before mentioned, a secondary formation, and consists 
principally of the mineral Kainite [Specimen No. 64735, U.S.N. M.]. This deposit, 
though limited as compared to the other salt deposits, is yet of vast extent. The 
average composition of this deposit is: 

Sulphate of potash 23. 

Sulphate of magnesia 15. 6 

Chloride of magnesium 13. 

Chloride of sodium 34. 8 

Water 13.6 

100.0 
In the pure state it is colorless and almost transparent, and possesses a specific 
gravity of 2.13; 100 parts of water dissolve 79.5 parts of it. Cold water does not 
decompose it, but from its saturated hot solution the double sulphate of potash and 
magnesia separates, and chloride of magnesium remains in solution. 

Methods of mining and mamifacttire. — In the manufacture of salt 
three principal methods are employed. The lirst, if, indeed, it can be 
called manufacture, consists in mining the dry salt from an open 
quarry, as in the Rio Virgen and Barcelona deposits, or by means of 
subterranean galleries, the methods employed at Petite Anse and in 
Galicia, 

At Petite Anse the method of mining and preparation, as given by 
Mr. R. A. Pomero}',^ is as follows: 

Mining is done by means of galleries on two levels. There are 16 
to 25 feet of earth above the salt deposit. The contour of the latter 
conforms nearly with that of the surface. The working shaft is 168 
feet deep. The depth to the first level or floor is 90 feet; to the sec- 
ond, 70 feet farther. The remaining 8 feet are used for a dump. 
The galleries of the first level were run, on an average, 40 feet in 
width and 25 feet and upwards in height, leaving supporting pillars 40 
feet in diameter. 

The galleries of the second level are run 80 feet in width and 45 feet 
in height, leaving supporting pillars 60 feet in diameter. The lower 
pillars are so left that the weight of the upper ones rests upon them 
in part, if not wholly, with a thickness of at least 25 feet of salt rock 
between. 

Galleries aggregating nearly 1 mile in length have been run on the 
upper level and some 700 feet on the lower. 

In running a gallery the first work is the "undercutting" on the 
level of the floor, of sufficient height tg enable the miners to work 

^Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, XVII, 1888-89, pp. 111. 



THE NONMETALLTO MINEEALS. 207 

with case. The salt is then blasted down from the overhanging body. 
The yearly output is about 50,000 tons. 

The salt as it conies from the mine is dumped into corrugated cast- 
iron rolls, which crush it. Next it goes into revolving screens, which 
take out the coarser lumps for "crushed salt" and let the fine stuff 
pass to the buhrstones. These grind the salt, and from them it goes 
to the pneumatic separators, which take out the dust and separate the 
market salt into various grades. Taking the dust out is essential to 
the production of a salt that will not harden, since the fine particles of 
dust deliquesce readily and on drying cement the coarse particles 
together. The drill used in the mine is what is known as the "Russian 
auger." It is turned by hand and forced by a screw of 12 threads per 
inch. The holes take cartridges li inches diameter. Two men will 
bore 75 feet of hole each working-day of eight hours. Three-quarters 
of a pound of 18 per cent dynamite is used to the ton of salt mined. 

On the Colorado Desert the salt occurs in the form of a crust a foot 
or more in thickness, resting on a lake of shallow brine. This crust, 
which is covered with a thin layer of dust and sand blown over it from 
the surrounding desert, is cut away longitudinally, much as ice is cut 
in the North. When loosened, the block, falling into the water beneath, 
is cleaned of its impurities, and is then thrown out on a platform to 
dry, after which it is ground and packed for market. In many parts of 
the arid West the salt is obtained merely by shoveling up the impure 
material deposited by the evaporation of salt lakes and marshes during 
seasons of drought. In this way is obtained a large share of the 
material used in chloridizing ores. 

In the preparation of salt from sea water, solar evaporation alone 
is relied upon nearly altogether. This method, like the next to be 
mentioned, depends for its efficiency upon the fact already noted — that 
sea water holds in solution besides salt various other ingredients, 
which, owing to their varying degrees of solubility, are deposited at 
different stages of the concentration. In Barnstable County, Massa- 
chusetts, it was as follows: A series of wooden vats or tanks, with 
nearly vertical sides and about a foot in depth, is made from planks. 
These are set upon posts at different levels above the ground, and so 
arranged that the brine can be drawn from one to another by means 
of pipes. Into the first and highest of these tanks, known as the 
"long water room," the water is pumped directly from the bay or 
artificial pond by means of windmills, and there allowed to stand for 
a period of about ten days, or until all the sediment it may carry is 
deposited. Thence it is run through pipes to the second tank, or 
"short water room," where it remains exposed to evaporation for 
two or three days longer, when it is drawn off' into the third vat, or 
"pickle room," where it stands until concentration has gone so far 
that the lime is deposited and a thin pellicle of salt begins to form on 



208 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

the surface. It is then run into the fourth and last vat, where the 
final evaporation takes place and the salt itself crystallizes out. Care 
must be exercised, however, lest the evaporation proceed too far, in 
which case sulphate of soda (Glauber's salt) and other injurious sub- 
stances will also be deposited, and the quality of the sodium chloride 
thereby be greatly deteriorated. 

As to the capabilities of works constructed as above, it may be said 
that during- a dry season vats covering an area of 3,000 square feet 
would evaporate about 32,500 gallons of water, thus producing some 
100 bushels of salt and 400 pounds of Glauber's salt. The moist 
climate of the Atlantic States, however, necessitates the roofing of 
the vats in such a manner that they can be protected or exposed as 
desired, thereby greatly increasing the cost of the plant. Sundry 
parts of the Pacific coast, on the other hand, owing to their almost 
entire freedom from rains during a large part of the year, are pecu- 
liarly adapted for the manufacture by solar evaporation. Hence, 
while the works on the Atlantic coast have nearly all been discon- 
tinued, there has been a corresponding growth in the West, and par- 
ticularly in the region about San Francisco Bay. 

The methods of procedure in the California works do not differ 
materially from that already given, excepting that no roofs are required 
over the vats,' which are therefore made much larger. One of the 
principal establishments in Alameda County may be described as fol- 
lows: The works are situated upon a low marsh, naturally covered by 
high tides. This has been divided, by means of piles driven into the 
mud and by earth embankments, into a series of seven vats or reser- 
voirs, all but the last of which are upon the natural surface of the 
ground — that is, without wooden or other artificial bottoms. The entire 
area inclosed in the seven vats is about 600 acres, necessitating some 
15 miles of levees. The season of manufacture lasts from May to 
October. At the beginning of the spring tides, which rise some 12 to 
15 inches above the marsh level, the fifteen gates of reservoir No. 1, com- 
prising some 300 acres, are opened and the waters of the bay allowed 
to flow in. In this great artifical salt lake the water is allowed to stand 
until all the mud and filth has become precipitated, which usually 
requires some two weeks. Then, by means of pumps driven by wind- 
mills, the water is driven from reservoir to reservoir as concentration 
continues, till finally the salt crystallizes out in No. 7, and the bittern is 
pumped back into the bay. The annual product of the works above 
described is about 2,000 tons. 

A somewhat similar process is pursued in the manufacture of salt 
from inland lakes as the Great Salt Lake, Utah. The following account 
of the method here employed is by Dr. J. E. Talmage: 

The Inland Salt Company's gardens are situated near Garfield Beach, the most 
popular pleasure resort .on the lake. In the method employed the water is pumped 



THE NONMETALLTC MINERALS. 209 

from the lake into ponds prepared for its reception and situated above the level of 
the lake surface. The mother liquors flow off — are returned to the lake, in fact— 
when the evaporation has reached the proper stage. From the establishment of the 
works mitil 1883 the lake was close to the ponds; but, owing to the unusually high 
rate of evaporation attending the dry seasons of the immediate past, the water has 
receded, so that at present it has to be conveyed over 2,500 feet to the evaporating 
receptacles. This is effected by the aid of two centrifugal pumps, raising together 
14,000 gallons of water per minute. The pumps throw the water to a height of 14 
feet into a flume, through which it flows to the ponds. These are nine in number, 
and are arranged in series. In the first pond the mechani(;ally suspended matters 
are left as sediment or scum, and the water passes into the second in a clear condi- 
tion. The ponds cover upward of a thousand acres, and the drain channels leading 
from them aggregate 9 miles in length. The pumping continues through May, June, 
and July. A fair idea of the rate of evaporation in the thirsty atmosphere of the 
Great Basin may be gained from contemplating the fact that to supply the volume 
of water disappearing from the ponds by evaporation requires the action of the pumps 
ten hours daily in June and July. This is equal to the carrying away of 8,400,000 
gallons per day from the surface of the ponds. 

The "salt harvest" begins in August, soon after the cessation of pumping, and con- 
tinues till all is gathered, frequently extending into the spring months of the succeed- 
ing year. An average season yields a layer of salt 7 inches deep, which amount 
would be deposited from 49 inches of lake water. The density at which salt begins 
to deposit, as oljserved at the jionds and confirmed by laboratory experiments, is 
1.2121, and that of the escaping mother liquors is 1.2345. The yield of salt is at the 
rate of 150 tons per inch depth per acre. The crop is gathered on horse cars, which 
run on movable tracks into the ponds. At the works the operations are simple and 
effective. A link-belt conveyor carries the coarse salt to the crusher; thence to the 
dryer, after which a sifting process is employed by which the salt is separated into 
table salt and dairy salt.^ [See Specimens Nos. 53630-53634, U.S.N.M.] 

Owing to the depth below the surface of the salt beds in Ohio, 
Michigan, and other inland States, the material is never mined as in 
the cases first mentioned, but is pumped to the surface as a brine and 
there evaporated by artificial heat. In the Warsaw Valley region 
the beds lie from 800 to 2,500 feet below the surface, and are reached 
by wells. These are bored from 5^ to 8 inches in diameter and are 
cased with iron pipes down to the salt. Inside the first pipe is then 
introduced a second, 2 inches in diameter, with perforations for a few 
feet at its lower end, and which extends nearly if not quite to the bot- 
tom. Fresh water is then allowed to run from the surface down 
between the two pipes. This dissolves the salt, and forms a strong 
l)rine which, ])eing heavier, sinks to the bottom of the well and is 
pumped up through the smaller or inner tube. At S3a"acuse the wells 
are not sunk into the salt })ed itself, but into an ancient gravel deposit 
which is saturated with the brine. Here the introduction of water 
from the surface is done away with. In those cases, not at all 
uncommon, where the brine flows naturally to the surface in the form 
of a spring, pumping is of course dispensed with. 

The methods of evaporation vary somewhat in detail. In New 

1 Science, XIV, 1889, p. 445. 
NAT MUS 99 14 



210 KEPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

York the brine is run in a continuous stream in large pans some 130 
feet long by 20 feet wide and 18 inches deep. As it evaporates the salt 
is deposited on the bottom and, by means of long-handled scrapers, 
is drawn on the sloping sides of the pan. Here it is allowed to drain, 
and is afterwards taken to the storage bins for packing or grinding.^ 
Salt thus produced, it should be noticed, is never so coarse as the 
so-called rock salt, or that which has formed by natural evaporation. 
In Michigan the brine from the wells is first stored in cisterns, whence 
it is drawn off into large shallow pans, known technically as "settlers," 
where it is heated by means of steam pipes to a temperature of 175°, 
until the point of saturation is reached. It is then drawn into a second 
series of pans, called "grainers," where it is heated to a temperature 
of 185°, until crystallization takes place. 

The strength of brines, and therefore the quantity of water that 
must be evaporated to produce a given quantit}^ of salt, varies greatly 
in different localities. At Syracuse the brine contains 15.35 per cent 
of salt; at the Saginaw Valley, 17.91 per cent; at Saltville, Virginia, 
25. 97 per cent; while Salt Lake contains 11.86 per cent, and the waters 
of San Francisco Bay but 2.37 cent. The amount of impurities 
depends on the care exercised in process of manufacture, rapid boil- 
ing giving less satisfactory results than slower methods. The Syra- 
cuse salt has been found to contain 98.52 per cent sodium chloride; 
California Bay salt 98.43 per cent and 99.11 per cent; and Petite 
Anse 99.88 per cent. The impurities in these cases are nearly alto- 
gether chlorides and sulphates of lime and magnesia. 

The Cheshire (England) salt beds are worked both by mining as rock 
salt and by pumping the brine. Formerly both upper and lower beds 
were mined, but flooding and falling in of the roofs caused the work 
to be discontinued on the upper beds. That now mined as rock salt 
comes wholly from the lower bed, and being impure is used mainly for 
agricultural purposes. 

At Wieliczka the salt is likewise mined from galleries resembling in 
a general way those of a coal mine. These, according to Brehm,^ 
begin at a depth of about 95 meters, forming several levels connected 
by stairways, the lowermost gallery being at a depth of 312 meters, or 
some 50 meters below sea level. These galleries have a total length of 
some 680 kilometers. They are connected with one another by means 
of "onze puits," of which seven are utilized for hoisting purposes. 
The work goes on continually night and day the year through. The 
salt is cut out in the form of blocks, leaving huge chambers, the roof 
being sustained b}^ means of large columns of salt left standing. The 

^For details, see Salt and Gypsum Industries of New York, by Dr. F. J. H. Mer- 
rill, Bulletin No. 11, New York State Museum, 1893. 
''Merveilles De La Nature. La Terre, etc., p. 315. 



Report of U. S. National Museum 1899. Mernl 



Plate. 5. 






1 


i 


n 


P^ 




m 


V{> T^I^^HH^^HIHk 





Views of Brine-evaporating Tanks at Syracuse, New York. 

From iiliDtograpli.s by I. 1". Bish(i|i. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



211 



temperature within these chambers is very uniform, varying only 
between 10° and 15° C. The air is dry and healthful The miners hew 
out of the salt statues of the saints, pyramids, and chandeliers, where 
they can place 300 lights. One cham))er, called the Chapel of St. 
Antoine, with its altar, statues, columns, etc., is still in a condition of 
perfect preservation after a lapse of two centuries. The statements 
to the effect that the Avorkmen, and indeed entire families, pass a good 
share of their lives in these mines, almost never coming to the surface, 
is stated by Brehni to be wholly erroneous. In reality, all the workers 
leave daily, only the horse remaining below. 

The following statistics relative to the salt industry in the United 
States, are taken from Rothwell's Mineral Industry, 1892, page 419: 



State. 


1890. 


1891. 


1892. 


Barrels. 


Value. 


Barrels. 


Value. 


Barrels. 


Value. 




3,837,632 
2,532,036 
231,303 
229,938 
273, 553 
62, 363 
427,500 


82,302,579 
1,266,018 
136,617 
134,688 
132, 000 
57, 085 
126, 100 


3,927,671 

3, 632, 600 

397,000 

275,000 

221,430 

200, 000 

465, 000 

15, 000 

1,000,000 

200, 000 


S2, 136, 653 

1,942,930 

264,000 

192, 500 

93,000 

100, 000 

150, 000 

10,000 

650, 000 

100, 000 


3,812,054 

4,400,000 

460,000 

278, 000 

192, 850 

250, 000 

700, 000 

10, 000 

1,232,850 

250,000 


»1, 906, 027 

2,200,000 

276, 000 

166, 800 

81,000 

125,000 

295, 000 

6,000 

698,395 

125,000 




Ohio 


West Virginia 




Utah 






882.666 
300,000 


397,199 
200,000 


All other 


Total barrels . . 
Total tons 


8, 776. 991 


4,752,286 


10,233,701 


5, 639, 083 


11,585,754 


5,879,222 


1,228,779 




1,432,718 




1,622,006 











The total production of salt in the United States for 1899 amounted 
to 19,861,948 barrels, or 2,780,677 short tons. 

^^^._The principal uses of salt have always been for culinary and 
preservative purposes. Aside from these, it is also used in certain 
metallurgical processes and in chemical manufacture, as in the prep- 
aration of the so-called soda ash (sodium carbonate), used in glass 
making, soap making, bleaching, etc. , and in the preparation of sodium 
salts in general. Clear, transparent salt has been utilized in a few 
instances in optical and other research work. Secretary S. P. Lang- 
ley of the Smithsonian Institution, in his astrophysical work made use 
of a salt prism some 19 centimetres in length and with faces 15 centi- 
metres in breadth. 



212 



EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 
Composition of salt from various localities. 



Varieties of salt. 


a 

.3 
o 

■s 

o 

•c 

o 

s 


3 
p. 

oQ 

a to 

o 
a 


"5 
o 


i 

a . 
s 




4 

5. 
o 

(D 
'S 

.15 
P. 


3 

°a 

a 
ft 
3 

J3 


a. 

a-g 

o 

CO 




a 
2 

a 

a 

< 


S 




a! 

eg 

<v a 

OS 

■u 
Ph 


Authorities. 


Hock salt. 


100 

99. 928 
99.43 
99.63 
94.57 
98.14 

98.36 
99.30 

97 

98.53 

99.32 

96.28 

99.55 

98.88 

98.33 

98.55 

96.76 
97.21 
99.77 
99.85 
95.76 
94.17 
96.78 
94.91 
99.46 
98.435 

96.36 
97.39 

96.93 
97.03 
97.41 
96.70 

91.31 

99.11 
92.97 
93.07 
96.42 
98.12 
93.06 






Tr. 

0.07 

0.12 

0.28 

0.97 


















Bischof. 


Berchtesgaden, yellow 
Hall in Tyrol 






















Do. 


Tr. 


0.25 
0.09 




0.20 




.... 










Do. 






Stassfurt 




0.89 
1.86 

0.55 
0.50 

3.00 




.... 


1.12 


2.23 


0.22 




Heine. 


Hallstadt in Up. Aus- 
tria. 
Wilhelmsgliick 


Bischof. 








0.03 


0.65 


0.53 
0.20 
























Berthier. 


raine. 
Jeb-el-Melah, Algeria. . 
Ouled Kebbah, Algeria 

Cheshire, England 

Carrickfergus, Ireland. 

Holston, Virginia 

Petite Anse, Louisiana. 

Santo Domingo 

Cardona, Spain 

Sea salt. 

Turks Island 




















Fournet. (?) 


.... 


0.93 


0.57 
0.02 
















Do. 


.... 


0.46 

3.50 0.08 


0.45 


.... 


.... 


0.14 




G. H. Cook. 
Do. 




Tr. 
Tr. 










C.B. Hayden. 


Tr. 

0.04 

0.02 

0.14 
0.26 
0.01 
0.03 
0.57 
1.11 
0.49 
0.24 




0.79 
1.48 
0.44 

1.56 
0.54 
0.08 
0.12 
0.75 
0.49 
0.41 
1.42 
0.10 


0.64 
0.24 




0.01 


0.33 
0.07 

0.90 
1.75 
0.14 




Goessmaii. 
Do. 


.... 


0.99 


G. H. Cook. 


St. Martins 


Do. 


St. Kitts 


Do. 


Curafoa . 














Do. 


Cadiz 


.... 




0.48 
1.39 
0.68 
0.19 
0.30 
0.365 

0.89 









2.44 
2.84 
1.64 
3.24 
0.14 
1.20 

2.44 
50 




Do. 


Lisbon 


Do. 


Trapani, Sicily 

Marthas Vineyard 

Texas 


Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


Pacific coast (Union 
Pacific Salt Co.). 

Salt from springs and 
lakes. 

Cheshire, England 
















F a 1 k e n a n & 




0.01 


0.02 




1.17 
1.02 

3.05 
1.43 
1.26 








Reese. 

Do. 
Do. 


raine. 

Droitwich, England . . . 

Goderich, Ontario 

Onondaga, New York . . 

Pittsburg, Pennsylva- 
nia. 

Kanawha, West Vir- 






0.02 
0.03 
0.18 
0.07 

0. 43 














Do. 




0.01 
0.15 
0. 33 

1.26 






.... 




1.50 
1.00 
2.70 

7.00 

0.10 
5.10 
3.40 
2.66 
0.80 
4.80 





Goessman. 

G. H. Cook. 

Do. 

Do. 


ginia. 
Holston, Virginia ... 




0.68 
0.33 
0.10 


0.11 




0.05 


0.01 
0.16 


Do. 


Saginaw, Michigan 

Hocking Valley, Ohio. 
Pomeroy, Ohio 




1.09 
0.61 
0.53 


0.50 
0.04 
0.18 
0.07 
0.24 




Do. 
Goessman. 
E. S. Wayne. 




0.24 
1.12 


U89 
0.18 


.... 


Goessman. 


Kansas 


Do. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 
ComposUion of salt from various localities— Continned, 



213 



Varieties of salt. 



Salt from springs and 
lakes.— Cont'd. 

Onondaga "factory 

lilk'd." 

Great Salt Lake 

Elton Lake, Russia 

Solid residue of brines 
and sea water. 

Halle, in Prussia and 
Saxony. 

Stassfurt 

Schonebeck 

Do 



Artern, from bore in 
rock salt. 

Dunenberg 

Manheini 

Soden 



Cheshire 

Dieuze 

China 

Onondaga 

Pittsburg 

Kanawha 

Holston 

Salt Lake, Texas 

Sea water 

Elton Lake 

Dead Sea 



Great Salt Lake 

Sea water (San Fran- 
cisco Bay). 



97.61 
98.95 



94.43 0.21 



oS 






94.49 
95.71 
93. 72 



95. 35 

89.88 
82. 23 
86.01 

97.40 
84.87 
75.47 
95. 42 
81.27 
79.45 
98.39 
97.08 
78.61 
13. 15 
29.86 

90.07 



0.08 



1.83 
1.81 



0.25 



1.34 
0.79 
2.51 



0.19 



0.99 
1.09 
0.67 



0.34 
0.08 
1.34 



be . 



•s.s 



1.03 
0.51 



2.80 
1.61 

2. 55 



0.08 
0.35 



1.20 
1.37 
1.18 



0.18 
0.06 
0.49 



0.25 



92 5. 
0. 
4. 

48 4. 



0.04 
0.18 
0.65 

1.90 
1.83 



0.63 



Authorities. 



0.17 
7.63 
9 



1.22 
0.82 
3.47 

0.37 



0.39 
2.10 
6.42 
18. 26 



6.77 



0.20 



0.02 
0.07 
0.50 



0.01 
Tr. 
Tr. 
Tr. 



12.28 

17.16 
2.00 
11.10 



26.50 

8.39 
2.87 
1.27 

26.00 

15.20 

21.20 

18.54 

2.80 

9.20 

26.40 

24.90 

3.74 

29.13 

26.42 

22.42 
3.038 



Goe.ssman. 



G.H.Cook. 
Gobel. 



Meissner. 

Heine. 
Herman. 
Watts Diet, of 

Chem., Vol.V, 

p. 334. 

Heine. 

Do. 

Bromeis. 
Figuer and Mi- 

alho. 
Wm. Henry. 
G. H. Cook. 
Boussingault. 
G. H. Cook. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 
Usiglio. 
Rose. 
Booth and 

Muckle. 
L. D.Gale. 
F. Gutzkow. 



2. Fluorite. 

This is a calcium fluoride, CaF2 = fluorine 48.9 per cent, cal- 
cium 51.1 per cent. The most striking features of this mineral are its 
cubic crystallization (Specimens Nos. 51226, 66831, 66832, U.S.N.M.), 
octahedral cleavage (Specimen No. 48270, U.S.N.M.), and hne green 
(Specimen No. 48270, U.S.N.M.), yellow (Specimen No. 49160, 
U.S.N.M.), purple (Specimen No. 51226, U.S.N.M.), violet, and 
sky blue colors. White (Specimen No. 36091, U.S.N.M.) and red- 



214 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

brown varieties are also known. The mineral is translucent to trans- 
parent, and of a hardness somewhat greater than calcite (4 of Dana's 
scale). 

Occurrence. — The mineral occurs as a rule in veins, though some- 
times in beds in gneiss, the schists, limestones, and sandstones. It is 
also a common gangue of metallic ores, particularly those of lead 
and tin. 

At Rosiclare, in southern Illinois, the fluorspar veins, according to 
Emmons,^ are true fissure veins, varying from 4 to 20 feet in width in 
limestones immediately underlying the coal measures. He regards 
the original crevice as formed by dynamic action, as probably com- 
paratively small and subsequently enlarged by solution by percolat- 
ing waters. The source of the fluorspar of the veins would seem to 
be the surrounding limestones. 

The associated minerals are galena and calcite, with smaller quanti- 
ties of sphalerite and iron and copper pyrites. 

Uses. — The material is used mainly as a flux for iron, in the manu- 
facture of opalescent glass and for the production of hydrofluoric 
acid. The chief source of supply in the United States is Rosiclare, 
Illinois, the annual output being some 6,000 to 10,000 tons, valued at 
about $5 a ton. 

3. Cryolite. 

Composition. — NasAlFg,^ aluminum 12.8 per cent; sodium 32.8 per 
cent; fluorine 54.4 per cent. The mineral is as a rule of snow-white 
color, though sometimes reddish or brownish, rarely black, and 
coarsely crystalline granular, translucent to subtransparent. It has 
a hardness of 2.5; specific gravity of 2.9 to 3, and in thin splinters 
may be melted in the flame of a candle. 

The name is from the Greek word /cpf o?, ice, in allusion to its trans- 
lucency and ice-like appearance (Specimen No. 17571, U.S.N.M.). 

Mode of occurrence. — Cryolite occurs, as a secondary product, in the 
form of veins. It is rarel}^ found in sufficient abundance to be of 
commercial value, the supply at present coming almost wholly from 
Evigtok in South Greenland. The country rock here is said to be 
granite and the vein as described in 1866^ was 150 feet in greatest 
breadth and was exposed for a distance of 600 feet. The principal 
mineral of the vein was cryolite, but quartz, siderite, galena, and chal- 
copyrite were constant accompaniments, irregularly distributed 
through the mass. In 1890 the mine as worked was described as a 
hole in the ground elliptical in shape, 450 feet long by 150 feet wide, 
the pit being some 100 feet deep. The drills had penetrated 150 feet 

^Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXI, 1893, p. 31. 
^ Paul Quale, Report of Smithsonian Institution, 1866, p. 398. 



THE ISTONMETALLIO MINERALS. 215 

deeper and found ciyolite uU the way. Johiistrup, as quoted by Dana/ 
describes the cryolite as: 

Limited to the granite; he distinguishes a central and a peripheral part; the former 
has an extent of 500 feet in length and 1,000 feet in breadth and consists of cryolite 
chielly, with quartz, siderite, galena, sphalerite, pyrite, chalcopyrite, and wolframite 
irregularly scattered through it. The peripheral jiortion forms a zone about the cen- 
tral mass of cryolite; the chief minerals are quartz, feldspar, and ivigtite, also fluor- 
ite, cassiterite, molybdenite, arsenopyrite, columbite. Its inner limit is rather sharply 
defined, though there intervenes a breccia-like j^rtion consisting of the minerals of 
the outer zone enclosed in cryolite; beyond this it passes into the surrounding granite 
without distinct boundary. 

Cryolite in limited quantity occurs at the southern base of Pike's 
Peak, in Colorado, and north and west of St. Peter's Dome (Specimen 
No. 48220, U.S.N.M.). It is found in vein-like masses of quartz and 
microcline embedded in granite. 

Uses. — Until within a few years the material has been utilized only 
in the manufacture of soda, and sodium and aluminum salts, and to a 
small extent in the manufacture of glass and porcelain ware. It is also 
used in the electrolytic processes of extracting aluminum from its ores, 
as now practiced. 

The principal works utilizing the Greenland cryolite in chemical 
manufacture are, at time of writing, those of the Pennsylvania Salt 
Manufacturing Company at Natrona, Pennsylvania (see series of 
crude and manufactured products Nos. 63327 to 63334, U.S.N.M). 

IV. OXIDES. 

1. Silica. 

QuAKTZ. — The mineral quartz, easily recognized by its insolubility 
in acids, glassy appearance (Specimen No. 67985, U.S.N.M.), lack of 
cleavage, and hardness, which is such that it readily scratches glass, 
is one of the most common and widely disseminated of minerals. 
Chemically it is pure silica, of the formula SiOo. It crystallizes in 
the hexagonal system with beautiful terminations, and is one of the 
most attractive of minerals for the amateur collector (Specimen No. 
61768, U.S.N.M.). The common form is, however, massive, occurring 
in veins in the older crystalline rocks (Specimen No. 55244, U.S.N.M.). 
Common sand is usually composed mainly of quartzose grains which, 
owing to their hardness and resistance to atmospheric chemical agen- 
cies, have withstood disintegration to the very last. 

The terms rose, milky (Specimen No. 62381, U.S.N.M.), and smoky 
(Specimen No. 67986, U.S.N.M.) are applied to quartzes which differ 
from the ordinary type only in tint, as indicated. Chalcedony is the name 
given to a somewhat hornlike, translucent or transparent form of silica 
occurring only as a secondary constituent in veins, or isolated con- 
cretionary masses, and in cavities in other rocks. Agate is a banded 

^System of Mineralogy, 1892, p. 167. 



216 



REPOBT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



variety of chalcedony. The true onyx is similar to agate, except that 
the bands or layers of different colors lie in even planes. Jasper is a 
ferruginous, opaque chalcedony, sometimes used for ornamental pur- 
poses. Opal is an amorphous form of silica, containing somewhat 
variable amounts of water. 

Quartz occurs as an essential constituent of granite, gneiss, mica 
schist, quartz porphyry, and liparite, and also as a secondary constitu- 
ent in the form of veins, filling joints and cavities in rocks of all kinds 
and all ages. 

Uses. — The finer clear grades of quartz are used to some extent for 
spectacle lenses and optical work, as well as in cheap jewelry (Specimen 
No. 11893, U.S.N.M.). Its main value is, however, for abrading pur- 
poses, either as quartz sand or as sandpaper (Series Nos. 55877-56884, 
U.S.N.M.), and in the manufactvire of pottery (Specimens Nos. 62123, 
63035-63038, U.S.N.M.). For abrading purposes it is crushed and 
bolted, like emery and corundum, and brings a price barely sufficient 
to cover cost of handling and transportation. Pure quartz sand is also 
of value for glass making (Specimens Nos. 53188, 60683, 63128, 63123, 
63122, U.S.N.M.), and ground quartz to some extent as a "filler" in 
paints (Specimen No. 63119, U.S.N.M.), and as a scouring material in 
soaps. The following analyses show the composition of some glass 
sands from (I) Clearfield and (II) Lewistown, Pennsylvania: 



Constituents. 


I. 


II. 


Silica 


99.79 
0.12 
0.014 

0.8 


98.84 

0.17 

0.34 

Traces. 

0.23 


Alumina 


Iron oxides 


Lime 








100. 724 


99.58 



Flint is a chalcedonic variety of silica found in irregular nodular 
forms in beds of Cretaceous chalk. These nodules break with a con- 
choidal fracture and interiorly are brownish to black in color (Speci- 
men No. 62120, U.S.N.M.). By the aboriginal races the flints were 
utilized for the manufacture of knives and general cutting imple- 
ments. Later they were used in the manufacture of gun flints and 
the "flint and steel" for producing fire. At present they are used 
to some extent in the manufacture of porcelain, being calcined (Speci- 
men No. 62061, U.S.N.M.) and ground (Specimen No. 62122, U.S.N.M.) 
to mix with the clay and give bod}^ to the ware. In this countr}' the 
same purpose is accomplished by the use of quartz. Small round 
nodules of flint from Dieppe, France, are said to be used in the Tren- 
ton (New Jersey) pottery works for grinding clay by being placed in 
revolving vats of water and kaolin. All the flint now used in this 
countr}^ is imported either as ballast or as an accidental constituent 
of chalk. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 217 

As the material is worth but from $1 to |2 a ton delivered at 
Trenton, it may be readily understood that transportation is a rather 
serious item to be considered in developing home resources. 

According to Mr. R. T. Hill, nodules of ])lack flint occur in enormous 
quantities in the chalky limestones — the Caprina limestones — of Texas. 
Numerous localities are mentioned, the most accessible being near 
Austin, on the banks of the Colorado River. 

BuHRSTONE, or burrstouc, is the name given to a variety of 
chalcedonic silica, quite cavernous, and of a white to gray or slightly 
yellowish color. The cavernous structure is frequently due to the 
dissolving out of calcareous fossils. The rock is of chemical origin— 
that is, results from the precipitation of silica from solution, and pre- 
sumal)ly through the action of organic matter. In France the material 
occurs alternating with other unaltered Tertiary strata in the Paris 
basin (Specimen No. 36140, U.S.N.M.). It is also reported in Eocene 
strata in South America, and in Burke and Screven counties along the 
Savannah River in southern Georgia in the United States (Specimen 
No. 36051, U.S.N.M.). The toughness of the rock, together with the 
numerous cavities, impart a sharp cutting power such as renders them 
admirably adapted for millstones, and in years past material for this 
purpose has been sent out from French sources all over the civilized 
world. 

Teipoli is the commercial name given to a peculiar porous rock 
regarded as a decomposed chert associated with the Lower Car- 
boniferous limestones of southwest Missouri (Specimen No. 55028, 
U.S.N.M.). The rock is of a white cream or slight pink cast, fine 
grained and homogeneous, with a distinct gritty feel, and, though soft, 
sufficiently tenacious to permit of its being used in the form of thin 
disks of considerable size for filtering purposes (Specimen No. 62011, 
U.S.N.M.). According to Hovey^ the deposit is known to underlie 
between 80 and 100 acres of land, in the form of a rude ellipse, with its 
longer diameter approximately north and south. From numerous 
prospect holes and borings it has been shown to have an average thick- 
ness of 15 feet, the main quarry of the present company showing a 
thickness of 8 feet. The following section is given from a well sunk 
in the northern part of the area: 

Feet. 

Earth to 4 

Tripoli 4 20 

Stiff red clay 20 21^ 

Mixed chert, clay, and ochre 21^ 40 

Cherty limestone 40 93 

Cherty limestone bearing galena 93 103 

Limestone 103 128 

Limestone bearing sphalerite and galena 128 136 

Soft magnesian limestone 136 173 

^Scientific American Supplement, July 28, 1894, p. 15487. 



218 EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

The tripoli is everywhere underlain by a relatively thin bed of 
stiff red clay, and also traversed in every direction by seams of the 
same material from 1 to 2 inches thick. These seams and other joints 
divide the rock into masses which vary in size up to 30 inches or more 
in diameter. Microscopic examinations as given by Hovey show the 
rock to contain no traces of organic remains, but to be made up of 
faintly doubly refracting chalcedonic particles from 0.01 to 0.03 milli- 
metre in diameter. The chemical composition, as shown from analysis 
by Prof. W. H. Seaman, is as follows: 

Silica (Si O2) 98. 100 

Alumina (Al^Og) 0. 240 

Iron oxide (Fe and Ye^Os) 0. 270 

Lime (Ca 0) 0. 184 

Soda (NajO) 0. 230 

Water (ignition) 1. 160 

Organic matter. 0. 008 

100. 192 

Silica soluble in a 10 per cent solution of caustic soda on boiling three hours, 7.28 
per cent. 

Aside from its use as a filter (Specimens Nos. 62044 and 62045, 
U.S.N.M.) the rock is crushed between burr stones, bolted, and used 
as a polishing powder (Specimens Nos. 51231 and 55029, U.S.N.M.). 
To a small extent it has been used in the form of thin slabs for blotting 
purposes, for which it answers admirably owing to its high absorptive 
property, but is somewhat objectionable on account of its dusty char- 
acter. The view (Plate 6) shows the character of a quarry of this 
material as now worked by the American Tripoli Company at Seneca, 
in Newton Count3^ 

DiATOMACEOus OR INFUSORIAL EARTH, as it is sometimcs called, 
is, when pure, a soft, pulverulent material, somewhat resembling 
chalk or kaolin in its physical properties, and of a white or ^^ellow- 
ish or gray color. Chemically it is a variety of opal (see analyses 
on page 220). 

Origin and occurrence of deposits.- — Certain aquatic forms of plant 
life known as diatoms, which are of microscopic dimensions only, have 
the power of secreting silica, in the same manner as mollusks secrete 
carbonate of lime, forming thus their tests or shells. On the death of 
the plant the siliceous tests are left to accumulate on the bottom of 
the lakes, ponds, and pools in which they lived, forming in time beds 
of very considera>)le thickness, which, however, when compared with 
other rocks of the earth's crust are really of very insignificant propor- 
tions. Like many other low organisms the diatoms can adapt them- 
selves to a wide range of conditions. They are wholly aquatic, but 
live in salt and fresh water and under widely varying conditions of 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 899. — Merrill 



Plate 6 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 899.— Merrill. 



Plate 7. 




Deposit of Diatomaceous Earth, Great Bend of Pitt River, Shasta County, 

California. 

From a photogriipli by J. S. Diller. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 219 

depth and temperature. They may be found in living forms in almost 
any body of comparatively quiet water in the United States. The 
exploring steamer Challenger dredged them up in the Atlantic from 
depths varying from 1,260 to 1,975 fathoms and from latitudes well 
toward the Antarctic Circle. Mr. Walter Weed, of the U. S. Geolog- 
ical Survey, has recently reported them as living in abundance in the 
warm marshes of the Yellowstone National Park, while Dr. Blake 
reported finding over 50 species in a spring in the Pueblo Valley, 
Nevada, which showed a temperature of 1 63° F. 

Although beds of diatomaceous earth are still in process of forma- 
tion, and in times past have been formed at various epochs, the Tertiary 
period appears for some reason to have been peculiarly fitted for the 
growth of these organisms, and all of the known beds of any impor- 
tance, both in America and foreign countries, are of Tertiary age. The 
best known of the foreign deposits is that of Bilin, in Bohemia. This 
is some 14 feet in thickness. When it is borne in mind that, according 
to the calculations of Ehrenberg, every cubic inch of this contains not 
less than 40,000,000 independent shells, one stands aghast at the mere 
thought of the myriads of these little forms which such a bed repre- 
sents. . Some of the deposits in the United States are, however, con- 
siderably larger than this. What is commonly known as the Richmond 
bed extends from Herring Bay, on the Chesapeake, Maryland, to 
Petersburg, Virginia, and perhaps beyond. This is in some places not 
less than 30 feet thick in thickness, though very impure (Specimen 
No. 67984, U.S.N.M., from Calvert County, Maryland, is fairly repre- 
sentative). Near Drakesville, in New Jersey, there occurs a smaller 
deposit, covering only some 3 acres of territory to a depth of from 1 to 
3 feet. Some of the largest deposits known are in the West. Near 
Socorro, in New Mexico, there is stated to be a deposit of fine quality 
which crops out in a single section for a distance of 1,500 feet and 
some 6 feet in thickness. 

Geologists of the fortieth parallel survey reported abundant deposits 
in Nevada, one of which showed in the railroad cutting west of Reno 
a thickness not less than 300 feet, and of a pure white, pale butf, or 
canary yellow color (Specimen No. 67916, U.S.N.M.). Along the Pitt 
River, in California, there is stated to be a bed extending not less than 
16 miles and in some places over 300 feet thick (see Plate 7). Near 
Linkville, Klamath County, Oregon (Specimens Nos. 53402, 53093, 
U.S.N.M.), there occurs a deposit which has been traced for a dis- 
tance of 10 miles, and shows along the Lost River a thickness of 40 
feet. Beds are known also to occur in Idaho (Specimens Nos. 63843, 
66950, U.S.N.M.), near Seattle, in Washington (Specimen No. 53200, 
. U.S.N.M.), and doubtless many more yet remain to be discovered. A 
deposit of unknown extent, pure white color, and almost pulp-like 
consistency has been worked in South Beddington, Maine (Specimens 



220 



EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Nos. 73253, 73254, U.S.N.M.). Others of less purity occur near 
South Framingham, Massachusetts (Specimens Nos. 62767, 62768, 
U.S.N.M.), Lake Umbagog, New Hampshire (Specimen No. 29322, 
U.S.N.M.), at White Head Lake, Herkimer County, New York (Spec- 
imen No. 62913, U.S.N.M.), and at Grand Manan, New Brunswick 
(Specimen No. 57339, U.S.N.M.). 

Chemical Composition. — As already intimated, this earth is of a 
siliceous nature, and samples from widely separated localities show 
remarkable uniformity in composition. Of the following analyses, 
No. 1 is from Lake Umbagog, New Hampshire, No. H, from Morris 
County, New Jersey, and No. Ill, from Popes Creek, in Maryland. As 
will be noted, the silica percentage is nearly the same in all. 



Constituents. 


I 


II 


III 


Silica 


80. 53 
5.89 
1.03 
0.35 


80.66 
3.84 

0.58 


81.53 
3.43 
3.34 
2.61 
1.43 
1.16 
6.04 








Soda 








Water and organic matter 


12.03 


14.01 



The substance may therefore be regarded as a variety of opal. 

Uses. — The main use of infusorial earth is for a polishing powder. 
It is, however, an excellent absorbent, and has been utilized to mix 
with nitroglycerine in the manufacture of dynamite. It has also been 
used to some extent in the preparation of the soluble silicate known 
as water glass. The demand for the material is therefore quite smaP, 
not nearly equal to the supply. The Maryland and Nevada deposits 
are said to be the principal ones now worked. During the year 1897 
the entire output was about 3,000 tons, valued at some $30,400. 

2. Corundum and Emery. 

Corundum. — Composition, sesquioxide of aluminum AlgOj, = oxygen, 
47.1 per cent; aluminum, 52.9 per cent. In crystals often quite pure, 
but frequently occurring associated in crystalline granular masses with 
magnetic iron, and often more or less altered into a series of hydrated 
aluminous compounds, as damourite (Specimen No. 82492, U.S.N.M.). 
The crystalline form of the mineral is hexagonal, or sixsided in out- 
line, and often with curved sides and square terminations, giving rise 
to roughly barrel-shaped forms, as shown in specimen No. 81450 from 
Bengal, India. 

A prominent basal cleavage causes the crystals to break readily with 
smooth flat surfaces at right angles with the axis of elongation. The 
massive forms often show a nearl}^ rectangular parting or pseudo- 



THE NONHETALLIC MINERALS. 221 

cleavage (Specimen No. 63480, U.S.N.M., from Pine Mountain, 
Georgia). 

The most striking physical property of the mineral is its hardness, 
which is 9 of Dana's scale. In this respect it ranks then next to the 
diamond. The color of the mineral varies from white through gray 
(Specimen No. 46283, U.S.N.M), brown, yellow, blue (Specimens Nos. 
73531 and 48182, U.S.N.M.), pink (Specimen No. 81922, U.S.N.M.), 
and red; luster adamantine to vitreous; specific gravity, 3.95 to 4.1. 
The highly colored transparent red and blue forms are valuable as 
gems, and are known under the names of ruby and sapphire. The 
consideration of these forms is beyond the limits of this work. (See 
Mineral and Gem Collections.) 

Occui'rences. — Athough widespread as a mineral, corundum, unmixed 
with a large proportion of magnetite (forming emery), has been found 
in but few localities in sufficient abundance to be of commercial value. 
The most important deposits in the United States are in southwestern 
North Carolina and in the Laurel Creek region of northern Georgia. 
The country rock in both these regions is hornblendic gneiss, through 
which has been intruded a basic eruptive (dunite, Specimen No. 70069, 
U.S.N.M.), and it is mainly along the decomposed lines of contact 
between the two that the corundum is found. According to Dr. T. M. 
Chatard, the Corundum Hill Mine is situated on a ridge which runs in 
the northeast and southwest direction characteristic of this section, the 
dunite outcrops being on the crest, and apparently surrounded on all 
sides except toward the east by hornl)lende gneiss. On the east side 
mica schist (probably damourite schist) takes the place of the gneiss, 
and it is on the eastern side of the dunite that the so-called '' sand vein" 
is found. This is a vein-like mass of brown vermiculite in small scales 
containing an abundance of small crystals of corundum which are usually 
brown in color and often broken into fragments (Specimen No. 73529, 
U.S.N.M.). The easterly wall of this vein is the mica schist very 
much decomposed, while on the western side is found enstatite (Speci- 
men No. 70070, U.S.N.M.), next vermiculite mixed with chlorite, then 
talc (Specimen No. 70071, U.S.N.M.), which in turn gives place to 
nodules of more or less altered dunite. 

The specimens of corundum crystals for which this locality is so 
celebrated (Specimen No. 73530, U.S.N.M.) have been found mainly, if 
not wholly, on the westerly side of the dunite, and on or near the line 
of contact between the gneiss and dunite. 

State Geologist Yeates has stated^ that in the Laurel Creek region 
the corundum is not confined to the vermiculite and chlorite bands, 
but is abundant in the lime soda feldspar as well. The same authority 
states that in this region the dunite is not inclosed by the hornblendic 

1 Bulletin No. 2, Geological Survey of Georgia, 1894. 



222 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

gneisses, but intruded between these and other gneiss or mica schist; 
also that the corundum-bearing veins lie in the dunite close to the con- 
tact and in the vicinity of the hornblendic gneiss. It should be said 
before leaving the subject that certain micaceous minerals, as margarite 
and chloritoid (Specimen No. 63107, U.S.N.M., from Chester, Massa- 
chusetts) are almost invariable accompaniments of corundum and 
emery deposits, and that it was the finding of these minerals that led 
to the discovery of the emery beds at Chester. Chatard reports that 
in the North Carolina mines chlorite or vermiculite is considered a 
"corundum sign," and in mining such indications are followed so long 
as they hold out (Specimen No. 63153, U.S.N.M.). 

The geographical distribution of corundum-bearing rocks in the 
eastern United States has been worked out in detail by J. V. Lewis of 
the North Carolina Geological Survey, from whose report^ the accom. 
panying map (Plate 8) is taken. According to this authority the 
corundum occurring in such quantities as to be of commercial value is 
almost universally found in connection with basic eruptive rocks, as 
peridotites or their varietal forms pyroxenite and amphibolite, which 
are themselves intruded into gneisses. 

At Yogo Gulch, Montana, corundum in the form of sapphire (see Gem 
Collections) occurs as a constituent of a basic eruptive rock near the 
line of contact with aluminous shales (Specimen No. 53519, U.S.N.M.). 
In Gallatin County the mineral is found in well-defined crystals of all 
sizes up to an inch or more in length abundantly disseminated through- 
out a granite (Specimen No. 83838,U.S.N.M.). In the Russian Urals it 
occurs in disseminated crystals and large cleavage masses in feldspar 
(Specimens Nos. 40323, 40315, 40334, 73532, U.S.N.M.). In India it 
occurs as an original constituent associated with both acid and basic 
rocks, but in most cases where the mineral is in the basic rocks there 
have been found intrusions of pegmatite (an acid rock) in the near 
vicinity. In the celebrated Mogok Ruby Mines the corundum is found 
in a crystalline limestone and the detritus resulting from its decay, the 
limestone itself being regarded by Professor Judd as an extreme form 
of alteration of rocks of igneous origin (see further under Emery). 

Corundum has recently been reported as a constituent of both nephe- 
line syenites and ordinary syenites in the counties of Renfrew, Hast- 
ings, and Peterborough, in Eastern Ontario, Canada. According to 
W. G. Miller^ these syenites are dike rocks, consisting essentially of 
feldspar, nepheline, and black mica or hornblende, the corundum 
occurring more abundantly in the ordinary syenite than in that which 
carries nepheline. The dikes are from a few inches to some feet in 
diameter, and the corundum is distributed in a somewhat capricious 

^Bulletin No. 11. Corundum and the Basic Magnesian Eocks of Western North 
Carolma, by J. V. Lewis, 1896. 
=^ Report of the Canadian Bureau of Mines, VII, Pt. 3, 1898, p. 207. 



Report of U. S. National Miisoum, 1 899.— Merri!l. 



Plate 8, 




Map showing Distribution of Corundum and Feridotite in the Eastern United 

States. 

After .T. V. Lewis, Bulletin 11. Xorili Ciniliiiti (ieoldLdeal Snrvev. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS, 223 

manner, being quite uniformly distributed in some of the smaller 
dikes, or segregated irregularly along certain lines or patches. In some 
of the dikes the mineral is quite lacking. The total area covered by 
the corundum-bearing rocks, in the three counties mentioned, is 100 
square miles (Specimen No. 53588, U.S.N.M.). 

Origin. — Dr. Chatard, as a result of his observations already quoted, 
regards the corundum of Franklin County, North Carolina, and the 
Laurel Creek region of Georgia as a secondary mineral produced by a 
mutual reaction between the various elements of the dunite and 
gneiss during decomposition, the solutions formed during such decom- 
position giving rise to such reactions as are productive of chlorite and 
vermiculites, and, where the necessary conditions of proportion are 
reached, to corundum. 

On the other hand. Dr. J. H. Pratt,^ who has made a detailed study 
of the North Carolina region, regards the corundum as an original 
constituent of the peridotite — as having been held in solution in the 
molten magma at the time of its intrusion into the country rock, 
and having been one of the first minerals to crystallize on its cooling. 
This view is most in accord with recent synthetic work done by Moro- 
zewicz and others. 

Pirsson, who has described^ the occurrence of sapphires in a basic 
eruptive rock from Togo Gulch, Montana, regards them as of pyro- 
genetic origin — that is, they result from the direct crystallization of the 
oxide, but which has been derived from aluminous material dissolved 
from shales by the molten rock during its intrusion. The sharp out- 
lines of the crystals in the granite from Gallatin County, Montana 
(Specimen No. 83838, U.S.N.M.), is also indicative of a direct crystalli- 
zation from a molten magma containing an excess of aluminum. A like 
origin must also be recognized for the Canadian mineral, and a part 
at least of that of India. 

Emery. — ^The rock emery takes its name from Cape Emeri.^ on the 
island of Naxos, where it occurs in great abundance. Mineralogically 
it has been regarded by various authorities as either a mechanical 
admixture of corundum and magnetic iron ore or as simply a massive 
iron spinel — hercynite. So far as the Naxos emery is concerned, the 
first view is undoubtedly correct. Physically emery is a massive, 
nearly opaque, dark gray to blue-black or black material, with a specific 
gravity of 4 and hardness of 8, Dana's scale, breaking with a tolerably 
regular fracture, and always more or less magnetic. 

Chemically the material is quite variable in composition, a fact 
which gives support to the opinions of those who hold it to be a mixture 
rather than a true chemical compound. Below are the results of 

^American Journal of Science, VI, 1898, pp. 49-65. 
^Idem, IV, 1897, p. 421. 



224 



KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



analyses by Dr. J. Lawrence Smith, from whose papers on the subject 
these notes are partiall}^ compiled: 



Localities. 


Alumina. 


Iron. 


Lime. 


Silica. 


Water. 




f 61. 05 

I 63.50 

70.10 

. 60. 10 

1 77.82 

r 71.06 

I 75. 12 

60.10 

44.01 

50.02 

51.92 

74.22 

84.02 


27.15 
33.25 
22.21 
33.20 

8.62 
20.32 
13.06 
33.20 
50.21 
44.11 
42.25 
19.31 

9.63 


1.30 
0.92 
0.62 
0.48 
1.80 
1.40 
0.72 
0.48 


9.63 
1.61 
4.00 
1.80 
8.13 
4.12 
6.88 
1.80 
3.13 
3.25 
5.46 
5.48 
4.81 


2.00 
1.90 
2.10 
6.62 
3.11 
2.53 
3.10 
.5.62 

























Geologicalh' emery, like corundum, belongs mainly to the older 
crystalline rocks. In Asia Minor it occurs in angular or rounded 
masses from the size of a pea to those of several tons weight, embedded 
in a blue-gray or white crystalline limestone, which overlies micaceous 
or hornl)lendic schists, gneisses, and granites. Superficial decompo- 
sition has, as a rule, removed more or less of the more soluble portions 
of the limestone, leaving the emery nodules in a red ferruginous soil. 
With the emery are associated other aluminous minerals as mentioned 
below. 

According to Tschermak^ the Naxos emery (Specimen No. 60465, 
U.S.N.M.) occurs mostly in the form of an iron-gray, scaly to schistose, 
rarely massive, aggregate consisting essentially of magnetite and corun- 
dum, the latter mineral being in excess. In addition to these two 
minerals occur hematite and limonite, as alteration products of the 
magnetite; margarite, muscovite, biotite, tourmaline, chloritoid, dias- 
pore, disthene, staurolite, and rutile occur as common accessories; 
rarely are found spinel, vesuvianite, and py rite. Under the microscope 
he finds the emery rock to show the corundum in rounded granules 
and sometimes well-defined crystals with hexagonal outlines, particu- 
larly in cases where single individuals are embedded in the iron ores. 
(Plate 9, fig. 3.) In many cases, as in the emery of Krenino and 
Pesulas, the gran .les are partially colored blue by a pigment some- 
times irregularly and sometimes zonally distributed. The corundum 
grains, which vary in size between 0.05 mm. and 0.52 mm. (averaging 
about 0.22 mm.), are very rich in inclosures of the iron ores, largely 
magnetite in the form of small, rounded granules. The quantity of 
these is so great as at times to render the mineral quite opaque, though 
at times of such dust-like fineness as to be translucent and of a brownish 



^Mineralogische und Petrographische Mittheilungen, XIV, 1894, p. 313. 



Report of U. S. National Museum. 1 899— Merrill. 



Plate 9. 




MiCROSTRUCTURE OF EMERY. 
After Tsehermak, ISIinertilogische tuid Petrographiseht' Mittheilungen. XIV. Part 4. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 225 

color. The larger coriindums are often injected with elongated, par- 
allel-lying clusters or groups of the iron ores, as shown in fig. 3, Tscher- 
mak's paper. The corundums in turn are often surrounded by borders 
of ver}^ niiiuite zircons. The iron ore, as noted above, is principally 
magnetite, ])ut which, by hydration and oxidation, has given rise 
to abundant limonite. The magnetites are in the form of rounded 
granules and dust-like particles, and also at times in well-defined octa- 
hedrons. In their turn the magnetites also inclose particles of corun- 
dum very much as the metallic iron of meteorites of the pallosite group 
inclose the olivines and as shown in Plate 9, fig. 4. The iron ores, 
as a rule, occur in parallel layers and lenticular masses or nests. 

The following account of these deposits and the method of working 
is by A. Gobantz:^ 

Naxos, the largest of the Cyclades Islands, is remarkable as being one of the few 
localities in the world producing emery on a large scale; the deposits, which are of 
an irregularly bedded or lenticular form, being mostly concentrated on the moun- 
tains at the northerii end of the island, the most important ones being in the imme- 
diate vicinity of the village of Bothris. The island is principally made up of 
archfean rocks, divisible into gneiss and schist formations, the latter consisting of 
mica schists alternating with crystalline limestones. The lenticular masses of 
emery, which are very variable in size, ranging in length from a few feet to 
upward of 100 yards and in maximum thickness from 5 to 50 yards, are closely 
associated with the limestones, and, as they follow their undulations, they vary very 
much in position, lying at all kinds of slope, from horizontal to nearly vertical. 
Seventeen different deposits have been discovered and worked at different times. 
These range over considerable heights from 180 to 700 meters above sea-level, the 
largest working, that of Malia, being one of the lowest. This important deposit 
covers an area of more than 30,000 square metres, extending for about 500 metres 
in length with a height of more than 50 metres. This was worked during the 
Turkish occupation, and it has supplied fully one-half of all the emery exported 
since the formation of the Greek Kingdom. The highest quality of mineral is 
obtained from two comparatively thin but extensive deposits at Aspalanthropo and 
Kakoryakos, which are 435 metres above the sea level. The mineral is stratified 
in thin bands from 1 to 2 feet in thickness, crossed by two other systems of divisional 
planes so that it breaks into nearly cubical blocks in the working. The floor of 
the deposit is invaria1)ly crystalline limestone, and the roof a loosely crystalline dolo- 
mite covered l)y mica schist. The underlying limestones are often penetrated by 
dykes of tourmaline granite, which probably have some intimate connection with 
the origin of the emery beds above them. 

Mineralogically emery is a compact mixture of blue corundum and magnetic iron 
ore, its value as an abrasive material increasing with the proportion of the former 
constituent. This proportion has, however, been usually much overestimated. 
Seven samples collected by the author have been examined at the Technical High 
School in Vienna, and found to contain from 60 to 66 per cent of alumina. The 
average composition may be considered to l)e | corundum, the remainder being 
magnetite and silica in the proportion of about 2 to 1, with some carbonate of lime. 

The working of the deposits is conducted in an extremely primitive fashion. 

1 Oesterreichische Zeitschrift fiir Berg- und Hiittenwesen, XLII, p. 143. Abstract 
in the Minutes and Proceedings of the Institute of Civil Engineers, CXVII, pp. 
466-468. 

NAT MUS 99 15 



226 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

During the period of Turkish rule the exckisive right of emery mining was given to 
two villages, and this rule has prevailed up to the present time; no Greek Govern- 
ment having ventured to break down the inonopoly. These privileged workmen 
are about 600 in number, and have the right of working the mineral wherever and 
in what manner they may think best. The jsroduce is taken over by the Govern- 
ment official at the rate of about £3 12s. for 50 cwts. The rock is exclusively broken 
by fire-setting. A piece of ground, about 5 feet broad and the same height, is (-1 eared 
from loose material, and a pile of brushwood heaped against it and lighted. This 
burns out in a])out twenty-four or thirty hours, when water is thrown upon the 
heated rock to chill it and develop fractures along the secondary divisional plants in 
the mass of emery, and so facilitate the breaking up and removal of the material. 
Sometimes a crack is opened out by inserting a dynamite cartridge, but the regular 
use of explosives is impossible, owing to the hardness of the mineral which can not 
be bored with steel tools. Only the larger lumps are carried down to the shipping 
place, the smaller sizes, up to pieces as large as the fist, being left on the ground. 

As most of the suitable places for fire-setting at the surface have been worked out, 
attempts have been made to follow the deposits underground, b-ut none of these 
have been carried to any depth, partly on account of the suffocating smoke of the 
fires, rendering continuous work difficult; but more particularly from the dangerous 
character of the loose dolomite roof, which is responsible for many fatal accidents 
from falls annually. These might, of course, be prevented by the judicious use of 
timber or masonry to support the roof, liut this appears to be beyond the skill of 
the native miners. 

The rapid exhaustion of the forests in the neighbourhood of the mines, owing to 
the heavy consumption of fuel in fire-setting, has been a cause of anxiety to the 
Government for some years past, and competent experts have been employed to 
suggest new methods of working. These have been tolerably unanimous in recom- 
mending the institution of systematic quarry workings, using diamond boring 
machines and powerful explosives for winning the mineral, and the construction of 
wire-rope ways and jetties for improving the methods of conveyance and shipping; 
but as funds for these improvements, owing to the disastrous condition of the 
national finances, are not obtainable, the primitive method of working still con- 
tinues. Meanwhile the competition of the mines in Asia Minor has become so 
intense that the export of emery from Naxos has almost entirely ceased for a year 
past. 

According to Jackson, the principal emerj deposit at Chester, Mas- 
sachusetts, in the United States, occurs at South Mountain, in the form 
of a bed from 4 to 10 feet in width, with a nearly N. 20° E., S. 20° 
W., course, and dipping to the eastward at an angle of 70°. The bed 
widens rapidly as it rises in the mountain, and is in one place, where 
it is associated with a bed of iron ore (magnetite), 17 feet wide, the 
emery itself being not less than 10 feet in the clear. The highest 
point of outcrop is 750 feet above the immediate base of the mountain. 
The bed cuts through both the South and North Mountains, and has 
been traced in length -1 miles. Frequently large globular masses of 
the emery are found in a state of great purity, separated from the 
principal masses of the bed and surrounded by a thin layer of bright 
green chloritoid and a thicker layer of interwoven laminated crystals 
of delicate lilac-colored margarite (Specimen No. 63107, U.S.N.M.), 
sometimes 2 or more inches in thickness. Some of these balls of 
emery are 3 or more feet in diameter and extremely diflScult to break. 



THE NONMETALLTC MINERALS. 227 

(Specimens Nos. 63102, 68103, 63104, 63105, 63106, U.S.N.M.), showthe 
character of the ore as miiu>d and the character of the wall or country 
rock. 

The chief commercial sources of emery are those of Gumuch-dagh, 
between Ephesus and the ancient Tralles; Kulah, and near the river 
Hermes in Asia Minor, and the island of Naxos, whence it is (juarried 
and shipped from Smyrna, in part as ballast, to all parts of the world. 
The only commercial source of importance in the United States, or 
indeed, in North America, is Chester, Massachusetts, as above noted. 
The island of Naxos is stated to have for several centuries furnished 
almost exclusively the emery used in the arts, the material being 
chiefly obtained from loose masses in the soil. The mining at Kulah 
and Gumuch-dagh was begun about 1847 and at Nicaria in 1850. The 
emery vein at Chester, Massachusetts, was discovered by Dr. H. S. 
Lucas in 1863, and described by Dr. C. T. Jackson in 1864. 

In preparing for use the mineral, after being dug from the soil or 
blasted from the parent ledge, is pulverized and bolted in various 
grades, from the finest flour to a coarse sand (Specimens Nos. 59844 to 
59864, U.S.N.M., inclusive). The commercial prices vary according 
to grade from 3 to 10 cents a pound. At the end of the last century the 
price of the Eastern emery is given at from $40 to $50 a ton. About 
1835 an English monopoly (Controlled the right of mining and the price 
rose in 184T to as high as $140 a ton. 

The chief uses of emery and corundum, as is well known, are in the 
form of powder by plate-glass manufacturers, lapidaries, and stone 
workers; as emery paper, or in the form of solid disks made from the 
crushed and bolted mineral and cement, known commercially as emery 
wheels. The great toughness and superior cutting power of these 
wheels renders them of service in grinding glass, metals, and other 
hard substances, where the natural stone is quite ineflacient, 

(See further under Grind and Whet Stones, p. 463.) 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF CORUNDUM AND EMERY. 

John Dicksox. Notes. 

American Journal of Science, III, 1821, pp. 4, 229. 
J. Lawrence Smith. Memoir on Emery— First part — On the Geology and Miner- 
alogy of Emery, from observations made in Asia Minor. 
American Journal of Science, X, 1850, p. .354. 
J. Lawrence Smith. Memoir on Emery — Second part — On the Minerals associated 
with Emery. 

American Journal of Science, XI, 1851, p. 53. 
William P. Blake. Corundum in Crystallized Limestone at Vernon, Sussex County, 
New Jersey. 

American Journal of Science, XIII, 1852, p. 116. 
Charles T. Jackson. Discovery of Emery in Chester, Hampden County, Massa- 
chusetts. 

Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, X, 1864, p. 84. 
American Journal of Science, XXXIX, 1865, p. 87. 



228 EEPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Charles U. Shepard. A Description of the Emery Mine of Chester, Hampden 
Comity, Massachusetts. 

Pamphlet, 16 pp., London, 1865. 
J. Lawrence Smith. On the Emery Mine of Chester, Hampden County, Massachusetts. 

American Journal of Science, XLII, 1866, pp. 83-93. 

Original Researches in Mineralogy and Chemistry, 1884, p. 111. 
C. W. Jenks. Corundum of North Carolina. 

American Journal of Science, III, 1872, p. 301. 
Charles U. Shepard. On the Corundum Region of North Carolina and Georgia. 

American Journal of Science, IV, 1872, pp. 109 and 175. 
Frederick A. Genth. Corundum, its Alterations and Associated Minerals. 

Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, XIII, 1873, p. 361. 
C. W. Jenks. Note on the occurrence of Sapphires and Rubies in situ with Corun- 
dum, at the Culsagee Mine, Macon County, North Carolina. 

Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, XXX, 1874, p. 303. 
W. C. Kerr. Conmdum of North Carolina. 

Geological Survey of North Carolina, I, Appendix C, 1875, p. 64. 
C. D. Smith. Corundum and its Associate Rocks. 

Geological Survey of North Carolina, I, Appendix D, 1875, i>. 91-97. 
R. W. Raymond. The Jenks Corundum Mine, Macon County, North Carolina. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, VII, 1878, p. 83. 
J. Wilcox. Corundum in North Carolina. 

Proceedirgs, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, XXX, 1878, p. 223. 
F. A. Genth. The so-called Emery-ore from Chelsea, Bethel Township, Delaware 
County, Pennsylvania. 

Proceedings, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, XXXII, 1880, p. 311. 
C. D. Smith. Corundum. 

Geological Survey of North Carolina, II, 1881, p. 42. 

F. A. Genth. Contributions to Mineralogy. 

Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, XX, 1882. 
A. A. JuLiEN. The Dunyte Beds of North Carolina. 

Proceedings of the Boston Society Natural History, XXII, 1882, p. 141. 
T. M. Chatard. Corundum and Emery. 

Mineral Resources of the United States, 1883-84, p. 714. 
T. M. Chatard. The Gneiss-Dunyte Contacts of Corundum Hill, North Carolina, 
in Relation to the Origin of Corundum. 

Bulletin No. 42, U. S. Geological Survey, 1887, p. 45. 

G. H. Williams. Norites of the "Cortlandt Series." 

American Journal of Science, XXXIII, 1887, p. 194. 
F. A. Genth. Contributions to Mineralogy. 

American Journal of Science, XXXIX, 1890, p. 47. 
Emery Mines in Greece. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, L, 1890, p. 273. 
A. GoBAUTz. The Emery Deposits of Naxos. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LVIII, 1894, p. 294. 
Francis P. King. Corundum Deposits of Georgia. 

Bulletin No. 2, Geological Survey of Georgia, 1894, 133 pp. 
T. D. Paret. Emery and Other Abrasives. 

Journal of the Franklin Institute, CXXXVII, 1894, pp. 353, 421. 
J. C. Trautwine. Corundum with Diaspore, Culsagee Mine, North Carolina. 

Journal of the Franklin Institute, XCIV, p. 7. 
J. VoLNEY Lewis. Corundum of the Appalachian Crystalline Belt. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXV, 1895, 
p. 852. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



229 



J. VoLNEY Lewis. Valuable Discovery of Corundum. 

Canadian Mining Review, XV, 1896, p. 230. 
The Corundum Lands of Ontario. 

Canadian Mining Review, XVII, 1898, p. 192. 
Corundum in Ontario. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LXVI, 1898, p. 303. 
A. M. Stone. Corundum Mining in North Candina. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LXV, 1898, p. 490. 




Fig. 5. 

PISOLITIC BAUXITE. 

Bartow County, Georgia. 

Specimen No. 63335, U.S.N.M. 

3. Bauxite. 

Compo.sition Al203.2H,,0,= alumina, 73.9 per cent; water, 26.1 
per cent. Commonly impure through the presence of iron oxides, 
silica, lime, and magnesia. Color, white or gray when pure, but yel- 
lowish, brown, or red through impurities. Specific gravity, 2.55; 
structure, massive, or earthy and clay like. According to Hayes ^ the 

^ The Geological Relations of the Southern Appalachian Bauxite Deposits. Trans- 
actions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXIV, 1894, pp. 250-251. 



230 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



bauxites of the Southern United States show considerable variety in 
physical appearance, though g-enerall}^ having a pronounced pisolitic 
structure. (See Specimens Nos. 63335, 66576, 66577, and 66578, 
U.S.N.M., from Floyd and Bartow counties, Georgia; also fig. 5, p. 229.) 

The individual pisolites vary in size from a fraction of a millimeter to 3 or 4 centi- 
meters in diameter, although most commonly the diameter is from 3 to 5 millimeters. 
The matrix in which they are embedded is generally more compact and also lighter 
in color. The larger pisolites are composed of numerous concentric shells, separated 
by less compact substance or even open cavities, and their interior portions readily 
crumble to a soft powder. 

In thin sections the ore is seen to be made up of amorphous flocculent grains, and 
the various structures which it exhibits are produced by the arrangement and degree 
of compactness of these grains. The matrix in which the pisolites are imbedded 
may be composed of this flocculent material segregated in an irregularly globular 
form or in compact oolites, with sharply-defined outlines. Or both forms may be 
present, the compact oolites being embedded in a matrix composed of the less defi- 
nite bodies. In some cases the interstices between the oolites are filled either wholly 
or in part with silica, apparently a secondary deposition. 

The pisolites also show considerable diversity in structure. In some cases they 
are composed of exactly the same flocculent grains as the surrounding matrix, 
from which they are separated by a thin shell of slightly denser material. This 
sometimes shows a number of sharply-defined concentric rings, and is then dis- 
tinctly separated from the matrix and the interior portion of the pisolite. The latter 
is also sometimes composed of imperfectly defined globular masses, and in other 
cases of compact, uniform, and but slightly granular substance. It is always filled 
with cracks, which are regularly radial and concentric, in proportion as the interior 
substance has a uniform texture. Branching from the larger cracks, which, as a rule, 
are partially filled with quartz, very minute cracks penetrate the intervening por- 
tions. Thus the pisolites appear to have lost a portion of their substance, so that it 
no longer fills the space within the outer shell, but has shrunk and formed the radial 
cracks. No analyses have been made of the different portions of the pisolites or of 
the pisolites and matrix separately, and it is, impossible to say whether any differ- 
ences in chemical composition exist. It may be that some soluble constituent has 
been removed from the interior of the pisolites, but it is more probable that the 
shrinking observed is due wholly to desiccation. 

Scattered throughout the ground-mass are occasional fragments of pisolites, whose 
irregular outlines have been covered to varying depths by a deposit of the same 
material as forms the concentric shells, and thus have been restored to spherical or 
oval forms. 

Composition. — The following tables will serve to show the wide range 
of composition of bauxites from various sources: 

Composition of bauxites from various localities. 



Baux, France: 

1. Compact variety 

2. Pisiform 

3.' Hard and compact calcareous 

paste. 

4. Calabres, France 

5. Thoronet, France, red variety 



SiOo. 



2.8 
4.8 



2.0 
0.;?0 



TiO.,. 



3.1 

3.2 



l.G 
3.40 



AI2O3 



57.6 
55.4 
30.3 

33.2 
69.30 



FeaO, 



25.3 
24.8 
34.9 

48.8 
22.90 



(ign) 
HoO. 



(100») 
H„0. 



10.8 
11.6 
22.1 

8.6 
14.10 



P»Os 



Analyst. 



Deville. 
Do. 
Do. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINEEALS. 



231 



Cuiiip<ixllii>ii of Ixiii.rilcs/niiii rarioiis locitlities — Coiitimicd. 





SiOa. 


TiOs. 


AI2O3. 


FeaOg. 


(ign) 
HoO. 


(100°) 
HoO. 


P2O6. 


Analyst. 


6. Villeveyrac, H(5rauU, France, white 


2.20 
(i. 29 

5.14 
10. 27 

1.10 
37. 87 

18.f.7 

7.73 
23. 72 
10.25 

21.08 
2.80 


4.00 76.90 
' 64.24 

' 50.85 

49.02 

3.20 50.92 
I 39.44 

' 45.94 

47.62 

41.38 

2. .53 41. 00 


.10 
2.40 

14.36 

12.90 

15.70 

2.27 

11.86 

19.95 

.85 

2.5.25 

2.14 
13.50 
3.21 
1.49 

1.12 

1.62 
10.64 
2.63 
2. 16 
0. 52 
1.82 

6. OS 
1.83 
1.66 
22.15 
9.11 
1.95 
3. 16 


15.80 


.46 

.48 
.38 

trace 
trace 






25.74 


Li 11. 


Laiig.sdorf, Germany: 

s. Brownish red 

9. Liglit red 


27.03 
25.88 
27.75 
12.80 

21.20 

23 


1.35 
.93 
.85 

9.20 

1.40 
.57 


Lang. 

Do. 
Liebreich. 


11. CluTokce County, Ahibama 

12. .Taeksonville, Calhoun County, 

Alabama. 
13. Red 


Dr. Wm. B. 
Phillip.^. 
Do. 

Do. 




23.72 


Do. 


ir-,. Red 


20. 43 
23.41 


. 65 
.45 


W. F. Hille- 


l(i. White 


2.52 
3.52 
3.60 


48.92 
52. 21 
57.25 
56. 88 

52. 13 

39. 75 
56.10 
58.61 
59. 82 
45. 21 
61.25 

55. 59 
57.62 
62.05 
46.40 
58.60 
55.64 
51.90 


liralid. 
Do. 




27.72 


Nichols. 


IS Do ... 






Do. 


19. Do 


2.:50 
19. 56 

41.47 
2.56 
8.29 
6.62 

35. 88 
1.98 

10.13 
11.48 
2.00 
4.89 
3.34 
10. 38 
16.76 


3. 55 
2.08 

3.15 
2. 38 

3.50 

3.50 
3.50 


24 
16 


21 
14 


.07 


Do. 


Georgia: 

20. No. 1 

21. No. 2 


Prof. H. C. 
White. 
Do. 


22. No. 3 


30.10 
27.42 
31.10 
17. 13 
31.43 

28. 99 
28-63 


Do. 


23. No. 4 


Do. 


24. No. 5 


Do. 


25. No. 6 

2(). Barnsley estate, Dinwood .Sta- 
tion, Georgia, No. 7. 
Pulaski County, Arkansas: 
27. Black 


Do. 
Do. 


28. Do 




29. Do 


30.31 
26 






30. Red. 


68 






31. Do 


28 63 




32. Do 


27.62 
24.86 























No. 1.— Con tains also 0.4 CaCOs. No. 2.— 0.2 CaCOa. No. 3.— 12.7 CaCOa. No. 5.— 22.90 FeO + FeoOa. 
No. 6—0.10 FeO + FeoOs. No. 7.— 0.85 CaO, 0.38 MgO, 0.20 SO3. No. 8.— 0.35 FeO, 0.41 CaO, 0.11 MgO, 
0.09 KoO, 0.17 Na..,0, trace CO2. No. 9.— FeO not det., 0.62 CaO, trace MgO, 0.11 K.,0, 0.20 Na^O, 0.26 COo. 
No. 10.— 0.80 CaO, 0.16 MgO. 

Origl?) ami mode of occurrence. — The mineral received it.s name 
from the villag-e of Baux, in southern France, where a hig-hly ferrifer- 
ous, pisolitic variety was first found and described by Berthier in 
1821. The origin of the mineral, both here and elsewhere, has been 
a matter of considerable discussion. The following- notes relative to 
the foreign occurrences are from a paper by R. L. Packard:^ 

The geological occurrence of the bauxite of Baux was studied by H. Coquand 
[Bulletin de la Society Geologique de France, XXVIII, 1871, p. 98], who describes 



^Mineral Resources of the United States, 1891, p. 148. 



232 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

the mineral as of three varieties, pisolitic, compact, and earthy. The pisolitic 
variety does not differ in structure from the iron ores of Franche Comte and Berry, 
although the color and composition are different. It occurs in highly tilted beds 
alternating with limestones, sandstones, and clays, belonging to the upper cre- 
taceous period, and in pockets or cavities in the limestone. The limestone con- 
taining the bauxite and that adjacent thereto is also pisolitic, some nodules being as 
large as the fist, and the pisolitic bauxite has sometimes a calcareous cement, and at 
others is included in a paste of the compact mineral. M. Coquand supposed that 
the alumina and iron oxide composing the bauxite vi'ere brought to the ancient lake 
bed in which the lacustrine limestone was formed by mineral springs, which, dis- 
charging in the bottom of the lake, allowed the alumina and iron oxide to be dis- 
tributed with the other sediment. In some cases the discharge occurred on land, 
and the deposit then formed isolated patches. He refers to other similar deposits 
of bauxite of the same period in France. Sometimes the highly ferriferous mineral 
predominates over the aluminous (white), at others diaspose is found enveloping 
the red mineral, while in other cases it is mixed with it, predominating largely, and 
sometimes manganese peroxide replaces ferric oxide. In soine places the ground 
was strewed with fragments of tuberous menilite, very light and white. 

M. Ang6 [Bull. Soc. Geolog. de France, XVI, 1888, p. 345] describes the bauxite 
of Var and Herault and gives analyses of it. Over 20,000 tons were being mined in 
this region annually at the time of writing his report [1888]. In the red mineral of 
Var druses occur with white bauxite running as high as 85 per cent. AlgOj, and 15 
per cent. HjO, corresponding to the formula AI2O3+H2O. He refers to the prevail- 
ing theory of the formation of bauxite, according to which solutions of the chlorides 
of aluminum and iron in contact with carbonate of lime undergo double decomposi- 
tion, forming alumina, iron oxide, and calcium chloride. Other deposits in the 
south of France, in Ireland, Austria, and Italy, he says, confirm this view, because 
they also rest upon or are associated with limestone. The bauxite deposit in Puy 
de Dome which he studied could not, however, be explained by this theory because 
it was not associated with limestone, but rested directly upon gneiss and was partly 
covered by basalt. The geological sketch map of the deposit near Madriat, Puy de 
Dome, which he gives shows gneiss, basalt, with uncovered bauxite largely predomi- 
nating, and patches of miocene clay, while a geological section of the deposit near 
Villeveyrac, Herault, shows the bed of bauxite conformably following the flexures 
of the limestone formation when covered by more recent beds, and when exposed 
and denuded occupying cavities and pockets in the limestone. This occurrence is 
substantially the same as that of the neighboring Baux. M. Ange agrees with M. 
Coquand in attributing the bauxite to geyserian origin. He uses as an illustration 
of the contemporaneous formation of bauxite the deposits from the geysers of the 
Yellowstone Park, which is evidently due to a misunderstanding. He made no 
petrographical examination of the bauxite of Puy de Dome, nor did he attemi^t to 
trace any genetic relation between the latter and the accompanying basalt. The 
occurrence is, however, noteworthy, and an examination might show that it is 
another instance of the direct derivation of bauxite from basalt, which is inaintained 
in the two following instances, somewhat imperfectly in the first to be sure, but with 
greater detail in the second. 

The first is a paper by Lang [in the Berichte der Deutschen Chemischen Gesell- 
schaft, XVII, 1884, p. 2892]. He describes the bauxite in Ober-Hessen, which is 
found in the fields in round masses up to the size of a man's head, embedded in a 
clay which is colored with iron oxide. The composition varies very widely. The 
petrographical examination showed silica, iron oxide, magnetite, and augite. The 
chemical composition and petrographical examination shows the bauxite to be a 
decomposition product of basalt. By the weathering of the plagioclase feldspars, 
augite, and olivine, nearly all the silica had been removed, together with the greater 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 233 

part of the lime and magnesia; the iron had been oxidized and hydrate of alumina 
formed as shown by its easy solubility in hydrochloric acid. The residue of the 
silica had crystallized as quartz in the pores of the mineral. 

The more detailed account of the derivation of bauxite from basalt is given in an 
inaugural dissertation by A. Liebreich, abstracted in the Chemisches (Jentraiblatt, 
1892, p. 'H. This writer says that the well-known localities of bauxite in Germany 
are the southern slope of the Westerwald near Miihlbach, Hadamar, in the neigh- 
borhood of Lesser Steinheim, near Hanau, and especially the western slope of the 
Vogelsberg. Chemical analyses show certain differences in the composition of 
bauxite from different places, the smaller amount of water in the French bauxite 
referring it to diaspore, while the Vogelsberg mineral is probably Gil)l)site (hydrar- 
gillite) . The bauxites of Ireland, of the Westerwald, and the Vogelsberg, show by 
certain external indications their derivation from basalt. The bauxite of the Vogels- 
berg occurs in scattered lumps or small masses, jiartly on the surface and partly 
imbedded in a grayish white to reddish brown clay, which contains also similar 
masses of basaltic iron ore and fragments of more or less weathered basalt itself. 
Although the latter was associated intimately with the bauxite, a direct and close 
connection of the two could not be found, but an examination of thin sections of the 
Vogelsberg ])auxite showed that most spec-imens still possessed a l)asaltic (anamesite) 
structure, which enabled the author to determine the former constituents with more 
or less certainty. The clays from different points in the district carrying basalt, 
basaltic iron ore, and bauxite were examined, some of which showed clearly a sedi- 
mentary character. Some of the bauxite nodules were a foot and a half in diameter 
and possessed no characteristic form. They were of an uneven surface, light to dark 
brown, white, yellowish, and gray in color, speckled and pitted, sometimes finely 
porous and full of small colorless or yellowish crystals of hydrargillite. The thin 
sections showed distinct medium-granular anamesitic structure. Lath-shaped por- 
tions filled with a yellowish substance preponderated (the former plagioclases) and 
filling the spaces between these were cloudy, yellow, brown, and black transparent 
masses which had evidently taken the place of the former augite. Laths and plates 
of titanic iron, often fractured, were commonly present and the contours of altered 
olivine could be clearly made out. The anamesitic basalt of the neighborhood 
showed a structure fully corresponding with the bauxite. Olivine and titanic iron 
oxide were found in the clay by washing. The basaltic iron ore also showed the 
anamesite structure. 

But two localities in the United States have thus far yielded bauxite 
in commercial quantities. These are in Arkansas and the Coosa Valley 
of Georgia and Alabama. 

According to Branner the Arkansas beds occur near the railway in 
the vicinity of Little Rock, Pulaski County, and near Benton, Saline 
County. "The exposures vary in size from an acre to 20 acres or 
more, and aggregate something over a square mile." This does not, 
in all probability, include the total area covered by bauxite in the 
counties mentioned, for the method of occurrence of the deposits leads 
to the supposition that there are others as yet undiscovered by the 
survey. 

In thickness the beds vary from a few feet to over 40 feet, with the 
total thickness undetermined; the average thickness is at least 15 feet. 

These Arkansas deposits occur only in Tertiary areas and in the 
neighborhood of eruptive syenites ("granites'^) to which they seem 



234 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

to be genetically related. In elevation the}' occur onl}' at and below 
300 feet above tide level, and most of them lie between 260 and 270 
feet above tide. They have soft Tertiary beds both above and below 
them at a few places, and must, therefore, be of Tertiary age. As a 
rule, however, they have no covering, the overl3dng beds having been 
removed b}^ erosion, and are high enough above the drainage of the 
countrj' to be readily (juarried. Erosive action has removed a part 
of the bauxite in some cases, but there are, in all probability, many 
places at which it has not yet ])een even uncovered. 

It is pisolitic in structure, and, like all bauxite, varies more or less in 
color and in chemical composition. (Specimen No. 67600 from Pulaski 
County.) At a few places it is so charged with iron that attempts have 
been made to mine it for iron ore. Some of the samples from these 
pits assay over 50 per cent of metallic iron. This ferruginous kind is 
exceptional, however. From the dark red varieties it grades through 
the browns and yellows to pearl gray, cream colored, and milky white, 
the pinks, browns, and grays being the more abundant. Some of the 
white varieties have the chemical composition of kaolin, while the red, 
brown, and gray have but little silica and iron, and a high percentage 
of alumina. The analyses given on page 231 show that this bauxite 
compares favora})ly with that of France, Austria, and Ireland, and is 
apparently well adapted for the manufacture of chemical products, for 
refractory material, and for the manufacture of aluminum by the 
Deville process. 

The Georgia and Alabama deposits have been the subject of exhaust- 
ive study by Willard Hayes, to whose paper reference has already 
been made. 

According to this authority the ore is found irregularly distributed 
within a narrow belt of country extending from Adairsville, Georgia, 
southwestward, a distance of 00 miles, to the vicinity of Jackson- 
ville, Alal)ama. The only points at which it has been worked on a 
commercial scale are at Hermitage furnace, 5 miles north of Rome, 
Georgia, near Six Mile Station, south of Rome, and in the dike dis- 
trict near Rock Run, Alabama. (See fig. 0.) The oldest rocks of the 
region are of Cambrian age and are subdivided on lithologic grounds 
into two formations, the Rome sandstone below and the Connasauga 
shale above. The former consists of 700 to 1,000 feet of thin-])edded 
purple, yellow, and white sandstones and sandy shales. In the south- 
ern portion of the region the Rome sandstone is replaced by the 
Weisner quartzite, which consists of a series of interbedded lenticular 
masses of conglomerate, quartzite, and sandy shale. It apparently 
represents delta deposits contemporaneous with a part or the whole 
of the Rome sandstone. These rocks form Weisner and Indian 
mountains, and in the latter they attain a thickness of 10,000 feet or 
more. 



THE NONTVIETALLIC MINERALS. 



235 



Tho Connasauga is between 2,000 and 3,000 feet in thickness. It 
consists at tho base of fine abuninous shales; tho iippor portion is 
more cali-areous, and locall^^ passes into heavy beds of blue seamy 
limestone. 

Above Connasaiio'a shah> is the Knox dolomite, the most uniform 
and persistent formation <>f the southern Appalachian region. It con- 
sists of from H.OOO to 4,000 feet of gray, semicrystalline, siliceous 
dolomite. The silica is usually seo-regatod in nodules and beds of 




Fig. 0. 
MAP SHOWING THE GEOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF GEORGIA AND ALABAMA BAUXITE DEPOSITS. 

After C. W. Hayes. 

chert. These remain upon the surface, and with the other insoluble 
constituents form a heavy residual mantle covering all the outcrops 
of the formation. It is associated with these residual materials that 
the extensive deposits of limonito and bauxite are found. The geo- 
logical structure of the region is complicated and for its details the 
present reader is referred to Dr. Hayes's original paper. 

Subaerial decomposition has progressed for a long period, and the 
surface is deeply covered with a mantle of residual material, consisting 
of the more insoluble portions of the original rock masses. This 



236 EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

residual material consists mainly of ferruginous clay with large 
amounts of chert, and reaches a thickness of 100 feet or more. The 
bauxite deposits in the Rock Run district are regarded as typical for 
the entire region, and are described as follows: 

Four bodies of the ore were being worked in 1893 on a considerable scale, and all 
show practically the same form. The southernmost' of the four, called the Taylor 
bank, is located 3h miles northeast of Rock Run, near the western base of Indian 
Mountain. Although the heavy mantle of residual material effectually conceals the 
underlying rocks, the ore appears to be exactly upon the faulted contact between the 
narrow belt of Knox dolomite on the northwest and the sandy shales and quartzites 
of Indian Mountain on the southeast. The ore is covered by 3 or 4 feet of red sandy 
clay in which numerous fragments of quartzite are imbedded. The ore-body is an 
irregularly oval mass, about 40 by 80 feet in size. Its contact with the surrounding 
residual clay, wherever it could be observed, appeared to be sharp and distinct, and, 
about the greater portion of its circumference, very nearly vertical. A certain amount 
of bedding is observable in the ore-body, although no trace of bedding can be detected 
in the surrounding residual material. Upon the northwestern or down-hill side of 
the ore-body, this bedding is very distinct. Layers of differently colored and differ- 
ently textured ore alternate in regular beds, a few inches in thickness, and above 
these are thinner beds of chocolate and red material, probably containing consider- 

v:-:;i-^w>(i:te'.;---..-., 

° °°° "■ BOTTOM OF P IT . ._ N"^ .^ ■, , ^ ■""'^'"'■"eci.CUy 

\ ' 'DRAINAGE DIT CH ^>^"-- 

Fig. 7. 

SECTION SHOWING RELATION OF BAUXITE TO MANTLE OF RESIDUAL CLAY IN GEORGIA. 

After C. W. Hayes. 

able kaolin. These beds have a steep dip, somewhat greater than the slope of the 
hill-side, but in the same direction. They are not simply inclined planes, however, 
but are curved, so as to form a steeply-pitching trough. With increasing distance 
from the ore-body, the lamination becomes less distinct, and the beds pass gradually 
into a homogeneous mottled clay. The accompanying section, tig. 7, shows these 
relations of the ore and residual mantle. 

At the Dike bank [see Fig. 6], about a mile northeast of the one above described, 
the stratification is well shown in portions of the deposit. Beds of yellow and gray, 
tiiTe-grained material, alternate with others of pisolitic ore. The beds dip at an angle 
of about 40°, and are curved so as to form a steep trough. The compact material 
also shows distinct cross-bedding; both primary and secondary planes dipping in 
the same direction. 

In the Gain's Hill bank, about 250 yards north of the Dike bank, the ore-body 
shows a more regularly oval form than in most of the other deposits, and is also 
somewhat dome-shaped, swelling out laterally from the surface downward, as far as 
the working has progressed. 

Although some of the workings have gone to a considerable depth (in a few cases 
50 feet or more), the bottom of the ore-body has not been reached in any case. 
The ore varies in composition with depth, but not in a uniform manner, nor more 
than do different portions at the same depth. The deepest pits have not gone 
below the base of the surrounding residual mantle, so that no observations have yet 




THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 237 

been made with regard to the relationH between the ore and the country-roc-k ; and 
nothing has yet been obnerved which warrants the conchision that the ore if fol- 
lowed to sufficient depth, will be found inter-bedded with the underlying' forma- 
tions, or even that it will be found occupying cavities in the limestone— although the 
latter is quite possible. 

Concerning the origin of these deposits the author says: 

No eruptive rocks, either ancient or modern, are found in the vicinity of the 
latter, nor are there any rocks in this region which, by weathering, could yield 
bauxite as a residual product. Hence, any satisfactory explanation of the origin of 
these deposits must give the source from which the material was derive<l, the means 
by which it was transported, and the process of its local accumulation. 

As already stated in describing the stratigraphy of the region, the ore is associated 
with the Knox dolomite or with calcareous sandy shales immediately overlying the 
dolomite. The Connasauga, consisting of 2,000 feet or more of aluminous shales, 
invariably underlies the dolomite at greater or less distance beneath the ore-bearing 
regions, and is probably the source from which the alumina was derived. 

The faults of the region have been briefly described. Undoubtedly such enormous 
dislocations of the strata generated a large amount of heat. The fractures facilitated 
the circulation of water, and for considerable periods the region was probably the 
seat of many thermal springs. These heated waters appear to have been the agent 
by which the bauxite was brought to the surface in some soluble form and there 
precipitated. 

The chemical reactions by which the precipitation was effected are not well under- 
stood, and the conditions were not such as can be readily reproduced in the labora- 
tory. Of the few soluble compounds of aluminum which occur in nature, only the 
sulphate and the double sulphate of jjotash and alumina need be considered. 

The oxygen contained in the meteoric waters percolating at great depths through 
the fractured strata would readily oxidize the sulphides disseminated in the aluminous 
shales. Sulphates would thus be formed by a process strictly analogous to that com- 
monly employed in the manufacture of alum. Probably the most abundant product 
of the process in nature was ferrous sulphate. Some sulphate of aluminum must also 
have been formed together with the double sulphate of potassium and aluminmn, 
especially in the absence of sufficient potash to form alum with the whole. 

In its passage from the underlying shales through several thousand feet of dolo- 
mite the heated water must have become highly charged with lime, in addition to the 
ferrous and aluminous salts already in solution. But calcium carbonate reacts upon 
aluminum sulphate and to some extent also on alum, forming a gelatinous or floc- 
culent precipitate which consists of aluminum hydroxide and the basic sulphate. 
This reaction may have taken place at great depth and the resulting flocculent pre- 
cipitate may have been brought to the surface in suspension. From analogy with 
pisolitic sinter and travertine now forming, such conditions would appear to be 
highly favorable for the production of the structures actually found in the bauxite. 
The precipitate was apparently collected in globular masses by the motion of the 
ascending water, and constant changes in position permitted these to be coated with 
successive layers of more compact material. Finally, after having received many 
such coatings, the pisolites were deposited on the borders of the basin, and the 
interstices were filled by minute oolites formed in a similar manner or by the floc- 
culent precipitate itself. Slight differences in the conditions prevailing in the sev- 
eral springs, such as concentration and relative proportion of the various salts in 
solution, also temperature and flow of the water, would produce the variation in the 
character of the ore observed at different points. 

The bedding observed in the bauxite-deposits may have been produced by the 
successive layers deposited on the steeply inclined outlet of the basin. After the 



238 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

cessation of the spring-action, surface-creep of the residual mantle from the higher por- 
tions of tlie ridges covered the deposits to varying deptlis, as they are found at present. 
A small portion of the ferrous sulphate was oxidized and precipitated along with 
the bauxite, but the greater part was carried some distance from the springs and 
slowly oxidized, forming the widespread deposits of limonite in this region. 

Uses. — The better known use of bauxite is as an ore of ahuninuin, 
for which purpose it lies beyond the scope of the present work. It 
may, however, be well to state that before the aluminum can be satis- 
factorily extracted the ore is purified by chemical processes. The 
principal use is for the manufacture of alums and other aliuuinum 
salts such as are used in the manufacture of })aking- powders and d3^es. 
It is believed that the mineral, owing to its highly refractive qualities, 
will in the near future be utilized in the manufacture of lire ])rick and 
crucibles. An alumi no-ferric cake, a b3"-product obtained in the puri- 
fying process, is claimed as of value for sanitary and deodorizing 
purposes. The price of the crude ore varies greatly, according to 
purity. The average price for the past few years has been about $5 

a ton. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF CRYOLITE AND BAUXITE. 

Paul Quale. Account of the Cryolite of Greenland. 

Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1S66, p. 398. 
M. H. CoQUAND. Sur les Bauxites de la chainedes Alpines (Bouches-du-Rhone) et 
leur age geologique. 

Bulletin de la Societe Geologique de France, 2d ser., XXVIII, 1870-71, pp. 
98-115. 
Edward Nichols. An Aluminum Ore. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVI, 1887, p. 905. 
P. JoHNSTRUP. Sur le Gisement de la Kryolithe au Greenland. 

Bulletin de la Societe Mineralogie of France, II, 1888, j). 167. 
M. AuGE. Note sur la Bauxite, son origine, son dge et son importance geologique. 

Bulletin de la Societe Geologique de France, 3d ser., XVI, 1888, \). 345. 
Stainslas Meunier. Response a des observations de M. Auge et de M. A. de Gros- 
souvre sur I'histoire de la Bauxite et des Minerals Siderolithiques. 

Bulletin de la Societe Geologique de France, 3d ser., XVII, 1889, p. 61. 
R. L. Packard. Aluminum. 

Mineral Resources of the United States, 1891, p. 147. 

This paper contains numerous references to which the present compiler has 
not had access. 
Henry McCalley. Bauxite. 

The Mineral Industry, II, 1893, p. 57. 
Bauxite Mining. 

Science, XXIII, 1894, p. 29. 
C. Willard Hayes. The Geological Relations of the Southern Appalachian Bauxite 
Deposits. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXIV, 1894, jj. 243. 
W. P. Blake. Alunogen and Bauxite of New Mexico. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXIV, 1894, p. 571. 
Francis Laur. The Bauxites. A Study of a new INIineralogical Family. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXIV, 1894, p. 234. 
On Bauxite. 

Minutes of the Proceedings of the Institute Civil Eng., CXX, 1894-1895, pt. 2, 
p. 442. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINEKALS. 239 



-i. DlASrORE. 



This is ;i hydrous oxide of ahmiiiiuin covrcsponding to the for- 
mula Al303,H20,=alumina, 85 per cent; water, 15 per cent; hard- 
ness, 6.5 to 7. It is a whitish, grayish, sometimes l)rownish or yel- 
lowish mineral, occurring in the form of thin flattened or ai-icular 
crystals and also foliated, massive and in thin plates or rarely stalactitic. 
(Specimen No. 53578, U. 8. N. M.) It is transparent to subtranslucent, 
and sometimes shows violet-blue colors when looked at in one direc- 
tion, or reddish-blue or asparagus-green in others. Luster, vitreous 
or pearl3^ 

Occurrence. — The mineral commonly occurs with corundum and 
emery in dolomite and granular limestone or crystalline schists. In 
the United States it occurs in large plates in connection with the emery 
rock at Chester, Massachusetts. 
Uses. — See under Gibbsite. 

5. Gibbsite; Hydrargillite. 

This is also, like diaspore, a hydrous oxide of aluminum, corre- 
sponding to the formula AlgO.,, 3H20 = alumina (55.4 per cent, water 
34.6 percent. The mineral is of a whitish, grayish, or greenish color, 
sometimes reddish through impurities, and occurs in flattened, hexag- 
onal crystals, or in stalactitic and mammillary and incrusting surfaces. 
(Specimen No. 4602, U.S.N.M.). Its occurrence is similar to that of 
diaspore. 

Uses. — Neither diaspore nor gilibsite have as yet been found in suf- 
ficient ([uantities to be of economic importance. Should they be so 
found, their value as a source of alumina is easily apparent. 

6. OCHER. 

The term ocher as commonly used applies to earthy and pulverulent 
forms of the minerals hematite and limonite, but which are almost 
invariably more or less impure through the presence of other metallic 
oxides and argillaceous matter. In nature tht; material rarely occurs 
in a suitable condition for immediate use, but neecls first to be pre- 
pared by washing and grinding and perhaps roasting. 

Various varietal names are applied to the ochers, according to their 
natural colors or sources. The original "Indian red" was a red argil- 
laceous ocher, with a purplish tinge, found on the island of Ormuz, in 
the Persian Gulf. A large part of the pigment of this name is now 
prepared artificially from iron pyrites. Umber is a gray, brown, or 
reddish variety containing manganese oxides and cW. It derives its 
. name from Umbria, in Italy, where material of this nature was first 
utilized. Sienna is a highly argillaceous variety, also from Italy, 
near Sienna. 



'240 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



The natural colors of the ochcrs is dependent on the degree of h^^dra- 
tion and oxidation of material and the kind and amount of impurities. 
In a general way the hematites are of a deep-red color (Specimen No. 
66075, U.S.N.M.), while the limonites are yellow or brown (Specimen 
No. 61101, U.S.N.M.). Either color is liable to shade variations, 
according to amount and kind of impurities. The colors are intensi- 
fied or otherwise varied by roasting (Specimens Nos. 63056 and 63057, 
U.S.N.M.). 

Artificial ochers are produced by roasting iron pyrites (sulphide. of 
iron) or an artificial sulphate (green vitriol) (Specimen No. 61122, 
U.S.N.M.). (See under Pyrite.) The materials known commercially 
as rouge, crocus, and Indian red are quite pure ferric oxide, pre- 
pared by roasting pyrite or by other artificial means. 

Composition of ochers in their natural condition. 



Natural color. 



Locality. 



Marksville, Page County, Virginia. 
Rawlin.s, Wyoming 



Yellow ))rown... Hancock, Berks County, Pennsylvania 
(Specimen No. 62787, U.S.N.M.). 

Deep brown Anne Arundel County, Maryland (Speci- 
men No. 60843, U.S.N. M.). 

Deep red brown . Northampton County, Pennsylvania (Speci- 
men No. 61103, U.S.N. M.) . 

Gray Northampton County, Pennsylvania (Speci- 
men No. 61098, U.S.N. M.). 

Dark brown Brandon, Vermont (Specimen No. 66732, 

U.S.N.M.) Montgomery County, Alabama 

(Specimen No. 63339, U.S.N.M.). 
Cartersville, Georgia (Specimen No. 63340, 
U.S.N.M.). 



FesOa. 



39.0 
90.2 

(136.67 

19.67 

b 42. 45 

C12.20 

d52.92 
a 10. 57 



AI0O3. 



SiOo. 



33.0 
finsol. 
I 7.2 



H„0. 



11.5 



10.60 
2.60 

11.85 

5. 23 

14. 62 
7.40 



Alks. 



0.5 
1.2 



a A part of the iron in a ferrous condition, 
ciron exists mainly in a ferrous condition. 



h Contains also some manganese, 
d Contains much manganese. 



Composition of manufactured mineral paints. 




Variety. 

• 


Fe„()3 


AloOs 


SiO., 


HoO 


P.,0„ 
MnO, 
CaO. 




78. 87 
60. 50 
77.26 

93. 68 


3.29 
5.63 
7.00 

3. 0(! 


11.96 
18.00 
13.84 

3.20 


5.07 

0.33 

0.06 
f S. an d 
i loss. 
1 0.06 


0.80 
1 CaCoa 
1 15 66 

1.84 

1 








1 





a Made from red fo.ssiliferons ores mined at Atalla, Alabama, and Ooltewah, Tennessee. 
6 Made by Iron Clad Paint Company, of Cleveland, Ohio, from ore mined in Wayne County, New 
York, 
c From ore mined at Lake Superior, Michigan, 
d Ore from Jackson ml.ie, Micliigan. 



THE NONMKTALLIC MINERALS, 241 

A "blue oehor," formocl by the (leconipositioii of tho Utica shjiles in 
Lehioh County, Pennsylvania, has the foUowinj,^ composition: 

I<inition (water and carbon ) 9. 10 

Ciiuirtz 44. 50 

Combined silica 26. 25 

Alumina with traces of ferric oxide 17. 95 

Majinesia 94 

Alkalies, etc 1. 2() 

100.00 

A second variety, from 1^ miles northwest of Breinigsville, and 
which was sold as a yellow ochre, yielded: 

Silica, 60.53; alimiina, 17.40; ferric oxide, 9.27; lime, 0.08; mag- 
nesia, 1.92; water, 5.51; alkalies, 5.27. 

Origin and mode of occurrence. — These vary greatly. In some 
cases deposits of this nature are formed by springs. Such result from 
the leaching out from the rocks, by carbonated waters, of iron in the 
protoxide condition and its subsequent deposition as a hydrated ses- 
quioxide. In other cases they are residual products formed by the 
removal by solution, of the lime carbonates of calcareous rocks, 
leaving their insoluble residues — the clay and iron oxides — in the 
form of a red, yellow, or brown ocherous clay. Again, they may 
result from the decomposition (oxidation) of beds of pyrite (iron 
disulphide) and from the decomposition of beds of hematite, and by 
the disintegration and perhaps partial hydration of the more compact 
forms of limonite. Still, again, they may result from the decomposi- 
tion of schists and other rocks rich in iron-bearing silicate minerals. 
The yellow ochers of the Little Catoctin Mountains, near Leesburg, 
Virginia, are thus stated to be residual products from the decomposi- 
tion of hydro-mica or damourite schists. 

A paint ore found near Lehigh Gap, Carbon County, Pennsylvania 
(Specimens Nos. 01115, 63481, 03482, U.S. N.M.), though not properly 
an ocher, may be described here for want of a better place. The 
raw material is a didl shaly or slaty rock, of a dark gray color, sandy 
texture, and quite hard, and if descriptions are correct is probably 
an arenaceous siderite, or carbonate of iron. 

According to C. E, Hesse ^ the ""paint bed" is of unknown extent 
except so far as indicated ])v outcrops along the southern border of 
Carbon County, a])out 27 miles nortl^of Bethlehem, where it occurs in 
a well-defined ridge of Oriskany sandstone. Along the outcrop the 
beds are covered by a cap of clav" and by the decomposed portion of 
the Marcellus slate. Beginning with this slate the measures occur in 
the following descending order: 

a. Hydraulic cement (probably Upper Helderberg), very hard and 
■ compact. 

^Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XIX, 1891, p. 321. 
NAT MUS 99 16 



242 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



1). Blue clay, about 6 inches thick. 

c. Paint ore, varying from 6 inches to 6 feet in thickness, 

d. Yellow clay, 6 feet thick; 

e. Oriskany sandstone, forming the crest and southern side of the 
ridge. It is extremely friable, and disintegrates so readily that it is 
worked for sand at many points. (See fig. 8.) 

The paint bed is not continuous throughout its extent. It is faulted 
at several places; sometimes it is pinched out to a few inches, and again 
increases in width to 6 feet. The ore is bluish-gray, resembling lime- 
stone, and is very hard and com- 
pact. The bed is of a lighter 
tint, however, in the upper than 
in the lower part, and this is 
probabl}^ due to its containing 
more hj^draulic cement in the 
upper strata. The paint ore 
contains partings of clay and 
slate at various places. At the 
Rutherford shaft there are fine 
bands of ore alternating with 
claj' and slate, as follows : Sand- 
stone (hanging wall), clay, ore, 
slate, ore, clay, ore, slate, ore, 
cement, slate (foot wall). These 
partings, however, are not con- 
tinuous, but pinch out, leaving 
the ore without the admixture 
of clay and slate. Near the out- 
crop the bed becomes brown 
hematite, due to the leaching out 
of the lime and to complete oxi- 
dation. Occasionally streaks of 
hematite are interleaved with 
the paint ore. In driving up the 
breasts toward the outcrop the 
ore is found at the top in 
rounded, partially oxidized, and weathered masses, called "bomb- 
shells," covered with iron oxide and surrounded by a bluish clay. In 
large pieces the ore shows a decided cleavage. 

Preparation. — As alreadv intimated, only a small portion of the 
ocher is used in its natural condition, it being first roasted and then 
ground, the grinding being either "dry" or in oil. The roasting 
deepens the color to a degree dependent upon the length of time the 
ore is exposed. Yellows are converted into browns and reds, and the 
ocher rendered less hydrous at the same time. The crude ore as mined 




SECTION ACROSS THE BED. RUTHERFORD AND BARCLAY MINE. 

Fig. 8. 

SECTION ACROSS PAINT MINE AT LEHIGH GAP, PA. 

After C. E. Hesse. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 243 

is not infrequently separated from the coarser or heavier impurities by 
a process of washing- in running water, whereby the ochre, in a state of 
suspension, is drawn off into vats, where it is allowed to settle, the water 
decanted, and the sediment made up into l)ricks and dried, when it is 
ready for grinding. 

The following description of the occurrence of umber and its prep- 
aration at the Caldbeck Fells, in Cuml)erland, England, is taken from 
the Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry for October, 1890, 
p. 953: 

The vein of umber contains crystals of quartz, and lies in a granitic rock largely 
decomposed. The method of working is as follows: The umber is brought down by 
an overhead tramway and passed through a hopper into a wash barrel consisting of 
a cylinder formed of parallel bars one-eighth of an inch apart, having a perforated 
pipe conveying water, for its axis. By this means the umber is washed through, the 
quartz being retained; the former then passes to an edge-runner, the casing of 
which is of sufficient depth to allow of the submersion of the rollers. The rate of 
revolution is about 14 to the minute, and the finer floating particles flow into the 
drag mill. The bed of this mill is a single block of granite and over it the four burr- 
stone blocks are dragged; the finer "floating" particles of umber pass to a second 
mill of the same kind, then through a brass wire sieve (to remove particles of peat 
and heather that have been floating throughout the process) to settling tanks, com- 
posed of brickwork lined with cement. After settling for four hours four-fifths of the 
water are drawn off, and the umber, now of the consistency of slurry, filter-pressed 
and dried. It has the following composition: 

Ferric oxide - - 47. 14 

Manganese dioxide 11.17 

Cupric oxide — 3. 23 

Alumina 7. 66 

Lime Trace. 

Magnesia Trace. 

Silica 24.70 

Combined water 6. 18 

100. 08 

In this condition it may be put on the market, serving for colouring coarse brown 
paper (that being the chief use to which uml^er is put), or it may be re-ground in a 
conical burrstone mill and sold to paint and oil-cloth manufacturers and the makers 
of the finer kinds of brown paper. The fine state of division to which it is reduced 
may be judged from the facts that the workman in charge of the mill is compelled 
to wear a respirator, and the stain is not easily removed from the hands. 

At the Lehigh Gap mines the ore, as it comes from the mines, is 
free from refuse, great care having been taken to separate slate and 
clay from it in the working places. It is hauled in wagons to kilns, 
which are situated on a hillside for convenience in charging. The 
platform upon which the ore is dumped is built from the top of the 
kiln to the side of the hill. The ore is first spalled to fist size and 
. freed from slate, and is then carried in buggies to the charging hole 
of the kiln. 



244 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

The kiln works continuously, calcined ore being withdrawn and 
fresh charges made without interruption. The ore is subjected for 
forty-eight hours to the heat, which expels the moisture, sulphur, and 
carbon dioxide. About li tons of calcined ore are withdrawn every 
three hours during the day. The outside of the lumps of calcined ore 
has a light-brown color, while the interior shows upon fracture a 
darker brown. Great care is necessary to regulute the heat so that 
the ore is not overburnt. When this happens the product has a black, 
scoriaceous appearance, and is unfit for the manufacture of metallic 
paint, as it is extremely hard to grind. 

The calcined ore is carried from the kiln in wagons to the mill, 
where it is broken to the size of grains of corn in a rotating crusher. 
The broken ore is carried by elevators to the stock bins at the top of 
the building, and thence by shutes to the hopper of the mills, which 
grind it to the necessary degree of fineness. Elevators again carrj^ it 
to the packing machine by a spout, and it is packed into barrels hold- 
ing 500, 300, or 100 pounds each. 

A "mineral paint"" mined on Porter Creek, near Healdsburg, Sonoma 
County, California, is said ^ to consist of hematite and silicate of iron 
in the form of a compact mass lying between hornblendic rock, actin- 
olite and mica schist on the one side and rotten serpentine on the 
other. The vein has a north of east course, and is some 60 feet in 
width. The material is mined from a tunnel, crushed, ground between 
buhrstones, and bolted, making a paint fit for mixing with oils or japan. 

Uses. — The ochers are among the most widespread and readily 
accessible of coloring materials, and have been used by savage and 
civilized people both ancient and modern. The war paint of the 
American Indian was not infrequently an ocher mixed with oil or 
grease. 

According to William J. Russell,^ the pigments used by the Egyptians 
and others since the earliest times were of hematite, and moi^tly of an 
oolitic variety, apparently closely corresponding to the Clinton hema- 
tites of New York State. As tested, such were found to contain from 
79.11 to 81.34 per cent ferrio oxide. 

Yellow ocherous pigments, presumably limonite, are also described 
by the same authority. These jdeld only al)out 33 per cent ferric oxide 
and some 7 to 10 per cent of water, together with clay. The ochers 
are now used mainly in the manufacture of paints for exteriors, as of 
buildings, the rolling stock of railways, bridges, and metal roofing. 
They are also used as a pigment for coloring mortars, and in the 
manufacture of linoleums and oilcloths. Mixed with a certain pro- 
portion of oxide of manganese, the ochers have been used to produce 
desirable colors in earthenware. 

1 Twelfth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist, 1894, p. 406. 

2 Nature, XLIX, 1894, p. 374. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 245 

The raw ochor (that is, ocIkm- not roasted), of a light-yellow color, 
was at one time in great demand, particularly throughout New Eng- 
land, for painting floors. 

The value of the prepared material is ))ut a few cents a pound. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

Frank A. Hill. Report on the Metallic Paint Ores along the Lehigh River. 

Annual Report, Pennsylvania Geological Hurvey, 1886, pt. 4, pp. 1386-1408. 

This is an important paper, giving position of ore beds, methods of mining 
and manufacture. 
Conrad E. Hesse. The Paint Ore Mines at Lehigh Gap. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XIX, 1890, p. 321. 

7. Ilmenite; Menaccanite; or Titanic Iron. 

Composition FeTi0.5,=oxygen, 31.6; titanium, 31.6; iron, 36.8; 
hardness, 5 to 6; speciiic gravity, 4.5 to 5; color, iron black with a 
submetallic luster and streak; opaque. Differs from magnetite, which 
it somewhat resembles, by its crystalline form and by its influencing 
but slightly the magnetic needle. 

Mode of occurrence. — Its common form is massive, or in thin plates 
or laminae, or as small granules, sometimes disseminated through the 
mass of rock or loose in the sand. In microscopic forms it is a com- 
mon constituent of eruptive rocks, l)oth acid and basic. Not infre- 
quently it occurs in large masses, closely resembling magnetic iron 
ore (Specimen No. 63861, U.S.N.M.). In "the parish of St. Urbian, Bay 
St. Paul, Province of Queliec, Canada, is such a bed, stated to be 90 
feet in thickness and to have been traced, with some interruptions, for 
a mile. The bed is in anorthite feldspar rock of Laurentian age. The 
ore is quite pure, and carries some 48.6 per cent titanic acid. At 
Kragero, in Norway, the mineral occurs in the form of veins in diorite. 
In Virginia it is found in granular masses, containing apatite. (See 
Phosphate Series.) 

jji^^,^^ — The mineral has as yet proved of little economic importance. 
It is stated that the presence of titanium has an important bearing 
upon the qualities of iron and steel, l)ut as such it is beyond the scope 
of this work. As long ago as 1846 an attempt was made to use a 
ferrocyanide of titanium as a green paint in place of the poisonous 
arsenical greens. Later (1861) other patents were granted in England 
for titanium pigments. A deep-blue enamel, resembling the smalt 
prepared with the oxide of cobalt, has also been prepared from it, 
but as yet the mineral, though abundant and cheap, has practically no 
economic use. 

8. Rutile; 

Composition and general properties. — This, like ilmenite, is a titanium 
oxide, having the formula Ti02,= oxygen, 40 per cent, and titanium, 
60 per cent. The hardness is 6 to 6.5; specitic gravity, 4.18 to 4.25; 



246 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

luster metallic-adamantine, opaque as a rule, rarely transparent; color, 
reddish brown to red, rarely yellowish, blue, or black; streak, pale 
brown. The mineral crystallizes in the tetragonal system, and is 
commonly found in prismatic forms longitudinally striated (Specimen 
No. 14410, U.S.N.M.) and often in geniculate or knee-shaped twins 
(Specimen No. 81904, U.S.N.M.). Not infrequently it occurs in the 
form of fine thread-like or acicular crystals penetrating quartz. It is 
insoluble in acids and infusible. 

Mode of occurrence. — Kutile occurs mainly in the older crystalline 
granitic rocks, schists, and gneisses, but is also found in metamorphic 
limestones and dolomites, sometimes in the mass of the rock itself, or 
in the quartz of veins. Being so nearly indestructible under natural 
conditions, it gradually accumulates in the debris resulting from rock 
decomposition, and is hence not an uncommon constituent of auriferous 
sands. 

Localities,- — Some of the more noted localities are, according to 
authorities, the apatite deposits of Kragero, in Norway; Yrieux, near 
Limoges, in France; the Ural Mountains; and the Appalachian regions 
of the United States. Graves Mountain, Georgia (Specimen No. 
46081, U.S.N.M.); Randolph County, Alabama (Specimen No, 65354, 
U.S.N.M.); and the Magnet Cove region of Arkansas are celebrated 
localities. 

Uses. — Like ilmenite, the mineral may serve as a source for titanium 
for a pigment for porcelain, but as 3^et it is little used. 

Brookite (Specimen No. 45256, U.S.N.M.) and octahedrite have the 
same composition and essentially the same physical properties and 
mode of occurrence. 

9. Chromite. 

Chromite is a mineral of the spinel group, and of the theoretical 
formula FeO, CrgOg. This equals a percentage of chromic oxide of 
68 per cent, but the natural mineral has often alumina and ferric iron 
replacing a part of the chromium, so that 50 per cent chromic oxide 
more nearly represents the general average. The ordinary demand, 
it may be stated, is for an ore carrying 45 per cent and upward of 
chromic acid. 



THK NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



247 



The analyses given ))clow ' will serve to show the varying character 
of the mineral : 

Composition of chromlte from various localities. 



Location. 



Kynouria, Greece 

Near Athens, Greece. . . 

Bare Hills, Baltimore, 
Maryland 

Chester, Pennsylvania. 

Franklin, Macon Coun- 
ty, North Carolina. . . 

Wilmington, Delaware . 

Bolton, Canada 

Ekaterinburg, Russia. . 

Chester County, Penn- 
sylvania 

Monterey County, Cal- 
ifornia 

Lancaster County, 

Pennsylvania , 

Do 

Chester County, Penn- 
sylvania 



Urals 



Constituents. 



AI0O3. MgO. CroOs. I FeaOs. FeO. SiO.,. CaO. Miscellaneous. Total 



30.17 
20.80 



22. 41 
6. 60 
3.20 
6.77 



2.18 



5.75 
0.86 



17.27 
11.78 



15.67 
2.06 
15.03 
13.40 



9.39 

9.89 



5.04 
6.15 
6.28 



4.74 
9.80 

39. 514 
41.55 

44.15 
45.50 
45. 90 
49. 49 

51. 562 

52. 12 

55.14 
56.55 



64.00 
62.25 
63.40 



36.004 
62. 02 



5.78 



38.66 



2.30 
7.00 



26.01 
4.85 



10. 596 
1. 25 



11.76 

42. 78 
35. 68 
23. 27 



28.88 
30.23 



3.00 



7.07 
2.901 
12. 12 



1.03 
0.95 
2.60 



13.26 
5.50 



C02+H20=4.45 

FeCO-i=37. 75 



MnO, trace. 



NiO=2.28 

Alo03-fFeO 

29. 33 

30.05 

28.60 



98.20 
100.20 

99. 116 
104.82 

99.77 
100.00 

99.81 
100. 00 

99. 326 

-(-99. 60 

99.16 
97.53 



99.40 
99.40 
100. 88 



Chromite, like magnetic iron, is black in color and of a metallic lus- 
ter, but differs in being less readily if at all attracted by the magnet. 
On a piece of ground glass or white unglazed porcelain it leaves a 
brown mark, and fused with borax before the blowpipe it gives a green 
bead. 

Ocmrreme. — Chromite is a common constituent in the form of dis- 
seminated granules of basic eruptive rocks belonging to the peridotite 
and pyroxenite groups and in the serpentinous and talcose rocks which 
result from their alteration (Specimens Nos. 63032, 36845, U.S.N. M., 
from Maryland and North Carolina). It is never found in true veins 
or beds, though sometimes in segregated, nodular masses somewhat 
simulating veins on casual inspection. Masses of pure material, like 
Specimen No. 17288, U.S.N. M., from Lancaster, Pennsylvania (weight 
1,000 pounds), are quite usual. The more common form, as noted 
above, is that of detached granules, which when freed from the inclosing 
rock form the ore known as chrome sand (Specimens Nos. 5179, 63032, 
56310, U.S.N.M.), and small masses like Specimens Nos. 11681, 40320, 
63032, U.S.N.M. 

Deposits of chromite are now being worked near Black Lake Station, 

^ As compiled from various sources in Wadsworth's Lithological Studies. Memoirs 
of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, XI, Part 1, 1884, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 



248 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

on the Quebec Central Railway, in close proximity to the asbestos 
mines. The ore here occurs in a series of pockets extending in an 
east and west direction. Some of the pockets are found laying in a 
dike of fine-grained granulite, but the possible relationship between 
the two has not been made out. While other deposits occur not asso- 
ciated with the granulite, it is to be noticed that the largest pockets 
of high-grade ore are thus associated. From one such pocket on the 
Lambly property over 500 tons of ore were taken, yielding 54 per 
cent to 56 per cent sesquioxide of chromium. 

Aside from the localities above mentioned, chromic iron is found in 
pocket masses in the Cambrian and serpentinous rocks lying between 
the Vermont line and the Gaspe peninsula, but has never been success- 
fully mined owing to the great uncertainty attending its occurrence. 

It is rarely found in beds or veins, but in detached pockets whicli yield from a 
few pounds to hundreds of tons, the larger pockets being comparatively rare. 

Chrome ore is also found in Newfoundland; the Russian Urals 
(Specimen No. 40322, U.S.N.M.); in Asia Minor (Specimen No. 40156, 
U.S.N.M.) and European Turkey (Specimen No. 4674, U.S.N.M.) and 
in Macedonia; in Australia (Specimens Nos. 62532, 60999, U.S.N.M.) 
and New Zealand (Specimen No. 70346, U.S.N.M.). In all cases so far 
as known the deposits occurring in peridotite or serpentine. 

The principal domestic sources of chromite are at present Del Norte 
(Specimen No. 65349, U.S.N.M.); San Luis Obispo, Shasta (Specimen 
No. 66498, U.S.N.M.), and Placer (Specimen No. 65351, U.S.N.M.) 
counties in California, though formerlv mines in Lancaster County, 
Pennsylvania (Specimens Nos. 11681, 5179, U.S.N.M.), and at the Bare 
Hills, near Baltimore, Maryland (Specimen No. 63032, U.S.N.M.) were 
very productive. 

Uses.- — Chromium is used in the production of the pigments 
chrome yellow, orange, and green, and in the manufacture of bichro- 
mate of potash for calico printing, and which is also used in certain 
forms of electric batteries. A small amount is also used in the pro- 
duction of what is known as chrome steel. 

According to P. Speier, chrome ore linings for reverberatory 
furnaces have been successfully adopted in French, German, and Rus- 
sian steel works. The bottom and walls of the furnace are lined 
with chrome ore in large blocks, united by a cement formed by two 
parts of chrome ore finely ground, and one part of lime as free from 
silica as possible. 

The introduction of chromium from the lining into the bath of 
molten steel only takes place to a ver}^ limited extent. From 660 to 
1,100 pounds of limestone is charged into the furnace, and, according 
to the percentage of sulphur, from 22<J to 440 pounds of manganese ore, 
for a charge of 1.5 to 1.7 ton of pig iron and 1,100 to 1,300 pounds of 
cast-iron scrap. About one-third, including steel scrap, is introduced 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 249 

into the furnace; and to this quantity is afterwards added from 660 to 
1,100 pounds of wroug-ht-ir()!i scrap as soon as the meriting- is com- 
plete. When a suitable temperature is attained the slag- is run off, 
and the next charge is introduced into the furnace when the bath is 
quiescent. A sample is then takiMi and tested ))y bending, and if it be 
found that the percentage of phosphorus is too high, more lime, or 
lime and iron scale, are added, as much being introduced as the bath 
will take, and the addition of ferro-manganese is also made. 

The iron chromate is decomposed only under the influence exerted 
by the reagents and oxidizing alkaline substances. Heat alone is 
insufficient to decompose chromate of iron, which may float iti a bath 
of molten steel covered with basic slag without dissolving. One of 
the principal conditions of success in the employment of the chrome 
ore lining consists in carefully picking the pieces of ore used, which 
should be of uniform composition; and the best composition of ore 
used for lining reverberatory furnaces is found to be from 30 to 40 
per cent of chromic oxide, 18 to 22 per cent of clay, 9 to 10 per cent 
of magnesia, and at most 5 per cent of silica. ^ 

The total annual product of American mines does not exceed between 
3,000 and 4,000 tons, valued at the mines in California at not more 
than $8 a ton for 50 per cent ore. Delivered in Baltimore its value 
is from |20 to $25 a ton. 

Some 4,000 tons are annually imported. The chief foreign sources 
are Russia, New Zealand, New Caledonia, and Australia. 

The following notes relative to the chrome industry in America are 
of sufficient interest to warrant reprinting here:^ 

The chrome industry is one of the most unique and characteristic in Baltimore. 
It originated in the early discovery of chrome ore in the serpentine of Maryland, and 
has ever since maintained its prestige as one of the sources of the world's supply of 
the chromates of potassium and sodium, which have many applications in the arts. 
The following is the substance of an historical account of the Maryland chrome 
industry, kindly prepared by Mr. William Glenn: 

In 1827 chrome ore was first discovered in America on land ))elonging to Mr. Isaac 
Tyson, in what are known as the Bare Hills, 6 miles north of Baltimore. Mr. Tyson's 
son, Isaac Tyson, jr., then in business with his father, was persuaded by an p]nglish 
workman to attempt the manufacture of "chrome yellow" from this material, and 
this was done in a factory on what is now Columbia avenue, in Baltimore, in 1828. 
In the year of the discovery of the Bare Hill ore, Mr. Isaac Tyson, jr., who seems to 
have possessed a very keen power of observation, as well as a considerable knowledge 
of chemistry, recognized in a dull black stone, which he saw supporting a cider barrel 
in Belair market, more of the same valuable material. Inquiry disclosed the fact 
that this liad been brought from near Jarrettsville, in Harford t'ounty, where much 
more like it was to be found. Mr. Tyson at once examined the locality, and finding it 
covered with boulders worth $100 a ton in Liverpool, purchased a considerable area. 

1 Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute, 1895, pp. 506, 507. Abstract from L'Echo 
des Mines, XXI, p. 584. 

2 From Maryland, Its Resources, Industries, and Institutions, Baltimore, 1892, pp. 
120-122. 



250 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Finding that the chrome ore was always confined to serpentine, Mr. Tyson began 
a systematic examination of the serpentine areas of Maryland, which could be easily 
traced by the barren character of the soil which they produce. A narrow belt of 
serpentine extends across Montgomery County, and while chroifle ore is occasionally 
found in it (as, for instance, at Etchison post-office) , nothing of economic importance 
has ever been discovered in Maryland south of the areas known as ' ' Soldiers Delight" 
and "Bare Hills." Northeastward, however, the deposits become much richer. 
The region near Jarrettsville was productive, and thence the serpentine was traced 
to the State line in Cecil County. Near Rock S^jrings the serpentine turns and 
follows the State line eastward for 15 miles. On the Wood farm, half a mile north 
of the State line and 5 miles north of Rising Sun, in Cecil County, Mr. Tyson dis- 
covered in 1833 a chromite deposit, which proved to be the richest ever found in 
America. This property was at once purchased by Mr. Tyson and the mine opened. 
At the surface it was 30 feet long and 6 feet wide, and the ore so pure that each 10 
cubic feet produced a ton of chrome ore averaging 54 per cent of chrome oxide. The 
ore was hauled 12 miles by wagon to Port Deposit, and shipped thence by water to 
Baltimore and Liverpool. At a depth of 20 feet the vein narrowed somewhat, but 
immediately broadened out again to a length of 120 feet and a width of from 10 to 30 
feet. The Wood mine was worked almost continuously from 1828 to 1881, except 
between the years 1868 and 1873. During that time it produced over 100,000 tons of 
ore and reached a depth of 600 feet. It is not yet exhausted, but the policy of its 
owners is to reserve their ores while they can be elsewhere purchased at a cheap 
rate. Another well-known chrome mine in this region is exactly on the State 
boundary at Rock Springs, and is called the Line pit. So much of this deposit as 
lay within the limits of Maryland was owned by Mr. Tyson, while he worked the 
Pennsylvania portion on a royalty. 

Other chrome openings near the Line pit were known as the "Jen- 
kins mine," "Low mine," "Wet pit," and "Brown mine." This 
region has proved one of the best in the country for iine specimens of 
rare minerals. As a mineral locality it is usually given as "Texas, 
Pennsylvania," ^ 

During his exploration of the serpentine belt Mr. Tyson also noticed 
deposits of chromite sand, and to control the entire supply of this ore 
he either bought or leased these also, and worked them to some extent 
with his mines. 

Between 1828 and 1850 Baltimore supplied most of the chrome ore consumed by 
the world; the remainder came from the serpentine deposits and platinum washings 
of the Urals. The ore was at first shipped to England, the principal consumers 
being J. and J. W^hite, of Glasgow, whose descendents are still the chief manufac- 
turers of chromic acid salts. In 1844 Mr. Tyson established the Baltimore Chrome 
Works, which are still successfully operated by his sons. 

After 1850 the foreign demand for Baltimore ore declined gradually till 1860, since 
which time almost none has been shipped abroad. The reason for this was the 
discovery in 1848 of great deposits of chromite near Brusa, 57 miles southwest of 
Constantinople, by Prof. J. Lawrence Smith, who was employed by the Turkish 
Government to examine the mineral resources of that coimtry. Other deposits were 
also discovered by him 15 miles farther south, and near Antioch. These regions 
now supply the world's demand. 

After the discovery of the magnitude of Wood pit, and of the bountiful supply of 

^ P. Frazer, Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, CCC, Lancaster County, 1880, 
pp. 176, 192. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 251 

sand chrome to hv found within the I'altiniore region, Lsaae Tyaon, jr., l)egan to fear 
that the sources of supply could not much longer be restricted to his ownership. In 
such an event he realized that he would be compelled to manufacture his ores or to 
sacrifice them in competition. 

The method of manufacture previously in use was to heat a mixture of chrome ore 
and potassium nitrate upon the working hearth of a reverberatory furnace. The 
potash salt yielded oxygen to the chromic oxide present, forming chromic acid, 
which, in turn, united with the base, producing potash chromate. The process was 
wasteful and exceedingly costly. Afterwards the process was somewhat cheapened 
by substitution of potassium carbonate for the more costly nitrate; oxygen was taken 
from heated air in the furnace. But not until 1845, when Stromeyer introduced his 
process, was the manufacture of chromic acid placed upon a safe mercantile basis. 
In this process pulverized chromic icon is mixed with potassium carbonate and 
freshly slaked lime, and the mixture is heated in a reverberatory furnace. After 
chromic oxide is set free in the charge it is freely oxidized because of the spongy 
conditions of the lime-laden charge. 

Among the first steps of Isaac Tyson, jr., was to aj^ply, in 1846, to Yale College 
for a chemist for his chrome works. In response a young man named W. P. Blake, 
who was then a student in the chemical laboratory, was sent. For a while Mr. Blake 
did excellent service in the new factory, but he was not willing to remain. 

Mr. (now Professor) Blake was the first chemist to be employed in technology 
upon this continent, while the Baltimore works were tlie first to appreciate the value 
of chemistry. After the departure of Mr. Blake another chemist was secured from 
the first laboratory ever instituted for the teaching of chemistry, that founded at 
Giessen by Liebig. In succession came another chemist from the same laboratory, 
and this gentleman is yet employed in the works. 

Between 1880 and 1890 the American production of chrome ore 
has varied l^etween 1,500 and 3,000 tons. The total eastern product 
in 1886 was 100 tons onl3^ Chrome ore was discovered in California 
in 1873, and since 1880 this State has been the only one to produce 
this mineral. From 2,000 to 4,000 tons of Turkish chrome ore are 
now annually imported into the United States, most of which is 
utilized in Baltimore. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

• . Lake Chrome and Mineral Company, of Baltimore County. 

American Mineral Gaz.ette and Geological Magazine, I. April 1, 1864, p. 253. 
Harrie Wood. Chromite and Manganese. Chromic iron and manganese ores have 
been found in considerable quantities, but the deposits have not yet been exten- 
sively worked. The chromite occurs in the Bowling Alley Point, Grafton, Young, 
and Bingera districts. Manganese ores are found widely distributed throughout the 
Colony; but the principal deposits are at Bendemere, near Moonbi, Glanmire, 
Rocky, and Broken Hill. 

Mineral Products of New South AVales, Department of Mines, 1887, p. 42. 
Ueber schwedisches Chromroheisen und Martinchromstahl. 

Berg-und Hiittenmiinnische Zeitung, XLVII, 1888. i>. 267. 
Die Chromersenerz-Lagerstatten Neuseeland. 

Berg-und Hiittenmiinnische Zeitung, XLVII, 1888. j). 375. 
Chrome Iron. 

Eighth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1888, p. 326. 
Chromite Mined at Cedar ^Mountain. 

Eighth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1888, p. 32. 



252 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Chrome Iron Ore from Orsova. 

Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute, 1889, p. 316. 
Chrome Iron, Shasta County. 

Tenth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1890, p. 638. 
Chromium in San Luis Obispo County. 

Tenth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1890, p. 582. 
Chrome Iron in New Zealand. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LIV, 1892, p. 393. 
Chromic Iron. 

Twelfth Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1891, p. 35. 
J. T. Donald. Chromic Iron in Quebec, Canada. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LVIII, 1894, p. 224. 
Chromic Iron: Its Properties, Mode of Occurrence and Uses. 

Journal of the General Mining Association of the Province of Quebec, 1894-95, 
p. 108. 
AV. F. Wilkinson. Chrome Iron Ore Mining in Asia Minor. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LX, 1895, p. 4. 
Wm. Glenn. Chrome in the Southern Appalachian Region. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXV, 1895, p. 481. 
Chromic Iron. 

Thirteenth Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1896, p. 48. 
George W. Maynard. The Chromite Deposits on Port au Port Bay, New Foundland. 

TransactionsoftheAmericanlnstituteof Mining Engineers, XXVII, 1897, p. 283. 
J. H. Pratt. Chromite in North Carolina. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LXVII, 1899, p. 261. 

The Occurrence, Origin, and Chemical Composition of Chromite, with especial 

reference to the North Carolina Deposits. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineeers, XXIX, 1899, 
p. 17. 

10. Manganese Oxides. 

The element manganese exists in nature under man}^ different forms, 
of which those in combination as oxides, carbonates, and silicates 
alone need concern us in this work. The principal known oxides 
are manganosite (MnO); Hausmanite (MnOjMugOg); Braunite 
(SMn^Oj, MnSiOj); Polianite (MnO.); Pyrolusite (MnO^); Manganite 
(Mn203,H20); Psilomelane (H^MnOg); and Wad, the last being, perhaps, 
an earthy impure form of psilomelane. To this list should be added 
the mineral franklinite, a manganiferous oxide of iron and zinc. Of 
these the first named, manganosite, is rare, having thus far been reported 
only in small quantities associated with other oxides in Wermland, 
Sweden. The other forms are described somewhat in detail as below. 
It should be stated, however, that with the exception of the well- 
crystallized forms it is often difficult to discriminate between them, as 
they occur admixed in all proportions, and, moreover, one variety, 
as pyrolusite, may result from the alteration of another (manganite). 
The better defined species may be separated from one another by their 
comparative hardness, streak, and hydrous or anhydrous properties, as 
shown in the accompanying table. 



Report of U S. National Museum, 1 899. — Merrill 



Plate 10. 



IDEAL Sections showing the formation of manganese-Bearing 

CLAY FROM THE DECAY OF THE ST.CLAIR LiMESTONE. 

laiyBooNE Chert L_^ Mangane se-Bearing cLay LzUIzaro Limestone 
LIj St. Clair Limestone CDsaccharoidal SANOSTONr 

FIG. I. ORIGINAL CONDITION or the: ROCKS. 




FIG. 2. FIRST STAGE OF DECOMPOSITION. 




FIG. 3. SECOND STAGE OF DECOMPOSITION 




FIG. 4. THIRD STA6E OF DECOMPOSITION. 




Section showing the Formation of Manganese Deposits from Decay of 

Limestone. 

After Penrose, .\imnal Report (k'ologieal ,'^nrvey of Arkansas. I, 1«90. 



THE NONMKTALLIC MINERALS. 



253 



Variety. 


Hardness. 


Specitie 
gravity. 


Color. 


Streak. 


Anhydrous 
or hydrous. 


Franklinite ... 


5.5 to 6.5 


5 to 5.22 




Reddi.sh brown to 
black. 


Anhydrous. 






Hausmaunito . 
Braiinito 

Polianite 

Pyrolusite 

Manganitc 

Psilomi-lane . . . 


5 5.5 
(i 0. 5 

li (i. 5 

4 

5. (> 3. 7 


1. 7 i. 85 

4.7 4.85 

4.8 4. 'J 

4.8 

4. 2 4. 4 


Brown black 


C'lu'stiuU l)rown 


Do. 
Do. 


gray. 

Light .steel gray 

Iron i)lack to steel 

gray or bluish. 
Dark steel gray to 

iron black. 


Black 


Do. 


Black or blue; l)lack .. 
Red browu to black . . 


a Do. 

Hydrous. 

Do. 




gray. 







Usually yields water in closed tube. 



The chemical relationship of the ores as found in nature is thus set 
forth bv Penrose:^ 



Chemical composition. 


Anhydrous form. 


Hydrous form. 




Manganosite (MnO) 


Pvrochroite (MnO.HoO). 


Proto-.sesquioxide (Mn304) 

Sesquioxide (Mn.jOu) 






Braunite (MnoOj) 

Pyrolusite, Polianite (MnOa) 


Manganite (Mn.jC.HoO). 
1 Psilomelane. 
I Wad. 





Manganese oxides frequently occur admixed in indefinite propor- 
tions with the hydrous oxides of iron limonite, giving rise to the 
manganiferous limonites as shown in Specimens Nos. 66090, 10867, 
U.S.N.M. from Spain. 

Franklinite, — This may be termed rather as a manganiferous ore 
of iron and zinc than a true ore of manganese. Nevertheless, as the 
residue after the extraction of the zinc is used in the manufacture of 
spiegeleisen, we may briefly refer to it here. The mineral occurs in 
rounded granules or octahedral crystals of a metallic luster and iron 
black color, associated with zinc oxides and silicates in crystalline lime- 
stones, at Franklin Furnace, New Jersey. (Specimen No, 83941, 
U.S.N.M.) It bears a general resem])lance to the mineral magnetite, 
but is less readily attracted by the magnet and gives a strong manga- 
nese reaction. Its average content of manganese oxides MugOg and 
MnO is but from 15 to 20 per cent. 

Hausmannite. — This form of the ore when crystallized usually takes 
the form of the octahedron, and may be readily mistaken for franklin- 
ite, from which, however, it difl'ers in its inferior hardness, lower 
specific gravity, and in being unacted upon by the magnet. (Specimen 
No. 64241, U.S.N.M.) It occurs in porphyry, associated with other 

1 Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Arkansas, I, 1890, p. 541. 



254 EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

manganese ores, in Thuringia; is also found in the Harz Mountains; 
Wermland, Sweden, and various other European localities. In the 
United States it is reported as occurring only in Iron County, Missouri. 
The mineral in its ideal purity consists of sesquioxide and protoxide 
of manganese in the proportion of (^)9 parts of the former to 31 of the 
latter. Analyses of the commercial article as mined are not at hand. 

Braunite. — This, like hausmannite, crystallizes in the form of the 
octahedron, but is a trifle harder. Chemically it differs, in that 
analyses show almost invariabl}^ from 7 to 10 per cent of silica, 
though as to whether or no this is to be considered an essential con- 
stituent it is as yet difficult to say. Analyses 1 and 2, on p. 256, show 
the composition of the mineral as found. The ore is reported as 
occurring both crj^stallized and massive in veins traversing porph^ay 
at Oehrenstock in Ilmenau, in Thuringia, near Ilefeld in the Harz; 
Schneeberg, Saxony (Specimen No. 68136, U.S.N.M.), and various 
other European localities. Also at Vizianagram in India; in New 
South Wales, Australia, and in the Batesville region, Arkansas. 

PoLiANiTE. — Like pyrolusite, 3'et to be noted, this form of the ore is 
chemically a pure manganese binoxide, carrying some 63.1 per cent 
metallic manganese combined with 36.9 per cent oxygen. From 
pyrolusite it is distinguished by its anhydrous character and increased 
hardness. So far as reported, it is a rather rare form of manganese, 
though possibly much that has been set down as pyrolusite ma}^ be in 
reality polianite. 

Pyrolusite occurs in the form of iron black to steel gray, sometimes 
bluish opaque masses, granular, or commonly in divergent columnar 
aggregates sufficiently soft to soil the fingers, and in this respect easily 
separated from the other common forms excepting wad. Not known 
in crj'stals except as pseudomorphs after manganite. Its composition 
is quite variable, usually containing traces of iron, silica, and lime and 
sometimes barium and the alkalies. Analyses III and IV, on p. 256, as 
given by Penrose, will serve to show the general average. This is a com- 
mon ore of manganese, and is extensively mined in Thuringia, Mora- 
via, Bohemia, Westphalia, Transylvania, Australia, Japan (Specimen 
No. 61936, U.S.N.M.), India, New Brunswick (Specimen No. 36825, 
U.S.N.M.), Nova Scotia, and various parts of the United States 
(Specimens Nos. 42011, Tennessee, 56354, Georgia, etc.). 

Manganite differs and is readily distinguishable from the other 
ores thus far described, in carrying from 3 to 10 per cent of combined 
water, which can readily be detected when the powdered mineral is 
heated in a closed tube. From either psilomelane or pyrolusite it is 
distinguished by its hardness. When in ciystals it takes prismatic 
forms with the prism faces deeply striated longitudinall}^ (Specimen 
No. 67922, U.S.N.M., from Thuringia). Its occurrence is essentially 



Report of U, S, National Museum, 1 899.— Merrill. 



Plate 1 1 , 




BOTRYOIDAL PSILOMELANE, CRIMORA, VIRGINIA. 

Weight. 37^ pound.s. 

Specimen No. G6722, U.S.N.M. 



THE nonmetallk; minerals. 255 

the same as that of l)raiiiiito. The composition of the commercial ore 
is given in the analyses on p. 250. 

PsiLOMELANE.— This is, with the. i)ossibh- exception of pyrolusite, 
the commonest of the man<4am\st> minerals. Th(» usual form of occur- 
rence is that of irreoular nodular or Itotryoidal masses embedded in 
residual clays. It is readily distinguished from manganite or wad by 
its hardness, and from hausmannite, ])raunite, or polianite by yielding 
an abundance of water when heated in a closed tube. The sample 
(Specimen No. 66722, U.S.N.M.), from the Crimora mines in Virginia, 
is characteristic. See Plate 11. The composition of the commercial ore 
is given in analyses V, VI, and VII on p. 256. 

Wad or bog manganese (Specimen No. 66602, U.S.N.M., from Cuba) 
is a soft and highly hydrated form of the ore, as a rule of little value, 
owing to impurities (analysis VIII). Asbolite is the name given to a 
variety of wad containing cobalt (see p. 187). See further Rhodonite 
and Rhodochrosite, pp. 280, 314. 

Origin. — The deposits of manganese oxides which are of sufficient 
extent to be of commercial importance are believed to be in all cases 
of secondary origin; that is, to have resulted from the decomposition 
of preexisting manganiferous silicate constituents of the older crys- 
talline rocks and the subsequent deposition of the oxides in secondary 
strata. Indeed, in many instances the ore has undergone a natural 
segregation, owing to the decomposition of the parent rock and the 
accumulate of the manganese oxide, together with other difficult sol- 
uble constituents in the residual clay. Thus Penrose has shown ^ that 
the deposits of the Batesville (Arkansas) region result from the decay 
of the St. Clair limestone, the various stages of which are shown in 
the accompanying Plate 10. The fresh limestone, as shown by analy- 
sis, contains but 4.30 per cent manganese oxide (MnO), while the 
residual clay left through its decomposition contains 14.98 per cent of 
the same constituent. 

Occurrence. ^As above noted, the ore is found in secondary rocks, 
and as a rule in greatest quantities in the clays and residual deposits 
resulting from their breaking down. The usual form of the ore is that 
of lenticular masses or nodules distributed along the bedding planes, 
or heterogeneously throughout the clay. Penrose describes the Bates- 
ville ores as sometimes evenly distributed throughout a large body of 
clay, but in most places as being in pockets surrounded by clay itself 
barren of ore. These pockets vary greatly in character, being some- 
times comparatively solid bodies separated by thin films of clay, and 
containing from 50 to 500 tons of ore; sometimes they consist of large 
and small masses of ore embedded together, and again at other times 
of small grains, disseminated throughout the clay. In the Crimora 

1 Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Arkansas, I, 1890. 



256 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



(Virginia) deposits the ore (psilomelane) is found in nodular masses 
in a clay resulting from the decomposition of a shale which has been 
preserved from erosion through sharp synclinal folds. 

Bog manganese is described as occurring in an extensive deposit near 
Dawson settlement, Albert County, New Brunswick, on a branch of 
Weldon Creek, covering an area of about 25 acres. In the center it 
was found to be 26 feet deep, thinning out toward the margin of the 
bed. The ore is a loose, amorphous mass, which could be readily 
shoveled without the aid of a pick, and contained more or less iron 
pyrites disseminated in streaks and layers, though largo portions of 
the deposit have merely a trace. The bed lies in a valley at the north- 
ern base of a hill, and its accumulation at this particular locality 
appears to be due to springs. These springs are still trickling down 
the hillside, and doubtless the process of producing bog manganese is 
still going on.^ A bed of manganese ore in the government of Kutais, 
in the Caucasus, is described as occurring in nearly horizontally lying 
Miocene sandstones. The ore is pyrolusite and the bed stated as being 
6 to 7 feet in thickness. 



Composition of manganese oxides. 



Constituents. 


Braunite. 


Pyrolusite. 


Psilomelane. 


Wad. 


I. II. 


III. 


IV. 


V. 


VI. 


VII. 


VIII. 


MnO 


87.47 
9.G2 


86.95 

9.85 


90.15 


88.98 


84.99 

10.48 


80.27 
14.10 


63.46 


25.42 


Q 


Fp ,o.. 


2.55 


0.21 


1.75 




CaO 

BaO 


0.34 

0.48 
0.18 






0.51 
4.35 KoO 

2.84 


2.25 
0.95 


1.12 
2.80 
2.05 






1 1 
1 


Si0« 






9.80 
6.00 


33. 52 


HoO 

















I. Bate.sville region, Arkansas. 
II. Elgersburg, Germany. 

III. Cheverie, Nova Scotia. 

IV. Cape Breton. 



V. Batesville region, Arkansas. 
VI. Sciineeberg, Saxony. 
VII. Crimora, Virginia. 
VIII. Big Harbor, Cape Breton. 



Uses. — According to Professor Penrose,^ the various uses to which 
manganese and its compound are put, may be divided into three 
classes: Allo3^s, oxidizers, and coloring materials. Each of these 
classes includes the application of manganese in sundry manufactured 
products, or as a reagent in carrying on ditierent metallurgical and 
chemical processes. The most important of these sources of con- 
sumption may be summarized as follows: 

1 Aniiual Report of the Geological Survey of Canada, VII, 1894, p. 146 M. 

2 Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Arkansas, I, 1890. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINEEALS. 



257 



Allovs " 



Oxidizers 



Colorino; luiiterialf 



Spicgeleisen f ^„^^^.^ ^^^ manganese ami iron. 

Ferronuingunese \^ 

/Alloys of nianganeHC and copijer, with or 
Manganese bronze. .| ^^,.^j^^^^ .^^^^ 

f An alloy of manganese, aluminum, zinc, 

Silver bronze ] and copper, with a certain quantity of 

I silicon. 
Alloys of manganese with aluminum, zinc, tin, lead, mag- 
nesium, etc. 
Manufacture of chlorine. 
Manufacture of bromine. 
As a decolorizer of glass (also for coloring glass, see coloring 

materials). 
As a dryer in varnishes and paints. 
LeClanche's battery. 
Preparation of oxygen on a small st^ale. 

-Manufacture of disinfectants (manganates and permanganates). 
rCalico printing and dyeing. 
Coloring glass, pottery, and brick. 
I /Green. 

[^■^'''^^ IViolet. 



Besides these main uses a certain amount is utilized as a flux in 
smelting silver ores, and, in the form of its various salts, is employed 
in chemical manufacture and for medicinal purposes. P3a-olusite and 
some forms of psilomelane are utilized in the manufacture of chlorine, 
and for bleaching, deodorizing, and disinfecting purposes. For this 
purpose the ore must be verv pure and free from iron, lime carbonates, 
and alkalies. It is also utilized in the manufacture of bromine. 

In glass manufacture the manganese is used to accomplish two 
different results: First, to remove the green color caused by the 
presence of iron, and second, to impart violet, amber, and black colors. 

According to Mr. J. D. Weeks ^ the amount of manganese actually 
used for other than strictly metallurgical purposes in the United States 
is small. 

The value of a manganese ore depends somewhat upon the uses to 
which it is to be applied. 

Pyrolusite and psilomelane only are of value in the production of 
chlorine as above noted. These are rated, as stated by Penrose, 
according to their percentages of peroxide of manganese (MnO.^). 
The standard for the German ores is given at 57 per cent MnOg and 
70 per cent for Spanish. For the manufacture of spiegeleisen the 
prices are based on ores containing not more than 8 per cent silica 
and 0.10 per cent phosphorus, and are subject to deductions as follows: 
For each 1 per cent silica in excess of 8 per cent, 15 cents a ton; for 
each 0.02 per cent phosphorus in excess of 0.10 per cent, 1 cent per 



' Mineral Resources of the United States, 1892, p. 178. 
NAT MUS 99 17 



258 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



unit of manganese. Settlements arc based on anal3^sis made on sam- 
ples dried at 212^, the percentage of moisture in samples as taken 
being- deducted from the weight. The prices paid at Bessemer, Penn- 
sylvania in 1894, based on these percentages, were as below: 



Manganese. 



Ore containing above 49 per cent 
Ore containing 46 to 49 per cent. . 
Ore containing 43 to 46 per cent. . 
Ore containing 40 to 43 per cent. . 



Prices per unit. 



Cents. 
6 
6 
6 
6 



Man- 



Cents. 

28 



Otherwise expressed, the value ranges from $5 to $12 a ton, 
according to quality and condition of the market. 

It is probable that* the total consumption in pottery and glass manu- 
facture does not exceed 500 tons a year, of which about two-thirds is 
used in glass making. The amount used in bromine manufacture and 
the other uses enumerated probably amounts to another 500 tons. 
The remainder is used in connection with iron and steel manufacture, 
chiefly in the production of steel and a pig iron containing considera- 
ble manganese for use in cast-iron car wheels. In the crucible process 
of steel manufacture manganese is charged into the pots, either as an 
ore at the time of charging the pots or it is added as spiegeleisen or 
ferromanganese at the time of charging or during the melting, usually 
toward the close of the melting, so as to prevent too great a loss of 
manganese by oxidation. In the bessemer and open-hearth process 
the manganese is added as spiegeleisen or ferromanganese at or near 
the close of the process, just before the casting of the metal into 
ingots. 

It has been found in recent years that a chilled cast-iron car wheel 
containing a percentage of manganese is much tougher, stronger, and 
wears better than when manganese is absent. For this reason large 
amounts of manganiferous iron ores are used in the manufacture of 
Lake Superior pig iron intended for casting into chilled cast-iron car 
wheels. (See also The Mineral Industry, VIII, p. 119.) 

V. CARBONATES. 

1. Calcium Carbonate. 

Calcite, Calc Spar, Iceland Spar. — These are the names given to 
the variety of calcium carbonate crystallizing in the rhombohedral 
division of the hexagonal system. The mineral occurs under a great 
variety of crystalline forms, which are often extremely perplexing to 
any but an expert mineralogist. The chief distinguishing characteris- 
tics of the mineral are (1) its pronounced cleavage, whereby it splits 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899 Me 



Plate 12. 




Wf.:-:': 



I==i= 



J 5 771 eter ' 



\BcLsalt f^Grai^el 



Vis. 2. 



I Spar 




Fig. 3. 
\ Basalt ^^Oravel 



\^Spa7- ^f*it^fe XTheCcwen 








Views showing Occurrence of Calcite in Iceland. 

Alter Thoroddsen. 



THK T^OIS^METALLIO MINERALS. 259 

up into rhoinlH)lit"(lr:il forms, with smooth, histrous faces, and (2) its 
doubly rcfnictiny- property, whicii is such that whcMi h)okod through 
in the direction of either cleava<;-e surfaces it cr-ives a dou])lc imaj^e. 
(Specimen No. 53073, U.S.N.M.) It is to this property, accompanied 
with its transparency, that the mituu-al, as a Grystalliz(Kl compound, 
owes its chief vahie, though as a, constituent of the rock limestone it 
is applied to a great variety of industrial purposes. WhcMi not suffi- 
ciently transparent for observing its doubly refracting properties the 
mineral is readily distinguished l)y its hardness (3 of Dana's Scale) and 
its easy solubility, with brisk etf(n-vescence, in cold dihite acid.- This 
last is likewise a characteristic of aragonite, from which it can be dis- 
tinguished by its lower specific gravity (2.0,5 to 2.75) and its cleavage. 
Calcium carbonate, owing to its ready solubility in terrestrial waters, 
is one of the most conmion and widely disseminated of compounds. 
Only the form known as double spar, or Iceland spar, need here be 
considered. 

0)'l<j!ii and mode of occurrence.— Cah spar is invariably a secondary 
mineral occurring as a deposit from solution in cracks, pockets, and 
crevices in rocks of all kinds and all ages. The variety used for 
optical purposes ditl'ers from the rhombohedral cleavage masses found 
in iniumierable localities only in its transparency and freedom from 
ilaws and impurities (Specimen No. 53073, U.S.N.M.). The chief 
commercial source of the mineral has for many years been Iceland, 
whence has arisen the term Iceland spar, so often applied. For the 
account of the occurrences of the mineral at this locality, as given 
below, w-e are indebted mainly to Th. Thoroddsen.\ The quarry is 
described as situated on an evenly sloping mountain side at Reydar- 
f jorden, about 10(J meters above the level of the ocean and a little east 
of the Helgustadir farm. (See Plate 12.)' 

The veins of spar are in basalt and at this spot have been laid Ijare 
through the erosive action of a small stream called the "Silfurlakur," 
the Icelandic name of the spar being " Silfurberg." The quarry open- 
ing is on the western side of this lu'ook, and at date of writing was 
some 72 feet long by 30 feet wide (see fig. 1). In the bottom and 
sides of this opening the calc-spar is to be seen in the form of numer- 
ous interlocking veins, ramifying through the basalt in every direction 
and of very irregular length and width, the veins pinching out or 
opening up very abruptly. In fig. 2 of plate is shown an area of 
some 40 square feet of the basalti(^ wall rock, illustrating this feature 
of the occurrence. Fig. 3 of the same plate shows the largest and 
most conspicuous vein, the smaller having been omitted in the sketch. 
The high clilis on the north side of the quarry are poorer in calc-spr.r 
veins, the largest dipping underneath at an angle of about 40^. 

iGeologiska Foreuingens I, Stockholm Forhandlingar, XII, 1890, jjp. 247-254. 



260 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

A comparatively small proportion of the calc-spar as found is fit for 
optical purposes. That on the immediate surface is, as a rule, lacking 
in transparency. Many of the masses, owing presumabl}^ to the 
development of incipient fractures along cleavage lines, show internal, 
iridescent, rainbow hues, such are known locally as "litsteinar" 
(lightstones). Others are penetrated by fine, tube-like cavities, either 
empty or filled with cla}', and still others contain cavities, sometimes 
sufficiently large to be visible to the unaided eye, filled with water and 
a moving bubble. The most desirable material occurs in compara- 
tively small masses imbedded in a red-gra}-^ ckij, filling the veinlike 
interspaces in the bottom of the pit. The nontransparent variety, 
always greatly in excess, occurs in cleavable masses and imperfectly 
developed rhombohedral, sometimes 1 to 2 feet in diameter, associated 
with stilbite. 

Calc-spar has been exported in small quantities from Iceland since 
the middle of the seventeenth century, though the business was not 
conducted with any degree of regularity before the middle of the 
present century, prior to that time ever3^one taking what he liked 
or could obtain, asking no one's permission. About the tune Bartholin 
discovered the valuable optical properties of the mineral (in 1669), the 
royal parliament under Frederick III granted the necessar^^ permission 
for its extraction.^ It was not, however, until 1850 that systematic 
work was begun, when a merchant by name of T. F. Thomsen, at 
Seydisf jord, obtained permission of the owner of some three-fourths 
the property (the pastor Th. Erlendsson) to work the same. The 
quarried material was then transported on horseback to the North- 
fjord, and thence to Seydisf jord by water. In 1851 the factor H. H. 
Svendsen, from Eskif jord, leased the pastor's three-fourths right for 10 
rigsdalers a year, and the remaining fourth, belonging to the Govern- 
ment, for 5 rigsdalers. Svendsen worked the mine successfully up to 
1862, when one Tullinius, at Eskif jord, purchased the pastor's three- 
fourths and leased the Government's share for five years, paying there- 
for the sum of 100 rigsdalers [about 111 or $15]. This lease was 
renewed for four years longer at the rate of 5 rigsdalers per year 
and for the year 1872 at the rate of 100 rigsdalers, when the entire 
property passed into the hands of the Government in consideration of 
the payment of 16,000 kroner [about $3,800]. From that time until 
1882 the mine remained idle, when operations were once more renewed, 
though not on an extensive scale, owing, presumably in part, to the 
fact that Tullinius, the last year he rented the mine, had taken out a 
sufficient quantity to meet all the needs of the market. Over 300 
tons of the ordinary type of the spar is stated to have been sent to 
England and sold to "factory owners" (Fabrikanter) at about 30 
kroner a ton, though to what use it was put is not stated. 

1 Laws of Iceland, I, 1668, pp. 321, 322. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 261 

Aside from the locality at Helgustadir, calc-spar in quantit}^ and 
quality for optical purposes is known to occur only at Djupifjordur, 
in West Iceland. 

The Reydharf jordhr locality was also visited by Mr. .7, L. Hoskyns- 
Al)rahall in the suniuier and autumn of 1880, and whose jiccount^ is 
reproduced in part IjoIow. 

Sudhrmula Sysla, of which lieydharf jordhr, the largest, bisects the 
east coast of Iceland, are cut out of an immense plateau, formed of 
horizontal sheets of volcanic rock, chiefly trachyte, between 3,000 and 
4,000 feet hig-h. This has ])een sul)sequently eroded into sharp, bare 
ridges with immense cliffs or steep slopes falling from them, parted 
bv torrent valleys and fjords, the greater part of the district not reach- 
ing the present snow" line. It is on one of these slopes, which slants 
down at an angle of forty degrees into Reydharf jordhr, that the unique 
quarry of Iceland spar is found. It consists of a cavity in the rock 
about 12 b}^ 5 yards and some 10 feet high, originally filled almost 
entir(dy, but now only lined, with immense crystals, which are fitted so 
closely together as to form a compact mass, like a lump of sugar, with 
grains averaging 10 inches across. 

The Syslumadhur," Jon Asmundarson Johnsen, had given me leave 
to examine the cave and take as many specimens as I liked, but the 
permission was not of very much use, there being about 5 feet of 
water nearly all over the bottom; and such specimens as 1 did get 
involved doing severe penance in w^alking barefoot over sharp crystals. 
The floor is covered with a thin layer of very fine chocolate-brown mud, 
which sticks as tenaciously to one's feet as to the crystals. I had to 
resort to tooth powder to get the latter clean, though the great heaps 
of spar which lie on the path side and in front of the mouth of the 
cave were all washed by the rain till they were as bright and trans- 
parent as ice. The water now running through the cave is incapable 
of forming calc-spar. It appears, like the surrounding rocks, to con- 
tain an excess of silicic acid, and either etches the surface of the spar 
wherever it comes in contact with it, or covers it with stilbite, the 
characteristic zeolite of the doleritic and basaltic rocks in Iceland. The 
rock in w^hich the cave is formed is a dolerite, and darker in color than 
the surrounding- phonolite, which is traversed by veins of Idack and 
green pitchstone. In the neighboi'hood of the spar it is disintegrated, 
colored slightlv with green earth, and full of microscopic crystals of 
stilbite and calcite. 

The quarry was worked till 1872 l)y Herra Tulinius, a Danish mer 
chant of Eskif jordhr. The trading station is an hour and a half's ride 
from Helgastadhir, the nearest farm to the quarry, (In Iceland all 
distances are measured in terms of the hour's ride, tima, and the da3''s 

' ]Mineralogical Magazine, IX, 1890, p. 179. 

^ Magistrate, public notary, receiver of taxes, liquidator, auctioneer, etc. 



262 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

journey, leidh.) The Icelandic government in that j^ear bought a quarter 
share of the quarry, and stopped the work, so that Tulinius was glad 
to sell them the rest. Five years ago an attempt was made to reopen 
it. One man was employed, and after spending about a week in the 
cave he succeeded in pumping out the water and extracting a fine 
block of clear spar, which was sold at a high price in London. Here, 
however, the work dropped, and in consequence Tulinius remains the 
proprietor of the whole of the calc spar that is available for physical 
work, and naturally sells it at a price that is calculated to make his 
very moderate stock last for a considerable time.^ The reason of the 
Icelandic government is not very clear, but as the working of the quarry 
is, perhaps from patriotic motives, delegated to Herr Gunnarsson, an 
Icelandic merchant, whose nearest warehouse is at Seydhisfjordhr, a 
good day's ride from Eskifjordhr, it is hardly to be expected that the 
buried treasure will soon see the light. Perhaps, too, the specimens 
of the best quality have been already removed. Certainly clear pieces 
do not constitute the great mass of the spar, and if M. Labonne, who 
visited the cave in May, 1877 (the water being at that time frozen), 
could extract it " en assez grande abondance"^ he did not leave much 
exposed for me to take two years later. M. Labonne speaks in his 
note of ramifications into the environing rock which have never been 
worked and suggests that this investigation might increase the impor- 
tance of the quarry. Such ramifications as I could see were on a very 
small scale. On the other hand, the thickness of the deposit has not 
yet been ascertained, but it is said that the best pieces occurred near 
the surface. For the most part the calcite is rendered semiopaque by 
innumerable cracks, generally following the gliding and cleavage planes 
( — i K and R), and apparently produced by the pressure of the spar 
itself, but sometimes following the conchoidal fracture. Remarkable 
examples of the latter kind are in the British Museum. 

Chalk. — This is the name given to a white, somewhat loosely coherent 
variety of limestone composed of the fineh' comminuted shells of marine 
mollusks, among which microscopic forms known as foraminifera are 
aVjundant. The older text-books gave one to understand that f oraminif- 
eral remains constituted the main mass of the rock, but the researches 
of Sorby'' showed that fully one-half the material was finely com- 
minuted shallow-water forms, such as inoceramus, pecten, ostrea, 
sponge spicules, and echinoderms. 

Chalk belongs to the Cretaceous era, occurring in l)eds of varying 
thickness, alternating with shales, sands, and clays, and often including 
numerous nodules of a dark chalcedonic silica to which the name 

' It is sold ])y Thor E. Tulinius, Slotsholnisji'ade 10, CVjpenhageii K. 

^Comptes Rendus, CV., 1887, p. 1144. 

^ Address to Geological Society of London, February, 1879. 



THE NONMETALLIO MINERALS, 



263 



flint is given. Thouj>h a common rock in miiny parts of Europe, it is 
known to American readers mainly for its occurrence in the form of 
high clifl's along the English coast, as near Dover. Until within a 
few years little true chalk was knoM'n to exist within the limits of 
the United States. According to Mr. R. T. Hill ' there are, however, 
extensive beds, sometimes 500 feet in thickness, extending throughout 
the entire length of Texas, from the Red River to the Rio Grande, and 
northward into New Mexico, Kansas, and Arkansas. These chalks in 
many instances so closely simulate the English product, both in phys- 
ical properties and chemical composition, as to l)e adaptable to the same 
economic purposes. The following analyses from the report above 
alluded to serve to show the comparative composition: 



Constituents. 



Carbonate of lime 

Carbonate of magnesia 

Silica and insoluble silicates 

Ferric oxide and alumina 

Phosphoric acid, alumina, and loss. 

Chloride of sodium 

Water 



Lower 
Cretace- 
ous 

chalk, 

Burnet 
County, 

Texas. 



92.42 

1.38 

1.59 

.41 



Upper 
Cretace- 
ous 
chalk, 
Rocky 
Comfort, 
Arkan- 
sas. 



88.48 

Trace. 

9.77 

1.25 



White 
Cliff 
chalk, 
Little 
River, 
Arkan- 



94.18 
1.37 
3.49 

1.41 



White 
chalk of 
Shore- 
ham, Sus- 
sex, Eng- 
land. 



98.40 



1.10 



.18 



.55 



100 



Gray 
chalk. 
Folk- 
stone, 
England. 



94. 09 

.31 

3.61 



Trace. 

1.29 

.70 



100 



Chalk is used as a fertilizer, either in its crude form or burnt, in the 
manufacture of whiting (Specimen No. 264!)9, from Trego County, 
Kansas), in the form of hard lumps by carpenters and other mechanics, 
and in the manufacture of crayons (Specimen No. 62063, U.S.N.M.). 
Washed, chalk (Specimen No. 62085, U.S.N.M.) is used to give body to 
wall paper; as a whitewash for ceilings; as a thin coating on wood 
designed for gilding, being for this purpose mixed wdth glue; to vary 
the shades of gray in water-color paints, and as a polishing powder for 
metals. "^ 

Concerning the importation and uses of chalk, Williams states:^ 

Paris white is the name given to the white coloring substance prepared by grinding 
eliffstone, a variety of chalk or limestone which is as hard as some building stones and 
has a greater specific gravity than the ordinary chalk. It is imported from Hull, Eng- 
land, and sells at from $2 to 1-1 per ton ex vessel, according to freight rates from Hull. 
During the calendar year 188-4 3,905^ tons of eliffstone were imported at New York. 

The paris white made in this country is sold at from $1.10 to $1.25 per hundred- 
weight, in casks, according to make and quality. The paris white made in England, 
of which 508,185 pounds were imported at New York during the calendar year 1884, 

^ Annual Report of the Arkansas Geological Survey, II, 1888. 
■■' Mineral Resources of the United States, 1883-8-t, p. 930. 



264 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

sells at from .f 1.25 to $1.30 per hundredweight. There is apparently no difference in 
quality between the cliffstone ground in this country and the imported paris white. 
Its principal use is in the preparation of kalsomine. It is also employed in the 
manufacture of rubber, oilcloth, wall papers, and fancy glazed papers. * * * 

Until recently all of the whiting used in this country was ground from chalk imported 
from Hull, England. [See Specimen No. 36013, U.S.N. M.] The annual production 
of whiting is about 300,000 barrels. The price varies, according to the quality, from 
35 to 90 cents per hundredweight. There are four grades made, as follows: Common 
whiting, worth from 35 to 40 cents; gilders' whiting, 60 to 65 cents; extra gilders' 
whiting, 70 to 75 cents; American paris white, 80 to 85 cents. The uses of whiting 
are about the same as i^aris white, which it closely resembles. 

The material, as should be stated, is brought mainly as ballast from England and 
France. 

Limestones; mortars; and cements. — Pure limestone or calcium 
carbonate is a compound of calcium oxide and carbonic acid in the 
proportion of 66 parts of lime (CaO) to 44 parts of the acid (CO .2). 
In its crystalline form as exemplified in some of our white marbles 
the rock is therefore but an aggregate of imperfectl}^ outlined calcite 
crystals, or, otherwise expressed, is a crystalline granular aggregate of 
calcite. In this form the rock is white or colorless, sufficiently soft 
to be cut with a knife, and dissolves with brisk effervescence when 
treated with dilute hydrochloric or nitric acid. Sulphuric acid will 
not dissolve it except in small proportions, since the exteriors of the 
granules become converted shortly into insoluble calcium sulphate 
(gypsum), which protects them from further attack. 

As a constituent of the earth's crust, however, absolutely pure lime- 
stone is practically unknown, all being contaminated with more or less 
foreign material, either in the form of chemically combined or mechan- 
ically admixed impurities. Of the chemically combined impurities the 
most common is magnesia (MgO), which replaces the lime (CaO) in all 
proportions up to 21.7 per cent, when the rock becomes a dolomite. 
This in its pure state can readily be distinguished from limestone by 
its greater hardness and in its not effervescing when treated with cold 
dilute acid. (See p. 274.) It dissolves with effervescence in hot acids, 
as does limestone. As above noted, all stages of replacement exist, 
the name magnesian or dolomitic limestone being applied to those in 
which the magnesia exists in smaller proportions than that above 
given (21.7 per cent). Iron in the form of protoxide (FeO) may also 
replace a part of the lime. Of the mechanically admixed impurities 
silica in the form of quartz sand or various more or less decomposed 
silicate minerals, clayey and carbonaceous matter, together with iron 
oxides, are the more abundant. These exist in all proportions, giving 
rise to what are known as siliceous, aluminous or clayey, carbonaceous, 
and ferruginous limestones. Phosphatic material may exist in vary- 
ing proportions, forming gradations from phosphatic limestones to 
true phosphates. 

Limestones are sedimentaiy rocks formed mainly through the depo- 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 265 

sition of ciilcareous sediments on sea bottoms; manjM^eds, however, as 
the oolitic- limestones, show unmistakable evidences of true ehcMuical 
precipitation. They are in all cases eminently stratilied rocks, though 
the evidences of stratification may not be evident in the small speci 
men exhibited in museum colUn'tions. Vari(>i,al names other than 
those mentioned above are given and which are dependent upon struc- 
tural features or other peculiarities. A shaly limestone is one partak- 
ing- of the nature of shale. Chalk is a fine pulverulent limestone 
composed of shells in a finely comminuted condition and very many 
minute foraminifera. (See p. 262.) The name chalky limestone is fre- 
quently given to an earthy limestone resembling chalk. Marl is an 
impure earthy form, often containing many shells, hence called shell 
marl. An oolitic limestone is one made up of small rounded pellets 
like the roe of a fish. The name marble is given to any calcareous or 
even serpentinous rock possessing sufficient beauty to be utilized for 
ornamental purposes. 

11^^^^^ — Aside from their uses as building materials, lithographic 
purposes, etc., as described elsewhere, limestones are utilized for a 
considerable variety of purposes, the more important being that of 
the manufacture of mortars and cements. Their adaptability to this 
purpose is due to the fact that when heated to a temperature of 1,000° 
F. they gradually lose the carbonic acid, becoming converted into 
anhydrous calcium oxide (CaO). or quicklime, as it is popularly called; 
and further, that this quicklime when brought in contact with water 
and atmospheric air greedily combines with, first, the water, forming 
hydrous calcium oxide (CaOHjO), and on drying once more with the 
carbonic acid of the air, forming a more or less hydrated calcium car- 
bonate. In the process of combining with water the burnt lime (CaO) 
gives off a large amount of heat, swells to nearly twice its former 
bulk, and falls away to a loose, white powder. This when mixed with 
siliceous sand forms the common mortar of the bricklayers, or, if with 
sand and hair, the plaster for the interior walls of houses. (Specimens 
Nos. 63U4, 63145, U.S.N.M., fromVermont; No. 53195,U.S.N.M., from 
Maine, and No. 53168, from Pennsylvania, show the character of the 
rocks commonly used for these purposes.) Quicklime formed from 
fairly pure calcium carbonate sets or hardens after but a few days' 
exposure, the induration, it is stated, being due in part to crystallization. 
The less pure forms of limestone, notably those which contain upwards 
of 10 per cent of aluminous silicates (clavey matter), furnish, when 
burned, a quicklime which slakes nmch more slowly — so slowly, in fact, 
that it is not infrequently necessary to crush to powder after burning. 
These same quicklimes when slaked are further differentiated from 
those already described by their property of setting (as the process of 
induration is called) under water. Hence they are known as hydraulic 
limes, and the rocks from which they are made as hydraulic limestones. 



266 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Their property of induration out of contact with the air is assumed 
to be due to the formation of calcium and aluminum silicates. Inas- 
much as these silicates are practically insoluble in water, it follows that 
quite aside from their greater strength and tenacity they are also more 
durable; indeed, there seems no practical limit to the endurance of 
a good hydraulic cement, its hardness increasing almost constantly 
in connection with its antiquity. Certain stones contain the desired 
admixture of lime and clayey matter in just the right proportion for 
making hydraulic cement. In the majority of cases, however, it has 
been found that a higher grade, stronger and more enduring material, 
can be made by mixing in definite proportions, determined by experi- 
ment, the necessary constituents obtained, it may be, from widely sep- 
arated localities. The exact relationship existing between composition 
and adaptability to lime making does not seem as yet to be fully worked 
out. As is well known, the pure white crystalline varieties yield a 
quicklime inferior to the softer blue-gray, less metamorphosed varie- 
ties. Nevertheless there are certain distinctive qualities, due to the 
presence and character of impurities, which led Gen. Q. A. Gillmore 
to adopt the following classification: 

(1) The common or fat limes, containing, as a rule, less than 10 per cent of impurities. 

(2) The poor or meager limes, containing free silica (sand) and other impurities in 

amounts varying between 10 per cent and 25 per cent. 

(3) The hydraulic limes, which contain from 30 to 35 per cent of various impurities. 

(4) The hydraulic cements, which may contain as much as 60 per cent of impurities 

of various kinds. 

As above noted most cements are manufactured from a variety of 
materials, and their consideration belongs therefore more properly to 
technology. Nevertheless it has been thought worth the while here 
to give in brief the matter below relative to a few of the more impor- 
tant and well-known varieties now manufactured. 

Portland cement. — This takes its name from a resemblance of the 
hardened material to the well-known oolitic limestone of the island of 
Portland in the English Channel. As originally made on the banks 
oi the Thames and Medway it consists of admixtures of chalk and clay 
dredged from the river bottoms, in the proportions of three volumes 
of the former to one of the latter, though these proportions may vary 
according to the purity of the chalk. These materials are mixed with 
water, compressed into cakes, dried and calcined, after which it is 
ground to a fine powder and is read} for use. The following analyses 
from Heath's Manual of Lime and Cement will serve to show the vary- 
ing composition of the chalk and clay from the English deposits. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



267 



Constituents. 



(Calcium carbonate about. 

Silica do... 

Magnesium carbonate do 

Iron oxide do — 

Alumina do. . . 

Potash and soda do. . . 

Lime do. . . 

Magnesia do. . . 

Carbonic acid do. . . 



Upper chalk. 



97. 90 to 98. 60 

.(•,(. 1.59 

.10 .21 

.35 .74 



Gray chalk. 



87. 35 to 96. 52 



1 . (i7 
.10 
.38 

1.14 
.42 



fi. 84 
..50 
.46 
.93 

4. 29 



Clay. 



It is stated that the presence of more than very small quantities of 
sand, iron oxides, or vegetable matter in the clay is detrimental. A 
good cement mud before burning may contain from 68 to T8 per cent 
of calcium carbonate, 21 to 15 per cent of silica, and from 10 to 7 per 
cent of alumina. 

The following analyses from the same source as the above serve to 
show (I) the composition of the clay; (II) the mixed clay and chalk or 
"slurry,''' as it is called, and (III) the cement powder prepared from 
the same: 



Constituents. 



Lime 

Calcium .sulphate 

Calcium carbonate 

Silica (soluble) 

Alumina 

Magnesium carbonate 

Magnesia 

Iron oxide 

Sand 

Water 



I. 
Clay. 



2.01 
54.14 
14.68 

4.48 



7.76 

.87 

15.03 



II. 
Slurry. 



69.97 
11.77 
4.45 

2.87 



2.13 
1.24 
7.59 



III. 
Cement. 



62.13 
2.13 



20. 45 
8.05 



1.48 
4.37 



Several brands of Portland cement are manufactured in America, 
usually from a mixture of materials, the proportions of which have 
been worked out by experiment. At the Coplay Cement Works, in 
Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, a blue-gray crystalline limestone and 
dark gray more siliceous variety are ground and mixed into the desired 
proportions, molded into a brick, and burnt to the condition of a 
slag. The material is then ground to a powder and forms the cement. 
Through the courtesy of the manager, the Museum collections contain 
samples of the crude and manufactured materials, as follows: Lime- 
stone (Specimen No. 535-41, U.S.N.M.); cement rock (No. 53542, 
U.S.N.M.). Composition formed by admixing the two rocks (No. 
53513, U.S.N.M.); and the clinker (No. 53514, U.S.N.M.) obtained by 



268 



SEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



burning the composition. The chemical composition of the samples 
as given are as follows: 



Constituents. 


Limestone. 


Cement 
rock. 


Compound 

of 

the two. 


Clinker. 


Silica (SiO.,) 


2.10 

} .u 

96.17 
Trace. 


15.22 

4.24 

09.88 
4.60 


13.22 

5.20 

77.00 
4.20 


22. 74 

10.50 

Ca061.82 
MgO 2. 05 


Alumina (AloOg) 




Calcium carbonate (CaCOs)... 
Magnesian carbonate (MgCOg) 



An impure limestone, forming a portion of the water-lime group of 
the Upper Silurian formations at Buffalo, New York, forms a "natural 
cement" rock which is utilized in the manufacture of the so-called 
Buffalo Portland cement.^ 

The so-called Rogendale cerroent is made from the tentaculite or 
water limestones of the Lower Helderburg group as developed in 
the township of Rosendale, Ulster County, New York. According 
to Darton*^ there are two cement beds in the Rosendale- Whiteport 
region, at Rosendale the lower bed or dark cement averaging some 
21 feet in thickness and the upper or light cement 11 feet, with 14 
to 16 feet of water-lime intervening. In the region just south of 
Whiteport the upper white cement beds have a thickness of 12 feet 
and the lower or gray cement of 18 feet, with 19 to 20 feet of water- 
lime beds between them. The underlying formation is quartzite. 
The method of mining the material from the two beds, as well as 
their inclination to the horizon, is shown in Plate 13. (See Specimens, 
Nos. 63062-63086, U. S.N.M., from Ulster, Onondaga, and Erie 
Counties, New York; Nos. 63090-63099, U.S.N.M., Cumberland and 
Hancock, Maryland; No. 53173, from Lisbon, Ohio, and No. 53193, 
from Sandusk}^, Ohio). 

Roman cement. — The original Roman cement appears to have been 
made from an admixture of volcanic ash or sand (pozzuolana, pepe- 
rino, trass, etc.) and lime, the proportions varying almost indefinitely 
according to the character of the ash. The English Roman cement is 
made by calcining septarian nodules dredged up from the bottoms of 
Chichester Harbor and off' the coast of Hampshire, and from similar 
nodules obtained from the Whitby shale beds of the Lias formations 
in Yorkshire and elsewhere. The following analysis of the cement 
stone from Sheppcy, near South End, will serve to show the character 
of the material: 

^Cement Rock and Gypsum Deposits in Buffalo. J. Pohlman. Transactions of the 
American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVII, 1889, p. 250. 
2 Report of the State Geologist of New York, 1, 1893. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, I 899.— Merrill, 



Plate 13. 




THE NONMETALLIO MINERALS. 269 

( 'arhoiuite ( )f lime 04. 00 

Silica 17. 75 

Alumina 6. 75 

Magnesia 50 

Oxide of iron 6.00 

Oxide of manganese 1. 00 

Water 3. 00 

Loss 1. 00 

100. 00 
Tho luuiK'S concrete and beton arc^ applied to admixtures of mortar, 
hydraulic or otherwise, and such coarse materials as sand, gravel, 
fragments of shells, tiles, )>ricks, or stone. Ai-cording to Gillmore the 
matrix of the beton proper is a hydraulic cement, while that of the 
concrete is nonhj^draulic. The terms are, however, now used almost 
synonymously. 

Aside from their uses as above indicated limestones are used in the 
preparation of lime for fertilizing purposes. For this purpose, as 
before, the lime carbonate is reduced to the condition of oxide by burn- 
ing, and then allowed to become air slaked, when it remains in the 
condition of a fine powder suitable for direct application to the land 
as is the plaster made from gypsum. A lime prepared by burning 
oyster shells is utilized in a similar manner. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

Out of the many hundreds of titles that might be given, a few only are selected. 
Those desiring may find a very full bibliography in a series of papers on The Chemi- 
cal and Physical Examinations of Portland Cement. Journal of the American 
Chemical Society, XV and XVI. 1893-1894. 

Q. A. Gillmore. Practical Treatise on Limestones, Hydraulic Cements, and INIortars. 
New York, 1863, 333 pp. 
The Cement Works on the Lehigh. 

Second Pennsylvania Geological Survey, Lehigh District, D. D. 1875-76, p. 59. 
Henry C. E. Reid. The Science and Art of the Manufacture of Portland Cement 
with Observations on some of its Constructive Applications. 
London, 1877. 
JoHAXN BiELEXBERG. Method for Utilizing Siliceous Earths and Rocks in the Manu- 
facture of Cements, for the purpose of imparting to them Hydraulic Properties. 
(German Patent No. 24038, November 28, 1882. ) 

Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, III, 1884, p. 110. 
U. CuMMiNGS. Hydraulic; Cements, Natural and Artificial, their Comparative Values. 

Massachusetts Institute of Technology, November, 1887. 
M. H. Le Chateliek. Recherches Exj^erimentales sur la Constitution des Mortiers. 
Hydrauliques. 

Chas. Dunod, Paris, 1887. 
M. A. Prost. Note sur la Fabrication et les Proprietes des Ciments de Laitier. 

Annales des Mines, XVI, 1889, p. 158. 
H. Peareth Brumell. Natural and Artificial Cements in Canada. 

Science, XXI, 1893, p. 177. 
M. H. Le Ch atelier. Proc^des d'Essai des Materiaux Hydrauliques. 
Annales des Mines, IV, 1893, p. 367. 



270 REPORT OF ISTATIOISTAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

A. H. Heath. A Manual of Lime and Cement. 

London, 1893, 215 pp. 
G. R. Redgrave. Calcareous Cements: Their Nature and Uses. 

London, 1895, 222 pp. 
Uriah Cummings. American Cements. 

Boston, 1898, 299, pp. 
Charles D. Jameson. Portland Cement, its Manufacture and Use. 

New York, 1898, 192 pp. 
Bernard L. Green. The Portland Cement Industry of the World. 

(Reprinted from Journal of the Association of Engineering Societies. XX, 
June, 



Playing marbles. — At Oberstcin on the Nahe, Saxony, playing 
marbles are made in great quantities from limestone. The stone is 
broken into square blocks, each of such size as to make a sphere the 
size of the desired marble. Th(^se cul)es are then thrown into a mill 
consisting of a flat, horizontally revolving stone with numerous con- 
centric gi'ooves or furrows on its surface. A l)lock of oak of the same 
diameter as the stone and resting on the cubes is then made to revolve 
over them in a current of water, the cubes being thus reduced to the 
spherical form. The process requires but aljout fifteen minutes. 

LiTHO(jRAPHic LIMESTONE. — For the purpose of lithograph}^ there 
is used a tine-grained homogeneous limestone, breaking with an imper- 
fect, shell-like or conchoidal fracture, and as a rule of a gray, drab, or 
yellowish color. A good stone must be sufiiciently porous to absorb the 
greasy compound which holds the ink and soft enough to work readily 
under the engraver's tool, yet not too soft. It must be uniform in 
texture throughout and be free from all veins and inequalities of any 
kind, in order that the various reagents used may act upon all exposed 
parts alike. It is evident, therefore, that the suitability of this stone 
for practical purposes depends more upon its physical than chemical 
qualities. An actual test of the material by a practical lithographer 
is the only test of real value for stones of this nature. Nevertheless the 
analyses given below are not without interest as showing the variation 
in composition even in samples from the same locality. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



271 



O 

3 






tl 


o 
a 
o 

d 


a 

o 


0) 

c 




a 


d 
Q 










s-5' 

'S'S 






g g i2 

(N (N C^' 






d 

w 




d rt 


CO Tj< -^ 
OS (N CO 

d d d 




rH r-5 


d 




CO o 
d d 












d d 


.2m 

©a 




d d 


O O CO 

1* CO 00 

d CO i-h' 




O OS 
'fi CM 

d r-i 


0) 

ll 




o §? 

O 00 

ci T-; 

o 

ib o 
o o 


o g o 
lo r^ CO 

rH OD -P 

O 

.-< '^ CO 
'^ l^ rr 
rH O i-H 

•-H 1-1 c-i 


ri o 

d d 


CO CO 


0) 

3 OS 






d 






o 

d d 


SB ^ 

d d 








d 


(5" 
o 

bo 


r-< O r-t t^ OS 

CO 1^ « .-' CO oi r^ o iM CO o 

«.f;C0 1MTfC0!Ni-IC0t~iO 

to CO -r o o-i -p -r ic" t-^ oj c-i 


O 


l^COOOTf-5'OCOt^C-)OOCO 
rf 05 lO CI Ol C^ O l^ CO 05 O 

I-* o oi '^" co' oi i^ r-^ r^ as oc 
X Ci X 31 i^ X 1- </: t- 00 00 


"5 

3 




ci sJ ce = 


•si • ^ i s s 

ail§ i § § 

S ^- ^ ^ i S 2 
tic e S ^ !=> ^ _ii 

— iJX) iao "3 C ^ "2 

X 3 ^ f^ H ;a -o 
■3 3 -g -g 3 ^ ^ 

1 i i i S g c 
M 5 s g 6 6 p 


s- 

> 

s 
c 
.c 

c 


=j cj 

s s 

m « 

•s -s 


t- 

> 

f 

"c 

c 
c 



272 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Localities. — Stones possessing in a greater or less degree the proper 
qualities for lithographic purposes have from time to time been 
reported in various parts of the United States; from near Bath and 
Stony Stratford, England; Ireland; Department of Indre, France, 
and also Silesia, India, and the British American possessions. By 
far the best stone, and indeed the only stone which has as yet been 
found to satisfactorily till all the requirements of the lithographer's 
art, and which is the one in general use to-day wherever the art is 
practiced, is found at Solenhofen, near Pappenheim, on the Danube, in 
Bavaria. (Specimens Nos. 358S8 and 85706, U.S.N.M.) These beds 
are of Upper Jurassic or Kimmeridgian age and form a mass some 
80 feet in thickness, though naturally not all portions are equally 
good, or adapted for the same kind of work. The stone varies both in 
texture and color in different parts of the quarry, but the prevailing 
tints are 3^ellowish or drab. In the United States materials partak- 
ing of the nature of lithographic stone have been reported from 
Yavapai County, Arizona (Specimens Nos. 62798 and 68162, U.S.N.M.); 
Talladega County, Alabama; Arkansas; Lawrence County, Indiana 
(Specimen No. 25030, U.S.N.M.); near Thebes azid Anna, Illinois 
(Specimens Nos. 613M and 62570, U.S.N.M.); James and Van Buren 
counties, Iowa; Hardin, Estelle, Kenton, Clinton, Rowan, Wayne, and 
Simpson counties, Kentucky (Specimen No. 36897, U.S.N.M., from 
Simpson County); near Saverton, Ralls County, Missouri (Specimen 
No. 28498, U.S.N.M.); Clay and Overton counties, Tennessee; Burnet 
and San Saba counties, Texas (Specimens Nos. 38624 and 70671, 
U.S.N.M.); near Salt Lake City, Utah, and at Fincastle, Virginia. 
While, however, from nearly, if not quite ever}^ one of these localities, 
it was possible to get small pieces which served well for trial purposes, 
each and every one has failed as a constant source of supply of the 
commercial article, and this for reasons mainly inherent in the stone 
itself. It is very possible that ignorance as to proper methods of 
quarrying may have been a cause of failure in some cases. 

The Arizona stone is one of tho^most recent discoveries, and accord- 
ing to iirst reports seems also the most promising. Samples of the 
stone submitted to the writer, as well as samples of work done upon 
it, seemed all that could be desired (Specimens Nos. 62798 and 68162, 
U.S.N.M.). It is stated by Mr. W. F. Blandy that the quarries are 
situated on the east slope of the Verdi Range, about 2 miles south of 
Squaw Peak and at an elevation of about 1,200 feet above the Verdi 
Valley, 40 miles by wagon road east of Prescott. Two quarries have 
thus far been opened in the same strata, about 1,000 feet apart, the one 
showing two layers or beds 384 feet in thickness, and the other three 
beds 3,188 feet in thickness. As at present exposed the beds, which 
are of Carboniferous age, are broken by nearly vertical fissures into 
blocks rarely 4 or 5 feet in length. Owing to the massive form of 



THK NONMETALLIO MINERALS. 273 

the heels and this eonclioidal fnicture the stone ean not be split into 
thin sla]).s, hut must be sawn. No satisfactory road yet exists for its 
transportation in blocks of any size, and such material as has thus far 
been produced is in small slabs such as can be "packed." Those who 
haA-e inspected the properties express themselves as satisfied that 
blocks of oood size and satisfactory quality can be had in quantity. 

The Ahibama stt)ne as examined by the writer is finely granular and 
too fria])ie for satisfactory Avork. Qualitative tests showed it to be a 
siliceous magnesian limestone. It is of course possible that the single 
sample shown does not fairly represent the product. The Arkansas 
deposit is situated in Township 14° N., R. 15° W. of the 5th p. m., 
sections 14, 23, and 2-1:, Searcy County. The color is darker than that 
of the Bavarian stone. The reports of those who have tested it are 
represented as ])eing uniformly favorable. 

The Illinois stone is darker, but to judge from the display made in 
the Illinois building at the World's Columbian Exposition, 1803, is 
capable of doing excellent work and can be had in slabs of good size 
(Specimens Nos. 61344 and 62570, U. S.N.M.). The Kentucky stone is 
hard and brittle, though that from Eowan County is stated to have 
received a medal at the exposition of 1876. It is fine grained and 
homogeneous and very pure, only a small flocculent residue of organic 
matter remaining insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid. 

The Indiana stone is harder than the Bavarian, and samples exam- 
ined were found not infrequently traversed by fine, hard veins of 
calcite. (Specimen No. 25030, U.S.N.M.) 

The stone from Saverton, Missouri, is compact and fine grained, with, 
however, fine streaks of calcite running through it. (Specimen No. 
28498, U.S.N.M.) It leaves only a small brownish residue when dis- 
solved in dilute acid. This stone has been worked quite successfully 
on a small scale. The State geologist, in writing on the subject, says: ^ 

Some of the beds of the St. Louis limestone (Subcarboniferous) have been success- 
fully used for lithographic work. No bed is, however, uniformly of the requisite 
quality, and the cost of selection of available material would seem to preclude the 
development of an industry for the production of lithographic stone. From the 
deposit at Overton, Tennessee, it is stated slabs 40 by 60 inches by 3J inches thick 
were obtained, though little, if anything, is now being done. An analysis of this 
stone is given in the table. Other promising finds are reported from McMinn 
County, in the same State. According to the State geological reports, the stone 
lies between two beds of variegated marble. The stratum is thought to run entirely 
through the county, but some of the stone is too hard for lithographic purposes. 
The best is found 8 miles east of Athens on the farm of Robert Cociirane, and a 
quarry has been opened Ijy a Cincinnati company, which only i)ays a royalty of $250 
per annum. It is sold for nearly the same price as the Bavarian stone. It is a cal- 
careous and argillaceous stone, formed of the finest sediment, of uniform texture, 
and possesses a pearl -gray tint. The best variety of this stone has a conchoidal 
fracture and is free from spots of all kinds. 

1 Bulletin No. 3, Geological Survey of Missouri, 1890, p. 38. 

NAT MUS 99 18 



274 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

A lithographic stone is described in the State survey reports of 
Texas as occurring at the base of the Carboniferous formations near 
Sulphur Springs, west of Lampasas, on the Colorado River, and to be 
traceable by its outcrops for a distance of several miles, the most 
favorable showing being near San Saba. The texture of the stone is 
good; but as it is filled with line reticulating veins of calcite (Specimen 
No. 70671, U.S.N.M.), and as moreover the lithographic layer itself is 
only some 6 or 8 inches in thickness, it is obvious that little can be 
expected from this source. The Texas Lithographic Stone Company, 
with headquarters at Burnet, have used the stone, it is said, in con- 
siderable quantities. A stone claiming many points of excellence has 
for some years been known to exist in the Wasatch range within a 
few miles of Salt Lake City, and several companies are or have been 
engaged in its exploitation. 

Very encouraging reports of beds examined by men whose opinions 
should be conservative, come from Canadian sources, and it is possible 
a considerable industry may yet be here developed, though little is 
being done at present. The descriptions as given in the geological 
reports are as follows: ^ 

The lithographic stones of the townships of Madoc and Marmora and of the 
counties of Peterboro and Bruce have been examined and practically tested by 
lithographers, and in several cases pronounced of good quality; they have also 
obtained medals at various exhibitions. They were obtained from the surface in 
small quarries, and possibly when the quarries are more developed better stones, 
free from ' ' specks ' ' of quartz and calcite, will be available in large slabs. 

It should be stated that in actual use the principal demand is for 
stones some 22 or 28 by 40 inches; the largest ones practicall}- used 
are some 40 by 60 inches and 3 to 3i inches thick. As the better 
grades bring as high as 22 cents a pound, it will be readily perceived 
that the field for exploration is one offering considerable inducement. 

2. Dolomite. 

This is a carbonate of calcium and magnesium (Ca, Mg), C03,= 
calcium carbonate 54.36 per cent, magnesium carbonate 45.65 per 
cent. Hardness 3.5 to 4; specific gravit3% 2.8 to 2.9; colors when pure, 
white, but often red, green, brown, gray, or black from impurities. 
(Specimen No. 82167, attached crystals on limestone from Joplin, Mis- 
souri.) Dolomite, like calcite, occurs in massive beds or strata either 
compact (Specimen No. 37795, U.S.N. M.) or coarsely crystalline, ai^d 
is to the eye alone often indistinguishable from that mineral. Like 
limestone, the dolomites occur in massive forms suitable for building 
purposes, or in some cases as raar})le. (Specimen No. 25(175, U. S. N. M.) 
From the limestone they may be distinguished by their increased hard- 
ness and being insoluble in cold dilute hydrochloric acids. The dolo- 
mites, like the limestones, are sedimentary rocks, though it is doubtful 

^ Geology of Canada, 1863. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



275 



if the origfinal sediments contained sufficient mag-nesium carbonate to 
constitute a true dolomite. They are regarded rather as having- resulted 
from the alteration of limestone strata by the replacement of a part 
of the calcium carbonate by carbonate of magnesium. 

Uses. — Aside from its use as a building material, dolomite has of late 
come into use as a source of magn(\sia for the manufacture of highly 
refractory materials for the linings of converters in the basic processes 
of steel manufacture. According to a writer in the Industrial World^ 
the magnesia is obtained by mixing the calcined dolomite with chloride 
of magnesia, whereby there is formed a soluble calcic chloride which 
is readily removed by solution, leaving the insoluble magnesia behind. 
According to another process the calcined dolomite is treated with 
dissolved sugar, leading to the formation of sugar of lime and deposi- 
tion of the magnesia; the solution of sugar of lime is then exposed to 
carbonic acid gas, which separates the lime as carbonate, leaving the 
sugar as refuse. Recently it has been proposed to use magnesia as a 
substitute for plaster of paris for casts, etc. 

The snow-white coarsely crystalline Archean dolomite commercially 
known as snowflake marble, and which occurs at Pleasantville, in West- 
chester County, New York (Specimen No. 30803, U.S.N.M.), is finely 
ground and used as a source of carbonic acid in the manufacture of 
the so-called soda and other carbonated waters. (Specimen No. 30864, 
U.S.N.M.) 

3. Magnesite. 

This is a carbonate of magnesium, MgCOg, = carbon dioxide 52.4 
per cent, magnesia 47.0 per cent. Usually contaminated with carbon- 
ates of iron and free silica. 

The following analysis will serve to show the average run of the ma- 
terial, both in the crude state and after calcining: 



Constituents. 


Styria. 


Greece. 


Crude magnesite. 
Carbonate of magnesia 


90. to 96. 

0.5 to 2.0 

3. to 6.0 

1.0 

0.5 

77.6 
7.3 

13.0 
1.2 


94.46 
4.40 

FeO 0. 08 
0. 52 

Water 0. 54 

82. 46 to 95. 36 
0. 83 to 10. 92 
0.56 to 3. ,54 
0. 73 to 7. 98 






Silica .. . 


Maiiganou.'^ o.xide 


H II nit magnesite. 
Magnesia 


Lime 




Silica 





The mineral occurs rarely in the form of crystals, but is commonly 
in a compact iineh' granular condition of white or yellowish color some- 



iJune 1, 1893. 



276 EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

what resembling- unglazed porcelain (Specimen No. 16070, from Gilroy, 
California), and more rarely crystalline granular, like limestone or 
dolomite (Specimen No. 48273, U.S.N.M., from Wells Island). 

It is hard (3.5 to 4.5) and brittle, with a vitreous luster, and is 
unacted upon by cold, but dissolves with brisk effervescence in hot 
hydrochloric acid. 

Localities and mode of occurrence. — Most commonly the mineral is 
found in the form of irregular veins in serpentinous and other magne- 
sian rocks, being a decomposition product either of the serpentine 
itself or of the original rock from which the serpentine is derived. It 
is also found in granular aggregates disseminated throughout serpen- 
tinous rocks. It is stated by Dana to occur associated with gypsum. 

Prof. W. P. Blake has described^ immense beds of very puremag- 
nesite as occurring in the foothills of the Sierra Nevadas, between Four 
and Moore creeks, in what is now Tulare County. The beds are from 
1 to 6 feet in thickness and are interstratified with talcose and chloritic 
schists and serpentine. Mr. H. G. Hanks, who has since inspected 
these deposits, reports them as existing in several hills or low moun- 
tains, the mineral cropping out boldly in distinct and clearly marked 
veins, varying from 2 inches to 4 feet, and of a maximum length, as 
exposed, of 500 feet. In section 5, T. 15 S., R. 21 E., Fresno County, 
California, there is stated^ to be a large vein of the material averaging 
10 feet in width, incased in hornblendic and micaceous shales. A 
white marble-like crystalline granular variety has been found in the 
form of drift bowlders on an island in the St. Lawrence River near the 
Thousand Islands Park. (Specimen No. 48273, U.S.N.M.) According 
to Canadian geologists magnesite forming rock masses occurs associ- 
ated with the dolomites, serpentines, and steatites of the eastern town- 
ships of Quebec. In Bolton it occurs in an enormous bed resembling 
crystalline limestone in appearance. An analysis of this yielded: Car- 
bonate of magnesia, 59.13 per cent; carbonate of iron, 8.72 per cent; 
silica, 32. 20 per cent. In the township of Sutton a slaty variety yielding 
as high as 80 per cent of carbonate of magnesium occurs admixed with 
feldspar and green chromiferous mica. In Styria the material lies in 
Silurian beds consisting of argillaceous shales, quartzites, dolomites, 
and limestones, resting upon gneiss. The extensive deposit of ^ mag- 
nesite occurring associated with Subcarboniferous limestones in the 
Swiss Tyrol is regarded by M. Koch^ as due to a decomposition of 
the original limestone through percolating magnesia-bearing solutions. 
Magnesia being the stronger base replaces the lime, which is carried 
awaj^ in solution. 

The chief localities of magnesite, native and foreign, are as fol- 

1 Pacific Railroad Reports, V, p. 308 

2 Tenth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1890, p. 185. 

3 Zeitschrift der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft, XLV, Pt. 2, 1893, p. 294. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 277 

lows: Maryland, Bare Hills, Baltimore County. New Jersey, Hobo- 
ken. jNiassachusetts, R()xl)ury. New York, near Rye, Westchester 
Count}-; War\vii-k, Orange County; Stony Point, Rockland County; 
New Rochelle, Westchester County; Serpentine Hills, Staten Island. 
North Carolina, Wc^bster, Jackson County; Hamptons, Yancey County, 
McMakins Mine, Cal)arrus County. renns3dvania. Goat Hill, West 
Nottingham, Chester County; Scotts Mine, Chester County; Low's 
Chrome Mine, Lancaster County (Specimen No. 53101, U.S.N.M.). 
California, Coyote Creek, near Madison Station, Southern Pacific 
Railroad, Santa Clara County (Specimen No. 16070, U.S.N.M.); Gold 
Run, Iowa Hill, and Damascus, Placer County; Arroyo Sero, Monterey 
County; ]\hiriposa and Tuolumne counties; Diablo Range, Alameda 
County; between Four Creek and Moores Creek, near Visalia, 
Tulare County (Specimen No. 63812, U.S.N.M.); Alameda County; 
Napa County (Specimen No. 62594, U.S.N.M.); Millcreek, Fresno 
County. Washington, Spokane County (Specimen No. 53235,U.S.N.M.). 
Sutton, Quebec, lot 12, range 7; Bolton, Quebec. Regla, near Havana, 
Cuba. Kongsberg, Norwa3\ Piedmont, Italy. Bingera Diamond 
Fields, New South Wales. Victoria, South Australio (Specimens Nos. 
28466 and 28472, U.S.N. M.). Kosewitz and Frankenstein, Silesia. 
St3'ria, in Austria-Hungary. Greece (Specimens Nos. 62895 and 67983, 
U.S.N.M.). 

Uses. — Magnesite is used in the preparation of magnesian salts 
(Epsom salts, magnesia, etc.), in the manufacture of paint, paper, and 
fire brick. For the last-named purpose it is said to answer admirably, 
particularly where a highly refractive material is needed, as in the 
so-called basic process of iron smelting. 

Magnesia made from the carbonate [magne.site] by driving off the carbonic acid 
is very refractory, if pure. It is made into any shape that is required, and is one of 
• the most refractory of substances. It was formerly very difficult to get the carbon- 
ate of magnesia, but large quantities of it have been found on the island of Euboea, 
so that it can now be had for $15 to $25 per ton, instead of $60 to $70 as formerly. 
It can be calcined at a less cost than ordinary lime, losing half of its weight, so that if 
calcined before it is transported the cost may be still further reduced. It contains a 
little lime, silicates of iron, and some serpentine and silica. After calcination, the 
serpentine and silica can be separated, as it is easily crushed, but the most of the 
work can be done by hand-picking beforehand. Before moulding, it must be sub- 
mitted to about the temperature it is to undergo in the furnace, otherwise it would 
contract. It is then mixed with a certain portion of less calcined material, which is 
one-sixth for steel fusion, and 10 t(j 15 per cent, water by weight, and pressed in iron 
moulds. If for any reason — either because there was too much or too little water, or 
because the material was not properly mixed, or contains silica — the crucil)le is not 
strong enough, it has only to be dipped in water, which has been saturated with 
boracic acid, and then heated.^ 

Twenty or more years ago the mineral was mined from serpentinous 

'T. Egleston, Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, IV, 
1876, p. 261. 



278 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

rocks ill Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, by McKini, Sines and Com- 
pany, of Baltimore, by whom it was used for the manufacture of 
Epsom salts (sulphate of magnesia). 

Although it is said ^ that these gentlemen made a pure salt at less 
price than it could be imported, and thereby excluded the foreign 
material almost exclusively, the mines are now wholly abandoned. 
Isaac Tyson & Co., of this same city, also operated mines in Lan- 
caster County. 

Early in the fall of 1886 a small force of men was set to work on the deposits of 
magnesite discovered on Cedar mountain, Alameda county, California. Since that 
time several carloads of the mineral have been gotten out and shipped by rail to 
New York, these deposits being only a few miles from the line of the Central Pacific 
Railroad. The mineral occurs here in a decomposed serpentine rock and in a yellow 
clay in which are embedded large bowlders. It lies in pockets and small veins, the 
latter running in every direction. The richest si^ots are found under the bowlders, 
where the mineral is quite pure. A machine is used to sift out the small stones from 
the powdered magnesite, a good deal of which is met with. A number of veins of 
this mineral has been exposed by the occurrence of landslides on the side of the 
mountain where they are situated; only a few of them, however, contain good 
mineral, nor is there any certainty as to how long these will last. The claims are 
being opened by tunnels, of which two have been started. The process of gathering 
this mineral is slow, as every piece has to be cleaned by hand and the whole has to 
be carefully assorted according to purity. Having been divided into three classes, it 
is put up in sacks weighing from 80 to 100 pounds each. This sacking is preliminary 
not only to shipping but to getting it down from the mountains, which can be done 
only on the backs of animals. While carbonate of magnesia occurs at a great many 
places in California and elsewhere on the Pacific coast, the above is the only deposit 
of this mineral that is being worked. An artificial article of this kind is obtained as 
a by-product in the manufacture of salt by the Union Pacific Salt Company of 
California.'' 

Th. Schlossing has proposed^ to utilize magnesian hydrate obtained 
by precipitation from sea water by lime, for the preparation of fire 
brick, the hj-drate being first dehydrated by calcination at a white 
heat, after which it is made up into brick form. 

According to the Industrial World* magnesite as a substitute for 
barite in the manufacture of paint is likely to prove of importance. 
The color, weight, and opacity of powder add to its value for this 
purpose. In Europe it is stated the material is used as an adulterant 
for the cheaper grades of soap. 

Prices. — During 1892 the material, 96 to 98 per cent pure, was quoted 
as worth $9 to $15 a ton in New York City. Material containing as 
high as 15 to 30 per cent silica and 8 to 10 per cent of iron is said to 
be practically worthless. In 1899 crude California magnesite was (i noted 
as worth %2> a ton at the mines. 

' Report C. C. C. Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, p. 178. 
^ Mineral Resources of the United States, 1886, p. 696. 
^Comptes Rendus, 1885, p. 137. 
^Industrial World, XXXVI, No. 20, 1891. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINEEALS. 279 

•i. WlTIIERITE. 

This is a carbonate of barium of the formula BaC03,= baryta 
77.7 p(M- cent, carbon dioxide 22.3 per cent. Color, white to yellow 
or gray, streak white; translucent. Hardness, 3 to 3.75; - specific 
gravity, 4.29 to 4.35. When crystallized, usually in form of hexagonal 
prisms, with faces rough and longitudinally striated. Common in 
globular and botryoidal forms, amorphous, columnar, or granular in 
structure. The powdered mineral dissolves readily in hydrochloric 
acid, like calcite, but is easily distinguished from this mineral by its 
great weight and increased hardness, as well as by its vitreous luster 
and lack of rhomboidal cleavage, which is so pronounc(^d a feature in 
calcite. From barite, the sulphate of barium, with which it might 
become confused on account of its high specific gravity, it is readily 
distinguished by its solubility in acids as above noted. From stronti- 
anite it can be distinguished by the green color it imparts to the 
blowpipe flame. 

Localities and mode of oceurrence.—T\\& mineral occurs apparently 
altogether as a secondary product filling veins and clefts in older rocks 
and often forming a portion of the gangue material of metalliferous 
deposits. The principal localities as given by Dana are Alston Moor, 
Cumberland (Specimen No. 67923, U.S.N.M.), where it is associated 
with galena. In large quantities at Fallowfield near Hexam in North- 
umberland; at Anglezarke in Lancashire; at Arkendale in Yorkshire, 
and near St. Asaph in Flintshire, England. Tarnowitz, Silesia; 
Szlana, Hungary; Leogang in Salzburg; the mine of Arqueros near 
Coquimbo, Chile; L. Etang Island; near Lexington, Kentucky, and 
in a silver-bearing vein near Rabbit Mountain, Thunder Bay, Lake 
Superior. 

IJgg^^ — The mineral has been used to but a slight extent in the arts. 
As a substitute for lime it has met with a limited application in mak- 
ing plate glass, and is also said to have been used in the manufacture 
of beet sugar, but is now being superseded by magnesite. 

5. Strontianite. 

This is a carbonate of strontium, SrCOs,^ Carbon dioxide 29.9 
per cent; strontia 7<).l per cent. Often impure through the presence 
of carbonates and sulphates of barium and calcium. Colors, white to 
gray, pale green, and yellowish. Hardness 3.5 to 4. Specific gravity 
3.6 to 3.7. Transparent to translucent. When crystallized often in 
acute spear-shaped forms. Also in granular, fibrous, and columnar 
globular forms. Soluble like calcite in hydrochloric acid, with effer- 
vescence, but readily distinguished by its cleavage and greater density. 
The powdered mineral w^hen moistened with hydrochloric acid and 
held on a platinum wire in the flame of a lamp imparts to the flame a 
very characteristic red color. 



280 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

OcGurreTice. — According to Dana the mineral occurs at Strontian in 
Argyllsiiire, in veins traversing gneiss, along with galena and barite; 
in Yorkshire, England; at the Giants Causeway, Ireland; Clausthal, in 
the Harz; Briiunsdorf, Saxony; Leogang, in Salzburg; near Brix- 
legg, Tyrol; near Hanim and Minister, Westphalia. In the United 
States, at Schoharie, New York, in the form of granular and columnar 
masses and also in crystals, forming nests and geodes in the hydraulic 
limestone; at Clinton, Oneida County; Chaumont Bay and Theresa, 
Jefferson County; and Mifflin County, Pennsylvania. 

Uses. — Strontianite, so far as the writer has information, has but a 
limited application in the arts. It is stated^ that '" basic bricks" are 
prepared from it by mixing the raw or burnt strontianite with clay or 
argillaceous ironstone in such proportions that the brick shall contain 
about 10 per cent of silica, and then working into a plastic mass with 
tar or some heav}^ hydrocarbon. After molding, the bricks are 
dusted with fine clay or ironstone, dried, and burned. The effect of 
the dusting is to form a glaze on the surface, which protects the brick 
from the moisture of the air. Like celestite, it is also used in the pro- 
duction of the red lire of fireworks. The demand for the material is 
small, and the price but from $2.50 to $4 a ton. 

6. Rhodochrosite; Dialogite. 

This is a pure manganese carbonate of the formula MnC03,= carbon 
dioxide, 38.3 per cent; manganese protoxide, 61.7 per cent. The color 
is much like that of rhodonite (see p. 314), from which, however, it 
is readily distinguishable by its rhombohedral form, inferior hard- 
ness (3.5 to 4.5), and property of dissolving with effervescence in hot 
hydrochloric acid, while rhodonite is scarcely at all attacked. The 
mineral is a common constituent of the gangue of gold and silver 
ores, as at Butte, Montana; Austin, Nevada, etc. (Specimen No. 26745, 
U.S.N.M.) So far as known the mineral has as yet no commercial 
value. 

7. Natron, the Nitrum of the Ancients. 

This is a hydrous sodium carbonate; Na2CO3+10H2O, = carbon 
dioxide, 15.4 per cent; soda, 21.7 per cent; water, 62.9 per cent. 
Occurs in nature, according to Dana, onl}^ in solution, as in the soda 
lakes of Egypt and elsewhere, or mixed with other sodium carbonates. 
The artiticially crystallized material is of white color when pure, soft 
and ^brittle, and with an alkaline taste. Crystals, thin, tabular, 
monoclinic. Thermonatrite, also a hA'-drous sodivim carbonate of the 
formula NaoC03+ 11^0= carbon dioxide, 35.5 per cent; soda, 50 percent, 
and water 14.5 per cent, occurs under similar conditions, and is con- 
sidered as derived from natron as a product of efflorescence. (See 
further under Sodium sulphates, p. 405.) 

^ Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, III, 1884, p. 33. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 281 

8. Tkona; Ukao. 

This is a hydrous sodium carbonate, corresponding to the fornuda 
Na,,C03.HNaCO,+2H.,0, = carbon dioxide, 38.9 per cent; soda, 41.2 
[)er cent; water, 10.9 per cent. 

Found in nature as an efflorescence or incrustation from the evapo- 
ration of lakes, particularJy those of arid regions. W. P. Blake has 
recently described ' crude carbonate of soda (Trona) occurring- in the 
central portion of a basin-shaped depression or dry lake in southern 
Arizona, near the head of the Gulf of California. The deposit covers 
an area of some 60 acres to a depth of from 1 to 3 feet, the lower 
portion being saturated with water from a solution so strong that 
when exposed to the air soda is deposited at the rate of an inch in 
thi<-kness for every ten days. In its native condition the soda is 
naturally somewhat impure, from silt blown in from the surrounding 
land. The analysis given below shows the general average: 

Sand, silt, etc 13.00 

Iron oxides and alumina 2. 80 

Lime 1-14 

Salt (NaCl.?) 4.70 

Sulphate of soda 4. 70 

Carbonate of soda 73. 66 

100. 00 
See further mider Thernardite, p. 415. 

VI. SILICATES. 

1. Feldspars. 

The name feldspar is given to a group of minerals resembling each 
other in being, chemically, silicates of aluminum with varying amounts 
of lime and the alkalies potash and soda. All members of the group 
have in common two easy cleavages whereby they split with even, 
smooth, and shining surfaces along planes inclined to one another at 
angles of nearly if not quite 90°. (Specimen No. 67301, U.S.N.M.) 
They vary from transparent through translucent to opaque, the opaque 
form 1)eing the more frequent. In colors they range from clear and 
colorless through white and all shades of gray to yellowdsh, pink and 
red, more rarely greenish. 

On prolonged exposures to the w^eather they become whitish and 
opaque, gradually decomposing into soluble carbonates of lime and the 
alkalies, and soluble silica, any one of which may be wholly or in part 
removed by percolating w^aters, leaving behind a residual product, con- 
sisting essentially of hydrous silicates of alumina, to which the names 
kaolin and clay are given (see p. 325). The hardness of the feld- 
spars varies from 5 to 7 of Dana's scale; specific gravity 2.5 to 2.8. 

^ Engineering and Mining Journal, LXV, 1898, p. 188. 



282 



EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



They are fusible only with difficulty, and with the exception of the 
mineral quartz are the hardest of the common light-colored minerals. 
From quartz they are readily distinguished by their cleavage charac- 
teristics noted above. Geologically the feldspars belong to the gneisses 
and eruptive rocks of all ages, certain varieties being characteristic of 
certain rocks and furnishing important data for schemes of rock classi- 
fication. Nine principal varieties are recognized, which on crystallo- 
graphic grounds are divided into two groups. The first, crystallizing 
in the monoclinic system, including only the varieties orthoclase and 
hyalophane; the second, crystallizing in the triclinic system, including 
microclinic, anorthoclase, and the albite-anorthite series, albite, oligo- 
clase. andesine, labradorite, and anorthite. The above-mentioned 
properties are set forth in the accompanying table. 



Constituents. 


Ortho- 
clase. 


Hyalo- 
phane. 


Micro- 
cline. 


Anorth- 
oclase. 


Albite. 


Oligo- 
clase. 


Ande- 
sine. 


Labra- 
dorite. 


Anor- 
thite. 


Silica SiOa 


64.7 
18.4 
16.9 


51.6 
21.9 
10.1 


64.7 
18.4 
16.9 


66.0 
20.0 
5.0 
8.0 


68.0 
20.0 


62.0 
24.0 


60.0 
26.0 


53.0 
30.0 


43.0 


Alumina AI0O3 

Potash K.iO 


37.0 


Soda Na.iO 




12.0 


9.0 


8.0 


4.0 




Barite BaO 


16.4 






LimeCaO 








5.0 
2.56-2.7 
6.0-7.0 


7.0 


13.0 


20.0 


Specific gravity 

Hardness 

Crystalline system. . . 


2. 4-2. 6 2.8 
6. 0-6. 5 6. 0-6. 5 


2. 4-2. 6 
6.0-6.5 


2. 0-5. 8 


2.5-2.6 
6. 0-7. 


2.6-2.7 2.6-2.7 
5.0-6.0 6.0 


2. 6-2. 8 
6.0-7.0 


Monoclinic. 


Triclinic. 



Of the above those which most concern us here are the potash feld- 
spars orthoclase and microcline, two varieties which for our purposes 
are esssentially identical, ])oth as regards composition and general 
physical properties as well as mode of occurrence. Indeed, although 
crystallizing in different sj^stems they are as a rule indistinguishable but 
by microscopic means or by careful crystallographic measurements. 

Occurrence. — The feldspars are common and abundant constituents 
of the acid rocks — such as the granites, gneisses, syenites — the ortho- 
clase and quartzose porphyries, and the tertiary and modern lavas — 
such as trachyte, phonolite, and the liparites. 

Among the older rocks the}' not infrequently occur in large veins or 
dike-like masses of coarse pegmatitic crystallization, the individual 
crystals being in some cases a foot or more in diameter. The asso- 
ciated minerals are quartz and white mica, with beryl, tourmaline, 
garnet, and a great variety of rarer minerals. The ordinar}^ white 
mi(^a of commerce comes from deposits of this nature and often the 
two minerals are mined contemporaneously. Such of our feldspars as 
have yet been worked for economic purposes occur associated only 
with the older rocks — the granites and gneisses of the Archean and 
Lower Paleozoic formations. 

Near Topsham, Maine, is one of these pegmatitic veins, running 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 288 

parallel with tho strike of the gneissoid si-hists in which it lies, i. e, 
northeast and southwest. Th(> vein material is ((uartz, feldspar, and 
miea. Tlie ipiarry, as des('ri])ed by R. L. Packard, is in the form of an 
open cut in the hillsi(U% heino- some 300 feet long- by 100 feet wide, 
and of very irregular contours. The present floor and the sides of the 
cut are of feldspar (Specimen No. (51086, LI.S.N.M.), containing irreg- 
ular bodies of quartz and mica, the first named occurring in large masses 
entirely free from other minerals, though a second grade is taken 
out which is in reality an intimate mixture of quartz and feldspar. 

The quartz occurs, besides as mentioned above, in the form of irreg- 
ular bodies, sometimes 6 or 8 feet across and 15 feet or more long. It 
also occurs in cavities, or geodes, in the form of flattened crystals 
(Specimen No. 61085, U.S.N.M.). The mica is hereof little economic 
importance, being found in the mass of the feldspar and along the seams 
in the form of narrow, lanceolate masses, often arranged in small radi- 
ating conical forms with their apexes outward. 

The principal feldspar quarries thus far worked are in the Eastern 
United States, from Maine to New Jersey. The material is mined from 
open cuts, being blasted out with powder and separated from adhering 
quartz, mica, and other minerals by hand, after which it is shipped in 
the rough to the potteries, or in some cases ground and })olted in the 
near vicinity. In Connecticut the material has in times past been 
ground by huge granite disks mounted like the wheels of a cart on an 
axle through the center of Avhich extended a vertical shaft. By the 
slow revolution of this shaft the wheels traveled around in a limited 
circle over a large horizontal granite slab. The pieces of spar being 
placed upon the horizontal slab were thus slowly ground to powder, 
after which it was bolted and sacked. The modern method of pulver- 
izing is by means of the so-called "Cyclone" crusher. The value of 
the uncrushed material delivered at the potteries is but a few dollars 
a ton. Hence, while there are unlimited quantities of the material in 
different parts of the Appalachian region, but few are so situated as 
to be profitably worked. 

LL'ies. — The feldspars are used mainly for pottery, being mixed in 
a finelv pulverized condition with the kaolin or clay. When subjected 
to a high temperature the feldspar fuses, forming a glaze and at the 
same time a cementing constituent. There are other substances more 
readily fusible which are utilized for this purpose in the cheaper kinds 
of ware, but it is stated that in the highest grades of porcelain, as 
those of Sevres, feldspar is the material used. The proportions used 
vary with different manufacturers, each having adopted a formula best 
adapted for his own workings. 

2. Micas. 

Under this head are comprised a number of distinct mineral species, 
alike in crystallizing in the monoclinic system and having a highly 



284 



REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



perfect basal cleavage, whereby thej' split readily into thin, trans- 
lucent to transparent, more or less elastic sheets. Chemically they 
are in most cases orthosilicates of aluminum with potassium and 
hydrogen, and in some varieties magnesium, ferrous, and ferric iron, 
sodium, lithium, and more rarely barium, manganese, titanium, and 
chromium. Seven species of mica are commonly recognized, of which 
but three have any commercial value, though a fourth form, lepidolite, 
may perhaps be utilized as a source of lithia salts. Of these three 
forms, the white mica, muscovite, and the pearl gray, phlogopite, are 
of greatest importance, the black variety, biotite, being but little used. 
Muscovite, or potassium mica, is essentially a silicate of aluminum 
and potassium, with small amounts of iron, soda, magnesia, and water. 
Its color is white to colorless, often tinted with brown, green, and violet 
shades. When crystallized it takes on hexagonal or diamond-shaped 
forms, as do also phlogopite and biotite as shown in samples (Speci- 
mens Nos. 62377 and 30763, U.S.N.M.). Its industrial value lies in its 
great power of resistance to heat and acids, its transparency, and its 
wonderful fissile property, in virtue of which it may be split into 
extremely thin, flexible sheets. It has been stated, though I know 
not how correctly, that sheets but one two hundred and fifty thou- 
sandths (1/250000) of an inch in thickness have been obtained. Phlog- 
opite, or magnesian mica, difl'ers from muscovite in being of a darker, 
deep pearl gray, sometimes smoky, often yellowish, brownish red, or 
greenish color. Biotite, or magnesia iron mica, difiers in being often 
deep, almost coal black and opaque in thick masses, though trans- 
lucent and of a dark brown, yellow, green, or red color in thin folia. 
It further differs from the preceding in that its folia are less elastic, 
and the sheets of smaller size. Lepidolite, a lithia mica, is much more 
rare than either of the above, is of a pale rose or pink color, folia 
usually of small size, commonly occurring in scaly granular forms 
without crystal outlines. The following table will serve to show the 
varying composition of the four varieties mentioned: 



Variety. 


SiOo 


AI0O3 


FeaOa 


FeO 


MgO 


CaO 


KoO 


Na«0 


F. 


H2O 




45.71 
44.48 
46.40 
39.66 
43.00 
40.64 
44.94 
34.67 
39.30 
40.16 
50.39 
49.62 


36.57 
35.70 
33.66 
17.00 
13.27 
14.11 
31.69 
30.09 
16.96 
15.79 
28.19 
27.30 
1 


1.19 
1.09 
2. .36 
0.27 
1.71 
2.28 
4.76 
2.42 
0.48 
2. .53 


1.07 
1.07 

0.20 

0.69 
3.90 
16.99 
8.45 
4.12 


0.71 
Trace. 

1.86 
26.49 
27.70 
27.97 


0.46 
0.10 


9.22 
9.77 
8.33 
9.97 
10. 32 
8.16 
8.00 
7.55 
7.79 
7.64 
12. 34 
11.19 


0.79 
2.41 
1.41 
0.60 
0.30 
1.16 
0.59 
1.57 
0.49 
. 0.37 

2.17 


0.12 
0.72 
0.09 
2.24 
5.67 
0.82 
0.93 
0.28 
0.89 

5. 15 
5.45 


4.83 




5.50 
5.46 
2.99 




0.78 
3.21 

3.85 




1.98 

21.89 

26.16 

6.08 

4.34 


0.82 

LioO 
Li«0 


4.64 
4.02 
3.58 
2.36 




0.31 


0.07 


1.52 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 285 

Althouo-h the l)!is!il cliMivacre which permits of the ready splittiiio- of 
the iiiica into thin sheets is the only one sufficiently developed to be 
of economic importance, the mica as found is often traversed by sharp 
lines of separation, called glidino- planes, which may, by their abun- 
dance, be disastrous to the interests of the miner. Such partings, or 
gliding planes, supposed to be induced by pressure, are developed at 
angles of about OOi'^ with the ch-.ivage, and may cut entirely through 
a block or extend inward from the margin only a short distance and 
come to an abrupt stop. In many cases the mica is divided up into 
long narrow strips, from the breadth of a line to several inches in 
thickness, with sides parallel, and as sharply cut as though done with 
shears. (Specimens Nos. 62517, 63134, U.S.N.M.) 

The imperfections in mica are duo to inclosures of foreign minerals, 
as flattened garnets, to the presence of free iron oxides, often with a 
most beautiful dendritic structure, to the partings or gliding planes 
noted above, and to crumplings and V-like striations which destroy its 
homogenity. (Specimens Nos. 63139, 44150, U.S.N.M.) 

Occurrence. — Mica in quantity and sizes to be of economic impor- 
tance is found only among the older rocks of the earth's crust, par- 
ticularly those of the granite and gneissoid groups. Muscovite and 
biotite are among the commonest constituents of siliceous rocks of all 
kinds and ages, while phlogopite is more characteristic of calcareous 
rocks. It is, however, only when developed in crystals of consider- 
able size in pegmatitic and coarsely feldspathic veins, or, in the case 
of phlogopite, in gneissic and calcareous rocks associated with erup- 
tive pyroxenites, that it becomes available for economic purposes. 
The associated minerals are almost too numerous to mention. The 
more common for muscovite are quartz and potash feldspar, which 
form the chief gangue materials in crystals and crystalline masses, 
sometimes a foot or more in diameter. With these are almost inva- 
riably associated garnets, beryls, and tourmalines, with more rarely 
cassiterite, columbite, apatite, fluorite, topaz, spodumene, etc. In- 
deed, so abundant are, at times, the accessory minerals in the granitic 
veins, and so perfect their crystalline development, that they furnish 
by far the richest collecting grounds for the mineralogists. Of these 
minerals the quartz and feldspars are not infrequently contemporane- 
ously with the mica and utilized in the manufacture of pottery and 
abrasives. 

The origin of these pegmatitic veins is a matter of considerable 
doubt. The finer grained pegmatites are, in certain cases, undoubted 
intrusives, though to some authorities it seems scarcely possible that 
the extremely coarse aggregates of quartz, feldspar, and mica, with 
large garnets, beryls, and tourmalines, can be a direct result of cooling 
from an igneous magma. To such it seems more probable that they 
are portions of an original rock mass altered by exhalations of fluor- 



286 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

hydric acids, like the Saxon "greisen." Others regard them as 
resulting- from the very slow cooling of granitic material injected in a 
pasty condition, brought about bj^ aqueo-igneous agencies, into rifts of 
the preexisting rocks. It must be remembered that the high degree 
of dynamic metamorphism which these older rocks have undergone 
render the problems relating to their origin extremely difficult. 

Localities. — From what has been said regarding occurrences, it is 
evident that mica deposits are to be looked for only in regions occupied 
by the older crystalline rocks. In the United States, therefore, we 
need only look for them in the States bordering immediately along 
the Appalachian range and in the Granitic areas west of the front 
range of the Rocky Mountains.^ In the Appalachian region south of 
Canada mica mines, worked either for mica alone or for quartz and 
feldspar in addition, have from time to time been opened in various 
parts of Maine, New Hampshire, Connecticut, Maryland, Virginia, 
North Carolina, and perhaps other States, but in none of them, with 
the exception of New Hampshire and North Carolina, has the business 
proven sufficiently lucrative to warrant continuous and systematic 
working. Indeed, were it not for the increased demand lately arising 
for the use of mica in electrical machines it is doubtful if any but 
the most favorably situated mines would remain longer in operation 
in the United States. This for the reason not so much that foreign 
mica is better as that it is cheaper. 

In Maine muscovite has been mined in an intermittent manner along 
with quartz and feldspar at the well-known mineral localities at Paris 
Hill and Rumford, Oxford County; Auburn, Androscoggin Countj^; 
Topsham, Sagadahoc County; Edgecomb, Lincoln County, and other 
counties in the southeastern part of the State. In New Hampshire 
the industry has assumed greater importance. The mica-bearing belt 
is described by Prof. C. H. Hitchcock as usually about 2 miles in width, 
and extending from Easton, in Grafton County, to Surry, in Cheshire 
County; being best developed about the towns of Rumney and He- 
bron. The mica occurs in immense coarse granite veins in a fibrolitic 
mica schist (Specimen No. 63029, U.S.N.M.) of Montalban age, and is 
found in sheets sometimes a yard in length, but the more common sizes 
are but 10 or 12 inches in length. Immense beryls, sometimes a yard in 
diameter, and beautiful large tourmalines occur among the accessory 
minerals. Mines formica were opened at Grafton as d'AxXj as 1810, and 
as many as six or eight mines have been worked at one time, though 
by no means continually. Other mines have been worked in Groton, 
Alexandria, Grafton, and Alstead, in Grafton Country; Acworth 
and Springfield, SulliA^an County; Marlboro, Cheshire County; New 
Hampton, Belknap County, and Wilmot, Merrimack County, though 
only those of Groton are in operation at date of writing (1891). 

' The region of the Black Hills of South Dakota is an important exception. 



THE NONMETALLTO MINERALS. 287 

Ah seen by the writer, the veins at tlie latter i)lace cut sharjily across the fibroHtic 
schist, and though the vein niatt^ials adhere closely to the wall rock on either side, 
without either selvage or slickensides, still the line of demarcation is perfectly sharp. 
There seems no room for douVjt l>ut that the vein material was derived by injec-tion 
from below, though from their extremely irregular and universally coarsely crystal- 
Ihie condition we must infer that the condition of the injected magma was more in 
the nature of solution than fusion, as the word is ordinarily used, and also that the 
rate of cooling and conseciuent crystallization was very slow. The feldspars not infre- 
quently occur in huge crystalline masses several feet in diameter, thougli sometimes 
more finely intercrystallized with (juartz in the form known as pegmatite. [Specimen 
No. 62519, U.S.N.M.] The mica is by no means disseminated uniformly throughout 
the vein, but on the contrary is very sporadic, and the process of mining consists merely 
in following up the mineral wherever indications as shown in the face of the quarry 
are sufficiently promising. Most of the mines are in the form of open cuts and trenches, 
though in a few instances underground cuts have been made for a distance of a hun- 
dred feet or more. The mica blocks as removed are of a beautifully smoky-brown 
color, and often show a distinct zonal structure, indicating several periods of growth. 
The associated feldspar is not in all cases orthoclase, but, as at the Alexandria mines, 
sometimes a faintly greenish triclinic variety. 

Samples of the New Hampshire micas, with the accompanying 
gangue and wall rocks, are shown in Specimens Nos. 62515 to 02519 
and 63028 to 63030, U.S.N.M. 

In Connecticut some mica (muscovite) has been obtained in connec- 
tion with the work of mining feldspar and (piartz in and al)out the 
towns of Haddam, Glastonbury, and Middletown, but the business has 
never assumed any importance. Mica mines have also been worked 
in Montgomery County, Maryland. South of the glacial limit mica 
mining has proven more successful from the reason that the gangue 
minerals (feldspar and (juartz) were in a state of less compact aggre- 
gation, due to weathering, the feldspar being often reduced to the 
state of kaolin, and hence readily removed by pick and shovel. The 
following account of the deposits of North Carolina is given by Prof. 
W. C. Kerr:^ 

I have stated elsewhere, several years ago, that these veins were wrought on a 
large scale and for many ages by some ancient peoples, most probably the so-called 
Mound Builders; although they built no mounds here, and have left no signs of any 
permanent habitation. They opened and worked a great many veins down to or 
near water-level; that is, as far as the action of atmospheric chemistry had softened 
the rock so that it was workable without metal tools, of the use of which no signs are 
apparent. Many of the largest and most profitable of the mines of the present day are 
simply the ancient Mound Builders' mines reopened and pushed into the hard unde- 
composed granite by powder and steel. Blocks of mica have often been found half 
imbedded in the face of the vein, with the tool-marks about it, showing the exact 
limit of the efficiency of those prehistoric raechanical appliances. As to the geolog- 
ical relations of these veins, they are found in the gneisses and schists of the 
Archfean horizons. * * * These rocks are of very extensive occurrence in 
North Carolina, constituting in fact the great body of the rooks throughout the 
whole length of the State, — some 400 miles east and west, — being partially covered 

^Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, VIII, 1880, p. 457. 



288 



EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



up, and interrupted here and there iDy belts of later formation. Mica veins are found 

iTere, in fact may be said to char- 
acterize this horizon everywhere, 
from its eastern outcrop, near the 
seaboard, to and quite under the 
flanks of the Smoky Mountains. It 
is, however, in the great plateau of 
the west, between the Blue Ridge 
and the Smoky, that the mica veins 
reach their greatest development, 
and have given rise to a very new 
and profitable industry, — new and 
at the same time very old. 

It may be stated as a very gen- 
eral, almost universal, fact, that the 
mica vein is a bedded vein. Its 
position (as to strike and dip) is 
dependent on and controlled by, 
and quite nearly conformable to, 
that of the rocks in which it occurs, 
and hence, as well as on account of 
their great size, some observers, 
accustomed to the study of veins 
and dikes and the characters of 
intrusive rocks in other regions, 
have been disposed to question the 
vein character of these masses at 
first. But a good exposure of a sin- 
gle one of them is generally suffi- 
cient to remove all doubt on this 
score. The mica vein is simply and 
always a dike of very coarse granite. 
It is of any size and shape, from a 
few inches — generally a few feet — 
to many rods (in some cases several 
hundred feet) in thickness, and in 
length from a few rods to many 
hundred yards, extending in some 
cases to half a mile or more. The 
strike, like that of the inclosing 
rocks, is generally northeast, and 
the dip southeast, at a pretty high 
angle; but they are subject, in these 
respects, to many and great local 
variations, all the conditions being 
occasionally changed, or even re- 
versed. An idea may be formed of 
the coarseness of these veins from 
this statement, that the masses of 
cleavable feldspar and of quartz 
(limpid, pale yellow, brown, or, 
more generally, slightly smoky), 
and of mica, are often found to measure several yards in two or three of their dimen- 
sions, and weighing several tons. I have a feldspar crystal from one of these mines 




THE NONMKTALLIC MINIi:RALS. 289 

of nearly a thousaiul pounds weight, and I have known a single V:)lock of miea to 
make two full two-horse wagon-loads, and sheets of mica are sometimes obtained 
that measure three and four feet in diameter. 

There are many peculiarities about these veins. Among the most important, in a 
practical sense, is the arrangement of the different constituents of the vein inter .sy. 
Sometimes the mica, for example, will be found hugging the hanging-wall; some- 
times it is found against both walls; again it may be distril)uted pretty equally 
through the whole mass of the vein; sometimes, again, it will be found collected in 
the middle of the vein; in other cases, where the vein varies in thickness along 
its course, the mica will be found in bunches in the ampullations, or bellies, of the 
vein; in still other cases, where the vein has many vertical embranchments, the 
mica will be found accumulated in nests along the upper faces of these processes or 
offshoots. Those features of structure will be best understood from a few repre- 
sentative diagrams. 

Figure 9 is a liorizontal section, with several transverse vertical sections, of a typ- 
ical vein in Yancey County, at the Presnel Mine. The length of the section, i. e., 
of the portion of the vein that has been stripped, is 125 feet; the thickness varies from 
3 to 10 feet, except at a few points, as b c where it is nearly 20 feet. 

The crystals of mica are found in this mine generally near the foot wall, in the 
recesses or pouches; at c, however, as seen in section D, it is found next the hanging- 
wall. 

The inclosing rock in this case is a hard, gray slaty to schistose gneiss. * * * 

The feldspar, which constitutes the larger part of the mass of these veins, is often 
found converted into beds of the finest kaolin; and, curiously enough, this was one 
of the first and most valuable exports to England in the early part of the seventeenth 
century, "packed" by the Indians out of the Unaka (Smoky) Mountains, and sold 
under the name "unakeh" (white). This kaolin, like the mica, will doubtless soon 
come again into demand, after lying forgotten for generations. 

Characteristic samples of the micas of the region are shown in 
Specimens Nos. 18205, 18207, 62962, and 62964, U.S.N.M. 

In Alabama, along a line stretching from Chilton County, north- 
east, through Coosa, Clay, and Cleburne counties, there are numer- 
ous evidences of prehistoric mica mining. Many pits are met with 
around which pieces of mica are still to be seen. In some places, just 
as in Mitchell County, North Carolina, large pine trees have grown 
up on the debris, so that a considerable time must have elapsed since 
the mines were worked. About ten years ago. Col. James George, of 
Clanton, Chilton County, prospected for mica, and some fairly good 
specimens were obtained, but the investigations were not continued. 
It is not thought that any mica has been marketed from Alabama. 
The indications of good mica along the line mentioned aie, however, 
sufficient to warrant additional and more extended examinations. Lit- 
tle mica is reported from other Southern States, though some mines 
have been opened in South Carolina, Georgia (Specimens Nos. 63139 to 
63141, U.S.N.M.), Virginia, and West Virginia. In 1881, a mica mine 
was opened in Anderson County, South Carolina, and some miners from 
Mitchell County, North Carolina, employed. The enterprise was not 
successful, and the miners returned home shortly afterwards. Good 
mica has been found in South Carolina, notably in Anderson, Oconee, 
and Pickens counties. The mica-bearing rocks of western North Caro- 
NAT MUS 99 19 



290 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

lina do not protrude into Tennessee, except at intervals, and then 
only for short distances. Some prospecting has been done in Tennes- 
see near Roan Mountain, but the results were not considered satis- 
factory.^ 

In Colorado mica has long been known to be widely disseminated 
and to occur in many places in bodies of workable size, but mining has 
until lately always proved the mica to be "plumose" and unfit for cut- 
ting into sheets. Many mines have been located, but the product has 
always proved worthless, until in the summer of 1884 the Denver Mica 
Company opened a mine near Turkey Creek, about 35 miles from Den- 
ver. This mica is of fair quality, and quite a considerable quantity of 
it has been mined. It is slightly brown and the largest plates which 
have yet been cut are not more than 2f by (5 inches in size. Only an 
extremely small percentage of the gross weight is available for cutting 
into sheets. An effort is being made to put it upon the market, and 
at present four workmen are employed in trimming the sheets. Mica 
of good quality and in large plates has also been recently reported 
from the neighborhood of Fort Collins. 

In Wyoming, mica has been found in workable quantities near Dia- 
mond Park and in the Wind River country, as well as at many points 
along the mountain ranges in Laramie County. It has recently been 
mined to some extent at Whalen canon, 20 miles north of Fort Lara- 
mie, and some of the product has been shipped to the Eastern market. 

In New Mexico mica occurs near Las Vegas, and reports of ship- 
ments have been published. At Petaca, the Cribbenville mica mines 
are being worked at present by sixteen men. Work was commenced 
at these mines July 2, 1884, and the amount of excavation at present 
is 13,160 cubic feet. The plates cut range from 2 by 2 inches to 5 by 
8 inches in size. Some specimen plates have been cut 10 by 12 inches, 
but the general average is about 3i by tti inches. Some 12 tons of 
mica have been handled, but the amount sold and .the average price 
obtained are not reported. Other localities in New Mexico also yield 
mica, but none have been developed, except the two above mentioned. 
(Specimen No. 61335, U.S.N.M.). 

In California many deposits of mica have been noted, especially at 
Gold lake, Plumas county; in Eldorado county; Ivanpah district, San 
Bernardino county; near Susanville, Lassen county, and at Tehachapi 
pass, Kern county. In 1883 a large deposit was discovered in the 
Salmon mountains, in the northwestern part of the State, and some 
prospecting was done.^ 

The mica-bearing deposits of the Black Hills of South Dakota ht've 
been variously regarded by different observers as intrusive granites 
or true segregation veins lying parallel to the apparent bedding. New- 

^ Mineral Resources of the United States, 1887, p. 671. 
^ Idem, 1883-84, p. 911, 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 291 

ton iiiui Jenny.' Hliike,' and Vincent regard them as intrusive, wiiile 
Carpenter" and Crosby^ hold the opposite vi(>w. 

According- to Bhike the mica occurs in granitic masses, remarkable 
for the coarseness of their crystallization, the constituent minerals 
being usually large and separately segregated. ''Large masses of pure 
quartz are found in one place and masses of feldspar in another, and 
the mica is often accumulated together instead of being regularly dis- 
seminated through the mass. It also occurs in large masses or crys- 
tals, affording sheets broad enough for cutting into commercial sizes." 
Associated with the mica at this point are the minerals quartz and 
feldspar, mainly a lamellar albite (Clevelandite). which form the gangue, 
and irregularly disseminated cassiterite (tinstone), gigantic spodumenes, 
black tourmalines, and, in small quantities, block mica, beryls, garnets, 
columbite, and a variet}' of phosphatic minerals, such as apatite, tri- 
phylite, etc. 

In Nevada mines have been worked in the St. Thomas mining dis- 
trict. Lincoln County, the mica occurring in hard, glassy quartz rock 
forming an outcrop some 200 feet wide by 600 feet long in gneiss and 
schists. At the Czarina Mine, located in May, 1891, near Rioville, the 
mica occurs under similar conditions. The mineral seems to follow 
the division plane of the stratilication. along the line or axis of fold. 
This line runs north and south, slightly east of north of the main trend 
of the range, thus running into Arizona a few miles north of Rioville. 
In fact, the mica belt forms the boundary line between Nevada and 
Arizona for 50 miles The mica, mostly small, is abundant, but mar- 
ketable sizes are rare, and not to be had without a great deal of hard 
work.* 

Merchantable mica has been reported on the Payette River and Bear 
Creek, in the Coeur d'Alene region of Idaho, and also in Oregon and 
Alaska. 

According to Mr. R. W. Ells'' the Canadian micas of commercial 
importance occur associated with eruptive dikes of pyroxenite and 
pegmatite cutting the Laurentian gneisses. More rarely, as in the 
Gatineau area, they are found where dikes of the pyroxenite cut the 
limestone. This authority gives the condition of occurrence as below: 

1. In pyroxene intruHive rocks which either cut directly across the strike of grey- 
ish or other colored gneisses or are intruded along the line of stratification. Some 
of these deposits have been worked downward along the contact with the gneiss, 
where the mica is most generally found, for 250 feet, as at the Lake Girard Mine, and 
irregular masses of pink calcite are abundant. In certain places apatite crystals 

' Geology of the Black Hills of Dakota, Monograph, U. S. Geological Survey, 1880. 

'■'Engineering and Mining Journal, XXXVI, 1883, p. 145. 

■'Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, XYII, 1889, p. 570. 

* Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, XXIII, 1884-1888, p. 488. 

■'^Mineral Resources <>f the United States, 1893, p. 754. 

•* Bulletin of the Geological Soc-iety of America, V, 1894, p. 484. < 



292 REPORT OE^ NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899, 

occur associated with the mica, but at other times these are apparently wanting. 
As in the case of apatite deposits, mica occurring in this condition would apparently 
be found at almost any workable depth. 

2. In pyroxene rocks near the contact of cross-dikes of diorite or feldspar, the 
action of which on the pyroxene has led to the formation of both mica and apatite. 
Numerous instances of this mode of occurrence are found, both in the mines of 
apatite and mica, the deposits of the latter in certain areas being quite extensive 
and the crystals of large size. 

3. In pyroxene rock itself distinct from the contact with the gneiss. In these 
cases the mica crystals, often of large size but frequently crushed or broken, appar- 
ently follow certain lines of faults or fracture. Some of these deposits can be traced 
for several yards, but for the most part are pockety. Some of these pyroxene masses 
are very extensive, as in the case of the Cascade mine on the Gatineau river and 
elsewhere in the vicinity. In these cases calcite is rarely seen and apatite is almost 
entirely absent. When cut by cross-dikes conditions for the occurrence of mica or 
apatite should be very favorable. 

4. Dikes of pyroxene, often large, cutting limestone through which subsequent 
dikes of diorite or feldspar have intruded as in Hincks township. The crystals 
occurring in the pyroxene near to the feldspar dikes are often of large size and of 
dark color, resembling in this respect a biotite mica. 

The mica found under the conditions stated above, in one, two, three, and four 
is all amber-colored and of the variety known as phlogopite, or magnesia mica. 
[Specimens Nos. 30763, 62149, U.S.N.M.] 

5. In feldspathic-quartzose rocks which constitute dikes often of very large size, 
cutting red and greyish gneiss, as at Villeneuve and Venosta. These are distinct 
from the smaller veins of pegmatite which occur frequently in the gneiss as the 
anorthosite areas are approached. In this case the mica is muscovite or potash mica 
and is invariably found in that portion of the dike near the contact with the gneiss. 
The crystals frequently are of large size and white in color, associated with crystals 
of tourmaline, garnet, et cetera, but with no apatite, unless pyroxene is also present. 

6. In quartz-feldspar dikes cutting crystalline limestone, in which case the crystals 
are generally of small size, mostly of dark color and of but little value. 

In the case of the amber micas this peculiarity was noted that when the pyroxene 
was of a light shade of greenish gray and comparatively soft, the mica was cor- 
respondingly light colored and clear, and in some places almost approached the mus- 
covite in general appearance. As the pyroxene became darker in color and harder 
in texture, the mica assumed a correspondingly darker tint and a brittle or harder 
character, and in certain cases where dikes of blackish hornblendic diorite were 
present the mica also assumes a black color as well. 

The chief Canadian localities, as given by the authority quoted, are 

as below: 

-Along the Ottawa River it is found from a point nearly 100 miles west of Ottawa 
to the township of Greenville, 60 miles east of that city, while on the Gatineau 
River, which flows into the Ottawa at the city of Ottawa, mines have been located 
and worked for 80 miles north from its mouth, and the mineral is reported from 
points many miles farther north along that stream. To the east of Quebec it is 
known on the branch of the Saguenay called the Manouan and in the townships of 
Escoumains, Bergeronnes, and Tadoussac, situated east of the mouth of that river, 
as well as at several other places along the river St, Lawrence. The niica found in 
this last district is chiefly muscovite. 

The principal areas where mica is at present worked are in the belt which extends 
from North Burgess, in the Province of Ontario, approximately along the strike of the 
gneiss, into the territory adjacent to the Gatineau and Lievre. Over much of this 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 298 

area south of tho Ottawa River the [.anrentiaii is concealed by the mantle of Cambro- 
Silurian rocks belonging to the Ottawa River basin, but it may be said that the geo- 
logic conditions and the stratigraphic sequence in the area south of the Ottawa and 
in the rear of Kingston are" the same as those found in the mineral-bearing belts 
north of the Ottawa, and that the most favorable conditions under which the deposits 
of mica and apatite may be looked for where traces of igneous agency are visible in 
the presence of dikes of pyroxene and quartz feldspar, though it should ))e stated 
that the mere occurrence of these in the gneiss does not warrant the presence of 
either of these minerals. 

The India mica mines occur in coarse intrusive pegmatitic-granite 
dikes, cuttino- what is known as the "newer gneiss" of Singrauli. At 
Inikurti the crystals (of mica) are as much as 10 feet in diameter. 
Sheets 4 or 5 feet across have been obtained free from adventitious 
incUisions which would spoil their commercial value.' 

Black mica (biotite, lepidomelane, etc.,) is a much more common 
and widely distributed variety than the white, but unlike the latter is 
found not so much in veins as an original constituent disseminated in 
small flakes throughout the mass of eruptive and metamorphosed 
sedimentary rocks. The small sizes of the sheets, their color, and 
lack of transparency render the material as a rule of little value. In 
Renfrew County, Canada, the mineral occurs in large cleavable masses, 
which yield ])eautiful smoky-black and greenish sheets sufficiently 
elastic for industrial purposes (Specimens Nos. 62735, 6270i:), U.S.N.M.). 

Lepidolite. — This variety of mica is much more rare than an}^ of 
the others described. While in a few instances it has been reported as 
accompanying muscovite in certain granites, as those of Elba and 
Schaistausk, its common form of occurrence is in the coarse pegmatitic 
veins already described, where it is associated with muscovite, tourma- 
lines, and other minerals of similar habit. As a rule it is readily distin- 
guished from other micas hy its beautiful peach-blossom red color, 
though sometimes colorless and to be distinguished only by the lithia 
reaction.' The folia are thicker than those of muscovite and of small 
size, the usual form being that of a scaly granular aggregate. At Au- 
burn, Maine, it is found both in this form (Specimen No. 61079, 
U.S.N.M.) and foi-ming a l)order a half inch, more or less, in width 
about the muscovite folia (Specimen No. 13810, U.S.N.M.). The 
more noted localities in the United States are Auburn, Androscoggin 
County; Hebron, Paris, Riunford (Specimen No. 63003, U.S.N.M.), 
and Norway, Oxford County, Maine, where it is associated with beau- 
tiful red and green tourmalines and other interesting minerals; Ches- 
terfleld, Massachusetts; Haddam, Connecticut (Specimen No. 53540, 
U.S.N.M.), and near San Diego, California (Specimen No. 62593, 
U.S.N.M.). The most noted foreign locality is Zinnwald, Saxony, 

1 Geology of India, 2d ed., 1893, p. 34. 

- The pulverized mineral when moistened with hydrochloric acid and held on a 
wire in the flame of a lamp imparts to the flame a brilliant lithia red color. 



294 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

where the mineral oeeurs in large foliated masses together with quartz 
forming the gangue minerals of the tin veins. Also found in Moravia 
(Specimen No. 62580, U.S.N.M.). 

Uses. Until within a few ytnirs almost the only commercial use of 

mica was in the doors or wnndows of stoves and furnaces, the peep- 
holes of furnaces and similar situations where transparency and resist- 
ance to heat were essential qualities. To a less extent it was used in 
lanterns, and it is said, in the portholes of naval vessels, where the 
vibrations would demolish the less elastic glass. In early days it was 
used to some extent for window panes, and is, in isolated cases, still so 
used to some extent. For all these purposes the white variety musco- 
vite is most suited. For use in stoves and furnaces ''the mica is gen- 
erally split into plates varying from about one-eighth to one sixty- 
fourth of an inch in thickness. In preparing these plates for market 
the first step is to cut them into suitable sizes. Women are frequently 
employed in this work, and do it as well as, if not better, than the 
men. The cutter sits on a special bench which is provided with a huge 
pair of shears, one leg of which is firmly fixed to the bench itself, while 
the movable leg is within convenient grasp. 

The patterns according to which the mica is cut are arranged in a 
case near at hand. They are made of tin, wood, or pasteboard, accord- 
ing to the preference of the establishment. Generally they are simple 
rectangles, varying in size from about four square inches to eighty. 

The cutter selects the pattern which will cut to the best advantage, 
lays it on the sheet of mica, and then, holding the two firmly together, 
trims off the edges of the mica to make it correspond to the pattern. 

The cleaning process comes next. The cleaner sits directly in front 
of a window and must examine each sheet of cut mica by holding it up 
between her eyes and the light. If there be any imperfections, and 
there nearly always are, they must be removed by stripping off* the 
offending layers of mica until a clear sheet remains. 

Finally, the cut and cleaned mica is put up in pound packages and 
is ready for the market. There is an enormous waste in the processes 
of preparation. One hundred pounds of block mica will scarcely yield 
more than about fifteen pounds of cut mica, and sometimes it is even 
less. The proportion varies, of course, with different localities.^ 
Professor Kerr states with reference to the North Carolina mines that 
there is a waste of from nine-tenths to nineteen-twentieths of the 
material, even in a good mine. 

Mica being a nonconductor is of value for insulating purposes, and 
since the introduction of the present system of generating electricity 
there has arisen a considerable demand for it in the construction of 
dynamos and electric motors. For these purposes the mica must be 

1 Engineering and ^Mining Journal, LV, 1893, p. 4. 



TIIK NONMETALLIC MINKliALS. 295 

smooth !ind flexil)lc, as well us free from spots or iiio(}iialitios of any 
kind. It is stated that it should be sufiiciently fissile to split into sheets 
not above three one-hundredths inch in thickness, and which may be 
bent without ci'ackino- into a circle of 8 inches diameter. Strips of 
various dimensions are used in ))uilding- up the armatures, the more 
common sizes being- about 1 inch wide by 6 or 8 inches long. Musco- 
vite serves the purposes well, but is less used than phlogopite, the 
latter serving equally well, and being less desirable for stoves and fur- 
naces. Black mica would doubtless serve for electrical purposes, could 
it be procured in sheets of sufficient size. 

Mica scraps such as until within a few years have been thrown away 
as worthless are now utilized l)y g'rinding, the product being used for 
a variety of purposes, noted below. The material is as a rule ground 
to five sizes, such as will pass through sieves of 8.0, 100, l-il ), 100, and 200 
meshes to the inch, respectively. The prices of this ground material 
vary from .5 to 10 cents a pound according to sizes. Large (juanti- 
ties of this ground material are used in the manufacture of wall paper, 
in producing the frost effects on Christmas cards, in stage scenery, and 
as a powder for the hair, being sold for the latter purposes under the 
name of diamond powder. The so-called French ''silver molding" is 
said to be made from ground mica. It is also used as a lubricant, and 
as a nonconductor for steam and water heating; in the manufacture of 
door knobs and buttons. It is stated further that owing to its elas- 
ticity it can l)e used as an absorbent for nitroglycerin, rendering ex- 
plosion by percussion much less likely to occur. Small amounts of 
inferior qualities are also mixed with fertilizers where it is claimed to 
be efficacious in retaining moisture. A brilliant and unalterable mica 
paint is said to be prepared ])y first lightly igniting the ground mica 
and then boiling in h^'drochloric acid, after which it is dried and mixed 
with collodion, and applied with a l)rush. Owing to the unalterable 
nature of the material under all ordinary conditions, and the fact that 
it can be readily coloi-ed and still retain its brilliancy and transparency, 
the ground mica is peculiarly fitted for many forms of decoration. 
Much of the ground material now produced is stated to ])e sent to 
France. 

The chief and indeed only use for lepidolite thus far dc^vidoped is in 
the manufacture of the metal lithium and lithia salts. 

Pr!eef<. — The total value of the cut mica produced annually in the 
United States during the past ten years has varied from $50,000 to over 
$360,000, while the value of the imports has varied between |5,000 
and $100,000. The price of the cut mica, it should be stated, varies 
with the size of the sheets, the larger naturally bringing the higher 
price. The average price of the cut mica, all sizes, is not far from 
$1 a pound, while the scrap mica is worth perhaps half a cent a 
pound. The dealers' lists, as published, include 198 sizes, varying 



296 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

from H '>y 2 inches up to 8 by 10 inches, the prices ranging from 40 
cents to $13 n pound. For electrical work upward of 400 patterns 
are called for, the prices varying from 10 cents to $2.50 a pound. 

3. Asbestos. 

The name asbestos in its original sense includes only a fibrous yariety 
of the mineral amphibole; hence is a normal metasilicate of calcium 
and magnesium with usually varying amounts of iron and manga- 
nese and not infrequently smaller quantities of the alkalies. As is 
well known, the amphiboles crystallize in the monoclinic system in 
forms varying from short, stout crj^stals, like common hornblende, to 
long columnar or even fibrous forms, to which the names actinolite, 
tremolite, and asbestos are applied. The word asbestos is derived 
from the Greek aG(3effj:o5, signifying incombustible, in allusion to its 
fireproof qualities. The name "amianthus" was given it by the 
Greeks and Romans, the word signifying undefiled, and was applied in 
allusion to the fact that cloth made from it could be readily cleansed 
by throwing it into the fire. As now used, this term is properlj^ 
limited to fibrous varieties of serpentine. Owing to careless usage, and 
in part to ignorance, the name asbestos^ is now applied to at least four 
distinct minerals, having in common only a fibrous structure and more 
or less fire and acid proof properties. These four minerals are: First, 
true asbestos; second, anthophyllite; third, fibrous serpentine (chryso- 
tile), and, fourth, crocidolite. The true asbestos is of a white or gray 
color, sometimes greenish or stained yellowish by iron oxide. Its 
fibrous structure is, however, its most marl^ed characteristic, the entire 
mass of material as taken from the ledge or mine being susceptible of 
being shredded up into fine fibers sometimes several feet in length. In 
the better varieties the fibers are sufliciently elastic to permit of their 
being woven into cloth. Often, however, through the effect of 
weathering or other agencies, the fibers are brittle and suitable only 
for felts and other nonconducting materials. The shape of an asbestos 
fiber is as a rule polygonal in outline and of a quite uniform diameter, 
as shown in the illustration (fig. 10); often, however, the fibers are 
splinter like, running into fine, needle-like points at the extremity. 
The diameters of these fibers is quite variable, and, indeed, in many 
instances there seems no practical limit to the shredding. Down to a 
diameter of 0.002 mm. and sometimes to even 0.001 mm. the fibers 
retain their uniform diameter and polygonal outlines. Bej^ond this, 
however, the^^ become splinter like and irregular as above noted. 

The mineral anthophyllite like amphibole occurs in l)oth massive, 
platy, and filn-ous forms, the fibrous form ])eing to the unaided eye 
indistinguishable from the true asbestos. 

^ Also spelled asbestus. The termination oh seems most desirable when the deriva- 
tion of the word is considered. 



THK NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



297 



S=:?>i 



...I 



I 

Fig. 10. 

ASBESTOS FIBERS. 

After G. P. Merrill. 



Cheniically thi.s is ii normal iiietasilicate of magnesia of the formula 
(Mg'.Fe) 8iO.,, ditfering, it will be observed, from asbestos proper in 
containing no appreciable amount of lime. It further ditt'ers in crys- 
tallizing in the orthorhombic rather than the monoclinic system, a 
feature which is determinable only with the aid of a microscope. 

The shape and size of the 
libers is essentially the same 
as true asbestos. The fibrous 
variety of serpentine to which 
the name asbestos is commer- 
cially given is a hydrated met- 
asilicate of magnesia of the 
formula H^MggSiaOg with usu- 
all}^ a part of the magnesia 
replaced by ferrous iron. It 
differs, it will be observed, 
from asbestos and anthophyl- 
lite in carrying nearh" 14 per 
cent of combined water and 
from the first named in con- 
taining no lime. This mineral 
is in most cases readily distin- 
guished from either of the others by its soft, silk-like fibers and further 
by the fact that it is more or less decomposed by acids. As found in 
nature the material is of a lively oil yellow or greenish color, compact 
and quite hard, but may be readily reduced to the fluft'y, fibrous state 
by beating, handpicking, or running between rollers. The length of 
the fiber is quite variable, rarely exceeding 6 inches, but of very smooth 
uniform diameter and great flexibility. 

The mineral crocidolite, although resembling somewhat fibrous ser- 
pentine, belongs properly to the amphibole group. Chemically it is 
anhydrous silicate of iron and soda, the iron existing in both the sesqui- 
oxide and protoxide states. More or less lime and magnesia maj" be 
present as combined impurities. The color varies from lavender blue 
to greenish, the fibers being silk}' like serpentine, but with a slightly 
harsh feeling. The composition of representative specimens of these 
minerals from various sources is given in the accompanying table. ^ 



' From Notes on Asbestos and Asbestiforni Minerals by George P. Merrill, 
ceedings of the U. S. National iNIuseuni, XVIII, 1895, pp. 281-292. 



Pro- 



298 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



i-H ire 

rt* CO 



OOP 



.03 • . 03 ■ 



O A 



K 01 



fc ^ fe 

d iJ d 

<V ■ 01 

O tf O 



CO "i< «— I as 



O Oi Cs as 
O OS OS OS 



iC 00 "^ ^ OS OS 

OS OS OS OS 00 OS 
OS OS OS OS OS OS 



»-H OJ r^ .* 

I^ OS 1-H OS 



00 OS O 'X 
OS OS O OS 



(N CD O CC OS 



iO OS -^ <N C^ 

ci c^ c4 c^ 



iC ID C30 Ift CO lO 
lO CO 00 OS I^ CD 



t^ I-H OO 00 
CO 00 CM to 



<M <N CM C^ Ol 



C-1 i-l C4 CM 



e e c e 



e c c e 



e 8 e e 



e e e e 









d 






0) 
















o 










eS 






03 


























H 






E-i 





CM O CD 00 



OS O 00 X 



CO I^ CD CO OS 
CM CM CM CM C^ 



CM O) CM C^ CO CM 



CM t~ OS CC 



CO rH OS CO 



00 t^ OO 1> 



I-H CO C^ CM CM 



OS CD OS CD O 



C^l ^H CO O 

r-< X X f-i 



iH .* r- i> i-i 

OS lO -^ iC 00 
C> rH r-H r-; r-i 



lO CD t^ 



C-l »-H 



CM CO CM CM >-l O 

r-i C^ lO OS CM O 



OS O iC CD t-H 
t^ O I> lO CO 



CD .-H CD CD 
OS X CO l^ 



1^ CD >0 CD r- 
O iC lO lO »o 



lO »0 to lO »c »o 



lO iC lO iC 



■rt O (JO 



o o o o o 



o o o o o o 



O lO iC vC 

o o o o 



•IS 



.a -c -c 



o o o o 
-c "c t; t; -c 



•2 M 

o S oj o 

- C. .Q -C 

a ^ ■ 



Oj o K cs o SJ 
j3 O O o *^ ^ 



pj CO CJ .Q S 



03 c3 c3 I ^ 
^ Cd f-. J S: 



O ,-( 03 
>. 8 > 

^ 5 ^ 






■s "? 2 Q S 



fc S < o aj -i; 



1^ X C3S o 



-O -C "O "C 






aT cS CM 



a> ■ t; -2 c3 ?• 



-is 



^ c3 S '^ ^ 



S §^Si?3-!5:= 



DO -T* lO 'X! 



THK NONMKTALMC MINKRALS. 



29y 





















0; 


^' 
























1 
































































































-3< CC o c-i ;:: 


■c 


o 


^ 




~ 
















^ 










CO CO -T 












0^ 


















i 

CO 

03 


C-J c-l 6) iM J; 

e. p. o, d, g 

= f i i i ^ 


(2 






53 =§ ^ 


a; 
IB 


d 


d 


o 
Q 


"o 

5 
G 




o 
Q 


a, 


d 


C 






c 


c 


C 


.£ 


c 

0. 




X C 


g 








H 






8 




c 






s 


£ 


B 


tt 


c 


ed 


m 






C 


^ 








'-- 






o 






























,, 


f^ 


CO 


X 












Tf 




■-O 1- 


CM 




US ff 




o 




C 








1^ 






cc 


CO 








O CM 


i5- 


C 


u- 


c 


X 


■^ 




c 


01 i-^ 


ic 


X 


o- 


iC 




cc 


c- 


l^ 


C: 




c 


c: 


c 


C 


O X 


a- 


o 




o- 


cc o 


cri 


oi 


Ci 


o 




Ol 


o 


CC 


<= 






c: 


c 


c: 


c 


a 


o- 


o 




OS o- 


o 


Oi 


c:i 


CTi 


c 




en 


o 


cr. 








































































« 




U3 














c^ 




t^ 






c^ 




u: 


X 


l^ 




X cc -^ 




CM 


■q 


c-l 




lO 


lO 


00 


•^ 










o 




X 


CT- 


TT 




iT 


iT- 


CO 


lO 


CO 


o- 


l> 




iC 


X 




cs 




c 






c<- 




CM 


"T 


'^ 




- 


o- 


l-^ 


m' 


.m" 


CM 


c- 




c< 


T) 


i 






■^ 














Tf 




CC 




s 


c:> 


CO 


u 










lO 




















Ifl 








c-l 


CO 


iC 


cc 










TP 






cr 














"-^ 




CC 




<D 


d 


d 


o 










d 










cc 


















CO 


X 


^ 


Oi 






































X 


X 


cc 












•p 








































































CD 


d 


d 


o 










d 










E 






























































Oi 


05 




cc 
















c^ 






a 
















U5 


CO 


CO 


u; 




















cc 






















c-l 












g 






<= 




c 


Tf 
















d 


d 


d 


o 






















0. 
















IC 


^ 


CO 


Ir- 












iC 




X 


X 


c 


c3 


C<" 


CM 


iT. 








1-- 




CO 


c-l 


C2 


t-- 




c 


c- 


*1* 


cc 




tc 


o- 




CM 


iC 


CC 


C-l 




1^ 


X 


i^ 


■5' 


05 


cc 






IC 


CC 




o 




c^ 


c- 




^ 


C- 


a- 


CC 


(C 




,_ 


^ 


cc 


rvj 


CO 




c 








-r 


c^ 




C) 


CM 


? 


Ol 






•"' 






CM 




6l 


CM 


c- 


t 






■^ 




























a 




CO 


lO 


X 














O! 




a- 


k: 


lO 




t^ 


lO 


CM 


lO 






■«> 






I^ 














« 




cc 


en 


c 


s 


^ 


lO 




cc 






C 
c 


CO 


I> 


iC 


>/: 














« 




cc 


c- 






CC 


o 


05 


CD 






lO 


,_5 


c-i 










































^ 












































^ 


^ 


■^ 


c< 














t^ 






o 


iC 


iC 






o- 






u- 




^ 








1^ 












CO 




-T 




en 




cc 


CM 


CT- 






1> 




t^ 


'-H 


f-H 


« 


X 




X 


X 






-^^ 




CM 


;c 


cc 


IC 


cr 


a 


■^ 






cc 




lO 


CO 


IN 


c-l 


c 




CM 


































CO 


X 


T}< 


IZ 






















cc 


















X 


X 








C 
















cc 








CC 




cc 




rH 


CO 


Tt 


ih 


c 




cr 




.iC 












cc 








c-i 




c 




d 


d 


d 


c 


^ 




c 




^ 




















'"' 




c- 
















































t~ 


Oi 


^ 






















X 




o- 




■^ 


X 










CO 


CO 


cc 


t^ 




















iT. 




CC 




cc 


X 


o 




c 




X 


U5 


CM 


x^ 




















C 




a 




cc 




c-i 




■- 




ci 


■-• 


d 


d 






































^ 


CO 


1^ 


i^ 












c 




o- 


X 


IT 


u- 


C 


c 


X 


X 






X 




lO 


CO 


c 


c 






ir 


-T 


c^ 




«: 


o- 


t^ 


"^ 


X 


cc 




Tt< 




1— 


Cs 


t~ 




X 


c^ 


c^ 




lT 


cr 


X 


1-^ 




i>, 


I-^ 


o- 


a- 


X 


X 




IC 




c- 


CI- 


r-^ 


CO 


CO 


cc 


c 




c 




^ 


iC 




u- 


iC 


IC 


■^ 


ir 


-f 


1? 


lO 








•cf 








-* 






r 


lO 
















~~^ 


~ 


o 








































T— 


1— 










































i 


ci 


o 




c 












c 




c 


c 


o 




4^ 


(- 






















frj 








~ 


1. 5 






i^ 


« 


o 
o 


> 






















? 








c 






■£ 


a 


" c 


a 


















a 




qJ' 








a 


5 






~ ^ 


c 


i 


c 


§ 




















o 


o : 








a 






p 


£ 
[E 


3 


c 






c 


- 










c 




2 


OJ O 


o 


c 


c 


si 

n 




c 


o ^_ 


c 


1, o 


*- -g '= 


■c 




'^ 










i 




& 


■S '°. 


■C 


"C 


■c 


t: 


•c -c' 


£ 


a 


£ 


§ 
















c 




£ 


03 j 






s 








>^ p. 


*r 




*( 


















t 




-< 














W 












a 




















O 


























c: 






























































■d 




a. 
























































































3 




-a 




















1 






& 












I 




X 

.a 


■c 


c 


"C 








c 


X 






c 
'c 

a 
.a 


X 

s 

c 
'5 


a 
a 

ta 
s- 


a 


c 

c 







'^ 




< 




c 
or: 

s 

"5 


1 c 








c 

c 


B 

5 


K 




& 


c 


^ 




c 


s 


^ 


53 




c 


-c 


o 




cc 


■^ c 
0. 






c= 


> 


^ 






cr 


■^ 


us 


cc 


t- 


X 


o- 


o 




^ 


~^ 


CO 


-r 


lO 


CO 


1^ 




X 


o- 


o 


?: 




Cs 


CM 


M 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CO 




cc 


CC 


CO 


cc 


CO 


CO 


cc 




cc 


cc 


^ 


1 



300 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Mode of occurrence and origin. — Concerning- the associations, occur- 
rence, and origin of the fibrous structure of these minerals existing- 
literature is strangely silent. It is known that all occur onl}^ in regions 
occupied by the older eruptive and metamorphic rocks. It is prob- 
able that in the fibrous forms the mineral is always secondary, and the 
fibrous structure due in part, at least, to shearing agencies; that is, to 
movements in the mass of a rock whereby a mineral undergoing crys- 
tallization would be compressed laterally and drawn out along a line of 
least resistance. This is, however, not the case with the fibrous varieties 
of serpentine, which undoubtedly result from the crystallization in 
preexisting fractures, or gash veins, of the serpentinous material. 
The process is evidently the same as that which is seen in studying, 
under the microscope, thin sections of olivine-bearing rocks which 
have undergone hydration. The asbestos in Alberene, in Albemarle 
County, Virginia (Specimen No. 62550, U.S.N.M.), occurs in thin, 
platy masses along slickensided zones in the so-called soapstone 
(altered pyroxenite) of the region, the fibers always running- parallel 
with the direction of the movement which has taken place. At 
Alberton, Maiyland, the fibrous anthophyllite (Specimen No, 6200-1, 
U.S.N.M.) occurs along a slickensided zone between a schistose acti- 
nolite rock and a more massive serpentinous or talcose rock, which 
is also presumably an eruptive peridotite or pyroxenite. The fibration 
here runs also parallel with the direction of movement as indicated by 
the slickensided surfaces. 

Localities. — As already stated true hornblende asbestos occurs only 
in regions of eruptive and metamorphic rocks belonging to the paleo- 
zoic formations. The same is true of anthophyllite. Fibrous ser- 
pentine occurs sporadically with the massive forms of the same rock 
which is, so far as known, almost invariably an altered eruptive. The 
three forms are therefore likely to occur in greater or less abundance 
in any of the States bordering along the Appalachian system, but are 
necessarily lacking in the great Interior Plains regions, reoccurring 
once more among- the cr3'stalline rocks of the Rocky Mountains and 
the Pacific coast. The principal States from which either the true 
asbestos or anthophyllite has been obtained in anything like commer- 
cial quantities are Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, Maryland, 
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Alabama, 
though it has been reported from other Eastern as well as several of 
the Western States. Fibrous serpentine (chr3'sotile, or amianthus) 
occurs in small amounts at Deer Isle, Maine; in northern Vermont; at 
Easton, Pennsylvania; Montville, New Jersey; in the Casper Moun- 
tains of Wyoming, and in Washington. It is known also to occur in 
Newfoundland. The chief commercial sources of the material are, 
however, Canada and Italy. The Canadian source is in a belt of ser- 
pentinous rocks extending more or less interruptedly from the Ver- 
mont line northeastward to some distance bevond the Chaudiere 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 301 

River. The o-eological horizon is tiiat subdivision of the Lower Silu- 
rian known as tlie Quebec (iroup. The material has also been found 
in the Laurentian rocks of this region. 

Among the principal areas of serpentine which are found at 80 many widely scat- 
tered points, the most easterly yet known is at a point called Mount Serpentine, about 
10 miles up the Dartmouth River from its outlet in Gaspe Basin. The serpentine is 
here associated with limestone and surrounded by strata of Devonian age. Small 
veins of asbestos are found in the rock, but not yet in quantity sufficient to be eco- 
nomically valuable. West of this the next observed is the gi^at mass of Mount 
Albert, whence it extends west in a great ridge for some miles. This mass is known 
to contain veins of chromic-iron, and traces of asbestos have also been observed, 
but the area has never yet been carefully explored with a view to ascertain the 
presence of the mineral in quantity, owing largely to the present difficulty of access. 

In Cranbourne and Ware, to the north of the Chaudiere River and in the vicinity 
of that stream between the villages of St. Joseph and St. Francis, several small 
knolls are seen, in all of which small and irregular veins are visible, but apparently 
not in quantity sufficient to render them economically important, at least in so far 
as yet examined. Further to the southwest, in Broughton, Thetford, Coleraine, 
Wolfestow and Ham, a very great development of these rocks is observed, forming 
at times mountain-masses from 600 to 900 feet above the surrounding country level, 
and presenting very peculiar and boldly marked features in the landscape by their 
rugged outlines and curiously weathered surfaces. The large areas of this division 
terminate southward at a point termed Ham Mountain, a very prominent peak of 
diorite which marks the extremity of the ridge. In this great area, Avhich we may 
style the central area, asbestos can be found at many points in small quantity, but at 
a comparatively few does it occur in quantity and quality sufficient to warrant the 
expenditure of much capital in its extraction. 

The third area, regarding that of the Shickshocks as the first, begins near the 
village of Danville, and may be styled the southwestern area. Thence it extends 
through Melbourne, Brompton, Orford, Bolton, and Potton, in a series of discon- 
nected hills, to the American boundary, beyond which the continuation of the serpen- 
tines can be traced into Vermont. In these areas, with the exception of the peculiar 
isolated knoll near Danville, the asbestos has, as yet, been observed in small quantity 
only, and generally of inferior quality. Large areas of soapstone are found at points 
throughout the area, and the associated diorites have a large development. It must, 
however, be said of this section, that considerable areas, whose outcrops can be seen 
along the roads which traverse the district, are concealed by a dense forest growth, 
and the true value of such portions must, for some considerable time, be largely con- 
jectural. In fact, until the forest and soil are completely removed by the action of 
forest fires, as was the case at Black Lake and Thetford, the search for asbestos is 
likely to prove diflicult and unsatisfactory. It is, how^ever, very evident from the 
studies already made on this interesting group of rocks in Canada, that all serpen- 
tines are not equally productive— a fact very evident even in the heart of the great 
mining centers themselves, where large areas of the belt are made up of what is 
known as barren serpentine. As a general rule, however, the rock likely to prove 
asbestos-producing can be determined by certain peculiarities of texture, color or 
weathering. 

At the Thetford mines, and in that portion of Coleraine lying to the northeast of 
Black Lake, certain conditions favorable to the production of asbestos appear to 
have prevailed, and have led to the formation of numerous veins, often of large 
size, which, in places, interlace the rock in all directions. These veins range in size 
from small threads to a width of 3 to 4 inches [fig. 11], and in rare cases even reach 
a thickness of over 6 inches. [See large Specimens Nos. 72836 and 61348, U.S.N.M.]. 
The quality of the fiber, however, varies even in these localities, and while much of 



302 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

it is soft, fine and silky, otlier portions are characterized by a harshness or stiffness 
which detracts greatly from its commercial value. 

The veins while not disturbed by faulting generally improve so far 
as quality of material is concerned as the depth below the surface 
increases. They are, however, very irregular in their distribution, 
and are rarely persistent for any great distance. 

A small vein at the surface, of half an inch in thickness, may quickly enlarge to one 
of three inches or more, and, continuing, may die out entirely, while others come in 
on either side. They have much the aspect of the gash veins in slaty rocks, though 
there are many instances seen where the fiber maintains a tolerably uniform size 
for considerable distances. [See large Specimen No. 61348, U.S.N.M.]. 




Fig. 11. 

SERPENTINE ASBESTOS IN MASSIVE SERPENTINE. 

Specimen No. 72836. 

The containing rocks show the presence of numerous faults, as m other mineral 
localities, but possibly in the serpentine these are often more plainly marked. These 
faults throw the veins from side to side, and frequently are of sufficient extent to 
cut off entirely the working face of a highly i)roductive area, the rock on the other 
side of the fissure being often entirely barren. The sides of the fault, in such cases, 
show extensive slickensides, and frequently have great sheets of coarse or woody- 
fibered or imperfect asbestos, along the planes of fracture. Occasionally, pockets or 
small veins of chromic iron are found in close proximity to the asbestos.' 

Specimens Nos. 62135, 62150, U.S.N.M. from Marmora and Thetford 
show the characteristic manner of the occurrence of the mineral on a 
small scale, while No. 62151, U.S.N.M., shows the material as freed 
from the wall rock, before shredding. See also Specimens Nos. 53682 
to 53690 from Danville, Province of Quebec. 

' R. W. Ells, Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVIII, 
890, p. 322. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 303 

The Italian asbestos which iinds it way to the Ainerican markets 
is ))otli of the aniphiholie and serpentinous varieties, both beino- remark- 
able for the beautiful long- fibers they yield. The amphibolic variety, 
the true asbestos, from Mont Cenis, is shown in Specimen No. 53164, 
U.S.N.M., and the serpentinous variety, from Aosta, in the sample, 
No. 53161, IT.S.N.M. Both are in the form of tibrous aggregates over 
a metre in length. 

MefhcxU of mlmng aitd preparation.— T\iq mining of asbestos is 
carried on almost wholly from open cuts and shallow tunnels. Rarely 
does it pay to follow the material to any great depth. In the United 
States the mines are worked very irregularly, and in most cases aban- 
doned at the end of a short season. 

The mining of the Canadian material is carried on by means of open 
cuts, much as a farmer cuts down a stack of hay or straw, or by open 
quarry on a level. The rock is blasted out and the asbestos separated 
from the inclosing rock by a process known as "cobbing," and which 
consists in breaking away the fibrous material from the walls of the 
vein or from other foreign ingredients by means of hammers. 

The cobbed material is separated into grades, according to quality, 
which depends upon the length, fineness, and flexibility of the fiber. 
During 1888 the finest grades brought prices varying from $80 to $110 
a ton. In 1899 the price had fallen to about $26 a ton. 

Uses.—ThQ uses of asbestos are manifold, and ever on the increase. 
Among the ancient Greeks it was customary to wrap the bodies of 
those to be burned in asbestos cloth, that their ashes might be kept 
intact. In the eighth century Charlemagne is said to have used an 
asbestos tablecloth, which, when the feast was over, he would throw 
into the fire, after a time withdrawing it cleaned but unharmed, greatly 
to the entertainment of his guests. The most striking use to which 
the material is put is the manufacture of fireproof cloths for theater 
curtains, for suits of firemen and others liable to exposure to great 
heat. It is also used for packing pistons, closing joints in cylinder 
heads, and other fittings where heat, either dry or from steam and hot 
water, would shortly destroy a less durable substance. For this pur- 
pose it is used in the form' of a yarn, or as millboard. The lower 
grades, in which the fibers are short or brittle, are made into a felt 
which, on account of its nonconducting powers, is utilized in covering 
steam boilers. It is also ground and made into cements and paints, 
the cement being used as a nonconductor on boilers, and the paint to 
render wooden structures less susceptible to fire. In the chemical 
laboratory the finely fibered, thoroughly purified asbestos forms an 
indispensable filtering medium. For this purpose the true asbestos is 
preferable to the fibrous serpentine.^ Examples of the manufactured 
products mentioned are exhibited with the crude products. 

' Prof. A. H. Chester: Some Misconceptions Concerning Asbestos. Engineering and 
Mining Journal, LV, 1893, p. 531. 



304 REPORT OB' NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

The chief commercial use of the material is based upon its highl}^ 
refractor}^ or noncombustible nature. The popular impression that it 
is a nonconductor of heat is, according to Professor Donald, erroneous, 
the nonconducting character of the prepared material being due rather 
to its porous nature than to the physical properties of the mineral 
itself.^ Owing to the comparative high price of asbestos, it is, in the 
manufacture of the so-called nonconducting materials, largely admixed 
with plaster of paris, powdered limestone, dolomite, magnesite. diato- 
maceous earth, or carbonaceous matter, as hair, paper, sawdust, etc. 
With the possible exception of the magnesite (carbonate of magnesia) 
these are all less effective than the asbestos, and deteriorate as well as 
cheapen the manufactured article. The following table will serve to 
convey some idea of the relative portions of the various materials used 
as nonconducting pipe coverings, etc. : 

Asbestos sponge, molded: 

Plaster of paris on 

Fibrous asbestos "*• "0 

100. 00 

Fire felt sectional covering: 

Asbestos , 82. 00 

Carbonaceous matter ( hair, paper, sawdust, etc. ) 18. 00 

100. 00 

Magnesia sectional covering: 

Carbonate of magnesia 92.-0 

Fibrous asbestos 7. 80 

100. 00 

Magnesia plastic: 

Carbonate of magnesia 91.. 20 

Fibrous asbestos 7- ^^ 

100. 00 

Asbestos cement felting: 

Powdered limestone 64. 50 

Plaster of paris ^-^^ 

Asbestos ^^-QQ 

100. 00 

Asbestos sponge cement felting: 

Powdered limestone 59. 00 

Plaster of paris 10. 00 

Asbestos '^l- 00 

100. 00 

Fossil meal: 

Insoluble silicate 75. 00 

Carbonaceous matter ( hair, paper, sawdust, etc. ) 11. 00 

Soluble mineral matter 8. 00 

Moisture 6. 00 

100. 00 



iThe Mineral Industry, II, 1893, p. 4. 



TIIK NONMETAI.LK' MINKRALS. HOT) 

Thofollovvino-cataloo-uo shows the miiKMal natui't' and localities rcpre- 
sontod in the As))estos collection of the Museum: 

Fibrous anthophyllite. Tallapoosa County, Ahil)aina. ()2763. 

Fibrous anthophyllite. San Diego County, California. (hOOI. 

Fibrous aniphibok'. California. 50899. 

Fibrous anii)liibole. Colorado. 50878, 50S79, ami 50880. 

Fi]m)us anii)hil)()U'. Connecticut. 50912. 

Fibrous aniphil)ok'. Black Hills, Soutli Dakota. 50916, 50917. 

Fibrous aniphilxile. Lawrence County, South Dakota. 63487. 

FiV)r()Us anthophyllite. Sails Mountain, Georgia. 61305, 61357. 

Fibrous anthophyllite. Cleveland, White County, (xeorgia. 62749. 

Fibrous anthophyllite. Near Nacoochee, White County, Georgia. 60842, 63155. 

Fibrous anthophyllite. Fulton County, (reorgia. 63156. 

Fibrous anthophyllite. Alberton, Howard County, Maryland. 62604, 62(505. 

Filjrous aniphil)ole. ^Maryland. 50891 and 50892. 

Asbestos in limestone. West end of lower bridge, Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, 
over Patapsco River, just west of Alberton, Maryland. 62778. 

Fibrous aniphibole. Parkton, Baltimore County, Maryland. 8536. 

Fibrous amphibole. Jefferson, Frederick County, Maryland. 63479. 

Fibrous amphibole. Harford County, Maryland. 63033. 

Fibrous amphibole. Massachusetts. 50909, 50910. 

Fibrous amphibole. Gallatin County, Montana. 53341. 

Fibrous anthophyllite. Warrenton, Warren County, North Carolina. 62748. 

Fibrous anthophyllite. Mitchell County, North Carolina. 50876, 63158, 63159. 

Fil)rous amphibole. Nevada. 50885. 

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. New Hampshire. 50914. 

Fibrous amphibole. New York. 50867-50871 and 63160. 

Filirous amphibole. Delaware County, Pennsylvania. 62754. 

Fibrous amphibole. Pennsylvania. 50895, 50896, 73507. 

Fibrous amphibole. Chester, Chester County, South Carolina. 73462. 

Fibrous anthophyllite. South Carolina. 50874, 50875. 

Fibrous amphibole. Tennessee. 50905. 

Mountain leather, amphibole. Minersville, Beaver County, Ctah. 67266, 55379. 

Fibrous amphibole. Utah. 50907, 50908. 

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Vermont. 50898,63161. 

Fibrous amphibole in calcite. Alberene, Albemarle County, Virginia. 62550, 
62551. 

Fibrous amphibole, near Roanoke, Roanoke County, Virginia. 5694. 

Fibrous amphibole. Virginia. 50872. 

Fibrous amphibole. Washington. 63206. 

Fibrous amphibole. Wisconsin. 50906. 

Fibrous anthophyllite. Carbon County, Wyoming. 62090. 

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Casper Mountain. 12 miles south of Casper. 
Wyoming. 67377,62091. 

Fil)rous amphibole. Wyoming. 66674. 

Fibrous crocidolite. Weinthal, Cape of Good Hope, South Africa. 62107. 

Fibrous amphibole. Transvaal, South Africa. 50877. 

Fibrous crocidolite. Orange River, Mount Hopetown, Africa. 73128. 

Fibrous amphibole. (4undagai, New South Wales, Australia. 62450. 

Fibrous amphibole. Australia. 50893. 

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Victoria, British Columbia. 50902. 

Fibrous serpentine in ophicalcite. Canada. 72836. 

Filn'ous aniphibole, variety of mountain cork. Buckingluuii, Canada. 68138. 

NAT MUS 91) 20 



306 REPORT OF NATK^NAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Black Lake, Quebec, Canada. 62151. 
Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Thetford, Quebec, Canada. 62150. 
Veins of chrysotile. Marmora, Ontario, Canada. 62135. 
Filjrous serpentine, chrysotile. Algoma District, Ontario, Canada. 62134. 
Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Danville, Quebec, Canada. 53682-53684. 
Fil)rous amphibole. Canada. 50889. 
Fil)rous serpentine, chrysotile. Manitoba. 50904. 
Fibrous amphibole. Canada. 50888. 
Fibrous amphibole. Canada. 50890. 
Fibrous amphibole. Canada. 50887. 
Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Canada. 50886. 
Fibrous amphibole. China. 50900. 
Fibrous amphibole. Corsica. 73000. 
Fibrous amphibole. Corsica. 82359. 
Fibrous amphibole. France. 50883. 
Fibrous amphibole. France. 50882. 
Fibrous amphibole. France. 50881. 

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Erese, about 20 miles east of Aosta, Italy. 53161. 
Fibrous amphibole. Monte Lunella, spur of Monte C'enis, 5 miles from Usseglio, 
Italy. 53164. 
Fibrous amphibole. Italy. 50894. 
Fibrous amphibole. Zillerthal, Tyrol. 66838. 
Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Piedmont, Italy. 73539. 
Fibrous amphibole. Caterce, San Luis Potosi, Mexico. 57168. 
Fibrous amphibole. Golden.stein, Moravia. 66837. 
Filjrous amphibole. Newfoundland. 50919. 
Fibrous amphil)ole. Nova Scotia. 50911. 
Fibrous amphibole. Spain. 50913. 
Fibrous amphibole. Tasmania. 50918. 
Fibrous amphibole, mountain cork. Venezuela. 50884. 
Fibrous amphibole. Argentine Republic. 63416. 
Fibrous amphibole. Bohemia. 73538. 
Fibrous amphibole. Smyrna. 50901 . 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

A. LivERSiDGE. Minerals of New South AVales, 1888, p. 180. Gives list of lo(;alities. 
Robert H. Jones. Asbestos, Its Properties, Occurrence, and Uses. 

London, 1890, pp. 236. 
L. A. Klein. The Canadian Asbestos Industry. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LIV, 1892, p. 273. 
J. T. Donald. Asbestos in Canada. 

The Mineral Industry, I, 1892, p. 30. 
L. A. Klein. Notes on the Asbestos Industry of Canada. 

The Mineral Industry, I, 1892, j). 32. 

J. T. Donald. Asbestos. 

The Mineral Industry, II, 1893,p. 37. 
Rudolf Marloch. Asbestos in South America. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LVIII, 1894, }>. 272. 
C. E. Willis. The Asbestos Fields of Port-au-Port, Newfoundland. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LVIII, 1894, p. 586. 
George P. Merrill. Notes on Asbestos and Other Asbestiform JNIinerals. 

Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, XVIII, 1895, i>. 281. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 807 

H. Nelles Thompson. Asbestos Mining and Dressing at Thetford. 

The Journal of the Federated Canadian Mining Institute, 1897, II, ]>. 273. 
See also the Canadian Mining Review , XVI, 1897, p. 126. 
RomcRT H. Jones. Asbestos and Asbestic: Their Properties, Oceurrencr. antl Use. 
London, 1897, pp. 368. 

4. (lAIiNET. 

The chemical compo.sitioii of the various; minerals of the garnet 
group is somewhat variable, though all are essentially silicates of 
alumina, lime, iron, or magnesia. The more common types are the 
lime-alumina garnet grossularite^ and the iron alumina garnet alaman- 
dite. Other varieties of value as minerals or as gems 2kve pyrope, spess- 
artite., andradlU^ hredhergite^ and rrrarovUe. 

The ordinary form of the garnet is the regular 12 or 24 sided solid, 
the dodecahedron and trapezodedron, as shown in Specimen No. 53241, 
U.S.N.M., from Roxbury Falls, Connecticut. The color is dull red or 
brown, though in the rarer forms yellow, green, and white. Hardness 
from 6.5 to 7.5 of the scale. 

Oecnrrenee. — Garnets occur mainl}' in metamorphic siliceous rocks, 
such as the mica schists and gneisses, and though sometimes found in 
limestones and in eruptive rocks, are rarely sufficiently abundant to 
be of economic importance. In the gneisses and schists, however, 
the}^ not infrequently preponderate over every other constituent, 
varying from sizes smaller than a pin's head to masses of 100 pounds 
weight, or more. 

The most important garnet-producing regions of the United States 
are Warren County, New York, and Delaware County, Pennsylvania. 
At the lirst-named localit}", the garnets occur in laminated pockets 
scattered through beds of a very compact hornblende feldspar rock, 
the size of the pockets ranging from 5 or 6 inches in diameter to such as 
will yield 1,000 pounds or more (Specimen No. 53228, U.S.N.M.). In 
the Delaware County localities the garnets occur in aggregates of small 
crystals in a quartzose gneiss^ (Specimens Nos. 53221, 66710, U.S.N. M.). 

One of the most noted garnet regions of the world is that near 
Prague, Bohemia. According to G. F. Kunz,*^ the garnets of the 
pyrope variety arc indigenous to an eruptive rock now changed to ser- 
pentine, and the mineral is found ''loose in the soil or in the lower 
part of the diluvium, or embedded in a serpentine rock. * * In min- 
ing for garnets the earth is cut down in banks and only the lower layer 
removed, and the garnets are separated b}^ washing. The earth is 
first dry sifted and then washed in a small jig consisting of a sieve 
moved back and forth in a tank of water.'' 

Ihen. — Aside from their use in the cheaper forms of jewelr}^ garnets 

'The Mineral Industry, V, 1896. 

^Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, XXI, 1892, p. 241. 



308 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

are used mainly for abrading purposes and mainly as a sand for sawing 
and grinding stone or for making sandpaper. The material is of less 
value than corundum or emery, owing to its inferior hardness. The 
commercial value is variable, but as prepared for market it is worth 
about 2 cents a pound. 

5. Zircon. 

This is a silicate of zirconium, Zr8iO^, = silica 32.8 per cent; zirconia 
67.2 per cent; specific gravity 4.68 to 4. 7; hardness 7.5; colorless, gray- 
ish, pale yellow to brown or reddish brown. Ordinarily in the form 
of square prisms. Specimens Nos. 6113'3 and 62581, U.S.N.M., are 
characteristic. 

Zircon is a common constituent of the older eruptives like granite 
and syenite, and also occurs in granular limestone, gneiss, and the 
schists. It is so abundant in the elseolite syenites of southern Norway 
as to have given rise to the varietal name Zircon syenite. Although 
widespread as a rock constituent it has been reported in but few 
instances in sufficient abundance to make it of commercial value. 
Being hard and very durable it resists to the last ordinary atmospheric 
agencies, and hence is to be found in beds of sand, gravel, and other 
debris resulting from the decomposition of rocks in which it primarily 
occurs. It has thus been reported as found in the alluvial sands in 
Ceylon, in the gold sands of the Ural Mountains, Australia, and other 
places. In the United States it occurs in considerable abundance in 
the elfeolite syenite of Litchfield, Maine, and is also found in other 
States bordering along the Appalachian Mountains. The most noted 
localities are in Henderson and Buncombe counties in North Carolina, 
whence several tons have been mined during the past few years from 
granite debris. (Specimen No. 61133, U.S.N.M.) 

Uses. — See under monazite, p. 383. 

6. Spodumene and Petalite. 

This is an aluminum lithium silicate of the formula LiAl (8103)2, = 
silica, 64.5 per cent; alumina, 27.4 per cent; lithia, 8.4 per cent; in nature 
more or less impure through the presence of small amounts of ferrous 
oxide, lime, magnesia, potash, and soda. Luster vitreous to pearly; 
colors white, gray, greenish, yellow, and amethystine purple. Trans- 
parent to translucent. Usual form that of flattened prismatic crystals, 
with easy cleavages parallel with the faces of the prism. Also in mas- 
sive forms. Cr3'stals sometimes of enormous size, as noted l^elow. 

Mode of occurrence. — Spodumene occurs commonly in the coarse 
granitic veins associated with other lithia minerals, together with tour- 
maline, lieryls, quartz, feldspar, and mica. The chief localities as 
given by Dana are as below: 

In the United States, in granite at Goshen, Massachusetts, associated at one locality 
with blue tourmaline and beryl; also at Chesterfield, Chester, Huntington (formerly 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 309 

Norwich) [Specimen No. 62579, U.S.N. M.], and Sterling, MasHachusetts; atWindhani, 
Maine, with garnet and stanrolite; at Peru witli beryl, triphylite, petalite; at Parin, 
in Oxford County [Specimen No. 62578, U.S.N.M.]; at Winchester, New Hampshire; 
at Brookfield, Connecticut, a few rods north of Tomlinson's tavern, in small grayish 
or greenish white individuals looking like feldsi)ar; at Branchvillc, Ccmnecticut, in a 
vein of pegmatite, with lithiophilite, uraninite, several manganesian phosphates, etc. ; 
the crystals are often of immense size, embedded in quartz; near Stony Point, Alex- 
andci- County, North Carolina, the variety hiddenite in cavities in a gneissoid rock 
with beryl (emerald), monazite, rutile, allanite, quartz, mica, etc.; near Ballground, 
Cherokee County, Georgia; in South Dakota at the Etta tin mine m Pennington 
County, in immense crystals. [Specimen No. 73,642, U.S.N.M.]. At Huntington, 
Massachusetts, it is associated with triphylite, mica, beryl, and albite; one crystal 
from this locality was 16j inches long and 10 inches in girth. 

At the Etta tin mine, in the Black Hills of South Dakota, the mineral 
occurs, according- to W. P. Blake, in sizes the mag-nitude of which 
exceeds all records. Crystalline masses extend across the face of the 
open cut from 2 to feet in length and from a few inches to 12 and 18 
inches in diameter. Blocks too large to lift have been freely tumbled 
over the dump with the waste of the feldspar, (juartz, and mica. The 
gigantic crj^stals preserve the cleavage characteristics and show the 
common prismatic planes. The color is lighter and is without the 
delicate creamy pink hue of the specimens from Massachusetts. It is 
very hard, compact, and tough, and is difficult to break across the 
grain. Some of the fragments are translucent. 

The chief foreign localities of spodumene are Uto in Sodermanland, 
Sweden, where it is associated with magnetic iron ore, tourmalines, 
quartz, and feldspar; near Sterzing and Lisens, in Tyrol; embedded in 
granite at Killiney Bay near Dublin, and at Peterhead, Scotland. 

l/f^es. — So far as the writer is aware, the mineral has as yet been put 
to no economic use. There seems no reason for its not being utilized 
as a source of lithia salts as well as amblygonite and lepidolite. 

Petalite, another lithium aluminum silicate containing 2.5 to 5 per 
cent lithia occurs associated with lepidolite, tourmaline, and spodumene 
in an iron mine at Uto, Sweden (Specimen No. (52582, U.S.N.M.), with 
spodumene and albite at Peru, Maine, and with scapolite at Bolton, 
Massachusetts. 

T. Lazurite; Lapis Lazuli; or Native Ultramarine. 

Composition essentially Na^ (NaSg.Al) Al2Si30i2,= silica, 31.7 per 
cent; alumina, 26.9 per cent; soda, 27.3 per cent; sulphur, 16.9 per 
cent; hardness, 5.5; specific gravity, 2.38 to 2.45. Color, rich azure- 
violet or greenish blue, translucent to opaque. The ordinary lapis 
lazuli is not a simple mineral as given above, but a mixture of lazurite, 
hauynite, and various other minerals. 



310 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



The following- analyses quoted from Dana serve to show the hetero- 
geneous character of the material as found: 



Localities. 


Silica, 
SiO,. 


Alu- 
mina, 
AI0O3. 


Ferric 
iron, 
FeoOa. 


Lime, 
CaO. 


Soda, 
Na^O. 


Water, 
H2O. 


Sulphur, 
SO3. 


Orient 

Ditro 

Andes 


45. 33 
40.54 
45. 70 


12.33 
43.00 
25.34 


2.12 
0.86 
1.30 


23.56 
1.14 
7.48 


11.45 
12.54 
10.55 


0.35 
1.92 


3.22 


4.32 





Occurrence. — The localities are mostly foreign. The ultramarine 
reported not long since as occurring near Silver City, New Mexico, 
has been shown by R. L. Packard to be a magnesian silicate. 

Mexico, Chile, Siberia, India, and Persia are the chief sources. The 
following regarding the Indian localities is taken from Ball's Geology 
of India, Part III. 

According to Captain Hutton, the lapis lazuli sold in Kandahar is 
brought from Sadmoneir and Bijour. where it is said to occur in masses 
and nodules embedded in other rocks. He obtained a small specimen 
from Major Lynch, which was said to have been brought from Hazara, 
and he heard that it occurred in Khelat. Several writers speak of 
its occurrence in Biluchistan, but possibly this may be due to some 
confusion in names. Bevond a question of doubt it does exist in 
Badakshan, the mines south of Firgamu, in the Kokcha vallej^s,, 
having been described by Wood in the narrative of his journey to the 
Ox us. 

The entrance to the mines is on the face of the mountain at an ele- 
vation of about 1,500 feet above the level of the stream. The rocks 
are veined, black and white limestones. The principal mine, as repre- 
sented in elevation, pursues a somewhat serpentine direction. The 
shaft by which you descend to the gallery is about 10 feet square, and 
is not so perpendicular as to prevent your walking down. The gallery 
is 30 paces long, with a gentle descent, but it terminates in a hole 20 
feet in diameter and as many deep. The gallery is 12 feet in diameter, 
and as it is unsupported by pillars accidents sometimes occur. Fires 
are used to soften the rock and cause it to crack; on being hammered 
it comes off in flakes, and when the precious stone is disclosed a groove 
is picked round it, and together with a portion of the matrix it is prised 
out by means of crowbars. Three varieties are distinguished by the 
miners, the nili^ or indigo colored, the asmani, or sky-blue, and the 
sabzl^ or green. The labour was compulsory ; and mining wa s only prac- 
tised in the winter. According to Wood, these mines and also those for 
rubies had not been worked for four years as they had ceased to be 
profital)le. Possibly this may have been partly due to the fall in value; 
according to Mr. Baden-Powell, recent returns represent the exports 



THE NONMETALLIC MIT^EKALS, 311 

as amounting- to only 2 seers; but Colonel Yule, in his book of Marco 
Polo, states that the produce was 80 to 60 poods (36 lbs. each) annually, 
the best qualities sellino- at prices rangino- from £V2 to £24 a pood. 
Mr. Powell's figures perhaps only refer to the exports to India. For- 
merly the produce from these mines, which must have been consider- 
able, \vas exported principally to Bokhara and China, whence a portion 
found its way to Europe. 

Marco Polo savs that the asure found here was the finest in the 
world, and that it occurred in a vein like silver. The Yamgan tract, 
in which the mines were situated, contained many other mines, and 
doubtless Tavernier referred to it when he spoke of the territory of a 
Raja beyond Kashmir and toward Thibet, where there were three 
mountains close to one another, one of which produced gold, another 
(jranats (garnets, or rather balas rubies), and the third lapis lazuli. 

A small quantity of lajioard is said to be imported into the Punjab 
from Kashgar, and a mine is reported to exist near the source of the 
Koultouk, a river which falls into Lake Baikal. 

t4'(',s-.— Ultramarine for coloring purposes has in modern times lost 
much of its value, owing to the discovery by M. Guimet in 1828 of an 
artificial substitute. Formerly it was much used as a pigment, being 
preferred by artists in consequence of its possessing greater purity and 
clearness of tint. According to Ball,^ the artificial substitute is now 
commonly sold in the bazars of India under the same name, lajward, 
for about 4 rupees a seer, while at Kandahar in the year 1841, accord- 
ing to Captain Hutton, the true lajward, which was used for house 
painting and book illuminating, was sold, when purified, at from 80 
to 100 rupees a seer. Mr. Emanuel states that the value of the stone 
itself, when of good color, varies, according to size, from 10 to 50 
shillings an ounce. In Europe the refuse in the manufacture is 
calcined, and affords delicate gray pigments, which are known as 
ultramarine ash. 

Lajward is prescribed as a medicine internally by native physicians; 
it has been applied externally to ulcers. That it possesses any real 
therapeutic powers is of course doubtful. 

Although no longer a source of any considerable amount of the 
ultramarine of commerce, the compact varieties of the mineral, such as 
that from Persia, are highly esteemed for the manufacture of mosaics, 
vases, and other small ornaments. 

8. Allanite; Orthite. 

This is a cerium epidote of the formula HR"R"'3Si30i3, in which 
R" may be either calcium or iron (or both) and R"' aluminum, iron, 
cerium, didymium, or lanthanum. The following analyses are selected 

1 Geology of India, III, p. 528. 



312 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



from Dana's Mineralog}' as .showing- variation in the composition suffi- 
ciently for present purposes: 



Constituents. 



Silica (SiOa) 

Tliorina (TliOo) 

Alumina ( ALOa) 

Iron sesquioxide ( Fe.i0,j) 

Cerium sesquioxide (Ce.,03) 

Didymium sesquioxide (DioOj)- . 
Lanthanum sesquioxide (La.)0:j) 

Yttrium sesquioxide (Y0O3) 

Erbinum sesquioxide (EroOs) ... 

Iron protoxide (FeO) 

Manganese (MnO) 

Lime(CaO) 

Magnesia (MgO) 

Potasli (KoO) 

Soda (Na^O) 

Water (HoO) 



31.63 
0.87 

13.21 
8.39 
8.67 
5.60 
5.46 
0.87 
0. 52 
7.86 
1.60 

10.48 
0.08 
0.28 
None. 
3.49 



99.07 



33.03 
1.12 
17.63 
5.26 
2.84 
7.68 

None. 
2.92 

None. 
7.01 
0.64 
12. 78 
0.11 
0.40 

None. 
9.37 



100.79 



30.04 

None. 

16.10 

5.06 

11.61 

5.39 

4.11 

None. 

None. 

9.89 

Trace. 

13. 02 

1.11 

0.02 

0.28 

2.56 



99.19 



(I) Hittero, Norway; (II) Ytterby, Sweden; (III) Nelson County, Virginia. 

When in crystals often in long- .slender nail-like forms (orthite); also 
massive and in embedded granules. Color pitch black, brownish, and 
3^ellow. Brittle. Hardness 5.5 to 6. Specific gravity 3.5 to 4.2. 
Before the blowpipe fuses and swells up to a dark, slaggy, magnetic 
glass. 

Localities and mode of occurrence. — The more common occurrence is 
in the form of small acicular cr3'stals as an original constituent in 
granitic rocks. It also occurs in white limestone, associated with mag- 
netic iron ore, and in igneous rocks as andesite, diorite, and rlwolite. 
At the Cook Iron Mines, near Port Henry, New York, it is reported 
as occurring in great abundance and in crystals of extraordinary size, 
in a gangue of quartz and orthoclase. 

The variety orthite occurs in forms closely simulating rusty nails in 
the granitic rock about Brunswick, Maine. In Arendal, Norway, it 
is found in massive forms (Specimen No. 60853, U.S.N.M.). At Finbo, 
near Falun, Sweden, in acicular crystals a foot or more in length. In 
Amherst and Fauquier counties, Virginia, it occurs in large masses 
(Specimen No. 68661, U.S.N.M.) from Fauquier County, as it also does 
near Bethany Church, Iredell County, North Carolina, and Llano 
County, Texas (Specimen No. 62756,' U.S.N.M.). At Balsam Gap, 
Buncombe Count}", North Carolina, it occurs in slender ciystals 6 to 
12 inches long and in crystalline masses, in a granitic vein and under 
similar conditions at the Buchanan and Wiseman mines in Mitchell 
County. 

Uses. — See under Monazite, p. 383. 



THE NONMKTALLTC MINERALS. 



313 



9. (lADOl.INITE. 

This is ;i basic orthosilieate of j'-ttriuni, iron, and o-lucinum, though 
with fi-(Mjuently v^aryino- amounts of didymium, lanthanum, etc. Tho 
formula as given by Dana is (Tl2FcY2Si20,o,= silica 23.9 per cent, 
yttrium oxides 51.8 per cent, iron protoxide 14.3 per cent, and glu- 
cina 10 per cent. Actual analyses yielded results as below: 



Constituents. 



Silica (SiOo) 

Thorina (ThOo) 

Yttrium sesquioxide ( Y2O3) 

Cerium sesquioxide (Ce.iOs) 

Didymium sesquioxide (DioOa) 

Lantlianum sesquioxide (LaoO^) 

Iron sesquioxide ( FeoOa) 

Iron protoxide (FeO) 

Berylium (Glueina) protoxide (BeO) . 

Lime (CaO) 

Soda (NiioO) 

Water ( H.,0 ) 



2-1.35 
0.30 

45.96 
1.65 

3.06 

2.03 
11.39 
10.17 
0.30 
0.17 
0.52 



99.90 



23. 79 

0.58 

41.55 

• 2. 62 

5.22 

0.96 
12. 42 
11.33 

0.74 
Trace. 

1.03 



100.24 



(I) Ytterby, near Stockholm, Sweden; (II) Llano County, Texas. 

The mineral is sometimes found in form of rough and coarse crystals, 
but more commonly in amorphous, glassy forms. Hardness 6.5 to 7; 
specific gravity 4 to 1.17. Color brown, black and greenish black, 
usually translucent in thin splinters and of a grass green to olive green 
color by transmitted light. No true cleavage; fracture conchoidal or 
splintery like glass, and with a vitreous or somewhat greasy luster. 
Through oxidation and hydration the mineral becomes opaque, brown, 
and earth}'. Hence masses are not infrequently found consisting of the 
normal glassy gadolinite enveloped in a brown red crust of oxidation 
products. (Specimen No. 62780, U.S.N.M.) On casual in.spection 
the mineral closely resembles samarskite and the dark, opaaue varie- 
ties of orthite, but is easily distinguished from the fact that before the 
blowpipe it glows brightly for a moment and then swells up, cracks 
open, and becomes greenish without fusing. Some varieties (the nor- 
mal anisotropic forms) swell up into cauliflower-like foi-ms and fuse 
to a whitish mass. Like orthite, it gives a jelly when the powdered 
mineral is boiled in hydrochloric acid. 

Localities and mode of occurrence. — The mineral occurs mainly in 
coarse pegmatitic veins associated with allanite, and other allied 
minerals. The principal locality in the United States thus far described 
is some five miles south of Blutt'ton on the west bank of the Colorado 
River, in Llano County, Texas (Specimen No. 62780. U.S.N.M). The 
region is described ^ as occupied by Archa?an rocks with granite, and 
occasional cappings of limestone. 



'American .Tuunuil of Science, XXXVIII, 1889, p. 474. 



314 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1890. 



A coarse deep red granite is the most abundant, and is cut by numer- 
ous extensive veins of quartz and feldspar which carry the gadolinite, 
in pockety masses, and the other minerals mentioned. Most of the 
mineral thus far found is altered into the brown-red waxy material 
noted above and occurs in the form of masses weighing half a pound 
and upward. One "huge pointed mass, in reality a crystal, weighed 
fully 00 pounds; " another 42 pounds. One of the earliest opened 
pockets yielded some 500 kilos (227 pounds) of the mineral. 

Of the foreign localities those of Kararfvet, Broddbo and Finbo, 
near Falun, Sweden, and at Ytterby, near Stockholm (Specimen No. 
62793, U.S.N.M.), are important, the mineral here occurring in the 
form of rounded masses embedded in a coarse granite. On the island 
of Hittero, in the Flecke tiord, southern Norway, crystals sometimes 
four inches across have been obtained. 

Uses. — See under monazite, p. 383. 

10. Cerite. 

This is a silicate of the metals of the cerium group; of a com- 
plex and doubtful formuhi. The analyses below, taken from Dana's 
System of Mineralogy, will serve to show the varying character of 
the mineral. 



Constituents. 



Silica (SiOo) 

Cerium oxide (CcoOs) ... 
Didynium oxide (DioOa). 

Lanthanum (La-^Os) 

Iron oxide (FeO) 

Alumina ( AI.1O3) 

Lime (CaO) 

Water (HoO) 



19.18 
64. 55 

7.28 

1.54 



1.35 
5.71 



22. 79 
24.06 

35.37 

3.92 
1.26 
4.35 
3.44 



III. 



18.18 
33.25 

34.60 

3.18 



1.69 
5.18 



The mineral occurs in gneiss and mica schist, and is of a prevailing 
pink to gray color. Specimen No. 62794, U.S.N.M., from Bastniiss, 
Westmanland, Sweden, is characteristic, 

Uxes. — See under monazite, p. 383. 

11. Rhodonite. 

This is a metasilicate of manganese of the formula iMnSiOg,^ Silica 
45.9 per cent; manganese protoxide 54.1. As a rule, iron, calcium, or 
zinc replaces a part of the manganese. The prevailing form of the 
mineral when in crystals is that of rough, tabular, or elongated prisms 
with rounded edges (Specimen No. 83927, U.S.N.M., from Franklin, 
New Jerse}^). It is also common in massive highly cleavable forms, and 
in disseminated granules (Specimens Nos. 83927 and 83929, U.S.N.M.). 
Rarely, as in the Ekaterinburg district of Russia, it occurs in massive 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 315 

forms suitable for oriuiincntal work. (See Collection Building- and 
Ornanionttil Stones.) Color brownish rod, ilosli red, and pink; some- 
times rose red. Hardness, 5.5 to 0.5. Specific gravity, ;^>.-t to 3.68. 

On exposure the mineral undergoes oxidation, becoming coated 
with a l)lack film and giving rise thus to indefinite admixtures of silicate, 
oxides, and carbonates of manganese. 

The mineral occurs in abundance associated with the iron ores of 
Wermland, Sweden, and at other localities in Europe; in Ekaterin- 
burg, Russia, as above noted. The zinciferous variety commonly asso- 
ciated with the zinc ores in granular limestones of Sussex County, New 
Jersey, is known as fowlerite. (Specimen No. 67405, LJ.S.N.M.) 

So far as the writer has information, rhodonite has as yet little com- 
mercial value, excepting- as an ornamental stone. To some extent it 
has been utilized in glazing pottery and as a flux in smelting furnaces. 

12. Steatite; Talc; and Soapstone. 

The mineral steatite, or talc, is a soft micaceous mineral, consisting 
when pure of 63.5 percent of silica, 31.7 per cent of magnesia, and 4.8 
per cent of water. Its most striking characteristics are its softness, 
which is such that it can be readily cut with a knife or even with the 
thumb nail, and soapy feeling, there being an entire absence of anything 
like grit. The prevailing colors are white or gray and apple green. 
Several varietal forms are recognized; the name talc as a rule being 
applied to the distinctly foliaceous or micaceous variety (Specimen No. 
72838, U.S.N.M.), while that of steatite is reserved for the compact 
cryptocrystalline to coarsely granular forms (Specimens Nos. 26137 and 
63448, U.S.N. M.). 

Pyrallolite and rensselaerite are names given to varied forms of talc 
resulting from the alteration of hornblende or pyroxene. Such forms 
are found in various portions of northern New York, Canada, and 
Finland. 

According to Dana, a part of the so-called agalmatolite used by the 
Chinese is steatite. 

The name soapstone is given to dark gray and greenish talcose 
rocks, which are soft enough to be readily cut with a knife, and which 
have a pronounced soapy or greasy feeling; hence the name. Such 
rocks are commonly stated in text-books to be compact forms -of stea- 
tite, or talc, but as the writer has elsewhere pointed out, and as shown 
by the analyses here given, few of them are even approximately pure 
forms of this mineral, but all contain varying proportions of chlorite, 
mica, and tremolite, together with perhaps unaltered residuals of 
pyroxene, granules of iron ore, iron pyrites, quartz, and in seams 
■ and veins calcite and magnesian carbonates.^ 



Rocks, Rockweathering, and Soils, p. 101. 



316 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Co mjws it hn.— The varying composition of talc is shown in the series 
of analyses o-iven below. 

Analyses of talc. 



Locality. 


SiOo. 


Al«0:i. 


FeO. 


MgO. 


CaO. 


MnO. 


NaoO. 


KaO. 


HoO. 


Totals. 


St. Lawrence County, New 
York 


CO. 59 
62. 10 

61.85 
60.60 


0.13 


2.61 
0.30 


0.21 
1.30 

0.25 
0.60 


34.72 
32. 40 

34.52 
35.30 


Trace. 
0.40 


1.16 
2.15 






3.77 
2.05 

0.60 

Not 
deter- 
min- 
ed. 


lOU. 58 




100. 00 




0.17 










100. 00 


Valley of Pignerolles, Italy . 




2.80 




100.00 



The following analyses of soapstone have been made in the labora- 
tory of the department: 

Analyses of soapstone. 



Locality. 



Francestown, New Hamp- 
shire (Specimen No. 63166, 
U.S.N.M.) 

Grafton, Vermont (Speci- 
men No. 17569, U.S.N.M.). 

Dana, Massachusetts (Speci- 
men No. 20439, U.S.N.M.) . . 

Baltimore County, Mary- 
land (Specimen No. 26628, 
U.S.N.M.) 

Guilford County, North Car- 
olina (Specimen No. '''7662, 
U.S.N.M.) 

Lafayette, Pennsylvania 
(Specimen No. 63168, 
U.S.N.M.) 



SiOo. AUOs. FeO. MgO. CaO. MnO. Na,,0. KoO. HjO. Totals. 



42. 43 
51.20 
38.37 

52. 70 



6.08 
5.22 
5.64 

5.57 



13.07 

8.45 
8.86 

7.63 



7.38 



25.71 
26. 79 
28. 62 

26.88 



3.27 Trace 
1.17 I 0.32 
3.90 iTrace 



0.16 



1.77 



1.70 



33.72 1.34 



0.32 j 8.45 



99.49 



(■).yo 100.05 

14.49 99.88 

5.48 100.03 

I 
10.78 I 99.93 

23. 00 99. 57 



Occurrence mid origin. — Talc in all its forms is presumably always 
a secondary mineral, a product of alteration of other magnesian 
silicates. 

Smyth has shown ^ that the talc beds of St. Lawrence County, New 
York (Specimen No. 63173), are alteration products from schistose 
aggregates of enstatite or tremolite, principally the former. Accord- 
ing to this author, the talc occurs, not as has been stated, in the form 
of a well-defined vein with walls of granite or gneiss, but in the beds 
lying wholly within the schistose portions of the prevailing limestone. 

The following account of these deposits as occurring near Gouv- 
erneur is by A. Sahlin:^ 

The A-illage of Gouverneur is situated near the northwest edge of a 
geological island of Azoic rocks; granite, gneiss, limestone, and marble 



1 School of Mining and Forestry, XVII, No. 4, 1896. Also Fifteenth Annual 
Eeport of the State Geologist of New York, 1895, pp. 665-671. 
^Mining and Scientific Press, May 11, 1893. 



THK NONMK'I'ALLK; minkkals. 317 

beiny the representative^ features of the formation. To the west of 
Gouverneur, extending- to and Ix'yond the St. Lawrence River, the 
Potsdam sandstone is encountered; to the southeast, the Trenton lime- 
stones extend toward the Adirondack Mountains. The talc belt is 
found in the towns of Fowler and pjd wards, from 7 to 14 miles south- 
east of Gouverneur. It has a length of about 8 miles, a width of 1 mile, 
more or less, and crosses the above-named Azoic island in the general 
direction of WNW. to ESE. The "veins'" generall}' dip from 45^^10 
75'-' toward the northeast. Their width varies from a few inches to 20 
feet or more. Surface out croppings are f recjuent, and local experts 
contend that there is no use in looking for talc where it does not appear 
on the surface. The abrupt change of formation precludes the prob- 
ability of discovering new deposits beyond the small, and now most 
thoroughl}' explored, belt already known. Within this narrow terri- 
tory, "veins" of talc minerals, separated by layers of granite and 
gneiss, are found and worked. They are principally made up of the 
hydrated silicates of magnesia, known as agalite and rensselaerite, the 
former of a smooth, fibrous texture, the latter scaly and lamellar, and 
both beautifully white or bluish-white. In the agalite veins are found 
nodules of handsome pink to purple, columnar crystals of hexagonite, 
and also large "horses" of yellowish-white hornblende. The occur- 
rence of the two latter minerals, representing the anhydrous silicates 
of magnesia, has given rise to the theory that the talc deposits origi- 
nally occurred as hornblende, which has gradually become hydrated. 

Since 1879, ten distinct mines have been opened, and some of these 
have reached a depth of -tOO feet or more on the slope. The present 
output from these ten mines amounts, according to a close estimate, to 
51,000 tons a year, which figure, however, could be readily doubled if 
the reducing mills had the capacit}^ to handle the larger quantity. 
(Specimens Nos. 53590 to 53592, U.S.N.M., from Gouverneur are 
characteristic.) 

In western North Carolina and northern Georgia, particularly in 
Cherokee, Moore, Guilford, and Murphy counties in the first-named 
State, and in the Cohutta Mountains of Murray County in the last, are 
numerous beds of very clean white or greenish fibrous talc occurring 
in part, at least, in connection with the marble beds. Some of the 
material is soft, white, and almost translucent (Specimens Nos. 26137, 
27(554, 63448, U.S.N. M.), while other is tough and semitranslucent, 
hornlike. The beds are mostly verj' irregular in extent as well as in 
quality of material. 

In Stockbridge, Windsor County, Vermont, talc is mined from veins 
from 3 to 12 feet in widtli in soapstone. (Specimen No. 53206, 
U.S.N.M.) A greenish schistose talc is also mined in Murray Count}', 
Georgia. (Specimen No. 53226, U.S.N.M.) 

Soapstone occurs mainly associated with the older crystalline rocks. 



318 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

and in some cases is undoubtedly an altered eruptive; in others there is 
a possibility of its being a product of metamorphism of magnesian 
sediments. The principal beds now known lie in the Appalachian 
regions of the eastern United States, though others have recently been 
found in California, and there is no reason for supposing that many 
more may not exist in the Rocky Mountain regions. The beds, if such 
they can be called, are not extensive as a rule, but occur in lenticular 
masses of uncertain age intercalated with other magnesian and horn- 
blendic or micaceous rocks frequently more or less admixed with ser- 
pentine. The rock, like serpentine, is, as a rule, traversed b}^ bad 
seams and joints, and the opening of any new deposit is always 
attended with more or less risk, as there is in many cases no guarantee 
that sound blocks of sufficient size to be of value will ever be obtainable. 
The following facts relative to the. occurrence of soapstone in the 
United States are taken mainly from a handbook by the writer on 
Stones for Building and Decoration, issued by Messrs. Wiley & Co., 
of New York. 

An extensive bed of fine quality soapstone was discovered as eartyas 
1791 at Francestown, New Hampshire (Specimen No. 10771, U.S.N.M.). 
This was worked as early as 1802, and up to 1867 some 5,500 tons had 
been quarried and sold. In this latter year some 3,700 stoves were 
manufactured by one company alone. The business has been conducted 
on a large scale ever since, and the bed has been followed some 400 
feet, the present opening being 40 feet wide 80 feet long and. 80 feet 
deep. Other lieds, constituting a part of the same formation, occur in 
Weare, Warner, Canterbury, and Richmond, in the same State, and all 
of which have been operated to a greater or less extent. 

Fine beds of the stone also occur in the town of Orford, and an 
important quarry was opened as early as 1855 in Haverhill, but it has 
not been worked continuously. 

At least sixty beds of soapstone are stated to occur in Vermont, 
mostly located along the east side of the Green Mountain range, and 
extending nearly the entire length of the State. The rock occurs asso- 
ciated with serpentine and hornblende, and the beds as a rule are not 
continuous for any distance, but have a great thickness in comparison 
with their length. It not infrequently happens that several isolated 
outcrops occur on the same line of strata, sometimes several miles 
apart, and in many cases alternating with beds of dolomitic limestone 
that are scattered along with them. 

The sixty beds above mentioned occur mainly in the towns of Reads- 
boro, Marlboro, New Fane, Windham (Specimen No. 26626, U.S.N.M.), 
Townsend, Athens, Grafton, Andover, Chester (Specimen No. 53244, 
U.S.N.M.), Cavendish, Baltimore. Ludlow, Plymouth, Bridgewater, 
Thetford, Bethel, Rochester, Warren, Braintree, Waitsfield, Moretown, 
Duxbury, Waterbury, Bolton, Stow, Cambridge, Waterville, Berk- 
shire, Eden, Lowell, Belvidere, Johnson, Enosburg, Westfield, Rich- 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Merril 



Plate 14. 




a 



thp: nonmktallic minp:rals. 319 

foi'd. Troy, and Jay. Of thes(> Ix'ds those of (iraftoii (Spocinion No. 
IToGJ), U.S.N.M.) and Athens are stated to have been longest worked 
and to have produced the most stone. The beds lie in gneiss, and were 
profitably AVork(Hl as early as 1S20. Another important bed occurs in 
the town of Weathertield. This, like that of Grafton, is situated in 
gneiss, but has no overlying rock, and the material can be had in inex- 
hausti))le quantities. It was first worked about 1847. The Rochester 
beds were also of great importance, the stone being peculiarly fine- 
grained and compact. It was formerly much used in the manufacture 
of refrigerators. The bed at New Fane occurs in connection with ser- 
pentine, and is some half mile in length b}^ not less than 12 rods in 
width at its northern extremity. The soapstone and serpentine are 
strangely mixed, the general courses of the bed being like that of an 
irregular vein of granite in limestone. 

In Massachusetts quarries of soapstone have been worked from time 
to time in Lynnfield and North Dana (Specimen No. 26439, U.S.N. M.). 
The Lynnfield stone occurs associated with serpentine. It has not 
been quarried of late, but was formerly used for stove backs, sills, 
and steps. In New York State soapstone and talc occur in abundance 
near Fowler and Edwards in St. Lawrence County. Some of this 
is very pure, nearly snow-white talc, and is quarried and pulverized 
for commercial purposes, as already noted. 

In Pennsylvania, in the southern edge of Montgomery County, 
extending from the northern brow of Chestnut Hill between the two 
turnpikes across the Wissahickon Creek and the Schuylkill to a point 
about a mile west of Marion Square, there occurs a long, straight out- 
crop of steatite and serpentine. The eastern and central part of this 
belt on the southern side consists chiefly of steatite, while the northern 
side contains nmch serpentine, interspersed through it in lumps. 
Only in a few neighborhoods, as at Lafaj^ette, does either the steatite 
or serpentine occur in a state of sufficient purity to be profitably 
quarried. On the east bank of the Schuylkill, about 2 miles below 
Spring Mill, a good quality of material occurs that has long been 
successfully worked (Specimen No. 63168, U.S.N.M.) The material 
is now used principally for stoves, fireplaces, and furnaces, though 
toward the end of the last century and during the early part of the 
present one, before the introduction of the Montgomery County mar- 
ble, it was in considerable demand for doorsteps and sills. It proved 
poorly adapted for this purpose, owing to the unequal hardness of the 
different constituents, the soapstone wearing away rapidly, while the 
serpentine w^as left projecting like knots, or "' hobnails in a plank." 

Several small deposits of soapstone occur in Mar3dand and some of 
them have been worked on a small scale. The material is of good 
quality, but apparently to l)e had only in small pieces (Specimens Nos. 
26010 and 26628) from Montgomery and Baltimore Counties. 

In Virginia soapstone occurs in Fairfax (Specimens Nos. 25254, 28649, 



320 REroRT OF NATIONAL MUSP:UM, 1899. 

U.S.N.M.), Fluvanna and Biu-kinoham, counties. There i.s also a bed at 
Alberene, Albemarle Count}-, a little west of Green Mountain. This 
is the bed so extensively worked by the Albemarle Soapstone Com- 
pany (Specimen No. 62547, U.S.N.M.) From these points the beds 
extend in a southwesterly direction through Nelson County, where 
they are associated with serpentine; thence across the James River 
above Lynchburg and present an outcrop about 2 miles west of the 
town on the road leading to Liberty; also one some 2i miles west 
of New London. Continuing in the same direction the bed is seen 
at the meadows of Goose Creek, where it has been quarried to 
some extent. Parallel ranges of soapstone appear near the Pigg 
River in Franklin County. About 30 miles southwest from Rich- 
mond, at Chula, in Amelia County, there are outcrops of soapstone 
said to be of tine quality, and which in former times were quite 
extensively^ operated by the Indians. They have been reopened within 
a few years and the material is now on the market. 

North Carolina contains, in addition to an abundance of the finest 
grades of talc and steatite as alread}^ noted, beds of the compact com- 
mon soapstone. Deposits in Cherokee and Moore counties furnish 
especially desirable material for lubricating and other purposes. 
Murphy, Guilford, Ashe, and Alamance counties (Specimen No. 2766-i, 
U.S.N.M.) are also capable of atiording good materials, but much of 
it is inaccessible at present on account of poor railroad facilities 
(Specimens Nos. 27662, 28118, U.S.N.M.) from Greensboro and Ball 
Mountain. 

Beds of soapstone are stated to occur in Salina County, Arkansas 
(Specimen No. 39061, U.S.N.M.), and in Chester, Spartanburg, Union, 
Pickens, Oconee, Anderson. Alibeville, Kershaw, Fairfield, and Richland 
counties in South Carolina (Specimens Nos. 37590, 39019, U.S.N.M.). 
Texas is also stated to have an abundance of material and of good 
qualit}^ on the Hondo and Sandy creeks in Llano County. The Dis- 
trict of Columbia contains a bed which is, however, probably too small 
to ever prove of value (Specimen No. 38510, U.S.N.M.). 

Uses. — The use to which the material is put varies greatly according 
to its purity and physical characteristics. The white, fibrous variety 
of great purity from St. Lawrence County, New York, is used as a 
filler in paper manufacture, something like 30 per cent of the weight 
of printing paper being made up of this material. For the purpose it 
is run successively through coarse and finer crushers and then through 
buhrstones, after which it is placed into what is known as an Alsing 
cylinder, some 6 feet in diameter by about the same length. This 
cylinder is lined with porcelain brick and filled to one-third its volume 
with rounded peb}>les or quartz, and when in motion revolves at about 
the rate of 20 revolutions a minute. At the end of some three to four 
hours the talc is reduced to the form of an impalpable powder. The 
so-called cyclone crusher has also been used to good advantage in this 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 321 

work. The pulverized material is also used as a lubricator, for which 
purposes it is remarkably well adapted. Rub])ed between the thumb 
and lino-er the powder is smooth and oily without a particle of grit. 
It is also used in soap making, for which purpose it can, however, be 
considered only as an adulterant, increasing the weight but not the 
cleaning properties of the article. It is further used as a dressing for 
fine leathers. Small quantities are used by shoe and glove dealers also. 
The pure, creamy white talc, such as is obtained from North Carolina, 
is used for crayons and slate pencils, while the still finer, cryptocrys- 
talline varieties, such as are at present obtained almost wholly from 
abroad, are used by tailors under the name of "French chalk" and 
for making the tips for gas burners. Fine compact grades of a some- 
what similar rock (agalmatolite) are used extensively in China and 
Japan for small ornaments. The stone is readily carved in fine sharp 
lines, and is a general favorite for making the grotesque images for 
which these countries are noted, and which are often sold throughout 
the country under the name of jadestone. 

The following account of the soapstone industry of China is taken 
from the Engineering and Mining Journal of September 30, 1893. The 
material referred to as soapstone is, however, very probably agalmato- 
lite. (See p. 322.) 

The British consul at Wenchow, in his last report, gives some interesting details 
respecting the manufacture of steatite or soapstone ornaments in China. The mines 
are distant 42 miles from Whenchow, and are reached by a boat journey of 35 miles 
up the river, followed by a land journey of 7 miles over rough ground. The hills 
containing steatite are owned by 20 to 30 families, who in some cases work the 
mines themselves, in others engage miners to do it on their account. The gal- 
leries are driven into the sides of the hills, and are often nearly a mile in length. 
The composition of the hills is soft, and the shafts require to be propped up by sup- 
ports of timber; for the same reason the floors are full of mire and clay, so that the 
miners wear special clothing, made principally of rhea fiber. They lead a hard life, 
living in straw huts on the hillside. The stone when first extracted is soft, hardening 
on exposure to the air. It is brought out of the mine in shovels, and is sold at the pit 
mouth to the carvers at a uniform price of about one-half a penny per pound. This 
would be when the purchaser buys it in gross, without first selecting it in any way. 
When picked over, the mineral varies very considerably in value — according to the 
size of the lump, its shape, and above all, its colors. The colors are given as purple, 
red, mottled red, black, dark blue, light blue, gray, white, eggshell white, "jade," 
beeswax, and "frozen." Of these "jade" (the white variety, not the green) and 
"frozen" are the most valuable. Indeed so valuable is the latter that good speci- 
mens of it are said to fetch more than real jade itself. The industry finds employ- 
ment at the present time for some 2,000 miners and carvers. A great impetus was 
given to it l)y the opening of Wenchow to foreign trade. Previous to that event the 
chief purchasers of soapstone were officials and literary men, and the article most 
often carved was a stamp or seal. When it was discovered that foreigners admired 
the stone, articles were produced to meet what was supposed to be their taste. Such 
were landscapes in low or high relief, flower vases, plates, card trays, fruit dishes, 
cups, teapots, and pagodas. If left to his own devices, the native carver proceeds 
first to examine his stone, much as a cameo cutter would do, to discover how best he 
can take advantage of its shape and shades of color. ( See further under Agalmatolite. ) 

NAT MUS 99 21 



322 



REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



The following quotation from an English writer will servo to show 
the advantages gained by a use of talc in paper making: 

There is a decided advantage in substituting agalite for China clay, because not 
only is there an increase of dry paper, but such is obtained by a saving of fiber, as 
well as a decrease of the waste in the actual loading material and a lessened amount 
of polluting matter to be dealt with. Moreover, the fibrous character of the agalite 
causes it to yield a paper of higher class quality than is the case with China clay. 
The extra gloss which it is jjossibleto oljtain with papers containing agalite is shown 
in various American journals and books. 

The soapstones are suited for a considerable range of application. 
Although so soft, the}' are among the most indestructible and lasting 
of rocks, but are too slippery and perhaps of too sombre a color for 
general structural purposes. At present the chief use of the material 
in the United States is in the form of thin slabs for sinks and stationary 
washtubs. At one time it was quite extensively used throughout New 
England in the manufacture of stoves for heating purposes and to some 
extent for tire l)rick, the well-seasoned stone being thoroughly fire- 
proof. The putting upon the market of unseasoned materials or of 
material with bad veins, which caused the stone to crack or perhaps 
fly to fragments when subjected to high temperature, aroused a preju- 
dice against the employment of this material.^ and the manufacture is 
stated to have been to a considerable extent discontinued as a conse- 
quence. In the manufacture of either stoves or washtubs slabs of 
considerable size, free from segregation nodules of quartz, pyrite, or 
other minerals or from dry seams, are essential. As but few of the 
now known outcrops can furnish material of this nature, the main 
part of the business of the countr}^ is in the hands of but two or three 
companies. The waste material from the quarries, or the entire out- 
put in certain cases, is pulverized and used as a lubricant or white earth, 
as is the micaceous variety. 

13, Pykophyllite; Agalmatolite; and Pagodite (in part). 

This is a hydrous silicate of aluminiuu corresponding to the formida 
H^O, AI2O3, 4810.,. The analyses given below show the average com- 
position of the material as it occurs in nature: 



Locality. 


Silica. 


Aluminum. 


Water. 


Remarks. 


Westana, Sweden 


C5.61 
66. 38 
65. 93 


■26. 09 
27. 95 
29. 54 


7.08 
5.20 
5.40 


1 With small amounts of 
i iron, magnesia, and 
J lime. 


China 


Deep River, North Carolina . . . 



The mineral is not known in distinct crystals, but occurs rather 
in foliated lamellar, massive and compact forms, closely resembling 
some forms of talc, for which its soapy or greasy feeling renders it 
ver}" likely to be mistaken, though its hardness (2 to 2.6) is somewhat 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



323 



oretitcr. Tlio prcviiiliiii;- colors tire white oi- s>-r(HMiish g'ray to dull red, 
often mottled. 

Occurrence. — The material .sometimes occurs, as in the Deep River 
region (Chatham. Moore, and Orange counties), North Carolina, in com- 
pact to schistose masses of beds of consid(>ra])le extent and purity. 

UscH. — The more compact varieties, like that of Deep River (Speci- 
men No. 27065, U.S.N.M.), a,re used for making- slate pencils and tailors' 
chalk, or French chalk, so called. The still more compact forms, known 
as agalmatolite (Specimens Nos. 37812, fromSonora, Mexico, and 27133 
and 27131:, Japan) and pagodite, are used extensively by the Chinese 
and Japanese for making small images and art objects of various kinds. 
Dana states, however, that a part of the so-called Chinese agalmatolite 
is in reality pinite and a part of steatite. The objects sold by Chinese 
dealers at the various expositions of late years under the name of jade 
stone are, however, of agalmatolite. 

Finite: Agalmatolite in part. Composition, a hydrous silicate of 
alumina and the alkalies. According to Dana,^ the name is made to 
include a large number of alteration products of white spodumene, 
nepheline, feldspar, etc. Professor Heddle has described" a pinite 
(agalmatolite) occurring in large lumps of a sea-green color, surround- 
ing crystalline masses of feldspar in the granites of Scotland, and which 
he regards as alteration products of oligoclase. The composition as 
giv^en is: Silica, 48.72 per cent; alumina, 31.56 per cent; ferric oxide, 
2.43 per cent; magnesia, 1.81 per cent; potash, 9.48 per cent; soda, 0.31 
per cent; water, 5.75 per cent. 

14. Sepiolite; Meerschaum. 

This mineral is a hydrous silicate of magnesia, having the composi- 
tion indicated by the formula H^Mg., Si30io, = silica 60.8 per cent; mag- 
nesia, 27.1 per cent; water, 12.1 per cent. The prevailing colors are 
white or grayish, sometimes with a faint yellowish, reddish, or bluish 
green tinge. It is sufficiently soft to be impressed by the nail, opaque, 
with a compact structure, smooth feel, and somewhat clay-like aspect; 
rarely it shows a fibrous structure. Specimens Nos. 62545, 66861, and 
♦ »7749 are characteristic. In nature it rarely occurs in a state of 
absolute purity. The following analyses are quoted from Dana's 
Mineralogy: 



Locality. 


SiOo. 


MgO. FeO. 


H„0. 


CO,. 


Turkey 


61.17 
61.30 

52.97 


28. 43 0. 06 

28. 39 0. 08 

f CuO. 

2^-50 { 0.S7 

1 


9.83 
9.74 

1 9.90 


0.67 

0.56 

r Hygroscopic Ho.O 

I 8.80 


Greece 


Utah (fibrous) 




. 



' System of Mineralogy, 6th ed., p. 621. ^ Mineralogical Magazine, IV, p. 215. 



324 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

The name is from the German words Meer^ sea, and Schawn, foam, 
in alkision to its appearance. 

Mode of occurrence and origin. — According to J. Lawrence Smith,^ 
the Asiatic material occurs in the form of nodular masses in alluvial 
deposits on the plain of Eski-Shehr, and is regarded by him as derived 
by a process of substitution from magnesium carbonate which is found 
in the serpentine of the neighboring mountains. 

In an article by Dr. E. D. Clarke in the Cyclopedia of Arts and 
Sciences it is stated that the meerschaum of the Crimeria forms a 
stratum some 2 feet thick beneath a much thicker stratum of marl. 
Cleveland in his elementary treatise on minerals (1822) states that at 
Analotia, in Asia Minor, meerschaum occurs in the form of a vein 
more than 6 feet wide, in compact limestone. At Vallecas, Spain, a 
very impure form is stated to occur in the form of beds and in such 
abundance as to be utilized for building material. Aside from the 
localities above mentioned, sepiolite is known to occur in Greece, at 
Hrubschitz in Moravia, and in Morocco, in all cases being associated 
with serpentine, with which it is apparently genetically related. 

Uses. — The mineral owes its chief value to its adaptability for 
smokers' use, being utilized in the manufacture of what arc known as 
meerschaum pipes. At Vallecas, as above noted, the material is said to 
occur in such abundance as to be utilized as a building stone. In 
Algeria a soft variety is used in place of soap at the Moorish baths 
and for washing linen. 

According to Kunz,^ meerschaum has occasionally been met with in 
compact masses of smooth, earthy texture in the serpentine quarries of 
West Nottingham Township, Chester County, Pennsylvania. Only a 
few pieces were found, but they were of good quality. It also occurs 
in grayish and yellowish masses in the serpentine in Concord, Dela- 
ware County, Pennsylvania. Masses of pure white material, weighing 
a pound each, have been found in Middletown, in the same county, and 
of equally good quality at the Cheever Iron Mine, Richmond, Mas- 
sachusetts, in pieces over an inch across; also in serpentine at New 
Rochelle, Westchester County, New York. A fibrous variety, in 
masses of considerable size, has within a few years been found in 
the Upper Gila River region, New Mexico (Specimen No. 67840, 
U.S.N.M.). 

According to a writer in the Engineering and Mining Journal,'' the 
Eski-Shehr mineral is mined from pits and horizontal galleries in 
much the same manner as coal. As first brought to the surface it is 
white, with a yellowish tint, and is covered with red clayey soil. In 
this condition it is sold to dealers on the spot. Before exporting the 



1 American Journal of Science 1849, VIII, p. 285. 
■■^ Gems and Precious Stones, p. 189. 
3 Volume LIX, 1895, p. 464. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 325 

material is cleaned, dried, and assorted, the drying taking place in the 
open air, without artificial heat in summer, and recjuiring from five to 
six days. The bulk of the material is sent direct to Vienna and Paris. 

15. Clays. 

• 

The term "clay," as commonly used comprises materials of widely 
diverse origin and mineral and chemical composition, but which have 
in common the property of plasticity when wet, and usually that of 
becoming itidurated when dried either by natural or artificial means. 
Of so variable a nature is the material thus classed that no brief 
definition can be given that is at all satisfactory. One may perhaps 
describe the cla3's, as a whole, as heterogeneous aggregates of hydrous 
and anhydrous aluminous silicates, free quartz, and ever-varying quan- 
tities of free iron oxides and calcium and magnesian carbonates, all in 
a finely comminuted condition. 

Origin and mode of occurrence. — The clays are invariably of sec- 
ondary origin — that is, they result from the decomposition of pre- 
existing rocks and the accumulation of their less soluble residues, either 
in place (as residual clays) or through the transporting power of ice 
and water (drift clays). The fact that silicate of aluminum is so char- 
acteristic a constituent of nearly all clays is due to the fact that this 
substance is one of the most insoluble of natural compounds, and 
hence when, under the action of atmospheric or subterranean agencies, 
rocks decompose and their more soluble constituents — as lime, mag- 
nesia, potash, soda, or even silica — are removed, the aluminous silicate 
remains. 

The kaolins, which may perhaps be regarded as the simplest of clays, 
are the product, as a rule, of decomposition in place of feldspathic 
rocks, as gneisses, granites, and pegmatites. Those of Hockessin, 
Delaware (Specimens Nos. 63427 to 63430), are mainly of gneissic origin, 
though from some of the pits the material is in part at least derived 
from the decomposition of feldspathic conglomerate. In other cases 
the rock, as in the case of that from Blandford, Massachusetts (Speci- 
mens Nos. 68219 and 68221, U.S.N.M.), is a quite pure pegmatite, com- 
posed almost wholly of quartz and orthoclase. The samples show the 
material in various stages of decomposition. In all these cases the 
material as mined contains particles of free quartz and other substances 
detrimental to its use as a clay, and which must be removed by washing. 
It sometimes happens that the natural admixture of silica and unde- 
composed silicates is of just the right proportions to be utilized after 
merely griivding and bolting. The so-called "Cornwall stone" (Speci- 
mens Nos. mi2>Q and 62118, U.S.N.M.) is but a granite, very free from 
mica and ferruginous impurities, and in which the feldspar onh'has in 
part decomposed to the condition of kaolin. In some instances the 
natural conditions are such that running waters have assorted out the 



326 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

tino clay particles from the coarser impurities and deposited them by 
themselves, as in the case of that from Florida (Specimen No. 07250, 
U.S.N.M.). In the majority of cases, however, natural washing- has 
but served to still further contaminate the materials, giving- rise to the 
complex transported clays to be noted later. Many rocks, such as the 
aluminous limestones, are so impure that on decomposing and the 
losing of their soluble lime carbonates they leave only very inferior 
varieties of clay, suitable for brick and tile or pottery making. Such 
are often highly colort^d by iron oxides (Specimens Nos. 625C4, 62073, 
63463, and 63493, U.S.N.M., in Rockweathering series). 

The assorting and transporting power of running waters rarely 
allow the beds of kaolin or of clay to remain in a condition of virgin 
purity or even in the place of their origin. The minute size and the 
shape of their constituent particles render them easily transported 
by rains and running streams, to be deposited again in regularly 
laminated beds (see Plate 18) when the streams lose their carrying 
power by flowing into lakes or seas. It is through such agencies that 
have in times passed been formed the so-called Leda clays (Specimen 
No. 73036, U.S.N. M.) and the loess. Such may contain a very large 
proportion of mechanically derived material and proportionately little 
kaolin. 

Speaking of clays of this nature as they exist in Wisconsin, Cham- 
berlain says: 

They owe their origin mainly to the mechanical grinding of glacial ice upon strata 
of limestone, sandstone, and shale, resulting in a comminuted product that now 
contains from 25 to 50 per cent of carbonates of lime and magnesia. This product 
of glacial grinding was separated from the mixed stony clays produced by the same 
action by water either immediately upon its formation or in the lacustrine epoch 
closely following. The process of separation must have been rapid and comparatively 
free from the agency of carbonated Avaters, otherwise the lime and magnesia would 
have been leached out. 

The formation of beds of clay has been confined to no particular 
period of the earth's history, but has evidently gone on ever since the 
first rocks were formed and when rock decomposition began. The 
older beds are as a rule greatly indurated and otherwise altered, and 
in many instances no longer recognizable as clays at all. Throughout 
the Appalachian region clay beds of Cambrian and Silurian ages have, 
by the squeezing and sheering incident to the elevation of this mountain 
system, become converted into argillites and roofing- slates. 

Mineral and chemical com2Jositio7i.— Formed thus in a variety of 
ways, and consisting not infrequently of materials brought from diverse 
sources, it is easy to comprehend that the substances ordinarily grouped 
under the name of clays may vary widely in both mineral and chemical 
composition. It may be said at the outset that the statements so fre- 
quently made to the effect that kaolinite or even kaolin is the basis of 
of all clays is not yet well substantiated. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 327 

Kaolinitc is in itself not properly a elay,noris it plastic. Further, 
in many cases it is present only in nonessential quantities. More open 
to criticism yet, because more concise, is the statement sometimes made 
that day is a hydrated silicate of alumina having the formula Al^Og, 
2SiO..+2H.O. It is doubtful if a clay was ever found which could be 
reduced to such a formula excepting by a liberal exercise of the imagi- 
nation. There is scarcely one of the silicate minerals that will not 
when sufficiently finely conmiinuted yield a substance possessing those 
peculiar physical properties of unctuous feel, plasticity, and color, 
which are the only constant characteristics of the multitudinous and 
heterogeneous compounds known as clays. Even pure vitreous quartz 
when rubbed to the condition of an impalpable powder has when wet 
the plasticity and odor of dny.^ Dau])ree so long ago as 1878*^ pointed 
out the fact that by the mechanical trituration of feldspars in a revolv- 
ing cylinder with water an impalpa])le nuid was obtained, which 
remained many days in suspension, and on drying formed masses so 
hard as to be broken only with a hammer, resembling the argillites of 
the coal measures. 

The ever varying chemical nature of the materials classed as clays is 
brought out to some extent by a comparison of the analyses in the 
table (p. 349), but is even more evident in microscopic and mechanical 
examinations. Indeed, as stated by Chamberlain:^ 

While it is convenient and customary to speak of the crude material of l>rick as 
clay, that which is really made use of is a mixture of clay and sand, or, in the cream- 
colored brick, of aluminous clay, calcareous clay or marl, and sand. The mixture is 
really a loam and but for the appropriation of that term as the designation of a soil, 
it would doubtless he more generally applied to such mixtures. 

Professor Crosb}^, as noted elsewhere, has shown that the blue-gray 
brick clays of Cambridge contain only from one-fourth to one-third of 
their bulk of "true clay," the remainder l)eing finely comminuted 
material to which he gives the name rock Hour. 

An examination of certain English fire clays has shown * that they 
can not properly be considered as mere hydrous silicates of alumina, 
but are very complex mineral admixtures, among which scales of 
hydrous micas, grains of feldspar, more rarely quartz and rutile needles 
greatly preponderate over the kaolin. The Leda clays of Maine, as 
the write)" has noted elsewhere, contain a comparatively small amount 

' Referring to the odor of clay when a shower of rain first begins to wet a dry, clayey 
soil, Mr. C. Tomlinson has remarked that it is commonly attributed to alumina, and 
yet pure alumina gives off no odor when breathed upon or wetted. The fact is, the 
peculiar odor referred to belongs only to impure clays, and chiefly to those that con- 
tain oxide of iron.. (Proceedings of the Geological Association, I, p. 242; quoted in 
Woodward's Geology of England and AVales, p. 439.) 

^(ieologie Experimentale; 1879, p. 251. 

* Geology of Wisconsin, I, ]>. 673. 

* W. M. Hutchings, Geological Magazine, VII, 1890, p. 2()4, and VIII, 1891, p. Ifi4. 



328 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

of kaolin but much free quartz, scales of mica, bits of still fresh feld- 
spar, and more rarely tourmalines and other of the less destructible 
silicates. 

Iron in the hydrated sesquioxide state is found in nearly all clays, 
even the whitest varieties. More than 1 per cent was found in a sili- 
ceous clay from Ohio, although the clay itself was almost of snowy 
whiteness. 

Iron also exists in the form of a silicate and protoxide carbonate, and 
sometimes as a sulphide in the form of disseminated pyrite. Lime 
and magnesia are also common constituents, either as free carbonates 
or as lime-magnesia silicates, and may exercise an important bearing 
upon the suitability of a clay for any particular purpose, as will be 
noted later. The clay from which the well-known Milwaukee cream- 
colored bricks are made contains sometimes as high as 23 per cent 
carbonate of lime and 17 per cent carbonate of magnesia, together with 
nearly 5 per cent of iron. 

The alkalies, potash and soda, are common constituents in small pro- 
portions, and also lithia, the first named being most common as well as 
most detrimental. It is a fair assumption that these substances are 
constituent of still undecomposed fragments of feldspar and the micas. 
To the presence of rutile needles and particles of ilmenite are due the 
frequent traces of titanic acid revealed by chemical analysis. The 
presence of any quartz and undecomposed feldspathic material in a 
clay can as a rule be detected by the gritty feeling manifested when 
the material is rubbed between the thumb and fingers. Mica is, how- 
ever, not readily detected by this means. 

The above remarks will explain why a purely chemical analysis of a 
clay may be of little value for the purpose of ascertaining its suitability 
for any particular purpose. It is essential that we know not merely 
the presence or absence of certain elements but also how these elements 
are combined. Further than this few clays are used in their natural 
condition, being first purified by washing and usually mixed with other 
constituents to give them body or fire-resisting properties. 

Kmds and classification.— 'From a geological standpoint the clays 
may be divided into two general classes, as above noted, (1) residual 
and (2) transported, the first class including a majority of the kaolin, 
halloysite, etc. , and the second the ordinary brick and potter's clays, 
the loess, adobe, Leda, and the bedded, alluvial deposits of the Cre- 
taceous, Carboniferous, and other geological periods. Special names, 
based upon such properties as render them peculiarly adapted to eco- 
nomic purposes, are common. We thus have (1) the kaolin and 
China clay, (2) potter's clay, (3) pipe clay, (4) fire clay, (5) brick, tile, 
and terra cotta clays, etc. , (6) slip clays, (7) adobe, and (8) fuller's 
earth. These will be discussed in the order given, though they must 
necessarily be discussed but briefly, since the subject of clays alone 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



329 



could he made to far exceed the entire limits of the present volume. 
The names fat and lean clays are workmen's terms for clays relatively 
pure and i)lastic or carrying a large amount of mechanical admixtures, 
such as quartz sand. 

In the Kaolin and China Clays arc included a series of clays used 
in the manufacture of the finer grades of porcelain and china war<^ 
and which consist in large proportion of the material kaolin, the name 
being derived from the Chinese locality Kaoling, from whence have 
for ages been obtained the materials for the highest grades of Chinese 
porcelain. 

According to Richthofen,' however, the material from which the 
porcelain of King-te-chin is made is not kaolin at all, Imt a hard 
greenish rock having somewhat the appearance of jade and which 
occurs intercalated between beds of clay slate. He says: 

This rock is reduced, by stamping, to a white powder, of which the finest portion 
is ingeniously and repeatedly separated. This is then moulded into small bricks. 
The Chinese distinguish chiefly two kinds of this material. Either of them is sold 
in King-te-chin in the shape of bricks, and as either is a white earth, they offer 
no visible differences. They are made at different places, in the manner described, 
by pounding hard rock, but the aspect of the rock is nearly alike in both cases. For 
one of these two kinds of material, the place Kaoling ("high ridge") was in ancient 
times in high repute; and, though it has lost its prestige since centuries, the Chinese 
still designate by the name ' ' Kao-ling, "the kind of earth which was formerly derived 
from there, but' is now prepared in other places. The application of the name by 
Berzelius, to porcelain earth was made on the erroneous supposition, that the white 
earth which he received from a member of one of the embassies (I think. Lord 
Amherst) occurred naturally in this state. The second kind of material bears the 
name Pe-tun-tse (" white clay " ) . 

The following analyses will serve to show the average composition 
of (I) the natural material from King-te-Chin, such as is used in the 
manufacture of the finest porcelain; (II) that from the same locality 
used in the so-called blue Canton ware; (III) that of the English Cor- 
nish or Cornwall stone; (IV) washed kaolin from St. Yrieux, France, 
and (V) washed kaolin from Hockessin, Delaware." 



Constituents. 



Silica 

Alumina 

Ferric oxide 

Lime 

Magnesia 

Potush 

Soda 

Combined water 



Total 



73.55 
21.09 



2. 55 
.15 



99.62 



II. 



73.55 
18.98 



1.58 
1.08 
.46 
2.09 
1.96 



99.70 



73.57 
16.47 

.27 
1.17 

.21 

5.84 
2.45 



48.68 
36.92 



.52 

.58 

13.13 



99.83 



48.73 
37.02 
.79 
.16 
.11 
.41 
.04 
12.83 



100.09 



^American Journal of Science, '1871, p. 180. 

"Analyses I and II by J. E. Whitfield, Bulletin 27, U. S. Geological Survey; III 
from Langenbeck's Chemistry of Pottery; IV from Zirkel's Lehrbuch der Petrog- 
raphy, III, p. 758, and V by George Steiger, U. S. Geological Survey. 



330 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Plato 15, figs. 1 and 2, will serve to show the shape and kind of the 
particles in the mineral kaolinite and in a prepared sample of the 
Hockessin kaolin, as seen under the microscope. 

The name halloysite is given to a white or yellowish material closelj^ 
simulating kaolin in composition, but occurring in indurated masses, 
with a greasy feel and luster, and which adheres strongly to the 
tongue, a property due to its capacity for a])sorbing moisture.^ As it 
is utilized foi' much the same purpose as is kaolin, it is included here. 

Halloysite is described by Gibson" as occurring in a bed some 3 feet 
in thickness, lying near the base of the Lower Siliceous (L. Carbon- 
iferous) formation, a little above or close to the Black Shale (Devonian), 
in Murphrees Valley, Alabama. This bed has been worked with satis- 
factory results near Valley Head, in Dekalb County. The present 
writer has found the material in comparatively small quantities, asso- 
ciated with kaolin, in narrow veins in the decomposing gneissic rock 
near Stone Mountain, Georgia. A similar occurrence is described 
near Elgin, Scotland. (Analysis below.) Near Tiiffer, Styria, hallov- 
site is described'' as occurring in extensive thick and veinlike agglom- 
erations in porphyry. It is quite pure, and in the form of irregular 
nodules of various sizes, frequently with a pelhicid, steatitelike cen- 
tral nucleus, passing outwardh' into a pure white su])stance, greasy to 
the touch, m which are occasionally included niinute pellucid granules. 
Outside it passes into an earthy, friable substance. The following 
analyses show the varying composition of halloysite from (I) Elgin, 
Scotland, (II) Steinbruck, Styria, and (III) Detroit Mine, Mono Lake, 
California, 



Constituents. 


I. 


11. 


III. 


Silica 


39.30 
38.52 
0.75 
0.83 
1.42 
0.25 
19.34 


40.7 
38.40 
0.60 
1.50 

18.00 


42.91 

38.4 

0.6 

1.5 

Trace. 

18.00 












Water 




99.20 



A white chalky hallovsite from the pits of the Frio Kaolin Mining 
Company in Edw^ards County, Texas (Specimen No. 53253, U.S.N.M.), 

1 This property is characteristic of nearly all clay compounds when they are dry. 
It is to this same property that many of the so-called "madstoiie" owe their imagi- 
nary virtues. Nearly all the stones of this type examined by the writer have proved 
to be of indurated clay, halloysite, or a closely related compound. When applied 
to a fresh wound, such adhere until they become saturated with moisture, when they 
fall away. Their curative powers are of course wholly imaginary. 

^ Geological Survej^ of Alabama. Report on Murphrees Valley, 1893, p. 121. 

^ Mineralogical Magazine, 11, 1878, p. 264. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.- Merrill. 

- A 



Plate 15. 



"A 




Fig. 1. 







Fi,-. -J. 
MiCROSECTIONS SHOWING THE APPEARANCE OF (l) KaOLINITE AND C2^ WASHED 

Kaolin. 
The enlargement is the same in both cases. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Men 




Plate 16. 




•?:,'»■'•:■<"& '.-s 



Fig. 1. 






















t^'. 










£»-^ 









kl • 






>>;; 



-.^^-■"•^' 



Fig. 2. 
MiCROSECTIONS SHOWING THE APPEARANCE OF dt HaLLOYSITE AND (2) LeDA 

Clay. 
The enlargement is tlie same in both cases. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 331 

has tlu> coniposition yivoii hclov/ us shown by analysos made in the 
lalK)rat()rv of the department: 

Silica 45.82 

Alumina 39. 77 

Potash 30 

Ignition 13.38 



99.27 



The inaterial is somewhat variable, corresponding^ in part to the 
halloysite described by Dana, and being nonplastic, and in part being 
phistic to an extraordinary degree. The plastic portions are almost 
as gritless as starch paste. Its appearance under the microscope is 
shown in Plate 16, lig. 1, the interspaces of the visible angular par- 
ticles l)eing occupied by the pasty, almost amorphous material. The 
particles themselves act very faintly on polarized light, and it is not 
possible to determine their mineralogical nature. 

The name Indianaite has been given by Cox to a variety of halloy- 
site found in Lawrence County, Indiana, and which he regarded as 
resulting from the decomposition of Archimedes (Lower Carbonifer- 
ous) limestone. It is represented as forming a stratum from 6 to 10 
feet thick, underlying a massive bed of Coal Measure conglomerate 
100 feet thick and overlying a bed of limonite 2 to 5 feet thick. The 
material like kaolin is used in the manufacture of porcelain ware. 
The composition of this material as given by Dana is as follows: Sil- 
ica 39 per cent, alumina 30 per cent, water 23.50 per cent, lime and 
magnesia 0.63 per cent, alkalies 0.54 per cent; 99.67 per cent. (See 
Specimens, Nos. 29714, 34111, U.S.N.M.) 

The potters' and pipe clays belong mainly to what are known 
geologically as bedded clays, and are as a rule very siliceous com- 
pounds, carrying in some instances as much as 50 per cent of free 
quartz and to 10 per cent of iron oxides and other impurities. 
They are highly plastic and of a white to blue, gray, or brown color 
(See' Specimens, Nos. 17245, 33975, 20286, 67796, to 67798, from the 
LTnited States and England) and burn gray, brown, or red. The tables 
on page 349 will show the varying composition of materials thus 
classed. The fire clavs, so called on account of the refractory nature, 
differ mainly in the small percentages of lime and the alkalies, they 
carry, and to the absence of which they owe their refractory proper- 
ties. (Specimens, Nos. 11629, New Jersey; 53179, Maryland; 59258, 
West Virginia; 68248, California; 53249-53251, South Dakoka, etc., 
are characteristic.) 

The l)edded clays of the United States reach their maximum devel- 
opment in strata of Cretaceous and Carbonif ^rous ages. To the Cre- 
taceous age l>elong the celebrated plastic clays of New Jersey and a 
very large proportion of the brick, tile, and terra cotta clays of Dela- 



332 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

ware,^ Maryland, and Virginia. The New Jersey beds are very exten- 
sively utilized in Middlesex County and fully described in the State 
Geological Reports.^ 

As described, the entire plastic clay formation consists of several 
members as below, arranged in a descending series: 

Feet. 

(1) Dark-colored claj' (with beds and laminae of lignite) 50 

(2) Sandy clay, with sand in alternate layers 40 

(3) Stoneware clay bed 30 

(4) Sand and sandy clay (with lignite near the bottom) 50 

(5) South Amboy fire-clay bed 20 

(6) Sandy clay (generally red or yellow) 3 

(7) Sand and kaolin 10 

(8) Feldspar bed 5 

(9) Micaceous sand bed 20 

(10) Laminated clay and sand 30 

(11) Pipe clay (top white) 10 

(12) Sandy clay (including leaf bed) 5 

(13) Woodbridge fire-clay bed 20 

(14) Fire-sand bed 15 

Raritan clay beds: 

(15) Fire clay 15 

(16) Sandy clay 4 

(17) Potters' clay 20 

Total - 347 

The following section of the Coal Measure clays at St. Louis, as pub- 
lished in Bulletin No. 3 of the Geological Survey of Missouri, will 
serve to show the alternating character of these beds, and their vary- 
ing qualities as indicated b}^ the uses to which they are put.^ 

(1) Loess, 20 feet. 

(2) Limestone (Coal Measure), 5 feet. 

(3) Clay, white and yellow, used for sewer-pipe manufacture, called "bastard fire 
clay," 3 to 4 feet. 

(4) Clay, yellow and red, sold for paint manufacture and for coloring plaster and 
mortar, called "ochre," 3 feet. 

(5) Clay, gray to white, used for paint manufacture and filling, 1 foot 6 inches. 

(6) Pipe clay, variegated, reddish brown and greenish, called "keel," 12 feet. 

(7) Sandstone. 

(8) Slaty shale. 

(9) Coal. 

(10) Fire clay, becoming sandy toward the base. 

When first mined these Coal Measure clays are usually very hard, 
but on exposure to the weather slack and fall into powder. They are 

'This of course does not include the kaolin deposits of Hockessin, Newcastle 
County, and similar deposits. 

^Report on Clay Deposits of Woodbridge, South Amboy, and other places in New 
Jersey, 1878. 

* Bulletin No. 3, Geological Survey of Missouri, 1890. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 899.— Merrill. 



Plate 17, 




Fig. 1. 






«if 



* -J 












•^'J^ 









^\ 



# i* I 



Wf^ 



y 



MiCROSECTIONS SHOWING THE APPEARANCE OF (l) ALBANY COUNTY, WYOMING, 

Clay and (2) Fuller-s Earth. 
The enlargement is the same in both cases. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 899,- Merrill 



Plate 18. 







** ^ 

2 s 



$ :; 



< 2 

-J -S 

o "^ 

UJ g 

-J fa 



THE 



NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 383 



as a rule much less fusible than are the olacial or stratified clays, and 
are used mainly in the manufacture of tire l)rick, sewer pipe, terra 
cotta stoneware, as crocks, fruit jars, jugs, etc., glass and gas retorts, 
smelting pots, etc. Some of these articles are made direct from the 
natural clays, while others are from a mixture of several clays or of a 
clay mixed with powdered quartz and feldspar. 

For ordinary bric^k-making purposes a great variety of materials 
are employed; in some cases residuary deposits, and in others alluvial 
and sedimentary. Throughout the glacial regions of the United States 
a tine unctions blue-gray material, laid down in estuaries during the 
Champlain epoch, the so-called Leda clays, are the main materials used 
for this purpose. Such are also sometimes used in making the cheaper 
kinds of pottery. The bowlder clays of the glacial regions are also 
sometimes used when sufficiently homogeneous. 

The prevailing colors of the Leda clays are blue -gray or yellowish. 
They all carry varying amounts of iron, lime, magnesia, and the 
alkalies, and when burned turn to red of varying tints. They fuse 
with comparative ease and are used mainly for brick and tile making 
and for the coarser forms of earthenware, such as flower pots, being 
as a rule mixed with siliceous sand to counteract shrinkage. The 
mining of such material is of the simplest kind, and consists merely of 
scraping away the overlying soil and sand, if such there be, and remov- 
ing the clay in the form of sidehill cuts or open pits. 

Plate 18, facing this page, shows a cut in one of the beds at Lewiston, 
Maine. The material here is fine and homogeneous, of a blue-gray 
color, and contains no appreciable grit. It is mixed with siliceous 
sand and used for making bricks, baking red. An analysis of the 
material in its air-dry state yielded results as below: 

Silica (SiO^) 56.17 

Alumina (AlA) 24.25 

Ferrous oxide (FeO) 3. 54 

Lime (CaO) 2.09 

Magnesia (MgO) 2. 57 

Potash (KjO) -- 4.06 

Soda (Na^O) 2. 25 

Ignition (HjO) 4.69 

99. 62 

Under the microscope these clays are seen to be made up of beauti- 
fully fresh, angular bits of quartz, feldspar, mica, hornblende, and 
augite, with more rarely tourmalines, zircons, and other refractory 
minerals, with a basis of extremely fine undetermined material which 
may perhaps be kaolin, though the general structure of the clay is 
such as to suggest it owes its origin mainly to mechanical trituration, 
rather than chemical decomposition. The appearance of the Lewiston 
clay under the microscope is shown in Plate 1(3, fig. 1. (See Specimens 



334 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899, 



Nos. T303r), GlO-tl, and 61042, of these clays in their natural, mixed, 
and baked condition.) 

One of the most constant distinctions between the so-called clays of glacial and 
nonglacial origin, are the relatively large amounts, in the first mentioned, of lime car- 
])onate and alkalies and the extremely finely comminuted siliceous material to w hiclif 
tlie name rock flour is commonly given. Prof. W. O. Crosby, has shown that the 
smooth and plastic Ijluish-gray brick clays of West Cambridge contain only from 
one-fourth to one-third their bulk of the clay kaolin, the remainder being largely 
rock flour. [Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, XXV, 1890.] 

Leda clays from Beaver County, Pennsylvania, used in the manu- 
facture of terra cotta at New Brighton, are reported ^ as having- the 
following composition: 



Silica 


46. 160 

26.976 

7. 214 

.740 

2.210 

1.520 

3.246 

11.220 


67. 780 

16. 290 

4.570 

.780 

.600 

.727 

2.001 

6.340 












Alkalies 


Water 




99. 286 


99. 088 



Vitrified brick for street pavements are made from fusible claj^s, 
itiometimes in their natural condition and sometimes mixtures of ground 
shale and clay. (See Specimens, Nos. 61141, 611-42, and 68049, from 
Evansville, Indiana.) 

The following analyses of the materials used b}^ the Onondaga Vit- 
rified Pressed Brick Company show the character of the materials 
there used:^ 



Constituents. 


Calcareous 

layer in 
shale bank. 


A green 
brick; be- 
ing a mix- 
ture of the 
different 

shales. 


Red shale. 


Blue shale. 


Clay. 




25. 40 

9.46 

2. 24 

22. 81 

10. 39 

20. 96 

.95 


54. 25 
16.89 
5.81 
4.34 
5.21 
4.30 
2.95 
.83 
5.01 


52. 30 
18.85 
6.55 
3.36 
4.49 
3.04 
4.65 
1.35 
5.30 
Trace. 


57.79 
16.15 
5.20 
2.73 
4.67 
3.42 
4.11 
1.22 
4.50 
Trace. 


45. 35 




12. 19 


Peroxide of iron 


4.41 




10.99 


Magnesia 


6.38 
7.24 




3.26 


Soda 


1.14 




7.60 


8.90 














Total . 


99.81 


99. 59 


99. 89 


99. 79 


99. 86 







The name slip clay is given to a readily fusible, impalpably fine clay 
used for imparting a glaze to earthenware vessels. These clays carry 

^Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, Report of Chemical Analyses, p. 257. 
2 Bulletin of the New York State Museum, III, No. 12, March, 1895. Clay Indus- 
tries of New York, p. 200. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



335 



iron oxides, pota.sh unci soda, too'cthcr with linu^ and niaynosia in such 
])roi)oi-ti()ns that tiicy vitrify roadily, forniin<>- thus an iiiiju'rvious 
glass over tiiose poi'tions of the ware to whicii they arc applied. 

The following- analyses show (I) the composition of a slip clay us(>d 
in ])()ttery works in Akron, Ohio, and (II) one from iVlbany, New 
York. (Specimen No. 53588, U.IS.N.M.): 



Constituents. 



Silica 

Alumina 

Iron sesquioxide 

Lime 

Magnesia 

Alkalies 

Sulphuric acid 

Phosphoric acid 

Carbonic acid and water 

Total 



(I.) 



60. -10 
10.42 
5.36 
9.88 
4.28 
0.87 
0.65 
0.09 
8.05 



(II.) 



58.54 
15.41 
3.19 
6.30 
3.40 
4.45 
1.10 



100. 00 



100.47 



The Albany clay is stated hy Nason ^ to glaze at comparatively low 
temperatures and to rarely crack or check. It occurs in a stratum 4 to 
5 feet thick. It is used very extensively in the United States, and has 
even been shipped to Germany and France. (See also Specimens 
Nos. 53582, U.S.N.M., from Brimfield, Ohio; 53580, U.S.N.M., from 
Rowley, Michigan, and 52985, 52995, U.S.N.M., from Meissen, Saxony.) 

The name adohe is given to a calcareous clay of a gray-l)rown or 
yellowish color, very tine grained and porous, which is sufficiently 
friable to crumble readily in the lingers, and yet has sufficient coher- 
ency to stand for many years in the form of vertical escarpments, 
without forming appreciable talus slopes. It is in common use through- 
out Arizona, New Mexico, and Mexico proper for building material, the 
dry adobe being tirst mixed with water, pressed in rough rectangular 
wooden molds some 10 by 18 or more inches and 3 or 4 inches deep, 
and then dried in the sun. In some cases chopped straw is mixed with 
it to increase its tenacity. Buildings formed of this material endure for 
generations and even centuries in these arid climates. The material of 
the adobe is derived from the waste of the surrounding mountain slopes, 
the disintegration ])eing mainly mechanical. According to Prof. I. C. 
Russell it is assorted and spread out over the valley bottoms by ephem- 
eral streams. It consists of a great variety of minerals, among which 
(juartz is conspicuous. The chemical nature of the adobes vary widely, 
as would naturally be expected, and as is shown in the following analyses 
from Professor Russell's paper: ^ 

^ Forty-seventh Annual Report of the State Geologist of New York, 1893, p. 468. 
^ Subaerial Deposits of North America, Geological Magazine, VI, 1889, pp. 289 and 
342. 



336 



REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 
Analyses of adobe. 



Constituents. 


I, 

Santa Fe, 

New 
Mexico. 


11, 
Fort Win- 
gate, New 
Mexico. 


in, 

Humboldt, 
Nevada. 


IV, 
Salt Lake 
City, Utah. 


SiOn 


66.69 
14.16 
4.38 
0.09 
2.49 
1.28 
1.21 
0.67 
0.77 
0.29 
0.41 
0.34 
4.94 
2.00 


26.67 

0.91 

0.64 

Trace. 

36.40 

0.51 

Trace. 

Trace. 

25.84 

0.75 

0.82 

0.07 

2.26 

5.10 


44. 64 
13.19 
5. 12 
0.13 
13.91 
2.96 
1.71 
0..59 
8.55 
0.94 
0.64 
0.14 
3.84 
3.43 


19.24 

3.26 

1.09 

Trace. 

38.94 

2.75 

Trace. 

Trace. 

29.57 

0.23 

0.53 

0.11 

1.67 

2.96 


AI2O3 


Fe.)03 


MnO -■ 


CaO 


MgO . . 


KoO 


Na-,0 


CO, 


PjOs 


SOs 


CI 


H2O 




Total 


99.72 


99.97 


99.79 


100.35 





The name loess is given to certain quaternary surface deposits 
closely simulating adobe, but concerning the origin of which there is 
considerable dispute. Deposits in the United States are, according to 
the best authorities, of subaqueous origin. Clays of this nature are, 
as a rule, higher in silica than the adobes and correspondingly poorer 
in alumina. Loess is a common surface deposit throughout the Missis- 
sippi Valley, and is in many instances of such consistency as to be 
utilized for brickmaking. 

The analyses given below are from Professor Russell's paper: 

Analyses of the loess of the Mississippi Valley. 



Constituents. 


No.l. 


No. 2. 


No. 3. 


No. 4. 


SiO^ 


72. 68 
12.03 
3.53 
0.96 
0.72 
0.23 
0.06 
1.59 
1.11 
1.68 
2.13 
O2.50 
0.39 
0.51 
0.09 


64.61 
10.64 
2.61 
0.51 
0.40 
0.06 
0.05 
5.41 
3.69 
1.35 
2.06 
a 2. 05 
6.31 
0.11 
0.13 


74.46 
12.26 
3.25 
0.12 
0.14 
0.09 
0.02 
1.69 
1.12 
1.43 
1.83 
a 2. 70 
0.49 
0.06 
0.12 


60.69 
7.95 
2.61 
0.67 
0.52 
0.13 
0.12 
8.96 
4.56 
1.17 
1.08 

a 1.14 
9.63 
0.12 
0.19 


AI0O3 


FeoOs 


FeO 


TiOo 


PoOs 


MnO 


CaO 


MgO. 


Na«0 


KoO 


HoO 


COo 


SO3 .... 


C 


Total 


100. 21 


99.99 


99.78 


99.54 





a Contains H of organic matter, dried at 100° C 



THE NONMETALLTC MINKRALS. 53T 

The iiiuni^ fullers' earth (W!ilk(>rde, volaorde, terre a foulon, terra 
da puroiitori, etc.) includes a vari(>ty of clay of a greenish white, 
greenish gray, olive and oil green or brownish color, very soft, with a 
greasy feeling. It falls into powder in water, imparts a milky hue to 
the li(iuid. and appears to melt on the tongue like butter. It was for- 
merly used by fullers to take the grease out of cloth; hence the name. 

The English beds, according to Geikie^ occur in Jurassic and Cre- 
taceous formations. Fullers' earth from beds at Nuffield, near Red- 
hill, Surr(>y, P^ngland, is described" as a heavy blue or yellow clay, 
with a grcMisy feel and an earthy fracture. 

When examiniHl with a microscope it is found to consist of 
extrem(>ly irn^gular corroded particles of a siliceous mineral which in 
its least altered state is colorless, but which in nearly every case has 
und(M-gon(> a chloritic or talcosi^ alteration whereby the particles are 
invertcMl into a faintly yellowish green product almost wholly on polar- 
iz(Kl light. The particles are of all sizes up to 0.07 mm. The larger 
portion of the mattn-ial is made up of particles fairly uniform in size 
and a])out the dimensions mentioned. In addition to these are minute 
colorless fragments down to sizes 0.01 mm. and even smaller. 

The minute size of these colorless particles renders a determination 
of their mineral nature practically impossible. But the outline of the 
clea\'age flakes is evidently suggestive of a soda lime feldspar. The. 
high percentage of silica in the insoluble residue would indicate the 
presence of a considerable amount of free quartz. This, however, the 
microscope only partially substantiates, very few of the particles 
showing the ])rilliaiit polarization colors characteristic of this mineral. 

When the powder is treated with hydrofluorsilicic acid it yields 
abundant crystals of potassium and aluminum Huosilicate, together 
with i-adiating forms of calcium Huosilicate. The material differs 
from that last described in that its particles are much larger and more 
angular in outline and the various elements in a different state of com- 
bination. (See Plate 17, fig. 2.) 

A substance recently put upon the American market as a fullers' earth 
(Specimen No. 62737, U.S.N.M., from Enid, Oklahoma), under the 
trade name of "glacialite," has the following chemical composition, the 
material being dried at 100° C. before analyzing: 

Silica 50. 36 

Alumina r 33. 38 

Ferric oxide 3. 31 

Sodiuiii, lithium, potassium oxide 88 

Water 12. 05 

Organic matter Trace. 

Titanium Trace. 

99.98 

iText book of Geology. 3d. ed. p. 133. ^ Geological Magazine, VI, 1889, p. 4F'^ 

NAT MUS 99 22 



338 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

This material when placed in water falls away to a loose flocculent pow- 
der, which shows up under the microscope in the form of sharply angu- 
lar colorless particles, very faintly doubly refracting, without crystal 
outlines or other physical properties, such as will determine their exact 
mineral nature. The particles are of all sizes, from the larger floccu- 
lent masses, some 0.25 mm. in greatest diameter, down to those too small 
for measurement. The greater number lie between 0.005 and 0.01 
mm., though a very large proportion are even smaller, not exceeding 
0.002 mm. These smaller particles are angular in outline and almost 
perfectly colorless. Their appearance under the microscope is some- 
what that of decomposed cherts. 

In addition to the faintly doubly refracting particles above men- 
tioned, there are occasional clear, colorless, sharply angular particles 
of a doubly refracting mineral which can only be referred to quartz. 
A few yellowish iron-stained particles are suggestive of residual prod- 
ucts from decomposition of iron magnesian silicates. 

The Gadsden County, Florida, fullers' earth (Specimens Nos, 53254 
and 53255, U.S.N.M.) is a light-gray material, often blackened by 
organic matter, and which shows under the microscope the same 
greenish, faintl}^ doubly refracting particles as does the English, inter- 
mixed with numerous angular particles of quartz. This earth its quite 
plastic and sticky when wet. A section of the beds at the pits of the 
Cheesebrough Manufacturing Company, as given in The Mineral 
Resources for 1895-96, is as follows: 

Soil inches.. 18 

Red clay feet 3 

Blue clay do 3 

Fullers' earth do 5J 

Sandy blue earth do 3 

Fullers' earth (second bed) 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 899. — Merrill. 



Plate 19. 




•>f 



Js 




THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



339 



The following table* as compiled by Dr. Ries shows the variable char- 
acter of the material from different sour<!es: 







^ 


ill 


bo 


bo 


03 OS 

20 


g"-^ 


a ^ 


a^ 


2 c I! 




Constituents. 


5 

a 

£ 

0) 


a 
2 

2 


•a 
a 
"3 

S 
3 


p 

L 

t. c 

03 oj 
0)-- 


a 

w 

a 

t. c 

OS oj 


11 

2 <" 


lers' earth fro 
irborn, South D 
ta.fir 


lers' earth fro 
atheast of R i v 
notion, Florida. A 


ers' earth from \ 
eeu Mount Hleasa 
d Norway, Floridi 


a^ 
s «' 




a 




-3 


a 


3 


P 


S3 


SP>^.Xi 


3 Si-j 




-5'^ 




fe 


S 


S 


P^ 


f^*" 


f^ 


p^ 


U^ 


6^ 


SiO„ 


51.21 
12.25 


53.00 
10.00 


50.17 
10.66 


44.00 
11.00 


44.00 
23.06 


62.83 
10.35 


67.46 
10.08 


58.72 
16.90 


50. 70 
21.07 


58.30 
10.63 


54.60 


AI0O3 


10.99 


FCjOa 


2.07 


9.75 


3.15 


10.00 


2.00 


2.45 


2.49 


4.00 


6.88 


6.72 


6.61 


CaO 


2.13 

4.89 
27.89 


.50 

1. 25 

24.00 


.25 
35.83 


5.00 
2.00 

5.00 


4.08 

2.00 

24.95 


2.43 
3.12 

7.72 
0.20 


3.14 
4.09 
5.61 


4.06 
2.56 
8.10 


4.40 

.30 

9.60 


1.71 
3.15 
9.05 


6.00 


MgO 


3.00 


H,0 


10.30 


NaoO 














K2O 












0.74 






















6.41 


6. 28 


2.30 


7.90 


9.55 


7.45 
















Total 


100.44 


98.50 


100.06 


77.00 


100.09 


96.25 


99.15 


98.75 


100.85 


99.11 


98.95 



aPogg. Ann., LXXVII, 1849, p. 591. gE. J. Riederer, analyst. 

6Klaproth.Beitr.,VoI.IV,1807,p.338. /(Standard Oil Company's property, E. J. Rie- 

c Dana, System of Min., 1893,p. 695. derer, analy.st. 

dGeikie, 1893, p. 133. i Howell property, E. J. Riederer, analyst, 

fi Penny Encyclopedia, XI, Dr. Thompson, analyst. j Morgan property, E. J. Riederer, analyst. 

/P. Fireman, analyst. 

Properties of clay. — To what the peculiar properties displayed by the 
clays are due can not as yet be said to have been fully determined. 
This is particularly the case with the property of plasticit}' and that 
of becoming indurated when dried. ''Various explanations have been 
oflfered, but none are yet advanced which make clear all points. It has 
been ascribed to the impurities, to the alumina, to the combined water, 
and to other causes, against each of which, examples can be cited that 
seem to set it aside as inadequate. The impurities do not appear to 
cause the plasticity, for the sand acts unfavorably to it. The alumina 
is not responsible, or kaolins would be the most plastic of all, while 
the flint clays of Ohio are many of them approximately pure kaolins, 
and at the same time eminently non-plastic.^ The combined water 
exerts some influence it is evident, as its expulsion entails permanent 
loss of plasticity, but it can not be the sole cause of plasticity, as clays 
equally hydrated are just as liable to differ in this respect as to agree. 
No theory is so well received at present as that advanced by Cook. 
He shows that the microscope reveals a crystalline structure which the 
eye does not detect, and that this structure varies greatly in degree of 
perfection in different samples. Some are composed of masses of 

' Seventeenth Annual Report of the U. S. Geological Survey, 1895-96, p. 880. 
^As is al.'^o kaolinite, the theoretically pure hydrous silicate of aluminum corre- 
sponding to the formula A1.^03.2Si02.2H20. 



340 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

hexagonal plates or scales piled up in long bundles or faces and masses 
of unattached scales nearl}^ perfect. Such c\a.\s are always but little 
plastic, but may become so on mechanical treatment such as grinding 
and kneading; on re-examination the clay then shows the same ele- 
ments of structure, but broken and confused, no bundles left intact, 
scales broken and a homogenous matrix of the crushed material derived 
from the still crystalline part. Clays are found in all states of this 
breaking up, from the highly crystalline mass to the homogenous 
matrix showing no plates at all; and on the degree in which the crys- 
talline structure is retained, its plasticity depends. This theory is cer- 
tainly plausible, and is supported by the fact that we always subject 
our clays to secure increased plasticity to mechanical disturbance 
which has the effect that the microscope reveals. This view harmon- 
izes with more points than any other advanced as yet, and offers a fair 
solution of the different degrees of plasticity which plastic clays exhibit, 
but it does not explain, nor attempt to explain, the differences which 
exist between flint clays and plastic clays, as Professor Cook's exami- 
nations were entirely' confined to the latter.^ 

According to Russian authorities quoted by Ries,' the plasticity is 
not only due to the interlocking of the clay particles, but varies with 
the fineness of the grain, the extremely coarse and fine varieties having 
less plasticity than those of intermediate texture. This view is also 
held by Drs. Ries and Wheeler. 

So far as the compiler's own observations go, plasticity is not de- 
pendent wholly upon hydration nor size nor shape of the constituent 
particles. The glacial (Leda) clays are made up of fresh, sharply an- 
gular particles of various minerals and contain less than 5 per cent com- 
bined water; yet in their natural condition they are extremely plastic, 
and scarcely less so when mixed with two-fifths their bulk of ordinary 
siliceous sand, as is done in the process of brickmaking. The Albany 
County, Wyoming, clay (Specimen No. 53229, U.S.N.M.), on the other 
hand, equally or even more plastic and exceedingly pasty, is made up of 
extremely minute particles of fairly uniform size, scarcely angular, and 
apparently all of the same mineral nature throughout. This yields 
some 1() per cent of water, on ignition, as shown in analysis, p. 348. On 
the Avhole, the evidence seems to show that the plasticitv is due to the 
manner in which the particles conduct themselves toward moisture, and 
tliis is apparently dependent upon the size and shape and the propor- 
tional admixture of varying sizes of the constituents rather than upon 
their chemical composition. The work now being done by Dr. AVhit- 
ney, of the Agricultural Department, on the relationship of soils to 
moisture bids fair to throw important light upon this branch of the 
subject. 

1 Geological Survey of Ohio, Economic Geology, V, pp. 6ol-652. 
•■'Clay Deposits and Clay Industry in North Carolina, Bulletin No. 13, North Caro- 
lina Geological Survey, 1897. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 341 

The expulsion of the combined water in a clay is nearly always 
accompanied by a diminution in volume, which varies directly as the 
water, or the pui-ity of the clay. Pure kaolin shrinks as much as one- 
fourth of its bulk, it is stated, sometimes even more. The sandy clays 
used in making sewer-pipe and stoneware shrink from th(^ tempered 
state froiu one-ninth to one-sixteenth, usually about one-twelfth. The 
shrinkat^e of the raw clay would be very nuich less, proba})ly not 
over H or 4 per cent. 

A clay, when all the water of crystallization is expelled, will not 
shrink any more at red heat, but with increased heat will shrink more 
and more up to the moment of fusion. A pure kaolin apparently 
shrinks when heated a second time, even if the water is all expelled 
by the first heat, yet it is practically impossible to fuse it. But a g-ood 
flint clay containing some sand will lose all shrinkage on being once 
calcined at white heat. Such clay is then used to counteract shrinkage 
in a body of green clay, as this efiect is obtained by mixing in sand or 
some nonshrinking body. Many clays contain sand (Miough naturally 
to shrink little or none on heating, and some are so sandy as to 
actually expand, though usually at the expense of soundness of struc- 
ture; for the particles of clay w'lW shrink away from the grains of 
sand and this renders the structure very friable. 

The qualifications of a clay for common pottery and building mate- 
rial are simple, viz., plasticity when wet, and solidity and hardness 
when burned, but those products involving the highest qualities of clay, 
refractoi-iness, require much sharper tests. 

The first requisite is purity, at least purity within limits, and 
though the other points, density, plasticity, and non-shrinkage add 
greatly to the value of a pure clay, they can in no degree supply its 
place. 

Infusibility in clays rests in the aluminous base and the quartz. 
Long and intense heat applied to an intimate mixture of clay and 
. silica is apt to result in a silicate of another ratio of base to acid, and 
which is likely to be fusible. But the great trou])le with free silica in 
clay, in a fine state of division, is the fact that any fluxing agent read- 
ily unites with it, and makes a fluid slag; and in a refractory body the 
fusing of any one part is the beginning of the end. 

The constituents tending to make a clay fusible are iron, the alkalies 
soda and potash, and lime and magnesia. It is hard to state which is of 
the most consequence. Of the first two, iron is not so powerful a flux 
as potash, which is the worst of all the conmion elements; but the iron 
is present in larger amounts than potash in most clays, and consequently 
does as much harm, if not more. 

The eflect of the iron is detrimental to the appearance of clay ware, 
and consequently has a direct b(>aring on the price of goods, while 
potash shows no more on the surface than on the inside, and when 



342 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

present in the usual small amounts it produces an incipient vitrifica- 
tion which makes the ware ring like a bell when struck, and is often a 
help in selling. 

The extent to which iron may be present without detriment is a 
point on which authorities do not agree. The Stourbridge clay of 
England, acknowledged to be the most refractory clay known, has 2.25 
per cent of iron on an average of 100 analyses, with extremes of 1.43 
and 3.03. Gros Almerode clay, has 2.12, Coblentz, 2.03, New Castle, 
2.32, and yet all these clays are famous. Test mixtures of iron and 
pure kaolin have been run higher than this and have stood well, but as 
a general rule it is unsafe to rely for fine qualities on a clay with over 2 
per cent of iron, particularly if the other impurities are developed in 
any amount. It is a well-known principle in chemistry that mixtures 
of bases are much more active fluxes than an equal amount of any one 
base; so with iron, its eflect shows worse when in presence of other 
fluxing agents. 

The state in which the iron is present makes some difi'erence; if as 
the sesquioxide, it takes more heat than when in the protoxide state 
to combine in the clay, for iron will only combine with silica in the 
protoxide state, and if that state is already developed, it is easier to 
combine the sand and iron than if in the other oxide. 

Sulphide of iron has a bad effect on the clay since its decomposition 
gives rise to the lower oxide of iron, besides the effect which the sul- 
phur may have. 

Silicate of iron is also detrimental, since it melts at a comparatively 
low temperature. On a piece of ware, iron in the uncombined state 
imparts a buff' or red color; when combination begins and progresses 
the ware is of a bluish-gray cast, deepening as the fusion of the iron 
proceeds, and running to glassy black if much iron is present. 

Lime and magnesia act as fluxes on clays, but in any but the glacial 
clays the comparatively small amounts present makes them but little 
thought of as detrimental. They are probably present as silicates, 
and as these are readily fusible, their action is evidently unfavorable. 
When these bases are present as carbonates they combine at a higher 
temperature than iron or potash. The Milwaukee bricks, as already 
noted, are full of carbonates of lime and magnesia, and require a very 
hot burn, but when once the lime and silica combine they destroy the 
effect of 5 per cent of iron, enough to make the clay perfectly black. 
A brick of this kind presents an even, fine-grained, vitrified appear- 
ance on its fracture.^ 

^They (lime and magnesia) have also the remarkable property of uniting with the 
iron ingredient to form a light-colored alumina-lime-magnesia-iron silicate, and thus 
the product is cream-colored instead of red. Mr. Sweet has shown by analysis that 
the Milwaukee light-colored brick contain even more iron than the Madison red 
brick. At numerous points in the Lake region and in the Fox River valley cream- 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 343 

The amount of potash wliich a clay can contain and keep its tire 
properties is variously put by diti'erent authorities. As with iron, pure 
kaolin will stand a good deal when no other base is present, but a multi- 
plicity of l)as(\s makes fusion easy. Titanic acid is regarded as neutral 
to lire qualities; the form in which it is present being infusible. 

Testing clai/s.— The statement of the tendencies and comparative 
power of the dangerous impurities of clay would lead us to believe we 
could use predictions as to their result in a given clay with some con- 
fidence, l)ut the best practice does not j^et trust to analysis alone. 

The most complete test of a clay now known would be obtained by 
use of such analysis as has been described, coupled with a tire test 
made especially to develop such points as the analysis indicates to be 
weak ones. Fire tests are of two kinds — one is subjecting the clay to 
absolute heat without the action of any accompaniments, and the other 
is in putting the clay through the course of treatment for which it is 
designed to be used. The former develops the absolute quality of the 
clay as good or bad, the latter proves or disproves the fitness of the 
clay for the work. The latter is better of course as a business test 
wherever it is practicable to use it. The former can be made only in 
a specially adapted furnace. The clav is cut into one-inch cubes with 
square edges, and is set in a covered crucible resting on a lump of clay 
of its own kind, so that it touches no foreign object. The heat is then 
applied, and its efiect will var}^ from fusing the mass to a button to 
leaving it with edges sharp and not even glazed on the surface. Expe- 
rience soon renders one proficient in judging of clays by this test.^ 

A method of testing the fusibility of clays by comparing them with 
samples of known composition and fusibility has of late years come 
into extensive use. These prepared samples, known from their inventor 
and their shape as Seger's pyramids, consist of mixtures in varying 
proportions of kaolin and certain fluxes, so prepared that there is a 
constant diflerence between their fusing points. When such pyramids, 
together with the samples to be tested, are placed in a furnace or kiln, 

colored brick are made from red clays. In nearly or quite all cases, whatever the 
original color of the clay, the brick are reddish when partially burned. The expla- 
nation seems to be that at a comparatively moderate temperature the iron constit- 
uent is deprived of its water and fully oxidized, and is therefore red, while it ia 
only at a relatively high heat that the union with the lime and magnesia takes place, 
giving rise to the light color. The calcareous and magnesian clays are, therefore, a 
valuable substitute for true aluminous clays, for they not only bind the mass together 
more firmly, but give a color which is very generally admired. They have also this 
practii'al advantage, that the effects of inadequate burning are made evident in the 
imperfect development of the cream color, and hence a more carefully burned pro- 
duct is usually secured. It is possible to make a light-colored brick from a clay 
which usually burns red by adding lime. The amount of lime and magnesia in the 
Milwaukee brick is about 25 per cent. In the original clays in the form of carbo- 
nates they make up about 40 per cent. Geology of Wisconsin, I, 1873-79, p. 669.) 
^ Geological Survey of Ohio, E(;onomic Geology, V, pp. 652-655. 



34i REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

they begin to soften as the temperature is raised, and as it approaches 
their fusion point tne cones bend over until the tip is as low as the 
iMse. When this occurs the temperature at which the}^ fuse is con- 
sidered to be reached/ 

^.^.,y._Clay when moistened with water is plastic and sufficiently 
firm to be fashioned into any form desired. It can be shaped by the 
hands alone; by the hands applied to the clay as it turns with the pot- 
ter's wheel, or it can be shaped by moulds, presses or tools. When 
shaped and dried, and then burned in an oven or kiln, it becomes firm 
and solid, like stone; water will not soften it, it has entirely lost its 
plastic property, and is permanently fixed in its new forms, and for 
its designed uses. These singular and interesting properties are 
possessed by clay alone, and it is to these it owes its chief uses. It is 
used (1) for making pottery; (2) for making refractory materials; (3) 
for making building materials; (4) for miscellaneous purposes. 

Pottery. — Pure clay worked into shapes and burned, constitutes 
earthenware. The ware of itself is porous, and will allow water and 
soluble substances to soak through it. To make it hold liquids, the 
shaped clay before burning is covered with some substance that in the 
burning of the ware will melt and form a glass coating or glazing 
which will protect the ware in its after uses from absorbing liquids, 
and give it a clean smooth surface. The color of the ware depends 
on the purity of the clay. Clays containing oxide of iron burn red. the 
depth of color depending on the amount of the oxide, even a small 
fraction of 1 per cent being sufficient to give the clay a 1)uff color. 

Clay containing oxide of iron in sufficient quantity to make it par- 
tially fusible in the heat required to burn it, when made into forms 
and burned, is called stoneware clay. The heat is carried far enough 
to fuse the particles together so that the ware is solid and will not 
allow water to soak through it; and the fusion has not been carried so 
far as to alter the shapes of the articles burned. The oxide of iron 
by the fusion has been combined with the clay, and instead of its 
characteristic red, has given to the ware a bluish or grayish color. 
Stoneware may be glazed like earthenware, or hy putting salt in the 
kiln, when its vapor comes in contact with the heated ware and makes 
with it a sufficient glaze. 

Clay which is pure white in color and entirely free from oxide of 
iron, may be intimately mixed with ground feldspar or other minerals 
which contain potash enough to make them fusi])le, and the mixture 
still be plastic so as to be worked into forms for Avare. When burned, 
such a composition retains its pure white color, while it undergoes 

^See Dr. Ries's paper on North Carolina clays, already quoted, and also his 
numerous contributions on their subject in the volumes of the United States Geolog- 
ical Survey relating to mineral statistics. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 345 

fusion sufficient to make a liody that will not a])sorl) water. And its 
surface can be made smootli and clean by a suitable plain or orna- 
mented olaze. Ware of this kind is porcelain or china. 

Th(Minalyses on page 349, compiled from works })elieved to be authori- 
tative, show the varying character, so far as chemical composition is 
concerned, of the clays. In most of the analyses, it will be observed, 
the silica existing in the form of (juartz is given in a separate column 
from the combined, while in column 4 is given the actual calculated 
percentage of kaolin which the analyses indicates each sample contains. 

Refractory m ateriaU. —yio^^xw improvements in metallurgy, and in 
furnaces for all purposes, are dependent to a great degree on having 
materials for construction which will stand intense heat without 
fusini>-, cracking, or yielding in any way. The two materials to 
which resort is had in almost all cases, are pure clay, and quartz in 
the form of sand or rock. They are both infusible at the highest 
furnace heats. The clay, however, is liable to have in it small quan- 
tities of impurities which are fusible, and it shrinks very much when 
heated to a high temperature. Quartz rocks are very liable to crack 
to pieces if heated too rapidly, and l)oth the rocks and sand are rap- 
idly melted when in contact with alkalies, earths or metallic oxides, at 
a high temperature. They do not shrink in heating. Sandstone, or 
quartz rock, is not as much used as a refractory material as it was 
formerly. Bricks to resist intense heat are made of clay, of sand, 
and of a mixture of clay and sand. The different kinds are specially 
adapted to different uses. 

Fire bricks made of clay, or clay and sand, are the ones which have 
been generally made in the United States. To make these, the clay 
which stands an intense heat the best, is selected as the plastic mate- 
rial of the l)rick. This is tempered so that it may not shrink too 
much or unevenly in l)urning, by adding to the raw clay a portion of 
clay which has i)eeii burned till it has ceased to shrink and then 
ground, or a portion of coarse sand, or a quantity of so-called feld- 
spar. These materials are added in the proportions which the experi- 
ence of the manufacturer has found best. The formula -for the 
mixture is the special property of each manufacturer, and is not 
made public. The materials, being mixed together and properly wet, 
are molded in the same way as connnon bricks are, and after they 
have dried a little, they are put into a metallic mould and subjected to 
powerful pressure. They are then taken out, dried, and burned in a 
kiln at an intense heat. 

It does not appear which is the best for tempering, burned and 
o-round clav, or coarse sand, or feldspar. Reputable manufacturers 
are found who use each of these materials, and make brick that stand 
tire well. It is of the utmost importance to select the materials care- 



346 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

fully, and to allow no impurity to get in while handling the day or 
working the components together. 

Fire bricks intended, in addition to their refractory qualities, to 
retain their size and form under intense heat without shrinkage, have 
been made to some extent. The English Dinas bricks are of this 
kind, and the German and French "silica bricks." The Dinas bricks 
are of quartz sand or crushed rock, and contain very little alumina 
and about one per cent of lime. They stand lire remarkably- well, the 
lime being just enough to make the grains of sand stick together 
when the bricks are intensely heated. In the other "silica bricks," 
fire clay to the amount of 5 or 10 per cent is mixed with the sand, and 
this plastic material makes the particles of the sand cohere sufficiently 
to allow of handling the bricks before burning. They have met the 
expectation of those who made them, and are extensively used.^ 

Under the head of "Miscellaneous uses of clay," p. 317, Cook 
gives the following, which may well be incorporated entire: 

Paper clay. — Clay which is pure white and that also which is discolored and has 
been washed to bring it to a uniform shade of color, is used by the manufacturers 
of paper hangings, to give the smooth satin surface to the finished paper. It la used 
by mixing it up with a thin size, applying it to the surface of the pieces of paper, and 
then polishing by means of brushes driven by machinery. The finest and most 
uniformly colored clays only are applicable to this use, and they are selected with 
great care. Clay is also used to some extent by paper manufacturers, to give body 
and weight to paper. 

Heavy wrapping paper, such as is used by the United States Post- 
Ofiice Department, must, according to specifications, contain 95 per 
cent of jute butts and 5 per cent of clay. The cheaper forms of con- 
fectionery, particularly such as is sold from carts upon the streets, is 
very heavily adulterated with this material. 

Alum clay. — A large quantity of clay is sold every year to the manufacturers of 
chemicals, for making alum. A rich clay is needed for this purpose, but those con- 
taining lignite or pyrite which renders them inapplicable for refractory materials, 
do not spoil them for this use. Alum is made by digesting the clay in sulphuric 
acid, which forms sulphate of alumina, then dissolving out the latter salt from the 
silica and other impurities, and forming it into alum by the addition of the necessary 
salt of potash, soda, or ammonia, and crystallizing out the alum. 

The white clay of Ga}- Head and Chilmark, Marthas Vineyard, 
Massachusetts, was at one time used extensively for alum making, 
according to Edward Hitchcock.^ 

As a substitute for sand in making mortar and concrete clay is per- 
haps the best material to be found. For this purpose the clay is burnt 
so that it is produced in small irregular pieces that are very hard and 
durable. These pieces are then ground to a fairly fine powder, which 
is used to mix with the lime or cement just as sand would be. The 

^ Geological Survey of New Jersey, Report on Clay Deposits, pp. 307-312. 
^ American Journal of Science, XXII, 1832, p. 37. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



347 



result is a very strong- mortar, in some cas«\s stronger than when sand 
is employed.' 

The so-called gum))o clays, sticky, tough, and dark-colored clays 
of the Chariton River region, Missouri, are hard burned and used for 
railroad ballast and macadam. 

Under the names of Eoch Soap and Mineral Soap there have from 
time to time been described varieties of clay which, owing to their 
soapy feeling, are suggestive of soap, and which in a few instances 
have been actually used in the preparation of this material. 

A rock soap from Ventura County, California, has been described 
by Prof. G. H. Koenig as a mixture of sandy and clayey or soapy 
material in the proportion of 45 per cent of the first and 55 per cent 
of the second. The chemical composition of the material and of the 
two portions is given below: 



Constituents. 



Silica 

Alumina and iron 

Lime 

Magnesia 

Potash 

Soda 

Water 



Crude 
material. 



G7.55 
12.97 
0.77 
0.85 
1.43 
3.63 
13. 67 



Sandy 
portion. 



69.40 

13.50 

0.80 

Trace. 

4.55 

12.25 



Soapy 
portion. 



73.10 
14.10 

Not de- 
ter - 
mined. 

6.70 



Nearly all the silica is reported as being in a soluble or opalescent 
state and the alumina as either a hydrate or very basic silicate. It is 
said ° that at one time the material was made into a variety of use- 
ful articles, as "salt water soap," scrubbing and toilet soap, tooth pow- 
der, etc. 

A somewhat similar material from Elk County, Nevada, has been 
used for like purposes, and put upon the market under the name of 
San-too-gah-choi mineral soap. This clay is of a drab color, with a 
slight pinkish tint, a pronounced soapy feeling and slight alkaline 
reaction when moistened and placed upon test paper. An analysis by 
Packard in the laboratory of the U. S. National Museum yielded: 

Silica 48.80 

Alumina 18. 57 

Iron oxides 3. 88 

Lime 1.07 

Magnesia 2. 52 

Soda 2. 32 

Potash 1. 12 

Ignition 21. 13 

Total 99.41 

1 The Worlds Progress, February, 1893. 

=* Sixth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1886, Pt. 1, p. 132. 



348 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Mention may be made here also of the material .sold in the shops 
under the name of Bon Ami and used for cleansing glass and other 
like substances. This under the microscope shows abundant minute 
sharply angular particles, consisting of partially decomposed feldspar 
mixed with a completely amorphous mineral which may be opalescent 
silica or possibl}' a very finely comminuted pumice. An analysis by 
Packard in the laboratory of the Department yielded: 

Silica - 59.86 

Alumina 18. 74 

Magnesia 0. 34 

Potash 10. 70 

Soda - 3. 51 

Ignition 7. 67 

Total , 100.82 

Alcohol extracts 7.43 per cent, and water 0. 244 per cent in addition, 
the extract having a soapy appearance and the odor of some essential 
oil. 

A soapy clay occurring near Rock Creek station, in Albany County, 
Wyoming, has been shipped in con,siderable quantities during the past 
few years to New York, Philadelphia, and Chicago, but the use to 
which it was put remains a secret. It is stated ^ that at first the mate- 
rial was sold at the rate of $25 a ton, but that the price has now 
dropped to |5 a ton. Analyses are given as below. The chief 
physical characteristic of this clay, aside from its soapy feeling, is its 
enormous absorptive power, the absorption being attended naturally 
with an increase in bulk amounting to several times that of the origi- 
nal mass.^ Plate 17, lig. 11 shows the extreme fineness and homoge- 
neity of this clay as seen under the microscope. 



Constituents. 


I. 
Rock 
Creek. 


II. 

Crook 

County. 


III. 
Weston 
County. 


IV. 
Natrona 
County. 


SiO„ 


59.78 
15.10 
2.40 
4.14 
0.73 
(a) 

(«) 
16. 2G 


61.08 
17.12 
3.17 
1. 82 
2.69 
b 0. 20 
0.88 


63.25 

12. 62 

3.70 

3.70 

4.12 


65.24 

15.88 

3.12 

1 5.34 

(a) 
(a) 
9.17 


AI2O3 

FeoOa 


MgO 


CaO 


NaoO K.)0 


so 


1.53 


H.,0 - - 






2.132 









a No estimate. 



b NaO. 



1 Engineering and Mining Journal, LXIII, 1897, p. 600; LXVI, 1898, p. 491. 

2 A small plug of this clay fitted to accurately occupy a space of 20 cubic centi- 
meters in the bottom of a conical measuring flask, and kept saturated with water for 
two days, swelled to a bulk of 160 cubic centimeters. The absorption was so com- 
plete that none of the water ran off when the flask was inverted, and the condition 
of the clay resembled that of flour or starch paste. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



349 



5 2 
G 



r^ o -. 



^ o Q 
S > 
o 



Q « Q 



•\rn(y\ inns 3 



•Djn:j8ioH 3 



•.■Cnjiidniisno 



« i-l o o oc 



•(0"n) TtiiliT 

■(0''bn) ■Bpos 



■(o'^Ji) qswjoj 



•(03im) 



"(ow;)) f»iim 



■(So'-o^j) uoji 
JO 9pixombs9s 



XpU'BS IBiOJ, 



■("0!X) 

piDT3 OIUB^JX 



:^j 



•("OIS 



■Bsvq unoBj] 



•(0"H) -13 J 
-VAV pauiqinof) 



•(«0"lV) . 
uuuuniv 



■("OIS) ■B^ 
-HIS pauiqtnoo 



r-i O r-l O 



-f OS 



CO " 



'X> O l- 



rt i-H lO 



c^ ^ 



i-H 1^ (N 

■O « l-H 

C-1 ^ <M 



o 




e 

T) 


W 


0) 

a 






O 


■c 


>. 


K 







-r 




C-1 




c^ 







CJ 




l~ 


to 


TT 


OJ 








i 




cT 


i 




>. 




si 




£ 


2 








S 




— 











tH 




•S 


t-< 




Cj 




Oi 




2 


ff! 




Ch 




>', 


ci : 




^ 








"3 







5" 




S' 




d 


fe : 









































t. 






















d 


3 
.2 




c 




'c3 


0) 










6 '. 
2 : 






a 
s 


c 


CO 

S' 


53 


o 

cS 


d 
S 







0) 

S 


6 







c 






: 

5P ^ ^ 



a 



OJ ■S T^ 



^ O ^^ > B '^ >■ 



350 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 











- 


2 












o 














!c 


S 












s 












>• 3 


>, O 


o 












o 












a3 QQ 


li >« 




















s 






S -3 


£ c O 












o 






o 






rH a* 

§ q 
& p. 


^ OJ 


D 












0) 












"= 1 


I. * ^ 

> 3 
^- M3 

> 1 


> 6 

o « 
> 


d 





d 




3 > 

■i 5 


c 
O 


d d 








« 




o 












o 












» 


00 


S 


r- 


lO 


in 


o 




CO 


~cn 


o o 








■o 


OS 


CO 


CO 


CO 


o 




CO 


l- 


O CO 


•[nioi inns 


s 




8 


8 


si 


8 


d 

05 


g 


1 




I 


00 


8 1 








O 




CO 


oT" 


CO 








05 


~S 




•ajnjsioH 


Tf 




o 




I> 

d 


t~ 


o 








CO 

d 


0( 












to 


•* 


t^ 


1-1 


o 


OS 




lO 




O CO 








6i 


o 


Ol 




CO 




CO 




Ol 




C^ « 


•Xjundiui sno 


CO 




^■ 


c- 


d 


^^ 


JC 


CO 


d 








oi 'J'" 


-uajapp 'iTsjox 


































o 




CJ 


lO 


on 








o 




. 








o 






CJ 


!M 
















•(0"n) nmn 


c4 




d 




d 


d 


d 








d 








•(O'BN) ■epos 


tH 
















[ £ 

d 




oT 














»o 


m 










o 


•(o*x) nsnod 


i-H 






IC 


CO 


lO 


CJ 








a 












d 


o 


CO 
00 


<N„ 


CO 








d 












,_i 


t^ 




00 




05 


CO 








r-4 


o 


CO 


■^l* 


CO 




n 








o «= 


•(oSh) 






d 


o 


d 


'-' 


d 




^' 




d 




.<N ^ 


■BIBBUS'BH 


rH 
































8 


04 


o) 


t~ 


Ol 


If: 


00 




o 


a> 








o 


•♦ 


t^ 


lO 


c 


00 




>o 




00 








d 


o 


d 


d 


d 


^ 


d 




d 




o 


•(O'BO) amiT; 


ci 
































-o 


3 




t~ 


CO 


t- 


CO 




t^ 




. O rH 








02 


-^ 


i> 


00 


o 






CO 




rt O CO 


•(^O'a^j) noji 






d 


t- 


zi 


c^' 


ci 


iC 


ui 




d 


-t- 


q 2 ^• 


JO 8pixoinbs9S 


00 






















^ 


^ 








o 




to 


o> 


lo 


o 












•{■Bua^Bni 






'S' 




t^ 


t^ 


00 


« 






00 








XpUBS IBIOX 






Ci 




d 


d 

7-< 


g 


s 






oo' 














O 


c 


CO 


Cl 


CO 








00 








•Coix) 






CO 


t^ 


<N 


r^ 










CO 








piOB om'BaTX 


«o 




'"' 


*" 


*"* 


d 


d 








'"^ 














o 




O 


t^ 


o> 


§ 


CO 
















lO 


o 


CO 
















^ 




iC 


d 


(m' 


CO 


+ 


o 


r-^ 




JS ^ 


■(°ois 










IH 


rH 


>o 


iC 


O 


00 


" 




o "3 


88 Jj) Z:)^!!^ 


Id 
















U 








5 £ 








-f 






o> 


CO 


c" 








~~p 


o t~ 








0) 


Ol 




O 




o 




CO 


o- 


00 o> 


•8SBq uiio«5{ 


^ 




'-0 


t^ 


iC 


-r 


d 


-V 


CI 

o 


00 


t-" 


t-^ irf 


aqj JO :ju'8D J8<i 




en 


en 


r^ 


t^ 


« 




a 


d 


l^ 


cr 


OS Ol 








o 


^ 




t^ 




c 








~~i^ 


O CO 








l-t 


<c 


00 


CO 


o 


cc 






CO 


t^ 


lO -* 


•(O'B) -131 


CO 




■^ 


c 


00 


d 




l> 


o 


CO 




c<- 


d d 


-■BAv pauiqraoo 
















a 


d 




^ 










•* 


c 


00 


o> 


o> 


c- 


<M 




■^ 


O rf 


•('onv) 






C<l 


c 


00 


CO 


00 


cc 


■^ 




00 


3 


00 t- 


•BUiraniv 


c^ 




00 


? 


si 


S 


lO 


?2 


d 




CO 


c 


t s 








~o 


ir: 




CO 


o 


o 


o 




en 


^^ 


CO t~ 


■(Sots) ■B3 
-IIis p8uiqTOO0 






05 


iC 


o 


t- 


•M 








CO 


t- 


lO 1^ 


'"' 




CO 


5 


^ 


s 


d 


^ 


s 




s' 


c^ 


ci d 


d 






?" 




£ 


o 


o 


p 


^- 




d 


a 


: tn 


_o 






tic 







!c 


2 


'5 


5 




s 




I 3 






fd 


■c 


_a 


s! 


o 


o 


^ 

2 


■« 




o 


> 


: g 


o 




;3 


Xi 




3q 


be 


£f 


_c 


< 




c 


•g 




•a 




.s 


8 


> 




"2 


3 


2 

c 


d 


>. 


o 




: o 


1 




8 
i 

e 


O 
«3 


e 
c 

a 

> 




II 


G 


,5 


=3 
d 

S 
o 

oT 
o 

2 S 


C3 

"3 
_p. 

-2 


1 ^. 




• d 

: CJ 


§ 

o 




1 


^ 0) 

o £ 


a 




2 S 
o -3 


Qj 2 


S. a 

.n c 


"o 

oj 
O 

O 


a 
a> 
-a 
o 
W 

W 


PC 

c 


■ <D 

: E 

.2 o =3 ,2 
o so 






M 


5 


» 


m 


^^ 


•< 


^ 




d 


K 


ts 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



351 













d 
S 
O 






3 




O 


o 

a 


o' 
3 














"^ 




03 


cc 


0;' 


"o 


^ 


CO 


0) 
















3 




u 


^ 




u 
















o 


a; 


>1 




o 


0) 












a> 




3 

o 


D 


■-J 


<u 




OP 


-5 












> 




O 


& 




■ 5 


o_ 














3 


>■ 


_^_, 


^' 


o 


3 


^ *j 


i5 


S 


o 

ft 




o o 


o 




1 


o 


a 

OJ 






"c 

4> 


III 


'A 
"c 












O 




OJ 






O 


03 






oT" 




rH lO 


~oi 




^ 




"o" 






"^ 


3! 






CO 




CO c 


OI 




00 




in 






00 


lO 






s 




8 I 






§5' 




§ 






g 








rH 














'o~ 















a> 




s^'^ 


~o 




ii 








o 






to 




M 




a> 




en 








en 






,_; 


— 


^ 


^ 




d 




d 








CM 






i^ 






i~- 










"lo 


r^ 






Ol 




r-t 


CO 




o 




OJ 






o 


•a 






oi 




CO 


'^ 




c^' 




CO 






to 


in 
















lO 










Tf 


















to 










-^ 








iH 




























H 




h^ 






o 










d 












t: >> 


























^ 1 




















































S" 




"cT ^ 






to 




"o^ 






~55 










c> r 


I— 








CO 








t^ 






o 




_o J 


= 




^4 




CM 






CM 


C-l 






o 


















lO 


X 






TJ* 




CO "B. 




n 








t^ 








o 




o = 






O 

u 


CO 

00 








o 


c 
















W) ^• 


























<< 


*"' 


















— 


5 
























m~ 
















"I; 








eo 




in 
















to 








O 




o 






6 g 








o 


















CJ 




























a 


S? 


























5 


CM 
















CO 




-^ 


c 




^ 




r^ 






,— . 


oc 






o 




C^l 






X 




to 






o 


t£ 






'"' 




"' 


^ 




r 










^ 


C^ 






^^ 














~~^ 








C 










•o 


o- 




C 


to 


o 








OC 






r-i 




od 


oc 




^ 


•■; 


00 








oc 






CO 




(M 


iC 




"^ 
















o^ 




■^ 


c 








"^" 








c 






CO 




OS 


tc 




c 


S! 


1-t 








c 










o 








<N 

CO 


^ 








■- 






-* 




,_, 


ir 








o 








c 






CO 




l> > 


•. c 








Ol 








oc 






^ 




i^ is 


t- 








to' 








f. 






CO 




CM i 

1 


u- 
















c- 






Oi 




"o ir 


c 








"s^ 






~bc 


c^ 






o 




S c 


a 




6c 








t^ 


c 






CO 




I-- c 


cr 




a 




l~ 






/^ 


•N 






<o 




o c 


0- 




■^ 










3- 


tc 






o 




-^ c^ 


c 








""o~ 








c 






CD 




a> 1- 


o 




. « 




o 






u- 


ti: 






CO 




en c 


■fl 




*~ 




I- 






c 


^ 


■ 




1"^ 




t>- c 


>~c 




ir 




00 






u" 


c^ 






o» 




-J. c^ 


u- 




t> 




o 






l"^ 


-a 






^ 




-O" t£ 


^ 




— 




d 






1^ 


t~ 






Ol 




CI ^ 


"" 








CO 






' 


c 






cT" 




1- c^ 


c 








"^" 






c 


c 






■» 




O T- 


o 




" 




0? 






IT 








oi 




-H C 


I- 




« 




d> 






>r 


oc 






<M 




CO «: 






p- 




CO 






IT 


o 






, 




1 c 


' ^ 


















. 




3 






c 


> 




















D 




■ !E 




























: c 
























M 






























_o _ 


f c 


J >. 


J 












.i 






03 

0) 

c 




q 1 


i 




'•^ 




"C 


















o" 5 


'■ 


3 ►n 






« 










% 




6 




^ *- 


> c 


5 ^ 


e o; 




■^ 








C 


OJ 




5 


2 
o 




5 ^ 
i C 


2 OS 


•7- t 

<5 I 




o; 
be 










5 ^ 




E 
c 


> 










cC 

t> 
cS 






a 




1 '1' 




s 


O 


s 5 


^ § 


^ 




3 






J 


c 






•1 


* 


^ i 




. m 


:; 




5 






a 


J 


:• c? 




11 




m pi 


5 p 


5 


% 




S 






>? 


2 





352 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

The bibliography of claj^s is very extensive, and but a few references 
are given here. The reader is referred particularly to Branner's Bibli- 
ography of Clays and the Ceramic Arts/ and to the papers of Dr. H. Ries 
in the reports on the Mineral Resources of the United States, published 
annually by the U. S. Geological Survey. 

S. W. Johnson, John M. Blake. On Kaolinite and Pholerite. 

American Journal of Science, XLIII, 1867, p. 351. 
J. C. Smock. The Fire Clays and associated Plastic Clays, Kaolins, Feldspars, and 
Fire Sands of New Jersey. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, VI, 1877, p. 177. 
George H. Cook. Report on the Clay Deposits of Woodbridge, South Amboy, and 
other places in New Jersey. 

Geological Survey of New Jersey, 1878. 
Richard C. Hills. Kaolinite, from Red Mountain, Colorado. 

American Journal of Science, XXVII, 1884, p. 472. See also Bulletin No. 20, 
U. S. Geological Survey, 1885, p. 97. 
J. P. Lesley. Some general considerations respecting the origin and distribution of 
the Delaware and Chester kaolin deposits. 

Annual Report Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, 1885, p. 571. 
J. H, Collins. On the Nature and Origin of Clays: The Composition of Kaolinite. 

Mineralogical Magazine, VII, December, 1887, p. 205. 
J. Francis Williams, R. N. Bracket. Newtonite and Rectorite — two new minerals 
of the Kaolinite Group. 

American Journal of Science, XLII, 1892, p. 11. 
Edward Orton. The Clays of Ohio, Their Origin, Composition, and Varieties. 

Report of the Geological Survey of Ohio, VII, 1893, pp. 45-68. 
Edward Orton, jr. The Clay Working Industries of Ohio. 

Report of the Geological Survey of Ohio, VII, 1893, pp. 69-254. 
H. O. HoFMAN, C. D. Demond. Some Experiments for Determining the Refractori- 
ness of Fire Clays. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXIV, 1894, p. 42. 
W. Maynard HyTCHiNGS. Notes on the Composition of Clays, Slates, etc., and on 
some Points in their Contact-Metamorphism. 
The Geological Magazine, I, 1894, p. 36. 
H. JocHUM. The Relation between Comi)osition and Ki'fiactoiy Characters in Fire 
Clays. 

Minutes of Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers, ('XX, 1894-95, 
p. 431. 
J. A. Holmes. Notes on the Kaolin and Clay Deposits of North Carolina. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXV, 1895, p. 929. 
Heinkich Ries. Clay Industries of New York. 

Bulletin No. 12 of the New York State Museum, III, March, 1895, pp. lUO-262. 
John Casper Branner. Bibliography of Clays and the Ceramic Arts. 

Bulletin No. 143, U. S. Geological Survey, 1896. 
W. S. Blatchley. a Preliminary Report on the Clays and Clay Industries of the 
Coal and Coal-Bearing Counties of Indiana. 

The School of Mines Quarterly, XVIII, 1896, p. 65. 
W. Maynard Hutchings. Clays, Shales, and Slates. 

The Geological INIagazine, III, 1896, p. 309. 
Chas. F. Mabery, Otis T. Flooz. Composition of American Kaolins. 

Journal of the American Chemical Society, XVIII, 1896, \>. 909. 

1 Bulletin No. 143, U. S. Geological Survey, 1896. 



THE NONMETALLIO MINKKALS. 



353 



CiiAs. F. Mabery, OtisT.Flooz. C'lay, liricky, rottery, etr. 

Thirteenth Report of the California State Mineralogi.st, ISIXI, p. lilL'. 
Thomas C. Hopkins. Clays and Clay Indnstries of Pennsylvania. 

Appendix to the Animal Report of the Pennsylvania State C^oUege for hsi)7. 
J. Nelson Nevius. Kaijlin in Vermont. 

Engineering and Mining Jonrnal, LXIV, 1897, j). 189. 
Heinkicii Ries. The Clays and Clay-Working Industry of Colorado. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXVII, 1897, 
p. 336. 
H. A. Wheeler. Clay Deposits. 

Missouri (xeological Survey, XI. 
W. W. Clendennin. Clays of Louisiana. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LXVI, 1898, p. 456. 
M. H. Crump. The Clays and Building Stones of Kentucky. 

Engineering and INIining Journal, LXVI, 1898, p. 190. 
W. C. Knight. Bentonite. [A New Clay.] 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LXVI, 1898, p. 491. 

The Building Stones and Clays of Wyoming. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LXVI, 1898, p. 546. 
Heinrich Ries. Physical Tests of New York Shales. 
School of Mines Quarterly, XIX, 1898, p. 192. 

The Ultimate and the Rational Analysis of Clays and Their Relative Advantages. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXVIII, 1898, 
p. 160. 
Eugene A. Smith. The Clay Resources of Alaljama and the Industries Dependent 
upon Them. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LXVI, 1898, p. 369. 
J. E. Todd. The Clay and Stone Resources of South Dakota. 
Engineering and Mining Journal, LXVI, 1898, p. 371. 

VII. NIOBATES AND TANTALATES. 

1. COLUMBITE AND TANTALITE. 

These are columl^ates and tantalates of iron and manganese, colum- 
bite representing- the nearly pure cphunbate and tantalitc the nearly 
pure tantalate. Both are likely to carry varying quantities of iron 
and manganese. The analyses given below will serve to show the 
varying composition, No. I being columbito from Greenland, No. II 
from Haddam, Connecticut, and Nos. Ill and IV from the Black Hills 
of South Dakota: 



Constituents. 



Columbium pentoxide . 
Tantalium pentoxide . , 

Iron protoxide 

Manganese protoxide . 



77.97 



17.33 
3.28 



II. 



51.58 

28.55 

13.54 

4.55 



III. 



54.09 
18.20 
11.21 

7.07 



29. 78 

53.28 

6.11 

10. 40 



With traces of tin, wolfram, lime, magnesia, etc. 

The mineral is of an iron black, grayish or brownish color, opaque, 
often with a bluish iridescence, dark red to black streak, specitic 
gravity varying from 5.3 to 7.3 and hardness of 6. Insoluble in acids. 
NAT MUS 99 23 



354 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Occurrence. — The mineral occurs in granitic and feldspathic veins 
in the form of crystals, crj'stalline granules, and cleavable masses. In 
the United States it has been found in greater or less abundance in 
nearly all the States bordering along the Appalachian Mountain sys- 
tem (Specimen No. 63-1:78, from Portland, Connecticut), in the Black 
Hills of South Dakota, and also in California and Colorado. It has 
also been found in Ital}', Bavaria, Finland, Greenland, and western 
South America. 

Uses.- — The material is used only in the preparation of salts of 
columbium and tantalium, and as but a small quantity of these salts 
are used, the mineral is in but little demand, except as mineralogical 
specimens. 

2. Yttrotantalite. 

This name is given to a mineral closely related to samarskite (see 
below), but carrying smaller percentages of uranium and lacking in 
didymium and lanthanum. It is essentially a tantalate of yttrium 
with small amounts of other of the rarer earths, (Specimen No. «)0926, 
U.S.N.M.) In appearance it is distinguished from samarskite only 
with difficulty. Pyrochlore, fergusonite, teschynite, euxenite, etc., 
are closely related compounds, the commercial uses of which have not 
yet been demonstrated. 

3. Samarskite. 

Composition as given below. When crystallized, in the form of 
rectangular prisms, but occurring more commonly massive and in 
flattened granules. Cleavage, imperfect; fracture conchoidal; brittle. 
Hardness, 5 to 6; specific gravity, 5.6 to 5.8. Luster, vitreous to 
resinous. Color, velvet black. (Specimen No. 62772, U.S.N.M.) 



Constituents. 



Columbic oxide 

Tantallc oxide 

Tungstic and stannic oxides , 

Uranic oxide 

Ferrous oxide 

Manganous oxide 

Cerous oxide, etc 

Yttria 

Magnesia 

Lime 

Loss by ignition 

Insoluble 



54.81 



17.03 
14.07 



3.9.5 
11.11 



II. 



.54. 96 

0.16 
9.91 

14.02 
0.91 
5.17 

12.84 



0.52 
0.66 
1.25 



III. 



55.13 

0.31 
10.96 
11.74 
1.53 
4.24 
14.49 
Trace. 



37.20 
18.60 
0.08 
12.46 
10.90 
0.75 
4.25 
14. 45 



0.55 
1.12 



99. 12 100. 36 



Localities and mode of occurrence. — The only localities of importance 
in the United States are the Wiseman Mica Mine and Grassy Creek 
Mine, in Mitchell (Specimen No. 62772, U.S.N.M.) and in McDowell 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



355 



counties, North Carolinii. The mineral has also been found in the form 
of black o-rains and pebbles, sometimes weij^hino- one-fourth of an ounce, 
in thegokl-bi^aring sands of Rutherford County. At the Wiseman Mine 
large masses, one weighing upwards of 20 pounds, were found some 
years ago. The analyses quoted above were made from material from 
this mine,* 

Uses. — See under Monazite, p. 383. 

4. Wolframite and Hijbnerite. 

Composition, a tungstate of manganese, and iron. The proportion of 
the iron and manganese are quite variable, the tungsten remaining 
nearly constant. The name hiibnerite is given to the variety contain- 
ing very little iron, but consisting essentially of tungsten and man- 
ganese. The following table shows the range in composition: 



Locality. 


WO3. 


FeO. 


MnO. 


CaO. 


MgO. 


Wolframite: 


75.55 

75. 47 

76.33 

74.88 


2L31 
9.53 

3.82 
0.56 


2.37 
14.26 

19.72 
23.87 


0. 26 


0. 51 


Monroe, Connecticut 

Hiibnerite: 

Bonita, New Mexico 

Nye County, Nevada 


0.13 
0.14 


Tracu. 
0.08 



Wolframite is dark reddish brown to black in color, with a resinous 
luster; has a hardness of about 5, a specific gravity of 7.55, and a pro- 
nounced tendency to cleave with flat, even surfaces. Its great weight, 
color, and cleavage tendencies are strongly marked characteristics, and 
the mineral once identified is as a rule easily recognized. 

Occurrence. — The mineral is found in veins associated with tin ore 
(cassiterite), and also with quartz, pyrite, galena, sphalerite, etc. The 
chief known localities in the United States are Monroe and Trumbull, 
Connecticut; Blue Hill Bay, Maine; Rockbridge County, Virginia 
(Specimen No. 65206, U.S.N.M.); the Mammoth district, Nye and 
Lander counties, Nevada (Specimens Nos. 15755, 5653, U.S.N.M.);Black 
Hills, S. Dakota (Hiibnerite) (Specimen No. 53461, U.S.N.M.); Bonita 
and W^hite Oaks, Lincoln County, New Mexico; Falls County, Texas 
(Specimen No. 62766, U.S.N.M.); Russellville, Arizona (Specimen No. 
53223,U. S. N. M. ). The foreign localities are the tin regions of Bohemia, 
Saxony (Specimen No. 67752, U.S.N.M.), and Cornwall and Devon- 
shire (Specimens Nos. 67460, 67753, 67787, and 67788, U.S.N.M.), 
England; also Australia (Specimens Nos. 60978, 60967, U.S.N.M.)and 
Bolivia and Peru, South America. For uses, see under Scheelite, 
•p. 356. 

^See the Minerals of North Carohna, Bulletin 74, U. S. Geological Survey, 1891. 



356 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

5. SCHEELITE. 

This is calcium tungstate, consisting when pure of some 80.6 per 
cent tungsten trioxide (WO3) and 19.4 per cent lime; usually, however, 
carrying from 1 to 8 per cent of molybdic oxide (M0O3). The min- 
eral is white and translucent, and yellow and brownish in color, with 
a hardness of 4.5-5, gravity 6, and a tendency to cleave into octa- 
hedral forms. The occurrence is similar to that of wolframite, but 
the mineral is less common. 

Uses. — The tungstates have been used mainly in the manufacture of 
tungstic acid, but the metal tungsten is coming into use as an alloy 
in making steel. Recently attempts have been made in France to 
utilize the material in porcelain glazes, but thus far without much 
success. There is at present no regular source of supply in America. 

Bibliography. 

J. Phillp. Tungsten Bronzes. 

Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, I, 1882, p. 152. 
The Use of Wolfram or Tungsten. 

Iron Age, XXXIX, 1887, p. 33. 
T. A. RicKARD. Tungsten. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LIII, 1892, p. 448. 
Wolfram Ore. 

Iron Age, XL, 1892, p. 229. 
Adolf Gurlt. On a Remarka)>le Deposit of Wolfram Ore in the United States. 

Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, XXII, 1893, p. 236. 
See also Engineering and Mining Journal, LVI, 1893, p. 216. 
F. Cremer. The Place of Tungsten in the Industries. 

Iron Age, LVI, 1895, p. 536. 
Henri Moissan. Researches on Tungsten. 

Minutes of the Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers, CXXVI, 
1895-96, p. 481. 
R. Helmhacker. Wolfram Ore. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LXII, 1896, p. 153. 
Prof. BoDENBENDER. Wolfram in the Sierra de CordoVja, Argentine Repu])lic. 

Transactions of the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical 
Engineers, XLV, Pt. 3, March, 1896, p. 59. 

Vlll. PHOSPHATES. 
1, Apatite; rock phosphate; guano; etc. 

Phosphorus is one of the most widespread of the elements, and is 
apparently indispensable to both animal and vegetable life. In nature 
it occurs in various compounds, by far the more common being the 
phosphates of calcium and aluminum, such as are commercially used 
as fertilizers. These in various conditions of impurity occur under 



(II) Rock phosphates 



THK NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 357 

several forms, some distinct and well defined, others illy defined and 
passino- by insensible o-radations into one another, but all classed under 
the oeneial term of phosphates. Their orio-in and general physical 
properties are quite variable, and any attempt at classifyino- must be 
more or less arbitrary. For our present purposes it is sufficient that 
we treat them under the heads of mineral phosphates and rock phos- 
phates, as has been done by Dr. Penrose.' These two classes are then 
subdivided as below: 

( Apatites 1 ^^'''''' ^P^t^*^'^' 
(I) Mineral phosphates ^. -j p^ j^^^.-^p I Chlor apatites. 

Amorphous nodular phosphates loose 

or cemented into conglomerates. 

Phosphatic limestones. 

r^ \ Soluble guanos. 

Guanos < ^ , ^^ 

( Leached guanos. 

Bone beds. 

Apatite. — ITnder the name of apatite is included a mineral composed 
essentially of phosphate of lime, though nearly always carrying small 
amounts of fluorine or chlorine, thereby giving rise to the varieties 
ftucrr-apaHtc and chlor-apatite. The mineral crystallizes in the hex- 
agonal system, forming well-defined six-sided elongated prisms of a 
green, yellow, rose, or reddish color, or sometimes quite colorless. 
(Specimens, Nos. 02128, ()212!), U.S.N.M., from Renfrew, Canada.) 
It also occurs as a crystalline granular rock mass. (Specimens, 
Nos. 62137, 6211:8, 65111, U.S.N.M.) The hardness is 4.5 to 5; specific 
gravity, 3.23; luster, vitreous. Apatite in the form of minute crystals 
is an almost universal constituent of eruptive rocks of all kinds and 
all ages. It is also found in sedimentary and metamorphic rocks as 
a constituent of veins of various kinds, and is a connnon accompani- 
ment of beds of magnetic iron ore. It is only when occurring segre- 
gated in veins and pockets, either in distinct crystals or as massive 

1 Bulletin No. 46 of the U. S. Geological Survey. 

^Fuchs (Notes Sur la Constitution des Gites Phosphate de Chaux) divides the 
natural phosphates into three classes. In the first the phosphatic material is concen- 
trated in sedimentary beds; in the second it is disseminated throughout eruptive 
rocks, and in the third it constitutes entirely or partially the material filling veins 
and pockets. That found in sedimentary teds occurs in rounded and concretionary 
masses called nodules. In eruptive and metamorphic rocks the phosphate occurs in 
the crystalline form of apatite, sometimes isolated or grouped in aggregates. In 
veins the phosphate occurs massive and in pockets, crystalline, but not in distinct 
crystals; rather as globular and radiating masses. To such the name phosphorite is 
given. The three varieties show a like variation in solubility, the amorphous phos- 
phates being soluble in citrate or oxalate of ammonia to the extent of 30 to 50 per 
cent; the phosphorites to the extent of only 15 to 30 per cent, and the apatite 
' scarcely at all. The amorphous phosphates alone have proven of value for direct 
application to soils, the other varieties needing previous treatment to render them 
soluble. 



358 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



crystalline aggregates, as in Canada and Norway, that the material 
has any great economic value. The average composition of the apa- 
tites, as given in the latest edition of Dana's Mineralogy, is as follows: 



Variety. 


P2O6 


CaO 


F. 


01. 






41.0 
42.3 


53.8 
55.5 


3.8 


6.8 


or CagPaOg 89.4 + CaCl, 10. 0. 
or CasPaOg 92.25 + CaFa 7. 75. 







The name phosphorite covers a material of the same composition as 
apatite, but occurring in massive concretionary and mammilary forms. 
(Specimens No. 37M7, U.S.N.M., from Spain and 60741, U.S.N. M., 
from Florida). The name was first used by Kirwan in describing the 
phosphates of Estremadura, Spain, which occur in veins and pockety 
masses in Silurian schists, as noted later. 

Rock phosphate. — The general name of rock phosphate is given to 
deposits having no definite composition but consisting of amorphous 
mixtures of phosphatic and other mineral matter in indefinite propor- 
tions. Here would l)e included the amorphous nodular phosphates 
like those of our Southern Atlantic States (Specimens Nos. 34322, 
44244, 66737, U.S.N. M.), phosphatic limestones and marls (Specimens 
Nos. 62718, U.S.N.M., Africa, and 62723 Utah), guano (Speci- 
men No. 69281, U.S.N.M.), and bone bed deposits (Specimens Nos. 
66581, 67332, U.S.N.M.). These are so variable in character that no 
satisfactory description of them as a whole can be given. The name 
coprolite is given to a nodular phosphate such as occurs among the 
Carboniferous beds of the Firth of Forth in Scotland, and which is 
regarded as the fossilized excrement of vertebrate animals. (Specimen 
No. 62731, U.S.N.M.) Phosphatic limestones and marl, as the names 
denote, are simply ordinary limestones and marls containing an appre- 
ciable amount of lime in the form of phosphate. Such are rarely suf- 
ficiently rich to be of value except in the immediate vicinity, owing to 
cost of transportation. Guano is the name given to the accumulations 
of sea-fowl excretions, such as occur in quantities only in rainless 
regions, as the western coast of South America. The most noted 
deposits are on small islands off the coast of Peru. The material is of a 
white-gra}^ and yellowish color, friable, and contains some 20 or more 
per cent of phosphate of lime, 10 to 12 per cent of organic matter, 30 
per cent ammonia salts, and 20 per cent of water. Through prolonged 
exposure to the leaching action of meteoric waters, like deposits in the 
West India Islands have lost all their ammonia salts and other soluble 
constituents and become converted into insoluble phosphates, or 
leached guanos like those of the Navassa Islands. (Specimen No. 73243, 
U.S.N.M., to be noted later; and also specimens from the Grand Con- 
netables, French Guiana, Nos. 73069 to 73075, U.S.N.M., and Redonda 
Nos. 53147 to 53152, U.S.N.M.) 

Origin and occurrence. — The origin of the various forms of phos- 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 359 

phatic deposits has been a subiect of much specuhition. Their occur- 
rence luuler diverse conditions renders it certain that not all can be 
traced to a common source, but are the result of different agencies 
acting under the same or different conditions. By many, all forms are 
regarded as being phosphatic materials from animal life, and owing 
their present diversity of form to the varying conditions to which 
they were at the time of formation or have since been subjected. 
This, however, as long since pointed out, is an uncalled-for hypothesis, 
sinc(^ phosphatic matter must have existed prior to the introduction 
of animal life, and there is no reason to suppose it may not, under proper 
conditions, have been brought int® combination as phosphate of lime 
without the intervention of life in any of its forms. The almost 
universal presence of apatite in small and widely disseminated forms 
in eruptive rocks of all kinds and all ages would seem to declare its 
independence of animal origin as completely as the pyroxenic, feld- 
spathic, or quartzose constituents with which it is there associated. 
The occurrence of certain of the Canadian apatites as noted later, 
in veins and pockets, sometimes with a banded or concretionary 
structure and blending gradually into the country rock, is regarded 
by some as strongly suggestive of an origin by deposition from solu- 
tion, that is, by a process of segregation of phosphates from the 
surrounding rock contemporaneously with their metamorphism and 
crystallization. 

Dr. Ells, of the Canadian survey, would regard those occurring in 
close juxtaposition with eruptive pyroxenites as due to coml)ination 
of the phosphoric acid brought up in vapors along the line of contact 
with the calcareous materials in the already softened gneisses. This 
explanation as well as others will perhaps be better understood in the 
part of this work relating to localities. On the other hand, the pres- 
ence of apatite in crystalline form associated with beds of iron ore, 
as in northern New York, has been regarded by Prof. W. P. Blake 
and others as indicative of an organic and sedimentary origin for both 
minerals. The Norwegian apatite from its association with an erup- 
tive rock (gabbro) has been regarded as itself of eruptive origin. 

The phosphorites, like the apatites, occur in commercial quantities 
mainly among the older rocks, and in pockets and veins so situated as 
to lead to the conclusion that they are secondary products derived by 
a process of segregation from the inclosing material. Davies regards 
the Bordeaux phosphorites occurring in the Jurassic limestones of 
southern France as the result of phosphatic matter deposited on the 
rocky floor of an Eocene ocean, from water largely impregnated with 
it. Others have considered them as geyserine ejections, or due to infil- 
tration of water charged with phosphatic matter derived from the bones 
in the overlying clays. Stanier, on the other hand, regards the phos- 
phorites of Portugal as due to segregation of phosphatic matter from 
the surrounding granite, the solvent being meteoric waters. These 



360 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

deposits are regarded as superficial and limited to those portions of the 
rock afi'ected by surface waters. 

The origin of the amorphous, nodular, and massive rock phosphates 
can, as a rule, be traced more directly to organic agencies. All things 
considered, it seems most probable that the phosphatic matter itself 
was contained in the numerous animal remains, which, in the shape of 
phosphatic limestones, marls, and guanos, have accumulated under 
favorable conditions to form deposits of very considerable thickness. 
Throughout these beds the phosphatic matter would, in most cases, be 
disseminated in amounts too sparing to be of economic value, but it 
has since their deposition been concentrated l)y a leaching out by per- 
colating waters of the more soluble carbonate of lime. Thus H. Losne, 
in writing of the nodular phosphates occurring in pockety masses in 
clay near Doullens (France), argues that the nodules as well as the clay 
itself are due to the decalcification of preexisting chalk by percolating 
meteoric waters. 

In this connection it is instructive to note that phosphatic nodules, 
in size rarely exceeding 4 to 6 cm. , were dredged up during the Clud- 
lenger expedition from depths of from 98 to 1,900 fathoms on the 
Agualhas Banks, south of the Cape of Good Hope. These are rounded 
and very irregular capricious forms, sometimes angular and have 
exteriorly a glazed appearance, due to a thin coating of oxides of iron 
and manganese. The nodules yield from 19.90 to 23.51: per cent P2O5. 
In those from deep water there are found an abundance of calcareous 
organic remains, especially of rhizopods. The phosphate penetrates 
the shell in every part, and replaces the original carbonate of lime. 

The nodules are most abundant apparent!}" where there are great 
and rapid changes of temperature due to alternating warm and cold 
oceanic currents, as off the Cape of Good Hope and eastern coast of 
North America. Under such conditions, together with perhaps altered 
degrees of salinity, marine organisms would be killed in great num- 
bers, and l)y the accumulation of their remains would, it is believed, 
furnish the necessary phosphatic matter for these nodules. It seems 
probable that the Cretaceous and Tertiary deposits in various parts of 
the world may have formed under similar conditfons. 

Hughes has described^ phosphatic coralline limestones on the islands 
of Barbuda and Aruba (West Indies), as having undoubtedly originated 
through a replacement of their original carbonic by phosphoric acid, 
the latter acid being derived from the overl3dng guano. The phos- 
phatic guano has, however, now completely disappeared through the 
leaching and erosive action of water, leaving the coral rock itself con- 
taining 70 to 80 per cent phosphate of lime. 

Hayes ^ regards the Tennessee black phosphates (Specimens Nos. 

H^uarterly Journal of the Geological Society of London, XLI, 1885, p. 80. 
■^Sixteenth Annual Report of the U. S. Geological Survey, 1894-95, Pt. 4, p. (120; 
Seventeenth Annual Report U. S. Geological Survey, 1895-96, Pt. 2, p. 22. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



J61 



62574 and 02781, U.S.N.M.) as duo to the slow accumulation on sea bot- 
toms of phosphatic organisms (LinyuUf), from which the carbonate of 
lime was o-radually removed by the leachino- action of carbonated waters, 
leaving- the less soluble phosphate behind. The white bedded phosphates 
of Perry County (Specimen No. 520()0, U.S.N.M.), in the same State, are 
regarded as a product of secondary replacement — that is, as due to phos- 
phate of lime in solution, replacing the carlwnate of lime of preexisting 
limestones, as in the case noted above. The source of the phosphoric 
acid, whether from the overlying C-arboniferous limestones or from the 
older Devonian and Silurian rocks, is not, however, in this case apparent. 
Teall has shown ^ that some phosphatic rocks from Clipp<M-ton Atoll, 
in the northern Pacific, are trachytes in which phosphoric acid has 
replaced the original silica. The replacement he regards as having 
been effected through the agency of alkaline (principally ammonium) 
phosphate which has leached down from overlying guano. A micro- 
scopic examination of the rock in thin sections showed that the replacing 
process began with the interstitial matter, then extended to the feldspar 
microlites, and lastly the porphyritic sanidin crystals. The gradual 
change in the relative proportion of silica and phosphoric acid, as shown 
by analyses of more or less altered samples, is shown below. No. I being 
that of the unaltered rock and II and III of the altered forms: 



Constituents. 



SiOo 

PoOs 

Loss on ignition 



54.0 

8.4 
3.8 



43.7 
17.0 
12.3 



2.8 
38.5 
23.0 



From a comparison of th(\se rocks with those of Redonda, in the 
Spanish West Indies, it is concluded that the latter phosphates have 
likewise resulted from a similar replacement in andesitic rocks. (Speci- 
mens Nos. 53148 to 53152, U.S.N.M.) In this connection reference 
is made to the work of M. A. Gautier,^ in which he describes the 
formation of aluminous phosphates in caves through the action of the 
ammonium phosphate arising from decomposing organic matter on 
the clay of the floor of caverns. (See undei: Occurrences.) 

The guanos, as noted elsewhere, owe their origin mainly to the accu- 
mulations of sea-fowl excretions. Such deposits when unleached, are 
relatively poor in phosphatic matter and rich in salts of ammonia. 
Where, however, subjected to the leaching action of rains the more 
soluble constituents are carried away, leaving the less soluble phos- 
phates, together with impurities, in the shape of alumina, silica, and 
iron oxides to form the so-called leached guanos of the West India 
Islands. As stated in the descriptions of localities, guano deposits are 

' Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society of London, LIV, 1898, p. 230. 
^Formation des Phosphates Naturels d' Alumina et de Fer, Comptes Rendus de 
I'Academie des Sciences, Paris, CXVI, 1893, p. 1491. 



362 EEPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

not infrequently of a thickness such as to cause their origin as above 
stated to seem well-nig-h incredible were there not sufficient data 
acquired within historic times to demonstrate its accuracy beyond dis- 
pute. Thus it is said^ that in the j^ear 1840 a vessel loaded with 
guano on the island of Ichabo, on the east coast of Africa. During 
the excavations which were necessary the crew exhumed the dead body 
of a Portuguese sailor, who, according to the headboard on which his 
name and date of burial had been carved with a knife, had been interred 
fifty-two years previously. The top of this headboard projected 2 feet 
above the original surface, but had been covered by exactly 7 feet of 
subsequent deposit of guano. That is to say, the deposition was going 
on at the rate of a little over an inch and a half yearly. 

LOCALITIES OF PHOSPHATES. 

Cajiada.^According to Dr. Ells, of the Canadian Survey,^ the dis- 
covery of apatite in the Laurentian rocks of eastern Canada was first 
made in the vicinity of the Lievre by Lieutenant Ingall in 1829, though 
it was not until early in 1860 that actual mining was begun. The 
mineral occurs in the form of well-defined crystals in a matrix of 
coarsely crystalline calcite (Specimen No. 67942, U.S.N.M.) and in 
vein-like and pockety granular masses along the line of contact 
between eruptive pyroxenites and Laurentian gneisses. The first 
form is the predominant one for Ontario onl}", the second for Quebec. 
From a series of openings made at the North Star Mine, in the region 
north of Ottawa, it appears that the massive coarsely crystalline gran- 
ular apatite follows a somewhat regular course in the pyroxenite near 
the gneiss, but occurs principally in a series of large bunches or chim- 
neys connected with each other by smaller strings or leaders. Some- 
times these pockety bunches of ore are of irregular shape and yield 
hundreds of tons, but present none of the characteristics of veins, 
either in the presence of hanging or foot walls, while many of the 
masses of apatite appear to be completely isolated in the mass of 
pyroxene, though possibly there may have been a connection through 
small fissures with other deposits. The lack of any connection between 
these massive apatites' and the regularl}'^ stratified gneiss is evident, 
and their occurrence in the pyroxene is further evidence in support of 
the view that these workable deposits are not of organic origin, but 
confined entirely to igneous rocks. In certain cases where a supposed 
true-vein structure has been found, such structure can be explained 
by noticing that the deposits of phosphates occur, for the most part at 
least, near the line of contact between the pyroxene and the gneiss. 

By far the greater part of the Canadian apatite thus far mined has 
been from the Ottawa district of Quebec, where it is mined or quar- 
ried mainly from open cuts and shafts. The principal fields lie in 

1 R. Ridgway, Science, XXI, 1893, p. 360. 

^ The Canadian Mining and Meclianical Review, March, 1893. 



THE NONMKTALLIC MINERALS. 



363 



Ottawa County, Province of Quolmc (Specimen No. 62167, U.S.N.M.) 
and Leeds, Lanark (Specimens Nos. 621H6, ()i!l87, U.S.N.M.), Fron- 
tenae (Specimen No. 62148, U.S.N.M.), Addington, and Renfrew 
(Specimen No. 62130, U.S.N.M.) counties, Province of Ontario. The 
first consists of a belt running from near the Ottawa River on the 
south for over 60 miles in a northerly direction through Buckingham, 
Portland, Templeton, Wakefield, Denholm, Bowman, Hincks, and 
other townships to the northward have an average width of 15 to 25 
miles. 'rh(^ second Ixdt runs from about 15 miles north of the St. 
Lawrence River in a northerly direction to the Ottawa River, a distance 
of about loo miles, and varies from 50 to 75 miles in breadth. 

Davies gives the following table as showing the average composition 
of the Canadian phosphates: 



Constituents. 



Moisture, water of combination, and loss on ignition. 

Pliosphoric acid 

Lime 



Oxide of iron, alumina, fluorine, etc , 
Insoluble siliceous matter 



Equal to tribasic phosphate of lime 



I. 



0.62 
33.51 
46.14 

7.83 
11.90 



100.00 
73.15 



0.10 

41.54 

54.74 

3.03 

0.59 



100. 00 
90.68 



0.11 
37.68 
51.04 
6.88 
4.29 



100. 00 

82.25 



IV. 



1.09 
30.84 
42.72 
13.32 
12.03 



100. GO 
67.32 



V. 



0.89 
32.53 
44.26 
12. 15 
10.17 



100. 00 
71.01 



VI. 



1.83 
31.87 
43.62 

9.28 
13.50 



100.10 
69.35 



jVonray. — The principal apatite fields lie along the coast in the 
southern portion of the peninsula between Langesund and Arendal. 
The material occurs in crystals and crystalline granular aggregates of 
a white, yellow, greenish, or red color in veins and pockets embedded 
in the mass of an eruptive gabbro, near the line of contact of the 
gabbro and adjacent rocks, in the country rock itself in the immediate 
vicinity of the gabbro, and in coarse pegmatitic veins which are cut 
b}^ the gabbro. The largest veins are in the mass of the gabbro itself 
or near the line of contact. Where the apatite occurs in the gabbro 
the latter is as a rule altered into a hornblende scapolite rock. The 
principal associated minerals are quartz, mica, tourmaline, scapolite, 
feldspars, rutile, and magnetic and titanic iron and sulphides of iron 
and copper. The country rock is gneiss, schist, and granite. The 
miheral belongs to the variety called fluor apatite, as shown by the 
following analysis from Dr. Penrose's Bulletin : 

Apatite from Arendal. 

Phosphoric acid (P2O5) (') 42. 229 

Fkiorine f ) 3. 415 

Chlorine (^) 0. 512 

Lime (CaO) 49. 96 

Calcium 3. 884 



100. 000 



' Pxjual 92.189 per cent tribasic phosphate. 
^ Equal 7.01 per cent fluoride of calcium. 



' Equal 0.801 per cent chloride of calcium. 



364 BEPORT OB^ NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

The Norwa}^ apatites have been mined according to Penrose since 
1854, the earliest workings being at Kragero. According to Davies, 
however, the discovery of deposits that could be profitably worked 
dates only from 1871. The distribution of the material is very uncer- 
tain and irregular, and the value of the deposits can not be foretold 
with any great approximation to accuracy. Specimen No. 65122, 
U.S.N. M., is characteristic. The large specimen on floor of hall, 
weighing nearly 2 tons, shows well the massive character of the 

material. 

A second locality of phosphates but recently described, and which 
seems to occur under somewhat similar conditions, exists in the Gelli- 
vara Mountains, in Norrland. 

Nodular phosphatic deposits are described by Penrose' as being 
found at intervals all along the Atlantic coast of the United States, 
from North Carolina down to the southern extremity of Florida. The 
North Carolina deposits occur principally in the counties of Sampson, 
Duplin, Pender, Onslow, Columbus, and New Hanover, all in the 
southeastern part of the State. The deposits are of two kinds, (1) a 
nodular form overlying the Eocene marls and consisting of phosphate 
nodules, sharks' teeth (Specimen No. 73643, U.S.N.M.), and bones as 
embedded in a sandy or marly matrix, and (2) as a conglomerate of 
phosphate pebbles, sharks' teeth, bones, and quartz pebbles, all well 
rounded and cemented together along with grains of green sand in 
a calcareous matrix. (Specimen No. 44244, U.S.N. M.) 

The beds of the first variety usually overlie strata of shell marl, 
though this is sometimes replaced by a pale green indurated sand. 
The tw^o following sections will serve to illustrate their mode of 
occurrence: 

SAMPSON COUNTY. DUPLIN COUNTY. 

(1) Soil, sand or clay, 5 to 10 feet. (1) Sandy soil, 1 to 10 feet. 

(2) Shell marl, 5 to 10 feet. (2) Nodule bed, 1 to 2 feet. 

(3) Bed with phosphate nodules, 1 to 3 (3) Shell marl. 

feet. 

(4) Sea green, sandy marl, 2 to 4 feet. 

(5) Ferruginous hardpan, 6 to 12 inches. 

(6) Interstratitied lignites and sands as 

in (4). 

The nodules as described are of a lead gray color, varying in size 
from that of a man's fist to masses weighing several hundred pounds. 
In texture they vary from close compact and homogeneous masses to 
coarse-grained and highly siliceous rocks distinguished by considerable 
quantities of sand and quartz pebbles sometimes the size of a chestnut. 
Occasionally the nodules, which as a rule are of an oval flattened form, 

1 Bulletin 46 of the U. S. Geological Survey, 1888. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 3()5 

contain Tertiary sliclis (Spocinions Nos. 44244 and 34318, U.S.N.M.). 
The seeond or conglonierati; variety occurs mainly in New Hanover 
and Pender counties, the beds in some instances being (5 feet in thick- 
ness, though usually nuich less. The following section, taken like 
those al)ove from Dr. Penrose's Bulletin, shows their position and asso- 
ciation as displayed at Castle Hayne, New Hanover County. 

(1) White sand, to 3 feet. 

(2) Brown and red ferruj^inouH sandy elay, or clayey sand, 1 to 'A feet. 

(3) Green clay, 6 to 12 inches. 

(4) Dark brown indurated peat, 3 to 12 inches. 

(5) White calcareous marl, to 2 feet. 

(6) White shell rock, to 14 inches. 

(7) Phosphatic conglomerate, 1 to 3 feet. 

(8) Gray marl containing smaller nodules than the overlying beds, 2^ to 4i feet. 

(9) Light-colored, calcareous marl, containing nodules which are smaller than 
those in the overlying beds, which grow fewer and smaller at a depth. Many shells. 

The phosphatic nodules in this conglomerate are kidney and Ggg 
shaped as sometimes make up as much as three-fourths the contents of 
a bed; usually, however, the proportion is smaller, and sometimes there 
are none at all. The mass as a whole does not contain more than 10 
to 20 per cent phosphate of lime, but it is said to have been successfully 
used as a fertilizer. The individual may be richer in phosphatic mat- 
ter on the outer surface than toward the center. 

Aside from the phosphatic layer as described above, phosphatic 
nodules are found in large quantities in the beds of rivers of these 
districts, where they have accumulated through the washing action of 
flowing water, the finer sand clay and gravel having been carried away. 
Such phosphates naturally do not dift'er materially from those on land 
except that they are darker in color and sometimes more siliceous. 

The deposits of South Carolina, though of low grade compared with 
some others, are now more generally used than any other known phos- 
phate. The output of the mines, which is yearly increasing, is shipped 
to the North, South, and East by sea and to the West by rail. This 
popularity is due not only to the cheapness of the phosphate ($5 to 
$6 a ton in 1880), but to the many good qualities of the low-grade 
acid phosphate made from it. The fact that the nodule bed extends, 
at an accessible depth, over many miles of country, the easy approach 
for large vessels up to the ver}^ mines, the abundance of water, fuel, 
and lal)or, and a climate that permits mining operations to be carried 
on throughout the whole 3'ear, all combine to make the South Carolina 
phosphates the cheapest and consequently the most productive source 
of suppl}^ of this material. Specimens Nos. 34317 and 34318, 34321 to 
34324, and 34326 to 31328, U.S.N.M. are characteristic. 

Phosphates in the form of nodules and phosphatic marls and green- 
sands occur in Alabama in both the Tertiarv and Cretaceous forma- 
tions. Their geographical distribution is therefore limited to areas 



366 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

south of the outcrops of the lowest Cretaceous beds which stretch in 
a curve from the northwest corner of the State across near Fa^^ette, 
Courthouse, Tuscaloosa, Centerville, and Wetumpka, to Columbus, 
Georgia. As all the Cretaceous and Tertiary beds have a dip toward 
the Gulf of from 25 to 40 feet to the mile, the phosphate-bearing strata 
appear at the surface only in a comparative!}^ narrow belt along the 
line above indicated and are to be found only at gradually increasing 
depths below at points to the southward. 

Phosphatic nodules and marls of the Tertiar}' occur in four different 
horizons: The Black Bluffs and Nantehala groups of the Lignitic; in 
the white limestone, and in eastern Alabama, at Ozark, in strata of the 
Claiborne group. Selected nodules run as high as 27 per cent of 
phosphoric acid, and marls as high as 6.7 per cent. The Tertiary is 
not, however, regarded by Professor Smith as a promising source of 
commercial phosphates in the State. In the Cretaceous the phosphates 
occur in the transition beds both above and below the so-called Rotten 
Limestone existing as nodules, shell casts, phosphatic limestones, marls, 
and greensands. The nodules have essentially the characteristics of 
those of South Carolina. 

The principal phosphate region of Florida, as known to-day, com- 
prises an area extending from west of the Apalachicola River eastward 
and southward to nearly 50 miles south of Caloosahatchee River, as 
shown on the accompanying map.^ According to Mr. Eldridge, the 
deposits comprise four distinct and widely different classes of commer- 
cial phosphates, each having a peculiar genesis, a peculiar form of 
deposit, and chemical and physical properties such as readily distin- 
guish it from anj^ of the others. 

According to their predominant characteristics or modes of occur- 
rence, these classes have come to be known as hard-rock phosphates, 
soft phosphate, land pebble or matrix rock, and river pebble. With 
the exception of the soft phosphates, they underlie distinct regions, 
each class being separate or l)ut slightly commingling with one another. 
The type of the hard-rock phosphate, as described l)y Mr. Eldridge, is 
a hard, massive, close-textured homogeneous, light-gray rock, showing 
large and small irregular cavities, which are usually lined with second- 
ary mammillary incrustations of phosphate of lime (Specimens Nos. 
66737, 66741, U.S.N.M.), the general appearance being that of the 
calcareous deposits of the preglacial hot springs of the Yellowstone 
National Park. 

There are numerous variations in color and physical characteristics 
from this type, but which can best be comprehended by a study of 
the collection. This type carries some 36.65 per cent phosphoric 
anhydride (P2O5). The deposits of the hard-rock phosphate lie in 
Eocene and Miocene strata, occurring in the first named as a bowlder 

1 Preliminary sketch of Phosphates of Florida, by George H. Eldridge. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899 —Merrill, 



Plate 20. 




REGIONS Of PHOSPHATE 

MB II.... I It.xk 

1.;,,,,! \^,■^^.l,' 



NfAP (.1 ILOniDA 

)1 pllOSflll.il 

■' ELORIOGE 



Map showing Phosphate Regions of Florida 
After George H. Klrtridge. 



THK NONMKTALLIO MINERALS. 367 

deposit ill a soft matrix of phosphatic sands, clays, and other matcnial, 
resulting from the disinteo- ration of the hard rock and constituting the 
soft phosphates. The deposits underlie sands of from 10 to 20 feet in 
thickness, and have been penetrated to a depth of ♦iO feet. The phos- 
phate deposit proper is white, the bowlders of rounded and irregular 
outline, varjdng in diameter from 2 or 3 inches to 10 feet. None of the 
hard-rock deposits of the Eocene originated in the positions they now 
occup^y. The Miocene hard-rock phosphates, on the other hand, lie 
in regular bedded deposits in situ, as well as in bowlders. The beds 
lie horizontal but a few feet below the surface, being covered only by 
superficial sand. The beds as a rule arc but from 4 feet to 5 feet thick. 
The name soft rock, or soft phosphate, as above indicated, is given to 
the softer material associated with the hard rock, which in part 
results from the disintegration of the last named. It is also applied 
somewhat loosely to any variety not distinctly hard. It therefore 
varies greatly in color, chemical and physical characteristics, and rarely 
carries more than 20 to 25 per cent of PgOg (Specimens Nos. 67304, 
67319, 67293, 67296, 67297, U.S.N.M.). 

The name land-pebble phosphate includes pebble from deposits con- 
sisting of either earthy material carrying fossil remains, grains of 
quartz, and pisolitic grains of lime phosphate, or else of a material 
resembling in texture and other characteristics the hard-rock phos- 
phate. The individual pebbles vary in size up to that of the English 
walnut, are normally white, but when subjected to percolating water 
become dark gra}^ or nearly black. The exteriors are quite smooth 
and glossv, colors and textures uniform, and average some 30 to 35 
per cent V^O, (Specimen No. 61070, U.S.N.M.). 

The river-pebble varieties differ from the last mainly in mode of 
occurrence, being found, as the name would indicate, in the beds of 
streams, where presumably they have accumulated through the wash- 
ing away of finer and lighter materials. They are most abundant in 
the Peace, Caloosahatchee, Alafia, and other rivers entering the Gulf 
south of Tampa and Hillsborough bays, though the Withlacoochee, 
Aucilla, and rivers of the western part of the State, carry also a mix- 
ture of pebbles, hard-rock fragments, and bones derived from the vari- 
ous strata through which they have cut their channels. The pebbles 
of the Western rivers show a very uniform composition, and range from 
25 to 30 per cent phosphoric anhydride (PjOg), or about 65 per cent of 
phosphate of lime, the impurities being mainly siliceous matter, car- 
bonate of lime, alumina, and iron oxides (Specimens Nos. 67299, 67298, 
67355, U.S.N.M.). 

Phosphates the mineralogical nature of which does not seem to be 
as yet accurately made out occur in the Devonian Shales of Middle 
Tennessee. They are thus described by Professor Saff'ord:^ 

1 Engineering and Mining Journal, LVII, April 21, 1894, p. 366. 



868 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

There are two di.stint't }>ed.s of the phosphates, one above a .stratum 
known as the black shale; the other below the shale. The one above is a 
bed or layer of concretionary masses, balls, and kidne}^ and knee-shaped 
forms from the size of walnuts to that of a man's head (Specimen No. 
52059 from Hickman County). These are sometimes loosely disposed 
in a greenish or bluish shale, and sometimes tightly packed tog-ether 
like so many cannon balls in a layer 8 or 10 inches thick. Ordinarily 
the layer has less thickness, often, in fact, being represented by only 
a few scattered concretions. But, thick or thin, it may be said to be 
universall}?^ present, its kidneys serving to indicate the place of the 
black shale and the underlying bed when these are concealed by debris 
or soil. 

The other phosphate, that imderlying the shale, and the more impor- 
tant of the two, is, in its best presentations, a well-defined, continuous 
stratum of dark-bluish or bluish-black — rarely grayish — rock, with line 
or coarse grain. Its regularly stratified character and its dark color 
make it look like a bed of stone coal. 

The geographical distribution and general geology of these phos- 
phates has been worked out in consideral)le detail by C. W. Hayes, 
to whose papers reference has been already made (p. 360). Accord- 
ing to this authority the phosphates occur in four distinct varieties: 
(1) Black nodular phosphate; (2) lilack ])edded phosphate; (3) white 
breccia phosphate, and (4) white bedded phosphate. The first two of 
these are of Devonian age, the third is a secondar}^ and comparatively 
recent deposit, while the fourth, perhaps also of secondary origin, is 
interbedded with rocks of Carboniferous age. The black nodular 
variety contains from 60 to 70 per cent of phosphate of lime, and is 
found in commercial quantities only in the region of the black bedded 
phosphate in western middle Tennessee. The black bedded variety, 
which is the onl}^ one that has thus far proved of connnercial importance, 
is confined, so far as at present known, "to an oval area southwest of 
Nashville, having Centerville a])Out in its center." It also covers 
portions of Hickman, Williamson, Maury, Lewis, Wayne, Perry, and 
Decatur counties. 

Sections showing the relation of the phosphates to the adjacent for- 
mations are given in Dr. Hayes's paper. The beds vary in thickness 
from a fraction of 1 to 8 or 10 feet, the average run of the rock being 
about 50 per cent phosphate of lime. The white l)edded and white 
breccia phosphates are limited to small areas in Perr}^ Count}'. Their 
contents of phosphoric acid (PgOj) is low, varying from 1-1 to 15 per 
cent, and as yet their value for other than local purposes is to be deter- 
mined. (See especially Specimens Nos. 52058, 52060, 52061, U.S.N. M. ) 

England. — Deposits of phosphates sufficiently concentrated for com- 
mercial purposes lie near the upper limit of Cambro-Silurian strata in 
North Wales. According to Davies, the phosphatic material occurs 



THE NONMETALLTC MINERALS. 369 

in tho form of nodular concretions of a size var\nn<^ from that of an 
Ggg to a cocoanut, closely packed together and elemented by a })lack 
slaty matrix. The concretions have often a black highly polished 
appearaiic(\ due to the presence of gi'aphite, but owing to the pres- 
ence of oxidizing pyrite the}^ sometimes become rusty l)rown. The 
concretions carry from 60 to 09 per cent of phosphate of lime; the 
matrix is also phosphatic. The phosphate })eds are highly tilted and 
are overlaid by gray shales with fossilized echinoderms and underlaid 
b}' dark crystalline limestone, which also contains from 15 to 20 per 
cent of phos]:)liatic material. Davies regards th(> deposit as an old sea 
bottom '"on which the phosphatic matter of Cretaceous and Molluscan 
life was precipitated and stored during a long period, while certain 
marine plants ma}^ also have contributed their share of phosphatic 
matter. He thinks it also as possible that, as in the Laurentian deposits, 
the water of the sea may have contained phosphatic matter in solution, 
to be deposited independently of organic agencies. 

These phosphated beds are mined at Herwin, where an average pro- 
duction over a space of 360 fathoms was 2 tons 10 hundredweight of 
phosphate^ per fathom, of an average strength of 46 per cent. 

The nodules average from 45 to 55 per cent of phosphate of lime. 

Amorphous nodular phosphates also occur in both the Upper and 
Lower (xrcensands of the Cretaceous and in Tertiar}- deposits. Those 
of the upper beds have been mined in Cambridgeshire and Bedford- 
shire. The phosphatic material occurs in the form of shell casts, 
fossils, and nodules, of a black or dark-l)rown color, of varying hard- 
ness, embedded in a sand consisting of siliceous and calcareous matter 
as well as phosphatic and glauconitic grains. The average composi- 
tion shows from 40 to 50 per cent of phosphate of lime. The thick- 
ness of the nodul(^-l)earing ))ed is rarely over a foot. The, nodules of 
the Lower Greensands differ from those of the Upper in many details, 
the more important ])eing their lower percentages of phosphate of 
lime (from 40 to 50 per cent). The}^ occur in a bed of siliceous sand 
which itself is not phosphatic. The Tertiarj- phosphates reach their 
best development in the county of Suffolk, where the}' are found at 
the base of the Coralline and Red Crog groups and immediateh' over- 
lying the London clays. The beds consist of a ' " mass of phosphatic 
nodules and shell casts, siliceous pebbles, teeth of cretaceans and sharks, 
and many mannnal bones, besides occasional fragments of Lower 
Greensand chert, granite, and chalk flints." The nodules vary in both 
quality and quantity. They are at times of a compact and brittle 
nature, while at others they are tough and siliceous. They average 
about 53 per cent phosphate of lime and 13 per cent phosphate of iron. 

Finance. — Phosphates of the nodular type occur in beds of Cretaceous 
age in the provinces of Ardennes and Meuse, and to a less extent in 
others in northern France; in the department of Cote d'Or, and along 
NAT MUS 99 24 



370 KEPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

the Rhone at Bellegarde, Seyssel, and Grenoble. As in England, the 
phosphatio nodules of the northern area, such as are of commercial 
importance, occur in both the Upper and Lower Greensands, They 
resemble in a general way the English phosphates, but are described 
as soft and porous and easily disintegrating when exposed to the air. 
Those of the Upper Greensand average some 55 per cent of phosphate 
of lime. 

More recently deposits have been described by M. J. Gosselet,^ near 
Fresnoy-le-Grand, in the north of France. The phosphatic material 
occurs in a zone of gray chalk some 6 feet in thickness (1^ to 2 meters), 
and is in the form of concretionary nodules forming a sort of con- 
glomerate in the lower part of the bed. A portion of the chalk is 
also phosphatic. Phosphatic material (of the type of phosphorites) is 
found in fissures and pockets in the upper portion of limestones of 
Middle Jurassic (Oxfordian) age. in the departments of Tarn-et- 
Garonne, Aveyron, and Zoti, France. 

The deposits are of two kinds. The first occurring in irregular 
cavities or pockets never over a few yards long, and the second in the 
form of elongated leads with the sides nearly vertical. These are 
generall}^ shallow, and thin out very rapidly at a short distance below 
the surface. 

The nodules or concretions are of a white or gray color, waxy luster, 
and opal-like appearance, and occur in the form of tubercular or kidney 
shaped masses embedded in ferruginous clay in the clefts of the lime- 
stone, or in geodic, lil)rous, and radiating forms. 

The material of this region is known commercially as Bordeaux 
phosphate, being shipped mainly from Bordeaux. They average from 
70 to 75 per cent phosphate of lime, the impurities being mainly iron 
oxides and siliceous matter. 

Gautier" describes deposits of phosphates estimated to the amount 
of 120,000 to 300,000 tons on the floors of the Grotte de Minerve, near 
the village of Minerve on the northeast Hank of the Pyrenees, in Aude, 
France. The cave proper is in nummulitic limestone of Eocene age, 
the floors being formed by Devonian rocks. The filling material con- 
sists of cave earth and bone breccia below which are the aggregates of 
concretionary phosphorites and other phosphatic compounds of lime 
and alumina, the more interesting being Brushiti\ a hydrous tribasic 
calcium phosphate hitherto known only as a secondary incrustation on 
guano from the West India islands, and Mlnervite^ a new species hav- 
ing the formula Al^Oj. P2O5, 7H2O, a hydrous aluminum phosphate, 
existing in the form of a white plastic clay-like mass filling a vein 
from a few inches to 2 or more feet in thickness. 

Germany. — According to Davies, the principal phosphate regions of 

1 Annales de la Soci6te G^ologique du Nord., XXI, 1893, p. 149. 
^ Annals des Mines, V, 1894, p. 5. 



THK NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 37 1 

North (ii>riimiiy occupy an irregular area bounded on the northeast by 
the town of Weilburg, on the northwest by the Westerwald, on the 
east by the Tauiui.s Mountains, and on the south by the town of Dietz. 
The pliosphorite occui's in the form of irregular nodular masses of all 
sizes up to masses of several tons weight, embedded in chi}' which 
rests upon Devonian limestone and is overlaid ))y another stratum of 
clav- The phosphate-bearing clay varies in thickness from 6 inches to 
10 feet. With the phosphate nodules are not infrequently associated 
deposits of manganese and hematite. Davies regards the deposits as 
of early Tertiary age. The color of the freshly mined material varies 
from pale buff to dark brown, varying in specific gravity from 1.9 to 
2.8, the quality deteriorating with the increase in gravity. Selected 
samples of the staple nodules yielded as high as 92 per cent phosphate 
of lime; but the average is much lower, being but about 50 to 60 per 
cent phosphate of lime. (Specimens Nos. 66827, 66828, U.S.N.M., 
from Gleisenberg and Heckholzhausen.) 

Belgium. — Nodular phosphates belonging to the Upper Cretaceous 
formations occur in the province of Hainaut, where they form the 
basis of an extensive industry'. The nodules, which are generally of 
a brown color and vary in size from the fraction of 1 to 4 or 5 inches 
in diameter, lie in a coarse-grained, friable rock called the brown or 
gray chalk, which itself immediately underlies what is known as the 
Ciplej^ conglomerate. The phosphate-bearing bed is sometimes nearly 
100 feet in thickness, but is richest in the upper 10 feet, where it is 
estimated the phosphatic pebbles constitute some 75 per cent of its 
bulk. Below this the bed grows gradually poorer, passing by grada- 
tions into the white chalk below. 

The overlying conglomerate also carries phosphate nodules, which 
carry from 25 to 50 per cent phosphate of lime. Owing to the hard- 
ness of the inclosing rock they are less rained than those in the beds 
beneath. The mining of phosphates is carried on extensively near the 
town of Mons, on the lands of the communes of Cuesmes, Cipl}^, Mes- 
vin, Nouvelles, Spiennes, St. Symphorien, and Hyon. The annual 
output has gradually increased from between 8,000 and 4,000 tons in 
1887 to 85,000 tons in 1891. Other phosphatic deposits are described^ 
as occurring in the provinces of Antwerp and Liege. 

SjMin. — Important deposits of phosphorites occur between Logrosan 
and Caceres, in Estremadura Province. The deposits are in the form 
of pockets and veins in slates and schists supposed to be of Silurian 
age; at times a vein is found at the line of contact between the slate 
and granite. The veins vary in thickness from 1 to several feet, the 
largest being some 20 feet and extending for over 2 miles. This is by 

^ Annales de la Societe Geologique de Belgique, XVII, 1890, p. 185. 



372 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

far the large.st of its kind known. As described by Penrose, the 
""'Logrosan pliosphate has a subcrystalline structure; some specimens 
are fibrous and radiating and often resemble feathers. [See Specimen 
No. 44277, U.S.N.M.]. It is soft and chalky to the touch, easily broken, 
but difficult to grind into a fine powder. An examination under the 
microscope exhibits conchoidal figures, interrupted with spherical 
grains, devoid of color and opaque. (Shepard.) 

" The highest-grade material is rosy white or yellowish white in 
color, soft, concentric, often brilliantly radiated, with a mammillary 
or conchoidal surface. Red spots from iron and beautiful dendrites 
of manganese are not infrequent. The poorer qualities are milky 
white, vitreous, hard, and, though free from limestone, contain con- 
siderable silica." 

In the Caceres district the phosphorites occur not in veins but 
rather in pockety masses in v^eins of quartz and dark-colored lime- 
stone, which are found cutting both the granite and slate. (Specimens 
Nos. 37147, 63779, 63780, U.S.N.M.) 

The following analyses from Dr. Penrose's paper show about the 
average composition of these phosphorites: 

Logrosan, by Professor Daubeny. 

Silica 1.70 

Protoxide of iron 3. 15 

Fluoride of lime 14. 00 

Phosphate of lime 81. 15 

Cdceres, by Bobierre and Friedel. 

Insoluble siliceous matter 21. 05 

Water expelled at a red heat 3. 00 

Tri basic phosphate of lime 72. 10 

Loss, iron oxides, etc 3. 85 

Portugal. — Phosphorites occur in Silurian and Devonian rocks under 
similar conditions to those of Spain in Estremadura, Alemetjo, and 
Beira provinces, and which need, therefore, no further notice here. 
Stanier,^ however, describes a variety found in pockety and short vein- 
like masses which arc worthy of a passing notice. These occur not 
in schists and sedimentary rocks but in massive granites. They are 
found mainly in the superficial portions, where the granite has weath- 
ered away to a coarse sand, and in short gashlike veins and pockets 
of slight width and extent. The phosphatic material is described as 
of a milk-white color, opaque, and showing when broken open a pal- 
matel}^ radiating structure, like hoarfrost upon a window pane. As 
a rule the masses Avhen found are enveloped in a thin coating of kaolin- 
like material supposed to be derived by decomposition from the feld- 

^Les Phosphorites du Portugal, Annales de la Soci6t^ Geologique de Belgique, 
XVII, 1890, p. 223. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 373 

spar of the granites. They are mined only from open cuts and in th(> 
supin-tieial more or less decomposed portions of tlie rock, to which 
they are believed to be mainly limited, having originated, as elsewhere 
indicated, through a segregation of the phosphatic material dissolved 
by meteoric waters from the surrounding granite and sul)se(iuently 
depositing it in preexisting fissures. The percentage of tricalcic 
phosphate is given as varying between 60 and 80 per cent, 

Ifuly. — Phosphatic deposits consisting of coprolites, bones, etc, 
imbedded in a porous Tertiary limestone occur between Gallipoli and 
Otranto, Cape Leuca, Avest of the Gulf of Taranto, on the Italian 
coast. There are two beds having a thickness of 19^ and 31i inches, 
respectively, and which have been traced for a distance of some 160 
yards. Analyses .show them to be of low grade, rarely carrying as 
high as 10 per cent PgO^. 

Tunk. — Phosphatic nodules in the form of cylindrical coprolites 
and clustered aggregates have been found in Tertiary strata covering 
considerable areas in the region south of Tunis, The coprolite nodules 
are stated to carry as high as 70 per cent of calcium phosphate, and 
the clustered aggregate some 52 per cent. 

Rnsi^ia. — Rich phosphate deposits of Cretaceous age occur in the 
governments of Smolensk, Orlow, Koursk, and Vorouez, between the 
rivers Dnieper and the Don in European Russia. The deposits lie 
mostly in a sandy marl, underlying white chalk and overlying green- 
sands, which also carry beds of from 6 to 12 inches thickness of phos- 
phatic nodules. The nodules are dark, often nearly black, in color 
and are intermixed with gray, brown, and yellow sands. The depth 
of the beds below the surface is variable, Yermolow ^ divides the 
deposits into two groups, the first presenting the form of separate 
nodules, rounded or kidne3^-shaped, of variable size, and black, brown, 
gray, or green in color. The second is in form of an agglomeration 
of large nodules cemented together into a sort of flag, which used to 
be quarried for road purposes. The nodules in this agglomerate are 
richer in phosphoric acid when most dense and of a deep black color, 
the sandy varieties being comparatively poor. The cement carrying 
the nodules contains numerous fossil bones, shells, corals, etc. , which 
are also phosphatic. The samples yield about 30 to 60 per cent phos- 
phate of lime. Other deposits occur south of Saratov, on the Volga 
(Specimen No. 52067, U.S.N.M.); at Tambov and Spask, where the 
overlying rock is a greensand in place of the chalk; Moscow; east of 
Novgorod, on the Msta; at Kiev, on the Dnieper; Kamenetz, Podolsk, 
on the Dniester, and at Grodno, on the Niemen. 

Maltese Islands.^ — Nodular phosphates occur in Miocene beds on the 

' Recherches sur les Gisements de Phosphate de Chaux Fossil en Russie. 
2 J. H. Cooke, The Phosphate Beds of the Maltese Island. Engineering and Min- 
ing Journal, LIV, 1892, p. 200. 



374 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



islands of Malta, Gozo, and Comino, of the Maltese group in the Med- 
iterranean Sea. The bed containing- the nodules is in what is known 
as the Globigerina limestone, which underlies an upper coralline lime- 
stone, greensands, and blue clays, and overlies the lower coralline 
limestone. Upper and lower beds all carry phosphoric acid in small 
amounts. There are four seams of nodules, the first varying in differ- 
ent localities from 9 to 15 inches in thickness. The second is more 
constant in character, averaging some 2 feet in thickness and consist- 
ing of an aggregate of irregularly shaped nodules, intermixed with 
which are considerable quantities of the phosphatized remains of mol- 
lusks, corallines, echinoderms, crustaceans, sharks, whales, etc., the 
whole being firmly bound together by an interstitial cement, composed 
of foraminiferal and other calcareous matter similar to that of which 
the overlying beds are made up. The third seam is the poorest of the 
lot and consists of two or more thin layers of nodules, none of which 
exceeds 3 inches in thickness. Between this and the fourth and lowest 
seam, which is the most important of all, is a bed of rock some 50 to 
80 feet in thickness. The seam averages some 3i feet in thickness. 
The nodules are of a dark-chocolate color embedded in a calcareous 
matrix, from which they are freed by calcination. The composition of 
I, the nodules, and II, the average composition of nodules and inter- 
stitial cement, is given below, from analyses by Drs. Murray and 
Blake: 



Constituents. 



Sulphate of lime 

Carbonate of lime 

Phosphate of lime 

Alumina { AUOs) 

Oxide of iron (FeoOs) 
Residue 



Total . 



2.26 

47.14 

38.34 

5.98 

Trace. 

6.08 



99.80 



1.97 
61.12 
31.66 
10.59 
a 3. 83 
6 0.87 



100.00 



a Silica. 



b Moisture. 



Guano, soluble and leached. — The largest and best-known de- 
posits of unleached guanos are found on the mainland and small 
islands off' the coasts of Peru and Bolivia, where abundant animal life 
and lack of rainfall have contributed to their formation and pre- 
servation. These deposits are described as consisting mainly of the 
evacuations of sea fowl and marine animals, such as flamingoes, divers, 
penguins, and sea lions. Mixed with these deposits are naturally more 
or less bone and animal matter furnished by the dead bodies of both 
birds and mammals. The deposits vary indefinitely in extent and 
thickness, but have attained in places a depth of upward of 100 feet. 
As a rule they are more compact beneath than at the surface, but 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



375 



may bo readily ivmovod by pick and shovel. The first deposits to bo 
worked are stated by I'onroso to have been those of the Chiiicha 
Islands, ott' the Peruvian coast. These were practically exhausted 
as earl}^ as 1872. Other islands which have been worked and com- 
pletely if not entirol)' stripped are those of Macabi, Guanape, Bal- 
lestas, Lobos, Foca, Pabellon do Pica, Tortuga, and Hiianillos. 

A moan of 31 analyses of Macabi Island j^uano, by Barral, rs quoted 
by Penrose,' showed: 

Nitrogen 10. 90 

Phosphates 27. fiO 

Potash 2 to 3 

Other analyses are given in the following table: 



Constituents. 


Angamos, coast 

of Bolivia, 

white guano. 


Bolivian. 


Los 
Patos. 


Island of 

Elide, coast of 

California. 


Organic matter 

Containing nitrogen 

Equivalent in ammonia. 
Total phospliates 


70.21 to 52. 92 
20. 09 14. 38 
24.36 17.44 
13. 30 20. 95 


23.00 
3.38 
4.10 

48.60 


32.45 
5. 92 

7.18 
34.81 


27. 37 to 34. 50 

1.34 6.98 

1. 62 8. 46 

a 28. 00 31.00 


Constituents. 


Ilotde Pe- 
dro-Bey, 

coast 
of Cuba. 


Mexican 
coast. 


Galapa- 
gos, 
Ecuador. 


Falkland 
Islands. 




6.16 
0.28 
0.34 

48.52 


13.05 to 18.00 




17. 35 to 28. 68 

0. 56 2. 26 

0. 68 2. 74 

a 21. 46 25.62 


Containing nitrogen 

Equivalent in ammonia. 
Total phosphates 


0.2 
0.2 
8.0 


1 3.45 
S 4.19 
D 25.00 


0.7 
0.85 
60.30 



« Containing sometimes very considerable quantities of phosphates of alumina and the oxide of 
iron. 

Aside from on the islands, guano is found all along the coast of the 
Chilean province of Tarapaca, from Carmarones Bay to the mouth of 
the riA'er Loa, there being scarcely a prominence or rock on the shore 
that does not contain some guano. According to the Journal of the 
Society of Chemical Industry,^ the deposits have been known from a 
very early date. The aborigines of the valleys and gullies of Tarapaca, 
Mamina, Huatacondo, Camina, and Quisma were acquainted with the 
fertilizing qualities of guano, and they conveyed it from the coast to 
their farms on the backs of llamas. 

The southern beds vary so much in aspect and color that it fre- 
quently requires an experienced eye to make them out. Many of the 
deposits are covered with immense layers of sand, while others are 
buried beneath a solid layer of conglomerate. Guano is also fre- 
quently found in the fissures and gullies which descend to the sea- 

^ Bulletin No. 46 of the United States Geological Survey. 
'^ Volume VI, 1887, p. 228. 



376 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

shore. The richest and largest beds are at Pabellon de Pica, Punta de 
Lobos, Huanillos, and Chipana. 

Aside from the localities abov-e mentioned, guano is found on the 
islands Itschabo, Possession, Pamora, and Halifax, off the Namagua 
coast of South Africa. The material is described as forming a grayish 
brown powder, free from large lumps, and possessing a faint ammo- 
niacal odor. It carries from 8 to 14 per cent of nitrogen and 8 to 12 
per cent of phosphoric acid.^ 

The West India Idands.—Phos^hiites belonging to the class of leached 
guanos occur in considerable abundance on several of the islands of the 
West Indies group, the principal localities being Sombrero, Navassa, 
Turk, St. Martin, Aruba, Curasao, Orchillas, Arenas, Roncador, Swan, 
Cat or Guanahaui, Redonda, the Pedro and Morant Kej's, and the reefs 
of Los Monges and Aves in Maracaibo Gulf. These, as would natu- 
rally be expected from their mode of origin, vary greatly, not merely 
in appearances, but in chemical composition as well. That of Sombrero 
is described ^ as occurring in two forms — one a granular, porous, and 
friable mass of a white, pink, green, blue, or yellow color (Specimen No. 
44275, U.S.N.M.); the other as a dense, massive, and homogeneous 
deposit of a white or yellow color. Many bones occur. The phosphate 
carries from 70 to 75 per cent phosphate of lime. An analysis as given 
by Davies^ is as follows: 

Moisture and water of combination 8. 92 

Phosphoric acid** .31. 73 

Lime 45. 69 

Carbonic acid '" 5. 99 

Oxide of iron and alumina 7. 07 

Insoluble siliceous matter 60 



100. 00 



The Nevassa phosphate is described by DTnvilliers "^ as occurring 
(1) in the form of a gray phosphate confined to the lower levels of the 
island, and (2) a red variety occupying the oval flat of the interior. 
The gray is the better variety, as shown by the analyses below, though 
both are aluminous, and diflicult of manipulation on that account. 
Both varieties occur in cavities and fissures in the surface of the hard 
gray, white, or blue limestone, of which the island is mainly composed. 
These cavities or pockets are rarely more than 4 or 5 yards wide on 
the surface, and frequently much smaller, and of depths varying from 
5 to 25 feet. The deposits, so far as explored, are wholly superficial. 

^ Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, I, 1882, p. 29. 

2 K. F. Penrose, Bulletin No. 46 of the U. S. Geological Society . 

*D. C. Davies, Earthy and Other Minerals, p. 178. 

* Equal to tribasic phosphate of lime, 69.27 per cent. 

^ Equal to carbonate of lime, 13.61 per cent. 

6 Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, II, 1891, p. 75-89. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 377 

Exporimontal shafts sunk to a depth of 250 feet have failed to bring to 
light any deeper lying beds. 

Analytils of (jroy Navasm pJiosphaie. 

Wator, atlOOC 2.33 

Organic, matter and water of combination. 7. 63 

Lime 34. 22 

Magnesia ''>1 

Sesquioxide of iron and alumina 15. 77 

Potash and soda 86 

IMiosphoric acid 31 . 34 

Sulphuric acid 28 

Chlorine 15 

Carbonic acid 1-84 

Silica 4. 53 

Bone phosphate 68. 46 

Bone phosphate (dry basis) 70. 09 

Analysis of red Navassa phosphate. 

Loss on ignition 14. 223 

Lime 23.090 

Magnesia Trace. 

Sesquioxide of iron 9. 796 

'Alumina 18. 425 

Phosphoric acid 29.779 

Sulphuric acid 1- 160 

Carbonic acid (by difference) 3. 527 

Bone phosphate 65. 037 

Specimens Nos. 10247, 73246-73248, U.S.N.M., show the variable 
character of the phosphate rock, and Nos. 73242, 73243, U.S.N.M., the 
associated coral work. 

The Aruba phosphate is described as a hard, massive variety of a 
white to dark-brown color. The underlying corals of this island are 
sometimes found phosphatized. An analysis given by Da vies ^ is as 
follows: 

Per cent. 

Moisture 8. 50 

Water of combination 4. 15 

Phosphoric acid'^ 28. 47 

Lime ---. 34.07 

Magnesia 45 

Carbonic acid^ 2. 30 

Oxide of iron 4. 49 

Alumina 9. 48 

Sulphuric acid 1. 81 

Insoluble siliceous matter 6. 28 

100. 00 

^D. C. Davies, Earthy and Other Minerals, p. 177. 
^ Equal to tribasic phosphate of lime, 62.15 per cent. 
'Equal to carbonate of lime, 5.22 per cent. 



378 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



The Pedro Keys, Redonda, Alta Vela, and some others differ in car- 
rying larger percentages of alumina and iron oxides, necessitating 
special methods of preparation. 

Deposits of leached guano of considerable extent have existed on 
several islands of the Polynesian Archipelago, in the Pacific Ocean, the 
better known being those of Bakers, Howland, Jarvis, Malders, 
Birmie, Phoenix, and Enderbury islands. The deposits are described^ 
as varjdng from 6 inches to several feet in thickness, of a whitish- 
brown or red color, pulverulent when dry, sometimes in the form of 
fine powder and again in coarse grains. Though closel}^ compacted, 
the material can as a rule be readily removed by pick and shovel. The 
purest varieties are those lying on the unaltered coral limestones, of 
which the islands are mainly composed. Those Ijang upon gypsum 
have become contaminated with sulphate of lime. In places the 
deposits are covered with a thin crust due to the action of atmospheric 
agencies. On Jarvis Island a considerable share of the deposit is covered 
by material of this crust-like character. Such on analysis are found to 
contain less water and a corresponding higher percentage of lime and 
phosphoric acid than the loosely compacted material, being indeed, as 
shown b}^ Mr. Hague, a nearly pure diphosphate of lime. The following 
analyses show the general character of these guanos from Bakers Island, 
No. I being freshly deposited and consisting of the dung of the frigate 
bird {FeUcanus aquUus). No. II is a light-colored variety from a deep 
part of the deposit, and No. Ill dark guano from a shallow part. 



Analyses of guano. 



Constituents. 



III. 



Moisture expelled at 212° F 

Loss by ignition 

Insoluble in HCl (unconsumed by ignition) 

Lime 

Magnesia 

Sulphuric acid 

Phosphoric acid 

Carbonic acid, chlorine and alkalies, undetermined 

Total 

Soluble in water remaining after ignition 



10.40 
36. 88 

0.78 
22.41 

1.46 

2.36 
21.27 

4.44 



100. 00 
3.63 



2.92 
8.32 



42.74 
2.54 
1.30 

39.70 

2.48 



100. 00 



1.82 
8.50 



42.34 
2.75 
1.24 

40.14 
3.21 



100. 00 



Bat guano. — The dry atmosphere of caves preserves indefinitely the 
fecal matter of bats and such other animals as may frequent them. 
Such under favorable conditions may accumulate in sufficient quanti- 
ties to become of economic importance, being gathered and used as a 
fertilizer under the name of bat guano. The usual form of the 



^J. D. Hague, American Journal of Science, XXXIV, 1862, p. 224. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 379 

entrances to caves is, however, such as to make the process of removal 
tedious and expensive. 

Bat guano is, as a rule, darlc in color, of a glossy, almost nnicilagin- 
ous appearance, and quite hard (Specimen No. 58358, U.S.N.M., from 
Cioshen caves, Juab County, Utah). Its composition is shown in the 
following analysis of a sample from the Wyandotte caves ' in southern 

Indiana : 

Loss at red heat 44. 1 

Organic matter 4. i)() 

Ammonia 4. 25 

Silica 6. 13 

Alumina 14. 30 

Ferric oxide 1-20 

Lime 7. 95 

Magnesia 1-11 

Sulphuric acid 5. 21 

Carbonic acid 3. 77 

Phosphoric acid 1 . 21 

Chloride of alkalies and loss 5. 82 

100. 00 

According to the reports of the State geologist, the caves in the Si- 
lurian strata in Burnet County, Texas, are in many instances enor- 
mously rich in bat guano. The following description of one of these 
caves is taken from the report for 1889: 

The bat cave in the northwest corner of Burnet County is worked by a Georgia 
company, and I learn from the men there that about 157 tons of the material had 
been shipped up to December 20, 1889. The shipments are made by wagon to 
Lampasas, Texas, and from there by rail to Georgia and other parts of the United 
States. The cave is situated about 8 miles from Bluffton, going north up Beaver 
Creek. Near Lacy Branch, a tributary of Beaver Creek, about 2 miles north of 
Silver Mine Creek, there is a fault on the west side of Beaver Creek, in a branch 
which is called "Bat Cave Hollow." Proceeding from this point in a northwest direc- 
tion for about 2 miles we reach the bat cave, on top of a higher chert bed. The way 
from Beaver Creek to the cave is constantly ascending, first over Silurian limestone 
for about 1 mile, when the chert formation appears. On the top of a chert hill 
there is an opening of about 10 feet in diameter, extending perpendicularly down- 
ward for 30 feet, where, at the north side of this opening, there is an entrance to the 
cave. The cave has not been measured, but I estimate its length from north to 
south to be about 600 yards, with as much if not more space in the opposite direc- 
tion. The top of the cave, as well as its sides, is solid chert, such as occurs in all the 
chert beds in San Saba and all the neighboring counties. The guano bed in the heart 
of the cave has been burned, leaving the ashes at places 26 feet deep, and not less 
than 18 feet at others. The ash is not brought up, and the supply of guano is taken 
from the surrounding portions and sides of the cave. As I understand, there are 
some leaders to the cave that have not yet been explored, there being plenty of ma- 
terial near the heart of the cave for all present requirements. Five men were em- 
ployed in digging and bringing out the guano by means of a rail track to the surface, 
where it is deposited upon a large platform erected for that purpose. 

1 Geology of Indiana, 1878, p. 163. 



380 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Muntz and Marcano' have called attention to the extensive deposits 
of guano, sometimes amounting to millions of tons, in caves in Vene- 
zuela and other parts of South America. 

According to them the deposits consists not merely of the excreta 
of the birds and l)ats which frequent the caves, but also of the dead 
bodies of these and other animals. The excreta were found to consist 
almost wholly of the remains of insects. Through the agency of bac- 
teria, nitrification takes place, whereby the organic nitrogen is con- 
verted in nitric acid which combines with the lime from the bones or 
the carbonate of lime in the soils to form nitrates, as descriljed on 
page 391. 

^^g5._The phosphates of the classes thus far described are used 
wholly for fertilizer purposes. In their natural condition they exist 
in the form known to chemists as tribasic phosphates — that is a com- 
pound in which three atoms of a base mineral, usually calcium, are 
combined with one of phosphoric anhydride (PgOg). Thus the com- 
mon tribasic phosphate of lime has the formula (CaO)3 PgOj (= 45.81 
parts by weight T,,0, and 51.19 CaO). Other bases, as alumina, iron, 
or magnesia, may partially replace the lime, but the phosphate is 
always deteriorated thereby. This is particularly the case when alu- 
minum and iron are the replacing constituents. Although when finely 
ground the tricalcic phosphates are of value for fertilizers, it is cus- 
tomary to first submit them to chemical treatment in order to render 
them more readily soluble. 

This treatment consists, as a rule, in converting them into a super- 
phosphate by treatment with sulphuric acid whereby a portion of the 
base becomes converted into sulphates and the anhydrous and insoluble 
tribasic phosphate into a hydrous and soluble monobasic form of the 
formula CaO. (HaO)^. P^Og. There are other reactions than those 
above given, but the process is one too complicated for discussion here, 
and the reader is referred to especial treatise on the subject. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

R. A. F. Penrose, Jr. Nature and Origin of Deposits of Phosphate of Lime. Bul- 
letin No. 46, U. S. Geological Survey, 1888, pp. 143. Gives a bibliography, up 
to date, of publication. The following have appeared since: 
W. H. Adams. List of Commercial Phosphates. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVIII, 1889, 
p. 649. 
John D. Frossard. About some Apatite Deposits of Ontario. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, VIII, 1889, p. 194. 
Paul Levy. Des phosphates de chaux. De leurs principaux gisements en France et 
a I'etranger des gisements r^cemment decouvertes. Utilisation en agriculture; 
assimilation par les plants. 

Annales des Sciences Geologique, XX, 1889, p. 78. 

^Comptes Rendus de 1' Academic des Sciences, Paris, 1885, p. 65. 



THE NONMKTALLIC MINJ^RALS. 381 

Theodor Delmar. Das I'liosphoritlager vou Steinbach uiid allgemeine Gesicht- 
spunkte i'lber Phosphorite. 

Vierteljahrschrift der Naturforscheiideii Gessellschaft in Zurich, 1890, p. 182. 
Henri Lasne. Sur les Terrains phosphates iles environs de Doullens. Ktage S6no- 
nien et Terrains superposes. 

Bulletin de la Societe Geologiiiue de France, XVIII, 1890, p. 441. 
Idem, XX, 1892, p. 211. 
Idem, XXII, 1894, p. 345. 
Albert E. Ledoux. The Phosphate Beds of Florida. 

Engineering and Mining .Tournal, XLIX, 1890, p. 175. 
H,ialmar Lundbohm. Apatitlorekouister I Gellivare Malmberg och Kringliggande 
Trakt. 

Sveriges Geologiska Undersokning, ser. C, 1890, pp. 48. 
X. Stainiee. Les depots phosphates des environs de Thuillies. 

Annales de la tSociet^ Geologique Belgique, XVII, 1890, p. LXVI. 

. Les Phosphorites du Portugal. 

Idem., p. 223. 
Walter B. M. Davidson. Suggestions as to the origin and deposition of Florida 
phosphates. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LI, 1891, p. 628. 
Edward V. D'Invilliers. Phosphate Deposits of the Island of Navassa. 

Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, II, 1891, p. 75. 
N. De Marcy. Remarques sur les Gites de Phosphate de Chaux de la Picardie. 

Buletin de la Societe Geologique de France, XIX, 1891, p. 854. 
Eugene A. Smith. Phosphates and Marls of Alabama. 

Bulletin No. 2, Geological Survey of Alabama, 1892. 
W. de L. Benedict. Mining, Washing, and Calcining South Carolina Land Phos- 
phate. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LIII, 1892, p. 349. 
John H. Cooke. The Phosphate Beds of the Maltese Islands. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LIV, 1892, p. 200. 
Walter B. M. Davidson. The Present Formation of Phosphatic Concretions in 
Deep-Sea Deposits. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LIII, 1892, p. 499. 
D. C. Davies. Phosphate of Lime. 

Chaps. VII, VIII, IX, X, pp. 109-180, of A Treatise on Earthy and other 
Minerals and Mining, 3d ed., revised by E. Henry Davies, London, Crosby, 
Lockwood & Son, 1892. 
Hjalmar Lundbohm. Apatitforekomster I Norrbottens Malmberg. 

Sveriges Geologiska Unders(")kung, ser. C, 1892, p. 38. 
N. A. Pratt. Florida Phosphates; The Origin of the Boulder Phosphates of the With- 
lacoochee River District. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LIII, 1892, p. 380. 
Francis Wyatt. Phosphates of America. 

New York, 4th ed., 1892. 
VV. P. Blake. Association of Apatite with Beds of Magnetite. 

Transactions American Institute Mining Engineers, XXI, 1893, p. 159. 

. Contribution to the Early History of the Industry of Phosphate of Lime in 

the United States. 
Idem., p. 157. 
A. Gautier. Sur des phosphates en roche d'origine animale et sur un nouveau de 
phosphorites. 

Comptes Rendus, CXVI, 1893, pp. 928 and 1022. 



382 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

A. Gautier. Sur la genese des phosphates naturels, et en ParticuUer de ceux qui ont 
emprunte leur phosphore aux etres organises. 
Comptes Rendus, CXVI, 1893, p. 1271. 
J. GossELET. Note sur les gites du Phosphate de Chaux de Templeux-BelHcourt et 
de Bnire. 

Societe Geologique du Nord, XXI, 1893, p. 2. 

. Note sur les gites de Phosphate de Chaux des environs de Fresnoy-le-Grand. 

Idem., p. 149. 
TnoMAs M. Chatard. Phosphate Chemistry as it concerns the Miner. 

Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, XXI, 1893, j). 160. 
Geo. H. Eldeidge. A Preliminary Sketch of the Phosphates of Florida. 

Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, XXI, 1893, p. 196. 
Charles Helson. Notes sur la nature et le gisement du phosphate de chaux naturel 
dans les departments du Tarn-et-Garonne et du Tarn. 
Societe Geologique du Nord, XXI, 1893, p. 246. 
Walter B. M. Davidson. Notes on the Geological Origin of Phosphate of Lime in 
the United States and Canada. 

Transactions of the American Institute Mining p]ngineers, XXI, 1893, p. 139. 
William B. Phillips. A List of Minerals containing at least one per cent of Phos- 
phoric Acid. 

Transactions of the American Institute Mining Ilngineers, XXI, 1893, p. 188. 
H. B. Small. The Phosphate Mines of Canada. 

Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, XXI, 1893, ji. 774. 
John Stewart. Laurentian Low-Grade Phosphate Ores. 

Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, XXI, 1893, p. 176. 
Carroll D. Wright. The Phosphate Industry of the United States. 

Sixth Special Report of the Commissioner of Labor, 1893. Washington: Gov- 
ernment Printing Office. 
M. Blayac. Description G6ologique de la Region des Phosphates du dyr et du 
Kouif Pres Tebessa. 

Annales des Mines, VI, 1894, p. 319. 

. Note sur les Lambeaux Suessoniens a Phosphate de Chaux de Bordj Redir et 

du DJebel Mzeita. 
Idem., p. 331. 
EiTGENE A. Smith. The Phosphates and Marls of the State. Report on the Geology 

of the Costal Plain of Alabama, 1894, pp. 449-525. 
A. Gautier. Sur un Gisement de Phosphates de Chaux et d'Alumine contenant des 
especes rares ou nouvelles et sur la Genese des Phosphates et Nitres naturels. 
Annales des Mines, V, 1894, p. 5. 
Thomas C. Meadows and Lytle Brown. The Phosphates of Tennessee. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LVIII, 1894, p. 365. 
William B. Phillips. The Phosphate Rocks of Tennessee. 
Engineering and' Mining Journal, LVII, 1894, p. 417. 
David Lev at. Etude sur I'industrie des Phosphates et Superphosphates. (Tunisie- 
Floride-scories basiques.) 

Annales des Mines, VII, 1895, p. 135. 
J. M. Safford. Tennessee Phosphate Rocks. 

Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture, Nashville, Tennessee, 1895, p. 16. 
Charles Willaed Hayes. The Tennessee Phosphates. 

Extract from the Seventeenth Annual Report of the U. S. Geological Survey, 
1895-96. Pt. 2, Economic Geology and Hydrography. Washington: Govern- 
ment Printing Office. 1896. 
M. Badouseau. Sur les gisements de chaux phosphates de I'Estremadure. 
Bulletin de la Societe Centrale Agriculture de France, XXXVIII. 



THE NONMETALLIG MINERALS. 
2. MONAZITE. 



383 



Composition, a phosphate of cerium motals of the g-eneral formula 
(Ce, La, Di) PO^. Actual aualyses as given by Dana yielded results 
as below: 



Constituents. 



Phosphoric anhydride (P2O5) 

Cerium sesquioxlde (CeoO^) 

Lanthanum sesquioxide (LaoOa). 
Didynium sesquioxide (DI2O3) . . . 

Yttrium sesquioxide (Y0O3) 

Iron sesquioxide ( FcoOa) 

Silica (SiOo) 

Thorina (ThOo) 

Lime (CaO) 

Ignition 

Total 



29.28 
31.38 

30.88 



II. 



1.40 
6.49 



99.63 



27. 55 
29.20 

26. 26 

3.82 
1.13 
1.86 
9.57 
0.69 
0.52 



100. 60 



I Burke County, North Carolina. 



IIArendal, Norway. 



The crystals are commonl}" minute, often flattened; not uncom- 
monly in form of small cruciform twins. The mineral also occurs in 
coarse masses yielding angular fragments. Hardness, 5 to 5.5; spe- 
cific gravity, 4.9 to 5.3. Color, hyacinth-red to brown and yellowish, 
subtransparent to translucent. 

Localities and mode of occurrence. — The common form of occurrence 
of the mineral is that of minute crystals or crystalline granules dis- 
seminated throughout the mass of gneissoid rocks. Owing to their 
small size they have been very generally overlooked, and it is only 
where, through the decomposition of the inclosing rock and the con- 
centration of these and the accompanying heavy minerals — as magne- 
tite, garnet, etc. — in the form of sand, that it becomes sufficiently 
conspicuous to be evident. Prof. O. Derby was the first to point out 
the widespread occurrence of the mineral as a rock constituent, he 
having obtained it in numerous and hitherto unsuspected localities by 
washing the debris from decomposed gneisses of Brazil. Although 
widespread as a rock constituent and of interest from a mineralogical 
and petrographical standpoint, only the localities mentioned below have 
thus far yielded the mineral in commercial quantities. 

North Carolina. — The mineral is found in considerable quantities in 
the form of small brown, greenish, or yellow-brown granules, often 
rounded by water action, in the gold-bearing sands of Rutherford, 
Polk, Alexander, Burke, and McDowell counties, and also in the neigh- 
borhood of Crowders Mountain, Gaston County, and at Todds Branch, 
in Mecklenburg County, where it occurs associated with zircons and 
an occasional diamond. Fine crystals over an inch in length have been 
found in Mitchell County, and large cleavable masses, sometimes 3 or 



384 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

4 inches across and of a yellowish-brown color, at Mars Hill, in Mad- 
ison County. From the oold-bearing sands at Brindleton, Burke 
County, some 15 tons of sand, containing from 60 to 92 per cent of 
small crystals, had been obtained prior to 1891. 

According to Mr. H. B. Nitze^ the commercially economical deposits 
of monazite are those occurring in the placer sands of the streams and 
adjoining bottoms and in the beach sands along the seashore. The 
geographical areas over which such workable deposits have been found 
up to the present time are quite limited in number and extent. In 
the United States the placer deposits of North and South Carolina 
stand alone. This area includes between 1,600 and 2,000 square miles, 
situated in Burke, McDowell, Rutherford, Cleveland, and Polk coun- 
ties, North Carolina, and the northern part of Spartanburg County, 
South Carolina. The principal deposits of this region are found along 
the waters of Silver, South Muddy, and North Muddy creeks, and 
Henrys and Jacobs Forks of the Catawba River in McDowell and Burke 
counties; the Second Broad River in McDowell and Rutherford 
counties; and the First Broad River in Rutherford and Cleveland 
counties. North Carolina, and Spartanburg County, South Carolina. 
These streams have their sources in the South Mountains, an eastern 
outlier of the Blue Ridge. The country rock is granitic biotite 
gneiss and dioritic hornblende gneiss, intersected nearly at right 
angles to the schistosity by a parallel system of small auriferous 
quartz veins, striking about N. 70° E., and dipping steeply to the N.W. 
Most of the stream deposits of this region have been worked for placer 
gold. The existence of monazite in commercial quantities here was 
first established by Mr. W. E. Hidden, in 1879. The thickness of 
these stream gravel deposits is from 1 to 2 feet, and the width of the 
mountain streams in which they occur is seldom over 12 feet. The 
percentage of monazite in the original sand is very variable, from an 
intinitesimal quantity up to 1 or 2 per cent. The deposits are naturally 
richer near the headwaters of the streams. 

Brazil. — As above noted, the original source of the Brazilian mo- 
nazite were gneisses from which the minertil has been liberated by 
decomposition. The particular localities examined by Professor 
Derby are in the provinces of Minas Geraes, Rio de Janeiro, and Sao 
Paulo. The most extensive accumulation thus far reported is in the 
form of considerable patches on the sea beach near the little town of 
Alcobaca in the southern part of the province of Bahia, though it 
has been also found on other sea beaches and in river sands. Nitze 
writes that 

Sacks filled with this sand were shipped to New York in 1885, the deposit having 
been taken for tin (.)re. Its true character was, however, soon recognized, and since 
then a number of tons have been shipped in the natural state, without any further 



1 Sixteenth Annual Report U. S. Geological Survey, 1894-95, pt. 4, p. 



685. 



THE NONMETALUC MINERALS. 385 

concentration or treatment, aw ballast, mainly to the European markets. It is 
reported to contain 3 to 4 per cent thoria. * * * Monazite has also been found 
in the ^old and diamond placers of the provinces of Bahia (Salabro and Caravellas), 
Minas Geraes (Diamantia), Rio de Janeiro, and Sao Paulo. It has been found in the 
river sands of Buenos Ayres, Argentine Republic, and also in the gold placers of 
Rio Chico, at Autiocjuia, in the United States of Colombia. 

In the Ural jNIountains of Russia monazite is found in the Bakakui placers of the 
iSanarka River. The placer gold mines of Siberia are reported to be rich in mona- 
zite, which is rafted down the Lena and the Yenesei rivers to the Arctic Ocean, and 
thence to European ports. 

Economic deposits of monazite are also reported to exist in the pegmatic dikes'of 
Southern Norway. It is picked by the miners while sorting feldspar at the mines. 
It is not known to exist in placer deposits. The annual output is stated to be not 
more than 1 ton, which is shipped mainly to Germany. 

MethocU of extraction. — The monazite is won by washing the sand and gravel in 
sluice Ixjxes exactly after the manner that placer gold is worked. The sluice boxes 
are about 8 feet long by 20 inches wide by 20 inches deep. Two men work at a box, 
the one charging the gravel on a perforated plate fixed in the upper end of the box, 
the other one working the contents up and down with a gravel fork or perforated 
shovel in order to float off the lighter sands. These boxes are cleaned out at the 
end of the day's work, the washed and concentrated monazite being collected and 
dried. Magnetite, if jaresent, is eliminated from the dried sand by treatment with a 
large magnet. Many of the heavy minerals, such as zircon, menaccanite, rutile, 
brookite, corundum, garnet, etc., can not be completely eliminated. The com- 
mercially prepared sand, therefore, after washing thoroughly and treating with a 
magnet, is not pure monazite. A cleaned sand containing from 65 to 70 per cent 
monazite is considered of good quality. From 20 to 35 pounds of cleaned monazite 
sand per hand, that is, from 40 to 70 pounds to the box, is considered a good day's 
work. The price of labor is 75 cents per day. 

But very few regular mining operations are carried on in the region. As a rule 
each farmer mines his own monazite deposit and sells the product to local buyers, 
often at some country store in exchange for merchandise. 

At the present time the monazite in the stream beds has been practically exhausted, 
with few exceptions, and the majority of the workings are in the gravel deposits of 
the adjoining bottoms. These deposits are mined by sinking pits about 8 feet square 
to the bed rock and raising the gravel by hand labor to a sluice box at the mouth of 
the pit. The overlay is thrown away excepting in cases where it contains any sandy 
or gritty material. The pits are carried forward in parallel lines, separated by nar- 
row belts of tailing dumps, similar to the methods pursued in placer gold mining. 

At the Blanton and Lattimore mines on Hickory Creek, 2 miles northeast of 
Shelby, Cleveland County, North Carolina, the bottom is 300 to 400 feet wide, and has 
been partially worked for a distance of one-fourth of a mile along the creek. The 
overlay is from 3 to 4 feet and the gravel bed from 1 to 2 feet thick. The methods of 
mining and cleaning are much more systematic in Spartanburg County, South Caro- 
lina, than in North Carolina regions. Although the raw material contains on an 
average fully as nmch garnet, rutile, titanic iron ore, etc., as that in the North Caro- 
lina mines, a nmch better finished product is obtained, and more economically, by 
making several grades. Two boxes are used in washing the gravel, one below the 
other. The gravel is charged on a perforated plate at the head of theujiper box, and 
the clean-up from this box is so thoroughly washed as to give a high grade sand, 
often up to 85 per cent pure. The tailings discharge directly into the lower box, 
where they are rewashed, giving a second grade sand. At times the material passes 
through as many as five washing treatments in the sluice boxes. Even after these 
grades are obtained aa clear as possible by washing, the material, after bemg thor- 
NAT MUS 99 25 



386 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

onghly dried, is further cleaned by pouring from a cup, or a small spout in a bin, 
in a fine, steady stream from a height of about 4 feet, on a level platform ; the lighter 
quartz and black sand with the fine-grained monazite (tailings) falls on the periphery 
of the conical pile and is constantly brushed aside with hand brushes; these tailings 
are afterwards rewashed. Instead of pouring and brushing, the material is sometimes 
treated in a winnowing machine similar to that used in separating chaff from wheat. 

Although the best grade of sand is as high as 85 Y>er cent pure, its quantitative 
pro]»ortion is small as compared with the second and other inferior grades, and there 
is always considerable loss of monazite in the various tailings. It is impossible to 
conduct this washing process without loss of monazite, and equally impossil;)le to 
make a perfect separation of the garnet, rutile, titanic iron ore, etc., even in the best 
grades. The additional cost of such rewashing and rehandling must also ))e taken 
into consideration. 

If the material washed contains gold, the same will be collected with the mona- 
zite in concentrating. It may frequently pay to separate it, which can easily be 
accomplished by treating the whole mass over again in a riffle box with quicksilver. 

It has been shown that the monazite occurs as an accessory constitvlent of the 
country rock, and that the latter is decomposed to considerable depths, sometimes 
as much as 100 feet. On account of the minute percentage of monazite in the mother 
rock, it is usually impracticable to economically work the same in place, by such a 
process as hydraulicking and sluicing, for instance. However, even hillside mining 
has been resorted to. Such is the case at the Phifer mine, in Cleveland County, 
North Carolina, 2 miles northeast of Shelby. The country rock is a coarse mica 
(muscovite and biotite) gneiss, and the small monazite crystals may at times be 
distinctly seen, unaided by a magnifying glass, in this rock. It is very little decom- 
posed and still quite hard, and the material that is mined for monazite is the over- 
lying soil and subsoil, which is from 4 to 6 feet thick. This is loaded on wheel- 
barrows and transported to the sluice boxes below the water race. The yield is 
fairly good, and the product very clean, though the cost of working * * * must 
be considerably in excess of that of bottom mining. Where the rock contains suf- 
ficient gold, as it sometimes does, to be operated as a gold mine, there is no reason 
why the monazite cannot be saved as a valuable by-product.^ 

The following- localities are represented in the Museum collec- 
tions : 

Specimen No. .53107, IT. S.N. M. Prado, Bahia, Brazil. Monazite-bearing sand from 

the bed of a small stream near the beach. 
Specimen No. 5.3108, U.S.N.M. Monazite sand, Prado, Bahia, Brazil. Natural con- 
centrate of beach; represents the condition in which much of the material is 

shipped. 
Specimen No. 53109, U.S.N.M. Monazite sand, Prado, Bahia, Brazil. The natural 

concentrate of the beach still further concentrated in the batea. 
Specimen No. 53110, U.S.N.M. Monazite sandstone, Prado, Bahia, Brazil. A small 

bit of loosely coherent standstone, composed largely of monazite particles. Of 

Quaternary (?) age, and presumably the source of much of the sand on. the 

beach. 
Specimen No. 62568, U.B.N.M. Monazite sand, with magnetic iron and other 

impurities. Henderson County, North Carolina. 
Specimen No. 63343, U.S.N.M. Monazite sand from near Shelby, Cleveland County, 

North Carolina. 
Specimen No. 63496, U.S.N.M. Monazite sand, concentrated, from Abbeville, South 

Carolina. 

1 Sixteenth Annual Report U. S. Geological Survey, 1894-95, Pt. 4, pp. 686-687. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 387 

?Zsvw. — The rare oloments coriuni, zircoiiium, thorium, yttrium, 
lanthanium, etc., which are as a rule associated with eacii other in the 
minerals cerite, zircon, monazite, samarskite, etc., as described, find 
their commercial use not in the form of metals, l)ut as oxides only; 
and it is only since the introduction of the Welshach incandescent 
system of lighting that their use in this form has assumed aii}^ com- 
mercial importance. 

This Welsbach light consists of a cap or hood to gas or other l)urners, 
to increase- their illuminating powers. The cap is made of cotton or 
other suitable material, impregnated with the oxides in proportions 60 
per cent zirconia, 20 per cent 3'ttria, and 20 per cent lanthanum. The 
fabric is strengthened and supported with fine platinum wire and 
suspended in the fiame. On igniting in the flame the fabric is quickly 
reduced to ash, the cotton being burnt away and the earthy matter 
still retaining the form of a cap or hood.^ 

The drawback to the use of these oxides has been, it is said,'^ the 
great difficulty in obtaining them in a pure condition. Several methods 
have been used, but usually with poor results, especially when the 
mineral contains iron. 

The demand for the minerals of this group being so limited there is 
no regular market price. The Mineral Industry for 1893 quotes zir- 
con at 10 cents a pound, monazite 25 cents, and samarskite 50 cents. 
It is stated that 1 ton of zircon will }deld sufficient zirconia for half a 
million Welsbach burners. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

See paper on Monazite, by H. B. C. Nitze, in Mineral Resources of the United States, 
Part. 4, of the Sixteenth Annual Report U. S. Geological Survey, 1894-95, pp. 667-693. 
This contains a very satisfactory bibliography down to date of publication. Also 
see Les Terres Rares Mineralogie- Properties Analyse, by P. Truchot. Carre et Naud. 
Paris, 1898. 

3. Vanadinite. 

This is a vanadinate and chloride of lead of the formula (PbCl) 
Pb^VjOi.,, = Vanadium pentoxide 19. -1 per cent; lead protoxide 78. 7 per 
cent; chlorine 2.5. In nature often more or less impure through the 
presence of arsenic and traces of iron, manganese, zinc, and lime. 
Color deep red to brown and straw-yellow % resinous luster; translucent 
to opaque. Hardness 2.75 to 3. Gravity 6.66 to 7.23. When a drop 
of nitric acid is applied to a particle of a crystal there is soon formed 
a yellow^ coating of vanadic oxide. This reaction is quite characteristic 
and furnishes an easy and convenient means of determination. 

Localities and mode of occurrence. — Occurs in prismatic crystals with 
smooth faces and sharp edges; crystals sometimes cavernous at the top, 

' .Tdui-nal of the Society of Chemical Industry, V, 1886, p. .522. 
-Mineral Resources of the United States, 1885, p. 393. 



388 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

as in Specimen No. 61135, U. S. N. M. Also common in parallel grouped 
and rounded forms and globular incrustations. Dana gives the fol- 
lowing relative to the known localities: 

This mineral was first discovered at Zimapan in Mexico, by Del Rio. Later 
obtained among some of the old workings at Wanlockhead in Dnmfriesshire, where 
it occurs in small globular masses, on calamine, and also in small hexagonal crystals; 
also at Berezov in the Ural, with pyromorphite; and near Kappel in Carinthia, in 
crystals; at Undenas, Bolet, Sweden; in the Sierra de Cordoba, Argentine Eepul)lic; 
South Africa. 

In the United States it occurs sparingly with wulfenite and pyromorj^hite as a 
coating on limestone, near Sing Sing, New York. In Arizona it is found at the 
Hamburg, Melissa, and other mines in Yuma County, in brilliant deep red crystals; 
Vulture, Phcenix, and other mines in Maricopa County; at the Black Prince mine; 
also the Mammoth gold mine, near Oracle, Pinal County, and in brown barrel- 
shaped crystals in the Humbug district, Yavapai Coimty. In New Mexico it is 
found at Lake Valley, Sierra County (endlichite); and the Mimbres mines near 
Georgetown [Specimen No. 67844, U.S.N. M.]. 

The characteristic mode of occurrence at the Mimbres Mine, above 
noted, is associated with descloizite in the form of small hopper-shaped 
crj^stals and drusy or botrj^oidal and globular masses coating the 
siliceous residues of the limestone in the irregular cavities with which 
the stone abounds. The color of these coatings varies from beautiful 
ruby red to light ocherous 3^ellow. The mineral is here nearly alwaj^s 
associated with descloizites as noted below. 

Uses. — See under descloizite. 

4. Descloizite. 

This is a vanadinate of lead and zinc of the formula -1 (PbZn) O. 
V2O5, H20 = vanadum pentoxide 22.7 per cent; lead protoxide 55.4 
percent; zinc oxide 19.7 per cent; water 2.2 per cent. The published 
analyses show also small amounts of arsenic, copper, iron, manganese 
and phosphorus. Color, red to brown; luster, greasy; no cleavage; 
fracture small conchoidal to uneven. Occurs in small prismatic or 
pyramidal crvstals and in librous, mamillated or massive forms. 
Often associated with and pseudomorphous after vanadinite. 

ZocaUties and mode of occurrence. — Dana gives the following rela- 
tive to Occurrence: 

Occurs in small crystals, 1 to 2 millimeters thick, clustered on a siliceous and 
ferruginous gangue from South America, at the Venus Mine and other points in the 
Sierra de Cordoba, Argentine Republic, associated with acicular green pyromor- 
phite, vanadinite, etc. At Kappel, in Carinthia, in small clove-brown rhombic 

octahedrons. 

******* 

Sparingly at the Wheatley Mine, Phoenixville, Pennsylvania, as a thin crystalline 
crust on wulfenite, (piartz, and a ferruginous clay. Abundant at the Sierra Grande 
Mine, Lake Valley, Sierra County, New Mexico, in red to nearly black crystals, 
pyramidal and prismatic in habit, associated with vanadinite, iodryite, etc. ; at the 
Mimbres and other mines, near Georgetown, New Mexico, in stalactitic crystalline 



THE ISrOTSrMETALLIO MINERALS. 389 

aggregates [Rpecimon No. 67844, TT.S.N.M.]. In Arizona near Tombstone, in Yavapai 
C'onnty, in brownisli olivo-green crystals; at tlie Mammoth (iold Mine, near Oracle, 
Pinal County, in orange-red to l)ro\vnish red crystals with vanadinite and wulfenite. 
A vanadinite, probably identical with descloizite, occurs at the Maytlower Mine, 
Bald Mountain district, in Beaverhead County, Montana; it is in an impure earthy 
form of a dull yellow to pale orange color. See further under Carnotite, p. 404. 

Vanadium is also found in small quantities in certain Swedish iron 
ores; in the cupriferous schists of Mansfeld, Saxony; in cuprifer- 
ous sands of Cheshire, Eng-land, and Perm, Russia; in coals from 
various localities; in beauxite and in clay near Paris. As stated by 
Fuchs and De Launey,^ vanadium has been shown to exist in extremely 
small proportions in primordial rocks, from which it became concen- 
trated in the clays on their breaking up. Certain oolitic iron ores 
(limonites) at Mafenay, Saone et Loire, France, contain the substance 
in such proportions that the slag* from their smelting have become 
commercial sovirces of supply, some 60,000 kilograms of vanadic acid 
being manufactured annually from them. 

The following referring to the occurrence and value of vanadinates 
in the United States is of sufficient interest to bear reproduction here: 

The lead vanadates are frequently found in association with lead ores, as, for 
instance, in the deposits at Leadville, whence some very handsome specimens were 
formerly obtained. The most important occurrence of lead vanadates in the United 
States, however, is probably in Arizona, where it has been reported in the ores of 
several mines, among others those of the Castle Dome district, the Crowned King 
mine in the Bradshaw Mountains, and the Mammoth gold mines at Mammoth, in 
Pinal County. The last-mentioned mines are probably the only ones in the United 
States from vs^hich vanadium minerals have been won on an industrial scale. The 
vanadium minerals, of which nearly all the known varieties occurred, the dechenite 
and descloizite predominating, were found in the upper levels of the mine, forming 
about 1 per cent of the ore on the average, though within limited areas they formed 
from 3 to 4 per cent. In the lower levels they occurred less abundantly, only an 
occasional pocket and a small quantity of disseminated crystals being found. The 
red crystals, according to an analysis by the late Dr. F. A. Genth, contained chlorine, 
2.43 per cent; lead, 7.08 per cent; lead oxide, 69.98 per cent; ferric oxide, 0.48 per 
cent; vanadic acid, 17.15 per cent; arsenic acid, 3.06 per cent, and phosphoric acid, 
0.29 per cent. In milling the ore (gold) the vanadium minerals collected in riffles, 
placed about 18 inches apart in the sluices. The material thus obtained was worked 
over by hand in a sort of huddle, and the resulting concentrates were sold to the 
Kalion Chemical Company, of Gray's Ferry Road, Philadelphia. The total quantity 
of concentrates obtained in this manner did not exceed 6 tons. An average sample 
of the lot, analyzed by Dr. Genth, gave the following results: Vanadic acid, 15.40 
per cent; molybdic acid, 3.35 per cent; arsenic acid, 1.50 per cent; carbonic acid, 
0.90 per cent; chlorine, 0.48 per cent; oxide of lead, 56.80 jier cent; oxide of zinc, 
10.70 per cent; oxide of copper, 0.95 per cent; oxide of iron, 0.35 per cent; soluble 
silica, 0.60 per cent; insoluble matter, 5.29 per cent. The value of the gold and 
silver contents of the concentrates was about $140 per ton. The price realized on 
this first lot was 12.5 cents per pound, or $250 per ton, on board the cars at Tucson. 

The vanadic salts manufactured from this lot of concentrates were said to have 



' Traits des Gites Mineraux, II, p. 95. 



390 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

been the first produced on a commercial scale in the United States, and owing to the 
liniiteil market for the same the price dropped over 50 per cent. 

Frue vanners were then introduced into the mill, and the product obtained from 
them, amounting to about 1 ton per 100 tons of ore crushed, contained from 5 to 6 
per cent vanadic acid and $40 to |80 per ton in gold and silver. The Kalion Chem- 
ical Company offered to buy this product according to the following sliding scale: 
With the market price of ammonium vanadate $5 per pound, $100 per ton for the 
concentrates; vanadate of ammonium $4.50 j^er pound, concentrates $92; vanadate of 
ammonium $4 per pound, concentrates $82; vanadate of ammonium $3.50 per pound, 
concentrates $72; vanadate of ammonium $3 per pound, concentrates $64. Only a 
few tons of these concentrates were shipped to Philadelphia, the remainder being 
sold to the Denver smelters for their gold, silver, and lead value. ^ 

Uses. — The only uses thus far developed for the mineral are as a 
source for vanadium salts used as a pigment for porcelain; in the man- 
ufacture of ink and in textile dyeing and printing, both vanadate of 
ammonium and vanadic oxide being used for the latter purpose, pro- 
ducing an intense black color with a slight greenish cast. 

5. Amblygonite. 

This is a fluo-phosphate of aluminum and lithium, of the formula 
Li (Al F) P O^. Analysis of a sample from Paris, Maine, as given 
by Dana, shows: Phosphoric acid, 48.31 per cent; alumina, 33.68 
per cent; lithia, 9.82 per cent; soda, 0.34 per cent; potash, 0.03 
per cent; water, 4,89 per cent; fluorine, 4.82 per cent; hardness, 6; 
specific gravity, 3.01 to 3.09. Luster vitreous to greasy, color white 
to pale greenish, bluish, yellowish to brownish, streak white. On 
casual inspection the mineral somewhat resembles potash feldspar 
(orthoclase), but when finely pulverized is soluble in sulphuric acid, 
and less readily so in hydrochloric acid. The Hebron variety, when 
pulverized and moistened with sulphuric acid, gives the characteristic 
lithia red color to the flame. 

Mode of occurrence. — Amblygonite occurs in the form of coarse 
crystals, or compact and columnar forms in pegmatic veins associated 
with lepidolite, tourmalines, and other minerals so characteristic of this 
class of veins. In the United States it occurs at Hebron (Specimen 
No. 62576, U.S.N.M.); Mount Mica, in Paris (Specimen No. 53694, 
U.S.N.M.); Auburn and Peru, Maine, at the latter place associated 
with spodumene, petalite, and lepidolite. In Saxony the mineral is 
found at Chursdorf and Arnsdorf , near Penig, and near Geier. Also 
found at Arendal, Norway, and at Montebras and Creuze, France. 

Uses. — Since 1886 the mineral has been utilized as a source of lithia 
salts, in place of the lithia mica. The chief commercial source is at 
present Montebras, France, where it occurs in a coarse granitic vein 
yielding also cassiterite and kaolin in commercial quantities. 

' The Mineral Industry, II, 1893, p. 574. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



391 



0. Tkiphylite and LiTHioriiiLiTE. 

These are names given to pho.sphatcs of iron, manganese, and lithium, 
and which pass into one another by inscnsibh> gradations through 
variations in the proportional amounts of manganese protoxide, th(^ 
triphylite containing from 10 to 20 per cent of this oxide, while the 
lithiophilite contains twice that amount. The comparative composition 
of extreme types is shown below: 



Name. 


PoOj. 


FeO. 


MnO. 


LiaO. 


Na^O. 


HsO. 


Triphvlite 


43.18 
44.67 


3G.21 
4.02 


8.96 
40.86 


8.15 
8.63 


0.26 
0.14 


0.87 
0.82 







Triphylite is a gray to blue-gray mineral in crystals and coarsely 
cleavable masses of a hardness of 4. 5 to 5 of Dana's scale, and specific 
gravity of 3.42 to 3.56. 

Lithiophilite diti'ers mainl}^ in color — aside from composition as 
above noted — being of a pink to clove-brown hue. Both minerals 
may undergo a darkening in color, becoming almost black through a 
higher oxidation and hydration of the manganese protoxide. This 
feature is best shown in the lithiophilite from Branchville, Connecticut. 
(Specimen No. 62583, U.S.N.M.) 

Ocourreiice. — These minerals occur chiefly in granitic veins, associated 
with spodumene and other lithia bearing minerals, as at the localities 
above mentioned. Peru, Hebron, and Norway, Maine; Keityo, Fin- 
land, etc. 

IX. NITRATES. 

There are three compounds of nitric acid and a base occurring in 
nature in such quantities and of sufficient economic importance to 
merit attention here. These are (1) the true niter or potassium nitrate 
(KNO3), (2) soda niter or sodium nitrate (NaNOg), and (3) nitrocal- 
cite, a calcium nitrate (CaN,,Oc). All are readily soluble in water, and 
hence found in any quantity only in arid regions or where protected, 
as in the dry parts of caves. 

1. Niter, Potassium Nitrate. 

Composition KN03,=nitric anhydride, 53.5 per cent; potash, 46.5 
per cent. Hardness, 2; specific gravity, 2.1; color, white, subtrans- 
parent. Readily soluble in water. Taste, saline and cooling. Defla- 
grates vividly when thrown on burning coals and colors the flame 
violet. 

The mineral occurs in nature mainly in the form of acicular crystals 
and etflorescences on the surface or walls of rocks and scattered in the 
loose soil of limestone caves and similar dry and protected places. 



392 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

It is also found in certain soils of tropical countries, as noted under 
origin. In the United States it has been found in caves of the South- 
ern States, as those of Madison County, Kentucky, but never in 
commercial qualities. The chief commercial source of the salt has 
been the artificial nitrates of France, Germany, Sweden, and other 
European countries. It is also prepared artificially from soda niter. 

2. Soda Niter. 

Nitrate of sodium, NaNOj. This in its pure state is a white or 
colorless salt, but in nature brown or bright lemon yellow (See Speci- 
mens in jar. No. 67278, U.S.N.M.), of a slight saline taste, but with a 
peculiar cooling sensation when placed upon the tongue. It is by 
far the most common of the nitrates, and indeed the only one of the 
natural salts of any great commercial value, owing to the comparative 
rarity of the others. Though found to a slight extent in caves and 
protected places, the commercial supply is drawn almost wholly from 
the desert regions of the Pacific coast of South America and particu- 
larly from Chile, the chief deposits being found in the provinces of 
Tarapaca and Antofagasta, 

According to the elournal of the Society of Chemical Industry: ^ 

The total area of the province of Tarapaca is 16, 789 J square miles, and it is divided 
naturally into five distinct and well-defined zones. The first of these zones com- 
mences on the shores of the Pacific and has an average width, west to east, of 18 miles. 
It is formed, in the first place, of the beach; and, in the second, of the coast range, 
which attains an altitude varying from 1,125 to 5,800 feet above the sea level. This 
zone may be denominated the guano and mining zone. * * * This belt as it 
advances eastward becomes more and more depressed and terminates in a series of 
pampas (open plains) , having an elevation of 3,500 to 3,800 feet above the sea level. 
Nearly all these pampas contain vast beds of salts, sulphate of soda, and sulphate of 
Ume. They are known locally by the name of " salares." In some parts of the desert 
of Atacama the beds of nitrate of soda are found under these salares deposits, but 
in Tarapaca the caliche (nitrate earth) is found only under a bed of conglomerate 
known as "costra." * * * 

The second zone — the nitrate zone — commences on the edge of the Camarones 
Gully and extends southward to the desert of Atacama. Up to 1858 it was believed 
that the nitrate beds did not extend southward beyond the Loa Gully, but in that 
year beds were discovered in what was then the Bolivian littoral. Exjilorations 
which were effected in 1872 proved that the nitrate beds extended northward beyond 
the Camarones Gully and that they reached as far as the Chaca Gully and even as far 
as the Azapa Valley, in the province of Alrica. * * * The quantity and quality of 
the caliche varies very considerably in different parts of the zone, but the dimensions 
of the nitrate area may be set down at 120 geographical miles in length north to south, 
and 2 geographical miles in width east to west. It is estimated that the beds contain 
the enormous quantity of 1,980,630,502 quintals of niter, and it is stated that with the 
present export duty which is equal to 27 pence per quintal, the deposits will yield a 
revenue of £230,809,474. 

1 Volume VI, 1887, pp. 228, 229. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINEKALS. 



393 



It is olsowhorc^ stated that the point on the slope of the mountains 
wh(n'(^ the d(^posits of caliche are found is some 500 or (JOO feet hio-hcr 
than the valley, but that the material diminishes in quantity and rich- 
ness as the valley is approached and disappears entirely at the bottom. 

An examination of the workings of these beds discloses the follow- 
ing conditions: 

(1) That the surface to the depth of 8 or 10 inches is covered with 
a layer of fine, loose sand. 




Nctlite und Glau-berlie 



NUraie of Sodium 



Fig. 12. 

MAP OF NITRATE REGION, CHILE. 

After Fuchs and De Launav. 



(2) That underneath the sand is a cong-lomerate of amorphous por- 
phyry, feldspar, chloride of sodium, magnesia, gypsum, etc. , cemented 
by the sulphate of lime into a hard, compact mass to a depth of 6 to 
10 feet, called the "costra" or crust. 

(3) That below this crust the caliche, or impure nitrate, is found, 
presenting to the view a variety of colors — yellowish-white, orange, 
bluish-grav, etc. 



394 REPORT OF NATIONAL MTTSEUM, 1899. 

The nitrate deposit is quarried by blasting- with a coarse-grained 
powder, of which as much as 150 pounds are sometimes used at a 
single blast. Neither dynamite nor nitroglycerine is used, as it 
would shatter and pulverize the caliche so as to occasion a serious loss. 

After l)eing brought to the surface the caliche is carefully assorted 
by experts, broken into pieces double the size of an orange, and carted 
to the retinery establishment, situated on the pampas or on the sea- 
coast, or carried to Iquique, Pisagua, Patillos, and Antofagasta by 
rail, all of these places having connection, l)y narrow-gauge rail- 
ways, with the nitrate deposits and which, consequently, are rapidly 
becoming the chief centers of nitrate production and export. 

According to the reports of Consul-General Walker, the southern 
limit of the nitrate fields is in Antofagasta province, latitude 25° 45' S., 
and the northern in latitude 19° 12' S., its extreme north and south 
length l)eing some 260 geographical miles and its average width some 
2i miles. 

This narrow strip of nitrate lands stretches along the eastern slope 
of the coast range of barren, verdureless mountains which wall in the 
Pacific Ocean from the northern limit of Peru to the Straits of Magel- 
lan, upon which, for more than 2,000 miles, no rain ever falls and 
upon which there is no living vegetation. Some of the peaks reach 
an altitude of 4,000 or 5,000 feet above the sea level, but the usual 
height of the range is about 2,000. The average distance from the 
coast to the nitrate beds is about 14 miles, but man}^ of them are not 
more than 10 miles. 

The accompanying map, p. 393, from Fuchs and De Launays, Traite 
des Gites Mineraux, will serve to show the geographic position of the 
deposits. 

Specimen No. 62111, U.S.N.M., show the varying character of the 
material as mined. 

3. Nitro-Calcite. 

Nitro-calcite, or calcium nitrate, CaN20e+-«H20, is not uncommon 
as a silky efflorescence on the floors and walls of dry limestone caverns 
and may be extracted in considerable quantities from their residual clays 
by a process of leaching. During the war of 1812 the clays upon the 
floors of Mammoth Cave, Kentucky, were systematically leached and 
the dissolved nitrate obtained by evaporation and crystallization. The 
wooden tanks and log pipes for conducting the water are still in a 
remarkable state of preservation, owing to the dry air of the cavern. 

The nitrous earths of Wyandotte Cave in southern Indiana, and 
doubtless of other localities, were similarly treated during these times 
of temporary stringency. (See Specimens Nos. 68165, 68166, U.S.N.M. 
in cave exhibit.) 



THE NONMETALLIO MINERALS. 395 

Aocordino^ to the reports of the State ^eolooist' this eartli, in its 
air-drv coiulition, has the following' composition: 

Loss at red heat 1(). 50 

Silit-a 20. GO 

Ferric oxide (3. 03 

Maiitjaiiic oxide 0. 75 

AluiniiKi 20. 40 

Lime 8. 06 

Magnesia 4. 58 

Carl)onie acid 10. 38 

Sulphurie acid 6. 55 

Phosphoric acid 2. 43 

Nitric acid 3. 50 

Chlorides of alkalies and loss 0. 32 



100. 10 

The researches of Muntz and Marcano '^ have shown that the soils as 
well as the earth from the floor of caves, in Venezuela and other por- 
tions of South America may be rich in calcium nitrate to an extent 
quite unknow^n in other countries. 

Origin. — The source of the nitrates, both of caves and of the Chilean 
pampas has been a subject of considerable discussion. There appears 
little doubt but the deposits in caves and those disseminated in soils 
are due to the nitrifying agencies of Ijacteria acting upon organic matter 
whereby the organic nitrogen is converted into nitric acid which inmie- 
diately combines with the most available l)ases, l)e the}^ of lime, soda, 
or potash. The accumulation of the niter in caves is probably due, as 
suggested })y W. H. Hess (see Bibliograph}^), to the retention by the 
clay of the nitrates brought in from the surface by percolating waters. 

In other words, the caves serve merely as receptacles, or store- 
houses, for nitrates which had their origin in the surface soil. The 
Chilean nitrate beds are considered by Muntz and Marcano as having a 
very similar origin. The material being soluble is gradually leached 
out from the soils in which it originated and drained into inclosed 
salt marshes or inland seas where a double decomposition takes place 
between the sodium chloride and calcium nitrate, whereby sodium 
nitrate and calcium chloride are produced. That such a double 
decomposition may take place has been shown by actual experiment. 

This is not widely different from the view taken also by W. Newton.^ 

After discussing ])riefly theories previously advanced including 
Darwin's theory of derivation from decomposing seaweeds accumu- 
lated on old sea beaches, and the even less plausible one of its deriva- 
tion from guano, he goes on to show that the plain of Tamarugal 

' Geological Report of Indiana, 1878, p. 163. 

^Comptes Rendus de I'Academie des Sciences, CI, Paris, 1885, p. 1265. 

HJeological Magazine, III, 1896, j). 339. 



396 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

within which the deposits lie, is covered l\v an alluvial soil rich in 
organic matter. This organic matter under the now well-known action 
of bacteria, aided by the prevailing high temperatures of the region , 
gives rise to nitrates, which owing to the absence of rains for long 
periods, accumulates to an extent impossible under less favorable 
circumstances. Mountain floods which occur at periods of seven or 
eight years, swamp the plain, bringing in solution the nitrate drained 
from the soils of the surrounding slope, and to accumulate in the 
lower levels. On the evaporation of the water this is again depos- 
ited. The occurrence of the nitrate so far up the slope of the hills is 
regarded by Newton as due to the tendency of the nitrate salt, in 
saturated solutions, to creep up, as in experiment it may be seen to 
creep up and over the sides of a saucer or other shallow dish in which 
the evaporation is progressing. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

M. A. MuNTz. Recherches sur la formation des gisements de nitrate de soude. 

Comptes Rendus de 1' Academic des Sciences, CI, 1885, p. 1265. 
Robert Harvey. Machinery for the Manufacture of Nitrate of Soda. 

Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, IV, 1885, p. 744. 
Ralph Abercromby. Nitrate of Soda, and the Nitrate Country. 

Nature, XL, 1889, p. 186. 
. The Nitrate Deposits and Trade of Chile. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, L, August 9, 1890, p. 164. 
Nicolas Rusche. Die Saltpetrewiiste in Chile. 

Vom Fels zum Meer, pt. 4, 1891-2. 
G. M. Hunter. The Santa Isabel Nitrate Works, Toco, Chile. 

Transactions of the Institute of Engineers and Shipbuilders of Scotland, 
XXXVI, p. 57. 
William Newton. The Origin of Nitrate in Chile. 

The Geological Magazine, III, 1896, p. 339. 
W. H. Hess. The Origin of Nitrates in Caves. 

Journal of Geology, VIII, No. 2, 1900, p. 129. 

X. BORATES. 

Of the ten or more species of natural borates but three, or possibly 
four, are commercial sources of borax, and need consideration here. 
These are, (1) borax or tincal; (2) ulexite, or boronatrocalcitc; (3) 
priceite, colemanite, or pandermite, and (4) boracite, or stassfurtite. 
Sassolite, or native boric acid, occurs chiefly in solution. The inti- 
mate association of these minerals renders it advisable to treat of their 
origin and mode of extraction in common, after giving the composition 
and general physical characters of each by itself. 

1. Borax or Tincal; Borate of Soda. 

Composition NajB^O^.lOHgO,^ boron trioxide, 36.6 per cent; soda, 
16.2 per cent; water, 47.2 per cent. Color, white to grayish, and 
sometimes greenish; translucent to opa{|ue. It crystallizes in short, 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 397 

stout prisms, belonging- to the monoclinic system (Specimen No. 15514, 
U.S.N.M.) Hardness, 2 to 2.5; specific gravity, 1.7. Readily soluble 
in water; taste sweetish alkaline. 

2. Ulexite ; Boronatrocalcite. 

Composition NaCaB,0.r8H20,= boron trioxide, 43 per cent; lime, 
13. 8 per cent; soda, 7. 7 per cent; water, 85. 5. Color, white, with silky 
luster. Occurs usually in rounded masses of loose texture, which con- 
sist mainly of fine acicular crystals or fibers. (See Specimen No. 
18128, U.S.N.M., from Rhodes Marsh, Nevada.) Insoluble in cold 
water, and only slightly so in hot, the solution being alkaline. Hard- 
ness, 1; specific gravity, 1.65. 

3. COLEMANITE. 

Composition Ca2BgOii.5H20,=boron trioxide, 50.9 per cent; lime, 
27.2 per cent; water, 21.9 per cent. Color, milky to yellowish- white, 
or colorless; transparent to translucent. Hardness, 4 to 4.5; specific 
gravity, 2.41. Insoluble in water, but readily so in hot hydrochloric 
acid. Priceite and pandermite are hydrous calcium borates closely 
allied to colemanite, occurring in loosely coherent and chalky or mas- 
sive forms. (Specimen No. 63362, U.S.N.M.). 

4. BoRACiTE OR Stassfurtite ; Borate of Magnesia. 

Composition Mg^ClBigOso,^ boron trioxide, 62.5 per cent; mag- 
nesia, 31.4 per cent; chlorine, 7.9 per cent. Color, white to yellow or 
greenish. In crystals transparent to translucent. Crystals cubic and 
tetrahedral. Insoluble in water; readily soluble in hydrochloric acid. 
Hardness, 7; specific gravity, 2.9to3. (Specimen No. 64742, U.S.N.M., 
from Stassfurt.) 

Localities and mode of occurrence. — As has been stated by Kemp^ 
the Great Basin region of the United States contains, along the Nevada- 
California border at least ten salines or marshes which have been found 
to hold boracic deposits. The marshes are regarded as the beds of 
relatively restricted lakes which received boracic water, probably from 
hot springs. Volcanic phenomena are abundant and were doubtless 
the stimulating causes. Besides borax, ulexite (borate of lime and 
soda) and priceite (borate of lime) are found commingled with more 
or less gypsum, carbonate, chloride, and sulphate of soda and various 
other alkaline salts. The best known of the salines in Nevada are 
Teels Marsh, Columbus Marsh, Fish Lake Valley, and Rhodes Marsh, 
all in Esmeralda County. These cover an area of thousands of acres, 
but the productive portions are comparatively limited. In Churchill 
County, this same State, there is a minor deposit at Salt Wells (Speci- 
men No. 15522, U.S.N.M.). In California there is an important 
deposit known as Searles Marsh, in San Bernardino County, and a vein 

iThe Mineral Industry, 1892, p. 43. 



398 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

of calcium borate (colemanite) in the Calico District, this same county. 
The Saline Valley, the Amargosa, and Furnace Creek deposits, in Inyo 
County, are also extensive. (Specimen No. 62444, U.S.N.M.). Large 
deposits of priceite are also found 5 miles north of Chetco, in Curry 
County (Specimen No. 63362, U.S.N.M.), Oregon. The mineral is 
stated l)y Dana to occiir in a hard, compact form in layers, between 
a bed of slate above, the cavities and fissures of which it fills, and a 
tough, blue steatite below, also occurring in bowlders or rounded 
masses completely embedded in the steatite. These masses vary from 
the size of a pea to those of 200 pounds weight each. 

The Calico District colemanite above referred to occurs, according 
to W. H. Storms,^ as a bedded "vein" in sedimentar}- strata which in 
Tertiary times were uplifted in the Calico Range, the sedimentary 
rocks consisting of sandstones, sandy clays, and clayey sands. "'The 
borax ' vein ' is traceable for several thousand feet, striking along the 
western and northern side of the largest sedimentary hillin the range, 
and finally passing down a canyon to the eastward, where it becomes 
a well-defined vein. Toward the western end the borate of lime 
appears to be much mixed with the sandy sediments, gypsum, and 
clays, giving the appearance of having been formed near the shore 
line of the basin in which this great mass of material has been left 
as a residuary deposit, due to the evaporation of the water containing 
the calcium borate." There are apparently two beds of borate from 
7 to 10 feet in thickness in close proximity, but which are believed by 
Mr. Storms to be portions of the same bed repeated as the result of an 
anticlinal fold, and exposed through erosion. See Plate 21. 

The following description of Searles Marsh, in San Bernardino 
County, is from th(^ reports of the State mineralogist.^ 

This marsh is situated in the northwestern corner of San Bernardino 
County, occupying a portion of T. 25 S., R. 43 E., M. D. M. The 
site is distant from San Francisco southeast 500 miles; from San Ber- 
nardino, the shire town of the county, due north 175 miles, and from 
Mohave, nearest station on the Southern Pacific Railroad, northeast 
72 miles; these distances being measured by the usuall}^ traveled 
routes. 

Locally considered, Searles Marsh lies near the center of an exten- 
sive mountain-girdled plain, to which the phrases ""Alkali Flat," '• Dry 
Lake," "'Salt Bed," "Borax Marsh" have variously been applied, the 
contents and physical features of the basin -shaped depression well 
justifying the several names that have so been applied to it. It is, in 
fact, a dry lake, the bed of Avhich has been filled up in part with the 
several substances named. Its contents consist of mud, alkali, salt, 

' Eleventh Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1892, p. 345. 
-Tenth Annual Report of the State ^Mineralogist of California, 1890, j). 5;54. 



Repot of U S. National Museum, I 899 —Merrill. 



Plate 21. 



p. •-■- 



' "Twr^'^flf '^5F5r'!F»"^'V.' 




I- c 

uj -r 

< I 






THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 399 

and borax, larovly supploinontod with volcanic sand. This depression, 
whicli has an elevation of 1,700 feet above sea level, and an irreuular 
oval shape, is about 10 miles long and 5 miles wide, its longitudinal 
axis striking due north and south. It is sui'rounded on every side but 
the south by high mountains, the Slate Range bounding it on the cast 
and north, and the Argus Range on the west. 

There is no doubt l)ut this basin was once the bed of a deep and 
wide-extended lake, the remains of a former iidand sea. The shore 
lino is distinctly visible along the lower slopes of the surrounding- 
mountains at an elevation of 600 feet a])ove the surface of the marsh. 
Farther up, one above the other, faint marks of former water lines 
can be seen, showing the different levels at which the surface of the 
ancient lake has stood. In the course of time the lake ])ecame extinct, 
having been tilled with the sediments from the adjacent mountains. 

What may have been the depth of the lake has not yet been ascer- 
tained, borings put down P)00 feet having failed to reach bed rock. 
These borings, commenced in 1878, disclosed the following underlying 
formations: 

First, 2 feet of salt and thenardite [Na.,SOJ; second, 4 feet of clay 
and volcanic sand, containing a few crystals and bunches of hanksite, 
[IrNajSOj, NagCOs]; third, 8 feet of volcanic sand and black, tenacious 
cla}', with bunches of trona, of black, shining luster, from inclosed 
mud; fourth, 8-foot stratum, consisting of volcanic sand containing 
glauberite, thenardite, and a few flat, hexagonal crystals of hanksite; 
fifth, 28 feet of solid trona of uniform thickness; sixth, 20-foot 
stratum of black, slushy, soft mud; smelling strongly of hydro- 
sulphuric acid, in which there are layers of glauberite, soda, and 
hanksite. The water has a density of 30° Baume; seventh, 230 feet 
(as far as explored) of brown clay, mixed with volcanic sand and per- 
meated with hydrosulphuric acid. 

Overlying No. 5 a thin stratum of a very hard material was encoun- 
tered. Being difficult to penetrate, and its character not recognized, 
this was simply called "hard stuff, '" its more exact nature Ijeing left 
for future determination. 

As is the case with all salines of like character, this has no outlet, 
the water that comes into it escaping only by evaporation, which proc- 
ess goes on hero very ra])idly for two-thirds of the year. 

While most of the water contained in this basin is subterranean, a 
little during very wet winters accumulates and stands for a short time 
on portions of the siu'face. In no place, however, does it reach a 
depth of more than a foot or two, hardly anywhere more than 3 or 
4: inches. 

Within the limits of the actively producing portion of the marsh, 
" which covers an oblong area of aljout 1,700 acres, the water stands on 



400 REPOBT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

a tract of some 300 acres for a longer period than it does elsewhere; 
but even here it nowhere reaches a depth of more than a foot. 

Between this 800-acre tract and the main flat lying a little lower 
there interposes a slight ridge, which prevents the surface water from 
escaping to the lower ground. 

The water of the lake is of a dark-brown color, strongly impreg- 
nated with alkali, and has a density of 28° Baume. The salts obtained 
from it by crystallization contain carbonate and chloride and borate of 
sodium, with a large percentage of organic matter. 

Summarized, the following minerals have been found associated with 
the borax occurring in the Searles marsh: Anhydrite, calcite, celes- 
tite, cerargyrite, colemanite, dolomite, embolite, gay-lussite, glauber- 
ite, gypsum, halite, hanksite, natron, soda, niter, sulphur, thenardite, 
tincal, and trona, the most of these occurring, of course, in only minute 
quantities. There is, however, reason to believe that hanksite will 
yet be found abundantly, both here and in the other salines of this 
region. 

The submerged tract above described is called the "Crystal Bed," 
the mud below the water being full of large crystals, which occur in 
nests at irregular intervals to a depth of 3 or 4 feet. Many of these 
crystals, which consist of carbonate of soda and common salt with a 
considerable percentage of borate, are of large size, some of them 
measuring 7 inches in length. The water 16 feet below this stratum 
of mud contains, according to Mr. C. N. Hake, who made, not long 
since, a careful examination of these deposits, carbonate of soda, borax, 
and salts of ammonia. The ground in the immediate vicinity, a dry 
hard crust about 1 foot thick, contains, on the same authority: 

Sand.. 50 

Sulphate of soda 16 

Common salt 1- 

Carbonate of soda 10 

Borax 12 

The borax here occurs in the form of the borate of soda only, no 
ulexite (borate of lime) having yet been found. 

The chief foreign sources of borax salts are northern Chili, Stass- 
furt in Germany, Italy, Asia Minor, and Thibet. 

The Chilean mineral is ulexite and is reported as occurring through- 
out the province of Atacama and the newly acquired portions of Chile. 
Ascotan, which is now on the borders of the Repul)li';, but formerly 
belonged to Bolivia, and Maricunga, which is to the north of Copeapo, 
are the places which have proved most successful commercially. The 
crude material occurs. in both places in lagoons or troughs, which, 
instead of being entirely filled with common salt, as is usually the case 
in the desert, contains zones or layers of boronatrocalcite embedded 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 401 

in it. The laj^^oons of Maricunga lie about ()4 kilometers from the 
nearest railway station and are estimated to cover 3,000,000 square 
meters. The boronatrocalcite occurs in beds alternating with layers 
of salt and salty earth. 

The raw material contains, in tlu>. form of gypsum and glauberite, 
a large amount of calcium sulphate. 

Dana also mentions ulexite as occurring also in the form of rounded 
masses from the size of a hazelnut to that of a potato in the dry plains 
of Iquique, where it is associated with pickeringito, glauberite, halite, 
and gypsum. The German mineral is boracite (stassfurtite) and is 
found in small granular masses associated with the salt deposits of 
Stassfurt. In Italy sassolite, or crystallized boric acid, has long been 
obtained by the evaporation of hot springs in Sienna, in Tuscany. 
Concerning the deposits of Asia Minor little is accurately known. 
The mineral is pandermite (colemanite), which is found in thick white 
lumps at Suzurlu, south of the sea of Marmora. Borax or tincal, 
from Thibet, in northern India, was probably the first of the boron 
salts to be utilized. It is stated to be brought on the backs of sheep 
from the lakes in which it is formed across the Himalayas to the 
shipping points in India. 

Methods of mining and mani(facture.—A.t the East Calico Cole- 
manite mine, in San Bernardino County, the mineral is taken out in 
the same manner as ores of the precious metals. Inclined shafts are 
sunk, drifts and levels run, and stopes carried up as in any other mine. 
The material, when hoisted to the surface, is loaded into wagons and 
hauled to Dagget, whence it is shipped to the works at Alameda. The 
process of extracting the boracic acid is not known to the public. 

At Searles's marsh the overlying crust mentioned constitutes the 
raw material from which the refined borax is made. 

The method of collecting it is as follows: When the crust, through 
the process of efliorescen.ce, has gained a thickness of about 1 inch, 
it is broken loose and scraped into windrows far enough apart to admit 
the passage of carts between them, and into which it is shoveled and 
carried to the factory located on the northwest margin of the flat, 1 to 
2 miles away. 

As soon as removed, this incrustation begins again to form, the 
water charged with the saline matter brought to the surface by the 
capillary attraction evaporating and leaving the salt behind. This 
process having been suffered to go on for three or four years, a crust 
thick enough for removal is again formed, the supposition being that 
this incrustation, \i removed, will in like manner go on reproducing 
itself indefinitely.^ 

1 In order to determine the proportionate growths of the various salts contained in 
this crust while undergoing this recuperative process, analyses were made on samples 
representing respectively six months', two, three, and four years' growth. From the 
NAT MUS 99 26 



402 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Uses. — The various borax salts are used in the preparation of 
boracic acid and the borate of sodium, the borax of commerce. 

XI. URANATES. 
1. Uraninite; pitchblende. 

Composition very complex, essentially a uranate of uranyl, lead, 
thorium, and other metals of the lanthanum and yttrium groups. 
The mineral is unique in containing nitrogen, being the only one 
among the constituents of the primary rocks of the earth's crust in 
which the presence of this element has been thus far determined.^ 
The analyses given below are for the most part by Hillebrand, to whom 
is due the credit of a large share of the present knowledge on the 
subject. 



Locality. 


UO3, 


UO2, 


ThOa. 


CeOo. 


LaaOa. 


Y2O3. 


PbO. 


CaO. 


N. 


HoO. 


FeaOg. 


Misc. 


Glastonbury, Con- 


23.03 
50.83 
30.63 

.59. 30 


.59. 93 
39.31 
46.13 

22. 33 










3.08 
4.20 
9.04 

6.39 


0.11 
0.85 
0.37 

1.00 


2.41 
0.37 
1.17 

0.02 


0.43 
1.21 
0.74 

3.17 


0.29 
0.25 
0.21 




necticut 

North Carolina 

Annerod, Norway . . 
Johanngeorgen- 


2.78 
6.00 


11 
0.26 
0.18 


10 
0.50 
0.27 


0.20 
1.11 


1.11 

0.48 
4.66 

5.53 















Several varieties of uraninite are recognized, the distinctions being 
based upon the relative proportions of the two oxides UO2 and UO3 
(see analyses above). Inasmuch, however, as these variations may be 

ground from which these were taken the crust had been removed several times dur- 
ing the preceding twelve years. 
The analysis of samples gave the following results: 



Constituents. 


Six 
months' 
growth. 


Two years' 
growth. 


Three 

years' 

growth. 


Four 

years' 

growth. 


Sand 


58.0 
5.2 
11.7 
10.9 
14. 2 


55.4 
5.0 
6.7 


52.4 
8.1 
16.6 


53.3 
8.0 
16.0 
11.8 
10.9 






Chloride of soda 


20.0 ! 11.1 
12.9 1 11.8 




Total 






100.0 


100.0 


100.0 


100.0 





From this list it will be seen that the first six months' growth is richest in borax, 
and that the proportion of carbonate of soda to borax increases regularly. The 
presence of so much sand as is here indicated is caused by the high winds that blow 
at intervals, bringing in great quantities of that material from tbe mountains to the 
west. This sand, it is supposed, facilitates the formation of the surface crust by 
keeping the ground in a porous condition. 

>The mineral has since been found to contain some 0.23 per cent of the new ele^ 
ments helium and argon. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINEEALS. 403 

due merely to oxidation they need not be taken into consideration 
hero. When crystallized, the mineral assumes octahedral and dodeca- 
hedral forms, more rarely cubes. Hardness 5.5, specific gravity 9 
to 9. 7. Color grayish, greenish to velvet black, streak brown; fracture 
conchoidal, uneven. The massive and probably amorphous variety, 
containing few, if any, of the rarer earths and no nitrogen, is known 
under the name of pitchblende. This last is the chief commercial 
source of uraniimi salts. Through oxidation and hydration the min- 
eral passes into gummite, a gum-like yellow to brown or red mineral of 
a hardness of but 2.5 to 3 and specific gravity of 3.9 to 4.2. (See Speci- 
men No. 53062, U.S.N.M., showing zone of gummite around a nucleal 
mass of unaltered uraninite.) 

Localities and mode of OGGurrence. — Uraninite occurs as a primary 
constituent of granitic rocks and as a secondary mineral, with sulphide 
ores of silver, lead, gold, copper, etc. In this form, according to Dana, 
it is found at Johanngeorgenstadt, Marienberg, and Schneeberg, 
Saxon}' ; at Joachimsthal (Specimen No. 53061, U. S. N. M. ) and Pribram, 
in Bohemia (Specimens Nos. 66843, 67755, U.S.N.M.), and Rezbanya,in 
Hungary. Considerable quantities have been mined from the tin- 
bearing lodes of Cornwall, England. The crystallized variety hrog- 
gerite is found in a pegmatite vein near Annerod, Norway, and the 
variety cleveite in a feldspar quarry at Arendal. In the United States 
the mineral has been found in small quantities in several localities, but 
only those of Mitchell and Yancey Counties, North Carolina (Speci- 
mens Nos. 53062, 60927, 62755, U.S.N.M.), where the mineral occurs 
partiall}^ altered to gummite and uranaphane, in mica mines; Llano 
County, Texas; Black Hawk, near Central City, Colorado (Specimen 
No. 83629, U.S.N.M.), and the Bald Mountain district of the Black 
Hills of South Dakota need here be mentioned. Of the above the 
Cornwall localities are at present of greatest consequence, having 
during 1890 yielded some 22 tons of ore, valued at some £2,200 
(111,000). During 1891, it is stated, the output was 31 long tons, 
valued at £620, and in 1892, 37 tons, valued at £740. The next most 
important locality is that of Joachimsthal, in Bohemia, where 22.52 
metric tons of ore were produced in 1891 and 17.71 tons in 1892, the 
value being some 1,000 florins a ton. 

In the Cornwall mines the pitchblende is stated^ to occur in small 
veins crossing the tin-bearing lodes. At the St. Austell Consols 
Mines it was associated with nickel and cobalt ores; at Dolcoath with 
native bismuth and arsenical cobalt in a matrix of red quartz and pur- 
ple fluorspar; at South Tresavean with kupfer-nickel, native silver, 
and argentiferous galena. At the Wood Lode, Russell district, in 
Gilpin County, Colorado, pitchblende was found in the form of a 

^The Mineral Industry, II, p. 572. 



404 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

lenticular mass in one of the ordinary gold-bearing lodes traversing 
the gneiss and mica schists of the district. The body occurred some 
60 feet below the surface and was some 30 feet long by 10 feet deep 
and 10 inches thick. The mass yielded some 4 tons of ore carrying 
70 per cent oxide of uranium. 

Other natural uranium compounds, but which at present have no use 
in the arts, are as below: Torbernite, a hydrous phosphate of uranium 
and copper; autunite, a hydrous phosphate of uranium and calcium; 
zeunerite, an arsenate of uranium and copper; uranospinite, an arse- 
nate of uranium and calcium; uranocircite, a phosphate of barium and 
uranium; phosphuranylite, a hydrous uranium phosphate; trogerite, 
a hvdrous uranium arsenate; walpurgite, probably an arsenate of bis- 
muth and uranium; and uranosphserite, a uranate of bismuth. 

Carnotite is a recently described uranium compound containing, 
according to analyses, some 52 per cent uranium oxide (UOg); 20 per 
cent of vanadium oxide (VgOg), and 11 per cent of potash. It is of a 
beautiful light lemon-j^ellow color and of an earthy or ocherous texture. 
According to descriptions gleaned from correspondence, and from sam- 
ples received at the U, S. National Museum (Specimens Nos. 63491, 
53492, 53649, U.S.N. M.), the material occurs mainly as an impregnation 
in the form of an extremely fine, crystalline powder in the Dakota sand- 
stones in the vicinity of La Sal Creek and Roc Creek, Montrose 
County, and near Placerville, San Miguel County, Colorado.^ 

Uses. — Uranium is never used in the metallic state, but in the form 
of oxides, or as uranate of soda, potash, and ammonia, finds a limited 
application in the arts. The sesquioxide salt imparts to glass a gold 
yellow color with a beautiful greenish tint, and which exhibits remark- 
able fluorescent properties. The protoxide gives a beautiful black to 
high-grade porcelains. The material has also a limited application in 
photography. Recently the material has been used to some extent in 
making steel in France and Germany, but the industry has not yet 
passed the experimental stage. It has been stated that the demand, all 
told, is for about 500 tons annually. Should larger and more constant 
sources of supply be found, it is probable its use could be considerably 
extended. According to Nordenskiold, £50,000 worth of uranium 
minerals are consumed every year, the various salts produced being 
used in porcelain and glass manufacture, in photography, and as chem- 
ical reagents." 

^ Since the foregoing was written Mr. W. F. Hillebrand, of the U. S. Geological 
Survey, has published (American Journal of Science, Vol. X, 1900, pp. 120-144) the 
results of an exhaustive study of the material from this and other localities, and 
shows that the so-called carnotite is probably a mixture of minerals made up to a 
large extent of calcium and barium compounds intimately mixed with amorphous 
silicates containing vanadium in the trivalent state. 

^ Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society of London, LVI, 1900, p. 527. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



405 



XII. SULPHATKS. 



1. Barite; Heavy Spar. 

Composition BaS04, = Sulphur trioxide 84.3 por cent, baryta 05.7 
por cent; specific o-rjivitv 4.3 to 4.0; luirdness iJ.T) to 3.5. 

Ocenrrence. — Ttie sulphate of barium to which the mineraloo-ical 
name of ])arite is j^iven occurs as a rule in the form of a white, trans- 
lucent to transparent, coarsely crystalline mineral, about as hard as 
common calcite, but from which it may be readily distinguished by 
its great weight and its not effervescing when treated with acid. A 
common form of the mineral is that of an aggregate of straight or 
somewhat curved plates, separating readily from one another when 
struck with a hammer, and cleaving readily into rhomboidal forms 
much like calcite. (Specimens Nos. 54988, 67372, U.S.N.M.) It is 
also found in globular and nodular concretions (Specimen Mo. 66851, 
U.S.N.M.), stalactitic and stalagmitic (Specimen No. 63778, U.S.N.M.), 
granular, compact, and earthy masses, and in single and clustered 
broad and stout crystals. In nature the material is rarely pure, but 
nearly always contaminated with other elements, as noted in the 
following analyses of samples from Fulton, Blair, and Franklin coun- 
ties, Pennsylvania.^ 



Constituents. 



Sulphate of barium 

Oxides of iron and aluminum 

Oxide of manganese 

Lime 

Magnesia 

Carbonic acid 

Water 

Silica 

Total 



Fulton County. 



(699) 
Locke. 



95. 22 
0.38 
0.05 
0.59 
0.18 
0.65 
0.23 
2.45 



99.75 



(345) 
Locke. 



96.91 
0.31 

None. 

Trace. 

Trace. 

None. 
0.08 
2.35 



Blair 
County. 



(698) 
Galbreath. 



99.65 



97.08 
0.76 

None. 

None. 

Trace. 

None. 
0.32 
1.74 



99.90 



Franklin County. 



(735) (582) 

Shockey. Shockey. 



95.91 
0.24 

None. 
0.17 
0.11 

None. 
0.09 
2.80 



99.32 



98.65 
0.14 

None. 

Trace. 

Trace. 

None. 
0.20 
1.11 



100.10 



The mineral occurs commonly in connection with metallic ores or as 
a secondary mineral associated with sand and limestones, sometimes 
in distinct veins, or as in southwest Virginia, where it fills irreo-ular 
fractures in certain beds of the Cambrian limestone or in part replaces 
the limestone itself . (Specimen No. 67357, U.S.N.M.). In Washing- 
ton County, in this State, the mineral has been mined in an itinerant 
manner by farmers on whose land it occurs, and w^ho work mostly from 
open cuts or trenches, rarely making an opening of sufficient size to 
be termed a mine. As the material is less soluble in atmospheric 
waters than is the limestone in which it occurs, it follows that often 



^ Pennsylvania Second Geological Survey, Chemical Analyses, pp. 368, 369. 



406 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

the baritc is found in loose, disconnected masses embedded in a residual 
clay, and the process of mining is resolved into merely digging so long 
as the yield is sufficient to pay expenses. 

Preparation and mes. — The mineral is washed and ground like grain 
between millstones and used as an adulterant for white lead or to give 
weight and body to certain kinds of cloth and paper. 

According to a writer in the Mineral Resources of the United States 
for 1885, the '* floated" or " cream -floated " barite used for paint is 
prepared as follows: The crude mineral as mined is first sorted by 
hand and cleaned, after which it is crushed into pieces about the size 
of the tip of one's finger. Next, it is refined by boiling in dilute sul- 
phuric acid until all the impurities are removed, when it is washed by 
boiling in distilled water and dried by steam. It is then ground to 
flour, mixed with water, and run through troughs or sluiceways into 
receiving vats, whence it is taken, again dried by steam, and barreled. 
This cream-floated barite is quoted as worth about $30 a ton, while 
the crude material is worth only about one-fourth as much. 

Sources. — The principal sources in the United States are Lynchburg, 
Hurt, Toshes, and Otter River, Virginia; Sandy Bottom and Hot 
Springs, in North Carolina, and Cadet, Old Mines, Mineral Point, 
Morrellton, and Potosi, in Missouri. A small amount is imported 
from Mackellar Islands, Lake Superior. The total production for 
1897 was some 27,316 tons, valued at $4 a ton.' 

2. Gypsum. 

Composition CaSO, + 3 H^O, = sulphur trioxide 4:^.^ per cent, lime 
32.5 per cent, water 20.9 per cent. The natural mineral is often quite 
impure through the presence of organic, ferruginous, and aluminous 
matter, together with small quantities of the carbonates of lime and 
magnesia (see analysis, p. 407). Specific gravity 2.3, hardness 1.5 to 
2. Color usually white or gray, but brown, black and red through 
impurities. The softness of the mineral, which is such that it can be 
easily cut with a knife or even by the thumb nail, is one of its most 
marked characteristics. Three principal varieties are recognized, (1) 
the crystallized, foliated, transparent variety, selenite (Specimens Nos. 
53593, 53608, 62089, U.S.N.M.), (2) the fine fibrous, often opalescent 
variety, satin spar (Specimen No. 62477, U.S.N.M.), and (3) the com- 
mon massive, finely granular variety, gypsum (Specimen No. 53348, 
U.S.N.M.). When of a white color and sufficiently compact for small 
statues and other ornamental works, it is known as alabaster (Specimen 
No. 63394, U.S.N.M.), though this name has unfortunately become 
confounded with the calcareous rock travertine and stalagmite.^ 

iThe Mineral Industry, VI, 1897, p. 57. 

2 See The Onyx Marbles, their Origin, Uses, etc., Report of the U. 8. National 
Museum, 1893, pp. 539-585. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 407 

'V\w following- is an analysis of a connuorcial gypsum from Ottawa 
County, Ohio, as given by rrofcssor Orton:' 

Lime 32. 52 

Sulphuric acid 45. 56 

Water 20. 14 

IMagnenia 0. 56 

Aluiniua 0. 16 

Insoluble residue 0. 68 

99.62 

Origin. — Gypsum in considerable quantities occurs associated only 
with stratified rocks and is regarded mainly as a chemical deposit 
resulting- from the evaporation of waters of inland seas and lakes; it 
may also originate through the decomposition of sulphides and the 
action of the resultant sulphuric acid upon limestone; through the 
mutual decomposition of the carlionate of lime (limestone) and the 
sulphates of iron, copper, and other metals; through the hydration of 
anhydrite and through the action of sulphurous vapors and solutions 
from volcanoes upon the rocks with which they come in contact. 
According- to Dana," the gypsum deposits in western New York do not 
form continuous layers in the strata, but lie in imbedded, sometimes 
nodular masses. In all such cases, this authority says, the gypsum was 
formed after the beds were deposited, and in this particular instance 
are the product of the action of sulphuric acid from springs upon the 
limestone. "This sulphuric acid, acting on limestone {carbonate of 
lime), drives off its carbonic acid and makes Hulpliate of lime, or 
gypsum; and this is the true theory of its formation in New York." 
Dr. F. J. H. Merrill, however, regards a portion at least of the New 
York beds as a product of direct chemical precipitation from sea water.'' 

The gypsum deposits of northern Ohio are regarded by Professors 
Newberry and Orton as deposits from the evaporation of landlocked 
seas, as was also the rock salt which overlies it. By this same process 
must have originated a large share of the more recent gypsum deposits 
of the Western States. 

Geological age and mode of occurrence. — As may be readily inferred 
from what has gone before, beds of gypsum have formed at many 
periods of the earth's history and are still forming wherever proper 
conditions exist. The deposits of New York State occur in a belt ex- 
tending eastward from Cayuga Lake and in beds belonging to the 
Salina period of the Upper Silurian age. The rock is often earth}^ 
and impure, and is used nearly altogether for land plaster. It is asso- 
ciated with dark, nearly black, limestones and shales and beds of rock 
salt. In southwest Virginia, along- the Holston River, are also beds 

1 Geology of Ohio, VI, 1888, p. 700. 

^ Manual of Geology, p. 234. 

^Bulletin No. 11, of the New York State Museum, April, 1893. 



408 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

of gypsum associated with salt and referred by Dana to this same 
horizon. The rock is mined at Saltville in Washington County from 
underground pits, and is used mainly for fertilizing. (Specimens Nos. 
27129, 27153, U.S.N.M.) 

Gypsum deposits of varying thickness and occurring at various 
depths below the surface are found continuous over thousands of square 
miles in northern Ohio, but are at present worked only in Ottawa 
County at a station on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway 
which bears the appropriate name of Gypsum (Specimens Nos. 31624, 
17969, U.S.N.M.). The associated rocks are Lower Helderberg lime- 
stones and shales and the beds, which vary from 3 to 7 feet in thick- 
ness, are found at all depths up to 200 or 300 feet. 

The following is a section of the Ottawa County beds as given by 
Orton: ^ ^ 

Feet. 

Drift clays 12 to 14 

No. 1. Gray rock, carrying land plaster 5 

Blue shale .' 2 

No. 2. Bowlder bed carrying gypsum in separate masses embedded in shaly 

limestone ^ 

Blue limestone, in thin and even courses 1 

No. 3. Main plaster bed 7 

Gray limestone in courses - 1 

No. 4. Lowest plaster bed, variable -^ to 5 

Mixed limestone and plaster, bottom of quarry.' 

Sections like the above are stated to be capable of yielding 50,000 
tons of plaster an acre. 

The purest gypsum of the region occurs in No. 2, the bowlder bed, 
as given above. It consists of calcareous shales through which are 
scattered concretionary balls of gypsum varying in diameter from 6 
to 2-1 inches. This pure variety is used mainly for terra alba; about 
40 per cent of the total product has in years past been calcined for 
use as stucco or plaster of paris and 60 per cent for land plaster. 

At Fort Dodge, in Iowa, is a deposit of quite pure, light gray, regu- 
larly bedded gypsum, resting unconformably upon St. Louis lime- 
stone and lower coal strata and overlain by drift. It is supposed to 
cover an area of some 25 square miles. The material was at one time 
used for building purposes but proved too soft^ and is now used 
mainly for land plaster (Specimens Nos. 26804, 63058, 63059, U.S. 
N.M.). (See Plate 22.) 

There are large deposits of gypsum in Michigan, the most extensive, 
so far as explored, being near Grand Rapids, Kent County, in the 
western part of the State (Specimen No. 56397, U.S.N.M.), and at 
Alabaster Point, in Iosco County, on the eastern margin of the State. 

1 Geological Survey of Ohio. Eocnomic Geology, VI, 1888, p. 698. 
"^ Stones for Building and Decoration, 2d ed., 1897, p. 76. 



Report of U.S. National Museum, 1899. — Mer 



Plate 22. 




View of a Gypsum Quarry, Fort Dodge, Iowa. 

From a photograph by the Iowa Geological Survey. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 409 

At ])oth localities there is a succession of Ixnls beginning at or near the 
surface and aggregating many feet in depth. The beds are regarded 
as of Carboniferous age. The following section shows the number and 
thickness of the beds thus far discovered: 

Feet. 

Earth stripping 20 

Gypsum 8 

Soft shale, slate 1 

Gypsum ] 2 

Shale or clay slate 7 

Gypsum 6^ 

do 8 J 

Slate, shale ^ 

Gypsum 12 J 

Shale or clay slate 1 J 

Gypsum 9^ 

Shale, clay slate 8 

Total 98 

West of the front range of the Rocky Mountains are many important 
beds of gypsum, but which have as yet been but little exploited owing 
to cost of transportation, there being but little local demand. These 
beds so far as yet worked are mostly of more recent origin than those 
in the eastern United States, many being of Tertiary or even Quar- 
ternary age. 

Near Fillmore, Utah, are deposits of gypseous sand formed by the 
winds blowing up from the dry beds of playa lakes the minute crys- 
tals deposited by evaporation (Specimen No. 35380, U.S.N.M.). The 
material thus blown together forms veritable dunes from which the 
material may be obtained by merely shoveling. Prof. I, C. Russell has 
estimated these dunes to contain not less than 450,000 tons of gypsum. 

Important deposits of gypsum also occur in Kansas (Specimen No. 
53348, U.S.N.M.), Colorado (Specimen No. 53265, U.S.N.M.), South 
Dakota (Specimen No. 53462, U.S.N.M.), Wyoming (Specimen No. 
63485, U.S.N.M.), California (Specimens Nos. 56419 and 67690, U.S. 
N.M.), and New Mexico (Specimens Nos. 62254, 67948, and 28586, 
U.S.N.M.). 

Gypsum is a very abundant mineral in Nevv- Brunswick, the deposits 
being numerous, large, and in general of great purity. They occur in 
all parts of the Lower Carboniferous district in Kings, Albert, West- 
moreland, and Victoria, especially in the vicinity of Sussex, in Upham, 
on the North River in Westmoreland, at Martin Head on the bay shore, 
on the Tobique River in cliffs over 100 feet high, and about the Albert 
Mines. At the last-named locality the mineral has been extensively 
quarried from beds about 60 feet in thickness, and calcined in large 
works at Hillsborough.^ 

^Dawson's Acadian Geology, p. 249. 



410 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

The mineral is usually met with in very irregular masses, associated 
with red marls, sandstones, and limestones, and varies much in charac- 
ter. At Hillsborough, in the quarries being worked, ten to fifteen 
years ago there was exposed a total head of rock from 90 to 100 feet, 
of which about 70, forming the upper portion, consists mostly of 
"soft plaster" or true gypsum, which rests on beds of hard plaster or 
anhydrite of unknown depth. At the same point considerable masses 
of very beautiful snow-white gypsum or alabaster are also met with, 
associated with the varieties named above, but comparatively little 
selenite, while at Petitcodiac, where the deposits has a breadth of about 
40 rods and a total length of about 1 mile, the whole is fibrous and 
highly crystalline and traversed by a vein of nearly pure selenite, 8 
feet wide, through its entire extent. The rock on the Tobique River, 
which rises in bluffs along the stream some 30 miles above its mouth, 
is mostly soft, granular or fibrous, and of a more decidedly reddish 
color than in the other localities. 

Important beds of gypsum belonging to the same geological horizon 
likewise occur in Nova Scotia, particularly at Wentworth and Montague 
in Hants County, at Oxford, River Philip, Plaster Cove, Wallace Har- 
bor, and Bras d'Or Lake, Cape Breton. At Wentworth there are 
stated to be "cliffs of solid snowy gypsum from 100 to 200 feet in 
height." (Specimen No. 13690, U.S.N.M., from Windsor, Hants 
County.) 

Gypsum deposits occur in the Onondago formations of Ontario, 
Canada, and are exploited along the Grand River between Cayuga and 
Paris. The mineral here occurs in lenticular masses varying from a 
few yards to a quarter of a mile in horizontal diameter and from 3 to 
7 feet in thickness. (See Specimen No. 62145, U.S.N.M.). 

The foreign sources of gypsum are almost too numerous to mention. 
Important beds occur in Lincolnshire and Derbyshire, England; near 
Paris, France, in Spain, Italy, Germany, Austria, and Switzerland. 
The Paris beds are of Tertiary age, and the mineral carries some 10 to 
20 per cent of carbonate of lime, together with silica in a soluble form. 
The presence of these constituents is stated to cause the plaster to set 
much harder, permitting it, therefore, to be used for external work. 
The Italian gypsum is often of great purity. The finest alabaster is 
stated to come from the Val di Marmolago, near Castellina. (Specimen 
No. 63394, U.S.N.M.) 

Uses.— These have been already, in part, noted. The principal uses 
of gypsum of the ordinary massive varieties is for fertilizers (land 
plaster) (Specimen No. 63059 U.S.N.M.), and in the manufacture of 
plaster of paris, or stucco. (Specimens Nos. 53348, 53462, U.S.N.M.) 

As above noted, gypsum is but little used for building purposes, 
being too soft. Several residences, a railway station, and other minor 



thp: nonmetallic minerals. 411 

structures arc, liowcvor, stated to have hoon built of this stoiM^ at Fort 
Dodov, in Iowa. (Spocinien No. 2()8()4, U.S.N.M.) The variety satin 
spar is sometimes used for small ornamentations, but it is only the 
snow-white variety (alabaster) that is of any economic importance as 
an ornamental stone. The main use of alabaster is for small statues, 
vases, fonts, and small columns; it is too soft for exposed positions 
where subjected to much wear. At present there are not known any 
deposits of alabaster within the limits of the United States which are 
of sufficient purity and extent to be of commercial value. A large 
share of the alabaster statuettes now on our markets are of Italian 
make as well as of Italian materials. 

In preparing the gypsum for market the stone is tirst broken in a 
crusher into pieces of the size of a hickory nut, after which it is ground 
between millstones (French buhrstones) to a proper degree of fineness 
and then put up in hags or barrels, if designed for land plaster; if for 
stucco it is calcined after being ground. This process is in Michigan 
carried on in large kettles some 8 feet in diameter, and capable of hold- 
ing about 14 barrels at a charge. The powder is heated until all the 
included water is driven off, being subjected to constant stirring in 
the meantime, and is then drawn oft' through the bottom of the kettles 
and conveyed by carrying belts and spouts to the packing room.^ 

Under the name of "terra alba" (white earth) ground gypsum is 
used as an adulterant in cheap paints. 

The commercial value of gypsum depends mainly on accessibility to 
market. In 1899 the ground material was quoted at $2.00 a ton in 
New York. In Michigan the average price of crude material has 
been some $1.25 a ton, and for calcined plaster (plaster of paris) $3.00 
to $5.00 a ton. 

3. Celestite. 

Composition sulphate of strontium SrSO^,= sulphur trioxide, 43.6 
per cent; strontia, 56.4 per cent. Hardness, 3 to 3.5; specific gravity, 
3.99; color, white, often bluish, transparent to translucent. Differs 
from the carbonate (strontianite) b}' being insoluble in acids, but gives 
the characteristic red color to the blowpipe flame. 

According to Dana the mineral occurs usually associated with lime- 
stones or sandstones of Silurian or Devonian, Jurassic, and other 
geological formations, occasionally with metalliferous ores. It also 
occurs in beds of rock salt, gypsum, and clay, and is abundantly asso- 
ciated with the sulphur deposits of Sicily. (Specimen No. 6087T, 
U.S.N.M.) The principal localities in the United States are in the 
limestones of Drummond Island, Lake Huron; Put in Bay, Lake Erie 
(Specimen No. 53094, U.S.N.M.); Kingston, Ontario, in crystalline 

^See Mineral Statistics of Michigan, 1881, for details of plaster work of that State. 



412 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

masses, and in radiating- fibrous masses in the Laurentian formations 
about Renfrew. Large crystals of a red color are also found in 
Brown Count}^, Kansas, and at Lampasas and near Austin, Texas. 
(Specimen No. 67936, U.S.N.M.) Near Bells Mills, Blair County, 
Pennsylvania, the mineral occurs in lens-shaped masses between the 
bottommost beds of the Lower Helderberg (No. VI) limestone. On 
South Bass Island, in Put in Bay, Lake Erie, the mineral occurs fre- 
quently in the form of lieautif ul crystals of all sizes up to 100 pounds 
in weight, transparent to translucent and sometimes of a fine blue 
color, lining the walls and floor of limestone caverns. 

Uses. — Celestite is used in the preparation of nitrate of strontia 
employed in fireworks, its value for this purpose being due to the fine 
crimson color it imparts to the flame. The demand for the material is 

very small. 

4. MiRABiLiTE or; Glauber Salt. 

This is a hydrous sodium sulphate, Na^SOi+lO H20, = sulphur 
trioxide, 24.8 per cent; soda, 19.3 per cent; water, 55.9 per cent. In 
its pure state white, transparent to opaque; hardness, 1.5 to 2; specific 
gravity, 1.48. Readily soluble in water, taste cool, then saline and 
bitter. 

Occurrence. — Aside from its occurrence in soda lakes associated with 
other salts as described later this sulphate is of common occurrence 
as an efiloresence on limestones, and in protected places, as in Mammoth 
Cave, Kentucky, may accumulate in considerable quantities, though not 
sufficient to be of economic value. (Specimen No. 68156, U.S.N.M., in 
Cave series.) Salt Lake, Utah, contains a proportionately large 
amount of this sulphate, which during the winter months is precipi- 
tated to the bottom, whence it is not infrequently thrown upon the 
shore by waves. 

According to Prof. J. E. Talmage/ when the temperature falls to a certain point, 
the lake water assumes an oj^alescent appearance from the separation of the suljihate. 
This sinks as a crystalline precipitate and much is carried by the waves upon the 
beach and there deposited. Under favorable circumstances the shores become cov- 
ered to a depth of several feet with crystallized mirabilite. The writer has on several 
occasions waded through such deposits, sinking at every step to the knees. Speak- 
ing only of the amounts thrown upon the shores, and of most ready access, the source 
is practically inexhaustible. The substance must be gathered, if at all, soon after 
the deposit first appears; as, if the water once rises above the critical temperature, 
the whole deposit is taken again into solution. This change is very rapid, a single 
day being oftentimes sufficient to effect the entire disappearance of all the deposit 
within reach of the waves. Warned 1>y these circumstances, the collectors heap the 
substance on the shores above the lap of the waters, in which situation it is compar- 
atively secure until needed. To a slight depth the mirabilite eflBloresces, but within 
the piles the hydrous crystalline condition is maintained. At the present time there 
are thousands of tons of this material, heaped in the manner described, remaining 
from the collections of preceding winters. The sodium sulphate thus lavishly sup- 

' Science, XIV, 1889, p. 446. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



413 



plied is of a fair degree of purity, as will be seen from the following analyses of two 
samples of the crystallized substance, taken from <jpposite shores of the lake: 



Constituents. 



Water 

Sodium sulphate (NaflS04) . . . 

Sodium chloride (NaCl) 

Calcium sulphate (CaSO^) 

Magnesium stilphate (MgS04) 
Insoluble 

Total 



Per cent. 



55.070 
43. 060 
0.699 
0.407 
0.025 
0.700 



99. 961 



Per cent. 



55. 760 
42. 325 
0.631 
0.267 
0.018 
0.756 



99.757 



Some l-t miles southwest of Laramie, in Albany County, Wyoming, 
there exist deposits of sulphate of soda, such as are locally known as 
"lakes." The deposits in question comprise three of these lakes lying 
within a stone's throw of one another. They have a total area of about 
65 acres, the local names of the three being the Big Lake, the Track 
Lake, and the Red Lake. Being the property of the Union Pacific 
Railroad Company, they are generally known as the Union Pacific 
Lakes. 

In these lakes the sulphate of soda occurs in two bodies or layers. 
The lower part, constituting the great bulk of the deposit, is a mass of 
crystals of a faint greenish color mixed with a considerable amount 
of black, slimy mud. It is known as the "solid soda,'' of which an 
analysis is given below. 



Constituents. 



NaoSOi- 
CaS04 . 
MgClo-- 
NaCl .. 



Anhy- 
drous. 



36.00 
1.45 
0.77 
0.21 



Crystal- 
lized. 



81.63 
1.82 
1.64 
0.21 



38.43 



Insoluble residue (at 100 C.) . 



85.30 
13.86 



99.16 



Total chloride calculated as NaCl equals 1.16 per cent, 
parts anhydrous Na.2S04, equals 3.22 per cent NaCl. 



This, calculated on 100 



This solid soda is stated to have a depth of some 20 or 30 feet. 
Borings were made a number of years ago under the direction of the 
Union Pacific Railroad agents, but, as the records have been mislaid 
or lost, with what results is not definitely known. There is nothing 
to prove that the depth is not less than stated above. 

Above the solid soda occurs the superficial layer of pure white 
crystallized sulphate of soda. This is formed by solution in water of 
the upper part of the lower body, the crystals being deposited by 



414 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

evaporation or by cooling, or by the two combined. A little rain in 
the spring- and autumn furnishes this water, as do also innumerable 
small, sluggishly flowing springs present in all the lakes. But on 
account of the dry air of this arid region the surface is generally dr}^ 
or nearly so, and in midsummer the white clouds of efflorescent sul- 
phate that are whirled up by the ever-blowing winds of Wyoming can 
be seen for miles. Even should there be a little water present there 
is no difficulty in gathering the crystals by the train load. The spring, 
however, is the worst season of the year, on account of the warm 
weather and of the rains — conditions unfavorable to the formation of 
crystals. The layer of this white sulphate is from 3 to 12 inches in 
thickness. When the crystals are removed the part laid bare is soon 
replenished by a new crop. 

The following is an analysis of the purest of this white sulphate of 
soda, calculated upon an anhydrous basis, that being the condition, of 
course, in which it would be used: 

Na,S04 99. 73 

MgCl.^ - 26 

Insoluble Trace. 



99.99 



Below is given an analysis of the water of the lake: 
Density = 14i° Tw. (=1.0725 specific gravity). Ten cubic centi- 
meters contains: 

Gram.s. Per cent. 

Na2S04 0.756:3= 92.23 

CaSO, 0. 0146= 1. 79 

MgSO, 0.0070= .85 

MgCla 0. 0300= 3. 66 

Na^BA 0.0121= 1.47 

Total solids 0. 8200 100. 00 

Total solids by evaporation . 0. 8240 

One cubic foot of this water contains 10.72 of pure crystallized sul- 
phate of soda.^ 

(See Specimens Nos. 62086, 53427, U.S.N.M., from Albany County, 
Wyoming.) 

Other similar deposits occur in Carbon and Natrona counties, and 
still others are reported in Fremont, Johnson, and Sweetwater counties. 

It has recently been stated ^ that glauber salts has been found on the 
bottom of the Bay of Kara Bougas, an inlet of the Caspian Sea, in 
deposits sometimes a foot in thickness. 

'Journal of the Franklin Institute, CXXXV, 1893, pp. 53, 54, 56. 
^ Engineering and Mining Journal, LXV, 1898, p. 310. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 415 

5. Glauberite. 

Composition sodiiiiu and calcium sulphate. NaoSO^.CaSO^, = sul- 
phur trioxido, 57.(5 per cent; lime, 20. 1 percent; soda, 22. 8 per cent. This 
is a pale yellow to g'ray salt, partially soluble in water — leaving- a white 
residue of sulphate of lime — and with a slightly saline taste. On long 
exposure to moisture it falls to pieces, and hence is to be found only 
in protected places or arid areas. It occurs associated with other sul- 
phates and carbonates, as with thenardite and mirabilite at Borax 
Lake, in San Bernardino County, California, and with halite in rock 
salt at Stassfurt (Specimen No. 40229, U.S.N.M.) and other Euro- 
pean localities. 

6. Thenardite. 

Composition anhydrous sodium sulphate. NaoSO^,^ sulphur triox- 
ide,43.7 per cent; soda, 56.3 per cent. Color when pure, white, trans- 
lucent to transparent; hardness, 2 to 3; specific gravity, 2.68; brittle. 
In cruciform twins or short prismatic forms roughly striated. Readily 
soluble in water. Is found in various arid countries, as on the Rio 
Verde in Arizona, at Borax Lake, California, and Rhodes Marsh in 
Nevada, associated with other salts of sodium and boron. 

7. Epsomite; Epsom Salts. 

Composition sulphate of magnesia MgS04+7H20,= sulphur tri- 
oxide, 32.5 per cent; magnesia, 16.3 per cent; water, 51.2 per cent. 

This is a soft white or colorless mineral readily soluble in water and 
with a bitter saline taste. It is a constant ingredient of sea water and of 
most mineral waters as well. Being readily soluble, it is rarely met with 
in nature except as an effervescence in mines and caves. In the dry parts 
of the limestone caverns of Kentucky, Tennessee, and Indiana it occurs 
in the form of straight acicular needles in the dirt of the floor and in pecu- 
liar recurved fibrous and columnar forms or in loose snow-white masses 
on the roofs and walls. (Specimens Nos. 68115, 68153, U. S. N. M. , from 
Wyandotte Cave, Indiana. ) In all these cases it is doubtless a product of 
sulphuric acid set free from decomposing pyrites combining with the 
magnesia of the limestone. It is stated that at the so-called "alum 
cave" in Sevier County, Tennessee, masses of epsomite very pure and 
nearly a cubic foot in volume have been obtained. The material in all 
these cases is of little value, the chief source of the commercial supply 
being that obtained as a by-product during the manufacture by evapora- 
tion of common salt (sodium chloride). 

In Albany County, Wyoming, are several lakes, the largest of which 
has an area of but some 90 acres, in which deposits of epsom salts are 
formed on a very large scale, but which are of little commercial value, 
owing to cost of transportation. The material forms compact, almost 



416 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

snow-white agg-regates of small acicular crystals of a high degree of 
purity. (Specimen No. 62088, U.S. N.M.) The composition of the 
natural salt is given as follows:^ Insoluble residue, 0.08 per cent; 
magnesimn sulphate (containing traces of calcium and sodium sul- 
phates), 51.22 per cent; water, -±7.83 per cent; chloride of sodium, 
calcium, and magnesium, 0.42 per cent; iron, trace; loss, 0.45. 

8. POLYHALITE. 9. KaINITE. 10. KlESERITE. 

For description of these minerals see under Halite, p. 195. 

11, Alums. 

Under this head are included a variety of minerals consisting essen- 
tially of hydrous sulphates of aluminum or iron, with or without the 
alkalies, and which are not always readil}^ distinguished from one 
another but by quantitative analyses. The principal varieties are kalin- 
ite, tschermigite, mendozite, pickeringite, apjohnite, halotrichite, and 
alunogen. Aluminite and alunite are closely related chemical com- 
pounds, but differ in hardness and general physical qualities and in being 
insoluble except in acids. 

Although possible sources of alum, none of these minerals have been 
to any extent utilized in the United States, owing to a lack of quan- 
tity or inaccessibility, the main source of the alum of commerce being 
cryolite, bauxite, and clay, as elsewhere noted. (See pp. 214, 229, 
and 325.) 

Kalinite is a native potash alum; composition K2SO^.Al2(SOj3+ 
24H20,= sulphur trio xide, 33.7 percent; alumina, 10.8 per cent; potash, 
9.9 per cent; water,45.6 per cent, or, otherwise expressed, potassiumsul- 
phate, 18.1 per cent; aluminum sulphate, 36.3 percent; water, 45.6 per 
cent. Hardness, 2 to 2.5; specific gravity, 1.75. This in its pure state 
is a colorless or white transparent mineral, crystallizing in the isometric 
system, readily soluble in water, and characterized by a strong astrin- 
gent taste. In nature it occurs as a volcanic sublimation product, or 
as a secondary mineral due to the reaction of sulphuric acid set free by 
decomposing iron pyrites upon aluminous shales. Its common mode 
of occurrence is therefore in volcanic vents (Specimen No. 60685, 
U.S.N.M., from Vulcano) or as an efflorescence upon pyritiferous and 
aluminous rocks. Being so readily soluble, it is to be found in appreci- 
able amounts in humid regions only where protected from the rains, as 
in caves and other sheltered places. So far as known to the author, the 
mineral is nowhere found native in such quantities as to have any great 
commercial value. 

Tschermigite is an ammonia alam of the composition (NHJ^SO^. Al.^ 
(SOi)3+24H20,= aluminum sulphate, 37.7 per cent; ammonium sul- 
phate, 14.6 per cent; water, 47.7 per cent. So far as reported this salt 
has been found only at Tschermig and in a mine near Dux, Bohemia. 

^Bulletin No. 14, October, 1893, Wyoming Experiment Station. 



THE NUNMETALLIC MINERALS. 417 

It is obtained jirtiticiully from the waste of jifas works. Mendozite is a 
soda alum of the composition Na2S(\.Al.,(SOj3+24:H.,(), = sodium sul- 
phate, 15.5 per cent; aluminum sulphate, 87.3 per cent; water, 47.2. 
The mineral closely resembles ordinary alum, and has been reported 
from Mendoza, in the Argentine Re})u)>lic, hence the name. Picker- 
ingite is a magnesium alum of the composition MgSO^.Al.^(SOj3+22 
HgO, = aluminum sulphate, 30.9 per cent; magnesium sulphate, 14 per 
cent; water, 40.1 per cent. The mineral is of a white, yellowish, or 
sometimes faintly reddish color, of a bitter, astringent taste, and 
occurs in acicular crystals or fibrous masses. (Specimen No. 63043, 
U. S. N. M., from Tarapaca, Chile.) Halotrichite has the composition 
FeSO^. AI.3 (SO.,)3+24H20, =ahuninum sulphate, 36.9 per cent; ferro.us 
sulphate, 16.4 per cent; water, 46.7 per cent. The mineral is of a 
white or yellowish color, and of a silky. til)rous structure, hence the 
name from the Greek word aXg, salt, and OpiS, a hair. Apjohnite has 
the formula MnSO^.Alo(SO^).j + 24H20, — manganese sulphate, 16.3 per 
cent; aluminum sulphate, 37 per cent: water, 46.7 per cent. It occurs 
in silky or asbestiform masses of a white or yellowish color, and tastes 
like ordinary alum. It has been found in considerable quantities in 
the so-called "alum cave" of Sevier County, Tennessee. According 
to Safi'ord:^ 

This is an open place under a shelving rock. * * * The slates around and 
above this contain much pyrites, in fine particles and even in rough layers. * * * 
The salts are formed above and are brought down by trickling streams of water. 
* * * Fine cabinet specimens could be obtained, white and pure, a cubic foot in 
volume. 

Dana states that the cave is situated at the headwaters of the Little 
Pigeon, a tributary of the Tennessee River, and that it is properly an 
overhanging cliff 80 or 100 feet high and 300 feet long, under which 
the alum has collected. It occurs, according to this authority, in 
masses, showing in the cavities fine transparent needles with a silky 
luster, of a white or faint rose tinge, pale green or yellow. Epsomite 
and melanterite occur with it. Alunogen has the composition AI2 
(SOjj+lSHgO, = sulphur trioxide, 36 per cent; alumina, 15.3 per 
cent; water, 48.7 per cent; hardness, 1.5 to 3; specific gravity, 1.6 
to 1.8. This is a soft white mineral of a vitreous or silky luster, 
soluble in water, and with a taste like that of the common alum of the 
drug stores. It occurs in nature both as a product of sublimation in 
volcanic regions, and as a decomposition product from iron pyrites 
(iron disulphide) in the presence of aluminous shales. So far as the 
present writer is aware, the native product has no commercial value, 
})eing found (on account of its readv solubility) in too sparing quanti- 
ties in the humid East, while the known deposits in the arid regions 
are remote and practically inaccessible. A white fibrous variety is 



' Geology of Tennessee, 1869, p. 197. 
NAT MUS 99 27 - 



418 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

■statod bv Dana to occur in large quantities at Smoky Mountain, in 
North Carolina, and large quantities of an impure variety, often of a 
yellowish cast, are found in Grant County, on the Gila River, about 40 
miles north of Silver City, New Mexico. (Specimen No. 07841, 
U.S.N.M.) The mineral is also found in Ci'ooke and Fremont counties, 
Wyoming (Specimen No. 6ii087, U.S.N.M.); in Schemnitz, Hungary 
(Specimen No. 53047, U.S.N.M.), and in Japan (Specimen No. 34402, 
U.S.N.M.). 

The chief use of the material, were it procurable cheaply and in 
quantities, would he as a source of alumina for use in chemical manu- 
facture and as an ore of aluminum. » 

Concerning the occurrence of alunogen on the Gila River, New 
Mexico, W. P. Blake writes: 

In a region about half a mile square, of nearly horizontal strata of volcanic origin, 
there has been extensive alterati(jn and change by solfataric action, or possibly by the 
decomposition of disseminated pyrites producing alumin(uis solutions, which, flowing 
slowly by capillary movement from within outwards, suffer decomposition at the sur- 
face with the production of sulphate of alumina (alunogen) in crusts and layers upon 
the outer portions of the rocks, attended by the deposition of siliceous crusts and the 
separation of ferric sulphate, while the rocks so traversed appear to be deprived of a 
part, at least, of their silica and of their alkalies, with the formation of liauxite. 

The alunogen is thus an outer deposit, while the l)auxite is not a deposit, but is an 
internal residual mass in place. Its t-olor is generally ])luish-white; structure, amor- 
phous, granular, without concentric or pisolitic grains. When dried in the sun and 
air it will still lose about 20 per cent by ignition. It gives only about 1 per cent of 
soluble matter by leaching with water; is infusible, and reacts for alumina. The 
amount of residual silica and alkalies has not yet been ascertained, and no careful 
full analysis has been made. The composition is no doubt variable in samples from 
different places, for the original rocks give evidence of a great difference within short 
distances. ' 

Material from this locality (represented by Specimen No. 67841, 
U.S.N.M.) analyzed in the laboratories of the United States Geolog- 
ical Surve}^ yielded results as below: ^ 

Alumina {AU%) 15. 52 

Sulphur trioxide (SO3) 34. 43 

Water (H^O) 42. 56 

Insoluble residue - 7. 62 

100. 1;} 

An asbestiform hulotrichite from the same locality yielded — 

Aluuiina ( AlA) ''•27 

Iron protoxide (FeO) 13.59 

Sulphur trioxide (SO3) 37. 19 

Water 40.62 

Insoluble residue 0. 50 

99.17 

' Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXIY, 1894, p. 
572. 

^American Journal of Science, XXVIII, 1884, p. 24. 



THE NONMETALLIO MINERALS. 419 

In New South Wales the material is conmioiily met with as an efHor- 
escencc in caves and under sheltered ledges of the Coal Measure sand- 
stone, usually with epsomite, as at Dabee, County Phillip; Wallera- 
wang- and Mudgeo road, County Cook; the mouth of the Shoalhaven 
River, and other places. Also found in the crevices of a blue slate at 
Alum Creek, and at the Gibraltar Rock, County Argyle. Occurs as a 
deposit, with various other salts, from the vents at Mount Wingen, 
County Brisbane, together with native sulphur in small (juantities; and 
at Appin, Bulli, and Pitt Water, County Cumberland. At Cullen 
Bullen, in the Turon district. County Roxburgh; at Tarcutta, County 
Wynyard; Manero; Wingello Siding, and Capertee. 

A specimen in the form of fibrous masses, made up of long, acicular 
crystals, white, silky luster, like satin spar, found as an efflorescence in 
a sandstone cave near Wallerawang, was found to have the following 
composition: 

Water 47. 585 

Matter insoluble in water 1. 079 

Alumina 15. 198 

Sulphuric acid 34. 635 

Soda 931 

Potash 337 

Loss 235 

100. 000 
The formula for the above is practically ALOg.SSOg+lSHgO. An- 
other specimen from the same place was found to contain a notable 
quantity of magnesium sulphate. 

Water, by difference 47. 388 

Silica 1.908 

Alumina 13. 113 

Sulphuric acid 33. 067 

Lime 798 

Magnesia 3. 726 

Total 100. 000 

The formula for the above is also practically ALOg.SSOg+lSHgO. 
Aluminite. — Aluminite is a dull, lusterless earthy, aluminum sul- 
phate of the composition indicated by the fornuda Al203.SOi„<JH20 = 
sulphur trioxide 23.3 per cent; akmiina 29.6 per cent; water 47.1 per 
cent. Il is soluble only in acids, white in color, opaque, and occurs 
mainly in l^eds of Tertiary and more recent clays. 

Alunite. — Composition K20.3AL03.4SO.j,6H30 = sulphur trioxide 
38.6 per cent; alumina 37.0 per cent; potash 11, -I per cent; water 13.0 
per cent. Hardness 8. 5 to ■!; specific gravity 2. 58 to 2. 75. This mineral 
occurs native in the form of a tibrous, or compact finely granular rock 
of a dull luster somewhat resembling certain varieties of aluminous 
limestones. It is infusible and soluble only in sidphuric acid. The 
more compact varieties are so hard and tough as to be used for mill- 



420 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

stones in Hungary. No deposits of such extent as to be of economic 
importance are known within the limits of the United States. Akuiite 
as an alteration product of rhyolite has been described by Whitman 
Cross' as occurring at the Rosita Hills in Colorado, the alteration being 
brought about through the influence of sulphurous vapors incident to 
the volcanic outbursts. The altered rhyolite as shown by analyses had 
the following composition: Silica 65.94 per cent; alumina 12.95 per 
cent; potash 2.32 per cent; soda 1.19 per cent; sulphur trioxide 12.17 
per cent; water 4.17 per cent; FegOj, etc. , 0. 55 per cent. This indicates 
that the rock is made up of alunite and quartz, in the proportion of 
about one-third of the former to two-thirds of the latter. The most 
noted occurrences of alunite are at Tolfa, near Rome; Montioni, in 
Tuscany, Italy (Specimen No. 62863, U.S.N.M.); Musaz, in Hungary 
(Specimens Nos. 60925, mSo-i, U.S.N.M.) on the islands of Milo, 
Argentiera and Nevis in the Grecian Archipelago; Mount Dore in 
France, and at Bulledelah in New South Wales. At the last-named 
locality the mineral occurs in compact, micro-crystalline forms of a 
slight flesh pink tint, in "a large deposit forming the summit of a 
ridge about three-fourths mile long by one-half mile wide, and rising 
about 1,000 feet above the level of Lyall -Creek, on which it is situ- 
ated. Viewed from the creek it presents a massive outcrop re- 
sembling limestone. It yields from 60 to 80 per cent of alum upon 
roasting, lixiviating, and evaporating" (Specimen No. 62179, U.S.N.M.). 
Alunite from the mines at Tolfa varies considerably in composition. 
The crystallized variety contains about 32 per cent alumina, whereas 
the cruder specimens which contain a large quantity of silica have 
only about 17.5 per cent. The following is an analysis of an average 
sample: 

Alumina 27. 60 

Sulphuric acid 29. 74 

Potash 7. 55 

AVater 11-20 

Iron 1-20 

Silica 22. 71 

Total 100.00 

W^hen crushed it is easily reduced to a powder, the liner portions of 
which are richer in alumina than the coarser portions, and for this 
reason the author recommends that only the former should be exported, 
the latter being converted into commercial products in the vicinity of 
the mine.^ 

' American Journal of Science, XLI, 1891, p. 468. 

^ Catalogue of New South Wales Exhibits, World's Columbian Exposition, Chicago, 
1893, Dept. E, p. 358. 
'Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, I, 1882, p. 501. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



421 



Alum St,atk oh Shat.k is a .somewhat indotinito name given to 
fine-graiiuHl arenaceous rocks consisting essentially of siliceous and 
tieldspathic sands and clays with disseminated iron i)yrites. The fol- 
lowing analyses from Bi.schof's Chemical Geology will serve to show 
their varying composition: 



Constituents. 



Silica 

Alumina 

Iron oxides 

Lime 

Magnesia 

Potasli 

Soda 

Iron pyrites 

Carbon and water. 



I. 


II. 


III. 


65.44 

14.87 

1.05 

.15 

1.34 

4.59 

.48 

1.25 

Undet. 


72.40 
16.45 


50. 13 
10.73 

2.27 
.40 

1.00 


.17 
1.48 
5.08 

.53 

2.26 

Undet. 




7.53 
25.04 



(I) An alum slate from Opsloe, near Christiania, Norway, (11) from 
Bornholm. and (III) from Garnsdorf , near Saalfeld, Prussia. Concern- 
ing No. Ill it is stated that "on the roof of the adit, driven into the 
slate, there are almost everywhere yellow or white opaque stalactites, 
and more rareh" a green transparent deposit is produced. Both con- 
sist of hydrated basic sulphate of alumina and peroxide of iron. In 
the former, iron predominates; in the latter, alumina. Both substances 
are quite insoluble in water. 

From shales and slates of this type the alum is obtained by crushing 
and allowing to undergo prolonged weathering or submitted to a roast- 
ing process. The essential part of the reaction consists in oxidizing 
the bisulphide to the condition of a sulphate and iinally into iron 
sesquioxide, with separation of free sulphuric acid which attacks the 
alumina, forming an equivalent quantity of sulphate of aluminum or 
alum. So far as is known this process is not carried on at all in the 
United States. 

The alum shale of the English Upper Liassian formation consists of 
hard l)lue shale with cement stones. On exposure to the air it grad- 
ually becomes incrusted with sulphur, and occasionally with alum. 

In composition the alum shale is as follows: 

Iron sulphide 8. 50 

Silica 51.16 

Iron protoxide (j. 11 

Alumina 18. 30 

Lime 2.15 

Magnesia 0. 90 

Sulphuric acid 2. 5 

Potash Trace. 

Soda Trace. 

Carbon 8. 29 

Water 2. GO 



Total 99. 91 



422 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



From this shale potash-alum was formerly made near AVhitby and 
Redcar, the aluminum sulphate being- extracted from the shale, and the 
potash-salt being- added. The trade which since the days of Queen 
Elizabeth has been largely carried on, has now almost passed away, as 
alum is now manufactured in other places from coal-shale. Alum 
works formerly existed at the Peak, Robin Hood's Bay, Stow Brow, 
Sandsend, Kettleness, Lofthouse (Loftus), Osmotherly, etc' 

According to F. Stolba.~ the so-called Bohemian fuming sulphuric 
acid is made from vitriol obtained from Silurian pyritiferous schists 
(" vitriolschiefer ''). The method as given is as follows: Large masses 
of the schist, which consist essentially of a quartzose matrix contain- 
ing pyrite, carbonaceous matter, and clay, are exposed to the weather- 
ing action of the atmosphere for three years. The products of oxida- 
tion so formed are ferrous sulphate and sulphuric acid, which latter 
acts energetically upon the clay, and finally aluminum sulphate and 
other sulphates are yielded. The ferrous sulphate at tirst formed be- 
comes by oxidation ferric sulphate, which, together with the aluminum 
sulphate, is the principal product of the weathering of the vitriol slate. 
Ferrous sulphate remains only in small quantities. The next operation 
is lixiviation of the mass with water, after which the liquor obtained 
is concentrated to a density of -iO ' Baume, and finally evaporated 
in pans until, on cooling, a crystalline cake of vitriol stone is obtained. 
The vitriol stone is now calcined in order to remove the greater part 
of its water. The resulting product, when heated to a very high tem- 
perature in clay retorts, yields sulphuric anhydride, and a residue, 
termed colcothar, remains in the retorts. The composition of vitriol 
stone and colcothar will be seen from the following analyses: 



VITRIOL STONE. 

FejOa 20. 07 

AlA - 4. 67 

FeO 0. 64 

MnO Traces. 

CaO 0.14 

MgO 0.89 

K.,0 0. 07 

Na./) 0. 05 

CuO 0. 10 

SiO, 0. 10 

P./)5 Traces. 

RO3 40.51 

As Traces. 

H.,0 32. 58=99. 32 



VITRIOL STONE. 

Fe,{SO,), 50.17 

AlASO,), 11.94 

FeSO, 1.35 

MgSO^ 1.17 

CaSO, 0. 33 

CUSO4 0. 20 

KjSO, - 0. 13 

Na^SO^ 0. 11 

H2SO, 1.49 

MnO, As, and P.,05 Traces. 

SiO^ 9.10 

H.,0 32. 31=99. 29 



^The Geology of England and Wales, p. 279. 

■■'Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, V, 1886, p. 30. 



THE JMONMETALLIO MINERALS. 423 

COLCOTIIAK. 

FcA 74.62 

ALA 1^-^^^ 

MgO ;^-^3 

CaO 0.82 

SO3 •'^■17 

SiO., 1-1" 

('u() 0.20 

H.^() 1.30=99.04 

XIII. HYDROCARBON COMPOUNDS. 

1. Coal Series. 

Here are included a variety of more or less oxygenated hydrocar- 
bons varying widely in physical and chemical properties, but alike in 
originatiiig from decomposing plant growth protected from the oxidiz- 
ino- influences of the air. According to tiie amount of change that has 
taken place in the original plant material, the amount of volatile matter 
still retained by it, its hardness and burning qualities, several varieties 
are recognized. 

Origin.— The idea long prevalent but never entirely accepted to 
the effect that the coal l)eds resulted from the accunmlation in situ of 
organic matter growing on gradually subsiding marshes has of late 
given way quite largely to another more in accord with the facts as 
now known. 

While we have indu])itable proof that peat may and does thus origi- 
nate, as is to be seen in many a modern peat bog, and while, too, there 
is no doul)t as to the possibility of such, under proper conditions, 
becoming converted into coal, still there are many facts which tend to 
show that perhaps the most and the largest of the coal deposits are 
due to the accumulation of transported plant remains laid down at the 
mouths of rivers as in deltas and lagoons. They are in fact as true 
sedimentary deposits as the shales and sandstones with which they are 
associated. This view best accounts for the constant interlamination 
of the coal with clay and sand, with the marked sti-atitication of the 
coal itself, as well as the amorphous nature of the material, since, as is 
well known, calcium sulphate, a constituent of sea water, tends to 
decompose organic matter, reducing it to a pulplike, and at times 
almost mucilaginous condition. 

The idea, too, long prevalent, that anthracite is but a bituminous 
coal from which a large portion of the volatile matter has been driven 
off l)y the heat and pressure incidental to mountain making or the 
intrusion of igneous rocks is also in part l)eing set aside. Undoubtedly 
anthracite may l)e thus produced and in some cases has been thus pro- 
duced, as in the Cerrillos coal field of New Mexico, where a bitumi- 
nous coal containing some 30 per cent of volatile matter has been locally 



424 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

converted into anthracite through the intrusion of a mass of an ande- 
sitic trachyte/ 

Prof. J. J. Stevenson has, however, argued' that the difference 
between anthracite and the ])ituminous coals is due, not to metamor- 
phism through heat and pressure after being buried, but rather to the 
former having been longer exposed to the percolating action of water, 
whereby the volatile constituents were removed, prior to its final 
burial, and the consolidation of the inclosing rocks. 

The subject is, however, altogether too large to be satisfactorily dis- 
cussed here, and the reader is referred to the special works on the 
subject noted in the bibliography. 

Peat represents the plant matter in its least changed condition. It 
results from the gradual accuiuulation in bogs and marshes of growths 
consisting mainl}^ of sphagnous mosses, a low order of plants having 
the faculty of continuing in growth upward as they die off below. In 
this way the deposits often assume a very considerable thickness. 
When sufficently thick the weight of the overlying matter may have 
converted the lower portions into a dense brownish-black mass some- 
what resembling true coal. The deposits of peat are all comparatively 
recent and occur only in humid climates. They are developed to an 
enormous extent in Ireland — about one-seventh of the entire country 
being covered by them — and average in some cases 25 feet in thick- 
ness. (Specimen No. 53242, U.S.N.M., from County Kerry.) They 
are also abundant on the continent of Europe and various parts of 
North America. In Europe, and especially in Ireland, the material 
is extensively utilized for fuel, and there would seem no good reason 
for not so utilizing it in America. As prepared for use the material 
is simply dug f i-om the bogs and stacked up until sufficiently dr}' for 
burning, or pressed into bricks of suitable size and shape for conven- 
ient handling. Many processes have been invented for reducing the 
material to a pulp and subsequently condensing by pressure, but all 
involve too great an outlay to be profitable.^ 

In America the chief use of the material is as a fertilizer, a material 
for ""mulching.'J An impure variety containing a considerable quan- 



^ Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, VII, 1895-96, p. 525. 

2 Idem, V, 1894, p. 39. 

^ A new method of making charcoal from peat has heen patented in England hy 
Mr. Bhmdell and is to be tried in Italy, where there are large deposits of peat which 
can, it is claimed, be handled very cheaply. In this process the peat is first reduced 
to a fine paste and leaves the machine in a continuous thick tube 3 to 5 inches in 
diameter, and is then cut off in sticks and dried for three days on wooden supports 
and for a longer period in the air on wire netting. After twenty-five days the sticks 
become dry and hard and may be burned as fuel; but it is more profitable to convert 
these sticks into charcoal. This is accomplished in six hours in a retort, and 3 tons 
of peat make 1 ton of charcoal. — Engineering and Mining Journal, LXV, February 26, 
1898, p. 248. 



Report of U. S. National Museum. 1 899.— Merrill. 



Plate 23. 







THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



425 



titv «»f silicious sand, uiul lociilly known as '"' rnucU/'' is thus used through- 
out New Enghuul. 

According- to J. E. Kehl, United States consul at Stettin, (xormany, 
the manufacture of peat briquettes in that country is likely to become 
an industry of some importance. The material fresh from the moor 
is cut and ground quite Hnely by machiiuu-y, dried by steam, and 
pressed into the desired form. The matcn-ial thus prepared is said to 
be clean to handle, giyes a good heat, and burns satisfactorily in ))oth 
stoyes and open grates. The peat bricpiettes retail at the rate of 8 for 
a cent, American money.' 

From a study made by Drs. J. W. Dawson and B. J. Harrison 
some years ago^ it was concluded that the peat deposits of Prince 
Edward Island were capable of economic utilization. Three deposits 
were referred to, the possibilities of which were giyen as below: 

Lenox Island bog, at $4 a ton, 20,000 tons, value $80, 000 

Squirrel Creek bog, at $4 a ton, 500,000 tons, value 2, 000, 000 

Black Bank bog, at $4 a ton, 1,777,248 tons, value 7, 108, 992 

Total 9, 189, 992 

The following analyses of peats are giyen by this authority: 



Constituents. 


Hydro- 
scopic 
water. 


Volatile 
combusti- 
ble matter. 


Fixed car- 
bon. 


Ash. 




14.96 
17.06 
23.71 
16. 62 


59. 60 
50. 725 
41.195 
53.29 


22.20 
25.96 
19. 835 
22.48 


3.24 
6.265 
15.26 
7.71 




Indian Island peat 

Black Bank peat 





Below are giyen the results of analyses of I, peat from bog of 
Allan. Ireland; II, a "muck", from Maine, United States; and III, 
Commander Islands in Behring Sea (Specimen No. 59320, U.S.N.M.): 



Constituents. 


I. 


II. 


III. 


Carbon 


Per cent. 
61.04 
37.53 

1.83 


Per cent. 
21 
72 

7 


Per cent. 
60.48 
39.53 
3.30 


Volatile matter 


Ash 





Lignite or brown coal. — This name is giyen to a brownish -black 
variety of coal characterized by a brilliant luster, conchoidal fracture, 
and brown streak. Such contain from 55 to 65 per cent of carbon and 
burn easily, with a smok}^ flame, but are inferior to the true coals for 
heating purposes. They are also objectionable on account of the soot 
they create, and their rapid disintegration and general deterioration 

^United States Consular Reports, .January, 1899, p. 99. 

^Report on the Geological Structure and Mineral Resources of Prince Edward 
Island, 1871. 



426 rp:port of national museum, 1899. 

when exposed to the air. They occur in beds under conditions similar 
to the true coals, but are of more recent origin. The liguitic coals of 
the negions of the United States west of the Mississippi River are mainly 
of Laramie (Upper Cretaceous) age, and often show easily recognizable 
traces of their organic origin, such as compressed and flattened stems 
and trunks of trees with traces of woody fiber (Specimen No. 4795, 
U.S.N.M.). 

Jet is a resinous, coal-black variety of lignite sufl[iciently dense to be 
carved into small ornaments (Specimens Nos. 62930, 62804, U.S.N.M.). 
According to Professor Phillips, it is simply a coniferous wood, and 
still shows the characteristic structure under the microscope. It has 
been known since early British times, having at first been found on 
the seashore at Whitby and other places. The largest seam on record 
was obtained from the North Bats, near Whitby. It weighed some 
5,180 pounds and was valued at about $1,250. The material is now 
regularly rained both in the clifts and inland, and is one of the most 
valuable products of the Yorkshire coast. ^ 

Bituminous Coals. — Under this name are included a series of com- 
pact and brittle products in which no traces of organic remains are to be 
seen on casual inspection, but which under the microscope often show 
traces of woody fiber, spores of lycopods, etc. These coals are usually 
of a brown to black color, with a brown or gray-brown streak, break- 
ing with a cubical or conchoidal fracture, and burning readily with a 
yellow, smoky flame. They contain from 85 to 75 per cent of fixed 
carbon, 18 to 60 per cent of volatile matter, from 2 to 20 per cent of 
water, and only too frequently show traces of sulphur, due to included 
iron pyrites. Several varieties of bituminous coals are recognized, 
the distinctions being based upon their manner of burning. Coking 
coals are so called from the facility with which they may be made to 
yield coke. Such give a yellow flame in burning and make a hot fire. 
(Specimens Nos. 55490, U.S.N.M., Connellsville, Pennsylvania, and 
59260, U.S.N.M., from New River, West Virginia.) Other varie- 
ties of apparently the same composition and general physical proper- 
ties can not for some unexplained reason be made to yiekl coke, and 
are known as noncoking eoah. (Specimens Nos. 59428, U.S.N.M., 
from Vigo County, Indiana, and 59208, U.S.N.M. (splint coal), from 
Fayette County, West Virginia.) Cannel coal has a very compact 
structure, breaks with a conchoidal fracture, has a dull luster, ignites 
easily, and burns with a yellow flame. It does not coke. Its chief 
characteristic is the large amount of volatile matter given oft' when 
heated, whereby it is rendered of particular value for making gas. 
(Specimens Nos. 56280, 56284, and 58496, U.S.N.M., are characteristic.) 
Before the discovery of petroleum it was used for the distillation of 
oils. Below is given the composition of a (I) coking coal from the 

^ Geology of England and Wales, p. 278. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899 — Mjrrill. 



Plate 24. 






■-- -^ 







r^:«' A- 



V|:. 




THE NONMETALLIC MINKKALS. 



427 



Connollsvillo Basin of Ppnnsylvunia, and (11) a cannel coal from Ka- 
nawha County, West Virginia.' 



Constituents. 



Water 11*'^ 

Volatile matter 29. 885 

Fixed carbon 57. 754 

Ash 9-895 

Sulphur 

Total 



1.339 



99.97 



II. 



58.00 
23. .50 

18. .50 



100. 00 



Anthracite Coal.— This is a deep black, lustrous, hard and brittle 
variety, and represents the most highly metamorphosed variety of the 
coal series. Traces of organic nature are almost entirely lacking in 
the matter of the anthracite itself, though impressions of ferns, lyco- 
pods, sigillaria and other coal-forming plants are frequently associated 
with the beds in such a manner as to leave little doubt as to their 
origin. Anthracite is ignited with difficulty and burns with little 
flame, but makes a hot fire. Below is given the average composition 
of a coal from the Kohinoor Colliery, Shenandoah, Pennsylvania.^ 

.Water 3.163 

Volatile matter 3. 717 

Fixed carbon 81. 143 

Sulphur 0. 899 

Ash 11.078 

100. 00 

(Specimens Nos. 59058, 59062, from Pennsylvania, and 30854, from 
Colorado, are sufliciently characteristic.) Like the other coals, anthra- 
cite occurs in true beds, but is confined mostly to rocks of the Car- 
boniferous age. Thin seams of anthracite sometimes occur in Devo- 
nian and Silurian rocks, but which are too small to be of economic 
value. Rarely coals of more recent geological horizon have been 
formed locally, altered into anthracite by the heat of igneous rocks. 
Through a still further metamorphism, whereby it loses all its volatile 
constituents, coal passes over into graphite (Specimens Nos. 17299 
and 59099, from near Newport, Rhode Island), and it is possible, though 
scarcely probable, that all graphite may have originated in this way. 
The principal anthracite coal regions of the United States are in 
eastern Pennsylvania. From here westward throughout the interior 
States to the front range of the Rocky Mountains the coals are all 
soft, bituminous coals. Those of the Rocky Mountain region proper 
are largely lignitic, passing into the bituminous varieties. 

• F. P. Dewey, Bulletin 42, United States National Museum, 1891, p. 231. 
^ Idem, p. 221. 



428 REPORT OK NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

The bibliography of coal, even though limited to the United State?, would be enor- 
mous. In all cases reference should be made to the publications of the various State 
surveys, where such have existed. The few titles here given are of articles of general 
interest' and, as a rule, not relating to the coals of one particular locality alone. 
Walter R. Johnson. A Report to the Navy Department of the United States on 
American Coals Applicable to Steam Navigation and to other purposes. 
Washington, D. C, 1844, pp.607. 
Richard Cowling Taylor. Statistics of Coal. The Geographical and Geological 
Distribution of Mineral Combustibles or Fossil Fuel, etc. 
Philadelphia, 1848, pp. 754. 
J. Le Conte. Lectures on Coal. 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1857, p. 119. 
T. H. Leavitt. Peat as a Fuel. 

Second Edition. Boston, 1866, pp. 168. 

Facts About Peat as an Article of Fuel. 

Third Edition. Boston, 1867, pp. 316. 
E. W. Hilgard. Note on Lignite Beds and their Under Clays. 

American Journal of Science, VII, 1874, p. 208. 
Leo Lesquereux. On the Formation of Lignite Beds of the Rocky Mountain Region. 

American Journal of Science, VII, 1874, p. 29. 
J. S. Newberry. On the Lignites and Plant Beds of Western America. 

American Journal of Science, VII, 1874, p. 399. 
James MacFarlane. Coal Regions of America. 

New York, 1875. 
Mi ALL Green, Thorpe, RtJCKER, and Marshall. Coal; Its History and Uses. Edited 

by Professor Thorpe. London, 1878, pp. 363. 
Raphael Pumpelly. Report on the Mining Industries of the United States, with 
special investigation into the Iron Resources of the Republic and into the Creta- 
ceous Coals of the Northwest. 

Tenth Census of the LTnited States, XV, 1880. 
W. IvisoN MacAdam. Analyses of Coals from New Zealand and Labuan. 

Transactions of the Edinburgh Geological Society, IV, pt. 2, p. 165, session 
1881-82. 
J. S. Newberry. On the Physical Conditions under which Coal was Formed. 

Science, I, March 2, 1883, p. 89. 
Charles A. Ashburner. The Classification and Composition of Pennsylvania Anthra- 
cites. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XIV, 1885, 

p. 706. 
Leo Lesquereux. On the Vegetable Origin of Coal. 

Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, 1885, p. 95. 
S. W. Johnson. Peat and its Uses as Fertilizer and Fuel. 

New York, 1886, pp. 168. 
Graham MacFarlane. Notes on American Cannel Coal. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVIII, 1890, 
p. 436. 
W. Galloway. The South African Coal Field. 

Proceedings of the South Wales Institute of Engineers, No. 2, XVII, 1890, p. 67. 
Levi W. Meyers. L'Origine de la Houille. 

Revue de Quest. Scientifique Brussels, July, 1892, pp. 5-47. 
William H. Page. The Carboniferous Age and the Origin of Coal. 
Engineering and Mining Journal, LVI, 1893, p. 347. 
Note sur la formation des Terraines Houillers. 

Bulletin de la Society G^ologique de France, XXIV, 1896, p. 150. 
Making Coal of Bog Peat. 

The Iron Age, LXII, Aug. 18, 1898, p. 3. 



Report of U, S, National Museum, 1 839.— Merrill. 



Plate 25. 




THE NONMKTALLIC MINP]RALS. 



429 



2. BlTl^MEN SkRIES. 

Under this head arc included a scries of hvdrocarl)()n c<)ni]x:)unds 
varying in phyi-iical properties from solid to gaseous and in color 
from coal black through brown, greenish, red, and yellow to colorless. 
Unlike the members of the series already described, they are not the 
i-esidual products of plant decomposition Iqi siti/^ but are rather, in 
part at least, distillation products from diM^ply 1)uried organic matter 
of both animaland vegi'table origin. The diti'erent members of the series 
differ so widely in their properties and uses that each must be dis- 
cussed indejHMidently. The grouping of the various compounds as 
given below is open to many objections from a strictly scientific stand- 
point, but, all things considered, it seems best suited for the present 
purposes.^ 

Tabular classlJica(io)i of Injdrocarbons.'^ 

Gaseous Marsh gas ( Natural gas). 

Fluidal Petrolenni ( Naphtha ) . 

Pittat^phalt (Maltha). 
Mineral tar. 
Asphalt. 

Elastic fElaterite. 

IWurtzillite. 
[AUjertite. 

^^^^"^ I Grahamite. 

lUintaite. 

I Succinite. 
Copalite. 
Torbanite. 
Ambrite. 
/Ozokerite. 
I Hatchettite. 



Bituminous . 



Viscous and semisolid. 



Cerous (waxy). 



'^ 






Tabular classification or grouping of natural and artifixnal biturninou.'t compounds. 

Mixed with limestone, "asphal- /Seyssel, Val de Travers, Lobsan, Illi- 
tic limestone." I nois, and other localities. 

Mixed with silica and sand, "as- /California, Kentucky, Utah, and other 
phaltic sand." I localities. "Bituminous silica." 

Mixed with earthy matter, "as- f ..,,„, ^ ,.. . ,, , 
phaltic earth." ^Tnnidad, Cuba, C alit..rnia, L tah. 

iBituminous schists fCanada, California, Kentucky,' Virginia, 

I and other localities, 
■pj -^1 (Thick oils from the distillation of petro- 

"I leum. "Eesiduum." 
/(las-tar. 
\ Pitch. 

(Refined Trinidad asphaltic earth. Mas- 
^q\[(\ ) tic of asphaltite. 

(iritted asphaltic mastic. Paving com- 
pounds. 

^See article What is Bitumen? by S. F. Peckham, Journal of the Franklin Insti- 
tute, CXL, 1895, pp. 370 to 383. 

^ W. P. Blake, Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVIII, 
1890, p. 582. 



Viscoui- 



430 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Important 

natural 
bitumens 



Table of occurrence of important natural JAtumen.^ 

Natural gas Ohio, Pennsylvania, California, etc., in the 

United States; Russia, France, etc. 

Natural naphtha Found in petroleum districts (of little value, 

superseded by artificial naphtha from crude 
petroleum). 

Petroleum Pennsylvania, Ohio, Wyoming, California, 

etc., in United States; Russia, etc. (consult 
books on petroleum ) . 
Maltha California, Wyoming, Alaljama, Utah, Colo- 
rado, Kentucky, New ]\Iexict), Ohio, Texas, 
Indian Territory, etc.; Russia, France, 
Germany, etc. 

North America Utah, California, Texas, 

etc. 
Central America. . .Cuba, Mexico, etc. 

South America Trinidad, Venezuela, 

Peru, Colombia, etc. 

Europe Caucasia, Syran-on-the 

Volga, Germany, 



Asphaltum . 



Asphaltum 

almost 

pure. 



Asphaltic 
compounds. 



France, Italy, Austria, 
etc. 

Asia Hit on the Euphrates, 

Asia Minor, Palestine, 
etc. 

Africa Oran in Egypt; probably 

other places. 

North America West Virginia, Kentucky, 

Texas, Wyoming, Utah, 
Colorado, California, 
Indian Territory, Mon- 
tana, New Mexico. 

Central America. . .Mexico, Cuba, etc. 

South America Trinidad (largest supply, 

most used), Venezuela, 
Peru, Colombia, etc. 

Europe Germany, Switzerland, 

France, Italy, Sicily, 
Russia, Austria, Spain, 
etc. 

Asia Asia Minor, Palestine, 

Bagdad, and probably 
in China. 

Africa Egypt, and probably else- 
where in Africa. 



Origin. — Of the many views, mainl}" theoretical, that have been put 
forward to account for the origin of bituminous compounds, but two 
need be noted in detail here. Interested readers are referred to the 
bibliography given on page 460, and particularly to the works of 
Peckham, Orton, and Redwood. Prof. Edward Orton, after an 

ij. W. Howard, as quoted by S. P. Sadtler, Journal of the Franklin Institute, 
CXL, 1895, p. 200. 



THE NONMETALUC MINERALS. 431 

exhtiustivo considomtion of the oocurrciu'C of petroleum, natural gas, 
and asphalt in Kentucky,' gives the foUowino- precise summary: 

1. Petrolt'um is (U'rived from organic matter. 

2. Petroleum of the IVmisylvania type is derived from the organic matter of bitumi- 

nous shales, and is probably of vegetable origin. 

3. Petroleum of the Canadian type is derived from limestones, an<l is i)robably of 

animal origin. 

4. Petroleum has been produced at normal roek temperatures (in Ameriean fields), 

and is not a production of destructive distillation of bituminous shales. 

5. The stock of petroleum in the rocks is already practically complete. 

Hofer^ regards petroleum as of animal origin only, and advances the 
arguments given below in support of his theory: 

1. Oil is found in strata containing animal, but little or no plant remains. This is 

the case in the Carpathians, and in the limestone examined in Canada and the 
United States by Sterry Hunt. 

2. The shales from which oil and paraffin were obtained in the Liassic oil shales of 

Swabia and of Steirdorf, in Styria, contained animal, but no vegetable remains. 
Other shales, as, for instance, the copper shales of INIansfield, where the bitumen 
amounts to 22 per cent, are rich in animal remains and practically free from 
vegetable remains. 

3. Rocks which are rich in vegetable remains are generally not bituminous. 

4. Substances resembling petroleum are produced by the decomposition of animal 

remains.^ 

5. Fraas observed exudations of petroleum irom a coral reef on the shores of the 

Red Sea, where it could be only of animal origin. 
The relationship which exists between the solid or viscous bitumen 
and the tluidal petroleum have not in all cases been satisfactorily 
worked out, though Feckham has shown* that in California at least 
there are almost infinite gradations from one extreme to the other. In 
Ventura County, for instance, the petroleum is held, primarily, in strata 
of shale, from which it issues as petroleum or maltha, accordingly as 
the shales have been })rought into contact with the atmosphere, the 
asphaltum being produced by a still further exposure to the atmosphere 
after the bitumen has reached the surface. This relationship between 
the more tluidal and viscous varieties is shown in fig. 13, copied from 
Professor Peckhanrs paper above referred to, and which represents a 
section across a portion of Sulphur Mountain between the Hayward 
Petroleum Company's tunnels in Wheeler Canyon, and the Big Spring- 
Plateau on the Ojai ranch. In this section it will be noted that the 
moiuitain is formed of a synclinal fold of shale, the strata dipping 

'Report on the Occurrence of Petroleum, etc., in Western Kentucky. Geological 
Survey of Kentucky, John R. Proctor, director, 1891. 

^As quoted by Redwood, I, p. 238. 

*Dr. Engler, as quoted by Redwood, obtained by distillation of menhaden oil, 
among other products, a substance remarkably like petroleum, and a lighting oil 
indistinguishable from commercial kerosene. 

* See Report of the Tenth Census, p. 68. 



432 



REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 




O '^ « f^ 



a <(, 



THE NONMKTALLIC MINKUALS. 433 

inward on both tsides and coniini;' to the siu'facc almost vertically on 
the rit»"ht. and more nearly horizontally on th(> left (the south). The 
tunnels are driv^en into the nearly vertical face of the mountain and 
the oil-hearinj^- rock is protected l)v some TOO or 800 feet of overlying 
shales. The oil obtained is the lightest thus far found in southern 
California. On the other hand, the material which exudes on the 
north side, when the shales are upturned at such an angle as to give 
free access to atmospheric agencies, is in the form of maltha, or min- 
eral tar. and so viscous, in December, ISOS, that it could be gathered 
and rolled into balls like dough. 

The relationship between petroleum and natural gas is scarcely bettei' 
detincd. That the gas can be derived from petroleum is undoubted, 
and indeed the latter apparently never occurs free from gas. But on 
the other hand, as Professor Orton states, the gas often originates 
luider many conditions in which petroleum does not occur. The 
formation of marsh gas from decomposing j)lant remains on the bottom 
of stagnant pools, and its presence in coal mines would show with 
seeming conclusiveness that a part, at least, of the gas is formed quite 
independentlv of petroleum. It would seem on the whole most 
probable that no one theory was universally applicable to all cases. 

Marsh Gas; Natural Gas. — This is a colorless and odorless gas 
arising from the decomposition of organic matter protected from the 
oxidizing influence of atmospheric air. By itself it burns quietly, with 
a slightly luminous flame, but when mixed with air it forms a dangerous 
explosive. It is this gas which forms the dreaded Are damp of the 
miners. In small quantities this gas may be found and collected, if 
desired, from the bottom of shallow pools and stagnant bodies of water 
by merely disturbing the decomposing plant matter at the bottom, 
when the l)ubbles of the gas will rise to the top. Under this head may 
properly be consid(M-ed the so-called iHifiiral (/<ix, which has of late years 
become of so much importance from an economic standpoint. This gas 
is, however, by no uK^ans a simple compound, but a variable admixture 
of several gases, samples from different wells showing considerable 
variation in composition, as well as those from the same well collected 
at different periods. This last is shown by the seven analyses following, 
and which may serve well to illustrate the average composition, though 
in some instances the percentage of marsh gas has been found greater.^ 



' From Orton's Report on Petroleum, Natural Gas, and Asphalt in Kentucky, pp. 

108-110. 

NAT MUS yy 28 



434 



REroRT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, i8!>9. 



Constituents. 



Hydrogen 1-89 

Miirsli gas 92. 84 

Ok'tiftntgas 0.20 

Carbonic oxide 0. -5.5 

Carbonic acid 0. 20 

O.xygen 0. 35 

Nitrogen 3. 82 

Sulphuretted hydrogen 0. 1.5 



Total , 100.00 



1.64 
93. 35 
0.35 
0.41 
0. 25 
0.39 
3.41 
0.20 



1.74 
93.85 
0.20 
0.44 
0. 23 
0. 35 
2.98 
0.21 



V. 



1.42 
94.16 
0.30 
0. 55 
0.29 
0.30 
2. 80 
0.18 



VII. 



1.20 
93. 58 
0. 15 
0. 60 
0.30 
0.55 
3.42 
0.20 



I, Fostoria, Ohio; II, Findlay, Ohio; III, St. Marys, 
Indiana; VI, Kokomo, Indiana; VII, Marion, Indiana. 



Ohio; IV, Muncie, Indiana; V, Anderson, 



Natural g-as in quantities to be of economic importance is necessarily- 
limited to rocks of no particular horizon. It is not, however, indig-e- 
nous to the rocks in which it is now found, but occurs in an overlying 
more or less porous sand or lime rock into which it has been forced by 
hydrostatic pressure. The first necessary condition for the presence 
of gas in any locality may indeed be said to depend upon the existence 
of such a porous rock as may serve as a reservoir to hold it, and also 
the presence of an impervious overlying strata to prevent its escape. 
In Pennsylvania the reservoir rock is a sandstone of Car])oniferous or 
Devonian age; in Ohio and Indiana a cavernous dolomitic limestone of 
Silurian (Trenton) age. 

Pp:troleum. — This is the name given to a complex hydrocarbon com- 
pound, liquid at ordinary temperatures, though varying greatly in vis- 
cosity, of a black, l)rown, greenish, or mor*^ rarely red or yellow color, 
and of extremely disagreeable odor. Its specific gravity varies from 
0.6 to ().!♦. Through becoming more and more viscous the material 
passes into the solid and semisolid forms asphalt and maltha. Chem- 
ically it is considered as a mixture of the various hydrocarbons included 
in the marsh gas, ethyline and paraffin series. 

An ultimate analysis of several samples, as given by the reports of 
the Tenth Census of the United States (1880), showed the following 
percentages of the three essential constituents: 



Locality. 



West Virginia 
Mecca, Ohio . . 
California 



Hydrogen. Carbon. 





13. 359 

13.071 
11.819 



85. 200 
8<i. 316 
86. 934 



Nitrogen. 



0.54 
0.23 
1. 109 



Petroleum is limited to no particular geological horizon, but is found 
in rocks of all ages, from the Lower Silurian to the most recent, its 
existence in quantities sufficient for economii- purposes being depend- 
ent upon local conditions for its generation and suljsequent preserva- 
tion. Inasmuch as its accunmlation in largt quantities necessitates a 



THE NONMETALLIC MINKRAJ.S. 48T) 

rock of porous iiiituro to iict as ;i reservoir, thv petroleuiii-heiiring- 
rocks iir(> mostly suiulstoues, tliouj^h not unifoi'inly so. Petroleums 
iire found in California and Texas in Tertiary sands; in Colorado in tiie 
Cretaceous; in West Virginia both above and bck)w the (-I'innoidal 
(Carbonifei'ous) limestones; in Pennsylvania in the " mountain "' sands 
(Lower Carboniferous) and the Venango sands (Devonian); in Canada 
in the Cornifei'ous (Lower Devonian) limestones; in Kentucky in the 
Hudson River shales (Lower Silurian), and in Ohio in the Trenton 
limestone. (See series illusti-atinw- i^eologfical distribution.) 

In some instances petroleum oozes naturally from the ground, form- 
ing at times a thin layer on the surface of pools of water, whence in 
tiiiKvs past it has ])een gathered and used for chemical and medicinal 
pur])()ses. The so-called " Seneca oil" thus used some fifty or sixty 
years ago was thus o])tained from a spring in Cuba, Allegany County, 
in New York. The immense supply now demanded for commercial 
purposes is, however, obtained altogether from artificial wells of vary- 
ing depths, and which are in some cases self-tiowing, while in others 
the oil is raised l)y means of pumps. Wells of from 500 to 1,500 feet 
in depth are of connuon occurrence, while those upwards of 2,000 feet 
are not rare. The principal sources of petroleum aje in the United 
States — New York, Pennsylvania, and Ohio, with smaller fields in 
West Virginia. Kentucky, Tennessee, Indiana, Texas, Colorado, and 
California. The chief foreign source is the Baku region on the Cas- 
pian Sea, and Galicia, in Austria. 

Ui<eii of petrol emu. — The early uses of petroleum in America seem to 
have been for medicinal purposes only (Specimen No. 51)83-1, U.S.N.M. , 
from Kentucky). The oil as pumped from the wells has l)ut a limited 
application in its crude condition excepting as a fuel, and owes its 
great value to the large and varied series of derivatives which it 
yields. A discussion of the methods employed in obtaining these 
derivatives belongs properly to the department of chemical technology 
and can not be dwelt upon here. It must suffice for present pur- 
poses to say that the treatment as ordinarily carried out at present 
involves a process of destructive distillation whereby the crude mate- 
rial, heated under pressure, is resolved into a variety of products of 
different densities, and varying from gaseous through liquid to solid 
forms. Prominent among these derivatives may be mentioned, aside 
from the gaseous compounds, rhigolene, gasoline, naphtha, benzine, 
kerosene, various lu})ricating oils, paraffin, and the solid residues (coke, 
etc.). Various pharmaceutical compounds are prepared from petro- 
leum products, many of which are well known to the pu))lic, as vase- 
line, cosmoline, etc. It is also used as a basis for ointments and in 
soaps. 

The accompanying map (Plate 25) from the reports of the Tenth 
Census will serve to show the distribution of petroleum and allied 



43G REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

bituminous compounds in the United States. For full and detailed 
information relative to the petroleum industry of the world the reader 
is referred to the works mentioned in the Bibliograph}^, that of Bover- 
ton Redwood being the most s^^stematic and complete. 

The petroleum series in the Museum collections is quite large (some 
303 samples), and is arranged for exhibition so as to illustrate (1) varia- 
tion in specific gravity, (2) in color, (3) geological distribution, (4) depth 
of source, (5) geographical distribution. This last, nearly as it stands 
to-day, was described in Mr. Dewey's Handbook, Collections in Econo- 
mic Geology,' and the list is not entirely reprinted here. 

In this connection reference should be made to the series of sands 
and rocks associated with petroleums and bituminous deposits in a sep- 
arate case. This comprises oil-bearing sands from wells in Wash- 
ington County, Pennsylvania (Specimens Nos. 52025, 62997, 59930, 
59932,U.S.N.M.); Oil City, Venango County, Pennsylvania (Specimen 
No. 62998, U.S.N.M.); Butler County, Pennsylvania (Specimen No. 
62996, U.S.N.M.), and a block of sandstone weighing 8 pounds, blown 
from well No. 9, on Barse tract, McKean County, Pennsylvania, at 
a depth of 1,730 feet. Also oil sands from Marion County, West Vir- 
ginia (Specimens Nos. 62790, 62994, 62995, U.S.N.M.); oil-bearing 
shales from Ventura County, California (Specimens Nos. 62785, 62914, 
62915, U.S.N.M.); oil-bearing shales from Santa Barbara County, 
California (Specimens Nos. 62939-62943, U.S.N.M.); core of diamond 
drill from well No. 19, Pico oil field, California (Spechnen No, 62921, 
U. S. N. M. ) ; bituminous dolomite from Cook County, Illinois (Specimen 
No. 62789, U.S.N.M.); geodes of quartz filled with bitumen from 
Hancock County, Illinois (Specimen No. 40364, U.S.N.M.); asphaltic 
sands from Wyoming (Specimen No. 62716, U.S.N.M.); Indian Terri- 
tory (Specimen No. 62245, U.S.N.M.); Germany (Specimen No. 66855, 
U.S.N.M.); a series of sands, sandstones, and shales, with varieties 
of asphalt, from the island of Trinidad (Specimens Nos. 68050-68066, 
U.S.N.M.); trappean rock with bitumen, Hartford County, Connecti- 
cut (Specimen No. 59934, U.S.N.M.); andesite with bitumen. Lake 
Tahoe, Nevada (Specimen No. 33884, U.S.N.M.); shale associated with 
albertite, Albert County, New Brunswick (Specimens Nos. 59936, 
59938, 59939, U.S.N.M.); and clays associated with ozokerite and salt, 
Boryslaw, Galicia (Specimens Nos. 66087, 66088, U.S.N.M.). 

1. EXHIBIT ILLUSTRATING VARIATION IN SPECIFIC GRAVITY. 

The series is arranged to show gradually decreasing specific gravity. 
It begins with a very dark oil of 22° Baume = 0.9210 specific gravity. 
In general as the specific gravity decreases the color grows lighter. 
To this, however, there are several notable exceptions. For instance. 
No. 59736 (32i^ Baume = 0.8614 specific gravity) is uuich lighter in 

^Bulletin No. 42 of the U. S. National Museum, 1891. 



TIIK NONMKTALLIC MINKRALS. 487 

color than its associiitcs. Tho sunio is also true of No. 51)785 (45° 
Baunu'-O.SOOO siK'ciHc gravity) and No. 51)743 (47^^ Baume = 0.7909 
specific gravity). On the other hand. Specimens Nos. 59506 (48° 
Baume = 0.78()i) specific gravity) and 59591 (48i° Baunie = 0.7843 
specific gravity) are da river than their associates, while the color of 
Specimen No. 59584, with the very low gravity of 50^'' Banme = 0.7755 
specific gravity, is as dark as any member of the series. 

(1) 22° Baume=0.9210 specific gravity, dark greenish. Colorado. (59741.) 

(2) 23^ Baume=0.9120 specific gravity, black. From the Trenton limestone. 
J. W. Mitchell well, Plum Lick Creek, near Middletown, Bourbon County, Ken- 
tucky. (59594.) 

(3) 27° Baume=0.8917 specific gravity, black. From the millstone grit (Carbon- 
iferous). Lem Beck well, near Volcano, Wood County, West Virginia. (59553. ) 

(4) 2.S.V° Baume=0.8833 specific gravity, black. From the nullstone grit (Car- 
boniferous), near Volcano, Wood County, West Virginia. (59555.) 

(5) 29° Baume=0.8805 specific gravity, black. Brockin well, .Tohnson County, 
Kentucky. (59597.) 

(6) 30° Bauni^=0.8750 specific gravity, black. From the millstone grit (Carbon- 
iferous) , near Volcano, Wood County, West Virginia. (59557. ) 

(7) 31^° Baum6=0.8668 specific gravity, dark greenish. Broward well, Johnson 
County, Kentucky. (59598. ) 

(8) 32J° Baum^=0.8614 specific gravity, dark greenish red. Greensburgh, West- 
moreland County, Pennsylvania. (59736. ) 

(9) 33° Baume=0.8588 specific gravity, black. From the Trenton limestone. 
Taskin well, near North Baltimore, AVood County, Ohio. (59566.) 

(10) 34° Baume=0.8536 specific gravity, black. Oil in sand; here 23 feet in thick- 
ness; depth of well 551 feet; drilled, 1877; torpedoed; yielded 3 barrels of oil on first 
day of flow. Lot 4823, Howe, Forest County, Pennsylvania. (59805.) 

(11) 35° Baume =0.8484 specific gravity, black. From the first sandstone of the 
Great Conglomerate (Upper Carboniferous). Well No. 6, West Virginia Oil and Oil 
Land Company, White Oak district, Ritchie County, West Virginia. (59857.) 

(12) 36° Baum^=0.8433 specific gravity, dark greenish. From the firstsandstone 
of the Great Conglomerate (Upper C'arboniferous). Oil in sand. Well No. 7, West 
Virginia Oil and Oil Land Company, White Oak district, Ritchie County, West Vir- 
ginia. (59858. ) 

(1.3) 37° Baume =0.8383 specific gravity, black. Oil in limestone, here 50 feet in 
thickness; depth of well 1,321 feet; drilled 1885; torpedoed; yielded 50 barrels of 
oil on first day of flow. Brick Yard well, Findlay, Hani-ock County, Ohio. (59807. ) 

(14) 38° Baume=0.83.33 specific gravity, dark greenish. From the first sandstone 
of the Great Conglomerate (Upper Carboniferous). Oil in sand. West Virginia Oil 
and Oil Land Company, White Oak district, Ritchie County, West Virginia. (59860.) 

(15) 39° Baume=0.8284 specific gravity, dark greenish red. From Clarion County 
sand; depth of well 860 feet; drilled 1883; torpedoed; yielded 2 barrels of oil on first 
day of pumping. Cumming's well No. 1, Gumming' s farm, Tionesta, Forest County. 
Pennsylvania. (59816.) 

(16) 40° Baume =0.8235 specific gravity, dark greenisii. Bradford County, Penn- 
sylvania. (59734.) 

(17) 41° Baume=0.8187 specific gravity, dark greenish. Parker ('ounty, Pennsyl- 
vania. (59733.) 

(18) 42° Baume=0.8139 specific gravity, dark greenish. From the third sandstone 
of tlie Petroleum Measures (Venango). Black Gas well, Pleasantville, Venango 
County, Pennsylvania. (59580.) 



438 REPORT OF NATIONAL Ml'SKUM, 1899. 

(19) 43° Baume=0.8092 specific gravity, dark jireenish red. Oil-bearing sand 
here 20 feet in thickness; depth of well 1,855 feet; drilled 1883; torpedoed; yielded 
2,200 barrels of oil on first day of flow. Reno well No. 1, Cooper tract, Sheffield, 
Warren County, Pennsylvania. (59765.) 

(20) 44° Baume=0.8045 specific gravity, dark greenish. Bullion district, Warren 
County, Pennsylvania. (59737.) 

(21) 445° Baume=0.8023 specific gravity, dark greenish. From third sandstone 
of the Petroleum Measures (Venango) . Sand here 14 feet in thickness. Oil in sand; 
depth of well 708 feet; drilled 1868; torpedoed; yielded 330 barrels of oil on first 
day of flow. Well No. 6, Hamby farm, Rockland, Venango County, Pennsyl- 
vania. (59788.) 

(22) 45° Baume =0.8000 specific gravity, dark amber. Clarion County, Pennsyl- 
vania. (59735.) 

(23) 45 J° Baume=0.7977 specific gravity, dark greenish red. Thom Creek district, 
Butler County, Pennsylvania. (59746.) 

(24) 46° Baume=0.7954 specific gravity, dark greenish. Foxburgh, Clarion 
County, Pennsylvania. (59739.) 

(25) 46J° Baume=0.7932 specific gravity, black. Depth of well 660 feet; drilled 
1866; yielded 600 barrels of oil on first day of flow. Well No. 184, Burtes lease, 
Allegheny County, Pennsylvania. (59769. ) 

(26) 46|° Baume=0.7921 specific gravity, black. From the third sandstone of the 
Petroleum Measures ( Venango). Titusville, Venango County, Pennsylvania. (59507. ) 

(27) 47° Baume=0.7909 specific gravity, dark aml^er. Smith's Ferry, Allegheny 
County, Pennsylvania. (59743.) 

(28) 47i° Baume=0.7887 specific gravity, dark greenish red. From the first sand- 
stone of the Petroleum Measures (Venango). Beck well, near Pleasantville, 
Venango County, Pennsylvania. (59583.) 

(29) 47|° Baume = 0.7876 specific gravity, dark greenish red. From the fourth 
sandstone of the Petroleum Measures; oil in sand; depth of well 14 feet; drilled 
1871; torpedoed; yielded 900 barrels of oil on first day of flow. Well No. 1, farm of 
J. Blaney, Fairview, Butler County, Pennsylvania. (59799. ) 

(30) 48° Baume--=0.7865 specific gravity, black. Webb Oil Company, Taskill, 
Venango County, Pennsylvania. (59506.) 

(31) 48}° Baume=0. 7843 specific gravity, dark greenish. From the third sandstone 
of the Petroleum Measures (Venango), Cogley Field, Ashley, Clarion County, Penn- 
sylvania. (59591.) 

(32) 48i° Baume=0.7832 specific gravity, dark amber. Oil in sand, here 16 feet 
in thickness; depth of well 1,025 feet; drilled 1878; torpedoed; yielded 20 barrels 
of oil on first day of flow. Well No. 1, Lot No. 55, Mead, Warren County, Penn- 
sylvania. (59780.) 

(33) 49° Baume=0.7821 specific gravity, light greenish red. Oil in sand; depth 
of well 1,254 feet. Tiona Oil Company, Warren County, Pennsylvania. (59514.) 

(34) 50° Baume=0.7777 specific gravity, light greenish red. Oil in sand, here 50 
feet in thickness. Cameron well, Smith pool, Washington County, Pennsylvania. 
(59589.) 

(35) 50|° Baume=0.7755 specific gravity, black. Haskell well, Wigglesworth 
Tract, Venango County, Pennsylvania. (59584. ) 

(36) 51° Baume=0.7734 specific gravity, light greenish yellow. Oil in sand, here 
50 feet in thickness. Nicholas well, Vanceville, Washington County, Pennsylvania. 
(59600. ) 

(37) 54° Baume=0.7608 specific gravity, dark amber. Oil in sand ; depth of well 
2,113 feet; drilled 1885; torpedoed ; yielded 15 barrels of oil on first day of flow. 
Gantz well No. 1, Little Washington, Washington County, Pennsylvania. (59777.) 



TIIK NONMKIALLIC MINKKALS. 439 

•J. KXHIUIT ILLlSTltA'I'INC \A1;IAT!()N I\ COLOR. 

The series iiitiy he divided into two portions, heg-innino- with a thor- 
oughly ])lack specimen and folU)wiiig- through increasing amounts of 
green :ind ved to a light greenish yellow in the first portion, and in 
the second beginning with a dark red and following through to a light 
straw, in which the greenish element of the color does not appear: 

(1) Black. I'.carOoek, Burkesvillo, ('uiiil)erlan(l County, Kentucky. (59832.) 

(2) Black, tinged with ^^vetm. Mecca, Trumbull County, Ohio. (59757.) 

(3) Dark greenish. Anchor well No. 3, Glade, Warren County, Pennsylvania. 
(59761.) 

(4) Dark greenish n>d. Dale P>rothers' well No. 1, Batten farm, near Rockland, 
Venango County, Pennsylvania. (597t)7. ) 

(5) Dark greenish red. Kane, Armstrong County, Pennsylvania. (59752.) 

(6) Light greenish red. <>ordon well, Washington, Washington County, Penn- 
sylvania. (59526.) 

(7) Greenish yellow. Leedecker well, Butler County, Pennsylvania. (59750.) 

(8) Dark red. New Brinkerwell, Pleasant Valley, Westmoreland County, Penn- 
sylvania. (59520. ) 

(9) Light red. Gait/ well, Washington, Washington County, Pennsylvania. 
(59527. ) 

(10) Amber. Hess, Sacket & Eichner well No. 1, Reidsburgh, Clarion County, 
Pennsylvania. (59581.) 

(11) Yellow. Riggs Gas well, Moundsville, Marshall County, West Virginia. 
(59579. ) 

(12) Light yellow. Farm of .1. Somerville, near Brady's Bend, Armstrong County, 
Pennsylvania. (59494. ) 

(13) Light straw. Holden Run, Armstrong County, Pennsylvania. (53516.) 

(14) Nearly colorless. Venezuela. (59835.) 

3. EXHIBIT ILLU.STRATING GEOLOGICAL DISTRIBUTION. 

The series is arranged in a generally descending order. There is a 
certain amount of overlapping, however, between the West Virginia 
and Pennsylvania series, since the oil-bearing strata in these two States 
have not been correlated. 

(1) From the Tertiary sandstone. Dark greenish. Pico district, Los Angeles 
County, California. (59552. ) 

(2) From the Cretaceous formation. Dark greenish. Canon City, Fremont County, 
Colorado. (59548.) 

The following thirteen specimens are from the West Virginia oil 
field. Their location in depth is referred to the Crinoidal limestone as 
a datum line: 

(1) 50 feet alcove the Crinoidal limestone. Black; specific gravity 28° Baume. 
Oil in sand; depth of well 56 feet; drilled 1859; not torpedoed; yielded 100 l)arrels of 
oil on first day of pumping. Well No. 1, Dutton farm, Aurelius, Washington County, 
Ohio. (59855. ) 

(2) 100 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Dark greenish. Oil in sand; depth 
of well 150 feet; drilled 1882; torpedoed; yielded 10 barrels of oil on first day of 
pumping. Farm of Frank Atkinson, Aurelius, Washington County, Ohio. (59854.) 



440 -REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

(3) 200 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Black. Oil in sand; depth of well 
160 feet; not torriedoed. Rathbone oil tract, Burning Springs district, Wirt County, 
West Virginia. (69837.) 

(4) 250 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Dark greenish. Oil in sand; depth 
of well 350 feet. Well No. 6, farm of George Rice, Aurelius, Washington County, 
Ohio. (59853.) 

(5) 300 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Black. Oil in sand; depth of well 
275 feet. Rathbone oil tract. Burning Springs district, Wirt County, West Virginia. 
(59838.) 

(6) 450 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Dark greenish. Oil in sand; depth 
of well 500 feet; drilled 1865; torpedoed; yielded 8 ])arrels of oil on first day of pump- 
ing. Well No. 1 , farm of. George Rice, Aurelius, Washington County, Ohio. (59852. ) 

(7) 650 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Black. Oil in sand; depth of well 800 
feet; n()t torpedoed; yielded 5 barrels of oil on first day of pumping. Newton Farm, 
Aurelius, Washington County, Ohio. (59850. ) 

(8) 820 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Black. Oil in sand; depth of well 840 
feet. Petty Farm, Burning Springs district, Wirt County, West Virginia. (59839.) 

(9) 930 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Dark greenish; specific gravity 28° 
Baum4. Oil in sand; depth of well 400 feet. Volcanic Coal and Oil Company, White 
Oak district, Ritchie County, West Virginia. (59844. ) 

(10) 980 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Dark greenish; specific gravity 30° 
Baume. Oil in sand; depth of well 400 feet. Volcanic Oil and Coal Company, 
White Oak district, Ritchie County, West Virginia. (59843.) 

(11) 1,100 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Dark greenish ; specific gravity 47° 
Baume. Oil in sand; depth of well 1,100 feet. Gracy lease. Burning Springs dis- 
trict, Wirt County, West Virginia. (59840.) 

(12) 1,350 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Amber; specific gravity 39° 
Baume. Oil in sand; depth of well 1,350 feet; drilled 1880; torpedoed; yielded 18 
barrels of oil on the first day of flow. Well No. 14, farm of George Rice, Aurelius, 
Washington County, Ohio. (59851.) 

(13) 1,500 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Dark greenish; specific gravity 
50° Baume. Oil in sand; depth of well 1,000 feet. Gale tract. White Oak district, 
Ritchie County, West Virginia. (59849. ) 

The following eleven specimens illustrate the occurrence at differ- 
ent depths in the Pennsylvania tield: 

(1) 180 feet below the Pittsburg coal bed. Light greenish red; specific gravity 34° 
Baume. Bailey farm, Dunkard Creek, Greene County, Pennsylvania. (59536. ) 

(2) 460 feet below the Pittsburg coal bed. Greenish red; specific gravity 35° 
Baume. Maple well, Dunkard, Greene County, Pennsylvania. (59577.) 

(3) 650 feet below the Pittsburg coal bed. Drilled in 1885, and only a few gallons 
of oil were obtained; light greenish red. Clark's farm, Washington County, Penn- 
sylvania. (59523.) 

(4) "Mountain Sand" of the Petroleum Measures (Lower Carboniferous). Dark 
greenish red. Manifield well No. 1, Washington County, Pennsylvania. (59519.) 

(5) 1,400 feet below the Pittsl)urg coal bed. Light greenish red. Huskill well, 
Mount Morris, Greene County, Pennsylvania. (59534). 

(6) From the first sandstone of the Petroleum Measures (Venango). Sand here 
16 feet in thickness; oil in sand; depth of well 337 feet; drilled, 1870; torpedoed; 
yielded 225 barrels of oil on first day of pumping. Black; specific gravity 32° Baume. 
\Vell No. 1, farm of J. Blakely , Sugar Creek, Venango County, Pennsylvania. (59781. ) 

( 7) From the second sandstone of the Petroleum Measures ( Venango) . Sand here 
38 feet in thickness; oil in sand; depth of well 583 feet; drilled 1872; torpedoed; 
yielded 2 barrels of oil on first day of pumping. Black; specific gravity 43° Baum6. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 441 

WoU No. 3, farm of Jennings & Ralston, JackHon, Venango County, Pennsylvania. 
(59774.) 

(8) From just above the third sandstone of the IVtroleum Measures (Venango). 
Sand here 22 feet in thickness; oil in sand; depth of well 1,076 feet, drilled 1885; 
torpedoed; yielded 18 barrels of oil on (irst ilay of pumping. Dark greenish; specific 
gravity 49° Baume. Well No. 5, Diamond farm, ('ranberry, Venango County, Penn- 
sylvania. (59795.) 

(9) From the tliird sandstone of the Petroleum Measures (Venango). 8and 18 
feet in thickness; oil in sand; depth of well 957 feet; drilled 1885; not torpedoed; 
yielded 35 l)arrels of oil on tirst day of pumping. Black; specific gravity 48^° Baume. 
Well No. 1, Heckerthorne farm, (Cranberry, Venango County, Pennsylvania. (59815. ) 

(10) From the fourth sandstone of the Petroleum Measures. Dark greenish red; 
specific gravity 44.^° Baume. Kangaroo well No. 1, East Brady, Clarion County, 
Pennsylvania." (59489.) 

(11) From the third Bradford sand. Black. Nile Oil Company, Wert, Allegany 
County, New York. ( 59477. ) 

The following tivo specimens from various localities continue the 
section to the lowest point at which petroleum has been found: 

( 1 ) From the Middle Devonian formation. Black. Near Glasgow, Barren County, 
Kentucky. (59544.) 

(2) From the Corniferous limestone. Black; specific gravity 35.5° Baume. 
Crown well, Enniskillen, Province of Ontario, Canada. (59569. ) 

(3) From the Upper Hudson River shales (Lower Silurian). Dark greenish; 
specific gravity 43.5° Baum6. Well No. 2, near Glasgow, Barren County, Kentucky. 
(59599.) 

(4) From the Hudson River group (Lower Silurian). Black; specific gravity 
32° Baume. Pioneer well, Francisville, Pulaski County, Indiana. (59575.) 

(5) From the Trenton limestone. Black. Farm of Whitacre, Liberty, Wood 
County, Ohio. (59601.) 

AsrHALTUM; Mineral pitch. — These are names given to what are 
rather indefinite admixtures of various hydrocarbons, in part oxygen- 
ated and which for the most part solid or at least highly viscous at ordi- 
nary temperatures, pass by insensible gradations into pittasphalts or 
mineral tar and these in turn into the petroleums. They are charac- 
terized by a black or brownish-black color, pitch}^ luster, and bitumi- 
nous odor. The solid forms melt ordinarily at a temperature of from 
90 to 100 F., and burn readily with a bright flame, giving off dense 
fumes of a tarry odor. The fluidal varieties become solid on exposure 
to the atmosphere, owing to evaporation of the more volatile portions. 

The nature of the material, its mode of occurrence, and indeed the 
uses to which it can be put vary to such an extent with each individual 
occurrence that a few only of what are the most noted or best known 
can here be mentioned. 

On the island of Trinidad is an immense superficial deposit having 
an area of about 114 acres and a depth varying from 18 to 78 feet. 
The surface is nearly level and of a brownish-black color. (See Speci- 
mens Nos. 680('.8, 68065, 68066, U.S.N.M.) 

The deposit has in numerous pul^lications been compared to a lake 



442 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

and stated to 1)0 iUndal and at a high temperature in the center.' Thi,^ 
is quite erroneous and misleading. 

The crude material has the following composition and physical 
characteristics:' 

Specific gravity, 1.28; hardness at 70° F., 2.6 to 3 of Dana's scale: 
color, chocolate brown; composition: 

Bitumen 39. 83 

Earthy matter _ 33. 99 

Vegetable matter 9. 31 

Water 16. 87 

100. 00 

In western Kentucky asphalt exudes from the ground in the forn 
of "tar springs," and occurs also disseminated through sandstones anc 
limestones of sub-Carboniferous age. (Specimen No. 68345, U.S.N.M. 
Frequentl}', as in the dolomite luiderlying Chicago, Illinois, the bitu 
minous matter is so diffused throughout the rock as to give it on expo 
sure a brownish-black appearance, and cause it to exhale an odoi 
of petroleum appreciable for some distance. (Specimen No. 62789 
U.S.N.M.) In the Dead Sea bituminous masses of considerable siz( 
have in times past risen like islands to the surface of the water anc 
furnished thus the material used by the ancients in pitching the wall: 
of buildings and rendering vessels water-tight. The ancient name o 
this body of water was Lake Asphaltites^ and from it our word asphal 
is derived. These illustrations are sufficient to indicate the numerou; 
conditions under which the su])stance occurs. The material is world 
wide in its geographic distribution and equally cosmopolitan in it 
geological range, being found in gneissi(^ rocks of presumaT)ly Archfeai 
age in Sweden, and in rocks of all intermediate horizons down to lat' 
Tertiary. 

Some 10 miles east of the city of Habana, Cuba, is a deposit o 
asphalt described ^ as occupying an irregular branching tissure in i 
soft clay rock, with eruptive rocks, diorites, and euphotides in the nea 
vicinity. The asphalt, described as "Coal" in the paper referred to 
lies in parallel horizontal layers of from 1 to 4 inches in thicknes 
across the vein, the lamina being somewhat deflected near the walls 
as if pressed by the sides or walls. The deposit is regarded as havin; 
originated as an open fissure terminating upward in a wedge-lik 
form and into which was subsequently injected from below the carbo 
naceous matter. The asphalt itself was described as of a jet-blacl 

^See Mineral Resources of the United States, 1883-84, p. 937; also Dana's Syster 
of Mineralogy, 1892, p. 1018; and especially S. F. Peckham's paper on the Pitc 
Lake of Trinidad, American Journal of Science, July, 1895, p. 33. 

^Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVII, 1889, p. 363. 

* London and Edinl)urgh Philosophical Magazine and Journal of S(;ience, X, 183'i 
p. 161. 



Report o' U, S. National Museum, 1899. — Merrill. 



Plate 26. 




^eN£2uE:L^. 




PLAN 

PITck^LAKE 

AN D 

VICINITY. 




Plan of Pitch Lake, Trinidad. 
After S. F. reckhiuii. 



THE NONMETALLIO MINERAL;^. 443 

color, ivsplendoiit luster, conchoidal friicturo, and specific j^vavitv 
vary i no- from 1.42 to l.!>7. An analysis showed (V^ per cent volatile 
matter, 34.97 per cent carbon, and 2.03 per cent ash. 

According to R. T. Hill/ asphaltiun of unusual richness occurs 
beneath the waters of the (Cardenas Hay of Cuba and in several other 
.parts of the island in bcnls of late Cretaceous and early Eocene age. 
The Cardenas deposits, four in number, are of interest in that all are 
submerged beneath the waters of the bay. The material has been 
mined for the past twenty .-five years Ijy mooring a lighter over the 
shaft, which is from 80 to 125 feet in depth below the water surface. 
The material is loosened l)y dropping a long, pointed iron l^ar from 
the vessel, the detached blocks being loaded into a net b3^ a naked 
diver and then brought to the surface. The asphalt thus o])tained 
is stated to resemble cannel coal in appearance, though with a more 
brilliant luster. Only from one to one and a half tons are rained in 
this manner daily, the material ))eing shipped to New York and 
being used in the manufacture of varnishes. The price formerly 
obtained varied from $80 to |125 a ton. 

A large deposit of an inferior grade, and used mainly for roofing, 
is situated near Diana Key, 15 miles fi-om the city of Cardenas, and a 
massive bed, some 12 feet in thickness, near Villa Clara. Material 
from this last source has, during years past, been used for making the 
illuminating gas used in the city. 

Baron H. Eggers has described" the two groups of asphalt deposits 
near the Gulf of Maracaibo, South America (Specimen No. 51720. 
U.S.N.M.), which are perhaps sufficiently distinctive to merit atten- 
tion. One, the El Menito deposit, is in the form of a rounded hill com- 
posed of reddish stony soil covered with scanty grass. Over its summit 
are scattered a number of small truncated cones about 2 feet high, 
with round, crater-like openings, from which the asphalt, or pitch, 
flows in a black, viscous stream down to the foot of the hill, where it 
collects and forms pools or small lakes. The outflowing asphalt is 
quite cold, and hardens in the course of a few days. The Mene Grande 
deposit is ((uite similar, but much larger, and has been calculated to 
yield some 2 tons a day. Other deposits occur in the region. 

Sandstones and limestones are sometimes so impregnated with bitu- 
minous matter that they may be used as sources of the material by 
refining processes or for the direct manufacture of pavements by 
simply crushing. Such are the so-called bituminous or asphaltic sand 
rocks and limestones of Kentucky (Specimen No. 63345, U.S.N.M.), 
Texas (Specimen No. 63342, U.S.N.M.), Utah, Colorado, California, 
Wyoming (Specimen No. 53181, U.S.N.M.), and other States, and of 

'Culm and Porto Rico, 1898, p. 83. 
• ^Scottisli Geographical Magazine, XIII, 18!)7, p. 209. An abstract of original 
paper in the Deutsche Geographische Blatter, XIX, Pt. 4. 



444 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Canada (Specimen No. .59927, U.S.N. M.) and Spain (Specimen No. 

40011, U.S.N.M.). 

According- to G. H. Stone,' the asphaltic sandrock of western Colo- 
rado and eastern Utah consists of grains of sand which are in contact 
with one another, the spaces between the grains being filled with 
asphalt, the proportioned amount of which varies up to 15 per cent by 
weio-ht, or 27 per cent by volume. The thickest stratum of fully 
charged rock in the region described was nearly 40 feet in thickness, 
though usually the strata of high-grade material are not more than 4 
to 10 feet thick and alternate with others which are quite poor or 
barren, so that the amount of "pay rock" is often grossly exaggerated. 

Shales and marls may often be so highly charged with bituminous 
matter as to be nearly or quite ])lack, and even approach cannel coal in 
composition, though much richer in ash. Those of Colorado and Utah, 
according to Stone, contain but from 10 to 20 per cent of carbona- 
ceous matter, though burning readily with a bright flame. They are 
of Tertiary age. Asphaltic sands and sandrocks are of common occur- 
rence in Kern, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, Santa Cruz, Ventura, 
and other counties in California, and in some cases are quite exten- 
sively utilized." 

In Ventura County the material is reported as occurring in the form 
of a fissure vein in siliceous clay, of Miocene age, the vein being from 
7 to 15 inches thick on the surface, but widening rapidly in descent to 
a thickness of 5 feet at a depth of 65 feet (Specimens Nos. 67675, 67676, 
U.S.N.M.). This material is as taken from the vein far from pure 
asphalt, but rather an asphaltic sand. The Las Conchas Mini^ in Santa 
Barbara County consists of a body of sand soaked with maltha, embrac- 
ing an area of 75 acres and estimated to be 25 feet or more in thickness. 
At the Pacific Asphalt Company's mine the asphalt occurs in irregular 
masses and veinlike bunches in soft, "sandy clay, and is said to be 50 to 
60 per cent pure. 

On the Sisquoc Grant, 8 miles north of Los Alamos are two very 
large deposits, one some 10,560 feet long, 500 feet wide, and averag- 
ing 300 feet in thickness, and the other 5,000 feet long, 800 feet wide, 
and 100 feet thick. In Santa Cruz County there are enormous deposits 
of Vntuminous rock lying in nearly horizontal strata in the foothills 
facing the coast west and north of the city of Santa Cruz. The beds 
have been extensively eroded so that the outcrops occur in irregular, 
detached hillocks. At one of the open cut mines the materials lie as 
follows: 

Feet. 

Light-colored shales 60 

Massive bituminous rock 30 

Very soft sandstone 8 

Massive bituminous rock 12 

' American Journal of Science, XLIT, 1891, p. 148. 

2 See Thirteenth Annual Report State Mineralogist of California, 1894. 



THE NONMKTALLIC MINKIIALS. 445 

These underlaid by soft sands and shales. The analyses given below 
are of interest as showin*;" pereenta^e of bituminous matter in samples 
from various localities. 

kSan />«(.s- Obispo Iiiliiiniiii)t(x Hock ComjHuii/x mine. 

Sand <j. 83 

Clay : 3. 36 

Lime 2. 81 

Asphaltum 87. 00 

Waldorf Mine, Santa Barbara Count)/. 

Bitumen 76. 2 

Moisture 1.8 

Mineral residue 22. 

100. 
Puntu Gorda Mine, Ventura Countij, 

Bitumen 28. 53 

Silica 51. 64 

Clay 4. 76 

Sulphate of lime 2. 45 

Carl)onate of lime 11. 96 

Carbonate of magnesia 55 

99.89 

Uses. — The uses of the common type of material such as is known 
simply as asphalt are quite varied. The walls of Babylon are stated 
to have been cemented with it, and doubtless it was so used in other 
ancient cities. It was also, as at present, used for making vessels 
water-tight. At the present day the retined asphalts are used, accoi'd- 
ing to F. Y. Greene,^ as a varnish or paint, as an insulating material, 
for waterproofing, as a cement in ordinary construction, and as a 
cement in rooting and paving compounds. For these purposes it is 
first tempered with some form of oil, the kind and amount used 
depending on the purposes to which it is to be applied. A mixture of 
asphalt and sand forms the ordinary concrete for sidewalks and base- 
ment floors. The most extensive use of asphaltic compounds is at 
present for street pavements, the material for this purpose being mixed 
with flne sand and sometimes powdered limestone. The asphaltic 
sands, sandstones, and limestones are sometimes so evenly impregnated 
with bituminous matter that they may be crushed and applied directly 
to the roadbed. The uses to which are put the higher grades of 
asphaltic compounds, such as are designated by special names, are 
given further on. 

Manjak. — The local name of manjak is applied to a variety of bitu- 
men somewhat resembling uintaite, occurring on the island of Barbados, 

^ A.^phaltand its Uses, Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, 
XVII, 1889, p. 335. 



446 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

in the AVest Indies. The material is described^ as a very pure hydro- 
carbon of a black color, hioh luster, and with a bright conchoidal fracture. 
It is brittle, and so friable that it can he ground to powder between 
the thumb and fingers. (Specimen No. 53539, U.S.N.M.) It occurs in 
seams or veins, varying from one-fourth of an inch to 30 feet in thick- 
ness, cutting the country rock, which is an argillite or shale, at all 
angles with the horizon and with a general NNE strike. In places 
the bituminous matter has saturated the entire rock in the neighbor- 
hood of the veins, producing a shale from which as much as 37 gallons 
a ton of petroleum has been obtained by destructive distillation. Thus 
far the greatest development is along a vein 200 feet in length, 100 
feet in depth, and from 8 to 9 feet in width. One vein, which has 
been explored to a depth of 200 feet, is stated to have dwindled down 
to a width of 6 feet, though 30 feet wide at the surface. 

Uses. — Like gilsonite, the material is used for making varnishes, 
insulating electric wires, etc., bringing the price of this mineral, from 
$5 to $10 a ton, according to quality and freedom from impurities. 

Elaterite; Mineral Caoutchouc. — This is the name given to a 
soft and elastic variety of bitumen much resembling pure India rubber. 
It is easily compressible in the fingers, to which it adheres slighth% 
of a brownish color, and of a specific gravity varying from 0.905 to 
1.00. It has been described from mines in Derbyshire and elsewhere 
in England (Specimens Nos. 63848, 68001, U.S.N.M.), but so far as 
the writer is aware is of no connnercial value. Its composition, so far 
as determined, is carbon 85.47 per cent, hydrogen 13.28 per cent. 

WuRTZiLLiTE. — The name ivurtzillite has been given by Prof. W. P. 
Blake to a hydrocarbon very similar in appearance to the uintaite 
(described on page 450), but differing in physical and chemical properties. 
It is described as a fine l)lack solid, amorphous in structure, brittle when 
cold, breaking with a conchoidal fracture, but when warm tough and 
elastic, its elasticity being best compared with that of mica. If bent 
too quickly it snaps like glass. It cuts like horn, has a hardness be- 
tween 2 and 3, a specific gravity of 1.03, gives a brown streak, and in 
very thin flakes, shows a garnet-red color. It does not fuse or melt 
in boiling water, but becomes softer and more elastic; in the flame of 
a candle it melts and takes fire, burning with a bright luminous flame, 
giA'ing off' gas and a strong bituminous odor. It is not soluble in alco- 
hol, and but sparingly so in ether, in both of which respects it differs 
from elaterite. In the United States it occurs near Scofield, Carbon 
County, and in the Uinta Mountains of Wasatch County, Utah (Speci- 
mens Nos. 53356, 67265, 67860, U.S.N.M.). 

Albertite. — This is a brilliant jet black bitumen compound break- 
ing with a lustrous, conchoidal fracture, having a hardness of between 

^ W. Merivale, Engineering and INIining Journal, LXVl, 1898, ]). 790; also the 
Mineral Industry, YI, 1897, p. 54. 



THE N()Nmp:tallic minerals. 



447 



1 1111(1 '2 of Diiiia's scale, a specific gravity of 1.097, black streak, and 
showinu- a l)r()wii color or very thin edo-o. In the tlanie of a lamp it 
shows signs of incipient fusion, intumesces somewhat and emits jets 
of gas, giving off a bitmninous odor; when rubbed it becomes electric. 
According to Dana it softens slightly in boiling water, is only a trace 
solul)le in alcohol, 4 per cent in ether, and some 3 per cent soluble in 
turpentine. The following is the composition as given by Wetherill: 
Carbon, S6.<»4 per cent; hydrogen, 8.96 per cent; oxygen, 1.977 per 
cent; nitrogen, 2.98 per cent; ash, 0.10 per cent. 

Dr. Antisell made the following comparative tests to show the rela- 
tive richness of the material in volatile matter: 



Constituents. 



Volatile matter 

Coke 

Ash 

Total .... 



.^Ji ■ American 
'=«'''• I asphalt. 



50.52 

47.69 

1.79 



70.15 
29.85 



100.00 



Lake 
asphalt. 



71.67 

28.04 

0.29 



100. 00 



Albertite. 

59. 88 

;i9. 59 

0.53 



100. 00 



The mineraHs described by C. H. Hitchcock^ as occuring in ''true 
cutting veins" in shale of Lower Carboniferous age in Hillsborough 
County. New Brunswick. The shales themselves contain a large 
amount of carbonaceous matter and })y distillation have been made to 
3'ield 30 gallons to the ton of refined illuminating oil. They contain 
immense numbers of fossil hsh and are mostly inflammable. The veins 
vary from a fraction of an inch to 12 feet in width with a general N. 
65° east course, sometimes vertical and sometimes inclined north- 
westward from 75^ to 80°. They enlarge and contract very irregu- 
larly, but in general increase in thickness as followed downward. 
Hitchcock regards the veins as having been tilled b}" the injection of 
the material in a liquid state and being subsequently indurated. 

r^SY^.v. — This vein seems to have been discovered about 1840 by Dr. 
Abraham Gesner who, in 1850 took out a patent in the United States 
for the manufacture of illuminating gas from this and other asphalts.^ 
A company was organized and for some years active mining opera- 
tions were carried on, but have been discontinued since the discovery 
of petroleum. (Specimens Nos. 59935, 66701, U.S.N.M.) 

Grahamite. — Grahainite is a hydrocarbon compound closely related 
to albertite, but differing physically in having a duller luster and more 
cokelike aspect. It has been described by Dr. Henry Wurtz as occur- 

' American Journal of Science, XXXIX, 1865, p. 267; see also Dawson's Acadian 
Geology, 3(1 ed., pp. 2;> 1-241. 

-Review of reports on the Geological Relations, etc., of the coal of the Albert Coal 
MiningGonipany, situated in Hillsl)orough, Ai))ert County, New Brunswick, as written 
and compiled by Charles T. Jackson, M. D., a Fellow of the Geological Society of 
London, etc., New Y(jrk, 1852. 



448 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, :8!HI. 

ring in shrinkage fissures whose course is N. 76° to 80° E. in Carbon- 
iferous shales and sandstones, on a branch of Hughes River, Ritchie 
County, West Virginia. It is completely soluble in chloroform and 
carbon disulphide, nearly so in turpentine, and partially so in naphtha 
and benzine, but not at all in alcohol. Melts somewhat imperfectly, 
beginning to smoke and soften like coking coal at a temperature of 
about 400° F. (Specimen No. 59924, U.S.N.M.) 

As occurring in the vein the material shows four distinct, though 
somewhat irregular, divisional planes, having a general parallelism 
with the walls. Next to the walls the structure of the mineral is 
coarsely granular, with an irregularly cuboidal jointed cleavage, very 
lustrous on the cleavage surfaces, that in immediate contact with the 
walls usually adhering thereto very tenaciously, as if fused fast to the 
granular sandstone. (Specimen No. 59941, U.S.N.M. A "horse" or 
fragment of sandstone from the vein, showing adhering grahamite.) 

Next to these two outside lajers, which are very irregular and from 2 to 3 inches or 
more in thickness, is found, on each side of the vein, a layer averaging from 15 to Hi 
inches in thickness, which is composed of a variety highly columnar in structure and 
very lustrous in fracture, the columns oeing long and at this place at right angles to 
the walls. Finally, in the center of the vein, varying in thickness, but averaging 
about 18 inches, is a mass differing greatly in aspect from the rest, being more com- 
pact and massive, much less lustrous in fracture, and with the columnar structure 
much less developed, in places not at all. The fracture and luster of this portion of 
the vein are clearly resinoid in character. 

The general aspect of the mass, as well as all the results of a minute examination 
of the accompanying phenomena, lead irresistibly to the conclusion that we have 
here a fissure which has been filled by an exudation, in a pasty condition, of a resinoid 
substance derived from or formed by some metamorphosis of unknown fossil matter 
contained in deep-seated strata intersected by the fissure or dike. 

The density of a mass of the mineral was found to be 1.145. The horizontal extent 
of visible outcrop actually measured by me was 530 fathoms, thinned out at east end 
to 30 inches and at west end to 8 inches; but as these points were at least 70 to 80 
fathoms vertically higher than the bottom of the ravine, the width (averaging about 
50 inches) at the latter depth points to a rapid widening of the fissure in descent. - 

J. P. Kimball has descriljed^ a deposit of similar material on the 
west bank of the Capadero River in the Huasteca, Vera Cruz, Mexico. 
The country rock is a fossiliferous Tertiary shale overlaid by con- 
glomerate. 

The grahamite occurs iu a fissure some 34 inches in thickness 
terminating in an ''overflow" some 6i feet in maximum thickness, 
thinning away at the edges, but the full extent of which was not 
determined. The evidence showed that the fissure had been tilled 
by material oozing up from below and spreading out upon the 
surface prior to the deposition of the overlying gravel. The strike 

' Proceedings of the American As.sociation for the Advancement of Science, XVIII, 
1869, pp. 125-128. 
^American Journal of Science. XII, 1S76, p. 277. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



449 



of the fissure was nearly north and south, and at the time of making 
the report noted (1876) it had been developed to a distance of some 
300 feet. The material is described as more uniformly lustrous than 
that from Ritchie County, and of a greater coherence, though none the 
less distinctly cleaved and jointed. An analysis of a sample from the 
Cristo mine, as given, yielded results as follows: 

Specific gravity 1 . 156 

Volatile matter: 

Illuminating gas 63. 32 

Sulphur 0. 46 

Water 0.36 

64. 14 

Coke: 

Fixed carbon 31.63 

Sulphur 0. 37 

Ash 5.86 

37.86 

100. 00 

Carbonite or natural coke is the name given to a peculiar hydro- 
carljon compound occurring in the form of beds like bituminous coal, 
in Chesterfield County, Virginia, and having a dull black and, for the 
most part, lusterless aspect, somewhat resembling coke. (Specimens 
Nos. 63499, 63500, U.S.N.M.) 

An analysis by Wurtz^ yielded the following: 

Per cent. 
Coke 84.57 

Volatile combustible matter 15. 43 

Other analyses by Dr. T. M. Drown ^ on two portions, the one dull 
and lusterless and the other lustrous, yielded: 



Constituents. 


Dull 
portion. 


Lustrous 
portion. 




1.375 


1.350 


Loss at 100° C 


2.00 

15.47 
3.20 
79.33 


0.69 
11.10 

6.68 
81.53 




Ash 


Fixed carbon 




100.00 
4.08 


100.00 
1.60 





Occurrence. — The material occurs interbedded with shales much like 
ordinary bituminous coal, there being, according to Raymond, three 
distinct beds varying from 1 foot 9 inches to 9 feet in thickness, inter- 

^ Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, III, 1875, ix 456. 
2 Idem, XI, 1883, p. 448. 

NAT MUS 99 29 



450 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

stratified with the shales, the lowermost bed of 9 feet thickness being 
underlaid by fire clay. The origin of the material is in doubt, the 
earlier writers regarding it as a bituminous coal coked by the heat of 
intrusive rocks. Later writers throw doubt upon this by stating that 
there are in the vicinity no intrusives of such size as to warrant any 
such assumption. 

[Tses. — The material is said to l)urn without smoke or soot, like 
anthracite, and to have been used for domestic purposes. 

UiNTAiTE ; GiLSONiTE. This is a black, brilliant, and lustrous vari- 
ety of bitumen, giving a dark-brown streak, breaking with a beautiful 
conchoidal fracture, and having a hardness of 2 to 2.5 and a specific 
gravity of 1.065 to 1.07. It fuses readily in the flame of a candle, is 
plastic, but not sticky while warm, and unless highl}^ heated v>'ill not 
adhere to cold paper. Its deportment is stated to be much like that 
of sealing wax or shellac. Like albertite and grahamite it dissolves 
in turpentine and is not soluble in alcohol. It is a good nonconductor 
of electricity, but like albertite becomes electric by friction. Its com- 
position as given is: Carbon, 80.88 per cent; hj^drogen, 9.76 per cent; 
nitrogen, 3.30 per cent; oxygen, 6.05 per cent, and ash, 0.01 per cent. 
Specimens Nos. 62379, 53355, U.S.N. M., are characteristic. 

Occurrence. — According to George H. Eldridge^ the gilsonite de- 
posits of Utah occur filling a series of essentially vertical fissures in 
Tertiary sandstones lying within the Uncompahgre Indian Reserva- 
tion, or in its immediate vici.nity. The fissures have smooth, regular 
walls and vary in width the sixteenth of an inch to 18 feet, and in 
length from a few hundred yards to 8 or 10 miles. 

The larger veins are somewhat scattered, one lying about ?>\ miles 
east of Fort Duchesne, a second in the region of the Upper Evacua- 
tion Creek, and the three others of most importance in the vicinity 
of the White River and the Colorado-Utah line. Besides these there 
is a l-l-inch vein crossing the western boundar}^ of the reservation 
near the fortieth parallel; another about equal size about 6 miles south- 
east of the junction of the Green and White rivers; a third in the 
gulch 4 or 5 miles north of Ouray Agency, west of the Duchesne River, 
and a number from one-sixteenth of an inch to a foot in thickness in 
an area about 10 miles wide, extending from Willow Creek eastward for 
25 miles along both sides of the Green and White rivers. The veins 
are sometimes slightly faulted, and often pinch out to mere feather 
edges. The filling nraterial is quite structureless excepting where, as 
near the surface, it has been exposed to the atmospheric influences, 
where it shows a fine pencillate or columnar structure at right angles 
to the walls. The walls of the veins themselves are impregnated with 
the gilsonite for a distance of several inches, but all indications point 

^Seventeenth Annual Report U. S. Geological Survey, 1895-96, Pt. I, p. 915. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



451 



to thoir haviii*;' 1)(hmi tilled, not ))v liiteral impregnation, but \)y injec- 
tion from helow. 

The minino- of gilsonite is condiicti^d in the ordinary manner by 
means of shafts and tunnels. 'V\w work is, however, attended with 
considerable difficulty and some danger, owing to the tine dust arising 
from it. This penetrates the skin and lungs and is a source of great 
annoyance, and moreover becomes highly explosive when mixed with 
atmospheric air. 

[Ises. — The principal use of gilsonite thus far has been in the manu- 
facture of varnishes for ironwork and l)aking japans. It is not well 
adapted for coach varnishes. It has ])een also used for mixing with 
asphaltic limestone for paving material. Other possible uses suggested 
by Mr. E. W. Parker, in the Mineral Resources of the United States 
for 1893, are as below: For preventing electrolytic action on iron 
plates of ship bottoms; for coating barbed-wire fencing, etc; for 
coating sea walls of brick or masonry; for covering paving brick; 
for acid-proof lining for chemical tanks; for rooting pitch; for insu- 
lating electric wires; for smokestack paint; for lubricants for heavy 
machinery; for preserving iron pipes from corrosion and acids; for 
coating poles, posts, and ties; for toredo-proof pile coating; for cov- 
ering wood-block paving; as a substitute for rubber in the manufac- 
ture of cotton garden hose; as a binder pitch for culm in making 
brickette and eggette coal. 

3. Ozokerite; Mineral Wax; Native Paraffin. 

This is a wax-like hydrocarbon, usuall}" with a foliated structure, 
soft and easily indented with the thumb nail; of a yellow brown or 
sometimes greenish color, translucent when pure, with a greasy feel- 
ing, and fusing at 56'^ to 63^; specific gravity, 0.955. It is essentially 
a natural paraffin. The name is derived from two Greek words, sig- 
nifying to smell, and wax. Below is given the composition of (I) sam- 
ples from Utah and (II) from Boryslaw, in Galicia. 





Constituents. 


I. 


II. 




85. 47 
14. 57 


85. 78 
14.29 


Hydrogen 


Total 


100. 04 


100. 07 





The substance is completely soluble in boiling ether, carbon disul- 
phides, or benzine, and partially so in alcohol. 

The following, from a paper by Boverton Redwood,^ will serve to 
show the varying characters of the material from the various reported 
sources. 



^ Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, XI, 1892, p. 114. 



452 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Colorado. — Dull black, hard, and pulverizable; melting point, 76° C. 
Yields on distillation: 

Percentage 
(l)y difference). 

Paraffin and oil 90. 00 

Loss in gas 2. 12 

Loss in water 2. 60 

Residue 5. 28 

100. 00 

It commences to distill at 360° C, when nearly 8 per cent of oil 
setting at 30° C. comes over. At a much higher temperature it dis- 
tills steadily and furnishes a product suitable for use as a source of 
paraffin. 

Baku. — ^Specific gravity, 0.908; melting point, 76° C. : 

Paraffin mass 81. 80 

Gas 13. 80 

Coke 4. 40 

100. 00 

Persia. — Dark green, rather hard; specific gravity, 0.925: 

Light oil, 0.740 to 0.780 2. 35 

Light oil, 0.800 to 0.820 3. 50 

Oil, 0.880 16. 63 

Paraffin 53. 55 

Coke 16.73 

Loss 7. 24 

100. 00 

England (Urpeth, near Newcastle). — Soft and sticky, brownish. 
Specific gravity, 0.890; melting point, 60° to 70° C: 

Light oil, boiling point 80° to 120° C 3. 00 

Light oil, Iwiling point 150° to 200° C 7. 50 

Lubricating oil, boiling point 200° to 250° C. 7. 80 

Paraffin 64. 95 

Coke 11. 15 

Gas, loss 5. 60 

100. 00 
Boryslaw. — Specific gravity, 0.980 — I, dark yellow; II, dark 
brownish black: 



Constituents. 


I. 


IL 


Benzine, 0.710 to 0.750 


4.32 

25. 05 
7.04 

56. .54 
2. 85 
3.00 


3.50 
27.83 

6.95 
52. 27 

4.63 

4.82 


Kerosene, 0.7S0 to 0.820 


Lubricating oil, 0.S95 


Paraflftn, etc 


Coke 


Loss 




100.00 


100.00 



THE N0NMETALLIC MINERALS. 453 

Olivc-o-rocn, rather hard; specific gravity, 0.9236; melting point, 

60.5^ C: 

Lijiht oil, boiling point up to 150° C 6. 25 

Heavy oil, with paraffin, 150° to 300° C ... 35. 10 

Paraffin, etc. , over 300° C 49. 73 

Residue in retort, and loss 8. 92 

100. 00 

Occvr7\mres. — Ozokerite occurs in the United States in Emery and 
Uinta counties, ITtah, where, in the form of small veins in Tertiary 
rocks, it extends over a wide area (Specimens Nos. 59984, 62805, and 
63203, U.S.N.M.). It is also found in Galicia, Austria, in Miocene 
deposits (Specimens Nos. 66077, 66079, 6(5080, 66083, 66084, 66086, and 
66860, U.S.N.M.); in Roumania, Hungary, Russia, and other Asiatic 
and European localities. As a rule, the deposits are in beds of Ter- 
tiary or Cretaceous age. The Galician deposits are the most noted 
of the above. According to Redwood it is difficult to say whether 
ozokerite is peculiar to any particular geological formation. Regard- 
ing it as a derivative of petroleum with a high melting point, Rateau 
points out that it w^ould not be reasonable to expect that it would be 
confined to any one formation, and in fact it is found in many, though 
chiefly in the Tertiary and Cretaceous. The Boryslaw, Dwiniacz, 
and Starunia deposits are in Miocene, but ozokerite has been met with 
in the shales of Teschen, as well as in Neocomian and other formations 
elsewhere. The Kouban deposits are on the borders of the Lower 
Tertiary and Upper Cretaceous. In Teheleken it is found accompany- 
ing petroleum in pockets in beds of sand above the clay shales and 
muschelkalk of the Aralo-Carpathian formation. In southern Utah 
and Arizona it occurs in Tertiary rock, probabl}" Miocene. 

The soil of the valley in which Boryslaw lies is a bed of diluvial 
deposit some meters in thickness. In sinking a shaft, first yellow clay, 
then rounded flints and gravel, and then plastic clay are met with. 
Below this sandstone and blue shale, much disturbed, alternate, and it 
is in these beds, which have a thickness of some 200 meters, that the 
ozokerite is found. The ozokerite-bearing formation lies on a basis 
of petroliferous menilite shale, the strata of which, as they approach 
the surface, are disposed almost vertically, but inclined toward the 
south. The strata are composed of layers of coarse-grained sandstone, 
green marl, fine-grained sandstone with veins of calcite, dark shale 
alternating with gray sandy shale, imperceptibly merging into the 
main beds of the nonpetroliferous sandstone and shale. Below these 
are the Carpathian sandstones of the lower Eocene (nummulitic sand- 
stone) and upper Cretaceous formations. 

The geological conditions prevailing at Dwiniacz and Starunia are 
similar to those at Boryslaw, but the ozokerite is more largely mixed 
with petroleum. The soil is gray and red diluvial clay, below which 



454 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

is a bed of gravel, h'ing on the Miocene formation, in which the 
ozokerite and petroleum occur in association with native sulphur, iron 
pyrites, and zinc l)lende. Still lower a highly porous calcareous rock 
is met with, containing cavities filled with petroleum tlnd sulphureted 
water, and below this again is a marl with gypsum and the salt-clay 
formation destitute of petroleum. 

The ozokerite occurs in the form of veins of a thickness ranging 
from a few millimeters to some feet, and is accompanied with more or 
less petroleum and gaseous hydrocarbons. It fills the many fissures 
with which the disturbed shales and Miocene sandstone abound, and 
frequently forms thus a kind of network. The Boryslaw deposit 
extends over a pear-shaped area, the axis of which lies E. 30^ S. The 
upper layers of the richest portion of the deposit occupy an area of 
about 21 hectares, with a length of 1,000 meters and a maximum 
breadth of 350 meters, but outside this there is an outer zone of less 
productive territory which increases the total superficies to about 
60 hectares, with dimensions of 1,500 meters by 560 meters. The 
deposit narrows considerably as the depth increases, and at a distance 
of 100 meters from the surface of the ground has a breadth of only 
200 meters. 

Uses. — The ozokerite, after being freed so far as possible from im- 
purities, is melted and cast into loaves or blocks of the form of a trun- 
cated cone, and weighing about 50 to 60 kilos. There are two or three 
recognized commercial qualities of the melted and cast ozokerite. The 
first qualit}" is transparent in thin sheets and its color ranges from 
yellow to greenish brown. Adulteration by means of crude petroleum, 
heavy oils, the residues from refineries, asphaltum, and even earthy 
matter, are not unknown, and occasionalh" by a process of double casting 
the exterior of the block is made to difi'er in quality from the interior. 

The refined material is known as ceresin (Specimen No. 63204, 
U.S.N.M.). It is used for candles, an adulterant or a complete sub- 
stitute for beeswax, in the manufacture of ointments and pomades. 
A residual product from the purifying process, of a hard waxy nature, 
is combined with india rubber and used as an insulating material for 
electrical cables. In this form it is known as okanlte. A ball black- 
ing, used on the heels of shoes, is also manufactured from it. (See 
Specimens Nos. 63204, 62235, 62236, 66076, U.S.N.M.) 

The names scheererite, hatchettite, fichtelite, and konlite are applied 
to simple hydrocarbons closely allied to ozokerite found in beds of 
peat and coal, but, so far as the writer is aware, never in such abun- 
dance as to be of commercial value. 

The name torbanite or kerosene shale has been given to a dense coal- 
black substance appearing and breaking much like cannel coal, and 
which occurs in irregular, isolated, circumscribed, and lenticular depos- 
its near the base of the carboniferous beds of New South Wales, Aus- 



THK NC)Nr,:KTALLIC MINERALS. 455 

truliii. iuul lu'iii- Hathjjate in Linlithgowshire, Scothmd. The hcttcr 
varieties contain from T») to 80 per cent of vokitile hydrocarbon, <> to 
8 por cent of tixed carbon, 7 to 20 per cent of ash, with a little sul- 
phur and water. The material is used niainly for gas and oil making 
by distillation, the best qualities yielding from 150 to 1(50 gallons of 
crude oil to the ton and about 20,000 feet of gas of 48-candle intensity.^ 
(Specimen No. 12T8G, U.S.N.M.) 

4. Resins. 

Succinite; amber. The mineral commonly known as amber is a 
fossil resin consisting of some 78.94 parts of carbon, 10.53 parts of 
oxygen, and 10.53 parts of hydrogen, together with usually from two 
to four tenths of a per cent of sulphur. It is not a simple resin, but 
a compound of four or more hydrocarbons. According to Berzelius, 
as (juoted ])y Dana, it ''consists mainly (85 to 90 per cent) of a resin 
which resists all solvents, along with two other resins soluble in alcohol 
and ether, an oil, and 2i to 6 per cent of succinic acid. 

The mineral as found is of a yellow, brownish, or reddish color, 
frequently clouded, translucent or even transparent, tasteless, becomes 
negatively electrified by friction, has a hardness of 2 to 2.5, a specific 
gravity when free from inclosures of 1.096, a conchoidal fracture, 
and melts at 250° to 500° F. without previous swelling, but boils 
quietly, giving off dense white fumes with an aromatic odor and very 
irritating effect on the respiratory organs. 

As above noted, amber is a fossil resin or pitch, an exudation prod- 
uct principally of the Pinus succinifer^ a now extinct variety of pine 
which lived during the Tertiary period. 

Occurrence. — Amber or closely related compounds has been found 
in varying amounts at numerous widely separated localities, but 
always under conditions closeh' resembling one another. The better 
known localities are the Prussian coast of the Baltic; on the coast of 
Norfolk, Essex, and Suffolk, England; the coasts of Sweden, Den- 
mark, and the Russian Baltic provinces; in Galicia, Westphalia, Poland, 
Moravia, Norway, Switzerland, France, Upper Burma, Sicily (Speci- 
men No. (31140, U.S.N.M.), Mexico, the United States at Martha's 
Vineyard and near Trenton and Camden, New Jersey. 

The substance occurs in irregular masses, usually of small size. One 
of the largest masses on record weighed 18 pounds. This is now in 
the Berlin Museum. A mass found in the marl pits near Harrison- 
burg, New Jersey, weighed 64 ounces. This last is presumably not 
true amber, since it contained no succinic acid, which is now regarded 
as the essential constituent. 

The amber of commerce comes now, as for the past two thousand 

^ Minerals of New South Wales, by A. Liversidge, p. 145. 



456 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

3'ears, mainl}^ from the Baltic, where it occurs in a strata of lignite- 
bearing sands of Lower Oligocene age. According to Berendt^ these 
are two amber-bearing strata, the one carrying the amber in nests and 
both underlaid and overlaid by clayey seams, and the second and lower 
a glaueonitic sand commonly known as the blue earth. The material 
is mined by open cuts where the strata come to the surface; by means 
of shafts and tunnels, as in coal mining; and by dredging or diving, in 
the latter case the material having been derived originally from the 
amber- bearing strata and redeposited on the present sea bottom.^ 

The pieces obtained vary from the size of a pea to that of the hand. 
The annual product at present amounts to some 300,000 pounds, valued 
at about $1,000,000. The price of the material varies greatly with the 
size and purity of the pieces. Pieces of one-fourth pound weight bring 
about $15 a pound, while the small granules will not bring one- 
twentieth that amount. The value of the material is often lessened by 
the presence of flaws and impurities, or inclosures, such as insects and 
twigs of plants. (Specimens Nos. 53056, 61140, 66812, 67748, U.S.N.M.) 

Uses. ~ Amber is used mainly in jewelry, in small ornamentations, 
and smokers' goods, the smaller pieces being used in making varnish. 
The clear pieces and chippings have of late been compressed by a 
newly discovered process into tablets some 6 by 3 by 1 inches in size, 
which can be utilized in the manufacture of articles for smokers' use. 

Retinite. — The name retinite is used by Dana to include a consid- 
erable series of fossil resins allied to amber, differing mainly in con- 
taining no succinic acid. They occur in beds of brown coal of 
Tertiary and Cretaceous age, much as does the amber proper. The 
principal varieties that have thus far proven of any economic impor- 
tance are noted below: 

Chemawinite.— This is the name given by Professor Harrington^ 
to an amber-like resin found associated with woody debris on the south 
east shore of Cedar Lake in Canada (Specimen No. 62602, U.S.N.M.). 
The material occurs in granular form and in small sizes only, such as 
are quite unsuited for manufacturing purposes. The true gum-bearing 
stratum, if such exists, has not yet been discovered, the material thus 
far found being washed up by waves on the beach. According to 
O. J. Klotz* the beach matter resembles the refuse of a sawmill, no 
stones and very little sand being associated with the debris, which is 
everywhere underlaid by clay. The principal beach was estimated to 
contain some 700 tons of granular material. 

A somewhat similar resin is found in the lignite and soft greenish 

^ Schriften der Physikaliscli-okonomischen Gesellschaft, VII, 1866. 
^According to the Engineering and Mining Journal of May 20, 1893, the dredging 
process on the Baltic coast has been discontinued as no longer profitable. 
*Ameri(!an Journal of Science, XLII, 1891, p. 332. 
♦American Jeweler, No. 2, XII, 1892. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899,— Meirill. 



Plate 27. 




5 - d 

OS 2; 

£.5f C 



o 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 457 

sandstone near Kuj i, Japan/ It is reported as being of inferior (luality, 
opaque, cloudy, and much fissured. It is, however, mined and shipped 
to Tokio, whore it is presumably worked up into small ornaments. 

The so-called Burmese amber, or Barmlte from the Hukong- Valley, 
is reported as occurring in a soft blue clay, probably of Lower Miocene 
age, and in lumps not exceeding the size of a man's hand. 

Gum Copal. — The name copal or gum copal is made to cover, com- 
mercially, a somewhat variable series of resins more or less fossilized 
and found for the most part buried in the sands in tropical and sub- 
tropical regions. They are in general amber-like or resin-like in 
appearance, of a hardness inferior to that of true amber, of a light yellow 
to brown color, brilliant glass-like luster, transparent to translucent, 
and have a conchoidal fracture. When cold they are brittle and can 
be readily crushed to powder, but possess a slight amount of elasticity. 
When rubbed on cloth they become electric and emit a peculiar resin- 
ous odor. The specific gravity varies from 1 to 1.10. When heated 
the material softens, swells up, and bubbles, finally melting, remain- 
ing liquid until carbonized. It burns with a yellow smok}^ flame; is 
partially soluble in alcohol, wholly so in ether, and also in turpentine 
on prolonged digestion. The so-called Kauri gum is a light amber- 
colored variety from the Dammnra Australis, a living coniferous tree 
of New Zealand (Specimens Nos. 62468, 62469, U. S. N. M. ). The prin- 
cipal source is the northern portion of the Auckland provincial district 
which has exported since 1863 (and up to 1897) some 134,630 tons of 
gum valued at £5,394,687, the product for 1890 being 7,438 tons 
valued at £378,563. 

The gum-digging industry is one that gives employment to both 
Europeans and natives.^ The gum is found but a short distance l)elow 
the surface and is dug with the aid of a few implements, the entire 
outfit often consisting of a steel prod, a spade, and knife and haver- 
sack. With the copal is often found the more amber-like resin amhrite^ 
which has a slightly greater hardness (2), a specific gravity of 1.034, a 
yellowish gray to reddish color and which yields on analvsis carlion, 
76.88; hydrogen, 10.54 per cent, and oxygen, 12.77 per cent. It 
becomes strongly electric by friction and is insoluble in alcohol, ether, 
chloroform, benzine, or turpentine and burns with yellow, smoking 
flame. Quite similar to the kauri gum is the copal of the African 
coasts. According to Dr. F. Welwitsch * gum of the west coast and 
probabl}^ all the gum resin exported under this name from tropical 
Africa is to be regarded as a "fossil resin produced by trees which, 

^Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, V, 1876, p. 265. 

''Report of the Mining Industry of New Zealand for 1888. In the report for 1887 
it is stated that "according to the last census" the number of persons employed in 
the occupation of gum digging was 1,283. 

^Journal of the Linnaean Society of London, Botany, IX, 1866, p. 287. 



458 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1S99. 

in periods long- since past, adorned the forests of that continent, but 
which are at present either totally extinct or exist only in a dwarfed 
posterity." The g-um, which is called by the Bunda negroes Ocate 
Cocoto, or Mucocoto, is found in the hilly or mountainous districts all 
along the coast of Angola, including the districts of Congo and Ben- 
guella, and is brought by the natives to the different market places on 
the coast of Angola, including the districts of Congo and Benguella. 
The larger quantities of the resin are mostly found in the sandy soil 
and it is apparentl}^ limited in its geographical distribution with that of 
the tree Adansonia dlgJtata, the lands in the Government of Benguella 
extending along the mountain terrace of Amboin, Selles, and Muco- 
bale, south of the Cuanza River being most productive, having yielded 
between 1850 and 1860 some 1,600,000 pounds of gum a year. 

It is a general and widely spread opinion [writes Welwitsch] that the gum copal 
in Angola is gathered from trees; but this, according to my own observation, is obvi- 
ously erroneous; for the gum copal is either dug out of the loose strata of sand, 
marl, or clay, or else it is found in isolated pieces washed out and brought to the 
surface of the soil by heavy rainfalls, earth-falls, or gales; and such pieces, where 
found, induce the negroes to dig for larger quantities in the adjacent spots. This 
digging after larger quantities is, as may be supposed, often very successful; but 
sometimes it is less satisfactory, or totally without result, just in the same manner as 
with people digging for gold. At times numerous larger and smaller pieces of copal 
are found close to the surface of the sand, or within the depth of a few feet; while 
in other places, after digging to the depth of 5 to 8 or even 10 or more feet, only 
single pieces, or sometimes none at all, are brought to light. As soon as a negro has 
discovered in any spot one or more pieces of copal, he hastens to his relations and 
to his commercial friends, telling them of his fortunate treasure-trove, showing what 
he has found, and concludes with them a kind of treaty of partnership whereby he 
becomes entitled to the larger share in the probable gains. The members of this 
partnership then provide themselves with digging implements, including large sacks, 
mostly made of the bark of the Adansonia or Raphia leaves, and they then proceed 
to the indicated spot to commence researches. As is natural, such a spot and its 
neighborhood are not left until the diggers have convinced themselves that they have 
completely exhausted the district, or that no more gum copal is to be found beyond 
the first indicating pieces. In the latter case it is supposed that the first pieces met 
with were washed down from afar, and further researches are then made accord- 
ingly. 

If, after prolonged researches in the same district, no more gum copal is found, the 
diggers leave that place; the secured resin is cleaned by washing and packed in 
sacks, to be ready for sale in the markets on the coast. Different varieties of unequal 
value being often obtained on the same spot, the resin, when brought to market, has 
to be sorted before being sold. It is classified mostly according to its color; and the 
price is determined by weight. The deep-colored quality is generally worth double 
the price of the lighter sort. The shape in which the gum is found is quite variable; 
it often has the form of an egg, a ball, or a drop, at other times it looks like a flat, 
pressed cake, and it is also met with in sharp-canted pieces. The pieces vary as 
much in size as in shape; they are rarely larger than a hen's egg, and there are 
many much smaller, others (which, however, seldom occur) are as big as a man's 
fist, or even a child's head, weighing 3 to 4 pounds and more. All the pieces of 
different shape and size have one common characteristic, namely, that on their sur- 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 459 

face thoy are covered with a tliinner or thicker close-sticking whitish, nearly chalky 
crust, whicli exhibits on many pieces veins or network, while in most instances it 
covers the surface like an earthy powdery coat. Tlie surface of fresh-broken pieces 
appears conchoidal, with finely radiating' lines in each conchoidal impression. The 
luster is glossy, the mass is hard and transparent to a certain depth, and where 
scrati'hed with a knife or needle it leaves a white powdered stroke. It can easily 
l)e scraped with a knife into powder which, if sprinkled over red-hot coals, changes 
instantaneously into thick vapors, at first with a slight yellow color, with a strong 
aromatic smell, somewhat similar to that of incense. Large pieces brought into con- 
tact with a light soon burn up, developing at the same time the above-mentioned 
vapors. When chewed it crackles between the teeth without leaving a noticeable 
taste. 

The fact that there is often seen, even on the canted broken sides of many pieces, 
the same hard, whitish, earthy crust which covers the other unbroken surface of the 
same i)iece, tends to prove that after their falling off the mother tree they were 
forcibly transported from their original spot by floods or earth falls, by which they 
were broken before they came into the marl or sandy plains in which they are now 
found. At times the crust just alluded to is very hard, of considerable thickness, 
and with a glossy polish, which leads to the supposition that pieces in which it is 
found have been embedded for a long time in the ground, or perhaps in water basins. 
While an earthy crust of greater or less thickness is noticed on all pieces of gum 
copal before it is washed or rubbed off, the color in different pieces varies very much; 
some samples are yellowish white, some of honey or gold color, and others are dis- 
tinguished by an intense reddish orange color. The general appearance of the pure 
pieces of this resin, especially in the gold-colored kind, has delusive resendjlance to 
amber, with which, though much softer, it has the common properties of igniting 
and of becoming electrical by friction. The interior of the Angola copal pieces, 
when not mixed with earthy substances, or with remains of bark, is even glossy and 
transparent; but I have never observed insects in any of the numerous samples 
which, partly in Angola and partly at Lisbon, came under my notice, while in the 
copal sent to Lisbon from the province of Mozambique, on the east coast of Tropical 
Africa, various hymenopterous insects are to be met with. The different colors of 
the copal of Angola just described are connected more or less with its availabihty 
for varnishes, etc. Thus the copal dealers distinguish three sorts, namely, ( 1 ) red 
copal gum (gomma copal vermellia) ; (2) yellow (g. c. amarella); (3) whitish 
(g. c. bianca). The red and whitish sorts furnish the best and finest varnish, and 
therefore are most in request and the dearest, while the whitish quality is sold at 
the lowest price. ^ 

According- to Burton ' the present limit of distribution of the gum- 
yielding trees on the east coast is less extensive than that of the extinct 
forests which have yielded the true or "ripe" copal, or "sandarusi," 
as it is locally called. Every part of the coast from Ras (lomani, in 
south latitude 3, to Ras Delgado, in 10° 41', with a mean depth of 30 
miles inland, may be called the copal coast. The material is found in 
red, sandy soil, but is not evenly distributed, occurring rather in 
patches, as though produced by isolated trees. Dr. Kirk considers 

' Journal of the Linnean Society of London, Botany, IX, 1866, pp. 291-293. 

'' Lake Region of Central Africa, II, p. 403. See also report by Dr. M. C. Cooke 
on the gums, resins, etc., in the India Museum, or produced in India. London, 
India Museum, 1874. 



460 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

this gum as a product of trees of the same species as those at present 
produciiio- the raw gum called Iw the natives and Arabs sandarusiza 
miti or chakazi; that is, the Trachylohium. inozamhicenM Peters. The 
gum when dug from the soil has superficially a peculiar pebbled ap- 
pearance, best described as "goose skin" (Specimens Nos. 02-1:72, 62473, 
U.S.N.M.), and which Burton considered as due to the impress of the 
sandy grains in which it had been buried, but which Dr. Kirk regards 
as due to the structure of the cellular tissues of the tree. The copal 
when dug up has, according to this authority, exteriorly no trace of 
the loose skin structure. 

As is the case with the New Zealand and West African gums, the 
methods of digging are very crude, careless, and desultory. The 
diggings are mostly beyond the jurisdiction of Zanzibar, but as this is 
the principal port, most of the material is known commercially as 
Zanzibar copal. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

M. C. Cook. Report on Gums, Resins, Oleo-Resins, and Resinous Products in the 
India Museum, or produced in India. 

London, India Museum, 1874, pp. 98-103. 
S. F. Peckham. Report on the Production, Technology, and Uses of Petroleum and 
its Products. 

Report of the Tenth Census of the United States, X, 1880. 
This important report contains a very complete bibliography on the subject up 
to date of publication. 
G. W. Griffin The Kauri Gum of New Zealand. 

U. S. Consular Reports, II, 1881, p. 241. 
R. W. Raymond. The Natural Coke of Chesterfield County, Virginia. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XI, 1882, p. 446. 
Edward Orton. A Source of the Bituminous Matter in the Devonian and Sub-Car- 
boniferous Black Shales of Ohio. 

American Journal of Science, XXIV, 1882, p. 171. 
Orazio Silvesti. On the Occurrence of Crystallized Paraffin in the Hollow Spaces 
of a Basaltic Lava from Paterno, near Mount Etna. 

Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, I, 1882, p. 180. 
William Morrison. The Mineral Albertite and the Strathpeffer Shales. 

Transactions of the PMinburgh Geological Society, V, 1883-1888, p. 34. 

. A New Mineral Tar in Old Red Sandstone: Ross-shire. 

Transactions of the Edinburgh Geological Society, V, 1883-1888, p. 500. 
S. F. Peckham. The Origin of Bitumens. 

American Journal of Science, XXVIII, 1884, p. 105. 
Edward Orton. The Trenton Limestone as a Source of Petroleum and Natural 
Gas in Ohio and Indiana. 

Eighth Annual Report U. S. Geological Survey, Pt. 2, 1886-87, pp. 483-662. 
J. L. Kleinschmidt Asphalt Deposits in the Formation of Coal. 
Berg- und Hiittenmannische Zeitung, XLVI, 1887, p. 78. 
Joseph M. Locke. Gilsonite or Uintahite. A New Variety of Asphaltum from 
the LTintah Mountains, Utah. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVI, 1887, p. 162. 
A. Rateau. Note sur 1' Ozokerite, ses Gisements, son Exploitation a Boryslaw et son 
Traitement Industrial. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 401 

A. Ratr.ut. Annales (ies Mines, XI, Pt. I, 1887, p. 147. See also Engineering and 

Mining Journal, XLV, 1888, p. 415. 
. Verarbeitung des galizischen Erdwachses. 

Berg- und Hiittenmiinniache Zeitung, XLVII, 1888, p. 435. 
A. l^ivERsiDGE Torbanite.— Cannel Coal or Kerosene Shale. 

Minerals of New South Wales, 1888, p. 145. 
Max von Isser. Die Bitunienschatze von Seefeld. 

Berg- und Hiittenmiinnisches Jahrbuoh, XXXVI, 1888, Pt. 1, p. 1. 
L. Babu. Note Sur L'Ozokerite de Boryslaw et les petroles desloboda (Galicie). 

Annales des Mines, XIV, 1888, p. 1()2. See also Transactions of the North 
of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers, XXXVIII, 1889, 
p. 15. 
Ralph Robinson. Kauri Gum Industry. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, XLVI, 1888, p. 462. 
R. W. Raymond. Note on a specimen of Gilsonite from Uintah County, Utah. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVII, 1888, p. 113. 
F. V. Greene. Asphalt and its uses. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVII, 1888, p. 355. 
William Morrison. Elaterite: A Mineral Tar in Old Red Sandstone, Ross-shire. 

Mineralogical Magazine, VIII, May, 1888, October, 1889, p. 133. 
Henry Wurtz. The Utah Mineral Waxes. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, XLVIII, July 13, 1889, p. 25. 
. Uintahite a variety of Graliamite. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, XLVIII, August 10, 1889, p. 114. 
William P. Blake. Wurtzilite from the Uintah Mountains, Utah. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVIII, 1890, 
p. 497. 

. Uintaite, Albertite, Grahamite, and Asphaltum described and compared, with 

Observations on Bitumen and its Compounds. 

Transaction of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVIII, 1890, 
p. 563. 
Henry Wurtz. Wurtzilite, Prof. Blake's New Mineral. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, XLIX, 1890, p. 59. 
. Bituminous Rock, California. 

Tenth Annual Report of the California State Mineralogist, 1890. 
E. W. Hilgard. Report on the Asphaltum Mine of the Ventura Asphalt Company. 

Tenth Annual Report of the California State Mineralogist, 1890, p. 763. 
. 'Asphalt and Petroleum in Mexico. 

Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, IX, 1890, p. 426. 
George Valentine. On a Carbonaceous Mineral or Oil Shale from Brazil: Its 
Formation and Composition. As a Key to the Origin of Petroleum. 

Proceedings of the South Wales Institute of Engineers, XVII, August 8, 1890, 
p. 20. 
S. Deutsch. Ozokerite in Galicia. 

Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute, 1891, p. 311. 
A. N. Searl. Utah Ozokerite. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LI, 1891, p. 441. 
Henry Wurtz. A Review of the Chemical Literature of the Mineral Waxes. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LI, March 28, 1891, p. 326. 
Clarence Lown; H. Booth. Fossil Resins. 

New York, 1891, pp. 119. 
Edward Orton. Report on the Occurrence of Petroleum, Natural Gas, and Asphalt 
Rock in Western Kentucky. 

Geological Survey of Kentucky, J. R. Procter, Director, 1891. 



462 BEPORT OF ISATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

BovERTON Redwood. The Galifian Petroleuin and Ozokerite Industries. 
The Journal of the Society of C^hemieal Industry, XI, 1892, p. 93. 

E. T. DuMBLE. Note on the Occurrence of Grahaniite in Texas. 

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXI, 1892, p. 601. 
Henry M. Cadell. Petroleum and Natural Gas; their Geological History and 
Production. 

Transactions of the Edinburgh Geological Society, VII, Pt. 1, p. 51, 1893-94. 
. Asphaltuni and Bituminous Rock. 

Twelfth Report of the California State Mineralogist, 1894, p. 26. 
S. F. Peckham. Petroleum in Southern California. 

Science, February 9, 1894, p. 741. 
Edgar B. Gosling. A Treatise on Ozokerite. 

The School of Mines Quarterly, XVI, 1894, p. 41. 
J. G. GooDCHiLD. Some of the Modes of Origin of Oil Shales, with Remarks upon 
the Geological History of some other Hydrocarbon Compounds. 

Transactions of the Edinburgh Geological Society, VII, 1895-96, p. 121. 
C. Eg. Bertrand; B. Renault. The Kerosene Shale of New^ South Wales. 

Transactions of the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical 
Engineers, XLIV, 1895, p. 76. 
. Asphalt and Bitumen. 

Journal of the Franklin Institute, September, 1895. 
S. F. Peckham. On the Pitch Lake of Trinidad. 

American Journal of Science, L, 1895, p. 33. See also the Geological Magazine, 
II, 1895, p. 416. 
BovERTON Redwood; George L. Holloway. Petroleum and Its Products. 

2 Vols., London, 1896. 
. Asphaltum and Bituminous Rock. 

Thirteenth Report of the California State Mineralogist, 1896, p. 35. 
Otto Lanc;. Trinidad Asphalt. 

Transactions of the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical 
Engineers, XLV, Pt. 3, March, 1896, p. 1. 
. Maracaibo Asphalt. 

Scottish Geographical Magazine, April, 1897, p. 209. Abstract from Deutsche 
Geographische Blatter, XIX, Pt. 4. 
M. H. Endemann. Sur la composition et I'analyse des asphaltes. 

Moniteur Scientifique, L, 1897, 4th Ser., XI, p. 755. 
. The Uinta and the Uncoinpahgre Asphaltites of Utah. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LXIV, 1897, p. 10. 
Walter Merivale. Barbadoes Manjak. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LXVI, 1898, p. 790. 
John Ritherford. Notes on the Albertite of New Brunswick. 

Journal of the Federated Canadian Mining Institute, III, 1898, p. 40. 

F. Noetling. Petroleum in Burma. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LXV^, May 7, 1898, p. 555. 
A. S. Cooper. A Bituminous Rock Deposit in Santa Barbara County, California. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, LXVI, 1898, p. 278. 
I. C. White. Origin of Grahaniite. 

Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, X, 1899, pp. 277-284. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 463 

XIV. MISCELLANEOUS. 

1. Grindstones; Whetstones; and Hones. 

The custom of sharpeniiig- edge tools on pieces of stone has been 
practiced by barbarous and civilized nations ever since the adoption of 
cutting- implements of any kind, however crude and of whatever 
materials. 

With the tirst crude implements, it is s;ife to say almost any stone 
possessing the riMiuisite grit would serve to produce the rough edge 
desired. With the improvement in the cutting implement there has, 
however, been necessitated a corresponding improvement in the char- 
acter of the sharpening implement as well. Formerly, it may be safely 
assumed, everv man used that which was most accessible and could be 
made to best answer its purpose. Now the grindstone and whetstone 
industr}" is as well organized as any other branch of manufacture, and 
forms no inconsiderable feature of the nation's trade. Localities are 
ransacked and material is brought from far and near, carried long dis- 
tances, overland or across the ocean, to the workshops of the manu- 
facturer to be cut into the desired shapes and sizes, classified and 
assorted according to quality, and sent abroad once more to meet the 
demands of the ever-increasing trade. The use of the grindstone, it 
should be noted, is not confined merely to sharpening edge tools, but, 
as will be noted later, they are made from a variety of materials and 
of an equal variety of sizes, from the 2-inch wheel of novaculite, used 
by jewelers, to a coarse grit monster of over 2 tons weight for the 
grinding of rough castings in machine shops. 

A stone to be suitable for grinding purposes must possess a fine and 
even grain, free from all hard spots and inequalities of any kind. It 
is essential, too, that the various particles of which it is composed be 
cemented together with just sufiicient tenacity to impart the neces- 
sary strength to the stone, and yet allow them to crumble away when 
exposed to friction, thus continually presenting fresh sharp grains and 
surfaces to act upon the material being ground. Simple as these 
essential qualities may seem they are in reality but rarely met with 
in perfection, and the majority of grindstones now on the market are 
quarried from a comparatively limited number of sources. If the 
stone be too friable it wears away too rapidly, and the grinding done 
is coarse and uneven; a sharp edge or polish is unobtainable. If too 
hard it glazes and loses its cutting qualities, or cuts so slowly as to be 
no longer desirable. If, moreover, the particles composing the stone 
adhere with too little tenacit}^, the stone, particularly if it be a large 
one, such as is used for grinding castings, is liable to burst, perhaps 
to the serious injury of workmen and machinery. 

The requisite qualities as above enumerated are found mainly in 



464 REPORT OF NATIONAL TIUSEUM, 1899. 

those stones that have originated as sandy deposits on sea bottoms and 
have undergone little if any metamorphism— in other words, in sand- 
stones. For some particular reason, or rather owing to certain 
peculiar conditions, although sandstones were formed throughout a 
great number of periods in the earth's history, those formed during 
the Carboniferous age seem best adapted for the purpose, and from 
stone found somewhere in this formation are manufactured a large 
share of the grindstones now in use. 

A majority of the grindstones now found in the markets of the 
United States are made from sandstones quarried from the Upper, Mid- 
dle, and Lower Carboniferous formations of Ohio, Michigan, Nova 
Scotia, or New Brunswick, or England and Scotland. A few are, or 
have been, made from stone from Missouri and Kentucky. The Ohio 
stones are obtained nearly altogether from quarries in the sub-Car- 
boniferous sandstones at or near Berea, Amherst, Bedford, Constitu- 
tion, Massillon, Marietta, Independence, and Euclid. Few if any of the 
quarries are worked wholly for grindstones, but in the majority of 
cases the stone is sought for building purposes as well, and the grind- 
stone output may be merely incidental, certain layers only being 
adapted for the latter purpose. This is well illustrated b}^ the following 
section, as shown at one of the Amherst quarries and as described ^ by 
Professor Orton, the State geologist. The reader will understand that 
by section is meant the various layers exposed in the quarry wall, or 
that would be passed through in digging or boring from the surface 
downward. 

At Amherst, then, the stone lies as follows, beginning at the surface: 

Feet. 

Drift material (soil, sand, etc.) 1 to 3 

Worthless shell rock 6 to 10 

Soft rock used only for grindstones 12 

Building stone 3 

Bridge stone 2 

Grindstone 2 

Building and grindstone 10 

Building stone 4 to 7 

Building stone or grindstone 12 

Commenting on the condition of affairs as here displayed. Professor 
Orton says: 

As will be noticed in this section, the different strata are not applicable alike to 
the same purpose, and the uses for which the different grades of material can be 
employed depend principally upon the texture and the hardness of the stone. The 
softest and most uniform in texture is especially applicable for certain kinds of grind- 
ing, and is used for grindstones only, and the production of these forms an important 
part of the quarry industry. In its different varieties the material is applicable to all 
kinds of grinding, and stones made from it are not only sold throughout this coun- 

' Geological Survey of Ohio, V, p. 586. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 465 

try, but are exported to nearly all parts of the civilized world. Some of the finest- 
grained material is also used in the manufacture of whetstones. There are various 
points in the system of the Berea grit where the stone is adapted to this use, but sucli 
a manufacture is best carried on when joined with a large interest in quarrying, so 
that tlie small amount of suitable material can be selected; and thus it happens that 
only at Amherst and at Berea are whetstones manufactured in large quantities. 

Below are given in brief outline the sources and main characteristics 
of the principal grindstones now in the market, beginning with those 
of the United States. In speaking of the texture of any stone, that of 
Berea has been taken as the standard. This is the stone most used for 
grinding cutting tools, such as axes and scythes. It must be remarked 
here that the term Berea grit is applied not merely to the stone from 
the immediate vicinity of the town of Berea, but is rather a general 
name applied to this particular subdivision of the Subcarboniferous 
formation of Ohio and extending over a wide field. 

Berea. — Medium fine; blue gray, light yellowish, or nearly white. 
For edge tools in general; the finer varieties also used for whetstones. 
Four quarries a few miles west of Berea produced alone upward of 
$10,000 worth of grindstones during the last census year. (Specimen 
No. 25059, U.S.N.M.) 

Amherst. — Medium fine, like the Berea, being a part of the same 

formation. Light gray, with small rust-colored spots due to iron 

oxides. For grindstones and whetstones for edge tools in general; 

the softer varieties for saws. (Specimens Nos. 25079, 25421, U.S.N.M.) 

Independence. — Similar to the Amherst, and especially adapted for 

the manufacture of large grindstones for dry grinding; stones said not 

to glaze when used for this purpose. (Specimen No. 25080, U.S.N.M.) 

Bedford. — Rather coarser, though of even texture and filled with 

brown spots of iron oxide. Especially adapted for grinding springs. 

Euclid. — Fine, light bluish-gray; for wet grinding edge tools. 

Massillon. — Medium to rather coarse; the microscope shows it to be 

an aggregate of rounded, colorless grains of quartz, with little, if any, 

cementing material. Not so finel}^ compacted as the last, and small 

fragments can be readily broken from the sharp edges by means of the 

thumb and fingers. Color, light yellowish or pinkish; for edge tools, 

springs, files, and nail cutters' face stones, but mainly for the dry 

grinding of castings. (Specimens Nos. 25054, 25055, U.S.N.M.) 

Constitution. — Medium; light gray and rather more fria])le than 
the last. A variety of textures, however, and all kinds of grits for 
wet grinding are furnished. (Specimens Nos. 25056, 25057, U.S.N.M.) 
Huron., Michigan. — x^"'ine; uniform blue-gray color, with numerous 
flecks of silvery mica. Smells strongly of clay when breathed upon. 
For wet grinding of edge tools; produces a fine edge. (Specimen No. 
25076, U.S.N.M.) 

The Jog gins., Nova Scotia. — Fine gray; of uniform texture; used for 
wet grinding all kinds of edge tools; the larger stones for grinding 
NAT MUS 99 30 



466 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

springs, sad irons, and hinges; extensively exported to tlie United 

States, 

Bay of Chaleur, New Brunswick.— Fine dark bluish-gray; of tirm 
texture; smells strongly of clay when breathed upon. Resembles the 
stone of Huron, Michigan, but contains less mica. Used in the manu- 
facture of table cutlery; also machinists' tools and edge tools in 

general. 

Newcastle, England.— \Ag\^i gray and yellowish; with a sharp grit; 
rather friable, and texture somewhat coarser than that of the Berea 
stone, which it otherwise somewhat resembles. The liner grades used 
for grinding saws and the coarser and harder ones for sad irons, 
springs, pulleys, shafting, for bead and face stones in nail work, and 
for dry grinding of castings; also used by glass cutters. 

^Vlcker•Hl^^, England.— K dull brownish or yellowish, somewhat 
micaceous stone of medium texture and rather soft. For grinding 
saws, squares, bevels, and cutlers' work in general. 

Liverpool, or MelUng, England.— Vi\A\ reddish; a somewhat loosely 
compacted aggregate of siliceous sand, so friable that the sharp angles 
are easily crumbled away by the thumb and fingers. A very sharp 
grit, used for saws and edge tools, particularly axes in shipyards. 

Oraiglelth, Scotland.— Y'me-gv^me(\. and nearly white. A very 
pure siliceous sandstone with a sharp grit. Said to be the best stone 
known for glass cutting, though the Newcastle, Warrington, and York- 
shire grits are also used for a similar purpose. 

Grindstones from France and Saxony find their way into our mar- 
kets but rarely. 

For whetstones the same qualities are essential as for grindstones, 
though as a rule the whetstones ar^ designed for a finer class of work, 
and hence a finer grade of material is utilized. For sharpening scythes 
and other coarse cutting tools, however, the same stone is used as for 
grindstones, the same quarry producing stone for building, grind- 
stones, and whetstones, as above noted. The so-called Hindostan, or 
Orange stone, from Orange County, Indiana, is a very fine-grained 
siliceous sandstone of remarkably sharp and uniform grit, and which 
for carvers and kitchen implements is unexcelled. (Specimens Nos. 
38901-38905, 38910-38912, 3S918-38924, 72896, 72899, etc., U.S.N.M.) 
The so-called Labrador stone is also a sandstone of a dark blue-gray 
color and of less sharp grit than that just mentioned. (Specimens 
Nos. 38957, 38959, 38963, 38904, 38968, 38974, 38980-38982, and 38985- 
38987, etc. , U. S. N. M. ) Many scy thestones like ' ' Indian Pond " (Speci- 
men Nos. 38950, 38873, 38874, U.S.N.M.), "Chocolate," "Farmers' 
Choice," "Black Diamond," "Vermont Quinebaug," and the" La- 
moille" (Specimens Nos. 38926 and 38878, U.S.N.M.), are fine-grained 
mica schists from New Hampshire and Vermont quarries (Speci- 
mens Nos, 38947 to 38951, etc., U.S.N.M.). These as a rule are very 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 899.— Meirill, 



Plate 28. 




Fig. 1. 




Fig. 2. 

MlCROSECTION OF MiCA SCHIST USED IN MAKING WHETSTONE. 

Fig. 1, cut across foliation; Fig. 2, cut parallel to foliation. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



467 



Hiie-oniiiH'd srliistoso dark-gray rocks, .soinetimes of a light chocolate 
color on a freshly fractured surface. The microscope shows them to 
consist of a compact and slightly schistose aggregate of quartz and 
mica in which arc frcijucntly included very abundant small octahedral 
crystals of magnetic iron and sometimes garnets. (See Plate 28.) So 
abundant are these magnetite granules in some of these rocks, espe- 
I'ially tiiosc of Grafton, New Hampshire, as to constitute an important 
feature, and it is doubtless very largely to them that the stone owes its 
excellent abrasive qualities. Magnetite, it will be remem})ered, has a 
hardness of about 0.5 of the scale, and constitutes a very considerable 
proportion of the ordinary emery of commerce. We have here, then, 
what is almost a natural equivalent of the artificial emery stone, the 
compact groundmass of quartz and mica serving as a l)inding material 
for the magnetite grains wdiile they perform their work in wearing 
away the implement being ground. A part of the abrading quality of 
these stones is, however, due to the abundant quartz and mica scales 
and their peculiar arrangement in relation to one another. 

The well-known Water of Ayr, Scotch hone, or snake stone, as it is 
\ariously called, is also a very compact schist. It is said to come from 
Dalmour, in Ayrshire, Scotland. (Specimens Nos. 38931, 38937, 38946, 
54146, U.S.N.M.) 

The name novaculite is applied to a very fine-grained and compact 
rock consisting almost wholly of chalcedonic silica, and which, owing 
to the fineness of its grit, is used only in the finer kinds of work, as in 
sharpening razors, knives, and the tools of engravers, carpenters, and 
other artisans. The true novaculites are, so far as the writer is aware, 
at present quarried in America onl}^ in Montgomery, Saline, Hot 
Springs, and Garland counties, in Arkansas, and are known commer- 
cially as the Washita (or Ouachita, as the name is properly spelled) 
(Specimens Nos. 38955, 38906, 38969, 38977, 72900, etc., U.S.N.M.), 
and Arkansas stones (Specimens Nos. 38954, 38971, U.S.N.M.). Both 
varieties are nearly pure silica, the Ouachita being often of a yellowish 
or rusty red tint (Specimen No. 72900, U.S.N.M.), and the Arkansas 
of a pure snow whiteness, the latter variety being also the hardest, 
most compact, and highest priced. The analyses given below show 
the average composition of the two varieties: -- 



Constituents. 


Arkansas. 


Ouachita. 


SiO» 


99.50 
0.20 
0.10 
0.10 
0.05 
0.10 
0.15 
0.10 


99.49 
0.13 
0.06 
0.04 
0.08 
0.16 
0.10 
0.14 


ALO3 


Fe«Oj 


CaO 


MgO 


KoO 


NiuO 


H,,0 





468 EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

According to Griswold stone suitable for the manufacture of whet- 
stones occurs in quantity in two distinct horizons in the Arkansas novac- 
ulite series of rocks, both of which are now being worked. The 
principal quarries are in the massive white beds of the Hot Springs 
region, the material being mainly of the fine, compact white ""Arkan- 
sas" type. Within a limited region, northeast of Hot Springs, the 
stone becomes more porous, owing in part to the existence of a larger 
number of the rhomboidal cavities, and passes over to the Ouachita 
type. 

The microscopic structure of the Arkansas novaculite is shown in 
Plate 30, fig.l, the large white areas being angular granules of quartz. 

Owen regarded the Arkansas novaculites as belonging to the age of 
the millstone grit formation; that is, to the lower part of the Carbo- 
niferous, and considered them as a sandstone metamorphosed and freed 
from impurities by the action of hot alkaline waters. State Geologist 
Branner, however, regards the finer grade of novaculite as a meta- 
morphosed chert, a conclusion more in accordance with the microscopic 
structure of the rock, which is more that of chalcedony than of an 
altered sandstone. Griswold, on the other hand, regards the novacu- 
lite as a product of sedimentation of a fine siliceous silt, and of Lower 
Silurian age,^ while Rutley^ considers it as a product of chemical 
replacement by silica of the calcareous material of dolomite or dolo- 
mitic limestone beds. 

The view of Suttons quarry No. 7 in Plate 29 shows the novaculite 
beds dipping 6(P to the southeast, the bed of good stone being some 12 
or 15 feet in thickness. The rock is everywhere badlj^ jointed, in one 
case mentioned by Griswold as manj^ as six difierent systems being 
developed in a single quarry. The natural result is that pieces of only 
very moderate dimensions are obtainable even under the most favorable 
of circumstances. Fine veins of quartz intersecting the rock in various 
directions increase the difliculty of getting homogeneous material and 
thereby increase the cost of the output. 

The Arkansas stone is now used for many purposes. The whet- 
stones are used by engravers, surgeons, carvers, dentists, jewelers, 
cutlers, and other manufacturers of fine-edge tools, and by machinists 
and woodworkers of the more skilled class. Small whetstones for 
penknives are made in consideral)le quantitv and some stones are sold 
for razor hones. 

The stone is also used by wood carvers, jewelers, manufacturers of 
fine machinery and metal work, and by dentists in various forms of 

>See Whetstones and Novaculite?, hy L. S. Griswold, Annual Report of the Geo- 
logical Rurvey of Arkansas, III, 1892. This report contains a very full discussion of 
the Arkansas novaculite in all its bearings. 

■^ Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society of London, L, 1894, p. 377. 



Repoit of U S National Museum, 1899. — Merrill 



Plate 29. 




THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 469 

tiles and points. Dontists use particularly the ""knife blade," a very 
thin, broad slip of stone, triangular in section, with one short side, the 
other two forming- a thin edge as they come together (Specimens Nos. 
38998, 53721, U.S.N.M.). They are used for tiling ])etween the teeth. 
C'iirvers use wedge-shaped, tlat, square, triangular, diamond-shaped, 
rounded, and bevel-edged tiles for tinishing their work. (Specimen No. 
38996, IT.S.N.M.). Jewelers, especially manufacturing jewelers and 
watchmakers, use all these forms of tiles and also points. These last 
are sometimes made the size of a lead pencil, having a cone-shaped end, 
and are about 3 inches long and i inch square, tapering to a point. 
They are used chiefly in manufacturing watches to enlarge jewel holes 
(Specimens Nos. 38995, 53T26-5372T, U.S.N.M.). 

Wheels of various thicknesses and diameter are also made from 
Arkansas stone. They are used chiefly by jewelers and dentists, but 
could be made of service in all workshops where an Arkansas whet- 
stone is used (Specimens Nos. 38992, 38902, 53710, U.S.N.M.). The 
difficulty of ol)taining pieces of clear stone large enough for wheels 
several inches in diameter makes the price very high, and the difficulty 
of cutting out a circular form increases the cost. Wheels are quoted 
at from $1.10 to $2.20 an inch of diameter. 

Arkansas stone is used for finishing and polishing metal rolls, jour- 
nals, cross-head slides, piston rods, crank pins, and all kinds of lathe 
Avork. 

Fragments of the Arkansas stone are saved at the factories, and now 
and then sent away to be ground for polishing powder. In the manu- 
facture of this powder millstones are worn out so rapidly that the 
process is rather expensive, but as waste stone is utilized, the powder 
can be sold by the barrel at 10 cents a pound. It makes a very fine, 
pure white powder of sharp grit, suitable for all kinds of polishing 
work; it is known as "Arkansas powder." A large amount of energy 
is wasted, however, in the manufacture of this powder, for the silica 
of the Ouachita stone is in every way identical with that of the Arkan- 
sas stone, and it would l)e much more easily reduced to powder than 
the Arkansas. 

The so-calk^d Turkish oilstone from Smyrna, in Asia Minor, is both 
in structure and a))rasive qualities quite similarto the Arkansas novac- 
ulitos. (Specimens Nos. 38956, 38967, 38997, U.S.N.M.) It, however, 
is of a drab color and carries an appreciable amount of free calcium 
carbonate and other impurities, as shown by the analysis given below, 
as quoted by (xi-iswold: 

TURKEY STONE. 

Silica (SiO^) 72. 00 

Alumina (AljO^) 3. 33 

Lime (CaO) 13.33 , 

Carbonif acid (CO^) 10. 33 



470 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

According' to Renard,^ the celebrated Belgian razor hone quarried 
at Lierreux, Sart, Salm-Chateau, Bihau, and Kecht is a damouritc 
.slate containing innumerable garnets, more than 100,000 in a cubic 
millimeter. Like the Katisbon hone, this occurs in the form of thin, 
yellowish bands, some 6 centimeters wide (2f inches) in a blue-gray 
.slate (phjllade). The bands are essentially parallel with one another 
and with the grain of the slate, into which they at times gradually 
merge. The chemical composition of a sample from Recht is given 
a.s below. The mici'oscopic structure of the stone as described and 
figured by Renard is essentially the same as that of the Ratisbon stone 
in the collection of the U. S. National Mu.seum (see Plate 30, fig. 2), 
and the stones are practically identical in color and texture as well. 

Silica (SiOj) 46.5 

Titanic oxide (TiO^) 1.17 

Alumina (AI2O3) 23. 54 

Ferric iron (Fe^Og) 1. 05 

Ferrous iron (FeO) 0. 71 

Manganese oxide (MnO) 17.54 

Magnesia (MgO) 1. 13 

Lime (CaO) 0.80 

Soda (Na^O) 0. 30 

Potash (K2O) 2.69 

Water (H^O) 3. 28 

Carbon dioxide (CO^) 0. 04 

Phosphoric acid (PjOj) 0. 16 

Sulphur (S) 0.18 

Organic n)atter 0. 02 

Total 99. 11 

The cutting property of the stone would appear to be due to the 
presence of the small garnets above noted. (Specimens Nos. 38938- 
38940, U.S. KM.) 

The .so-called holystone is but a fine, close-grained sandstone of the 
same nature as that used in grind and whet stones. The greater part 
of those made in this country are from the Berea sandstone of Ohio, 
though some are said to be imported from Germany. The stones are 
used mainly on shipboard, and the trade is small. 

2. Pumice. 

The material to which the name pumice is commonly given is a form 
of glassy volcanic rock, which, by the expansion of its included moist- 
ure while in a molten condition, has become, like a well-raised loaf, 
filled with air cavities or vesicles. The cutting or abrasive quality 

^ M^moires Couronn^s et M^moires des Savants Etrangers de L'Academie Royal des 
Sciences, etc., Belgique 1878, pp. 1-44. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 




Plate 30. 






r>v* 







MlCROSECTlONS SHOWING THE APPEARANCE OF (l) ARKANSAS NOVACULITE 
AND (2) RATISBON RaZOR HONE. THE DaRK BODIES IN 1,2) ARE GARNETS. 



THE NONMETALLTd MINERALS. 



471 



of tli(> iniitcriiil is d\w to tlio thin partitions of gla.ss coniposinj*' the 
Wiill.s )>('tw«'(Mi those v(\sicl(\s. Any variety of volcanic rock, fiowino' 
out upon th(^ surface of the ground, is likc^ly to assume the vesicuhir 
condition known as puniiceous, l)ut only certain acid varieties known 
as liparites seem to possess just the right degree of viscosity to produce 
a desiral)le i)umice, and in this rock only in exceptional cii'cumstances. 
Almost the entire commercial supply of pumice is now brought from the 
Lipari Islands, a group of volcanoes north of Sicily, in the Mediterra- 
nean Sea. (Specimen No. 60787, U.S.N. M.) The material is usually 
brought over in bulk and sold in small pieces in the drug and paint 
shops, or ground and l)()lted to various degrees of fineness and sold like 
emery and other abrasive materials. (Specimen No. 54155, U.S.N.M.) 
At times an inferior grade of pumice has been produced from volcanic 
flows near Lake Merced, in California. In Harlan County, Nebraska, 
and adjacent portions of Kansas, as well as in many other of the States 
and Territories fai'ther west, have been found extensive beds of a line, 
white powder, which was first shown by the present writer^ to be 
pumiceous dust, drifted an unknown distance by wind currents and 
finally deposited in the still waters of a lake. Through a mistaken 
notion regarding its origin this material was first described in Nebraska 
as (/e]/serite. So far as the writer is aware, these natural pumice 
powders have thus far been used only locally for polishing purposes 
and as a cleansing or scouring agent in soap. As the material exists 
in almost inexhaustible quantities, it would seem that a wider scope of 
usefulness might yet be discovered. (Specimens Nos. 53074, 60920, 
37023, U.S.N.M., from Montana, Washington, and Nebraska.) 

The analyses given below show (I) the composition of the pumice 
dust of Harlan, Orleans County, Nebraska,'' and (II) a pumice from 
Capo di Costagna, Lipari Islands: 



Constituents. 


I. 


II. 


Siliea 


69.12 

i 17.64 

0.86 
0.24 
6.64 
1.69 
4.0.5 


73.70 
12.27 
2.31 
0.65 
0.29 
4.73 
4.25 
1.22 


Alumina 


Iron oxides 


Lime 


Miignesia 


Potasli 


Soda 


Ignition 


Total 


100.24 


99.42 





' See On Deposits of Volcanic Dust in Southwestern Nebraska (Proceedings IT. S. 
National ^Musmini, VIII, 1885, p. 99), and Notes on the Composition of Certain Plio- 
cene Sandstones from Montana and Idaho (American Journal of Science, XXXII, 
188t), p. 199). 

^ Rocks, Rock-weathering, and Soils, p. 350. 



472 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

According to Dr. L. Sambon, as quoted by Dr. H. J. ,rohn.ston-Lavis: 

All the best pumice of commerce is obtained from the northeast region of the island 
of Lipari, extending a.s far as the summit of Mte. S. Angelo on its northern slope. 
* * * It is excavated at the Fossa Castagna near M. Pelato, at M. Chirica, and 
on the shore of the Mosche. 

I visited a quarry of M. Pelato on the outer southern side. The height was about 
1.50 m. and 1 m. large. The entrance was sustained by poles, faggot-s of brushwood, 
and stones; at first one descended for 160 steps, then one ascended for about 50 m. 
where two naked men were digging in the dull light of an oil lamp. In decending 
I met some young men who were carrying up baskets full of pumice. They wore 
short coarse linen drawers, and on their naked breast hung the blessed scapulary. 
On my arrival at the workes they made me sit down on an empty basket while 
I watched the men dig out the pieces of pumice, often the size of a human head, 
from the embedding matrix, which is composed of different sized fragments and 
dust of the same material, pressed together, and forming an incoherent tuff. 
They told me of their poor wages, and the dangers of their work in con.sequence of 
the frequent collapse of the workings, killing men and youths. It was horrible to 
hear those accounts of misery and misfortune at the bottom of these caves. 

The low roof and narrow passage from which every moment fragments detached 
themselves seemed to threaten the collapse of the whole; and it was with great relief 
that I again reached the daylight. Only a few weeks previously a quarry of M. 
Pelato had collapsed and buried some workmen, and more than two days work were 
required to reach them. These unfortunate men, saved by a miracle, returned again 
to their work, for what else could they have done to obtain bread? 

Prolonged and curious was at all times the discussion concerning the origin of 
pumice. It was believed to be amianthus decomposed by fire, by Pott, Bergman 
and Demeste; calcined lignite or schist, by Vallerio; scorified marl by Sage and 
granite that had become blown up and fibrous by the effect of fire and water by 
Dolomieu. The latter asserted having found inclosed in some pieces of pumice frag- 
ments of granite. He also declares that he had seen masses of granite which took on 
gradually the fibrous structure and other characters of pumice; so that he concluded 
that granite or granitoid schist was the primitive material which by the effect of the 
volcanic fire passed to the state of the pumice. Finally he declares he sent speci- 
mens to all the most learned geologists of the time. Spallanzani, who visited that 
same locality and hunted in every part of Campo Bianco in a most diligent manner 
but without being successful in finding the granite of Dolomieu, says wittily that 
probably the French geologist had carried them all away. Spallanzani himself, on 
the contrary, considers that pumice and obsidian are the result of fusion of great 
masses of intermediate lavas which one encounters on all parts of the mountain. 
Prof. J. F. Blake recently, probably ignoring the observations of Spallanzani, is sat- 
isfied in finding in that locality "Mother-pumice" as he has baptized it, from which 
also is derived the obsidian. But pumice, obsidian and all intermediate rock varie- 
ties more or less scoriaceous are but different forms of the same eruptive product. 
The whole history and modifications of pumice have been worked out by Dr. John- 
ston-Lavis, who has shown that by studying these eruptive products the w^hole 
mechanism of volcanic action in general is explained and the sequence of eruptive 
phenomena of any volcanic focus can be made out. * * * 

When we descend to the shore of the Beja delle pomice by the gorge to the South 
East of the great obsidian flow, the slopes facing the lava are composed of immense 
deposits of pumice in which hundreds of holes are observable, marking the excava- 
tions made in search of the larger masses of this valuable rock, much of which could 
be seen in the numerous baskets standing at hand. The sight of the enormous 



THE NONMETALLK' MINERALS. 4^3 

_ lonu'ratioii of puinice and dust of a glaring whitt' colour, cut l)y the action of rain 
and wind into fantastic sliapes, .stands out against the blue sky like the irregular 
crags, spurs and ridges of a great glacier. 

Along the marina are quantities of pel)l)les of pumice, either rounded by the 
torrents that descend from above or by the waves that lap the' shore. "When the 
wind blows from N. E. a veritable fleet of floating masses reaches the port of Lipari. 
The i)uuuce that has been excavated is carried to the beach, and stored and sorted 
in sheds or caves cut out of the same pumice tuff, protected in front by a breakwater 
of big stones to prevent heavy seas reaching and washing away the produce. 

Pumice in commerce is classitied as follows — grosse{\arge size), correnti (medium), 
and jH'zzani (small) ; the large and middle size are subdivided into li^coni (flat) and 
rotondl (round) . The Uscnni are filamentous and break less easily than the rotondi. 
They are also trimmed by the sorters. The li^coni and rotondi are again subdivided 
into white, black, and uncertain, according to their colour. 

The price varies according to the quality from 50 to 2000 lire the ton. The 
common price for the assorted is 350 to 500 lire the ton. As much as 5000 tons a 
year are exported. The best pumice is that of Campo Bianco. It is also obtained at 
Perera, but it is in small quantity and was produced at the eruption of the Forgia 
Vecchia. It is a first class grey pumice and fetches from 600 to 750 lire the ton, and 
does not so easily break as the Campo Bianco. Also at Vulcano a grey pumice 
is found but the presence of included crystals render it useless for commercial pur- 
poses. At Castagna a commoner pumice is obtained called Alessandrina, of which 
brick shaped pieces are made and used for smoothing oil-cloth.^ 

According to the Engineering and Mining JournaP a merchantable 
pumice has recently been found in Miller County, Idaho, but the 
demands for material of this nature is likely to be lessened by the 
putting upon the market of a German artificial product. In 1897 some 
1,700 tons of pumice were mined near Black Rock, Millard County, 
Utah. 

Ground and bolted pumice is quoted as worth from $25 to $35 a ton 
according to quality. 

3. ROTTENSTONE. 

The name rottenstone has been given to the residual product from the 
decay of silico-aluminous limestones. Percolating carbonated waters 
remove the lime carbonate from these stones, leaving the insolul)le 
residue behind in the form of a soft, friable, earthy mass of a light 
gra}' or brownish color, which forms a cheap and fairly satisfactory 
polisher for many metals. Specimens Nos. 54150, 54153, 67390, 67791, 
U.S.N.M., show the material in its natural state and ground and bolted. 

The chemical composition of rottenstone, as may well ))e imagined 
from what has been said regarding its method of origin, is quite 
variable, though alumina is always the predominating constituent. 
Analyses show: Alumina, 80 to 85 per cent; silica, 4 to 15 per cent; 

^ The South Italian Volcanoes, by H.J. Johnston-Lavis, Naples, F. Furchheim, 1891, 
pp. 67-71. 

2 Volume LXIV, July 24, 1897, p. 91. 



474 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

5 to 10 per cent of carbon, and equal amounts of iron oxides and 
varying small quantities of lime. The material has little commercial 
value. 

4. Madstones. 

These need but brief notice here. The fallacy of the madstone dates 
well back into the dark ages and perhaps beyond, and strange as it may 
seem continues down to the present day. Not longer ago than Decem- 
ber, 1898, the Washington newspapers chronicled the sale for $450 
of a madstone in Loudovin County, Virginia, and from year to year 
very man}" letters are received l)y the Smithsonian authorities making 
inquiries regarding such, or possibly ottering one for sale at fabulous 
prices. 

So far as the writer is able to learn, either from literature or from 
personal examination, stones of this class are almost invariably of an 
aluminous or clayey nature, and their supposed virtue is due wholly 
to their avidity for moisture — their capacity for absorption, which 
causes them to adhere to anv wet surface, as the tongue or to a wound, 
until saturated, when ' they will drop away. It should not be neces- 
sary to state, at this late day, that their curative powers are purely 
imaginary. The ancient bezoar stone, used in extracting or expelling 
poisons, consisted of a calculus or concretion found in the intestines 
of the wild goat of northern India. ^ 

5. Molding Sand. 

For the purpose of making molds for metallic casts, a fine, homo- 
geneous argillaceous sand is commonly employed. 

The physical qualities which go to make up a molding sand consist, 
according to Nason,^ of elasticity, strength, and a certain degree of 
fineness. It must be plastic in order to be molded around the pattern; 
it must have sufficient strength to stand when unsupported by the 
pattern, and to resist the impact of the molten metal when poured into 
the mold. Too much clay and iron present in the sand will cause the 
mold to shrink and crack under the intense heat; too little will cause 
it to dry and crumple, if not to entirely collapse. 

The peculiar virtues of molding sand, as outlined above, are ascril^ed 
to the fact that each of the sand grains is coated with a thin film of 
clay. 

The accompanying table will serve to show the varying chemical 
character of sands thus employed, though, according to authorities 

^ W. J. Hoffman, Folk Medicine of the Pennsylvania Germans, Proceedings of the 
American Philosophical Society, XXVI, 1889, p. 337. 

^ Forty-seventh Annual Keport of the Regents State Museum of New York, 1893, p. 
469. 



THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 



475 



quoted hy Crookos and Rohricr,' the "quality of the sand for nioldinjv 
depends less on its chemical composition than on its physical proper- 
ties, namely, whether the grains are round, angular, scaly, etc., and 
whether they are of uniform size. The adhesiveness is dependent 
not alon<> on the quantity of clay, l)ut upon the angularity of the 
grains, and l»y a mixture of smaller and larger grains. Reinhardt states 
that to the naked eye, a good sand should consist of particles seem- 
ingly uniform in size, with a sharp feel to the touch. Wh(Mi strewn 
upon dark paper it should show no dust, and when moistened with 
from 10 to 20 per cent of wat(M- it must be capable of being formed 
into ])alls without becoming pulpy or being too easily crushed. 



Constituents. 


I. 


n. 


III. 


IV. 


V. 


VI. 


VII. 


VIII. 


SiOo 


92.083 
5.416 
2.498 

Traces 


91.907 
5.683 
2.177 
0.415 


92.913 
5.850 
1.249 

Traces 


90.625 
6.667 
2.708 

Traee.s 


79.02 

13. 72 

2.40 

0.71 

4.58 


86.68 
9.23 
3.42 
0.96 


87.6 
7.7 
3.6 
0.96 


90.25 


Al.,().. 


4.10 






and FcO 


5.51 


CaO 




0.23 


MgO 










































99. 996 


100. 182 


100.012 


100.000 


100.43 


100. 29 


99.86 


100.09 



Of the above No. I is from Charlottenburg, Germany; No. II, a sand 
employed for bronze castings in Paris foundries; No. Ill, sand from 
Manchester, England; No. IV, from near Stromberg; No. V, from Ilsen- 
burg, in the Hartz Mountains; No. VI, from Sheffield, England; No. 
VII, from Birmingham, England, and No. VIII, from Liineburg. 

The sand from Ilsenburg, the composition of which is given in column 
5, is stated^ to be prepared by mixing "common argillaceous sand, 
sand found in alluvial deposits, and sand from solid sandstone." In 
preparation the lirst two are carefully heated to dehydrate the clay 
and then mixed, equal proportions of each with the same amount of 
sandstone. The mixture is then ground and ])olted, the product being 
as tine as flour and capable of receiving the most delicate impressions. 

According to D. H. Truesdale,^ the four essential qualities in mold- 
ing sand are, in the order of their importance, (1) refractoriness, (2) 
porosity, (3) fineness, and (4) bond. These qualities are dependent 
mainly upon the varying properties of siliceous sand and clay, the 
refractory nature being governed by the absence of such fluxing con- 
stituents as calcium carbonate, the alkalies, or of iron oxides. Since 
in nature it is not always possible to obtain the admixture of just the 
right proportion, artificial mixtures are often resorted to, as mentioned 

1 A Practical Treatise on Metallurgy, II, p. 626. 

■■'Percy's Metallurgy, 1861, p. 289. 

» The Iron Trade Review, October, 1897, p. 24. 



476 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



above. W. Ferguson gives ^ the following analyses of molding sand 
in actual use in his foundries: 



Constituents 



Silica 

Alumina 

Ferric oxide 

Combined water .. 
Calcium carbonate 

Magnesia 

Potassium 

Manganese 

Organic matter 

Total 



No. 1, fine sand 
for snap work. 



81.50 

9.88 

3.14 

3.00 

1.85 

0.65 

No estimate. 

Trace. 

Trace. 



No. 2, medium 
grade for 

medium class 
of work. 



84.86 

7.03 

2.18 

2.20 

1.10 

0.98 

No estimate. 

Trace. 

Trace. 



100. 02 



98.35 



No. 3, coarse 
sand for 
heavy ma- 
chine castings 



82.92 

8.21 

2.90 

2.85 

1.10 

None. 

No estimate. 

Trace. 

Trace. 



97.98 



No. 4, for heavy 

machinery 

in dry-sand 

molds. 



79.81 

10.00 

4.44 

2.89 

1.25 

0.88 

No estimate. 

Trace. 

Trace. 



99.27 



Sands containing lime or alkalies, that is those containing free calcite 
or feklspathic granules, are sometimes liable to fusion in the case of 
heavy castings. It is customary in such cases to coat the surface of 
the mold with graphite. 

Sands suitable for ordinary castings are widespread, though the 
finer grades are often l)rought considerable distances, some of those 
used in bronze casting in America being imported from Europe. In 
the United States the beds are alluvial deposits of slight thickness. 
Large areas occur in New York State, in counties extendiag from the 
Adirondacks to New Jersey. At date of writing a very considerable 
proportion of the material used in the eastern United States is dug in 
Selkirk, Albany County, New York. (Specimen No. 61044, U.S.N.M.) 

Nason states that these sands occur in beds varying from 6 inches to 
3 feet or even 5 feet in thickness. They immediately underlie the 
surface soil and overlie coarser, well stratified sand beds more nearly 
allied to (i[uicksands. 

In gathering the sands for market, a section of land 1 or 2 rods in 
width is stripped of its overlying soil down to the sand, which is then 
dug up and carried away. When the area thus exposed is exhausted, 
a like area, immediately adjoining is stripped, the soil from the second 
l)eing dumped into the first excavation. By this method the field, 
when finally stripped of its molding sand, is ready again for cultivation. 

It is estimated that a bed of sand 6 inches in thickness will yield 
1,000 tons an acre. The royalty paid the farmers from whose land it is 
taken varies from 5 to 25 cents a ton. Some 60,000 to 80,000 tons are 
shipped annually from Albany County alone. 

The Selkirk molding sand is of a yellow-brown color, showing under 
the microscope angular and irregular rounded particles rarely more 



1 Iron Age, LX, December, 1897, p. 16. 



thp: nonmetallic minerals. 477 

than 0.25 mm. in dijimctcr, interspersed with linoly ))ulv('nil('nt matter 
Avhich can only he (losioiuitcd as (day. The yidlow-hrovvn color of the 
sand is due to the thin tilm of iron oxide which coats the larom- o-ran- 
ulcs. When this lilm is removed by treatment with dilute hydrochloric 
acid, the constituent minerals are readily recognized as consisting' mainly 
of (juartz and feldspar fragments (both orthoclase and a jjlagioclase 
variety), occasional granules of magnetic iron oxide, and irregularly 
outlined scales of kaolin, together with dust-like material too finely 
couuuiuuted for accurate determination. Many of the larger granules 
are white and opaque, being presumably feldspar in transition stages 
toward kaolin. An occasional flake of hornblende is presciut. The 
term greenmnd^ is applied to the argillaceous molding sands, in an 
undried-state, and which is employed in its native state, new and damp. 
The term dry mnd is used in contradistinction, to indicate a sand that 
nmst be dried by heat before being fit for use. The dry sand is stated 
to 1)6 firmer and better adapted than the green for molding pipes, col- 
umns, shafts, and other long l)odies of cylindrical form. 

In England good molding sands are obtained from the Lower Mot- 
tled Sands of the Bunter (Trias) beds and from those of the Thanet 
(Lower Eocene). 

6. Mineral Waters. 

From a strictly scientific standpoint any water is a mineral water, 
since water is itself a mineral — an oxide of hydrogen. Common usage 
has, however, tended toward the restriction of the name to such 
waters as carry in solution an appreciable quantity of other mineral 
matter, although the actual amounts may be extremely variable. 

Of the various salts held in solution, those of sodium, calcium, and 
iron are the more common, and more rarely, or at least in smaller 
amounts, occur those of potassium, lithium, magnesium, strontium, 
silicon, etc. The most common of the acids is carbonic, and the next 
probably sulphuric. 

Clmsification. — The classification of mineral water is a matter at- 
tended with great difficulty from whatever standpoint it is approached. 
Such classification may be either geographic, geologic, therapeutic, or 
chemical, though the first two are naturally of little value, and the 
therapeutic, with our present knowledge, is a practical impossibility. 
The chemical classification is, on the whole, preferable, although even 
this, owing to the great variation of methods of stating results used 
by analytical chemists, is at present attended with some difficulty. 
Dr. A. C. Peale, the well-known authority on American mineral 
waters, has suggested the scheme given below, ^ and from his writings 
has been gleaned a majority of the facts here given. 



^ This must not be confounded with the Greensand marl, or Glauconitic sand used 
for fertilizing purposes, and mentioned on page 369. 
^ Annual Report of the U. S. Geological Survey, 1892-93, p. 64. 



478 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899, 

AcH'ordini,^ to their temperatures as they flow from the .spriiig-s the 
waters are divided primarily into (A) thermal and (B) nonthermal, a 
thermal water being- one the mean annual temperature of which is 
70° F. or above. Eaeli of these groups is agam subdivided according 
to the character of the acids and their salts held in solution as below: 

Class I. Alkaline. 

Class II. Alkaline-saline-j^f'^^naS' 

Class III. Saline {Muriated. ' 

ISulphated. 
Muriated. 
^.,. . rSulphated. 

^il^"0"^--iMuriated. 

Any spring of water may be characterized by the presence or 
absence of gas when it is designated by one of the following terms: 
(1) Nongaseous (free from gas). (2) Carbonated (containing carbonic- 
acid gas). (3) Sulphureted (containing hydrogen sulphide). (4) Azo- 
tized (containing nitrogen gas). (5) Carbureted (having carbureted 
hydrogen). 

In cases where there is a combination of gases such is indicated by a 
combination of terms, as sulphocarbonated, etc. The classes may be 
further subdivided according to the predominating salt in solution, as 
(1) sodic, (2) lithic, (3) potassic,(4) calcic, (5) magnesic, (6) chalybeate, 
(7) aluminous. 

The alkaline waters, Class I above, include those which are charac- 
terized by the presence of alkaline carbonates. Generally such are 
characterized also by the presence of free carbonic acid. Nearly one- 
half the alkaline springs of the United States are calcic-alkaline, that 
is, carry calcium carbonate as the principal constituent. The saline 
waters include those in which sulphates or chlorides predominate. 
They are more numerous than are the alkaline waters. The alkali-saline 
class includes all waters in which there is a combination of alkaline 
carbonates with sulphates and chlorides; the acid class includes all 
those containing free acid, which is mainly carbonic, though it may be 
silicic, muriatic, or sulphuric. 

The character of the salts held in solution is the same for both ther- 
mal and nonthermal springs, though as a general rule the amount of 
salt is greatest in those which are classed as thermal. Thus at the Hot 
Springs of Virginia one of the springs, with a temperature of 78° F., 
has 18.01) grains to the gallon of solid contents, while another, with a 
temperature of 110° F., has 33.36 grains to the gallon. 

Source of mineral tvaters. — Pure water is a universal solvent and its 
natural solvent power is increased through the carbonic acid which it 
takes up in its passage through the atmosphere, and by this same acid 
and other organic and inorganic acids and the alkalies which it acquires 
in passing through the soil and rocks. The water of all springs is 



THE NONMKTALLIC MINERALS. 



479 



mctooric. that, is, it is wutor wliit-li has FaUcn upon tlic earth from 
clouds, and iJ-radually iK'rcohitinjjr downward issues again in tii(> form 
of sprino-s at lower levels. In this passaoe through the superficial 
portion of the (>arth\s crust it dissolves the various salts, the kind and 
quantity l)eing- dependent upon the kind of rocks, the teinperatui-es 
and pressure of the water, as well as the amount of absorbed gases it 
contains. 

lioth the mineral contents and the temperature of spring waters are 
dependent upon the geological features of the country they occupy. 

As a rule springs in regions of sedimentary rocks carry a larger 
proportion of salts than those in regions of eruptive and nu^tamorphic 
rocks. Thermal springs are as a rule limited to regions of compara- 
tive recent volcanic activity, or where the rocks have been disturbed, 
crushed, folded, and faulted, as in mountain<nis regions. Occasional 
thermal springs are met with in undisturbed areas, but such are 
regarded as of deep-seated origin, and to owe their temperatures to 
the great depths from which they are derived. 

Dhtr'tlnithm. — Mineral springs of some sort are to be found in each 
and all of the States of the American Union, though naturally the 
resources of the more sparsely settled States have not as yet been fully 
developed. For this reason the table given herewith is to a certain 
extent misleading: 

Produclion of mineral ivaters in 1890 by Stales and Territories. 



State or Territory. 



Alabama 

Arkansas 

California 

Colorado 

Connecticut 

District of Columbia 

Florida 

Georgia 

Illinois 

Indiana 

Iowa 

Kansas 

Kentucky 

Maine 

Maryland 

Massachusetts 

Michigan 

Minnesota 

Mississippi 

Missouri 

New Hampshire 

New Jersey 

New Mexico 



Springs 
report- 


Product. 


Value. 


ing. 








Gallons. 




4 


38,900 


S19, 917 


5 


48, 602 


17,442 


38 


1,464,075 


698,493 


11 


642, 850 


172,970 


12 


338, 017 


50, 6.S5 


2 


168,500 


10,275 


2 


17,000 


7, 250 


6 


128,040 


24,770 


18 


858,950 


101,090 


12 


162,475 


25, 255 


3 


40, 200 


3,320 


6 


36,175 


2,718 


4 


63,500 


7,032 


26 


1,850,132 


179,450 


11 


100, 380 


13,045 


39 


4,439,041 


230,704 


21 


3,045,400 


368,235 


4 


2,078,700 


54,704 


6 


271,500 


48,292 


12 


551,876 


262,705 


6 


469,800 


190,990 


7 


332,000 


171,380 


5 


46,800 


7,770 



480 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Production of mineral n-atert^ in 1809 bij States and Territories — Continued. 



State or Territory. 



Springs 

report- Product, 
ing. 



Value. 



New York 

North Carolina 

Ohio 

Oregon 

l^ennsylvania 

Rhode Island 

.South Carolina 

South Dakota 

Tennessee 

Texas 

Utah 

Vermont 

Virginia 

Washington 

West Virginia 

Wisconsin 

Other States a 

Total 

Estimated production of springs not reporting sales 

Grand total 



479 
62 



Gallons. 

4,454,057 

103, 150 

2,494,473 

45, 500 

1,. 542, 800 

195, 000 

322, 564 

138, 645 

346, 700 

4, 729, 9.50 

7,850 

53, 917 

954,689 

54,000 

32, 220 

4,089,329 

263, 782 



S809, 056 

20,715 

171,135 

9,700 

340, 254 

15,000 

33,450 

44,073 

55, 658 

155, 047 

1,955 

15, 869 

341, 769 

7, 002 

18, 305 

701,367 

75, 847 



37, 021, .539 
2, 540, 597 



5,484,694 
1,463,336 



39, 562, 136 



6, 948, 030 



a The States in which only one spring for each has made a report are included here, 
are Idaho, Louisiana, Montana, and Nebraska. 



These States 



Uses. — The mineral waters are utilized mainly for drinking and 
bathing purposes, the thermal springs being naturall}^ best suited for 
bathing, and the nonthermal for drinking purposes. 

For exhibition purposes the following waters have been selected, 
kind and geographic distribution being the controlling factors in mak- 
ing up the collection. In all cases the samples are exhibited in the 
original bottles as put upon the market. 

ALKALINE WATERS. 

Poland Natural Spring Water, Poland Springs, Maine. 

Ballardvale Lithia Spring Water, Ballardvale, Massachusetts. 

Londonderry Lithia Spring Water, Londonderry, New Hampshire. 

Otterburn Lithia Water, Amelia, Virginia. 

Capon Springs INIineral Water, Capon Springs, We.st Virginia. 

Jackson Lithia Spring Water, Jackson County, Missouri. 

Algonquin Spring Water, Prince George County, Maryland. 

Manitou Natural Mineral Water, Manitou, Colorado. 

Rock Mineral Water, Jeffress, Virginia. 

Massanetta Spring Water, Harrisonburg, Virginia. 

Bethesda Natural Mineral AVater, Waukesha, Wisconsin. 

Clysmic Natural Mineral Water, Waukesha, Wisconsin. 

White Rock Lithia Water, Waukesha, Wisconsin. 

Idanha Natural INIineral Water, Soda Springs, Idaho. 

Mis&isquoi 31ineral Water, Sheldon, Vermont. 



THK NONMETALLK^ MINEKALS. 481 

ALKALINl-: SALINK WATKKS. 

/. Snlplmted. 

Takoma Sprinjis Water, Takoma Park, Maryland. 

Fonticellt) Lithia Water, Chesterfield County, Virjjinia. 

Tredyffrin Lithia Water, Chester County, Pennsylvania. 

Charniian Natural Mineral Water, Franklin County, Pennsylvania. 

Harris Antidysi)eptie and Tonic Water, Burkeville, Virginia. 

CnH'kett's Arsenic Lithia Water, Shawsville, Virginia. 

Thompson's Bromine and Arsenic Sjjrings Water, Ashe County, North (Carolina. 

Harris Lithia Water, Laurens County, South Carolina. 

Stafford Mineral Water, Jasper County, Mississip[)i. 

Bladensl)urg Spa Mineral Water, Bladensburg, Maryland. 

Healing Springs Lithia Water, Bath County, Virginia. 

Fairchild's Potash Sulphur Water, Garland County, Arkansas. 

Buffalo Lithia (Spring No. 2) Mineral Water, Buffalo Litiiia Springs, Virginia. 

Geneva Red Cross Lithia Spring Water, Geneva, New York. 

Wright's Epsom Lithia Water, Mooresl)urg, Tennessee. 

Veronica Natural Mineral Water, Santa Barbara, California. 

2. Muriuk'd. 

Como Lithia Water, Henrico County, Virginia. 

Powhatan Natural Mineral Water, Alexandria County, Virginia. 

Blackistone Island Mineral Water, St. Marys County, Maryland. 

Columbia Natural Lithia Water, Washington City. 

Saratoga Natural Vichy Water, Saratoga Springs, New York. 

Lincoln Spring Water, Saratoga Springs, New York. 

The Hathorn Mineral AVater, Saratoga Springs, New York. 

High Rock Springs Water, Saratoga Sjirings, New York. 

Congress Water, Saratoga Springs, New York. 

Houston Lithia Water, Houston, Virginia. 

SALINE WATERS. 

1. SiiJphati'd. 

Indian Spring Water, Sligo, Maryland. 

Rockhill Spring Water, Rockville, Maryland. 

Pluto S])ring Water, French Lick Springs, Indiana. 

Excelsior Mineral Water, Excelsior Springs, Michigan. 

Greenbrier White Sulphur Water, Greenljrier Count\-, West Virginia. 

Geneva Litliia Water, Geneva, New York. 

Blue Ridge Springs Water, Botetourt County, Virginia. 

2. MnridU'd. 

Anipa Si)ring Water, Rome, Georgia. 

Deej) Rock Si)ring INIineral Water, Oswego. New York. 

Blue Lick AVater, Blue Lick Springs, Kentucky. 

ACID WATERS. 

1. Suljiliak'd. 

Shenandoah Ahnn S]»rings Water, Shenandoah County, Virginia. 
Rockl)ridge Alum S])rings Water, Alum Springs, Virginia. 

WallawhatoolaSulphated-aluminous Chalybeate Water, Milll)oro Springs, Virgini::. 
NAT MUS \)\) 31 



482 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

7. Road-Making Materials. 

Roadways subject to an}- considerable amount of traffic demand 
almost invariably some sort of stone bedding to prevent their becom- 
ing soft or badly cut up and rutted by wheels and hoofs of horses. 
Until within a comparatively few years it has been the general custom 
to pave the streets of cities and towns with i-ectangular blocks of 
granite, trap, or other hard rock, forming thus the well-known Belgian 
block and Telford pavements. Such are set in regular rows and the 
interspaces filled with sand and sometimes with tar or asphalt. For 
suburban and country roads a pavement of broken stone, the invention 
of a Mr. L. Macadam about 1820, and known by his name, is at pres- 
ent the most extensively used. The invention is based upon the prop- 
erty possessed by freshly broken stone of becoming compacted and to 
a certain degree even cemented when subject to heavy rolling and the 
impact of wheels. The finer particles, broken away by the action of 
the wheels, fill the interstices of the larger, and gradually bring about 
an induration forming a roadbed hard, smooth, and durable. 

Not all materials are equally good for macadamizing purposes. If 
the rock is too hard ordinary travel is not sufficient to produce the 
desired amount of fine material, and satisfactoiy cementation does 
not ensue. If too soft it grinds away too rapidly. If the material is 
decomposed, it is stated, it does not become sufficiently indurated — 
refuses to set, as it were. 

Obviously the bulk matter of any roadbed must be built up of 
materials from near-by sources, owing to cost of transportation. For 
surfacing, however, materials are often carried long distances. For 
this purpose a hard, dense rock, such as the finer grades of trappean 
rocks, are now most generally used. 

Macadam is laid with or without a foundation of larger stones. 
When such is used a thickness of from G to 12 inches is recommended 
and over this is laid from -1 to 6 inches of the broken stone or "metal." 

Taking all points into consideration, it is probable that the best size for macadam, 
for hard and tough stones, such as basalt, close-grained granite, syenite, gneiss, and 
the hardest of primary crystallized rocks, is from 1^ to IJ inches cube, according to 
their respective toughness and hardness, while stones of medium quality ought to 
l)e broken to gauge of from 1^ to 2| inches, and the softer kinds of stone might vary 
between the limits of 2 and 2i or 2| inches, but the latter is a size which should 
seldom be specified. 

On roads for light driving it is customary to place a final surfacing 
of smaller stone, such as will pass a 1-inch mesh. 

Considerable importance is attached to the manner in which the macadam is pre- 
pared for use. Machine-broken stone is not considered of the same value as that 
broken by hand. The stones are not so regular a size and shape, and there is a 
greater proportion of inferior stuff. A mechanical crusher is apt to stun the mate- 
rial, and does not leave the edges so sharp for binding as they are when the stone is 
broken with a small hammer.* 

1 Circular No. 12, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Office of Koad Inquiry, 1896. 



thp: nonmetallic minerals. 483 

The co.st of macadamized roads from luH-ossity varies almost iiulofi- 
nitoly. The primary factors are (1) cost of hibor, (2) accessibility of 
materials, and (3) character of country. From $2,000 to $2,500 a 
mile is perhaps an average figure for localities where materials are 
available close at liand. 

The collections are intended to siiow only the average sizes employed 
unci the varying nature of materials. 



A PRIMITIVE FRAME FOR WEAVING NARROW 

FABRICS. 



OTIS TUFTOK MASON, 

Curator, Dkn.^ioii of EflivoJo;/;/. 



485 



A PRIM1T1\'H FRAME FOR WEAVING NARROW FABRICS. 



By Otis Tupton Mason, 
Curator, Divhion of Ethnology. 



"Tela jngo vincta est; stamen secernit arundo; 
Inseritur medium radiis siibtemen acutis; 
Qnod digit! expedinnt, atque inter flamina dnctum 
Pereusso feriunt infecti peetine dentes." 

(Ovid— PaKas and Araclme, lines 65-58.) 



INTRODUCTION. 

The textile art among savage and barbarous peoples, as well as in 
the hands of country folk in civilization, consists in the joining of 
flexi])le materials in filaments — straw, splints, threads, etc. The sim- 
plest of these activities is twisting or twining. The making of sennit 
or braid comes next. After that will follow basketry, matting, net- 
ting, lace work, and even fabrics, all made, out and out, with the 
fingers. 

The second step in the textile art, as in all others, will be taken with 
the aid of some kind of device which hastens or perfects the operation 
of the hand. There will be knives to split the material, gauges to 
replace the finger nail, spindles, bobbins, frames, and shuttles, of very 
humble structure, forsooth, but all of them containing the working 
principles of the most advanced apparatus having the same functions. 
Omitting all other textile processes, attention will be directed here to 
weaving proper, or the use of mechanical appliances to this end among 
primitive peoples. 

In any style of mechanical weaving, however simple or complex, 
even in darning, the following operations are performed: First, rais- 
ing and lowering alternately different sets of warp filaments to form 
the "sheds;" second, throwing the shuttle, or performing some oper- 
ation that amounts to the same thing; third, after inserting the weft 
thread, driving it home and adjusting it by means of the batten, be it 
the needle, the finger, the shuttle, or a separate device. 

487 



488 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



Ill tlu> modern power loom the parts b}' which these operations are 
performed are very intricate and rapid in their composition and action; 
but in the simplest form of apparatus, from which the power loom 
was originally derived, a few sticks and strings and the cunning hand 
of the operator take the place of machinery, and time is no object. A 
careful examination of an}' power loom will demonstrate the oft- 
repeated fact that most of the machiner}', after all, is a substitute for 
the human lingers. 




Fig. 1. 

CHIPPEWA HEDDI.K FRAME, CARVED FROM A SIX(iLE PIECE OF WOOH. 
Cat. No. 3648. U.S.N.M. Collected by Henry R. Schoolcraft. 



DEFINITION OF HEDDLE FRAMES. 

There are in the U. S. National Museum a collection of heddle 
frames, and photographs of others from different parts of P^urope and 
America, each one of which was designed to form the "sheds'' in 
weaving belts and garters — that is, to raise or lower different sets of 
warp filaments in the manner to be now described. A series of healds 
are attached to or form parts of a heddle frame, which sometimes 
hangs free on the warp threads, as in the frontispiece, and sometimes 
is attached solidly to a frame or box, or to the body of the operator. 
(Compare lig. 1(5 with Plate 3.) In the former of these classes the 
"sheds" are opened by the weaver, who lifts or lowers the heddle with 
the hand. In the second class, the "sheds" are formed by raising or 
lowering the inner ends of the warp itself, half of its tilaments being 



A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME, 489 

entano-lcd in the stiri'ups of tlu^ hoalds, the other half passiiio- up and 
down l)otween the hoalds, 

A still simpler style of making- "sheds'' may be seen in a Chinese 
device employed in weaving rush matting. A block of wood like a 
piece of studding, as long as the matting is to be wide and 4 inches 
s(]uare in sei'tion, has a series of triangular saw cuts through it. Each 
cut has an upright opening on one side and terminates with a small 
hole on the opposite side. The next saw cut alternates with the pre- 
ceding, its long opening being on the side of the small perforation in 
the other cut. In rocking the heddle block by means of two handles 
on top, backward and forward, '\sheds" are formed in the twine which 
constitutes the warp of the matting. 

The specimens to be herein described came to the Museum from the 
Zuni and other pueblos of the Southwest; from the Masquakee or Sauks 
of Iowa; from the Chippewa Indians; from Finland, Germany, and 
Italy in Europe; and, finally, from the English settlements in the New 
England States and New York, and the Dutch settlements in Lancaster 
County. Pennsylvania. To complete the round this ingenious mechan- 
ism, having traveled through many lands and some centuries, emerges 
from the U. S. Patent Office as patent No. 334320 (Plate 4), and adapted 
forms are used for illustrating technical instruction in the Teachers' 
College, New York. 

HEDDLE FRAME OF THE ALGONQUIN TRIBES. 

The first of these objects brought to the notice of the ethnologist, 
belonging to the first class above described, in which the operator 
raises and lowers the heddle frame, was a C'hippewa specimen figured 
in Schoolcraft, but no description of it is there given (fig. 1). 

The Chippewa Indians (belonging to the Algonquin family) about 
Lakes ^Michigan, Huron, and Superior were in an excellent area of 
food supply, contiguous to Iroquoian and Siouan tribes, and were 
also brought into close industrial relationship with the French 
explorers and priests; later the English settlers became their teachers,^ 

The ver}^ object described by Mr, Schoolcraft was in the possession 
of the United States Government before the U. S. National Museum 
was founded, and is here figured; ])ut there is on the specimen and in 
the catalogues no allusion to the distinguished ethnologist and none to 
the function of the ap]3aratus. It is carved from a single ])lock of 
beech wood one-eighth of an inch thick. The upper margin is rounded 
and cut into patterns as with a jig saw, representing two animals, two 
hearts, and a synunetrical pattern in the middle. The lower margin 
is treated in the same w^av, only the designs are such as might be seen 
on old-fashioned furniture. The working part of this apparatus is 

^ Information respe;tinj: the Condition and Prospects of the Indian Tribes of the 
United States, Philadelphia, 1852, II, pi. 77. 



490 REPORT OB^ NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

the rectangular space constituting the middle portion. There are 
thirty-seven upright healds or " heddle dents " and thirty-eight spaces. 
The healds are not inserted into the wooden frame, but are a part of 
it, and are about the twenty-fourth of an inch in thickness, the mate- 
rial having been cut away on both sides so as to leave these as thin as 
safety would allow. Each heald or upright piece is wider in the cen- 
ter than at the ends and is there perforated with a small hole. The 
whole frame is just 7i inches wide and the healds about 3 inches in 
length. The points to be especially noticed in this example are, lirst, 
that the apparatus is made from a single piece of wood; second, that 
the Indians of the upper Great Lakes were taught by the earl}" set- 
tlers from Europe to be weavers; and third, that the method of orna- 
mentation, shown at the top and bottom of this specimen, is common 
enough in Germany (figs. 8 and 9), but it is not common elsewhere 
among American aborigines on such heddle frames. The healds and 
spaces, together seventj^-five in number, make provision for seventy- 
five warp thr'^ads in all. 

Mr. W J McGee, of the Bureau of American Ethnology, calls atten- 
tion to similar heddle frames in use among the Masquakee, or Sauks 
and Foxes, an Algonquin tribe in Iowa, and presents to the U. 8. 
National Museum an excellent example of a weaving frame from that 
tribe (fig. 2). 

Mr. W. H. Jackson says that the Sacs, Sauks, Saukies, or Osaukees, 
as it has been variously written — a word meaning yellow clay — and the 
Foxes, or Outagamies, or more properh^ the Musquakkink (red clay) 
are now as one tribe. They were first discovered settled about Green 
Bay, Wisconsin (after residence on the north shore of Lake Ontario), 
but their possessions extended westward, so that the larger part was 
])eyond the Mississippi. They partly subdued and admitted into their 
alliance the Iowa, a Dakota tribe. By 1804 they had ceded all their 
lands east of the Mississippi and settled on the Des Moines River, 
moving subsequently to the Osage (in Kansas) and, after 1842 [in 1845], 
the most of these finally to the Indian Territory. In 1822 the united 
bands numbered 8,000, but are now [1875] reduced to a little more 
than 1,000, of whom 341 are still in Iowa, 430 in the Indian Territory, 
!»8 in Nebraska, and about 200 in Kansas. The Sauks and Foxes of 
the Mississippi in the Indian Territory have a reservation of 483,S4<> 
acres. ^ 

The frame is made of walnut and is in its general structure similar 
to the foregoing, but is much heavier and more elaborately finished. 
It has forty-two healds, making provision for eighty-three warp 
threads in all. The ornamentation, at the top especially, has been evi- 
dently under the influence of whites in quite recent times. In this 

^ Report U. S. National Museum, 1885, p. 37. 



A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. 



491 



specimon. an it is set up, the lioalds arc not all used, only a sufficient 
number to enable the weaver to form a texture having- tit'ty-tive warp 
threads. Especial interest attaches to this piece of work, which is an 
example of transparent weaving and beadwork. The warp consists of 
fifty-five w-hite thn^ads. The shuttle is a steel needle threaded with 
fine cotton on which beads of dilt'erent colors are strung. The figur(>s 
are produced by counting off 
the beads and arranging them 
so that one will fall in each 
of the interstices of the weav- 
ing. 

Accompanying this frame 
(fig. 3) is a shuttle for mat 
weaving, having an eye near 
the center of its body. In 
forming the beadwork a steel 
needle was employed; but in 
ordinar}' garter weaving on 
the same loom the shuttle was 
employed both for placing 
the weft and beating it home. 

The general method of op- 
eration in both heddles just 
described and in all others 
of this type was as follows : 
Warp threads of the healds 
and spaces, or a smaller num- 
ber, were cut into the length 
of the intended garter,or belt, 
or liand to be woven. If ihej 
were all of the same color one 
filament was drawn through 
the stirrup in each heald and 
one passed between each pair 

of healds. If there were to be various colors in the warp, filaments 
of different shades were passed through the stirrups and l)etween the 
healds according to the taste of the weaver. At one end, which will 
be called the outer or farther end, the filaments were gathered together 
into a knot and made fast to some fixed object answering to the yarn 
beam of a loom. The other end, which will be called the inner or 
proximal »end, answering to the cloth beam of a loom, contained that 
portion of the fabric which, when finished, was rolled on a stick that 
lay against the breast of the weaver and was secured by a strap pass- 
ing around the body and buttoned to the ends of the cloth beam. 
Sometimes the inner ends of the warp were merely held in the left 




Figs. 2 and 3. 

MASQUAKIE HEDDLE FRAME AND SHUTTLE. 
Cat. Nos. 205262 and 176680, U.S.N.M. Collected by W J McGee. 



492 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

hand of the woavor. In any case, they were secured to some moval)le 
object which aUowed the weaver to increase or decrease the tension 
at will. 

THE PUEBLO HEDDLE. 

There is among the Zuni Indians a style of setting- up the warp of a 
belt or garter for heddles of this class, which relates the frame to the 
Indian blanket loom. The warp is one continuous yavn wound round 
and round two cjdinders, one resting against the soles of the weaver's 
feet, the other attached to her bod}- b}" a strap which passes behind 
her back, its ends buttoning over the ends of the inner cylinder. In 
the use of this device the warp is loosened or tightened b}" moving the 
feet or inclining the body, the most pliant, delicate, and responsive 
tension device.^ (Plate 1.) 

When the woman and her loom apparatus were set up for work, 
she raised or lowered the heddlo with one hand. The warp filaments 
which passed through the stirrups in the healds, being fixed in their 
places, were by this movement raised or lowered with the frame, but 
the alternate threads which passed between the healds remained stead- 
fast and straight. Whether the frame was raised or lowered, a " shed" 
was formed in the warp; the weaver then passed through this "shed" 
a simple bobbin or shuttle, often a rod with the weft woven on it, 
after the manner of a kite string, containing the weft or woof fila- 
ments, usually of white thread and quite fine. When the weft had 
been passed through this "shed" between the heddle frame and the 
body of the weaver it was beaten home by means of the shuttle or 
with a separate tool, as among the Zuni, or by the weaver's finger. 
This completed one weft. 

The alternate warp series were then brought to the top or depressed, 
and a second "shed" formed. The shuttle was passed back through 
this "shed" and the weft again beaten home. If a pattern was to be 
wrought, the shuttle was not passed through the "shed" as described, 
but worked, as in darning, through a certain number of the upper 
warp threads each time before a new "shed" was made. 

THE FINLAND HEDDLE. 

In 1893, Consul-General John M. Crawford sent to the U. S, National 
Museum, from Helsingfors, in Finland, two specimens of this t^^pe of 
heddle, one of which resembles in general features those described, 
while the other (tig. -1) is very suggestive of the type found in the 
pueblos of southwestern United States, to l^e later studied (fig. 5). 

' Washington Matthews, Navajo Weavers. Third Annual Report of Bureau of 

Ethnology (1884), pp. 371-378. 



A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FllAME. 



493 



Each of th(>sc spcH-iineius i.s cjirved out of a single piece of wood, and 
in each one the framework above and Ixdow i.s iniu-li thicker than the 
healdn. Fi*;-. 4 has eigiiteen healds in all and seventeen lonj^- slits 
between them. 1'he specimen is 8 inches long and 5i wide. The 
uprio-ht hars are whittled into a roundish shape, so as to present no 
shiirp corners to the woi'k. The to}) of the framework is carved out 
into the form of a ring used both in handling the apparatus and for 
suspending it when out of use. In tig. 5 the upper and lower margins 
are cylindrical in form, like the back of a comb, the middle parts cor- 
responding to the teeth. In outline 
this example is nearly square, being 
about 5i inches broad and high. 
Accompanying this specimen of 
Consul-General Crawford's was a 
shuttle for carrying the weft. It is 
a thin piece of wood, parallel-sided, 
except a slight constriction at the 
middle, with a wide notch at either 
end for holding the weft filament; 
the edges are sharpened for driving 
homo the lay. It also has a perfora- 
tion through one end for the pur- 
pose of suspension. 

With these frames were a num- 
ber of belts and garters woven in 
such apparatus, which exhibit in 
their patterns the manner of produc- 
ing diaper effects on the surface. 
In plain weaving, it will be recalled, 
the shuttle is passed backward and 
forward on the "shed'"' produced 
by the vertical motion of the heddle, and as soon as the weft is passed 
the sRuttle becomes a batten for driving it home. But whenever the 
weaver desires to produce other effects than plain weaving, it is neces- 
sary to count off' from the upper threads at each excursion of the 
shuttle such numbers of warps as are necessary, and to use a ]>atten 
stick or her fingers in forming the secondary ""shed" and in driving 
home the weft. This custom also appears in other places, to be men- 
tioned farther on. In each instance, the patterns on Plate 2 are in 
pairs, showing the two sides of the fabric and the effects of the special 
secondary treatment of the warp b}^ counting. There is thus to be 
seen in these patterns a good example of primitive arithmetic (Plate 2). 
Attention is especially called to the fact that along with this type of 
heddle in the Crawford collection there came a loom for weaving 




Fig. 4. 

HEDDLE FROM HELSINGFORS, FINLAND. 
Cat. No. 1678:i9, U.S.N.M. Collected by Consul- 
General John M. Crawford. 



494 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



coarse hemp cloth. This apparatus coincides precisely with the com- 
mon hand loom seen over Europe and the United States. Just as in 
New England and in New York the country folk were making cloth 
and tape with primitive apparatus only a generation back, so in Fin- 
land the same practices yet survive. Helsingfors lies at the northern 
end of the Baltic Sea, and it is only a short journey thence to northern 
Germany, where the little heddle frame will next be found. It doubt- 




Fig. 5. 

HEDDLE FROM HELSINGFORS, FINLAND, WITH SHUTTLE. 
Cat. No. 167837, U.S.N.M. Collected by Consul-Geueral John M. Ciawford. 

less traveled northward, acquiring a new name at every hinding, but 
its structure and function have undergone little change. The patterns 
at Helsingfors are more primitive. 



GERMAN HEDDLE FRAMES. 

The next example takes the student to the town of Saalf eld, Konigs- 
berg, in east Prussia. It was presented to the U. S. National Museum 
by Mrs. Elizabeth Lemke, who says that it is a common apparatus 
among the people. There are twenty bars or healds i\\ this example, 
and nineteen slits between. The frame is 14f inches long, and 8i 
inches wide. The healds are 8f inches long, giving to the warp thread 
a wider excursion up and down. This specimen is made from a thin 
pine board linished in a planing mill, and is three-eighths of an inch 



A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FKAME. 



495 



thick, Avitliout ornaments. The upper piirt is i-ounded and has a pro- 
jecting handle, as in old-fashioncnl school slates. 

The shuttle is of hard wood and r(\send)les the form of a netting 
needle which has a deep, rectangular notch at one end and a slitted 
point at the other end opening into an eye, in the middle of which 
stands a pointed spindle. This specimen, like all those l)efore men- 
tioned, hangs free on the warp, and the "sheds" are made by moving 
the heddle up and down while the warp is stationary at both end.s 
(tig. 6). 

Example No. 176821, in the U. S. National Museum, is also from 
Saalfeld. It is made of a thin piece of plain ])oard, and ther(^ are six- 
teen hcalds and fifteen slits or spaces between the healds. The appa- 
ratus is 19i inches long, 8 inches wide, and nearly one-half an inch 
thick, rounded at the upper end, and cut 
out to form a hand hold or grip. The 
saw cuts are roughly made, and the holes 
have been l)urned through with hot wire. 

The shuttle is a small seine needle, not 
slitted at the point, but having a project- 
ing spindle in the eye at the pointed end 
and a deep notch in the other, as in the 
common seine needle. In this example 
the shuttle contains white weft thread 
or twine; the warp lilaments are alter- 
nating brown, blue, white, and red 
threads. The shuttle serves also for 
a batten to beat the weft in place. 

Accompanying this apparatus is a 
device used in winding off the warp 
and giving to its filaments the correct 
length (tig. 7). It is a piece of hard 
wood, heart-shaped, with a pointed base 
to fit in a socket and a pointed spool 
above to hold the yarn. 

In the Museum of the Society for Pomeranian History and Antiipii- 
ties, in Stettin, are three heddles or weaving ))oards of the type now 
l)eing considered. Each was collected in Further Pomerania, where the 
apparatus is called the ''deska," as it is also known in Cassubisch dia- 
lect. It is in use up to the present day, but among the surrounding- 
German population throughout the whole of Pomerania, so far as infor- 
mation goes, it is unknown. The oldest one (fig. 8) measures -1 inches 
in width and 7 inches in length, is carved out of a single piece of wood, 
and has nine long openings between the healds which, through manv 
3^ears of use, have become worn away. These openings or slits are 3 
inches long and 0.2 inch broad. There are ten perforations for warp 




Fig. 6. 

HEDDLE AND SHUTTLE, FROM SAALFELD, 
EAST PRUSSIA. 

Cat. No. 175642 a. U.S.N.M. Colkit.d liy 
Elizabeth Lemke. 



496 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



threads, the outer two being through the sides of the frame itself. 

The upper margin of the board is cut out in figures or patterns <j[uite 

similar to those on the Schoolcraft specimen. 
In addition to these openings, the surface is 
covered with carvings. 

The second example (fig. 9) is rather rudely 
made of board. It is 5 inches broad and s 
inches long. Counting the sides of the appa- 
ratus, there are fourteen healds, perforati^l 
in the middle, through which warp threads 
pass, and thirteen slits or openings between 
these, all 4^ inches long and 0.2 inch broad. 
The upper part of the board has three heart- 
shaped perforations, a serrated border, and a 
l| loop, used for moving the heddle up and down 

or for hanging it up when not in use. 

A third example, having no ornamentation, 
is 5i inches long and 8 inches broad. It has 
eighteen openings, 4 inches long.^ 

The lack of definite information concerning 
the precise origin of the Schoolcraft specimen 
(fig. 1) and that of the Sauk or Masquakie 
Indians of central Iowa, collected by Mr. 
W J McGee, makes it diflicult to inquire 
into the German origin of the Algonquin 
specimens. It must be noted, however, that 
the ornamental carvings at the top arc alike 
in the two types. Furthermore, it must not 
be assumed that the specimens in the U. S. 
National Museum exhaust the geographic dis- 
tribution of this type of apparatus. Quite 
the contrary. It would be surprismg to find 
that it had no use in England and France in 
the Colonial period. 




ITALIAN HEDDLE FRAMES. 



Fig. 7. 



HKDDLE AND SHUTTLK, SET UP FOR 
WEAVINO, ALSO WARP HOLDER. 

Saalleld, East Prussia. 

Cat. No. 176S21, U.S.N.M. Collected 

by Elizabeth Lemke. 



In the U. S. National Museum is a heddle 
frame from the town of Siena, south of Tus- 
cany, Italy, collected by Dr. G. Brown Goode. 
Unfortunatel}^, material is lacking in all the 
area between east Prussia and Tuscany. 
Furthermore, it will be seen that the inventor has been at work more 
than once to transform the Cassubisch into the Tuscan specimen 

^Upon the Cassubic population of Farther Pomerania nee Baltische Studien, by Dr. 
C. A. Hass, pp. 33-308, and Blatter flir Volkskuude, IV, pp. 51-81. 



A PRIMITIVE WEAVING} FRAME. 



497 



(tio-. L(>). It consists of t'U'\cMi strii)s oi' hoaldsof wuliuit wood oj iiiclics 
long, one-fourth inc-li wide, and onc-twolfth inch thick, each perfo- 
rate.! in the niiddh> for a warp filament. These slats are set into 
grooves in a rectangular frame (5^ inches long- and 5^^^ inches Avide; 
the frame itself is three-fourths inch wide and five-sixteenths incli 
thick. It accommodates twenty-three wai-p filaments and belongs U) 
the second class of heddles before mentioned, in which the heddle 











mmmi '/, 



u 



!/' 



iiniiim:ii^!i!(: 




'^^Wiim^Muii'! 



< 
\ 



\ 



'III' 




V;nM\M 



Figs. 8 and 9. 

HKDDLES FROM STKTTIN, NORTH GERMANY. 

In Museum of tlie Society for Pomeraniaii Auticiuities. 

is stationary and the weaver raises and lowers the inner end of the 
warp. This specimen is set up, with considerable mechanical accom- 
paniment, on one end of a box that is 7f inches long and 5i inches 
wide. On the other end is an upright frame in which works a 
revolving j^arn beam, a feature copied from the ordinary hand loom. 

There is also in the U. S. National Museum a facsimile of this 
■example, from Lancaster, Pennsylvania, the center of the Teutonic 
NAT MU« 99 32 



498 • REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

population called the Penusylvania Dutch. The framework, or hed- 
dle frame, has thirty-one healds or upright bars, perforated, and 
thirty-two slits, in all accommodating sixty-three warp threads of 
various colors. The ordinary yarn beam is replaced in this example 
by a reel, on which the warp is distributed. This reel is held fast by 
a stick pushed through between the spokes of the reel and resting 
against the upright posts which support the shaft. By removing the 
stick additional warp may be unwound (tig. 11). Still more rude is 
another example in the U. S. National Museum, probably from Penn- 
sylvania, consisting of a heddle frame cut out of a thin piece of board 
one-eighth inch thick. Provision is made for twenty warp threads, 
by means of ten healds and ten slits. On one margin of the frame 
the outer portion is perforated and on the other side it is not. This 
upright is nailed in the end of a very rude box, having a bottom and 
two sides but no ends. The box is 2 feet long. At the rear portion, 
on either side, a post is fastened, and in this a reel, on which the 
yarn is wound. The structure is similar to that of the Italian speci- 
men and to others from Pennsylvania, but this is the rudest example 
of the kind in the Museum. 

NEW ENGLAND HEDDLE FRAMES. 

The writer is greatly indebted to Mrs. Alice Morse Earle, author of 
the charming work on Life in Colonial Days, for a photograph of a 
loom belonging to this stationary type for making silk braid, from 
Long Island, set up and in operation. The furniture of the room and 
the costume of the weaver are all in harmony with the instrument 
itself, and reproduce, as nearly as possible, the time in which these 
heddle frames were in common use throughout New England and the 
Eastern States. There is room for thirty-three warp threads, though 
it is possible to weave with a smaller number. Mrs. Earle, after 
speaking of the large, home-made looms seen in all thrifty New 
England houses, makes the following observation on the heddle frames: 

Smaller looms, called tape looms, braid looms, belt looms, garter looms, or "gallus 
frames," were seen in many American homes, and useful they were in days when 
linen, cotton, woollen, or silk tapes, bobbins, and webbings or ribbons were not 
common and cheap, as to-day. Narrow bands, such as tapes, none-so-pretty' s, rib- 
bons, caddises, ferretings, inkles, were woven on these looms for use for garters, 
points, glove ties, hair laces, shoe strings, belts, hatbands, stay laces, breeches sus- 
penders, etc' 

In 1894 the author visited the town museum in Bristol, Connec- 
ticut, and saw two specimens of the second type of heddle apparatus, 
one of which was given to the U. S. National Museum, and is here 
figured (tig. 12). It will be recalled that in this type the heddle is 
fixed and the weaver moves the inner or cloth end of the warp up and 



' Alice Morse Earle, Home Life in Colonial Days. New York, 1898, p. 225. 



A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. 



499 





Figs. 10 and 11. 

HEDDLES FROM SIENA, ITALY, AND LANCASTER, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Set Up in a box, with yarn beam and other loom attachments. 
Cat. Nos. 164841 and 175639, U.S.N.M. Collected by G. Brown Goode. 



500 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



down to form the sheds. A note with reference to these specimens 
was inserted the next da}" in the Hartford Courant, and as a result 
replies were recei\"ed from various quarters, calling attention not only 
to the existence of other examples, but mentioning the names of women 
who in their early days had practiced weaving tape, fanciful hat- 
bands, garters, and other narrow ornamental fabrics on them. It 
became evident that a device which at first seemed 
to have been invented by American Indians was 
not known to them prior to Columbus, but had 
crept into savage hands from the folk craft of 
early white settlers. 

Specimen No. 169078, in the U. S. National 
Museum, is a heddle frame presented by Roswcll 
Atkins, of Bristol, Connecticut, of the seventh 
generation of this family in the United States. 
It is made of a piece of pine board three-fourths 
of an inch thick. The upper end is sawed into 
fourteen healds, and each of them is pierced for 
a warp thread, making room for twentj^-seven 
warp threads. At the top, the healds are held in 
place by two battens which clamp the upper ends. 
The bottom is chamfered to be held between the 
knees b}^ a person sitting in a chair (fig. 12). 
This is a very primitive specimen of this class of 
heddles, and serves to illustrate their popularity 
in folk industry. There is nothing about this 
piece that is above the skill of the untutored 
farm boy with a common saw and awl and ham- 
mer; the lower portion is not even rounded out 
to fit the limbs of the operator as seen in other 
figures. 

Specimen 175641 in the U. S. National Museum 
is a heddle frame from Bristol, Connecticut, 
made from a thin board of maple wood. The 
upper portion consists of twenty-two healds 8f 
inches long, sawed out from the top as in fig. 14 
(fig. 13). These, together with twenty-one spaces, 
provide for forty-three warp filaments, and this 
portion of the apparatus is 9 inches wide. The tops of the healds fit 
in a groove of a rectangular block of oak which furnishes a framework 
to the upper border. On opposite sides, at the bottom of the healds, 
are riveted semicylindrical strips of the same material, strengthening 
the apparatus at that point. The continuation downward of this upper 
or working Y)art forms a base 17 inches long, cut out in a pattern 
resembling a vase or lamp stand. This stand is inserted in a groove 




HEDDLE FRAME FROM BRIS- 
TOL, CONNECTICUT. 

Cat. No. 169078, U.S.N.M. Vn- 
seiited to the National Miise- 
um ))y Roswell Atkins. 



A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. 501 

at the end of a pioco of oak wood and hold fast by wooden pegs. 
Finally, the oak piece is tirmly set in and mortised into a heavy block 
of wood which acts as a foot to the apparatus. 

This specimen belongs to the class of stationary heddle frames as in 
the example from Siena, Italy, and from Lancaster, Pennsylvania. 
The specimens from Maine and Connecticut, held between the knees 
of the operator, really belong to the same type. 

Mrs. F. R. Post, of Hebron, Connecticut, has one of these heddle 
frames cut out of a single piece of wood, on which her grandmother 
when 3"oung used to weave garters, etc., for her mother and her sisters, 
and her mother has also used it. 

The warp was laid off in proper lengths b}^ being w^ound around 
chairs, run through the holes in the healds and between slats; the outer 
ends were tied together and fastened to some object and the inner ends 
wer(> \w\d in the hand of the weaver. The weaver held the heddle 
between her knees by means of the projecting lower part or handle, 
and taking the inner ends of the warp in one hand, she raised and 
lowered it alternately. The slats allowed the warp to spring the same 
as the harness in a loom. The filling was put in with her other hand 
bv lueans of a simple shuttle, and beat up with one finger. (Compare 
fig. W.) 

Mrs. Louise G. Strong, of Colchester, Connecticut, also sent to the 
U. S. National Museum models, in cardboard, of these primitive hand 
looms, and with them two specimens of work done thereon. The first 
specimen is tough white linen tape one-fourth of an inch wide, used 
in old country houses for making loops on towels and other fabrics to 
hang them up. The other example is in worsted; the warp is a series 
of black, green, red, olive, and blue worsted thread; the woof is a salmon- 
colored worsted thread, l)ut it is invisible on the surface of the fal)ric, 
the warp having been driven hard home, so as to give a twilled eflect. 

Mrs. Strong says that the loom on which these were woven was used 
in her family eighty years ago for making substantial fabrics, but 
more especially as a pastime for 3'oimg women. 

Mrs. O. D. Nott, of New York, writes that her grandmother, living 
in the little village of Milton, Litchfield County, over sixty years ago, 
used a loom to make tape for apron strings. It was a very simple 
affair, operated as follows: One end of the warp threads was fastened 
to some stable object to hold them firm; the other ends were held in 
the left hand, and by raising and lowering them the "shed" was formed, 
through which the filling or weft was inserted. In a cardboard model 
giv^en to the U. S. National Museum are five healds and six spaces. 
The woof in this example is not even wound on a shuttle. The fabric 
being very narrow, a small reel or bobbin was sufficient for the work, 
the lay being beaten home with the forefinger. 

Specimen 175640 in the U. S. National Museum is a heddle frame 



502 



EEPORT OF NATIONAL T«ITSEUM, 1899. 




Fig. 13. 

HEDDLE FRAME FROM BRISTOL, CONNECTICUT. 

On solid base connected by an ornamental leg. 
Cat. No. 175641, U.S.N.M. Collected by A. W. Williania and G. F. Richards. 



A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. 



503 



from Aulnini, Miiiiu\ collected by Mr. H. C. Merrill. Tt is formed 
from a piofo of wiiito ])ino board ono-half inch thick, and has eighteen 
heddle dents. There is no crosspiece at the top, the working portion 
being formed by seventeen saw cuts 10 inches long, dividing the upper 
portion into parts like the toeih of a comb, each part one-half inch 
wide. On both sides the angular edges of the upright parts have 
])een whittled away so as to facilitate the passing of the threads. The 
holes for the warp threads have })een rudely perforated and their 
outer extremities whittled. The 
lower part of the apparatus, 8i 
inches long, has concave sides to 
facilitate holding it between the 
knees of the operator (tig. 14). 

It is quite possible that examples 
might l)e found in northern New 
England States. The form in which 
the heddle made of a single piece of 
board is prolonged to be held be- 
tween the weaver's knees or to be 
set in a block of wood on the floor 
is peculiar to New England, so far 
as the U. S. National Museum col- 
lection testifies. 

PATENTED HEDDLE FRAMES. 

As the climax of this t3'pe of the 
stationary heddle frame, attention is 
now called to the United States pat- 
ent No. 334320, granted in 1886 to 
Eugenia Wernicke, a subject of the 
King of Prussia, residing at 7 Bes- 
selsstrasse, Berlin. 

In the Wernicke patent the hed- 
dle frame, in the drawing, shows 
twenty-seven healds made of wire 
or cord, with stirrups in the middle. 
The shuttle for holding the thread is a seine needle lenticular in cross 
section, tapering at its extremities, and provided at each end with an 
eye. Other attachments to this device form part of the patent, 
namely, for holding the warp in good shape, so as to secure uniform- 
ity of width in the textile; clamp for holding the apparatus to the 
table, etc., all unimportant in this place, the principle of operation 
being the same as in those previously described from Germany and 
other parts of Europe. 




Fig. 14. 



HEDDLE FROM MAINE, WITH HEALDS DISCON- 
NECTED AT THE TOP. 

At the bottom a footing is cut in to fit the knees 
of the operator. 

Cat. No. 17.5640. U.S.N. M. Collected tiy H. C. MerrilL 



504 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

The language of the claim is as follows (Plate 4): 

I claim as new: 

(1) The combination, with a holder for one end of the warp threads, a clamping 
device for securing said holder to a fixed support, and a holder for the (jther end of 
the warp threads, of one or more bars adapted to be inserted in the warp, to serve 
as a guide against which the weft is beatcui up, a heddle frame constructed to be iield 
in and operated by hand, and a shuttle, also constructed to be operated by hand, 
said devices constituting a hand-weaving apparatus, substantially as described. 

(2) The combination, with a fixed support for one end of the warp threads and a 
free support for the other end of said warp threads, of one or more bars adapted to 
be inserted in the warp, to serve as a guide against which the weft is beaten up, a 
heddle frame constructed to be held in and operated by the hand, substantiall}' as 
and for the purpose specified. 

(3) The combination, with a fixed support for one end of the warp threads and a 
free support for the other end of said threads, of one or more bars ada^jted to be 
inserted into the warp and to serve as a guide against which the weft is beaten up, 
a heddle frame constructed to be held and operated by hand, and a shuttle of len- 
ticular form in cross section, operated by hand to pass the weft thread through the 
warp and for beating up the lay, substantially as described. 

(4)' The holder or clamping device for one end of the warp thread, consisting of 
the cjapiping bars 1, 2, 3, the latter being provided with a screw clamp or clamping 
bracket (B), and the screws (s), said parts being constructed for operation substan- 
tially as and for the purpose specified. 

(5) The heddle frame consisting of a rectangular frame (H), the upper crossbar 
(h^) of which is provided with a groove in its under side, and the lower cross- 
bar (h'^) with an offset in combination with the rack bars (h), rectangular in 
cross section, the healds {W), the stirrups (e), the locking bar (L), and locking 
latches (1) substantially as and for the purpose specified. 

(6) The herein described shuttle (S), the body of which is of lenticular form in 
cross section, having slitted points (s*), the slit of which terminates in an eye (s'^), 
substantially as and for the purpose specified. 

HEDDLE FRAMES FROM THE PUEBLO REGION. 

This interesting region occupies the valley of the npp(>v Rio Grande, 
the Territories of New Mexico and Arizona, and also portions of 
southern Utah, southern Colorado, southern California, and northern 
Mexico. It was first invaded by Spaniards when Cabeza de Yaca 
crossed it in 1536, and visited by Francisco Vasquez de Coronado in his 
expedition to search for the Seven Cities of Cibola in 1540. After 
this the region was occupied by Spanish settlers, sheep were intro- 
duced, and weaving in machines began. Some of the rude mechanical 
appliances of this class existed there doubtless before of Mexican 
type, since in the ancient ruins and cave dwellings textile fabrics of 
excellent quality are found. But no relic has, up to this time, been 
exhumed which connects the heddle frame here described with any- 
thing earlier than the Spanish occupation, nearly 400 years ago. 

The most interesting part of this study, however, is a large collec- 
tion of heddle frames from the pueblo region of the United States for 
weaving garters, belts, and other narrow ceremonial fabrics, some- 
times in plain color, more commonly m stripes and diaper effects in 



A PRIMITIVE WP:AVINa FRAME. 



505 



dili'eiuMit colonHl warps, quite similar to tiioso, of the Finlanders 
(Plate 5). A number of sections of reed or split mestjuite sticks are 
laid parallel, as in the batten of the ordinary loom. These are 
fastened at their ends on two par- 
allel sticks, which constitute the 
framework, whose length depends 
upon the number of warp threads 
to ))e inserted in the garter or belt. 

An interesting feature in the struc- 
ture of many of these pueblo hed- 
dles is the occurrence of the woodcni 
c-ross piece at the upper part, on the 
opposite side from the cross piece 
at the l)ottom. When one of these 
heddles is held perpendicularly in 
the hand, if the upper cross stick 
is on the side next to the eye, the lower one wi 
away from the eye (tig. 15). 

The Algonquin Indians sit upon the ground at their work; so do 
the })uebl() trilies. Hence the free-swinging heddle is more convenient 
for them. The same may be true of the east German types. Fig. 16 




Fig. 15. 

SKETCHES SHOWING METHOD OI' ATTACHING THE 
HEALnSTOTHECROSSBARSIN I'UEIil.O HEDDLES. 



))e on th<>. outside 











Fig. 16. 

PUEBLO WOMAN SITTING ON THE GROUND AND WORKING HEDDLE IN WEAVING A BELT. 

shows the attachment of the warp to the cylindrical stick in front of 
the weaver, which by courtesy may be called the primitive "cloth 
beam." It is held in place by a strap around the back, buttoned on 
the end of the roller, serving also as a roller for the finished work. 
The method of administering the heddle and the batten is clearly 
exhibited (tig. 16). 



506 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



This pueblo series is of such importance that the typical forms will 
be more minutely described, and a table given of all the specimens so 
as to bring- out the characteristics which they have in common and 
those which serve to differentiate them. 

Specimen No. 176704 in the U. S. National Museum is a rude heddle 
frame from Zuni, New Mexico, collected by Frank Hamilton Gushing 
(fio-. 17). The crossbars of twig are (3f inches long, and there are 
sixteen healds, 4i inches long, laid parallel, with their ends on the 
same side of the crossbars; these are made of little sticks rudely 
whittled out, notched at their ends and fastened to the crossbars by 

• means of a rawhide lashing. The 
holes, or dents, or stirrups in the 
healds are rudely gouged out and 
punched through. The whole appa- 
ratus is so clumsily put together 
that it gives the impression of a 
child's heddle for practicing. It is 
inconceivable that good work could 
be done with such a utensil, and yet 
the Zuiii have no better. Only 
thirty -one warp threads could be 
used in this heddle. One can not 
always be sure that the objects ob- 
tained from modern Indian tribes 
have seen actual service. As soon 
as things are known to be desirable, 
they are forthcoming. In the best 
made Zuni heddles the crossbars are 
on alternate sides. 

Specimen No. 41666 in the U. S. 
National Museum is a heddle frame 
from Zuni, New Mexico, collected 
by Maj. J. W. Powell. The cross- 
bars, of wood, are 28 inches long. 
There are ninety-four healds of small reed, 5f inches long, and these 
are attached to the crossbars by the usual lashing of rawhide thong, 
supplemented by wrappings of yellow yarn. The excursion of the 
loose warp filaments is 4i inches up and down. The holes or stirrups 
through the healds have been bored with hot wire; indeed, in all of the 
old specimens this seems to have been the method of piercing the 
healds or of finishing off the stirrups (fig. 18). 

It is noteworthy that in the examples presented from the different 
States of the Union, from Finland, Germany, and Italy, the heddle 
frame, with its healds, is carved or sawed out of a single piece of wood, 
or the healds are set in a groove which corresponds with the crossbar 




Fig. 17. 

RUDE ZUNI HEDDLE FRAME FOR NARROW 
GARTER. 

Cat. No. 176704. U.S.N.M. Collected l)y F. H. Cushing. 



A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. 



507 



reedf' 



=lf 



of the Zuni loom, but in all the looms of the Southwest the healds are 
lashed to crossbars. 

Specimen No. 1()5534 is a small batten frame or reed from (luadalajara, 
Mexico, collected by P. L. Joiiy. It consists of sixty-four 
made of l)its of flat iron, somewhat like those of 
a small clock spring. These are set at the top 
and bottom between two semicylindrical bits of 
wood and held in place l)v half-hitches of twine, 
whicb not onl}'^ hold fast the reeds, but also 
give unifoTOi spacing for the warp. The col- 
lector says that ''it is used for separating the 
threads of the warp in weaving the ^ rerbozos "■ or 
ornamental head shawls," universal throughout 
Latin America (fig. 19). 

At the side of this frame upright pieces are 
set in between the ends of the crosspiece and 
held in place by lashing. There are no dents or 
stirrups in this piece, so that it could not in any 
way have been used as a heddle or harness, but 
simply as a reed in beating home the weft. The 
noticeable feature is the method of attaching 
the upright iron portions to the crossbars, which 
is very similar to that used by the Zuni in 
attaching the healds to their heddle frames. 

Example No. 166694 in the U. S. National 
Museum is a heddle frame labeled Moki or 
Tusayan, collected by Mr. James Mooney. The 
frame sticks are 22f inches long. There are 
eighty-two healds of reed and eighty-one spaces, 
so that there is in all provision for one hundred 
and sixty -three warp threads. The healds are 
8f inches long, giving an excursion to the warp 
threads of T inches; at their upper and lower 
ends they are laid on different sides of the 
crossbars, so that in looking at the apparatus 
the crossbar will be on the side of the eye, and 
the other will appear behind the ends of the 
healds. 

As before remarked, there are a great many 
specimens made in this way, although there are others in which the 
crossbars.are both on the same side of the healds as in a gate. The 
ends of the healds are attached to the crossbars by a peculiar kind 
of lashing, in which the twine or filament crosses itself over the 
healds and lies in somewhat parallel lines on the sides of the cross- 
bars (Plate 6). 



Fig. 18. 

HEDDLE FROM ZUSl. 

Showing the healds on alter- 
nate sides of crossbars, 
t'at. No. 41666. U.S.N.M. Col- 
lected by J. W. Powell. 



508 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



PUEBLO HEDDLES OF VARIOUS SIZES. 

Collection of hcddles from pueblos, marked Zuni in the catalogue, 
but the location is not definitely known. The apparatus is more com- 
mon at Moki. 

Plate 7, fig. 1. Crossbars, rectangular strips of wood with notches 
cut on the flat side to receive the ends of the healds. This char- 
acteristic should be noted in this specimen, since it is very rare; 
in most examples it will be seen that the healds are laid against the 




Fig. 19. 

BATTEN FROM GUADALAJARA, MEXICO, ON THE PLAN OF THE PUEBLO HEDDLES. 

Cat. No. 165534, U.S.N.M. 

frame. In this specimen there are sixteen healds made of bits of 
split cane or splints of wood one-fourth of an inch wide and very thin. 
The ends are notched to fit into the notches cut into the crossbars and 
are held in place by a contiiuious winding or wrapping of sinew fila- 
ment. The holes or stirrups, in the healds, are coarse and rudely 
excavated. 

Tlie healds arie 4 inches long between the crossbars; the whole 
length of healds is 5 inches, and of crossbars i>i inches. 

Cat. No. 127088, U.S.N. M. Collected by Bureau of Ethnology. 



A PRIMITIVE WEAVINC} FRAME. 509 

Plate 7. — Colleftioii of Pueblo hc'ddU's, inarki'd Zuui, l)ut tliey are (luite as 
likely to be Moki. U.S.N.M. 

Fig. 2. — Crossbars of willow twigs; sixteen healds, 5i inches long, made of splints 
of wood, rudely whittled and fastened to the crossbars by wrapping of ra\vlii<le and 
rags. This is a very rude specimen. Length of crossbars, 71 inches. Znni, New 
Mexico. Cat. No. 75732, U.S.N.M. Collected by James Stevenson. 

Fi<i. 8. — Crossbars of twig; forty healds of cane splints, 5^ inches long, notched at 
either end to be fastened against the crossbars on alternate sides by rawhide string 
and rags. It is specially noteworthy that the ends of the bars are not opposite to 
each other. Zuni, New Mexico. Cat. No. 75731, U.S.N.M. Collected by James 
Stevenson. 

Fig. 4. — Crossbars of splints of wood, rectangular in cross section and regularly 
notclied in on the broad side for securing the thirty-five healds which are made 
of thin splints of wood, 6| inches long, and noti-hed at the ends and fastened to 
the crossbars by a lashing of leather. This specimen has the appearance of having 
been much used. Moki pueblo. Cat. No. 127688, U.S.N.M. Collected by James 
Stevenson. 

Fig. 5. — Crossbars of sticks of wood rectangular in cross section; forty-four healds, 
the shorter ones 6f inches long, are fastened to the crossbars by wrapping of leather 
string. On either side of the middle are three groups of healds rising above the 
upper crossbars by a series of steps. Moki pueblo. New Mexico. Cat. No. 127688 (a), 
U.S.N.M. Collected by James Stevenson. 

Plate 8. — Figures of two heddles from Moki Indians, New Mexico. Collected 
by Mrs. Stevenson. 

Fig. 1. — Crossbars of sticks, perforated for the fastening of the forty-eight healds, 
of split cane, 6 inches long, which are attached to the crosspieces by means of a 
leather string rove through the holes in the ends of the healds and through the 
crossbars. Both ends of each heald are on the same side of the crossbars. 

This specimen is unique in the manner of attachment, since most of the healds are 
fastened to the crossbars by wrapping, but in this case they are sewed together by 
means of leather thong. Moki Indians, New Mexico. Cat. No. 127688(b), U.S.N.M. 
Collected by James Stevenson. 

Fig. 2.- -Crossbars, one of stick, the other a flat piece of wood resembling a bow. 
There are eighty-nine healds, consisting of small reeds not split, 75 inches long, 
neatly wrapped at their ends with fine thread attaching them to the crossbars. The 
two ends of these healds, as in other best examples, are on different sides of the 
crossbars. The great number of healds, their neat lashing, and the position of the 
crossbars on different sides of the healds, mark this as a well-used and genuine 
example. Two reeds are broken out, and their places have been filled by woollen 
yarn with knotted stirrups in the middle to take the place of the holes in the healds. 
Moki Indians. Cat. No. 166695, U.S.N.M. Collected by James Mooney. 

It has been seen already, from the plates and descriptions, that 
an)ono- the Zufii and other Pueblo Indians a special batten is used for 
beating home the weft. In the simple tape-weaving devices in Con- 
necticut the forefinger of the weaver is used as a batten, the shuttle 
serving merel}^ to carry the warp thread back and forth through the 
"sheds." In the Finland examples, in those of Germany, and perhaps 
elsewhere, a wooden bobbin with open ends carries the warp filament, 
while in other examples either one or both ends of the bobbin are 
carved into the shape of the shuttle used in net making, and the edges 
of this wooden bobbin in all cases are made in the form of a knife 



510 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

blade, so as to be utilized also as a batten in pushing the weft thread 
into place. Now, in the Pueblo examples the bobbin is a little stick 
on which the weft thread is wound, very much as a boy winds his kite 
string, into a spindle-shaped package, the ends of which pass easily 
into and through the "sheds." This bobbin is not used at all in beat- 
ing the weft thread home, but a separate sword or batten is employed, 
which performs several functions. First, it takes the place of fingers 
in separating different series of warp threads when figure weaving is 
in view. After running the batten underneath those warp threads 
that are to appear in the figure it is revolved 90° on its axis and 
in this way becomes a special harness for making "sheds." Second, 
as a batten for beating home the weft. Third, as a help to the hed- 
dle, which does not always separate the two series of warp threads. 
The longer specimens are used for precisely the same purposes by 
blanket weavers in their looms, and in the U. S. National Museum 
there is, in the Ainu collection, a weaving in bark in which a very 
broad batten of this kind with a handle similar to some of those found 
in the Pueblo region is exhibited. 

The specimens shown in Plate 9 are of mesquite wood {Prosopis 
julifiora) or of oak {QuercK.s gamhelii). The upper example is made 
from a branch split and smoothed and shaped as little as possible. In 
the others it will be seen that there is an increasing effort on the part 
of the maker to secure a handle and a wider, thinner, and smoother 
blade. 

It is regrettable that the author has not been able to extend his 
inquiries into France and Spain. Hypothetically, the heddle frame 
came from Europe or southwestern Asia. The Finns, the Germans, the 
Sauks, and the Pueblo tribes have the free-swinging heddle frame. 
The New England women, who sit in chairs at their work, the Penn- 
sylvania Dutch, and the Italians used the stationary frame, making the 
"sheds" by raising and lowering the inner or cloth ends of the warp. 

Those weavers that sat on the ground and employed the free-swing- 
ing heddle could use a sword or paddle batten, serving to make the 
"sheds," to separate certain warp filaments for figure working, and 
for beating home the weft. Only rich patterns occur where the free- 
swinging heddle frame is employed. Not enough is known of the 
spread of this last apparatus in Europe to show the definite manner of 
its introduction into Iowa and the Pueblo region. On weaving with 
little boards in Bagdad and Mesopotamia, see C. F, Lehmann.^ 

^ Verhandl. d. Berliners Gesellsch. f. Anthrop., etc., May 19, 1900, p. 299. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899 -Mason 



Plate 1. 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Mason. 



Plate 2. 







^ ^^^^P 



•>v:' 



■-^v. 























/ ■ *-v 



.■.^^■.>:ii 







Patterns of Garters and Belts made in Heddle Frames in Helsingfors. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 899, — Mason, 



Plate 3. 




Loom with Heddle Frame for weaving Silk Braid. 



Report of U S National Museum, 1 P99 - Mason 

(No Model.) 



Plate 4. 
2 Sheets— Sheet 1. 



E. WERNICKE. 

HAND WEAVING APPARATUS. 

No. 334,320. .Patented Jan. 12. 1886. 








a^. 



Patent Heddle Frame No. 334,320. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899. -Mason 



Plate 5. 




Belt and Garter Patterns from Pueblos. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899. Mason. 



Plate 6. 




Construction of Pueblo Heddle Frame 



Report of U. S, National Museum, 1899,— Mason, 



Plate 7. 




Types of Pueblo Heddle Frames. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Mason 



Plate 8. 




Types of Pueblo Heddle Frames. 



Report of U S. National Museum 1 899.— Mason 



Plate 9. 




Pueblo Batten Knives for beating Home the Weft. 



AN EARLY WEST VIRGINIA I'OTTERY. 

BY 

WALTER HOUGH, 

Aasuitaut Curator, Division uf Ellinolo(jy. 



511 



AN EARLY WEST VIRGINIA POTTERY. 



By Walter Houun, 
Assistant Cunttur, Divi-von of Ethnology. 



The first potter at Morgautown, after the Indians, whose shards are 
scattered in the rich alluvium of the valley of the Upper Mononga- 
hela, was called by his apprentices "Master" Foulk. Of him nothing 
more can be learned, nor caji the date of his enterprise bo fixed beyond 
that it was before 1785, neither do any of his wares exist at the present 
day. 

In the period of settlement between 1758, when Thomas Decker 
arrived at the mouth of the creek that bears his name, and 1786, when 
Morgantown was incorporated, there is little to chronicle beyond the 
events incident to the early frontier, such as the establishing of forts 
and the fights with the Indians, in which David Morgan stands out 
prominently as a remarkable figure in border warfare. 

About the year 1785, James Thompson, with his son, John W. Thomp- 
son, then 4 years old, came from Bel Air, Maryland, to Morgantown. 
They settled near the Dorsey fort, several miles south of the town, 
because in those days of Indians, panthers, wildcats, and bears, every- 
one wanted to be near the fort. Later they moved to Morgantown, 
and, as family tradition has it, built the fifth house in the place. John 
was apprenticed to "Master" Foulk, the potter, learning the trade 
and succeeding to Foulk's business. 

This pottery was probably the first established west of the mountains, 
and arose from the increasing needs of the settlements growing around 
the frontier forts, so remote from the seacoast markets and almost 
without roads and transportation. Early in the nineteenth century, 
domestic; pottery, which had been hauled all the way from Baltimore, 
sold on the frontier at 3 levys a gallon, equivalent at this day to 72 
cents. This was another inducement to supply the demand on the 
spot. Moreover, the extensive deposits of Quaternary clays on the 
NAT MUS 9y 33 513 



514 EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

terraces of the Monongahela, shown by Dr. 1. C. White to be coinci- 
dent in geological time with the formation of the great glacial dam 
across the Ohio near Cincinnati, furnish abundant and superior 
material for pottery making.^ 

There was also an early market for the wares of Morgantown, and a 
great part of the product of the pottery was sent in keel boats and tiat- 
boats to various points down the Monongahela above Pittsburg and 
into the "wilderness." 

The stoppage of intercourse between the United States and England 
during the Administration of Thomas Jefferson worked hardship upon 
the growing country, as yet depending largely upon foreign nations 
for manufactured articles. However, the restrictions on trade and 
intercourse of the embargo act of 1807 paved the way for independent 
manufactures in the United States to supply home demand and mark 
the Ijeginning of that industrial energy which has led to industrial 
supremacy. At this period many small manufactories were started, 
as the glass factory (1807) of Albert Gallatin and the pottery of 
Alex. Vance at Greensboro, Pennsylvania (1809). 

During the war of 1812, as William Boughner, of Greensboro, Penn- 
sylvania, informs me, the yellow glazed .ware was in good demand 
and brought a high price. He instances that cups and saucers sold at 
a dollar the set. It will be seen that again the cessation of commerce 
with England cut off' the supplies of wares of the quality not made in 
America and stimulated the small potteries to manufacture articles for 
table use. Previously the wares were of the commoner forms for 
domestic use, such as milk pans, preserve jars, jugs, etc. Unfortu- 
nately, no examples of the tableware of 1812 survive, but fragments 
from the site of the old pottery show that it was a good quality of 
earthenware covered with a lustrous yellow glaze. 

The Vance-Boughner pottery at Greensboro, Pennsylvania, contin- 
ued to produce lead-glaze earthenware up to 1849; one of the latest 
specimens being shown in Plate 3. The manufacture of stoneware, 
principally in the form of jugs and milk crocks, still continues at that 
place. The earliest specimen of salt glaze stoneware from Greensboro, 
turned by Alex. Boughner in 1850, is shown in Plate 6. 

One can hardly realize the difficulties that beset the potter on the 
frontier in the early days. His materials for glazes were secured only 
by the greatest exertions, and their compounding taxed his patieiu-o. 
His colors were ground on stones by hand. Sheet lead secured from 



n. C. White, American Geologist, XVIII, December, 1896, pp. 368-379. 

Recent investigations seem to show that the clay deposits are due to local dams of 
ice. The writer, when a boy, discovered fossil plants in these clays and brought them . 
to the attention of geologists. Dr. F. H. Knowlton, of the U. S. Geological Survey, 
has determined the plants to be of the Quaternary glacial period. 



AN EARLY WEST VIRGINIA POTTERY. 515 

chests of toa and oxidized over the fire in an iron pan formed the basis 
of liis lead glaze; other materials had to be brought long distances 
over the mountains. 

On ever}^ hand there was call for the inventive spirit in the potter 
and skill in handling all sorts of tools and doing odd jobs. If a tool 
was needed there was nothing tt) do but to make it; brushes of human 
liair served for decorating the ware; bits of stick were whittled into 
modeling tools, or objects from various sources, if they had the proper 
form, were pressed into service. Clay was to be dug and worked in 
the rude mill of the potter's maiuifacture, the masonry kiln was to be 
laid up, and wood hauled and chopped with which to burn the ware. 
In the "shop" abounded evidences of the potter as jack of all trades; 
the wheel, the pieces of wood held in the hand for forming the vessels 
(Plate 8), the slip pump, carriers for removing the green ware, molds, 
stamps (Plates 0-18), and many other things that he had made with 
his own hands. A picture of the resourceful handicraftsman's labora- 
tory and workshop in the period of independent trades is full of 
interest. Also the products have an individuality that is denied to 
the products of cooperative labor, though the latter be more in touch 
with art ideas difiused at the present time. 

The first ware made at Morgantown was porous terra-cotta covered 
with a yellow lead glaze. Teapots, cups and saucers, dishes, and other 
tableware were turned out. Unfortunately, no specimens of this 
ware remain, but fragments from the site of the old pottery show its 
character. 

Following this came " red ware," or terra-cotta, covered with trans- 
parent lead glaze. At this period (1800) a number of glazes began to 
be used, such as dark-brown lead glaze, black iron or manganese 
glaze, gray "china glaze," greenish-gray and white, the surviving 
specimens being interesting and beautiful. They show decided artistic 
merit in the glaze and a quaintness of form that is pleasing and well 
worth the study of modern ceramists. 

Lead glaze wares went into disuse on account of a belief that such 
glazes are unwholesome, which is true. It was observed, also, that 
the preparation and firing of lead glazes had a bad effect on the health 
of the potter. 

With the disappearance of the ware having a lustrous glaze there 
ended a most interesting period of the pottery at Morgantown, The 
traditions and training that had given form and character to the art 
during more than fifty -five years and produced results that were com- 
menda])le could not survive the introduction of heav}', unresponsive 
material like stoneware, which was produced in the second period. 

In the second period, by the mixture of clays, securing the fusil)le 
and infusible elements which stand high heat in the kiln, stoneware 



516 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

began to be made. This ware was rudely decorated with bhie on the 
paste, slipped in the interior with "Albany clay,"^ and glazed in the 
kiln with salt. 

The method of glazing by salt was introduced into Staffordshire in 
1690 by two Germans from Nuremburg, named Elers. It was experi- 
mented with by Wedgewood, but proved unavailable, and fell to use 
for common ware. It is probable that the first salt glaze made in 
this countiy was at Marcus Hook, New Jersey. 

On the close of the first period of the Morgantown pottery and the 
death of the aged potter, John W. Thompson, following a few years 
after, his son Greenland Thompson took charge of the work. 

Greenland Thompson was a singularly retiring but well-informed 
man. Under better material conditions and surroundings he might 
have advanced to the manufacture of finer wares under the demands 
of modern taste. Within his limitations his temperament was artistic 
and appreciative. 

The idea which he carried out in stoneware was the application of 
natural forms in relief to the exterior of vessels. The specimens 
of his work in the IT. S. National Museum consist of a small cream 
pitcher with an ornamentation of rose stems, leaves, and buds; a 
flower vase covered with impressions from the shell of the Brazil nut, 
all of heavy ware, soft gray in color, and glazed with salt (Plates 6, 
7). More pretentious pieces were made by this potter, consisting 
of large garden-flower vases, the holder decorated with rose and other 
floral designs, and the base representing rounded river pebbles, or 
cylinders imitating tree trunks with vines clinging to them. 

Vases of this character were not made for sale, but may be consid- 
ered as the pastime of the potter, and were intended as presents to 
friends. A small trade was, however, carried on in children's banks, 
pipes, fat- lamps, etc., but the standard product of the pottery was 
crocks, jars, jugs, and other desiderata for the housewife. The only 
decoration applied to the salt glaze ware consisted of rude floral orna- 
mentations in cobalt. 

One of the most interesting specimens of early salt glaze ware 
of Morgantown belongs to Mrs. Linnie Dille, of that place. It is a 
jar, bearing the following brush-work inscription in cobalt blue: 
"Home manufacture. Independence. High tarifl'. William Crih- 
field. August, 1841. " Crihfield or Chrichfield was an employee of the 
Thompson pottery. 

The work of Greenland Thompson was not appreciated at its value 
and was scarcely known outside of Morgantown. In consequence, 
there are very few specimens in existence, those pieces which have 

' Albany slip clay is a fusible silicate of aluminium mined at Albany,- New York.^ 
It fires to a sublustrous enamel of dark purple color. 



AN KAKLY WEST VIRGINIA POTTERY. T)!? 

escaped doslruction l.eini;- lost in the liuilx) of "old things'' whicli 
exists in or around every human hiihitation. 

The pottery ceased operation on the death of Mr. Thompson in 1890. 

The writer is much indebted for the historical information in the 
above paper to Mrs. Dorcas Raymond, a daucrhter of Mr. John W. 
Thompson. 

DETAILED CATALOGUE OF THE WARES OF THE FIRST PERIOD.' 

Whisky flask. Terra-cotta with In-own lead glaze; heavy ware. .Such (laskH were 
HI me on the frontier before glassware was comnton. Plate 1, fig. 1. 

^leight, 6^ inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginia. 178460. 

Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Raymond. 

OiNT>[ENT JAR. Terra-cotta with greenish-gray glaze showing mottlings of pink. 
The vessel has one of the most beautiful glazes produced by the old pottery at 
Morgantown. Plate 1, fig. 2. 

Height, 4 inches; diameter, 2? inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginia. 205346. 

Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Pitcher. Terra-cotta, unglazed. On one side is the impression of a large mold in 
relief representing a house surrounded with trees, a favorite device of the early 
potter. The spout was formed from the pattern figured on Plate 16, fig. 7. 
The handle has been broken off. Plate 1, fig. 3. 

Height, 9 inches; diameter, 8 inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginia. 205345. 

Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Preserve jar. Terra-cotta body covered with dark brown lustrous glaze. Sealed by 
tying oiled paper over the mouth, as in the old form of preserve jar. Plate 1, 
fig. 4. 

Height, 6i inches; diameter, 5i inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginia. 205344. 

Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Spice bottle. Terra-cotta body covered with transparent lead glaze giving the beau- 
tiful clear red of the earliest pottery made at Morgantown. The word ' ' peper ' ' 
in dark brown decorates one side. The shoulder of the bottle bears a slip deco- 
ration in white, the motive being the name D. Thompson. Plate 1, fig. 5. 

Height, 5i inches; diameter, 3 inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginia. 203343. 

Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Sugar purifier. Terra-cotta covered with glaze giving the reddish-brown color which 
is said to have been the color of the earliest ware made at Morgantown. In 
form the vessel is conical, open at the top, and having an orifice at the bottom. 
It was set up over another jar and was filled with the rather crude maple sugar 
manufactured in the early days, which would drain through the orifice, leaving 
the upper layer white and dry. The initials " J. F. C," of an unknown potter, 
are scratched through the glaze. Date, 1800. Plate 2, fig. 2. 

Height, 13J inches; diameter, 9 inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginia. 96.595. 

Gift of Mrs, Dorcas Haymond. 

' The wares described are exhibited in a wall case on the south .side of the ceramic 
gallery in the U. B. National INIuseum. 



518 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

Molasses jar. The Hugar purifier was i)laced al)ove the molasses jar in order to 
catch the drips from the soft sugar. For description of the jar see [)age 518 and 
explanation of Plate 4, fig. 2. 

Preserve .iar. Terra-cotta body, straight sides, sloping shoulders, and short straight 
neck. The glaze is opaque, lustrous, and gray-green in color, with cloudings of 
brown blended into the glaze. This specimen is one of the most artistic and 
pleasing of the objects remaining from the early pottery at Morgantown. It 
dates from the last quarter of the eighteenth century. Plate 3, fig. 1. 

Height, 8| inches; diameter, 6i inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginia. 178456. 

Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Spice bottle. Terra-cotta body, sloping sides, fluting around bottom. Lead glaze, 
dark brown, heavy and lustrous, with obscure mottling or spotting that gives a 
pleasing broken color. Such bottles were used for containing spices. Date, 
about 1800. Plate 3, fig. 2. 

Height, 4J inches; diameter, 4 inches. 
Morgantown, West Virginia. 178455. 
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Molasses jar. Terra-cotta body, covered with dark brown mottled glaze; amphora 
shape. For containing molasses and apple butter. Date, about 1820. Plate 

3, fig. 3. 

Height, 11 inches; diameter at top and bottom, 5 and 5i inches; at middle, 8 inches. 
Morgantown, West Virginia. 178459. 
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Jug. Red body, pear shape. Glaze red brown, highly lustrous, and with uniform, 
spirally arranged crackle. Turned in 1849 by William Boughner, at Greensboro, 
Pennsylvania. Plate 3, fig. 4. 

Height, 8j'g inches; diameter, 6 inches. 
Greensboro, Pennsylvania. 1784.54. 
Gift of William Boughner. 

Preserve .iar. Terra-cotta body of usual shape covered with dark-brown lead glaze, 
with imperfections, giving light brown and yellow effects. Plate 3, fig. 5. 
Height, 8 inches; diameter, 6j inches. 
Morgantown, West Virginia. 178452. 
Gift of Hon. J. M. Hagans. 

Pitcher. Terra-cotta body glazed outside and within with a speckled glaze resembling 
Flemish gray. This glaze was called "china glaze" by the potter; its composi- 
tion is not known at present. Horizontal rows of alternate ^reen and black 
circles have been painted on over the glaze and fused, forming a bizarre ornamen- 
tation. The body of the vessel is ovoid, the spout bent in the neck; the handle 
is very broad, and the pitcher presents a quaint, old-fashioned appearance. Plate 

4, fig. 1. 

Height, 9f inches; diameter, 7J inches. 
Morgantown, West Virginia. 96594. 
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Molasses jar. Terra-cotta body covered with a greenish semitransparent glaze. 
Where the glaze is thicker the greenish hue predominates, where it is thinner the 
orange hue of the body shows through. The handle and sides of the jar between 
the handles are decorated in brown. The handles are lugs for lifting the jar. 
Plate 2, fig. 1, and Plate 4, fig. 2. 

Height, 13j inches; diameter, 10^ inches. 
Morgantown, West Virginia. 96590. 
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 



AN KARLY WERT VIRGINIA I'oTTERY. 519 

l*i!Ksi:i;vK .1 Alt. Tcrra-cotta body oovored ontsuU' ami within with a hiowii (near 
(^icnna) transpan-nt load glazo sju'ckled with minute dark-hrown Hpots. The 
sideH of the jar are (U'corated with a conventional flower, possibly a tulip, in 
white, green, and brown. The colors have l)lended into the glaze. The jar 
is of quaint shape, the sides having a long, eoncave sweep, the shoulders bended 
with turned grooves, and the rim low, suited tor tying on the cover. This 
excellent specimen is of the first period of the pottery of Morgantown. Plate 4, 
fig. 3. 

Height, IQi inches; diameter, GJ inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginia. 96588. 

Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Churn. Terra-cotta body covered with an uneven semitransparent greenish-yellow 
glaze known as ' ' china glaze, ' ' decorated with a leaf design in black. The churn 
is a truncated cone, the rim hollowed for the reception of the churn lid. It is 
related that churns were made as presents to children, but also were found useful 
for small churnings in the household. Plate 4, fig. 4. 

Height, 9f inches; diameter, 8J inches. 
Morgantown, West Virginia. 9G.592. 
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Spice bottlk. Terra-cotta, unevenly covered with a glaze varying from gray to 
brownish yellow, rough and spotted. The word "Cinnamon," in brown, is 
written on the bottle, and the signature of D. G. Thompson is scratt;hed on 
the paste. The sides slant to the bottom from the shoulder, which slopes 
upturned to the neck. The latter is ridged. Plate 5, fig. 1. 

Height, 5j inches; diameter, 3J inches. 
Morgantown, West Virginia. 96593. 
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Preserve jar. Terra-cotta body, burned rather hard. Speckled brown leatl (near 
sienna) transparent glaze, with large feathery clouded splotches of lighter green- 
ish buff "china glaze" over brown glaze, but melted in. Ornamental band 
stamped with rolling die around the shoulder of the jar. Almost straight, 
slightl}^ bulged sides, sloping shoulder, flaring rim, inside of which is a collar to 
hold the lid for sealing. Glazed brown inside, no glaze on bottom. No marks. 
Plate 5, fig. 2. This jar is of the variety first made in Morgantown, where 
a j)ottery was in existence about 1785. It dates from about the beginning of the 
})resent century. 

Height, 9| inches; diameter, 6i inches. 
Morgantown, West Virginia. 96587. 
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Jar or caddy. Terra-cotta body covered with black, lustrous, obscurely-crackled 
glaze made with lead. A band of three horizontal grooves in the paste goes 
around the middle of the jar. A relief stamp representing a coat of arms is 
placed above the band. The sides of the jar are slightly concave, the shoulder 
is square, and the neck is upright without flange, the general shape being that 
of the old-fashioned glass candy jar. This jar is a very excellent example of the 
" black" ware of the early pottery. Date, about 1792. Plate 5, fig. 3. 

Height, 8i inches; diameter, 6| inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginia. 96589. 

Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Fat-la.mp. Terra-cotta, unglazed; in shape, that of a North African lamp, but with 
larger reservoir. It is probable that this is a potter's lamp. In it waste fat was 
burned by means of a wick formed of cotton cloth. Plate 5, fig. 4. 

Height, 5 inches; diameter, 5 inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginiii. 

(Jift of Dr. Walter Hongh. 



520 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

WARES OF THE SECOND PERIOD. 

JxTG. Old form in stoneware, AA'ith salt glaze of grayiHh-l)r(nvn shade. Employed for 
holding oil, etc. Date, 1845. Plate 6, fig. 1. 
Height, Sk inches; diameter, 4 inches. 
Morgantown, West Virginia. 178464. 
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Preserve JAR. Gray salt glaze stoneware, slipped inside with "Albany clay," the 
slip giving a smooth, dark-pui'ple enamel. The jar shows mark of the turning. 
Sealed by settling a convex tin cover in a slot at the mouth of the jar and secur- 
ing with sealing wax. Date, 1872. Plate 6, fig. 2. 

Height, 11- inches; diameter at base, 5| inches; at top, 3j inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginia. 178461. 

Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Preserve jar. Fine specimen of the best type of salt glaze stoneware, carefully 
thrown and finished. The color is uniform and pleasing. The clay from which 
it is made is said to be the best ever discovered at Greensboro, but has been 
exhausted for many years. Turned by Alex. V. Boughner, at Greensboro, 
Pennsylvania, in 1860. Plate 6, fig. 3. 

Height, 7 inches; diameter, 4i inches. 
Greensboro, Pennsylvania. 178453. 
Gift of Alex. V. Boughner. 

Preserve jar. Brownish-gray salt glaze stoneware resembling the Flemish ware. 
Sealed in the old style by tying oiled paper around the mouth. This is one of 
the earliest pieces of stoneware made at Morgantown, West Virginia. Date, 
1850. Plate 6, fig. 4. 

Height, 6 inches; diameter, 3| inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginia. 

Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Muffin kings. Rings of salt glaze stoneware used for baking gems or " i^opovers." 
Date, 1849. Plate 6, fig. 5. 

Diameter, 3i inches; height, If inches. 
Morgantown, West Virginia. 96596. 
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Flowerpot. Gray stoneware with salt glaze. The outer surface is overlaid with 
clay representations of Brazil-nut shells in low relief, forming an effective deco- 
ration. Made by Greenland Thompson about 1870. Plate 7, fig. 1. 

Height, 3 inches; diameter,?^ inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginia. 96933. 

Deposited by Miss Clara Hough. 

Cream pitcher. Gray stoneware with salt glaze. Decoration, the branch of a rose- 
bush in leaf and flower applied in relief to surface of pitcher. Made by Green- 
land Thompson about 1873. Plate 7, fig. 2. 

Height, 3| inches; diameter, 24 inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginia. 95131. 

Deposited by Miss Clara Hough. 

Flowerpot. Gray salt glaze stoneware. The outer surface is overlaid with clay 
representations of pine cones in low relief, taken from molds made from the 
subjects. Made by Greenland Thompson about 1873. Plate 7, fig. 3. 

Height, 5| inches; diameter, 7^ inches. 
Morgantown, West Virginia. 95932. 
Deposited by Miss Clara Hough. 



AN EARLY WEST VIRGINIA POTTERY. 521 

Fi.owKK roT. Salt glaze stoneware. Decorated with impressioii.s In »iii iiiold.suf piiie 
cones. Date, 1880. Made by Greenluiul TIioiiipMoii. IMute 7, (ig. 4. 
Height, 3} inches; diamolcr, 5} inches. 
Morjfiintown, West Virsiiiin. 205341. 
Gift of Mrs. Doreiis Haymoild. 

Bottle for slip painting. Terra-cotta, with brown glaze. The vessel has been 
turned in the shape of a low bottle, and while green flattened on one side, con- 
cavities pressed in the opposite sides for the thumb and forefinger, a hole made 
in the top for the cork, and a quill thrust in the neck. In painting, the bottle 
was filled with slip and the perforated stopper inserted. By the closing and 
opening of the aperture in the cork with the forefinger the slip was made to flow 
at the pleasure of the operator. Slip painting was prevalent in England in the 
last century, and some remarkable pieces are still in existence. The slip vessel 
may have been brought from England at the close of the last century. Plate 12, 
fig.'l. 

Length, 4 inches; height, 2| inches. 
Morgantown, West Virginia. 96597. 
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 

Bottle for slip painting. Similar in form to No. 96597, but of unglazed terra-cotta, 
and having two holes. Two small feet in front allow the bottle to stand in slant- 
ing position, preventing the leakage at the qviill wlien not in use. Plate 12, fig. 4. 

Length, 51 inches; height, Si inches. 

Morgantown, West Virginia. 90.598. 

Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 1. 




Fig. 1 . " Tickler, ' ' or pint flask. Red body ; rough surface, glazed thinly with brown 

lead glaze. Date, 1790. Height, Giinches; breadth, 4J inches; thickness, 

2i- inches. Cat. No. 178460. 
Fig. 2. Ointment jar. Red body, with mottled greenish glaze. Date, 1800. Cat. 

No. 205346. 
Fig. 3. Unglazed pitcher. Baked red ware, showing use of large stamp on side. 

Date, about 1790. Cat. No. 205345. 
Fig. 4. Preserve jar. Red body; dark-brown lustrous glaze. Old form of preserve 

jar, sealed by tying oiled paper over the mouth. Cat. No. 205344. 
Fig. 5. Spice bottle. Red body; transparent glaze. Cat. No. 203343. 



Report of U, S. National Museum, 1899, — Hough. 



Plate 1. 




EXPLANATION OF PLATE 2. 



1 2 



FiG.l. .Molasses jar. Thin, greenish glaze on terra-cotta. Brush decorations in 

brown on lugs and sides. Cat. No. 96590. 
Fig. 2. Sugar purifier. Terra-cotta, with yellow glaze, giving an orange-red color. 

Cat. No. 96595. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899— Hough. 



Plate 2. 




EXPLANATION OF PLATE 3. 



! "■ ! 

Fig. 1. Preserve jar. Red body, covered with gray-green glaze, with cloudings o 
brown fused into the glaze, giving delicate shaded effect. Beautiful speci- 
men, probably the highest product of the pottery. Date, 1820. Height, 
85 inches; diameter, 65 inches. Cat. No. 178456. 

Fig. 2. Spice bottle. Dark-brown lead glaze on red Ijody. The glaze is heavy and 
lustrous, and a close examination shows mottling of lighter color, giving a 
variety to the general effect. Date, 1800. Height, 4| inches. Cat. No. 
178455. 

Fig. 3. Molasses jar. Dark-brown mottled glaze on red body. One handle broken 
off. Height, 11 inches; diameter at top and bottom, 5 and 5i inches; at 
middle, 8 inches. Cat. No. 178459. 

Fig. 4. Jug. Red-brown lustrous glaze, with uniform spiral crackle. Body, red 
ware. Turned in 1849 by William Boughner at Greensboro, Pennsylvania. 
Height, 8xV inches; diameter, 6 inches. Cat. No. 178454. Gift of William 
Boughner. 

Fig. 5. Preserve jar. Dark-brown glaze, with mottlings of yellow, the shadings 
giving good color effect. Height, 8 inches; diameter, 62 inches. Date, 
1820. Cat. No. 178452. Gift of Hon. J. M. Hagans. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Hough. 



Plate 3. 




NAT MUS !♦!♦ '64: 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 4. 




Fk;. 1. Pitclier. Terra-cotta, glazed with an opaque glaze resembling "Flemish 

gray." Spotted alternately black and green. Cat. No. 96594. 
Fig. 2. Molasses jar. Terra-cotta, with semitransparent green glaze. Cat. No. 96590. 
Fig. 3. Preserve jar. Terra-cotta, covered with lustrous Ijrown glaze. Decoration, 

a conventional tulip in white, green, and dark brown. Fine specimen of 

old ware. Cat. No. 96588. 
Fig. 4. Churn. Terra-cotta, with uneven, semitransparent, greenish-yellow glaze. 

Decoration, a leaf design in black. Cat. No. 96592. 



Repoa of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Hough. 



Plate 4. 




EXPLANATION OF PLATE 5. 




Fig. 1. Spice bottle. Terra-cotta, covered thinly with opaque white glaze. Neck 

fluted. The word "Cinnamon" is painted on the side in brown. Height, 

5^ inches; diameter, 3| inches. Cat. No. 96593. 
Fig. 2. Preserve jar. Terra-cotta body, brown glaze, with light cloudings. Height, 

9| inches; diameter, 6^ inches. Cat. No. 96587. 
Fig. 3. Jar or caddy. Terra-cotta body, covered with very dark-brown, lustrous 

glaze. Height, 8j inches; diameter, 6| inches. Cat. No. 96589. 
Fig. 4. Fat-lamp. Terra-cotta, unglazed and rudely finished. This form of lamps 

was one of the early products of the jiottery at Morgan town. Height, 5 

inches; diameter, 5 inches. Cat. No. 178464. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Hough. 



Plate 5. 




EXPLANATION OF PLATE 6, 



Fig. 1. Jug. Half-gallon jug in grayish-brown, salt glaze stoneware, used for oil. 

Date, 1845. Height, 8h inches; diameter, 4 inches. Cat. No. 178464. 
Fig. 2. Preserve jar. Gray, salt glaze stoneware, slipped inside with "Albany clay;'' 

not carefully finished. Slot in lip forsealing with tin cover and sealing wax. 

Date, 1872. Height, llj inches; diameter, 5^ inches — at top, 3^ inches. 

Cat. No. 178461. 
Fig. 3. Preserve jar. Best type of salt glaze ware, carefully thrown and finished. 

Turned by Alex. Boughner, at Greensboro, Pennsylvania, in 1860. 

Height, 7 inches; diameter, 4^ inches. Cat. No. 1784.53. Gift of Alex. V. 

Boughner. 
Fig. 4. Preserve jar. Brownish-gray, salt glaze stoneware, having the appearance of 

old Flemish. Sealed in old style by tying oiled ])aper around the mouth. 

Date, 1850. Cat. No. 200342. 
Fig. 5. "Popover" or muflin mugs. Stoneware, covered with Albany sH]). Date, 

1849. Height, 1|^ inches; diameter, 3h inches. Cat. No. 96596. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Hough. 



Plate 6. 




EXPLANATION OF PLATE 7. 



Fig. 1. Flowerpot. Gray stoneware; salt glaze. Decoration, casts from molds taken 

from Brazil nuts. Made by Greenland Thompson, 1884. Height, 82 

inches; diameter, 7^ inches. Cat. No. 95933. 
Fig. 2. Cream pitcher. Gray stoneware; salt glaze. Decoration, rose leaves and 

buds. Made by Greenland Thompson, 1870. Height, 3 J inches. Cat. 

No. 95931. 
Fig. 3. Flowerpot. Gray stoneware; salt glaze. Decoration, pine cones. Made by 

Greenland Thompson, 1882. Height, 5j inches; diameter, 7h inches. 

Cat. No. 95932. 
Fig. 4. Flowerpot. Brownish-gray stoneware; thin salt glaze. Decoration, pine 
cones. Made by Greenland Thompson, 1885. Cat. No. 205341. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Hough. 



Plate 7. 




EXPLANATION OF PLATE 8. 

Figs. 1-10. Formers of wood held in the hand by the potter while "throwing" ware 
on the wheel, giving shape to the vessel by dexterously applying the 
bit of wood to the revolving clay. The notches on the formers are 
for the purpose of securing certain shapes and for finishing lips of jars, 
etc. The formers were made of apple or pear wood. Morgantown, 
West Virginia. Cat. No. 178502. Gift of Miss Jennie Thompson. 



Repoit of U. S. National Museum, 1 899 —Hough 



Plate 8. 




Tools of the Potter. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 9, 




Fig. 


1. 


Fig. 


2. 


Fig. 


3 


Fig. 


4. 


Fig. 


5. 


Fig. 


6 


Fig. 


7 


Fig. 


8. 


Fig. 


9. 



Fig. 10. 

Fi(i. n. 

Fig. 12. 

Fig. 13. 
Fig. 14. 
Fig. 15. 



Former of wood. Cat. No. 178496. 

Hinged mold for tubular spouts. Cat. No. 178499. 

Lifters for handling green ware. Cat. No. 178497. 

Plumb bob of clay and string. Cat. No. 178510. 

Awl. Cat. No. 178505. 

Former for mouths of jugs, etc. Cat. No. 178513. 

Wooden spatula. Cat. No. 178512. 

Wooden spatula. Cat. No. 178512. 

Arm rest. In use fastened by a bolt at the side of the wheel-box and cov- 
ered with sheepskin as a cushion. Cat. No. 178495. 

Gauge for jar mouth. Lid of preserve jar fitted with handle to allow of 
placing it over the mouth of the jar T)eing thrown to ascertain gauge. Cat. 
No. 178500. 

Wire for cutting ware from the wlieel. Copper wire with wooden handle 
and leather guard. Cat. No. 178498. 

Gauge for height of ware. Planted in a lump of clay in tlie wheel-l)ox. ('at. 
No. 178504. 

Bow for wire used in cutting ware from the wheel. 

Scrajier for removing clay. 

Former for mouths of jugs, etc. 



Report of U. 5. National Museum, 1899.— Hough. 



Plate 9. 




r 



Tools of the Potter. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 10, 




Figs. 1-5. Small modeling tools made from iron wire. (Cat. No. 178511 belongs to 

all figures on this plate. ) 
FiGjs. 6-23. Modeling tools, scraper, etc., of various materials and sources put to use 

by the potter. 
Fig. 24. Old knife used on the wheel for forming ware. 
Fig. 25. Bits of wood, etc., adapted for use as modeling tools. 
Fig. 30. Gauge. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899,— Hough. 



Plate 10. 




Tools of the Potter. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 11. 




Figs. 1-4. Dies of baked clay. Early form of die placed in Ijottom of press, fitted 
with plunger to force clay through forming handles. Cat. No. 178515. 

Fig. 5. Pattern for handle dies; sheet iron. Cat. No. 178507. 

Figs. 6-7. Dies. Square frame of oak, over one end of which is tacked sheet iron, 
pierced with the sliape and fitted with a core. Placed in the press for 
forming hollow handles. Cat. No. 178501. 



Report of U, S. National Museum, 1 899 —Hough 



Plate 1 1 




Handle Dies of the Potter. 



' ■<; 



1 



'^ 



I 



NAT MUS 99 35 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 12 



1 


2 


3 


4 


5 



Fui. I. Vessel for slip decoration. Red body covered with brown glaze. The upper 
side of the vessel has an orifice to which was fitted a plug pierced with a 
small hole, and the spout is supplied with a quill. The vessel is shaped for 
grasping in the hand. Being filled with clay slip about the consistence of 
thick cream, the stopper was inserted and the flow of the slip regulated by 
the opening and closing of the orifice by the thumb. By this means designs 
were applied to pottery, often complicated, and producing pleasing effects. 
A specimen of the work may be seen on Plate 4, fig. 5. Cat. No. 96597. 

Fig. 2. Vessel for slip decoration. Red body, thin brown glaze. 

Fig. 3. Vessel for slip decoration. Red body, brown glaze. Wings at sides of l)ody. 

Fig. 4. Vessel for slip decoration. Cream-colored body; splotches of brown glaze. 
This vessel has two orifices in the top for convenience of the slip decorator. 
Cat. No. 96598. 

Fig. 5. Vessel for slip decoration. Cream-colored body; splotches of brown glaze. 
One orifice; four holes for quills at the spout. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Hough. 



Plate 12. 




Bottles for Slip Painting. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 13 



1 


2 


3 


4 


11 


1 







5 


9 


6 


7 


8 



Figs. 1-i. Rollers for decorating [)ottery. Sections of cylinders of 1)aked clay with 
sunken designs on the periphery, mounted in I'ude guides. C-at. No. 
178526. 

Figs. 5-9. Unmounted rolling stamps of wooil and baked clay. Cat. No. 178526. 

Figs, 10-11. Hand stamps of baked clay. Cat. Nos. 178525, 178520. 



Report of U, S. National Museum, 1899.— Hough. 



Plate 13. 




Roulette Wheels for Ornamenting Pottery. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 14. 




Figs. 1-20. Hand stamps of baked clay used in the early manufacture of pottery at 

Morgan town, West Virginia. Cat. No. 178520. 
Figs. 21-25. Stamps of printing type and molds from type used in signing later ware. 

Cat. No. 178520. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Hough. 



Plate 14. 




Stamps for Ware. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 15. 



1 






2 




3 


4 






5 




6 


7 


8 




9 


10 


11 








12 






18 


14 




15 


16 


17 


18 


19 


20 


21 


22 


23 



Figs. 1-6. Button molds. Cat. No. 178519. 
Figs. 7-11. Buttons oast from mold, unbaked. Cat. No. 178519. 
Fig. 12. Figure stamps of wood. Cat. No. 178518. 

Figs. 13-23. Figure stamps of baked clay and impression of stamps. Used in stamp- 
ing ware according to cubical capacity. Cat. No. 178518. 



Report of U. S Nntinnal Museum, 1899.— Hnugh^ 



Plate 15. 




Button Molds, Buttons and Figure Stamps for Ware. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 16, 



1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


11 


12 


10 







Figs. 1-3. Foims for molding small cake pans. Cat. No. 178514. 
Figs. 4-12. Forms and molds for making mouths of pitchers. (See Plate l,fig. 3.) 
Baked cream-colored clay. Date, 1790. Cat. Nos. 178516-178517. 



Report of U. S, National Museum, 1 899.— Hough 



Plate 16. 




Molds. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 17. 



1 


2 


3 


4 
6 


5 


7 8 



Fl(iM 


. 1 


Fk;.'- 


. 4 


Fui. 


6. 


Fui. 


7. 


Fig. 


8. 



-l^. Pipe molds of unlmked t^lay, fonventidiial pattern. (Cat. No. 178521 

belongs to all the tigures in thiy plate. ) 
5. Pipe mold, "Indian pattern," and ca.^ty from halves of the mold. These 

halves are afterwards joined by luting to form a pipe. 
Half mold and east. 
Half mold; plain pipe. 

Pipe mold; baked cream-colored clay. Showing dowels for holding mold 
together. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Hough. 



Plate 17. 




Pipe Molds. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 1 




Figs. 1-2. Separators of clay. Formed by hand before setting up the kihi and 

rolled in coarse sand to prevent adhering to ware. Cat. No. 178523, 
Fig. 3. Rest for large vessels at bottom of kiln. Unbaked. Cat. No. 178522. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Hough, 



Plate 18. 




Separators for Ware and Rest for Ware in the Kiln. 



I 



POINTED BARK CANOES OF THE KUTENAI AND AMUR. 



OTIS T. MASOX, 

Curator, Division, of Ethnology. 

WITH NOTES ON THE KtTTENAI CANOE BY MERIDEN S. HILL. 



523 



POINTED BARK CANOES OF THE KUTENAI AND AMUR. 



By Otis T. Mason, 
Curator, Division of Ethnology. 

WITH NOTES ON THE KUTENAI CANOE BY MERIDEN S. HILL. 



INTRODUCTION. " 

Amonj^- the series of models to illustrate the history of navigation 
gathered in the U. S. National Museiun there is one of a canoe secured 
a long time ago by Mr. George Gibbs and numbered 641 in the 
Anthropological Catalogue. Figures of such canoes are given in the 
Standard Natural History/ Lord's British Columbia," Proceedings of 
the Royal Societ}^ of Canada,^ and by Julian Ralph.* 

The model in question is not of birch-bark, but of pine-bark {Pinus 
monticold)^ laid on with the inner or smooth side out. The canoes of 
this type are all pointed like a monitor, at either end, on or below the 
water line; that is, they are longest on the line of the keel. When 
new the}?^ seem to be straight along this line, but, from being loaded 
in the middle, they sag afterwards, and the pointed ends get turned up 
through striking the shore in landing. 

Mackenzie mentions the use of spruce-bark in canoe building, but 
does not speak of the shape. 

A glance at a large collection of American Indian water craft through- 
out both continents reveals the fact that this pointed type is unique 
for the Western hemisphere. In the north and east the birch-bark 
canoes prevail, and farther north the kaiak and the umiak. In the ^vest 
the dugout is universal and assumes often large size and graceful out- 
line. But every example of skin boat, bark canoe, and dugout on the 
Western Hemisphere, excepting the Kutenai canoe, is longer on top 
and narrower at the bottom, or what would be the keel if any were 
present. In a few local forms of Canadian bark canoes there is a sug- 
gestion of a chin at the ends, faintly hinting at kinship with the Kutenai 
type. Further examination into the water craft of North and South 
America fails to reveal any such form as that of the Kutenai canoe. 
The bark boats or " woodskins" of the Amazon and its affluents and 

1 Vol. VI, p. 441. •■> Vol. IX, p. 15, fig. 4. 

'^ Vol. II, p. 178. * Ou Canada's Frontier, p. 293. 

NAT MUS 9'J 36 525 



526 



EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899, 



the Orinoco have no such motives.^ The reader will have to search in 
another part of the world for similar models, as will be shown 
further on. 

TYPES OF AMERICAN WATER CRAFT, BY AREAS AND FAMILIES. 



ZOOTECHNIC AREAS. 

1. Arctic. 

2. Canadian. 

3. Atlantic slope. 

4. Plains of the West. 

5. Louisiana or Gulf. 

6. Southeastern Alaska. 

7. Columbian region. 

8. Interior basin. 

9. California region. 

10. Pue1)lo region. 

11. Middle America. 

12. Antillean region. 



13. Cordilleran region. 

14. Upper Amazonian. 

15. Eastern Brazilian re- 

gion. 

16. Mato Grosso and 

southward. 

17. Argentina - Patagonian 

region. 

18. Fuegian region. 



Eskimauan. 

Athapascan. 

Algonquian-Iroquoian. 

Siouan. 

Muskhogean. 

Haida-Skiddagetan. 

Salish-Chinookan. 

Shoshonean. 
Very mixed stocks. 
Tanoan-Tewan and Sono- 

ran. 
Aztec-Mayan. 
Carib-Arawakan 



Chibcha-Kechuan. 
Jivaro, Peba, Puno, etc. 
Tupi-Guaranian,Tapuyan. 

Mixed peojjle of Brazilian 
and Andean types. 

Chaco, Pampean, and 
Patagonian stocks. 

Aliculuf, Ona, and Yah- 



WATER CRAFT. 

Kaiak and umiak of skin. 
Bark canoes. 
Dugouts and rafts. 
Coracle of buffalo hide. 
Cane floats and pirogues. 
Dugout, exclusively. 
Dugout and pointed bark 

canoes. 
None. 

Dugouts and reed rafts. 
None. 

Reed floats and dugt^uts. 

Dugout and woodskins — (1) 
woods kins, (2) buck- 
shell, (3) corial, (4) canoe. 

Balsas, reed floats with sails. 

Dugouts. 

Jangadas or catamarans. 

Woodskins and dugouts. 

Dugouts or none. 

Bark canoe in streaks or 
longitudinal sections. 



It would occur to any student of technograph}' that in this particular 
spot the birch trees fail and nature furnishes an excellent substitute in 
the pine bark. On this point Mr. Gilford Pinchot, of the Forestry 
Division of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, calls my attention to 
the following quotations from Sargent's Silva of North America: 

The canoe birch is one of the most widely distributed trees of North America. 
From Labrador it ranges to the southern shores of Hudson Bay and to the Great 
Bear Lake, and thence to the valley of the Yukon River and the coast of Alaska, form- 
mg with the aspen, the larch, the balsam poplar, the banksian pine, the black and 
white spruces, and the balsam fir, the great subarctic transcontinental forest; and 
southward it ranges through all the forest region of the Dominion of Canada and the^ 
Northern States to Long Island, New York, and northern Pennsylvania, central 
Michigan, and Minnesota, the bluffs of the Niobrara River in northern Nel)raska, 
the Black Hills of Dakota, northern Montana, and northwestern Washington. An 
inhabitant of the rich wooded slopes and the borders of streams, lakes, and swamps, 
the canoe birch, although it never forms a large part of the forest, is very common 

' Yon den Steinen, Unter den Naturvolkern Zentral Brasiliens, Berlin, 1894, p. 120, 
pi. X. 



POINTED BARK CANOES. 



527 



in the maritime provinces of (Canada, in the region immediately north of the Great 
Lakes, and in northern New England and New York, where it ascends to higher ele- 
vations than any other deciduous-leaved tree; it is small and comparatively rare in 
the coast region of southern New England, in southern New York, and central Minne- 
sota; widely distributed at high latitudes from Labrador to the eastern base of the 
Rocky Mountains; it is never very abundant there nor a conspicuous object in the 
landscape, and within the Arctic Circle becomes small and crooked. West of the 
Rocky Mountains, where it attains its largest size, the canoe birch usually grows 
singly and is found only along the l)anks of streams. (Vol. IX, p. 57.) 

The Western white pine is distri])uted through mountain forests from the basin of 
the Columbia River, in southern British Columbia, to Vancouver Island, southward 
along the western slopes of the Rocky Mountains to northern Montana, and to the 
Bitter Root Mountains of Idaho, westward along the mountain ranges of northern 
Idaho and Washington, reaching the sea level near the shores of the Straits of 
Fuca, and southward along the Cascade Mountains and the Washington and Oregon 
coast ranges, extending eastward in Oregon to the high mountains east of Goose 
Lake, and southward along both slopes of the California Sierras to the ridge between 
Little Kern and Kern rivers, in latitude 36° 25^ In northern Idaho the western 
white pine grows to its largest size, and is most abundant, often forming an imi)ortant 
part of the forest at elevations of from 2,000 to 2,500 feet above the sea on the 
bottom lands of streams trilnitary to Lake Pend Oreille; farther east, in Montana, 
it is less abundant and smaller; in the interior of British Columbia it is not abun- 
dant, although it sometimes is large; it is scattered in considerable numljers through 
the coniferous forests of the coast ranges of British Columbia and through the interior 
of Vancouver Island; and it is not rare on the Cascade Range, where it ascends to 
elevations of 5,000 to 6,000 feet, nor on the California Sierras, first appearing singly 
or in small groups along the upper margin of the fir forest, and attaining its noblest 
dimensions in California at elevations of about 10,000 feet above the sea, where trees 
90 feet high, with trunks 5 or 6 feet in diameter, sometimes occur, and resist for 
centuries, with their massive trunks, and short, contorted branches, the fiercest 
Sierra gales. (Vol. XI, p. 23.) 

As to the unique shape of the Kutenai canoe on the American Con- 
tinent, it will not suffice to say that pine bark is more easily bent after 
this fashion, and that in obedience to the law of economy of effort 
this was the natural result of employing that material. The writer 
made experiments with substances having similar toughness and elas- 
ticity and found it no more difficult to bend them into the common 
canoe form than into the monitor form when the material is properly 
cut out. As to the economy of sewing at the ends, that is difficult to 
determine. At any rate, the other American Indians invariably slope 
their Ijirch-bark canoes outward from the bottom at both ends, but 
the Oltscha and Goldi of the Amur, and even the Tungus and Yakut, 
imitate the Kutenai tribes and point their birch canoes below the 
water. 

In order to ascertain the distribution and handling of these pine- 
bark canoes, the assistance of Mr. Meriden S. Hill, secretary of the 
Tacoma Academy of Sciences, Washington, was invoked, and the 
results of his investigations will now be given. 



628 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

THE KUTENAI CANOE. 

The pine-bark canoe, pointed at both ends below water, is used in 
only a circumscribed area on the Kootenai River, and on the Columbia 
at the mouth of the Kootenai. In order to make sure of this and to 
know more about the uses of this craft, at the suggestion of the curator 
of the Division of Ethnology in the U. S. National Museum, an exten- 
sive correspondence was conducted with missionaries and others who 
have spent years on the Kootenai and the Upper Columbia. (Plate 1.) 

It is well to say that the birch-bark canoe of regions east of the 
Rocky Mountains does not exist on the Columbia or the Kootenai, 
but the dugout, in ruder form, is to be found in many localities, 
becoming more beautiful and seaworthy as one approaches the ocean. 
The writer has never heard of any other regularly built canoe of bark 
or other material in America pointed at or below the water line. All 
the birch-bark canoes are rounded up the other way, like the prow of 
an old-fashioned ship or of a lifeboat. It was the writer's purpose to 
work up the matter with greater detail, but he was prevented by 
continued illness. 

In the second volume of Ross's Fur Hunters he says, speaking of the 
Kutenai upon the Arrow Lakes, in British Columbia: 

At the water's edge we saw and examined a birch-rind canoe, of rather singular 
construction, such as I had never seen in any other part of the country, but used by 
the natives here; for I saw several of the same make when I passed this place two 
years ago. Both stem and stern, instead of being raised up in a gentle and regular 
curve, as is customary elsewhere, lie flat on the surface of the water, and terminate 
in a point resembling a sturgeon's snout. The upper part is curved, except a space 
in the middle. Its length is 22 feet from point to point and the whole bottom 
between these points is a dead level. ^ 

Such craft must prove exceedingly awkward in rough water, and 
there is often a heavy swell on these lakes. Dawson has also mentioned 
these canoes in the following language: 

In addition to the ordinary and always rough dugout canoe made from the cotton- 
wood {Populus trichocarpa) probably, and employed occasionally on certain lakes 
or for crossing the rivers, the Shushwaps in the eastern part of their territory in 
British Columbia made small and shapely canoes from the bark of the western white 
pine {Pinus monticola). These may still be occasionally seen on Shush wap Lake 
and in the vicinity of the Columbia. The inner side of the bark stripped from the 
tree in one piece becomes the outer side of the canoe, which is fashioned with two 
sharp, projecting spur-like ends, strengthened by wooden ribs and thwarts inter- 
nally; the whole is lashed and sewn with roots, and knot holes and fissures are 
stopped with resin. The canoes thus made are very swift, and, for their size, when 
properly ballasted, remarkably seaworthy.* 

Mr. G. M. Sproat, author of Scenes and Studies of Savage Life, 
says that the pointed canoe is the common craft on the Columbia River 

^ Alexander Koss, The Fur Hunters of the Far West, London, 1855, 2 vols. Vol. 
II, pp. 169, 170. 
* Transactions of the Royal Society of Canada, December 11, 1891, fig. 4. 



POINTED BARK CANOES. 529 

above Colville and on the lower part of the Kootenai. They arc in 
daily use there, but are not known to have existed in any other part 
of America. 

Mr. A. J. Kent, of Idaho, writes that the Kutenai have no other kind 
of canoe except the one made of spruce, white pine, or cedar-T)ai-k, 
pointed at both ends beneath. These are about 1,5 feet long and weigh, 
say, 50 pounds. The bark is very tough and pliable when it is taken 
off in the spring. The squaws build the canoes when the sap starts, 
sewing them Avith rawhide or anything else strong enough, closing the 
cracks with pitch from the yellow pine. It takes two squaws four or 
five days to make a canoe, the chief difficulty being to get the bark off' 
whole and to turn it wrong side out successfully. 

Mr. John Sizelove, postmaster at Kalispel, says that the pointed 
canoes are made of spruce-bark peeled off in a single piece. The 
frame is made of split cedar. The Indians at Kalispel will use no 
other kind of boat, as these are very light and can be taken out of the 
water and kept away from snow and ice in winter. This writer states 
that the points curve upward and do not sink below the water. It is 





Fig. 1. 

OUTLINE OF KALISPEL POINTED CANOE, SHOWING CURVED BOTTOM. 

a little difficult to decide at present whether this is a local peculiarity 
or due to the sinking of the middle when loaded. Mr. Sizelove sends 
a drawing to confirm his statement (fig. 1). 

The Kutenai bark canoes, ac-so-molth, are thus described by Mr. D. 
M. McLaughlin: The pine-bark is cut from the tree in the length 
required. The gunwales are prepared by splitting three pieces of 
cedar wood from a stem 3 to 4 inches in diameter, one of them a half 
C3^1inder wide, the other two in quarters, placing them about and above 
the margin of the bark, and lashing all fast with a band of the bark of 
the vine maple {Acer circhiatum). After this is finished the ribs, 
made of the same vine-maple wood split into the required lengths, are 
forced in between the gunwales. Thin cedar boards are then pushed 
between these ribs and the bark of the canoe. The ends of the thwarts 
are forced in between the three pieces of cedar wood, forming the 
gunwales, closing or opening the canoe as required. These thwarts 
are then securely bound with the vine-maple so as to keep all stiff and 
solid, especially the middle one, since it has to bear the greatest strain. 
Mr. McLaughlin says that the canoes, in spite of their frailty, can 
stand an extraordinary amount of storm and wave when well managed. 



530 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 



He is sure that when the canoes are first finished they are as straight 
as an arrow along the bottom. After one has been used awhile the 
ends turn up more or less, according to the weight put into them. 
The Indians, after using one, take it out of the water to dry and this 
has a tendency to draw up the points. 

The Rev. Joseph M. Caruana, S. J., gives the following general 
measurements of the pointed canoe (in Salishan languages, tlie or thlie)^ 
in use among the Lakes or Snaichisti Indians, in Stevens County, 




Fig. 2. 

POINTED CANOE OF THE LAKE INDIANS, WASHINGTON. 

Washington: length, 24: feet; width, 4 feet; depth, 2i feet; paddle, 6 
feet; poles, used perpendicularly in strong currents, 6 feet; mat in 
bottom to kneel on while paddling, 3 by 4: feet. The same writer says 
that in 1862 pointed canoes were in great use among the Spokane and 
Coeur d'Alene tribes, as well as the Colville, or Sgoyelpy, and Kalispel. 
He crossed many a river on such bark canoes while living among the 
Coeur d'Alene or Szchizue Indians. These canoes held two persons 
with luggage. The bottoms were flat and the ends somewhat turned 




Fig. 3. 
DETAIL OF THE LAKE INDIAN CANOE, WASHINGTON. 

up. They were fragile and swift. The Indians had no tradition and 
could give no account of their origin. The canoes examined by Father 
Caruana had ribs of white cedar, very light and pliable, and bound to 
the horizontal framework with split cedar roots or willow twigs. The 
ribs are pointed at the top and do not reach the gunwale, but are forced 
through the bark and covered in. The chinks are well pitched, espe- 
cially at the two ends. Mr. Kent, of Bonners Ferry, Idaho, describes 
one of the canoes as 14 feet long, weighing 50 pounds. 

Fig. 2 is of a model of the pointed canoe of the Lake Indians, made 



POINTED BARK CANOES. 531 

under the supervision of Father Caruana. It is 3 feet long- from point 
to point; open space, 2 feet; width, 6 inches; depth, 4 inches. This 
represents a larger one, 24 feet in length. Fig. 3 represents the de- 
tail of construction in the framework. In putting in the ribs in(nsions 
are made into and halfway through the hark of the hull at its uppin- 
border. The ribs arc inserted into these openings and pushed upward 
and out at the edge, which has been split for this purpose. The ends 
of the ribs do not reach quite up to the gunwale. The ribs are fewer 
in number, but larger, and pass' at their ends between the bark and 
the inside one of the three sti'ips or staves which together form the 
gunwale. These also pass outside the longitudinal slats toward the 
hold of the boat, while the ribs pass between the longitudinal slats and 
the bark sheathing. Slender roots and thin bark ribbons, apparently 
of spruce, are used in stitching and wrapping the various sections of 
the canoe together. The seams and joints are well covered with 
pitch. As in the full-sized craft, the inside surface of the bark be- 
comes the outside of the hull, which is formed of three pieces, as 
indicated in the drawing. The part marked shows the method of 
bending on of one of the thwarts. In some cases the ends are pierced 
and seized or sewed to the gunwale. With this model were two 
pointed sticks representing the poles used in managing the canoe over 
swift currents, a paddle, and a mat on which the man kneels. 

CANOES OF THE KUTENAI AND OF THE AMUR COMPARED. 

Through the researches of Mr. Meriden S. Hill, given in the fore- 
going lines, and the courtesy of Dr. Demetri N. Anutchine, president 
of the Society of Friends of Natural Science, Ethnology, and Anthro- 
pology in Moscow, and of Dr. N. Doubrovinee, perpetual secretary of 
the Imperial Academy of Sciences in St. Petersburg, it is made possible 
to bring into a comparative study two inventions that are like to each 
other and unlike to any other craft in either hemisphere. It is not 
necessary to do more than to refer to Mr. Hill's remarks, since he has 
ransacked the upper drainage of the Columbia in northern Idaho, 
northeast Washington, and southeast British Columbia. Additional 
information comes from Mr. A. J. Kent, Bonners Ferry, Idaho, to 
the effect that the Kutenai tribes are not ingenious; that they follow 
closely their model; that the squaws make the canoes in the spring, 
after the sap starts, sewing the parts with rawhide as well as with 
bark splints, and that it takes from three to five days to finish a canoe. 
Maj. C. A. Bendire, U. S. A., had traveled often in one of these, and 
found no trouble in placing therein, besides himself and the boatman, 
his saddle and outfit. 

The Gibbs specimen. No. 641 in the U. S. National Museum, is 
made of pine-bark {Pinu.s montlcola)^ in three pieces, drawn over a 
wooden frame, the inside of the bark forming the outside of the canoe. 



532 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

The framework consists of four longitudinal rods, to which are lashed a 
series of ribs b}^ means of bark strips. Outside of this frame and next 
to the bark are a series of false ribs or slats to hold the bark in place. 
The canoe is straight along the bottom and pointed at bow and stern. 
The gunwale consists of three long pieces, one, the inwale, laid along 
the inner margin of the bark; one, the outwale, laid parallel to this 
along the outer margin of the bark; and the third, the gunwale, which 
is broader and semicircular in section, is laid on top of all, so as to 
cover in the upper edge of the bark and the other two strips of the 
gunwale. The whole are lashed together with bark. This triple 
arrangement is also found on the upper margin of the bow and stern 
where the two edges of the bark are joined. The gunwale is held in 
shape and place by thwarts lashed at their ends. (Plate 2.) 

From the descriptions elicited by Mr. Hill concerning full-sized 
boats, it appears that the model is correctly made, and it is safe to 
conclude that — 

1. The Salishan and Kitunahan tribes that occupy the area included 
in the Kutenai drainage, make a canoe dilfering from any other craft 
known to American tribes. 

2. These canoes are made chiefly of the tough leathery pine-bark, 
on cedar frames and sewed with tough roots, such as the Indians employ 
for basketry all over this northwestern region. 

3. The bark is stripped off in lengths equal to those of the desired 
canoes, about 15 feet, and in order to increase its gliding qualit}^ is 
turned inside out. 

4. At a convenient distance from the ends the margins of the bark 
are firmly tied together. Between these two points of union the edges 
are forced apart and held in place by thwarts varying in length. Out- 
side the two points of union the ends of the bark are pinched togethei 
and triangular pieces cut from the corners, so that when the sloping- 
edges are joined a sloping or incurved line extends from the points 
of union on top to the extremities of the l)ottom, in fact causing the 
canoe to look at each end something like a modern " ram" or monitor. 

5. The bark is strengthened by ribs and by horizontal slats, and the 
parts are sewed together by means of vinemaple, pine, cedar, or spruce 
root, or with strips of bark. 

6. A gunwale is built up by splitting a cedar pole into three parts, 
one of them the segment of a circle in section for top wale; the other 
two, inwale and outwale, are quarters of circles in section, so that they 
will fit neatly on top and along the outer and inner margin of the 
upper border of the bark. In this part of the construction the Kute- 
nai craft is in contrast with other northern bark canoes. 

Bj'^ reference to Major Powell's map ^ of the linguistic stocks of 

^ J. W. Powell, Seventh Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, Washington, 
1891. 



POINTED BARK CANOES. 533 

North America, it will ))o seen that the tri])es in ^VaHhin^ton usinj,^ 
the pointed canoe are: 

1. Shush wap, of the Salishan family. 

2. Colville or Tgoyelpi, Salishan family. 

3. Kalispol, Salishan family. 

4. Spokane, Salishan family. 

5. Lakes or Snaichisti, Salishan family. 
0. Kutenai, Kituanahan family. 

In the lig-ht of these Kutenai specimens it may be interesting to 
examine similar craft of Asia. There being- no trees yielding bark tit 
for canoe making along the Arctic coast, it is necessary to trace the 
fiftieth parallel of latitude, that of the Kutenai canoe, across the Pacific, 
and this brings one to the Amur basin. Upon this stream dwell Giliaks, 
Goldi, Manyargs, etc., unclassed ethnic groups— that is, ethnologists 
have not been able to relegate them to any of the well-known Asiatic 
families. 

An excellent account of these tribp , is given by Leopold von Schrenk 
in a work entitled Keisen und Fors- hungen in Amurlande. He shows 
a Giliak man seated in a pointed oark canoe. ^ Layard also figures a 
Phoenician war galley pointed beneath the water. ^ 

Von Schrenk describes three types of boat on the Amur River and 
about its mouth, the built-up boat, or bateau, the dugout, and the birch- 
bark canoe. ^ The first named is a sort of flat boat or scow made of 
three planks hewed out of the larch or Plcea ajanensis^ worked out with 
adze and knife and fitted together with pegs. Bow and stern boards 
are set in and the bottom board projects at the bow into a sort of plat- 
form, slightly turned up. In many examples considerable style and 
ornamentation are added, so that Schrenk believes this built-up form 
to have been introduced under Manchu-Chinese influence from Soon- 
garia. For centuries Chinese merchants, and among them Manchu 
oflflcials, have come from Soongaria into the Lower Amur country, the 
former to trade with the people, the latter in order to collect from them 
the tribute owed to the Chinese Government. The boats in which these 
journeys are made are indeed much larger and more complicated than 
the Goldi Giliak examples, but they are on the whole of like construc- 
tion. It is to be remarked in this connection that the plank boat in 
use by the Giliaks at the Amur mouth; on Saghalin, by the Oltcha, 
their neighbors up the river; by the Golde, occupying the stream as far 
as the Usuri mouth; and by the Oltscha on the seacoast south of the 
Giliak, is entirely absent from upper Amur areas. Schrenk saw none, 

^Leopold von Schrenk, Reisen und Forachungen in Amurlande. St. Petersburg, 
1881, III, p. 510. 
^Perrot et Chipiez, Phoenecia, London, 1885, I, p. 34. 
^Reisen und Forschungen in Amurlande, III. St. Peterslmrg, 1881, pp. 500-515. 



534 Report of national museum, i89d. 

and Maaek, following the Amur from the Schilka, encountered the 
first craft of this kind at the Usuri mouth. Maack also missed the 
kind of dugout (called tinjamagda or awarpe) resembling in form the 
plank boat. 

The dugout canoe is found in the interior of Saghalin. Schrenk saw 
a Giliak example (called mloimi) in winter in the village of Yokyrn, 
carefully protected from snow, resting on a frame near the yourt. It 
was 20 feet long, broadest in the middle and tapering toward the ends. 
The bow terminated in a point, but the stern was square and perpen- 
dicular with a broad let-in, as in the plank boats. 

Much simpler and more primitive are the little canoes also excavated 
out of the Hammagda tree and pointed fore and aft, which, with small 
differences in proportions, are called by the Oltscha and the Golde 
otongo and gulha. Both are of the same form, pointed fore and aft, 
but the gulha in relation to its length is narrower and deeper and with 
thicker walls than the otongo^ and for that reason better, fitted to be 
used in rough water and in places abounding in stones and rocks, etc. 
The dugouts of Hammagda wood made by the Orochi on the seacoast 
and the mountain streams flowing to the sea and on the tributaries of 
the Lower Amur or Usuri are the same as those made by the Golde 
and Oltscha on the main stream. So was the awarpe of the Orochis, 
on the Upper Munamu stream, made and used outward on the Anuir. 
On the contrary, only now and then, throughout the long course of 
the Amur does one of the Golde, Oltscha, or Giliak plank boats find 
its way to the Orochi, on the seacoast. 

Schrenk saw among the Birari of Ossika on the Amur a dugout 
canoe called by them mango^ 28 feet long, 3 feet broad, and 1 foot 
deep, and another time one still larger, in which Biraris from the Aar 
River were returning from their summer fishing grounds on the Amur 
to their winter settlements. It was deeply laden and carried mast, and 
sail made of canvas, and held at the corner with the hand instead of 
with shrouds. On the testimony of the Birari these boats were made 
from the stem of the abundant (hhagda tree {Pinus syh^edris^ L.). 

Canoes made of a wooden interior structure covered with birch-bark 
are more commonly in use than dugouts among the Oltscha and Golde 
on the Lower Amur, and they are emploj'ed also by the Tungus on 
the Amur tributaries and throughout the streams of the Stanavoi 
Mountains. In general, of like type everywhere, having the two ends 
similarly pointed, these bark canoes called dsai hy the Oltscha and 
Golde, in their outlines and proportions, as in individual traits, pre- 
sent many peculiarities. However, corresponding nearly to the gidba 
and otongo dugouts of the Oltscha and Golde, there are two forms of 
bark canoes, one deeper and narrower in proportion to the length, 
generally decked a little with bark at bow and stern; and abroad, flat, 
and open form, with ends strongly upcurved. Of the former Von 



POINTED BARK CANOES. 535 

Schrenk furnishes a lilliog-rapli' and of the latter a woodcut, showing 
a (loldi man at the mouth of the Usuri River sittin^^ in his dml. The 
former, through its light form and the deck over the bow to keep 
off the spra.y of the turbid waters, is better adapted to use on the 
upper streams. The latter, on the contrary, furnishes more room for 
the fishing and hunting outfit and for the game. The handling of the 
canoes is precisely the same as that of the dugouts, the otomjo and the 
(JuUhi. 

The measurements of the Oltscha canoe were 18i feet long, 2i feet 
broad in the middle, depth 11 inches. In managing these frail and 
light canoes the Amur-Tungus, Oltscha, Goldi, and other tribes, like 
their Siberian congeners, develop a skill and dexterity which, at times, 
in the mad rush of the swollen streams, not seldom recalls the hardi- 
hood and readiness of the Aleuts in their baidarkas, and is in strong 
contrast with the clumsiness and prudent foresight of the Giliak at 
the Amur mouth and on Saghalin Islands. What the snowshoes are 
in winter the birch-bark canoes are to the Tungus as soon as the 
waters have thrown off their icy coverings. Their light weight allows 
also the carrying of them with ease over long portages and in visiting 
other waters, either in hunts or migrations. Thus the birch -bark canoe 
furnishes the unique, typical, characteristic conveyance to the hunting, 
lishing, wandering, hungry Tungus. Also the Birari and the Man- 
ager have bark canoes of the form and structure of the dsai., but twice 
as long, while the width is the same. Schrenk saw among the latter 
an example 35i feet long and only 2 feet 2 inches wide. Such a boat 
is like the Aleut baidarka with several holes, and more like the great 
mango. These are propelled with poles or with two or three double 
paddles, and are worked by men paddling first on one side and then on 
the other, shooting forward with great velocity. 

The pointed dugouts, as well as the birch-bark canoes, are found also 
among all the aboriginal tribes of the Upper Amur. Since these are 
chiefly nomads li^ ing by the chase, who only occasionally go down 
from their hunting grounds and the Amur tributaries to the main 
stream in order here to prosecute their fishing, these simple, easily 
repaired, and, on occasion, readily transported craft, which are also 
available in rapid as in still water, suffice for all their needs. Not 
merely the narrow patterns, like the otongo or the c?.s'a^, are thus dif- 
fused, but also those of large dimensions. In such boats the}^ migrate 
from winter to summer quarters and back, transporting not only women 
and children, but a multitude of tools and utensils. 

In the museum of the Imperial Academy of Sciences of St. Peters- 
burg are three models of pointed canoes, all made of birch bark. 
Through the kindness of Dr. N. Doubrovinee, secretary, I am able to 

1 Reisen unci Forschungen in AmurlJinde, III, pi. xxxviii, fig. 5, p.' 510. 



536 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

reproduce them here. The rudest paddle, aTungus example, has a sim- 
ple handle with oblong elliptical blade, without decoration (tig. 4). 
The Yakut paddle is double, with cylindrical grip and oblong pentag- 
onal blades, square on the outer ends (fig. 5). The Goldi paddle has a 
similar grip and hexagonal blades with long tapering points, a grace- 
fully shaped implement (fig. 6). 

The double paddle is seen in the Giliak's hand in Schrenk's figure. 
The Goldi and Yakut employ also the double paddle in their pointed 
canoes, but in the Tungus pointed canoe the simple paddle is used. 
The single paddle is found elsewhere around the great circle of the 
earth that includes the two areas of the pointed canoe. The double 
paddle exists sparingly in the Eskimo area of Alaska and among the 
same people in Greenland. On all the waters of the southern United 
States the negroes propel their dugouts and skifi^'s with the double 
paddle. 

The Tungus model (Plate 3), though clumsy looking, is built up in 
five sections. Five strips of bark are bent in the middle and united 
at their edges to form the hull. The four seams extend quite around 



^E 



Figs. 4, 5, and 6. 

TUNGUS paddle; YAKUT PADDLE; GOLDI PADDLE. 

the craft and are rendered tight with pitch. The canoe is kept in form 
by a series of flat ribs, almost touching one another, and extending 
along the inside from end to end of the structure, as in a canoe. On 
the outside of the canoe, along the bottom, a wide strip of bark is 
sewed neatly, the stitches long on the inside of the boat and short on 
the outside, passing quite through two thicknesses of bark, including 
the flat ribs on the inside, holding all together. At the ends the canoe 
front is straight, the lines sloping inward only a little, so that it is but 
slightly pointed below. The bark is simply doubled over at the ends 
and sewed down. On the upper margin strips of wood are sewed on 
both sides of the bark to form inwale and outwale. There is no top 
piece except along a short space between the thwarts. Here the side 
strips for wales leave the margin and pass downward a little to make 



POINTED BARK CANOES. 537 

way for the cap piece along the middle. The top piece is neatly 
chamfered and grooved to tit in place. There are four thwarts, two 
near the ends of the hold, Avhich are merely lashings, the material 
passing backward and forward two or three times and then closely 
woolded, two solid pieces near the middle of the canoe serving as 
spreaders. The ends of the thwarts are pierced and lashed to the gun- 
wale at the ends of the cap pieces so as to hold all parts firmly together. 
The Tungus canoe is wide and shallow and is an excellent freight boat. 

The Yakut pointed canoe (Plate 4) is also made in sections of birch 
bark, of which, in the model here studied, there are four in number, 
passing around from gunwale to gunwale, overlapping and stitched 
together. The bottom is strengthened by adding broad strips of bark 
from end to end and sewing them down at their edges. At the ends 
the Yakut canoe is shaped like a snout, the line from bottom upward 
being incurved. The joint at the ends is a very simple one, the edges 
of the bark cut to shape and sewed together. The gunwale is formed 
by a binding of bark turning over and hemmed down, the edges show- 
ing on the outside and inside. Two thwarts are held in place by a 
lashing which passes across parallel and on both sides of the thwart 
and fastened through the bark sides. The canoe is held in shape by 
means of flat, wide ribs, whose ends are concealed under the bark 
binding of the gunwale. The Yakut canoe is a wide craft, better 
suited to freight than speed. As the model here described is rougher 
than the others shown, it is possible that the larger ones have better 
elements of construction. 

The Goldi pointed canoe (Plate 5) more closely resembles that of the 
Giliak and of the Kutenai. The hull of the model consists of a single 
piece of bark (but in full-sized boats it may be in sections) and there is 
no additional layer of bark on the bottom. The gunwale is formed by 
clasping the edge of the bark between two strips of wood, forming 
inwale and outwale, and there are no top strips as in the Kutenai 
craft. The unique feature in the Goldi canoe is the insertion of a 
wooden point at either end. This is curved upward gracefully. 
Another noteworthy feature is the covering of a portion of the hold 
at either end with a sheet of bark, forming a partial deck. One 
thwart is shown in the model, though others must exist in the full-sized 
canoes. Slats are laid along the inside lengthwise and over these are 
neatly forced in flat-rib pieces at intervals. This is a dainty looking 
craft, long and slender, and doubtless used for speed and fishing and not 
for freight. In the middle of the inside a piece of hide affords a 
kneeling place for the boatman. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Mason 



Plate 1, 



ffl' \'i 




1 






Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899— Mason, 



Plate 2. 



'>-' 



'\\^^1 





-^ "MA 




< ^ 



I- 



Report of U. S. Nation:)! Museum, 1899.— Mason. 



Plate 3. 






TuNGUS Pointed Canoe. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Mason. 



Plate 4. 






Yakut Pointed Canoe. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Mason. 



Plate 5. 




GoLDi Pointed Canoe. 



DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF A COLLECTION OF OBJECTS 

OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL DEPOSITED IN THE 

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM BY HADJI 

EPHRAIM BENCUIAT. 



CYRUS ABLER, PH. D., 

Custodian, Section of Historic Religious Ceremonials, 

AND 

I. M. CASANOWICZ, PH. D., 

Aid, Division of Historic Archeology. 



539 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Page. 

Introduction 545 

I. Objects used in the service of the synagogue 545 

1. Torah scroll 545 

2. Wrapper for the Torah scroll 546 

3. Wrapper for the Torah scroll 546 

4. Silver band 546 

5. Veil of the Holy Ark 546 

6. N^eil of the Holy Ark 547 

7. Veil of the Holy Ark 547 

8. Cover for the reading desk 547 

9. Silver pointer 547 

10. Silver pointer 547 

11. Roll of the Book of Esther 548 

12. Roll of the Book of Esther 548 

13. Roll of the Book of Esther 548 

14. Ram's Horn 548 

15. Hanukah lamp 549 

16. Pair of candlesticks 550 

II. Objects used at prayer 550 

17. Miniatiu-e Prayer Book 550 

18. Manuscript containing various prayers 550 

19. Manuscript containing the Psalms and various prayers 550 

20. The Old and New Testaments in the original languages 550 

21. Phylacteries 551 

22. Inner bag of tefiUin 552 

23. Bag of tefillin 552 

24. Prayer shawl 552 

III. Objects used on festal occasions at the Jewish home 553 

(a) Sabbath 553 

25. Cuj) and saucer used for Kiddush 553 

26. Spice bottle used for Habdalah 553 

27. Silver candlestick used for Habdalah 553 

(b) Passover 554 

28. Two embroidered cushions 555 

29. Ewer and basin 555 

30. Passover dish 555 

31. Cover for the unleavened bread 556 

32. Brass dish 556 

33. Cover for the green herbs 556 

34. Twelve wine glasses 556 

35. Antique china cup 556 

36. Enameled saucer and silver spoon 556 

NAT MUS 99 37 541 



542 COT)f TENTS. 

III. Objects used on festal occasions at the Jewish home — Continued. Page. 

(b) Passover — Continued. 

37. Glass and plate 556 

38. Piece of brocade 556 

39. Table center 556 

40. Serviette 557 

(c) Tabernacles 557 

41. Curtain for the Sukkah 557 

42. Curtain tie 557 

IV. Objects used on special occasions 558 

43. Wrapper for carrying child to synagogue 558 

44. Marriage contract 558 

45. Marriage contract *. 558 

V. Miscellaneous 559 

46. Mezuzot 559 

. 47. Amulet of parchment 559 

48. Silver medallion 559 

49. Two silver rings 559 

50. Silver medal 559 

51. Silver coin 560 

52. Scriptural motto 560 

VI. Illustrations of Bible narratives, mostly textiles 560 

53. The sacrifice of Isaac 560 

54. The defeat of Goliath by David 560 

55. The story of David and Bathsheba 560 

56. Joseph and the wife of Potiphar 560 

57. The passing of the Israelites through the Red Sea 560 

58. The story of the golden calf 560 

59. The judgment of Solomon 561 

60. The prophet Elijah provided with food by ravens 561 

61. Susanna and the elders 561 

62. Judith and Holofernes 561 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Page. 

1. Torah with pointer? 546 

2. Wrappers for the Torali scroll 546 

3. Veil of the Holy Ark (Parocheth ) 546 

4. Veil of the Holy Ark (Parocheth) 546 

5. Veil of the Holy Ark (Parocheth) 546 

6. Cover for the reading desk 546 

7. Torah scroll unrolled on the reading desk 546 

8. Rolls of the Book of Esther 548 

9. Ram's horn and Hanukah lamp 548 

10. Phylacteries and jirayer book 550 

11. Pltylacteries and bag 550 

1 2. ^Manuscript containing Psalms and various Prayers 550 

13. Prayer shawl (Tallith) 552 

14. Utensils for Kiddush and Habdalah 554 

15. Two end)roidered cushions used at the Passover Meal 554 

16. Ewer and basin used at the Passover Meal 554 

17. Dish used at the Passover Meal 554 

18. Cover for the unleavened bread at the Passover Meal 556 

19. Brass dish used at the Passover Meal 556 

20. Cover for green herbs at the Passover Meal 556 

21. Vessels used at the Passover Meal 556 

22. Glass and plate used at the Passover Meal 556 

23. Piece of brocade used at the Passover Meal 556 

24. Linen tal )le center used at the Passover Meal 556 

25. Serviette used at the Passover INIeal 556 

26. Curtain for Booth (Sukkah) of the Feast of Tal )ernacle.s 558 

27. Curtam tie 558 

28. Wrapper for carrying child to synagogue 558 

29. Mezuzot and amulets 558 

30. Tapestries illustrating Biblical narratives 560 

31. Lithograph representing the passing of the Israelites through the Red Sea. 560 

32. Embroidery representing the story of the golden calf 560 

33. Tapestry representing the Judgment of Solomon 560 

34. Embroidery representing the Prophet Elijah fed by ravens 560 

35. Tapestry representing the story of Susanna 560 

36. Tapestry representing the story of Judith and Holofernes 560 

543 



)KSCRIITIVE CATALOGUE OF A COLLECTION OF OBIFXTS OF 
JFWLSIl CFT^EMONIAL 



DEPOSITED IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM BY HADJI EPHRAIM 

BENGUIAT. 



By Cyrus Adler, Pn. D., 
Custodian, Serf ion of Historic Religions Ceremonials, 

AND 

I. M. Casanowicz, Ph. D., 
Aid, Division of Historic Arclirrologi/. 



INTRODUCTION. 

Hadji Ephraim Benguiat, the owner of the collection here described, 
is the descendant of an illustrious Spanish Jewish familj' which traces 
its origin as far back as the beginning- of the eleventh century. Many 
members of the famil}' have distinguished themselves in Biblical and 
rabbinical learning, in philosophy and letters. The love for religious 
art has been a tradition in the family, and many of the objects of the 
collection are family heirlooms. 

The collection comprises all the important objects which come into 
use in Jewish religious life, and is unique for its artistic and historical 
value. 

I. OBJECTS USED IN THE SERVICE OF THE SYNAGOGUE. 

1. ToRAH SCROLL. — Parchment scroll of the Pentateuch in Hebrew 
mounted on wooden rollers, wrapped in a cloth of green velvet em- 
broidered in silk, which is held by a silver-worked belt and covered 
with a mantle of l)lack velvet embroidered in gold. The upper han- 
dles of the rollers are of carved wood, the lower of ivory, with silver 
bells on the rollers. The scroll was made in Smyrna, Asia Minor, in 
the eighteenth century. The bells were manufactured in Damascus 
and bear the inscription: "Joseph, son of Ephraim Benguiat." Height 

H5 



546 BEPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

of scroll, 7 inches; of rollers, 14 inches. (Plate 1, fig. 1, and Plate 7. 
U.S.N.M., No. 154606.) 

The Pentateuch, called hj the Jews Torah, i. e., the Law (properly 
instruction), is considered by them the most important and sacred por- 
tion of the Scriptures. In order to keep it alive in the minds of the 
people, it is divided into pQricopes^ according to the number of Sab- 
baths, the whole to be read through during service in the synagogue 
within a year. ^ For this purpose a manuscript copy of the Penta- 
teuch is used. The copy is written by a professional scribe (sofer) on 
parchment made of the skin of a clean animal (one whose flesh may be 
eaten), in Hebrew, without A^owel points, accents, or verse divisions, 
in certain stated columns. The sheets are fastened together with 
sinews of a clean animal so as to form a scroll, and mounted on 
wooden rollers. When not in use the scroll is covered with a robe of 
costly stuff and, when the congregation can afford it, adorned with 
silver or gold bells and breastplate. ^ 

2. Wrapper for theTorah scroll. — Made of yellow silk, embroid- 
ered with flowers and Hebrew inscription in silver, gold, and silk, 
with silver lace fringes. The inscription reads: "And it brought forth 
buds, and ))loomed blossoms, and yielded almonds.* Embroidered as 
a hol}^ work by the hands of Magdalene Bassan in the year 5496 " 
(1736). Measurements, 11 feet 1 inch long, 6i inches wide. (Plate i>, 
fig. 1. U.S.N.M. No. 154603.) 

3. Wrapper for the Torah scroll. — Made of green silk, embroid- 
ered with flowers and Hebrew inscription in silk. The inscription 
reads: "This holy cover was made by Simha, wife of Levy Hai, of 
Butti-io [Italy], in the year 6457 [1697], and was purchased by Phineas 
Veneziani and brothers." Measurements, 8 feet li inches long, 7f 
inches wide. (Plate 2, fig. 2. U.S.N.M. No. 154604.) 

4. Silver band (fragment). — Inscribed in Hebrew: "David, King 
of Israel, lives and is established forever." Perhaps part of an orna- 
ment of the Torah scroll. Measurements, 7f inches long, f inch wide. 
(U.S.N.M. No. 1291.) 

5. Veil of the Holy Ark {Parochet/i). — Made in Padua, in 1736, 
of 3^ellow silk and richly embroidered in silver, gold, and silk, with 
flowers, and the first words of the Decalogue (Ten Commandments) 
borne upon clouds — the symbol of the Deity. Measurements, 6 feet 
3 inches long, 5 feet 2 inches wide. (Plate 3, U.S.N.M. No. 154602.) 

'Such a weekly pericope is called by the German Jews (Ashkenaziiu) sUIm, or 
"order;" by the Portuguese Jews (Sefardim) parasha, division, section. This latter 
term is applied by the Ashkenazim to the shorter divisions into which the sidra is 
divided. 

^Many modern Jewish congregations have adopted a triennial cycle, which was 
also known in ancient times. 

•'•Compare Report of the U. S. National Museum for 1896, p. 993, and Plate 15. 

■* Numbers xvii, 23. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 1 




Fig. 1. Tor AH Scroll with mantle and silver bells. 
(Cat. No. 154606, U.S.N.M. Smyrna. Asia Minor.) 

Fig. 2. Silver Pointer {yad). 

(Cat. No. 158347, U. S. N. M. Morocco.) 

Fig. 3. Silver Pointer (yad). 

(Cat. No. 1.54808. U. S. N. M.) 



Report cif U. S. National Museum, 1 899 — Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 1. 



I 


■ 


w' ' ^^^B"" '"^v^l 


^^^^^^plfpvl|!^^^H 


^m 


il'''i 






H 


igj 


ii^H ^^^^^^b' ^^^^1 


K-il 


^^S 


^^^^^^H 


^^H ^^^f^^Dw ^^^^1 


^^^HH^^H 




B 


^^1 




■ij 


^n 


^^^V^k^^Va^^FiM^^lkj' '^^^ 


fl^^^H ^^^^^^^1 


^H 


^Ei 


c^xT^Ri 


[^^^^9 


^H 


^HD 




»W^^^^^^^K^^^^^^^^^^III^^^I 


H 


^H| 


^[^^P| 




1 




W 





ToRAH WITH Pointers. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 2. 




Fig. 1. "Wrapper for the Torah Scroll. 

(Cat. No. 154603, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 2. Wrapper for the Torah Scroll. 

(Cat. No. 154604, U. S. N. M. Butterio, Italy.) 



Report of U S. National Museum, 1899 — Adiet and Casanow!cz 



Plate 2. 




Wrappers for the Torah Scroll. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— AHIer and Casanowicz. 



Plate 3. 




Veil of the Holy Ark (Parochethl 

Padua, Italy. 

Cat. No. 154602, U.S.N.M. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, I 899. — Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 4, 




Veil of the Holy Ark (Parocheth). 

Smyrna, Asia Minor, 

Cat. No. 154588, U.S.N. M. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 899,— Adler and Casanowicz. 



Plate 5. 




Veil of the Holy Ark (Parogheth) 
Probably Asia Minor. 
Cat. No. 1280, L'.S.X.M. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 6. 




Q _: 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Adler and CasanowicJ. 



Plate 7. 




?= Z 



OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL. 547 

The Torah scroll when not in use is kept standing*- upright in a press 
or wall closet placed slightly above the floor of the nave and reached 
by steps. As the Torah is in the eyes of the Jew the most sacred and 
precious object, so is the closet which holds it the most important 
part of the synagogue. It is called ' ' Holy Ark " {aroii ha hodcxh) , af ten- 
the Ark of the Covenant in the Tabernacle and Temple, whose plac<' it 
has taken. The Holy Ark is set in or against that wall of tlie syna- 
gogue toward which the worshipers turn in the more solemn parts of 
the liturgy, the wall which is in the direction of Jerusalem. When- 
ever the Holy Ark is opened, the congregation rises in reverence for 
the Law of God it holds. Before the Ark is a curtain of costly 
material, which is named pm^ocheth} after the curtain which in the 
Tabernacle and the Temple screened the Holy of Holies. 

6. Veil of the Holy Ark. — Made in Smyrna, Asia Minor, of Ijlue 
silk and richly embroidered in gold, with the inscription in Hebrew, 
"Portuguese congregation." Measurements, fi feet 3 inches long, 4 
feet wide. (Plate 4, U.S.N.M. No. 154588.) 

7. Veil of the Holy Ark. — Made, probably in Asia Minor, of 
vellow silk with silver-lace borders embroidered with flowers in silk, 
with silver applique work representing vases of flowers supported by 
columns on either side and a synagogue in the center. A Hebrew 
inscription in gold applique indicates that the veil was dedicated by 
Benjamin, Modico, and Solomon Nabaro to the congregation "Talmud 
Torah " (Study of the Law). Measurements, 5 feet 10 inches long, 
5 feet 3i inches wide. (Plate 5, U.S.N.M. No. 1286.) 

8. Cover for the reading desk. — Made of yellow silk and em- 
broidered with flowers in silver and silk. Measurements, 4 by 3 feet. 
(Plates 6 and 7, U.S.N.M. No. 154806.) When the time arrives for 
the reading of the Torah, whic^h is about the middle of the service, 
the scroll is taken out of the Holy Ark and carried in procession, the 
congregation standing, to the hhixi (from the Greek fivi^a) or almemer 
(corrupted from the Arabic cd-'inh)l>(n\ pulpit). This is a table or desk 
standing upon a raised platform, upon which the scroll is unrolled 
(Plate 6). This table or desk is covered with a costly cloth similar to 
the curtain of the Holy Ark. 

9. Silver pointer {yad). — Made in Morocco in the seventeenth 
century. Length, 11^ inches. (Plate 1, fig. 2, U.S.N.M. No. 158347.) 
The pointer, usually terminating in the shape of a hand, hence called 
\!ad (hand), is used at the public reading of the Torah to guide the 
reader (Jxial qore) of the lesson and prevent him from losing the place 
in the scroll. 

10. Silver pointer.— Length, Hi inches. (Plate 1, fig. 3, U. S. N.M. 
No. 154808.) 

1 Compare Report of the IT. S. National Museum for 1896, p. 994 and Plate 16. 



548 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

11. Roll of the Book of Esther. — Parchment scroll inserted in 
a revolving silver case, with marginal illuminations illustrating the 
events narrated in the book. Written in Venice, Italy, in the seven- 
teenth century. The silver case was once in possession of the Jews of 
Granada, Spain. Height of scroll, 8 inches. (Plate 8, fig. 1, U.S.N.M. 
No. 154592.) 

Five of the shorter books of the Bible — Canticles, Ruth, Ecclesiastes, 
Lamentations, and Esther — are called the "Five Rolls" {liamesTimegU- 
loth), and are read on special occasions during the service in the syna- 
gogue, viz, Canticles on Passover, Ruth on Pentecost or Feast of 
Weeks, Ecclesiastes on Tabernacles, Lamentations on the 9th of Ab, 
and Esther on the Feast of Purim. The first three are read privately 
by each member from his own copy during a pause in the public 
service (between the first part of the liturgy and the reading of the 
Torah). The Lamentations are chanted by the leader and members 
of the congregation, each reading a chapter, during the services of 
the 9th of Ab (August) in commemoration of the destruction of the 
Temple of Jerusalem. Still more ceremony is attached to the reading 
of the Book of Esther, which takes place during the services of the 
Feast of Purim, which is celebrated on the 15th of Adar (March-April) 
to commemorate the deliverance of the Jews of Persia from the 
machinations of Haman. For this purpose a parchment scroll, written 
in the same manner as the Pentateuch (see under 1) is used. The read- 
ing takes place from the same desk as that of the Torah, and is pre- 
ceded and followed by a benediction. At certain passages the congre- 
gation joins in, reciting them before the public reader. The Book of 
Esther is therefore known as the roll {Megillah). 

12. Roll of the Book of Esther. — Parchment scroll inserted 
in a revolving silver case. Written in Smyrna, Asia Minor, in the 
eighteenth century. The case was once in possession of the Jews 
of Granada, Spain. Height of scroll, 8 inches. (Pkte 8, fig. 2. 
U.S.N.M. No. 154592^) 

18. Roll of the Book of Esther. — Written in columns of eight 
lines and about 1 inch wide, on a scroll of vellum seven-eighths of an 
inch wide, and inserted in a hexagonal revolving silver case, sur- 
mounted by a cupola, from which rises a crescent and star, the emblem 
of the Mohammedan peoples. Height of case, li inches; diameter, 
1 inch. Made in Fez, Morocco. (Plate 8, fig. 3. U.S.N.M. No. 
158347.) 

14. Ram's horn (.sA<?/ar).— (Plate 9, fig. 1. U.S.N.M. No. 154589.) 
In ancient times the horn or shofar was used, according to the Penta- 
teuch, for the announcement of the New Moon and solemn festivals,^ 
for the proclamation of the year of release (Sabbatical year),^ and 

1 Numbers x, 10; compare Psalms Ixxxi, 4. ^ Leviticus xxv, 9. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 




Fig. 1. Roll of the Book of Esther. 

(Cat. No. 154592, U. S. N. M. Venice, Italy.) 

Fig. 2. Roll op the Book op Esther. 

(Cat. No. 154592'', U. S. N. M. Smyrna, Asia Minor.) 

Fig. 3. Miniature Roll of the Book op Esther. 

(Cat. No. 158347, U. S. N. M. Fez, Morocco.) 



rt of II. S. National Museum, 1899. — Adler and Casanowicz. 



Plate 8. 




EXPLANATION OF PLATE 9. 




Fig. 1. Ram's Horn (fShofar). 

(Cat. No. 154589, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 2. Hanukah Lamp. 

(Cat. No. 164591, U. S. N. M.) 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 9. 




RAM'S Horn and Hanukah Lamp. 



OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL. 549 

above all for military purposes, like the modern bugle, to give the 
.signal for going out to battle, for the announcement of a victory, and 
for a recall of the troops/ It was also used as a musical instrument 
in religious processions.^ 

At present the shofar is especially used during the penitential sea- 
son, which begins with the 1st of the month Ellul (August-September) 
and culminates on the Day of Atonement {ijodi MppuT^ on the 10th of 
Tishri (September-October). During the month of Ellul the shofar 
is sounded three times at the close of the morning service each day, 
with the exception of the Sabbaths, in some congregations and in 
others at the evening service. On the 1st of Tishri, the beginning of 
the civil year (rosK ha-shana)^ one of the most solemn of the Jewish 
feasts, and the "memorial of blowing of trumpets,"^ thirty blasts, 
among the Sefardim seventy-two, are sounded on the shofar in the 
middle of the morning service, after the reading of the day's lesson 
from the To rah, and before the "additional service" {mitsaf). On 
Atonement Day the shofar is sounded once, among the Sefardim four 
times, at the close of the concluding service {neilah)^ and on the 
seventh day of Tabernacles {Ilosha na Mahha) it is sounded at each of 
the seven circuits. The shofar is usually made of a ram's horn, but the 
goat's horn is also employed.* 

15. Hanukah lamp. — Made of brass. Height, 7i inches; width at 
base, 6i inches. (Plate 9, fig. 2, U.S.N.M. No. 154591.) 

The feast of dedication or Hanukah (the latest addition to the cycle 
of Jewish festivals) is celebrated for eight days, beginning with the 
25th of Kislew (December-January), in commemoration of the purifi- 
cation of the temple and the restoration of the service after the deliv- 
erance of Jerusalem from the oppressions of Antiochus Epiphanes, 
King of Syria, by the Maccabees in 164 B. C. The institution of this 
festival is related in I Maccabees iv, 47-59. In the New Testament ^ 
it is mentioned under the name of svKaivia {enJcainia)^ "dedication." 
The principal feature in the observance of this festival is the lighting 
of lights in the synagogue, as well as in private houses, whence it is 
also called the "feast of lights."® 

On the first night one light is lit, on the second two, and so on to the 
eighth. The lights are set in a place where people on the street may 
see them, in the window or by the door. They are considered sacred, 
and must not be employed for any ordinary purpose. For this reason 



^ Numbers x, 1-9. 

''II Samuel vi, 15; I Chronicles xv, 28; compare Psalms xcviii, 6; cl, 3. 

^ Leviticus xxxii, 24. 

* Compare Cyrus Adler, The Shofar, its Use and Origin. (Proceedings, U. S. 
National Museum, XVI, pp. 287-301; Report U. S. National Museum, 1892, pp. 
437-450. 

^ John X, 22. ® Compare Josephus, Antiquities, xii, 7, 7. 

NAT MUS 99 38 



550 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

a ".servant light"" {shammmh) is placed next to them, which is used in 
lio-hting- them. Rabbinical tradition accounts for this feature of the 
feast by the stor^'^ that when the priests entered the sanctuary, after 
the Syrians had been driven out, to light the perpetual lamp they 
found a vial of sacred oil unpoUtited, which under ordinary circum- 
stances was onl}^ sufficient for one night, but by a miracle lasted for 
eight nights. 

When possible, lamps burning olive oil are to be used, though fre- 
quently candles made of pure beeswax are employed. In the syna- 
gogues there is usually for this purpose a lamp made after the form of 
the candlestick {rtienorah) of the tabernacle and temple, as described in 
Exodus XXV, 31-140.^ 

16. Pair of candlesticks. — Silver repousse work. Measurements, 
12i inches high, 6i inches wide at the base. (U.S.N.M. No. 1287.) 
The candlesticks come from a church in the Philippine Islands. Mr. 
Bcnguiat is of the opinion that they originally belonged to a Jewish 
synagogue in Spain, which was converted into a Christian church after 
the expulsion of the Jews from that country and found their way to 
the Philippines. 

II. OBJECTS USED AT PRAYER. 

IT. Miniature prayer book. — Containing all the prayers and 
devotions used on week days and on special festal occasions, in the 
synagogue and at home. Printed at Amsterdam, Holland, in the year 
5499 (1739). Bound in leather, with silver clasps, with the name of 
" Ephraim Benguiat" in Hebrew characters impressed on the left 
cover. (Plate 10, fig. 1, U.S.N.M. No. 154581.) 

18. Manuscript containing the Formulas used for the Abso- 
lution FROM Vows Hastily or Unconsciously Made, and Prayers 
Recited at the Cemetery, and on the eve of New Year's and 
Atonement Day. — Written in Hebrew square characters in black ink 
with the rubrics in red. Bound in leather with pressed covers and red 
edge. Measurements, 7 by 5 inches. (U.S.N.M. No. 1294.) 

19. Manuscript containing the Psalms and various propitia- 
tory PRAYERS. — Written in a quaint, Arabizing cursive script by 
Abraham Zarfati at Asmir in the year 5522 A. M. (1702 A. D.). The 
Psalter, besides contributing extensively to the sjmagogual liturgy, 
constitutes in itself a prayer book of the Jews. It is recited in part or 
in its entirety by pious Jews as a means of prayer and devotion. 
Measurements, 6 inches long, 4 inches wide, f inch thick. (Plate 12, 
U.S.N.M. No. 1293.) 

20. The Old Testament in the Hebrew language and the 
New Testament in Greek. — Printed by Christopher Plantin at Ant- 

1 Compare Report of the U. S. National Museum for 1896, p. 996 and Plate 17, fig. 2. 



EXPLANATIO'N OF PLATE 10. 




Fig. 1. Miniature Prayer Book. 

(Cat. No. 154581, U. S. N. M. Amsterdam, Holland.) 

Figs. 2. Phylacteries (Tefillin). 
(Cat. No. 154583, U.S.N.M.) 

Fig. 3. Bag for Phylacteries. 

(Cat. No. 154582, U.S.N.M. Chalcis Greece.) 



Report of U. S, National Museum, 1 899.— Adler and Casanowicz. 



Plate 10 




Phylacteries and Prayer Book. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 11 




Figs. 1. Phylacteries unfolded. 

(Cat. Nos. 154, 164, 583, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 2. Velvet Bag op Phylacteries. 

(Cat. No. 154580 U. S. N. M. Morocco.) 



Report of U, S. National Museum, 1899. — Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 1 1. 




Report cf U. S. National Museum, 1899. — Adlei and Casanowicz. 



Plate 12. 




OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEEEMONIAL. 551 

'• 

werp in o338 A. M. (1573 A, D.). The Hebrew text is unpointed. 
Bound in leather, with g-ilt edge. Meusurenient.s, 7 inches long, 4f 
inches wide, and 1 inch thick. (U.S.N.M. No. 1292.) 

21. Phylacteries {f^^fH In).— (Plate 10, fig. 2, and Plate 11, fig. 1, 
U.S.N.M. No. 154583.) The phylacteries, or tefillm, are two square 
boxes of parchment. The boxes are fastened to a kind of a base made 
of thick parchment with a loop on one side, so as to let a narrow 
leather strap pass through (Plate 10, fig. 1). Into those boxes are 
inserted the following passages from the Pentateuch, written on strips 
of parchment: Exodus xiii, 1-10; Exodus xiii, 11-16; Deuteronomy 
vi, 4r-9, and Deuteronomy xi, 13-21. By means of the straps the 
boxes are bound around the arm and head and worn by all male Jews 
who have attained religious majority— i. e., passed the thirteenth year 
of age — during morning prayers of week days; hence their Hebrew 
name teflUn, from tefillahj prayer. The name phylacteries is derived 
from the Greek ^vXaKtTJpia (phylacteria), which is used in the New 
Testament,^ meaning, properly, things that guard — i. e., amulets, 
talismans, which the Jewish tefillin are not. The New Testament 
name may be based upon an external resemblance between the tefillin 
and the Greek. 2>hylacte7'ia . The obligation to wear tefiUhi is derived 
from the command included in the extracts mentioned above: "And 
you shall bind them as a sign upon your hand and for frontlets 
between your eyes."" 

The tefilla for the head is embossed on two sides of the exterior with 
the Hebrew letter \2; tililn (sh), and inside is divided into four compart- 
ments, in each of which one of the four extracts from the Pentateuch is 
put, and the strap is tied at such a distance as to fit the head of the 
wearer, forming a knot shaped in the form of the Hebrew *1 daleth 
(d). The t(filla for the hand or arm has no letter impressed on the 
outside and no divisions inside, and the four passages it contains are 
written continuously on one strip of parchment. One end of the strap 
is made into a small noose, with a knot resembling the Hebrew > yod 
(y or i). The three letters thus exhibited on the outside of the tefillin 
constitute the Hebrew name of God "i^Xi/ Shaddai., rendered by the 
English versions: "Almighty."^ The materials used in making the 
tefiUln must come from a clean animal, and the extracts from the Pen - 
tateuch are written in the same manner as the Torah scroll. (See 
under 1, 1.) 

In "laying the tefillin'''' {lianohath tefillin) that of the arm is put on 
first. The box is fastened on the naked left arm above the elbow, and 
the strap is wound seven times aroiuid the arm below the elbow. 
Then that of the head is put on so that the box comes to rest on the 

^ Matthew xxiii, 5. 

* Deuteronomy vi, 8; xi, 18. Compare Exodus xiii, 9 and 16. 

" Genesis xvii, 1. 



552 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

forehead below the hair and between the eyes, the knot being at the 
root of the neck, while the ends of the strap pass over the shoulders 
and hang down on either side. Next, the end of the strap of the tefilla 
of the arm is wound thrice around the middle linger and around the 
hand. Each of these performances is accompanied by appropriate 
benedictions and the recitation of passages from the Scriptures. In tak- 
ing off the tefiUin that of the head is removed first, then that of the 
arm. The straps are folded around the bases (Plate 10, fig. 2), and the 
tefillin are reverently put into a bag, which is sometimes included in 
another, so that the sacred objects may be more carefully protected,^ 

22. Inner bag of tefillin. — Made of silk and embroidered. Made 
at Chalcis (island of Euboea, Greece), in the seventeenth century, and 
found there after the Jews had departed for the battle of Athens in 
1822. (Plate 10, fig. 3. U.S.N.M. No. 154582.) 

23. Bag of tefillin. — Made of velvet in Morocco. (Plate 11, 
fig. 2. U.S.N.M. No. 154580.) 

24. Prayer shawl {tallith). — Made of white brocade silk, with gold- 
embroidered edges. Length, 6 feet; width, 1 foot 5 inches. (Plate 13. 
U.S.N.M. No. 154588^) 

The tallith is a rectangular piece of cloth, made of wool or silk, 
worn by male adults (among the Sefardim, or the observers of the Portu- 
guese rite, also by small boys) at the morning services and when per- 
forming certain religious functions. To each of the four corners of 
the tallith are attached the gigith or fringes, consisting of four threads 
(usually woolen) run through an eyelet near the corner and then doubled 
and knotted in a certain manner, so that eight threads are allowed to 
hang down as a fringe. It is, besides, usually bordered with bluish- 
black stripes and adorned with a silk ribbon or silver-corded lace called 
"crown" (atarah) on the top. The tallith is loosely thrown over all 
the other garments, sometimes passing across the top of the head and 
flowing down over the upper part of each arm and over the back, 
sometimes wrapped around the neck. The obligation to wear a gar- 
ment with fringes is derived from Numbers xv, 38: "That they make 
their fringes in the borders of their garments throughout their gen- 
erations, and that they put upon the fringe of each border a cord of 
blue, and it shall be unto you for a fringe, that you may look upon it 
and remember all the commandments of the Lord, and do them. And 
that you go not about after j^our own heart and your own eyes;" and 
Deuteronomy xxii, 12: "Thou shalt make thee fringes upon the four 
borders of thy vesture, wherewith thou coverest thyself." Besides 
the tallith^ which is worn at stated seasons, the Jews wear at present 
under the upper garments during the entire day a garment with 
fi-inges, called the " small tallith " {tallith hatati), or the "four corners" 

^ Compare Report of the U. S. National Museum for 1896, p. 997, and plate 21. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Adler and Casanowicz. 



Plate 13. 




Prayer Shawl iTallithi. 

Cat. Nil. l.ij.iss/*. r..'^.N.M. 



OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL. 553 

{arh'a hinfofh). It consists of a pieco of rectangular cloth of any 
material, but usually of wool, about 3 feet long and 1 foot wide, with 
fringes fastened to the four corners in the same manner as to the 
t((Jl!fh, with an aperture in the center sufficient to let it pass over the 
head, so that part falls in front and part ])ehind. This small tdUith 
is assumed to have originated in the times of persecution, when the 
Jews had to refrain from exnibiting the garment with fringes and 
could only in this manner comply with the commandment to wear 
fringes. 

III. OBJECTS USED ON FESTAL OCCASIONS AT THE JEWISH HOME. 

(a) SABBATH. 

25. Cup and saucer used for Kiddush. — Made of cut glass, 
gilded. Measurements: Cup, height 1^ inches, diameters 2 and 1\ 
inches; saucer, height 1 inch, diameter 4i inches. (Plate 14, figs. 1 
and 2. U.S.N.M. No. 154585.) 

The Jews, like other Oriental peoples, compute the day from sunset 
to sunset. The Sabbath, therefore, begins at sunset on Friday and ter- 
minates at sunset on Saturday. 

It is inaugurated in the home by blessing and lighting of the candles 
by the mistress of the house, ^ and in the synagogue by a special service. 
On returning from the service, and before the evening meal, the head 
of the house fills a cup with wine, raises it in his right hand, and recites 
Genesis ii, 1 and 2, which relate the origin of the Sabbath, and pro- 
nounces a benediction over the wine to God, who "has sanctified the 
Sabbath.'' For this reason the ceremony is called kiddush^ i. e., sanc- 
tification. He then drinks from the cup and hands it to the other per- 
sons at the table to partake of. Where no wine or other liquor is avail- 
able, the hiddmh is pronounced over two loaves of bread, which are 
laid on the table in memory, it is assumed, of the two portions of manna 
that were gathered in the wilderness on Fridays. The loaves are then 
cut up by the head of the house, the pieces dipped in salt and distriliuted 
among the members of the family. 

26. Spice bottle, used for Habdalah. — Made of china, with neck 
of oxidized silver. Measurments: 4i inches high. If inches in dia- 
meter. (Plate 14, fig. 3. U.S.N.M. No. 154587.) 

2T. Silver candlestick, used for Habdalah. — The base is in the 
form of a leaf, 2f inches long and 2i inches wide; height of the candle- 
stick, 1 inch, with an extinguisher. (Plate 14, fig. 4. U.S.N.M. No. 
154586.) 

The Sabbath is inaugurated at the home by a benediction over a cup 
of wine (see under 25) and is terminated in a like manner. In addi- 
tion to the cup a wax candle and a box containing some spices are used. 

* Compare U. S. National Museum Report for 1896, p. 994. 



554 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

The head of the house takes the cup iu his right hand and the spice 
box in his left, while the candle is usually held by a child, and, after 
reciting several passages of the Scriptures, pronounces a blessing over 
the wine, then over the spices, smelling them and passing them to the 
others present, then over the light, closing with thanksgiving to God 
for the distinction He made between Sabbath and workdays, between 
things sacred and profane, etc. The cup is then passed around among 
the members of the family and the candle extinguished with drops of 
wine from the cup. This ceremony is called the hdldalah^ i. e. , sep- 
aration or division, because it divides or separates the Sabbath from 
the other days of the week. 

(b) PASSOVER. 

The feast of Passover is celebrated in commemoration of the deliv- 
erance of Israel from the bondage of Egypt, as related in the first 
chapters of the book of Exodus. It begins on the evening of the 
14th of Nisan (March-April) and continues, with the Jews who live in 
Palestine, for seven days, with those in other places for eight days. 
It is the first of the three pilgrimage festivals (the two others being 
the feast of the weeks, or Shahuoth, and the feast of the Tabernacles, 
or Sukkothy and begins the ecclesiastical year.^ 

In ancient times the celebration of Passover centered around the 
Paschal lamb. As it could not be slaughtered outside of the sanctuary ^ 
its use ceased with the destruction of the Temple, and the eating of 
unleavened bread, or magfoth, is now the principal feature of the Pass- 
over feast. The eating or even the keeping of anything leavened or fer- 
mented {hameg) is strictly prohibited, * hence the Passover is also called 
the " ' feast of unleavened bread. " ' On the evening preceding Passover 
the ceremony of " searching for leaven" (bedlqath hameg) takes place. 
The head of the house, furnished with a candle, a wooden spoon, and 
a feather brush, goes over the whole house and gathers all suspicious 
crumbs into the spoon. This is burned on the morning of the 1-ith of 
Nisan in the courtyard {hi' ur hameg). In the evening the feast begins 
with a service in the synagogue. In the home the evening meal is of 
the nature of a commemoration service, called Seder — order, arrange- 
ment, or program. At the head of the table are cushioned chairs or 
lounges for the master and mistress of the house to recline on, as was 
done and is still customary in the Orient among the high and f reeborn. 
On the table are the articles emblematic of the events commemorated. 
These are: Three maggoth., or cakes oi unleavened bread, baked in the 

^Compare Exodus xxiii, 14-17; xxxiv, 23; Deuteronomy xvi, 16. 
^ Compare Exodus xii, 2; Leviticus xxiii, 5; Numbers xxviii, 16. 
^ Compare Deuteronomy xvi, 2. 

* Compare Exodus xxii, 19; xxiii, 7; Deuteronomy xvi, 3 and 4. 
^ Exodus xxiii, 15. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 14. 




Fig8. 1 and 2. Cup and Saucek, lskd for KinotTsii. 

(Cat. No. 15-1585, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. '.\. RpicE Bottle, used for Hardalah. 

(Cat. No. 1.54587, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 4. Silver Candlestick, used for Hakdalaii. 

(Cat. No. 15158C, U. S. N. M.) 



Repnrtof U, S, National Museum, 1899.— Adler and Casanowioz. 



Plate 14. 




Utensils for Kiddush and Habdalah. 



Report of U. S National Museum, 1899. — Adler and Casanowicz. 



Plate 15. 




Report of U, S, National Museum, 1 899.— Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 16. 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 899.— Ad'er and Casanowlcz. 



Plate 17. 




OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL. 555 

shape of larjj^e, thin, round crackers, the ''l^read of affliction 'V a 
piece of roasted meat, usually the bone of a hinib, representing- the 
Passover hunl); bitter herbs, usually horse-radish (marw), in com- 
memoration of the ••embittering of life" which Israel suffered in 
Egyptian servitude;" a roasted egg, in memory of the festal sacrifice 
{hagigah) offered in the Temple; a compound of almond, apples, and 
sirup, which has the color of brickday {JiarosetJi)^ in commemoration 
of the labor of brickmaking the Israelites performed in Egypt'' and 
into which the bitter herbs are dipped before they are partaken of; 
green herbs — parsley or lettuce [karpas) — as the "food of poverty;" 
a cup with saltwater, in which the green herbs are dipped to represent 
the hyssop dipped in the blood of the Paschal lamb.* There are, 
besides, wine and cups or glasses for each at the table, as everyone 
assisting at the celebration is supposed to partake of four cups of 
wine. 

The service begins with Mddush^ as on Sabbath and other festivals.'^ 
The family then sits down and the hagadah, i. e., narration, consist- 
ing of an account of the sufferings of Israel at the hands of the 
Egyptians and their miraculous deliverance by God, accompanied by 
psalms and hymns, is recited. At appropriate passages of the hagadah 
the articles mentioned above are partaken of, symbolical ceremonies 
performed, and the evening meal is eaten. 

28. Two CUSHIONS, USED TO LEAN UPON AT THE PaSSOVER MEAL, OR 

Seder. — Made of green silk and richly embroidered in gold and silk, 
in Samacov, Bulgaria, in the sixteenth century. Length, 19 inches; 
width, 161 inches. (Plate 15. U.S.N.M. No. 154600.) 

29. Ewer and basin, used for the ablution at the Passover 
MEAL, OR Seder. — Brass repousse and chased work. Height of ewer, 
13 inches; diameter of base, 7 inches; height of basin, -If inches; 
diameter, 14i inches. (Plate 16. U.S.N.M. No. 155178.) Washing 
of the hands {netilath yadayiiii) by pouring water over them is observed 
by the Jews before prayer and before meals, sometimes also before 
saying grace after meals. The custom is also referred to in the New 
Testament.® 

30. Passover dish. — Used at the' Passover meal, or Seder, to hold 
the ina^goth and the other sym])olical articles of the service. Made 
by the Jews of Spain in the thirteenth century, glazed in Ital}^ in the 
sixteenth century. On its surface are painted the benediction of kld- 
dmh and the sixteen words containing the program of the ceremonies 
performed during the Seder, and four vignettes representing the 
family in the various stages of the service. Height, 3i inches; diam- 
eter, 181 inches. (Plate 17. U.S.N.M. No. 154594.) 

^ Deuteronomy xvi, 3. *Ibid, xii, 22. 

• '■'Exodus i, 14. 5ggg under 25, p. 553. 

*Ibid, 14; v. 7 ff. « Compare Matthew xv, 2; Mark vii, 2; Luke xi,38. 



556 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

31. Cover for the unleavened bread, or rnaggoth, used at 
THE Passover meal, or Seder. — Linen, embroidered in silk. Made 
in Chalcis (Euboea), Greece, in the seventeenth century. Measure- 
ments, 16i by 15 inches. (Plate 18. U.S.N.M. No. 151:599.) 

32. Brass dish, used for holding the green herbs at the Pass- 
over MEAL, OR Seder. ^ — Chased work. Made in Venice, Italy, in the 
fifteenth century. Height, 3i inches; diameter, 17i inches. (Plate 
19. U.S.N.M. No. 154595.) 

33. Cover for the green herbs, used at the Passover meal, 
OR Seder. — Purple-colored silk, embroidered in silver and gold. 
Made in Chios (an island off the coast of Asia Minor) in the eight- 
eenth century. Measurements, 21 by 19 inches. (Plate 20. U.S.N.M. 
No. 154597.) 

34. Twelve wine glasses. — Used for the drinking of the ""four 
cups" {arhd I'osoth) at the Passover meal, or Seder. Cut glass with 
gilded rims, and engraved with scenes from human life (the two glasses 
on the plate, for instance, represent a woman at the loom and a sailing 
vessel, the others being a woman spinning; a rural idyl; a harvesting 
scene; a country homestead; a landscape; a chariot race; a house with 
its inhabitants; a hunting scene). Made in the seventeenth century. 
Height of each glass, 4i inches; diameter, 1| inches. (Plate 21, fig. 1. 
U.S.N.M. No. 154593.) 

35. Antique china cup. — Used for the salt water at the Passover 
meal, or Seder. Height, 1^ inches; diameter, 2i inches. (Plate 21, 
fig. 2. U.S.N.M. No. 154618.) 

36. Enameled saucer and silver spoon. — Used for the compound 
of almonds, apples, and other fruit, or haroseth^ at the Passover meal, 
or Seder. Height of saucer, seven-eighths inch; diameter, 4i inches; 
length of spoon, 5i inches. (Plate 21, figs. 3. U.S.N.M. No. 154596.) 

37. Glass and plate. — Used for the counting of the ten plagues 
inflicted on the Egyptians, at the Passover meal, or Seder. Height of 
glass, 6i inches; diameters, 5^ and 3| inches; height of plate, 1 inch; 
diameter, 8i inches. (Plate 22. U.S.N.M. No. 1290.) During the 
reciting of the account of the deliverance from Egyptian servitude in 
the liturgy of the Seder, or hagacTah, at the mention of the ten plagues 
sent against the Egyptians ^ a drop of wine is poured out from a glass 
into a plate at the mention of each plague, or sometimes is dipped out 
with the finger. 

38. Piece of brocade. — Used as a tablecloth at the Passover meal, 
or Seder. Measurements, 3 feet 10^ inches by 1 foot 6i inches. (Plate 
23. U.S.N.M. No. 154596^) 

39. Table center. — Used at the Passover meal or Seder. Linen, 
with edge and corners richly embroidered in silk and gold. Made in 

' Compare Exodus vii-xii. 



I Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899. — Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 18. 




Cover for the unleavened Bread at the Passover Meal. 

Chrtlci.'<, GrffCf. 
Cat. No. 1.54599. U.S.X.M. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899. — Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 19. 




Brass Dish, used at the Passover Meal. 

Venice, Italy. 

Cat. No. 154595, U.S.IS'.M. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Adler and Casanowicr 



Plate 20. 




Cover for Green Herbs at the Passover Meal. 

Chios. 
Cat. No. 154597, U.S.N.M. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 21 




Figs. 1. Wine glasses used at the Passover Meal. 

(Cat. No. 1.54593, U. S. N. M. ) 

Fig. 2. Antique Cup used at the Passover Meal. 

(Cat. No. 154618, U. S. N. M.) 

Figs. o. Enameled Saucer and Silver Si'oon used at the Passover INIeal 

(Cat. No. 154.5%, U. S. N. M.) 



Report of U. S. National Museum. 1899. — Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 21. 




Vessels used at the Passover Meal. 



Report of U. S. National Museunn, 1 899 — Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 22. 




Rpp-Mt of U. S N-iti. 



1899.— Adior and Casano 




Plate 23. 



Piece of Brocade, used at the Passover Meal. 

Cat. No. 15459G, U.S.N.M. 



Repoitof U, S. National Museum, 1 899,— Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 24. 




Linen Table Center, used at the Passover Meal. 

Janima. Turkey. 

Cat. No. 1.T-J601, U.S.K.M. 



i 



Report of U S. National Wluspuin, 1899— Arller and Casanowicz. 



Plate 25. 




Serviette used at the Passover Meal. 

Chios. 

Cat. No. 154598, L'.S.X.M. 



i 



OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL. 557 

Jtmina, Turkey, in the seventeenth century. Length, 3 feet 10 inches; 
width, i foot 7 inches. (Plate 24. U.S.N.M. No. 154601.) 

40. Serviette.— Used at the Passover meal or Seder. Woolen, 
with lace edge worked in silver and silk. Made in Chios in the six- 
teenth centurv. Length, 4 feet 3 inches; width, 1 foot 7i inches. 
(Plate 25. U.S.N.M. No. 154598.) 

(c) TABERNACLES. 

41. Curtain for the booth or tent (sukkah) of the Feast of 
Tabernacles.— Made of linen and silk, with gold threads in the edge, 
b}' the Beduins of Jerusalem in the eighteenth century. Length, 10 
feet 2 inches; width, 6 feet 4 inches. (Plate 26. U.S.N.M. No. 
154590.) 

42. Curtain tie. — Linen with edges embroidered in gold and silk. 
Made by the Jews of Smvrna, Asia Minor, in the seventeenth century. 
Length, 8 feet; width, 8^ inches. (Plate 27. U.S.N.M. No. 154617.) 

The Feast of Tabernacles takes place on the 15th of Tishri (September- 
October), and continues, according to Leviticus xxiii, 39-43, seven 
days, with an eighth day for the conclusion of the feast, to which is 
added the feast of the "Rejoicing of the Law," thus extending it to 
nine days. It is celebrated in remembrance of the wandering of the 
Israelites through the desert where they dwelt in booths or tents \ In 
ancient times the feast was coincident with the harvest season and was 
a feast of thanksgiving.^ It was one of the most important and 
joyous of the three pilgrimage festivals. The most characteristic fea- 
ture of the celebration of this feast is the dwelling in booths or tents, 
whence is derived its Hebrew name, SiiMoth, or more fully hag ha- 
suJckoth^ the feast of booths. The booth has three sides of wood, usu- 
ally boards or planks, while the fourth side, on which is the entrance, 
is hung with a curtain. It must be erected in the open air and covered 
with green branches and leaves, affording protection against the sun 
by day, but permitting a small portion of the sky to be seen and the 
stars to show at night. Inside it is usually adorned with draperies and 
garlands. Being the "dwelling place " ^ during the festival, the meals 
are taken in the booth and especially pious people even sleep in it. 
Sick and feeble people, however, are exempt from the obligation of 
"dwelling in tents," and the precept is generally suspended in inclem- 
ent weather. Another of the important ceremonies connected with the 
observance of the Feast of Tabernacles is the use of palm branches 
{lulah), bound up with myrtle and willow branches, and a kind of cit- 
ron {ethrog)^ for which see the Report of the U. S. National Museum 
for 1896, page 996. 

^ Compare Leviticus xxiii, 43. 
^ Leviticus xxi'ii, 39; Exodus xxiii, IH; xxxiv, 22. 
* Leviticus xxiii, 42. 
NAT MUS 99 39 



558 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

iv. objects used on special occasions. 

43. Wrapper used on the occasion of carrying a child to 
SYNAGOGUE. — Linen with embroidered inscription in Hebrew reading: 
"Jacob, surnamed Kapel, son of Naphthali Siialita, surnamed Hirsli 
Heller, born Wednesda.y, the loth of Shebat (January-February) 5604 
(1844). May the Lord let him grow up to the study of the Torah, to 
marriage and good works. Amen. Selah." Made in France. Length, 
9 feet 4 inches; width, 6 inches. (Plate 28. U.S.N.M. No. 154605.) 

Among some Jews it is the custom when a child is brought for the 
first time to the synagogue that the father takes it to the desk, where 
the lesson from the Law is read during service, and presents a wrapper 
for the Torah scroll. 

44. Marriage contract {kethvhah). — Written on parchment in the 
so-called Rashi or Rabbinical script with gilded initials and decorated 
borders. Height, 12 inches; width, 18i inches. Dated Haskeuy, 
Constantinople, the 7th of Tishri (September-October) 5361 A. M. 
(1601 A. D.). The contracting parties are Solomon Medinah and Mer- 
cada, daughter of Moses Firmon. Marriage is usually preceded by an 
engagement or betrothal, on which occasion it is customary among 
some Jews to draw up a formal writ of agreement between the bride 
and groom, whence the ceremony is called tenaim, "articles of agree- 
ment." The marriage ceremony takes place under a canopy {hupj)ah) 
of silk, or velvet about two yards square, supported by four poles. The 
bride and bridegroom are led under it by their parents and friends. 
The rabbi, or anyone competent to perform the ceremony, takes a cup 
of wine, and after pronouncing an appropriate blessing, gives it to the 
bride and bridegroom to taste. The bridegroom then places a ring on 
the finger of the bride with the words: "Behold thou art wedded to 
me by this ring, according to the law of Moses and Israel." This act, 
which is called sanctification {hlddtishin) in itself makes the marriage 
valid. Then the marriage contract is read. This is written in Aramaic 
after an established form. It states that the bridegroom agrees to take 
the bride as his lawful wife, and that he will keep, maintain, honor, 
and cherish her, etc. , and also specifies the sum he settles upon her in 
case of his death. After that the bridegroom crushes an empty glass 
with his foot in remembrance of the destruction of Jerusalem.^ The 
rabbi, or whosoever performs the ceremony, takes another cup of wine, 
pronounces over it seven benedictions, and hands it again to the bride 
and bridegroom, who taste it, and the ceremony is then' concluded. 

45. Marriage contract.— Written on parchment. The margins are 
richly decorated; of the writing only a few traces are left, which, how- 
ever, exhibit fine workmanship. Height, 20i inches; width, 18i inches.^ 

^Compare Psalms cxxxvii, 5. 

2 For an illustration of an old marriage contract, see Report of the U. S. National 
Museum for 1896, p. 998. 



Report of U^ S National Mus'^urr. 1899 — Ad'er and Casanowtc; 



Plate 26. 




Curtain for Booth 'Sukkah' of the Feast of Tabernacles. 

.JfTH.^alem. Palestine. 
Cat. No. 1.14.590. U.S.X.M. 



R. iMit III U, S Natiii.1,1 Mub^uoi, 1899 — A,ll,-r an.t C 



Plate 27. 




Curtain Tie. 

Smyrna, Asia Minor, 
Cat. No. 154(jl7, U.S.X.M. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 899.— Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 28. 




Wrapper for carrying Child to Synagogue. 

Fraiicf. 
Cat. No. 154605, U.S.X.M. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE29. 




Fig. 1. Mezuzah incased in a quill. 
Fig. 2. Mezuzah in a tin case. 
Fig. 3. Mezuzah in a glass tube. 
Fig. 4. Mezuzah unfolded. 

(Cat. No. 15458-1, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 5. Amulet of Parchment. 

(Cat. No. 154611, U. S. N. M.) 
Fig. 6. Silver Medallion, used as amulet. 

(Cat. No. 154613, U. S. N. M. ) 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899. — Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 29. 




Mezuzot and Amulets 



OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEKEMONIAL. 559 

V. MISCELLANEOUS. 

40. Mezuzaii. — The uitzuzdlt consi.sts of the ixtssagcs Doutcrononi}' 
vi, 4-9, and xi. 13-21, written on parchment in the same manner as the 
Torah scroll and tlie i)]iylaoteries^ and inserted in a wooden or metal 
case or glass tube. On the outer side is written the Hebrew name of 
God, Shaddai, "Almighty," and a small opening- is left in the case 
opposite this word. The case is fastened in a slanting position to the 
right-hand side of the doorpost, in compliance with the words: "And 
thou shalt write them (the words of the Lord) on the doorposts of thj- 
house and within thy gates."" Pious Jews touch and kiss the mezuzah 
as they pass through the door. Some Jews in the Orient nail to the door- 
way the entire Decalogue inclosed in a tin case. The custom has been 
widely adopted by other peoples of the East, particularly by Mohamme- 
dans, who write passages from the Koran over the doors and windows 
of their homes. (Plate 29, fig. 1, mezuzah incased in a quill; fig. 2, 
mezuzah in a tin case; fig. 3, mezuzah in a glass tube; fig. 4, mezuzah 
unfolded. U.S.X.M. No. 154584.) 

47. Amulet of parchment. — Written for Hadji EphraimBenguiat 
when he was sick in childhood. Length, 9i inches; width, If inches. 
(Plate 29, fig. 5, U.S.N.M. No. 154011.) 

Amulets are charms, or preservatives against evil spirits, witchcraft, 
the evil e3^e, or disease. They are made of stone, metals, animal prod- 
ucts, etc., in fact of any substance. The most common consists of 
words, characters, or sentences ranged in a particular order and written 
on parchment, or engraved upon wood, stone, or metal, and worn 
about the neck or some other part of the body. Amulets are found in 
use among nearly all peoples and religions of ancient and modern times. 

48. Silver medallion, used probably as an amulet. — Filigree 
work. On one side is, in gilt relief, the Hebrew name of GoA^Shaddal., 
("Almighty"), on the other the figure called "Shield of David" {magen 
David) with a fleur-de-lis inside. Height, 2t inches; width 1| inches. 
(Plate 28, fig. 0. U.S.N.M. No. 154613.) 

49. Two SILVER rings, used as amulets. — Engraved with the name 
of the owner: "Ephraim Benguiat," and kabbalistic words. Diameter, 
three-fourths inch. 

50. Silver medal. — Struck in commemoration of the edict of Em- 
peror Francis Joseph I of February 18, 1800, granting the Israelites 
of his Empire the right to own real estate. On the obverse are in 
relief, to the right, a crowned female figure holding a scroll inscribed 
in Hebrew, "One people and one nation;" to the left, the figure of a 
boy holding in his right hand a wreath, in liis left a palm branch. 
Between the figures are, above, two tablets inscribed in Hebrew, "One 
law for us all;" beneath, the bust of the Emperor and the double eagle 

^See above under 1 and 21, p. 546 and 551. ^Deuteronomy vi, 9; xi, 20. 



560 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 

of the imperial standard. Tlie margin and bottom of the medal have 
appropriate German legends, expressive of the gratitude of the Israel- 
ites. The reverse is inscribed with the paragraphs of the edict bear- 
ing on the subject. Diameter, 2yf inches; thickness, one-fourth inch. 

51. Silver coin.- — On the obverse is, in relief, a seated female figure 
laying her right hand in blessing upon the head of a boy standing in 
front of her. The margin is inscribed with part of the Aaronitic 
blessing in German, "The Lord bless thee and keep thee," ^ while the 
chair on which the female figure is seated is adorned with the mono- 
gram of Christ {-^). At the bottom is the name ""Abramson." On 
the reverse is, on the top, the name of God, "Jehovah," in Hebrew 
characters, with rays of the sun going out from it, surrounded by the 
inscription in German, "Light and truth." It may have originated 
with some Kabbalistic sect and have been used as a talisman. Diam- 
eter, If inches. 

52. Scriptural motto. — Made of red silk and embroidered in gold, 
with the Hebrew passages, "Let thy garments be always white, and 
let not thy head lack ointment," ^ and, "I will dwell in thy tabernacle 
forever; I will take refuge in the covert of thy wings. Selah." ^ Made 
in Smyrna, Asia Minor, at the beginning of the nineteenth century. 
Length, 27i inches; width, 7h inches. 

VI. illustrations of bible narratives, mostly textiles. 

53. The sacrifice of Isaac. — As related in Genesis, chapter xxii. 
Piece of red tapestry, made in Spain. Length, 22 inches; width, Ti 
inches. (Plate 30, fig. 1. U.S.N.M. No. 154607.) 

54. The defeat of Goliath by David. — As described in I Samuel, 
chapter xvii. Piece of green tapestry, made in Greece. Length, 
5 feet 5 inches; width, 11 inches. (Plate 30, fig. 2. U.S.N.M. No. 
154608.) 

55. The story of David and Bathsheba. — As related in II Sam- 
uel, chapter xi. Piece of green tapestry, supposed to have been made 
in England in the thirteenth century. Length, 29 inches; width, lOi 
inches. (Plate 30, fig. 3. U.S.N.M. No. 154609.) 

56. Joseph and the wife of Potiphar. — As related in Genesis 
xxxix, 7. Oil painting on copper. Height, 21^ inches; width, 18 
inches. 

57. The passing of the Israelites through the Red Sea. — As 
described in Exodus xiv, 15. Lithograph. Height, 20^ inches; width, 
30 inches. (Plate 31. U.S.N.M. No. 1289.) 

58. The story of the golden calf. — As related in Exodus, chap- 
ter xxvii. On the top to the right is seen Moses on Mount Sinai 
holding the two tablets of the law; to the left is the calf mounted on 
a column ; below are the people dancing around it, and Aaron with his 



1 Numbers vi, 24. ^ Eeclesiastes ix, 8. 'Psalms ixi, 4. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 30 




Fig. 1. Tapestry representing the Sacrifice of Isaac. 

(Cat. No. 154607, U. S. N. M.) 
Fig. 2. Tapestry representing the Defeat of Goliath by David. 

(Cat. No. 154fi08, U. S. N. M. Greece.) 

Fig. 3. Tapestry representing the Story of David and Bathsheba. 
(Cat. No. 154609, U. S. N. M. England.) 



Report of U, S National Muspum, 1899. — Adler and Casanowicz. 



Plate 30. 



■JJ^jjMijp 




£^^^^ 


^^K \ -)!,;>'/ ^V vH^H^^HH^|R> '^1 >'.v t;.; ; '^^^l 


iPP^^g 


9 : ' ;v^ 


^^^^ 


y^H <^^^^HuaC3rtek^^£<^^^^^^H 


^^^^^^^^is 


2} ^mm H^#^d. 


:'*cF-vs/^e7!^ 


«'^B " '''''"''^'.^H ^jwsL'y i^^^^B 


^^fuPi^JmfiMrS^i 


*!^H' .";: /;- 1:^'-^' -'i^Bl i^|l^%!» ^^^^H 


W^^^^m 


^PlIilB ^^^^H 


Tf^ >^'5S». .,Ttc,,-* 


finMt^^^g^^^^^KL j^^@i!w(^^^^^| 


^..sm^'.i^^^ 


^ n^aW^J^il 




« eJss*' tSifik) rf ^''^ 


•^ l^^?« *> I 






^ W<^^mai^ 






1 J 
1 

1^ 






1* 

i' 
'1 

4 


?^ -£.^^^*^I^ 




2isS^S^w./ 




i^^ 

H ^ 
*ii« ji' 




^?^^% 










I^K^ 




^ ^^m^^^ 




>( 


^!^^l^ 


^^(f' ^^ /i ill r ^ ^^^^r 


9«. 


f 






r'SiiK!i£^^lim^^tii 




•- 




f4 '^ 

■>WL."' 


5 /|f^^^^^^ 


i 


;^ 'W-^'^^'^^^ 


# ; 


'^ ™v^"^*' '''^'^ 


'■^ A ''^W l^ 






^■ESfO^RKS^S 






5t 






^■j^vs^raK^^^jK 


•5^k ■ 5^ 


«t /^'isftT^ fe''^^ 


i,^ 


'^ fe '\Li3vT*fe 


^k '^ 






♦'^y^v^Xi^^ 


''^l H 


i2m^^^^^ 


i"^ 3^^B^»«% 


mi^L^^^^^^^^^K^ff^^WtfBSfi^^^li/Si 


i^ 







Report of U. S National Museum, 1899 — Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 31. 




Report of U. S. National WluJeum, 1899. — Adler and Casanowicz. 



Plate 32. 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899. — Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 33. 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899. — Adier and Casanowicz. 



Plate 34. 



'At 




^\, II 



i' 



Embroidery representing the Prophet Elijah fed by Ravens. 

Spiiiii. 

Ciit. No. iri^(;it;. r.s.N.M. 



Report of U, S National Musiutu, 1 899 — Adier and Casano 



Plate 35. 




Tapestry representing the Story of Susanna. 
Cat. No. 15^(;io, r..S.N.M. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899. — Adier and Casanowicz 



Plate 36. 




OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL. 5()1 

aniLs outstretched in deprecation. Silk embroidery. Made in Spain 
in the sixteenth oentur}-. Height, Hi inches; width, l-ii inches. 
(Plate 32. U.S.N.M. No. 158349.) 

59. The judgment of Solomon. — As related in I Kings iii, 16. 
French petit point tapestry. Height, 18i inches; width, 21i inches. 
(Plate 33. U.S.N.M. No. 158350.) 

00. The prophet Elijah provided with food by ravens. — As 
related in I Kings xvii, 6. Silk embroidery, with the face of Elijah 
painted. Made in Spain in the eighteenth century. Height, Hi 
inches; width, 9i inches. (Plate 34. U.S.N.M. No. 154616.) 

61. Susanna and the elders. — As related in the "History of 
Susanna ■' (the apocryphal chapter xiii of the book of Daniel). Brown 
tapestry. Height, 3 feet Si inches; width, 2 feet 2 inches. (Plate 35. 
U.S.N.M. No. 154610.) 

62. Tapestry, probably representing the story of Judith and 
HoLOFERNES. — As related in the (apocryphal) book of Judith, chap- 
ters x-xiii. Made in Greece. Height, 14i inches; width, 18 inches. 
(Plate S6. U.S.N.M. No. 154807.) 



INDEX. 

Accessions annually since 1881, table showing ^-^ 

daring year ending June 30, 1899, list of 73 

Acid waters "181 

Adler, Cyrus, and I. M. Casanowicz on Descriptive Catalogue of a Collection 
of Objects of Jewish Ceremonial deposited in the United 

States National Museum, by Hadji Ephraim Benguiat... 539 

custodian division of religions 23 

title of joint paper by ". 125 

Administrative staff 72 

Adobe ^^^ 

analyses of - ^36 

Africa, distribution of specimens in 117 

Agalmatolite 322 

Agate 215 

Agriculture, Department of, mammals, insects, and plants received from 9 

Alamandite 307 

Albertite 446 

uses of 447 

Algonquin tribes, heddle frame of the - 489 

Alkaline waters 480 

Allanite - - - 311 

analyses of 312 

localities and mode of occurrence of 312 

uses of 312 

Allemontite 182 

Alloclasite 186 

Aluminite 419 

Alums 416 

alum slate 421 

aluminite 419 

alunite 419 

clay 346 

kalinite 416 

shale 421 

tschermigite 416 

Alunite 419 

composition of 419, 420 

Amber, occurrence of 455 

uses of 456 

Amblygonite 390 

mode of occurrence of 390 

uses of 390 

America, distribution of specimens in 117 

Amherst grindstones 465 

563 



564 INDEX. 

Page. 

Amulet of parchment 559 

Amur, Pointed Bark Canoes of the Kutenai and. By Otis T. Mason 523 

River, types of boat on the 533 

An Early West Virginia Pottery. By Walter Hough 511 

Analyses of adolie 336 

allanite 312 

asbestiform minerals 298 

barite 405 

carbonite 449 

clays 329 

columbite 353 

gadolinite 313 

guano 375, 378 

halloysite 330 

lazurite 310 

loess of Mississippi Valley 336 

molding sand 476 

Navassa phosphate 377 

peats 425 

pumice 471 

pyrophyllite 322 

sepiolite 323 

slip clay 335 

soapstone 316 

talc 316 

uraninite 402 

Analysis of alunite 420 

Aruba phosphate 377 

bat guano 379 

gypsum 407 

leached guano 376 

petroleum 434 

Andradite 307 

Annual report (1896) published 125 

Anthracite coal 427 

Anthropology, important accessions to 8 

department of, changes in 17 

collections received by, list of 18 

field work in 17 

report of head curator on 17 

researches and jjublications of 23 

Antique china cup 556 

Apatite 356 

bibliography of 380 

bat guano 378 

guano 374 

rock phosphate 358 

Appendix I 71 

II 73 

III 117 

IV 125 

V 151 

Applegate, Elmer I. , worked up set of Oregon plants 59 



INDEX. 



5G5 



Page. 

Applied geolocry, section of, installation in '^^ 

Appropriations for National ilusenni for current fiscal year -'^l 

year ending June 30, 1898, disbursement of unexpended 

balances of '''- 

year ending June 30, 1000 53 

Argentina, distribution of specimens in ^23 

Arsenic ^^" 



occurrence of 



182 



preparation of 1^-" 



nses ol. 



182 



Arsenical pyrites 1^^ 

Arsenides ^°^ 

Arsenopyrite ^°" 

composition of 1^" 

occurrence of 189 

uses of 18" 

Aruba phosphate, analysis of 37/ 

Asbestos 2^^ 

bibliography of "^Oo 

localities ^^^ 

methods of mining and preparation of 303 

mode of occurrence and origin 300 

uses of 303 

Asbolite 187 

Ashman, E. H. , contributions from 29 

Ashmead, AVilliam H. , gift to department of biology by 8 

reference to work of 31 

titles of papers by 126 

Asia, distribution of specimens in 123 

Asphaltum 441 

uses of 445 

Atkins, Roswell, heddle frame presented by 500 

Auripigment 183, 184 

Australia, distribution of specimens in 124 

Austria, distribution of specimens in 123 

Ayers, Howard, fishes loaned to 34 

myxinoid fishes sent to 60 

Bag of tefillin 552 

Bailey, Vernon, representatives of genus Microtus furnished to 60 

Baird, Prof. Spencer F. , appointed Assistant Secretary 5 

establishment of the Fish Commission under direc- 
tion of 5 

Baker, A. B., coUectuig outfit furnished to 67 

collections by 27, 38 

explorations yielding important results to Museum conducted by . 66 

Baker, C. F., gift of eggs made by - - - 28 

Baker, J. G. , donation by 30 

Bangs, Outram, gift of collection of birds by 28 

ornithological collections made by 66 

skull of deer sent to 60 

specimens of birds sent to 60 

studied rails, meadow larks, etc 59 

titles of papers by 127 



566 INDEX. 

Page. 

Bangs, Outram, use of Colombian birds by 35 

use of ornithological collections by 34 

Banks, Nathan, custodian of Arachnida 51 

titles of pajiers by 128 

Barber, A. W., gift of skull from 38 

Barite, analyses of 405 

composition of . . - 405 

occurence of 405 

preparation of 406 

sources of 406 

uses of 406 

Barlow, Joel, author of The Columbiad 4 

Barrett-Hamilton, G. E. H., reference to specimens sent to 35 

squirrels and mice furnished to 60 

Bartsch, Paul, collecting outfit furnished to 68 

collections of Kinderhook fossils made by 46 

Kinderhook corals collected by 67 

material collected by 67 

titles of papers by 128 

Bat guano 378 

analysis of 379 

Bauxite 229 

bilsliography of 238 

composition of 229, 230 

occurrences of 233 

origin and mode of occurrence of 231 

origin of deposits of 237 

uses of 238 

Bavaria, distribution of specimens in 1 23 

Bay of Chaleur, New Brunswick, grindstones 466 

Bean, Barton A. , material collected by 66 

prepared jointly i^reliminary catalogue of fishes 33 

reference to study of - . . 32 

title of joint paper by 129 

titles of papers by 129 

Bean, Tarleton H. , material collected by 66 

reference to study of fishes by 32 

title of joint paper by 129 

Becker, George F., agreed to look after interests of Museum in PhilijDpine 

Islands 65 

Beck with, Paul, material acquired by explorations of 65 

sent to Cuba and Porto Rico as agent for Institution 17 

Bedford grindstones 465 

Beede, J. ^X. , number of fossils sent to 62 

paleozoic material lent to 47 

Belgium, distribution of specimens in 123 

phosphates in 371 

Benedict, James E., continues work on crustaceans of the family Galatheidpe. . 33 

reference to identification of crabs by 31 

Benguiat, Hadji Ephraim, owner of collection of objects of Jewish ceremonial 

deposited in Museum 545 

Berea grindstones 465 

Bergen, Paul D. , collecting outfit furnished to 67 

ornithological collections made by 66 



INDEX. 567 

Page. 

Bibliography of apatite -^80 

asbestos '^Od 

bauxite 238 

chromite 251 

clays 352 

coal 428 

cobalt 189 

corundum 227 

cryolite 238 

diamond 167 

emery 227 

graphite 1 73 

limestones 269 

monazite 387 

National Museum for year ending June 30, 1899 125 

nitrates 396 

ocher (paint ores) 245 

orpiment 184 

pyrites 193 

realgar 184 

resins 460 

scheelite 356 

sulphur 181 

Bieberite 187 

Biology, department of, accessions to, list of 27 

changes in 25 

field work in 32 

gift of W. H. Ashmead to 8 

improvements in exhibition halls of 25 

investigations by 32 

personnel of 35 

report of head curator on 25 

use of the collections in 34 

work on study series in 30 

Biotite 293 

Birch-bark canoe east of the Rocky Mountains 528 

Bird, Henry, collections of insects consulted by 58 

Birds, division of, condition of exhibition series in 26 

work on the study series in 30 

Birds' eggs, section of, accessions to 28 

Bitumen series 429 

albertite 446 

asphaltum 441 

carbonite 449 

elaterite 446 

grahamite 447 

manjak 445 

marsh gas 433 

natural gas 433 

petroleum 434 

uintaite 450 

wurtzillite 446 

Bitumens, tabulated classification of 430 



568 ■ INDEX. 

Page. 

Bituminous coals " 426 

compounds, origin of 430 

tabular classification of 429 

Black mica 293 

Boat on the Amur River, types of 533 

Bohemia, distribution of specimens in 123 

Eoracite 397 

composition of 397 

localities and mode of occurrence of 397 

methods of mining and manufacture of 401 

uses of 402 

Borate of magnesia 397 

soda 396 

Borates 396 

boracite 397 

borax 396 

colemanite 397 

ulexite 397 

Borax 396 

Boronatrocalcite 397 

Branchont, J. , collections of insects consulted by 58 

Brass dish used at Passover meal 556 

Braunite 254 

Bray, W. L., extensive studies carried on in herbarium by '. 59 

Brazil, monazite in 384 

Bredbergite 307 

Brewster, William, series of specimens lent to 35 

specimens of wrens, sparrows, etc. , sent to 60 

title of paper by 129 

British Museum, donation by 29 

Brockett, Paul, assistant, department of anthropology 22 

Broggerite 403 

Brown coal 425 

Bruner, Lawrence, collection of Mexican and Central American Acrididee sentto. 35, 61 

Brushite 370 

Buhrstone 217 

Buildings 7 

Bulletin No. 47, Parts II and III published 125 

Burden, Charles E. , collections of insects consulted by 58 

Burmite 457 

Busck, August, collection of insects made by 67 

Calc spar 258 

Calcite 258 

origin and mode of occurrence of 259 

Calcium carbonate 258 

calcite 258 

cements 264 

chalk 262 

limestones 264 

lithographic limestone 270 

mortars 264 

playing marbles 270 

Portland cement 266 

Roman cement 268 



INDEX. 569 

rage. 

Call, R. E. , reference to colleotion of shells presented by 30 

Calvert, Thilip P., nnworked dragon flies sent for use in connection with his 

work to 35 

nnworked material in the Odonata sent to 61 

Canada, distriVmtion of specimens in 117 

phosphates in 362 

Candolle, C. de, specimens of plants sent to 61 

Canoe jiaddles ^"^^ 

Canoes of the Kutenai and Amur, Pointed Bark. By Otis T. Mason 523 

and of the Amur compared 531 

Western Hemisphere 525 

Cantwell, J. C, collecting outfit furnished to 67 

Cape Emeri 223 

Carbon, diamond 1^'^ 

graphite ^^^ 

Carbonates 258 

calcium 258 

dolomite 274 

magnesite ' 275 

natr( »n 280 

rhodi )chrosite 280 

strontianite 279 

tn ma 281 

witherite 279 

Carbonite 449 

analyses of ■^■1^ 

occurrence of "l'^^ 

uses of "l-'^O 

Carnotite 404 

Caruana, Josei)h M. , measurements of pointed c-anoe by 530 

Casanowicz, I. M., aid division of religions 23 

Cyrus Adler and, on Descriptive ('atalogue of a Collection of 
Objects of Jewish Ceremonial deposited in the XT. S. 

National INIuseum by Hadji Ephraim Benguiat 539 

title of joint paper by - 125 

paper by 1 29 

Catalogue of a Collection of Objects of Jewish Ceremonial dei)Osited in the 
IT. 8. National Museum by Hadji P]phraim Benguiat, Descriptive, 

by Cyrus Adler and I. M. Casanowicz 539 

mineral nature and localities represented in the asbestus collec- 
tion of the Museum 305 

wares of the first period 517 

second period 520 

Celestite 411 

composition of 411 

uses of 412 

Cements - - 264 

Ceremonial deposited in the U. S. National Museum by Hadji Ephraim Ben- 
guiat, Descriptive Catalogue of a Collection of Objects of Jewish, by Cyrus 

Adler and I. M. Casanowicz 539 

Cerite '514 

uses of 314 

Chalcedony - 215 

NAT MUS 99—40 



570 INDEX. 

Page. 

Chalk 262 

uses of 263 

Challenger, exploring steamer 219 

Chamberlain, L. T. , gifts of gems from 38 

Chapman, Frank M., titles of papers by 129 

Chapman, John, gift of 28 

Characteristic features of graphite 168 

Chemawinite .- - - 456 

Chemical composition of infusorial earth 220 

Chestnut, Victor K., specimens of Mexican drugs sent for examination to 60 

titles of papers by 129 

China, distribution of specimens in - 123 

Chinese devace for weaving rush matting 489 

Chittenden, Frank II. , miscellaneous material sent to 61 

titles of papers by 129 

Chlor-apatite - - - - 357 

Chromite 246 

bibliography of 251 

occurrence of 247 

prices of ■- 249 

uses of 248 

Clark, A. Howard, custodian division of history 21 

report for current year 21 

Clark, F. W., series of silicates and specimens of chalcedony turned over to. . . 47 

Clark, Hubert Lyman, title of paper by 131 

Classification of mineral waters 477 

Clay, pottery 344 

properties of 339 

Clays 325 

analyses of 329 

bibliography of - 352 

composition of 349 

kinds and classification of 328 

mineral and chemical composition of 326 

origin and mode of occurrence of 325 

testing of 343 

used in early pottery 513 

uses of 344 

Cleveite 403 

Coal, anthracite 427 

bibliography of 428 

bituminous 426 

lignite 425 

measure clays 332 

origin of -' - 423 

peat 424 

series 423 

Cobalt, asbolite 187 

bibliography of 189 

bieberite 187 

cobaltite 184 

cobaltomenite 187 

ervthrite 187 



INDEX. 571 

Cobalt, glance 184 

glaiuo(i()t 1 86 

linna-ite 186 

remingtonite 187 

rosolite 187 

skutterudite 186 

8!iialtite 185 

uphaTocobaltite 187 

sychnodymite 187 

uses of 189 

Cobaltiiie 184 

Cobaltite 184 

occurrences of 185 

Cobaltomenite 187 

Cockerell, T. I). A., collections of insects consulted by 58 

Colenianit(» 397 

(■< imposition of 397 

Collections in the Section of Applied Geology, (Tuide to the .Study of the, l)y 

George P. Merrill ] 55 

of ol)jects of Jewish Ceremonial Deposited in the U. S. National 
jMuseum by Hadji Ephraini Benguiat, Descriptive Catalogue of 

a, by Cyrus Adler and I. M. Casanowicz 0.39 

Collec^tors' 1 lutfits furnished 67 

Columbite, analj^ses of 353 

and tantalite 353 

occurrence of 354 

uses of 354 

Commercial sources of emery 227 

Common salt 195 

Comparative anatomy, division of, rearrangement of exhibition series in 31 

removal of synoptic series of invertebrates 

from 26 

Composition of alunite 419 

arsenopyrite 189 

barite _ 405 

bauxite 229, 230 

boracite 397 

celestite 411 

(^lays 549 

colemanite 397 

corundum 224 

(rryolite 214 

emery 223 

epsomite 415 

glauberite 415 

gypsum 406 

halite I95 

ilmenite 245 

lazurite 309 

monazite 383 

niter 39I 

pinite 323 

rutile 245 



572 INDEX. 

Page. 

CompoHition of samarskite - ^^"^ 

talc - 316 

thenardite 415 

ulexite - 397 

uraninite 402 

wolframite 355 

Constitution grindstones 465 

Cook, 0. F., honorary assistant curator in charge of Cryptoganiic collections. . 51 

titles of papers by - - 131 

Cooperation of Executive Departments of the Government 62 

Coprolite - - 358 

Coquillett, Daniel W. , titles of papers by 131 

Corundum - ^^^ 

and emery - 220 

bibliography of - 22/ 

composition of 220 

occurrences of 221 

origin of - — 223 

uses of - 227 

Cossman, M. M. , Paleozoic material lent to 47 

Coubeaux, Eugene, ornithological collections made by 6<) 

Coulter, J. M., title of joint paper by 132 

Cover for green herljs - - ^^^ 

the reading desk - 54 / 

unleavened bread 556 

Coville, Frederick V. , extract from report of 31 

honorary curator, division of plants 31 

joined the Harriman Alaska expedition 32 

reference to study of genus Eibes 33 

title of joint paper by 132 

Cox, W. v., designated as chief special agent to Pan-American Exposition... 51 

Craft of Asia similar to Kutenai specimens 533 

Cragin, F. W., spent time at Museum working up a collection of Jurassic fos- 
sils from Texas 60 

worked on collection of Texas Jurassic fossils 47 

Craigleith, Scotland, grindstones 466 

Crawford, John M., specimens of heddle from Helsingfors, Finland, sent to 

Museum by r 492 

Crosby, F. W., collections made in Europe by 47 

geological material acquired by collection of 67 

reference to basaltic columns collected by 40 

series of volcanic products collected by 38 

Cryolite 214 

bibliography of 238 

composition of 214 

mode of occurrence of 214 

uses of - '^'■'■' 

Culin, Stewart, continues studies on aboriginal and modern games 58 

specimens of Indian gambling implements sent for examina- 



tion to. 



60 



title of paper 132 

Cup and saucer used for Kiddush 553 

Currie, Rolla P. , reference to work of 31 

titles of papers by 132 



INDEX. r)73 

Fage. 

Curtain for the Sukkali 557 

tie : 557 

Cusliinjr, Frank H., collection of pipea, gorgets, ceremonial objects, etc., sent 

for examination to 60 

heddle frame from Zufii, New Mexico, collected by 506 

Cushions ust-d at Passover meal 555 

Dale, T. N. , series of rocks collected by 38 

Dall, William II., joined the I larriman Alaska expedition 32 

statement ri'garding work on niollusks 33 

titles of papers by 1 32 

Danaite 189 

Daniel, J. W., collecting ontfit furnished to 67 

Darton, N. II., series of jointed sandstones (Collected by 38 

Davenport, George, specimens of plants gent to 61 

De Weese, Dall, collection obtained by 28 

specimens of xVlaska moose and wild white sheep obtained by. 66 

Defeat of Goliath by David 560 

Definition of heddle frames 488 

Denmark, distrilnition of specimens in 123 

Dejjartnient of Agriculture, collection of D. G. Fairchild received through 28 

Deposits of mica 290 

Deposits, sulphur 177 

Descloizite 388 

localities and mode of occurrence of 388 

uses of 390 

Descriptive Catalogue of a Collection of Oljjects of Jewish Ceremonial deposited 
in the United States National Museum by Hadji Ephraim Benguiat, by 

Cyrus Adler and I. M. Casanowicz 539 

Dialogite 280 

Diamond 165 

))ibli()graphy of 167 

origin and occurrence of 166 

uses of 166 

Diaspore 239 

occurrence of 239 

uses of 239 

Diatomacecjus or infusorial earth 218 

Dickhaut, 11. E., acquisition of series of Upper Silurian fossils collected ])y 67 

collection oi Cincinnati fossils j)urchased from 39 

series of Upper Silurian fossils collected by 47 

I )ifHculties of the early potter 514 

Diller, J. S. , sjjecimens of chalcedony sent to 62 

title of paper by 133 

Distribution of mineral waters 479 

specimens during year ending June 30, 1899, statement of 117 

Dolomite 274 

uses of 275 

Drew, G. A., reference to study on niollusks of family Ledida- 34 

studied the family Lediaic 59 

Dry sand 477 

Dugout canoe in Saghalin 534 

localities of 528 

Dwight, E. , material in the family Chrysomelida? sent to 61 

Dwight, Jonathan, jr., bird skins sent to 60 



574 INDEX. 

Page. 

Dwight, Jonathan, j r. , specimens of birds loaned to 35 

Dyar, Harrison G. , reference to labor in section of lepidoptera of 31 

title of joint paper bj'^ 145 

titles of papers by 133 

Eakle, Arthur S. , title of paper by 133 

Earle, Mrs. Alice Morse, photograph of loom from Long Island received from. . 498 

Early American potteries 514 

market for pottery made at Morgan town 514 

Eastman, C. R. , specimens of teeth of Paleozoic sharks sent to 62, 47 

Elaterite 446 

Elements 165 

allemontite 182 

arsenic 182 

carbon - 165 

sulphur 174 

Eliot, Sir Charles N. E. , British commissioner to Samoa 34 

collecting outfit furnished to 67 

prosecuted investigations on the Nudibranchs 59 

reference to investigations on Nudibranch mollusks 1 . . . 34 

Emeri, Cape 223 

Emerson, B. K. , sections of granites lent to 47 

rocks supplied to 62 

Emery 220, 223 

bibliography of - 227 

commercial sources of 227 

composition of 223 

occurrence of - - 224 

prices of 227 

vises of - - 227 

Enameled saucer and silver spoon - 556 

England, distribution of specimens in 123 

phosphates in 368 

Epsom salts 415 

Epsomite 415 

composition of : 415 

Erythrite 187 

f]thnology, division of, installation work in 19 

Exhibit illustrating geological distribution 439 

variation in color 439 

sjiecific gravity 436 

Expenditures of National Museum for current fiscal year. 52 

Explorations and researches 10 

conducted by members of Museum staff 65 

materials acquired from 65 

Expositions 68 

participation of Smithsonian Institution in 12, 13 

Extraction and jjreparation of sulphur 181 

Euclid grindstones 465 

Europe, distribution of specimens in 123 

Evans, Walter, series of ])lants from Alaska collected by 67 

Evermann, Barton W. , cc )llecting outfit furnished to 67 

collections of fishes used by 59 

reference to use of collections of fishes by 34 

titles of joint papers by 138 



INDEX. 575 

Page. 

Ewer and V)asin 555 

Fabrifs, A Primitive Frame for Weaving Narrow. • By Otis Tufton Mason 485 

Fairchild, D. G., botanical colleotions made in Europe by 67 

collecting outfit furnished to 68 

Feldspars 281 

occurrence of 282 

uses of 283 

Ferguson, A. M. , reseaches on the genus Croton 59 

Fernald, C. H. , specimens of family Pyralidie sent to 61 

Fewkes, Dr. J. Walter, aid in Pueblo section received from 19 

Field work in department of anthropology 17 

Finland heddle, the 492 

First pottery established west of the Allegheny mountains 513 

salt glaze made in this country 516 

Fish Commission, U. S., collections of fishes received from 66 

collection of reptiles and batrachians received from. . 28 

collection received from 27 

contribution of 8 

establishment of 5 

exploitations carried on by 5 

explorations yielding important results to Museum 

conducted by naturalists of 66 

fishes received from 28 

reference to collection of crabs made by 31 

series of reptiles and batrachians turned over to 

Museum by 66 

zoological collection received from 27 

Flint 216 

Fluor-apatite 357 

Fluorite 213 

occurrence of 214 

uses of 214 

Fox, W. J. , wasps and bees sent to 61 

Frame for Weaving Narrow Fabrics, A Primitive. By Otis Tufton Mason 485 

France, distribution of specimens in 123 

phosphates in 369 

Franklinite 253 

Fritsch, Anton, director of National Museum at Prague, Bohemia 60 

Paleozoic material lent to 47 

studied methods of installation 47 

studied the fossil Myriapoda and Arachnida in Lacoe collection . 47, 60 

Fuller's earth 337 

Gadolinite 313 

analyses of 313 

localities and mode of occurrence of 313 

uses of 314 

Gallatin, All)ert, establishment of glass factory of 514 

Gamble, F. W., annelids of genera Ammotrypane, Trophonia, Ophelia, etc., 

sent to 61 

specimens of several genera furnished to 35 

Garnet 307 

occurrence of 307 

uses of 307 



576 INDEX. 

Page. 

Geological age and mode of occurrence of gypsum 407 

Geological Survey, U. S. , material.acquired by explorations of 67 

material deposited by 38 

Geology, department of, accessions in, list of 37 

assistance afforded students and investigators by 47 

organization of the 37 

present condition of collections in 39 

report of head curator on 37 

researches of 46 

sources of new material in 46 

storage and workrooms of 48 

Guide to the Study of the Collections in tlie Section of Applied, by 

George P. Merrill - 155 

German heddle frames 494 

Germany, distribution of specimens in 123 

phosphates in 370 

Geyserite "l"! 

Gibbs, George, reference to canoe collected by 525 

3ibbsite 239 

uses of - 239 

Giers, E. T. , collecting outfit furnished to 68 

Gilbert, B. D., specimens of plaitts sent to 61 

Gilbert, Charles H., title of paper by 135 

Gill, Theodore N., titles of papers by 135 

Gilsonite -150 

occurrence of - - 450 

uses of 451 

Girty, George H., custodian in section of invertebrate fossils 51 

Paleozoic material lent to 47 

Glacialite - ^'^' 

Glass and plate 556 

Glatfelter, N. M., specimens of plants supplied to 62 

Glauber salt -112 

Glauberite "^15 

composition - — 415 

Glaucodot 186 

Glazes used on early potteries 514 

Goldi paddle \ - 536 

pointed canoe 537 

Goode, G. Brown, appointed Assistant Secretary 6 

heddle frame from town of Siena collected ))y 496 

purchase by Museum of library of 13 

title of paper by 136 

Grahamite • - 44 < 

occurrence of - 448 

Granier, M. E. , accessions in anthropology through 8 

Graphic arts, section of, installation work in 22 

Graphite 168 

bibliography f)f 1 73 

characteristic features of - 168 

occurrence and origin of 168 

occurrence of 169 

preparation of 172 



INDEX. 577 

Page. 

Graphit(>, prioea of 173 

sources of ' ' 1 

uses of - - 1 ' 2 

Great Brituin, distrilnition of speeinieiis in 123 

Green sand 477 

Greene, E. ]^., consulted material in various genera 59 

reference to services in determining various specimens 34 

specimens of plants supjilicnl to 62 

Grindstones 463 

soin'ces of 465 

Grinut'll, Josej)!!, titles of pajiers by — 136 

(irossularite 307 

Guano 356, 358, 374 

analyses of 375,378 

Guide to the Ktudy of tlie ( "ollectious in the .Section of Ai)plied Geology, l)y 

George P. Merrill 155 

in the section of Applied Geology, list 

of illustrations in 163 

in the section of Applied Geology, table 
of contents and scheme of classifica- 
tion of - - - 159 

Gum copal - 457 

Guthrie, Leon J., collecting outtit furnished to - - 67 

Gypsum 406 

analysis of 407 

(composition of 406 

geological age and mode of < x'currence of 407 

origin of 407 

uses of - - 410 

Halides 195 

cryolite - 214 

fluorite 213 

halite 195 

Halite 195 

composition of 195 

in Louisiana 200 

Michigan 199 

Texas - 200 

methoils of mining and manufacture of 206 

origin and occurrences of - 196 

uses of 211 

Hall, IL ()., specimens of plants su])plied to 62 

Hall, Janu's, return of Troost collection of crinoidea to Smithsonian Institution 

by 39 

Halloysite - - 330 

analyses of 330 

Hampson, Sir George F., collection of moths sent to 61 

Hansard, A. C, collecting outfit furnished to 68 

Hanukah lamp - 549 

Harrison, Miss Carrie, transferred to Department of Agriculture 51 

Hasse, H. E., gift of 30 

•Hatcher, J. B., agreed to look after the interests of Museum in Patagonia 65 

lot of specimens received from 10 



578 ■ INDEX. 

Page. 

Hausmannite 253 

Hay, Oliver P. , described two new species of fossil turtles 47 

researches on verteljrate fossils made by 59 

specimens of Dermochelys studied by 58 

title of paper by 137 

Hay, W. P. , described new form of isopod 34 

donation of 29 

specimens of crayfishes named by 58 

title of paper by 137 

Haymond, Mrs. Dorcas, historical information in relation to pottery received 

from 517 

Heath, Harold, material collected by 67 

Heddle frame definition of 488 

from the Pueblo region 504 

German 494 

Itahan 496 

New England 498 

of the Algonquin tribes 489 

patented 503 

the Finland 492 

the Pueblo 492 

Heddles, Pueblo, of various sizes 508 

Henderson, L. L. , title of paper by 137 

Henshaw, H. W. , donation by 29 

Hill, Meriden S. , assistance received from 527 

results of investigations of 528 

Hill, R. T., title of joint paper by 137 

Hine, James, collections of insects consulted by 58 

History, division of, installation work in 21 

Hitchcock, C. H. , geological collections made by 47 

Holland, W. J. , collections of insects consulted by 58 

Holm, Theodor, specimens of plants supplied to 62 

Holmes, F. H. , skins purchased from 28 

Holmes, J. S. , collecting outfit furnished to 67 

Holmes, William H., head curator of department of anthropology 25 

investigations in California by 17 

material acquired from explorations by 65 

report on department of anthropology by 17 

researches in California and Mexico by 10 

trip to Mexico 18 

Hones 463 

Hornung, J. , ornithological collections made by 66 

Hough, Walter, assistant curator, division of ethnology 19 

detailed to carry on ethno-botanical researches in Mexico 65 

expedition to Mexico 10, IS 

on An Early West Virginia Pottery 511 

reference to researches conducted by 24 

Howard, Leland O. , reference to gratuitous services of 31 

report concerning accessions to division of insects 29 

titles of papers by 137 

Howe, Reginald Heber, jr. , specimens of thrushes sent to 60 

Hiibnerite 355 



INDEX. 579 

Page. 

Hudson, Dr. W. J. , aoccssion of part of basketry collection of 8 

Huron, Michigan, grindstones 465 

Hydrargillite 2.39 

Hydrocarbon compounds 423 

bitumen series 429 

coal series 423 

ozokerite 451 

resins 455 

Hydrocarbons, tabular classification of 429 

Iceland spar 258 

Ide, George E. , collecting outfit furnished to 67 

Illustrations of Bible narratives, mostly textiles 5(50 

Ilmenite 245 

composition of 245 

mode of occurrence of 245 

uses of 245 

Imperial Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg, models of jiointed canoes in 535 

Independence grindstones 465 

India, distribution of specimens in 123 

mica 293 

Indianaite •^■^1 

Infusorial earth, chemical composition of 220 

uses of 220 

Inner bag of teflUin 552 

Insects, division of accessions to 29 

Installation of anthropological materials 9 

Invertebrate fossils, section of accessions to 38 

Investigators accorded access to collections in the National Museum 58 

Irish, H. C. , specimens of plants sent to - 62 

Italian heddle frames 496 

Italy, distril )ution of specimens in 124 

phosphates in 373 

Jewish Ceremonial deposited in the U. S. National Museum by Hadji Ephraim 
Benguiat, Descriptive Catalogue of a Collection of Objects of, by Cyrus Adler 

and I. M. Casanowicz 539 

Jordan, David S., specimens of Nemichthys scolopaceus and Chirostoma 

estor sent to 60 

titles of joint papers by 138 

Joseph and the wife of Potiphar 560 

Jouy, P. L., batten frame from Guadalajara, Mexico, collected by 507 

Judd, S. I). , donation of 29 

Judgment of Solomon 561 

Judith and Holofernes 561 

Kainit 416 

Kalinite 416 

Kaolin 330 

Kendall, W. C. , collection of fishes used by 34, 59 

Kengla, Louis A. , donati( m by 30 

Kieserite - - 416 

Kimball, James H., collecting outfit furnished to 68 

Kinds and classification of clays 328 

'Kingsbury, George, collecting outfit furnished to 68 



580 INDEX. 



Knowlton, Frank Hall, titles of papers by 139 

Kutenai and Amur, Pointed Bark Canoes of the, by Otis T. Mason 523 

canoe, peculiarities of construction of 527 

the 528 

construction of 529 

described by D. M. McLaughlin 529 

upon Arrow Lakes, British Columbia 528 

Larcoe, K. D., carboniferous plants purchased for Museum by 39 

donations made by 47 

Lajward 311 

Langley, S. P. , Secretary of Smithsonian Institution 71 

Lapis lazuli 309 

Lazurite 309 

analyses of 310 

occurrence of 310 

uses of 311 

Leached guano, analyses of 376 

Lead glaze wares 515 

Leda clays •. 333 

Lee, Harry, series of telluride ores procured through 47 

State commissioner of mines of Colorado 47 

Leiberg, J. B. , studied plants collected in Western timber reserves 59 

Lemke, Mrs. Elizabeth, specimen of heddle from Saalfeld, Konigsberg, East 

Prussia, presented to Museum by 494 

Lepidolite 293 

Lepidomelane , 293 

Leucopyrite 189 

Liljrary , accession to 13, 64 

progress of work in 64 

Lignite 425 

Limestones 264 

bibliography of 269 

uses of 265 

Lindahl, J. D., specimen of Amphystoma sent to 60 

Linell, Martin L. , title of joint paper by 139 

titles of papers by 139 

Linnaeite 186 

occurrences of 187 

List of accessions during year ending June 30, 1899 73 

authors of papers in bibliograjjliy 149 

Lithiophilite - 391 

occurrence of 391 

Lithographic limestone 270 

localities of 272 

Liverpool, or Melling, England, grindstones 466 

Localities and mode of occurrence of allanite 312 

boracite 397 

descloizite 388 

gadolinite 313 

magnesite 276 

monazite 383 

samarskite 354 

uraninite 403 



INDEX. 581 

Page. 

Localities aixl iiuxlc of occurnMicc of vanadiiiitc 387 

witheritc 279 

of asbestos 300 

lithojj;raj)l)i(' limestone 272 

micas 286 

phosphates 362 

rutile 246 

spodumene 309 

sulphur 175 

Loess 336 

of Mississippi Valley, analyses of 336 

Lollingite 189 

Long, M. C. , collecting outfit furnishea to 67 

Lord, Edwin C. E. , reference to study of rocks by 46 

studied rocks collected on Mexican border by Dr. E. A. 

Mearns - - 60 

titles of i:)apers by ^ 139 

Loriug, J. A., collections made by 27 

series of mammals collected for Museum by 66 

Loucks, W. E., collectiolfi of house wrens sent to . 35, 61 

Louisiana, halite in 200 

Lucas, Frederick A., completed study of fossil bisons of North America 33 

completed study of the fossil bison 46 

described hitherto unknown fossil snake 46 

titles of papers by 139 

l^yon, Marcus W., jr., appointed aid in department of biology 51 

MacDougal, D. T., specimens of plants supplied to 62 

Madstones 474 

Magnesite - 275 

localities and mode of occurrence of - 276 

prices of 278 

uses of 277 

Maltese Islands, phosphates in 373 

Mammals, division of, accessions to - - - 27 

work on study series in 30 

Manganese oxides 252 

braunite 254 

f ranklinite 253 

hausmannite - 253 

manganite 254 

occurrence of 255 

origin of 255 

polianite 254 

psil( imelane 255 

pyrolusite 254 

uses of 256 

wad or bog manganese 255 

Manganite 254 

Manjak, uses of 446 

Manuscript containing the Psalms and various propitiatory prayers 550 

various prayers 550 

Marine invertebrates, division of, work on study series in 31 

Mark, E. L., titles of papers by 140 



582 INDEX. 

Page. 

Marlatt, Charles L., titles of papers by 1-10 

Marriage contract f'SS 

(kethubah) 558 

Marsh gas 433 

Marsh, Prof. Othniel C. , acquisition of collection of 8 

collection of Japanese marbles lent to 47 

gift of specimens of Japanese breccia from 37 

reference to death of 48, 51, 69 

Mason, Prof. Otis T. , curator division of ethnology 19, 23 

on A Primitive Frame for Weaving Narrow Fabrics 485 

Pointed Bark Canoes of the Kutenai and Amur 523 

reference to researches conducted by 23 

title of paper by 141 

Masquakee heddle frame 490 

and shuttle 491 

Massillon grindstones 465 

Masters, T. Maxwell, specimens of plants sent to 61 

Matthews, W. D. , studied methods of installation 47 

Mayer, P, Caprellidae in Museum placed in hands of - 35 

Maynard, George C. , designated as aid in division of mechapical technology. . 51 

McConnell, Mrs. M. R. , specimens of plants supplied to 62 

McDonough, P. , collecting outfit furnished to 68 

McGee, W J, weaving frame of the Masquakee Indians presented to Museum 

by 490 

McGregor, Richard C. , ornithological collections made by 66 

title of paper by 140 

McGuire, J. D., collection of aboriginal tobacco pipes studied by 58 

reference to researches conducted by 24 

McLaughlin, D. M. , description of Kutenai canoes by 529 

McNeill, Jerome, species of Acrididfe sent to 61 

Mearns, Edgar A. , collecting outfit furnished to - - - 67 

contributions from 29 

ornithological collections made by 66 

jeference to rocks collected by 46 

titles of papers by 141 

Mechanical Technology, division of, installation, work in 22 

Meerschaum ^^^ 

Meinert, F., collection of Caprellidfe sent to 61 

use of collection of Pycnogonida accorded to 35 

Menaccanite ^45 

Merriam, Miss Florence, reference to use of ornithological collections by 34 

studied various Western birds 59 

Merrill, George P. , head curator of department of geology 37 

on Guide to the Study of the Collections in the Section of 

Applied Geology 155 

report on department of geology by -^7 

titles of papers by 141 

Merrill, H. C. , heddle frame from Auburn, Maine, collected by 503 

Merrill, Miss Harriet B. , collections of insects consulted by 58 

Methods of extraction of monazite 385 

glazing by salt 516 

mining and manufacture of boracite 401 

halite 206 



INDEX. 583 

Page. 

Methods of mining and preparation of asbestos 30P> 

Mexico, distribution of .specimens in 117 

IMezuzab ^^^ 

Mica deposits 290 

lepidolite 293 

prices of 295 

uses of 294 

Micas 283 

localities of 286 

occurrence of 285 

Michigan, halite in 199 

Milky (piartz 215 

Miller, Gerrit S. , jr, collec^ting outfit furnished to 68 

described new species of Pleistocene bear 47 

reference to papers by 32 

temporarily appointed assistant curator, division of mam- 
mals - 35 

titles of papers by 142 

Miller, W. , specimens of plants supplied to 61 

Mineral and chemical composition of clays 326 

caoutchouc 446 

pitch 441 

soap 347 

waters, classification of 477 

distribution of 479 

source of - 478 

uses of 480 

wax 451 

Mineralogy, division of, accessions to 38 

arrangement of collections in 40 

installation in 45 

Minervite 370 

Miniature prayer book 550 

Mirabilite 412 

occurrence of ■. 412 

Miscellaneous 463 

grindstones 463 

hones 463 

madstones 474 

mineral waters 477 

molding sand • 474 

objects of Jewish ceremonial 559 

pumice 470 

road-making materials 482 

rottenstone 473 

whetstones 463 

Mispickel 189 

Mode of occurrence and origin of as) lestos 300 

sepiolite 324 

of amblygonite 390 

cryolite 214 

ilmenite 245 

petalite 309 



584 INDEX. 

Page. 

Mode of occurrence of pyrites 190 

rutile 246 

spodiimene 308 

Models, illustrative of history of navigation, in National Museum 525 

Molding sand 474 

analyses of 476 

essential qualities of 475 

localities of 476 

MoUusks, division of, work on the study series in 30 

Molybdenite 193 

composition of 193 

occurrence of 194 

uses of 194 

Monazite 383 

bibliography of 387 

composition of 383 

in Brazil 384 

North Carolina 383 

localities and mode of occurrence of 383 

methods of extraction of 385 

uses of 387 

Montgomery, Thomas H., title of paper by 142 

Mooney, James, Moki heddle frame collected by 507 

Moore, J. Percy, collection of leeches sent to 35, 61 

specimens of Desmognathus sent to 60 

title of paper by 143 

Moore, H. F., reference to study of isopod crustaceans collection 34 

studied Isopoda collected by the steamer Fish Hawk 58 

Morgantown, pottery at 513 

Mortars 264 

Moss, William B., donation of shell collection of Rev. and Mrs. James Had- 

iield from 28 

Murdock, John, title of i^aper by 143 

Museum building, number of visitors during the past year to 11 

number of specimens in 6 

staff 71 

Museum of Comi^arative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., snakes sent to 60 

Museum of Natural History, Paris, fishes obtained by M. Chaffanjon, received 

from 28, 66 

National Electric Light Exposition, Museum represented by number of models 

of electrical apparatus at - 69 

National Museum, U. S. , accessions to 53 

approi^riations for 51 

bibliography of, for year ending June 30, 1899 125 

building and repairs in 53 

buildings rented by 53 

catalogue entries in registers of 54 

collection of heddle frames in 488 

cooperation of Executive Departments of the Govern- 
ment with 62 

custodian of specimens 8 

exchanges by 55 

expenditures of 52 



INDEX. 585 

Page. 

National Museum, U. S., infonnation furnished by tlic 62 

investigators accorded access to collections in 58 

list of authors of papers in bibliography of 149 

list of papers by officers and others 125 

list of papers published separately from Proceedings 

of 151 

list of papers published se[)arately from Report 

( 1896) of ". 151 

material distributed for examination by 60 

papers describing and illustrating collections in the. . 153 

publications of the 63 

students accorded access to collections in 58 

subjects of papers published by 64 

table showing annual accessions since 1881 in 54 

table showing appropriations and expenditures for 

year ending June 30, 1899 52 

table showing disbursements from unexpended bal- 
ances of appropriations for year ending June 30, 

1898 52 

table showing number of accessions received annually 

since 1881 54 

table showing number of specimens received in 1898- 
99, and total number in the several divisions on 

June 30, 1899 53 

table showing number of visitors during fiscal year to . 57 

table showing number of visitors since 1881 57 

tabulated statement of lots of specimens distributed 

by 55 

National Zoological Park, mammals received from 28 

Native paraffin 451 

ultramarine 309 

Natron, the nitrum of the ancients 280 

Natural coke 449 

gas 433 

Navassa phosphate, analyses of 377 

Necrology 69 

Nelson, E. W. , collection of Mexican plants purchased from 67 

engaged in study of Mexican birds 59 

material acquired from expedition to Mexico of 65 

reference to use of ornithological collections by 34 

small mammals furnished to 60 

title of paper by 143 

Netherlands, distribution of specimens in 124 

New England heddle frames 498 

Newberry, John Strong, title of paper by 143 

Newcastle, England, grindstones 466 

Newhall, W. H. , reference to arrangement of collections by 40 

Niter 391 

composition of 391 

Nitrates 391 

bibliography of 396 

origin of 395 

soda niter 392 

NAT MUS 99 41 



586 INDEX. 

Page. 

Nitrocalcite 394 

Niobates , 353 

and tantalates 353 

columbite 353 

hiibnerite 355 

samarskite 354 

scheelite 356 

tantalite 353 

wolframite 355 

yttrotantalite 354 

Nonmetallic minerals, the 165 

North America, distribution of specimens in 117 

North Carolina, monazite in 383 

Norway, phosphates in 363 

Novaculite 467 

Nutting, Charles Cleveland, title of paper by 143 

Oberholser, H. C. , collection of birds determined by 34 

collections of birds named by 59 

titles of papers by 143 

Objects used at Passover celebration at Jewish home 554 

prayer 550 

in the service of the synagogue 545 

on feast of tabernacles in Jewish home 557 

festal occasions at Jewish home 553 

Sabbath at Jewish home 553 

special occasions 558 

Occurrence and origin of graphite 168 

talc 316 

of amber 455 

arsenic 182 

arsenopyrite 189 

barite 405 

bauxite 233 

carbonite '. 449 

chromite 247 

cobaltite 185 

columbite 354 

corundum 221 

diaspore 239 

emery - 224 

feldspars 282 

fluorite 214 

garnet 307 

gilsonite - 450 

grahamite - 448 

graphite 169 

lazurite 310 

linnpeite 187 

lithiophilite , 391 

manganese oxides 255 

micas 285 

mirabilite 412 

molybdenite 194 



INDEX. . 587 

Page. 

Occurrence of ocher 243 

orpiment 183 

ozokerite 453 

pyrophyllite 323 

realgar 183 

smaltite 186 

strontianite 280 

sulpliur 177 

triphylite 391 

wolframite 355 

Oceanica, distribution of Hpecimens in 124 

Ocher 239 

otxairrence of 243 

origin and mode of occurrence of 241 

( paint ores) bibliography of . . *. 245 

pre.paration of 242 

uses of 244 

Ohio Centennial Exposition 13, 69 

Oldroyd, T. S. , contributions from 29 

Omaha International Exposition, assortment of ores and economic products 

from Central and Western States received from 37 

Opal 216 

Origin and mode of occurrence of bauxite 231 

calcite 259 

clays 325 

ocher 241 

sulphur 174 

silica 218 

diamond 166 

halite 196 

rock phosphate ^ 358 

of bituminous compounds 430 

coal series 423 

corundum 223 

deposits of Ijauxite 237 

gypsum 407 

manganese oxides 255 

nitrates .♦ ;^9o 

Orpiment 183 

bibliography of 184 

occurrences of 183 

uses of 184 

Orthite 311 

Osgood, Wilfred H. , examined the wren-tits 59 

mice and fox furnished to 60 

reference to use of ornithological collections by 34 

title of paper by 143 

Osteology 68 

Oxides 215 

))auxite 229 

chromite 246 

corundum 220 

diaspore 239 



588 INDEX. 

Page. 

Oxides, emery 220 

gibbsite - 239 

ilmenite 245 

manganese oxides 252 

ocher 239 

rutile 245 

silica 215 

Ozokerite - 451 

occurrences of 453 

uses of 454 

Pagodite 322 

Pair of candlesticks - 550 

Paleobotany, section of, accessions to 39 

installation in 46 

Palmer, Edward, made collections for Museunr - 66 

Palmer, William, collecting outfit furnished to 68 

material collected by 67 

small shrikes of North America studied by 59 

title of paper by 143 

Pan-American Exposition 13, 69 

Paper c;lay 346 

Papers describing and illustrating collections in the U. S. National Museum . . 153 

iniblished in separate form during year ending June 30, 1899 151 

Passing of the Israelites through the Red Sea 560 

Passover dish - 555 

Patented heddle frames 503 

Peabody, George, gifts to Yale University by - 70 

Peabody Museum, reference to establishment of 70 

Peale, A. C. , appointed aid in section of paleobotany 39, 51 

Peat 424 

analyses of 425 

Peru, distrilnition of specimens in 123 

Petalite 308 

mode of occurrence of 309 

Petroleum 434 

analysis of 434 

uses of 435 

Phosphates -* 356 

amblygonite 390 

apatite 356 

descloizite 388 

in Belgium 371 

Canada 362 

England 368 

France 369 

Germanv 370 

Italy..! 373 

Maltese Islands 373 

Norway 363 

Portugal 372 

Russia 373 

Spain 371 

Tunis 373 



INDEX. 589 

V Pace- 
Phosphates in West India Islands 376 

lithiophiliti' 391 

localities of 362 , 

raonazitc 383 

triphylite 391 

uses of 380 

vanadinite 387 

Phosphorite 358 

Photography 68 

Phylacteries ( tefillin ) 551 

Piece of brocade 556 

Pilsbry, H. A. , slugs sent to 61 

Pinite 323 

composition of 323 

Piniis succinifer 455 

Pitchblende 402 

Plants, division of, work accomplished in 31 

Playing marbles 270 

Poinsett, Hon. Joel R. , founder of National Institution 4 

Pointed bark canoes of the Kutenai and Amur, by Otis T. INIason 523 

canoe of the Lake Indians, Washington 530 

dugouts among aboriginal tribes of the Upper Amur 535 

Polianite 254 

Pollard, Charles Louis, reference to work on the violets by 33 

title of paper by 143 

Polyhalite 416 

Portland cement 266 

Portugal, phosphates in 372 

Potassium nitrate 391 

Pottery 344 

An Early West Virginia, by Walter Hough 511 

at Greensboro, Pa 514 

Morgan town 513 

Powell, J. W. , heddle frame from Zufii, New Mexico, collected by 506 

Prayer shawl (tallith) 552 

Preble, E. A. , type of mictomys innuitus lent to 60 

Prehistoric archaeology, division of, installation work in 23 

Prentiss, D. W. , jr. , collecting outfit furnished to 67 

Preparation of arsenic 182 

barite 406 

graphite 172 

ocher 242 

Prices of chromite 249 

emery 227 

graphite 173 

magnesite 278 

mica 295 

Primitive Frame for Weaving Narrow Fabrics, A, by Otis Tufton Mason 485 

Proceedings XX published . -'. 125 

XXI, list of papers published separately from : 151 

Properties of clay 339 

•Prophet Elijah provided with food by ravens 561 

Psilomelane 255 



590 INDEX. 

J Page. 

Public benefits of the Museum 11 

Publications of the National Museum 14, 63 

Pueblo heddle 492 

heddles of various sizes 508 

region, heddle frames from the 504 

Pumice 470 

analyses of 471 

Pyrites - 190 

bibliography of 193 

mode of occurrence of 190 

uses of - 191 

Pyrolusite 254 

Pyrope 307 

Pyrophyllite 322 

analyses of 322 

occurrence of 323 

uses of 323 

Quartz 215 

milky 215 

smoky 215 

rose 215 

Ralph, William L., contribution of 2 

custodian, section of birds' eggs 28 

Ram's horn (shofar) 548 

Randall, W. , collecting outfit furnished to 68 

Rankin, W. M., title of paper by 143 

Rathbun, Miss Mary J., collecting outfit furnished to 68 

collection made by 29 

material collected by 66 

prepared article on the Decapod Crustaceans of West 

Africa 33 

reference to identification of crabs by 31 

reference to study of invertebrates at Grand Manan 

Island, New Brunswick 32 

titles of papers by 144 

Rathbun, Richard, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 71 

Report of 3 

Realgar 183 

l)ibliography of 184 

occurrences of - 183 

uses of 184 

Red ware 51^ 

Refractory materials 345 

Reinecke, O. , collections of insects consulted by 58 

Reinstallation of biological materials 9 

geological materials 10 

Religions, division of, installation work in 23 

Remingtonite 187 

Report (1896), list of papers published separately from 151 

of the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 3 

on department of anthropology, by the head curator 17 

biology, by the head curator 25 

geology, by the head curator 37 



INDEX. 591 

Page. 

Resins ^^^ 

bibliography of '^^^ 

cheinawinite 4^" 

giiin copal ^^' 

retiiiite 456 

succinite amber 455 

Retinite ^ 456 

Rhodochrosite '•^^^ 

Rhodonite 314 

Richardson, Miss Harriet, Isopoda studied by 34 

prepared special report on isopoda of the Pacific; 

coast of North America 34 

title of paper by 144 

Richmond, Charles W., engaged in preparation of card catalogue 33 

titles of papers by 144 

Ridgway, Robert, continues work on manual of North and Middle American 

birds •- 33 

joined the Harriman Alaska expedition 32 

titles of papers by 144 

Riley, J. H., appointed aid in department of biology 51 

Road-making materials 482 

Robinson, B. L. , specimens of plants sent to 61 

Rock i)hosphate 356, 358 

origin and occurrence of 358 

soap 347 

Roll of the Book of Esther - 548 

Roman cement 268 

Rose, Joseph N., collecting outfit furnished to 68 

continues monograph of the Agaves 33 

engaged in botanical work in Mexico 67 

expedition to Mexico 10, 18 

explorations in Mexico of 65 

titles of joint papers by 132 

Rose quartz 215 

Roselite 187 

Rosendale cement 268 

Rotch, A. Lawrence, Chinese kites examined by 58 

Rottenstone 473 

Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, England, specimens of plants sent to 61 

Russia, phosphates in 373 

Rutile 245 

composition of 245 

localities of 246 

mode of occurrence of 246 

uses of 246 

Sacrifice of Isaac 560 

Saftlorite 186 

Safford, James, title of joint paper by 145 

Saline waters 481 

Samarskite 354 

composition of 354 

localities and mode of occurrence of 354 

uses of 355 



592 INDEX. 

Page. 

Sanderson, E. Dwight, collections of insects consulted by 58 

Sargent, C. 8., specimens of plants sent to 61 

Scheelite 356 

bibliography of 356 

uses of 356 

Schoolcraft, Henry R., reference to Chippewa specimen of heddle frame 

described by 489 

Schuchert, Charles, continues work on fossil starfishes of America 46 

engg,ged in rearranging the Lower Helderberg and 

Oriskany collections 46 

reference to arrangement of specimens by 45 

reference to rocks collected by 46 

titles of joint papers by 145, 148 

Sell warz, Eugene A. , placed in charge of collection of Coleoptera 51 

reference to gratuitous services of 31 

title of joint paper by 139 

titles of papers by 145 

Scientific staff 71 

Scotland, distribution of specimens in 124 

Scriptural motto 560 

Scudder, S. H. , specimen of Stenopelmatus fasciatus sent to 61 

Selys-Longchamps, Baron de, gift of mammals by 28 

Sepiolite 323 

analyses of 323 

uses of 324 

Serviette 557 

Shaffer, 0. E., gift of fishes from 28 

Shale 421 

Shu mucker, S. C. , collections of insects consulted by 58 

Siegenite 186 

Silica 215 

buhrstone 217 

diatomaceous or infusorial earth 218 

flint 216 

origin and occurrence of deposits of 218 

quartz 215 

tripoli 217 

uses of 216 

Silicates 281 

allanite 311 

asbestos 296 

cerite 314 

clays 325 

feldspars 281 

gadolinite 313 

garnet 307 

lazurite 309 

micas 283 

pagodite 322 

petalite 308 

pyrophyllite 322 

rhodonite 314 

sepiolite 323 



INDEX. 593 

Page. 

Silicates, soapstono 315 

spoduinono 308 

steatite 315 

zircon 308 

Silver band 546 

candlestick, used for Habdalah 553 

coin 560 

medal 559 

medallion 559 

pointer 54'/ 

pointer ( j^ad ) 547 

Simpson, C. T., continues work on the Naiades 33 

Skutterudite 186 

Slip clay 334 

analyses of 335 

Small, J. K., specimens of plants sent to 61 

Smaltite 185 

occurrences of 186 

Smillie, T. W., chairman U. S. Civil Service Board on Photography 68 

photographer 68 

Smith, Hugh M. , collections of fishes used by 59 

prepared jointly, preliminary catalogue of fishes 33 

title of paper by 145 

Smith, John B. , collections of insects consulted by 58 

title of joint paper by 145 

Smith, J. J., studied genus Lopthocarpus and its allies 59 

Smithson, James, mineralogical cabinet of 4 

Smithsonian building, number of visitors during past year to 11 

Smoky quartz 215 

Snyder, A. J. , consulted collections of insects 58 

specimens of genus Argynnis sent to 61 

Soapstone 315 

analyses of 316 

Soda niter 392 

Sodium chloride 195 

Source of mineral waters 478 

Sources of barite 406 

graphite 171 

grindstones 465 

South America, distribution of specimens in 123 

Spain, phosphates in 371 

Specimens of early stoneware in National Museum 516 

Spessartite 307 

Sphserocobaltite 187 

Spice bottle, used for Habdalah 553 

Spodumene 308 

and jjetalite 308 

localities of 309 

mode of occurrence of 308 

uses of 309 

Stanton, W. A. , donation by 29 

Starks, Edwin C. , fishes examined by 59 

specimens of fishes sent to 60 



594 INDEX. 

Page. 

Starks, Edwin C. , specimens sent for dissection to 35 

title of paper by 145 

Stassfurtite 397 

Statement of distribution of specimens during year ending June 30, 1899 117 

Stearns, R. E. C, titles of papers by 146 

Steatite 315 

Stein, Robert, collecting outfit furnished to 68 

Steiner collection, accession in anthropology 8 

Steiner, Roland, material acquired from explorations of 66 

Stejneger, Leonhard, specimens of toad described by 28 

titles of papers by 146 

Sterki, V. , number of specimens sent to 61 

Stevenson, Mrs. M. C , assisted in installation work 19 

Stockman, W. B., collecting outfit furnished to 68 

Stone, Arthur, reference to use of Colombian birds 35 

Stone, AVitmer, specimens of wrens sent to 61 

Story of David and Bathsheba 560 

the golden calf 560 

Strecker, Herman, collections of insects consulted by 58 

Strong, Mrs. Louise G., models of handlooms sent to Museum by 501 

Strong, R. M., series of small shrikes sent to 35, 60 

Strontianite 279 

composition of 279 

occurrence of 280 

uses of 280 

Students accorded access to collections in the National Museum 58 

Study of the Collections in the Section of Applied Geology, Guide to the, by 

George P. Merrill 155 

Succinite amber 455 

Sulphates 405 

alums -■ 416 

barite 405 

celestite 411 

epsomite 415 

glauberite 415 

gypsum 406 

kainit 416 

kieserite 416 

mirabilite 412 

polyhalite » 416 

thenardite 415 

Sulphides 183 

and arsenides 183 

arsenopyrite 189 

cobalt minerals 184 

lollingite - 189 

molybdenite 193 

orpiment 183 

pyrites 190 

realgar 183 

Sulphur 174 

bibliography of 181 

deposits 177 



INDKX. 595 

Page. 

Sulphur, extraction and preparation of 181 

localities of 175 

occurrence of 177 

origin and mode of occurrence of 174 

uses of 181 

Summary of operations of the year 51 

Susanna and the Elders 561 

Sweeny, T. W. , preparator division of ethnology 19 

Sweden, distribution of specimens in 124 

Swingle, W. T. , botanical collections made in Europe by 67 

Switzerland, distribution of specimens in 124 

Sychnodymite 187 

Systematic geology, section of, accessions to 37 

Table center 556 

of occurrence of important natural bitumen 430 

Tabular classification of bituminous comjwunds 429 

hydrocarbons 429 

Talc : 315 

analyses of 316 

composition of 316 

occurrence and origin of 316 

uses of 320 

Tantalates 353 

Tassin, Wirt, reference to papers in course of publication, by 46 

report on collections in division of mineralogy 40 

Taxidermy 68 

Test, Frederick Cleveland, title of paper by 147 

Testing clays 343 

Texas, halite in 200 

The Joggins, Nova Scotia, grindstones 465 

The Museum staff 51 

The Old and New Testaments in the original languages 550 

Thenardite 415 

composition of 415 

localities of 415 

Tincal ^ 396 

Tingley, F. J. , collecting outfit furnished to 68 

Titanic iron 245 

Torah scroll 545 

Trans-Mississiijpi and International Exposition 68 

departments of Museum rej)- 

resented at 13 

Trelease, William, specimens of plants supplied to 61 

Tribes using the pointed canoe 533 

Triphylite 391 

and lithiophilite 391 

composition of 391 

occurrence of 391 

Tripoli 217 

Trona 281 

Troost collection of crinoidea, return to Snuthsonian Institution oi 39 

True, Frederick W., appointed representative to Pan-American Exposition... 13,51 

collecting outfit furnished to 68 



596 INDEX. 



True, Frederick W. , executive curator 71 

head curator of department of biology 25 

report on department of biology by 25 

titles of papers by 147 

Tschermigite 416 

Tungus paddle 536 

Tunis, phosphates in , 373 

Twelve wineglasses 556 

Two. silver rings 559 

Tyjies of American water craft, by areas and families 526 

Uintaite 450 

Ulexite 397 

composition of 397 

Ultramarine, uses of 311 

Underwood, L. M. , examined fern groups 59 

specimens of plants sent to 61 

United States, distribution of specimens in 117 

Upham, E. P., assistant division of prehistoric archaeology 23 

title of joint paper by 148 

Uranates 402 

uraninite 402 

Uraninite 402 

analyses of 402 

composition of 402 

localities and mode of occurrence of : . . . 403 

uses of 404 

Urao 281 

U. S. Geological Survey, acquisition of Marsh collection through 8 

Uses of albertite 447 

allanite 312 

amber 456 

amblygonite 390 

arsenic 182 

arsenopyrite 189 

asbestos 303 

asphaltum 445 

barite 406 

bauxite 238 

boracite 402 

carbonite 450 

celestite 412 

cerite 314 

chalk 263 

chromite 248 

clays 344 

cobalt 189 

columl)ite 354 

corundum 227 

cryolite 215 

descloizite 390 

diamond 166 

diaspore 239 



INDEX. 597 

Page. 

Uses of dolomite 275 

emery 227 

feldspars 283 

fluorite 214 

gadolinite 314 

garnet 307 

gibbsite 239 

gilsonite 451 

graphite 172 

gypsuin 410 

halite 211 

ihnenite 245 

infusorial earth 220 

lazurite 311 

limestones 265 

magnesite 277 

manganese oxides 256 

manjak 446 

mica 294 

mineral waters 480 

molybdenite 194 

monazite 387 

ocher 244 

orpiment 183 

ozokerite 454 

petroleum 435 

i:)hosphates 380 

pyrites 191 

pyrophyllite .323 

realgar 184 

rutile 246 

samarskite 355 

scheelite 356 

sepiolite 324 

silica 216 

spodumene 309 

strontianite 280 

sulphur 181 

talc 320 

ultramarine 311 

uraninite 404 

vanadinite 388 

witherite 279 

Uvarovite 307 

Van Hise, C. E., series of rocks collected by 38 

Vanadinite 387 

localities and mode of occurrence of 387 

uses of 388 

Vanadium 389 

Vance, Alex., establishment at Greensboro, Pa., of pottery factory of 514 

Vance-Boughner pottery 514 

Tarious articles of tableware made at Morgan town 515 



598 INDEX. 

Page. 

Vaughan, T. Wayland, reference to investigation of the West Indian corals 34 

study ot collection of West Indian corals begun by 58 

title of joint paper by 137 

Veil of the Holy Ark 547 

(Parocheth) 546 

Vertebrate fossils, section of accessions to 38 

Wad or bog manganese 255 

Walcott, Charles D., honorary curator, division of stratigraphic paleontology. . 3 

retirement from Acting Assistant Secretaryship 3 

series of specimens determined l)y 39 

titles of paj^ers by „ 147 

Wanner, Atreus, use of Triassic materials by 48, 59 

Ward, Henry B. , collection of gephyreans sent to 35, 61 

Ward, Lester F. , title of paper by 147 

Watkins, J. E. , curator, division of mechanical technology 22 

Watson, Thomas L., title of paper by 147 

Waugh, F. W. , specimens of plants supplied to 61 

Weeks, Miss Ella, consulted collections of insects 58 

Wenzel, W. H.,. collection of insects consulted by 58 

West India Islands, phosphates in 376 

Indies, distribution of specimens in 123 

Virginia Pottery, An Early, by Walter Hough 511 

Westcott, 0. S. , collections of insects consulted by 58 

Wetherill, H. E. , collecting outfit furnished to 67 

Whetstones 463 

White, David, series of Carboniferous plants from Indian Territory described by . 39 

title of joint paper by , 148 

Whiteaves, J. F. , title of paper by 148 

Wickersly (England) grindstones 466 

Wilder, George D. , ornithological collections made by 66 

Wilkes, Lieutenant Charles, expedition under 5 

Wilkins, Miss Le wanna, engaged in determining set of California plants 59 

Williard, T. E. , assisted in arrangement of specimens . _ 45 

Willige, J. L., acting chief clerk 51 

Wilson, Thomas, in charge of division of prehistoric archaeology 23 

reference to researches conducted by 14 

title of joint paper by 148 

titles of papers by 148 

Witherite 279 

localities and mode of occurrence of 279 

uses of 279 

Wolframite 355 

and hiibnerite 355 

composition of 355 

occurrence of 355 

Wrapper for carrying child to synagogue 558 

the Torah scroll 546 

Wright, B. H. , donations of river mussels from 28 

Wurtzillite 446 

Yakut paddle 536 

pointed canoe 537 

Yttrotantalite 354 

Zircon 308 



^ .' 








-:^?^ 





























SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 



3 9088 01421 6733 




