mi' t 



M;j^ 



IJWJtl'li.-^. 



<L'<:<<i^ 



iC «:®<i 


















, dec, ^^ 



^^:': 






«s:«:^<L 



• • ace: 



^cc-.^':< 









^^■^■ 

E ■ ^^ 

" «7C 





















c. <s: c c:. - 

ccl <G C c: 












EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF 
THE INSTITUTION UP TO JANUARY 1, 1854. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD UP TO JULY 8, 1854. 






WASHINGTON: 

BEVERLEY TUCKER, SENATE PRINTER. 

1854. 



33d Congress, [SENATE.] Mis. Doe. 

1st Session. No. 73. 



LETTER 

FROM THE 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

COMMUNICATING 

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents. 



July 25, 1854. — Ordered to be printed. 

JuLT 28, 1854. — Ordered that 10,000 additional copies be printed, 500 of wliich for tlie use 
of the Smithsonian Institution. 



Smithsonian Institution, July 22, 1854. 

Sir : I have the honor herewith to transmit to you the Annual 
Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, and beg 
leave to request that you will present it to the Senate of the United 
States. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. David R. Atchison, 

Pi'esident of the Senate of the U. S. 



OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



FRANKLIN PIERCE, Ex-officio Presiding Officer of the Institution. 

ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor of the Institution. 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution. 

CHARLES C. JEWETT, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the Library, up to July 10, 1854. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the Museum. 

ALEXANDER D. BACHE, ^ 

JAMES A. PEARCE, V Executive Committee. 

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, ) 

RICHARD RUSH, 



WM. H. ENGLISH, ^ F'^^lding Committee. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 

W. W. SEATON, Treasurer. 



REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



-, Vice President of the United States. 



ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States. 

JOHN T. TOWERS, Mayor of the City of Washington. 

JAMES A. PEARCE, Member of the Senate of the United States. 

JAMES M. MASON, Member of the Senate of the United States. 

S. A. DOUGLAS, Member of the Senate of the United States. 

W. H. ENGLISH, Member of the House of Representatives. 

DAVID STUART, Member of the House of Representatives. 

JAMES MEACHAM, Member of the House of Representatives. 

RUFUS CHOATE, Citizen of Massachusetts. 

GIDEON HAWLEY, Citizen of New York. 

J. MACPHERSON BERRIEN, Citizen of Georgia. 

RICHARD RUSH, Citizen of Pennsylvania. 

ALEXANDER D. BACHE, Member of the National Institute, Washington. 

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, Member of the National Institute, Washuigton. 



MEMBERS EX-OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION. 



FRANKLIN PIERCE, President of the United States. 

, Vice President of the United States. 

WILLIAM L. MARCY, Secretary of State. 

.lAMES GUTHRIE, Secretary of the Treasury. 

JEFFERSON DAVIS, Secretary of War. 

JAMES C. DOBBIN, Secretary of the Navy. 

JAMES CAMPBELL, Postmaster General. 

CALEB GUSHING, Attorney GeneraL 

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States. 

CHARLES MASON, Commissioner of Patents. 

JOHN T. TOWERS, Mayor of the City of Washington. 



HONORARY MEMBERS. 



ROBERT HARE. 
WASHINGTON IRVING. 
BENJAMIN SILLIMAN. 
PARKER CLEAVELAND, 



EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



The operatio7is, expenditures., cmd condition of the Institution up to Januai'y 
1, 1854, and the jjroccedings of the Board up to July 8, 1854. 



To the Senate and House of Representatives : 

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing 
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents, 
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and 
condition of the Institution, the following documents : 

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the 
operations of the Institution during the year 1853, including reports 
from the Assistant Secretaries, relative to the library, museum, &c. 

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement 
of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an 
account of the expenditures for \he year 1853. 

3. Report of the Bailding Committee, relativ(^ to the progress made 
in 1853 in the erection of the Smithsonian edifice. 

4. Proceedings of the Board of Regents and of the Establishment, 
up to July 2, 1854 

5. Appendix. 
Respectfully submitted. 

ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor. 
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary. 
July 22, 1854. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Gentlemen : Nothing of especial interest has occurred during the 
past year to mark an epoch in the history of the institution over which 
you preside. The several objects set forth in the plan of organization 
have been prosecuted as far as the funds which could be devoted to 
them would allow. A knowledge of the true character of the institu- 
tion has been gradually extended, and it is a subject of gratification 
that the plan of operations is more highly appreciated the better it is 
understood. Every succeeding year which is added to the age of the 
institution will render it more stable, so long as it pursues undeviatingly 
the same course. All establishments, however, which are supported 
by bequests, intended to promote the public good, are necessarily sub- 
jected to the scrutiny of all who consider themselves personally inter- 
ested in the trust. The managers are overwhelmed with suggestions, 
and subjected to ilhberal criticisms, and unless they are firmly con- 
vinced of the propriety of their course, and have sufficient moral cour- 
age to pursue it notwithstanding opposition, there is danger of vacilla- 
tion, and of an attempt to gain popularity by adopting measures not 
calculated to promote the desired end. It should, however, be recol- 
lected that opinions ought to be weighed rather than counted, and that 
nothing of importance can be accomphshed either by an individual or 
an institution, except by constant and laborious exertion in one direc- 
tion. In the beginning of this institution the plans best calculated to 
reahze the liberal intentions of the donor were adopted after due delib- 
eration, and have been constantly adhered to and developed as far 
as the requisitions of Congress and the limited income would allow. 
From the character of James Smithson and his pursuits there can 
be no reasonable doubt as to his intention in regard to the bequest. 
He was a man familiar with the precise language of exact science, 
and no other construction ought to be put upon the words of his will 
than that which a strict interpretation will allow. He leaves his prop- 
erty to tbund an estabhshment which shall bear his own name, and 
have for its object "the increase and diffusion of knowledge among 
men." It would evidently be incompatible with an enlarged and just 
interpretation of this will to confine its benefits exclusively to one peo- 
ple, and especially would it be unworthy the character of a great nation 
to accept the administration of a bequest intended lor the good of man- 
kind, and to apply it exclusively to its own use. 

Nothing apparently can be further from the truth than the idea which 



]0 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

was first prevalent in this countr}^ that Smithson left his money merely 
to diffuse practical knowledge among the people of the United States. 
On the contrary he intended this institution as a monument to his name 
which should be known of all men, and prized by the student of every 
branch of literature and science, which should not be restricted to merely 
spreading abroad the knowledge which already exists, but, above all, 
should be the means of enlarging the bounds of human thought. He 
was also too much of a philosopher to confine his bequest to the pro- 
motion of any one branch of hterature or science, and therefore left 
the trust free to be applied to all. 

His will recognizes a well established and very important distinc- 
tion with regard to knowledge, viz. its increase and its diffusion. 
These, though li'equently confounded, are very difl!erent processes, and 
each may exist independent of the other. While we rejoice that in our 
country, above- all others, so much attention is paid to the diffusion of 
knowledge, truth compels us to say that comparatively little encour- 
agement is given to its increase. 

There is another division with regard to knowledge which vSmithson 
does not embrace in his design, viz. the application of knowledge to 
useful purposes in the arts ; and it was not necessary he should found an 
institution for this purpose. There are already in every civilized 
country establishments and patent laws for the encouragement of this 
departmentof mental industry. As soon as any branch of science can 
be brought to bear on the necessities, conveniences, or luxuries of life, 
it meets with encouragement and reward. Not so with the discovery 
of the incipient principles of science. Tiie investigations which lead to 
these receive no fostering care from government, and are considered 
by the superficial observer as trifles unworthy the attention of those 
who place the supreme good in that which inunediately administers to 
the physical necessities or luxuries of lite. 

' If physical well being were alone the object of existence, every ave- 
nue of enjoyment should be explored to its utmost extent. But he 
who loves truth for its own sake, feels that its highest claims are 
lowered and its moral influence marred by being continually sum- 
moned to the bar of immediate and palpable utility. Smithson himself 
had no such narrow views. The prominent design of his bequest is 
the promotion of abstract science. It leaves to the teacher and the 
teeming press t,o diffuse popular knowledge, and to the Patent Oflfice 
and the manufacturer to facilitate and reward the application of science 
to the useful arts. In this respect the Institution holds an otherwise 
unoccupied place in this country, and adopts two fundamental max- 
ims in its policy: 1st, to do notliing with its funds which can be equally 
well done by other means ; and, 2d, to produce results which, as far 
as possible, will benefit mankind in general. Any deviations from 
these maxims which the liistory of the Institution may exhibit, must 
be referred to the original requirements of the law of Congress au- 
thorizing its establishment, and not to the plan of active operations at 
first proposed in the programme, and which has constantly been kept 
in view from the beginning until the present time. 

A miscellaneous and general library, museum, and gallery of art, 
though important in themselves, have from the first been considered by 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 11 

those who have critically examined the will of Smithson, to be too re- 
stricted in their operations and too local in their influence, to meet the 
comprehensive intentions of the testator; and the hope has been cher- 
ished that other means may ultimately be provided f()r the support of 
those objects, and that the whole income of the Smithsonian fund may 
be devoted to the more legitimate objects of the noble bequesti____ 

I have been informed by the Connnissioner of Patents that the space 
now occupied in the building of the Patent Office by the national mu- 
seum, is imperatively required for the display of models ; and he sug- 
gests that a part or the whole of the Smithsonian building shall be pur- 
chased for the deposit of this collection. If Congress will entirely 
relieve the Smithsonian fund from the expense of collecting and main- 
taining a museum, a large portion of the present building would be 
unnecessary, and the proposition to purchase a part or the whole of it 
might properly be entertained. The Smithsonian Institution, if required, 
would take the supervision of a government museum, and would turn 
over to it all the specimens collected after they had been examined and 
described. The importance of a collection at the seat of government 
to illustrate the physical geography, natural history, and ethnology of 
the United States, cannot be too highly estimated. But the support of 
such a collection ought not to be a burthen upon the Smithsonian fund. 

It was stated in the last report that the plan of an equal division of 
the income between the library and museum on the one hand, and the 
lectures, the publications, and researches on the other, was found not 
to work well in practice. It leads to inharmonious action, and to a 
system of expenditure by no means compatible with proper economy 
or the limited income of the Smithsonian fund. The subject has, how- 
ever, been referred to a special committee of the Regents, which I trust 
will give it due consideration, and report their views during the present 
session of the Board. 

Publication. — During the past year no diminution has taken place in 
the objects of interest which have presented themselves i'ov the assist- 
ance and patronage of the institution. The amount of pubhcations has 
only been hmited by the appropriation which could be devoted to this 
purpose. 

1. The first memoir published during the past year is one by Dr. 
Joseph Leidy, Professor of Anatomy in the University of Pennsylvania, 
entitled, " The Ancient Fauna of Nebraska." 

A considerable portion of the country between the Mississippi and 
the Rocky mountains consists of the more recent geological deposits, 
and particularly on the Upper Missouri there exists a tr-act of country 
known by the name of the Mauvaises Terres, or the Bad Lands ; 
this at one time was probably the bottom of an immense lake, in 
which perished thousands of animals having no representatives at 
this time on the surface of the earth. It appears that the waters 
of this lake were removed by some convulsion of nature, that the sedi- 
ment at its bottom became indurated, and that afterwards the whole 
country was traversed by an immense wave of water, which carried 
away the softer parts of the strata, and left standing the harder 
parts in a series of irregular prismatic and columnar masses frequently 



12 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

capped with irregular pyramids, and extending upwards to a height 
of from one to two hundred leet. "Viewed in the distance, these 
rocky piles in their endless succession assume the appearance of mas- 
sive architectural structures, with all the accessories of buttresses, turrets, 
and tnpering spires." The portion of the surface thus excavated forms 
a valley ot" ninety miles in length and thirty in breadth, which in its most 
depressed portion is about three hundred feet below the surface of the 
surrounding countr3^ So thickly are the natural towers studded over 
the surface of this extraordinary region, that the traveller threads his 
way through deep conhned passages, which resemble the narrow irre- 
gular streets and lanes of some of the old towns of the continent of 
Europe. At the foot of these columns, the remains of the ancient ani- 
mals, which hved and breathed long before the advent of man upon 
the face of the earth, are found in such abundance as to form of this 
tract an extensive cemetery of vertebrated animals, rivalling, in the 
variety of its extinct species, the celebrated beds of the Paris basin. 

This region having been brought to notice by a few fossil remains 
procured through the agents of the American Fur Company, an ap- 
propriation of about $200 for its exploration was made by the Smith- 
sonian Institution to Mr. Thaddeus Culbertson, who was about to visit, 
on account of his health, the sources of the Missouri. The specimens 
of fossil remains which were thus procured, together with a collection 
subsequently presented to the Institution by Capt. Stewart Van Vliet, 
of the U. S. army, and several specimens kindly lent by Dr. Prout, of 
Missouri, were referred to Dr. Leidy for examination. In addition to 
these he had the use of a collection lent by Prof. O'Loghland, of Mis- 
souri, specimens belonging to the Academy of Natural Sciences, Phila- 
delphia, and a collection made by Dr. Evans, at the instigation of Dr. 
D. Dale Owen, the whole embracing all the specimens which have yet 
been brought to the east from the Bad Lands. The bones are com- 
pletely petrified, and their cavities filled with silicious matter. They 
are preserved in various degrees of integrity, some being beautifully 
perfect and others broken and imperfect, the latter having been evi- 
dently sul)jected to violence while imbedded in a soft mud. The ani- 
mals belong to the classes mammalia and chelonia, or turtles. With a 
single exception, all the species of mammalia belong to the great order 
of ungulata or hoofed animals, of which there are seven species of four 
genera, w-hicli belong to the ruminantia, or cud-chewing animals ; two 
species of one genus belonging to the paradigitata ordinaria, or even- 
toed animals ; one species of the solipedia, or solid-hoofed animals ; and 
four species of three genera belonging to the imparidigitata orcUnaria, or 
uneven-toed animals. 

The first specimen described belonged to a peculiar genus of rumi- 
nants which, among recent animals, is more nearly allied to the musk, 
and was probably hornless. The next is of a remarkable genus of 
ungulata representing a type which occupies a position in the wide 
physiological interval existing between recent ruminants and the anom- 
alous fossil animal called the anoplotherium. Another genus is called 
oreodon, and constitutes one of the links necessary to fill up the very 
wide gap between existing ruminants and an exceedingly aberrant form 
of the same family now extinct. Another organic relic is that of an 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 13 

animal which combined the ruminant and carnivorous characteristics, 
of which there are several species. There are also two remarkable 
species of rhinoceros, differing from any remains of this animal found 
in other parts of the globe. The existing species of the rhinoceros 
are met with in Africa, Asia, and the islands of Java nnd Sumatra. 
Remains of extinct species have been found in Great Britain, the conti- 
nent of Europe, Siberia, and the Himalayas; but no trace of this 
genus had previously been discovered in America. Another fossil 
remain belongs to the feline family, about a fifth smaller than the 
American panther, and is probably the most ancient known genus of 
this animal. Hundreds of fossil turtles are found in the "Bad Lands ;" 
they belong to the genus testudo, of which five species are described in 
this paper. 

The memoir occupies one hundred and twenty-six pages, and is il- 
lustrated by twenty-four plates, one of which is a folio. It has already 
been printed and copies distributed among working geologists. No 
copy-right is secured on the publications of the Institution; and it may 
be mentioned here, as an illustration of the manner in which the know- 
ledge contained in the Smithsonian memoirs reaches the public gene- 
rally in a popular form, that one of the figures of this paper has ah-eady 
been copied, and some of its materials given in a recent work on 
geology. 

2. Another paper, the printing of which is nearly complete, is on the 
"Winds of the Northern Hemisphere," by Prof James H. Coffin, of La- 
fayette College, Easton, Penns^dvania. It is the same which was men- 
tioned in the Report for 1851. Its publication has been delayed in con- 
sequence of the difficulty experienced in finishing the maps and printing 
the tabular matter, and also on account of additions made to it by the 
author. It is a very elaborate memoir, of two hundred pages, consisting 
principally of tabular matter, and illustrated by thirteen maps. The most 
important results arrived at in this paper, are as fohows : There exist 
in the northern hemisphere three great zones of wind, extending entirely 
around the earth, modified and, in some cases, partially interrupted by 
the configuration and character of the surface. The first of these is 
the trade wind, near the equator, blowing, when uninterrupted, from 
northeast to southwest. This belt is interrupted, however, in the At- 
lantic ocean, near the coast of Africa, upon the Mediterranean sea, and 
also in Barbary by the action of the Gieat Desert. The second is a 
belt of westerly wind, nearly two thousand miles in breadth, between 
latitude 35° and 60° north, and encircling the earth, the westerly di- 
rection being clearly defined in the middle of the belt, but gradually 
disappearing as we approach the limits on either side. North of this, 
there is another system of winds flowing southwardly from high north- 
ern latitudes, and gradually inclining towards the west as it moves into 
a latitude of" greater easterly velocity. 

Subsequent investigations have led Prof. Coffin to conclude that the 
lines which separate these systems are not parallels of latitude, but 
circles, having a common pole in about latitude 84° north, and longi- 
tude 105° west from Greenwich, and that the winds of high northern 
latitudes diverge or radiate from this point. 

The principal cause of these phenomena is the greater heat of the 



14 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

sun between the tropics, which rarifies the air, and causes it to ascend 
into the higher regions ; producing below a current from the pole towards 
the equator, and above a current in the opposite direction. The re- 
sulting motions to and from the equator are not in a north and south 
direction along the meridians, but are modified by the rotation of the 
earth: at the surface they deviate towards the west, and in the return 
current above towards the east. If the point mentioned by Prof Coffin 
as the centre of the winds of the polar zone really exists, it is probably 
that of maximum cold; the air at this point would be condensed, and 
flow from it in radial lines in every direction along the surface of the 
earth. The paper is an important addition to meteorology, and has 
cost the author years of labor. The publication of it has also been very 
expensive, particularly on account of the maps and tables. 

3. Another memoir accepted for publication is, "An Account of a 
Tornado that passed near New Harmony, Indiana, April 30, 1852, by 
John Chappelsmith." 

The eastern portion of the North American continent is almost every 
year visited at different points by one or more tornadoes of frightful 
energy, but of exceedingly circumscribed limits ; and it is almost an 
opprobrium to the science of this country that more reliable data have 
not been collected towards settling definitely the conditions of these re- 
markable phenomena, and for ascertaining their cause. For this purpose 
however, mere verbal descriptions of the effects are alone insufficient, 
there must be added to these accurate instrumental surveys, and, if 
possible, the indications of the barometer, thermometer, and hygrome- 
ter. The first accurate report of this kind was that by Prof. A. D. 
Bache, relative to a tornado which passed over the city of New Bruns- 
wick, in New Jersey, in 1834. A similar survey was made by Pro- 
fessor Eustis, of Harvard University, of the tornado of August 21, 1851, 
which passed near Cambridge. 

We consider the present memoir as an exceedingly valuable addi- 
tion to the stock of our knowledge on this subject. It gives not only 
all the collateral phenomena as far as they could be obtained, but 
presents a map of one square mile of the track on which are ela- 
borately plotted the relative position and bearings of the prostrated 
trees. Some idea may be obtained of the enormous energy of this 
tornado from the statement of the author that " on a single square mile 
of the track, thousands of trees, many of them having a stem fifteen feet 
in circumference, were prostrated by a force acting simultaneously in 
opposite directions, and moving onward at the rate of a mile in a 
minute." 

The author criticall}^ anal3^ses the force at work, and arrives at the 
conclusion that the proximate cause of the phenomenon is an inward, 
upward, and onward moving column of air. Besides the map, the 
memoir is accompanied by diagrams and sketches to illustrate the cha- 
racter and eflfects of the tornado. 

4. Another memoir is entitled "The Antiquities of Wisconsin, ex- 
amined and surveyed by I. A. Lapham." 

In the Report for 1851, it was mentioned that Mr. Lapham, an expe- 
rienced engineer, had undertaken, under the direction of the American 
Antiquarian Societ}'- of Worcester, Massachusetts, to make explorations. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 15 

surveys and drawings of the aboriginal antiquities of Wisconsin, and, to 
insure harmony of action in the cultivation of the wide field of research 
offered by the ancient monuments of this country, that the Antiquarian 
Society had agreed to present to the Smithsonian Institution the results 
of the labors of Mr. Lapham for publication, and to reserve its own 
funds for further explorations. Mr. Lapham's memoir has been com- 
pleted, and, after having been examined and reported upon by a com- 
mittee of the Antiquarian Society, has been presented to this Institution 
for publication. It consists of several hundred pages of manuscript, 
illustrated by sixty-three large drawings or plates adapted to the size 
of the Smithsonian Contributions, a map of the country, and ninety- 
seven figures or smaller designs, intended to be engraved on wood and 
interspersed with the text. 

Elaborate works of defence, and such as are apparently designed 
for religious or sacrificial ceremonies, so numerous in other sections of 
the country, are seldom found in Wisconsin. In place of these, less 
elevated structures, though often on a scale of considerable horizontal 
extent, representing a variety of fanciful forms, abound along the sides 
of the streams and borders of the lakes. The figures are principally 
those of hzards, turtles, birds, bears, foxes, and men, and they appear to 
be confined within a limited territory between the Mississippi and Lake 
Michigan. It is very remarkable, says the committee, that none of the 
earlier travellers appear to have noticed the animal sliape of the em- 
bankments ; but this is accounted for by the extent and fiafness of the 
works, and the difficulty of recognising them while covered with trees 
or a dense growth of other vegetation. Indeed, the surveyors who 
first attempted to plot them were sometimes surprised at the figures 
developed under their hands, and which could not have been perceived 
on the ground, unless from an elevated point of view. 

The memoir of Mr. Lapham, with a few unimportant exceptions, 
includes an account of every known work or assemblage of works in 
this region, and the whole were carefully surveyed by himself or by 
competent individuals under his direction. On the map are laid down 
the relative position of the earth-works ; and from this it appears that 
they lie chiefly along the course of streams and the borders of the 
interior lakes. Nearl}^ the same forms are repeated in different locali- 
ties, but with dissimilar arrangement, and often with slight, yet evident- 
ly intentional variation in figure. The works are enumerated as fol- 
lows : 

a. Tumuli of a conical shape and slight elevation. 

h. Oblong mounds not more than three or four feet high, of regular 
width, extending in a straight line from twenty feet to several hundred, 
and even a thousand. 

c. Embankments in crescent and serpentine forms. 

d. Embankments tapering uniforml}^ in width from one extremity to 
the other, and terminating in a point. 

e. Similar tapering embankments, with two projections on one side,, 
near the larger end, which are called lizards, and are very numerous. 

/. The same general form, with projections on both sides at the- 
larger end, and with a similar tapering tail, sometimes of exceedingly 



16 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

disproportionate length. These frequently present a striking resem- 
blance to a turtle, and are known by the name of that animal. 

g. Oblong embankments, with arms or wings extended on either 
side. These vary from simple crosses to figures of birds and men, the 
head being usually omitted. 

h. Representations of animals of more definite outlines and better 
proportions : among these are bears, foxes, otters, &c., and upon the 
Wisconsin river, buffaloes. It is proved by numerous excavations that 
the works which resemble animals are destitute of relics ; they are 
mere relievos or embossments on the surface of the earth, seldom ex- 
ceeding four feet in height, and in some cases but a few inches. Mr. 
Lapham disclaims all intention of indulging a disposition to theorize or 
speculate on the origin or design of these remains, and declares his ob- 
ject to be merely the faithful performance of the office of surveyor, to 
study the facts, apd to report them in as much detail as may be neces- 
sdry, leaving to others the deductions which, in connexion with other 
information, may be drawn from them. In the opinion of the commis- 
sion aj)pointed by the society to examine the memoir, '' Mr. Lapham 
has accomplished his task with grent thoroughness and artistic skill; he 
seems to have explored the entire field, to have nidustriously delineated 
every object of interest, and to have omitted no detail of drawing or 
description which could conduce to a clear understanding of the matter 
of w^hich he treats." The publication of this memoir, which will be 
alike creditable to the author, the Antiquarian Society, and this Institu- 
tion, will furnish an interesting addition to the antiquities of this coun- 
try, which cannot fail to be hailed with pleasure by the ethnologist. 

5. Two botanical papers, furnished by Dr. John Torrey, of the New 
York Medical College, have been published during the past year. The 
first describes a new plant, to which the author has given the name of 
Darlingtonia Coiijhniica. It is a new pitcher-plant, which was first de- 
tected b}' Mr. W. D. Brackenridge, assistant botanist in the United States 
Exploring Expedition under Captain Wilkes. It has hitherto been found 
only near the Shasta mountain, on the Upper Sacramento. The specimens 
brought home by Mr. Brackenridge were without flowers or seed-vessels, 
so that the genus of the plant could not be determined, but it was taken 
for a new Sarracencia. Atiier many years, the flowers were discovered 
by Dr. G. W. Hulse, and brought to Dr. Torrey, who has shown that 
the plant is an entirely new genus of the same small but very interest- 
ing natural order to which the Sarracencia belongs. He has bestowed 
upon it tlie name of Darlingtonia, in honor of Dr. William Darlington, 
of West Chester, Pcnnsyh-ania, author of several valuable botanical 
w-orks. The genus formerly dedicated to this veteran botanist by De 
CandoUe having been reduced to an older one. Dr. Torrey embraced 
the opportunity of restoring the name, and connecting it with one of 
the most remarkable plants of North America. 

6. The second memoir by Dr. Torrey is an account of a new mari- 
time shrubby plant, called " Batis Maritima," which grows on the 
shores of Key West, Jamaica, Cuba, and the neighboring parts of the 
continent. It has been known to botanists for more than one hundred 
and fifty years, j'^et, strange to say, it has not till now been correctly 
described, nor its place in the natural system determined with any cer- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. ]7 

tainty. Dr. Torrey considers it as the type of a distinct order, nearly 
allied to the empetracea?, or crowberries. 

Both memoirs are illustrated with plates, from beautiful drawings 
made by Sprague, at the expense of the institution. 

7. The next memoir is a " iSynopsis of the Marine Invertebrata of the 
Grand Manan, or the region about the Bay of Fundy, New Brunswick," 
bv William Stimpson. 

The island of Grand Manan, a part of the natural histoi-y of which 
this paper is intended to illustrate, lies at the mouth of the Bay of 
Fundy, and is surrounded by deep water, the bottom of which abounds 
in a variety of marine animals. 

The memoir consists of a compend of observations made on the 
marine fauna of this region during a residence of three months in the 
summer of 1852, and also of a catalogue of" the marine invertebrata 
found on the shores and in the adjacent waters. 

Minute surveys of the marine animals ot" a given district are highly 
interesting ; it is only by a comparison of the results of such exami- 
nations made at a series of points along a coast, that an accurate know- 
ledge can be obtained of their distribution, and of die effects of exter- 
nal circumstances on their growth, habits, and economy. By such 
surveys we can ascertain whether a species may inhabit two distant 
localities without occurring in the intermediate space, a fact which has 
an important bearing on several interesting questions relative to geolo- 
gical changes. The author is a pupil of Professor Agassiz, and has 
been appointed one of the natuialists in the North Pacific Exploring 
Expedition, under Captain Ringgold. 

The paper occupies 66 pages, and is illustrated by 37 lithographic 
figures. 

8. A memoir has also been presented, and is now in the press, "On 
some new American species and localities of Microscopic Organisms,'" 
by Prof J. W. Bailey, of West Point, New York. 

Nearly two centuries have passed away since Leeuwenhoek, an 
eminent physician of Holland, discovered by means of the microscope 
a department of organized nature, consisting of bodies imperceptible 
to the unaided vision, ^nd displaying active forms, so strange and varied 
in their appearance, that they excited a general curiosity. The dis- 
covery, in some of them, of organs of motion, convinced him of their 
animal character, and he gave to them the name of avimalc/iles. They 
were afterwards called infusoria. Many opinions were entertained 
with regard to their character. Linnaeus considered them as lifeless, 
oily particles, and their movements as altogether passive. We owe, 
however, to Prof. Ehrenberg, of Berlin, an extended series of obser- 
vations on this subject, the results of which are, that the infusoria are 
organized bodies; the greater part, if not all, are animals; they exist 
in all quarters of the globe, as well on land as at the bottom of the 
sea, and their silicious and calcareous remains form, in this country, 
wide-spread fossil strata. At Andover, Massachusetts, there is a bed 
of these remains of fifteen feet in thickness, and underlying the city of 
Richmond, Virginia, one of twenty-eight feet. Professor Bailey has 
distinguished himself by researches in the same line, and has published 
on this subject a series of papers in Silliman's Journal, and in two 



18 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

memoirs in the Smithsonian Contributions. In the present memoir he 
has described new species of diatomacea^ hmnias, auhscus, peridi- 
nium, cothurnia, and monactinus; he has given the American locali- 
ties of Amphitetras antediluviana, and tetragramma, and gives an 
account of the organic forms found in the Croton water, New York. 

One of the species described forms a material resembling white clay, 
which occurs in a large deposit at Suisun bay, about thirty miles above 
San Francisco ; and should, says Prof. Bailey, this fact meet the ej^e 
of any scientific traveller in California, it ma}' induce him to furnish 
further intbrmation concerning the geological relations of this interesting 
deposit, and to collect a good supply of specimens for a more complete 
study. 

It has been known to the New York microscopists, but not to the 
public generally, that the Croton water abounds in beautiful microsco- 
pic organisms, and particularl}^ in diatomaceae and desmidiea?. The 
author found in the sediment collected by means of a filter at the 
Astor House, more than fifty different species of these organisms. Of 
these the gallionella crotonensis is in the greatest abundance, and 
thousands of its Iragirents must be dail}^ swallowed by those who use 
the unfiltered water. It is so abundant that Prof Bailey suggests that 
it 'may yet prove ol' importance as a means of detecting the fraudulent 
dilution of various substances by this water. 

This memoir is illustrated b}' a number of wood-cuts and thirty-eight 
ela]:)oralely drawn figures on a steel plate beautifully executed b}' J. E. 
Gavitt, an amateur naturalist and artist of Albany, New York. 

9. During the past year the catalogue of Coleoptera by Frederick 
Ernst Melsheimer, M. D., mentioned in a previous Report, has been 
published and distributed. It forms an octavo volume of 174 pages. 

At first sight it would appear that the study of insects is the most 
trivial and furthest removed of" that of any part of creation from useful 
purposes ; but independenth^ of the interest which attaches to it as an 
exposition of animated nature, aud an exhibition of organization and 
life in curiously diversified forms, there is scarcely any branch of 
natural history more intimately connected with the pursuits of the hus- 
bandman, the naval architect, and even those ^f the artist and the 
bibhographer, than entomology. It is the duty therefore of this Institu- 
tion to afiord every facility for the acquisition of this branch of know- 
ledge, and to increase the number of those who make it their special 
Study. 

The coleoptera form one of the largest and most widely distributed 
class of insects ; and on account of their boring habits, some of the 
species are highly destructive to timber. In order, however, to study 
them properly, it is necessar}' that the same species which exist in this 
country and in Europe may be identified, and that those which are new 
here may be separately described. The present memoir gives the 
numes of all those wfiich have been described, with references to the 
works where the descriptions may be found. Dr. Melsheimer has 
spent several years in the preparation of this work. It was referred 
for examination to Professor S. S. Haldeman and Dr. J. L. Le Conte, 
who reported in favor of its publication, and offered to superintend its 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 19 

printing and to bring it down to 1851. This they have done at the 
expense of much time anti labor, and have thereby added materially to 
the usefulness of the catalogue. 

10. ^ second edition of the Report on Recent Improvements in the 
Chemical Arts has been printed, and in due time an additional volume 
on this subject will be prepared. 

11. The general interest which has been awakened by the recent 
application of electricity to purposes in the useful arts, and its recog- 
nised connexion with many important and mysterious phenomena of 
nature, led to the conclusion that an account of the recent discov- 
eries in this branch of science would be highly prized b}^ a large 
class of readers. In accordance with this view, a report by M. Miil- 
ler, of Berlin, has been translated, and will be published as soon as the 
funds will allow of the expenditure. Stereot^^pe copies of the origiRal 
wood-cuts have been obtained from the author. 

It will be especially interesting to the English reader, because it 
gives more particularly the researches which have been made in Ger- 
many, and which are consequently not readil3' accessible to the inhab- 
itants of this countr}" and Great Britain. 

12. Catalogue of North American reptiles in the Museum of the 
Smithsonian Institution. Part I. — Scrpoifs. — By S. F. Baird & C. Gi- 
rard, pp. 188. — This work is intended to exhibit the nature and extent 
of the collection of North American reptiles in the museum of the 
Smithsonian Institution. According to the statement of Professor 
Baird, it contains full and oi-iginal descriptions from authentic speci- 
mens of 119 species of serpents, of which sixty have been first de- 
scribed by the authors, and from specimens in the Smithsonian col- 
lection. All the well ascertained species of" North American serpents are 
included in this catalogue, which thus serves as a complete manual on 
the subject. The great work by Dr. Holbrook on the reptiles of North 
America, published in 1842, enumerates 49 species, as being all that 
were known to him ; a number less than half of those in the possession 
of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The j)henomc7ia of magnetism, which a few years ago were only rec- 
ognised as existing m iron, and in a slight degree in a few other metals, 
are now known to belong to all matter ; and with those of electricity, 
with which they are intimately connected, either in the relation of effect 
and cause, or the concomitant effects of a more general principle, are 
probably displayed in every part of the material universe. Recent 
researches render it probable that the sun and moon exert a magnetic 
influence upon our earth. Were the study of this mysterious principle 
immediately connected with'^none of the physical wants of man, or with 
the arts of lite, it would in itself be an object of high interest; but 
when we reflect how dependent upon it is the art of navigation, and 
bow extensively it is employed in this country in tracing the divisi<jns 
and boundaries of land, we are, from utilitarian considerations, induced 
to give it the most minute and laborious investigation. 

It is now known that the magnetic needle is never at rest ; that it is 
the subject of various changes, some depending upon the hour of the 



20 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

day, others upon the season of the year, others again upon longer 
periods of time. 

It also varies in its direction at different places. Between the At- 
lantic and Pacific coast, or, for example, between Massachusetts bay 
and the mouth of the Columbia river, there is a variation of upwards 
of twenly-four degrees ; but this variation is not constant even at the 
same place, but changes from year to year. With these changes it is 
necessary that the navigator should be familiar. It therefore becomes 
a matter of national importance that observations of these phenomena 
should be made at as many places and those as widely separated from 
each other as possible. 

The Smithsonian Institution has endeavored to advance this branch 
of knowledge, by importing at different times, and at considerable ex- 
p^ise, four entire sets of apparatus, besides separate instruments, for 
determining the direction and intensity of the magnetic force. 

Tliese instruments have been lent to observers, and in some cases 
sold to the government ibr the use of exploring parties, and have done, 
or are now doing, good service, in adding to the stock of facts which, 
by the process of induction, are to yield a knowledge of general laws. 

It will be recollected that an appropriation was made at the last ses- 
sion of the Regents for suppl3nng magnetic instruments to the Grinnell 
Expedition. These were procured from London, were given in charge 
to Dr. Kane, and, we trust, are at this time revealing to that intrepid 
explorer the fitful and mysterious changes of the magnetic force. 

During the past year, a magnetic observatory has been erected within 
the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution. It principally consists, to 
insure an ecpable temperature, of an under-ground room, enclosed 
within two walls, between which a current of air is allowed to pass in 
order to prevent dampness. This observatory has been supplied 
with a set of apparatus for determining the continued variations in 
direction and intensity of terrestrial magnetism. By a very ingenious 
application of the photographic process, the invention of Mr. Brooks, 
of England, the instruments are made to record, on a sheet of sensi- 
tive paper moved by clock-work, their own motions. 

First, to determine the variation of direction of the horizontal magnet : 
a steel bar, strongly magnetized, is suspended by several fibres of un- 
twisted silk, so as to have perfect freedom of motion in the horizontal 
plane, and from a gas light, kept perpetually burning, a single ray of 
light is thrown upon a concave mirror permanently attached to the 
magnetic bar, and consequently partaking of its movements. This 
ray of light is reflected and brought to a focus at the surface of 
a revolving cylinder, moved by clock-work, on which the photo- 
graphic paper is placed. When the magnet is at rest, the pencil of 
light is stationary, and consequently traces, on the moving paper, a sim- 
ple straight line ; but when the magnet is disturbed by terrestrial per- 
turbations, its oscillations are recorded by the motion of the pencil of 
light in a curved or zigzag line. 

To register the intensity of strength of the magnetic force, another 
bar magnet is suspended by two parallel silk threads about an inch 
apart, descending from two hooks fastened to the under side of a plate 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 21 

attached to the ceihng or some other support. The plate is then 
made to revolve through an arc of a circle until, by the force of tor- 
sion, the bar is deflected from a north and south to an east and 
west direction. It is thus kept in a state of equilibrium between 
the foi'ce of torsion of the threads, tending to turn its north end 
round still further to the south, and the magnetism of the earth, on the 
other hand, tending to bring it back to its north and south direction. 
If in this position the magnetism of the earth becomes stronger, it will 
prevail, and the north end of the needle will turn towards the north ; if 
the magnetism of the earth diminishes in intensity, the force of torsion 
will prevail, and the same end will move towards the south. These 
motions, as in the case of the other magnet, are recorded by a beam of 
light on the paper surface of the revolving cylinder. 

But beside the change of direction of the horizontal needle, a magnet 
so supported as to be free to take any position, in this latitude will ar- 
range itself with its north end dipping down towards the horizon. The 
amount of this dip, or variation, varies also in different places, and at 
different times; and to record these changes a bar is supported, in the 
direction of the magnetic north and south, on two knife edges like the 
beam of a balance. Any change which takes place in the position of 
a magnet thus arranged, is recorded by a mirror attached to the pro- 
longation of the axis on which the bar turns. 

It is proposed to keep these instruments constantly in operation, for 
the purpose of comparing results with other observations of a similar 
character in different parts of the world ; and also for the purpose of 
furnishing a standard to which the observations made at various points 
by the Coast Survey, and the different scientific explorations which are 
now in progress in the western portions of the United States, may be 
referred, and with which they may be compared. 

This establishment ought to be supported by government; but as no 
provision has been made for it, and as the wants are pressing, in 
order to rende-r more valuable the observations making in other coun- 
tries as well as our own, the Smithsonian Institution, in connexion with 
the Coast Survey, has undertaken to commence it. In accordance, 
however, with the policy which has thus far governed the acts of the 
Institution, this observatory will be turned over to other hands as soon 
as other means are found for its support. 

The other sets of magnetic instruments mentioned which have been 
imported by the Institution are intended to furnish portable magnetic 
observatories, in which the dip and the intensity are recorded by the 
pen from direct and personal observations. 

Besides the facts which will be collected by the Coast Survey along 
our extended sea-board, those which the various exploring expeditions 
are furnishing, and those obtained by the instruments belonging to the 
Smithsonian Institution, a large number of records of observations exist 
as to the position of the magnetic needle in different parts of the United 
States in past times. A collection of these, and a comparison of them, 
with more recent observations, would serve to throw light on the 
changes which have taken place in the course of years. 

There is, also, on record in the Land Office, an extended series of 



22 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

observations which, though not made with great precision, will still be 
of value in delineating the general direction of the magnetic lines in 
different parts of the United Slates. Steps have been taken to collect 
all the existing materials relative to this subject, with the view of sub- 
mitting them in due time to reduction and careful investigation. 

CoiTespo7ide?icc. — There is one part of the Smithsonian operations that 
attracts no public attention, though it is producing, it is believed, im- 
portant results in the way of diffusing knowledge, and is attended, per- 
haps, wilii more labor than any other part. I allude to the scientific 
correspondence of the Institution. Scarcely a day passes in which 
fximmunications are not received from persons in different parts of tlie 
country, containing accounts of discoveries, which are referred to the 
Institution, or asking questions relative to some branch of knowledge. 
The rule was early adopted to give respectful attention to every letter 
r(^ccived, and this has been faidifully adhered to from the beginning up 
to the present time. 

These communications relate to a great variety of subjects. Any 
topic which strongly excites the attention of the public at a given 
time, such as the announcement in the papers of a wonderful discov- 
ery, or an important invention which promises to introduce extensive 
changes in the useful arts, is sure to bring upon the Institution an 
increase of labor in the way of correspondence. The ordinary in- 
quiries addressed to the Secretary relate to the principles of mechanics, 
electricity, magnetism, meteorology, names of specimens of plants, min- 
erals, insects, and, in short, to all objects or phenomena of a remark- 
able or unusual character. 

Requests are frequently made for lists of apparatus, for information 
as to the best books for the study of special subjects, hints for the 
organization of local societies, &c. Applications are also made for infor- 
mation by persons abroad relative to particular subjects respecting this 
country. When an immediate reply cannot be given to a question, the 
subject is referred, by letter, to some one of the Smithsonian co-labor- 
ers, to whose line of study it pertains; and the answer is transmitted to 
the inquirer, either under the name of the person who gives the informa- 
tion or under that of the institution, according to the circumstances of 
the case. 

There is no country on the face of the earth in which knowledge is 
so generally diffused as in the United States, none in which there is 
more activity of mind or freedom of thought and discussion, and in 
which there is less regard to what should be considered as settled and 
well established principles. It will not therefore be surprising that the 
Institution should be called upon to answer a great number of commu- 
nications intended to subvert the present system of science, and to 
ostabhsh new and visionary conceptions in its stead, and that numerous 
letters should be received pertaining to such subjects as the quadrature 
of the circle, the trisection of the angle, the invention of self-moving 
machines, the creation of power, the overthrow of the Newtonian sys- 
tem of gravitation, and the invention of new s^^stems of the universe. 

Many of these communications are of such a character that, at first 
sight, it might seem best to treat them with silent neglect; but the rule 



THK SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 23 

has been adopted to state candidly and respectfully the objections to 
such propositions, and to endeavor to convince their authors that their 
ground is untenable. 

Though this course is in many cases attended with no beneficial 
results, still it is the only one which can be adopted with any hope of 
even partial good. In answering those who persist in declaring that 
the present received laws of mechanical action are erroneous, and that 
they have discovered new and more correct generalizations, they are 
requested to prove the truth of their assertions by predicting new and 
important phenomena, the existence of which ma}' he immediately 
tested either by experiment or observation. It is not enough that the 
new system explains facts which we know, for this would be merely 
exhibiting old knowledge under a new form, but it should point out in 
the way of deduction new facts which have hitherto escaped the eye 
of the observer or the scrutiny of the experimenter. 

It is to be regretted that S(^ many minds of power and originality in 
our country should, from defective scientific training, be suffered to 
diverge so widely from the narrow path which alone leads to real ad- 
vance in positive knowledge. Providence, however, seems in some 
measure to vindicate the equality of its distributions, by assigning to 
such a double measure of hope and self-esteem, whicli serves them 
instead of success and reputation. 

The faithful discharge of the duty of the correspondence of the insti- 
tution imposes a serious labor on the secretary and his assistants. 
Beside the correspondence above mentioned, there is added to their 
duties that which relates to the reception and publication of the 
memoirs ; to the lectures ; the letters sent forth by the Institution respect- 
ing particular branches of research ; the answers to the almost innu- 
merable inquires as to the character of the Institution, and applications 
for its publications ; all the business matters which relate to the 
printing, engraving, binding, transportation, payment of accounts ; and 
all the foreign correspondence relating to the exchanges of publications. 

All the letters received are bound in volumes, and a copy of every 
answer is careflilly preserved, the whole thus forming a permanent 
record of all the transactions of the Institution, as well as a history of 
the topics of scientific interest which have particularly occupied the 
public mind during any given period. The exposition of this labor, 
which has been increasing from year to year, will be a sufficient answer 
to the question which is sometimes asked as to what the officers ol 
the Institution find to do. 

Meteorology. — The general system of meteorology described in the 
last and previous reports has been continued, and though some changes 
have taken place among the observers, yet the number and efficiency 
of the corps have been kept up. New instruments have been gradually 
introduced, and constant improvement has taken place with the expe- 
rience of each year in the precision and accuracy of the observations. 
Since the beginning of the system, a large amount of valuable matter 
relative to the meteorology of the United States has been collected ; 
and the Institution has now commenced to reduce these observations, 
and to deduce from them the general laws which govern the chmate of 



24 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

this country. It is believed that such results will be obtained as will 
justify the amount of expenditure of the Smithsonian fund which has 
been devoted to this purpose. 

The reductions which had been made up to the close of the last ses- 
sion of the Regents were presented with the annual report to Congress, 
and were ordered to be printed. It has been found, however, that the 
tables cannot be presented in an octavo form, and that a special reso- 
lution of the Senate will be required to print them in a quarto volume. 

An interesting part of the meteorological observations is now in pro- 
cess of reduction at Greenwich, free of expense to the Institution, by 
Captain Lefroy, late superintendent of the Toronto Observatory. He 
has undertal^en this labor from a love of science, and has received 
some assistance in the way of clerk hire (as he informs me) from the 
fund placed in charge of the Royal Society by the British government 
for the promotion of science. The reduction will include not only all 
the observations collected by the Smithsonian Institution, but also 
those which can be obtained from every part of the earth during five 
years, beginning with 1848. 

Among the questions proposed to be answered by Captain Lefroy 
in discussing the observations, are the following: 

1. Does the aurora ever occur in low latitudes when it is wapting in 
higher ones"? 

2. Is it developed in continuous zones, or are there wide gaps in these 
zones; if the latter, have they any connexion with other atmospheric 
phenomena? 

3. What are the ordinary diurnal laws of its development? 

4. Can the facts be reconciled with any theory giving it a material 
objective existence, or is it an optical phenomenon ? 

5. Can the facts be reconciled with the zodiacal theory ? 

6. What are its geographical limits ; and what causes their singu- 
lar variation from day to day? 

7. Are lines of equal frequenc}^ on the globe, or equal intensity, cir- 
cles at all ? 

Definite answers to these questions would clear the gi'ound for the 
establishment of a rational theory as to the cause of this phenomenon, 
the want of which, alter all that has been said and written upon it, is 
an opprobrium to the science of the present century. 

The results of Captain Lefroy's deductions will be presented in the 
form of a memoir to the Smithsonian Institution. 

Propositions have been made during the past year to apply to gov- 
ernment for aid in extending the meteorological system, or to transfer it 
from the Smithsonian Institution to the National Observatory, the De- 
partment of the Interior, or to an independent establishment supported 
by a direct appropriation from Congress. 

In answer to these propositions the Secretary, in behalf of the Re- 
gents, has stated that it was not in accordance with the policy of the 
Institution to ask the aid of Congress for the purpose of carrying on any 
of its operations ; but that it is consistent with its policy to relinquish 
any line of research which can be carried on equally well by other 
means. If, therefore, any of the plans proposed can be accom- 
plished, the Institution will cheerfully relinquish this field, and devote 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 25 

its labors to other objects. The Institution has, however, already ex- 
pended a large amount of money in collecting meteorological data, and 
it is due to the memory of the founder that full credit shall be given to 
his name for all the results which may be produced by the expendi- 
ture of the income of his bequest. This is one of the conditions on 
which the trust was accepted, and in case of any transfer of this kind 
it should be borne in mind. I may also remark, in the same connexion, 
that while full credit should be given to the officers and assistants for 
the faithfulness and efficiency w^ith which the}'' discharge tlieir duties, 
they should not be allowed to publish, under their own names, results 
which have been collected and elaborated at the expense and under the 
direction of the Institution. The estabhshment of definite rules on this 
point, though a delicate matter, is one which requires attention. 

According to the estimate of Mr. Blodget, who is still employed in 
reducing and discussing the observations, the whole number of mete- 
orological observers now on the books as regnlar contributors, or as en- 
titled to exchange for valuable series of observations sent, or for reports 
regularly made in previous years is (520) five hundred and twenty. 
The number added during the year 1853 to the list of previous ob- 
servers, and who have returned observations for some portions of the 
year, is (119) one hundred and nineteen. The number of manuscript 
series of observations in detail, or in full summaries of means and ex- 
tremes of the observed conditions for each month of the whole period 
observed, received during the year, is (75) seventy-five, covering an 
aggregate period of temperature observation of eight hundred and fifty 
years. About half these series also include observations of amount of 
rain. Of printed and published series a large number have been sent. 

Exchanges. — The system of exchanges mentioned in the last and 
preceding Reports has been continued during the past year with una- 
bated vigor and corresponding useful results. The records for 1853, as 
will be seen by a reference to Prof. Baird's report, show a large in- 
crease, both in transmission and receipts, over 1852. This part of the 
system of Smithsonian operations has everywhere received the com- 
mendation of those who have given it their attention or have partici- 
pated in its benefits. The Institution is now the principal agent of 
scientific and literary communication between the old world and the 
new. Its system of exchange is estabhshed on a rehable basis, namely : 
that of the publications of the Institution itself. So long as the present 
plan of operations is continued, the Institution will annually distribute 
its Contributions, and will continue to receive in return the publications 
of all the literary and scientific societies of the world. The importance 
of such a system, with reference to the scientific character of our coun- 
try, could scarcely be appreciated by those who are not famihar with 
the results which flow from an easy and certain intercommunication of 
this kind. Many of the most important contributions to science made 
in America have been unheard of in Europe, or have been so httle 
known, or received so little attention, that they have been republished 
as new discoveries or claimed as the product of European research. 
By means of the Smithsonian system of exchange, the American author 
is enabled to place officially, as it were, a copy of his work in the 



26 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

hands of all those who are engaged in the same line of research, and 
to insure due credit to himself from the countenance and support of 
the Institution. 

The packages transmitted during the past year amounted, in the ag- 
gregate, to 1,(304. They weighed 12,220 pounds, and occupied nearly 
400 cubic feet of space. 

The receipts of works from abroad, in exchange t()r those sent out 
by the Institution, are much greater in value, as well as in number, 
than those of last year. The whole number of" articles received for the 
library of the Institution during 1853, is 2,556. For other institutions, 
1,052 packages have been received. The number of separate works 
which these contain is unknown. 

The Mmeum. — Additions during the ])ast year have been made to the 
museum ii'om all branches of natural history and ethnology. They 
are princi[)ally derived from various portions of our own country, par- 
ticularly trom the region between the Mississippi river and the Pacific 
Ocean. 

The Institution has taken the temporary charge of most of the col- 
lections of the various exploring expeditions which have been sent out 
during the past year. For a detailed account of the additions, I l^eg 
leave to refer to the accompanying report of Prof. Baird. 

In accordance with the spirit which should pervade all parts of the 
Institution, much good may be done in the way of promoting natural 
history by distributing duplicate specimens among the cabinets of the 
country and recommending the establisimient, by associations of teach- 
ers and others, of local collections, and by giving directions for con- 
ducting museums of this kind. The Institution, during the past year, 
has done good service in this way, and will continue and extend this 
means of diffusing knowledge. 

Researches. — Though httle has been done immediately by the Institu- 
tion, since the date of the last Report, in the way of original research, 
yet it has rendered important aid to physical geography and natural his- 
tory, by the facilities which it has afforded the several exploring parties 
which have been fitted out during the past year, for railway and boun- 
dary surveys, in the. regions west of the Mississippi. The instruments 
have been compared, implements constructed, and practical instruction 
given in the art of observation and the means of preserving specimens. 

The Secretary has devoted considerable time, as a member of com- 
missions appointed by government, to scientific investigations. These 
duties, as well as those above mentionetl, are performed entirely with- 
out remuneration; and the Institution is thus, in various ways, repaying, 
to a considerable extent, whatever expenditure the government has 
made on account of the Smithsonian bequest. 

The Library. — The library during the past year has received an ad- 
dition of 5,433 articles, the most valuable portion of which have been 
derived from the Smithsonian exchanges. The whole number of" books, 
etc., now in the library is 25,856. 

At its last session, Congress appropriated ^3,000 to begin the pre- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 27 

Earation of a catalogue of its library on the Smithsonian plan proposed 
y Professor Jewett. This work has been successfully prosecuted 
since July last; and according to Professor Jewett' s report, upwards 
of 6,000 volumes have been catalogued. This plan, the honor of the 
invention of which the Convention of Librarians has awarded to Profes- 
sor Jewett, and which has been received with approbation by those 
well qualified to judge of its merits, is now in a fair way to \ye reduced 
to practice. The objects to be gained by adopting it are — 

1. To avoid the necessity of preparing, composing, and correcting 
anew the titles once printed, when the hbrary has received accessions ; 
or the alternative of printing the titles of these accessions in supple- 
ments, which are very inconvenient appendages. 

2. To prevent the repetition of the work of preparation of titles, 
composition, and correction of press, for copies of the same book in 
diffc'rent libi'aries. The title once prepared and stereotyped remains at 
the Smithsonian Institution, to be used by any library having the 
same book. 

3. To secure uniformity in the construction of catalogues, thus greatly 
facilitating the researches of the student. 

For other facts and details, see Professor Jewett's report herewith 
submitted. 

Lectures. — Lectures have been given as usual by a number of dis- 
tinguished gentlemen on the following subjects: 

A course of eight lectures by Dr. Robert Baird on " Modern Eu- 
rope." 

One lecture by Hon. Henry Barnard on " The School." 

One lecture by Professor Stephen Alexander, of the College of New 
Jersey, on " Climate." 

One lecture by Job R. Tyson, c^q., of Philadelphia, " Patrick 
Henry.' 

One lecture by Rev. Dr. C. C. Pise, " Charles Carrol, of Carrol- 
ton." 

One lecture by Dr. E. K. Kane, U. S. N., " On the New Expedition 
in search of Sir John Franklin." 

A course of five lectures by Professor A. Guyot on " The Harmonies 
of Nature and History." 

A course of seven lectures by Dr. J. V. C. Smith, of Boston, on 
" Modern Egypt and its Institutions. 

One lecture by George Sumner, esq., on " France." 

Lectures were also delivered during the season, in the Smithsonian 
lecture room, to the Washington Young Men's Christian Association, 
Metropolitan Mechanics' Institute, and the Teachers Association. 

We have concluded to adopt the plan of a continued course on a 
single sul:)ject extending through the entire season ; and for this pur- 
pose Professor J. Lawrence Smith, of the University of Virginia, has 
been engaged to give a full course on chemistry during the present 
winter. 

Meeting of the Establishment. — The Secretary was directed by the 
President of the United States to call a meeting of the members and 



28 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

honorary members of the " Smithsonian Institution," or, in other words, 
of the body which is generally known by the name of the "Estabhsh- 
ment." I may mention that this body consists of the President of the 
United States, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, the Mayor of 
Washington, the several officers of the cabinet, (excepting the Secretary 
of the Interior, this department having been created since the passage 
of the act estabhshing the Institution,) the Commissioner of Patents, and 
such other persons as they may elect honorary mcmhcrs. This body 
met in the Smithsonian building on the 3d of May, 1853, and nt a sub- 
sequent meeting adopted a set of by-laws, and elected Professor Parker 
Cleaveland, of Bowdoin College, Maine, an honorary member. 

In accordance with the third section of the act of incorporation, a 
full account of the proceedings of the Establishment will be given in 
connection with the report of the proceedings of the Board of Regents. 
Respectfull}' submitted, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smkhsonian Institution. 

Januaey, 1854. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



29 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY, IN CHARGE 
OF THE LIBRARY. 

DECEMBER 31, 185-3. 

Sir : The following table exhibits the additions to the library during 
the year 1853, distinguishing the receipts by purcliasc, by donation 
and exchange, and by copy-right: 



Sources. 


o 
o 

M 


IB ' 
II 


a, 

c 


Maps. 


6 
'7. 

3 
S 


bX) 
(S 

Q 


o5 

o 


Totals. 




259 
1,244 

505 


1,554 

1,121 

181 










1,813 


By donation and exchange. . 


14 


88 
8 






2,453 


448 




11 


1 167 








2,008 


2,856 


14 


96 


448 


11 

! 


5,433 



The whole number of books, pamphlets, maps, engravings, and 
other articles at present belonging to the library, is shown by the Ibl- 
lowins: table : 



Sources. 


o 

o 
M 


« > 


bp 


6, 


d 

3 


^0 

Q 


1 

S 

o 


Totals. 


By purchase = . 


4,432 

3,901 

2,809 

873 


2,511 

5,164 

420 


1,335 

58 
38 


2 

1,813 

59 








8,280 

11,007 

5 706 


By donation and excliange, . 
By copyriffht 


2,274 


30 
9 


41 
97 


By deposit 


873 




1 


1 








12,015 


8,095 


1,431 


1,874 


2,274 


39 


138 


25,866 



The purchases during the year have been few and unimportant. 

The receipts by exchange and donation have been numerous and 
valuable. A particular account of them is given by Professor Baird in 
his report upon the exchanges. It is not thought necessary, therefore, 
to dwell upon them here, further than to state, that many of the works 
thus received are of great value, from their intrinsic merit, and from the 



30 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

difficulty of procuring them through the ordinary channels of the book 
trade. 

It is much to be regretted that no measures have yet been taken for 
the better regulation of the copy-right deposit. I have repeatedly called 
attention to the subject, and in my last two reports have expressed, at 
considerable length, views which I hoped might lead to a revision of 
the law. The interests of this Institution, of publishers, and of the lit- 
erary public, require iinther legislation on this subject, and substantially 
such, it is believed, as was recommended in the reports alluded to. 

Much inconvenience has been experienced from the delay in finishing 
the central building. The books stand in double rows, on most of the 
shelves, in the room where they are at present placed. Some of them 
have been injured, too, by exposure to dampness. It is impossible 
with the means provided to warm the room, and all who have been en- 
gaged in the librar}^ have suffered severely from colds contracted while 
working in it. It has been found necessary to remove many pamphlets 
and papers to the basement, where they are subject to injury, and where 
it is difficult to consult them. The labors of the library are doubled by 
the want of proper accommodations. On these accounts, it is much to 
be desired that the main hbrary should be finished at as early a day as 
possible, in order that the books may be removed to a permanent, safe, 
and convenient lodgment. 

Applications have been made to me during the year lor the openmg 
of the library in the evening, and some remarks on the subject have 
appeared in the newspapers. It was impossible to comply with these 
suggestions without employing an additional attendant. The present 
attendant is required to be on duty from daylight in the mojning till 
five o'clock in the afternoon. It would be unjust to require services of 
him in the evening. Besides, no arrangements have been made lor 
lighting tlie reading room, nor can they well be made till the building 
is finished. It has seemed necessary, therefore, to postpone, for the 
present, the further consideration of the subject; which I do, with the 
hope that it ma^' hereafter be found practicable to extend the time for 
consulting the librar}^ if desired by any considerable number of persons. 

Another topic connected with the librar}^ to which I wish to direct 
the attention of" the Board of Regents, is the framing of a set of by- 
laws and regulations for the management of the library and the use of 
the bool^s. I would also suggest the appointment of a standing com- 
mittee upon the library. Such a committee becomes the more neces- 
sar}^ as the librar}' becomes of more impoitance, both from its extent and 
the cliaracter of its books, and as the time is near at hand for the comple- 
tion of the building, and the permanent arrangement of the collection. 

The reading-room has continued to be a place of great resort for 
citizens and strangers. The list of periodicals is extensive, and com- 
prises many of the best scientific and literary journals of this country 
and of Europe. 

It is proper for me here to c;dl attention to the desirablcu'^ss of com- 
pleting the series of periodicals and of transactions and journals of 
learned societies. But very few of om^ sets are complete. Inquiries 
are daily made for back numbers which are wanting. As it is prob- 
able that we have. received all or nearly all of the earlier publications 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 31 

of societies which they are able to supply, it seems advisable to fur- 
nisli our agents in Europe with lists of the volumes which we possess, 
and authorize them to purchase, as opportunities may occur, the vol- 
umes that are wanting. 

The " Notices of Public Libraries," prepared with considerable la- 
bor, and published three years ago by the Smithsonian Institution, is 
still almost daily called for, though about 6,000 copies, printed by 
Congress and by the Institution, have been distributed. Very few 
copies remain on hand. Since the book was published a large amount 
of additional matter has been received. There is a great demand tor 
information of this kind, and it seems desirable to issue a new and en- 
larged edition of the Notices. It has been impossible forme, during the 
past year, to gain time for this work, from the daily duties of the library, 
and the unremitted labor which the superintendence of the catalogue 
system has imposed upon me. 

The National Convention of Librarians and Bibliographers, which met 
in New York in September last, deserves to be particularly noticed in 
this report, on account of the frequent reference there made to the po- 
sition and operations of the Smithsonian library, as well as on account 
of its importance to all libraries, and to the general interests of litera- 
ture in this country. Ft was composed of more than eighty delegates, 
representing forty-seven libraries in all parts of the country, from Maine 
to California. 

It is gratifying to know that the services of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, in the department of bibliography, were fully recognised by this 
convention in the following resolution, which was unanimously adopted: 

" Rcsdlvedi That the thanks of this convention be presented to the 
Board of Regents and officers of the Smithsonian Institution for their 
stead}'- and effective eflfirts for the increase and diffusion of knowledge 
among men ; and particLdarlyfiirthe measures which they have adopted 
for the encouragement and promotion of the public libraries of our 
country ; and we have groat pleasure in looking to that Institution as 
the central establishment of the United States for the furtherance of all 
such objects." 

The convention also passed the f()llowing resolutions relative to the 
great central library of reference and research which it has been the 
intention of Congress to establish at the Smithsonian Institution : 

" Resolved, That the establishment of a great central library f()r refer- 
ence and research, while it is demanded by the condition of the United 
States as to general civilization and intellectual advancement, is espe- 
cially interesting to this convention from the bearing it would have 
upon libraries throughout the country. 

^'■Resolved, That we deem such an establishment as being eminently 
\vorthy of support from the national treasury ; and that in no way 
can the government better promote the progress of learning through the 
whole country, than by placing a central national library under the ad- 
ministration of the Smithsonian Institution." 

\ Among the topics which received pttrticular attention at this conven- 
tion was the preparation of a convenient manual as a guide to the or- 
ganization of, library societies, the collection of libraries, and their 
proper management. A committee was appointed to digest the plan 



32 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

of such a work. So impressed were the members of the convention 
with its importance, that " the business committee were requested to 
consider the expediency of memoriahzing Congress to procure the pre- 
paration of such a manual through the agency of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution." 

Every week, and almost every day, applications are made at this 
Institution, by letter or by visitors, for information which a book of this 
kind would contain. The answers have to be many times repeated. 
I have consequently had the intention of preparing such a manual. 
The collections for the purpose are mostly made. The volume of sta- 
tistics and descriptions of libraries was an important antecedent. The 
development of the catalogue system must also precede any systematic 
and well considered work of the kind. The period has now come for 
the fulfilment of this design, and 1 hope to be enabled and to be author- 
ized to devote such time as may be necessary to its execution. 

The library interest has become in this country one of rare magni- 
tude and importance. Nothing can be done by the government, by 
this Institution, or by individuals here, which tends to promote the es- 
tablishment or the efficiency of libraries, without being noticed and 
gratetully appreciated by all the intelligent and educated men of all 
parties and names, in every city and almost every village and hamlet 
throughout the land. Every city has its library, so has almost every 
village, and so have a laro,e number of our common schools. Familiar 
as this fact is to many of us, it presents a new phase of society, and 
one indicative of mighty influences. Tlie library is the necessary com- 
plement of the school. To teach children to read and then give them 
nothing to supply the desire awakened is mockery. It is reading 
rather than school-training which has produced the general intelligence 
of the American people. These libraries must be of various grades — 
the school and social library of popular English books of history, biog- 
raphy, and general literature for reading; the larger collections in cities 
for more general study and reference ; and the great central library for 
learned investigations. These should all be linked and bound together 
in one voluntary yet harmonious system. Such is the general wish 
most emphatically expressed — a wish which the Smithsonian Institu- 
tioh may do much to cherish and to realize. 

It now remains for me to speak of the progress which has been made 
during the year upon the catalogue system. 

A new and greatly enlarged and improved edition of the report, con- 
taining an account of the system, rules for the preparation of catalogues, 
and (as examples under the rules) the catalogue of the bibliographical 
works in the Smithsonian librar}-, has been prepared and stereotyped. 
An edition of a thousand copies, as far as to the examples, has been 
printed. The printers have since been employed upon the catalogue 
of the Library of Congress, and consequently the work upon the re- 
port has been suspended. It would require but a few weeks and an 
inconsiderable additional expenditure of money to complete this work. 
The calls for it are frequent, and I teel very desirous of being able to 
answer them at an early day. The book will probably contain about 
three hundred pages. 

At the last session of the Boai'd of Regents, a resolution was passed, 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 33 

requesting the Secretary of the Institution to call the attention of the 
joint Library Committee of Congress to the Smithsonian plan of cata- 
loguing, and to the advantages — economical and literary — which would 
accrue to the Library of Congress and to other libraries, by their adop- 
tion of this plan. The committee examined the subject, and recom- 
mended to Congress an appropriation of three thousand dollars for com- 
mencing a catalogue. The work was begun in -July last, and has pro- 
ceeded most prosperously till the present time. Upwards of six 
thousand volumes have already been catalogued, and about one third 
of the appropriation remains unexpended. The consideration of the 
magnitude of the enterprise thus commenced, has led to great caution 
in adopting the rules estabhshing precedents. A great part of my time 
has necessarily been given to the work. Less will probably be required 
for the future. 

I have so frequently and at so much length explained the details and 
the advantages of the system, that it is not necessary for me to dwell 
upon them at present, except very briefly. 

The title of every work and oi" each distinct edition of every work 
is stereotyped upon a separate plate. The author's name also stands 
on a plate by itself. Each plate shows at a glance the heading to 
which it belongs. It is obvious that these plates may be placed 
together in alphabetical or other order, as may be desired. They are 
mounted on blocks for printing, like other stereotype plates. 

The great ends to be gained and which will thus be secured, are : 

1. To avoid the necessity of preparing, composing, and correcting 
anew the titles once printed, when the library has received accessions, 
or the alternative of printing the titles of these accessions in supple- 
ments, which are very inconvenient appendages. 

2. To prevent the repetition of the work of preparation ol" titles, com- 
position and correction of press, fl)r copies of the same book in different 
libraries. The title, once prepared and stereotyped, remains at the 
Smithsonian Institution, to be used by any library having the same 
book. 

3. To secure uniformity in the constriction of catalogues, thus great- 
ly facilitating the researches of the student. 

It is obvious that the cost of the first catalogue will bf; greater than 
if it were not stereotyped. The work of preparation will also be more 
expensive ; but the additional cost of the first edition will be more than 
saved in the first re-printing of the whole catalogue. It will be further 
understood that the sum paid by the first library is not only for its own 
benefit, but for that of every other library hereafter adopting the plan, 
so far as its books are the feme. Congress is, theretbre, now confer- 
ring a great boon upon other libraries, while at the same time it is 
taking the course the most economical for the procuring of its own cata- 
logue. 

It will be remembered that we had two classes of difficulties to 
meet, the one literary and the other mechanical. The theory of the 
system had first to be perfected in all its details. The practical appli- 
cation had then to be made. The time and money which have been 
expended in Europe in discussions connected with the subject oi' the 
best methods of cataloguing, indicate the difficulty of the theory. Prac- 



34 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

tical stereotypcrs pronounced the scheme impracticable. A new mode 
of stereotyping, with a new material, had to be introduced, perfected, 
^nd applied lor the purpose. There is no art so difficult of improve- 
ment as that of typography. These statements will indicate the me- 
chanical difficulties which have been overcome. 

It is gratifying to be able to state that the new process of stereotyp- 
ing which we have adopted for this purpose is likely t(j be introduced 
into use on a large scale. The benefits which the Institution will thus 
have conferred upon the most perfect and most important of the arts, 
apart from the connexion of these improvements with the catalogue 
system, will not be the least among its achievements, as the efforts by 
which this end has been attained have not been the least of its labors. 

Impressed as I was with tlie importance of the subject, and confident 
as I felt of its entire practicability in every particular, I was desirous 
that it should be fully discussed by librarians and practical biblio- 
graphers, as well as by printers, stereotypcrs, and experts in the typo- 
graphical ait. The convention to which I have alluded afforded a rare 
opportunity for this examination of our plans, and a fair and intelligent 
estimate of their value. I introduced the subject and invited discus- 
sion. It was manifest that those who were present had come together 
having formed various opinions as to the practicability of the scheme, 
though with but one sentiment as to its desirableness. The matter 
was discussed a whole da\' with freedom, and with the manifest desire 
to arrive at a just conclusion. I take great pleasure in quoting the fol- 
lowing resolutions, which were unanimously adopted, as embodying 
the results of the long, careful, and interested examination: 

" Resolved, That we have considered attentively the plan tor conslruct- 
uig catalogues of libraries, and a general catalogue of the public libra- 
ries of the United States, by means of separate stereotype titles, origi- 
nated and prepared by Prof C. C. Jewett, and developed by him 
while libraiian of the Smithsonian Institution. That we regard it as 
an object of high importance to the interests of our public hbraries, and 
to the promotion of learning, aritl worthy to share in the funds of the 
Institution and the zealous exertions of its officers ; the more so as it is 
an enterprise which cannot be successtuUy prosecuted, except under 
the guidance, protection, and pecuniary support of this central estab- 
lishment tor the increase and diffusion of knowledge. 

" Resolved, That we have learned with pleasure that Congress, on the 
recommendation of the library committee, made an appropriation for 
the practical testing of the plan in its application to the Library of Con- 
gress, and that the work is now in successii^ progress. 

'■^Resolved, That, as practical librarians and bibliographers, we take 
pride and satisfaction in the fact that a measure of so great ^literary 
utility has received the prompt and efficient support of our national 
legislature ; and we would express the earnest hope that this support 
may be extended to it liberally, till its first great result in the complete 
stereotyped catalogue of the Library of Congress shall be attained." 

We may reasonably congratulate oursehcs upon the complete suc- 
cess of these plans up to the present point. They still need the foster- 
ing care of this Institution. As soon as he catalogue of the Library of 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 35 

Congress shall be compleled, other institutions, and even individuals, 
are ready to avail themselves of the scheme for procuring their cata- 
logues. Its general adoption — the crowning point of all our efforts — 
seems, therefore, as sure as the completion of the first work. 

It is manifest that appropriations will every year be necessary from 
the Smithsonian fund for the procuring of type, apparatus, and fixtures, 
as well as for filling any intervals that may occur in the continuity ot 
the work. But it seems now quite certain that the system will ere 
long grow up into a large and self-supporting establishment, regulated 
by the combined libraries of the country. 
Respectfully submitted. 

C. C. JEWETT. 
To Joseph Henry, LL.D., 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



36 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY IN CHARGE 
OF PUBLICATIONS, EXCHANGES, AND NATURAL HIS- 
TORY. 

Sir : I herewith present to you the report of o|Jferations for the year 
1853, in the departments assigned to my superintendence. 

I. Publications. 

During the year 1853, a much larger amount of matter has been 
printed and published by the Smithsonian Institution than in any year 
since tlie commencement of its operations. Two volumes of" the quarto 
series have been completed, of which one has been distributed and 
the other is nearly ready. The following list contains tiie titles of the 
papers in these volumes. 

List of Memoirs in Vol. F, Smithsonian Contributions. 

1. Introduction ; pp. IG. 

2. A Flora and Fauna within living animals. B}^ Joseph Leidy, M. D. ; 

pp. 68, and ten plates. 

3. Memoir on the Extinct Species of American Ox. By Joseph 

Leidy, M. D. ; pp. 20, and five plates. 

4. Anatomy of the Nervous System of Rana Fipiens. By Jefilies Wy- 

man, Isl. D. ; pp. 52, and two plates. 

5. Nereis Boreah-Americana, or Contributions to the History of the 

Marine Alg.-v of North America. By William Henry Harvey, 
M. D., M. R. I. A ; Part II. Rhodospermea^ ; pp. 262, and twenty- 
four plates. 

6. PlantuR Wrigljtiana.' Texano-Neo-Mexican;* ; Part 11, x\n Account of 

a Collection of Plants, made by Charles Wright, A. M., in West- 
ern Texas, New Mexico, and Sonora, in the years 1851 and 1852. 
By Asa Gray, M. D. ; pp. 120, and ti^ur plates. 

Vol. VI, Smithsonian Contributions. 

1. Introduction ; pp. 16. 

2. Plantar Fremontian;e, or Description of Plants collected in Califor- 

nia by Col. J. C. Fremont. By John Torrey, F. L. S. ; pp. 24, 
and ten plates. 

3. (Observations on the Batis Maritima of Linnaais. l>y John Torrey, 

F. L. S. ; pp. 8, and one plate. 

4. On the DarUngtonia, Californica, a new Pitcher Plant from Northern 

Cahfornia. B}^ John Torrey, F. L. S. ; pp. 8, and one plate. 

5. Synopsis of the Marine Invertebrata of Grand Manan, or the Region 

about the Ba}^ of Fundy. By William Stimpson , pp. G^, and 
three plates, 
(j. On the Winds of the Northern Hemisphere. By James H. Coffin, 
Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, in Lafayette 
College ; pp. 200, and thirteen plates. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 37 

7. The Ancient Fauna of Nebraska, or a Description of Remains of 

Extinct Mammalia and Chelonia, from the Mauvaises Terres of 
Nebraska. By Joseph Leidy, M. D., Professor of Anatomy in the 
University of Pennsylvania ; pp. 126, and twenty-five plates. 

8. Occultations for 1853. 

Volume V contains pages 538 — plates 45 

Volume VI contains pages 476 — plates 53 

Or an aggregate of quarto publications 1,014 98 

Of these volumes, volume V has been distributed. Volume VI has 
not yet been bound up, but will be delivered and distributed early in 
1854. 

In addition to the above, several memoirs for the seventh volume are 
in hand, and the engravings nearly complete ; among these are : 

Chap])clls7nith, on the Tornado of Indiana. 

Leidy, on the Extinct Sloths of North America. 

Bailey, on New Microscopic Forms. 

The octavo publications have also been of considerable extent, and 
are as follows : 

Seventh Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution, for 1852 ; pp. 96. 

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for 1852; 
pp. 31. 

Catalogue of North American Reptiles in the Museum ot the Smith- 
sonian Institution. Part 1 — Serpents. B}- S. F. Baird and C. Girard, 
pp. 188. 

Catalogue of the described Coleoptera of the United States. By 
Frederick Ernst Melsheimer, M. D. Revised by S. S. Haldeman and 
.1. L. Le Conte, pp. 190. 

In addition to these a large number of circulars, relating to various 
subjects, has been printed. 

2. DiSTRIBUTIONOF PUBLICATIONS AND EXCHANGES. 

(a.) Fcrreign Distributions and Exchanges. 

The records of Ibreign distributions and exchanges for the year 1853, 
show a large increase, both in transmissions and receipts, over 1852, 
thus exhibiting a steady enlargement of the sphere and extent of ope- 
rations, gratifying to all who are interested in the speedy diffusion of 
knowledge throughout the world. As in past years, the Smithsonian 
Institution has been a most important medium of communication be- 
tween the American scientific societies and their European correspon- 
dents. 

The names of the institutions making use of the facilities afforded by 
the Smithsonian Institution, as well as the complete statistics of the 
whole business, will be found detailed in the accompanying tables. 

The packages, amounting in the aggregate to 1,604, bearing 567 
addresses, weighing 12,220 pounds, and occupying nearly 400 cubic 
feet of capacity, all left the Institution in May, and for a large number 



38 



EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



of these packages acknowledgments have akeady been received. The 
names of institutions receiving the Smithsonian Contributions to Know- 
ledge, 258 in number, will be found in the table. Nearly 400, how- 
ever, have received publications of some kind from the Institution ; the 
total number of addresses, including those parcels sent by others, 
being 567, as already stated. 

A. — Table exhibiting the statistics of printed matter sent 

ABROAD in 1852, BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

1. Distributed by Dr. J. G. Flligel, Leij)sic. 



Countries. 


1^ 


-a 

to . 

.2 bB 
o C 

§1 

CO J_, 




.S » 

O-bB 
= o 


C_> *-" 

as o 
boP 


O 




O 


d 

o 

_c 
>> 




S-I 

m ho 




£13 

T3 CL, 


0) ^ 

-a C 


le 




II 


^cO 

o 


"rf 


bX) 

'3 


o 


00 
0) 
K 


^•>, 




^" 


< 


H 


^ 






Eh 


^ 




O 






7 
4 


7 
1 




17 

7 


20 
12 


9 
1 
























1 






2 


1 














Denmark 




4 




14 


23 


5 












15 
12 

85 


6 
3 

58 




32 

23 

155 


42 

34 

181 


7 

4 

63 












Holland . ... 












Germany 








1 


9 


6 




18 


34 


8 








1 




13 


5 




19 


49 


6 






1 










Total 


153 


90 


243 


287 


396 


103 


786 


6,250 


200 


25 


190 



2. Distributed by Hector Bossange, Pans. 



Countries. 


=HtiB 

i 1 
£-;; 


-a 
-2 bi 


"cS 


&,bo 

^^ 
t< ci 

"I'd 


-a 
9 
o ^ 

1 § 
G ■^ 

»J o 

o ^ 

bCS 

1^ 


T3 
O 

li 

p O 
o 


cd 


X 

o 


S 
O 

a- 


10 


is 

to bo 

■35 c 








o 










^ 


ci 






< " 


< 


Eh 


;^ 


Ch 


Ph 


H 





m 


J 




55 
36 


26 
13 


80 

43 


102 
56 


29 








1 


Italy 


15 








...J 









1 


Total 


91 


39 


130 


123 


158 


44 


325 


2,250 


72 


9 


110 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



39 



3. Distributed tlirough the Royal Society and the agency of Henry Stevens, 

London. 



Countries. 


h . 

to " 

^ P. 

^■3 


13 

is 

-T3-- 


S 
o 


o 

12; 


m 
o j^; 

bug 
5 o 
o t« 


Packages enclosed 
for others. 

Total. 


5 
o 

'S 


d 

O 

'5 

CS 
Oh 

O 


o 

m 


Letters accompa- 
nying packages. 


Portugal 


1 

4 

99 

1 


1 

2 
51 




2 

6 

163 

1 


6 

9 

150 

1 


1 

2 

59 


















United Kingdom. 








■ ' ' 'l 

, .1 
























1 


Total 


105 


54 


159 


172 


166 


62 


400 


2,786 


90 


7 140 

1 



4. Distributed by others. 



Countries. 


a . 
•r xj 

^^ 

C4-1 C3 
OJ — < 


J he 
c 

< 


13 
1 


. 

fl to 

S =e 
s &. 


bDS 


. 



Ph 





-a 
c 
3 


Oh 

'5 


Capacity in cub. ft. 
Boxes, 


1^ 
a b« 

CS 



-5 = 


Old world 


17 
16 






20 

23 


30 

18 








1 


South America.. 







2 












1 


Total 


33 


2 


35 


43 


48 


2 


93 


914 


30 


7 


35 



5. General summary. 





a . 


T3 








-B 


TS 


1 


to 


d 






Agents. 


•r to 

to ^ 


J til 

is 

QJ Oh 

-d c 

T3 •- 
< 


13 



a to 


to 

to 

brS 

cS 

■^^ 

d 


. 

bDiH 

u 
a 
Ph 


1 
i 

15 


: ^ 


C 

a 


"5 




1 

Oh 



to 

X! 




a 1 

a 

U .id 


Dr. J. G. Fliigel. 


153 


90 


243 


287 


396 


103 


786 


6,250 


200 


25 


190 


H. Bossange 


91 


39 


130 


123 


158 


44 


' 325 


2,250 


72 


9 


110 


H. Stevens 


105 


54 


159 


172 


166 


62 


1 400 


2,786 


90 


7 


140 


Others 


33 


2 


35 


43 


48 


2 


i 93 


914 


30 


7 


35 






Total 


382 


185 


567 


625 


768 


211 


;l,604 


12,200 


392 


48 


475 



40 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

B. — Table exhibiting the number of pieces received from 

THE DIFFERENT INSTITUTIONS IN THE UNITED STATES FOR DIS- 
TRIBUTION abroad. 

Obtairied by the Smithsonian Institution from various sources, 

but exclusive of its own pubhcations 2,410 

Boston Society of Natural History, Boston 54 

American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston 112 

American Journal of Science 35 

American Oriental Society, New Haven 33 

Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia 186 

American Philosophical Societv, Philadelphia 72 

U. S. Coast Survey .' 131 

Patent Office 100 

Typographical Bureau 30 

Indian Bureau 168 

Light House Board 5 

Secretarv of the Nav v 29 

J. Ross Browne .' 170 

Miscellaneous institutions and individuals 319 

1,444 

Total received 3,854 

Most of the abov^e consisted of single volumes; a number, however, 
were packages with several enclosures, which would probably bring 
the number of volumes to 4,000. 



APPENDIX C. 

L/tst of Foreign Instkntions in correspondence uith the Smithsonian histitntion. 



SWEDEN. 



Goteborg. — Kongl. Velenskaps och Vitterliets Samhillet. 
*Lund. — Kongl. Universitetet. 

Obser\-atory. 
*Slockholm. — Kongliga Svenska \^etenskaps Akademien. 

Kongl. Landbruks-Akademien. 

*Kongl. Vitterhets Historic och Antiquitet^ Akademien. 

*Riksbiblioteket. 

Svenska Akademien. 
* Upsala. — Kongliga Vetenskaps Societeten. 
*Kon"l. Universitetet. 



Those marked * liave received the fifth volume of "Contributions." The others have 
received separate memoirs and other publications. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 41 

NORWAY. 

*Bergen. — Bergen's Museum. 

*Christiania. — Det Kongelige Norske Universitet. 

Observatory. 

Physiographiske Foreiiing. 
Drontheim. — Det Kongel. Norske Videnskabernes Selskab. 

ICELAND. 

^Reykjavik. — Islands Stiftisbokasafn. 

DENMARK. 

* Copenhagen. — Kongelige Nordiske Oldskrift Selskab. 

*Det Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab. 

*Kongelige Bibliothek. 

Konigliches danische Seecharten Archiv. 

Observator3\ 

Skandinaviske Naturforskeres Forsamling. 

RUSSIA. 

Dorpat. — Gelehrte Estnische Gesellscliaft zu Dorpat. 

*Obscrvaloirc Imperial. 
*Hel$ingfors. — Societas Scientiarum Fennica. 
*Kasan. — Universit}'' Librar}'. 
*Mittau. — Kurlandische Gesellschatt fiir Literatur und Kunst. 

* Moscow. — Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscou. 
Pulkowa. — Observatoirc Imperial. 

*St. Petersburg. — Academie Imperiale des Sciences. 
Depot of Naval Charts of Russia. 
Geodetic Survey of Russia. 
*Imperial Public Library. 
*Kais. Russ. Mineralogische Gesellscliaft. 
*L'Etat Major du Corps des Ingenieurs des Mines de 

Russie. 
*Observatoire Physique Central de Russie. 
*Societe Imperiale d'Archeologie. 

HOLLAND. 

* Amsterdam. — Academie Royale des Sciences a Amsterdam. 

Genootschap Natura Artis Magistra. 
Zoological Garden. 

* Gronhigen. — Academia Groningana. 

*Haarlem. — Hollandsclie Maatschappij dcr Wetenschappcn. 

*Hague. — Bibliotheque Royale. 

Leyden. — Botanical Society of the Netherlands. 

Musee d'Histoire Naturelle. 

♦University Library. 



42 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

*Middelburg. — Zeeuwsche Genootschap cler Wetenschappen. 
*Rotterdam. — Bataafsch Genootschap der proefondervindelijke Wijs- 
begeerte te Rotterdam. 

* Utrecht. — Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Weten- 

schappen. 
Zwolle. — (Overyssel.) — Overysselsche Vereeniging tot Ontwikkeling van 
Provinciale Helvaart. 

GERMANY. 

*Altenhurg. — Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 
AltoTM. — Geodetic Survey of Holstein. 

Observatory. 
Berlin. — Anstalt des topographischen Bureaus im general Stabe. 
Deutsche Geologische Gesellschaft. 
*Geographische Gesellschaft. 

Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde. 

*Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde. 

Gewerbe Institut. 

Ingenieur Schule. 

*Konigliche Bibliothek. 

Konigliches Landes fficonomie Collegium. 

*Konigliches Museum. 

*Koniglich, Preussische Akademie der Wissenschatten zu 
Berlin. 

Observatory. 

Wiegman's Archiv tiir Naturgeschichte. 
*Blankenbcrg. — Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein des Harzes. 
*Bonn. — Naturhistorischer Verein des preussischen Rheinlandes und 

Westphalens. 

Observatory 

* University Library. 

* Bremen. — Stadt-Bibliothek. 

*Breslau. — Kaiserliche Leopoldinisch-Carolinische Akademie der Na- 

turforscher. 
*Dantzig. — Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 
Darmstadt. — Grossherzogliche Bibliothek. 
Deidesheim. — Pollichia. Naturwissenschafthcher Verein der bayerischen 

Pfalz. 
*Dresden. — King of Saxony. 

*Konigliche Bibliothek. 

K. Sammlung fur Kunst u. Wissenschaften. 
Dusseldorf. — Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde Westphalens. 
Emde?i. — Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 
Erfurt. — Akademie Gemeinniitziger Wissenschaften. 
*Erlangen. — Konigliche Universitat. 

*Fran'kfiLrt am Mahi. — Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 
*Freiberg. — Koniglich-Sachsische Bergakademie. 

* Freiburg. — University Library. 
* Giessen. — University Library. 

* GorUt:::. — Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 

* Gottingen. — Konigliche Gesellscliaft der Wissenschaften. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 43 

Gottingen. — *Konigliche Universitat. 

Gotha. — Royal Library. 

Grdtz. — University Library. 

Greifswald. — K. P. Staats u. Landwirthschattl. Akademie Eldena. 

* University Library. 
Halle. — Deutsche Morgenlandische Gesellschait. 
Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 
*Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein in Halle. 
Thiiringisch-sachsischer Verein. 
*University Library. 
Hambiirg. — Commerz Bibliothek. 
Museum. 

*Natur\vissenschaltlicher Verein. 
Observatory. 
*Stadt-Bibliothek. 
*Hannover. — Konigliche Bibliothek. 
* Heidelberg. — Grossherzoglich-Badische Universitat. 
*lnnshruch — University Library. 

*Ferdinandeum. 
*Jena. — Grossherzogl. herzogl. sachs. Gesammt-Universitat. 
*Karlsmhe. — Grossherzogliche Hof bibliothek. 
*Kiel. — Academia Christiana Albertina. 
*Kdnigsberg. — Observatory. 

University Library. 
Kretnsmwister. — Observatory. 
Leipsic. — Dr. J. G. Fliigel. 

Fiirstlich-Jablonowski'sche Gesellschait. 
*K6niglich-Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. 
*Stadt-Bibliothek. 
University Library. 
Mannheim. — Mannheimer Verein fur Naturkunde. 
*Ma'rburg. — Gesellschaft zur Beforderung der gesammten Naturwis- 
senschafien. 
*University Library. 
*Meisse?i. — Isis. 

Merseburg. — Central Direction fiir die Provinz Sachsen. 
*Munich. — Konighch Bayerische Akademie der Wissenchaften. 
*Kunighche Hof und Staats-Bibhothek. 
Observatory. 
Polytechnic School. 
I^eti Wied. — Maximilian Prinz von Wied. 
*Nilrnberg. — Naturhistorische Gesellschaft. 
Olmiitz. — University Library. 
*Pesth. — Ungarische Gelehrte Gesellschaft. 

*University Librar}^ 
*Prag. — Das Bohmische Museum. 

K. K. patriotisch oekonomische Gesellschait. 
*K. K. Universitat. 

*Koniglich-Bohmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften^ 
Regcnsburg. — K. Baierische Botanische Gesellschaft. 
*RoUock. — University Library. 



44 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

* Stettin. — Entomologischer Verein. 
*Sluttgart. — Konigliche ofFentliche Bibliothek. 

VereJn fiir Vaterlandische Naturkunde. 
Tharand. — Konigliche Akademie liir Forst u. Landwirthe. 

* Tubingen. — Konigliche Universitat. 

* Vienna. — Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften. 

*K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt. 

*K. K. Hofbibliothek. 

K. K. Hof-u. Staatsdruckerei. 

K. K. Naturalien Kabinet. 

*K. K. Orientalische Akademie. 

Observatory. 

*University Library. 

Zoologisch-botanischer Verein. 

* Wurzhurg. — Physikalisch-medicinische Gesellschaft. 

* University Library. 
Wiirttemherg. — Der Verein fur Vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wiirltem 
berof. 



SWITZERLAND. 

*Basel. — Die Gesellschaft fur Vaterlandische Alterthiimer in Basel. 
College of Basel. 
*Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 
Bern. — College of Bern. 

*Allgemeine Schweizerische Gesellschaft fiir die gesammten 

Naturwissenschaften. 
*Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 
* Geneve. — Bibliotheque de la ville de Geneve. 
Observatoire de Geneve. 

*Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de Geneve. 
Lausanne. — Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. 
*Ncuchalel. — Societe des Sciences Naturelles. 
Zurich. — College of Zurich. 

*Gesellschaft fiir vaterlandische Alterthiimer in Ziirich. 
*Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Zurich. 

BELGIUM. 

Antwerp. — Academic d'Archeologie. 
Bruges. — Societe des Sciences Naturelles. 

*Bruxelles. — Academic Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux- 
Arts. 

Bibliotheque Royale de Belgique. 

*Observatoire Royal. 

*City Library. 
*Gand. — CJniversite de Gand. 
*IAege. — Societe Royale des Sciences de Liege. 
*Louvain. — Universite Catholique. 
*Mons. — Societe des Sciences, des Arts et des Lettres, du Hainaut. 



THE SiMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 4.5 

FRANCE. 

Angers. — Society d' Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. 

AngouUme. — Societe d' Agriculture, Arts et Commerce. 

Arras. — Societe d' Arras. 

Baycux. — Societe d' Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. 

Besangoji. — Academic des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. 

*Bordemix. — Academic Nationale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. 

*Societ6 Linneenne de Bordeaux. 
Bres^t. — Academic Navale. 
*Cae7i. — Academic des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. 

Societe des Antiquaires de Normandie. 

Societe Linneenne de Normandie. 
*Charente. — Soc. d' Agriculture, Arts, et Commerce du Dep. de la Cha- 

rente. 
Chcrbo7irg. — Societe Academique de Cherbourg. 

Societe des Sciences Naturelles de Cherbourg. 
Clermont-Ferrand. — Academic des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de 

Clermont-Ferrand. 
Dijon. — Academic des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres de Dijon. 
Evreux. — Societe Libre d' Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. 
Lc Mans. — Societe d' Agriculture, Science et Arts. 
Lille. — Societe Nationale des vSciences, de 1' Agriculture et des Arts. 
*Lyon. — Societe Nationale de 1' Agriculture, d'Histoire Naturelle et des 
Arts Utiles de Lyon. 
* Academic des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Lyon. 
*Societe Linneenne de Lyon. 
Marseilles. — Academic des Sciences, Lettres et Arts. 
Mende. — Soci6t6 d' Agriculture, Commerce, Sciences et Arts. 
*Metz. — Academic Nationale de Metz. 
Societe d'Histoire Naturelle. 
* Montpellicr. — Societe Arch^ologique de Montpellier. 

Academic des Sciences et Lettres a Montpellier. 
*Nimcs. — Academic du Gard. 

* Orleans. — Societe des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts d'Orleans. 
*Pnris. — Bibliotheque de la Ville de Paris. 

*Bibliotheque du Jardin des Plantes. 

*Bibliotheque Imperiale. 

Bureau des Loogitudes. 

*Depot des Cartes et Plans. 

*Ecole Nationale des Mines. 

*Listitut de France. 

*Institut Historique de France. 

*Ministere de la Guerre. 

*Ministere de la Marine. 

*Ministere de I'lnstruction publique et des Cultes. 

Observatoire. 

*Societe des Antiquaires. 

*Socidt^ Asiatique. 

*Societ6 de Geographic. ' 

Societe de I'Ecole des Charles. 



46 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Paris. — Societe Entomologique. 

*Societe Ethnologique. 

Societe Fran§aise de Statistique Universelle. 

*Societe Geologique de France. 

Societe Imperiale d'Horticulture de Paris. 

Societe Meteorologique de France. 

Societe Nationale des Antiquaries de France. 

Societe Nationale et Centrale d' Agriculture. 

Societe Philomatique. 
Reims. — Academic de Reims. 

*Rouen. — Academic des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Rouen. 
Saint- Quentin. — Society des Sciences, Arts, Belles-Lettres, et Agricul- 
ture. 
*Strasbourg. — Societe des Sciences, Agriculture et Arts, du Bas Rhin. 

*Academie des Sciences Naturelles. 
Toulon. — Academic Navale. 
*Toulousi\ — Academic des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres de 

Toulouse. 
Tours. — Societe d' Agriculture, des Sciences, d'Arts, et des Belles- 
Lettres. 
Trevoux.—^Societti d' Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. 
Troyes. — Societe d' Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. 

ITALY. 

*Bologna. — Accademia delle Scienze dell' Istituto di Bologna. 
Brescia. — Ateneo di Brescia. 

Catania. — Accademia Gioeniadi Scienze Naturali. 
Chamberry. — Societe Royale Academique de Savoie. 
Florence. — Accademia del Cimento. 

*Biblioteca Magliabecchiana. 

Imperiale e Reale Museo di Fisica e Storia naturale di 

Firenze. 
Observatory. ^ 

Genoa. — Accademia delle Scienze, Lettere, ed Arti. 

Accademia Medico-chirurgica di Genova. 
*Lucca. — Reale Accademia Lucchese di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. 
* Milan. — Biblioteca Brera. 

*Imperiale Regio Istituto Lombardo di vScienze, Lettere ed 

Arti. 
*Museo Civico. 
Modena. — Observatory. 

*Sociela Italiana delle Scienze. 
A'apZes.-^Accademia dcgli Aspiranti Naturalisti. 
Observatory. 

*Reale Accademia delle Scienze, e Belle Lettere. 
*Palermo. — Accademia Palermitana di Scienze e Lettere. 

Observatory. 
*Padua. — Imperiale Regia Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti di 

Padova. 
Pisa. — Accademia Valdarnese del Poggio. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 47 

*Pisa. — University Librar}-. 

Ravenna. — Societa Ravennate. 

*Rome. — Accademia Romana di Archeologia. 

*Accadeinia Pontifica dei Nuovi Lincei. 

*Biblioteca Vaticana. 

British Academy of Fine Arts. 

Correspondenza Scientifica in Roma. 

Osservatorio Astronomico del Collegio Romano. 
Siena. — Accademia delle Scienze. 

* Turin. — Accademia Reale delle Scienze. 

* Venice. — Biblioteca Marciana. 

I. R. Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. 
Naval School. 

* Verona. — Accademia d'Agricoltura, Commercio ed Arti di Verona. 

PORTUGAL. 

*Lisbon. — Academia Real dos Sciencias. 

SPAIN. 

^Madrid. — Real Academia Espanola. 

*Real Academia de Ciencias de Madrid. 
*Real Academia de la Historia. 
*Biblioteca Real. 

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. 

Bath. — Bath and West of England Agricultural Society. 
Belfast. — Belfast Institution. 

*Library of Queen's College. 
*Natural History and Philosophical Society. 
Berwick-on-Tweed. — Berwickshire Naturalists' Club. 
*Cambridge. — Cambridge Philosophical Society. 
*Cambridge Observatory. 
*University Library-. 
*Cork. — Library of Queen's College. 

Royal Cork Institution. 
Dublin. — Botanical Society. 

Dublin University Philosophical Society. 
Geological Society of Dublin. 
*Librarj^ of Trinity College. 
*Royal Dublin Society. 
Royal Irish Academy. 
Edinburgh . — Botanical Society. 

*Library of Faculty of Advocates. 

Royal Institution for Encouragement of Fine Arts in Scot- 
land 
*Royal Observatory. 
Royal Physical Society of Edinburgh. 
*Royal Scottish Society of Arts. 



48 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

* Edinburgh. — Royal Society 

*Society of Antiquaries of Scotland. 

*University Library. 

*Wernerian Society of Natural History. 
*Galway. — Library of Queen's College. 
Gkissoio. — Andersonian Listitute. 
*University Library. 

* Greenwich. — Royal Observatory. 

*Lecds. — Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society. 
^Liverpool. — Free Public Library, Museum and Gallery of Art, of the 
Town of Liverpool. 
Historic Society of Lancashire and Cheshire. 
Observatory. 
Royal Institution. 
London. — Aborigines Protection Society. 

Annals and Magazine of Natural History. 

*Archseological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. 

*Athena?um Club. 

*Board of" Admiralty. 

*British Archaeological Association. 

♦British Association for the Advancement of Science. 

♦British Museum. 

♦Chemical Society of London. 

Department of Practical Art. 

Entomological Society. 

♦Ethnological Society of London. 

♦Geological Society of London. 

♦Horticultural Society of London. 

Institute of Actuaries. 

♦Institution of Civil Engineers. 

♦Library of Corporation of City of" London. 

♦Library of Committee of Privy Council for Trade. 

♦Library of Eaton College. 

♦Library of the Hon. the East India Company. 

♦Library of the House of Commons. 

♦Linnsean Society. 

♦London Institution (Finsbury). 

♦London Library. 

Meteorological Society. 

♦Microscopical Society. 

♦Museum of Practical Geology. 

♦Philological Society. 

♦Queen's Library. 

♦Royal Agricultural Society of England. 

♦Royal Asiatic Society. 

Royal Astronomical Society. 

♦Royal College of Surgeons of England. 

♦Royal Geographical Society of London. 

♦Royal Institution of Great Britain. 

Royal Society of Literature. 

♦Royal Society of London. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 49 

Lmdon. — *Society of Antiquaries of London. 

♦Society of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce. 
*Statistical Society of Londcjn. 
Syro-Egyptian Society. 
♦Zoological Society of London. 
*Manch€ster. — Manchester Free Library and Museum. 

♦Literary and Philosophical Society of Mancliester. 
Maynooth. — College Library. 
Ncwcastle-upon-Tync. — Natural History Society of Northumberland, 

Durham, and Newcastle-upon-Tyne. 
Oxford. — A shmole a n Society. 
♦Bodleian Library. 
♦RadclifFe Observatory. 
Penzance. — Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society. 

♦Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. 
Salford. — Salford Borough Royal Museum and Library. 
*St. Atidreivs. — University Library. 

* Woolwich. — Military Academy. 

* Athens. — University Library. 

TURKEV. 

Coyistantmople. — Societe Orientale de Constantinople. 
♦Library of the Sultan. 

AFRICA. 

* Grand Cairo. — The Egyptian Society. 
*Liberid. — Government Library. 

Mauritius. — Societe d'Histoire Nnlurelle de I'Isle Maurice. 

ASIA. 

* Allahabad. — Mission College. 

*Batavia. — Bataviaasche Genootschap van Konsten en Wetenschappeii. 
*Bombay. — Ro3^al Asiatic Society. 
*Geographical Society. 
*CalcuUa. — Asiatic Society. 

Agricultural and Horticultural Society of India. 
*Ceylo7i. — Asiatic Society. 

Batticotta Seminary. 
*Hon.g Kong. — Asiatic Society of China. 
*Madras. — L iterary Society. 
*Manilla. — Royal Economical Society of the Phillipine Islands. 

VAN DIEMEN's land. 

Launceton. — Launceton Library. 
Hobarton. — Royal Society of Van Diemen's Land. 
4 



50 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

AMERICA. 

*Bogoia. — Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais. 

* Brazil. — Rio Janeiro. — Imperial Brazilian Historical Society. 

Royal Geological Society. 

Sociedad auxiliadora de Industria Nacional. 

* Caracas. — Sociedad Economica de Amis'os del Pais. 
^ Chili — Santiao-o. — Biblioteca- Nacional. 

o 

Observatorj'^ of Santiago. 
*University Library. 
Demcrara. — Queen's College. 

* Guatemala.. — Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais. 
*Hahana. — Real Sociedad Economica. 

Mexico. — Mexico. — El Minerea. 

El Museo Nacional. 

Navy and War Tribunal. 

*Sociedad Mexicana de Geografia y Estadislica. 
Pueblo. — Colegio Palalbxano y de Pantaleon. 
Vera Cruz. — Public Institute. 

The receipts of works from abroad, in exchange for those sent out hj 
the Smithsonian Institution, are much greater than those of last year- 
Many of these were of very great value, comprising a large number of more 
or less complete series of transactions and periodicals. For an enum- 
eration of these, I would refer to the Report of the Assistant Secre- 
tary in charge of the Library. 

D. — Table exhibiting the number of pieces received in ex- 
change FROM ABROAD, IN 1853. 

Volumes. — Folio and quarto 511 

Octavo 929 

1,440 

Pails of volumes mid Famphlets. — Quarto 303 

Octavo 688 

991 

Maps and engravings 125 

Total 2,556 

E. — Table exhibiting the number of packages received for 
OTHER American institutions, &c., in 1853. 

Bowdoin College 6 

Bosto7i.. — American Academy 26 

Natural History Society 6 

Bowditch Library 7 

Cambridge. — Observatory 11 

Botanic Garden 7 

Harvard College 13 

Astronomical Journal 9 

Amherst. — Amherst Collet?e , 8 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 51 

Worcester. — Antiquarian Society ] 

New Haven. — Journal of Science 14 

American Oriental Society 7 

Albany. — New York State Library 6 

New YorJc. — Lyceum of Natural History 13 

Ethnological Society 3 

Geographical Society 4 

Philadelphia. — American Philosophical Society 39 

Academy of Natural Sciences 25 

Franklin Institute 2 

Geological Survey of Pennsylvania 4 

Washington. — National Observatory 28 

Coast Survey 22 

National Institute 6 

Surgeon General 1 

American Association 2 

Congress Library 8 

Astronomical Expedition to Chili 4 

United States Patent Office 3 

State Department 2 

Georgetown. — Observatory 10 

Miscelkmeous, including libraries of States, minor institutions, &c. 755 



1,052 



6. Domestic Exchanges. 

The copies of Volume V. of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 
intended for American institutions, were all sent off in May at the same 
time with those for foreign bodies. As heretofore, they were distribu- 
ted through the following agents who have made no charge for their 
service: Messrs. J. P. Jewett & Co., Boston; George P. Putnam & 
Co., New York ; Lippincott, Grambo & Co., Philadelphia ; Jolm Rus- 
sell, Charleston ; B. M. Norman, New Orleans ; Dr. Geo. Engelmann, 
St. Louis ; H. W. Derby, Cincinnati; and Jewett, Proctor & Worihing- 
ton, Cleveland. Acknowledgments for nearly all have been already 
received. 

NATURAL HISTORY. 

Increase of the Museum. 

The additions to the Museum during the year 1853 have been very 
extensive, covering the entire field of natural history and ethnology. 
Many of these consist of species altogether new to science ; while others, 
though previously described, belong to forms of great rarity. The con- 
tributions to our knowledge of the geographical distribution of species 
have been of the most important character, the locahties occurring as 
, they do over the entire area of this country. A very large proportion 



52 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

of these localities are in the region between the Mississippi and the 
Pacific, many of them never before represented in natural history cabi- 
nets. This condition of things has been, in great measure, due to the 
labors of the various government parties organized for the survey of 
the boundary line between the United States and Mexico, and of the 
several routes for a Pacific railroad. Without a single exception, all 
these parties have been fitted out at the Smithsonian Institution with 
all necessary instruments and apparatus for natural history research, 
much of it contrived with special reference to the exigencies of the par- 
ticular service involved. Full instructions were also supplied, by which 
persons without previous practice were enabled to master all the gen- 
eral principles required for making observations and collections of every 
kind. ♦ 

In addition to the above official explorations, many of a more private 
character, and of greater or less extent, have been made by different 
persons, and transmitted to the Institution. The general result is 
to be seen in the large number of jars, kegs, boxes, and shelves filled 
with specimens of all kinds. From this it will be seen that the army 
has contributed a very large proportion of the whole receipts, affording 
a gratifying proof of the interest felt in the deposit at the metropolis, of 
complete collections of the natural histor\' of North America. 

Owing to the liberality of the officers of the various expeditions, and 
of the bureaus under whose charge they were fitted out, every facility 
was aft{)rded in authorizins; the necessarv li:)rce and funds to meet 
the wants of science as connected with these ex})lorations. In this way 
the entire cost was defrayed by government, so that the Institution has 
been called upon only to make the necessary expenditures for govern- 
ment, and to give a general supervision to the whole. 

Nor have the materials collected by the government parties been 
allowed to lie idle ; on the contrary, they have been put, immediately on 
their arrival, into the hands of competent naturalists and skilful artists, 
for the elucidation and illustration necessary to fit them for appearing 
as a portion of the reports which the various parties have been called on 
to make. 

I shall now proceetl briefly to mention the general character of the 
additions to the Museum during the year, referring for particular infor- 
mation to the alphabetical list of donors subjoined. It is im])ossible at 
the present time to give an accurate enumeration of all the species 
received, especially as so many are entirely new. Every specimen, 
however, is labelled, as soon as it arrives, with the name of the donor 
and locality; and in the descrij^tive catalogues now in course of prepa- 
ration, the complete account of the whole will be presented in a sys- 
tematic fiirm. The general history of the explorations, too, will be found 
to embrace more detail than can here be given. 

Mammals. — During the past year many species of North American 
mammals have been received, embracing quite a notable proportion 
of" the smaller forms fi'om North America, especially the squirrels, sper- 
mophiles, and weasels. The Louisiana sj^ecies have been received 
from Mr. Fairie ; those of Wisconsin, from Dr. Hoy ; of the Rocky 
mountain range, from the expedition of Governor Stevens; of the lower 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 53 

Rio Grande, from Major Emory. Dr. O. W. Gibbs presented a musk 
deer, from Java, and Mr. Steenberg has contributed many of the spe- 
cies from Greenland, and Scandinavia. The collections of Capt. Van 
Vliet and Lieut. Couch include many species from Mexico and Texas. 
Some valuable specimens from Minnesota were received from Mr. 
Cavileer and Dr. Head. 

Birds. — The additions to this department have been very great, 
amounting to over 400 species, and more than 1,000 specimens. Of these 
250 species are from the Rio Grande country, North Mexico, the 
Rocky mountains, and west of the Rocky mountains. Here, as well 
as among mammals, there have occurred some new species. Of re- 
markable perfection of preparation was a collection of 50 species of 
Cahfornia birds, presented by Dr. Hermann; and the North Mexican 
series of Lieut. Couch have been of extraordinary magnitude and im- 
portance. Capt. Van Vliet, Mr. J. H. Clark and Mr. Arthur Schott 
under Major Emor}' , and Dr. Crawford, have gathered many valuable 
specimens in Texas. Species from Michigan have been received 
from the Rev. Chas. Fox ; of Wisconsin, tiom Dr. Hoy and Mr. Barry ; 
of Ohio, from Dr. Kirtland and Chas. Pease; of Louisiana, from Mr. 
Jas. Fairie. 

Reptiles cmd Fishes. — As heretofore, owing to the particular attention 
invited to this department, the additions to the alcoholic collections 
have been most marked, especially of reptiles and fishes. Every por- 
tion of the country has been laid under contribution, and the additions 
to our knowledge of the distribution of species, as well as of their 
zoological character, have been of the greatest value. There is scarcely 
a State or Territory in the Union which has not sent a representation. 
The most marked results have been the addition to the Fauna of the 
United States of the dipsadians among serpents, and the characini, 
ants, the hesh water labroids, among fishes. Nearly two thousand glass 
jars have been filled with the specimens received, after being assorted ; 
of which 200 were of serpents alone. The principal contributors have 
been Major Emory, Governor Stevens, Lieut. Whipple, Dr. Hammond, 
Dr. Jeffrey, Prof Winchell, Drs. G. C. and B. F. Shumard, Dr. Hoy, 
Rev. A. C. Barry, Dr. Barratt, Mrs. Daniel, Major Rich, Capt. Van 
Vliet, James Fairie, S. F. Baird, Maj. Hagner, Maj. Sibley, Rev. 
Chas. Fox, Dr. Head, J. D. Sergeant, Mr. Kennicott, Mr. Dean, Capt. 
Atwood, Leo Lesquereaux, J. H. Richard, Prof Agassiz, Capt. Furra- 
gut, D. B. Boden, &c. 

Invertebrata. — Manv valuable collections of invertebrata have been 
added during the year, the most important being a series from Grand 
Manan, from Mr. Wm. Stimpson, and illustrating his paper published 
in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Others from the coast 
Massachusetts were sent by Capt. Atwood, and from Florida and the 
Gulf of Mexico by Dr. Hammond, Dr. Jeffrey, and Major Emory. 
Some interesting contributions have consisted of specimens of Gordius 
from the bodies of crickets and grasshoppers, contributed by ]Mr. San- 
ford and Mr. Eveleth. 

Plants. — An extensive collection of plants of Alabama, was received 
from Prof A. Winchell, to whom the Institution is indebted for valu- 
able specimens in all departments of natural history. Dr. Ravenel has 



54 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

presented a suite of the Carolina fungi. Lieut. Whipple and Governor 
Stevens have sent in important collections from their fields of labor. 

Minerals and Fossils. — In connexion with the survey of Gov. Stevens, 
Dr. Evans revisited the Mauvaises Torres last summer, and collected 
a large number of specimens of the fi)ssil vertebrata of that region. 
These have been put into the hands of Dr. Leidy, who has detected 
the presence of some additional new species. Professor Winchell has 
sent quite a full series of the cretaceous and tertiary fossils of Alabama, 
and Major Emory the same from Texas. Many minerals have been 
received from Dr. Pendleton, of Georgia, and some Austiian stalactites 
Irom Mr. Dodije. 

Elhnologij. — Skulls of many tribes of Indians, as Lipans, Comanches, 
Apaches, Flat Heads, have been received from various sources ; as 
also remains of works of art. An interesting contribution to this de- 
partment is ti)und in a specimen of the sculpture of the human 
foot in limestones by the early inhabitants of the country, and erroneous- 
ly supposed to be an impression made while the stone was in a plastic 
state. 

PRESENT CONDITION OF THE MUSEUM. 

The collections belonging to or deposited with the Smithsonian In- 
stitution are at present scattered over the building in its various rooms. 
Much inconvenience is felt from the impracticability of arranging the 
specimens properly ibr examination and study. Everything is kept 
packed away in the smallest compass, and of course not easily referred 
to when needed for investigation. The alcoholic collections, however, 
have generally been accessible when required for use. When the new 
museum room is finished, which will be in the course of a few months, 
ample space will be afforded for the accommodation of all the speci- 
mens, although a considerable time must necessarily elapse before the 
cases can be put up, and the collections properly arranged. 

At the present time the Institution may be said to possess one of the 
best general collections of specimens of North American natural his- 
tory in the country, although in particular branches it may be greatly 
exceeded by several, both public and private. It is pre-eminently 
rich in the mammals, with their skulls and skeletons ; and still more in 
the reptiles. As an illustration of this, it may be stated that the spe- 
cies of North American serpents alone amount to 130, of which 70 
were never described before being received by the Institution. The 
enumeration by Dr. Holbrook of North American serpents, in 1842, 
consisted of 49. The other departments of reptiles have experienced 
nearly prcjportional increase. The collection of birds is second only 
to that of the Philadelphia Acadenw of Natural Sciences; of fishes only 
equalled by tlic private cabinet of Professor Agassiz ; while in the 
various departments of invertebrata and of plants it holds much more 
than average rank. In fossil remains the collection is very rich, espe- 
cially of the comparatively recent vertebrata of the various caverns 
throughout the country. 

And, in connexion with this extent and importance of the Smithso- 
nian museum, it may be well to call attention to the fact that it has 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 55 

been the work of but three years to raise this collection from nothing 
to the front rank among American cabinets, exceeding all perhaps in 
the number of new species first brought to light within its limits. Nor 
has effort been confined merely to the acquisition of specimens, but to 
their concentration in mass so as to supply all working naturalists with 
the materials of research. As already stated, applications for such 
assistance are constantly being received, and always met with all pos- 
sible promptness ; so that scarcely any natural history monograph or 
memoir of any extent has been published in this country within a year 
or two which has not been indebted in this way to the Institution. From 
the care, too, taken to keep separate all the localities, however near 
together, of any species, the collection affords information in reference 
to the geographical distribution of species of the very highest value. 

WORK DONE IN NATURAL HISTORY. 

The labor of unpacking and assorting collections as received, and 
labelling and recording the different specimens, has of course been 
very great, requiring much more time than the limited portion left 
after discharging the other duties assigned to me. In this, however, I 
have been assisted very greatly by Mr. Charles Girard, who has given 
much time and attention to this department, without any compensation 
for his services. By his help, I have been enabled to keep up with 
the details of labor necessary to give these collections tlieir proper 
scientific value. 

Much has been done during the year towards distributing duplicate 
specimens of the Smithsonian collection among the other cabinets of the 
country. In no way can the Institution be of more use in elevating the 
standard of natural science than in distributing carefully labelled suites 
of specimens to points where, from lack of libraries or other causes, 
the means of accurate identification are wanting. For remote regions of 
country, this mode of assistance is of especial benefit, and arrangements 
have already been entered into, in several cases, to receive miscellaneous 
collections and to return them properly labelled, with the addition of 
such other species as can convenicntl}' be spared. Parties already 
in such connexion with the Smithsonian Institution, or about entering 
upon it, are found in New York, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa, Illi- 
nois, Missouri, New Orleans, and North and South Carolina. 

A collection of duplicates of North American serpents and Astaci 
has been presented to the Philadelphia Acadern}' of Natural Sciences, 
including types of many new species published by the Institution. To 
the New York State Cabinet of Natural History was also sent a large 
collection of reptiles and fishes of New York, embracing many species 
not previously received there. 

The cataloguing of the collections of the Institution progresses as 
rapidly as my other duties will allow. One way in which a museum 
may be very useful to those unable to visit it personally, is by publish- 
ing catalogues of the specimens contained therein. If these exhibit 
original descriptions of the species, and especially if the list be made 
complete by enumerating also the species not contained in the collection, 
they become of great value to investigators, and may readily serve as 



56 EIGfHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

manuals of science, attaining the rank of monographs. This has been done 
in the Catalogue ofNorth American Serpents in the Museum of the Smith- 
nian Institution, published m January, 1853, which, in a compact vol- 
ume of one hundred and eighty-eight pages, contains full and original 
descriptions of one hundred and nineteen species — all belonging to the 
Institution, with the exception of five ; and some of these, with many addi- 
tional ones, have been received since that time. Similar catalogues of 
the other reptiles are in an advanced stage of progression, and will be 
ready for publication early in 1854. 

In addition to the preparation of these catalogues, much has been 
done in the classification and description of the collections sent in by 
the various exploring expeditions. Considerable progi'ess has been 
made towards the preparation of the several reports of the natural his- 
tory of the United States and Mexican Boundar}' Survey, the survey of 
the North Pacific railroad route by Gov. Stevens, that of the Central 
route by Lieut. Whipple, that of the United States Astronomical Expe- 
dition to Chili by Lieut. Gilhs, and several others. The preparation of 
many hundred sheets of drawings of new species for these reports has 
been carefully superintended. The reports prepared upon the natural 
history of the explorations b}' Capt. Sitgreaves and Capt. Marcy, have 
already been published by Congress. Some of these I now lay before 
you. 

A large amount of valuable inforrpation relating to the descriptions, 
and the habits and manners of species, has been received during the 
year — much of it bearing directly upon important questions in science 
and rural economy. A very extensive correspondence has been re- 
quired ibr the purpose of stimulating investigations and calling attention 
to the solution of particular problems. It is much to be regretted that 
the Institution has no medium of its own through which tlie information 
thus received can be promptly presented to the world. A monthly 
bulletin, of considerable size, could readily be filled wath communica- 
tions of this kind, as well as with brief notices and descriptions of col- 
lections received. 

Registers of Periodical Phenomena. 

The blank registers of periodical phenomena issued in the winter of 
1852-3, liave been returned filled, and in connexion with those for the 
previous 3^ear, still in manuscript, form a body of information of the 
highest value. These will be carefully reduced, and published at an 
early period. A new edition having become necessary, a revision of 
the old lists of plants was carefully made by Drs. Torrey and Gray, 
and the revised form will be distributed in a tew^ weeks. Instructions 
for making collections of microscopical organisms and infusoria have 
been added. 

Assistance iti (he Museum. 

As the time has alread}' arrived when more attention and labor 
should be given to the collections of the Museum to make them fulfil 
all the purposes of instruction of which they are capable, it is very 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 57 

desirable that the Museum force should be increased. I have already 
adverted to the labor necessarily expended during the past year in merely 
unpacking and arranging the collections of new matter received. While 
the old specimens need a certain amount of care, new ones are being con- 
stantly added. I would, therefore, recommend that Mr. Girard be reg- 
ularly emploj^ed by the Institution, at such salary as you may think 
suitable ; and one other person in addition, to attend to the purely me- 
chanical work required in the way of unpacking, washing bottles, 
tying on labels, cleaning specimens, &c. Such service as this could be 
obtained for about twent3^-five dollars per month, and the help of both 
persons would be also available in other departments where it is im- 
peratively required. This is especially the case in respect to the pub- 
lications, exchanges, and transportation, where, as in the Museum ope- 
rations, I have no regular assistance whatever. 

Alphabetical list of donors to the Museum of the Smithsonian Inslitidion. 

Academy of Natural Sciences. — Skins of North American birds. 

Prof C. B. Adams. — Shells, &c., from Bermuda and St. Thomas. 

Prof L. Agassiz.- — Etheostoma from Alabama and Missouri. 

Capt. Atwood. — Fishes, Crustacea, and radiata, from Provincetown, 
Mass. 

Prof A. D. Bache. — Surterbrand from Iceland. 

Prof S. F. Baird. — Twelve kegs, &c. of fishes, from Wisconsin, 
Michigan, Ohio, New York, and Canada. 

Dr. J. B. Bay-ratt. — Reptiles and fishes from South Carolina. 

Dr. J. M. Bigelow. — Seeds from Texas and New Mexico. 

Cajit. Daniel Boden. — Specimens of lake trout and perch, from Otsego 
lake. New York. 

J. S. Boioman. — Reptiles and fishes from the vicinity ot Fort Kear- 
ney. • 

Major J. H. Carleton, U. S. A. — Specimen of thehjphonus from 
Santa Fe. 

Charles Cavileer. — Mammals, &c., from Minnesota. 

Robert Clarhe. — Skulls of mammals and reptiles, in alcohol, from 
..Essex county, N. J. 

Prof George H. Cook. — Living specimens of Emi/s muhletibergii, from 
New York. 

Dr. G. E. Cooper, U. S. A. — Skulls of Comanche and Lipan In- 
dians. 

Dr. .J. G. Cooper. — Reptiles from California ; skin of Gij7nnotus elcc- 
tricus. 

Lt. D. N. Couch, U. S. A. — Very extensive collections of the verte- 
brata, with numerous insects and specimens of antiquities from North- 
ern Mexico. 

G. S. Cutting. — Storeria dekayii and Chlorosoma vernalis, from Mid- 
dleboro', Mass. 

Mrs. M. E. Daniel. — Reptiles from Anderson, S. C. 

E. A. Dayton. — Skulls of beaver and fishes; {Mustcla canadensis;) 
reptiles and fishes from the St. Lawrence river. 

Gf. W. Dean. — Reptiles from Galveston, Texas. 



58 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Delaioarc County Institute, Pa. — Keg of fishes and reptiles ; three 
hundred and eleven species of plants from Delaware county, Pa. 

J. M. Dodge. — Stalactites firom the cave of Adelsburg, Austria. 

Rev. D. W. Eakins. — Limestone slab, with sculpture of human feet, 
from Verdigris river, Creek Nation. 

Dr. George Engelmann. — Reptiles and fishes from St. Louis. 

Samuel A. Evcleth. — Gordius taken from a cricket. 

Jas. Fairic. — Shells of Chelonura temminckii, from Louisiana ; Indian 
implements, reptiles, &c. 

Capt. D. Farragut, U. S. N. — Fishes from Chesapeake bay. 

Dr. E. Foreman. — U?iio ko2)etotiensis from Altamaha river. 

Rev. Charles Fox. — Living specimens of Eutcenia ; fishes, reptiles, 
and mammals, from Michigan. 

Dr. Julius Frocbel. — Fossils from New Mexico. 

Dr. Wolcott Gihhs. — Musk deer of Java, in the flesh. 

B. R. Gifford. — Clays and concretions from Gay Head Bluffs, Mar- 
tha's Vineyard. 

Major Hagjier, U. S. A. — Siredon lichenoides, from Fort Defiance, 
Navajo country. 

C. F. Hammond. — Phosphate of lime, from Crown Point, N. Y. 

Dr. J. F. Hammo7id. — Skin of Crotalus adamanteu^, with fishes and 
reptiles, in alcohol, from Pensacola. 

Dr. W. Hammond. — Skeletons and skulls from Fort Kearney. 

Dr. J. F. Head. — Reptiles, fishes, and skulls of vertebrata, from 
Fort Ripley. 

Dr. A. L. Hermann. — Skins of fifty species of birds, from California. 

Dr. P. R. Hoy. — Fishes, reptiles, birds, and mammals, from Wis- 
consin. 

Dr. R. IV. Jeffrey. — Fishes and reptiles from Pensacola. 

S. K. Jennings, jr. — Shed skin oi' Mastico2)his jlavigularis, Texas. 

Robert W. Kcnnicott. — Fishes and reptiles from Cook county, Illi- 
nois. 

J. A. Lapham. — Shells from Wisconsin. 

Leo Lrsquereux. — Reptiles and fishes from Ohio. 

Rev. Charles Mann. — Salamanders from Gloucester, Virginia. 

Dr. Morrow. — Gold ore from Dorn's Mine, Abbeville, South Caro- 
lina. 

Richard Nettle. — Fishes from the lower St. Lawrence. 

Dr. E. C. Pendleton. — Minerals and shells from Georgia. 

H. W. Ravenel. — Specimens of Carolina fungi. 

W. H. Ravenel. — Scelo])orus undulatus. South Carolina. 

Major Wm. Rich. — Reptiles, fishes, &c., from the city of Mexico. 

J. H. R'tchaid. — Fishes from Pennsylvania. 

E. S. Robinson. — Skin ,of Crotalus adamantcus. 

Mr. Sabine. — Reptiles from California; slvin of Gymnotus electricus. ■ 

S. N. Sanford. — Gordius taken from the body of a cricket. 

Sir Robert SchomburgJc. — Tertiary shells and ancient pottery from 
St. Domingo. 

J. D. Sergeant. — Reptiles from Rock Island, Illinois. 

Major E. S. Sibley, U. S. A. — Reptiles and insects from Fort Union, 
New Mexico. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 59 

Capt. Shiras., U. S. A. — Specimen of 7nygale, Texas. 

Dr. B. F. Shumard. — Specimens of amblyopsis, astacus, and insects 
and reptiles, from the Mammoth Cave, Kentucky, and vicinity; fishes 
from Louisville, Kentucky ; reptiles from Mississippi. 

J)?: G. C. Shumard. — Reptiles and fishes from the Arkansas river. 

Geo. Smith. — Living specimens of J5^?w?/s mvhlenbergii, from Delaware 
county, Pennsylvania. 

Commodore Joseph Smith.— Specimens of woods used in ship-building ; 
illustrations of growth and ravages of teredo. Prepared by Mr. Jarvis, 
inspector of Portsmouth yard. 

J. M. Stanley. — Dress and war-club of Blackfoot chief. 

Judge Augustus Steele. — Fishes, Crustacea, and shells, from Atseena, 
Florida. 

Schach Steenbcrg. — Skins and skeletons of mammals, fish and inver- 
tebrates, in alcohol ; Greenland. 

Wm. Stimpson. — Miscellaneous invertebrata from New England. 

Capt. S. Van Vliet, U. S. A. — -Skeleton of peccary ; skins of birds-; 
alcoholic specimens of reptiles, fishes, and Crustacea, from the lower 
Rio Grande. 

Col. B. L. C. Wailes.—~L[Y'mg tortoises, fossils, fishes, and reptiles, 
in alcohol, &c., from Mississippi. 

Rev. Dr. Wheeler.- — Lignite from Brandon, Vermont ; Osceola elu' 
psoidea from Florida. 

Prof. Alexander Winchell. — Fossils, plants, reptiles, birds, &c., from 
Eutaw, Alabama ; plants, fossils, and fishes, from Selma, Alabama. 

Dr. S. Wylie Crawford, U. S, ^.— Skin of Cyrtonyx massena from 
Texas. 



60 



EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



List of Meteorological observers rcporthig to the Smithso7iia>i Listkution at 
the beginning of 1854, compiled by Lorin Blodget. 



State. 


Name. 


Residence. 










Dr. Chas. Smallwood 

Rev. Samuel H. Merrill... 
J D. Parker 




Maine 


Oldtown, Penobscot count)'. 
Steuben, Washington county. 
Biddeford, York county. 
Carmel, Penobscot county. 
Windliam, Cumberland county. 
South Thomaston, Lincoln co. 






James G. Garland 

John J. Bell 




Saml. A Eveleth 




Joshua Bartlett 




Geo. W^. Burrows 


Fryeburg, Oxford county. 
Perry, Washington county. 

Salmon Falls, Stafford county. 
Londonderry, Rockingjiam county. 
Concord, Merrimack county. 




Wm. D. Dana 








Robt. C. Mack 




Dr. Wm. Prescott 

Hon. S. N. Bell 


Vennont 


Rev. L. W. Leonard 

Albert A. Young ) 

Prof. Ira Young i 

John K.Colby ) 

J. P. Fairbanks <, 

Chas. A. J. Marsh 

D. Buckland 


Exeter, Rockingham county. 
Hanover, Grafton county. 

St. Johnsbury, Caledonia county. 

Craftsbury, Orleans county. 
Brandon, Rutland county. 
Castleton, Rutland county. 
Burlington, Crittenden county. 

Richmond, Berkshire county. 
Amherst, Hampshire county. 
Worcester, Worcester county. 
Newburyport, Essex county. 
Princeton, Worcester county. 
Mendon, Worcester county. 
Springfield, Hampden county. 
New Bedford, Bristol county. 
Soutliwick, Hampden county. 
Barnstable, Barnstable county. 






Massachusetts 


Prof. Zadok Thompson . . . . 
William Bacon 




Prof. E. G. Snell 




Dr. Ed. A. Smitli 




Dr. H C Perkins * . . . 




Hon. John Brooks 

Dr. Jno. Geo. Metcalf 

Lucius C. Allen 




Samuel Rodman 




Amasa Holcomb 




B. R. Gilford 








Rhode Island , 


Hon. Wm. Mitchell 

Henry C. Sheldon 


Nantucket. 

North Scituate, Providence 




Prof. A. Caswell 


Providence. 


Connecticut 


Rev. Tryon Edwards, D. D. 
Daniel Hunt 


New London, New London co'ty. 






.Tames Rankin 


Saybrook, Middlesex county. 
Salisbury, Litchfield county. 

Troy, Rensselaer county. 
Beverly, Putnam county. 
Seneca Falls, Seneca county. 
Institution for deaf and dumb, N. Y. 
Chatham, Columbia county. 
Madrid, St. Lawrence county. 
Canton, St. Lawrence county. 
Gouverneur, St. Lawrence county. 
Oswego, Oswego county. 
Sag Harbor, Suffolk county. 
Beaver Brook, Sullivan coimty. 
Houseville, Lewis county. 


New York* 


Dr. Ovid Plumb 

Prof Edward A. H. Allen. . 
Thomas B. Arden 




• 


Charles A. Avery 




Prof O. W.Morris 

C. Thurston Chase 

E. A. Dayton 




E. W^. Johnson 




Dr. P. O. Williams 

J. H. Hart 




E. N. Byram 




C. S. Woodward 




Walker D. Yale 



* New York Academy system in separate list. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

LIST— Continued. 



61 



Stale, 


Name. 


Residence. 


New York 




Baldwinsville, Onondaga county. 

Lodi, Seneca county. 

Buft'alo, Erie county. 

Falconer, Cliautau(iue count}-. 

Wampsville, Oneida county. 

Albion, Orleans county. 

North Salem, Westchester county. 








Elias O. Salisbury 

Laurens A. Langdon 

Dr. Stillman Spooner 

L. F. Munffcr 










Pennsylvania 


Prof. Adolph Frost 

W. A. Whitehead 

Dr. A. C. Blodget 

W. O. Blodget 


Burlington, Burlington county. 
Newark, Essex county. 

Youngsville, Warren county. 
Sugar Grove, Warren county. 
Bedford, Bedford county. 
Byberry, Philadelphia county. 
Lima, Delaware county. 
Ceres, McKean county. 
Moss Grove, Crawford county. 
Pittsburgh, Alleghany county. 
Gettysburgh, Adams county. 
Pocopson, Chester county. 
Morrisville, Bucks county. 
Harrisburg, Dauphin county. 
Waynesboro', Franklin county. 
Hollida^'sburg, Blair county. 
Norristown, Alontgomery county. 
Philadelphia, Pliiladelphia county. 
Haverford, Philadelphia county. 


















Dr. R. P. Stevens 








W. W. Wilson 




Prof. M. Jacobs 




Fenelon Darlington 




Dr. J. Heisely 




Rev. D. J. Eyler 








Rev. J. Grier Ralston 

Prof. I. A. Kirkpatrick. . . . 
Dr. Paul Swift 


Maryland 


Prof. Wm. Barr ) 

MissH. M. Barr \ 

Prof. L. H. Steiner 

Henry E. Hanshaw 

.John W. Marvin 


Virginia 


Sykesville, Carroll county. 

Baltimore, Baltimore county. 
Frederick, Frederick county. 

Winchester, Frederick county. 
Buffalo, Putnam county. 
Lewisburg, Greenbrier county. 
Alexandria, Alexandria county. 
Portsmouth, Norfolk county. 
Richmond, Henrico county. 
Crichton 's store, Brunswick CO 'ty. 
Huntersville, Pocahontas county. 

Jackson, Nortliampton county- 
Chapel Hill, Orange county. 

Camden, Kershaw county. 

Savannah, Chatham county. 
Whitinarsh Island, Chatham co'ty. 
Culloden, Monroe county. 
Sparta, Hancock county. 

Jacksonville, Duvall count}\ 
Cedar Keys, Levy county. 
Knox Hill, Walton county. 

Pensacola, Escambia county. 

Monroeville, Monroe county. 
Havana, Greene county. 
Tuscaloosa, Tuscaloosa county. 
Wetokaville, Talladega county. 

Garlandsville, Jasper county. 




Prof. Geo. R. Rosseter. . . . 

Dr. Thomas Patton 

Benjamin Hallowell 

Prof. N. B.Webster 




Lieut. R. F. Astrop 

Wm. S. Kern 


North Carolina 


Rev. Frederick Fitzgerald. . 
Prof. James Phillips 

Thornton Carpenter 

Dr. John F. Posey 

R P Gibson 


South Carolina 


Georgia 








Florida 


Dr. E. M. Pendleton 

Dr. A. S. Baldwin 

Judge Aug. Steele 






John Pearson, master navy 


Alabama 






Prof. H. Tutwiler 

Prof. M. Tuomey 


Mississippi 


Benjamin F. Holley 

Rev. E. Robinson 



62 



EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

LIST— Continued. 




Louisiana . 
Texas. . . . 

Tennessee 



Kentucky. 



Ohio. 



Michiofan , 



Indiana. 



Fllinois. 



Missouri . 
[owa . . . , 



Wisconsin , 



Dr. E. H. Barton. 



Dr. S. K. Jennings .. , . 
Prof. J. C. Ervendberg . 

Commandant navy yard 
Prof. A. P. Stewart.... 
W. M. Stewart 



Prof. Georffo Cooke. 



Dr. John Swain . . 
Rev. J. Miller..., 

O. Beatty. .. 

Lawrence Young , 



A. H. Bixby .. 
E. L. Bethune. 



Prof. R. S. Bosworth . , . , 

L. Gronewez 

Rev. J. McD. Matthews.. 

Geo. L. Crookham 

J. G. F. Holston 

Prof. S. N. Sanford 

Prof. J. W. Andrews ... 

F. A. Benton 

E. Spooner 

Prof. J. H. Fairchild... 



Dr. Tiiomas Whelpey Brest, Monroe county 



New Orleans, Orleans county. 

Austin, Travis county. 
New Weld, Comal county. 

Memphis, Shelby county. 
Lebanon, Wilson county. 
Glenwood, ncarClarksville, Mont- 
gomery county. 
Knoxville, Knox county. 

Ballardsville, Oldham county. 
Millersburg, Bourbon county. 
Danville, Boyle county. 
Springville, near Louisville, Jef- 
ferson county. 
Pleasant Valley, Nicholas county. 
Maysville, Mason county. 

College Hill, Hamilton county. 
Germantown, Montgomery co'ty . 
Hillsborough, Highland county. 
Jackson C. H., Jackson county. 
Zanesville, Muskingum county. 
Granville, Licking county. 
Marietta, Washington county. 
Mt. Vernon, Knox county. 
Keen, Coshocton county. 
Oberlin, Loraine county. 



L. Woodruff. 
Dr. M. K. Taylor.... 
Dr. W. M. Campbell. 
Jas. J. Strong 



Rev. Geo. Duffield,D. D, 



Prof. Jos. Tingley . . 

W. W. Austin 

Dr. V. Kersey 

Jno. Chappellsmith . 



Dr. L. B. Mead . . 

Joel Hall 

Dr. John James . . 
Dr. J. O. Harris.. 
Prof Wm. Coffin. 



Dr. Geo. Engelman. 
O. H. P. Lear , 



Dr. J. E. Ball 

Dr. Benj. F. Odell. 
Dr. E. C. Bidwell.. 

D. E. Read , 

P. G. Parvin 

Dr. Asa Horr 



Dr. J. L. Pickard 

Prof. S. P. Lathrop... 

J. F. Willard 

Thos. Gay, esq 

Prof. S. H. Carpenter. 
Edward S. Spencer .. . 



Ann Arbor, Washtenaw county, 
Brooklyn, Jackson county. 
Battle Creek, Calhoun county. 
St. James, Beaver Island. 
Detroit, Wayne county. 

Greencastle, Putnam county. 
Richmond, Wayne county. 
Milton, Wayne county. 
New Harmony, Posey county. 

Augusta, Hancock county. 
Athens, Menard county. 
Upper Alton, Madison county. 
Ottawa, La Salle county. 
Batavia, Kane county. 

St. Louis, St. Louis county. 
Hannibal, Marion county. 

Keokuk. Lee county. 
Poulteney, Delaware county. 
Quasqueton, Buchanan county. 
St. Mary's, Mills county. 
Muscatine, Muscatine county. 
Dubuque, Dubuque county. 

Plattsville, Grant county. 
Beloit, Rock county. 
Janesville, Rock county. 
Bellefontaine, Marquette county. 
Madison, Dane county. 
Summitt, Waukesha county. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

LIST— Continued. 



63 



State. 


Name. 


Residence. 


^ 


Rev. Elisha W. Carver 

Rev. S. R. Riiro-s 


Red Lake, Pembina county. 
Lac qui Parle, Dahkota county. 
St. Josephs, Pembina county. 






Rev. D. B. Spencer 



New York University system. 



Name. 



Prof. C. Dewey, D. D Rochester, Monroe county. 

Chas. A. Avery Seneca Falls, Seneca county. 

Dr. M. M. Bagg Utica, Oneida county. 

E. A. Dickinson Jamestown, Chautauque county. 

W. H. Gillespie Mexico, Oswego county. 

Charles J. Hazeltine i Cherry Valley, Otsego county. 



Station. 



Ira F. Hart 

T. H. Bates 

Prof. O. Root 

W. E. Guest 

John F. Jenkins 

John Kruger 

Prof. O. W. Morris 

E. VV. Johnson 

W. C. Kenyon 

D. T. Mayhew 

W. Root Adams 

VV. McLaren 

Warren P. Adams 

Samuel A. Law 

Rev. W. D. Wilson 

H. H. Poucher 

Judge E. C. Reed 

John S. D. Taylor 

John D. Watkins 

Frederick L. Hanford 

J. H. Wines 

Rev. Thomas M. Strong, D. D 

J. O. Stratton 

Charles H. Payson 

A. Porteus 

F. B. Downes 

H. H. Hall 

C. W. Heywood 

Lyman W. Conkey 

D. H.Cochran 

Prof. George H. Cook 

John N. Brinkerhoff 



Elmira, Chemung county. 
Booneville, Oneida count}'. 
Hamilton College, Oneida county. 
Ogdensburg, St. Lawrence county. 
North Salem, Westchester county. 

do do. 

Institution for deaf and dumb, N. York cstjr. 
Canton, St. Lawrence county. 
Alfred, Alleghany count}'. 
Lowville, Lewis county. 

do do. 

Glen's Falls, Warren county. 

do do. 

Meredith, Delaware county. 
Geneva, Ontario county. 
Hudson, Columbia county. 
Homer, Cortland county. 
Plattsburg, Clinton county. 
Liberty, Sullivan county. 

do do. 

East Hampton, Suffolk county. 
Flatbush, Kings county. 
O.xford, Chenango county. 
Pompey, Onondaga county, 
Adirondack, Essex county. 
Ithaca, Tompkins county. 
Newburgh, Orange county, 
Rochester, Monroe county. 
Syracuse, Onondago county, 
Fredonia, Chautauque county, 
Albany, Albany county. 
Union Hall, Jamaica, Queens county.- 



64 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Observations transmitted in series or summaries. 



State. 



Name. 



Canada. Magnetic and meterological 

observatory 

Indiana Dr. Thomas Edmondson . . . 

South Carolina Rev. A. Glennie 

Floridc". ' \Vm. C Dennis 

Missouri '' Dr. George Engehnan . . , . 

Iowa , E. H. A. Scheeper 

CaHfornia Dr. .1. H. Gibbons 

JBerniiida ! Surgeon Wellis 



Montreal J. II. Huguet Latour. 

: Dr. Archibald Hall... 

Central America M. B. Halsted 

Soutii Anserica . . Edward A. Hopkins.. 



Residence. 



Toronto, Canada. 
Baltimore. 
Waccaman. 
Key West. 
St. Louis. 

Pella, Marion county. 
San Francisco. 
Centre Signal Station, 
Island. 



Panama. 

Ascension, Paraguay. 



Inland 



Observers commencing since January, 1854, up to June 1, 1854. 



State. 


Name. 


Residence. 




Dr. .Tames W. Robbins. 

B. K. Gifford ; 

Albert Schlegel 

Prwf. PA. Chadbourne... . 

Samuel Powel 

Geo. Manchester 

T. S. Gold 

Prof. John Johnston 

Dr. E. M. Alba 


Uxbridge, Worcester county. 
Wood's Hole, Barnstable county. 

Taunton, Bristol county 

William's College, Williamstown. 

Newport, Newport county. 
Portsmouth, Newport couuty. 

W^est Cornwall, Litchfield county. 
Middletown, Middlesex county. 

Angelica, Alleghany county. 
Wliite Plains, West Chester. 


Rhode Island.. 


-New York 




New Jersey ,.,...... 


Warren P. Adams 

Rev. W. D. Wilson 

Dr. Sanford B. Hunt 

Prof. G«orge H . Cook 


Glen's flails, Warren., 
Geneva, Ontario county. 
Buffalo, Erie county. 

New Brunswick, Middlesex co'ty. 

Warrior's Mark, Huntingdon co. 
Andersville, Perry county. 


Pennsylvania ............ 






Prof. Thickstun 


Maryland. 

Virginia 


Rev. John P. Carter 


Hagerstown, Washington county. 

Bridgewater, Rockingham, county. 
Lynchburg, Campbell county. 

Lincolnton, Lincoln county. 

Charleston, Charleston county. 
Aiken, Barnwell county. 

Augusta, Richmond county. 
Madison, Morgan county. 

Lake Washington, Washington <o 
Grenada, Yalabusha county. 
Oxford, La Fayette county. 
Jackson, Jackson county. 




A. Nettleton 


North Carolina 


J. Bryant Smith, M. D 

Thornton Carpenter 

H. W. Ravenel 


South Carolina 




Georgia 


William Schley 


Prof. Wm. D. Williams... 

Rev. J. Averv Shepherd, . . 

Wm. Henry "Waddell 

Prof. L. Harper 






A. R. Green , 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

LIST— Continued. 



65 



State. 



Louisiana 

Kentucky 

Ohio 

Michigan 

Indiana 

Iowa 

Wisconsin 

Minnesota 

Oregon 

California 

5 



Name. 



Prof. W. P. Riddell 

A. H. Bixby 

J. D. Shane 

John Ingram 

D. G. W. Livesay 

Dr. J. P. Kirtland 

Edmund W. West 

Dr. S. F. Mitchell 

Alfred E. Carrier 

Prof. Alexander Winchell 

J. Knauer 

W. B. Coventing 

Daniel H. Roberts 

E. H. A. Scheeper 

G. Z. Livingston 

J. A. Lapham 

Prof. Wm. Porter 

Rev. Solon W. Mauncey. 
Dr. C. L. Anderson 

John D. Post 

Dr. J. H. Gibbons 



Residence. 



New Orleans, Orleans county. 

Lafayette, Christian county. 
Lexington, Fayette county. 

Savannah, Ashland county. 
Gallipolis, Gallia county.' 
East Rockport, Cuyahoga county. 
Huron, Erie county. 

East Saginaw, Saginaw county. 
Grand Rapids, Kent county. 
Ann Arbor, Washtenaw county. 

Kendallville, Noble county. 

do do. 

New Garden, Wayne county. 

Pella, Marion county. 

Hudson, St. Croix county. 
Milwaukie, Milwaukie county. 
Beloit, Rock county. 

Fort Ripley. 

St. Anthony's Falls, Ramsey co'y. 

Oregon City. 

San Francisco. 



66 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



The Executive Committee submit to the Board of Regents tlie follow- 
ing report, relative to the present state of the finances, and the expendi- 
tures during the year 1853. 

They are happy to inform the Board that, after a strict examination 
of the accounts, they are enabled to present a very satisfactory state- 
ment of the present condition of the finances, and the result of the 
investigations as to the expenditures during the year. 

The whole amount of the Smithsonian bequest, deposited in the trea- 
sury of the United States, (from which an annual income, at 6 per cent., 

IS derived of $30,910 14,) is. $515,169 00 

Amount of unexpended interest, reported 
last vear as in charge of Messrs. Cor- 
coran & Riggs $208,800 00 

From which deduct amount expended on 

the building during the past year. . . . 29,391 98 

179,408 02 
Oi' this it is proposed to expend the further 

sum of 29,408 02 

Which will leave to be added to the princi- 
pal, according to the original proposition 
of Professor Bache 150,000 00 

The whole fund will then be 665,169 00 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



67 



Statement in relation to the expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution during 

the year 1853. 



BUILDING, FURNITURE, FIXTURES, ETC. 



Pay on contracts 

Pay of arcliitects, superintendents, &c. 

Magnetic observatory 

Expenses of building committee 

Miscellaneous, incidental to building. . . 
Furniture, &c., for uses in common.. . . 
Furniture for library 



GENERAL EXPENSES. 



Expenses of Board of Regents . 

Lighting and heating 

Postage 

Transportation 

Stationery 

General printing 

Apparatus 

Incidentals general 

Watchman. 

Salaries oreneral 



PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, AND LECTURES. 



Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 

Reports on progress of knowledge 

Other publications 

Meteorology 

Fay of lecturers 

Illustrations and apparatus for lectures. . . 
Attendance and lighting lectures, &c 



LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART. 



Cost of books 

Stereotyping and printing 

Incidentals to library 

Salaries, librtiry 

Explorations, museum 

Expense of collections, museum. 

Incidentals, museum 

Salaries, museum 



Total expenditures in 1853. 



$25,500 00 

1,580 70 

1,578 28 

77 00 

184 84 

354 05 

117 11 



195 00 

646 47 

364 28 

1,913 19 

6 50 

894 19 

203 50 

*3,352 42 

367 00 

4,099 92 



8,160 04 
139 29 
1,116 58 
2,346 51 
783 00 
661 84 
445 40 



841 75 

1,318 42 

1,581 02 

2,499 96 

250 00 

240 04 

229 71 

1,999 92 



$29,391 98 



12,042 4- 



13,652 66 



8,960 82 



64,047 93 



* Including $948 34, charged for interest on over-drafts during the year. 

The following is a general view of the receipts and expenditures for 
the year 1853 : 



RECEIPTS. 

Balance in the treasury, as per last report 

Interest on the original fund for the year 1853 

Interest on the extra fund for the year 1853 

EXPENDITURES, exclusive of building 

For items common to the objects of the Institution . . 

For publications, researches, and lectures 

For library, museum, and gallery of art 

Balance in the treasury 



$250 49 
30,910 14 
10,440 00 



$41,600 63 



12,042 47 
13,652 66 

8,960 82 
6,944 68 



41,600 63 



68 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

An appropriation of $30,000 was made at the last meeting of the 
Board of Regents, to be expended under the direction of the Executive 
Committee and the Secretary, for carrying on the operations of the In- 
stitution. 

From the foregoing statement of accounts it will be seen that while 
the library and museum have had their share of the appropriation, the 
active operations have exceeded their part by upwards of $4,000. 
This excess has been caused, principally, by printing and preparing 
for the press a number of memoirs which are to form the volume of 
contributions for the year 1854. 

Whatever may be the future distribution of the income, a greater ex- 
penditure than has been made for the library and museum, during the 
past year, could not, in the opinion of the committee, have been judicious. 

The additions to the library and museum, the former of which were 
chiefly in return for the publications of the Institution under the system 
of exchanges, have been considerable and valuable. A particular esti- 
mate of these will be presented to the Board hereafter. 

The Board are referred to the report of the Secretary, recently sub- 
mitted, for a detailed account of the operations of the Institution during 
the past year. The committee think that these operations are in har- 
mony with the law of Congress, with the objects of the founder of the 
Institution, and successfully carry out his idea of the increase and diffu- 
sion of knowledge. 

Alter the present year, during which the building will probably be 
completed, the fund for annual expenditures will be somewhat en- 
laro:ed, and increased benefits, it is hoped, will be realized. 

J. A. PEARCE, ^ 
A. D. BACHE, > Executive Commitlee. 
J. G. TOTTEN, ) 



fHE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 69 



REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMITTEE. 



The Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution beg leave to 
pi-esent to the Board of Regents the following report of their operations 
and expenchtures during the year 1853 : 

It will be recollected by the Regents that the first plan of the Smith- 
sonian building contemplated finishing the interior with wood and plas- 
ter, and that the Board subsequently adopted a resolution directing the 
wood-work to be removed and its place to be supplied with fire-proof" 
materials. 

In accordance with this resolution, the Buildino- Committee directed 
plans and estimates to be made by Captain B. S. Alexander, of the 
United States corps of Engineers. These plans were laid before the 
Board at the last meeting, and approved; reserving, however, to the 
Building Committee the right to make any changes which they might 
think desirable during the progress of the work. Mr. Renwick having 
retired from the office of Architect, Captain Alexander was a]:)pointed 
in his place. 

It will also be recollected by the Board, that shortly before the close 
of their last session, Mr. Gilbert Cameron, the former contractor, peti- 
tioned the Regents to be allowed to finish the building, alleging that, if 
he was not granted this privilege, his reputation as a builder would be 
injured; and also affirming that he was legally entitled to be allowed to 
complete the work, by the terms of his original contract, which the Board 
had never declared forfeited. 

This subject was referred to the Building Committee, and legal advice 
was asked by them in reference to it, fi-om J. M. Carlisle esq., who 
has acted for some years as counsel to the Board of Regents. His 
opinion was in favor of the claims of Mr. Cameron. The ques- 
tion was also submitted to P. R. Fendall, esq.. United States dis- 
trict attorney, who coincided in opinion with Mr. Carlisle. 

In accordance with these opinions, the committee concluded to let 
Mr. Cameron proceed with the work on the terms which he had pre- 
viously submitted to them, and which was within the estimate which 
had been made by the architect. 

Some delay unavoidably took place in arriving at this decision, and 
consequently the work was not commenced until June 13, 1853. 
Since then, however, it has been prosecuted with great vigor, and to 
the entire satisfiiction of the Committee. The roof lias been tem]>ora- 
rily secured, the entire frame of wood work which occupied the inte- 
rior removed, and a cellar excavated. A large brick sewer has been 
constructed through the middle of the building, and carried outward 
toward the canal, by which the cellar may be thoroughly drained and 
all waste water discharged. The foundation walls, piers, and arches^ 
of a spacious and commodious basement, have been completed; the 
piers in the main story have been built, and the beams and arches of 



70 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

the floor for the rooms above finished. The brickwork of the upper 
story has also been completed; in short, the masonry from the founda- 
tion to the roof, and more than nine-tenths of the brickwork, have been 
finished. The principal part of the work yet remaining to be accom- 
plished, according to the statement of the architect, may be classified 
as follows: 

1. Finishing the necessary stairways for the lecture room and gal- 
lery. 

2. Supporting the roof, so that the columns in the second story may 
be dispensed with. 

3. Completing the interior finish, such as flooring, plastering, paint- 
ing, &c. 

4. Fitting up the lecture room with seats. 

The Committee found great difficulty in deciding u|X)n a proper posi- 
tion and plan of a lecture room, and, after much deliberation and frequent 
consultations, finally concluded to ])lace it in the second story, in the 
middle of the main building, where the greatest width could be ob- 
tained. 

The orighial plan contemplated the placing of the large lecture room 
on the first floor ; but in this position it was impossible to procure a 
sufficient space, uninterrupted by large columns, which would materially 
interfere with the employment of the room tor the purpose intended. 
In endeavoring to overcome this difficulty, it was at one time proposed 
to support the floor of the whole space of fifty feet in width, by means of 
heavy girders ; but this being considered unsafe, the idea was abandoned. 
The only plan, therefore, at the option of the Committee tor providing a 
suitable lecture room, was that which has been adopted. Accoidmg 
to the present income and policy of the Institution, this is cheaper than 
any other plan proposed ; and should the building ever be required for 
other purposes, such as an entire museum or library, the division walls 
could easily be removed, and the whole space reconverted into one 
large room. The plan adopted, therefore, makes the best provision tor 
the present wants of the Institution, and can readily be adapted to any 
proposed change in the tuture apphcation of the building. The whole 
ot the first story has been thrown into one large room, with arrange- 
ments tor dividing it, if necessary, by screens, into two apartments, 
with a central hall or wide passage between. 

The Committee have kept constantly in view the idea of rendering 
the main building entirely fire-proof, and of constructing it in the most 
durable and substantial manner. This they have been enabled to ac- 
complish through the constant supervision of Captain Alexander, who", 
as it appears to the Committee, has successfully evinced in this work a 
combination of practical skill and scientific knowledge. 

From a comparison of the work done with that wliich remains to be 
accomplished, the architect is of opinion that, should nothing happen to 
prevent it, the building will be finished during the present year, and 
at a cost within the estimate; consecjuently, the"$58,U00, recommend- 
ed to be set aside by the Executive Committee in their last report, 
together with a portion of the income of the past year, will be sufficient 
to deti-ay all the expenses, and leave the $150,000 untouched. This 
refers, however, mainly to the completion of the building, and not to 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 71 

the furniture, which must be purchased by degrees out of the accruing 
interest on the above mentioned sum. 

At the last session of the Board of Regents a resolution was adopted 
authorizing the erection of a small building for a Magnetic Observatory. 
This structure has been completed, and is now furnished with instru- 
ments, and will soon be in successful operation. It consists of a small 
room twelve feet by sixteen, under ground, enclosed by a nine inch 
brick wall, within which the instruments are placed. This room is 
surrounded by a rough stone wall, leaving a space of two feet in width 
on each side to permit a free circulation of air, for keeping the interior 
apartment dry. Above ground the structure is of wood, so finished 
as to correspond to some extent with the architecture of the Smithso- 
nian Building, and consists principally of an entry and one room sixteen 
feet square, to serve as an office, and computing room for the observer. 
The whole cost of this building was SI, 578 28. The entire expendi- 
ture on the building during the past year, exclusive of die magneti<_- 
observatory, is as follows : 

Pay on contracts S25,500 00 

Architect and draughtsmen ." . . 1,580 70 

Miscellaneous incidentals 261 84 

Furniture - 471 16 



27,813 70 



Eespectfully submitted, 

RICHARD RUSH, ) 

JOHN W. INIAURY, } Exceutim Committu. 

JOSEPH HENRY, ) 



EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



PROCEEDINGS 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



SEVENTH ANNUAL SESSION OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

[Continued from last Report.] 

Washington, March 12, 1853. 

The Board of Regents met this day at 10 o'clock, A. M. Present : 
Messrs. Colcock, Fitch, Mason, Maury, Totten, the Secretary, and W. 
W. Seaton, Tfeasurer. 

The proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved. 

The Secretary brought before the Board the subject of the disposi- 
tion of the surplus fund, and stated that Messrs. Corcoran & Riggs had 
offered to allow interest at five per cent, if the deposit was continued 
with tliem. 

]Mr. Fitch offered the following resolution, which was adopted t 

Resolved, That the surplus fund of $208,000 now on deposit with 
Corcoran & Riggs, be continued with them for twelve months, on their 
proposition to pay interest thereon at five per cent; provided, that a 
])art thereof, not exceeding $58,000, may be withdrawn for building 
expenditures during the year, and that they deposit the same or 
equivalent securities to those now held therefor, to be approved by the 
Regents then in Washington and the Secretary. 

Mr. Colcock offered the following resolution, which was adopted : 

Resolved, That during the year 1853 the sum of thirty thousand dol- 
Inrs ($30,000) out of the Smithsonian income be, and is hereby, appro- 
priated, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary, and with 
The advice of the Executive Committee, to defray the expenses of the 
Institution, and to carry out the several parts of the programme. 

The Secretary brought before the Board the question of a new divi- 
sion of the income of the Institution, rendered necessary by the increase 
of the general expenses, of the addition to the sum contemplated for 
finishing the centre building tor the library and collections, and other 
causes. 

Mr. Fitch offered the following resolution, which was adopted: 

Resolved, That the subject of the distribution of the income of the 
Institution in the manner contemplated by the original plan of organiza- 
tion, be referred to a Select Committee, to consist of Messrs. Pearce, 
Mason, Rush, Bache, Choate, Totten, and Maury, for a report at the 
next session of the Board of Regents of such changes, if any, as in their 
ooinion are desirable; and that the same Committee be instructed to 
report fixed regulations relative to the reception of donations, &c. 



I 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 73 

General Totten offered the following resolution, which w- as adopted : 
Resolved, That the Building Committee, and the Executive Commit- 
tee jointly, be instructed to take into consideration and decide upon the 
propriety of making such alterations in the east wing of the Smithsonian 
building, as to convert it into a suitable dwelling for the Secretary, and 
that the Building Committee carry into effect the decision of the Joint 
Committee. 

The Board then, on motion, adjourned sine die. 



EIGHTH ANNUAL SESSION OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

Washington, Januarii 4, 1854.* 

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual 
meeting on the first Wednesday of January of each year, the Board 
Inet this day in the Regents' room. 

Present : Messrs. Enghsh, Mason, Maury, Stuart, Totten, and the 
Secretary. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, and on motion of Mr. Maury, INIr. 
Mason was called to the chair. 

The Secretary informed the Board of the re-appointment of Mr. 
Meacham, of Vermont, and the appointment of Hon. Wm. H. English, 
of Indiana, and Hon. David Stuart, of Michigan, as Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution on the part of the House of Representatives of 
the present Congi^ess. 

The Secretary stated that the accounts and reports of the Institution 
would be ready for presentation at the next meeting ; whereupon, the 
Regents, after examining the building, adjourned to meet on Saturday, 
14th January, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 



Washington, January 14, 1854. 

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution, was held in the Smithsonian building on Saturday, January 
14, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 

Present : Messrs. Bache, English, Mason, Maury, Meacham, Pearce, 
Stuart, Taney, Totten, the Secretary, and W. W. Seaton, Esq., Treas- 
urer. 

The Chancellor, Hon. Roger B. Taney, took the chair. 

The proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved. 

The Secretary informed the Board that a meeting of the " Establish- 
ment " had been called by order of the President of the United States, 
in May last. The proceedings of the meeting were then read. 

Mr. Maury, on the part of the Building Committee, submitted its re- 
port, which was read and adopted. 

The Treasurer, W. W. Seaton, esq., presented the details of the ex- 
penditures during the year 1853 ; also a general statement of the 



74 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

finances; which were, on motion, referred to the Executive Com- 
mittee. 

The Secretary called the attention of the Board to the fact that a 
resolution had been adopted by the House of Representatives, appoint- 
ing a Committee of nine to inquire into the expediency of withdrawing 
the Smithsonian fund from the Treasury of the United States, and in- 
vesting it in some safe stocks. 

On motion of Mr. Mason, the consideration of the subject was post- 
poned until the Secretary should be called upon by the Committee of 
the House for information, and his report was presented to the Board. 

The Secretary presented his report of the operations of the Institu- 
tion for the year 1853, which was in part read. 

On motion of Mr. Maury, it was 
* Resolved, That the vacancy existing in the Building Committee be 
filled by nomination of the Chair. * 

Whereupon, Mr. Wm. H. English was appointed. 

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, January 28, at 
10 o'clock, a. m- 



Washington, January 28, 1854. 

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Satur- 
day, January 28, 1854, at 10 o'clock, a. m. Present : Messrs. Bache, 
English, Maur}', Meacham, Pearce, Stuart, Taney, Totten of the board, 
W. W. Seaton, esq., treasurer, and the Secretary: 

The Chancellor took the chair. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

The Secretary stated to the board that honorable Joseph R. Chan- 
dler had offered to present to the House of Representatives, the peti- 
tion of the board relative to funding the $150,000 of surplus income 
in the treasury of the United States, and to move that it might be re- 
lerred to the committee which had been appointed by the House rela- 
tive to the Smithsonian fund. 

Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Pearce, the original memorial of the 
board to Congi'ess was referred to the Executive Committee, with in- 
structions to make such modifications in the wording of it as m their 
judgment nuglit be rendered necessary by present circumstances. 

A petition was presented from Gilbert Cameron, the contractor of 
the building, requesting the payment of the money due him, which 
had been kept back on account of a law suit between himself and one 
of the sub-contractors. 

In reference to the same, Mr. Maury, on behalf of the Building Com- 
mittee, presented a letter from J. M. Carlisle, esquire, attorne}^ of the 
board, stating that the suit had been dismissed, and that the court had 
decided that the Board of Regents could not be sued. Mr. Maury also 
presented, on the part of the Building Committee, a letter from Joseph 
H. Bradley, esquire, requesting that the money be retained by the 
Board until the before mentioned law suit was finally decided. 

On motion of Mr. Pearce, the subject was referred to a committee, 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 75 

with power to order the money to be paid in whole or in part, if in 
their judgment it was thought proper. 

The chair appointed Messrs. Mason, Meacham and Totten, as the 
committee. 

The Secretary laid before the board a bill from Henry Parish lor a 
copy of Canina's work on architecture, purchased by James Renwick, 
junior, for the Institution in 1847, and now in the library, but which 
according to an accompanying letter from Mr. Renwick had never 
been paid. 

On motion of Mr. Meacham, the Secretary was directed to settle the 
bill, provided on examining the accounts, no evidence could be found 
of its having been paid. 

The Building Committee exhibited to the Board the drawings for the 
new lecture room. 

The Secretary read the continuation of his report relative to the 
publications, correspondence, magnetism and meteorology. 

A number of letters received since the last meeting", and the answers 
to them, were read to illustrate the character of the correspondence of 
the Institution. 

Mr. Meacham offered the following resolution : 

Resolved, That the Secretary and other officers of the Smithsonian 
Institution be directed to furnish the Board of Regents with estimates of 
appropriations necessary to be made in order to carry on the Institu- 
tion the ensuing year, according to the laws for its organization. 

After some discussion, the resolution was postponed for further dis- 
cussion until the next meeting. 

On motion, the board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, February 
11, at 10 o'clock a. m. 



Washington, February 11, 1854. 

A quorum not being present, the board adjourned to meet on Satur- 
day, February 18, at 10 o'clock a. m. 



Washington, February 18, 1854. 

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution was held on Saturday, February 18, 1854, at 10 o'clock, a. 
m. Present : Messrs. Bache, Enghsh, Maury, Meacham, Pearce, Taney 
of the Board, and the Secretary : 

The Chancellor took the chair. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

A communication was read by the Secretary, in reference to the 
Wynn estate, which, on motion of Mr. Pearce, was referred to Mr. 
Mason, to whom prior communications on the same subject had been 
referred. 

A memorial was presented from Dr. S. Spooner of New York, offer- 
ing to present to the Institution the original copper-plates of the Mu- 
see Francais and the Musee Royal, on condition that it would publish 
under his superintendence an edition of these works. 



76 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

On motion of Mr. Pearce, the Secretary was directed, on the part 
of the Institution, respectfully to decline the proposition of Dr. Spooner, 
the Regents not considering themselves authorized to engage in such 
an enterprize. 

The Secretary stated to the Board that Professor Wilson, of the Eng- 
lish Commission to the Exhibition of the Industry of All Nations at New 
York, had presented to the Smithsonian Institution a set of models, 
casts, and drawings, to be used in teaching the arts of design. 

The vSecretary proposed to lend these to the Metropolitan Mechanics' 
Institute, of this city, for the use of its School of Design; which propo- 
sition was agreed to by the Board. 

The Secretary read the correspondence between the Smithsonian In- 
stitution and the California Academy of Natural Sciences, in which the 
latter authorize the former to purchase a full set of meteorological and 
magnetic instruments for the use of the society; the means of defraying 
the expense of the purchase having been generously provided by its 
President, Dr. A. Randall. 

A memoir on the "Europo American Physical Man" was laid 
before the Regents, which had been submitted to the Institution for 
publication since the last meeting of the Board. 

Professor Bache presented a specimen of" the photographic register 
of the motions of the magnetic needle, taken at the magnetic observa- 
tory of" the Smithsonian Institution. 

The Secretary informed the Board that the annual meeting of the 
United States Agricultural Society would be held on the 22d instant, 
in the Smithsonian Institution, and read the following extract from the 
address of the President of that Society : 

"Our location at the national capital gives us peculiar facilities for 
intercommunication and for intercourse with members of Congress, re- 
presenting all parts of" our widely extended country. We may also 
secure many benefits from the Smithsonian Institution, whose objects 
are the general increase of knowledge and the promotion of science, 
objects so analogous to those of this Association as to give importance 
to the question whether reciprocal benefits might not be expected from 
closer relations. By the courtesy of this Institution we have been per- 
mitted to occupy their commodious apartments, and an inquiry should 
be made by our Executive officers, or a special committee, to ascertain 
what room or rooms can be obtained for the future accommodation of" 
this Society. W^e need a public building, or offices in some existing 
edifice, for our Corresponding Secretary and Treasurer, for the preser- 
vation of our records, and of the agricultural seeds and products which 
are now in our possession, or may be hereafter rcijuired, and also for 
an agricultural library, museum, and cabinet." 

On motion of Mr. Maury, the Secretary was authorized to ofler such 
accommodations and fiicilities to the United States Agricultural So- 
ciety as the Institution had at its disposal. 

The continuation of the Secretary's report, relative to the Library, 
Museum, and Exchanges, was presented, but the reading was post- 
poned till the next meeting. 

The resolution offered by Mr. Meacham, at the last meeting of the 
Board, was then taken up for consideration. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 77 

Mr. Pearce moved to amend it by inserting the "Executive Com- 
mittee and the Secretary," in place of the "Secretary and the other- 
other officers of the Institution." 

On motion of Mr. EngHsh, the resolution and amendment were re- 
ferred to the Special Committee which was appointed at the last ses- 
sion on the distribution of the income of the Institution, consisting of 
Messrs. Pearce, Mason, Rush, Bache, Choate, Totten, and Mauiy. 

As Mr. Choate had signified, in a letter to the Secretary, his ina- 
bihty to attend the meetings of this Committee, on motion of Mr. Eng- 
lish, his place was filled by the appointment of Mr. Meacham. 

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, February 25, at 10 
o'clock, a. m. 



Washington, Febrnary 25, 1854. 

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution was held on Saturday, February 25, 1854, at 10 o'clock, 
a. m. 

Present : Messrs. Douglas, English, Maury, Mason, Meacham, PearcCj 
Rush, Stuart, and the Secretary. 

Hon. Stephen A. Douglas appointed froin the Senate of the United 
States as a Regent of the Institution, to fill the vacancy occasioned by 
the expiration of the term of Hon. R. M. Charlton, appeared and took 
his seat in the Board. 

In the absence of ^le Chancellor, Mr. Pearce was called to the chair. 

The minutes of the last meeting were then read and approved. 

The Secretary laid before the Board for inspection, the proof-sheets 
and illustrations of a memoir, by John Chappelsmith, on the Tornado 
which occurred near New Harmony, Indiana, in L852. 

The Secretary stated that, in accordance with the resolution of the 
Board at its last meeting, the use of the lecture room of the Institution 
had been given to the United States Agricultural Societ}', which had 
held its sessions there during the past week. 

The continuation of the Report of the Secretary was read. 

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, March 4, 1854. 



Washington, March 4, 1854. 

A quorum not being present, the Board adjourned to meet on Satur- 
day, March 11, 1854, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 



Washington, March 11, 1854. 

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Satur- 
day, March 11, 1854, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 

Present: Messrs. Bache, English, Maury, Mason, Meacham, Pearce, 
Totten, and the Secretary. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Pearce was called to the chair. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

The Report of the Executive Committee in relation to the finances 



78, EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

and expenditures of the Institution, during the 3'ear 1853, was pre- 
sented by the Chairman, Mr. Pearce. 

On motion of Mr. Mason, the report was accepted. 

The Committee to which was referred the resolution of Mr. Fitch, 
offered at the last session, and also the resolution offered by Mr. 
Meacham, at the meeting of the Board, January 28, 1854, reported the 
following resolution, and stated that a full report on the general subject 
would be made hereafter : 

Resolved, That the Executive Committee nnd the Secretary of the 
Institution be instructed to submit to the Board of Regents, at the com- 
mencement of each and every year, an estimate, in detail, of all sums 
which will be required for the expenditures of the current year, as a 
basis for specific appropriations to be made by the Board. 

On motion, the resolution was adopted. 

The Secretary stated to the Board that a memorial and resolution, 
relative to funding $150,000 in the Treasury of the United States, had 
been submitted by Hon. Joseph R. Chandler to the House of Repre- 
sentatives, and had been referred to the Committee previously ap- 
pointed by the House to consider the expediency of withdrawing the 
Smithsonian fund from the Treasur}'' of the United States and investing 
it in some safe stock. 

The Special Committee to which was referred the subject of pay- 
ment to Gilbert Cameron of the money due him which had been kept 
back on account of a lawsuit between him and one of the sub-con- 
tractors, reported that they had " examined the question referred to 
them, and were of the opinion that the balance dfie Gilbert Cameron 
should be paid to him, and direct accordingly." 

The Secretary stated that, in accordance with this cUrection, he had 
paid Mr. Cameron $10,000, but had reserved a part of the money until 
the account could be critically examined. 

A memorial from the American Philosophical Society to the Congress 
of the United States, praying "that the President of the United States 
should be authorized to enter into such correspondence with the gov- 
ernment of Great Britain as may secure, in a reasonable time, a proper 
uniformity of coinage in the mode that may be found most discreet 
and convenient," was laid before thf Board for its co-operation and 
approval. 

On motion of Mr. Mason, the subject was referred to the Executive 
Committee. 

A communication was read fiom Mr. J. R. Lambdin, President of 
the American Academy of Fine Arts, Philadelphia, recommending that 
the Smithsonian Institution should procure moulds from the best and 
most useful specimens of the collection in the British Museum, known 
as the Elgin Marbles, and that from these moulds, casts should be pro- 
duced and sold at cost to such academies of art, &c., as ma}' desire 
their possession. 

On motion of Mr. Mason, this subject was referred to the Executive 
Committee. 

The continuation of the Report of the Secretary in relation to the 
Museum, Exchanges, &c., was read. 

The Board then adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTIOW. 



79 



SPECIAL MEETING. 

Washington, April 29, 1854. 

A special meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, called by the Secretary. at the request of Messrs. Meacham, 
English and Stuart, was held on Saturday, April 29, 1854, at 10 o'clock. 
Present: Messrs. Bache, Douglas, Hawley, Maury, Meacham, Pearce, 
Taney, and the Secretary. 

The Chancellor took the Chair. The miniUes of the last meeting 
were read and approved. 

Mr. Pearce, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented the 
following estimate of the appropriations to be made for the year 1854. 

" The Executive Committee recommend the following appropria- 
tions for the present year, from the income of the Institution : 



For building I [ 

For expenses of the meetings of the Board I ! $250 00 

For lighting and heating | 600 00 

For postage I ! 500 00 

For transportation and exchange [ 1 1,600 00 

For stationery ! 250 00 

For general printing 600 00 

For apparatus 350 00 

For incidentals general j. 835 00 



SALARIES GENERAL. 



Secretary 

Clerk 

Book keeper . . . . 

Janitor 

Laborer 

Watchman 

Extra clerk hire. 



Smithsonian Contributions 

Reports on progress of knowledge. 

Other publications 

Meteorology 

Compulations 

Lectures 



$3,500 00 
1,000 00 
200 00 
400 00 
250 00 
365 00 
300 00 



Salary of Assistant Secretary 

Salaries of assistants in the Library — one at 

another at $540 

Purchase of books 

Incidentals 

Binding 

Stereotyping 



and 



Salary of Assistant Secretary. 

Explorations 

Alcohol, &c 

Assistance or labor 

Apparatus , 

Incidentals 

Catalogue 

Glass jars , 



Contingencies , 



2,500 00 

1,140 00 

1,800 00 

160 00 

250 00 

150 00 



6,015 00 



6,000 00 
500 00 
250 00 

3,000 00 
100 00 

1,000 00 



2,000 00 
250 00 
250 00 
100 00 
100 00 
100 00 
500 00 
250 00 



6,000 00 



3,550 00 



$7,000 00 



11,000 00 



10,850 00 



9,550 00 
100 00 

38,500 00 



80 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

The Committee have not recommended an equal distribution between 
the active operations on the one hand, and the Library, Museum, &c., 
on the other, because the compromise resolutions which require such 
equality of distribution do not go into effect until the completion of the 
building." 

J. A. PEARCE, ^ 

A. D. BACHE, > Executive Commiltee. 

J. G. TOTTEN. ) 

On motion of Mr. Pcarce, the above Report was laid upon the table. 

The Secretary presented the following letter to the Board, in com- 
pliance with which he had called this special meeting: 

Washington, April 13, 1854. 
Prof. Jos. Henry, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

In accordance with the provision of the third section of an act estab- 
lishing the Institution, the undersigned request you to appoint a special 
meeting of the Regents on Saturday, the 29Lh inst., at ]0 o'clock, a. m. 

J. MEACHAM, 
W. H. ENGLISH, 
D. STUART. 

Mr. Meacham then stated the reasons why he had requested this 
special meeting. 

Mr. Pearce stated that the subject brought before the Board by Mr. 
Meacham, was now under consideration by a Special Committee ap- 
pointed by the Regents, which would be ready to report at the next 
meeting. 

On motion, the subject was postponed till the next meeting of the 
Board. 

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, Maj" 13, at 10 
o'clock, a. m. 



Washington, May 13, 1854. 

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Satur- 
day, May 13, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 

Present : Messrs. Bache, Hawley, Maury, Meacham, Pearce, Tot • 
ten, and the Secretar}^ 

The Chancellor being absent, Mr. Hawley was called to the chair. 
The minutes of the last meeting were then read, and after correction, 
approved. 

Letters from Hon. R. B. Taney, Chancellor of the Institution, and 
from Hon. Richard Rush, stating their inability to attend this meeting 
of the Board, were read by the Secretary. 

Mr. Pearce, Chairman of the Special Committee on the resolutions 
of Messrs. Fitch and Meacham, stated that it was ready to report, but 
as it was considered desirable to have a full meeting of the Board when 
the subject should be discussed, he moved that the Board adjourn. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 81 

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, 20th inst., at 10 
o'clock, a. m. 



Washington, Maij 20, 1854. 

An adjourned mreting of the Board of Regents was held on Satur- 
day, Mtiy 20ih, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 

Present: Messrs. Bache, Choate, Douglas, English, Hawlc}-, Maury, 
Mason, Meacham, Pearce, Stuart, Totten, nnd the Secretary. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Hawley was called to the 
chair. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

Mr. Pearce, (jmirmnn of the Special Commiffee* appointed by the Board of 
Regents oftJte Smithsoimni Institution , to which was referred the resolutions 
of Hon. Mr. Fitch and Hon. Mr. Meacham relative to the distribution of 
the income of the Smithsonian fund, etc., made the following report : 

The Committee who were directed to report whether it is desirable 
to make any changes iu the distribution of the income of the Institution, 
in the manner contemplated by the original plan of organization, report 
as follows : 

The distribution and application of the Smithsonian income should 
be made, so as to answer most effectually and. beneficially the pur- 
poses for which the Institution was endowed and estabhshed. In 
making such distribution and application, the Regents should faithfully 
observe the requirements of the act of Congress establishing the Insti- 
tution, and exercise no discietion but that which the law allows to 
them. 

The purpose of the Institution is disclosed in the title of the act, in its 
preamble, and in its first section. The title is " An act to establish the 
Smithsonian Institution lor the increase and difl'usion of knowledge 
among men." The preamble states the bequest, by James Smithson, 
of all his property to the United States, to found at Washington, under 
the name of the Smithsonian Institution, " an establishment lor the in- 
crease and diffusion of knowledge among men." It declares the ac- 
ceptance of the trust, and "therefore for the faithful execution of the 
said trust according to tlie will of the liberal and enlightened donor," 
the first section constitutes an establishment by the name of the Smith- 
sonian Institution " for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among 
men." 

The fifth section enacts that the Regents shall cause to be erected 
" a suitable building of sufficient size, and with suitable rooms or halls 
for the reception and arrangement, upon a liberal scale, of objects of 
natural history, including a geological and mineralogical cabinet ; also 
a chemical laboratory, a library, a gallery of art, and the necessary 



* This committee consisted of the following Regents : Hon. J. A. Pearce, lion. J. M. 
Mason, Hon. Richard Rush, Hon. John W. Maury, Gen. J. G. Totten, Prof. A D. Bache, 
and the Hon. J. Meacham. The gentleman last named does not concur in this report. 

6 



82 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

lecture rooms," &c. This section points out certain means and instru- 
mentalities by which the Institution is to "execute the trust" " accor- 
ding to the will of the liberal and enlightened donor." But it does not 
limit the Regents to these means and instrumentalities. A large dis- 
cretion is elsewhere given to them to employ other means and instru- 
mentalities " for the promotion of the purpose of the testator" — that is, 
" for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men." 

" The eighth section, in its last clause, directs an annual appropriation 
from the interest of the funds belonging to the Institution " not exceed- 
ing an average of $25,000 annually, lor the gradual formation of a 
library composed of valuable works pertaining to all departments of 
human knowledge." 

And the ninth section enacts that of " any other moneys which 
have accrued, or shall hereafter accrue, as interest^pon the sb,id 
Smithsonian fund, not herein appropriated, or not mjuired for the 
purposes herein provided, the said managers [Regents] are hereby 
authorized to make such disposal as they shall deem best suited for 
the promotion of the purpose of the testator, anything herein con- 
tained to the contrary notwithstanding." 

Let us see now, how far the Regents have complied with these re- 
quirements of the law. 

They have caused to be erected a building, which is, in the judgment 
of the Board, suitable, of sufficient size, of plain and durable materials, 
with suitable rooms for the reception and arrangement, upon a libe- 
ral scah^ of the objects mentioned in the fifth section of the act. The 
building, it is true, is not yet completed in all its parts. This has 
been the result, partly of design, and partly of accident. As the law 
specified no period within which the building should be completed, the 
time of its completion was necessarily within the discretion of the Re- 
gents. It was obvious that if" they should not hurry its completion, but 
extend the work upon it through a series of 3^ea]-s, they would save a 
large amount of accruing interest, which, when the building should be 
finished, might be added to the permanent fund, w^ierebj' the means of" 
accomplishing the purposes of the testator would be largely increased. 
An additional reason for this was, that the structure, thus slowly and 
cautiously erected, would be more solid and pei'manent. This policy, 
therefore, was adopted, and it was determined that the building should 
be finished in five years. An accident, well knf)wn to the Board, and 
which in the end must prove to have been fortunate, required a change 
in the plan of a part of the edifice, and a larger expenditure of money. 
This cause has further delayed the completion of the building. But 
during the present year it will bo finished on the liberal scale required 
by the law, and one hundred and fitly thousand dollars of accrued in- 
terest will be saved, to be added to the principal. 

In the mean time, the Regents have made appropriations of money 
for the various objects specified in the fifth section of the act, by which 
-uid other means they have complied as well with the letter as the 
spirit of the law. A large and valuable collection of objects of natural 
history has been made, and for the most part, classified ; a geological 
and rnineralogical cabinet has been provided, and a chemical laboratory 
has been fitted up, in which researches and experiments have been 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 83 

toade. The building contains an apartment intended for a gnllery ol" 
^rt ; and some works of art, a valuable collection of engravings, have 
been purchased. 

A lecture room has been finished, and for several 3^ears lectures have 
been given at the expense of the Institution, on scientific and literary, 
abstruse and popular subjects, the ndmission to which hns been free. 
A library of 12,000 volumes and 8,000 pamphlets and parts of volumes 
has been acquired by purchase, exchanges, and other means, containing 
many rare and valuable works pertaining to all branches of knowledge, 
such as are not to be found in general libraries, and are most highly 
prized by men of science and research. 

This is a very good beginning according to the plan lor the gradual 
formation of a library, which the act points out. 

Of the entire amount expended from the commencement of the In- 
stitution, a little less than one-eighth has been given to researches and 
pubhcations. The rest has been applied to the special ohjects men- 
tioned in the act, and to the general expenses of the Institution. 

In the act establishing the Institution, Congress carefully and wisely 
forbore to fix the amount or proportion of the annual income which 
should be appropriated to any of the objects mentioned in the fifth sec- 
tion. They did not even determine, or limit the sum which should be 
•expended on the building, nor have they in any manner indicated that 
prominence should be given to sdj particular means or instrumentality 
for increasing and diffusing knowledge. All this they have left to the 
•discretion of the Regents, to whom they entrusted the conduct of the 
Institution. They have, indeed, declared that annual appropriations 
should be made for the gradual formation of a library, and have pro- 
vided tliat such appropriations shall not exceed ^25,000 in the average. 

This is nothing but a limitation upon the discretion of the Regents, 
and can by no rule of construction be considered as intimating the de- 
sire of Congress that such sum should be annually appropriated. The 
limitation, while it prevented the Regents from exceeding that sum, 
left them hill discretion as to any amount within the limit. The in- 
terest on the Smithsonian Fund was about ^30,000 per annum, and 
Congress could not but know that an appropriation of five-sixths of that 
amount per annum would leave a remainder entirely insufficient to de- 
fray the salaries and ordinary expenses of an Institution such as was 
' designed by the act, and that nothing would be left for the care of col- 
lections, the lectures, and other means of promoting the purpose of the 
testator. In short, the act points out certain instrumentalities to be 
emploj^ed in the execution of the trust, created by, and for the purposes 
specified in the willof Smithson, and gives to the Managers or Regents 
authority to dispose of all the income not required for the purposes 
specified in the act, in such manner as they shall deem best suited for 
the promotion of the purpose of the testator. As Congress did not de- 
termine what portion of the income was to be applied to the purposes 
specified in the act, it follows that such determination is to be made by 
those to whom they intrusted the conduct of the business of the Insti- 
tution; and thus the Regents are clearly invested with the power of de- 
termining how much of that income is required resj^ectively for library, 
for museum, for lectures, or for any of the objects specified in the filth 



84 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

section, and what disposition the}'^ will make of so much of the income 
as they do not think requisite to apply to these objects. So the Regents 
of 1847, who adopted the plan of organization, understood the law. So 
they reported to Congress. The Board of Regents, however its mem- 
bers have been changed from time to time, have always so understood 
it, and Congress, to whom they have annually and faithfully reported 
their proceedings, have never questioned the propriety of the construc- 
tion. 

In organizing the Institution, different opinions indeed were entertained 
by different members of the Board, as to the most effectual means of 
promoting the purpose of Smithson. The conflict of opinions resulted 
in the adoption ot" certain resolutions, which have been called the " com- 
promise resolutions." These, while they recognize the intention of 
Congress, and the duly of the Regents, to provide for the accumulation 
of specimens of art and objects of natural history, and the gradual for- 
mation of a library, pertaining to all branches of knowledge, &c., also 
declare it to be expedient, and demanded by the will of Smithson, that 
in the plan of organization, the increase of knowledge by original re- 
search should form an essential feature ; that for this end premiums 
should be offered for original papers containing positive additions to the 
sum of human knowledge, and that these and other suitable papers 
should be published in transactions of the Institution periodically, or 
occasionally, &c. The seventh of these resolutions is in these words : 

" Resolved, That for the purpose of carrying into effect the two prin- 
cipal modes of executing the act and trust pointed out in the resolutions 
herewith submitted, the permanent appropriations out of the accruing 
interest shall, so soon as the buildings arc completed, be annually, as fol- 
lows ; that is to say : 

^^ First. For the formation of a library conjposed of valuable works 
pertaining to all departments of useful knowledge, and for the procuring, 
arranging, and preserving of the various collections of the Institution, 
as well of natural history, and objects of foreign and curious researcli, 
and of elegant art, as others, including salaries and all other general 
expenses connected with the same, excepting those of the first com- 
plete arrangement of all such collections and objects as now belong to 
the United States in the museum of the Institution, when completed, 
together with one-half of the salary of the Secretary, the sum of fifteen 
thousand dollars. 

'■'■ iSccondlij. For the preparation and publication of" transactions, re- 
ports, and all other publications of the Institution, including aj)propria- 
tions for original researches, and premiums for original papers; for the 
delivery of all lectures and payment of all lecturers, and for all general 
expenses connected with said lectures and publications, together with 
one-half of the salary of the Secretary, the remainder of the annually 
accruing interest ; it being understood that all general and incidental 
expenses not specially connected with either of the above two great di- 
visions of the plan of the Institution shall be equally divided between 
them." 

It will be seen that this division of the income of the Institution be- 
tween the two principal modes of executing the trust was to be made 
so soon as '•'•.the buildings were complcled,^^ and not before. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 85 

As the building is not completed, this division is not yet obligatory 
under the compromise resolutions. For some years the annual appro- 
priations for the purposes of the Institution were specific, and were 
applied accordingly. But during the last two years they have been 
general, and a discretion has been exercised by the Secretary and the 
Executive Committee, which has resulted in applying to researches, 
publications, and lectures, an amount somewhat larger than that which 
has been applied to the library, museum, &c. But this is clearly no 
violation, as has been charged, of a compromise which is not by its 
very terms to go into effect until the completion of the building. 

The commitee think it desirable that the appropriations should be 
specific, and have already so reported to the Board by a resolution 
submitted on the 11th of March, 1854 ; and at the last meeting of the 
Regents the Executive Committee submitted estimates of appropria- 
tions in detail for the present year. 

Before expressing an opinion on these resolutions, the committee 
deem it their duty at this time to remark upon the plan which was 
discussed seven years ago, but which is now revived, of devoting the 
greater part of the income to the accumulation of a great library, thus 
either abandoning the active operations of research and publications, 
or so restricting this means of increasing and diffusing knowledo-e as 
to deprive it of all sensible value. 

It has already been remarked that the language of the eighth section 
which directs the gradual formation of a library, is not mandatory as 
to the amount which shall be thus expended, and that the ninth section 
authorizes the Regents, after applying so much of the income as may 
be required for the purposes mentioned in the act, to dispose of the re- 
sidue of the interest upon the Smithsonian fund in such manner " as 
they shall deem best suited for the promotion of the purpose of the tes- 
tator, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding." It 
is manifest, from what has been said before, that these sections of the 
law leave to the Reojents a laro^e discretion as to the amounts to be 
applied to the objects specified in the act, and in the choice of other 
means f()r promoting the purpose of the testator. 

What, then, are the considerations which should govern them in re- 
jecting this plan, which proposes a great library as the best and chief, 
if not the only, means of executing the trust created b}'^ the will of 
Smithson, and fulfilling their own duty under the law? 

The "increase and diffusion of knowledfje amons; men" are the in'eat 
purposes of this munificent trust. To increase knowledge implies re- 
search, or new and active investigation, in some one or more of the 
departments of learning. To diffuse knowledge among men implies 
active measures for its distribution, so far as may be, among mankind. 

Neither of these purposes could be accomplished or materially ad- 
vanced by the accumulation of a great library at the city of Washnigton. 
This would be to gather within the walls of a building here those fruits 
of learning which had been reaped elsewhere. It would be the hivivg 
of knowledge, not its increase and diffusion. It would be the collection 
of what philosophical inquirers, men of research, of observation, and of 
original thought had ascertained, conceived, or invented, and already 
pubfished to the world. But it would not of itself add to the sum of 



86 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

human knowledge, it would not increase the stores of learning, but only 
bring them together. It would develop no new truths, reveal no hid- 
den Laws of nature, but only contain the record of what might be 
already known ; so that in no proper sense could it be said to increase 
knowledge. Neither would it difflise knowledge, except within a lim- 
ited sphere. The Institution would necessarily be loual, for although 
it might aid the few men of research residing in Washington, and such 
students and investigators as occasionally visited the city, it would fail 
to accomplish the more extensive purpose of the testator and of the 
law, since it could not be expected to draw hither the great Ixjdy of 
such men. These must always be scattered over the country, engaged 
in pursuits which require their residence elsewhere, and with only oc- 
casional opportunities of aiding their inquiries by resort to the library 
of the Smithsonian Institution. While, therefore, a well selected library 
of valuable books pertaining to all departments of learning may well 
be one of the means employed by the Institution, its purpose requires 
other instrumentalities by which knowledge may be increased and dif- 
fused among men. We must never forget that both the will of Smith- 
son and the act of Congress recognize that, as a nation is appointed the 
great dispenser of the fruits of his munificence, so these benefits are to 
be mmer'ial, and their recipients to be men everywhere and in all time. 

If the language of the will had been "to increase and diffuse know- 
ledge among the people of the United States,''^ a library would be but a 
feeble and imperfect instrument as an active agent even for that limited 
purpose. The accumulation of books in the political centre of a great 
country, or even in the centre of population of a numerous people, 
would no doubt gratify the pride of the nation, and be attended with 
some profitable results. But such a library would not ensure mental 
activity to enquirers who should live remote from its locality, and its 
relation to all increase of knowledge would be merely incidental. It 
would have no effective operation in the thirty-one States which con- 
stitute the nation, or people of the Union, and instead of being diffusive 
in its nature, would be centralizing in its influence and passive in its 
character. Even if the will and the act of Congress were limited by 
the terms supposed, by no fair construction could the formation of a 
library be considered as an execution of the trust. But when we con- 
sider that the language of the will is not thus limited, and that tlie 
benefits of the bequest are intended for mankhul, we cannot imagine 
how the establishment of a library could be considered as corresponding 
to the requisitions of a purpose so wide and liberal. That Smitbson did 
not intend a library to be the prominent feature in the Institution con- 
templated by his bequest, may be inferred from the fact that his will 
did not mention it, when a single word would have been sufficient for 
this purpose. 

And that Congress did not design to indicate a library as the prin- 
cipal object of the establishment which they founded by law to carry 
out the purpose of Smitbson, will be made to appear by an examination 
of the enactment. 

In the construction of a law of Congress, the opinions expressed in 
the speeches of some of those who voted f()r it cannot be taken as the 
opinion of all or even of the major part of them, but the act must be 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



87 



construed according to the general import and evident intention of all 
its parts. 

If we can construe the law from its own provisions, it would be ex- 
ceedingly unsafe and improper to interpret it by reference to the opin- 
ions of a portion only of those who voted for it, being the minor part of 
them. To do this would be to make the opinions of a few control the 
acts and intentions of the mnjority as expressed in the law, and in ef- 
fect to give to those few the law making ower. In the present case the 
evident intention was to carry out the pur ose of Smithson's will, name 
ly : "the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men." 

The title of the act, its preamble and provisions, would have been 
palpably absurd, if their object had been only or chiefly to found a great 
library. To describe a library as an institution " for the increase and 
diffusion of knowledge among men," would be a preposterous abuse of 
terms. So, too, " to erect a suitable building of sufficient size, with 
suitable rooms or halls for the reception and arrangement, upon a liberal 
scale, of objects of natural history, geological, mineralogical, and bo- 
tanical specimens, classed and arranged so as to facilitate tlie study of 
them, with a chemical laborator\s lecture rooms, &c.," as provided in 
sections 5 and 6, is wholly inconsistent with the idea of an institution, 
of which a hbrary is to be the principal agent. 

It is true that the eighth section of the act authorizes an application 
of an annual sum, not exceeding $25,000, for the gradual formation of 
a hbrary. This is in great disproportion to the various objects before 
recited in the act, and if it had been mandatory, would have made the 
general authority and discretion given to the Regents in the ninth sec- 
tion, absurd and nugatory, and would indeed have equally defeated the 
other provisions before mentioned. Such an appropriation, if" made, 
would establish a great library, but not such an institution as is indi- 
cated by the title of the bill, or warranted by its various provisions. 
Instead of a Secretar}- with assistants, it should have provided for a 
Librarian, with an assistant as secretary, and assistant librarians. In- 
stead of providing for a building on a hberal scale, with suitable rooms 
or halls f()r a chemical laboratory, lecture rooms, &c., not indicating the 
library as of paramount importance, but according to the order of enu- 
meration, placing it after other objects, the law would have declared it 
to be of piimary importance, and designated the other objects as in- 
cidental or subsidiary to the Library. The act, in its various terms and 
provisions, does not seem to have been the result of plans entirely har- 
monious and consistent, but bears some marks of conflictingopinions ; and 
the large discretion allowed in the ninth section appears to have been in- 
tended to give to the Regents the authority to reconcile and determine 
those difficulties which Congress could not avoid or provide for, to their 
own satisfaction. 

Nothing, however, seems to be clearer than that the Legislature did 
not intend a public library to be the principal instrument of the In- 
stitution. The third section enacts that " the business of the Institu- 
tion shall be conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Re- 
gents." The terms of Smithson's will requires that Washington should 
be the locality of the Institution ; but, if this section had reference to a 
pubUc library, absorbing almost the whole interest of the fund, would 



88 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

such language have been employed? If a library at Washington was 
to be established, it was wholly unnecessary to provide that the busi- 
ness of the Institution should be conducted there, since the business of 
a library must be conducted where it is placed. The use of this lan- 
guage would seem to imply active transactions and not to refer to 
books. The application of $25,000 annually, (iive-sixths of the whole 
income at the date of the act) to the purchase of books, would be in- 
consistent with, and subversive of the whole tenor of" all that precedes 
the eighth section. Section ninth is singularly comprehensive, and ap- 
pears to indicate a consciousness on the part of the framers of the bill, 
that its provisions might be proved by experience to be incongruous. 

For this tliey provided the true remedy by investing the Regents 
with tiill power to use their judgment in the premises, subject only to 
the purpose of the will of Smithson, and so much of the hiw as was 
mandatory and peremptory, "all other provisions to the contrary, not- 
withstanding." 

On the whole, therefore, the Committee think that neither the law 
nor the will of Smithson required the Regents to consider a great 
hbrary as the paramount object of the Institution. 

Its purpose requires means of exciting and sustaining research, of 
stimulating and directing original enquiries, the results of which con- 
stitute an increase of knowledge, and the publication of which 
diffuses it. 

Scientific researches are often supposed by the uninformed to be of 
Utile or no real importance, and indeed are frequently ridiculed as 
barren of all practical utility. But nothing is more mistaken than this. 
The most valuable and productive of the arts of" life, the most import- 
ant and wonder-working inventions of modern times, owe their being 
and value to scientific investigations. By these liave been discovered 
physical truths and laws, the intelligent application of which to practi- 
cal inventions has given immense benefits to the world. The germs 
of these valuable improvements and inventions have been found and 
developed by scientific research, the original fijrms of which have often 
seemed to the many to be as idle and useless as they were curious. A 
proposition relating to the pendulum, which for many years remained 
only a curious theoretical relation, ultimately furnished a unit for the 
standard measures of States and nations. The discovery that a mag- 
netic needle could be moved by a galvanic current, seemed for a long 
time more curious than useful, and yet it contained the germ of all that 
was afterwards developed in the telegraph. It has been well remarked 
that numerous applications and inventions always result from the dis- 
covery of a scientific principle, so that tliere are many Fultons for 
^very Franklin. 

There is no branch of industrial art which does not owe for the most 
part its improved processes to such investigations, although the artizans 
who enjploy them are often ignorant of their true source. Smithson, 
who was himself a man of science and research, and a contributor to 
the philosophical transactions of the Royal Society, well knew this. 
The members of Congress who framed the law were not ignorant of it, 
and the ])rovisions for a chemical laboratory, and collections of natural 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 89 

history, proved that they looked to the prosecution of such inquiries 
under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Wisely, therefore, did the first Board of Regents propose, in order to 

INCREASE KNOWLEDGE 

First. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by 
offering suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths, and to 
publish these and such other papers of suitable character as should be 
offered to the Institution. 

Second. To cause particular researches to be made by competent 
persons. 

And in order to diffuse knowledge — 

First. "To publish occasionally a series of practical reports on the 
progress of the different branches of knowledge." 

Second. " To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of gen- 
eral interest." 

The results which have been produced by the Institution have re- 
ceived the approbation of the learned in every part of the civilized 
world, and fully justify the wisdom of the plan adopted b\^ the Regents, 
and successfully carried into operation by the Secretary. 

As a proof of this, we need only state the following facts given in the 
last report of the Regents to Congress. 

" The Institution has promoted astronomy, by the aid furnished the 
researches which led to the discovery of the true orbit of the new 
planet Neptune, and the determination of the pertm'bations of this 
planet and the other bodies of the solar system, on accomit of their 
mutual attraction.. It has also aided the same branch of science by 
furnishing instruments and other facilities to the Chilian expedition, 
under Lieutenant GiUis; and by preparing and publishing an ephem- 
eris of Neptune, which has been adopted by all the astronomers of the 
world. 

"It has advanced geography, by providing the scientific traveller 
with annual lists of the occultations of the principal stars, by the moon, 
for the determination of longitude; by the prepai-ation of tables tor as- 
certaining heights with the barometer; and by the collection and pub- 
lication of important facts relative to the topograpliy of different parts 
of the country, particularly of the valley of the Mississippi. 

"It has established an extended system of meteorology, consisting 
of a corps of several hundred intelligent observers, who are daily note- 
ing the phases of the weather in every part of the continent of North 
America. It has imported standard instruments, constructed hundreds 
of compared thermometers, barometers, and ps3"chrometers, and has 
furnished improved tables and directions for observing with these in- 
struments the various changes of the atmosphere, as to temperature, 
pressure, moisture, &c. It has collected, and is collecting, from its 
observers, an extended series of facts which are yielding deductions of 
great interest in regard to the climate of this country and the meteoro- 
logy of the globe. 

" The Institution has advanced the science of geology, by its re- 
searches and original pubHcations. It has made a preliminary explo- 
ration of the remarkable region on the upper Missouri river called the 
Bad Lands, and is now printing a descriptive memoir on the extra- 



90 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

ordinary remains which abound in that locahty. It has assisted in ex- 
plorations relative to the distribution in this country of the remains of 
microscopic animals found in immense quantities in different parts of 
the United States. 

"It has made impoi'tant conttibulions to botan_y, by means of the 
published results of explorations in Texas, New Mexico, and Califor- 
nia ; and by the preparation and publication of an extended memoir, 
illustrated with colored engravings, on the sea-plants of the coast of 
North America. 

"It has published several important original papers on physiology, 
comparative anatomy, zoology, and different branches of descriptive 
natural history ; and has prepared and printed, ^for distribution to 
travellers, a series of directions for collecting and preserving speci- 
mens. 

" It has advanced terrestrial magnetism, by furnishing instruments 
for determining the elements of the magnetic force, to various explor- 
ing expeditions; and by publishing the results of observations made 
under its direction, at the expense of the government. 

" It has collected and published the statistics of the libraries of the 
United States ; and perfected a plan of stereotyping catalogues, which 
w^ill render effective, as a combined whole, all the scattered libraries 
of the country. 

" The Institution has also been instrumental in directing attention to 
American antiquities, and has awakened such an interest in the sub- 
ject as will tend to the collection and study of all the facts which can 
be gathered relative to the ancient inhabitants of this continent. It 
has also rendered available for the purposes of the ethnologist and 
philanthropist the labors of our missionaries among the Dakotas, by 
publishing a volume on the language of this tribe of Indians, and has 
done good service to comparative philology by the distribution of 
directions for collecting Indian vocabularies. 

"It has established an extended system of literar}'" and scientific ex- 
changes, both foreign and dtnnestic, and annually transmits, between the 
most distant societies and individuals, hundrcdsof packages of valuable 
works. It has presented its own publications, free of expense, to all the 
first-class libraries of the world, and thus rendered them accessible, as 
far as possible, to all persons who are interested in their study. No re- 
striction of copyright has been placed on their republication ; and the 
truths which they contain are daily finding their way to the general 
public, through the labors of popular writers and teachers. The dis 
tribution of its publications and its system of exchanges has served 
not only to advance and diffuse knowledge, but also to increase the re- 
putation, and, consequently, the influence of our country ; to promote a 
kindly and sym[)ath(Uic ti'cling between the New World and the Old — 
alike gratefid to the philosopher and the philanthropist. 

" These are the fruits of what is called the system of" active operations 
of the Institution, and its power to produce other and continuous results 
is only limited by the amount of the income which can be appropriated 
to it, since each succeeding year has presented new and important fields 
for its cultivation. All the anticipations indulged with regard to it have 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 91 

been fully realized ; and after an experience of six years, there can now 
be no doubt of the true policy of the Regents in regard to it." 

Reports of a more popular character have been published, or are in 
preparation, which are well calculated to diffuse knowledge. Such is 
the report on the recent improvements in the chemical arts, by Messrs. 
Booth & Morfit, prepared and published under the direction of the In- 
stitution. The Secretary has said of it " that though chiefly intended 
to benefit the practical man, yet it will be found interesting to the gen- 
eral reader, as exhibiting the cotemporaneous advance of science and 
art, and the dependence of the latter upoi^the former for the improve- 
menr of its most important processes." Among the subj(X'ts of which 
it treats, may be mentioned fuel and furnaces, glass-making and pottery, 
cements, metals and their manufacture, chemicals, textile fabrics, mineral 
and organic manures. This work has been stereotyped, and besides 
those which are distrit)uted on the plan of exchange. Copies are offered 
for sale at the mere cost of printing, paper, and commissicni. Another 
report which is in preparation, on the forest trees of North America, giv- 
ing their economical and ornamental uses and values, their history, mode 
of propagation, &c., &c., will supply to agriculturalists a work of great 
interest and importance which has long been a desideratum. Other re- 
ports have been prepared and will be ready for the press as soon as the 
funds can be appropriated for printing them. 

The Committee need not repeat in detail all the parts of the plan of 
organization, but may mention that it included the exchange of the 
pubhshed transactions of the Institution, with those of literary and 
scientific societies and establishments ; and provided for a museum and 
library, to consist of a complete collection of the transactions and pro- 
ceedings of all the learned societies in the world, of the more important 
current periodical publications and of other works necessary to scientific 
investigations, thus employing the instrumentalities pointed out in the 
law, as means of increasing and diffusing knowledge, entirely consistent 
with, and necessary to, the plan of research and publication. 

This plan is no longer experimental ; it has been tested by expe- 
rience; its success is acknowledged by all who are capable of forming 
a correct estimate of its results, and the Institution has every encour- 
agement to pursue steadily its system of stimulating, assisting, and 
publishing research. 

Whether the equal division of the income of the Institution, accord- 
ing to the plan of the compromise resolutions, should be observed after 
the completion of the building, is a question submitted to your Com- 
mittee for report, and proper to be decided by the Board during the 
present year. The Committee think that while moderate appropriations 
should be annually made for the gradual increase of the library, and 
for other objects specified in the fifth section of the act establishing the 
Institution, so as to carry out in good faith the intention of Congress, 
it is not advisable to make the equal division of the income as proposed 
by the compromise resolutions. 

The public generally, and even the Regents, most probably, do not 
know how small the funds of the Institution are in proportion to what 
is required of it, and the expense necessarily connected with so large 
a buildino;. 



92 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

The Secretary has stated in his Report that the general expenses, 
viz : meetings of the Regents and Committees, hghting and heating ot 
the building, postage, transportation, stationery, general printing, ap- 
paratus, incidentals, and general salaries, have gradually increased, 
and will grow larger when the building shall be completed and entirely 
occupied. Last year these expenses amounted to $12,000. Besides 
this, the salaries of the assistants and pay of attendants in the library 
and museum are $5,740 per annum. 

The salaries are as follows : 

e 

General Salaries. 

That of the Secretary, (per annum,) $3,500 

Clerk 1,0()0 

Book-keeper 200 

Janitor •. 400 

Laborer 250 

Watchman > 365 

5,715 

Salary of assistant in charge of the library $2,500 

An assistant to the assistant in the library 600 

Another assistant 540 

P,640 

Salary of assistant in charge of the museum xJ,OUO 

Assistance and labor in museum 100 

5,740 

Total of permanent salaries at the present time 11,455 

Together, the salaries and general expenses before mentioned amount 
to more tlian half the interest of the original fund, and to nearly half of 
the interest on that fund, augmented by $150,000 of accumulated in- 
terest, which the regents propose to add to it so as to make the per- 
manent fund $665,000. The whole or the greater part of the interest 
on this addition to the original fund will be required during the pre- 
sent year for the building, and when that shall be finished, a consider- 
able sum will be necessary to fit up and furnish the great central por- 
tion which is to be chiefly occupied by the library and museum. It 
may be assumed that not less $15,000 will be demanded for this pur- 
pose. But supposing the building to be completed and furnished, and 
the whole income at command for the operations of the Institution, and 
assuming that the salaries and general expenses will not increase, but 
remain as they were last year, at $17,740, there will be at the disposal 
of the Regents tor all operations and purposes, including lectures, re- 
searches, publications, purchase of books for the library, binding, ex- 
plorations for the benefit of the museum, apparatus, and the purchase 
of objects of art, a sum between $22,000 and $23,000. It will readily 
be perceived how inadequate this sum is to the rapid accumulation of 
a libl'ary, of collections for the museum and gallery of art, for lectures 
and those active operations which lead direclly to the increase and dif- 
fusion of knowledge. Even this fund may be expected to be diminished 
by the greater expense which will attend the occupation of the entire 
building and the increased and constantly increasing collections. 

The museum increases so rapidly by the deposit of Government col- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 93 

lections, by donations, exchanges, and the receipt of specimens from 
special explorations aided by the Institution, that very small, if any, 
annual appropriations are required for it. But the expense of the care 
and exhibition of an increasing collection swells from year to year, 
while the Smithsonian funds are not so increased. The great object of 
the museum should be to furnish to men of science, eminent in their 
several departments, the means of advancing knowledge in these de- 
partments, by submitting specimens of new objects to their examination. 
If the expenditure could be borne, it would scarcely be desuable to in- 
crease the number of officers connected vyith the museum, so that the 
various branches of natural history might be fully represented, but con- 
sidering the limited funds of the Smitljsonian Institution, such an idea 
is not to be entertained. 

On the contrar}^, the collections made should, in general, at all events, 
be referred tor examination and description to the men most eminent in 
the country, and the results should be published in a manner worthy 
of their labors, by the Institution. 

A larger but still a moderate appropriation for the library, varying 
as circumstances may require, should be annually made. It may be 
desirable, occasionally, to make larger investments in books, as when a 
library of special value and peculiar suitableness may be in the market, 
and within th'^ means of the Institution. But this should be left to the 
discretion and sound judgment of the Regents at the time. 

It is not believed to be advisable to accumulate in the Smithsonian 
Institution great masses of books, without reference to their peculiar 
character and value. What we want, and what the act of Congress 
contemplates, is not a collection of every thing which learned dulness 
and literary fijlly as well as real wisdom and sound science have put 
into print, a vast and unwieldly repertory, in whicli the trash as well 
as the precious may be found, but a library of valuable books pertain- 
ing to all departments of human knowledge. The exchanges will gra- 
dually furnish us with much that answers to this description, and mod- 
erate appropriations will supply, quite as rapidly as necessary, whatever 
besides may bo requisite to constitute a valuable library of research in 
all departments of human knowledge. The library now consists of 
12,005 volumes, besides 8,095 pamphlets and parts of volumes, and 
1,874 map*, and 1,431 engravings. 

In his report, to the Secretary, of January, 1853, Professor Jewett 
stated that the library had nearly doubled in size during the year 1852, 
and that its greatest increase had been by exchanges. He said " they 
may be cc^nsidered as the first fjuits of a system of scientific and lite- 
rary exchange, established and sustained by the Institution. They 
show, also, that the benefits derivable fiom its connexion with the 
system of active operations had not been over estimated. 

"A considerable portion of the money expended in ]:)ublications re- 
turns in th(> shape of books for the library. These again are constantly 
increasing the efficiency and interest of the publications. The value 
of the books received, by exchange, cannot be estimated by their num- 
ber, or even their nominal price. 

" They are works of the first importance to the scientific student, 



94 EiaHTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

and which it is very difficult to procure by purchase, even with large 
tunds at command." 

Professor Baird estimated the value of the works thus received, 
during the year 1852, at from $4,000 to $5,000. If we estimate the 
future receipts from the S3'stem of exchange at half" that sum annually, 
and suppose an appropriation in money of equal amount for the pur- 
chase of books, the growth of the library will be quite as rapid as was 
that of the library of Congress during the twenty-five years prior to the 
late fire, and its annual increase in value more than double that of the 
Congressional Library before the period mentioned. For several 
years before 1825, the ordinary appropriations of Congress for their 
library were not more than $2,000 per annum, ^ince that period they 
have been $5,000. 

The Committee of Organization, in their report submitted in 1847, 
recommended such a selection of books as w^ould " make the Smith- 
sonian Library chiefly a supplemental one," and "to purchase for the 
most part valuable works which are not to be found elsewhere in the 
Union." 

Of course this was not to be a universal rule, and not to exclude 
standard works of authority and reference. They particularly desired 
to see the library so supplied with important works on bibhograph}'', so 
that it might become the centre of literary and bibliographical reference 
for the whole country. This desire has always been entertained by the 
Regents, and mu-^h has already been done tovyards this object. The 
collection of printed and manuscript catalogues has already been 
commenced with this view, and should be steadily followed up. It is 
believed that the appropriations suggested, together wath the exchanges 
and occasional special appropriations, will, in a reasonable time, not 
only secure this object, but make the library the most important collec- 
tion of valuable books, pertaining to all departments of knowledge, 
to be found in our country. 

Suggestions have been made to the Committee of certain alterations 
in the organization of the Institution, which your Connnittee think not 
warranted b}^ the letter and spirit of the law, -and in conflict with the 
seventh section, which defines the duties and powers of the Secretary. 
That section admits of only one interpretation. Its terms are direct 
and explicit, and its objects are expressly and pointedly set forth. The 
entire property of the Institution is placed by it in the Secretary's 
hands, and he is distinctly constituted the responsible agent of the 
Board of Regents. He is *'to make a fair and accurate record of all 
their proceedings," "to take charge of the building and property of 
the Institution," to discharge the duties of librarian and keeper of the 
museum. This language clearly shows the intention of the framers of 
the law to secure unity of action, to admit of no separate and indepen- 
dent departments, as is often the case in other institutions All the 
duties enumerated are devolved solely on the Secretary, and though 
other persons may be employed, they are merely his assistants, the 
offices being emphatically one. The Secretary alone is authorized to 
act, and if the business of the Institution demanded no more than the 
mind and labor of one man might be competent to perform, there would 
be no occasion for the employment of any one else. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 95 

The law is declaratory and positive in charging the Secretary with the 
enumerated duties, and therefore invests him and him alone with the 
corresponding powers. But as it must have been manifest that no 
Secretary could be able of himself to perform personally every thing 
required for the discharge of his enumerated duties, provision is made 
for aid to him, in the clause which says that he " may, with the con" 
sent of the board, employ assistants," &c. 

The positions of the persons so employed are detern]ined by the 
word which designates them in the clause authorising iheir employ- 
ment. They are called " assistajits.^^ To whom ? Not to the Regents, 
but to the Secretar}^ Their position is necessarily subordinate ; and 
as their duties are those of assistants to their principal, they can no 
more be independent of him than they can be superior to him. This 
construction is so manifestly proper, that it would seem to require no 
argument to justify it. But if anything iiirther were wanted, it may 
be found in the tact that the Secretary is to employ them in and about 
that very business with which he is cliarged and lor which he alone is 
responsible. The character of this part of the section is permissive. 
He is not required to employ any one, but is permitted to employ per- 
sons to assist him, provided he satisfy the Board that their services are 
necessary as aids to him. 

In another part of the same section provision is made for the pay- 
ment and, if need be, the removal of the Secretary and his assistants, 
and in this connexion they are spoken of as officers, but by no ingenu- 
ity of construction can that word, in this connexion, be held to assign 
them special duties or confer any separate authority. 

Thus careful has Congress been to provide an efficient system of 
operations which can only come from harmony of purpose and unity 
of action. 

This view of the intention of Congress, so clearly expressed in the 
law, would be directly contradicted by the plan which has been sug- 
gested, of organizing the Institution definitely into several departments, 
placing at the head of these departments different assistants, estabhsh- 
ing their relative positions, prescribing distinct duties for them, assign- 
ing certain shares of the income to be disbursed by them, and stating 
their authority, privileges, and remedies for infringement of their official 
rights, or of the interests entrusted to their care. All this would tend 
not to se( ure a loyal and harmonious co-operation, to a common end, 
of the assistants with the Secretary, but to encourage rivalry, to invite 
colhsirn, to engender hostility, to destroy subordination, to distract the 
operations of the Institution, to impair its efficienc3% and to destroy its 
usefulness. 

The Committee are satisfied too, that the expenditures of the Insti- 
tution would be unprofitably increased by oi-ganizing it into several de- 
partments, with authority to the head of each department to expend the 
rnoney appropriated to it. The tendency would be to more subdivi- 
sions of duty, to an increase of assistants, by the introduction first of 
temporary and then of permanent employees, until, as the collections 
grew larger and the persons charged with their care became more 
numerous, the greater portion of the income would be absorbed in sala- 
ries. Thus the munificence intended to increase and chfTuse knowledge 



96 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

among rnnnkind, would be chiefly expended in salaries and official 
emoluments. 

Already the Committee think it would be well to consider whether it 
might not be consistent with the proper working of the Institution to 
limit and reduce some of these expenses. 

While the Committee desire to preserve and increase? the library and 
museum, as already stated, they think it would be well to repeal the 
seventh resolution, passed by the Boaid of Regents on the 26th Janu- 
ary, 1847, which has already been recited. 

They recommend that, in future, the appropriations should be made 
without reference to any fixed rule of distribution or division between 
the diflerent operations and objects of the Institution, and that the 
Board, while making specific appropriations, should apportion them ac- 
cording to their opinion of what is necessary and proper, giving to each 
object such sum as its intrinsic importance and a compliance in good 
faith with the law mh}'^ seem to demand. 

Thus they will be enabled to economize by postponing or limiting 
some operations and preferring others, by applying the funds to those 
objects which at the time appear most pressing, and which promise the 
most prompt, tar-reaching, and beneficial action. 

In conchision, the Committee adopt the following remarks and 
recommendations, which they extract from a paper submitted to them 
by the Secretary, and desire that they may be considered as part of 
this report : 

" If one-fourth of the whole income is devoted to the museum, ad- 
ditional assistants will be required for the care and management of the 
specimens, while the withdrawal of Prof. Baird from the publications 
and exchanges will require more help in that quarter. 

"Besides the necessary expenditure for cases and furniture for the 
library, appropriations Tnay be made for carr3'ing on the catalogue sys- 
tem; for |)rintuig reports on libraries ; for the publication of a library 
manual"; for the preparation and publication of bibliographies; for 
completing sets of transactions, and the purchase of other books for 
the operations of the Institution ; also for printing a catalogue or list of 
books in the hljrary. 

"Inadchtion to the sum which will be necessarily required for the 
cases and lii'niture of the museum, a small sum may annually be ap- 
propriated t()r collecting particular desiderata in natural history, to be 
presented to other institutions as well as preserved in this ; tor pur- 
chasing instruments and models to illustrate particular branches of 
knowledge, or to assist in the prosecution of special lines of research, 
which miy serve as samples to artizans in this countr^^, or be used in 
investigations. 

" Models may also be obtained for multiplying casts of the most cele- 
brated specimens of ancient and modern art. 

" Appropriations for all these objects cannot be made in the same 
year, but discretion, as I have said bef()re, should be used as to the 
time when it would be the most advisable to make the expenditure in 
each particular case. 

" As finv ojXMntions as possible ought to be carried on in the build- 
ing of the Institution. Printing, stereotyping, engraving, &c., can be 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 97 

done at a cheaper rate by contract ; these require expensive superin- 
tendence ; and workmen, as a general rule, cannot be expected to do 
as much for public institutions as for a private individual. Besides 
this, much time must be lost in the interval of the publication of the 
different articles, and when it is necessary, on account of the exhaus- 
tion of the appropriation, to stop lor the year, this can only be done by 
disbanding the workmen, while the interest on the cost of the apparatus 
remains. 

"These remarks also apply to calculations and reductions of obser- 
vations, which, in man}'- cases, can be distributed to professors in colleges, 
who, for a small addition to their salaries, will iurnish results which-, 
could not be procured in the Institution for many times the same sum. 

" The maxim stated in the programme, namel}', that lew individuals 
ought to be permanently supported by the Institution, sliould be con- 
stantly kept in view, and the greatest caution exercised in adding nevr 
members to the permanent corps. 

" The Institution, in order to produce the greatest amount of useful 
effect with a given expenchture of income, must be a unit in plan and a 
unit in purpose. Each assistant must not merely have regard to the 
advancement of his own speciality, but the good of the whole, and 
though he may be assigned a specific duty, he should be ready and 
wilhng, at the call ot" the Secretary, to render service in any other. 
Without a system of government which will ensure this, not only the 
usefulness of the Institution will be greatly abridged, but its very ex- 
istence jeoparded." 

The committee submit to the Board the following resolutions : 

Resolved, That the seventh resolution passed by the Board of Re- 
gents on the 26th of Januar}', 1847, requiring an equ;d division of the 
income between the active operations and the museum and library, 
when the buildings are completed, be and it is hereb}', repealed. 

Rcsolmd, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor- 
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the in- 
stitution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of" the Regents, be 
necessary and proper fin* each, according to its intrinsic importance, 
and a compliance in good faith with the law. 
Respectfullv submitted : 

.JAMES A. PEARCE, Chairman. 

Mr. Mason offered tlie following resolution whicli was adopted : 
Rcsolfed, That the report of the Special Committee just made, be- 
laid on the table for further consideration, and that the papers referred 
to in the report be communicated to the Board for their examination ; 
and that said report, and such report of a minority of the Committee a* 
may be made in the recess of the board, be printed. 

On motion of Mr. English, the Board then adjourned, to meet on 
Saturday, the 8th of July, at 10 o'clock a. m. 

7 



98 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Washington, July 8, 1854. 
An adjourned meeting of the Bonrd of Regents was held ou Satur- 
day, July 8, at 10 o'clock, a. m. 

Present : Messrs. Bache, Douglas, English, Hawley, Mason, 
Pearce, Rush, Stuart, Totten, Towers, and the Secretary. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Hawley wns called to the 
chair. 

John T. Towers, esquire, mayor elect of the city of Washington, 
appeared and took the seat in the Board vacated by Mr. Maury, late 
mayor. 

The Secretary laid before the Board the sixth volume of Smithso- 
nian Contributions to Knowledge. 

Mr. Mason, from the Select Committee on the resolutions of Messrs. 
Fitch and Meacham, offered the foUowing resolution : 

•*'The Secretary of the Institution and of this Board is, by the 
■seventh secti(Mi ot" the net ' to establish the Smithsonian Institution,' 
required to discharge the duties of 'Librarian and Keeper of the 
Museum,' having, with the consent of the Board of Regents, power to 
employ assistants, the better to enable him . to discharge those duties ; 
for a better construction whereof, 

Be it resolved^ That whilst power is reserved in the said section to 
the Board of Regents to remove both the Secretary and his assistants, 
in the opinion of the Board, power, nevertheless, remains with the Sec- 
retary to remove his said assistants." 

Mr. English moved to amend the resolution Ijy inserting the words 
"•with the consent cf the Board of Regents,^' after the words "power, 
nevertheless, remains with the Secretary.'''' 

Mr. Stuart moved that the consideration of Mr. Mason's resolution 
be postponed till the next meeting of the Board. On this question the 
yeas and nays were demanded. 

Those voting in the affirmative : ^ 

Yeas. — Messrs. Douglas, English, Stuart, Towers — 4. 
Nays. — Messrs. Bache, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Totten — 5. 
, So the motion was not carried. 
The question was then taken on the amendment offered by Mr. 
Enelish to Mr. Mason's resolution, and the yeas and nays taken : 
Yeas. — Messrs. Douglas, English, Stuart, Towers — 4. 
Nays. — Messrs. Bache, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Totten — 5. 
So the amendment was lost. 

Mr. Douglas movcul a postponement of the subject for a week from 
next Friday. 

The yeas and nays were taken on this motion : 
Yeas. — Messrs. Douglas, English, Stuart, Towers — 4. 
Nays. — Messrs. Bache, Hawle}'-, Mason, Pearce, Totten — f). 
. .So the motion was lost. 

The qufistion was then taken on Mr. Mason's resolution ; which was 
adopted. 

Yeas. — Messrs. Bache, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, Totten — 6. 

Nays. — Messrs. Douglas, English, Stuart, Towers — 4. 

Mr. Stuart moved to postpone the consideration of the resolutions 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 99 

appended to the report of the Select Committee on the resolutions of 
Messrs. Fitch and Meacham, till the next annual session. 

A division was called for — ayes 3, noes 6. 

So the motion was lost. 

IMr Douglas moved to postpone tlic consideration for two weeks. 

A division was called tor — ayes 4, noes 6. 

So the motion was lost. 

Mr. English moved that the Board adjourn. 

This motion was withdrawn to allow the Chairman of the Execu- 
tive Committee, Mr. Pearce, to bring forward the appropriations for 
the year recommended by tHe committee, and reported to the Board, 
AprU 29, 1854. 

On motion, the appropriations, as reported by the Executive Commit- 
tee, were adopted — ayes 7, noes 3. 

The Secretary stated to the Board that he had emplo^^ed Mr. Lorin 
Blodget to reduce and discuss the meteorological observations collected 
by the Smithsonian Institution, and that some misunderstanding had 
arisen betvv^een this gentleman and himself as to the adjustment of his 
claims in reference to the work, which he proposed to refer to the Exe- 
cutive Committee, and if necessary to a Commission of Examination, 
one of whom might be appointed by the Secretary, another by Mr. 
Blodget, and a third by the two persons so appointed ; whereupon, 

On motion of Mr. Mason, it was 

Resolved 1 That the Executive Committee be authorized to investi- 
gate and settle the business presented to the Board by the Secretary. 

Mr. English then renewed his motion to adjourn. 

Adopted — ayes 6, noes 4, 

The Board then adjourned sine die. 



300 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ESTABLISHMENT. 



Washington, May 3, 1853. 

A meeting of" the Smithsonian Institution, called by order of the 
IVesidenl of" the United States, was held this day, May 3, 1853, in the 
session hall of the Smitlisonian buikhng, at 11 o'clock, a. m. 

Present : Franklin Pierce, President of the United States, ex officio 
President of the Smithsonian Institution ; James Guthrie, Secretary of 
the Treasury ; James C. Dobbin, Secretary of the Navy ; James Camp- 
bell, Postmaster General ; Caleb Cusliing, Attorney General ; John W. 
Maury, Mayor of Washington ; Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

The Secretary gave an account of the operations of" the Institution. 

Less than half of the number of members being present, the meeting 
adjourned to meet on Tuesday, the 17th inst. 



Washington, May 17, 1853. 

An adjourned meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held tlfis 
day in the session hall of the Smithsonian buikhng. 

Present: Franklin Pierce, President of the United Statt^s; William 
L. Marcy, Secretary of State; James Guthrie, Secretary of the Treas- 
ury; Jefferson Davis, Secretary of War; James C.Dobbin, Secretary 
of the Navy ; James Campbell, Postmaster General ; Caleb Gushing, 
Attorney General; Charles Mason, Commissiont^r of Patents; John W. 
Maury, Ma3^or of" Wasliington ; Josepii Henry, Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

Tlie President took the chair, and the minutes of the preceding 
meeting were read. 

On motion, the President appointed a committee of five to (h-afi a 
code of By-laws. The committee consisted of" the following persons, to 
wit : Messrs Cashing, Dobbin, Maury, Davis, and xhc Secretary. 

The committee, after due deliberation, reported llirough tiieir chair- 
man, Mr. Gushing, the fallowing : 

BY-LAWS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITdTfON. 

Section 1. A stated annual meeting of the statute and honorary 
members of the Institution shall be held at tlie Hall of ilie Institution, 
in Washington, on the first Tuesday in May. Adjourned meetings may 
be lield at such place and time as tlie members of the Institution at any 
meeting may order. Special meetings will be convened by direction, 
of the President of the United States. 

Sec. 2. Notice of all meetings of the Institution, whether stated, ad- 
journed, or special, shall be given by the Secretary in writing, addressed 
to each member. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 101 

Sec 3. The votes and proceedings of the Institution, with the names 
of the members present at each meeting, shall be recorded ; and at the 
opening of every meeting the journal of the preceding meeting shall 
be read by the Secretary. 

Sec 4. A quorum ol' not less than six ot" the statute membci^s shall 
be requisite for the transaction of any business except adjourning or ob- 
taining the attendance of members. 

Sec 5 The Secretary shall at the stated annual meeting, make a 
general statement of the condition and affairs of the Institution during 
the past year. 

Sec 6. Honorary members, not exceeding one in each year, shall 
be elected by ballot, and by unanimous vote of the statute members : 
Provided, That no person shall be chosen without having been nomin 
ated at a previous meeting of the Institution. 

Sec 7. The rules of parliamentiuy proceedings, as received and 
practised in the Senate of the United States, shall govern the meetings 
of the Institution in all cases which are not inconsistent with the fore 
going By-laws. 

On motion, the report of the committee was adopted. 

The Secretary presented an account of the organization and operations 
of the Institution, relative to the reception and publication of memoirs, 
researches, exchanges, the formation ot" catalogues of libraries ; also an 
acc&unt of the state of the funds, and the policy N^ith regard to the for- 
mation oi" collections, &c. 

On motion of Mr. Davis, nominations were then received for the ap- 
pointment of an honorary member of the Institution, to take place at a 
succeeding meeting. 

On motion, the Institution adjourned to the first Monday in June en- 
suing, at 11 o'clock, a. m. 



Washington, June 6, 1853. 

An adjourned meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held this 
day, June 6, 1853, in the session hall ot"the Smithsonian building. 

Present : Franklin Pierce, President of the United States, cx-o^io 
President of the Smithsonian Institution ; James Guthrie, Secretary of 
the Treasury; William L. Marcy, Secretary of State; Jefferson Davis, 
Secretary of War; James Campbell, Postmaster General; Caleb Gush- 
ing, Attorney General; Charles Mason, Commissioner of Patents; 
Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

T[ie President took the chair, and the minutes of the preceding meet- 
ing were read. 

On motion, the Institution proceeded to ballot tor the election of an 
honorary member. r 

Professor Parker Cleaveland was declared unanimously elected. 

The advertisement of the Leopoldin Caroline Acadenjy of Germany, 
relative to the Smithsonian Institution, was read by the Secretary. 

The Institution then adjourned swe die. 



102 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

The stated annual meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held 
this da}^ May 2, 1854, at the hall of the Institution at 12 o'clock, m. 

Present: Franklin Pierce, President of the United States; Hon. Wm. 
L. Marcy, Secretary of State; Hon. James Guthrie, Secretary of the 
Treasury; Hon. Jefferson Davis, Secretary of War; Hon. James C. 
Dobbin, Secretary of the Navy; Hon. Caleb Gushing, Attorney Gene- 
ral; Hon. John W. Maury, Mayor of the city; Professor Robert Hare, 
honorary member; Professor Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Institution. 

The President took tlie chair. 

The minutes of the last annual meeting were read and approved. 

On motion of Hon. Mr. Guthrie, the Institution proceeded to nomi- 
nate candidates for election as honorary members. 

Dr. Hare made some remarks respecting his apparatus, and the con- 
ditions on which it was presented to the Institution. 

The Secretary explained the cause of the delay in completing the 
repairs, and in the proposed exhibition of the apparatus. This had 
been mainly due to an accident wliich happened to the building. A 
part of the interior gave way, and the Regents directed that the whole 
wood-wot k of the main building should be removed, and its place sup- 
plied with fire-proof materials. To meet the additional expense of this 
necessary change in the plan, the time of completing the edifice was 
extended, and funds which would have been devoted to otiier purposes 
were consequently given to this object. The building will, however, 
be completed in the course of the present year ; a spacious room is 
now nearly ready to receive the apparatus, and due diligence on the 
part of the Institution will be made to finish the repairs of the articles, 
of which a considerable portion are now completed. 

On motion the Institution then adjourned to the first Tuesday in June 
next (6lh proximo.) 



Washington, June 6, 1854. 

An adjourned meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held this 
day, June 6, 1854, in the hall of the Institution, at 12 o'clock, m. 

Present: Hon. Wm. L. Marcy, Secretary of State; Hon. James 
Guthrie, Secretary of the Treasury; Hon. Caleb Gushing, Attorney 
General; Hon. Charles Mason, Commissioner of Patents; Prof. Joseph 
Henry, Secretary of the Institution. 

There not being a legal quorum present, on motion of Mr. Gushing 
the Institution adjourned to meet on Saturday, July 15, 1854, at 12 
o'clock, m. 



Washington, July 15, 1854. 

An adjourned meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held this 
day, July 15, 1854, in the hall of the Institution, at 12 o'clock, m. 

Present : Franklin Pierce, President of the United States ; Hon. 
Wm. L. Marcy, Seci'ctary of State ; Hon. James Guthrie, Secretary of 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 103 

the Treasury ; Hon. Jefferson Davis, Secretary of War ; Hon. James 
C. Dobbin, Secretary of tiie Navy; Hon. James Campbell, Postmaster 
General; Hon. Caleb Cushing, Attorney General; Hon. Charles Mason, 
Commissioner of Patents. 

The President took tiio chair. The minutes of the last meeting were 
read and approved. 

The nominations previously made for honorary members were then 
read, and the Institution proceeded to ballot, but no choice was made. 

On the second ballot no choice was made. 

On motion, the election of an honorary member was postponed. 

Ordered, That three persons be appointed a Committee of the Insti- 
tution to confer with the Board of Regents as to suitable means of 
communication between the two bodies, and to report thereon at a sub- 
sequent meeting of the Institution. 

The Secretary gave a general account of the affairs of the Institution ; 
the condition of the building; the operations carried on during the past 
year; and a statement of the finances at the present time. 

The President appointed Messrs. Cushing, Davis, and Mason as the 
committee of conference with the Board of Regents. 

On motion of Mr. Campbell, the Institution adjourned to meet on the 
third Saturday (21st) of October next. 



1 



APPEIDIX. 



REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 107 



WILL OF SMITHSON. 

1, James Smithson, son of Hugh, first Duke of Northumberland, and 
Elizabeth, heiress of the Hungertbrds of Audley, and niece of Charles 
the Proud, Duke of Somerset, now residing in Bentinck street, Caven- 
dish square, do this 23d day of October, 1826, make tliis my last will 
and testament : 

I bequeath the whole of my property of every nature and kind soever 
to my bankers, Messrs. Drummonds, of Charing Cross, in trust, to be 
disposed of in the following manner, and desire of my said executors 
to put my property under the management of the court of chancery. 

To John Fitall, fJirmerly my servant, but now employed in the Lon- 
don Docks, and residing at No. 27, Jubilee Place, North Mile End, Old 
Town, in consideration of his attachment and fidelity to me, and the 
long and great care he has taken of my effects, and my having dona 
but very little for him, 1 give and bequeath the annuity or annual sum 
of ^100 sterling for his life, to be paid to him quarterly, free fiom 
legacy duty and all other deductions, the first payment to be made to 
him at the expiration of three montlis after my death. I have at divers- 
times lent sums of money to Henry Honori Juilly, formerly my servant, 
but now keeping the Hungerlbrd Hotel, in the Rue Caumartin, at Paris, 
and for which sums of money I have undated bills or bonds signed by 
him. Now I will and direct that, if he desires it, these sums of money 
be let remain in his hands at an interest of five per cent, for five years 
after the date of the present will. 

To Henry James Himgerfbrd, my nephew, heretofore called Henry 
James Dickinson, son of my late brother. Lieutenant Colonel Henry 
Louis Dickinson, now residing with Mr. Auboin, at Bourg la Reine, near 
Paris, I give and bequeath for his life the whole of the income arising 
from my property, of" every nature and kind whatever, after the pay- 
ment of the above annuity, and, after the death of John Fitall, that 
annuity likewise, the payments to be at the time tiie interest or divi- 
dends become due on the stocks or other property from which tiie in- 
come arises. 

Should the said Henry James Hungerfbrd have a child or children, 
legitimate or illegitimate, I leave to such child or children, his or their 
heirs, executors, and assigns, after the death of his, her, or their father, 
the whole of my property of every kind, absolutely and forever, to b*e 
divided between them, if there is more than one, in the manner then- 
father shnll judge proper, and in case of his omitting to decide this, as 
the Lord Chancellor shall judge proper. 

Should nw nephew, Henry .James Hungerfbrd marry, I empower 
him to make a jointure. 

In case of the death of my said nephew, without leaving a child or 
children, or of the death of the child or children he may have had, 
under the age of 21 years, or intestate, I then bequeath the whole of my 
property, subject to the annuity of XlOO to John Fitall, and for the 
security and payment of which I mean stock to remain in this country, 
to the United States of America, to found at Washington, under the 



108 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

name of the Smithsonian Institution, an Establishment for the Increase 
and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men. 

I think it proper here to state, that all the money which will be stand- 
ing in the French five per cents, at ni}'' death, in the name of the father 
of my above mentioned nephew, Henry James Hungerfbrd, and all that 
in my name, is the property of my said nephew, being what he inherit- 
ed from his father, or what I have laid up for him from the savings 
upon his income. 

JAMES SMITHSON. [l. s.] 



Extract from a letter from Hon. Richard Rush to Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 

London, May 12, 1838. 

"I have made inquiries, from time to time, in the hope of finding out 
something of the man, personally a stranger to our people, who has 
sought to benefit distant ages by founchng, in the capital of the American 
Union, an institution (to describe it in his own simple and comprehensive 
language) for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. I have 
not heard a great deal. What I have heard, and may confide in, amounts 
to this : That he was, in fact, the natural son of the Duke of Northum- 
berland ; that his mother was a Mrs. Macie, of an ancient family in Wilt- 
shire, of the name of Hungerftjrd ; that he was educated at Oxford, where 
he took an honorary degree in 178G ; that he went under the name of 
James Lewis Macie until after a few years after he had left the univer- 
sity, when he took that ofSmithson, ever after signing only James Smith- 
son, as in his \\ill ; that he does not appear to have had any fixed home, 
living in lodgings when in London, and occasional!}^ staying a year or two 
at a time in cities on the continent, as Paris, Berlin, Florence, Genoa, at 
which last he died ; and, that the ample provision made for him by the 
Duke of Northumberland, with retired and simple habits, enabled him 
to accumulate tlie ti:)rtune which now passes to the United States. 1 
have inquired it" his political opinions or bias were supposed to be of a 
nature that led him to select the United States as tlie great trustee of 
his enlarged and philanthropic views. Tlie reply has been, that his 
opinions, as far as knovi^n or inferred, were thought to favor monarchical 
rather than popular institutions; but that he interested himself little in 
questions of government, being devoted to science, and chicfiy chemis- 
try ; that this had introduced him to the society of Cavendish, WoUas- 
ton, and others advantageously known to the Royal Society in London, 
of which body he was a member, and to the archives of which he made 
contributions ; and that he also became acquainted, through his visits 
to the continent, with eminent chemists in France, Italy, and Germany. 
Finally, that he was a gentleman of feeble health, but always of cour- 
teous though reserved manners and conversation. 

" Such I learn to have been some of the characteristics of the man 
whom generations to come may see cause to bless, and whose will may 
enrol his name with the benefactors of mankind." 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 109 



NOTICE OF SMITHSON BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY. 

Nowmher 30th, 1829. Davies Gilbert, esq., President of the Royal 
Society, in his address to the society, mentions the death of Mr. Smith- 
son as having occurred during the preceding 3^ear, or since the last 
annual meeting of the societ}'', and remarks as Ibllows : 

"MriSmithson has added eight (8) communications to our transac- 
tions. He was distinguished by the intimate friendship of" Mr. Caven- 
dish, and rivalled our most expert chemists inelegant analyses ; but the 
latter part of liis life has been passed abroad." — (Sec Philosophical 
Magazine, 2d series, vol. 7, p. 42.) 

And again, in his address to The Royal Society, November 30th, 1830, 
Mr. Gilbert, in speaking of Mr Smithson, says : 

" Of tills gentleman I must be allowed to speak with affection. We 
were ;it Oxford together, of the same college, and our acquaintance 
continued to the time of" his decease. Mr. Smithson, then called Macie, 
and an undergraduate, had the reputation of excelling all other resident 
members of the university in the knowledge of chemistry. He was 
early honored by an intimate acquaintance with Mr. Cavendish ; he was 
admitted into the Royal Society, and soon after jjrcscnted a. yaper on the 
very cm-ious concretion frequently found in the hollow of bambii canes, 
named Tahasheer. This he found to consist hlmost entirely of silex, 
existing in a manner similar to what Davy long afterwards discoved in 
the epidermis of reeds and grasses. Mr. Smithson enriched our trans- 
actions with seven other communications; a chemical analysis of 
SiOme calamines ; account of a discovery of native minium. ; on the 
composition and crystalization of certain sulphurets tirom Huel 603^3, in 
Cornwall ; on the composition of zeolite ; on a substance procured from 
the elm tree called ulmine ; on a saline substance from Mount Vesuvius ; 
facts relative to the coloring matter of vegetables. 

"He was the friend of Dr. Wollaston, and at the same time his rival 
in the manipulation and anal3'sis of small quantities. Mr. Smithson 
frcquentlv' repeated an occurrence with mucli pleasure and exultation 
as exceeding an3'thing that could be brought into competition with 
it, and this must apologise for my introducing what might otherwise be 
deemed an anecdote too light and trifling on such an occasion as the 
present. 

" Mr. Smithson declared, that happening to observe a tear gliding- 
down a lady's cheek, he endeavored to catch it on a ciystal vessel, 
that one-half of the drop escaped, but having preserved the other half, 
he submitted it to re-agents, and detected wliat was then called micro- 
cosmic salt, with muriate of soda, and, I think, three or four more sa- 
line substances, held in solution. 

" For many years past Mr. Smithson has resided abroad, principally, 1 
believe, on account of his health ; but he carried with him the esteem 
and regard of various private friends, and of a still larger number of 
persons who appreciated and admired his acquirements." — (See Philo- 
sophical Magaji:ine, 2d series, vol. ix, p. 41.) 



110 EIGHTH ANNUAL KEPORT OF 



LIST OF PAPERS PRESENTED TO THE ROYAL SOCIETY BY JAMES 

SMITHSON. 

1. " An Account of some Chemical Experiments on Tabashecr." 
Read July 7, 1791. By James Louis Macie, esq., F. R. S. — Philo- 
sophical Transactions, vol. 81, p. 368. 

2. " A Chemical Analysis of some Calamines." Read November 
18, 1802. — Philosophical Transactions, vol. 93, p. 12, and P. Maga- 
zine, vol. 14, p. 173. 

3. " An Account of a Discovery of Native Minium." Read April 
24, 1806. — Philosophical Transactions, vol. 96, p. 267, and P. Maga- 
zine, vol. 24, p. 274, and vol. 26, p. 114. 

4. " On Quadruple and Binary Compounds, particularly Sulphurets." 
Read December 24, 1807, but not published in the P. Transactions. — 
Philosophical Magazine, vol. 29, p. 275. 

5. '' On the Composition of the Compound Sulphuret from Huel 
Boys, and an account of its crystals." Read January 28, 1808. — 
Piiilosopliical Transactions, vol. 98, p. 55, and P. Magazine, vol. 29, 
p. 275. 

6. "On the Composition of Zeolite." Read February 7, 1811. — 
Philosophical Transactions, vol. 101, p. 171, and P. Magazine, vol. 37, 
p. 152, and vol. 38, p. 30. 

7. " On a substance from the Elm tree, called Ulmin." Read De- 
cember 10, 1812. — Philosophical Transactions, vol. 103, p. 64, and 
P. Magazine, vol. 42, p. 204. 

8. " On a saline substance from Mount Vesuvius." Read July 8, 
1813. — Philosophical Transactions, voL 103, p. 256, and P. Magazine, 
vol. 42, p. 425. 

9. " A Few Facts Relative to the Coloring Matter of some Vegeta- 
bles. Read December 18, 1817. — Philosophical Transactions, vol. 
108, p. 110, and P. Magazine, vol. 57, p. 58. 

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE "ANNALS OF PHILOSOPHY," BY JAMES 

SMITHSON. 

1. " On a Native Compound of Sulphuret of Lead and Arsenic." 
Paris, May 19, 1819, vol. 14, p. 96, 1819 ; and see vol. 16, p. 100. 

2. " On Native Hydrous Aluminate of Lead, or Plomb Goinme.— 
Paris, May 28, 1819, vol 14, p. 31, 1819; and see vol. 16, p. 100. 

3. " On a Fibrous Metallic Copper." Paris, March 17, 1820, vol. 
16, p. 46, 1820. 

4. " An Account of a Native Coml)ination of Sulphate of Barium 
and Fluoride of Calcium." Paris, March 24, 1820 ; vol. 16, p. 48, 
1820; and see vol 16, p. 100, for notices of 1 and 2, above. 

5. " On some Capillary Metallic Tin forced through the pores of 
Cast Irt)n." Paris, February 17, 1821, vol. 17 ; new series, vol 1, 
p. 271, 182L 

6. "On the Detection of Very Minute Quantities of Arsenic and Mer- 
cury." Letter from Mr. Smithson, (not dated,) vol. 20 ; new series, 
vol. 4, p. 127, 1822. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Ill 

7. "On Some Improvements of Lamps." Vol. 20, p. 363 ; new- 
series, vol. 4, p. 127, 1822 ; and see Ann. de Chemie., vol. xli, p. 92, 
and Journal of Science and Art, vol. 28, p. 183. 

8. " On the Crystaline form of ice." March 4, 1823.— Vol 21 ; new 
series, vol. 5, p. 340, 1823. 

9. " A Means of discriminating between Sulphate of Barium and 
Strontium." April 2, 1823.— Vol. 21; new series, vol. 5, p. 359, 1823. 

10. " On the Discovery of Acids in Mineral Substances." April 12, 
1823.— Vol. 21 ; new series, vol. 5, p. 384, 1823. 

11. " An Improved way of Making Coffee." June 4th, 1823. — Vol. 

22 ; new series, vol. 6, p. 30, 1823. 

12. "A Discovery of Chloride of Potassium in the Earth." (Not 
dated.) Vol. 22 ; new series, vol. 6, p. 258, 1823. 

13. " A Method of Fixing Particles on the Sappare." October 24, 
1823.— Vol. 22; new series, vol. 6, p. 412, 1823. 

14. " On Some Compounds of Fluorine." January 2, 1824. — Vol. 

23 ; new series, vol. 7, p. 100, 1824. 

15. " An Examination of some Egyptian Colors." January 2, 1824. 
Vol. 23 ; new series, vol. 7, p. 115, 1824. 

16. *' Some Observations on Mr. Penn's theory concerning the forma- 
tion of the Kirkdale Cave." June 10, 1824. — Vol. 24 ; new series, 
vol. 8, p. 50, 1824. 

17. " A Note on a Letter from Dr. Black, describing a Very Sensi- 
ble Balance." — Vol. 26 ; new series, vol 10, p. 52, 1825. 

18. " A Method of Fixing Crayon Colors." London, August 23, 
1825.- Vol. 26 ; new series, vol. 10, p. 236, 1825. 



ACT OF CONGRESS ACCEPTING BEQUEST. 

AN ACT to authorize and enable the President to assert and prosecute, with effect, the 
claim of the United States to the legacy bequeathed to them by James Smilhson, late of 
London, deceased, to found at Washington, inider the name of the Smithsonian Institution, 
an Estabhshment for the Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men. 

Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and Home of Representatives of tJie 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the President of 
the United States be, and he is hereby, authorized to constitute and ap- 
point an agent or agents, to assert and prosecute for and in behalf of 
the United States, and in their name or otherwise, as may be advisable, 
in the Court of Chancery, or other proper tribunal of England, the right 
of the United States to the legacy bequeathed to them by the last will 
and testament of James Smithson, late of London, deceased, for the 
purpose of ibunding at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian 
Institution, an Establishment for the Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge 
among Men ; and to empower such agent or agents so appointed to re- 
ceive and grant acquittances for all such sum or sums of money, or 
other funds, as may or shall be decreed or adjudged to the United States, 
for, or on account of said legacy. 

Sec. 2. u4nd he it further e7iactcd, That the said agent or agents shall, 
before receiving any part of said legacy, give a bond or bonds, in the 



112 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

penal sum of five hundred thousand dollars, to the Treasurer of the 
United States and his successors in office, with good and sufficient se- 
curities to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Treasur}^ for the faith- 
ful performance of the duties of the said agency, and for the faithful 
remittance to the Treasurer of the United States of all and every sum 
or sums of money or other funds which he or they may receive for pay- 
ment in whole or in part of the said legacy. And the Treasurer of the 
United States is hereby authorized and required to keep safely all sums oi" 
money or other funds which may be received by him in virtue of the said 
bequest, and to account therefor separately from all other accounts of 
his office, and subject to such iurther disposal thereof as may be here- 
after provided by Congress. 

Sec. 3. And be it further cnucted, That any and all sums of money 
and other iiinds which shall be received lor or on account of the said 
legacy shall be applied, in such manner as Congress may hereafter 
direct, to the purpose of founding and endowing at Washington, under 
the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an EstabUshment for the In- 
crease and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men, to which application oi' 
the said monevs and other funds ihc tiiith of the United States is liereby 
pledged. 

Sec. 4. .472^/ be it further cfuictcd, That, to the end that the claim to 
the said bequest may be prosecuted with effect, and the necessary ex- 
penses in prosecuting the same be defrayed, the President of the United 
States be, and he is hereby, autlprized to apply to that purpose any 
sum not exceeding ten thousand dollars out of any moneys in the trea- 
sury not otherwise appropriated. 

Approved .July 1, 1836*. 



1 



Ax\ ACT TO ESTABLISH THE SMTrHSONlAN INSTITUTION. 

AN ACT to establish the " Smithsonian Institution," ' for the Increase and Diffusion of Know- 
ledge among Men. 

James Smithson, Esquire, of London, in the kingdom of Great Britain, having by his last 
will and testament given the whole of his property to the United States of America, to 
found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an Establisliment 
for the Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men; and the United States having, by 
an act of Congress, received said property, and accepted said trust : therefore, for the faith- 
ful execution of said trust according to the will of tho libera] and enlightened donor — 

Be it enacted hy the Seiuite and House of Repreaentatives of the United 
States of America, in Congress assembled, That the President and Vice- 
President of the United States, the Secretary of State, tiie Secretary- of 
the Treasury, the Secretary of War, the Secretar}'^ of the Navy, the 
Postmaster General, the Attorney General, the Chief" Justice, and the 
Commissioner of the Patent Office of the United States, and the Ma3'^or 
of the City of Washington, during the time for which they shall hold 
their respective offices, and such other persons as they may elect hon- 
orary members, be, and they are hereby, constituted an "Establish- 
ment," by the name of the "Smithsonian Institution," for the Licrease 
and Difflision of Knowledge among Men; and by that name shall be 



THE SMITHSONIAN lNSTlTtJTIOx"«r. US' 

known, and have perpetual succession, with the powers, limitations,- 
and restrictions, hereinafter contained, and no other. 

Sec. 2. And he it further enacted, That so much of the property of 
the said James iSmithson as has been received in money, and paid into 
the Treasury of the United States, being the sum of five hundred and 
fifteen thousand one hundred and sixty-nine dollars, be lent to the 
United States Treasury, at six per cent, per annum interest from the 
first day of September, in the year one thousand eight hundred and 
thirty-eight, when the same was received into the said treasury ; and 
that so much of the interest as may have accrued on said sum on the 
first day of July next, which will amount to the sum of two hundred 
and forty-two thousand one hundred and twenty-nine dollars, or so 
much thereof as shall, by the Board of Regents of the Institution, es- 
tablished bj'this act, be deemed necessary, be, and the same is hereby, 
appropriated for the erection of suitable buildings, and for other current 
incidental expenses of said Institution ; and that six per cent, interest 
on the said trust fimd — it being tlie said amount of" five hundred and 
fifteen thousand one hundred and sixty-nine dollars received into the 
United States Treasury on the first of September, one thousand eight 
hundred and thirty-eight, paj-able, in half-yearly payments, on the first 
of January and July in each 3^ear — be, and the same is li^reby, appro- 
priated for the perpetual maintenance and support of said Institution; 
and all expenditures and appropriations to be made, from time to time, 
to the purposes of the Institution aforesaid, shall be exclusively from 
the accruing interest, and not from the principal of the said fund. A?id 
be it further cJiacted, That all the moneys and stocks which have been, 
or may hereafter be, received into the Treasury of the United States 
on account of the fimd bequeathed by James Smithson, be, and the 
same hereby are, pledged to refund to the Treasury of the United 
States the sums hereby appropriated. 

Sec. 3. Atid be it further enacted, That the business of the said Insti- 
tution shall be conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Re- 
gents by the name of the Regents of the " Smithsonian Institution," to 
be composed of the V'ice-Prcsident of the United States, the Chief Jus- 
tice of the United States, and the Mayor of" the city of Washington,, 
during the time for which they shall hold their respective offices ; three- 
members of the Senate, and three members of the House of Representa- 
tives ; together with six other persons, other than members of Congress, 
two of whom shall be members of tlie National Institute in the city of 
Washington, and resident in the said city ; and the other four thereof 
shall be inhabitants of States, and no two of them of the same State. 
And the Regents, to be selected as aforesaid, shall be appointed imme- 
diately after the passage of this act— the members of the Senate by the 
President thereof, the members of the House by the Speaker thereof, 
and the six other persons by joint resolution of the Senate and House of 
Representatives ; and the members of the House so appointed shall 
serve until the fourth Wednesday in December, the second next after 
the passage of tliis act ; and then, and biennially thereafter, on every 
alternate fourth Wcdnesda}' of December, a like number shall be ap- 
pointed in the same manner, to serve until the fourth Wednesday in 
December, the second succeeding their appointment. And the sena- 



114 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

tors so appointed shall serve during the term for which they shall hold, 
without re-election, their office as senators. And vacancies, occasioned 
by death, resignation, or otherwise, shall be filled as vacancies in com- 
mittees are filled ; and the other six members aforesaid shall serve, two 
for two 3"ears, two for four years, and two for six years ; the terms of 
service, in the first place, to be determined by lot ; but after the first 
term, then their regular term of service shall be six years ; and new 
elections thereof shall be made by joint resolution of Congi-ess ; and 
vacancies occasioned by death, resignation, or otherwise, may be filled 
in like manner, by joint resolution of Congress. And the said Regents 
shall meet in the city of Washington on the first Monday of September 
next after the passage of this act, and organize by the election of one of 
their number as Chancellor, who shall be the presiding officer of said 
Board of Regents, by the name of the Chancellor of the " Smithsonian 
Institution," and a suitable person as Secretary of said Institution, who 
shall also be the Secretary of said Board of Regents ; said Board shall 
also elect three ot"lheir own body as an Executive Committee, and said 
Regents shall then fix on the time ihr the regular meetings of said 
Board; and on application of an\' three of" the Regents to the vSecretary 
of the said Institution, it shall be his duty to appoint a special meeting 
of the Board of Regents, of which he shall give notice b}^ letter to each 
of the members; and at any meeting of said Board, five shall constitute 
a (]uorum to do business. And each member of said Board shall be 
paid his necessary travelling and other actual expenses in attending 
meetings of the Board, which shall be audited by the Executive Com- 
mittee, and recorded by the Secretary of said Board ; but his services 
as Regent shall be gratuitous. And whenever money is required for 
the payment of the debts or performance of the contracts of the Institu- 
tion, incurred or entered into in conformity with the provisions of this 
act, or for making the purchases and executing the objects authorized 
by this act, the Board of Regents, or the Executive Committee thereof, 
may certify to the Chancellor and Secretary of the Board that such sum 
of money is required ; whereupon, they shall examine the same, and, 
if they shall approve thereof^, shall certify the same to the proper officer 
oftlie treasury for payment. And the said Board shall submit to Con- 
gi'ess, at each session thereof, a report of the operations, expenditures, 
and condition of the Institution. 

Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That after the Board of Regents 
shall have met, and become organized, it shall be their duty forthwith 
to proceed to select a suitable site for such building as may be neces- 
sary for the Institution ; which ground may be taken and appropriated 
out of that part of the public ground in the city of Washington, lying 
between the Patent Office and Seventh street: Provided, The President 
of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treas- 
ury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Com- 
missioner of the Patent Office, shall consent to the same ; but if the 
persons last named shall not consent, then such location may be made 
upon any other of the public grounds within the city of Washington, 
belonging to the United States, wifich said Regents may select, by and 
with the consent of the persons herein named; and the said ground so 
selected shidl be set out by proper metes and bounds, and a descrip- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. ' 115 

tion of the same shall be made and recorded in a book to be provided 
for that purpose, and signed by the said Regents, or so many of them 
as may be convened at the time of their said organization ; and such 
record, or a copy thereof, certified by the Chancellor and Secretary of 
the Board of Regents, shall be received in evidence in all courts of the 
extent and boundaries of the lands appropriated to the said Institution; 
and upon the making of such record, such site and lands shall be deemed 
and taken to be appropriated by force of this act to the said Institution. 

Sec. 5. And be it further enacted^ That, so soon as the Board of Re- 
gents shall have selected the said site, they shall cause to be erected a 
suitable building, of plain and durable materials and structure, without 
unnecessary ornament, and of sufficient size, and with suitable rooms, 
or halls, for the reception and arrangement, upon a liberal scale, of ob- 
jects of natural history, including a geological and mineralogical cabi- 
net; also a chemical laboratory, a library, a gallery of art, and the 
necessary lecture rooms ; and the said Board shall have authority, by 
themselves, or by a committee of three of their members, to contract 
for the completion of such building, upon such plan as may be directed 
by the Board of Regents, and shall take sufficient security for the build- 
ing and finishing the same according to the said plan, and in the time 
stipulated in such contract; and may so locate said building, if they 
shall deem it proper, as in appearance to form a wing to the Patent 
Oiffice building, and may so connect the same with the present hall of 
said Patent Office building, containing the National Cabinet of Curi- 
osities, as to constitute the said hall in whole, or in part, the deposit for 
the cabinet of said Institution, if they deem it expedient to do so ; pro- 
vided said building shall be located upon said Patent Office lot, in the 
manner aforesaid: Provided, however, That the whole expense of build- 
ing and enclosures aforesaid shall not exceed the amount of ; which 

sum is hereby appropriated, payable out of money in the treasury not 
otherwise appropriated; together with such sum or sums out of the an- 
nual interest accruing to the Institution, as may, in any year, remain 
unexpended, after paying the current expenses of the Institution. And 
duplicates of all such contracts as may be made by the said Board of 
Regents shall be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States ; 
and all claims on any contract made as aforesaid, shall be allowed and 
certified by the Board of Regents, or the Executive Committee thereof^, 
as the case may be, and, being signed by the Chancellor and Secretary 
of the Board, shall be a sufficient voucher for settlement and payment 
at the Treasury of the United States. And the Board of Regents shall 
be authorized to employ such persons as they may deem necessary to 
superintend the erection of the building and fitting up the rooms of the 
Institution. And all laws for the protection of public property in the 
city of Washington, shall apply to, and be in force for, the protection 
of the lands, buildings, and other property of said Institution. And all 
moneys recovered by, or accruing to, the Institution, shall be paid into 
the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Smithsonian be- 
quest, and separately accounted for, as provided in the act approved 
July first, eighteen hundred and thirty-six, accepting said bequest. 

Sec. 6. And he it further enacted, That, in proportion as suitable 
arrangements can be made for their reception, all objects of art and o 



116 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants, 
and geological and mineralogica] specimens belonging, or hereafter to 
belong, to the United States, which may be in the city of Washington, 
in whosesoever custody the same may be, shall be delivered to such 
persons as may be authorized by the ]3oard of Regents to receive them, 
and shall be arranged in such order, and so classed, as best to facilitate 
the examination and study of them, in the building so as aforesaid to 
be erected for the Institution ; and the Regents of said Institution shall 
afterwards, as new specimens in natural h'story, geology, or mineralog}'", 
may be obtained for the museum of the Institution, by exchanges of 
duplicate specimens belonging to the Institution, (which they are here- 
by authorized to make,) or by donation, whicli the}^ i^ay receive, or 
otherwise, cause such new specimens to be also appropriately classed 
and arranged. And the minerals, books, manuscripts, and other pro- 
perty of James Smithson, which have been received by the Govern- 
ment of the United States, and are now placed in the Department of State,, 
shall be removed to said Institution, and shall be preserved separate 
and apart from other property of the Institution. 

Sec. 7. And be it furtlter enacted^ That the Secretary of the Board 
of Regents shall take charge of the building and property of said Insti- 
tution, and sh;ill, under their direction, make a fiir and accurate record 
of all their proceedings, to be preserved in said Institution ; and the 
said Secretcuy shall also discharge the duties of librarian and keeper 
of the museum, and may, with the consent of the Board of Regents, 
employ assistants ; and the said officers shall receive for their services 
such sums as may be allowed by tlie Board of Regents, to be paid 
semi-annually on the first days of Januar\^ and July ; and the said offi- 
cers shall be removable by the Board of Regents, whenever, in their 
judgment, the interests of the Institution require any of the said officers 
to be changed. 

Sec. 8. And be it further enacted. That the members and honorary 
members of said Institution may hold such stated and special meetings, 
for the supervision of the affairs of said Institution and the advice and 
instruction of said Board of Regents, to be called in the manner provi- 
ded for in the By-laws of said Institution, at which the President, and, 
in his absence, the Vice-President, of the United States shall preside. 
And the said Regents shall make, from the interest of said fiind, an 
appropriation, not expeeding an average of twenty-five thousand dollars 
annually, for the gradual formation of a library composed of" valuable 
works pertaining to all departments of human knowledge. 

Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, That of any other moneys which 
have accrued, or shall hereafter accrue, as interest upon the said 
Smithsonian fund, not herein appropriated, or not required l()r the pur- 
poses herein provided, the said managers are hereby authorized to 
make such disposal as they shall deem best suited for the promotion of" 
the purpose of the testator, anything herein contained to the contrary 
notwithstanding. 

Sec. 10. And be it further enacted, That the author or pro})rietor of 
any book, map, chart, musical composition, print, cut, or engraving, 
for which a copyright shall be secured under the existing acts of 
Congress, or those which shall hereafter be enacted respecting copy- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 117 

rights, shall, within three months from the pubhcation of said book, 
map, chart, musical composition, print, cut, or engraving, deliver, or 
cause to be delivered, one copy of the same to the Librarian of the 
Smithsonian Institution, and one copy to the Librarian of Congress 
Library, for the use of the said libraries. 

Sec." 11. And be it further enacted, That there is reserved to Con- 
gress the right of altering, amending, adding to, or repeahng any of the 
provisions of this act : Provided, That no contract, or individual right, 
made or acquired under such provisions, shall be thereby divested or 
impaired. 

Approved August 10, 1846. 



Construction of the ^' act establishing the Smithsonian Institution," by 
Hon. J. Mc Pherson Berrien, one of the Rrgents. 

It will be argued at the outset, that the fund ought to be so admin 
istered as to give the fullest effect to the purposes of the donor ; that 
the government of the United States, as the depositary of his confidence, 
has power to determine the mode of administration, and that its deter 
mination, so far as it extends, must guide and control the action of the 
Board of Regents. Beyond that limit, I suppose it will also be con- 
ceded that the Board has discretionary powers, acting as it does, under 
the constant supervision of Congress, which body has reserved to itself 
the right of modifying its grant of power, ad libitum, with the ordinary 
saving of individual rights. 

We are then to look to the act of Congress to ascertain what Congress 
has directed, and what it has left at large. The act of 1846 creates 
what it denominates " an establishment" with a corporate name, 
invested with the powers, and subjected to the limitations and restrictions 
specified in the act. It directs the selection of a Jot, and the erection of a 
building, with suitable arrangements for the classification and arrange- 
ment of the several objects specified in the 6th section. It places that 
building and those objects under the control of the Board of Regents. 
It requires them to make, from the interest of the fund, an appropria- 
tion not exceeding $25,000 annually, for the gradual formation of a 
library. Out of any other interest, moneys accrued or accruing, not 
therein appropriated, or not required for the purposes therein provided, 
the Board is authorized "to make such disposal as they shall deem best 
suited for the iwomotion of the purpose of the testator, anything therein 
contained to the contrary notwithstanding." 

In my opinion, this places the wliole income of the fund under the 
control of the Board of Regents. Thej^ must erect a building, suita- 
bl}' arranged to fulfil the purposes of Congress, but its cost is not lim- 
ited. They must appoint a Secretary, but his salary is not specified. 
They must make an appropriation for the gradual formation of a library, 
of which the maximum only is provided, and then of all other moneys, 
accruing as interest, they may make such disposal as they shall deem 
best suited to promote the purposes of the donor ; any former provision 
to the contrary notwithstanding. 



118 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Whether in the exercise of this discretionary power, the Board ought 
to look mainly to the gradual formation of a library, to the exclusion of 
other objects which they may deem better calculated to promote the 
purpose of Mr. Smithson, is a question which may be considered in a 
two-fold view. 

We may inquire, 1. Whether there is an3^thing in the act of Congress 
which requires this preference? I confine the inquiry to the act itself , 
and exclude the expressed opinions of individuals who • participated in its 
enactment, as well as the votes of the two Houses ujwn particular yroyo- 
sitions submitted while it was under discussion; the first, because it is 
tlie act, which alone expresses the will of the legislature, in the enact- 
ment of which different individuals may have concurred for very dif- 
ferent reasons ; the second, because a rejected proposition may have 
been voted down, not because it was deemed unwise or improper, but 
because it was considered unnecessary and superfluous*; at all events, of 
those who reject it some may have been influenced by Ihe former, and 
others by the latter consideration. The proceedings on this bill will 
help to illustrate this. The bill reported by the committee contained 
various specific provisions, as for a library, scientific collections, pub- 
lications, &c., &c., &c. These were stricken out. Why ? Because 
they were deemed inexpedient or improper ? No ; but because, since 
the act specified no amount which the Board was required to expend 
for a library, and left all the other accruing income, besides that which 
they determined to apply to this object, subject to their entire control, 
it would have, been simply superfluous, as they were provided for by 
this general grant of power. I see nothing, therefore, in the act of Con- 
gress which requires the Board to give this preference to a library, to 
the exclusion of any other objects which they may deem more con- 
sonant to the purposes of the donor. 

The remaining question is, 2. Have they erred in the exercise of 
the discretion confided to them? I think not. The purpose of the 
testator was two-fold. 

The ificrease of knowledge among men. 

Its diffusion among men. 

It was not to enable the few persons who could have access to a 
library at Washington to master the knowledge already existing among 
men, but to increase the sum of that knowledge, and to give it a world 
wide diffusion. The first object might be attained by a library at Wash- 
ington sufficiently comprehensive to embrace what is now knoum, 
among men. The last can only be accomplished by the labors of 
scientific men, and their diffusion by the Board throughout the civilized 
toorld. But this subject is so well and thoroughly discussed by the 
committee, that I leave it with the simple expression of my entire 
concurrence in the reasoning and conclusion of their report. One other 
remark. Looking to the limited amount of the income, and to the ex- 
penditures, which Congress must have foreseen, I find it impossible to 
suppose that they could have contemplated any considerable expen- 
diture for the library, since in thus providing for the acquirement by a 
limited portion of owr oion yeople of such knowledge as men have hitherto 
attained, they would have precluded all eflorts for its inn-case and diffu- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 119 

sion throughout the xwrld, and have thus defeated what seems to me to 
have been the most cherished wish of Mr. Smithson. 

The only official agents provided b}^ the acts of Congress are those 
specified in the third section, namely, the Board of Regents, the Chan- 
cellor, and the Executive Committee. By these it requires " the 
business of the said Institution to be conducted." Proceeding to de- 
fine the duties of the Secretary^ it constitutes him "librarian and keeper 
of the museum," charges him with the care of "the building and prop- 
erty of the Institution," and requires him, under the direction of the 
Board of Regents, " to make a fair and accurate statement of all their 
proceedings." Having thus traversed the whole circle of official duties, 
and aware that those assigned to the Secretary might become too oner- 
ous for a single individual, it authorized him, with the assent of the 
Board of Regents, to " employ assistants ;" but such persons were, 
strictly speaking, not officers of" the Institution, but, in the language of 
the act, employes of the secretary, or as the act expresses it, his " assist- 
ants,^^ and in this sense only can the term " officers," used in the 7th 
section, when speaking of their liability to removal b}' the Board of 
Regents, be understood. The subordinate officers of the customs fur- 
nish a somewhat analogous case. They are appointed by the collector 
with the approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury. Now, the 
Secretary, as the official organ of the President, ^an remove both the 
collector and his subordinates, but this does not prevent the collector 
from removing them. 

From what I have written, my opinion will be understood to be that 
the " assistants" of the Secretary are liable to removal b}^ that officer 
and that such removal would be effective unless the Board, in the ex- 
ercise of its controlling power over the Secretary, should think proper 
to interfere. 

JOHN McPHERSON BERRIEN 

Savannah, July, 1854. 



120 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



Extract, from an Address by the Secretary, on the Smithsonian Institution. 

I propose answering in this lecture the following questions : 

1. Who was James Smithson? and what was his character and 
pursuits ? 

2. What was his bequest "? and what were its objects '? 

3. Wliat plan has been adopted tor carrying out the intention of the 
testator? and what fruit has this plan produced? 

(1.) Smithson claimed to be of noble descent; and in his will declares 
himself the son of Hugh, first Duke of Northumberland, and of Eliza- 
beth, niece of Charles the Proud, Duke of Somerset. He was educated 
at Oxford, and paid particular attention to the stud}^ of the physical 
sciences ; was reputed to be the best chemist in the university, and was 
one of the first to adopt the method of minute analysis. As an exam- 
ple of his expertness in this line, it is mentioned that on one occasion 
lie caught a tear as it was trickling down the face of a lady, lost half, 
examined the remainder, and discovered in it several salts. He made 
about thirty scientific communications to different societies, principally 
on chemistry, mineralogy, and geology. His scientific reputation was 
founded on these branches, though, from his writings, he appears to 
have studied and reflected upon almost every department of knowledge. 
He was of a sensitive, retiring disposition — passed most of his lite on 
the Continent — was never married — appeared ambitious of making 
a name for himself, either by his own researches or by founding an 
institution for the promotion of science. He declares in writing, that 
though the best blood of England flows in his veins, this avails him not, 
ibr his name would live in the memory of men when the titles of the 
Northumberlands and the Percies are extinct or forgotten. He was 
cosmopolitan in his views, and declares that the man of science is of 
no country — the world is his country, and all men his countrymen. He 
purposed at one time to leave his money to the Royal Society of Lon- 
don for the promotion of science, but on account of a misunderstanding 
with the council of the society, he changed his mind and left it to his 
nephew ; and, in case of the death of this relative, to the United States 
of America, to found the Institution which now bears his name. 

(2.) Ill answer to the second question, I would state that the whole 
amount of money received from the bequest was $515,169 ; and besides 
this $25,000 was left in England, as the principal of an annuity given 
to the modier of the nephew of Smithson. This sum will also come to 
the Institution at the death of this person. 

The government of tlie United States accepted the bequest, or, in other 
words, accepted the office of trustee, and Mr. Rush, of Pennsylvania, 
a gentleman who is still an active and efficient member of the Board of 
Regents, and one of the most ardent supporters of the Institution, was 
charged with the duty of prosecuting tlie claim. He remained in atten- 
dance on the English courts until the money was awarded to him. He 
brought it over in sovereigns — deposited it in the Mint of the United 
States, where it was re-coined into American eagles — thus becominc: a 
part ot the currency of the country. This money was afterwards lent 
to some of the new States, and a portion of it was lost ; but it did not 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 121 

belong to the United States — it was the property of the Smithsonian 
Institution — and the government was bound in honor tu restore it. 
Congress has acknowledged this b}^ declaring that the money is still in 
the treasury of the nation, bearing interest at the rate of 6 per cent., 
annually producing a revenue of about thirt}'' thousand dollars. 

It may be stated in this place, that the principal remains perpetually 
in the treasury of the United States, and that nothing but the interest 
can be expended ; not only has the original bequest been preserved, but 
a considerable addition has been made to the principal. At the time 
of the passing of the act establishing the Institution in 1846, the sum of 
$242,000 had accrued in interest, and this the Regents were authorized 
to expend on a building; but instead of appropriating this sum imme- 
diately to this purpose, they put it at interest, and deterred the comple- 
tion of the building for several years, until $150,000 should be accumu- 
lated, the income of which might defray the expense of keeping the 
building, and the greater portion of the income of the original bequest 
he devoted to the objects tor which it was designed. This policy has 
been rigidly adhered to, and the result is, that besides the original sum, 
and after all that has been devoted to the building, the grounds, and all 
other operations, there is now on hand $200,000 of accumulated inter- 
est. Of this sum $50,000 are to be appropriated to finishing the build- 
ing, and the remainder is to be added to the principal. The funds have 
therefore been carefully husbanded. 

The bequest, in the language of the testator, was, ^^ to found at JVash- 
mgtoji an establishmetil wider the 7iame of the Smithsonian Inslitutio7i, for 
the increase and diffusion of Jcnoivledge amo7ig men.^'' 

According to this, the government of the United States is merely a 
trustee. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind, and any plan which 
does not recognise ihis provision of the will would be illiberal and 
unjust. 

The Institution must bear and perpetuate the name of its founder; 
and hence its operations ought to be kept distinct from those of the gov- 
ernment, and all the good which resuUs from the expenditure of the 
fund should be accredited to the name of Smithson. 

The object of the bequest is two-fold: first, to ijicrease; and second, 
to diffuse knowledge among men. These two objects are entirely dis- 
tinct, and ought not to be confounded with one another. The first is 
to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition of new 
truths; and the second to disseminate knowledge, thus enlarged, among 
men. . The distinction is generally recognised b}^ men of science, and 
in Europe different classes of scientific and other societies are founded 
upon it. 

Again : the will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind 
of knowledge, and hence all branches are entitled to a share of atten- 
tion. Smithson was well aware that knowledge should not be viewed 
as existing in isolated parts, but as a whole, each portion of which 
throws light on all the other, and that the tendency of all is to improve 
the human mind, and to give it new sources of power and enjoyment. 
The most prevalent idea, however, in relation to the will, is that the 
money was intended exclusively for the diffusion of useful or imme- 
diately practical knowledge among the inhabitants of this country, but 



• 122 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

it contains nothing from which such an inference can be drawn. All 
knowledge is useful, and the higher the more important. From the 
enunciation of a single scientific truth may flow a hundred inventions, 
and the higher the truth the more important the deductions. 

To effect the greatest good, the organization of tlie Institution should 
be such as to produce results which could not be attained by other 
means, and inasmuch as the bequest is for men in general, all merely 
local expenditures are violations of the will. 

These views were not entertained at first, and great (hfficulties have _ 
been encountered in carrying them out. A number of literary men ■ 
thought that a great library should be founded at Washington, and all 
the money expended on it. Others considered a museum the proper 
object, and another class thought the income should be devoted to the 
delivery of lectures throughout the country ; while still another was of 
opinion that popular tracts should be published and distributed among 
the million. But all these views were advanced without a proper ex- 
amination of the will, or a due consideration of the smallness of the 
income. The diffusion of tracts has been a favorite idea, but it mast 
be recollected that a single report of the Patent Office costs the gov- 
ernment three times as much as the whole income of the Smithsonian 
fund. A single pamphlet of ten pages could not annually be printed 
by the Institution, and distributed to all who would have a claim to it. 

(3.) The next question is, by what plan can the several requisitions 
of the will be fulfilled. 

This question was not fully settled by the act of Congress. It di- 
rected the formation of a Library, a Museum, a Gallery of Arts, 
Lectures, and a building on a liberal scale to accommodate these ob- 
jects. One clause, however, gave the Regents the power, after the 
foregoing objects are provided for, to expend the remainder of the in- 
come in any way they may think fit for carr3dng out the design of the 
testator. 

The objects specified in the act of Congress evidently does not come 
up to the idea of the testator, as deduced from a critical examination ot 
his will. A library, a museum, a gallery of arts, though important in 
themselves, are local in their influence. I have from the beginning 
advocated this opinion on all occasions, and shall continue to advocate 
it whenever a suitable opportunity occurs. 

The (juestion, therefore, again recurs: what plan can be adopted in 
conformity with the terms of the bequest? 

There are two. First — a number of men may be appointed by the 
Institution to make researches in the different branches of science, and 
to send accounts of their discoveries to all parts of the world. In this 
way, in the strictest sense of the terms, knowledge would be increased 
and diffused. But this plan is not compatible with the limited income 
of the Institution, and W(mld offer many practical difficulties. 

The other plan, and the one adopted, is to stimulate all persons in 
this country capable of advancing knowledge by original research, to 
labor in this line — to induce them to send the results to the Institution 
for examination and publication — and to assist all persons engaged in 
original investigations as far as the means of the Institution will allow; 
also to institute, at the expense and under the direction of the Institu- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 123 

tion, particular researches. This plan has been found eminently prac- 
ticable, and by means of it the Institution has been enabled to produce 
results which have made it favorably known in every part of the civil- 
ized world. The communications are submitted to competent judges, 
who vouch for the value and truth of the discoveries. The publications 
which result from this plan are presented to all the first class libraries 
in the world, as well as to all colleges and well established public in- 
stitutions in this country. The intention is to place the publications in 
such positions as will enable them to be seen by the greatest number 
of persons. In this way a knowledge of the discoveries are diffused 
among men as widely as the income will allow. 

No copyright is taken for the memoirs, and the writers of popular 
books are at liberty to use them in the compilation of their works. The 
knowledge which they contain is thus in time still more generally dif- 
fused. In other countries, institutions for the promotion of the discovery 
of new truths, and the publication of the results, are endowed by the 
government; but there are no institutions for this purpose here, and 
hence men of science labor under great disadvantages. The higher 
the value of a work of science, the fewer do its readers become. If 
writers wish to make money by their labors, they must publish novels. 

The Principia of Newton did not pay for itself, and yet in the pres- 
ent day every one shares in the benefits accruing from it. 

Another part of the plan is to publish reports on scientific subjects, 
and to spread them as widely as the state of the funds will allow. 

Note. — For an account of what has actually been accomplished, see the several reports of 
the Secretary. 



1 



REPORTS OF THE SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION, FROM 1847 TO 1853. 



To make the operations of the Institution more generally known, it has been thought ad- 
visable to append to this Report, for reprinting, the several Annual Reports of the Secretary. 
They give a connected history of all the operations of the Institution, from its organization 
to the end of the year 1852. These Reports exhibit the fact that very little change has been 
made in the plan of active operations originally adopted, and that all the anticipations which 
were entertained in regard to it have been fully realized. 



REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 127 



FIRST REPORT.* 



Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonifui Institution to the Board of Re- 
gents, December 8, 1847. 

Gentlemen : A statement of the financial condition of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, and of the progress made in the erection of the build- 
ing, having been presented to your Board by the Committees charged 
with the care of these objects, it becomes my duty, as Secretar}^ of the 
Institution, to give an account of what has been done relative to the 
development of the plan of organization, and of the steps which have 
been taken in the way of carrying it into operation. 

In accordance with my instructions, I consuUed with men of emi- 
nence in the different branches of hterature and science, relative to the 
details of the plan of organization, and arranged the various suggestions 
offered, in the form of the accompanying programme. This, after hav- 
ing been submitted to a number of persons in whose knowledge and 
judgment I have confidence, is now presented to the Board, with the 
concurrence of the Committee on Organization, for consideration and 
provisional adoption. I regret that my engagements have been such as 
to render it impossible for me to call ijpon many persons whose counsel 
would have been valuable, but I hope hereafter to avail myself of their 
advice in behalf of the Institution. I also regret that I could not give 
the names of those whose suggestions have been adopted in the pro- 
gramme ; the impossibility of rendering justice to all, has prevented my 
attempting this. Many of the suggestions have been offered by differ- 
ent persons, independently of each other ; and, indeed, the general plan 
of the increase and diffusion of knowledge, as adopted by the Board, is 
such as would naturally arise in the rnind of any person conversant 
with the history of physical science, and with the means usually em- 
ployed for its extension and diffusion. 

The introduction to the progi-amme contains a series of propositions, 
suggested by a critical examination of the will ot#Smithson, to serve as 
a guide in judging of the fitness of any proposed plan for carrying out 
the design of the testator. The first section of the programme gives 
the details of the plan proposed for the increase and diffusion of know- 
ledge by means of publication and original researches. The second sec- 
tion furnishes the details, so far as they can be made out at the present 
time, of the formation of a library, and a collection of objects of na- 
ture and art. These two plans combined, embrace the general propo- 
sitions adopted by the Board of Regents at their last meeting, as the 
basis of future operations. It is intended in the proposed plan to har- 



* Tlic first report of the Secretary was given in the second report of the Regents to 
Congress, hence the number of the former is one less than that of the latter. 



128 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

monize the two modes of increasing and diffusing knowledge, and to 
give to the Institution the widest influence compatible with its limited 
income. That all the propositions will meet with general approval can- 
not be expected ; and that this organization is the best that could be de- 
vised is neither asserted nor believed. To produce a priori a plan of 
organization whicii shall be fcnind to succeed perfectly in practice, and 
require no amendment, would be difficult under the most favorable cir- 
cumstances, and becomes almost impossible where conflicting opinions 
are to be harmonized, and the definite requirements of the act estab- 
lishing the Institution are to be observed. It is not intended that the 
details of the organization, as given in the programme, should be per- 
manently adopted without careful trial ; they are rather presented as 
suggestions to be adopted provisionally, and to be carried into opera- 
tion gradually and cautiously, with such changes, from time to time, as 
experience may dictate. 

PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

[Presented to the Board of Regents, December 8, 1847.] 

INTRODUCTION. 

General considcralions ivhich should serve as a guide in adopting a plan of 

organizatioji. 

1. Will of Smithson. The property is bequeathed to the United 
States of America, "to found at Washington, under the name of the 
Smithsonian Institution, an establil?hmcnt for the increase and diffusion 
of knowledge among men." 

2. The bequest is tor the benefit of mankind. The government of the 
United Slates is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the testator. 

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently 
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and 
perpetuate his name. 

4. The objects of the Institution are — 1st, to increase, and 2d, to dif- 
fuse, knowledge among men. 

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another. 
The first is to increase the existing stock of knowledge by the addition 
of new truths; and the second to disseminate knowledge, thus in- 
creased, among men. 

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of 
knowledge ; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. 

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating 
and promoting the discovery of new truths, and can be most efficiently 
diffused among men by means of the press. 

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be 
such as to enable the Institution to produce results in the way of 
increasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced by the 
existing institutions in our country. 

9. The organization sliould also be such as can be adopted provi- 
sionally, can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or be- 
abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 129 

10. In order to make up for the loss. of time occasioned by the delay 
•■of eight years in establishing the Institution, a considerable portion of the 
interest which has accrued should be added to the principal. 

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, 
the funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the 
•construction of the building; and not only should the first cost of the 
edifice be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in 
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected 
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup- 
ported by the Institution. 

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined 
by the plan of the organization, and not the converse. 

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene- 
fited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure 
on local objects would be a perversion of the trust. 

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from 
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain re(}uirements of the 
act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are a library, a 
musejm, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to con- 
tain them. 

SECTION L 

Plan of orgamzation of the Inntitulion, in accordance with the foregoing 
deductions from, the ivill of Smithson. 

To Increase Knowledge. It is proposed — 

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offer- 
ing suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths ; and, 

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular 
researches, under the direction of suitable persons. 

To Diffuse Knowledge. It is proposed — 

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the 
different branches of knowledge; and, 

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general 
interest. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. 

I. By Stimulating researches. 

1. Rewards, consisting of money, medals, &c., offered for original 
memoirs on all branches of knowledge. 

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of vol- 
umes, in a quarto form, and entitled "Smithsonian Contributions to 
Knowledge.^' 

3. No memoir, on subjects of physical science, to be accepted for 
publication, which does not furnish a positive addition to human know- 
ledge resting on original research ; and all unverified speculations to be 
rejected. 

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for ex- 
amination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the 



130 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

branch to which the memoir pertains, and to be accepted for pubHca- 
tion only in case the report of this commission is favorable. 

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution, and 
the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favor- 
able decision be made. 

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions 
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the col- 
leges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remain- 
ing copies may be offered for sale ; and the other carefully preserved, 
to form complete sets of the volumes, to supply the demand from new 
institutions. 

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs 
to be given to the public, through the annual report of the Regents to 
Congress. 

II. Bij appropriating a portion of the income, annually., to sjiecial objects 
of research, wider the direction of suitable persons. 

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended 
by counsellors of the Institution. 

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects ; so that, in 
course ot" time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share. 

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published, 
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian 
Contributions to Knowledge. 

4. Exam])les of objects lor which appropriations may be made : 
(1.) System of extended meteorological observations, for solving the 

problem of American storms. 

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, mag- 
netical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation 
of a Physical Atlas of the United States. 

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination 
of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity and of light; 
chemical analyses of soils and plants ; collection and publication ot 
articles of science, accumulated in the offices of government. 

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reterence to physical, 
moral, and political subjects. 

(5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated 
in American history. 

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the dif- 
ferent races of men in North America ; also, explorations and accurate 
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our 
country. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE. 

I. By the jiublication of a series of reiwrts, giving an account of the 
new discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in all 
branches of knowledge not strictly professional. 

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interest- 
ijig, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the 



( 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 131 

reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the 
income of the Institution, or the changes in the branches of knowledge, 
may indicate. 

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the 
different branches of knowledge. 

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica- 
tions, domestic and fcn-eign, necessary to the compilation of his report; 
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title 
page of the report. 

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons 
interested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it, 
without purchasing the whole. 

5. These reports may be presented to Congress, lor partial distribu- 
tion ; the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific institu- 
tions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price. 

The folloivmg are some of the subjects which may he embraced in the rejwrts: 

I. PHYSICAL CLASS. 

1. Phj^sics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and 
meteorology. 

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c. 

3. Agriculture. 

4. Application of science to arts. 

II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS. 

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology, 
antiquities, &c. 

6. Statistics and political economy. 

7. Mental and moral philosophy. 

8. A survey of the political events of the world; penal reform, &c. 

III. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS. 

9. Modern literature. 

10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts. 

11. Bibliography. 

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals. 

II. Bij the jmblicatio?i of scjxirate treatises on subjects of general interest. 

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs 
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the di- 
rection of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums fertile best 
exposition of a given subject. 

2. The treatises should in all cases be submitted to a commission of 
competent judges previous to their pubhcation. 

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the 
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the 
table of reports. Also of the following subjects, suggested by the Com- 



132 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

mittee on Organization, viz.: the statistics of labor, the productive arts 
of life, public instruction, &c. 

SECTION II. 

Plan of organization, in accordance icith the terms of the resolutions of the 
Board of Rege7its, providing for the tivo modes of increasing and diffusing 
hmnv/cdo-e. 

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the 
formation of a library and a museum ; and the Board of Regents, in- 
cluding these objects in tbe plan of organization, resolved to divide the 
income into two equal parts. 

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by 
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before 
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library 
and a collection of objects of nature and of art. 

3. These two plans are not incompatible \vith one another. 

4. To carry out tlie plan before described, a library will be required, 
consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions and proceed- 
ings of all the learned societies in the world ; 2d, of the more impor- 
tant current periodical publications, and other works necessary in pre- 
paring the periodical reports. 

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of 
objects to verify its own publications. 

6. Also a collection of instruments of research in all branches of ex- 
perimental science. 

7. With reference to the collection of books other than those men- 
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United States 
should be procured, in order that the valuable books first purchased 
may be such as are not to be found in the United States. 

8. Also catalogues of memoirs, and of books in foreign libraries, and 
other materials, should be collected for rendering the Institution a centre 
of bibliographical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to 
any work wliich he may require. 

9. It is believed that the collections in Natural History will increase 
by donation, as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro- 
vision for their reception ; and therefore it will seldom be necessary to 
purchase any articles of this kind. 

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the Gallery of Arts casts 
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture. A 

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of ex- i 
pense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union, and other simi- 
lar societies. 

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of '. 
antiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c. 

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides ! 
the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to 
act as Librarian. , 

14. The duty of the Secretary will be the general superintendence, j 
with the advice of the Chancellor and other members of the establish- I 

! 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 133 

meat, of the literary and scientific operations of the Institution; to give 
to the Regents annually an account of all the transactions, of the me- 
moirs which have been received for publication, and of the researches 
which have been made ; and to edit, with the assistance of the Libra- 
rian, the publications of the Institution. 

15. The duty of the Assistant Secretar}^ acting as Librarian, will be, 
for the present, to assist in taking charge of the collections, to select and 
purchase, under the direction of the Secretary and a committee of the 
Board, books and catalogues, and to procure the information before 
mentioned ; to give information on plans of libraries, and to assist the 
Secretary in editing the publications of the Institution, and in the other 
duties of his office. 

16. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress, 
will be required to iUustrate new discoveries in sciences, and to exhibit 
new objects of art ; also distinguished individuals should be invited to 
give lectures on subjects of general interest. 

17. When the building is completed, and when, in accordance with 
the act of Congress, the charge of the National Museum is given to the 
Smithsonian Institution, other assistants will be required. 



Explanatio7is and illustrations of the jirogramme. 

Though the leading propositions of the programme have been fully dis- 
cussed hj the Board, yet it will be important to ofier some remarks in 
explanation and illustration of them in their present connexion. 

That the Institution is not a national estabhshment, in the sense in 
which institutions dependent on the government for support are so, must 
be evident, when it is recollected that the money was not absolutely 
given to the United States, but intrusted to it for a special object, namely : 
the establishment of an institution for the benefit of men, to bear the name 
of the donor, and, consequently, to reflect upon his memory the honor of 
all the good which may be accomplished by means of" the bequest. 
The operations of the Smithsonian Institution ought, therefore, to be 
mingled as little as possible with those of the government, and its funds 
should be applied exclusively and faithfully to the increase and diffu- 
sion of knowledge among men. 

That the bequest is intended for the benefit of men in general, and 
that its influence ought not to be restricted to a single district, or even 
nation, may be interred not only from the words of" the will, but also 
from the character of Smithson himself; and I beg leave to quote, from 
a scrap of paper in his own hand, the following sentiment bearing on 
this point : " The man of science has no country ; the world is his 
country — all men his countrymen." The origin of the funds, the be- 
quest of a foreigner, should also preclude the adoption of a plan which 
does not, in the words of Mr. Adams, " spread the benefits to be de- 
rived from the Institution not only over the whole surface of this Union, 
but throughout the civihzed world." " Mr. Smithson's reason for fixing 
the seal of his Institution at Washington obviously was, that there is the 
seat of government of the United States, and there the Congress by 



134 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

whose legislation, and the Executive through whose agency, the trust 
connmitted to the honor, intelligence, and good faith of the nation, is to be 
fulfilled." The centre of operations being permanently fixed at Wash- 
ington, tlie character of this city for literature and science will be the 
more highly exalted in proportion as the influence of the Institution is 
more widely diffused. 

Tliat tlie terms increase and diffusion of knowledge are logically dis- 
tinct, and should be literally interpreted with reference to the will, must 
be evident when we reflect that they are used in a definite sense, and 
not as mere synonymes, by all who are engaged in the pursuits to 
which Smithson devoted his life. In England there are two classes of 
institutions, founded on the two ideas conveyed by these terms. The 
Royal Society, the Astronomical, the Geological, the Statistical, the 
Antiquarian Societies, all have for their object the increase of knowledge, 
while the London Institution, the Mechanics' Institution, the Surry In- 
stitution, the Society for the Diflusion of Religious Knowledge, the So- 
ciety f()r the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, are all intended to diffiise 
or disseminate knowledge among men. In our own country, also, the 
same distinction is observed in the use of the terms by men of science. 
Our colleges, academies, and common schools, are recognised as insti- 
tutions partially intended for the diffusion of knowledge, while the ex- 
press object of some of our scientific societies is the promotion of the 
discovery of new truths. 

The will makes no restriction in favor of an}^ particular kind 
of knowledge ; though propositions have been frequently made 
for devoting the funds exclusively to the promotion of certain 
branches of science having more immediate application to the 
practical arts of life, and the adoption of these propositions has 
been urged on the ground of the conf(:)rmity of such objects to 
the pursuits of Smithson : but an examination of his writings will 
show that he excluded from his own studies no branch of general 
knowledge, and that he was flilly impressed with the important philo- 
sophical fact, that all subjects of human thought relate to one great sys- 
tem of truth. To restrict, therefore, the operations of the Institution to 
a single science or art, would do injustice to the character of the donor, 
as well as to the cause of general knowledge. If preference is to be 
given to any branches of research, it should be to the higher, and ap- 
parently more abstract ; to the discovery of new principles, rather than of 
isolated facts. And this is true even in a practical point of view. Agri- 
culture would have forever remained an empirical art, had it not been 
for the fight shed upon it by the atomic theory of chemistry ; and in- 
comparably more is to be expected as to its future advancement from 
the perfection of the microscope, than from improvements in the ordi- 
nary instruments of husbandry. 

The plan of incn^asing and diffusing knowledge, presented in the first 
section of the programme, will be found in strict accordance widi the 
several propositions deduced from the will of Smithson, and given in 
the Introduction. It embraces, as a leading feature, the design of 
interesting the greatest number of individuals in the operations of the 
Institution, and of spreading its influence as widely as possible. It forms 
an active organization, exciting all to make original researches who are 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 135 

gifted with the necessary power, and diffusing a kind of knowledge, 
now only accessible to the few, among all those who are willing to 
receive it. In this country, though many excel in the application of 
science to the practical arts of life, few devote themselves to the con- 
tinued labor and patient thought necessary to the discovery and devel- 
opement of new truths. The principal cause of this want of attention ' 
to original research is the w^ant, not of proper means, but of proper 
encouragement. The publication of original memoirs and periodical 
reports, as contemplated by the programme, will act as a powerful 
stimulus on the latent talent of our country, by placing in bold rehef the 
real laborers in the field of original research, while it will afford the best 
materials for the use of those engaged in the diffusion of knowledge. 

The advantages which will accrue from the plan of pubhshing the 
volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge are various. 
In the first place, it will serve to render the name of the founder favor- 
ably known wherever literature and science are cultivated, and to keep 
it in continual remembrance with each succeeding volume, as long as 
knowledge is valued. A single new truth, first given to the world 
through these volumes, will forever stamp their character as a work of 
reference. The Contributions will thus form the most befitting monu- 
ment to perpetuate the name of one whose life was devoted to the 
increase of knowledge, and whose ruhng passion, strong in death, 
prompted the noble bequest intended to facilitate the labors of others 
in the same pursuit. 

Again, the publication of a series of volumes of original memoirs 
will afford to the Institution the most ready means of entering into 
friendly relations and correspondence with all the learned societies in 
the world, and of enriching its hbrary with their current transactions 
and proceedings. But perhaps the most important effL^ct of the plan 
will be that of giving to the world many valuable memoirs, which, on 
account of the expense of the illustrations, could not be otherwise pub- 
lished. Every one who adds new and important truths to the existing 
stock of knowledge, must be, of necessity, to a certain degree, in ad- 
vance of his age. Hence the number of readers and purchasers of a 
work is often in the inverse ratio of its intrinsic value ; and conse- 
quently, authors of the highest rank of merit are frequently deterred 
from giving their productions to the world on account of the pecuniary 
loss to which the publication would subject them. When our lamented 
countryman, Bowditch, contemplated pubhshing his commentary on La 
Place, he assembled his family and informed them that the execution 
of this design would sacrifice one third of his fortune, and that it was 
proper his heirs should be consulted on a subject which so nearly con- 
cerned them. The answer was worthy of the children of such a father: 
"We value," said they, " your reputation more than your money." 
Fortunately, in this instance, the means of making such a, sacrifice ex- 
isted ; otherwise one of the proudest monuments of American science 
could not have been given to the world. In the majority of cases, how- 
ever, those who are most capable of extending human knowledge are 
least able to incur the expense of the publication. Wilson, the Ameri- 
can ornithologist, states, in a letter to Michaux, that he has sacrificed 
everything to publish his work : " I have issued," , he says, " six vol- 



136 EIGfHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

umes, and am engaged on the seventh ; but as yet I have not received a- 
single cent of the proceeds." In an address on the subject of natural 
history, by one of our most active cultivators of this branch of know- 
ledge, we find the following remarks, which are directly in point: 
" Few are acquainted with the fact that from the small number of 
scientific works sold, and the great expense of plates, our naturalists 
not only are not paid for their labors, but suffer pecuniary loss from 
their pubhcations. Several works on different branches of zoology, 
now in the course of publication, will leave their authors losers by an 
aggregate of $15,000. I do not include in this estimate works already 
finished — one, for instance, the best contribution to the natural history 
of man extant, the publication of which will occasion its accomplished 
author a loss of several thousand dollars. A naturalist is extremely 
fortunate if lie can dispose of 200 copies of an illustrated work, and 
the number of copies printed rarely exceeds 250." It may be said 
that these authors have their reward in the reputation which they thus 
purchase ; but reputation should be the result of the talents and labor 
expended in the production ot" a work, and should not in the least de- 
pend upon the fact that the author is able to make a pecuniary sacrifice 
in giving the account of his discoveries to the pubhc. 

Besides the advantage to the author of having his memoir published 
in the Smithsonian Contributions free of expense, his labors will be 
given to the world with the stamp of approval of a commission of 
learned men ; and his merits will be generally made known through 
the reports of the Institution. Though the premiums offered may be 
small, 3^et they will have considerable effect in producing original arti- 
cles. Fifty or a hundred dollars awarded to the author of an original 
paper, will, in many instances, suffice to supply the books, or to pay for 
the materials, or the manual labor required, in prosecuting the research. 

There is one proposition of the programme which has given rise to 
much discussion, and which, therefore, requires particular explanation : 
I allude to that which excludes from the contributions all papers con- 
sisting merely of unverified speculations on subjects of physical science. 
The object of this proposition is to obviate the endless difficulties which 
would occur in rejecting papers of an unphilosophical character; and 
though it may in some cases exclude an interesting communication, yet 
the strict observance of it will be found of so much practical importance 
that it cannot be dispensed with. It has been supposed, from the adoption 
of this proposition, that we are disposed to undervalue abstract specula- 
tions : on the contrary, we know that all the advances in true science — 
namely, a knowledge of the laws of phenomena, are made by pro visionally 
adopting well conditionedhypotheses, the product of the imagination, and 
subsequently verifying them by an appeal to experiment and observation. 
Every new hypothesis of scientific value must not only furnish an exact 
explanation of known facts, but must also enable us to predict, in kind 
and quantity, the phenomena which will be exhibited under any ,given 
combination of circumstances. Thus, in the case of the undulatory 
hypothesis of light, it was inferred, as a logical consequence, that if the 
supposition were true that light consisted of waves of an ethereal me- 
dium, then two rays of light, like two waves of water under certain 
conditions, should annihilate each other, and darkness be produced. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 137 

The experiment was tried, and the anticipated result was obtained. It 
is this exact agreement of the deduction with the actual result of ex- 
perience that constitutes the verification of an hypothesis, and which 
alone entitles it to the name of a theory, and to a place in the transac- 
tions of a scientific institution. It must be recollected that it is much 
easier to speculate than to investigate, and that very few of all the hy- 
potheses imagined are capable of standing the test of scientific verifi- 
cation. 

For the practical working of the plan for obtaining the character of a 
memoir, and the precaution taken before it is accepted for publication, 
I would refer to the correspondence, given in a subsequent part of this 
report, relative to the memoir now in process of publication by the In- 
stitution. As it is not our intention to interfere with the proceedings of 
other institutions, but to co-operate with them, so far as our respective 
operations are compatible, communications may be referred to learned 
societies for inspection, as in the case of the above mentioned memoir, 
and abstracts of them given to the world through the bulletins of these 
societies, while the details of the memoirs and their expensive illustra- 
tions are published in the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions. 
The officers of several learned societies in this country have expressed 
a willingness to co-operate in this way. 

Since original research is the most direct way of increasing know- 
ledge, it can scarcely be doubted that a part of the income of the be- 
quest should be appropriated to this purpose, provided suitable persons 
can he found, and their labors be directed to proper objects. The 
number, however, of those who are capable of discovering scientific 
principles is comparatively small; hke the poet, they are "born, not 
made," and, hke him, must be left to choose their own subject, and 
wait the fitting time of inspiration. In case a person of this class has 
fallen on a vein of discovery, and is pursuing it with success, the better 
plan will be to grant him a small sum of money to carry on his inves- 
tigations, provided they are considered worthy of assistance by compe- 
tent judges. This will have the double eflfect of encouraging him in 
the pursuit, and of facilitating his progress. The Institution, however, 
need not depend upon cases of this kind, even if they were more numer- 
ous than they are, for the application of its funds in the line of original 
research. There are large fields of observation and experiment, the 
cultivation of which, though it may aflbrd no prospect of the discovery 
of a principle, can hardly fail to produce results of importance both in 
a practical and theoretic point of view. As an illustration of this 
remark, I may mention the case of the investigations made a few 
years ago by a committee of the Franklin Institute, of Philadelphia. 
The Secretary of the Treasury of the United States placed at the dis- 
posal of this society a sum of money, for the purpose of making expe- 
riments with reference to the cause of the explosion of steam boilers. 
A committee of the society was chosen for this purpose, which adopted 
the ingenious plan of writing to all persons in the United States 
engaged in the application of steam, and particularly to those who had 
observed the explosion of a steam boiler. In this way opinions and 
suggestions in great variety, as to the cause of explosions, were ob- 
tained. The most plausible of these were submitted to the test of ex- 



138 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

periment : the results obtained were highly important, and are to be 
found favorably mentioned in every systematic work on the subject of 
steam which has appeared, in any language, within the last few years. 
New and important facts were established ; and, what was almost of 
as much consequence, errors which had usurped the place of truth 
were dethroned. 

In the progrnmme, ex;im])les are given of a few subjects of original 
research to which the attention of the Institution may be turned. I will 
mention one in this place, which, in connexion with the contents of our 
first memoir, may deserve immediate attention. I allude to a small 
appropriation made annually for researches with reference to the re- 
mains of the ancient inhabitants of oiu' country. This is a highly inter- 
esting field, and what is done in regard to it should be done quickly. 
Every year the progress of civilization is obliterating the ancient 
mounds, cities and villages are rising on the spots they have so long 
occupied undisturbed, and the distinctive marks of these remains are 
every year becoming less and less legible. 

In carrying out the spirit of the plan adopted, namely, that of affect- 
ing men in general by the operations of the Institution, it is evident that 
the principal means of diffusing knowledge must be the press. Though 
lectures should be given in the city in which Smithson has seen fit to 
direct the establishment of his Institution, yet, as a plan of general dif- 
fusion of knowledge, the system of lectures would be entirely inade- 
quate ; every village in our extended country would have a right to 
demand a share of" the benefit, and the income of the Institution would 
be insufficient to supply a thousandth part of the demand. It is also 
evident that the knowledge diffused should, if possible, not only em- 
brace all branches of general interest, so that each reader might find a 
subject suited to his taste, but also that it should differ in kind and 
quality fiom thnt which can be readily obtained through the cheap pub- 
lications of the day. These requisites will be fully complied with in 
the publications of the series of reports proposed in the progTamme. A 
series of periodicals of this kind, posting up all the discoveries in science 
from time to time, and giving a well digested account of all the im- 
portant changes in the different branches of knowledge, is a desideratum 
in the English language. The idea is borrowed from a partial plan of 
this kind in operation in Sweden and Germany ; and for an example of 
what the work should be, I would refer to the annual report to the 
Swedish Academy of its perpetual secretary, Berzelius, on physical 
science. The reports can be so prepared as to be highly interesting to the 
general reader, and at the same time of great importance to the exclusive 
cultivator of a particular branch of knowledge. Full references should 
be given, in foot-notes, to the page, number, or volume of the work from 
which the information was obtained, and where a more detailed account 
can be found. It is scarcely necessary to remark, that the preparation of 
these reports should be entrusted only to persons profoundly acquainted 
with the subjects to which they relate, namely : to those who are devoted 
to paiticular branches, while they possess a knowledge of general princi- 
ples. Sufficient explanations should be introduced to render the report 
intelligible to the general reader, without destroying its scientific characr 
ter. Occasionally reports may be obtained from abroad — as, for ex- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. . 139 

ample, accounts of the progress of certain branches of knowledge in 
foreign countries — and these may be translated, if necessary, and in- 
corporated into other reports, by some competent person in this country. 

Besides the reports on the progress of knowledge, the programme pro- 
poses to pubhsh occasionally brief treatises on particular subjects. There 
are always subjects of general interest, of which brief expositions would 
be of much value. The preparation of these, however, should be in- 
trusted to none but persons of character and reputation, and should be 
subjected to a revision by competent and responsible judges before they 
are given to the public. They may be presented in the form of reports 
on the existing state of knowledge relative to a given subject, and may 
sometimes consist of memoirs and expositions of particular branches of 
literature and science, translated from foreign languages. The reports 
and treatises of the Institution, sold at a price barely sufficient to pay the 
expense of printing, will find their way into every school in our country, 
and will be used not as first lessons for the pupil, but as sources of re- 
liable information for the teacher. 

The second section of the programme gives, so far as they have been 
made out, the details of the part of the plan of organization directed by 
the act of Congress establishing the Institution. The two plans, namely, 
that of publication and original research, and that of collections of objects 
of nature and art, are not incompatible, and may be carried on harmoni- 
ously with each other. The only effect which they will have on one 
another is that of hmiting the operation of each, on account of the funds 
given to the other. Still, with a judicious application, and an economical 
expenditure of the income, and particularly by rigidly observing the 
plan of finance suggested by Dr. Bache, in the construction of the 
lauilding, much good may be effected in each of the two branches of 
the Institution. To carry on the operations of the first, a working library 
will be required, consisting of the past volumes of the transactions and 
proceedings of all the learned societies in every language. These are 
the original sources from which the most important principles of the 
positive knowledge of our day have been drawn. We shall also require 
a collection of the most important current literature and science for the 
use of the collaborators of the reports ; most of these, however, will 
be procured in exchange for the publications of the Institution, and 
therefore will draw but little from the library fund. For other sugges- 
tions relative to the details of the library, I would refer you to the 
annexed communication from Professor Jewett, Assistant Secretary, 
acting as librarian. 

The collections of the Institution, as far as possible, should consist of 
such articles as are not elsewhere to be found in this country, so that the 
visitors at Washington may see new objects, and the spirit of the plan 
be kept up, of interesting the greatest possible number of individuals. 
A perfect collection of all objects of nature and of art, if such could be 
obtained and deposited in one place, would form a museum of the 
highest interest ; but the portion of the income of the bequest which 
can be devoted to the increase and maintenance of the museum will be 
too small to warrant any attempt towards an indiscriminate collection. 
It is hoped that in due time other means may be found of establishing 
and supporting a general collection of objects of nature and art at the 



140 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

seat of the general government, with funds not derived from the Smith- 
sonian bequest. For the present, it should be the object of the Institu- 
tion to confine the application of the fiinds, first, to such collections as 
will tend to facilitate the study of the memoirs which maybe published 
in the Contributions, and to establish their correctness ; secondly, to the 
purchase of such objects as are not generally known in this country, 
in the way of art, and the illustration of antiquities, such as models 
of buildings, &c. ; and, thirdly, to the formation of a collection of in- 
struments of physical research, which will be required both in the illustra- 
tion of new physical truths, and in the scientific investigations under- 
taken by the lustitution. 

Much popular interest may be awakened in favor of the Institution at 
Washington, by throwing the rooms of the building open, on stated 
evenings during the session of Congress, for literary and scientific assem- 
blies, alter the manner of the weekly meetings of the Royal Institution in 
London. At these meetings, without the formality of a regular lecture, 
new truths in science may be illustrated, and new objects of art exhibited. 
Besides these, courses of lectures may be given on particular subjects 
by the officers of the lustitution, or by distinguished individuals invited 
for the purpose. 

Commencement of tlie operations of the Instkutmi. 

I was authorized, in connexion with the Committee on Organization, 
to commence the publication of the Smithsonian Contributions to 
Knowledge, and to receiv^e any memoir which might be presented on 
any subject, provided it was found, on examination, to furnish an inter- 
esting addition to the sum of human knowledge, resting on original 
research. The first memoir presented, and found to be of the character 
prescribed by the resolution of the Board, was one on the remains of 
the ancient inhabitants of the North American continent. Il contains 
the result of several years' labor in the survey and exploration of the 
mounds and eartliworks of the Mississippi valley, and will furnish a 
highly interesting addition to the antiquities of our country, which could 
not have been given to the world but for the timely aid extended to it 
by this Institution. The memoir was referred to the American Ethno- 
logical Society, with a request that a committee of its members might 
be appointed to examine and report on its character, as to fitness for 
publication in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. On the 
favorable report of this committee, and on the lesponsibility of the 
society, the memoir has been accepted for publication. The following 
correspondence will serve to give an account of the work, and to illus- 
trate the manner in which it is proposed to submit the papers which 
may be presented for publication to a commission of competent judges. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 141 



CORRESPONDENCE RELATIVE TO THE ACCEPTANCE FOR PUBLICATION OF 
THE ETHNOLOGICAL MEMOIR OF MESSRS. SQUIER AND DAVIS. 

From Messrs. Squier and Davis to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti' 

tution. 

Chillicothe, O., May 15, 1847. 

Dear Sir : It is proposed in the recognised plan of organization of 
the Smithsonian Institution, of which you are the executive officer, to 
publish, under the title o^ '■^ Smitltsonian Contrihitions to Knowledge,'''' such 
original papers and memoirs " as shall constitute valuable additions to 
the sum of human knowledge." Under the belief that it falls legiti- 
mately within the scope of the above plan, the undersigned herewith 
submit for acceptance and publication, subject to the prescribed rules 
of the Institution, a MS. memoir, entitled, "Ancient Monuments of 
The Mississippi Valley, comprising the results of Extensive Original 
Surveys and Explorations : by E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis." The 
extent of these investigations, and their general character, are suffici- 
ently inchcated in the prefatory remarks to the volume. 

With high consideration, we are truly yours, 

E. GEO. SQUIER, 
E. H. DAVIS. 

Joseph Henry, Esq., 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 



From the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the President of the 
American Ethnological Society. 

Washington, June 2, 1847. 

Dear Sir: I am nuthorized by the Regents of the Smithsonian In» 
stitution to publish, in the numbei's ot" the " Smithsonian Contributions to 
Krioidcdge,^^ any memoir which may be presented for this purpose, pro- 
vided that, on careful examination by a commission of competent 
judges, the memoir shall be found to furnish a new and interesting addi- 
tion to knowledge, resting on original research. The accompanying 
memoir, entitled " Ancient Monuments of the Mi'ssissippi Valley,'''' &fc., 
having been presented for publication, I beg leave to refer the same, 
through you, to the American Ethnological Society, with a request that 
a committee of the members may be appointed to examine and report 
on its character, in reference to the particulars above mentioned. K 
the report of the committee is favorable, the memoir will be accepted 
for publication ; lull confidence being placed in the ability of the com- 
mittee to judge of the character of the article, and in their caution in 
making up their opinion. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretai-y Smitlisonian Institution. 

Hon. Albert Gallatin, 

Frcsident American Ethnological Society. 



142 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Extracts of a letter from the President of the American Ethnological Sodety 
to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

New York, Jurie 12, 1847. 

"Dear Sir : I have the honor to enclose a copy of the proceedings 
and resolutions of the New York Ethnological Society upon the MS. 
work on American antiquities, by Messrs. E. G. Squier and E. H. 
Davis, submitted with your letter of the 2d inst. 

"I approve entirely of the resolutions and recommendations of tlie 
society. 

" Whatever mny be the intrinsic value of the remains of former times 
which are found in the United States, it is necessary that they should 
at least be correctly described, and that existing gross errors should be 
corrected ; and I repeat my conviction that, though ardent, Messrs. 
Squier and Davis are animated by that thorough love of truth which 

renders their researches worthy of entire confidence. 

*********** 

" I have the honor to be, &c., 

"ALBERT GALLATIN. 

"Prof J. Henry, 

" Secretary of Smithsonian Institntion.^^ 



At a regular meeting of the American Ethnological Society, held at 
the house of the Hon. Albert Gallatin, on the evening of the 4lh of 
June, the president laid before the members a communication iroih 
Professor J. Henry, Secretaiy of the Smithsonian Lislitution, trans- 
mitting, for the examination and opinion of the society, a MS. work on 
the Ancient Aboriginal Monuments of the United States. On motion, 
the letter and accompanying ]MS. were referred to a committee consist- 
ing of Edward Robinson, D. D., John R. Bartlett, Professor W. 
W. Turner, Samuel G. Morton, M. D., and Hon George P. Marsh, 
to report upon the same. At a subsequent meeting of the society, this 
committee submitted the following report and resolutions, which were 
unanimously accepted and adopted : 

REPORT. 

The committee of the American Ethnological Society, to which wa? 
referred the communication of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, transmitting a manuscript work, entitled " Ancient Monuments 
OF the jNIississippi Valley, comprising the results of Extensive Original 
Surveys and Explorations,'' by E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis, beg 
leave to report that: 

They have examined the work in (jucstion, and regard it not only as 
a new and interesting, but as an eminently valuable addition to our 
stock of knowledge on a subject little understood, but in which is felt 
a deep and constantly increasing interest, both in our country and 
abroad. In their judgment, the work is worthy of the subject, and 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 143 

highly creditable to the authors. Its chief features are, a scientific 
arrangement, simplicity, and directness of statement, and legitimate 
deduction from facts, while there is no attempt at mere speculation or 
theory. If published, it will be an enduring monument to connect the 
names of the investigators in honorable and lasting remembrance with 
the great subject of American Archaeology. 

The existence and progress of these investigations were made known to 
the society by correspondence early in the year 1846; and in June of that 
year specimens of the relics recovered, accompanied by numerous maps 
and plans of ancient earthworks and sectional views of the mounds 
from which the remains were taken, were laid before the society by 
Mr. Sfjuier in person. These excited deep interest and surprise in all 
who saw them; and the society immediately took measures to encour- 
age further investigation, and secure the publication, under its own 
auspices, of the important results already obtained. A few months later, 
the chairman of the present committee, being in Ohio, was enabled 
through the kindness of Messrs. Squierand Davis, to visit several of the 
more important monuments in the immediate vicinity of Chilhcothe, and, 
among these, "Mound City," so called, from which very many of the 
minor relics and specimens were procured. He was struck with the 
accuracy of the plans and drawings, as well as of the accounts which 
had been laid before the society, and bears full testimony to the fidelity 
and integrity with which the process of investigation and delineation 
has been conducted. 

During the last and present season the researches of these gentlemen 
have been actively prosecuted and widely extended, and the above 
work, largely illustrated, comprising the results, has been prepared. 
These results are so numerous and important, and consequently such 
is the extent and magnitude of the work itself, as to put its publication 
beyond any means which the society can command. Under these cir- 
cumstances, your committee learn with pleasure that preliminary 
arrangements have been made for its publication by the Smithsonian 
Institution among its " Contributions to Knowledge." It can only be 
a matter of sincere gratification to this society to see that which it can- 
not itself accomplish for the history and anticjuitiesof our country taken 
up and carried out under such favorable auspices ; and they cannot but 
rejoice that an opportunity is thus afforded to that noble Institution of 
opening its high career by foste]-ing scientific researches into the inter- 
esting problems connected with the ante-Columbian history and abo- 
riginal monuments of our own country. 

In view of these facts, your committee would recommend the adop- 
tion of the following resolutions by the society : 

Resolved, That this society regard the researches of Messrs. Squier 
and Davis as of very great importance in American Archaeology, and 
as Casting much light upon our aboriginal antiquities, especially upon 
the character and habits of the earliest races which had their scat in the 
Mississippi valley. 

Resolved, That we regard the work prepared upon this subject as one 
of great general interest, and as worthy to be adopted for publi- 
cation by the Smithsonian Institution, both as resting on original re- 



144 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT DP 

searches, and as affording remarkable illustrations of the history of the 
American continent. 

Your committee would also append to this report the accompanying 
letters from Samuel G. Morton, M. D., of Philadelphia, and Hon. 
Oeorge P. Marsh, of Vermont, both members of this society, o-nd joint 
members oi this committee. 

All of which is respectfully submitted^ 

EDWARD ROBINSON, ) 

JOHN R. BARTLETT, > CommUtec. 



New York, June, 1847. 



W. W. TURNER, 



New York, June 9, 184'7. 

I have examined with much interest and attention the manuscripts, 
drawings, and ancient relics in the possession of Mr. E. G. Squier, and 
am happy to say that my previous impressions concerning the value of 
the researches of that gentleman and his associate are {lill}^ confirmed* 
It is tbrtunate for the cause of American Archcfeology that the first 
systematic attempt at its elucidation should have been conceived and 
executed in so truly philosophical a spirit ; and rich as this age already 
is in antiquarian lore, it has, I think, received few more important con* 
tributions tiian that v/hich the enlightened and generous zeal of these 
two private gentlemen is about to confer upon it. The Smithsonian 
collections could not begin with a more appropriate or creditable 
essay ; and I hope that every facility may be afforded to the authors in 
bringing before tlie public the resuUs of their honorable labors in as 
suitable a form and with as little delay as possible. 

GEO. P. MARSH. 



Philadelphia, June 8, 1847. 
As a member of the committee of the American Ethnological Society, 
appointed to report on the memoir on American Archaeology, by Messrs. 
E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis, I have great pleasure in saying, that 
after a careful and repeated inspection of the materials in the hands of 
those gentlemen, I am convinced they constitute by far the most im- 
portant contribution to the Archaeology of the United States, that has 
ever been offered to the public. The number and accuracy of their 
plans, sketches, &c., have both interested and surprised me, and it is 
gratifying to learn tliat the preliminary arrangements have been made 
for their publication under the honorable auspices of the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

SAME. GEORGE MORTON. 



The memoirs of Messrs. Squier and Davis will occupy the greater 
portion, if not the whole, of the first volume of the Contributions. The 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 145 

UluslTatlons will consist of fifty-five quarto plates of the mounds, earth- 
works, and maps of the adjacent country ; also, ot about two hundred 
wood-cuts, principally delineations of the various articles found in the 
mounds. Those who consider no branch of knowledge of any value 
but such as relates to the immediate gratification of our physical wants, 
have objected to the acceptance of this memoir as one of the first pub- 
lications of the Institution ; but it must be recollected that the will oi" 
Smithson makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of know- 
ledge, and that each branch is, therefore, entitled to a share f)f his be- 
quest. The ethnological memoir of Messrs. Squier and Davis was 
the first, of the proper character, presented for publication, and hence 
it was entitled to the first place in the series of Smithsonian Contribu- 
tions. Beside this, it furnishes an addition to a branch of knowledge 
which is at this time occupying the attention of a large class of minds, 
and which cannot fail to be interesting to every intelligent person who 
would learn something of the changes to which man has been subjected. 

It is proposed to insert in one of the volumes of the Contributions a 
sketch of the life of Smithson. The materials for this have been 
collected from the several volumes of the Transactions of the Royal 
Societ}^ and the scientific journals of the beginning of the present and 
the latter part of the last century. The first volume will be published 
as soon as the wood-cuts and plates, now in the course of preparation, 
are finished. 

Besides the memoirs before mentioned, a number of others have been 
presented, some of which, though apparently of interest, and the product 
of thought and labor, were not of the character required by the resolution 
of the Board, and these have either been returned to their authors, or are in 
the possession of the Secretary. A number of others have also been pro- 
visionally adopted, or are in the course of preparation. Some of thesh are 
on the most abstruse parts of physical science, and all will do honor to the 
intellectual character of our countrv. Though the number of original 
memoirs which will be found worthy of a place in the Contributions will 
probably not be large, yet it will, perhaps, be best to set apart a definite 
portion of the income of the bequest — as, for example, at present three 
or four thousand dollars annually — to defray the expense of this part of 
the plan of increasing knowledge. A considerable portion, however, 
of the sum thus expended will be returned to the Institution in the form 
of additions to its library. I may also suggest, in this place, the pro- 
priety of the adoption by the Board of a resolution inviting all engaged 
in original research to send the results of their labors for publication in 
the Smithsonian Contributions. 

The Boai'd also directed me to commence the collection of apparatus ; 
and I accordingly sent orders to Europe, to the amount of" twelve hun- 
dred dollars, for the purchase of such articles as could nut be procured 
in the United States. Most of the instruments have been received, and 
will be found of importance not only in the way of original research, 
but also in illustrating some of the most interesting and recent pheno- 
mena of physical science, as well as serving as samples for imitation 
to the artists of this country. It was thought that these articles would 
be admitted free of duty, and a petition to this effect was presented to 
the Secretary of the Treasury; but — though this officer is well known 
30 



146 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

to be much interested in the prosperity of the Institution — such is the 
nature of the law that the duty could not be remitted. 

Tliere is an article of apparatus which, within a few years past, has 
opened almost a new world of research in the phenomena of life and 
organization, the use of which is now indispensable in advancing our 
knowledge of physiology and its kindred branches of science. I allude 
to the achromatic microscope, to increase the power of which the artists 
of Germany, France, and England have vied with each other. On ac 
count of the small number of persons who are capable of constructing 
the proper lenses, the best specimens of this instrument are very scared 
in this country, and can be procured only at a great expense. Under 
these circumstances, it was a matter of much interest to learn, from a 
source which could be relied on, that an individual in the interior of the 
State of New York had successful^ devoted himself to the study of the 
microscope, and that he was able to produce instruments of this kind 
which would compete with the best of those constructed in Europe. In 
order to do justice to the talents and labors of this person, as well as to 
furnish the Institution with a valuable instrument of research, I re- 
quested him to construct a microscope, to be paid for out of the iiinds 
t()r the purchase of apparatus, provided that a commission, appointed 
by myself, should find it capable of producing certain effects. This 
proposition was accepted, and the result will probably be given to the 
Board at the next meeting. 

Preparations have also been made for instituting various lines of phy- 
sical research. Among the subjects mentioned by way of example in 
the programme for the application of the hinds of the Institution is terres- 
trial magnetism. I need scarcely say that this is a subject of high in- 
terest not only in a theoretical point of view, but also in its direct reference 
to navigation and the various geodetical operations of civil and military 
lite. A resolution of Congress authorizing the exploration of the mine- 
ral lands adjacent to the great lakes has given to us the means of ad- 
vancing this branch of knowledge with but little expenditure of the 
funds of the Institution. The Secretary of the Treasury readily agreed 
to the proposition that there should be added to the mineralogical 
and geological surveys of these regions, determinations of the dip, 
the variation, and the intensity of the magnetic forces, provided that 
the Smithsonian Institution would furnish one set of the instruments, 
and take charge of the direction of the observations, and of reducing 
and publishing them. In the survey of the mineral lands in the vicinity 
of Lake Michigan, under Dr. Jackson ; Dr. Locke, of Cincinnati, has 
been employed with his own apparatus; and, to make provision for 
the survey in Wisconsin, preliminary steps have been taken to pro- 
cure other instruments from London. 

Another subject of research mentioned in the programme, and which 
has been urged upon the immediate attention of the Institution, is that 
of an extensive system of meteorological observations, particularly with 
reference to the phenomena of American storms. Of late years, in our 
country, more additions have been made to meteorology than to any 
(jther branch of physical science. Several important generalizations 
have been arrived at, and definite theories proposed, which now enable 
us to direct our attention, with scientific precision, to such points of 



J 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 147 

observation as cannot fail to reward us with new and interesting results. 
It is proposed to organise a sj^stem of observations which shall extend 
as far as possible over the North American continent ; and, in order to 
do this, it will be necessary to engage the co-operation of the British 
government. I have accordingly addressed a letter to Lieutenant Colo- 
nel Sabine, Corresponding Secretary of the Royal Society, who assures 
me that, as soon as the plan is fully matured for this country, there 
will be no difficulty in establishing a system of corresponding observa- 
vations in the British provinces. I have also addressed letters to seve- 
ral gentlemen distinguished for their attainments in meteorology, asking 
for suggestions as to the plan of observation ; and I beg leave to refer 
the Board to the accompanying report of Professor Loomis, of New York 
University, and also to the communication of Professor Espy, received 
in answer. The former contains an exposition of the advantages which 
may be derived from the study of meteorology, and what has been done 
in this branch of science in this country, and what encouragement there 
is for the further prosecution of the same subject, together with a gene- 
ral plan of operations. The present time appears to be peculiarly 
auspicious for commencing an enterprise of the proposed kind. The 
citizens of the United States are now scattered over every part of the 
southern and western portion of North America, and the extended lines 
of telegraph will furnish a ready means of warning the more northern 
and eastern observers to be on the watch for the first appearance of an 
advancing storm. 

All which is respectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary. 

To the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. 



148 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



REPORT 



COMMITTEE OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS AND SClEKCEa 



APPOINTED TO 



CONSIDER THE PLAN PROPOSED FOR THE ORGANIZATION OF THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



SUBMITTED TO THE ACADEMY, DECEMBER 7, 1847. 



The Committee of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, to 
whom was referred a letter of Professor Henry, of the 30th September, 
together with the inogramme of the organization of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution accompanying the said letter, have had the same under con- 
sideration, and beg leave to submit the following report : 

Prolessor Henry is understood to be desirous of ascertaining the 
opinions of the scientific bodies of the country on the subject of the 
proposed organization of the Smithsonian Institution ; and the free ex- 
pression of their views is invited by him. 

The interesting nature and high importance of this foundation, and 
the novel and peculiar circumstances attending its establishment, make 
it highly expedient, in the ojiinion of the committee, that every step 
taken in its organization should be deliberately considered. They think 
it no more than just to express their satisfaction, that the control of the 
infant establishment has been placed in the hands of a Board of Regents 
of the highest intelhgence, respectability, and weight of character ; and 
in the wise selection made of the officers on whom the active excep- 
tive duties of the Institution will devolve, the committee perceive a 
satisfactory pledge as far as they are concerned. 

Prof. Henry's inogramme commences with " General considerations 
which should serve as a guide in adopting the plan of organization.'" 
He points out the nature of the bequest as made to the United States 
for the purpose of founding at Washington, under the name of the 
Smithsonian Institution, an estabhshment for the increase and diffusion 
of knowledge among men. The bequest is accordingly for the benefit 
of mankind. The government of the United States is but a trustee to 
carry out this noble design. Even the people of" the United States are 
interested only so far as they constitute one of the great families of tlie 
human race. 

The objects of the Institution are twofold : first, the increase ; and 
second, the diffusion of knowledge ; objects which, although frequently 
in a vague way confounded with each other, (inasmuch as it often hap- 
pens that knowledge is diffused by the same acts which increase it,) 
are nevertheless logically distinct, and require to be separately regarded. 
No particular kind of knowledge is specified by the founder as entitled 



I 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 149 

to preference; all branches are entitled to a share Of attention; and the 
order and degree in which they are cultivated must be decided by a 
wise regard to means and cucumstances. Knowledge may be increased 
by various modes of encouraging and facilitating the discovery of new 
truths ; it is diffused chiefly, though not exclusively, through the instru- 
mentality of the press. The organization should be such as to produce 
results not within the province of the existing institutions of the coun- 
try. It was, for instance, evidently not the design of the liberal founder 
to establish a collegiate institution or a place of education ; nor would 
it be wise to appropriate his bequest for such an object, already suffi- 
ciently attained by the ordinary resources of public and private liber- 
ality. Considering the novelty of the undertaking, it would be mani- 
festly unwise to stake too much on the success of the first efforts. The 
organization should be such as to admit of changes and modifications 
under the light of experience. As several years have elapsed since 
the fund came into the possession of the United States, it seems no 
more than equitable" that a considerable portion of the accruing interest 
should be added to the principal, to make up for the loss of time. The 
committee consider this suggestion as pertectly reasonable, and trust it 
will receive the favorable consideration of Congress. Liberal as is the 
original bequest, the sum is but small compared whh the great objects 
to be accomplished. This consideration suggests the absolute necessity 
of economy in any outlay on buildings and fixtures ; in reference to 
which a prudent regard must be had, not merely to the first cost, but to 
the fiiture expenses of repairs, and the support of the establishment. 
Great care must be taken not to multiply the number of persons to be 
permanently supported by the Institution. A clear and settled idea of 
its organization and mode of operation must precede the adoption of a 
plan of building ; lest after the completion of a costly edifice it should 
be found nearly or quite useless, or worse than useless, by forcing a 
character upon the Institution which would not otherwise have been 
given it. AH view to mere local ornament or advantage should be dis- 
carded at the outset, in the management of a trust created for the bene- 
fit of mankind. 

Such, very slightly expanded in a few of the propositions, are the 
general considerations proposed by Professor Henry as guides in 
adopting a plan of organization. They command the entire assent of 
the committee, and none of them more so than those which refer to 
the necessity of strict economy in the expenditure of the fund on a 
building, and the exclusion of undue regard to local ornament. It 
would not be difficult to point to a memorable instance in which the 
most munificent bequest ever made for the purposes of education has 
been rendered comparatively unavailing, in a sister city of the Union, 
by the total disregard of these wise principles. It is an additional 
reason for observing them, that the attempt to erect a highly imposing 
building for local ornament will not only crush in the bud all hope of 
fulfilhng the ulterior objects of the bequest, but will be almost sure to 
fail of a satisfactory result, as far as the edifice itself is concerned. 

The Secretary's plan of organization in reference to the increase of 
knowledge is so accurately digested and so thoroughly condensed, that 
the committee think it would be best to quote his own words : 



150 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 
" To INCREASE KNOWLEDGE, it is propOSCd 

"1st. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by 
offering suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths ; and 

" 2d. To appropriate annually a portion of the income ibr particular 
researches under the direction of suitable persons." 

These methods of incrcasina; hiowlectore are further unfolded in the 
tollowmg " detail of the plan" for that purpose : 

" I. By stimulating researches. 

" 1st. Rew^ards, consisting of money, medals, &c., offered for original 
memoirs on all branches of knowledge. 

"2d. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of 
volumes in a quarto form, and entitled ' Smithsonian Contributions to 
Knowledge.' 

" 3d. No memoir on subjects of plwsical science to be accepted for 
publication which does not furnish a positive addition to human know- 
ledge ; and all unverified speculation to be rejected. 

"4th. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for 
examination to a committee of persons of reputation for learning in the 
branch to which the memoir pertains, and to be accepted for publica- 
tion only in case the report is favorable. 

" 5th. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institu- 
tion, and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed until 
a favorable decision shall have been made. 

"6th. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transac- 
tions of all literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to 
all the colleges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the 
remaining copies may be offered for sale, and the other carefully pre- 
served to form complete sets of the work to supply the demand from 
new institutions. 

" 7th. An abstract or popular account of the contents of these me- 
moirs should be given to the public through the annual report of the 
Regents to Congress. 

"II. By a2)propriati7ig a portion of the income annually to special objects 
of research^ under the direction of suitable persons. 

" 1st. The objects and the amounts appropriated to be recommended 
by counsellors of the Institution. 

" 2d. Appropriation in difierent years to different objects, so that in 
course of time each branch of knowledge may receive a share. 

" 3d. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published 
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian 
Contributions to Knowledge. 

"4th. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made: 

" (1.) System of extended meteorological observations, for solving the 
problem of American storms. 

" (2.) Geological, magnetical, and topographical surveys, to collect 
materials for a physical atlas of the United States. 

" (3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as weighing the 
earth, new determination of the velocity of electricity and light, chemi- 
cal analyses of soils and plants, collection and publication of" articles 
of science accumulated in the offices of the government. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 151 

" (4.) Institution of statistical inquiries, with reference to physical, 
moral, and political subjects. 

" (5.) Historical researches and accurate surve3^s of places celebrated 
in history. 

"(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the 
present races of men in North America ; also explorations and accu- 
rate surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of 
our country." 

The committee have made this long extract from Professor Henry's 
irrogramme in order to give to the Academy an adequate idea of the 
proposed plan, as far as it refers to the fii'st branch, or the increase of 
knowledge. It has, in some of its features, been already adopted. It 
is already announced that one voluminous memoir, copiously illustrated 
by engravings, is already on its passage through the press, under the 
auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. The committee refer to an 
elaborate memoir, by Messrs. Squier and Davis, on the aboriginal 
mounds discovered in large numbers in various parts of the United 
States, and especially in the region northwest of the Ohio. This me- 
moir was accepted on the favorable report of the Ethnological Society 
of New York, to which it had been referred by the Secretary of the 
Institution, and in whose Transactions an abridgment of it has appeared. 
It is also understood that a memoir on one of the most interesting sub- 
jects which engages the attention of geometers and mathematicians at 
the present moment, viz., the planet Neptune, has been invited by the 
Secretary from one of our own members. 

While the committee would deprecate all attempts unduly to stimu- 
late the increase of knowledge, as sure to prove abortive, and to result 
at best in the publication of crude investigations, they believe it quite 
possible to remove some of the obstructions to its progress. Narrow 
circumstances are too apt to be the lot of genius when devoted to sci- 
entific pursuits ; and the necessity of providing for personal and domestic 
wants too often absorbs the time and faculties of those who might, if 
relie^■ed from cares of this kind, have adorned their age and benefited 
mankind. To such men a moderate pecuniary advantage derived from 
a successful investigation might be of vast importance. The efficacy 
of market upon production is not limited to the creations of ph^^sical 
labor. It is seen in the history of science and literature of every age 
and country. Invention in the mechanical arts and skill in practical 
science are well paid in this country, and how great is the harvest ! 
The extraordinary effect even of an honorary inducement is seen in 
the case of the medal offered by the King of Denmark for the discovery 
of Telescopic Comets. On these principles it may be hoped that by 
offering a moderate pecuniar}^ compensation for researches of real 
merit, valuable contributions to knowledge will be produced ; while 
their publication will tend directly to the diffusion of knowledge. 

An encouragement somewhat similar toward the promotion of the 
increase of knowledge would be afforded by another part of the pro- 
posed operations, that of providing the requisite apparatus and imple- 
ments, and especially books, to be placed in the hands of those engaged 
in particular lines of investigation. In this way it is not unhkely that 
a considerable amount of talent may be rendered effective, which at 



152 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

present is condemned to inactivity, from local position unfavorable to> 
scientific research. 

It is not the purpose of the committee to engage in minute criticism 
of the details of the prog7-am?ne ; but it may not be out of place to sug- 
gest a doubt of the practicability or expediency of carrying into rigid 
execution, " the rejection of all unverified speculations," as proposed 
in the third paragraph of the first section above cited ; while it is ob- 
viously advisable to discountenance all theoretical speculations not 
directly built upon observation, it might be too much to exact, in all 
cases, that these speculations should have been actually verified. JNo 
small portion of modern geology is an ingenious structure of speculative 
generalizations. The undulatory theory of light can hardly claim any 
other character. The nebular theory, though proposed and illustrated 
by the highest astronomical talent of the past and present generation, 
is rapidly sinking from the domain of accredited speculations. It may 
be doul)ted even whether M. Le Vcrrier's brilliant memoirs on the per- 
turbations of Uranus would not, as published before the discovery of 
Neptune, have fallen within this principle of rejection rigorousl}'^ applied. 
Upon the whole, the committee think verj^ favorably of all parts of the 
plan for increasing knowledge ; and feel no doubt that it would afford 
important encouragement to scientific pursuits. To suppose that it 
will create an era in science, or throw into the shade the ordinary edu- 
cational and intellectual influences at work in the country, would be 
extravagant. It is enough and all that can be expected, if it be a 
lational plan for appropriating moderate means towards the attainment 
of a desirable end. 

To fulfil the other object of the trust, viz. to " diffuse knowledge," the 
Secretary proposes to publish "A Series of Reports, giving an account 
of the new discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year 
to 3'"ear in all branches of knowledge not strictly professional." These 
reports are to be prepared by collaborators, most eminent in their sev- 
eral depai'tments, who are to receive a compensation for their labors ; 
the collaborators to be furnished with all the journals and other publi- 
cations necessary to the preparation of their reports. 

The following enumeration of the proposed subjects of these reports 
will aff()rd the Academy a full conception of this part of the plan. 

I. Physical class. 

1. Physics, including Astronomy, Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, 
and Meteorology. 

2. Natural Histor}'', including Botany, Zoology, and Geology. 

3. Agriculture. 

4. Application of Science to Art. 

II. Moral and Political class. 

5. Ethnology, including particular History, comparative Philology, 
Anticjuities, &c. 

6. Statistics and Political Economy. 

7. Mental and Moral Philosophy. 

8. A Survey of the Political Events of the World, Penal Ref6rm, &c. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 153 

III. Literature and the Fine Arts. 

9. Modern Literature. 

10. The Fine Arts, and their application to the Useful Arts. 

11. Bibliography. 

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals. 

Another branch of the plan for the diffusion of knowledge contem- 
plates the offer of premiums lor the best essa}- s on given subjects. 

The publications of the Institution, of whatever form, are proposed 
to be presented to all the colleges, and to the principal libraries and 
scientific institutions throughout the country, and to be exchanged for 
the transactions of all scientific and literary societies throughout the 
world ; thus laying the foundation of a valuable library. An adequate 
number are to be preserved to supply the future demand of new insti- 
tutions, and the remainder are to be placed on sale at a price so low 
as to render them generally accessible. 

For carrying out the plan thus sketched for increasing and diffusing 
knowledge, the Regents propose to appropriate one half of the income 
of their liuid. The remainder is to be expended in the formation and 
maintenance of a lih-arij, a collection of instruments of research in all 
branches of experimental science, and a museum. 

This partition of the income of the fund is stated to be "a compro- 
mise between the two modes of increasing and diffusing knowledge." 

A library is one of the objects contemplated in the act of Congress 
establishing the Board for the management of the trust. It is requisite 
for cairying out the plan above proposed. At the same time, it will be 
observed that the distribution, by exchange, of the publications, which 
that scheme of operations will call into existence, will rapidly provide 
the Institution, without further expense, with the class of works, often of 
a costly character, which are most directly important as the means of 
advancing and diffusing positive knowledge. It is accordingly in these 
that the Secretary proposes to lay the foundations of the library, form- 
ing, 1. A complete collection of the transactions and proceedings of all 
the learned societies in the world ; and, 2. A similar collection of all 
the current periodical publications, and other works necessary in pre- 
paring the contemplated periodical reports. 

In the next place, it is proposed to procure by preference those books 
which are not found in the other public libraries of the United States ; 
regarding the want of them as one of more urgency to be supplied than 
that of a symmetrical and proportionate collection of books in all the 
departments of science. Such a library as the plan proposes may be 
fairly regarded as an important instrument for the increase and diffusion 
of knowledge. 

The collection of scientific apparatus and instruments of research is 
no less needful in the furtherance of the above mentioned plan, which, 
as it proposes to aid individuals in the prosecution of important re- 
searches, may often do so most effectually by the loan of the instru- 
ments required for a particular investigation. They will also be needed, 
especially at Washington, for carrying out, under the most advantageous 
circumstances, the various experimental investigations in Physics al» 



154 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

ready pursued by the Secretary with such credit to himself, and such 
honor to the scientific character of the country. 

The Smithsonian Institution is also to be entrusted with the conser- 
vation of a National Museum, Congress having, by a clause in the Act 
of Incorporation, devolved upon it the charge of the immense collec- 
tions belonging to the public, of which those brought home by Captain 
Wilkes from the Exploring Expedition form the gi'eater portion, but 
which are daily increasing from many other sources. These collec- 
tions, when a proper and convenient place shall have been prepared 
for their reception and preservation, are likely to accumulate with still 
greater rapidity in time to come. 

While there is an obvious propriety and convenience in thus entrust- 
ing the care of the public collections to the officers of the Smithsonian 
Institution, it will not, the Committee trust, be forgotten by Congress 
that the income of the Smithsonian bequest — moderate at best, and 
consecrated to an object distinct as it is elevated — ought not to be 
burdened with the cost of constructing an edifice for the reception and 
exhibition of the pubhc collections, or of their preservation and care. 
These objects would alone absorb a considerable portion of the fund. 
If drawn upon to carry them into effect, its efficiency for any other pur- 
pose will be seriously diminished, if not altogether destroyed. 

The plan also contemplates a museum oi" the fine arts as well as a 
scientific apparatus. It proposes to procure " casts of the most cele- 
brated articles of ancient and modern sculpture" and " models of an- 
tiquities." While it is undoubtedly true that a gallery of this descrip- 
tion would find an appropriate place in an establishment devoted to the 
increase and diffiision of knowledge in its broadest sense, the Commit- 
tee cannot but hope that the immediate execution of this part of the plan 
will not be attempted ; but that it will be deferred till other objects of 
more decided utilit\^ have been provided for, and until a surplus of un- 
appropriated funds shall have accrued. 

The Academy will perceive that the most novel and important fea- 
ture of the plan is that which proposes to insure the publication of me- 
moirs and treatises on impoi»tant subjects of investigation, and to offer 
pecuniary encouragement to men of talent and attainment to engage in 
scientific research. It is believed that no Institution in the country 
effects either of these objects to any great extent. The nearest 
approach to it is the practice of the Academy and other Philosophical 
Societies, of publishing the memoirs accepted by them. These, 
however, can rarely be works of great compass. No systematic 
plan of compensation for the preparation of works of scientific re- 
search is known b}^ the Committee to have been attempted in this or 
any other country. It can scarcely be doubted that an important im- 
pulse would be given by the Institution, in this way, to the cultivation 
of scientific pursuits : while the extensive and widely ramified system 
of distribution and exchange by which the publications are to be dis- 
tributed throughout the United States and the world, would secure 
them a circulation which works of science could scarcely attain in any 
other way. 

It is an obvious characteristic of this mode of appl^^ing the funds of 
the Institution, that its influence would operate most widely throughout 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 155 

the country ; that locaUty would be of comparatively little imjDortance 
as far as this influence is concerned; and that the Union would become, 
so to say, in this respect, a great school of mutual instruction. 

The Committee would remark in conclusion, that in a plan of opera- 
tions of this kind, very much depends upon the activity and intelhgence 
with which it is administered. The characters of the Board of Regents 
are a sufficient warrant for the prudence and good judgment which will 
watch over the general interests of the foundation ; while the reputation 
of the Secretary and his assistant, the hbrarian, is so well established 
in their respective departments, as to render any tribute from the Com- 
mittee entirely superfluous. 

All which is respectfully submitted by the Committee. 

EDWARD EVERETT, 
JARED SPARKS, 
BENJAMIN PEIRCE, 
HENRY W. LONGFELLOW, 
ASA GRAY. 
December 4, 1847. 



Read at a meeting of the Academy held December 7, 1847, and ao- 
cepted. 

Ordered to be communicated to the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

O. W. HOLMES, 

Recording Secretary. 



156 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



SECOND ANNUAL REPORT 

Of the Secretarij of tJic Smkhscmian ' Institution, giving an account of the 
operations of iJic year 1848. Presented December 13, 1849. 

Gentlemen: By a resolution of the Board of Regents, at their la&t 
annual meeting, I was charged with the execution of the details of the 
programme which had been provisionally adopted, and was directed to 
report annually to the Board the progress made in the execution of tlie 
duty assigned to me. In accordance with this resolution, I present the 
following statement of the operations of the past ^^ear. 

Ttie programme of the plan of organization of the Institution has 
been submitted to a number of literary and scientific societies, and in 
every case has received their unqualified approbation. The principal 
officers of these societies have expressed a wilhngness to co-operate 
with the Smithsonian Institution in carrying out the plans which have 
been adopted, and it is confidently believed, that as soon as these are 
fully developed and brought into practical operation, they will meet 
with general approval. 

It was recommended in my last report that the details of the plan 
jihould be adopted provisionally, and should be carried into operation 
gradually and cautiousl}^ with such changes, from time to time, as 
experience might dictate. The Institution is not one of a day, but 
is designed to endare as long as our government shall exist ; and it is 
therefore peculiarly important that in the beginning we should proceed 
carefully and not attempt to produce immediate effects at the expense 
of permanent uscfidness. The process of increasing knowledge is an 
extremely slow one, and the value of the results of this part of the plan 
cannot be properly realized until some years have elapsed. Indepen- 
dently of these considerations, the financial arrangements adopted by 
the Board of Regents are such as to prevent the full operation of the 
Institution until after three years from next March ; up to that time 
more than one half of the income is to be devoted to the erection of 
the building, and indirectly to the increase of the permanent fund. 

It will be recollected that the programme embraces — 

1st. The plan of publishing original memoirs on all branches of 
knowledge, in a series of quarto volumes. 

2d. Tiie institution of original researches under the direction of 
competent persons. 

3d. The publication of a series of reports from year to year, giving 
an account of the progress of the different branches of knowledge. 

4th. The formation of a librar}?' and a museum of objects of nature 
and art. 

PubUcatioji of origijial menioirs. 

The first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge has- 
been published and partially distributed. It consists of a single me- 
moir on the Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, comprising 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 167 

the results of extensive original surveys and explorations by E. G- 
Squier, A. M., and E. H. Davis, M. D. It is illustrated by forty-eight 
hthographic plates, and by two hundred and seven wood engravings. 
The mechanical execution of the volume will heiir comparison with 
tliat of any publication ever issued from the American press. 

In the publication of the first volume of the Contributions, the ques- 
tion occurred as to the propriety of securing the copyrigiit to the Insti- 
tution. I had not an opportunity of conferring with the Executive 
Committee on this point, and was therefore obliged to settle it on my own 
responsibihty. I concluded that it would be more in accordance with 
the spirit of the Institution to decide against the cop^'right. The 
knowledge which the Smithsonian Institution may be instrumental in 
presenting to the world should be free to all who are capable of using 
it. The republication of our papers ought to be considered as an evi- 
dence of their importance, and should be encouraged rather than pro- 
hibited. 

The first memoir occupies an entire volume, and this accidental cir- 
cumstance has given rise to a misconception of the plan. It has been 
supposed that each volume of the Smithsonian Contributions is, in like 
manner, to consist of a separate treatise on a particular subject selected 
with a view to popular interest. But such is not the case ; each volume 
will generally contain a number of separate memoirs, on difTerent 
branches of knowledge, similar to the usual published transactions of 
learned societies. The only reason why the first volume is occupied 
with a subject of general interest ratlier th;ni one on some more ab- 
struse branch of science is, that the memoir it contains was the Jirst 
which was presented of the character pj-escribed by the plan. No 
preference is to be given to any branch of knowledge. The only ques- 
tions to be asked, in considering the acceptance of a memoir, are, 
whether it is a positive addition to knowledge, resting on original re- 
search, and of sufficient importance to merit a place in the Smithsonian 
Contributions. 

The rules adopted for the acceptance of a memoir are the same a? 
those generally followed by learned societies. The memoir is surren- 
dered by the author to the Institution, and no additions or alteration? 
are allowed to be made after it has been submitted to the commission 
appointed to examine it, unless by their consent. A certain number 
of copies is presented to the author for distribution, with the privilege 
of striking off", at his own expense, additional copies for sale ; which 
in most cases, particularly when the memoir is of popular interest, 
will be all the remuneration expected by the author. 

From what has been said, it will be evident th.it the papers pub- 
lished in the Contributions cannot generally be of a popular nature. 
The popular effects to be produced by the Institution are principally 
those which may be attained by the reports on the progress of the dif- 
ferent branches of knowledge, and by the occasi*)nal publications in 
connexion with these of separate treatises on some subject of special 
interest. 

Applications have been made for the first volume of the Contribu- 
tions from many academies and private institutions ; and were our 
means sufficient, we would be pleased to supply all demands of this 



158 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

kind. But this is obviously impossible, for they alone would exhaust 
all the income of the Institution. 

Preparations have been made for the publication of the second 
^ohmie of the Contributions, and a sufficient number of memoirs have 
been already accepted, or are in preparation, to furnish the materials. 
Five of these are on astronomical subjects, and afford as important ad- 
ditions to this science as have ever been made to it in this country. 
Two of them relate to investigations on the new planet Neptune, which 
are only second in value to the original discovery of this distant mem- 
ber of our system. Abstracts of these have been given to the world, 
and have been received with general approbation. A third is a deter- 
mination of the zodiac of the asteroids, or the zone in the heavens to 
which the positions of these small planets are confined. This paper is 
of much practical importance in faciHtating the researches now in pro- 
gress in different parts of the world relative to the nature of these frag- 
ments (as tliey would seem to be) of a large planet between Jupiter 
and Mars. It may be at once determined, by an inspection of the 
table annexed to this paper, whether any star mapped in an old cata- 
logue, and now no longer to be found in the same place, can possibly 
be one of the asteroids. A fourth paper is an account of a new comet, 
the discovery of which by an American lady is one of the first addi- 
tions to science of this kind, so far as I am informed, ever made in this 
country. The fifth memoir is an account of the Georgetown Observa- 
tory, the instruments with which it is furnished, the mode of using them 
which has been adopted, and the results of the observations which 
have been made. An important paper is also in process of prepara- 
tion for the same volume on the gigantic fossil cetacean remains which 
are found in the southern and western States of the Union. 

Other papers are in progress which partake of the character of origi- 
nal researches, since they are, in part, at least, prepared at the expense 
and under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. They will be 
mentioned under the next head. 

In a few cases, memoirs have been presented which, though exhi- 
biting research and considerable originality, are not of a character to 
warrant their adoption as parts of our volumes of Contributions to posi- 
tive knowledge. The rule given in the programme has been rigidly 
adhered to, viz. to decline accepting any paper on physical science 
which consists merely of an unverified h3-pothesis, however ingenious 
and plausible such an hypothesis may be. A law of nature is not sus- 
ceptible of a logical demonstration, like that of a proposition of geo- 
metry, but is proved by its fitness to explain old, and to predict new, 
phenomena. The verification of an hypothesis, as we have stated in 
the last report, consists in deducing consequences from it, and ascer- 
taining, by a direct appeal to observation or experiment, the truth or 
falsity of these deductions. Any paper, therefore, on material 
science which does*not contain original experiments and observations 
cannot be admitted as a part of the Contributions to Knowledge. The 
rule we have adopted is in accordance with the practice of cautious 
nivestigators. The law of universal gravitation existed for several 
5'^ears in the mind of Newton as a well conditioned hypothesis before 
it was given to the world as a verified and established theory. Besides 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 159 

this, the rules of logic which are employed in discussing the questions 
of ordinary life are not applicable to the precision of scientific inquiry. 
The materials in this case, to borrow an expression of an author of 
celebrity, " must be weighed in the scale of the assayer, and not, like 
the mixed commodities of the market, on the weiglit-bridge of common 
opinion and general usage." 

It has been objected to our publishing original memoirs, that in so 
doing we are merely performing the duties of a learned society. The 
answer is, that the learned societies in this country have not the 
means, except in a very limited degree, of publishing memoirs which 
require expensive illustrations, much less of assisting to defray the cost 
of the investigations by which the results have been obtained. The 
real workingmen in the line of original research hail this part of the 
plan as a new era in the history of American science. The assistance 
which the Institution will thus render to original research will occupy 
the place of the governmental patronage of other countries, and will 
enable true genius, wherever found, to place its productions betbre the 
world free of cost, and in a manner most favorable for securing due 
attention and proper appreciation. 

From our experience thus far, I am convinced that, circumscribed as is 
the class of memoirs accepted by the Institution, we shall have no want 
of materials to fill at least one quarto volume a 3^ear. There has been 
in our country within the last few years a remarkable increase in the 
attention given to original research, not only in material science, but 
in every branch of knowledge susceptible of addition. And this is 
evinced by the character and variety of the papers which have been 
presented tor publication. The wide difference between the increase 
of knowledge aird its diffusion, is beginning to be seen and appreciated, 
and the time is not far distant when we shall be as distinguished for 
our additions to science as for its diffusion and application. The re- 
volutions of Europe are not only sending to our shores the choicest 
specimens of art, but also men of reputation and sldll in scientific 
investigation. Besides this, the present state of France is attended with 
such an interruption of the ordinary means of scientific publication, 
that the manuscript volumes on natural history of one of the most dis- 
tinguished professors of the Jardin des Plantes are offered to us for 
publication in the Smithsonian Contributions for no remuneration, save 
a few copies for distribution among friends. Were the Institution fully 
in operation I should not hesitate, in accordance with the liberality 
which should characterize an estabhshment founded on the bequest of 
a foreigner, to recommend the adoption of these memoirs for publica- 
tion at the expense of the Institution, and perhaps we might now dis- 
tribute them through several of our volumes and finish the publication 
of them in the course of a few 3^ ears. 

Original researches. 

The second part of the plan consists in instituting original researches, 
the results of which are to be published, with the other memoirs, in the 
volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions. Under this head may be 
first mentioned the publication of" the tables ordered at the last meeting 



160 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

of the Board, for facilitating the calculation of the time of appearance 
of occultations of the fixed stars by the moon. The object of these 
tables is to assist in the accurate determination of the longitude of 
important places on the continent of North America, and their value 
has been attested by the recommendation of some of the most distin- 
guished astronomers of this country. The accurate establishment of 
the longitude of any place renders it a landmark to the surveyor, the 
geographer, and the astronomer, and furnishes a most important ele- 
ment in determining its relative position on the map of the country. 
The observation of occultations affords one of the most ready means 
of solving this most difficult practical problem. The tables were cal- 
culated at the expense and under the direction of the Institution, and 
were sent to all persons known to be interested in practical astronomy, 
with a request that the observations which might be made in connex-^ 
ion with them might be sent to the Institution for computation, or pub- 
lished in some accessible journal. These tables have been so well 
received by astronomers, that, with the concurrence of the Executive 
Committee, I have ventured to order the computation of a set of the 
same kind on a more extensive scale for the j^ear 1849. Copies of 
these will be sent to United States officers on the coast of Oregon and 
California, and will be distributed among all the other observers in this 
country. They will be found of much practical importance to the 
corps engaged by the general government in establishing the boundary 
lines of our new possessions. It is hoped that the remuneration 
allowed for the labor of computing these tables will not be considered 
extravagant, when it is mentioned that it has occupied the whole time 
of Mr. Dowues lor nearly six months, at the rate of eight hours a day. 

With tlie concurrence of the Executive Committee, I have also pub- 
lished an ephcmeris of the planet Neptune, or in other words, a table 
indicating its position in the heavens during each day of the present 
year, by which those interested in astronomy are enabled readily to 
find the place of the new planet in the heavens, or the direction in 
which the telescope must be pointed in order to observe it. Copies of 
this have been sent to all the principal astronomers in the world, and 
it has received the highest commendation. It was calculated by Mr. 
S. C. Walker from the orbit deduced by himself, a full account of 
which forms one of the papers of the second volume of the Contribu- 
tions. It is the first accurate ephemeris which has ever appeared of 
this newly discovered member of our solar system. 

An appropriation of one thousand dollars was made at the last meet- 
ing of the Board for the commencement of a series of meteorological 
observations, particularly with reference to the phenomena of American , 
storms. According to the estimate of Prof Loomis, appended to my 
last report, three thousand dolkirs will be required for the purpose of 
reducing this part of our plan to practice. It is hoped that one thou- 
sand dollars in addition will be appropriated this year, and an equal 
sum the next, so that, at the end of that time, we shall be prepared for 
full operation. At the last session of Congress an appropriation was 
made for meteorology under the direction of the Secretary of the Navy ; 
and in order that the observations thus established may not interfere 
with those undertaken by the Smithsonian Institution, that officer has 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 161 

directed Professor Espy to co-operate with the Secretary of the Insti- 
tution. 

It is contemplated to establish three classes of observers among those 
who are disposed to join in this enterprise. One class, without instru- 
ments, to observe the face of the sky as to its clearness, the extent of 
doud, the direction and force of wind, the beginning and ending of rain, 
snow, &c. A second class, furnished with thermometers, who, besides 
making the observations above mentioned, will record variations of 
temperature. The third class, furnished with full sets of instruments, 
to observe all the elements at present deemed important in the science 
of meteorolog}^ It is believed that much valiiable information may be 
obtained in this way with reference to the extent, duration, and passage 
of storms over the country, though the observer may be possessed of 
no other apparatus than a simple wind-vane. 

With the instruments owned by private individuals, with those at 
die several military stations, and with the supply of the deficiency by 
the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, it is believed that observa- 
tions can be instituted at important points over the whole United States, 
and that, with the observations which we can procure from Mexico and 
the British possessions of North America, data will be furnished for 
important additions to our knowledge of meteorological phenomena. 
As a beginning to this extended system, six sets of instruments have 
been forwarded to the coast of Oregon and California, for the purpose 
of estabhshing periodical observations on the western side of the Rockv 
mountains. Also, a set has been forwarded to Bent's Fort, and another 
to Santa Fe. Circulars have been prepared and will shortly be issued 
for the purpose of ascertaining the number and locality of all those who, 
with or without instruments, are willing to join in the enterprise. I am 
indebted to Prof Coffin, of Lafayette College, for a list of all persons, 
as far as they are known, who have heretofore been accustomed to 
make meteorological observations in North America, which will be ot 
much importance in our future investigations relative to this subject. 

As a part of the system of meteorology, it is proposed to emplo3s as 
far as our funds will permit, the magnetic telegraph in the investigation 
(jf atmospherical phenomena. By this means, not only notice of 
the approach of a storm may be given to distant observers, but also 
attention may be directed to particular phenomena, which can only be 
properly studied by the simultaneous observations of persons widely 
separated from each other. For example, the several phases presented 
by a thunderstorm, or by the aui-ora borealis, may be telegraphed to a 
distance, and the synchronous appearances compared and recorded in 
stations far removed from each other. Also, by the same means, a 
single observatory, at which constant observations are made during the 
whole 24 hours, may give notice to all persons along the telegraphic 
fines, of the occurrence of interesting meteorological phenomena, and 
thus simultaneous observations be secured. The advantage to agricul- 
ture and commerce to be derived from a knowledge of the approach of 
a storm, by means of the telegraph, has been frequently referred to of 
late in the public journals. And this, we think, is a subject deserving 
the attention of the general government. 

Under ihe head of researches, I may mention that several papers are 
11 



162 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

in preparation, under the direction and partly at the expense of the 
Institution. The first of these relates to a series of valuable observa- 
tions on the temperature and velocity of the Gulf stream, the author of 
which the science of our country was called to mourn while he wag 
engaged in an important public service. The observations are now in 
progress of reduction, and the results will furnish an interesting memoir 
tor the next volume of our Contributions. 

The drawings and engravings of a paper on the botany of Oregon 
are also in progress ; and as a small advance has been made to assist 
in completing these, the memoir will fall under the head of original re- 
searches, in part conducted by the Institution. 

In the last report, it was mentioned that a magnetic survey of the 
mineral regions of the northern lakes had been added to the geological 
and mineralogical survey, the results of which were to be submitted to 
the Smithsonian Institution. An appropriation was made by the See- 
i;etary of the Treasury during the past summer for a continuation of 
tiiis survey; but on account of the lateness of the season at which the 
arrangement was made, the person to whom the work was entrusted 
was not enabled to engage in it this year. Operations, however, will 
probably be commenced as soon as practicable, next spring. 

There is in the Land Office a large collection of facts relative to the 
variation of the compass, which have been derived from the observa- 
tions of the public surveyors, who are dijTcled in all cases to note the 
variation of the needle i'rom the true meridian, at the several stations 
of their surveys. The observations are made with an instrument called 
the solar compass, which probably gives the variation at each place 
within a quarter of a degree of the truth. The number of these obser- 
vations, it is believed, will make up in a consideral:)le degree for their 
warit ot" greater precision; and from the whole, the lines of declination 
may be determined with considerable accuracy. The Secretary of 
the Treasury has liberally directed that all the matter rehiting to this 
subject in the Land Office maybe placed at my disposal, and Mr. Wilson 
has undertaken to present the whole in a series of maps, the publica- 
tion of which in the Contributions cannot fail to be received as an 
interestintj addition to terrestrial magnetism. 

Among the objects of research enumerated in the programme, is the 
analysis of soils and plants ; but it is the policy of the Smithsonian 
Institution, in order to employ its funds most eflectuall}'- in the way of 
increasing and diffiising knowledge, not to engage in any operation 
which could be as well if not better carried on under the direction and 
with the funds of another institution. In accordance with this, an 
arrangement has been made with the Commissioner of Patents that tlie 
two Institutions may not interfere with each other ; and as, at the re- 
quest of Mr. Barke, an appropriation has been made by Congress for a 
series of experiments on the above-mentioned subjects, the Smithsonian 
Institution will, therefore, for the present abandon this field of research 
for others less effectually occupied. 

I may also mention in this connexion, that the Smithsonian Institution 
has been the means of starting an important literary enterprise, intended 
to facilitate the study of the history and literature of our country. Mr. 
Henry Stevens, wlio has been engaged for a number of years as the 



1 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 163 

agent in this country of the British Museum, and other European libra- 
ries, has commenced the preparation of a bibliographical work, compri- 
sing a description of all books relative to, or publislied in, America prior 
to the year 1700, and indicating not only the contents and value of the 
books, but also the principal libraries in this and other countries where 
they are to be found. The preparation of a work of this kind will be 
in accordance with that part of our plan which contemplates rendering 
the Institution a centre of bibliographical knowledge, and will have a 
direct influence in promoting the objects of the various historical socie- 
ties which are now established in almost every State of the Union, and 
in bringing the Institution into friendly relations with them. A certifi- 
cate has been given to Mr. Stevens to the effect that this work, if found, 
by a commission to whom it shall be referred, properly executed, will 
be accepted for publication as part of the Smithsonian Contributions to 
Knowledge. Assured by this certificate that the work will be properly 
executed, a number of gentlemen and institutions, whose libraries will 
be examined and referred to, have liberally subscribed to defray the 
necessary expense of its preparation. With this encouragement, Mr. 
Stevens has started for Europe to commence investigations in foreign 
libraries. To satisfy ourselves as to the importance of a work of this 
kind, a circular letter was addressed to a number of individuals distin- 
guished for their knowledge of such subjects, and the answer in all 
cases was highly favorable to the scheme. Some of these answers I 
have given in the appendix, together with the details of the plan of the 
work as proposed by Mr. Stevens. 

At the last session of Congress an appropriation of $5,000 was made, 
on motion of Mr. Stanton, for a series of astronomical observations in 
the southern hemisphere, for the purpose of a new determination of the 
parallax of the planets, and consequently of their distance from the sun, 
by simultaneous observations on the planets Venus and Mars, made at 
places situated north and south of the equator. This appropriation has 
been found inadequate to furnish all the instruments required; and inas- 
much as the expedition should not be undertaken unless the observers 
are provided with all the aids which the latest improvements m modern 
science can furnish, and since, to wait for an additional appropriation 
from Congress would cause the delay of a whole year. Lieutenant Gil- 
liss has applied to the Institution to purchase and lend to him an achro- 
matic telescope, which, if not paid for by an additional appropriation 
from the government, will, after its return from the south, form part of 
the apparatus of the Institution. This instrument will cost about 
$2,000, to be paid for at the end of three years. The Executive Com- 
mittee, to whom I applied for counsel on this subject, agreed with me 
in opinion, that this was a proper occasion for the application of the 
funds of the Institution to the promotion of science. The instrument 
has accordingly been ordered to be constructed by an American artist, 
and to be accepted only in case its performance shall meet the approval 
of a commission of practical astronomers appointed to examine it. 

The position on the coast of Chih, to be occupied by the southern 
observers, is peculiarly favorable to the study of the facts connected 
with one of the most mysterious and interesting phenomena of terres- 
trial physics — namely, the earthquake. Lieutenant Gilhss has been re- 



164 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

quested to give particular attention to this subject, and for the purpose 
of facihtating his inquiries a seismometer, or instrument for measuring 
the intensity and direction of the carthivcwe, has been ordered at the ex- 
pense of the Institution, to be placed in charge of the expedition during 
its absence. The cost of this instrument is not yet ascertained; it will, 
however, not exceed one hundred and fifty dollars. 

I think it highly probable that these instruments will be paid for by 
the general government. The liberal spirit which dictated the original 
appropriation will, I doubt not, complete the outfit by the addition of a 
sum sufficient to defray all the necessary expenses.* 

Under the head of original researches, I may call to the Regents the 
fact of my having been directed to continue my own investigations on 
physical science, and to report occasionally to the Board my progress 
therein. In the course of last year, I found an opportunit}'' while at 
Princeton, to commence a series of investigations on radiant heat, which 
apparently produced some results of interest, but which my subsequent 
engagements have prevented me from fully developing. I was also 
directed to cause to be made a series of experiments on the economical 
value of building material. It will give me much pleasure to obey 
this instruction of the Board as soon as a place in the Smithsonian 
building and the necessary apparatus are procured for properly con- 



1 



dueling the research. 



Reports on the progress of hiowledge. 

The Smithsonian Contributions are intended to consist of entirely 
original additions to the sum of human knowledge, and are to be prin- 
cipally exchanged for the transactions of learned societies, and to be dis- 
tributed among public institutions. The Reports, on the other hand, are 
to be of a more popular kind, and are intended for as wide a distribu- 
tion as the funds of the Institution or the means of publishing them may 
permit. They will give an account of the progress of the different 
branches of knowledge in every part of the world, and will supply a 
desideratum in English literature. 

The objects of the Smithsonian Institution are not educational. The 
press in our country already teems with elementary works on the dif- 
ferent branches of knowledge, and to expend our funds in adding to 
these, would be to dissipate them \vitliout perceptible effect. Neither 
do we believe that the distribution of penny magazines, or tracts on the 
rudiments of science, can ever supersede the labors of the school-mas- 
ter. As a general rule, knowledge presented in a fragmentary form, 
can only be useful to minds well stored with general principles, to 
which the isolated facts may be referred ; and knowledge, both fragmen- 
tary and diluted, is almost ^vorthless, even in the way of popular dis- 
tribution. The elementary principles of science may be systematically 
taught to a certain extent in common schools, and the reports we intend 
to publish will be found of" value to the teacher, and through him to the 
pupil, as well as interesting to the general reader. While these reports 
are rendered as free as possible from technical terms, they will treat of 

* Since writing- this report, the appropriation has been made by Congress. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 165 

subjects requiring attention and thought to understand them. We think 
it better that they should be above rather than below the average 
intelligence of the country; that they should start from a given epoch, 
and in most cases should be preceded by a brief exposition of the pre- 
vious state of each subject. 

Arrangements have been made for commencing some of these pre- 
liminary reports, as well as reports on the state of our knowledge of 
special subjects ; among these are — 

1. A report on the present state of chemistry as applied to agriculture. 

2. A report on the forest-trees of North America, giving their eco- 
nomical uses, their mode of propagation, and their history. 

3. A report on the present state of our knowledge of hghtning and 
the best means of guarding against accidents from its effects. 

4. A report on the late discoveries in astronomy. 

5. A report on meteorological instruments, with practical observa- 
tions and directions with reference to the use of them. 

In connexion with this last report, I may mention that a proposition 
has been made to the Institution by Professor Guyot, of the University 
of Neuf(;hatel, relative to the importance of commencing at this epoch, 
and at the beginning of the labors of the Smithsonian Institution, the 
adoption of the centigrade scale of the thermometer. This is a sub- 
ject, indeed, worthy of the attention of the Regents. It should, how- 
ever, be discussed with caution, and be decided only after due delibera- 
tion. 

The first idea of reports on the progress of knowledge, with which 
we are acquainted, is due to the Emperor Napoleon, who called upon 
the French Academy of Sciences, to present him with accounts of the 
progress of the different branches of knowledge within a given period. 
Until within the last few years the only regular reports of the kind 
were those presented to the Swedish Academy. Since that time, how- 
ever, a series of annual reports on chemistry have been commenced 
by an association of gentlemen in France, and also a series on the dif- 
ferent branches of material science, by the Physical Society of Berlin. 
The several numbers of the latter are now in progress of translation, in 
order to furnish in part the materials for the reports to be prepared for 
the Smithsonian Institution during the coming 3^ear. 

Although comparatively little has been done in our country in the 
way of original research, yet it might be important that the Institution 
should call for the preparation of a report on the history of the progress 
of original science in America down to the end of the present half 
century. This report would exhibit a constant increase in the number 
and importance of the researches made in our country, and might be 
found of much service in giving due credit to the labors of those who 
have been really engaged in the advance of knowledge among us. A 
report of this kind, however, would require the association of a number 
of persons combining literary with scientific attainments. 

Occasional publication of separate treatises on subjects rf general interest. 

This part of the plan of organization requires to be carried into ope- 
ration with much caution. It is liable to much abuse, unless the pub- 



166 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

lication be restricted to a well defined range, viz : to scientific 
reports on the present state of^ knowledge of a given subject, to pre- 
cede the periodical reports ; to translations from foreign languages of 
papers of general interest ; and occasionally, perhaps, the exposition of 
a subject on which, at a particular time, popular knowledge is required. 
We should be careful not to establish a precedent which may lead us 
into difficulty, in the way of declining the pubhcation of works which 
may be presented to us. Scarcely a week passes in which the Institu- 
tion is not requested to publish some essay or compilation, and the 
funds which can be devoted to all our pubhcations would not suffice 
for one half of those offered of this kind. The only work of this class 
which has yet been attempted by the Institution, is one entitled, 
" Hints on Public Architecture," under the direction of the Building 
Committee. Although the Secretary's name was mentioned in the reso- 
lution authorizing the publication of this treatise, yet he has thus far 
had no connexion with it. The publication was authorized before the 
details of the plan of organization were fully settled. It was at first 
intended merely as a report of the Building Committee, giving an 
account of the plans submitted, and the one adopted for the Smithsonian 
building, together with a report of the investigations of the committee 
with regard to the materials of construction, &c. It was afterwards 
changed into the form of a regular treatise, in order that it might be re- 
ferred to a commission of persons chosen to examine it, and that, the 
Institution might thus be relieved from the responsibility of pronounc- 
ing upon its fitness for pubhcation. I think it important that, besides 
the preface of this work, a full account of its origin should be given in 
an introductory advertisement. 

Library. 

During the past year the library has continued to increase by dona- 
tions, and by the books which have been deposited b}^ publishers, in 
accordance with the 10th section of the act establishing the Institution. 
The requirements of this act are, however, not strictly observed by all 
publishers ; and I would direct the attention of the Board to a special 
report of the Assistant Secretary with reference to this point. The 
whole subject will probably come before Congress during its present 
session. 

Professor Jewett, the Assistant Secretary, has been industriously en- 
gaged during the past year in procuring statistics of the libraries of the 
United States, and in ch'gesting plans for the details of the library of the 
Institution, and I beg leave to refer you to the able and interesting 
report of the results of his labors, herewith submitted. A considerable 
portion of the copies of the Smithsonian Contributions will be presented 
to public institutions which publish transactions, and which are able to 
present us in return with additions to our library. The volume now in 
process of distribution has been preceded by a circular requesting ex- 
changes of the works of all institutions which issue transactions and 
catalogues of all libraries to which the Contributions may be sent. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 167 

Fre'parationfor lecturing. 

The plan of organization contemplates a series of free lectures, par- 
ticularly during the session of Congress. These will be commenced as 
soon as the building is ready for the purpose. This part of the plan 
also cannot be put into full operation until after the building is com- 
pleted. A number of gentlemen have consented to favor us with theii- 
services. Men of talents, however, cannot be expected to leave their 
homes and subject themselves to the expense of visiting Washington, 
and to the trouble of preparing a course of lectures, without a proper 
remuneration. It will be necessary, therefore, that an annual appropri- 
ation be made for this purpose. The amount, however, must necessa- 
rily be small until the building is completed, or until all the interest of 
the fund can be devoted to the primary objects of the Institution. Be- 
sides this, the lecture-room in the east wing, now finished, will scarcely 
hold more than five hundred persons, while the one in the main build- 
ing is intended to accommodate twice as man}'. 

Donation, 

Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadelphia, having resigned the chair of che- 
mistry in the University of Pennsylvania, which he had hlled with honor 
to himself and his country for nearly thirty years, has presented to the 
Smithsonian Institution the instruments of research and illustration, 
collected and used by himself during his long and successful scientific 
career. Many of these instruments are the invention of the donor, are 
connected with his reputation, and belong to the history of the science 
of our day. The gift is important, not only on account of its intrinsic 
value, but also as establishing a precedent of liberality, which we trust 
will be frequently observed b^" others, as well as being an expression of 
Dr. Hare's approbation of the plan and confidence in the stability of 
the Institution. A number of other donations have been received, of 
which a list, with the names of the donors, will be given in a subse- 
quent report. 

In view of what has been stated in the foregoing report, the Secre- 
tar}^ trusts that the Board of Regents will be satisfied, if ever they had 
any doubts on the subject, that the plan adopted is one well calculated 
to carry out the benevolent intentions of the donor, of increasing and 
diffusing knowledge among men ; and that a satisfactory answer has 
been given to the question frequently asked, namely. When is the Insti- 
tution to begin ? It will be seen that it has commenced the most im- 
portant part of its operations, and the results are now in progress of 
dissemination in every part of the civiUzed world. 
Respectfully submitted, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary of the Smithsonian InstMition. 



168 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

THIRD ANNUAL REPORT 

Of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for the year 1849. 

To tJte Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institiuioji: 

Gentlemen: In accordance with the resolution that the Secretary 
shall present at each annual meeting of the Board of Regents an account 
of the operations of the Institution during tlie past year, I respectfully 
submit .the following. 

Agreeably to the scheme of finance adopted by the Board, the greater 
portion of all the income of the Smithsonian fund is at present devoted 
to the erection of the building; and until this is paid for, the njoney 
which can be appropriated to the active operations of the Institution will 
be comparatively small, not only small in proportion to the demands 
made upon it, but small in reference to the results which the public 
generally expect it to produce. It is beheved, however, that a proper 
consideration of the facts presented in the following report will warrant 
the conclusion, that the Institution, during the past year, has been gradu- 
ally extending its sphere of usefulness, and successfully bringing into 
operation the different parts of its plan of organization. 

It will be recollected that the several propositions of the programme 
were adopted provisionally, and it is gratifying to be able to state that 
experience thus far has indicated no important changes. The general 
plan has continued to receive the aj^probation of the enlightened public 
both in this country and in Europe, and to increase general confidence 
in the power of the Ins.titution to confer important benefits on our country 
and the world. 

In presenting the different operations of the Institution, I shall adopt, 
as in my last report, the principal divisions of the programme : 

1st. Publication of memoirs in quarto volumes, consisting of positive 
additions to knowledge. 

2d. Institution of original researches, under the direction of competent 
persons. 

3d. The publication of a series of reports, giving the present state 
and progress of different branches of knowledge. 

4th. Formation of a library and museum of objects of nature and art. 

5th. Lectures. 

Publication of Memoirs. 

Agreeably to the plan of the Institution, these memoirs are intended 
to embody tlie results of researches which could not otherwise be readily 
published, and are to be distributed to societies, pubhc libraries, and other 
institutions. An account of the first memoir was given in the last report. 
It relates to the ancient monuments of the Mississippi valley, and occu- 
pies an entire volume. It has been presented, as far as opportunity would 
permit, to the principal literar\^ and scientific societies of the world, to 
all the colleges and larger libraries of this country, and has everywhere 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 169 

been received with much commendation. All the societies from which 
we have as yet heard, have declared their willingness to co-operate 
with the Institution, and to give us their publications in exchange, from 
which source our library has already been enriched with valuable 
additions. 

It is to be regretted that our means would not permit us to distribute 
the first volume more liberally thnn we have done, and that the price put 
upon the copies offered for sale has placed them beyond the reach of 
many persons desirous of obtaining them. This arose from the fact, that 
in order to remunerate the authors for the expense and labor bestowed 
on the memoir, they were allowed to strike off from the types and plates 
of the Institution an edition to be sold for their own benefit. To avoid 
risk of loss, the edition was a small one, and the price put at ten dollars. 
An occurrence of this kind will not happen again; for, although it would 
be desirable to pay authors for then* contributions, yet it is now found 
that materials will be offered, free of all cost, more than sufficient to 
exhaust the portion of the income which can be devoted to publications. 

In printing the future volumes it will be advisable to strike oft" an 
extra number of copies for sale on account of the Institution, and to dis- 
pose of those for little more than the mere cost of press-work and 
paper. 

The second volume of Contributions is now in the press, and will con- 
sist of a number of memoirs which have been submitted to competent 
judges and found worthy of a place in the Smithsonian publications. In 
tJiis volume vve have adopted the plan of printing each memoir with a 
separate title and paging. The object of this is to enable us to distri- 
bute extra copies of each memoir separately, and also to furnish the 
author with a number of copies regularly paged for his own use. It 
will likewise enable us to classify the memoirs according to subjects. 

The following is a brief account of the memoirs contained in the 
second volume, so far as they have been reported on by tlie commis- 
sioners to whom they have been submitted : 

1. A memoir on the ijlanet Neptime, bij Sea7's C. Walker. — An abstract 
of this memoir has been published in the proceedings of the American 
Philosophical Society, and has received the approbation of the scientific 
world. It presents the several steps of the discovery of an orbit which 
has enabled Mr. Walker to compute the place of the new planet with 
as much precision as that of any of the planets which have been known 
from the earliest times.* Starting from the observations of the motion 
Off the planet during a period of about four months, Mr. Walker calcu- 
lated an empirical orbit, which enabled him to trace its path among the 
stars of the celestial vault through its whole revolution of 166 3'ears. He 
was thus enabled to carry its position backward until it fell among a clus- 
ter of stars accurately mapped by Lalande towards the close of the last 
century; and, after a minute and critical investigation, he was led to 
conclude that one of the stars observed by Lalande on the night of May 



*It is proper to state that a part of the researches given in this memoir was made during 
the author's connexion with the National Observatory, under the direction of Lieutehant 
Maury. An account of these will probably soon be published in the next volume of the 
records of operations of this observatory. 



170 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

10, 1795, was the planet Neptune. Tliis conclusion was rendered 
almost certainty by the observation, made on the first clear night, that 
all the stars in the cluster above mentioned were found in place, except 
the one previously fixed upon as the new planet. Some hesitation was 
created, however, by noting that the missing star in Lalande's maps 
was marked as doubtful. In order to settle this difficulty, the original 
manuscript of the astronomer deposited in the Observatory of Paris was 
referred to. It was then found that L aland e had twice observed the 
same star; and not finding the right ascension and declination each 
time the same, and not dreaming it was a planet, he selected one of the 
observations for publication, marking the position indicated doubtfuL 
The planet had moved during the interval of observation, and thus pro- 
duced the discrepancy. By allowing for the movement during the time 
elapsed, the two observations precisely agree. There could, therefore, 
be no longer any doubt that this star, observed and mapped fifty years 
ago as a fixed star, was in reality the planet Neptune. Mr. Walker, 
availing himself of this discovery, had now a series of observations em- 
bracing not a few months of the motion of the planet, but which carried 
it back fifty years. From these data he was enabled to deduce a pure 
elliptical orbit, or one which the body would describe were there no 
other planets in the system. This orbit has been investigated by another 
of our countrymen in a series of profound and beautiful researches, ad- 
ding much to our knowledge both of Neptune and Uranus. I allude to 
tire labors of Professor Peirce, of Cambridge. 

It is well known that the planet Neptune was discovered by mathe- 
matical deductions from the perturbations observed in Uranus, and that 
Leverrier and Adams, the independent authors of this discovery, not 
only pointed out the direction in which the unseen planet was to be 
found, but also, from a iiriori considerations, gave the dimensions, form, 
and position of the orbit it describes around the sun. The direction 
indicated was the true one, but the elements of the orbit were widely 
different from those subsequently found to belong to the actual orbit of 
tlie planet. Professor Peirce submitted the data used by Leverrier and 
Adams to a new and critical examination, and succeeded in discover- 
ing the cause of their error, and of verifying the conclusions of Mr. 
Walker. He afterwards proceeded to consider the inverse problem, 
viz : that of deducing the perturbations which Neptune ought to pro- 
duce in the planet Uranus. His final results gave a perfect explanation 
of all the anomalies in the motions of Uranus, and furnished the data, 
for the first time since its discovery in 1781, for correct tables for 
determining its position in the heavens. Professor Peirce also investi- 
gated the action of all the other planets on Neptune, and his results ena- 
bled Mr. Walker, by applying them to his elliptical orbit, to compare 
tire actual with the calculated place of the planet. This led to a further 
correction of the elliptical orbit, and a more perfect table of calculated 
places. In this way, by a scries of profound and beautiful investiga- 
tions, alternately combining the data of observation with theoretical 
considerations, these two as'.ronomers have perfected our knowledge of 
tlie motion of the most distant planets of our system, and furnished the 
means of giving their past and future position through all time. The 
details of Mr. Peirce's paper have not yet been prepai-ed for the press. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 171 

They will probably be given in due time to the world as a part of the 
Smithsonian Contributions. 

The investigations mentioned in the foregoing account have been at- 
tended with very laborious arithmetical calculations. A small appro- 
priation has been made to defray, in part, the expense of these. Indeed, 
without the aid thus given, the discoveries we have related would 
scarcely have been made — at least at this time, and in our country. 

2. The next memoir is A71 account of the discovery of a Comet by Mks 
Maria Mitchell, of Nantiiclcet, with its approximate orbit, calculated by 
herself. The honor of this discovery has been duly awarded to the 
author. A medal has been presented to her by the King of Denmark, 
and the comet itself is now known to astronomers in every part of the 
world by her name. From the peculiarities of the case, the Executive 
Committee recommended that a small premium be presented to Miss 
Mitchell. 

3. The third memoir is On a new method of solving Cubic Equations, by 
Professor Strong, of New Bi'unswicJc, New Jersey ; a purely mathemati- 
cal paper, which has been pronounced an interesting addition to that 
branch of science. 

4. The fourth memoir is A contribution to the Physical Geography of the 
United States. It presents a section, from actual surveys, of the descent 
of the bed of the Ohio river from its source, in the State of New York, 
to its mouth, on the Mississippi. By a series of observations and elabo- 
rate calculations, the author exhibits the amount of water which passed 
down the river during a period of eleven years prior to 1849. This, 
compared with the amount of rain which fell during the same time on 
tlie surface drained by the river, gives a series of interesting results in 
reference to evaporation. 

It also contains a proposition for improving the navigation of the 
Ohio, founded upon data given in the preceding part of the memoir. 
Whatever may be the result of the plan here proposed, this memoir has 
been recommended for publication as a valuable addition to the physi- 
cal geography of the United States. The author is Charles Ellct, jr., 
the celebrated engineer of the wire bridges over the Niagara and Ohio 
rivers. Another memoir is promised by the same author, which will 
be a continuation of the same subject. 

5. The fifth memoir is contributed by Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadel- 
phia, and is intended to elucidate the remarkable phenomena exhibited 
at the great fire in the city of New York on the 19th of July, 1845, 
during which two hundred and thirty houses were destroyed, containing 
merchandise amounting in value to sixty-two millions of dollars. " A 
series of detonations, successively increasing in loudness, were followed 
by a final explosion, which tore in pieces the building in whicfi it took 
place, threw down several houses in its vicinity, and forced in the fronts 
of the houses on the opposite side of the street." These effects were 
attributed to gunpowder, though the owner of the building in which the 
explosion occurred declared that none of this article was present, but 
that the house contained a large quantity of nitre, in connexion with 
merchandise of a combustible nature. 

This memoir contains a series of investigations relative to the explo- 
sions which may be produced by heated nitre in connexion with carbon- 



172 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

aceous matters. The author shows, by numerous experiments, that 
explosions of a violent kind can be produced by forcibly bringing into 
contact at a high temperature, nitre, and substances of an inflammable 
character. It also contains several new experiments on the combustion 
of gunpowder under chfferent circumstances. 

6. The sixth memoir is On the AncicM Mo?iumenis of the State of New 
YorTc, by E. G. Squicr, and may be regarded as a continuation of the 
memoir by Squier and Davis on the ancient monuments of the Missis- 
sippi valle3% The expense of the explorations which form the basis of 
this memoir was two hundred dollars, one half of which was defrayed 
by the members of the Historical Society of New York, and the re- 
mainder by this Institution. 

7. Another memoir is by Professor Secchi, a young Italian of much 
ingenuity and learning, a member of Georgetown College. It consists 
of a new mathematical investigation of the reciprocal action of two 
galvanic currents on each other, and of the action of a current on the 
pole of a magnet. It begins with the assumption that the force be- 
tween the elements of the currents and the magnet is inversely as the 
square of the distance, and directly as the sine of the inclination, and 
then presents the mathematical inferences which legitimately flow from 
these data. The deductions are of such a nature that the author has 
been able to verify them by means of well devised experiments, and 
the results accord as nearh^ with the deductions as the complex nature 
of the subject will admit. The investigations involve the mathematical 
theory of the galvanometer, and the experiments furnish much interest- 
ing and useful information, aside from the principal object of the 
memoir, particularly on the comparative value of different kinds of 
galvanic batteries. 

8. The next pnper is by Professor Louis Agassiz, of Harvard Uni- 
versity, and is entitled The Clasaificatioji of Insects upon Emhryological 
Data. It gives an account of a series of new and interesting facts ob- 
served by the author relative to the metamorphosis of insects, which 
have an important bearing on general questions in zoology, and which 
will probably lead to the arrangement of these animals according to a 
new system of classification, founded upon more definite principles 
than those heretofore adopted. 

9. The next is a memoir by Dr. R. W. Gibbes, on the Mosasaurus 
and some new allied genera of the gigantic lizards which formerly in- 
habited our planet, and of which the remains are now found in different 
parts of the United States, particularly in the marl beds of various 
parts of the country. This is an interesting addition to pateontology, 
and has received a favorable report from the commission to whom it 
was referred. 

Researches. 

The programme of organization contemplates the establishment of 
researches, under the direction of suitable persons, the expense to be 
borne in whole or in part by the Institution. In the last report it was 
mentioned that a telescope and other apparatus had been ordered for 
Lieutenant Gilliss in his astronomical expedition to Chili, and that, with- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 173 

out this assistance, the expedition would have been delayed a year. I 
am now, however, happy to state that the expense of these instruments 
has since been paid by an appropriation of Congress ; and the Institu- 
tion has thus been the means of promoting the objects of the expedition 
without an}^ expenditure of its income. Certain improvements in as- 
tronomical instruments, however, have been made since the departure 
of Lieutenant Gilliss which would much facilitate his observations, and 
enable him to do much more with his small number of assistants ; and 
it may be well for the Institution to furnish him with instruments of this 
kind. 

Under the head of researches it may also be mentioned that, during 
the past year, we have caused to be computed, at the expense of the 
Institution, an ephemeris of Neptune, giving the position of the planet 
in the heavens irom August 4, 1846, to February 4, 1848, and also in 
the last half years of 1848 and 1849. This ephemeris is based on the 
orbit of Neptune established by Mr. Walker and corrected by the per- 
turbations of the planet Neptune by the action ot" Jupiter, Saturn, and 
Uranus, as deduced from the mathematical investigations of Professor 
Peirce, of Harvard University. 

We have distributed copies of this ephemeris to all persons known 
to us who are interested in practical astronomy, not only in this country 
but in Europe. It has been received with high commendation, and is- 
found, to give the actual place of the planet in the heavens within the 
limits of a few tenths of a second of arc ; indeed, the coincidence of the 
calculated and observed places is so marked, that, were the actual 
planet of the heavens and that of the ephemeris to be considered as a 
double star, they would have so close a proximity that no telescope yet 
constructed could separate them. 

Occultations for 1850. 

A set of tables in continuation of those mentioned in the last and 
preceding report for facilitating the calculation of the appearance of 
occultations of fixed stars by the moon during the year 1850 has been 
prepared by Mr. Downes, of Philadelphia, and published by the Insti- 
tution. At the last session of Congress an appropriation was made for 
establishing a Nautical Almanac, which will furnish, among other aids 
to astronomical observation, sets of tables of the kind just mentioned. 
Lieutenant Davis, of the United States navy, to whom the superintend- 
ence of this national work has been entrusted, recommended that the 
expense of the preparation of the tables for 1850 should be defrayed 
from the appropriation for the Almanac ; and this recommendation has 
been concurred in by the Secretary of the Navy. The Institution hasy 
therefore, been called upon merely to pay for the printing and distribu- 
tion of the tables, and thus again enabled, with a small outlay of its 
funds, to afford important facilities for the advance of science. 

Meteorology. 

Under the general head of researches we may also give an account 
of the progress made in establishing the system of meteorological ob- 



174 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

servations proposed in the preceding reports. Circulars describing the 
plan of operation were distributed to the several parts of the Union 
through members of Congress at the last session, and the results fully 
equalled our anticipations. From localities widely separated from 
each other, and distributed over the greater portion of the United States, 
about one hundred and fifty monthly returns are now regularly re- 
ceived. To carry on this system efficiently, much labor is necessarily 
required in the way of correspondence ; but it bids fair to furnish the 
Institution with a wide field of usefulness in bringing it into communi- 
cation with individuals who, though secluded in position, are desirous 
of improving themselves, as well as of promoting general knowledge. 
The correspondence we have thus established, and which we hope to 
extend, through the aid of the members of the present Congress, will 
enable us to acquire definite information on a variety of subjects besides 
those wliich relate to meteorology. We have already accumulated in 
this way a mass of curious and instructive information, which we hope, 
in the ])rogress of the development of the plan of the Institution, to digest 
and present to the public. 

We would mention in this connexion that two of our meteorological 
corres])oadcnts have proposed the collection of statistics of diseases, in- 
cluding the rise, progress, and decline of epidemics. This is a subject 
we would commend to the American Medical Association. The Smith- 
sonian Institution could assist in an enterprise of this kind by receiving 
the information which is attainable, and collating it, under the direction 
of a committee of gentlemen belonging to the medical profession. 

It will be recollected tliatour plan of meteorological observations em- 
braces three classes of observers — one to record the changes in the aspect 
of the sky, the direction of the wind, beginning and ending of rain, 
snow, &c.; another, in addition, to give an account of the changes ot 
temperature indicated by the thermometer ; and a third, furnished with 
a full set of instruments tor recording the most important atmospheric 
changes. The importance of the information which may be derived 
from a careful record of the weather without instruments can scarcely 
be realized by persons who have given but little attention to the subject. 
The place of origin, direction, velocity of motion of a storm, as well as 
tlie direction and velocity of the wind which composes it, whether gyra- 
tory or inward and upward, may all be determined by a sufficient amount 
of data of the kind we have mentioned. Also, a careful record of the 
observations of meteors seen by individuals from different positions 
would furnish interesting data for determining the elevation and velocity 
of these mysterious visitors. 

There are other data which can only be obtained by the use of accu- 
rate instruments ; fortunately, however, a comparatively small number 
of observers are sufficient for determining these. The instruments should 
be of the best possible construction, placed in important situations, and 
observed at suitable times and with undeviating regularity by competent 
observers. Few persons are acquainted with the difficulty of procuring 
accurate meteorological instruments. Tlie ordinary thermometers for 
sale in the shops frequently differ severaf degrees from each other, par- 
ticularly at the higher and the lower temperatures, and even the same 
thermometer is liable, for a time after its construction, to undergo a 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 375 

change in the size of the bulb, and thus to derange the accuracy of the 
scale. An accurate barometer is another instrument which cannot 
readily be obtained, unless at too great a price for the means of ordinary 
observers. The common weather glasses, sold under the name of 
barometers, though they may be of use in indicating variations of atmo- 
spheric pressure, and thus assist in furnishing data lor determining the 
progress of aerial waves, are inapplicable to the precise and accurate 
observations necessary to determine the minute changes of atmospheric 
pressure, or to ascertain the height of places above the level of the 
eea. 

Considerable pains have been taken during the past year to ascertain 
the best form of a barometer, which could be procured at a reasonable 
cost; and, after considerable inquiry and comparison of different instru- 
ments, we have at length decided upon one, with an adjustable cistern 
and enclosed in a brass case, which may be transported to a distance, 
and will serve as well for a mountain barometer as for inchcating 
meteorological changes. For the construction of these instruments, v^-e 
have employed Mr. James Green, formerly of Baltimore, now of New 
York; and in order that the instruments furnished by him to ourselves, 
or sold to our observers, may be comparable with each other, we have 
procured a standard barometer from London, with which each in- 
strument, previously numbered, is accurately compared, and the record 
carefully preserved. We have also decided upon the forms of rain 
and snow guages and wind vanes, and have ordered a number of these 
to be constructed by Benjamin Pike & Son, Broadway, New York. 

It is the policy of the Institution to do as much with its funds as possi- 
ble, and to call in aid from every quarter whence it may be obtained. 
With reference to the system of meteorology, I am happy to inform the 
Board that we have received assistance from a number of sources from 
which it could scarcely have been expected at the commencement of 
the scheme. The last Congress appropriated two thousand dollars for 
meteorology, to be expended under the direction of the Navy Depart- 
ment. It was understood that Professor Espy was to be engaged in 
tlie investigations to be made in accordance with this appropriation, 
and, in order that his labors might co-operate with those of the Institu- 
tion, the late Secretary of the Navy directed him to apply to me for 
instructions. During the past year he has been engaged in directing 
observations and making prejiaration for a series of experiments having 
an important bearing on the explanation of meteorological phenomena. 
It is understood that the remainder of this appropriation, after paying 
the salary of Mr. Espy, will be expended in deh-aying incidental ex- 
penses, such as printing, engraving, &c. 

The Regents of the University of the State of New York, in 1825, 
organized a system of meteorology, which has continued ever since, and 
which iias added many interesting facts to the stock of scientific know- 
ledge. In order to extend the usefulness of tiiis system, the Regents of 
the University have lately resolved to reorganize the whole, and to 
pupply the observers with accurate and well compared instruments. 
This work has been intrusted to Dr. T. Romeyn Beck and one of our 
Regents, Gideon Hawlcy, esq., both of Albany. Tiiey have adopted 
the same system and instruments as those of the Smithsonian Institution, 



176 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

and have agreed to co-operate fully with us in the observation of the 
general and particular phenomena of meteorology. A similar move- 
ment has been made in the legislature of Massachusetts for the establish- 
ment of a system of observations ; and it is hoped that the other States 
of the Union will follow these examples. We are also happy to state 
that the medical department of the army, under the direction of Surgeon 
General Lawson, has signified its willingness to unite with us in the 
same system, and to furnish the new military posts with instruments 
constructed on the same plan, and compared with the Snathsonian 
standard. We hope, theretbre, within the coming year, that there will 
be established at least fifty stations in different parts of North America, 
furnished with accurate instruments of this kind. 

During the past summer I visited Canada, principally for the purpose 
of examining the meteorological instruments and the method of using 
them employed at the Observatory of Toronto. Captain Lefroy, the 
director of this institution, afforded me every facility for acquiring the 
desired information. He also liirnished me with a list of mihtary posts 
in Canada at which observations may be made, and gave assurance of 
the hearty co-operation in our labors of the officers attached to these 
posts. We have also a prospect of procuring permanent observations 
from Bermuda, some of the West India islands, and from Central 
America. 

From all these statements, it \vill be seen we are in a fair way of 
establishing a general system of meteorology, extending over a great 
portion of North America, including many stations furnished with com- 
pared instruments referred to the same standard. When fully organ- 
ized, it will constitute one of the most important systems ever instituted ; 
but to bring it fully into operation will require a judicious expenditure 
of all the funds at our disposal for this purpose. At the last session of 
the Board one thousand dollars were appropriated for meteorological 
purposes, the greater portion of which has been expended for instru- 
ments, among which are those to serve as standards ; an equal sum, at 
least, will be required for the next year. 

In connexion with the regular meteorological system, successful ap- 
plications have been made to the presidents of a number of telegraph 
lines to allow us, at a certain period of the day, the use of their wires 
for the transmission of meteorological intelligence. We propose to fur- 
nish the most important offices along the lines with sets of instruments, ^ 
and to give the operators special instructions fortlie observation of par- 
ticular phenomena. It is hoped by this means to obtain results not 
otherwise accessible. Instruments for this purpose are now in process 
of construction, and as soon as they are completed the transmission of 
observations will commence. 

The establishment of the extended S3'stem of meteorology which \ve 
have just described is a work of time and labor, the correspondence | 
alone being sufficient constantly to occupy the time of one person; and 
the adjustment of the several parts of the plan has required more time , 
than my other engagements would permit me to devote to it. 



THE SMIT^HSONIAN INSTITUTION. 177 

Magnetic Observations. 

A set of magnetic apparatus was ordered from London for the pur- 
pose of determining the hues of magnetic intensity, dechnation, and 
inchnalion. These are intrusted to Colonel Emory, of the Boundary 
Commission, and in his possession they will probably be made to do 
good service in tlie cause of science. As soon as the funds will admit 
of the appropriation, it would be advisable to purchase several sets o\ 
instruments of the same kind, to be placed in the hands of the scientific 
explorers of our new territories, and tor determining the principal mag- 
netic lines across the United States. 

Physical Geogra'phy. 

Another subject of much interest connected with the physical geo- 
graphy of our country is the collection of the statistics of all railway 
and canal explorations which have been made in various parts of the 
United States and Canada. This information, at present in the pos- 
session of individuals, is of little value, and, unless collected by some 
jjublic institution, will soon be lost to the world. Surveys of this kind 
furnish the most exact data for the determination of what may be called 
the mountain bases, or general water-sheds of the surface ; and no por- 
tion of the world of the same extent has been so thoroughly traversed 
with these explorations as the United States. Connected with these, 
sketches should be made of the principal mountain ranges, barometri- 
cal measurements of the higher peaks, with geological sections of the 
strata through which the public works are carried. For the purpose 
of commencing this collection, we have addressed letters to all persons 
within our knowledge who possess information of this kind, requesting 
memoirs from them containing results of their own measurements and 
observations. By this means we hope to present a series of papers of 
the same character as that of Mr. Ellet, and thus furnish materials for 
a more accurate physical map of North America, as well as the means, 
in connexion with our operations in meteorology, for a more exact 
study of our climate. 

During the past year Professor Guyot has made a barometrical ex- 
ploration of the mountain system of New Hampshire, and he purposes 
to devote a portion of each year to investigations of this kind. 

Natural History. 

Our new possessions in Oregon, California, and Mexico offer interest- 
ing fields for scientific inquiry, particularly in the line of natural history ; 
and Dr. Gray, of Cambridge, and Dr. Engleman, of St. Louis, aided 
by several scientific gentlemen interested in this branch of science, 
have sent a number of collectors to develop the resources of those re- 
gions, particularly so far as the botany is concerned. 

Among these, Mr. Charles Wright has been engaged to make ex- 
plorations during the past year in New Mexico, at the expense of a 
subscription by individuals and institutions. He has just returned laden 
with a valuable collection of plants, seeds, &c., which are to be divided 
12 



178 EIGHTH ANNUAL REtORT OF 

among those who defrayed the expense. In behalf of the Smithsofiiafi 
Institution $150 was subscribed towards this enterprise, and for this we 
are entitled to a full set of all the objects collected. These are to be 
submitted to Dr. Gray, of Cambridge, to be described in a memoir by 
him, and to be published in the Smithsonian Contributions. Mr. Wright 
is expected to start on another expedition early in the spring, for the 
purpose of making explorations in natural history in the regions around 
El Paso; and it will be well for the Smithsonian Institution to further 
assist this laudable enterprise with another subscription of an equal 
amount. 

We have also purchased, for the sum of $20, a set of the plants col- 
lected by Mr. Fendler in the vicinity of Santa Fe during the year 1847, 
This adventurous explorer, under the direction of the gentleman pre- 
viously mentioned, is now engaged in investigating the botany of the 
great valley of the Salt Lake, and it is proposed further to assist him 
b}^ the purchase of a set of the collections he may obtaui. By co- 
operating in this way with individuals and institutions we are enabled, 
at a small expense, materially to advance the cause of science. 

Ancient MonumevtSi _ 

Another object, the prosecution of which falls particularly withi/l 
the province of the Institution, is that of obtaining descriptions of the 
ancient monuments of North America. Circulars have been sent to 
gentlemen in various parts of the country, requesting them to flirnish 
surveys and explorations of mounds, and other ancient works, which 
are reputed to exist in their vicinity. To facilitate these investiga- 
tions, we have requested the authors of the first volume to draw up, 
from the results of their experience, a set of instructions for the proper 
examination and description of works of tliis kind. The same sub- 
ject has also been placed before several historical societies, established 
in places where mounds are known to exist. In connexion with this 
subject, we cannot too highly commend the policy of the new Terri- 
tory (»f Minnesota, which, among the first of its acts, has established 
a Historical Societ}^, to gather up the record ot" events as they occur, 
and thus to preserve the unappreciated facts of the present — destined 
to become history in the future. An important and interesting part ot .^ 
the labors of such societies would be the survey and exploration of ^ 
the ancient monuments which might be found in their vicinity. Brief 
accounts of these might be published in the proceedings of the socie- 
ties, while detailed descriptions and drawings could be given to the 
world at the expense and through the transactions of the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

The publication of our first volume has awakened a lively interest 
in this subject, and we have received accounts of various locations of 
mounds and other ancient v/orks in different parts of the country which i 
were previously unknown. A gentleman, well quahfied ibr the task, i 
is now engaged in preparing for us an ethnological chart indicating the 
relative positions, as far as they are known, of all the monuments of 
this kind. This chart may be improved ii-om time to time, and will '. 
be the means of eliciting important additional information. Indeed this 



THE SMI'THSONIAN INSTrTUTTON. 179 

\X?1iole subject should be prosecuted by the Institution, until nil ncces- 
ible information has been collected. The Smithsonian Institution owes 
this to the woi'ld. The work should be done quickh' ; for the plough, 
as well as the elements, are every year rendering less visible the out- 
lines and distinctive forms of these remnants of tlie arts and policy of 
the ancient inhabitants of this continent. 

Bihliograjihia Amcricarm. 

In the last reporl an account is given of the preparation of a work 
■on the bibliography of America, by Henry Stevens, of Vermont. This 
work, it will be recollected, is to contain a brief account of every book 
published in, or relating to. North America, prior to 1700, with reter- 
•ences to the differcKt libraries in this and other countries in which 
these works are to be found. The Institution agreed to publish thi-s 
work at its own expense, provided, on examination by a commission of 
competent judges, it is found properly executed. Mr. Stevens is now 
ena:ao;ed in the Britisli Museum cataloQuinc; all the works embraced 
in this plan, and informs tne that he is making good progress in his 
•enterprise. 

Mcports on tlie Progress of Kiimdedge. 

Of the reports on the progress of" knowledge proposed in th-e plan of 
•organization, none have as yet been published, though several of those 
■mentioned in my report of last year have been completed, or arc very 
•nearly ready for the press. The appropriations, however, for the last 
year were not found sufficient for carrying out tiuther this part of the 
plan. 

The most important report now in progress is that on the forest-Trees 
•of North America, by Dr. Gray, Professor of Botany in Harvard Uni- 
versity. It is intended in this work to give figures firom original draw- 
ings of the flowers, leaves, fruit, &c., of each principal species in the 
United States proper, for the most part of the size of nature, and so 
executed as to furnish colored or uncolored copies- — the first being in- 
tended to give an adequate idea of the species, and the second for 
^greater cheapness and more general diffusion. 

This work will be completed in -three parts, in octavo, with an atla<; 
of quarto plates — the first part to be published next spring. A })ortion 
t)f this will be occ-upied V\^ith an introductory dissertation giving the; 
present state of our knowledge, divested as much as possible of all 
'Unnecessary technical terms — of the anatomy, morphology, and physi- 
ology of the tree — tracing its growth fi-om the embryo to its full deve- 
lopment and reproduction in the formation of fj-uit and seed. This 
will be illustrated by drawings from original dissections uuilcr the 
microscope, and sketches made, in every instance, from nature. As 
'the work will be adapted to general comprehension, it will be of inter- 
|j est to the popular as well as the scientific reader. 

• Report on the history of the discovery of the planet Neptvne. — The first 
I -part of a report on recent discoveries in astronomy has been completed, 
: and is ready for the press. This is written by Dr. B. A. Gould, of 



180 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Cambridge, editor of the American Astronomical Journal. Copious 
references lo authorities are given in foot-notes, which will render the 
work interesting to the professed astronomer as well as to the less 
advanced student. 

A report has been prepared by Professor Guyot, late of the Univer- 
sity of Neufchatel, on the construction and use of meteorological instru- 
ments, more particularly designed for distribution among our meteoro- 
logical observers. This gentleman is row engaged, at the expense of 
the Regents of the University of the Slate of New York, in establishing 
a new system of meteorology, and in instructing the observers in the 
use of the instruments ; for which service he is well adapted by his 
experience in a similar undertaking in Switzerland. 

The report on the application of chemistr}^ to agriculture is also 
nearly ready for the press. This is by Dr. Lewis C. Beck, of Rutgers 
College, New Jersey. 

Collections. 

Appara(?is. — The plan of organization also contemplates the foima- 
tion of a museum of physical instruments, which may be used lijr ex- 
perimental illustration and original research, and may serve as models 
to workmen as well as to illustrate the general progress of inventions 
in this line. 

The munificent donation of Dr. Hare has enabled us to commence 
this collection with very flattering prospects. It now contains, besides 
the articles of Dr. Hare, instruments for the illustration of the principles 
of light, heat, and sound, procured from Paris, and a full set of pneu- 
matic instruments, of superior size and workmanship, constructed ex- 
pressly for the Institution by Mr. Chamberlain, of Boston ; also, a 
number of chemical articles purcliased during the last year ; a set of 
magnetical instruments, already noticed ; "a standard barometer and 
thermometers, and other meteorological instruments, procured from 
Europe. It is proper that I mention, in this place, that we are in- 
debted to Professor Snell, of Amherst, for superintending the construc- 
tion of a set of very ingenious instruments devised by himself for the 
illustration of wave motion. It is believed that the collection of instru- 
ments of research will, in due time, not only form a feature of great 
interest, but that it wdll surpass in extent similar collections in other 
countries. 

It is intended to publish a descriptive catalogue of all the instru- 
ments, for the use of visitors ; and it may be advisable to illustrate this 
by wood-cuts, particularly as w^e have had presented to us all the wood 
engravings employed by Dr. Hare in describing his apparatus. 

It is not in accordance with the plan of organization to confine the 
instruments of observation to the immediate use of the officers of the 
institution but to suffer them to be employed, under certain restrictions, 
by others who are possessed of the requisite degree of skill. This 
practice may be attended in some cases with loss, and the breakage of 
instruments ; but the expenditure which may be incurred on this account 
will probably be more than compensated by the advance to knowledge 
resulting from the adoption of the plan. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 181 

A small appropriation has been made for collections in natural his- 
tory during the past year ; and, under the direction of a distinguished 
young naturalist, upwards of ten thousand specimens of vertebrated 
animals, principally reptiles and fishes, have been obtained. Many of 
these are rare specimens from unexplored parts of our country, and a 
considerable number of them consists of undescribed species. They 
furnish the materials for an interesting series of memoirs on physiology, 
embryology, and comparative anatomy. The whole cost of making 
this collection did not exceed S140. We are convinced, from the im- 
portant results obtained by this small expenditure, that a most valuable 
working collection of objects of the natural history of North America 
can be obtained at a very moderate outlay of funds. 

Library. 

During the past year the process of developing the plan of the 
librarj% as given in the programme, has been carried out by Professor 
Jewett as far as the funds which could be devoted to the purpose would 
allow. 

Considerable progress has been made in the plan of forming a gen- 
eral catalogue of all the important libraries in the United States ; and 
Professor Jewett has wisely commenced the preparation of a catalogue 
of all the books to be found in the different libraries in the city of Wash- 
ington, including those of the several departments of the government ; 
and in this way he will be enabled to exhibit the importance of cata- 
logues of this kind. 

He has also devoted much time to the continuation of his researches 
relative to the statistics of libraries in this country, and for an account in 
detail of his valuable labors in this line I must refer to his report here- 
with transmitted. I will also direct attention to some important sug- 
gestions in his report on the subject of the deposit of books lor securing 
copyright, and the establishment of a bulletin. 

Mmetim. 

The formation of a museum of objects of nature and of art requires 
much caution. With a given income to be appropriated to the purpose, 
a time must come when the cost of keeping the objects will just equal 
the amount of the appropriation ; after this no further increase can take 
place. Also, the tendency of an Institution of this kind, unless guarded 
against, will be to expend its funds on a heterogenous collection of ob- 
jects of mere curiosity; whereas the plan presented in the programme 
contemplates complete definite collections arranged for scientific pur- 
poses, rather than for popular display. 

In this connexion there is one point which I beg to present to the 
consideration of the Board as one of much importance, and which, if 
possible, should be decided at this meeting, because on it will depend 
the arrangement of that part of the building devoted to natural history. 
I allude to the acceptance of the museum of the Exploring Expedition. 



182 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

By the law incorporating this Institution, '* all objects of art and of 
foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants^ 
and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to or hereafter 
to belong to tiie United States, which may be in the city of Washing- 
ton, in whosesoever custody the sara<c may be, shall be delivered to> 
such persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents to receive 
them.'^ 

This law evidently gives to the Smithsonian Institution the museum 
in the Patent Office, the conservatory of plants, arid all specimens of 
nature and art to be Ibund in the several offices and departments of the 
government. The act, however, cannot be construed as rendering it 
obligatory on the Regents to take charge of these articles, if, in their 
opinion, it is not for the best interests of the Institution that they should 
do so. Though one of the reasons urged upon the Regents for the im- 
mediate erection of so large a building was the necessity of providing 
accommodation for this museum, I have been, from the first, of the 
opinion that it is inexpedient to accept it. 

Tl)is museum was collected at the expense of the government, and 
should be preserved as a memento of the science and energy of our 
navy, and as a means of illustrating and verifying the magnificent 
volumes which comprise the histor}'- of that exj)edition. If the Regents 
accept this museum, it must be merged in the Smithsonian collections. 
It could not be the intention of Congress that an Institution founded by 
the liberality of a foreigner, and to which he has affixed his own name, 
should be charged with the keeping of a separate musemn, the property 
of the United States. Besides this, the extensive museum of the Patent 
Office would immediately fill the space allotted for collections of this 
kind in the Smithsonian edifice, and in a short time another appropria- 
tion would be required for the erection of another building. Moreover, 
all the objects of interest of this collection have been described and 
figured in the volumes of the expedition, and the small portion of our 
funds which can be devoted to a museum may be better employed in 
collecting new objects, such as have not yet been studied, than in pre- 
serving those from which the harvest of discovery has already been 
fully gathered. 

The answer made to some of these objections has usually been, that 
the government would grant an annual appropriation for the support of 
the museum of the Exploring Expedition. But this W"ould be equally 
objectionable; since it would annually bring the Institution before Con- 
gress as a supplicant for government patronage, and ultimately subject 
it to political influence and control. 

Alter an experience of three years, I am fully convinced that the true 
policy of the Institution is to ask nothing from Congress except the safe- 
keeping of its funds, to mingle its operations as little as possible with 
those of the general government, and to adhere in all cases to its own 
distinct organization, while it co-operates with other institutions in the 
way of promoting knowledge; and on the other hand, that it is desira- 
ble that Congress should place as few restrictions on the Institution as 
possible, consistent with a judicious expenditure of the income, and 
that this be judged of by a proper estimate of the results produced. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 183 

Lectures. 

At the last meeting of the board an appropriation of five hundred 
(dollars was made to defray the expense of lectures to be given before 
the Smithsonian Institution, a part of which only is expended. The 
first course, in accordance with this part of the plan of organization, 
was by Professor Koeppen, of Denmark, on Modern Athens. These 
lectures were illustrated by a number of large drawings, for the use of 
which the Institution is indebted to the Lowell Institute, of Boston. A 
second course was delivered by Dr. Hitchcock, President of Amherst 
College, on geology, in the lecture-room of the east wing of the Smith- 
sonian building; and both courses were attended by large and appar- 
ently interested audiences. The results of these lectures indicate that 
much good may be effected in Washington by this means of communi- 
cating knowledge. No city, perhaps, of the same number of inhabit- 
ants, contains so many intelligent and well educated persons desirous 
of obtaining information; and no point in our country is so favorably 
.situated for the dissemination of opinions, b}^ means of lectures, as the 
political centre of the American Union. Invitations have been given 
to a number of distinguished gentlemen in different parts of the United 
States to favor us with courses of lectures during the present session of 
Congress, and in almost every case the invitation has been accepted. 
It is intended to extend these invitations so as to call here in succession 
all who have distinguished themselves in literature or science. We 
shall Kot seek mere popular lecturers, whose chief recommendation is 
fluency of speech, or powers of rhetorical declamation, but chiefly those 
who are entitled, from their standing and acquirements, to speak with 
authority cm. the subjects of their discourse, and whose character will 
iend to give due importance to their communications. It is to be re- 
gretted thai the amount of funds which can be devoted to this object is 
not as great as could be wished. It is hoped, however, that many 
persons will consider the opportunity of visiting Washington, and the 
compliment paid by the invitation, as in part a remuneration f<)r the 
labor and time which tlieir lectures may cost. But in all cases, suffi- 
oent should be allowed to defray all necessary expenses, and, as soon 
a^ the state of the funds will permit, to reward liberally, rather than 
otherwise, those who are called to assist the Institution in this way. I 
forbear to publish the names of those who have consented to lecture, 
lest they should be accidentally prevented from filling their engage- 
ment, and the public thus be disappointed. 

To facilitate the approach to the building, at the time of these lec- 
tures, the walks were temporarily improved, at a considerable expense 
to the Institution. It is hoped that the authorities of the city of Wash- 
ington will cause bridges to be erected across tlie canal, and walks to 
be constructed through the public grounds, to facilitate the approach 
to the building, and that the Institution will not be expected to provide 
accommodations of this kind. 



184 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Building. 

The east wing of the building was taken possession of by the Secre- 
tary in April last, and has since been constantly occupied. The west 
wing is now finished, and it is contemplated to occupy it temporarily 
as a library until the portion of the main building intended for this pur- 
pose is completed. 

The plan of the Smithsonian building was designed by the architect, 
and recommended to the Board by a committee of the JElegents, before 
the programme of organization was adopted. It is not strange, there- 
fore, when the building came to be occupied, that changes in the inter- 
nal arrangement should be deemed advisable which would better adapt 
it to the wants of the Institution. Such changes, at my suggestion, 
have been made ; and for the propriety of these I am responsible. 
They are principally, however, those of simplification, and in them- 
selves add nothing to the cost of the edifice. An increased expense, 
however, will arise out of the furnishing of new rooms which have been 
acquired by the alterations. 

All of which is respectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary of the Smith&Qnia'& Insiitulion^ 



i 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 185 

FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT 

Of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for the year 1850. 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : During the past year the several parts of the plan of 
organization have been prosecuted as efficiently as the portion of the 
income which could be devo'ted to them would permit. The financial 
affairs are in a prosperous condition, and though the funds are burthened 
with the erection of a costly building, and the expenditures trammelled 
by restrictions growing out of the requisitions of the charter of" incor- 
poration, yet the results thus far obtained, are such as satisfactorily to 
prove that the Institution is doing good service in the way of promoting 
and diffusing knowledge. 

Though the programme of organization has been given iii two of the 
annual reports and extensively published in the newspapers, its char- 
acter does not appear to be as widely known and as properly appre- 
ciated as could be desired. Indeed it will be necessary at intervals to 
republish the terms of the bequest, and also the general principles of 
the plan which has been adopted, in order that the public may not only 
be informed of what the Institution is accomplishing, but also reminded 
of what ought reasonably to be expected from its operations. More- 
over, there is a tendency in the management of public institutions to 
lose sight of the object for which they were established, and hence it 
becomes important frequently to advert to the principles by which they 
ought to be governed. I beg leave, therefore, as introductory to this 
report, briefly to recapitulate some of the propositions of the programme 
of organization, and to state some of tiie facts connected with its adop- 
tion. 

Smithson left his property, in case of the death of his nephew, to 
whom it was first bequeathed, " to found at Washington, under the name 
of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment fljr the increase and 
(hfFusion of knowledge among men." These are the only words of the 
testator to serve as a guide to the adoption of a plan for the execution- 
of his benevolent design. They are found, however, when attentively 
considered to admit of legitimate deductions sufficiently definite and 
comprehensive. 

1. The bequest is made to the United States, in trust for the good of 
m,anki7id. 

2. The objects of the Institution are two-fold ; first, to increase, se- 
cond, to diffijse knowledge ; objects which, though often confounded 
with each other, are logically distinct and ought to be separately re- 
garded. The first is the enlargement of the existing stock of know- 
ledge by the discovery of new truths, and the second is the dissemina- 
tion of these and other truths among men. 

3. No particular kind of" knowledge is designated ; hence a liberal 
interpretation of the bequest will include no part of the great domain of 



186 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

science and literature from the degree of attention its importance may 
demand. 

4. Since mankind are to be benefited by the bequest, any unneces- 
sary expenditure on merely locrd objects would not be in accordance 
with the proper administration of the trust. 

5. Though the funds are generally considered large, and much is 
expected of them, the}'^ are really small in proportion to the demands 
made upon them. The annual income of the bequest is less than half 
the cost of the publication of a single vearlv report of the Patent 
Office. 

6. In order, therefore, that the limited income may effect the greatest 
amount of good, it should be expended in doing that which cannot be 
done as well by other means. 

These views, which have commanded the assent of all unprejudiced 
and reflecting persons who have studied the subject, have been the 
guiding principles in all cases in which I have had any power of di- 
rection ; and I am happy to say the}' are fully adopted by the present 
directors and oliicers of the Institution. 

To carry out the design of the testator, various plans were proposed ; 
but most of these were founded on an imperfect apprehension of the 
terms of the Will. The great majority of them contemplated merely 
the diffusion of popular intitrmation, and neglected the first and 
the most prominent requisition of the bequest, namely, the " increase 
of knowledge." The only plan in strict conformity with the terms of 
the Will, antl which especially commended itself to men of science, a 
class to which Smithson himself belonged, was that of an active living 
organization, intended principally to promote the discovery and diffli- 
sion of" new truths b}' instituting original researches, under the direc- 
tion of suitable persons, in History, Antiquities, Elhnologjs and the 
various branches of Physical Science, and by publishing and distribut- 
ing among libraries and other public institutions, accounts of the 
results which might thus be obtained, as well as of those of the labors 
of men of talent which could not otherwise be given to the world. 

This plan, which was probably in the mind of the donor when he 
gave expression to the few but comprehensive woids which indicate the 
objects of tlie bequest, is found from our experience to be eminently 
practical. It requires no costly building or expensive permanent estab- 
lishment. Its operations, limited only by the amount of the income, 
are such as to affect the condition of man wherever literature and science 
are cultivated, while it tends in this country to give an impulse to ori- 
ginal thought, which, amidst the strife of politics, and the inordinate 
pursuit of wealth, is of all things most desirable. 

It was with the liope of being able to assist in the practical develop- 
ment of this plan, that I was induced to accept the appointment of prin- 
cipal executive officer of the Institution. Many unforeseen obstacles, 
however, presented themselves to its full adoption ; and its advocates 
soon found, in contending with opposing views and adverse interests, a 
wide difference between what, in their opinion, ought to be done and 
what they could actually accomplish. 

The plan was novel and by many considered entirely chimerical; 
indeed it could not be propei'ly appreciated except by those who had 
been devoted to original research. Besides this, the law of Congress 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 187 

incorporating the Institution, while it did not forbid the expenditure of 
a part of the income for other objects, authorized the formation of a 
Library, a Museum and a Gallery of Art, and the erection of a build- 
ing, on a liberal scale, for their accommodation. It was, indeed, the 
opinion of many that the whole income ought to be expended on these 
objects. The Regents did not consider themselves at liberty to disre- 
gard the indications of Congress, and the opinion expressed in favor of 
collections; and after much discussion it was finally concluded to divide 
the income into two equal parts, and, after deducting the general ex- 
penses, to devote one half to the active operations set Ibrth in the plan 
just described ; and the other, to the formation of a Library, a Museum 
and a Gallery of Art. 

It was evident, however, that the small income of the original be- 
quest, though in itself sufficient to do much good in the way of active 
operation, was inadequate to carry out this more extended plan — to 
maintain the staff of attendants, and to defray other contingent expenses 
incidental to a large estabhshment of this kind. Besides the Secretary 
and an assistant to attend to the general operations, two principal as- 
sistants would be required, one to take charge of the Library and the 
other of the Museum of Natural History ; and to these suHicient sala- 
ries must be given, to secure the services of men of the first reputation 
and talents in their respective lines. It, therefore, became absolutely 
necessary that the income should be increased ; and in order to do this, 
it was proposed to save the greater part of the $242,000 of accrued 
interest which Congress had authorized to be expended in a building, 
by erecting, at a cost not to exceed $50,000, the nucleus of an edifice, 
which could be expanded as the wants of the Institution might require, 
and to add the remainder to the principal. 

Unfortunately, however, for this proposition. Congress had presented 
to the Institution the great museum of the Exploring Expedition ; and 
a majority of the Regents, supposing it necessary to make immediate 
provision for the accommodation of this gift, had taken preliminary 
steps, previous to my appointment, to construct a large building, and 
indeed a majority of the committee, to which the matter was referred, 
had determined to adopt the plan of the present edifice. Strenuous 
opposition was, however, made to this; and as a compromise, it was 
finally agreed to draw fi'om the United States treasury $250,000 of 
accrued interest, and instead of expending this immediately in complet- 
ing the plan of the proposed building, to invest it in treasury notes, then 
at par, and to finish the building in the course of five years, in part out 
of the interest of these notes, in part out of the sale of a portion of 
them, and also in part out of a portion of the annual interest accruing 
on the original bequest. It was estimated that in this way, at the end 
of five years, besides devoting $250,000 to the building, the annual 
income of the Institution would be increased from $30,000 to nearly 
$40,000, a sum sufficient to carry out all the provisions of the pro- 
gramme. 

After the resolutions relative to the division of the income, between 
collections on the one hand and active operations on the other, had been 
adopted, and the plan of finance as to the building had been settled, I 
was requested to confer with persons of literary and scientific reputa- 



188 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

tion, and to digest into the form of a general programme the several 
resolutions of the Board. In the programme which was thus produced 
and afterwards adopted, it is attempted to harmonize the different pro- 
positions of the Board, and to render them all, library, collections, &c., 
as far as possible, subservient to a living, active organization. Though 
a valuable library will in time be accumulated, by donation and the 
exchange of the pubHcntiuns of the Institution, the design at first is to 
purchase only such books as are immediately necessary in the other 
operations of the Institution, or which cannot be procured in this coun- 
try ; and the Librarian is required to perform other duties than those 
which pertain to the office of an ordinary collector and curator of books. 
He is directed to report on plans of libraries, and the best method of 
managing them; to collect the statistics of the libraries of the United 
States; to make a general catalogue as far as possible of all the books 
in this country, and to procure all the information necessary for render- 
ing the Institution a centre of bibliographical knowledge. Instead of 
attempting to form a miscellaneous collection of objects of nature and 
art, it is proposed to collect only those which will yield a harvest of 
new results, and to preserve principally such as are not found in other 
collections, or will serve to illustrate and verify the Smithsonian pubh- 
cations. 

The tendency of an Institution in which collections form a prominent 
object, is constantly towards a stationary condition ; with a given in- 
come, the time must inevitably come when the expenditures necessary 
to accommodate the articles with house room and attendance will just 
equal the receipts. There is indeed no plan by which the funds of an 
institution may be more inefficiently expended, than that of filling a 
costly building with an indiscriminate collection of objects of curiosity, 
and giving these in charge to a set of inactive curators. Happily, the 
programme of organization and the system of expenditure which the 
Regents have adopted, if rigidly adhered to, will prevent this state of 
things, and happily the spirit of the present directors and officers who 
are to give the initial form to the character of the Institution, is in 
accordance with as active operations as the state of the funds and 
requisitions of Congress will allow. 

It is to be regretted that Congress did not leave the entire choice of 
the plan of organization to those who were to be entrusted with the 
management of the bequest, and that, instead of the plan of a costly 
building, there had not been adopted the nucleus of a more simple 
edifice, which could have been modified to meet the wants which 
experience might indicate. 

The original estimate for the building, furniture, and improvement of 
the grounds was $250,000 ; and could the actual cost have been con- 
fined to this sum, all the results anticipated from the scheme of finance 
which had been adopted would have been reahzed at the end of five 
years. During the past year, however, it has been found necessary, 
for the better protection of the collections, to order the fire-proofing of 
the interior of the edifice, at an increased expense of $44,000. This 
additional draft on the funds can only be met by extendmg the time for 
the completion of the building; and even this will require the appropri- 
ation of a portion of the income which ought to be devoted to other 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 189 

purposes. The active operations will suffer most by this draft on the 
income, since it will be made for the better accommodation of the 
library and the museum. 

It must not be interred, from the foregoing account, that the affairs 
of the Institution are in an unfavorable condition; on the contrary, 
though they are not in every respect what could be wished, still, under 
the circumstances I have mentioned, they are much better than could 
have been anticipated. The funds are in a very prosperous state, and 
all the obstacles in the way of the usefulness of the establishment, may, 
by judicious management, in time be removed. The opposition which 
was made to the building, led to the adoption of the plan of finance to 
which I have heretofore adverted, and from this has been realized much 
more than could have been expected. 

After all the expenditures which have been made on the building, 
grounds, publications, researches, purchase of books and apparatus, 
not only is the original bequest untouched, but there is now on hand 
upwards of $200,000 of accrued interest. This will be sufficient to 
finish the exterior of the building, including all the towers, the interior 
oi' the wings, ranges, and a part of the interior of the main edifice ; 
which will afford sufficient accommodation for some years to come, and 
leave $150,000 to be added to the principal. 

This result has been produced by a rigid adherence to the determi- 
nation of increasing the annual income ; and in accordance with this, 
and in obedience to the direction of the Board of Regents, a petition 
has been presented to Congress, asking that $150,000 may be taken 
from the Institution and placed in the treasury of the United States, on 
the same terms as those of the acceptance of the original bequest, never 
to be expended, and yielding a perpetual interest of six per cent. 

If this petition be granted, all the funds will be permanently and 
safely invested, and the original income will be increased f i om $30,000 
to nearly $40,000. Out of this, beside carrying on the more important 
object of the plan, it is -proposed to appropriate yearly a small sum for 
the gradual completion of the interior of the building. 

The great importance of a small addition to the income will be evi- 
dent, when it is recollected that a definite sum is annually required to 
defray the necessary expenses of the establishment, and that after this 
has been provided, every addition will tend to produce a greater pro- 
portional amount of useful effect. The proposed increase will be suf- 
ficient to pay all the salaries of the officers, and leave the original 
income in a great measure free to be applied to the objects contemplated 
in the plan. 

At the last meeting of the Board, Professor Baird, of Dickinson Col- 
lege, Pennsylvania, a gentleman distinguished for his attainments in 
science, was appointed an Assistant Secretary in the department of 
natural history. His appointment was made at this time more parti- 
cularly in order that his services might be secured to talve charge of 
the publications, and that we might avail ourselves of the ample experi- 
ence which he had gained in this line. He entered on his duties in 
July last, and besides being actively engaged in organizing the depart- 
ment of natural history, he has rendered important service in conduct- 
ing our foreign exchanges and attending to the business of the press. 



EIGH'rn ANNUAL REPORT OP 

This afldition to our force was absolutely necessary to a more efficient 
discharge of the duties which devolve on us. No person, except from 
actual experience, can form an idea of the amount of labor required 
for the transaction of the ordinary business The correspondence alone 
is sufficient to occupy two persons continually during the usual office 
hours. 

During the past year one half of the whole income has been appro'- 
priated to the building; and after deducting the general expenses, the 
remainder has been equally divided between the two great classes of 
objects designated in the plan. The portion of the income after these 
divisions, which could be devoted to any one object, has been necessa- 
rily small ; for example, all that could be ex{)en(led lor researches, 
publications, and lectures, and indeed for every tiling of which the pub- 
lic at a distance could take imm.ediate cognizance, has not exceeded 
^4,500, and yet out of this sum we have been expected to produce 
results for wFiich the whole income would be entirely inadequate. I 
trust, however, that a proper consideration of the facts presenled in the 
remainder of" this report, will show that much has been done in propor- 
tion to the means at our command. 

Puhlication of Original Memoirs* 

The important aid which can be rendered to the promotion of know- 
ledge b_y the publication, and in some cases by assistance in the prepa- 
ration of important memoirs, is now be3'ond all question. Experience 
has thus far abundantly shov^'n that much more matter of the most 
valuable chEuacter will be presented for publication, free of all charge, 
than tiie portion of the income devoted to this object will allow us to 
publish. Indeed, there is now on hand, or in preparation, more material 
of this kind than we shall be able, with our limited income, to give to 
the world in two or three years. In view of" this fact, I cannot repress 
the expression of regret which I have always felt, that the restrictions 
arising from the requisitions of Congress do not permit a greater expen- 
diture lor this most important object. It is chiefly by the publications 
of the Institution that its fame is to be spread through the world, and 
the monument m.ost befitting the name of Smithson erected to his 
memory. 

Most of the (Hstinguished foreign literary and scientific societies have 
placed the Institution on their list of exchange, and in m.any instances 
have presented not only the current volume of their transactions, but 
also full sets of the preceding volumes. We have reason to believe 
that bot()re the expiration of another year, we shall receive in exchange 
the transactions of nearly all the learned societies of tfie world, and 
that the Institution will be recognised by them as an active co-ope- 
rator in the promotion of knowledge. Prot"essor Baird has f"urnished a 
list of" the literary and scientific societies to which the quarto volumes 
have been presented. 

The following Memoirs, an account of which was given in my last 
report, have been printed, or are now in press: 

1. Researches relative to the planet Neptune; by S. C. Walker. 

2. Contriliutions to the Physical Geography of the United States ; by 
Charles Ellet, Jr. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 191 

3. Meilioir on the Explosiveness of Nitre ; by Dr. Robert Hare. 

4. On the Aboriginal Monuments of the State of New York; by E- 
G. Squier. 

5. Memoir on the Reciprocal Action of two Galvanic Currents ; 
by A. Secchi, of Georgetown College. 

6. On the Classification of Insects, from Embryological Data ; by 
Professor Louis Agiissiz. 

7. Monograph of Mosasaurus and the allied Genera ; by Dr. R. W. 
Gibbes. 

Besides these, several other papers not described in jny Inst report 
have been printed^ and are ready for separate distribution. The first 
of these I shall mention is by Professor Lieber, of the College of South 
Carolina, on the vocal sounds of Laura Bridgmnn, the blind and deaf 
mute, wliose mind, apparently forever consigned to darkness, has been 
almost miraculously enlightened, by the sagacity, ingenuity, and perse- 
verance of Dr. Howe. 

There is, perhaps, at this tiine, no living human being who offers to 
the ps^^jhologist so attractive an object of stud^' as this individual; and 
hence every observation relative to her peculiar habits is of great interest. 
Dr. Lieber has, from year to year, during his summer vacations, been 
in the habit of visiting Laura Bridgman, and on one occasion spent 
three months in her immediate neighborhood f()r the purpose of study- 
ing the sounds which she utters as indicative of ideas. These sounds con - 
sist principally of such as she volutarily adopted to designate different 
individuals. The results of the observations given in this paper are 
accompanied by a series of philosophical deductions and suggestions 
which cannot fail to interest the psycliologist and plivsiologist. This 
memoir is illustrated by an engraved y^/c slmde of a letter from Laura 
Bridgman's own hand. 

The next paper is by Professor Baile;y of West Point. This gentleman 
has rendered himself favorably known to the world of science by his 
researches on minute animals and plants, which, though mostly unseen 
by the naked eye, are found as widel}' distributed, and as permanent 
and definite in character, as the largest organized objects in nature. This 
paper gives the results of a series of microscopic observations which the 
author made during his sojourn in the southern part of the United 
States, whither he was ordered last winter on account of his health. It 
designates numerous localities of" microscopic animals and plants, and 
furnishes lists of the species found in each. It also contains a series of 
tables presenting a number of species with the different localities where 
each was f()und. The species so classed include those of the Desmi 
diae, Diatomaceae, Inflisoriae, and x\lgae. Following these is a descrip- 
tion of numerous other species, most of which are represented by litho- 
graphic figures. 

Among the interesting facts arrived at by the author, are the discovery 
of an extensive stratum of fossil infusoria} near Tampa Bay, Florida; 
the existence oi'inflisoriaB in the rice fields of the south ; and the demon- 
stration of the cosmopolite character of many microscopic objects hitherto 
beheved to exist only in Europe. 

Another paper by the same author, but presented to the Institution by 
Professor Bache, Superintendent of the U. S. Coast Survey, has refer- 



192 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

ence to a microscopic examination of soundings along the eastern coast 
of the United States ; samples of all the materials brought up by the 
sounding apparatus of the Coast Survey having been carefully preserved 
by Professor Bache in bottles, and so arranged as to present, as it were, 
the surface geology of the bottom of the sea within a certain distance 
from the shore. Specimens of these were given to Professor Bailey for 
microscopic examination, and the results are presented in this paper. 
It exhibits the fact of a high development of minute organic forms, 
mainly of Polythidamia, in all deep soundings, varying from fifty-one 
to ninety fathoms, occurring in an abundance similar to that in which 
analogous fossil forms are found in the marls under the city of Charles- 
ton. It also shows that each locality has its predominant species, by 
means of which alone the region whence they were taken may be indi- 
cated. Many of the conclusions derived are of much interest to the 
mariner, the geologist, and the naturalist. The paper closes with a 
brief description of the genera and species referred to, embracing sev- 
eral that are new, the w^hole accompanied by numerous figures. 

In connexion with the foregoing mny be mentioned a paper by Mr. 
Charles Girard, entitled "A Monograph of the Fresh water Cottoids of 
North America," which has been accepted, and will soon be published. 
The species of fish called Cotlus gobio, was supposed to be common to 
Europe and America, and thus totbrm an exception to a general rule in 
regard to the fresh water species of the two continents. It has been dis- 
covered by Mr. Girard and others, tliat the European species, as described 
by Linnaeus, is really composed of several, and that while none of these 
are found in North America, we have actually a number of species pecu- 
liar to this countr^^ The memoir contains elaborate descriptions of the 
known species as well as of several new ones, together with copious notes 
on their scientific history, their geographical distribution, affinities with 
each otlier and with Ibreign species, anatomical structure, &c., — the 
whole illustrated by appropriate figures. It is worthy of remark, that 
most of the hitherto undescribed species presented in this memoir were 
collected by Professor Baird, and now form a part of the Smithsonian 
collection. 

Another memoir, now in course of preparation, is one which will of 
itself occupy a considerable portion of one of the quarto volumes of the 
Smithsonian Contributions. It affords an interesting illustration of the 
working of the plan of organization in the way of eliciting important 
scientific knowledge which would not otherwise be produced, or, if pro- 
duced, could not be given to the world through any other channel. 

This memoir consists of a description of the marine plants, or Algae, 
which are found along the eastern and southern coasts of the United 
States, and which are deserving of attention, not only on account of 
their beauty, variety, and the illustrations they present of the growth 
and devd'lopmcnt of vegetable forms, but also on account of their 
economical value with reference to agriculture and the chemical arts. 
This volume is in the course of preparation by Professor Harvey, of the 
University of Dublin, Ireland, a gentleman who is recognised as the 
first authority in this branch of botany. He was induced to visit this 
country by an invitation to lecture on the Algxe before the Lowell In- 
stitute, and by the opportunity thus offered him of studying his favorite 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 193 

branch of science in a new region. After completing his lectures, he 
made a collection of the marine plants of our coast, and offered to fur- 
nish drawings ot the genera and species, with detailed descriptions 
free of all cost, provided the Institution would bear the expense of 
publication. 

Upon the warm recommendation of some of the principal botanists ot 
the country, the liberal offer of Professor. Harvey was accepted, and he 
is now engaged in making with his own hand the drawings on stone. 
The preparation of the work, besides the time expended in coilecting 
the specimens, will occupy two or three years. This voluntary contri- 
bution to knowledge from a man of science may surprise those whose 
minds are not liberalized by philosophical pursuits, and who cannot 
conceive any object in labor unconnected with pecuniary gain. 

To assist in defraying the heavy expense of tlie publication of this 
work, it is proposed to color the plates of a part of the edition, and to 
offer copies for sale. The work will also be issued in parts, so as 
to distribute the cost through several years. 

In addition to the foregoing, an appendix — added to Mr. Squier's 
paper on the ancient monuments of New York — has been printed. Also, 
there has been such an urgent demand for copies of Mr. Ellet's paper 
on the physical geograph}' of the Mississippi Valley, that it has been 
tijought advisable to reprint it and distribute the whole of the first edi- 
tion among all persons to whom a knowledge of its contents would be 
of peculiar importance. 

The several papers which have been described in this and the pre- 
ceding Report will, when collected together, form the contents of the 
second and part of the third volume. 

The plan adopted of printing each memoir with a separate title and 
paging has been found to answer a good purpose. There is no delay 
in printing one paper on account of the engraving of the plates of an- 
other ; and long before a volume can be completed, a separate memoir 
may be widely circulated among those most interested in its perusaL 
As an example of this, I may mention that one of the papers which 
forms part of the second volume of the Contributions has already been 
reprinted in the London and Edinburg Journal, with due credit given 
to llie Institution. 

Reports on the Progress of Knowledge. 

The income of the Institution as yet has not been sufficient for fully 
reducing to practice tliis part of the plan of organization. The prepa- 
ration of these reports can only be intrusted to those who are familiar 
with the subjects, and well skilled in the art of composition, and the 
services of such persons cannot be obtained without an adequate remu- 
neration. Of the several reports mentioned at the last meeting of the 
Board but one has been published, viz: that on the discovery of the 
planet Neptune, by Dr. B. A. Gould, of Cambridge, editor of the As- 
tronomical Journal. It has been stereotyped, and copies distributed 
amongst all our meteorological observers and other persons in the coun- 
try known to us as being actively engaged in promoting the science of 
asti'onomy. 

13 



194 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

The preparation of the report on the Forest-Trees of North Americav 
though dehiycd in consequence of the absence of the author, Dr. Gray, 
of Harvard University, on a visit to Europe, is still in progress. The 
illustrations are in the hands of the artists, and the first part will proba- 
bly be published during the present year. The cost of this report, on 
account of the elaborate illustrations, will- be greater than was at first 
anticipated ; consequently the publication of the entire work must ne- 
cessarily be spread over a number of years. It is believed, however, 
that a considerable part of the expense will be repaid to the Institution 
by the sale of copies at a small advance on the original cost. 

The other reports on the Progress of Knowledge mentioned in my 
last communication to the Regents are ready for the press, and will ha 
published, in whole or in part, during the present year. 

The Report on the statistics of Libraries of the United States, pre- 
pared by Professor Jewett, has been ordered to be printed by Con- 
gress, as an appendix to the Regents' Report. A sufficient number of 
extra copies will be presented to the Institution, lor distribution to all 
the libraries from which statistical information was received. It forms 
a volume of about two hundred and twenty-five pages, and will, I am 
sure, be considered an important contribution to bibliographical sta- 
tistics. 

Distribution of' Publications. 

We have found considerable difficulty in deciding upon the rules to 
be observed in the distribution of the Smithsonian publications. It 
is evident that, from the small portion of the income which can be de- 
v^oted to this object, the distribution must be circumscribed. Fifteen 
hundred copies of each memoir have been printed ; but this number, 
though all that the income could furnish, has not been found sufficient 
to meet a tenth part of the demand. It should be recollected that, 
though these memoirs consist of the results of new investigations of the 
highest importance to the well-being of man, in extending the bounds 
of his knowledge of the universe of mind and matter, yet they are not 
generally of such a character as to be immediately appreciated by tlie 
popular mind, and, indeed, they are better adapted to instruct the 
teacher than to interest the general reader. The}^ should, therefore, 
be distributed in such a way as most readil}'" to meet the eye of those 
who will make the best use of them in difiiising a knowledge of their 
contents. 

The following rules have been adopted for the distribution of the 
quarto volumes of collections of memoirs : 

1. They are to be presented to all Learned Societies which publish 
transactions and give copies of these in exchange to the Institution. 

2. To all Foreign Libraries of the first class, provided they give 
in exchange their catalogues, or other publications, or an equivalent 
from their duplicate volumes. 

3. To all Colleges in actual operation in this countr}^ provided they 
furnish in return meteorological observations, catalogues of their fibra- 
ries and of their students, and all other publications issued by them 
relative to their organization and history. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 195 

4. To all States and Territories ; provided they give in return, copies 
of all documents published under their authority. 

5. To all incorporated Public Libraries in this country, not inclu- 
ded in either of the foregoing classes, containing more than seven 
thousand volumes ; and to smaller Libraries, where a whole State 
or large district would be otherwise left unsupplied. 

The author of each memoir receives, as his only compensation, a 
certain number of copies, to distribute among his friends, or to pre- 
sent to individuals who may be occupied in the same line of research. 
In this way single memoirs are distributed to individuals, and especially 
to those who are most actively engaged in promoting discoveries. 
Copies of the reports, and also in some cases of particular memoirs, are 
sent to our meteorological observers. Besides these, we have placed 
on the list the more prominent Academies and Lyceums, as recipients 
of the minor pubhcations. It is also intended, in order to benefit the 
public more generall}^, to place on sale copies of memoirs and reports; 
though on account of the number required for the supply of Institutions, 
we have not, as yet, been able to carr}'- this plan into effect. 

No copyright has been taken for the Smithsonian publications ; they 
are therefore free to be used by the compilers of books, and in this way 
they are beginning to reach the general reader and to produce a bene- 
ficial effect on the public mind. 

Meteorologij. 

The system of meteorology under the direction of the Smithsonian 
Institution has, during the last year, made good progress. And though 
the whole number of stations has not been much increased, yet the 
character of the instruments adopted, and consequently the value of 
the observations, has been improved both in precision and variety. 

This system is intended to embrace, as far as possible, the whole 
extent of North America, and to consist of three classes of observers. 
One class, without instruments, to record the changes in the aspect of 
the sky, the direction of the wind, the beginning and ending of rain, 
the appearance of the aurora, &c. Another, in addition to the forego- 
ing, to give an account of the changes of temperature, as indicated by 
the thermometer. A third class, furnished with full sets of instruments, 
to record all changes deemed important in the study of meteorology. 

To carry on this system, the Institution has received or expects to 
receive assistance from the following sources : 

1. From the small appropriation made by Congress, to be expended 
under the direction of the Navy Department. 

2. From the appropriations made by different States of the Union. 

3. From the observations made under the direction of the Medical 
Department of the United States army. 

4. From the officers of her Majesty's service in different parts of the 
British possessions in North America. 

5. From observations made by institutions and individuals, in different 
parts of the continent, who report immediately^ to the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

A small appropriation lias been made by Congress for two years past, 



196 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

to be expended under the direction of the Navy Department for meteor- 
ological purposes ; and Professor Espy, engaged under the act making 
this appropriation, has been directed to co-operate with the Institution, 
in promotion of the common object. Besides the aid which we have 
received from Professor Espy's knowledge of this subject, the general 
system has been benefited in the use of instruments purchased by the 
surplus of the appropriation, after paying the salary of the director and 
other expenses. 

During the last year, Professor Espy has been engaged in a series of 
interesting experiments on the variations of temperature produced by 
a sudden change in the density of atmospheric air. The results 
obtained are important additions to science, and directly applicable 
to meteorology. The experiments were made in one of the rooms of 
the Smithsonian Institution, and with articles of apparatus belonging 
to the collection which constituted the liberal donation of Dr. Hare. 
An account of these investigations will be given in a report to the 
Secretary of the Navy. 

It was mentioned in the last Report that the Regents of the Univer- 
sity of the State of New York, in 1849, made a liberal appropriation of 
funds for the re-organization of the meteorological system of observa- 
tions established in 182-5 ; and that Dr. T. Romeyn I3eck and the Hon. 
Gideon Hawley, to whom the enterprise was entrusted, had adopted 
the forms and the instruments prepared under the direction of the 
Smithsonian Institution. Another appropriation has been made, for 
1850; and the system has been carried, during the past year, into suc- 
cessful operation by Professor Guyot,late of Neufchatel, in Switzerland. 
This gentleman, who has established a wide reputation as a meteoro- 
logical observer by his labors in his own country, was recommended 
to Dr. Beck and Mr. Hawley by this Institution, and em])loyed by 
them to superintend the fitting up of the instruments in their places, to 
instruct the observers in the minute details of their duty, and to deter- 
mine the topographical character and elevation above the sea of each i 
station. 

The whole number of stations which have been established in the 
State of New York is thirty-eight, including those which have been 
furnished with instruments b}' the Smithsonian Institution, and the Adi- 
rondack station by the liberality of Archibald Mclntyre, esq., of Albany. 
This number gives one station to twelve hundred and seventy square 
miles, or about one in each square of thirty-five and a half miles on a 
side. These stations are at very different heights above the level ofJ 
the sea. They were selected in conference with Dr. Beck, Professor [ 
Guyot, and myself The State is naturally divided into the followingj 
topographical regions, namely : 

1. The Southern or maiMtime reo:ion. 

2. The Eastern, or region of the Highlands and Catskill mountains,] 
with the valleys of the Hudson and Mohawk rivers. 

3. The Northern, or region of the Adirondack mountains, isolated byj 
the deep valleys of the Mohawk, Lake Champlain, the St. Lawrence,' 
and Lake Ontario. 

4. The Western, or region of the western plateau, with the small lakes! 
and sources of the rivers. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 197 

5. The region of the great lakes, Erie and Ontario. 

I regret to state that no efficient steps have as yet been taken to 
organize the system of Massachusetts, for which an appropriation was 
made by the legislature, at its last session. I have lately written to 
Governor Briggs, urging immediate action, and offering, on the part of 
the Institution, to render any assistance in our power towards further- 
ing so laudable an enterprise. No answer has 3^et been received.* 

The observations- made at the different military stations, under the 
direction of the Medical Department of the United States army, have 
been partially re-organized, and a number of new stations and several 
of the old ones furnished with improved Smithsonian instruments. The 
head of the Medical Department of the army, Dr. Lawson, has as- 
signed the general direction of the system of observations to Dr. Mower, 
of New York, to whom we are indebted for the valuable aid which this 
extended set of observations tiarnishes the general system. The im- 
mediate superintendence of the reduction of these observations is in 
charge of Dr. Wotherspoon, to whose zeal and scientific abilities the 
cause of" meteorology bids fair to be much indebted. 

The most important service the Smithsonian Institution has rendered 
to meteorology during the past year, has been the general introduction 
into the country of a more accurate set of instruments at a rcr^sonablc 
price- The set consists of a barometer, thermometer, hygrometer, 
wind vane, and snow and rain guage. 

The barometer is made by James Green, No. 422 Broadway, New 
York, under the direction of the Institution. It has a glass cistern with 
an adjustable bottom enclosed in a brass cylinder. The barometer 
tube is also enclosed in a brass cylinder, which carries the vernier. 
The whole is suspended freely, from a ring at the top, so as to adjust 
itself to the vertical position. The bulb of the attached thermometer is 
enclosed in a brass envelope communicating with the interior of the 
brass tube, so as to be in the same condition with the mercury, and to 
indicate truly its temperature. Each instrument made according to 
this pattern is numbered and accurately compared with a standard. 
In the comparisons made by Proiessor Guyot, a standard Fortin 
barometer, by Ernst, of Paris, was employed; also a standard English 
barometer, by Newman, of London, belonging to this Institution. These 
instruments, tor greater certainty, have been compared with the stand- 
ard of the Cambridge Obsejrvator}^, and of Columbia College, both by 
Newman ; also with the standard of the Observatory of Toronto, Upper 
Canada. 

The results of these examinations prove the barometers made by Mr. 
Green, according to the plan adopted by the Smithsonian Institution, 
to be trustworthy instruments. 

The thermometers are by the same maker ; and those intended for 
the State of New York were compared with a standard by Bunten, ol" 
Paris, and with another by Troughton & Simms, of London. Those 
found to differ more than a given quantity from the standards were 
rejected. 

* A letter has since been received, and the system placed under the direction of this Insti- 
tution. 



198 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

The instruments for indicating the variation of the hygrometrical con- 
dition of the atmosphere, consist of two thermometers, of the same 
dimensions, accurately graduated. The bulb of one of these is envel- 
oped in a covering of muslin moistened with water, and that of the 
other is naked. 

The rain and snow guages, and also the whid vanes, are made under 
the direction of the Institution, by Messrs. Pike & Son, 166 Broadway, 
New York. The rain guage is an inverted cone of sheet zinc, of which 
the area of the base is exactly one hundred square inches. This cone 
or lunnel terminates in a tube which carries the water into a receiving 
vessel. The water which has fallen is measured b}^ pouring it from 
the guage into a cyhnder, so graduated as to indicate hundredths of 
inches. A smaller cylinder is also provided, which gives thousandths 
of inches, and may serve, in case of accident, as a substitute for the 
larger cylinder. The rain gauge is placed in a cask sunk in the earth, 
with its mouth near the level of the ground. 

The snow gauge is a cylinder of zinc of the same diameter as the 
mouth of the rain guage. The measurement is made by pressing its 
mouth downward to the bottom of the snow, where it has fallen on a 
level surface, then carefully inverting it, retaining the snow, b}'^ passing 
under it a thin plate of metal. The snow is afterwards mehed, and 
the water produced is measured in one of the graduated glass cylinders 
of the rain- guage. 

The wind vane is a thin sheet of metal, (it might be of wood,) about 
three feet long, carefully balanced by a ball ol' lead, and attached to 
the top of a long wooden rod, which descends along the wall of the 
building to the sill of the observer's window. It terminates in the 
centre of a fixed dial-plate, and its movements indicate the direction 
of the wind by a pointer attached to the rod. 

The observer is by this arrangement enabled to determine the course 
of the wind, b}^ looking down on the dial-plate, through the glass of the 
window, without exposing himself to the storm. 

Besides the full sets of instruments furnished by the State of New 
Yoik, from the appropriation of the regents of the University, the 
Smithsonian Institution has furnished a number of sets to important 
stations ; and, in order that they might be more widely disseminated, 
we have directed Mr. Green to disj)ose of sets, to individuals, at a re- 
duced price, on condition that they will give us copies of the results of 
their observations ; the remainder of the cost being paid by this Insti- 
tution. A number of persons have availed themselves of this privilege. 

To accompany the instruments, and for the use of those who take 
part in the Smithsonian system of meteorological observations, a series 
of minute directions, prepared by Professor Guyot, has been printed by 
the Institution. It occupies forty octavo pages, with wood-cut repre- 
sentations of the instruments, and is accompanied by two lithographic 
engravings, to illustrate the different forms of clouds, and to facilitate 
their notation in the journals, in accordance with the nomenclature 
adopted by meteorologists. A set of tables has also been furnished for 
correcting the barometrical observations, on account of variation of 
temperature. A set of hygrometrical tables, to be used with the wet 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 199 

and dry bulb thermometers, and a set for the calculation of heights by 
the barometer, will be prepared. 

We may also mention, in connexion with this subject, that a series 
of preliminary experiments have been made, in the laboratory of this 
Institution, for the purpose of constructing, from direct observation, a 
scale of boiling temperatures, corresponding to different degrees of 
rarefaction of the air. With a thermometer, each degree of which 
txjcupies one inch in length of the scale, the variations of the boiling 
]X)int corresponding to a slight change in altitude are found to be more 
perceptible than those in the length of the barometrical column. 

A series of experiments has also been made for testing the perform- 
ance of the aneroid barometer under extremes of atmospheric pres- 
sure. The instrument, as usually constructed, has not been found, from 
these experiments, very reliable though it may be improved, and thus 
serve as an indicator of minute atmospheric changes. I think, how- 
ever, it will not answer for the determination of changes of atmo- 
spheric pressure of considerable magnitude. 

For the better comprehending the relative position of the several 
places of observation, now embraced in our system of meteorology, an 
outline map of North America has been constructed, by Prof. Foreman. 
This map is intended also to be used for presenting the successive 
phases of the sky over the whole country, at different points of time, 
as far as reported ; and we have been waiting lor its completion, to 
commence a series of investigations, with the materials now on hand, 
relative to the progress of storms. 

A valuable collection of returns relative to the aurora, has been re- 
ceived in accordance with the special instructions which we have 
issued for the observation of this interesting phenomenon. These are 
to be placed in the hands of Captain Lefro}^ of the Toronto Observa- 
tory, and incorporated w^ith observations of a similar kind which he 
has collected in the British possessions of North America. An ac- 
count in full of the whole series will be presented by Captain Lefroy, 
to be published in the Smithsonian Contributions. 

The meteorological correspondence is under the charge of Professor 
Foreman. This is found not only to involve considerable labor in the 
way of arranging the regular returns and sending the required blanks 
and directions, but also in the discussion of questions on almost every 
branch of science propounded b}^ the meteorological observers, which 
we think it our duty in all cases to treat with respect, and to answer to 
the best of our knowledge. 

Researches, &fc. 

Explorations. — The programme of organization contemplates the insti- 
tution of researches in Natural History, Geology, &c. ; and, though the 
state of the funds would permit of little being done in this line, yet we 
have made a beginning. Besides the assistance rendered to the explora- 
tion of the botan}'- of New Mexico, bv the purchase of sets of plants 
from Mr. Wright and Mr. Fendler, as mentioned in my last Report, a 
small sum was appropriated, to defray the cost of transportation of the 
articles which might be collected by Mr. Thaddeus Culbertson, in the 



200 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

region of the Upper Missouri. This gentleman, a graduate of the insti- 
tutions at Princeton, had pu?'posed to visit the remote regions above 
mentioned for the benefit of his health, and was provided by Professor 
Baird with minute directions as to the preservation of specimens and 
the objects which should particularly engage his attention. His jour- 
ney was undertaken, and executed, under particularly favorable cir- 
cumstances for exploration. He was accompanied by his brother, Mr. 
Alexander Culbertson, ibr many years connected with the American 
Fur Company, who was familiar with the whole country, and had him- 
self sent valuable specimens of fossil mammalians to the Piiiladelphia 
Academy of Natural Sciences. 

Mr. Culbertson first visited an interesting locality called the Mau- 
vaises Terres, or Bad Lands, where his brother had previously found the 
remains of the fossils sent to the Academy. He afterwards ascended 
the Missouri, to a point several hundred miles above Fort Union. He 
returned in August last in renewed health to gladden the hearts of his 
parents and friends, with the prospect of long life and usefulness ; but 
though he had withstood the privations and exposures of the wilder- 
ness, he sank under an attack of a prevalent disease and died after a 
lew weeks' illness. 

He left a journal of all the important events of his tour, which is 
thought of sufficient importance to be appended to this Report. 

For a particular account of the interesting specimens which he pro- 
cured, many of which are new and undescribcd, I must refer to the 
appended report of Professor Baird. A part of the specimens, those 
of the fossil remains, have been referred to Dr. Leidy, of Philadelphia, 
who will present the result of his investigations lelative to them, for 
publication in one ot"the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions. 

A small appropriation has also been made to defray in part the expense 
of exploration, relative to the erosions of the surface of the earth, espe- 
cially by rivers, and for investigations relative to terraces and ancient 
sea-beaches, under the direction of President Hitchcock. An abstract 
of these investigations, as far as they have been made, has been 
received by the Institution ; and a full account of the whole, it is 
expected, will soon be ready for publication. 

An exploration lor the increase of the Smithsonian collection, 
particularly in fishes and reptiles, of which our knowledge is most im- 
perfect, was undertaken by Prot(?ssor Baird, accompanied by a number 
ot" young gentlemen, his former pupils. The result of this expedition, 
which cost the Institution little more than the price of materials and 
transportation, was a large number of specimens, including numerous 
species before unknown to science. 

Experiments. — A series of experiments has been made, during tlie 
past year, under the direction of Professor Jewett, to test the value of 
a new plan of stereotyping. If the result of these experiments be 
liivorable, it is proposed to purchase the right to use the invention, for 
the purposes of the Institution. Should the invention be found to pos- 
sess the character to which it appears entitled, it will not only be of 
much importance to the Institution, but to the world ; and we shall 
have done good service to the cause of knowledge, by giving it our 
countenance and assistance. Professor Jewett has found it especially 



i 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 201 

applicable to his system of stereotyping catalogues of libraries, by 
separate titles ; and in this way it will certainly be of great value, even 
shonld it fail in other respects to reahze the sanguine expectations of 
its inventor. 

Tlie result of the experiments will be submitted to a commission of 
persons properly qualilied to judge of ils merits; and if their report be 
favorable, a small sum will be allowed for the use of it. 

Besides the experiments mentioned under the head of meteorology, 
made by Mr. Espy, on the cold produced by the rarefaction of air, Dr. 
Hare, of Philadelphia, is employing articles of apparatus belonging 
to the Institution, in a series of researches on the phenomena exhibited 
in the air and in a vacuum by rubbing silicious minerals against each 
other. The results of these experiments, with the drawings of the 
apparatus employed, he intends to present to the Institution in the 
form of a memoir for the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

Comjmtatiojis. 

Occultations for 1851. — For the purpose of facilitating the accurate 
determination of geographical points in the United States, a list of oc- 
cultations and the co-ordinates of reductions for the 3'ears 1848, 1849, 
and 1850, was prepared and pubhshed at the expense of the Smithso- 
nian Institution. Congress has since ordered the publication of an 
American Nautical Almanac ; and as lists of occulations will form a 
part of this ephemeris, Mr. Preston, late Secretary of the Navy, directed 
that the expense of computing these tables for 1850 should be defrayed 
from the appropriation for the Almanac, provided the printing and 
distribution were at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution. The 
same course has been authorized by Mr. Graham, the present Secre- 
tary of the Navy. 

Copies of these tables, computed by John Downes, of Philadelphia, 
have been sent to all persons known to the Institution, who would pro- 
bably make use of them in the way of improving our knowledge of the 
geography of this country. They have been furnished particularly to 
officers of the United States army, and other persons engaged in 
exploring our new possessions and determining their boundaries. All 
persons, to whom these tables were presented, have been requested to 
send the result of their observations, made in connexion with the use 
of them, to this Institution, or to publish them in some accessible 
journal. 

Ephemeris of Neptune. — It was stated, in the last Report, that the orbit 
of the planet Neptune, established by the researches of Mr. Walker, 
and comprised in his memoir published by the Institution, gives the 
data for calculating an ephemeris or tables of the daily position of this 
planet, rivalling in precision the tables for any of the older planets. 
Sets of these tables were computed and published for 1848 and 1849, 
at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution ; but those tor 1850 and 
1851 have been computed under the direction of Lieutenant Davis, 
superiutendent of the Nautical Almanac, and at the expense of the ap- 
propriation under his charge, while the expense of printing the tables 
has been borne by this Institution. 



202 



EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



These tables are corrected for the perturbing influence of the planets 
Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus, by deductions ti-om matliematical investi- 
gations of Professor Peirce, of Harvard University. They have been 
used in following the motion of Neptune, by all tlie principal astrono- 
mers of the world, and have everyv^here received the highest commen- 
dation, reflecting honor on the Institution, and on the science of the 
country. 

Museum. 

The act of Congress authorizino- the establishment of the Smithsonian 
Institution contemplates the formation of a Museum of Natural Histor}'. 
It would not, however, be in accordance with the spirit of the organi- 
zation, to expend the income in the reproduction of collections ol" ob- 
jects which are to be found in every museum of the country. Natu^^al 
history can be much more effectually promoted by special collections 
of new objects; by appropriations for original explorations and re- 
searches; and above all, by assistance in the preparation of the neces- 
sary drawings, and b}^ presenting to the world, in a proper fbi'm, the 
labors of naturalists. In conformity with these views, it has been re- 
solved to confine the collections, principally, to objects of a special 
character, or to such as may lead to the discovery .of new truths, or 
which may serve to verify or disprove existing or proposed scientific 
generalizations. A number of special collections, important in this 
point of view, are mentioned b}^ Professor Agassiz, in the Appendix to 
my last Report ; and, for a more enlarged statement relating to the same 
subject, I would refer naturahsts to the accompanying report b}^ Profes- 
sor Baird, to whom the charge of the collections of natural histoiy has 
been confided. 

A considerable number of specimens in mineralogy, geology, and 
botany, had been received previous to Professor Baird's connexion j 
with the Institution ; and since he has entered upon his duties, a large; 
addition has been made to the stock, by the deposit of his own cabinet, 
and by donations from various sources. 

The collection is principally rich in undescribed species of fishes and 
reptiles; and especial care will be taken, by Professor Baird, to enhance 
its value, by procuring, in all cases, as far as practicable, such speci- 
mens as may help to solve questions of scientific interest. The collec- 
tion has been arranged in one of the rooms of the basement storv, so as 
to be available to the student in this branch of science, and has already 
done service in this w^ay, b}^ furnishing the facts given in one of the] 
memoirs of the Smithsonian Contributions. Though letters are con- 
stantly received requesting the Institution to purchase collections ofl 
plants, minerals, and other objects of natural history, yet we have! 
declined, in all cases, to avail ourselves of opportunities of this kind to 
increase the cabinet. Experience has, thus far, shown that specimens 
of all kinds will accumulate, from donations and exchange, as rapidly 
as they can be accommodated with room, and properh^ arranged. 

I have given, in my last report, the reasons why'^it is not thought 
advisable, on the part of the Institution, to accept the gift, proffered by 
Congress, of the great museum of the Exploring Expedition, and I have 
no reason to change my opinion on that point. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 203 

For a detailed account of the specimens forming the Smithsonian 
collection, I refer to Professor Baird's report, herewith submitted. 

American Antiquities. 

During the j^ast year, we have received information of the locahty 
of a number of mounds, and other remains of ancient art, in different 
parts of the United States. A gentleman is now engaged in the exam- 
ination of the mounds of Western Virginia, with the intention of pre- 
senting the results of his labors ibr publication in the Smithsonian Con- 
tributions. 

The survey of the mineral land in the vicinity of Lake Superior has 
disclosed the site of an ancient copper mine, whence, in all proba- 
bility, the copper of the ornaments, instruments, &c., found in the 
mounds, was derived. The remains of the implements, and of the ore, 
as left by the ancient miners, are exhibited in place, and afford an in- 
teresting illustration of the state of arts among the mound-builders. 
The geological surveyors have promised to make accurate measure- 
ments and drawings of everything of interest connected with these 
works, and to present them, with suitable descriptions, to the Institu- 
tion, lor publication. 

Mr. E. G. Squier, during his sojourn in Central America, as Charge 
d'affaires of the United States, made some interesting explorations re- 
lative to the antiquities of that country, and has sent to this Institution 
five large stone idols and several smaller objects, as the beginning of 
an ethnological museum. For the cost of shipment and transportation 
of the three larger idols by w^ay of Cape Horn, the Institution is indebted 
to the liberality of B. Blanco, esq., of New York. 

For some remarks relative to the importance of forming an ethnolo- 
gical museum, I beg to refer to a paper by Mr. Squier, given in the 
Appendix to this Report. 

Apjiaratics and instruments of research. 

It is a part of the plan of the Institution to appropriate a small portion 
of the funds to the purchase of sets of instruments for physical 
research, to be used by the officers of the Institution, and, under certain 
restrictions, by other persons. In accordance with this purpose, I was 
requested, by the Board of Regents, to procure an astronomical clock, 
with the electro-magnetic registering apparatus, to be lent to Lieutenant 
Gillis during the continuance of his astronomical labors in Chili. The 
clock has been imported from Germany, and is now in the hands of the 
instrument maker, to receive the registering attachments. The whole 
will be sent to Chili, as soon as the apparatus is completed. I regret 
that the difficulty of procuring the services of suitable workmen has 
delayed so long the completion of these instruments. 

A communication from Lieutenant GilKs, informs us that the Chilian 
government has resolved to establish a permanent national observatory 
at Santiago, and that it will purchase the instruments above mentioned. 
The Institution will therefore again, as in the case, mentioned in a former 
Report, of the purchase of a telescope for the same expedition, be the 
means of promoting science without an expenditure of its income. 



204 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

The apparatus for determining tlie elements of terrestrial magnetism, 
mentioned in my last Report, as having been lent to Colonel Emory, has 
been delivered to Colonel Graham, to be used on the Mexican Boundary 
Survey. To replace these, the Institution has received permission to 
order another set, from London, at the expense of the government; and 
thus, by an addition to the number of instruments of this kind, the means 
of promoting the science of terrestrial magnetism, in this country, will 
be increased. 

The purchase of standard meteorological apparatus, and also the in- 
struments which have been distributed to diff<?rent important stations, 
throughout the country, is a part of the same plan. 

During the past year a considerable portion ot" the apparatus consti- 
tuting the liberal donation of Dr. Hare, of Philadelphia, has been repaired 
and fitted up ; and we hope, during the present season, to complete 
the repairs of the remainder, and to place the wliole in a proper posi- 
tion for exhibition and use. 

Library. 

It has been stated, that the programme of organization is intended to 
harmonize the several requisitions of Congress, and the resolutions of 
the Board of Regents, with a system of active operations, the influence 
of which shall be as widely extended as practicable. Though almost 
every one will admit the value of libraries, and the importance of col- 
lecting in this country as great a variety of books as possible, yet it 
may well be doubted whether the accumulation of a large number of 
books wliich are to be found in almost ever}^ library of the country, is, 
in the present state of the funds, to be expected or aimed at. It is be- 
lieved that a portion of the income devoted tO-the library, may be more 
efficiently expended in the promotion of the desired ends by other means, 
and hence, it was resolved to make special collections of books ; par- 
ticularly to procure such as are not in the country, and also, in order 
to render more available those which are now in our libraries, to pre- 
pare, as far as practicable, a general catalogue of all the books theyj 
contain. 

In accordance with these views. Professor Jewett has devised a plan] 
of facilitating the publication of catalogues of libraries, which bids fair 
to be of much importance to the literature of the country. This plan j 
has been submitted tor examination to a commission of gentlemen wellj 
acquainted with the subject, and we have receivetl tt'om them a very! 
favorable report recommen(hng its adoption. 

The propositions submitted to the commission for examination, were] 
as follows : 

1. A plan for stereotyping catalogues of libraries by separate mova- 
ble titles ; and 

2. A set of general rules, to be recommended for adoption, by the 
different libraries of the United States, in the preparation of their cata- 
logues. 

For a full account of Professor Jewett's plan, and of the advantages 
anticipated from it, I must refer to his report herewith submitted. I 
may, however, briefly allude to the leading principle of the plan, which 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 205 

is to Stereotype the titles of books on separate movable blocks. These 
blocks once prepared, and kept in a central depository, may be used 
for the printing of new editions of the catalogues for which they were 
originally m^ade, allowing the interposition of additional titles in their 
proper order ; as well as for the printing of all other catalogues con- 
taining the same titles. The collection of the stereotype blocks of the 
titles of the several libraries will thus form the stereot^^pcd titles of a 
general catalogue of all the libraries. They will lend themselves to 
the construction of bibliographies of particular branches of knowledge, 
and will admit of being arranged alphabetically, chronologicall}^, or in 
classes, in accordance with any required system. 

These blocks are not to be made in advance of a demand lor their 
use. They are to be gradually accumulated, by an arrangement, 
which, imposing only a temporar}^ and light burden upon the fiinds of 
this Institution, will effect the great public object desired, at the same 
time that it diminishes to but a fraction of the present cost the expenses 
of publishing catalogues, and secures the construction of them upon a 
uniform and approved system. 

The details of a plan so comprehensive may well be supposed to be 
difficult of adjustment, and not capable of being clearly described within 
the limits of a few paragraphs. These, however, have been fully con- 
sidered by a competent tribunal ; and the plan has received commenda- 
tion and promises of co-operation, from someof the principal institutions 
of the country. 

During the last year, the hbi'ary has continued to increase by dona- 
tion, by receipts under the copyright law, b}^ exchanges for the 
publications of the Institution, and by purchase. It now numbers, in 
all, nearly ten thousand separate articles, and bids fair, from the same 
sources, to become a very valuable collection. 

Though one half of the annual interest is to be expended on the 
library and the museum, the portion of the income which can be 
devoted to the former will, in my opinion, never be sufficient, without 
extraneous aid, to collect and support a miscellaneous library of the 
first class. Indeed, all the income would scarcely suffice for this pur- 
pose. Still, by means of exchanges, donations, and purchases, a 
library of great value may be collected and sustained ; and this, with 
the constantly increasing hbrary of Congress, the hbraries of the De- 
partments, and that of Georgetown College, will furnish a collection of 
books not unworthy of the capital of this nation. 

From the report of Professor Jcwett, it will be seen that a Gallery 
of Art has been commenced, and that it is already in possession of a 
valuable collection of enffravin^s. 

In this connexion, I may mention that at the last annual meeting of 
the Board a letter was presented li-om the Hon. Abbott Lawrence, 
informing the Regents that a portrait of Smithson had been offered 
through him for sale to the Institution. This portrait, which was in 
the possession of the widow of John Fitall, a servant of Smithson, men- 
tioned in his will, was purchased for thirty guineas, and is now in the 
Gallery of Art. It represents the founder of this Institution, in the 
costume of a student of Oxford, and was probably painted when he 
was not more than twenty years of age. There is, also, in the pos- 



206 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

session of the Institution a medallion of Smitlison, in copper, taken in 
after life. It is from this that the head on the title-page of the Smith- 
sonian publications has been copied. 

Lectures. 

During the past session of Congress a series of popular lectures has 
been given to the citizens of this place and strangers, in the lecture 
room of the Smithsonian building. These lectures, were deliv^ered by 
gentlemen distinguished for their standing, and for their attainments in 
literature and science, who were invited for this purpose. The interest 
in these lectures has been sustained to a wonderful degree. They have 
been attended from the first by large audiences ; and the results thus 
far indicate that considerable good may be derived from the diffusion 
of knowledge in this way, in a central position like Washington, where 
persons from every part of the Union are found. Although the lectures 
appear to the public one of the most prominent objects of the Institu- 
tion, and although they are attended w^ith much trouble and consider- 
able expense, they really form the least important feature of the plan 
adopted. So long, however, as there is a prospect of doing good by 
means of them, it is due to the city in which the Institution is located 
that they should be continued. 

Much complaint has been made on account of the size of the lecture 
room. It is certainly too small to accommodate all who have wished 
to attend. We have, however, endeavored, in several instances, to 
obviate this difficulty, by procuring a repetition of the lectures ; but this 
plan is attended with additional expense, and cannot, in all cases, be 
adopted. Should large audiences continue, it may be well to provide 
a larger lecture room in the main building, and, by removing" the seats 
from the present lecture room, convert it into a museum of apparatus. 
This change, if thought advisable, can be made at very little, if any, 
additional expense ; since the present wood- work of the interior of the 
main building is to give place to a fire-proof structure, which will ad- 
mit of being arranged as a lecture room. Indeed, the original plan 
contemplated a room of this kind in the main building; but the arrange- 
ment of it was such as to seat scarcely more than the room at present 
used. 

Many enquiries are made as to the publication of these lectures. In 
some cases, reports of them have been given in the newspapers, and it 
will be advisable to extend this practice to all ; but the publication, in 
a separate form, of lectures, which in many cases are not written out, 
and not intended by their authors as additions to knowledge, would be 
attended with much expense and httle useful effect. The Institution, 
in several instances, is doing better service, by publishing in lull the 
original researches on which the lectures are based. Tlie papers of 
Professor Agassiz, of Professor Harvey, and of Lieutenant Davis, are 
of this character, and will be given to the world through the Smith- 
sonian Contributions. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 207 

The following is a list of the Titles of Lectures given hefore the Institvlion 
during the last session of Congress, with the names of the distinguished 
gentlemen by whom they were delivered: 

A single lecture on Holland, by the Rev. Dr. George W, Belhune 
erf' Brooklyn, New York. 

A course of lectures on the Relations of Time and Space, the Vast- 
ness of the Visible Creation, and the Primordial Arrangement of Ex- 
isting Systems ; by Professor Stephen Alexander, of Princeton, New 
Jersey. 

A course of lectures on Science applied to Agriculture; by Professor* 
J. F. W. Johnston, of the University of Durham, England. 

Two lectures, one on the Tendencies of Modern Science, and the 
other on the Spirit of the Age ; by the' Rt. Rev. Bishop Alonzo Potter, 
of Pennsylvania. 

One lecture on the Ability of the Individual to Promote Knowledge; 
by the Rev. John Hall, of Trenton, New Jersey. 

A course of lectures on the Unity of the plan of the Animal Creation ; 
by Professor Louis Agassiz, of Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

A course of lectures on the Tides of the Ocean and their Geological 
Relations; by Lieutenant Charles Henry Davis, of the United States 
navy. 

A course of lectures on Marine Algae or Sea Weeds, and also on the 
Morphology of the Vegetable Kingdom; by Professor William H. 
Harvey, of the University of Dublin, Ireland. 

Two lectures, one on the Origin and Growth of the Union during the 
Colonial Period, and the other on some points of the History and Pecu- 
liarities of the English Language; by Professor Henry Reed, of the 
University of Pennsylvania. 

A course of lectures on the Chemical Operations of Nature ; by Pro- 
fessor Lewis C. Beck, of Rutgers College, New Jersey. 

The first part of a general course, giving an exposition of the Dy- 
namical Phenomena of Geology ; by Professor Henry D. Rogers, of 
Boston. 

Whatever may have been the effect of these lectures in the way of 
diffusing knowledge, it is evident, from the character of the men by 
whom they were delivered, that they presented truths intended to elevate 
and improve the moral and intellectual condition of the hearers. 
All of which is respectfully submitted : 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary of the Smithsoniaii Institution. 



208 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT 

Of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for the year 1851. 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Gentlemen : Besides the care of all the property of the Institution, 
and the responsibility of the direction of its operations, under the con- 
trol of the Regents, the Secretary is recjuired to give an account, at their 
annual session, of the condition of the Institution, and of its transac- 
tions during the preceding year. 

In the discharge of this duty on the present occasion, I am happy to 
inform the Regents, that the Institution under their care is still in a pros- 
perous condition, and that since their last meeting it has continued 
silently, but cfiectually, to enlarge the sphere of its influence and useful- 
ness, and to elicit from every part ot" the civilized world commendations, 
not only of the plan of" organization it has adopted, but also of the 
results it has produced. 

In my last Report I gave a brief account of the means employed to 
increase the income, so that in addition to the requirements oi' Congress 
in regard to the formation of a library and a museum, and the erection 
of a building on a liberal scale, operations of a more active character 
could be incorporated into the plan of organization. 

During the past year the same policy has been observed ; and though 
the officers of the Institution have been subjected to the inconvenience 
of transacting business in an unfinished building, and in rooms not in- 
tended fbr the purpose, yet this has been considered of minor impor- 
tance in comparison with the saving of the funds. Every dollar now 
expended on the building lessens the amount of accruing interest, andJ 
diminishes the means of producing results which are to affect the world! 
at large; hence the importance of an adherence to the plan of finishing! 
it by degrees. Since the last session of the Board, it has, therefore, not 
been thought advisable to urge the contractor to a rapid completion of 
his work, and all the expenditures on account of the building have been| 
made from the accrued interest of the current year, and from a portior 
of that of the 3^ear preceding. There is, consequently, still on handl 
the two hundred thousand dollars of accumulated interest mentioned in] 
the last and preceding reports. Of this, it will be recollected, $50,0001 
are to be applied towards finishing the building, and the remainder to! 
be invested as part of the principal. 

The importance of increasing the funds and of gradually developing 
the operations embraced in the programme, was set forth in the last 
report. The Institution, it is to be hoped, is not one of a day, but is' 
to endure as long as our government shall last; it is therefore necessary, 
in the beginning, that we should constantly look to the future, and guard 
against the temptation, to which we arc continually exposed, of ex- 
panding too rapidly. 

By a resolution of the board, at their session in 1849, the Secretary 
was directed to petition Congress to take from the Institution ^150,000, 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 209 

and such other sums, not exceeding in all ^200,000, as may have been 
or shall be received in accruing interest or otherwise, upon the same 
terms as those on which the original bequest had been accepted. This 
petition was referred to a committee and favorably reported upon ; but 
unfortunately the press of business prevented Congress from acting upon 
it at their last session. The petition will agani be renewed ; and 
it is believed that so reasonable a request will meet with a favorable 
reception. It is, however, thought important that the amount should 
be increased, and that the sum of $250,000 be inserted in the petition, 
instead of that named in the resolution. 

In addition to the $150,000 which the Regents thus seek to invest, 
there is still a portion of the original legacy remaining in England, as 
the principal of an annuity settled upon Madam^e De la Batut, the 
mother of the nephew of Smithson, to whom the property was originally 
bequeathed. Besides this, I am informed, upon good authority, that the 
Institution is the contingent legatee of an estate of considerable magni- 
tude, depending on the demise without issue of a single individual. 
We may also reasonably expect that if the affairs of the Institution are 
properly conducted, and its funds judiciously husbanded or properly 
expended on the legitimate objects of the bequest, other trusts will be 
committed to its care. It therefore becomes important that the limit 
should be at least $250,000, so that the whole sum, including the ori- 
ginal bequest, shall amount to a little more than $750,000. There can 
surely be no just grounds of fear that the income of this sum will be 
devoted to improper uses, so long as it is an essential part of the plan 
to produce fruits, the value of which can be judged by all who are 
capable of appreciating the advance of knowledge. This request i? 
also in accordance with the policy adopted by the Institution of asking 
nothing from Congress but the safe keeping of its funds, and the ap- 
pointment to its Board of Regents of gentlemen of intelligence and high 
moral principles. 

The government has thus far liberally fulfilled the obhgations whicli 
it imposed upon itself in accepting the trust. Not only has the original 
sum been permanently invested in the treasury of the United States, 
but interest has been allowed from the time of receiving the funds. 
Congress has also made several donations to the Institution, which, 
though they will not prove as valuable to us as could be wished, indi- 
cate a liberal intention. The first gift was the great museum of the 
Exploring Expedition, for the accommodation of which the larger por- 
tion of the present building was originally intended ; the second was a 
grant of nineteen acres of land surrounding the building of the Institu- 
tion; the third, a copy of every book published in the United States 
for which a copyright might be granted; the fourth and Inst gift was 
that of all the plates, manuscripts, &c., of the Exploring Expedition, 
for the purpose of pubhshing a new edition for distribution. 

These donations, though made with kindly feelings and in a spirit ot 
liberality, have proved singularly unprofitable. The maintenance oi 
the museum of the Exploring Expedition wotdd subject the Institu- 
tion to an annual expense which would materially interfere with more 
important • operations. After expending several thousand dollars on 
the improvement of the grounds, it has been deemed best to return 
14 



210 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

them to the charge of the general government. Were the copyright 
act fully complied with, perhaps some benefit might accrue from it 
to the Institution ; but in the manner in which it is at present observed, 
the expense of postage and of clerk hire in recording the titles and 
furnishing the certificates of deposit, has more than equalled the value 
to us of all the books received. Lastly, it has been estimated that the 
publication of a new edition of the expensive volumes of the results of 
the Exploring Expedition would cost at least fifty thousand dollars. 
Fortunately, it has not been considered obligatory on the Institution, 
except in the case ol" the cop^aight law, to accept these gifts. 

Publication of Memoirs. 

Since the adoption of the plan of organization, nearly fifty original 
memoirs, purporting to be additions to the sum of human knowledge, 
have been presented to the Institution for publication. Though a num- 
ber of these have been returned to their authors, principally on account 
of not falling within the restricted class of communications accepted for 
pubhcation, yet they have generally been productions of much merit, 
and have evinced a surprising activity of mind, and manifest a growing] 
attention in this country to oidginal research. The probable success 
i)f this part of the plan of organization was not overrated; for, were the 
whole income of the Institution devoted alone to publishing the results 
of the labors of men of literature and of science, which otherwise would : 
never see the light, it could be profitably expended. In this respect, 
the Smithsonian bequest supplies the wants which in Europe are metj 
by richly endowed academies and national societies. 

It will l3e recollected that each memoir is printed separately, and 
with a separate title and paging, so that it can be distributed to persons 
most interested in its perusal as soon as it comes from the press, with- 
out waiting for the completion of the volume to which it belongs. In 
this way, the author is enabled to present a full account of his dis- 
coveries to the world with the least possible delay; while, by the rules 
of the Institution, he is allowed to publish an abstract of his paper in 
the proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of 
Science, or in those of an}'" other properly organized society. 

The number of copies of the Smithsonian Contributions distributed is 
greater than that of the transactions of any scientific or literary society ; 
and therefore the Institution offers the best medium to be found for 
difflising a knowledge of scientific discoveries. 

Every memoir published by the Institution is issued with the stamp 
of approval of a commission of competent judges : and in order to secure 
a cautious and candid opinion, the name of the author, and those of the 
examiners, are not made known to each other unless a favorable report 
is given; and, in this case, the names of the commission are printed, as 
vouchers for the character of the memoir, on the reverse of the title- 
page. 

This plan secures an untrammelled expression of opinion, while it 
induces caution on account of the responsibihty which it involves. 

Besides deciding on the fitness of original memoirs for publication, 
the Institution is continually applied to for information relative to ahnost 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 211 

every department of literature and science. Respectful attention is 
always given to these applications ; and when the desired answer does 
not fall within the line of study of any officer of the Institution, it is 
sought for from those in whose knowledge and judgment we have full 
confidence. No inconsiderable portion of time is occupied in giving 
the information involved in the answers to these inquiries; but I am 
happy to inform the Board that in this service, as well as in that of 
examining memoirs, we have received the co-operation of a considera- 
ble number of the most distinguished individuals in our country, and in 
.scarcely a single case has application for assistance in this way been 
refused. By the operation of the plan adopted, the Institution can 
command the talents and the learning of the world, and with a small 
corps of permanent officers, or a sufficient clerical force, can discharge 
the duty of an association to which subjects relative to all branches 
of knowledge can be referred. 

There is one class of requests which, by a resolution of the Board of 
Regents, we are directed to refuse, viz : those for the examination and 
approval of the innumerable inventions by which the ingenious and 
enterprising seek to better their own condition and that of the public. 
Were it not for this resolution, originally proposed by General Cass, 
we would be overwhelmed with applications of this kind, and have 
forced upon us the business of the Patent Office. Besides this, the 
principal object of the organization is the discovery of new truths. 
rather than the application of known principles to useful purposes. 
Not that we would undervalue the labors of the inventor ; but because 
practical knowledge has a marketable value which alwa3^s insures its 
cultivation, provided the higher philosophical truths on which it is 
founded are sufficiently developed and made known. 

.The idea is still very generally entertained that Smilhson bequeathed 
his property to this country for the diffusion of useful knowledge 'among 
the people, and that his intention would be best consulted by the 
expenditure of all the income in the publication and general distribu- 
tion of tracts on practical subjects. The adoption of this plan would 
be to dissipate the funds without beneficial effect. A single report of 
the Patent Office costs, in some instances, more than three times the 
income of the Smithsonian fund, which itself would be insufficient for 
{he general diffusion of a single octavo page of printed matter. The 
property, however, was not left to the inhabitants of the United States, 
but to the government, in trust for the good of man ; and not merely 
for the dissemination or diffusion of knowledge, but, first of all, for 
creating, originating, increasing it. Furthermore, Smithson does not 
confine his bequest to the promotion of useful knowledge alone, in the 
lower sense of the term, but includes all knowledge in his liberal and 
philosophical design. The true, the beautiful, as well as the imme- 
diately practical, are all entitled to a share of attention. All knowledge 
is profitable ; profitable in its ennobhng effect on the character, in the 
pleasure it imparts in its acquisition, as well as in the power it gives 
over the operations of mind and of matter. All knowledge is usefid; 
every part of this complex system of nature is connected with every 
other. Nothing is isolated. The discovery of to-day, which appears 



212 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

unconnected with any useful process, may, in the course of a few 
years, become the fruitful source of a thousand inventions. 

That the encouragement of the discovery of new truths, the publica- 
tion of original memoirs, and the establishment of new researches, are 
in conformity with the design of Smithson, is not only manifest from 
the terms of his will, but also from the fact, which has lately come to 
our knowledge, that he at first left his property to the Royal Society 
of London, for the very object embraced in this part of the plan. And 
what prouder monument could any man desire than the perpetual asso- 
ciation of his name with a series of new truths? This building and all 
its contents may be destroyed ; but the volumes of the Smithsonian 
Contributions, distributed as they are among a thousand libraries, are 
as wide-spread and lasting as civilization itself. 

During the past year a number of memoirs have been accepted for pub- 
lication, and are either in the press or are waiting the drawings to illus- 
trate them, now in the hands of the engraver. It is the duty of the Sec- 
retary, in accordance with the original plan of the Institution, to give a 
popular account of these memoirs in his annual Report. 

1. The first is a memoir by Dr. Asa Gray, professor of botany in Har- 
vaid University, consisting of an account of a collection of plants made 
by Mr. Charles Wright, in an expedition from Texas to El Paso, in the 
summer and autumn of 1849. 

It was stated in my Report for that year that one hundred and fifty 
dollars had been subscribed on the part of the Institution towaid the 
outfit of Mr. Wright, and that the plants collected by him would be sub- 
mitted to Dr. Gray for examination and description. The memoir now 
mentioned is the result of this arrangement, though it also contains notices 
of plants gathered by other collectors in adjacent regions, especially by 
Dr. Wislizenus in the valley of tlie Rio Grande and Chihuahua, and by 
the lamented Dr. Gregg in the same district, and in the northern part of 
Mexico. This memoir is a good exposition of the character of the vege- 
tation, and consequently of the climate, of the regions traversed. 

Specimens of all the plants obtained by Mr. Wright belong to this In- 
stitution ; and these, with sets collected by Fendler and Lindheimer, 
form the nucleus of an important and authentic North American her- 
barium. 

2. Another paper on botany is by Dr. John Torrey, of the college of New 
Jersey, Princeton. It gives illustrations of the botany of California, and 
describes a number of new and interesting plants discovered by Colonel 
Fremont in his different explorations in that country. 

Some of the plants collected by this intrepid traveller have been de- 
scribed in the appendix to his first and second report, but many are still 
unpublished. Of the collections made during his third expedition no 
descriptions have been given, except that two or three of the new plants 
were briefly characterized by Dr. Gray, in order to secure priority of 
discovery. 

In the memoir presented to the Institution, Dr. Torrey has given de- 
scriptions of a number of genera of new and remarkable plants, all col- 
lected by Colonel Fremont in the passes and on the sides of the Sierra 
Nevada. With regard to this publication Dr. Torrey remarks, tliat he 
had hoped that arrangements would have been made by the govern- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 213 

merit of the United States for the publication of a general account of 
the botany of California; but as there is no immediate prospect of such 
a work being undertaken, this memoir, on some of the more interesting 
genera discovered by Colonel Fremont, has been prepared for the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

The drawings to illustrate this paper have been made, at the expense 
of the Institution, by Mr. Isaac Sprague, of Cambridge, who, in the 
opinion of Dr. Torrey, ranks among the best botanical draughtsmen of 
our da3^ 

3. The next paper presents the results of a series of observations made 
in the years 1845-6-7, to determine the dip, inclination, and intensity 
of the magnetic force in several parts of the United States, by John 
Locke, M. D., professor of chem.istry in the Medical College of Ohio. 
The results presented in this paper are a continuation of a series de- 
rived from observations begun in 1837, and prosecuted annually for ten 
years. The first parts of the series have been published in the Trans- 
actions of the American Philosophical Society, and have been incor- 
porated by Colonel Sabine in his contributions to Terrestrial Magnet- 
ism. A part of the observations given in this memoir were made at 
the expense and under the direction of the United States Coast Survey. 
Another portion was made in accordance with the direction of the Hon. 
Robert J. Walker, late Secretary of the Treasury, as a part of the in- 
vestigations instituted for the exploration of the mineral lands belonging 
to the general government. This paper has been examined by compe- 
tent judges, and recommended for publication in the Smithsonian Con- 
tributions, as an important addition to knowledge. 

4. A paper has also been presented for publication by tlie executors of 
the late Dr. Troost, of Nashville. It consists of descriptions and draw- 
ings of a very numerous family of extinct zoophytes, to which the 
organic remains, called the stone lily, belongs. The vicinity of Nashville 
appears to be a remarkable locality for these remains ; and the paper of 
Professor Troost describes several hundred species, of which two only 
have living representatives. 

The memoir, however, is not in a condition to be published without 
revision, and additions to bring it up to the state of knowledge at the 
present time. This labor has been gratuitously undertaken by Profes- 
sor Agassiz, of Cambridge, and Professor James Hall, of Albany. The 
collection of specimens from which the drawings were made is now in 
the possession of these gentlemen, and the memoir will be published as 
soon as the corrections and additions are made. 

5. The next memoir is on the Winds of the Northern Hemisphere, Ijy 
Professor James Coffin. The design of this communication, in the 
words of the author, is "to answer the following questions, viz: 

"«. What is the average direction in which the lower strata of the 
air moves over different regions of the northern hemisphere? 

" b. What is the rate of progress in the mean direction as compared 
with the total distance travelled by the wind ? 

"c. What modifications do the mean direction and rate of progress 
undergo in the different months of the year? 

"<-/. What is the direction of the deflecting forces that cause these 
modifications ? 



214 EIGH-FH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

"e. What is the average relative force and velocity of winds from 
several points of the compass? 

"/. How will the introduction or omission of the latter element affect 
the answer of the preceding questions?" 

The data used in answering these questions have been collected 
with great labor, and consist of observations made at no less than five 
hundred and seventy-six different stations on land, and a large number 
taken during numerous voyages at sea. The field of observation in- 
cludes a zone which extends i'rom the ecjuator to near the parallel of 
85° oi" north latitude, and occupies a period, taken in the aggregate, of 
2,800 years. 

Several of the Ibregoiug questions have been answered approximately 
by other writers, but never, it is believed, from as extensive an induc- 
tion as is presented in this memoir. 

This paper is illustrated by a number of mops and diagrams, which 
render its publication very expensive. It was presented to the Insti- 
tution more than a year ago, but the appropriation for printing w'as not 
sufficient to allow f)f its publication at that time. 

6. The Institution has also commenced the publication of an extended 
memoir, consisting of a grammar and lexicon of the Dakota language, 
the results of the joint labors during eighteen years of the Dakota mis- 
sion, assisted by the most intelligent natives of this tribe of Indians. 
The whole has been arranged and placed in its pi'esent ti)rm by the 
Rev. S. R. Riggs, of the American Board of Missions. 

This work was prepared under the auspices of the Historical Society 
of Minnesota, and recommended by this association to the fiivorable 
attention of the Smithsonian Institution. It is designed to meet the 
requirements of the missionar}' in his labor of diffiising the light of 
religion and civilization among one of the most numerous and important 
tribes of Indians in the country. It also forms an interesting additiorA 
to ethnology, which w-ill be highly prized by all devoted to this branch 
of knowledge. 

A language is not originally a thing of man's device, or the result of 
conventional art, but the spontaneous production of human instinct, 
modified by the mental character, the physical conditions, and other 
])eculiarities of the people or tribe among w4iich it had its origin, or by 
whom it is used. . It is subject to definite laws of formation and devel- 
opment, and is intimately connected with the history of the migrations 
and aliihations of the people by whom it is spoken, and hence becomes 
an object of interest to the student of the natural history of man. 

In accordance with the policy of not expending the Smithsonian fund 
in doing with it w^hat could be equally well done by other means, this 
memoir was first referred to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, with the 
hope that it might be adopted as a part of the materials of the volumes 
I)ublished under the direction of that bureau ; but this was not found 
practicable, and the task was therefore undertaken by the Institution. 

The memoir will occupy an entire volume, and would have been too 
much for our present income, h;td not about one third of the whole cost 
of j)ublication been promised by subscrijjtion fi'om the members of the 
Historical Society of Minnesota and the American Board of Missions. 
The latter institution defrays the expenses of Mr. Riggs wdiile he is en- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 215 

gaged in superintending tlie passage of the work through the press. It 
is a pleasant circumstance that in this instance, as well as in many 
others, the organization of the Institution enables it to co-operate with 
other institutions, and to assist them in their labors of promoting 
knowledge. 

This memoir, which is now in the press, was referred for critical 
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and t<> 
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a 
report on the importance of collecting information relative to the differ- 
ent dialects now in use among the Indians. 

7. Dr. Joseph Leidy, of Philadelphia, has prepared a memoir for the 
Institution, accompanied by numerous illustrations, entitled " A Flora 
and Fauna within living Animals." It is an elaborate history of a most 
remarkable series of plants, in many cases accompanied by parasitic 
animals, found growing, as an ordinary or natural condition, within the 
interior of the bodies of living animals. In some of the latter, it is stated, 
growing plants are never absent; and in a species of insects, viz : Pajm- 
lus Cornutus, a forest of vegetation is always tbund covering the inner 
surface of the veniriculus or second stomach. 

The plants of course are Cryptogamic, and are algoid in their char- 
acter. fSome are as long as half an inch, but usually they are very 
much smaller. They grow attaclied to the mucous membrane of the 
cavities in which they are fuund, and occasionally from the exterior 
covering of worms infesting the same cavities. Several genera and 
species of these plants are characterized under the names of Eutero- 
bryus elcgam, E, ottennatus, Arthromihts cristatus, Clado^jhyfian comatum. 
and Corynoclodus radio t us. 

The mode of growth and reproduction ot" several of the species has 
been carefully traced and fully illustrated by iigure-s. 

The researches are prefaced by some observations on the laws ot 
parasitic life in general, wliich are presented in a highly philosophical 
manner, and entirely free from hypothesis — the whole forming one of 
the most remarkable papers on physiofog}" which has ever been pro- 
duced by our countrymen. 

8. Lieatenant Charles Henry Davis, United States navy, Superinten- 
dent of the American Nautical Almanac, has presented a memoir on 
the dynamic effects of the tides. 

This memoir is a continuation of one presented by the author to the 
American Academy a few years ago, and is of much interest, not only 
in a scientitic point of view, as connected with important geological 
changes, but also on account of its practical bearings upon the trans- 
formations which are constantly going on at the entrance of rivers, 
channels, and in the formation of headlands and promontories. Were 
our globe a perfect spheroid of revolution, surrounded by water of uni- 
form depth, the tides of the ocean would consist of nearly perpendicu- 
lar undulations of the particles of the liquid, and a mere translation ot 
form, without a transference of matter. But, in the case of a globe ot 
irregular surface, covered with water of varying depth, the oscillations 
of the ocean must constantly produce currents in definite directions, 
which tend continually to change the position of the moveable materials 
which are found at the bottom of the sea, particularly as we approach 



216 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

land. A part of the force of the particles of water forming the sinking 
swell of the wave, in the case of an obstruction to their free descent 
by a diminished depth, is expended in producing a cun-ent along the 
inclined plane of the surfiice leading to the shore. 

Lieutenant Davis has entered with much ardor upon this new field 
of research, and after an examination of various parts of the shore of 
the United States, through a series of years, in which he was engaged 
on the Coast Survey, has succeeded in developing the laws of action 
which give rise to the changes before mentioned. 

He finds that the tendency of the flood-tide is to transport the matter 
from the bottom of the ocean and deposit it on land. He is enabled to 
explain the character of the alluvial fijrmations, to account for their 
peculiar shape, their comparative sizes, their accumulation, and to pre- 
dict the results of certain combinations of circumstances on their future 
changes. The particular object of this memoir is to inquire into the 
mechanical operations of the tides, and the uses they may have served 
in the general economy of the globe in arranging the loose materials of 
the earth's crust. 

Smithsonian Reports and other jnihlicutions. 

Since the last meeting of the Board of Regents, the report of Profes- 
sor Jewett on the Public Libraries of the United Slates has been pub- 
lished and widely distributed. It is impossible to collect at once full 
and reliable accounts of all the libraries of the country, and this report 
is intended merely as a beginning, to be followed by others on the same 
subject. It has been sent to all the libraries of the United States, with 
the request that its deficiencies may be pointed out and additional ma- 
terials famished to render it more perfect. The great interest which is] 
felt in this work is manifested by the amount of statistical information | 
which has already been received in return for this volume. 

A report has also been published on the Recent Improvements in the 
Chemical Arts. It is compiled from articles which have appeared dur- 
ing the last ten years in the various journals of science and the arts in 
the Enghsh, French, and German languages. Though this report is 
chiefly intended to benefit the practical man, yet it will be found inter- 
esting to the general reader, as exhibiting the contemporaneous advance 
of science and art, and the dependence of the latter on the former for 
the improvement of its most important processes. 

The accounts given in the report alluded to do not consist of des- 
criptions of methods which have been merely proposed and published 
without practical verification. On the contrary, care has been taken 
to select such as have been actually tried, or such as offer great proba- 
bility of success from the well established principles on which they 
are based. 

The preparation of this report was entrusted to Professor James C. 
Booth, assayer of the United States INIint at Philadelphia, who asso- 
ciated with himself Mr. Campbell Morfit, of Baltimore. The work 
iias been executed in a manner highty creditable to the authors, and 
will, I doubt not, prove very acceptable to the public. Notes will be 
aiade of the new inventions of the same class, as they appear in the 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 217 

journals, so that in the course of a few years another report of a simi- 
lar kind, or one which ma}^ be considered a continuation of this, can 
be published. 

Copies, at the mere cost of printing, paper, and commission, are 
offered for sale. The matter has been stereotyped, in order to supply 
all the demand, and to reproduce this member of the series, should the 
subject be continued. 

The progress of the elaborate report on the Forest-trees of North Ameri- 
ca, mentioned in the last two Reports, was for some time arrested by 
the absence of the author, Dr. Gray, in Europe. He has now, how- 
ever, returned, and will resume the preparation of the drawings, as 
soon as the funds of the Institution will admit of the expenditure. This 
work has proved a more expensive undertaking than was at first anti- 
cipated, and can only be finished on the original plan, by extending the 
time of its publication over several years. It will form a valuable 
contribution to the botany and economical and ornamental arts of our 
country. 

Dr. F. G. Melsheimer, of Dover, Pennsylvania, has presented to the 
Institution a catalogue of the coleopterous insects of North America, 
with references to the principal places of description. This has been 
put to press, but progresses slowly on account of the great care 
necessary in correcting the proofs. When prmted, it will be of great 
service to the cause of American entomology. 

Besides the reports, other works are in progress, among which may 
be mentioned a small volume by Professor Baird, consisting of practi- 
cal directions for the collection and preservation of specimens of natural 
history. This will be illustrated with numerous figures, and issued as 
soon as the engravings can be procured. A part of the letter-press has 
been finished. It is especially designed for the use of travellers and 
officers of the arm}^ and navy who may be inclined to make collections 
for the Smithsonian Institution, but will be of general interest to the 
cultivators of natural history. 

A volume of tables of use in meteorology and other branches of 
scientific observations, has been prepared, under the direction and at 
the expense of the Institution, by Professor Arnold Guyot. The follow- 
ing are the contents of this volume, viz : 

1. Thermometrical tables for the conversion of the scales of different 
thermometers into each other. 

2. Hygrometrical tables giving the elastic force of vapor, the relative 
humidit}", &c. 

3. Barometrical tables for the comparisons of different scales, reduc- 
tion of observations to the freezing-point, and correction for capillary 
action. 

4. Hypsometrical tables for calculating altitudes by the barometer, 
and by the difference of the boiling-point. 

5. Tables of the corrections to be applied to the monthly means to 
obtain the true mean. 

' 6. A set of miscellaneous tables frequently required in physical inves- 
tigations. 

These tables supply a desideratum in the English language, and will 
doubtless be highly prized by all engaged in physical research. It is 



218 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

proposed to extend their number so as to include a wider range of 
objects, and to publish them in parts to suit different purposes. Copies 
will be distributed with the quarto volumes of our publications, and 
sent to meteorological observers. The tables have been stereotyped, 
and may therefore be offered for sale at a low rate. 

Since the date of the last Report, a number of separate memoirs 
have been bound together so as to form the second volume of the series 
of Smithsonian Contributions. The memoirs, an account of which has 
just been given, will be ready for distribution during 1852. 

The second volume has been forwarded to all the colleges and other 
institutions specified in the rules adopted for the distribution of the 
Smithsonian publications in this country, and to all the first class libra- 
ries and principal literary and scientific societies abroad. Through the 
liberality of the members of the Senate of the United States and its 
officers, we have been enabled to send to our foreign correspondents, 
in adcHtion to our own publications, copies of reports to Congress, and 
other works published at the expense of government. In return, the 
Institution has received a series of flattering acknowledgments and 
valuable presents, not only of the current numbers of transactions, but 
in several instances of entire sets of all the volumes. 

The promotion of knowledge is much retarded by the difficulties 
experienced in the way of a free intercourse between scientific and 
literary societies in different parts of the world. In carrying on the 
exchange of the Smithsonian volumes, it was necessary to appoint a 
number of agents. Some of these are American consuls, and other 
respectable individuals, who have undertaken in most cases to transact 
the business free of all charge, and in others for but little more than the 
actual expense incurred. These agencies being established, other 
exchanges could be carried on through them and our means of convey- 
ance, at the slight additional expense owing to the small increase of 
weight ; and we have accordingly offered the privilege of sending and 
receiving small packages through our agency to institutions of learning, 
and in some cases to individuals, wlio choose to avail themselves of it. 
The offer has been accepted by a number of institutions; and the result 
cannot fail to prove highly beneficial, by promoting a more ready com- 
munion between the literature and science of this country and the 
world abroad. 

As a part of the same system, application was made through Sir 
Henry Bulwer, the British minister at Washington, for a remission of 
duties on packages intended for Great Britain ; and we are informed 
that a permanent arrangement will probably be made, through the 
agency of the Royal Society, for the free passage through the English 
custom-house of all packages from this Institution. 

The Smithsonian exchanges are under the special charge of Profes- 
sor Baird, who has been unwearied in his exertions to collect proper 
materials, and to reduce tlie whole to such order as \vill combine secu- 
rity with rapidity of transmission. 

The system of exchange here described has no connexion with that 
established between national governments by Mr. Vattemare. It is 
merely an extension of one which has been in operation on a small scale 
for nearly lialf a century between the American Philosophical Society 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 219 

and the American Academy on this side of the Atlantic, and the several 
scientific societies on the other. 

Ancient Momiments. 

The success of the first memoir published by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution has awakened much attention to American antiquities, and a 
number of communications have been submitted on this subject. Among 
these is one by Mr. William Pidgeon, of Virginia, who has spent a 
number of years in the explojation of mounds, and other ancient re- 
mains, on the upper branches of the Mississippi. 

The results of his labors are of a very interesting character, though 
the facts contained in his memoir are too much mingled with the tradi- 
tions received by him from the Indians, and with his own hypotheses, 
to be accepted as a part of the Smithsonian Contributions. After re- 
peated conversations with Mr. Pidgeon, I was clearly of the opinion 
that his researches ought to be given to the public in some way, in 
order that his statements might receive due attention, and be corrobo- 
rated or disproved by other explorers ; and I am pleased to be able to 
state that a gentleman of Washington has undertaken to arrange and 
edit these researches, and that they will be published in a separate 
volume for the benefit of thg authors. 

We have also received communications relative to mounds from Mr. 
Charles Wliittlesey, of Ohio, from Mr. Titian R. Peale, of Washington, 
and Mr. William E. Guest, of Ogdensburg, New York. The first of 
these may be considered as supplementary to the memoir of Messrs. 
Squier and Davis, describing works omitted in their survey. The 
second gives a plan and description of the mounds which formerly ex- 
isted on the present site of St. Louis, Missouri, made during the visit 
of Major Long's party in 1849 to that country, on their way to the 
Rocky mountains. This sketch is now interesting on account of the 
fact that, in the rapid progress of improvement, these mounds have 
been nearly obliterated, and that they can only be preserved to science, 
as they existed more than thirty years ago, by this publication. 

The third is an account, with drawings, of ancient works at Prescot, 
in Canada West. The great size of the remains of trees which oc- 
cupy the ground, evince the long time which must have elapsed since 
these works were constructed, and the entire absence of stone pipes 
and arrow heads has induced the belief that they are of a higher an- 
tiquity than those in the Ohio valley. 

The last two contributions will form a single memoir, the plates for 
which are partially completed. 

But the most interesting circumstance connectecf with the study of 
the ancient remains of this country is a recent action of the American 
Antiquarian Society of Worcester, Massachusetts. This institution was 
founded in 1812 by the zeal and liberality of Isaiah Thomas, for the 
purpose of collecting and preserving such manuscripts, pamphlets, and 
other articles as relate to the history of this countr}^ and for the explo- 
ration and publication of its antiquities. It was at the expense ot this 
society that the original researches of Mr. Atwater, on the mounds of 
the Ohio valley, were first published ; and during the last two years 



220 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

the condition of its funds has again enabled it to take the field, and 
to direct its attention to the remarkable antiquities in the State of Wis- 
consin. 

These anticjuities, it is well known, consist of representations, on a 
gigantic scale, of birds, beasts, and fishes ; and though many ot" them 
have been surveyed, and accounts of them given in the memoir of 
Messrs. Squier and Davis, comparatively few of those which are said 
to exist have been explored or delineated. For this reason, the coun- 
cil of the society have engaged Mr. I. A. Lapham, an experienced 
engineer, to make the explorations and surveys and drawings of these 
mounds. He has been engaged in these operations for two seasons, 
and is now employed in making up an account of his labors. 

To insure harmony of action in the cultivation of the wide field of 
research offered in the investigations of the ancient monuments of this 
country, the Antiquarian Society has agreed to present to the Smith- 
sonian Institution the results of the explorations of Mr. Lapham for 
publication, and to reserve its limited funds for further explorations. 
The memoirs will be examined and revised by the society, and will be 
published under its auspices in the Smithsonian Contributions. 

This arrangement is another pleasing evidence of the feeling with 
which the efforts of this Institution are regarded, and the willingness 
with which other institutions co-operate with it in the important work 
of promoting original knowledge. 

Explorations, Researches, c^r. 

During the last 5^ear several mnior explorations have been made in 
the line of natural history, partly at the expense of the Institution. The 
sum of fifty dollars was appropriated to Professor C. B. Adams, of 
Amherst College, to pay in part his expenses while making collections 
in the West Indies and Panama. For the sum advanced, an ample 
return has been made in new and rare specimens. Professor Baird 
and Mr. Charles Girard have also made explorations which have added 
to the collections of the Institution at a cost little beyond that of the 
expense of transportation. 

In this connexion I may mention that Professor Baird has contri- 
buted the report on the vertebrate animals collected by Captain Stans- 
bury in his expedition to the Salt Lake region, and facilities have been 
given at the Institution to a number of persons making scientific reports 
to Congress. 

A series of experiments also have been made in our laboratory by a 
commission appointed by government to examine the stone proposed for 
the extension of th(5 Capitol. It is believed that the Institution may, 
in the aid it aflE(:>rds the government in scientific operations, more than 
repay all the obligation imposed by the acceptance of the Smithsonian 
trust. 

It was mentioned in the last report that the specimens which were 
procured by Mr. Culbertson from, the Upper Missouri, had been re- 
ferred to Dr. Joseph Leidy, of Philadelphia, for examination. He 
has since made a report giving a brief statement of the results 
Df his investigation. From this report it appears that the speci- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 221 

mens are of much scientific interest, showing, as they do, for the first 
time, the existence in this country of an eocene deposite, rivaUng in 
the number of its species of extinct animals the celebrated basin of 
Paris. 

Occuhalwm. 

It has been mentioned in the preceding reports, that lists of occula- 
tions, and tables of reductions, have been published, from 1848 to 1851, 
inclusive. The cost of the computation of these tables, as well as that 
of their publication for the past two years, was borne by the Institution, 
but since then Congress has ordered the establishment of an American 
Nautical Almanac ; and as these tables will form a part of this epheme- 
ris, Mr. Preston, the late Secretary of the Navy, directed that the ex- 
pense of the computation should be defrayed from the appiopriation 
lor the Almanac, the printing and distribution to be at the charge of the 
Institution. A similar order has been given by the Hon. Wm. A. 
Graham, the present Secretary of the Nav}^, relative to the tables for 
1851 and 1852. 

The tables for 1852 are much extended by the introduction of occul- 
tations visible in ever}^ part of the earth. The form is also somewhat 
altered, in order better to adapt it to the arrangement to be adopted by 
the Nautical Almanac. 

The primary object of these tables is to facilitate the accurate deter- 
mination of the longitude of places within the territory of the United 
States ; and in this respect they Imvc done good service, especially in 
the hands of the officers of the Coast Survey, and the explorers and sur- 
veyors of our new possessions on the coast of the Pacific. Their exten- 
sion will render them useful to geographers in every part of the world. 
They have been computed, for the present and the last two years, under 
the direction of Lieut. Davis, the accomplished superintendent of the 
American Nautical Almanac. As soon as this work, which will be an 
honor to the country, is ready to be issued, the publication will be re- 
linquished by the Smithsonian Institution. 

We observe again, in this case, the policy of not expending the funds 
of the Institution in doing what other means can accomplish. 

It will be recollected that Mr. Sears C Walker, astronomical assistant 
of the United States Coast Survey, prepared for the Smithsonian Trans- 
actions a memoir containing a determination of the true orbit of the 
planet Neptune, and that from this orbit, and the mathematical investiga- 
tions of Professor Peirce, an ephemeris of Neptune was compiled. The 
ephemeris was prepared for the years 1848 and 1849, under the direc- 
tion and at the expense of this Institution ; but for the years 1850, '51, 
'52, it was computed under the superintendence of Lieutennat Davis, 
and at the expense of the appropriation for the Nautical Almanac, 
while the cost of printing and of the distribution has been defra3^ed by 
the Institution. 

The ephemeris has been generally adopted by the principal astrono- 
mers of the world ; and Professor Airy, the astronomer royal of Great 
Britain, has undertaken the labor, in his last volume of Greenwich 
Observations, of critically comparing his observations on the planet in 



222 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

the heavens with the predictions of the Smithsonian ephemeris. From 
these comparisons it is found that the ephemeris gives the position of the 
planet with a degree of precision not inferior to that w4th which the 
places of the planets longest known are calculated. The labors, there- 
tore, of Mr. Walker on the elements, and Professor Peirce on the 
theory of the planet Neptune, have been crowned with complete suc- 
cess. It is proposed hereafter to collect all the observations which 
may have been made on the planet, and compare them v/ith the ephem- 
eris, in order, if necessary, still further to correct the orbit 

Mcteoiology. 

The general system of meteorology now in operation in this country, 
and described in the last Report, has during the past 3''ear been con- 
tinued and gradually extended. The instruments constructed under 
the direction of the Institution, wdth the aid of Professor Guvot, have 
been further improved, and some slight changes, indicated by experi- 
ence, have been made to render them more convenient to the practical 
observer; and ihey may now be considered not only equal in accuracy 
to the instruments of the best construction from abroad, but in some 
respects superior. They are furnished with the means of rcad\^ adjust- 
ment to the standard instruments; and beingin every instance accurately 
compared before they are used, and the error corrected, the labor of 
inserting a correction in the journal is avoided. New efforts have also 
Ijeen made to obtain a still more accurate comparison between the 
standard barometer of this countr\' and those of the more important 
European observatories. For this purpose a second standard barometer 
by Newman, compared with the standard of the Royal Society, and a 
barometer by Ernst, compared with the standard of the Paris Observa- 
tor}'', were ordered at the expense of the Institution. By a long series 
of comparisons between these two instruments and others at Cambridge, 
(Massachusetts,) Toronto, (Canada West,) atid Washington city, the 
object sought has, it is believed, been obtained. The thermometers 
also, constructed by Mr. Green, of New York, for the Institution, have 
been compared with European standards ; and an important step has 
thus been made towards obtaining reliable results as to the absolute 
meteorological elements of the different parts of this continent. 

It was stated in the last Report that the regents of the University ot 
New York had made an appropriation tor supplying thirty-three acade- 
mies in that State wdth instruments, and had given the establishment 
of the whole system in charge to this Institution. The State of Massa- 
chusetts has also made a similar appropriation and arrangement. 
During the past year the instruments for this State have been con- 
structed, and a part of the stations established under the care oi 
Professor Guyoi. 

At the last meeting of the American Association, a report was 
made, and a series of resolutions adopted, for extending the system 
of observations with the same instruments to other parts of this 
continent. These resolutions directed the committee to memorialize 
Congress for aid in extending the system under the direction of this 
Institution ; to request the Secretary of the Treasury to provide for 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 223 

making observations at the several light- houses to be established on 
the coast of California ; to ask the surgeon-general to establish new 
stations at important points ; to memorialize the other States of the 
Union to follow the example of New York and Massachusetts, and also 
the Canadian government to co-operate in the same entei-prize. 

What may be the result of the labors ot" the members -of the com- 
mittee to which this duty is entrusted, it is impossible to say. They 
can scarcely fail, however, to awaken a more general interest in the 
enterprise, and to receive a fivorable response to some of the requests. 

Since the date of the last Report, the system particularly intended to in- 
vestigate the nature of American storms, immediately under the care of 
this Institution, has been continued and improved, botli. in the number of 
the stations, and, in some degree, in the character of the instruments. An 
appropriation was made to furnish a larger number of stations than 
previously with barometers and thermometers, by distributing these 
instruments, in some cases entirely at the expense of the Institution, and 
in others by selling them to the observers at half their original cost; 
but the demand was so great, and the loss by breakage in transmitting 
the instruments so frequent, that the appropriations were soon exhausted, 
and until we can afford to devote a large sum to the object, and employ 
a special agent to transport the articles to their destination, it will be 
inadvisable to attempt anything more in this way. 

Though the instrutnents employed by these observers in some cases 
cannot be relied on lor giving absolute results, yet they serve a good 
purpose in determining changes of pressure and temperature ; and the 
returns give all the varying phases of the sky. 

Thus far, the returns which have been received from this's^^stem have 
been arranged in folio volumes ; and a l^eginning has been made in the 
way of deducing general conclusions from them, which may test the 
value of the observations and lead to their improvement, by suggesting 
other objects of inquiry. The results already obtained give promise of 
interesting and valuable additions to our knowledge of the nature of 
the storms which traverse this continent duiing the winter seasons, and 
will probably serve to settle definitely several theoretical questions of 
much interest to the meteorologist. 

The meteorological correspondence of the Institution is principally 
attended to by Professor Foreman, and the labor which this involves is 
sufficient to occupy the greater portion of his time. The letters re- 
ceived from this class of cooperators are not confined to the subject of 
meteorology, but include the whole domain of physical science. We 
consider it, as before observed, a duty in all such cases to give any 
information required ; and if this is not in the possession of the officers 
connected with the Institution, it is procured from other sources. 

For the details as to the management of the meteorological affairs of 
the Institution, see Professor Foreman's report on this subject. 

Library mid Collections. 

It will be recollected that the income of the Institution was, by a 
compromise alluded to in a former Report, to be divided into two equal 
parts, one part to be devoted to the formation of a museum, a library, 



224 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

and a gallery of ait, and the other to publications, researches, and other 
active operations. The terms of this compromise have been rigidly 
adhered to, as will be seen by a reference to the general statement of 
accounts given in the last Report. Up to the date of the appointment 
of Professor Baird, in July, 1850, the part of the income devoted to 
the collections was expended on the library, or on objects pertaining to 
it. Since that time, a portion has been devoted to the museum. 

It is proper to remark that this compromise was founded upon another, 
namely, that the cosi of the building and furniture should be limited to 
two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. But in order to the better 
security of the collections, the Regents have since found it necessary to 
add, in round numbers, fill}' thousand dollars to this sum, which must 
of course diminish the income which would otherwise have been de- 
voted to the active operations. 

It is evident that one spirit, if possible, should pervade the whole 
organization, and that the same polic}^ should be adopted with reference 
to all parts of the plan. Among the maxims which have been acted 
upon, that of occupying ground untenanted by other institutions, and 
of doing nothing with the funds which can be equally well accom- 
plished by other means, has commended itself to the intelligent and 
reflecting portion of the public ; and it has always appeared to me that 
this is as applicable to the formation of collections of books and speci- 
mens, as to the publications and other operations of the Institution. 

With reference to the Irbrar}^ the idea ought never to be entertained 
that the portion of the limited income of the Smithsonian fund which 
can be devoted to the purchase of books will ever be sufficient to meet 
the wants of the American scholar. On the contrary, it is the duty of 
this Institution to increase those wants by pointing out new fields for 
exploration, and by stimulating other researches than those which are 
now cultivated. It is a part of that duty to make the value of libraries 
more generally known, and their want in this country more generally 
felt; to show in what branches of knowledge our libraries are most 
deficient ; to point out the means by which those deficiencies can be 
supplied ; to instruct the public in the best methods of procuring, ar- 
ranging, cataloguing, and preserving books ; to give information as to 
the best form and construction of library buildings ; in short, to do all 
which was originally intended in the plan, of rendering the Institution 
a centre of bibliographical knowledge, to which the American scholar 
can refer for all information relative to books in general, and particu- 
larly to those in our own country. The libraries of the country must 
be supplied b}' the country itself: by the general government; by the 
State governments; by cities, towns, and villages; and by wealthy and 
liberal individuals. It is to be hoped that in the restoration of the 
Library of Congress, a foundation will be laid for a collection of books 
worthy of a government whose perpetuity principally depends on the 
intelligence of the people. 

The proper management of books, and general instruction as to their 
use, are matters perhaps of more importance than their accumulation 
in any one place. It is estimated that about twenty thousand volumes, 
including pamphlets, purporting to be additions to the sum of human 
knowledge, arc published annually; and unless this mass be properly 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 225 

arranged, and the means furnished by which its contents may be ascer- 
tained, hterature and science will be overwhelmed by their own un- 
wieldy bulk. The pile will begin to totter under its own weight, and 
all the additions we may heap upon it will tend to add to the ex- 
tension of the base, without increasing the elevation and dignity of the 
edifice. 

One of the most important means of facilitating the use of libraries, 
particularly with reference to science, is well digested indexes of sub- 
jects, not merely referring to volumes or books, but to memoirs, papers, 
and parts of scientific transactions and systematic works. As an exam- 
ple of this, I would refer to the admirably arranged and valuable cata- 
logue of books relating to Natural Philosophy and the Mechanical Arts, by 
Dr. Young. " If my library were on fire," said a celebrated author, " antl 
I could save but one scientific book, it would be Dr. Young's catalogue." 
This work comes down to 1807 ; and I know of no richer gilt which could 
be bestowed upon the science of our own day than tht; continuation of 
this catalogue to the present time. E very one who is desirous of enlarging 
the bounds of human knowledge should, in justice to himself, as well 
as to the public, be acquainted with what has previous^ been done in 
the same line, and this he will only be enabled to accomplish by the 
use of indexes of the kind above-mentioned. 

The most important operation during the past year relative to the 
hbrary, is the progress made by Professor Jewett in compk-ting his 
plan of stereotyping catalogues with separate titles, described in the 
last Report. 

To reduce this plan to practice, a series of original experimc^nts were 
required, involving the expenditure of much time and labor. For this 
purpose, in preference to the usual method of stereotyping, a new one, 
invented by Mr. Josiah Warren, of Indiana, has been adopted on the 
recommendation of a committee to whom it was referred for examina- 
tion. It is a fact well known to inventors, that however snnple the 
theoretical plan of effecting a desired object may appear, a series of 
unforeseen difficulties must often be encountered in the details, before 
the idea can be realized in actual results. These difficulties, in the present 
case, it is believed, have been overcome ; and the plan is now ready to 
be applied to the formation of a general and uniform catalogue ot" the 
libraries of the country. The course proposed is first to proceed with 
the catalogue of the library of the Institution, in accordance with the 
rules recommended by the commission appointed to report on this sub- 
ject. This, stereotyped by the new process, may be distributed as a 
model for the other libraries M'hich may adopt the plan. After all parts 
of the plan have thus been thoroughly tried, it will be desirable to 
commence on some large collection. The late accident which has 
happened to the Library of Congress will induce the necessity of a new 
catalogue, and it is hoped that a liberal and enlightened policy will lead 
to the adoption of the Smithsonian plan. This will not only enable 
the government to issue, at a trifling expense, a new catalogue every 
3^ear, with all the additions in their proper place, but also to assist in 
giving to the country an improved system of cataloguing, and facilitate 
the production of a general catalogue of all the libraries of the country. 

Since the publication of the account of Mr. Jewett's plan of forming 
15 



226 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

general catalogues, the invention has been claimed separately by two 
individuals in Europe. It is true, the want of such a plan has long 
been felt, and a general idea may have been conceived as to how it 
might be accomplished ; but no attempts have been made to reduce it 
to practice, and indeed had they been made, they could not have suc- 
ceeded, and would have done injury to the cause. The conditions 
necessary to success never before existed, and a premature attempt 
always tends to lessen public confidence in an enterprise, when the 
proper time tor its actual accomplishment arrives. Besides this, there 
is a wide difference between the mere suggesting the possibihty of a 
plan, and actually overcoming the difficulties which arise at every step 
in reducing it to practice. 

With reterence to the copyright law, something ought to be done to 
put the whole matter on a better footing. I repeat the assertion before 
made, that this law, as it now exists, imposes a tax on the Institution, 
without an adequate return. The great majority of the books received 
are such as are found in almost every public and private librar}^; with 
very few exceptions they would never be purchased by the Institution, 
and are consequently dear at any price, even that of shelt-room and 
attendance, not to mention cost of transportation and of lurnishing the 
certificates. 

Granting the proposition that it is important that a copy of every book 
originally published in this country should be somewhere, preserved, it 
does not follow that the Smithsonian fund ou2;ht to be burdened with 
the expense of this charge. 

If they should be preserved, it becomes the duty of Congress to 
provide lor their care, as mucli as it does l()r that of the models of the 
Patent Office ; and no good reason can be assigned why the one should 
not be imposed upon the Institution as well as the other. Indeed, 
models are a species of books intended to convey ideas which printing 
cannot impart. 

The objection to the present arrangement may be obviated by adopt- 
ing the suggestion of Professor Jewett, that but one copy, instead of 
three, of each book, be sent to Washington for deposit, and that in 
place of the other two copies, a small lee be paid to the Institution, 
sufficient to defray all expenses; the maxim again being applied of not 
expending the funds in doing that which can and ought to be done bj- 
other means. 

By reference to the report of the Librarian, it will be seen that the 
collection of books has continued to be increased by purchase, by 
cop3aight, and by exchange. From the last-mentioned source the Insti- 
tution is obtaining a most valuable series of books of the highest inter- 
est to tlie scientific student, consisting principally of the transactions 
and proceedings of learned societies. In a few j^ears, it is believed, 
as complete a collection of these \yill be gathered as it is possible to 
obtain. 

The museum is to consist, according to the law of Congress, and the 
terms of the compromise, of "objects of art, of foreign and curious 
research, and of natural history, of plants and geological and mineral- 
ogical specimens." It would, however, be unwise in the Institution to 
attempt the formation of full collections of all these objects, or, in other 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 227 

words, to form an establishment similar to that of the British Museum. 
The whole income devoted to this object would be entirely inadequate. 
The portion of the main building appropriated to the museum consists 
of a single room, two hundred leet long by fifty feet wide. This space 
may be entirely filled in the course of three years, without the purchase 
of a single article, if the means be adopted which present themselves 
at the seat of government^br making collections. But when this space 
is filled, the accumulation of specimens must cease, or an addition be 
made to the building, which, to harmonize with the present edifice, 
would involve a large expenditure. The question then arises, from 
what source is this money to be obtained? It cannot be derived from 
the annual income of the capital, for this would cripple the more im- 
portant operations. It may be said that Congress will furnish the 
means ; but this is relying on a very micertain source, and the pohcy 
of applying to Congress for any aid is doubtful. 

Furthermore, a promiscuous collection, embracing full sets of the 
objects above specified, is unnecessary in carrying out the plan of or- 
ganization of the Institution. 

For example, the organic remains brought fi-om the upper Missouri 
by Culbertson, have been examined and reported on b\^ Dr. Leidy, of 
Philadelphia, in that city; and the plants from California and Mexico 
have been referred to Dr. Torrey" at Princeton, and to Dr. Gray at 
Cambridge. In this way, not only has the learning of ihese gentlemen 
been brought into requisition, but also their special cabinets rendered 
subservient to our use. The co-operation of the learning and talent, as 
well as the use of the libraries and collections of the whole country, is 
an essential feature of the plan, and ought not to be .lost sight of. 

I would, however, distinctly disavow the intention of underrating the 
importance of collections in themselves. On the contrary, it ought to be 
the duty of the Smithsonian Institution to point out the means by which 
they may be made, and to aid in tlie work, to the extent of its ability, 
by embracing all opportunities which may offer for procuring speci- 
mens for distribution, and by facilitating exchange and assisting ex- 
plorations. 

Though the formation of a eeneral collection is neither within the 
means nor the province of the Institution, it is an object which ought 
to engage the attention of Congress. A general museum appears to 
be a necessary establishment at the seat of government of every civil- 
ized nation. The nav}^, the army, and the whole corps of commercial 
and diplomatic agents in foreign countries, all consider it their duty to 
send to the seat of government of their own nation every object which 
may serve to improve or to interest the people. Indeed the govern- 
ment of the United States has already formed the nucleus of such a 
museum in the collections now in the Patent Office. An establishment 
of this kind can only be supported by government ; and the proposition 
ought never to be encouraged of putting this duty on the limited, though 
liberal bequest of a foreigner. The Smithsonian Institution will readily 
take the supervision of an establishment of this kind, and give plans 
for its organization and arrangement, provided it be requested to do so, 
and the means for effecting the object be liberally supplied. 

I make these remarks with reference to the collections, because I 



228 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

am fully impressed with the fact that the tendency of the Institution will 
be to a statical condition, in which the income will be absorbed in the 
support and accommodation of objects of a doubtful or contingent value. 
There is even danger in receiving donations from individuals. The 
articles may be valuable in part, but may consist also of much which 
the Institution cannot well afford to keep. Besides this, it is extremely 
difficult to discharge, acceptably, the duty of the curator of property 
thus acquired. Since the house-room and the income of the Institu- 
tion for the accommodation and support of collections are limited, great 
care must be exercised in the choice of the articles, and preference 
given to those which are of importance in determining problems of 
interest, and which give promise of the read}'^ productioy of new and 
interesting results. 

For a detailed account of the additions to the museum during the 
past year, and the present state of the collections, I must refer to Pro- 
fessor Baird's report herewith presented. 

In an appendix to this will be found a list of the doriations, with the 
names of the donors alphabetically arranged. These consist principally 
ot" specimens not generally found in other collections ; and though they 
may not be very attractive to ordinary visitors, the studerjt of natural 
history will find in them much of interest. 

The circular prepared by Professor Baird, describing the method of 
collecting and preparing specimens, and indicating objects especially 
desirable, has proved effective in procuring important contributions. 

Among the objects which should be collected and preserved with care, 
are the remains of the specimens of the arts of the aboriginal inhabit- 
ants of" this country, the contents of mounds, and the stone implements 
found on the surface of the earth. The implements and industrial pro- 
ducts of the present tribes of Indians should also be gathered as the 
materials for the advance of the new and interesting science of ethnol- 
ogy. Of the contents of mounds, but a limited amount of specimens 
exist; and as these are not, like the spontaneous productions of nature, 
constantly in the process of reproduction, every article should be dili- 
gently sought lor, and carefully preserved. Some additions have been 
made to the collections in this line. 

The museum of natural history, besides plants and minerals, numbers 
eig[iteen hundred and fifty jars, containing specimcRS in spirits of 
mannnalia, reptiles, fishes, articulata, mollusca, and radiata, amounting 
in ail to twenty-five hundred species. Besides these, there are 
about nine hundred specimens of skulls and skeletons, and three thous- 
and of" skins of European and American birds. 

Lectiires. 

In accordance with the suggestion contained in the act of incorpora- 
tion of the Institution, courses of lectures have been given during the 
past year in the lecture-room of the Smithsonian building, and the 
reports of these lectures ai"e generall}'^ copied in the pubUc papers 
throughout the Union. Though the plan of diffusing knowledge by 
njeans of lectures is too restricted in its influence to meet fully the libe- 
ral views of the Smithsonian bequest, yet there is no place in the 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 229 

United Stales where such means will have a tendency to affect more 
minds and do more good than in the city of Washington. Persons 
from all parts of the country assemble here during the sessions of Con- 
gress. It was supposed, at first, that the interest in these lectures 
would soon die away ; but the experience of three years has indicated 
no tendency of this kind. This is in part owing to the constant influx 
of strangers and change of inhabitants. Besides this, there is in this 
city, in proportion to the whole number of inhabitants, a large number 
of intelligent persons, with moderate salaries, who gladly avail them- 
selves of the means of improvement offered by the gratuitous lectures 
of the Institution. 

As an evidence of the high appreciation of the advantages which 
these lectures afford the citizens of Washington, I may mention that 
the corporation of the city has ordered, since the last meeting of the 
board, a bridge to be constructed over the canal at Tenth street, for 
the special accommodation of those who attend the evening instruction 
given at the Institution. This bridge, with a well-drained and well- 
lighted paih across the public grounds, will afford a direct and comfort- 
able approach to the building from a central point on Pennsylvania 
avenue. 

In my last Report I mentioned the fact that much complaint had been 
made through the public papers on account of the size of the lecture- 
room. It was the original intention of the Regents to construct a lec- 
ture-room in the main building, though, according to the plan proposed, 
the number of persons it would hold would scarcely have been greater 
than that now accommodated. This plan, however, was thought to 
be unsafe, because it was not proposed to make the interior fire-proof ; 
but since an opposite course has been resolved upon, a large lecture- 
room may with safety be constructed in the main building, and the 
present lecture-room, having temporarily served the purpose, may be 
applied to other uses. 

The proper construction of a lecture-room is, however, a problem of 
great difficulty, which in the present instance will be much enhanced 
by the form and pecuharities of the building. It must be well adapted 
to sight, to sound, to ventilation, and warming. A room might be con- 
structed which would seat five thousand persons ; but we know of none 
such, i-n every part of which an ordinary speaker can be distinctl}^ 
heard. Too much must, therefore, not be expected with reference to 
the nev/ lecture-room, though every endeavor will be made to render 
it as perfect as the conditions to which it is unavoidably subjected will 
allow. 

The selection of the lecturers, and the arrangement of the courses, 
have been found, in some cases, an unpleasant and perplexing dut3^ 
The gentlemen invited, as a general rule, have been men of high stand- 
ing, and have been chosen on account of their reputation and moral 
worth, rather than with reference to their proficiency in the art of rhe- 
toric. It is not the aim of the Institution in these lectures merely to 
please the ear, but to impart important truths which may be valued 
for their own sake. 

Many applications have been made for the use of the lecture-room 
of the Institution for pay lectures and exhibitions of a private character ; 



230 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

but these have in all cases been refused. The use of the room has, 
however, on several occasions been given to the faculty of Columbian 
College, and also for the meetings of the Teachers' Association of the 
District of Columbia. The organization of this association took place 
in the Smithsonian building in 1850, and its meetings have been regu- 
larly held in the lecture-room from that time to the present. It is 
believed that the spirit of the will of Smithson is properly consulted in 
giving encouragement and rendering facilities to these meetings. The 
association has been kept up with much spirit, and I am sure that much 
good has resulted from the organization. It has served to cherish a 
teeling of hai'mony among the teachers, and to awaken a spirit of im- 
provement relative to education and general krfowledge. 

The following is a list of the titles of lectures given before the Insti- 
tution during the last session of Congress, with the names of the gen- 
tlemen by whom they were delivered: 

A course of six lectures on History as a science, and a single one on 
Poetry, by Dr. Samuel H. Cox, of Brooklyn, New York. 

Two lectures on Induction and Association, by Dr. John Ludlow,, 
Provost of the University of Pennsylvania. 

A course of five lectures on Entomology, and one on the Alps, by 
Rev. Dr. John G. Morris, of Baltimore, Maryland. 

Two lectures on the History and the Forms of the English Language^ 
by Professor W. C. Fowler, of Amherst, Massachusetts. 

One lecture on the Architecture of the Middle Ages, by Dr. A. H. 
Vinton, of Boston. 

Two lectures by Professor S. S. Haldeman, of Columbia, Pennsyl- 
vania, on the Mechanism of Speech, and its bearing upon the natural 
history of the human race. 

Two lectures on Geology, by Dx. Benjamin Sillimaa, sr., of Yale 
College, New Haven. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretavy of the Smithsonian lustitulvm^ 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 231 

SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT 

Of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for the year 1852. 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : The object of the Annual Report of the Secretary is 
not only to present to the Regents an account of the transactions of the 
period which elapses between their successive sessions, but also to 
make such suggestions as may be important to the future management 
of the affairs of the Institution, and to state such facts in reference to 
it as may be interesting to the pubKc, or which may furnish a con- 
nected history of its transactions. 

Since the beginning of the Institution no change has taken place in 
the policy originally adopted with reference to the system of active 
operations. The details of this plan were well considered, and its im- 
portance as the only means of properly carrying out the intention of 
the donor were fully understood at the first. The theory of the plan w^as 
expressed in a few propositions, which have been constantly kept in 
view, and acted upon as far as the law of Congress and other restric- 
tions would permit. 

This plan, although prosecuted under very unfavorable circumstnnces, 
has produced results such as to render the name of the Institution 
favorably known wherever science and literature are cultivated, and 
to connect it indissolubly with the history of the progress of knowledge 
in our times. As a proof of this we need only state the following facts: 

The Institution has promoted astronom^s by the aid furnished the 
researches which led to the discovery of the true orbit of the new 
planet Neptune, and the determination of the perturbations of this 
planet and the other bodies of the solar system, on account of their 
mutual attraction. It has also aided the same branch of science by 
furnishing instruments and other facilities to the Chilian expedition, 
under Lieut. Gilliss ; and by preparing and pubhshing an epbemeris 
of Neptune, which has been adopted by all the astronomers of the 
world. 

It has advanced geography, by providing the scientific traveller with 
annual lists of the occultations of the principal stars; by the moon, for 
the determination of longitude ; by the preparation of tables for ascer- 
taining heights with the barometer ; and by the collection and publica- 
tion of important facts relative to the topography of different parts of 
the country, particularly of the valley of the Mississippi. 

It has estabhshed an extended system of meteorological investigation, 
consisting of several hundred intelligent observers, whoare daily noting 
the phases of the weather in every part of the continent of North 
America. It has imported standard instruments, constructed hundreds 
of compared thermometers, barometers, and psychrometers, and has 
furnished improved tables and rlirections for observing with these 
instruments the various changes m the atmosphere, as to temperature, 
pressure, moisture, &c. It has collected, and is collecting, from its 



232 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

observers, an extended series of facts, which are yielding deductions oi 
great inten^st in regard to the cHmate of this country and the meteo- 
rology of the globe. 

The Institution has advanced the science of geology, by its researches 
and original publications. It has made a preliminary exploration, oi 
the remarkable region on the upper Missouri river called the " Bad 
Lands," and is now printing a descriptive memoir on the extraordinary 
Ibssil remains which abound in that locahty. It has assisted in explo- 
rations relative to the distribution in this country of the remains of micro- 
scopic animals found in immense quantities in different parts t»f the 
United States. 

It has made important contributions to botany, by means of the 
])ublished results of explorations in Texas, New Mexico, and Califor- 
nia, and by the preparation and publication of an extended memoir, 
illustrated wdth colored engravings, on the sea-plants of the coast ot 
North America. 

It has published several important original papers on physiology, 
comparative anatomy, zoology, and different branches of descriptive 
natural history ; and has prepared and printed, for distribution to trav- 
ellers, a series of Directions tor collecting and preserving specimens. 

It has advanced the science of terrestrial magnetism, by furnishing 
instruments fi)r determining the elements of the magnetic force, to vari- 
ous exploring (^x])editions ; and by publishing the results of observations 
made under its direction, at the expense of the government. 

It has collected and pubhshed the statistics of the libraries of the 
United States, and perfected a plan of stereotyping catalogues, which 
will render effective, as a combined whole, all the scattered libraries 
of the country. 

The Institution has been instrumental in directing attention to 
American antiquities, and has awakened such an interest in the subject 
as will tend to the collection and study of all the facts which can be 
gathered relative to the ancient inhabitants of this continent. It has 
also rendered available for the purposes of the ethnologist and philan- 
thropist the labors of our missionaries among the Dakotas, by publish- 
ing a volume on the language of this tribe of Indians; and has done 
good service to comparative philology by tlie distribution of directions 
tor collecting Indian vocabularies. 

It has established an exteaded system of literary and scientific ex- 
changes, both tc)reign and domestic, and annually transmits betweeu the 
most distant societies and individuals, hundreds of packages of valu- 
able works. It has presented its own publications, free of expense, to 
all the first-class libraries of the world, and thus rendered them acces- 
sible, as far as possible, to all persons who are interested in their study. 
No restriction of copyright has been placed on their republication; 
and the truths which they contain are daily finding their way to the 
general public, through the labors of popular writers and teachers. 
The distribution of its pubhcations and its system of exchanges have 
served not only to advance and diffuse knowledge, but also to increase 
the reputation, and, consequently, tl^ influence of our country ; to pro- 
mote a kindly and sympathetic feenng between the New World and 
Old — alike gratefiil to the philosopher and the philanthropist. 



THK SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 233 

These are the fruits of what is called the system of active operations 
of the Institution, and its power to produce other and continuous results 
is only limited by the amount of the income which can be appropriated 
to it, since each succeeding year has presented new and important 
fields for its cultivation. All the anticipations indulged with regard to 
it have been fully realized ; and, after an experience of six years, there 
can now be no doubt of the true pohcy of the Regents in regard to it. 

I am well aware, however, that the idea is entertained by some that 
the svstem of active operations, though at present in a flourishing condi- 
tion, cannot continue to be the prominent object of attention ; and that 
under another set of directors, other counsels will prevail and other 
measures be adopted, and that what has been done in establishing this 
system will ultimately be undone. It is true, there is cause of fear that 
the policy in this respect may be changed ; for the system we are here 
considering requires constant exertion, and is little suited to the tastes 
and habits of those who seek place and position from mere personal 
considerations. There is cause to fear, also, from the experience of the 
past, that the general expenses of a large building, the support of the 
establishment necessarily connected with it, and the cost of collecting, 
preserving, and exhibiting specimens of nature and art, will so increase 
as to paralyze the spirit of activity. Furthermore, the proposition is 
frequently urged upon the Regents, by persons who have not duly con- 
sidered the will of Smithson, or who fail to appreciate the importance 
of the present plan, that a large portion of the income should be 
devoted to the diffusion of a knowledge of some popular branch of 
practical art ; and there may be some fear that a timid policy on 
the part of the friends of the Institution will lead them to favor such 
a plan. 

To obviate these tendencies, it is the duty of the present Regents, if 
they are convinced that the policy of active operations is the true one, 
to endeavor to correct, as far as possible, the errors which may have 
been committed in the beginning, and to give the Institution such an 
impulse in the proper direction, that it cannot deviate from it without 
immediately arresting the attention of the enlightened pubhc, both at 
home and abroad, who will not fail to demand, authoritatively, a suf- 
ficient reason for tin; change. 

A ])romise has been made to all persons in this country, engaged in 
original researches, and who are capable of furnishing additions to the 
sum of human knowledge, that the result of their labors shall continue 
to be presented to the world through the Smithsonian publications. 
The honor of the Institution is also pledged to the scientific and literary 
societies from which it has received exchanges, in tliis and other coun- 
tries, that it will continue to send to them at least an annual volume of 
Contributions, of a character similar to those with which they have 
already been presented. It is on this condition that the library has been 
so richly favored, not only with the current volumes of transactions, 
but also, in many cases, from the oldest societies, with full sets of all 
the previous volumes of their series of publications. Besides this, the 
libraries of all the colleges and literary and philosophical societies of 
this country are supplied with full sets of the Smithsonian Transactions; 



234 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

and in this way a foretaste has been given of the fruit of the operations, 
which will tend, in some degree, to insure their continuance. 

But if, notwithstanding all this, the Institution is destined to a 
change of policy, what has been well done in the line we are advo- 
cating can never be undone. The new truths developed by the 
researches originated by the Institution, and recorded in its ])ublica- 
tions ; the effect of its exchanges with foreign countries ; and the 
results of the cataloguing system, can never be obliterated; they will 
endure through all coming time. Should the government of the United 
States be dissolved, and the Smithsonian fund dissipated to the winds, 
the " Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledofe" will still be found in 
the principal libraries of the world, a perpetual monument of the 
wisdom and liberality of the founder of the Institution, and of the faith- 
fulness of those who first directed its affairs- 
Whatever, therefore, may be the future condition of the Institution, 
the true policy, for the present, is to devote its energies to the system 
of active operations. All other objects should be subordinate to this, 
and be in no wise suffered to diminish the good which it is capable of pro- 
ducing. It should be prosecuted with discretion, but with vigor ; the 
results will be its vindication. 

It was stated in the last Report that the Institution had been the 
contingent legatee of a considerable amount of property. During 
the past year the facts with reference to this bequest have been inves- 
tigated, and it appears that Mr. Wynn, of Brooklyn, N. Y., deceased, 
left a legacy to his wife, and the greater part of his property, valued at 
$75,000, to his daughter, a child six years old, with the condition that at 
the death of this daughter without issue, the property should come to the 
Smithsonian Institution. In making this bequest Mr. Wynn says, in his 
will : " I know no benevolent institution more useful and appropriate 
than. the Smithsonian Institution at Washington." 

This circumstance is highly gratifying to the friends of the Institu- 
tion, not because it offers a remote possibility of an increase of the 
funds, but on account of the evidence it affords of the liberal views of 
the deceased, and of his confidence in the proper management and im- 
portance of the Smithsonian bequest. The will of Mr. Wynn induces 
us to believe that the right administration of the Smithsonian fund will 
cause similar examples of liberality on the part of wealthy individuals 
of our country ; and in this point of view the responsibility which 
rests on those who have the direction of the affairs of this Institution 
is greater than that with reference to the good which the income itself 
may immediately accomplish. 

Though it is scarcely to be expected that many unconditional 
bequests will be made, yet the example of Sraithson may induce the 
founding of other institutions which inay serve to perpetuate other 
names, and increase the blessings which may flow from such judicious 
liberality. Man is a s^anpathetic being ; and it is not impossible that 
Smithson himself may have caught the first idea of his benevolent 
design from the example of our countryman. Count Rumford, the 
principal founder of the Royal Institution of London. 

Bequests for special purposes, bearing the names of the testators, are 
not incongruous with the plan of this Institution. Lectureships on 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 235 

particular subjects, annual reports on special branches of knowledge, 
provision for certain lines of research, and libraries for general use or 
special reference, may be founded under the name of those who be- 
stow the funds, and be placed under the direction of, and incorporated 
with, the Smithsonian Institution. The charge, however, ot" such be- 
quests ought not to be accepted unless they are sufficient in themselves 
to meet the expenses of the object contemplated by them, and would 
not encumber or impede the legitimate operations of the Institution. 
For example: were a library of a hundred thousand volumes offered, it 
would be unwise to accept it were it not accompanied by the funds 
necessary to the erection of a building and to the proper support of the 
collection. 

In July, 1850, a new system of accounts was introduced, which has 
been continued to the present time. According to this system, every 
payment is made by an order of the Secretary on the Treasurer, who, 
in turn, gives his check on Messrs. Corcoran & Riggs, with whom the semi- 
annual interest and the other income of the Institution are deposited. 
As often as once a quarter all the bills are examined and referred to 
their appropriate classes, in presence of all the officers of the Institu- 
tion. After the accounts are posted, the}^ are referred to the Executive 
Committee for final examination. 

By a reference to the report of the Executive Committee, it will be 
seen that the funds are in a good condition, and that, although during the 
past year $14,047 have been paid on the building, there is still on hand, 
after all the expenditures for publications and other purposes, besides 
the original bequest, upwards of S200,000 of accrued interest. It is to 
be regretted that Congress has not yet acted on the petition requesting 
the perpetual funding of $150,000 of the last-mentioned sum. It is 
highly important that this money should be permanently invested 
as a part of the principal, so that it can neither be lost nor expended. 
There are no other means of effectually accomplishing this result 
except by fimding it in the treasury of the United States. The propo- 
sition should be pressed upon Congress, though there may be, at 
present, no very certain prospect of success; for, if the petition be 
refused, and the money be afterwards lost by improper investment or 
injudicious expenditure, the responsibility would, in part, rest with the 
government. 

The charge of this fund, and of all the disbursements, is attended 
with much solicitude. It involves a degree of responsibility which, 
to a person unaccustomed to large financial transactions, is very oner- 
ous. I beg leave, however, in this place, to mention the obligation 
which the Institution is under to W. W. Corcoran, Esq., for the aid 
which he has, in all cases, afR)rded in the management of the funds, 
and the judicious advice which he has always given relative to their 
investment. 

From tlie report of the Building Committee it appears that the con- 
tract for finishing the interior of the wings and ranges, and the rooms 
of the towers, has been completed. The whole interior of the main 
building, comprising a rectangular space of two hundred feet long, 
fifty wide, and about sixty high, remains to be finished with fire-proof 
materials. It is proposed to divide this space into two stories and a 



236 EIGHTH ANNUAL iREPORT OF 

basement; these stories to be devoted to the library, the museum, 
and a large and convenient lecture-i-oom. 

The business of the Institution would be much facilitated were this 
part of the building com.pleted. Since Congress has authorized the 
establishment of a library and museum, it will be well to place all the 
objects of interest to the public in the main building, and make this 
exclusively the show part of the establishment, devoting the wings and 
ranges, and rooms of the towers, to the business operations and other 
purposes of the Institution. In the present condition of affairs there is 
no part of the edifice to which the public has not access, and, conse- 
quently, business has to be transacted amidst constant interruptions. 
The loss of time and effective lile to which all are exposed who occupy 
a position of notoriety in the city of Washington, is truly lamentable ; 
and where this is increased by facility of access to gratify mere curi- 
osity, the evil becomes scarcely endurable. Progress in business, under 
such circumstances, can only be made by an encroachment on the 
hours usually allotted to rest, and that, too, at the expense of wasted 
energies and shortened days. 

Publications. 

During tiie past year the following memoirs, described in the previ- 
ous Reports, have been collected into volumes and distributed to public 
institutions in this country and abroad : 

1. Observations on Terrestrial Magnetism. 

2. Researches on Electrical Rheometry. 

3. Contributions to the Natural History of the Fresh-water Fishes of 
North America. 

4. First part of the Marine Alg;e of the coast of the United States. 

5. Planta3 Wrightiana^ Texano-Neo-Mexicanae, Part I. 

6. Law of Deposit of the Flood Tide, its d3aiamical action and 
office. 

7. Description of Ancient Works in Ohio. 

8. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1852. 

9. A Grammar and Dictionary of the Dakota language. 

The memoir last mentioned occupies an entire volume, the fourth of 
the Smithsonian series of Contributions. The other memoirs are con- 
tained in the third volume of the same series. '' 

The remaining memoirs, described in the last Report, are still in the 
press, the printing of them having been delayed by the exhaustion 
of the appropriation for the year, and by several necessary corrections. 
A sufficient number of papers will, however, be printed in the course 
of a few months, with the new appropriation, to complete the fifth 
volume of Contributions; and if the means pi'ove sufficient, we can 
readily issue the sixth volume during the present year. 

The result of the plan of publication has fully realized the anticipa- 
tions which w^ere entertained of its usefulness. It supplies the food 
it feeds upon. The appearance in the Contributions of a memoir 
on any subject immediately directs attention to tliat subject, and induces 
other laborers to engage in the same field of exploration. This is par- 
ticularly manifest in the interest awakened with regard to the anliqui- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 23? 

ties of our country, and to the language of the Indian tribes, by the 
publications of the Institution on these subjects. 

The following is an account of the memoirs received since the date 
of the last Report : 

1. Contributions to the Hisiorv of the Marine Algae of North America. — - 
By Dr. W. H. Harvey: Part II. 

In the Rejiort for 1850, an account was given of the acceptance for 
publication of an extended and expensive memoir of the Marine Algae 
of the eastern and southern coasts oi" the United States, by Prof. 
Harvey, of the University of Dublin. The first part of this memoir 
was published last spring, and has found much favor with the botanicai 
world, as well as with the inhabitants and visitors of our sea-board» 
The second part of the same memoir is now printed, and will be 
ready for distribution in the course of a few weeks. It is illustrated 
by twenty-four plates, and comprises 240 pages of printed matter. 

The common name "of the class of plants which forms the subject of 
this memoir, viz : sea-weeds, has subjected the Institution to the charge 
of expending its funds on trifling and unworthy objects ; and as the 
same objection may l:>e made to many of the papers forming the series- 
of Smithsonian Contributions, a few words in vindication of researches 
of this character may not be inappropriate. 

Nothing in the wliole system of nature is isolatrd or unimportant. 
The fall of a leaf and the motion of a planet are governed by the same 
laws. The structure of a lichen and the formation of an oak are equally 
the result of definite plans. It is in the study of objects, considered 
trivial and unworthy of notice by the casual observer, that genius finds 
the most important and interesting phenomena. It was in the investi- 
gation of the varying colors of the soap-bubble that Newton detected 
the remarkable fact of the fits of easy reflection and easy refraction 
presented by a ray of light in it& passage through space, and upon 
which he established the fundamental principle of the present gen- 
eralization of the undulatory theory of light. Smithson himself, the 
founder of this Ii:istitution, considered the analysis of a tear as nowise 
unworthy of his peculiar chemical skill ; and well might he so con- 
sider it; for the knowledge of the composition of every secretion 
of the body is of importance, in a ph3^siological point of view, as 
well as in the preservation of heaUh and the cuje of disease. The 
study of the cause of the spasmodic muscular contraction of a frog, 
when brought into contact with two pieces of metal, revealed to 
Galvani the first facts of the branch of science which now bears his 
name. The microscopic organization of animals and plants is replete 
with the highest instruction ; and, surely, in the language of one of the 
fathers of modern physical science, " nothing can be unworthy of 
being investigated by man which was thought worthy of being created 
by God." 

These remarks are particularly applicable to the study of the lower 
classes of the organic creation. Nature everywhere exhibits economy 
of means in attaining the most complex and diversified ends. Every 
result is produced in the simplest manner when viewed in relation to 
the whole design. All parts of organized beings, whether plants or 
animals, are formed of a few elementary structures, variously trans- 



238 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

formed and combined. To obtain a knowledge of the plan and pro- 
cess of oi-ganization, we must begin with the most simple combina- 
tions, precisely as we would do in the stud}'^ of mathematical analyses, 
in which the student commences with the least complicated tbrmulce, 
and gradually proceeds to those of a more involved character. It is 
for this reason ihat the study of the algoe, or sea-weeds, is of special 
interest to the physiologist. The framework of every vegetable is 
built up of cells or little membranous sacks. All vegetable structures, 
whether wood, bark, or leaves, are formed of aggregations of these 
cells, cUfferenthr moulded and united. As we pass along the series 
of organized forms, we may descend from those of a higher to those 
of a lower complexity, until, in the class of alga?, we arrive at plants 
of which the whole body is composed of a few cells strung together ; 
and finally at others, the simplest of organized bodies, whose entire 
framework is a single cell. Now, it is onl^" by a critical study of 
these rudimentary forms, and by tracing them into their complex com- 
binations, that man can ever hope to arrive at a knowledge of the laws 
of organization. "We .might speak of the importance of a knowledge 
of the algoe in their application to agriculture and the chemical arts ; 
but what we have here stated will be a sufficient reason for their 
-Study, independent of all minor considerations. 

2. The next memoir consists of an account of a series of researches in 
the comparative anatomy of the frog, by Dr. Jeffiies W3'man, of Cam- 
bridge, Massachusetts. 

The whole animal kingdom may in one sense be considered as the 
different development of four separate plans of organization, giving 
rise to four dilierent classes of animals, viz : the Radiata, the Articulata, 
MoUusca, and Vertebrata. Whatever discovery is made with regard 
to the organization of any of the species belonging to any one of these 
classes, tends to throw light on the organization of the whole class; 
and it is only by the careful study ol" all the different animals of- a 
class, and a comparison of their analogous parts, that we can arrive at 
a' knowledge of the general laws which control the development of 
the whole. Thus the study of human anatomy is the basis of the 
investigation of the anatomy of all animals with a back-bone ; and 
conversely, the anatomy of any animal of this chiss tends to throw light 
on that of man. 

Dr. Wyman's paper gives an account of a series of elaborate inves- 
tigations of the nervous S3^stem of a very common, but, in a physio- 
logical point of view, highly interesting animal. 

The Ibllowing are the several points of the memoir : 

(1.) An anatomical description of the more im})ortant parts of the ner- 
vous system. 

(2.) Comparisons between them and the corresponding organs of 
other animals, both higher and lower in the scale. 

(3.) The metamorphoses which they undergo, especially the spinal 
chord and some of the cranial nerves, showing the existence of a more 
complete analogy between the immature condition of Batrachian rep- 
tiles and the class of fishes, than has hitherto been noticed. 

(4.) An application of the facts observed in connexion with the cranial 
nerves to the philosophical anatomy of the nervous .^^stem, showing 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 239 

what is believed to be the true nature of the special sense nerves, as 
contrasted with other cranial or the true spinal nerves, and the con- 
formity of the other cranial nerves to the common spinal type. • 

3. The next commLitiication has the following title : "Plantar Wrighti- 
anse Texano-Neo-MexicantK, Part II. — By Dr. Asa Gra}', Professor of 
Botanv in Harvard University." 

It has been stated in two of the preceding Reports that a small 
appropriation was made for botanical explorations in Texas and New 
Mexico, and that the jesults had been placed in tlie hands of Dr. C4ray 
for scientific investigation. The first memoir on this subject was de- 
scribed in the last Report. It has been printed, and copies distributed 
to all the working botanists in this country and Europe. It also forms 
a part of the third volume of the "Smithsonian Contributions." 

Tlie object of the present memoir is to give a scientific account of 
the collections made by Mr. Wright, under the direction of Col. J, D. 
Graham, U. S. Topographical Engineers, and Major W. H. Emory, of 
the Boundary Commission, in New Mexico arul in Eastern Texas, 
during the summer and autumn of 185] , and the spring and early part 
of the summer of 1852. 

The description of the plants from this region was previously carried 
as far as the order Cojiipositce. In the present paper Dr. Gray gives a 
similar account of the recent collections up to the same point, aijd re- 
serves the other portions of these collections made by Mr. Wright, with, 
the remainder of the undescribed plants of Fendler and Lindheimer, 
to be described in a general memoir. One portion of the collection 
was made from July to November, from El Paso to the Copper Mines 
of Santa Rita del Cobre, in the southwestern part of New Mexico; 
and thence into the northern part of the Mexican State of Sonora, as far 
as Santa Cruz, returning to the Copper Mines by way of Guadalupe 
Pass, and thence back to El Paso. The plants obtained during this 
tour are of exceeding interest, and comprise a larger portion of new- 
species than any other collection that has fallen into Dr. Gray's hands. 
Another portion was obtained in the vicinity of El Paso and the rancho 
of Frontera, and down the Rio Grande lor sixty or seventy miles ; 
also, up the valley of the river as far as Camp Fillmore, and thence 
into the Organ mountains, which bound the valley on the east. 
Another collection was made in a hasty excursion to Lake St. Marie 
and Lake Guztman, in Chihuahua. These several collections afford 
man}^ novelties, no botanist having previously explored this region at 
the same season of the year. 

It is expected that a full account of the topography and productions 
of this country will be given in the reports of Colonel Graham and 
Major Emory. 

The interest which attaches to the results of explorations of this 
kind is not confined to the botanist, but extends to the physical geo- 
grapher and the political economist. An accurate description of the 
botany of a region is a sure guide to a knowledge of its power of pro- 
ducing and sustaining vegetable and animal lite, and consequently of 
its value in a commercial and political point of view. 

4. Dr. Leidy, of Philadelphia, has presented a memoir on the extinct 
species of the ox of America. In this paper he indicates the former 



240 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

existence of four species of the ox, which were probably contempora- 
neous with the Mastadon and the Megnlo7vjx. Fossil remains of these 
animals have been frequently found in the United States, and descrip- 
tions of them are scattered through various works ; but no approach 
has bei()re been made to a correct view of the number and character 
of the species. The present existing species of ox are found indige- 
nous in every part of the world except South America and Australia, 
and this is the more remarkable, because the domestic ox introduced 
into the former country by Europeans exists in irpmense hei'ds on the 
pampas in a wild state. There is a similar fact with regard to the 
horse. America, at the period of its discovery, possessed no indigenous 
quadruped of this kind, though the climate is highly favorable to its ex- 
istence, and the remains of two extinct species are frequently found. 
Two of the species of ox described by Dr. Leidy belong to the genus 
Bison, and one of these is of gigantic size. The other two species be- 
long to a new genus called Boothcrivm. 

5. Another memoir presented by the same author forms an interesting 
addition to our knowledge of the extinct gigantic sloth tribe of North 
America, It comprises a description of remains of the Mcgalonyx, 
Mi/lodon, Megatherium, and of a new genus called Eriptodon. 

The scientific world is indebted lor the first account of the remdns 
of a ^^irge extinct quadruped of the sloth tribe to President Jefferson. 
Fragments of the bones of this animal were found in a saltpetre cave in 
Greenbrier county, Virginia. They were regarded with little or no 
interest by the persons wdio first observed them, and, as they encum- 
bered the saltpetre bed, would probably have been thrown out and 
suffered to decay, had not tlie news of their existence reached the 
ears of the distinguished individual before mentioned. Though de- 
voted to politics, he was too much of a philosopher not to see in these 
mouldering fragments of a skeleton objects of high interest connected 
with the past history of our globe. He described them in a memoir 
published in the Ti'ansactions of the American Pliilosophical Society at 
Philadelphia in 1797, and gave to tlie animal to which they belong the 
name of Megalonyx, or the great claw. The materials in his possession, 
however, were too scanty to allow of his determining the true character 
of the quadruped. Dr. Wistar, of Philadelphia, sus[)ected the animal 
to have been a gigantic sloth ; and this opinion was confirmed by 
Cuvier, from the ample materials ffir comparison at his command. 4 
The original bones described by Jefferson are preserved in the 
collection of the Philosophical Society ; but, besides these, Dr. Leidy 
had access to specimens of the remains of the same animal, found in 
different parts of the United States. From the study of these he has 
been enabled to throw much additional light upon the characters of 
the Mcgalonyx. He considers that the only remains of this animal yet 
known are those found in the United States, and satisfaetorily proves 
that the lower jaw of an extinct quadruped, discovered by Dr. Darwin 
in South America, and referred by naturalists to the Megalonyx of Jef- 
ferson, does not belong to an animal of the; same genus. 

The remains of the Mylodon, or gigantic sloth, were first discovered 
by Darwin in his researches in the southern part of South America. 
Remains of another species found in North America were described 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 241 

by Dr. Harlan, but were erroneous^ referred to the Megalonyx. Dr. 
Leidy, in his memoir, describes the collection of the remains of this 
animal belonging to the New York Lyceum. 

The Megatherium, which is the largest of all the extinct sloth tribe, 
when full grown, was more than fourteen feet long, including the tail, 
and eight feet high. It was first discovered in South America, but 
has since been found in Georgia ; and it was from this locality, the 
only one in the United States yet known, that the remains described 
by Dr. Leidy were obtained. 

The fourth and new genus of American sloths, called the Eriptodon 
by the author, is established upon a peculiar form of teeth which 
belonged to an animal of about the size of the Megalojiyx, the bones of 
which were also found in Georgia. 

Dr. Hays, one of the commission to which this memoir was sub- 
mitted, remarks in his report, that " the author has not only made 
valuable additions to our knowledge of an interesting tribe of animals, 
but has also collected and arranged the facts previously known so as 
to throw new light on the subject, and to render his memoir an im- 
portant starting-point for future investigators." 

Grammar of (he Choctaiu language. 

The publication of the volume on the Dakota language, described in 
the last Report, has called forth another important memoir on compara- 
tive philology, namely, a Grammar of the Choctaw language, by the 
Rev. Harvey Byington, tor thirty years a missionary among the In- 
dians. 

It was referred for examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, 
and to Professor Gibbs, if Yale College, both of whom pronounced it 
an important addition to ethnology, and warmly recommended its 
pubUcation. The work was afterwards placed in the hands of Pro- 
fessor W. W. Turner, formerly Professor of Hebrew in the New York 
Theological Seminary, now librarian of the United States Patent Office. 
Previous to sending it to the press, the author, after numerous inter- 
▼iews with Professor Turner, concluded that his memoir was suscep- 
tible of so much improvement by a further study of the language, that 
he asked leave to withdraw it for a time. This request was of course 
granted, and Mr. Byington has returned to his missionary labors, and 
will again present the work after it has received the desired improve- 
ments. 

Reports and other minor publications. 

Since the date of the last Report to the Regents, the following articles 
have been printed and partially distributed : 

1. Directions for making Collections in Natural History. This is a 
pamphlet of twenty-four pages, by Professor Baird, and is much called 
for by the correspondents of the Institution. 

2. A work by Professor Jewett, containing an exposition of the sys- 
tem adopted by the Smithsonian Institution for constructing catalogues 
of libraries, by means of separate stereotype titles, with rules for the 

16 



242 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

guidance of librarians, and examjDles for illustration. This work is 
comprised in seventy-eight pages, and though not large, it has been 
produced at the expense of much time and labor. 

3. A second emission of lh(^ Report on the Recent Improvements in 
the Chemical Arts lias been printed, and in part distributed. This work 
is stereotyped, and therefore copies can be supplied at any time, at a 
comparatively small cost. 

4. A Description of the Portraits of the North American Indians in 
tlie gallery of the Smithsonian Institution, by the painter of the portraits, 
J. M. Stanley, es(]. This is a pamphlet of seventy-six pages, and con- 
tains brief sketches of the characters and incidents in the history of 
lbrt3^-three different tribes of Indians. 

5. The first part of the collection ol' tables to facilitate meteorological 
and other calculations, by Professor Guyot : this was mentioned in the 
last Report, and has been stereotyped and distributed. It is a very 
acceptable present to the meteorological observers oi' tlie Institution, 
and other persons engaged in scientific investigations. 

Several reports on different subjects are in progress of preparation ; 
but the appropriation for this part of the programme of operations is at 
present so small, that the completion of them has not been urged upon 
the autliors. The first part of the report on l()rest trees, by Dr. (iray, 
of Cambridge, will be ready for the press the latter part of the present 
or begining of the next year. 

Distribution of' publiaitioris and exchanges. 

Copies of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge are sent to 
all the first-class libraries and literary and scientific societies of the 
world, and in return the Institution n^ccives asi equivalent in Transac- 
tions and other publications. After the printing of the first volume of 
Contributions was completed, a copy of it and of" the pro^gi'amme of or- 
ganization were sent to the })rincipal foreign literary and scientific insti- 
tutions, with the request that they would exchange publications, on the 
condition that a volume of equal importance should be })resented to them 
annually. At first the number of responses to this proposition was 
small; but since the character of the Institution has become known and 
appreciated, the works received in exchange have rapidl}^ increased in 
number and importance. The whole number ot" articles received during 
1852 is four thousand seven hundied and tbrty-fbur, which is more 
than three times that of all the previous years. The publications re- 
ceived in many cases consist of entire sets of Transactions, the earlier 
volumes of which are out of print, and cannot be purchased. They 
are of use in carr3'ing on the various investigations of the Institution, 
and of value to the country as works of refi'rence. Tliey ought not to 
be considered as donations to the library, but as the products of the active 
operations, which the Institution is at liberty to dispose of in the man- 
ner best suited to further its designs. The principal object, however, 
of the distribution ot"the Smithsonian volumes, is not to procure a large 
library in exchange, but to diffuse among men a knowledge of the nevf 
truths discovered by the agency of the Smithsonian fund. The worth 
and importance of tiie Institution is not to Ix* estimated by what it accu- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 243 

mulates within the walls of its building, Init by what it sends forth to 
the world. Its qreat mission is to facilitate the use of all the implements 
of research, and to diffuse the knowledge which this use may develope. 
The Smithsonian publications are sent to some institutions abroad, and 
to the great majority of those at home, without any return except, 
in some cases, that ot" co-operation in meteorological and other obser- 
vations. Apphcations for these publications have now become so 
numerous that the edition printed will supply but a part of the demand, 
and it becomes a difficult matter to select the places which will best 
subserve the purpose of rendering them accessible to the greatest number 
of persons w4]o would be benefited by their perusal. 

In connexion with the distribution of its own publications, the Insti- 
tution has adopted an arrangement to establish and promote a more 
general exchange of literar}^ and scientific productions between this 
and other countries. For this purpose it receives packages from soci- 
eties and individuals in the different parts of die United States, and 
transmits them to England or the continent, and through its agents dis- 
tributes them to the parties for whom they are intended. It also re- 
ceives the articles sent in return, and forwards them to those to whom 
they are addressed. To facilitate this operation, the packages to the 
Institution are addressed to the Collector of Customs in New York, and 
b}^ him, on the certificate of the Secretary, admitted free of duty, and 
without the delay of an examination. 

In carrying out this plan, the Institution is much indebted to the 
liberal course adopted by the government of Great Britain, and to the 
ready co-operation of the Royal Society of London. All packages 
intended for Great Britain, for some parts of tlie continent, and the 
East Indies, are directed to the care of the Royal Society, and on the 
certificate of its president, are, by a special order of the government, 
admitted duty free, and without the delay and risk of inspection. The 
packages are afterwards distributed by the agent of the Institution, or 
by those of the Society. 

This system of exchange does not stop here. The Royal Society 
has adopted the same plan with reference to Great Britain and all 
other parts of the world; and the Smithsonian Institution, in turn, 
becomes an agent in receiving and distributing all packages which the 
Society desires to send to this country. A general system of interna- 
tional communication, first started by this Institution for the distribution 
of its own publications, has thus been established, which will tend to 
render the results of the labors of each country in the line of literature 
and science common to all, and to produce a community of interest 
and of relations of the highest importance to the advancement of knowl- 
edge, and of kindly feeling "among men." 

The results of the operations of the system of foreign exchanges 
during the ^^ear 1852 are exceedingly gratifying. The whole number 
of packages sent out, including the Smithsonian publications, is 572, 
containing 9,195 articles, and weighing 9,855 |>ounds. There have 
been received, in addition to the 4,745 articles for this Institution, 637 
packages, containing an unknown number of volumes, f(>r other insti- 
tutions in this country. The details of the business of the exchanges 
are intrusted to Professor Baird ; and I would refer, for a partlcuLu: 



*244 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Statement of all the facts connected with it, to his report, herewith 
submitted. \ 

The planet NcjUnne. 

It has been mentioned in the last annual reports that Mr. S. C. 
Walker, of the U. S. Coast Survey, prepared, at the expense of the 
Smithsonian Institution, a memoir containing an exposition of the ele- 
ments of the true orbit of the planet Neptune, and that from this orbit 
and the mathematical investigation of Professor Peirce, of Cambridge, 
an ephemeris of Neptune had been deduced, which has been accepted 
by all the astronomers of the world, as the only certain guide to the 
position of the planet. This ephemeris was prepared for 1848 and 
1849, at the expense of the Institution; but since the last-mentioned 
date it has been calculated at the expense of the appropriation for the 
Nautical Almanac, while the cost of printing and distribution has been 
defrayed by the Institution. The same arrangement will continue for 
the ephemeris of 185o and 1854, after which the whole will be trans- 
ferred to the Nautical Almanac. 

Occndtatio?is. 

The moon, in her passage eastward around the earth, continually 
passes between us and the fixed stars or planets which lie in her path, 
and obscures them from our view. The instant of the disappearance 
of a star behind the moon, or the occultation of a star, as the phenome- 
non is called, can be noted by observers widely separated from each 
other, cUid hence this phenomenon becomes a ready means of determin- 
ing tlie difl'erence of longitude between two places. The employment 
of occultations for fixing geographical positions is easy, and le^ids to 
accuracy in the results. The telescope may be of moderate size, and 
requires no accurate adjustment; the position assigned it may be such 
as to suit the convenience of the observer. The frequent occurrence 
of occultations renders the use of them of great importance to the trav- 
elhng observer ; and the publication of lists of these, and of tables for 
their reduction, is essential to the improvement of geography. They 
are of particular value in this country on account of the frequent explor- 
ing and surve^dng expeditions now carried on by our government and 
our people, ajad to be continued for an indefinite time in the extensive 
territory of the West, and the newly acquired possessions of the South- 
west. Tables of occultations for 1849 and 1850 were prepared and 
published at the expense of this Institution ; but for subsequent years 
the expense of their preparation has been defrayed by the appropriation 
for the Nautical Almanac, under the direction of Lieutenant Davis, 
while the composition and press-work are still at the expense of the 
Institution. As soon as the Nautical Almanac is fully commenced, the 
publication of" these tables will be entirely relinquished to this enterprise 
of the government. 

Up to 1850 the tables published were of occultations visible in the 
United States. Since, however, the preparation of the tables has been 
in charge -of the director of the Nautical Almanac, the list has been so 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 245 

extended as to make it useful to geographers in general as well as to 
those of the United States. This extension was rendered important on 
account of the surveys undertaken by our government in other parts 
of the globe. Also, a table has been added, giving the correction of 
the latitude due to the oblate spheroidal figure of the earth. 

When we consider the character and condition of the vast continent 
of North America, which it belongs to us chiefly to reduce to a habit- 
able and civihzed state, we shall perceive that the practical scientific 
explorer has no higher duty than to settle the geography, the magnet- 
ism, the natural history, and the climate, of these regions. 

Researches. 

At the session of the Regents, in 1849, an appropriation was made 
to supply Lieutenant Gilliss with a telescope for his exjx^dition to 
Chili, to aid him in his observations for a new determination of the 
distance of the inferior planets, and, consequently, of the actual dis- 
tances of the several members of the solar system. A subsecjuent 
appropriation was made for the purchase of an astronomical clock for 
the same purpose. The first appropriation was repaid to the Institu- 
tion by a grant from Congress to cover the expenses of the. expedition, 
and the second will also be reimbursed by the purchase of the clock 
and all the other instruments by the Chilian government, tor the per- 
manent estabhshment of an observatory in that country. 

By these operations, the Institution has been the means of rendering 
essential aid to science, without, in the end, diminishing the amount 
of its income. Lieutenant Gilliss, after voluntariW exiling himself from 
his family and his country tor tour years, has returned with a rich har- 
vest of materials in astronomy, meteorology, magnetism, and natural 
history, in the reduction, generahzation, and description of which the 
Institution may also furnish important aid. 

The sum of one hundred and fitly dollars has been advanced to 
Prof C. B. Adams, of Amherst College, to defray in part the expense 
of an exploration of the molluscs of the West Indies. This subject is 
intimately connected with the geological changes which have taken 
place on the surface of our globe ; and it was with particular refer- 
ence to this point that Professor Adams undertook these researches. 
This is his second expedition to the same regions ; and in both instances 
the Smithsonian Institution has seconded his proposition, and warmly 
recommended it to the favorable consideration of the trustees of Am- 
herst College. A small sum appropriated in this way, though not 
enough in itself to produce much effect, is still sufficient to complete the 
amount to be raised, and thus serve to determine the commencement 
of the enterprise. 

Meteorology. 

The general system of observations relative to the meteorology ot 
the continent of North America, described in the previous Reports, has 
been continued and extended. It consists at present of the following 
classes, viz : 



246 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPOIIT OF 

1. The Smithsonian system proper, made uj) of voluntary observers 
in different pnrts of the United States, who report immediately to the 
Institution. 

2. The system of observations ot" the University of the State of 
New York, re-established under the direction of this Institution, and 
supported by the State of New York. 

3. The system of observations established under the dire<^tion of this 
Institution, by the State of Massachusetts. 

4 The extended system of observations made at the several military 
posts of the United States, under the direction of the Surgeon General 
of the army. 

5. Separate series of observations by exploring and surveying pai*- 
ties, in some cases directed, and in part furnished with instruments, by 
this Institution. 

6. Meteorological records from British America, consisting of obser- 
vations made at the various posts of the Hudson's Bay Company, and 
at the residence of private individuals in Canada. 

In the first three of these classes there are about two hiuidred ob- 
servers distributed t)ver the entire continent. In the older States they 
are very thickly distributed, and they are entirely wanting in none. 
Texas, Arkansas, the Indian Territory, Missouri, Iowa, and Minnesota,, 
have each competent and reliable observers reporting directly to the 
Smithsonian Institution, in addition to those at the military posts, 
which are in the same regions. 

Further westward, and more widely sepnrated, the observers at the 
mihtary ])osts, and those of surveying and exploring parties, continue 
the connexion of the system to the Pacific coast, where the number 
of military posts is greater, and private observers are again found. 

The New York system embraces twenty-five academies as stations, 
all furnished with new and reliable instruments at the expense of the 
State. 

In Massachusetts twelve stations are furnished in like maimer, of 
which eight have reported. 

In 1852 ninety-seven military posts reported meteorological observa- 
tions, and for 1853 tlie number will be greater rather than less. 

The wliole number of stations and observers available in making 
the deductions tor 1852 was three hundred and fifty ; and this number, 
either reporting directly to the Institution or furnishing their observa- 
tions for its use, may" be relied upon for the current year. 

Besides the observations derived from this general system, a large 
collection has been procured from individuals in different parts of the 
country, who have kept recortls ot" the weather, in some cases for 
many years. This collection was obtained by issuing a circular from 
the Institution, re(juesting copies of any records which might have been 
kept relative to the climate of this country. The amount of information 
received in answer to this circular was far greater than was expected, 
and much more valuable matter was tluis called forth than was previ- 
ously known to exist. 

In order that the materials procured ti-om the atbrementioned sources 
may be rendered available lor scientific or practical purposes, it *is 
necessary thnt they should be reduced, discussed, and arranged for 



THE SMFTHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 247 

publication. This work was commenced at the close of 1851, aiid 
has been prosecuted with considerable vigor during the past year. It 
was given by me in charge to Mr. Lorin Blodget, of Western New 
York, who has engaged in the work with much ardor, has devoted to 
it his whole time and attention, and has evinced an unusual degree of 
talent for investigations of this character. 

The results which have thus liu" been obtained are of interest to the 
science of meteorology, and valuable to the practical arts of" life. The 
following is a descriptive list of the deductions presented in a tabular 
form : 

Temyeratiirc Tables. 

1. Tables of general mean temperature for a series of years, em- 

bracing a summary of the annual means lor the years 1849, 
1850, 1851, and J 852, with a general summary of reliable obser- 
vations of mean temperature on the North American continent. 

2. Tables of mean temperature for eacli month, season, and year, fijr 

1849, 1850, 1851, and 1852, embracing 273 stations in 1849; 284 
in 1850 ; 300 in 1851 ; and 39G in 1852. 
•3. Tables of mean temperature at each observed hour for the same 

periods and the same stations. 
4. Tables of the monthly extremes of temperature, with the range above 
and below the monthly mean, for the same periods and the same 
stations. 
•5. Collection of tables of temperature at different stations, observed for 

a series of years. 
•6. Miscellaneous tables of temperature, not conforming entirely to either 
. of the above divisions. 

The first class of tallies embraces six hundred and seventy stations, 
distributed over tlie entire continent, from the West Indies and Mexico 
to the Polar seas. 

The second class has a more limited range, and is generally confined 
to the United States and its territories, as observed by the military sys- 
tem, and that of tlie Smithsonirm Institution, with a few stations in 
Canada and the British possessions on this continent. 

The third class of tables is nearly the same in extent with the pre- 
ceding, and for three complete years, viz : — 1850, ]85], and 1852. 
The fourdi class is of the same extent and time. 
The fifth is a climatic arrangement of tables from various stations, 
extending in continuous series over periods varying from five to sixty 
years. 

Ta bles of Pi -ec ipilation . 

1. Tables of distribution of precipitation in rain and melted snow for 

each month, season, and year, for 1849, 1850, 1851, and 1852. 

2. General tables of precipitation for a series of years, containing the 

results of the preceding tables, with a general summary of all 
reliable and accessible observation of fall of rain on the North 
American continent. These tables give results from about lour 
hundred stations, principally in the United Slates, its Territories, 
and the West Indies. 



248 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

3. Irregular tables and single series, extending over long periods, and 
where reliable observations have been made. 
A series of" charts has been constructed to exhibit the distribution of 
temperature on the North American continent, by isothermal lines ; and 
also another series, illustrative of the distribution of precipitation for 
each month, season, and year of 1860, 1851, and 1852, and for the 
periods given in the general tables. It is proposed to present these 
results to Congress as a part of the Annual Report of the Regents, and 
as the first fruit of the labors of the Smithsonian Institution on the sub- 
ject of meteorology. 

Catalogue of Libraries. 

In addition to the preparation of the work previously mentioned. Pro- 
fessor Jewctt has continued his experiments on the new process of stereo- 
typing, to be used in his system of cataloguing. Much difficulty and 
delay have been experienced in the prosecution of these experiments, on 
account of the want of workm'-n to construct the peculiar apparatus 
required. The services of an ingenious and skilful artisan have, however, 
been secured ; and the process is now brought to such a state that it 
can be applied with certainty, and abridgment of labor, to produce the 
best specimens of typography. 

The system of catalogues described in previous Reports, though future 
experience may suggest other improvements, is now apparently perfect 
in all its details. A stereotyping office has been established in the 
basement of the west wing of the Smithsonian building, and the Insti- 
tution is ready to commence the formation of a general catalogue of 
the principal libraries of the United States. The commission to which 
the catalogue system was referred, recommended that measures be 
taken to procure the preparation and printing of the catalogue of the 
Library of Congress. The cost of the first collection of stereotype 
titles can be best borne by this library, and it w^ill be the first to reap 
the benefit of this invention. The stereotype blocks of the titles can 
be preserved in the Institution, and a new catalogue annually furnished 
at a small expense, with all the additions inserted in their proper places. 
The same titles will be employed in printing the catalogues of other 
libraries, and the new titles which may be prepared for these will, in 
turn, be used for the Library of Congress. 

I beg leave to commend this subject to the immediate consideration 
of the Board of Regents. The whole plan is in perfect harmony with 
the active operations, and has always received my cordial commenda- 
tion. The Institution has incurred the expense of reducing it to prac- 
tice, so far as it depends on mechanical arrangements; and it now only 
requires to be applied, to reafize all the benefits which have been antici- 
pated in regard to it, to do honor to the Institution and to coafer de- 
served reputation on its author.* 

*NoTE. — Since this report was presented to the Board of Regents, Congress has appropri- 
ated three thousand dollars to commence the catalogue of its library on the stereotype plan, 
under the direction of the Smitiisonian Institution. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 'J49 

Library. 

During the last year the hbrary has received important additions 
from the books presented in exchange for the volumes of the Smithso- 
nian Contributions and other publications. The whole value of the 
works thus received during the year, according to the estimate of Pro- 
fessor Baird, is not less than from four to five thousand dollars. From 
this source alone a highly interesting and valuable collection of books, 
pertaining to all branches of positive knowledge, will, in time, be ob- 
tained. The reputation which the publications of the Institution liave 
given it abroad, has induced individuals to present a number of 
valuable works to the library. For an account of the whole, I must refer 
to the report of Professor Je wett, herewith submitted. The library has also 
been increased by the purchase of such books as were required in the 
operations of the Institution, and with a series of scientific and other 
periodicals. 

The copyright law is still in existence, and the library has received, 
during the past year, the usual number of articles from this source. The 
remark, however, may again be made with truth, that the action of this 
law, as it now exists, imposes a burden on the Institution from which it 
should be reheved. 

The whole number of articles, according to the report ol" Professor 
Jewett, now in the library, is twenty-one thousand seven hundred. 

Museum of Natural History. 

The additions to the collection in natural history, under the perse- 
vering efforts of Professor Baird, have increased in a compound ratio 
over those of previous years. Large additions will also be made by 
the exploring expeditions which are about to leave for the different 
parts of this continent and distant seas ; but the expense of preparing 
and transporting these, it is hoped, will be defrayed by the general 
government. For a detailed account of the number and variety of the 
specimens collected, I must refer to Professor Baird's report accom- 
panying this communication. 

Gallery of Art. 

Besides a library, a museum, and lectures, the act of Congress es- 
tabhshing the Smithsonian Institution directed the formation of a gallery 
of art. The only articles belonging to the Institution which have been 
yet collected in accordance with the last-mentioned regulation of Con- 
gress, are the valuable series of engi^avings by the old masters, de- 
cribed in a previous Report. One of the original propositions of" the 
progi-ammc is that ol encouraging art, by providing a suitable room for 
the exhibition of pictures free of expense to the artist. In accordance 
with this, the large room in the west wing will be devoted to this pur- 
pose. It now contains a very interesting series of portraits, mostly 
full-size, of one hundred and fifty-two North American Indians, with 
sketches of the scenery of the country they inhabit, deposited by the 
artist who painted them, Mr. J. M. Stanley These portraits were all 



250 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

taken from life, and arc accurate representations of tlie peculiar fea- 
tures of prominent individuals of forty-three different tribes, iiihabiting 
the southwestern prairies, New Mexico, California, and Oregon. The 
faithfulness of the likenesses has been attested bv a number oi' intelli- 
gent persons who have visited the gallery, and have immediately re- 
cognised among the portraits those of the individuals with whom tliey 
have been personall}'^ acquainted. The artist expended in the work of 
obtaining these pictures ten years of his life, and perseveringly devoted 
himself to his task in the face of difficulties and dangers which enthu- 
siam in the pursuit could alone enable him to encounter. The Institu- 
tion has pubhshed a descriptive catalogue of these portaits, which are of 
interest to tlie ethnologist as representatives of the peculiar physiogno- 
my, as well as of"mEmy of the customs, of the natives of this continent. 

Lectures of the Jnst'Uution. 

Public lectures have become one of the characteristics of the day, 
and next to the press, perhaps, tend, more than any other means of dif- 
fusing knowledge, to impress the public mind. The liberal price paid 
by the Lowell Institute, and some of the associations in our large cities, 
induces men of reputation to devote themselves to the preparation of 
popular lectures. In some parts of the country a number of adjacent 
cities or villages enter into an arrangement by which the same lecture 
may be repeated, in succession, at each place ; and in this way the 
amount paid becomes sufficient to call forth the best talent. A plan of 
this kind has been adopted by the Athenaeum of Richmond, Virginia, 
with reference to the lectures before the Smithsonian Institution, the 
effect of which has been mutual^ beneficial. Popular lectures appear 
better ada{)ted to present literary and historical facts, and to give 
information relative to subjects of art and of morals, than to impart 
a knov^ledge of scientific principles. These require more attention and 
continuous thought than can be generally expected from a promis- 
cuous audience. Hence the scientific lecturer tre(|uently aims at a 
brilliant display of experiments, rather than to impress the mind with 
general principles. 

Local lectures are too limited in their influence to meet a proper 
interpretation of the will of Smithson; yet they were ordered by Con- 
gress, and are calculated to do more good in this city than in any other 
part of the Union. 

In selecting lecturers, the consideration of mere popular effect has 
not been regarded. The persons chosen have been such as to give 
weight to the lecture, and to reflect credit on the Institution. The 
object has been to give instruction rather than amusement — to improve 
the public taste rather than to elicit popular applause. The Institution, 
to be respected, must maintain a dignified character, and seek rather 
to direct public opinion than to obtain pojiularity by an opposite 
course. 

The moral effect whicli the lectures have on the city of Washington 
cannot be otherwise than beneficial. When the weather is favorable, 
the room is cver}^ evening crowded before the hour of commencement 
witli an inteUigent audience. The lecturers have generally been per- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 251 

sons from a distance, who have expressed surprise to find such a large 
and respectlul attendance in a city which is commonly thought to be 
exclusively devoted to politics and amusement. The plan of inviting 
gentlemen of reputation and influence from a distance; renders the 
Smithsonian operations familiar to those best qualified to appreciate 
their value, and best able to give a correct account of the character of 
the Institution in their own districts of country, as well as to vindicate 
its claims to the confidence and friendly regard of the public. The 
results of this course, and the distribution of the volumes of Contribu- 
tions to colleges and other institutions, it is hoped, will so establish the 
Institution in the good opinion of the intelligent and influential part of 
the community, that it may bid defiance to the assaults of those who 
are ignorant of its true character, or are disappointed in not sharing its 
honors without the' talents or the industry to win them. 

The following is a hst of the titles of lectures given during the last 
session of Congress, with the names of the gentlemen by whom they 
were delivered : 

A course of three lectures by Dr. E. K. Kane, U. S. N., on Arctic 
Exploration. 

A course of three lectures by President Mark Hopkins, of WiUiams 
College, on Method applied to Investigation. 

A course of four lectures by Prof. W. B. Rogers, of the Universitv 
of Virginia, on the Phases of the Atmosphere. 

A course of twelve lectures by Dr. Benjamin Silliman, sen., of Yale 
College, on Geology. 

A course of two lectures by Prof C. C. Felloii, of Harvard Univer- 
sity, on Greek Literature. 

One lecture, by Job R. Tyson, esq., of Philadelphia : (^ueen Ehza- 
beth and Ohver Cromwell, their characters and times, contrasted and 
compared. 

A course of six lectures by Dr. B. A. Gould, jr., ol" Cambridge, on 
the Recent I'rogress of Astronomy. 

A course of six lectures by Prof Louis Agassiz, of Cambridge, on 
tiie Foundation of Symmetry in the Animal Kingdom. 

A course of six lectures by Prof B. »Silliman, jr., on the four ancient 
elements — Earth, Air, Fire, and Water. 

Omitted from previous report : A course of twelve lectures by Dr. 
Henry Goadliy, on the Structure and I'unctions of Insects. 

In tlu! last Report to the Regents some general remarks were made 
relative to the library and museum, and nothing has since occurred to 
change the opinions then expressed. On the contrary, the experience 
of another year has tended to confirm these opinions, and to clearly 
exhibit the fact that it will be impossible to continue with the present 
income some of the most important operations, and rigidly adhere to 
the resolution of the Regents of 1847, to devote one half of the whole 
income to the library and museum, besides all the expenditures still 
required on the building for the accommodation of these objects. Bj 
a reference to the annual reports of the Executive Committee, it will 
be seen that the general incidental expenses have continually increased 



252 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

from year to year; and it is evident that they must continue to increase 
in a geometrical ratio, on account of tlie greater repairs which, in time, 
will be required on the building. After deducting from the income the 
cost of repairs, hghting, and heating ; of messenger, attendants, and 
watchmen ; of stationery, transportation, and postage ; after divichng 
the remainder by two, and deducting from the quotient the expense of 
the public lectures, the final sum to be devoted to the most important, 
and, indeed, the only legitimate object of the bequest, is exceedingly 
small. 

The attempt has, however, been made in good faith to carry out the 
resolution of February, 1847 ; and if items which may properly be 
charged to the library and collections were added to this side of the 
account, the balance up to the present date would be in favor of the 
active operations. But the plan has not been Ibund to work well ia 
practice. The income is too small properly to support more than one 
system of operations, and tlierefore the attempt to establish and sustain 
three depaitments, \vith separate ends and separate interests, must 
lead to inharmonious action, and consequently to diminished usefulness. 

However proper such a division of the income might have been in 
the beginning, in order to harmonize conflicting opinions, and to submit 
with proper caution the several proposed schemes to a judicious trial, 
the same considerations do not now exist for its continuance ; changes 
have since occurred which materially alter the conditions on which the 
resolution was founded. The plan of active operations was not at first 
fully understood even by the literary men of the country. It was 
considered chimerical, and incapable of being continued for any length 
of time ; and hence it was thought important to provide for the means 
of falling back upon a library and collections. The experience of six 
years has, however, established its practicability and importance, and 
it is now considered by the great majority of intelligent persons 
who have studied the subject, the only direct means of realizing the 
intention of the donor. Again: the building was to have been finished 
in five years, and the income alter tliis was to be increased by the 
interest on the remaining surplus fund ; but the Regents have found it 
necessary, for the better security of the library and museum, to add fifty 
thousand dollars to the cost of the edifice ; and ten yeai's will have 
elapsed from the beginning, instead of five, before any income from 
the surplus fund will be available. This additional expense is not 
incurred for the active operations, and the question ma}"^ be asked 
whether they ought to bear any pait of this additional burden. Further- 
more, at the time the division was made, it was thought obligatory on 
the part of the Institution to support the great museum of the Exploring 
Expedition ; but the Regents have since concluded that it is not advisa- 
ble to take charge of this collection ; and Congress, by its appropriation 
tor the enlargement of the Patent Office, concurred in the opiniun 
expressed in the Senate by the Hon. Jefferson Davis, that it was a gift 
which ought not to be pressed upon the Institution. The inquiry may 
also, in this case, be made, whether it is advisable in the present state 
ol the funds, and the wants of the active operations, to expend any 
considerable portion of the income in the production of a collection 
of objects of nature and art. Again : the active operations are procur- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 253 

iig annually for the library, by exchange, a large number of valuable 
books, which, in time, of themselves will form a rare and valuable 
collection ; and even if the division of the income is to be continued, 
a sum equal in amount to the price ot" these books ought to be charged 
to the library, and an equal amount credited to the active operations. 

Though a large library connected with the Institution would be 
valuable in itself, and convenient to those who are in the immediate 
vicinity of the Smithsonian building, yet, as has been said before, it 
is not essential to the active operations. It would be of comparatively 
little importance to the greater number of the co-laborers of the Insti- 
tution, who are found in every part of the United States, and are not 
confined even within these limits. The author of the great work 
on the American Alg«, now publishing in the Smithsonian Contribu- 
tions, is a resident member of Trinity College, Dublin ; and very 
few of the authors of the Smithsonian memoirs reside in Washington. 
The libraries, therefore, of the whole country, and in some cases of 
other countries, are at the service of the Institution, and employed for 
its purposes. 

Similar remarks apply to the museum. It is not the intention 
of tlie Institution to attempt to examine and describe within the 
vralls of its own building all the objects which may be referred to it. 
To accomplish this, a cor])S of naturalists, each learned in his own 
branch, would be required, at an expense which the whole income 
would be inadequate to meet. In the present state of knowledge, that 
profound attainment necessary to advance science can be made by 
an individual, however gifted, only in one or two narrow lines ; and 
hence several members are required to complete a single class in any 
of the learned academies of Europe : therefore the plan which was 
once proposed, of establishing on the Smithsonian fund an academy 
of associated members, was entirel}^ incompatible wntli the limited 
income of the Institution. The more feasible and far less expen- 
sive organization was adopted, of referring, for investigation, all sci- 
entific questions of importance, as well as objects of natural history, 
to persons of reputation and learning in different parts of the United 
States, and perhaps, in some cases, in foreign countries. By the 
operation of this plan, which has been found eminently practicable, 
the collections, as well as the libraries of the whole country, are ren- 
dered subservient to the use of the Institution. 

There can be but little doubt that, in due time, ample provision will 
be made for a library and museum at the capital of this Union worthy 
of a government whose perpetuity depends upon the virtue and intelli- 
gonce of the people. It is, therefore, unwise to hamper the more im- 
portant objects of this Institution, by attempting to anticipate results 
which will be eventually produced without the expenditure of its 
means. 

The prominent idea embraced in the Smithsonian organization, is 
that of co-operation and concerted action with all institutions and indi- 
viduals engaged in the promotion of knowledge. Its design is not to 
monopolize any part of the wide fields of nature or of art, but to invite 
all to partake in the pleasure and honor of their cultivation. It seeks 
not to encroach upon ground occupied by other institutions, but to ex- 



254 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT, ETC. 

pend the funds in doing that which cannot be us well done by other 
means. It gives to the words of Smithson their most liberal inter- 
pretation, and ^^ increases and diffuses hioidedge among men^'' by pro- 
moting the discovery of new truths, and by disseminating these in 
every part of the civilized world. 

Respectfully submitted, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 



INDEX. 



Page. 

Ability of the Individual to Promote Knowledge, Lecture on 207 

Aboriginal Monuments of New York 191 

Academy of Arts and Sciences, Report of. 148 

Accounts, new system of, introduced 235 

Achromatic Microscope ordered 146 

Achromatic Telescope purchased 163 

Active Operations, results of. 252, 231 

Act of Congress accepting Bequest of Smithson HI 

Act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian Institution 112 

Adams, John Quincy, Words of, respecting Plan 133 

Adams, Prof. C. B. , Appropriation to 245 

Adams, C. B., Exploration by 220 

Address on Smithsonian Institution 120 

Advantages of Publications 135 

Africa, Institutions in 49 

Agassiz, Prof. L. , Memoir by 172 

Agassiz, Prof. L., Lectures by 251, 207 

Agassiz, Prof. L., Troost's Memoir 213 

Agricultural Society, use of rooms granted to 7g 

Agriculture, Application of Chemistry to 180 

Air, Earth, Fire, Water, Lectures on 05] 

Airy, Prof., Accuracy of Epiiemeris of Neptune 221 

Alexander, Capt. B. S., appointed Architect g9 

Alexander, Prof. S., Lectures by 207 27 

Alps, The, Lecture on 230 

American Antiquarian Society 219 14 

American Antiquities 219, 203, 178, 172, 140, 14 

American Association, Committee of, on Extending Meteorological System 222 

American Board of Missions 214 

American Medical Association = I74 

American Philosophical Society 239 218 213 

American Sloths 240 

Analysis of Soils and Plants jgo 

Ancient Monuments 219 203 178 172 140 14 

Aneroid Barometer, Experiments on ^ I99 

Annals of Philosophy, Contributions to, by Smithson 110 

Antiquities of Wisconsin „ 220 14 

Apparatus 180, 145 

Appendix 105 

Appropriations for 1854 99 79 

Architecture of the Middle Ages, Lecture on 230 

Arctic Exploration, Lectures on 251 



258 INDEX. 

Page. 

Asia, Institutions in 49 

Association, Lecture on 230 

Astronomical Clock 203 

Astronomical Instrmncnts for Chili 203, 173 

Astronom}', Promotion of, by tlie Institution 231 

Astronomy, Recent Progress of. Lectures on 251 

Atchison, Hon. D. R., Letter to 3 

Atwatcr, Mr., on Mounds of Ohio Valley , 219 

Aurora 199, 24 

Bache, Prof, Paper presented by 191 

Bailey, Prof J. W 191, 17 

Baird, Dr. Robert, Lectures by 27 

Baird, Prof S. F., appointed Assistant 224, 189 

Baird, Prof. S. F., Directions for Collecting Specimens of Natural History by 217 

Baird, Prof. S. F., Explorations by 220, 20O 

Baird, Prof. S. F., in charge of Exchanges 218 

Baird, S. F., Report of, for 1853 36 

Baird and Girard, Catalogue of Serpents 19 

Barometers, by Ernst and Newman 197 

Barnard, Henry, Lectures by 27 

Bartlelt, John R., Report on Squier k. Davis 144 

Batis Maritima 16 

Batut, Madame de la 209 

Beck, Prof. Lewis C, Lecture by 207 

Beck, Prof. Lewis C, Report by 180 

Beck, T. Romeyn, Meteorological System of New York 175 

Belgium, Institutions in 44 

Bermuda, Meteorological Observations from 176 

Berrien, Hon. J. M., Construction of the Act by 117 

Berzclius, Report of, on Physical Science 138 

Bethune, Rev. Dr. G. W., Lecture Ijy 207 

Bibliographia Americana 179, 163 

Birds, received 1853 53 

Blanco, E., Liberality of. 203 

Blodgot, Lorin .247, 99, 25 

Booth, Prof J. C 216 

Booth and Morfit, Report on Chemical Arts, by 242, 216, 19 

Bossange, Hector, Distribution of Publications by 38 

Botany of California 212 

Botany, Promotion of, l»y the Institution 232 

Bowditch, Anecdote of. 135 

Brackenridge, AV. D 16 

Bridgmm, Laura, Vocal Sounds of 191 

Briggs, Governor , . 197 

Building, Changes in 184 

Building Committee, Summary of Report for 1852 235 

Building Committee, Report of, for 1853. .*. 69 

Bulvver, Sir Henry 218 

Byington, Rev. Harvey, Choctaw Grammar by 241 

By-Laws of the Smithsonian Institution 100 

California Academy of Natural Sciences 76 

Cameron, Gilbert, Balance due, paid 78 



INDEX. 259 

F'age . 

Cameron, Gilbert, Petition from 74 

Canada, Visit of Secretary to 176 

Carlisle, J. M., Counsel for the Boar4 69 

Carroll, Charles, of Carrollton, Lecture on 27 

Cass, Gen., Resolution of. 211 

Catalogue of Apparatus 180 

Catalogue of Books in Washington 181 

Catalogues of Libraries , 248, 204 

Catalogue of Library of Congress 248, 27 

Catalogue of North American Reptiles 19 

Catalogue System, Advantages of 241, 33 

Centigrade Scale proposed to be adopted 165 

Central America, Meteorological Observations from 176 

Chamberlain, Mr., Pneumatic Instruments by 180 

Chandler, Joseph R., Chairman of Committee on Smithsonian Institution in House 

of Representatives 78 

Cliappellsinith, .Tno., Account of a Tornado 14 

Chemical Arts, Recent Improvements in 242, 216, 19 

Chemical Oper:itions of Nature, Lectures on 207 

Chemistry, Application of, to Agriculture 180 

Chilian Government established Observatory at Santiago 203 

Chili, Astronomical Expedition to 245, 203, 172, 163 

Choctaw Language, Grammar of. 241 

Classification of Insects upon Embryological Data 172 

Cleaveland, Prof. Parker, elected Honorary Member 101 

Climate, Lectures on 27 

Coast Survey, Observations made by 213 

Coast Survey connected with Smithsonian Institution in Magnetic Observations. ... 21 

Coffin, Professor J. H., Winds of the Northern Hemisphere 213, 13 

Coleoptera, Catalogue of. 217, 18 

Collections in Natural History 253, 249, 227, 202, 181, 177, 51, 26 

Comet, Discovery of, by Miss Mitchell 171 

Commencement of Operations of the Institution 140 

Conimissioner of Patents, Arrangement witii 162 

Commission on Catalogue System , . 204 

Committee of Conference with Board of Regents 103 

Committee on By-Laws 100 

Communication of Chancellor and Secretary 7 

Comparative Anatomy of the Fcog 238 

Comparative Anatomy, promotion of, by tlie Institution 232 

Compatibility of two plans 189 

Compromise, rigidly adhered to , 224 

Congress, act of, accepting bequest of Smithson Ill 

Congress, act of, establishing the Institution 112 

Congress, appropriation by, to commence Catalogue of its Library. 248, 27 

Construction of the act of establishment, by Mr. Berrien 117 

Contribution to the Physical Geography of the United States 171 

Convention of Librarians 31 

Copyright Law, change in, necessary 226 

Copyright, none taken on Smithsonian Publications 195 

Corcoran & Riggs, deposit with 72 

Corcoran, W. W : 235 



260 INDEX. 



Correspondence, nature and extent of 22 

Correspondence relative to acceptance of Squier & Davis's v.-ork 141 

Cost of publishing Scientific works ... 136 

Cox, Dr. Samuel H., Lectures by 230 

Cromwell and Queen Elizabeth, Lectures on 251 

Croton Water, microscopic organisms in 18 

Cuba, Institutions in 50 

Cubic Equations, new method of solving 171 

Culbertson, Alexander 200 

Culbertson, Thaddeus 227, 220, 199, 12 

Dakota Language, Grammar and Dictionary of. 214 

Darlington, Dr. William 16 

Darlingtonia Californica 16 

Darwin, Dr., Researches by 239 

Davis, Hon. Jefferson, Opinion respecting Museum of Exploring Expedition 252 

Davis, Lieutenant C. H. , Lectures by 207 

Davis, Lieutenant C. H., Memoir on the Tides, by 215 

Denmark, Institutions in 41 

Derby, H. W., Agent 51 

Description of Ancient Works in Ohio 236 

Diffusing Knowledge, means of. 138, 130 

Directions for Collection and Preservation of specimens of Natural History 241, 217 

Distribution of publications 242, 194, 37 

Domestic Exchanges 51 

Donation from Dr. Hare 180, 167 

Donors to Museum 57 

Downes, John, Occultations for 1849, by 160 

Downes, John, Occultations for 1850, by 173 

Downes, John, Occultations for 1851 , by 201 

Dynamical Phenomena of Geology, Lectures on 207 

Dynamic effects of the Tides 215 

Earth, Air, Fire, Water, Lectures on , 251 

Earthquake, Instrument for measuring 164 

Ehrcnberg, Professor 17 

Eighth Annual Report presented 3 

Electrical Rlieometry 236, 172 

Electricity, recent discoveries in 19 

Elgin Marbles, Moulds from , proposed 78 

Ellet, Charles, Jr 171 

Emory, Major W H 204, 177 

Engelman, Dr. George, Agent 51 

English Language, History of. Lecture on 230 

Engravings, Valuable Collection of, procured 205 

Entomology, Lecture on 230 

Ephemeris of Neptune 221, 201, 173, 160 

Erosions of the Surface of the Earth 200 

Espy, Professor 19G, 175, 161, 147 

Establishment, Members of 6 

Establishment, meetings of. 109 

Estimates to be made by Executive Committee and Secretary 78 

Ethnology 232, 228, 219, 203, 178, 172, 140, 54, 14 

Etlmological Chart 178 



INDEX. 261 

Page. 

Ethnological Society, Report of, on Squier and Davis's Memoir 141 

Europo-American Physical Man, Memoir on 76 

Everett, Edw. , Report on Programme 155 

Examples of Objects for which appropriations may be made 130 

Exchange, Advantages of Smithsonian System of. 25 

Exchanges 232, 218, 37, 25 

Executive Committee, Report of, 1853 66 

Executive Committee to settle claims of L. Blodget 99 

Expenditures during 1853 67 

Experiments in Stereotyping 200 

Experiments on Building Material 220 

Experiments on the Cause of Explosion of Steam-boilers 137 

Explanations and Illustrations of the Programme 133 

Explorations 245, 220, 199, 181, 52 

Exploration by Prof. Baird 200 

Exploring Expedition, Museum of. 182 

Explosiveness of Nitre 171 

Exposition of System of Cataloguing 241, 32 

Extinct species of Fossil Ox 239 

Extra copies of Report ordered 3 

Extract from an Address by the Secretary 120 

Felton, Prof. C. C, lectures by 251 

Felton, Prof. C. C. , Memoir examined by 215 

Felton, Prof. C. C, Recommendation of Choctaw Grammar 241 

Fendler, Mr., Plants collected by 212, 128 

Fifth Report of the Secretarj' 208 

Fire, "Water, Air, Earth, Lectures on 251 

First Report of the Secretary, December, 1847 127 

Fishes received, 1853 53 

Fitall, Jno., Widow of 205 

Fitch, Hon. G. N., Resolution on Income 72 

Fitch, Hon. G. N., Resolution on Surplus Fund 72 

Flora and Fauna within living animals 215 

Fliigel, Dr. .1. G., Distribution of Publications by 38 

Foreign Distribution and Exchange 37 

Foreign Institutions in Correspondence 40 

Foreman, Prof E., Outline Map by 199 

Foreman, Prof. E., Meteorological Correspondence, by 223 

Forest Trees, Report on 217, 179 

Forsyth, Hon. Jno., Letter to, from Richard Rush 108 

Fossils received 1853 54 

Foundation of Symmetry in the Animal Kingdom, Lectures on 251 

Four Ancient Elements, Lectures on 251 

Fowler, W. C. , Lectures by 230 

Fourth Report of the Secretary 185 

France, Institutions in 45 

France, Lectures on 27 

Fremont, Col., Plants discovered by 212 

French Academy of Science 165 

Fruits of the Active Operations 231 

Funds, General Statement of. « 235, 66 

Gallatin, A., letter from 142 



262 INDEX. 

Page. 

Gallatin, A., letter to, from Prof. Henry 141 

Gallery of Art , .' 249, 2U5 

General consklerations in ndopting plan of organization , ... 128 

General Expenses, Remarks on 251 

Geography, promotion of, by the Institution 231 

Geology, Lectures on 251 , 2.30, 183 

Geology, promotion of, by the Institution 232 

Germany, Institutions in 42 

Gibbs's, Prof., recommendation of Choctaw Grammar 241 

Gibbes, R. W., Memoir by 172 

Gilbert, Davies, Notice of Smithson, by 109 

Gilliss, Lieut. .1. M 245, 203, 1G3 

Girard, Chas., Catalogue of Serpents by 19 

Girard, Chas., Exploration by 220 

Girard, Chas., Memoir by 192 

Gould, B. A., Lectures by 251 

Gould, B. A., History of discovery of Planet Neptune 179 

Graham, Col., Apparatus delivered to 204 

Grammar of the Choctaw language 241 

Grand Manan, Marine Invertebrata of. 17 

Gray, Dr. Asa, Planta? Wrightiante 238, 212 

Gray, Dr. Asa, Plants referred to 227 

Gray, Dr. Asa, Report on Forest Trees, by 242, 217, 194, 179 

Gray, Dr. Asa, Report on Programme, by 155 

Great Britain and Ireland, Institutions in 47 

Greece, Institutions in ^19 

Gregg, Dr. , Collections by 212 

Greek Literature, Lectures on 251 

Green, James, Meteorological Instruments made by 197, 175 

Guatemala, Institutions in 50 

Guest, W. E., on Mounds 219 

Guyot, Prof. A., Barometrical Exploration by 177 

Guyot, Prof. A., Lectures by 27 

Guyot, Prof. A., Meteorological Tables 242, 217 

Guyot, Prof. A., Proposition made by 165 

Guyot, Prof. A., Report on Meteorological Instruments 180 

Haldeman, Prof. S. S., Coleoptera 18 

Haldeman, Prof. S. S., Lectures by 230 

Hall, Prof. James, Troost's Memoir 213 

Hall, Rev. Jno., Lecture by 207 

Hare, Dr. Piobt., Apparatus of, repaired 204 

Hare, Dr. Robt., Donation from 180, 167 

Hare, Dr. Robt., Experiments of. • 201 

Hare, Dr. Robt., Memoir by 171 

Hare, Dr. Robt., Remarks respecting Apparatus of 102 

Harlan, Dr., Species described by 241 

Harmonies of Nature and History, Lectures on 27 

Harvey, Prof. W. H., Lecture by 207 

Harvey, Prof. W. II., Marine Algre 237, 192 

Hawle}', Gideon • 175 

Hays, Dr., Opiuion of Memoir on Extinct Slotli 241 

Henry, Patrick, Lecture on 27 



INDEX. 263 



Henry, Prof. Jos., Letter from, to Hon. Albert Gallatin 141 

Henry, Prof. Jos. See Secretary 

Herbarium, North American 212 

Hints on Public Architecture 166 

Historical Society of Minnesota 214, 178 

Historical Society of New York 172 

History as a Science, Lecture on 230 

History and Pecuharities of the Englisli Language, Lectures on 207 

Hitchcock, President Edward, Investigations by 200 

Hitchcock, President Edward, Lectures by 183 

Holbrook, Dr., on Reptiles 19 

Holland, Institutions in 41 

Holland, Lecture on 207 

Honorary Members, List of. 6 

Honorary Member, Nominations for 102, 101 

Hopkins, President Mark, Lectures by 251 

Howe, Dr. S. G 191 

Hulse, Dr. G. W 16 

Hygrometer described 198 

Iceland, Institutions in 41 

Increase and Diffusion logically distinct 134 

Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge, plans for 129 

Increase of general expenses 251 

Induction, Lecture on 230 

Institutions for the Diffusion of Knowledge 134 

Institution for the Increase of Knowledge 134 

Instruments for Meteorological Observers 197, 175, 174 

Interruptions to Business 236 

Invertebrata received, 1853 53 

Italy, Institutions in 46 

Jackson, Dr., Survey of Mineral Lands 146 

Jefferson, President, first account of Extinct Sloth, by 239 

Jewett, C. C, Report for 1853 29 

Jewett, J. P. & Co., Agents 51 

Jewett, Proctor, &. Worthington, Agents 51 

Johnson, Professor J. F. W., Lecture by 207 

Kane, Dr. E. K., Lectures by 251,27 

Koeppen, Professor, Lectures by 183 

Lalande 169 

Lambdin, J. R., Letter from, on Moulds from Elgin Marbles 78 

Land Office, series of Magnetic Observations in 22 

Lapham, 1. A., Antiquities of Wisconsin 14 

Lapham, I. A., Survey of Mounds, by 220 

Law of Deposit of the Elood-Tide 215 

Lawrence, Hon. Abbot 205 

Lawson, Surgeon General Thomas 176 

Le Conte, Dr. J. L., Coleoptera 18 

Lecture Room 206 

Lectures 250, 228, 206, 183, 27 

Leeuwenhoek 1' 

Lefroy, Captain J. H., Aurora 176, 24 

Leidy, Dr. Joseph, Ancient Fauna of Nebraska 11 



264 INDEX. 

Page. 

Leidy, Dr. Joseph, Extinct Species of Ox 239 

Leidy, Dr. Joseph, Flora and Fauna 215 

Leidy, Dr. Joseph, organic remains, sent to 227 

Leidy, Dr. Josepli, Report on Specimens from Nebraska 220 

Leopoldin Caroline Academy 101 

Letter from three Regents calling special meeting 80 

Letter to the President of the Senate 3 

Leverrier, Planet Neptmie 170 

Libraries, Report on 216 

Lieber, Professor 191 

Library 253, 249, 248, 223, 204, 181, 166,29,26 

Lindheimer 212 

Lippincott, Grambo,&Co., Agents 51 

Literary and Scientific Assemblies, rooms thrown open for 140 

Locke, Dr., Emplo3'ed in Survey of Mineral Lands 146 

Locke, John 213 

London and Edinburgh Journal 193 

Longfellow, H. W., Report on Programme 155 

Loomis, Prof., Estimate of Expenses for Meteorological System 160 

Loomis, Prof., Exposition of Advantages from Study of Meteorology 147 

Lowell Institute 250, 192, 183 

Ludlow, Dr. Jno., Lectures by 230 

Macie, James Lewis, Original name of Smithson 108 

Magnetic Force, Dip, Inclination, and Intensity of 213 

Magnetic Instruments, Description of 20 

Magnetic Instruments purchased 204 

Magnetic Observatory 21,20 

Magnetism 232, 204, 176, 162, 19 

Mammals received 1853 52 

Marine Algas 237, 192 

Marine Algae, Lectures on 207 

Marine Invertebrata of Grand Manan 17 

Marsli, Geo. P., Report on Squier & Davis 144 

Mason, Hon. J. M., Resolution on Powers of Secretary 98 

Massachusetts Meteorological System 222, 197 

Mauvaises Terres 200, 11 

Mclntyre, Archibald 196 

Meacham, Hon. J., Appointed on Special Committee 77 

Meacliam, Hon. J., Picsolution on Estimates 75 

Mechanism of Speech, Lecture on 230 

Meeting of the Establishment 27 

Melsheimer, F. G., Coleoptera 217, 18 

Memorial on Uniform Coinage 78 

Memorial to Congress on Surplus Fund 78 

Meteorological Correspondence 199 

Meteorological Instruments 223, 222, 197 

Meteorological Observers, Jan. 1, 1854 60 

Meteorological Observers, commencing since 1st Jan., 1854 64 

Meteorological System of New York (established 1825) 196, 175 

Meteorological Tables 217 

Meteorolog)^, Promotion of, by tlie Institution 231 

Meteorology, System of 245,222, 195, 174, 23 



INDEX. 265 



Method applied to Investigation, Lectures on 251 

Metropolitan Mechanics' Institute, Models lent to 76 

Metropolitan Mechanics' Institute Lectures 27 

Mexico, Institutions in 50 

Microscopic Examination of Soundings 192 

Microscopic Organisms, New Forms of 17 

Minerals received 1853 54 

Minnesota, Historical Society of 214 

Mitchell, Miss Maria 171 

Modern Athens, Lecture on 183 

Modern Egypt and its Institutions, Lectures on 27 

Modern Europe, Lectures on. 27 

Monograph of the Fresh Water Cottoids 192 

Monograph of Mosasaurus 191, 172 

Morfit, Campbell 216 

Morphology of the Vegetable Kingdom, Lectures on 207 

Morris, Dr. Jno. G. , Lectures by 230 

Morton, Samuel G., Report on Squier & Davis 144 

Mosasaurus, Monograph of 191, 172 

Mounds of Western Virginia 203 

Mower, Dr. , Valuable Aid from 197 

Miiller, M.,Work on Electricity 19 

Museum 253, 249, 226, 202, 181, 56, 54, 51, 26 

Museum of E.xploring Expedition 182 

National Museum, Importance of 227 

Natural History, Promotion of, by the Institution 232 

Natural History, Work done in 55 

Nautical Almanac 244, 221, 201, 173 

Neptune, Ephemeris of 221, 201, 173, 160 

Neptune, History of Discovery of Planet 179 

Neptune, Memoir on the Planet 169 

New Expedition in Search of Sir John Franklin, Lecture on 27 

New York Meteorological System 222, 196 

New York Meteorological Observers 63 

Nitre, Explosion of 171 

Norman, B. M., Agent 51 

Norway, Institutions in 41 

Notices of Public Libraries in the United States 216, 194, 31 

Objections to publishing memoirs answered 159 

Observations in Series or Summaries 64 

Observers, Classes of. 174 

Observers, List of Meteorological 60 

Occultations, Description of. 244 

Occultations for 1850 173 

Occultations for 1851 201 

Occultations for 1852 222 

Octavo publications for 1853 37 

Officers of the Institution 5 

Original Researches 245, 220, 199, 172, 159, 26 

Original Research, Encouragement to 137 

Origin and Growth of the Union during the Colonial Period, Lectures on 207 

Papers presented to Ptoyal Society by Smithson 110 



266 INDEX. 

Page. 
Papers referred to in Report of Select Committee, to be communicated to the 

Board 97 

Parish, Henry, Bill for Canina's Architecture 75 

Peale, Titian R., Mounds at St. Louis 219 

Pearce, Hon. J. A., Report of 81 

Peirce, Benj., Report on Progr.amme 155 

Peirce, Prof. B., Planet Neptune 244, 222, 202, 170 

Phases of the Atmosphere, Lectures on 251 

Photographic Register of Motions of the Magnetic Needle 76, 20 

Physical Geography of United States 177, 171 

Physical Society of Berlin , 165 

Physiology, Promotion of, by the Institution 232 

Pidgeon, Wm. , Exploration of Mounds by 219 

Pike, B., and Sons, Instrument Makers 198, 175 

Pise, P«,ev. C. C, Lectures by 27 

Plan of Orgauization 129 

Planet Neptune 244, 221, 201, 169, 160 

Plantac Fremontianre 212 

Planta3 WrightianfB 239, 236 

Plants received 1853 53 

Poetry, Lecture on 230 

Policy in Accepting Donations 209 

Portraits of Nortii American Indians in Smithsonian Institution 242 

Portugal, Institutions in 47 

Potter, Rev. Alonzo, Lecture by 207 

Primordial Arrangement of Existing S^'stems, Lecture on 207 

Proceedings of the Board of Regents 72 

Programme of Organization 128 

Programme of Organization, Report of Committee of American Academj- on 148 

Prominent idea of Smithsonian Operations 253 

Publications, Advantages of 135 

Pubhcations 23G, 210, 190, 1G8, 156, 36, 11 

Purchases of Objects of Natural History not to be made 202 

Putnam, Geo. P., and Co., Agents 51 

Queen Elizabeth and Oliver Cromwell, Lectures on 251 

Radiant Heat, Investigations on 163 

Rain and Snow Gauges 198 

Receipts during 1853 67 

Receipts by Exchange, 1853 50 

Received for American Institutions, &.c 50 

Received from American Institutions for distribution abroad 40 

Reciprocal Action of two Galvanic Currents 191 

Recent Improvements in the Chemical Arts 242, 216, 19 

Recent Progress of Astronomy, Lectures on 251 

Reed, Prof. Henry, Lecture by 207 

Regents of the Institution, List of. 5 

Regents of the Institution, Proceedings of 72 

Regents of University of New York 175 

Registers of Periodical Phenomena 56 

Relations of Time and Space, Lectures on 207 

Removal of Assistants b}' Secretary authorized by Board 98 

Removal of Assistants, J. M. Berrien's Opinion on 119 



INDEX. 267 

Page . 

Report of American Ethnological Society , 142 

Report of Building Committee gg 

Report of Executive Committee , gg 

Report of Committee of American Academy of Arts and Sciences on the Programme 

of Organization J48 

Reports of the Secretary from 1847 to 1853 125 

Report of the Secretary for 1848. .' 15g 

Report of the Secretary for 184!) Igg 

Report of the Secretary for 1850 185 

Report of the Secretary for 1851 208 

Report of the Secretary for 1852 231 

Report of the Secretary for 1853 9 

Report of Select Committee ordered to be printed 97 

Report of Select Committee on Estimates 78 

Report of Select Committee on Resolutions of Messrs. Fitch and Meacliam 81 

Report on Forest Trees 242, 217, 194, 179 

Report on Libraries 216, 194, 31 

Reports on Progress of Knowledge 241, 216, 193, 179, 164, 138, 19 

Reptiles received 1853 53 

Researches 245, 220, 199, 172, 159, 26 

Resolution of February, 1847, carried out 252 

Resolutions submitted by Select Committee 97 

Richmond Athenasum, Arrangement by, respecting Lecturers 250 

Riggs, Rev S. R., Dakota Grammar by 214 

Robinson, Edward, Report on Squier and Davis 144 

Rogers, Prof. H. D., Lecture by 207 

Rogers, Prof. W. B., Lectures by 251 

Royal Society, Co-operation with 243 

Royal Society, Publications Distributed by 39 

Royal Society, Papers presented to, by Smithson 109 

Royal Society, Remarks of President of 109 

Rules for Acceptance of Memoirs 156 

Rules for Distribution of Smithsonian Publications 194 

Rumford, Count, Founder of Royal Institution 234 

Rush, Hon. R., Letter to Hon. Jno. Forsyth, from 108 

Russell, Jno., Agent 51 

Russia, Institutions in 41 

Sabine Colonel, Terrestrial Magnetism 213 

Sabine Colonel, Correspondence with, on Meteorology 146 

Santiago, Observator}' at , 203 

School, Lecture on The, 27 

Science Applied to Agriculture, Lectures on 207 

Secchi, Prof. A., Memoir by 191, 172 

Second Report of the Secretary 156 

Secretary, Reports of. 231, 208, 185, 168, 156, 127, 125, 9 

Seismometer, ordered for Lieut. Gilliss 164 

Serpents, Catalogue of, in Smithsonian Museum 19 

Silliman, Prof. B., .Jr., Lectures by 251 

Silliman, Prof. B., Sr., Lecture bj' 251, 230 

Sixth Report of the Secretary 231 

Sloth Tribe of North America 240 

Smith, Prof. J. Lav/rence, Lectures by^ 27 



268 INDEX. 

Page. 

Smitlison, Account of, by Richard Rush 108 

Smithson, Medallion of. 206 

Sniithson, Notice of, by Davies Gilbert 109 

Smithson, Portrait of. ^ 205 

Smithson, Will of, 107 

Smithsonian Contributions 66 

Smithsonian Contributions, Distribution of Vol. Y 40 

Smithsonian Institution, Act Establishing 112 

Smithsonian Institution, Address on 120 

Smithsonian System of Eixchanges 218 

Snell, Prof., Illustration of Wave Motion 180 

South America, Institutions in 50 

Spain, Institutions in 47 

Sparks, Jared, Report on Programme 155 

Special Committee on Distribution of Income, &c., appointed 72 

Special Committee, Report of 81 

Special meeting of the Board 79 

Spirit of the Age, Lecture on 207 

Spooner, Dr. S., Proposition respecting publication of MusPe Fran(;ais, &c 75 

Sprague, Isaac, Botanical Draughtsman 213 

Squier, E. G., Memoir by 172, 141 

Squier, E. G., Idols from 203 

Standard Meteorological Instruments 222, 197 

Stanley's Indian Gallery, account of 249, 242 

Statement of Finances, end of year 1853 66 

Stansbury, Captain, Report on Animals collected by 220 

Statistics of Diseases 174 

Stevens, Henry 179, 163, 39 

Stimpson, William, Marine Invertebrata of Grand Manan 17 

Strong, Professor, New Method of solving Cubic Equations, by 171 

Subjects which may be embraced in the Reports 131 

Sumner, George, Lecture by 27 

Sweden, Institutions in 40 

Swedish Academy, Reports of 165 

Switzerland, Institutions in 44 

Tables of Precipitation 247 

Tables to facilitate Meteorological Calculations 242 

Teachers' Association Lectures 27 

Telegraph lines used for Meteorological Intelligence 176 

Temperature Tables 247 

Tendencies of Modern Science, Lecture on 207 

Terrestrial Magnetism 232, 213, 204 

Thermometers, by Bunten, Troughton & Simms 197 

Third Report of the Secretary 168 

Thomas, Isaiah, Antiquarian Society founded by 219 

Tides of the Ocean, and their Geological Relations, Lectures on 207 

Topographical Regions of State of New York 196 

Tornado, Account of New Harmony 14 

Toronto, Observatory at 176 

Torrey , Dr. John, Batis Maritima 16 

Torrey, Dr. John, Darlingtonia Californica 16 

Torrey, Dr. John, Plantae Fremontiance 212 



INDEX. 269 

Page . 

Torrey, Dr. John, Plants referred to 227 

Totten, General, Resolution on alteration of East Wing 73 

Tracts on Practical Subjects 211 

Treasurer, Report of 73 

Treatises on Particular Subjects 165, 139, 131 

Troost, Dr., Memoir by. 213 

True policy of the Institution 234 

Turkey, Institutions in 49 

Turner, Professor W. W., Choctaw Grammar examined by 241 

Turner, Professor W. W., Dakota Grammar examined by ■, 215 

Turner, Professor W. W. Report on Squier & Davis 144 

Tyson, Job R., Lectures by 251, 27 

Unity of the Plan of the Animal Creation, Lectures on 207 

Unverified Speculations excluded from the Contributions 136 

Value of Works received by Exchange 249 

Van Dieman's Land, Institutions in 49 

V^ariation of the Needle 20 

Vastness of the Visible Creation, Lectures on 207 

Vattemare, M., System of Exchange 218 

Vindication of Researches and Memoirs 237 

Vinton, Dr. A. H., Lectures by 230 

Walker, Hon, Robert J., Observations directed by 213 

Walker, Sears C 244, 221, 169 

Warren, Josiah, New Method of Stereotyping 225 

Water, Earth, Air, Fire, Lectures on 251 

West India Islands, Meteorological Observations from 176 

Whittlesey, Charles 236, 219 

Wilkes, Com., Plants collected by Exploring Expedition under 16 

Will of Smithson 107 

Winds of the Northern Hemispiiere 213 

Wilson, Prof., of England, Models, &c., from 76 

Wilson, American Ornithologist, Letter to Michaux 135 

Wind Vanes 198 

Wisconsin, Antiquities of. 220, 14 

Wistar, Dr., Gigantic Sloth 239 

Wislizenus, Dr. , Plants gathered by 212 

Wotherspoon, Dr., Reduction of Meteorological Observations, by 197 

Wright, Charles, Explorations 212, 177 

Wyman, Dr. Jeffries, Anatomy of the Frog, by 238 

Wynn Estate, Communications respecting 75 

Wynn, Mr., account of Bequest of. ^ 234 

Young, Dr., Index to Natural Philosophy, by 225 

Young Men's Christian Association, Lectures 27 

Zoology, Promotion of, by the Institution 232 

Zoophytes, Troost 's Memoir on 213 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT 



BOARD OF REGE^fTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



SHOWING THE 



OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OP THE INSTITUTION 
UP TO JANUARY 1, 1S§9. 



AXD THE 



PR0CEEDIN(5S OF THE BOARD UP TO FEBRUARY 24, 1S55. 



WASHINGTON: 

BEVERLEY TUCKER, SENATE PRINTER 
1855. 



33d Congress, ) SENATE. C Mis. Doc. 

2d Session. ) ( No. 24. 



LETTER 

OF THE 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

COMMUNICATING 

The Ninth Annual Report of the Board of Regeiits of that Institution. 



March 1, 1855. — Read and ordered to be printed — motion to print 10,000 additional copies 

referred to Committee on Printing. 
March 2, 1855.— Ordered that 10,000 additional copies be printed, 2,500 of which be for the 

use of the Smithsonian Institution. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washi7igton, February 28, 1855. 
Sir: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit 
to the Senate of the United States, the Ninth Annual Report of the 
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution. 
I have the honor to be, very respectfullv, your obedient servant. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. Jesse D. Bright, 

President of the Senate. 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT 

OF THE 

BOARD OF REGENTS 

OF THE 

SMITHSONIAI INSTITUTIOI, 



SHOWING THE 



OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OP THE INSTITUTION UP TO JANUARY 1, 1S55, AND 
THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD LT TO FEBRUARY 24, 1S55. 



To the Senate and House of Representatives : 

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing 
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents, 
submit to^Congress, as a Report of the operations, expenditures, and 
condition of the Institution, the following documents : 

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the 
operations of the Institution during the year 1854. 

2. Report of tlie Executive Committee, giving a general statement 
of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an 
account of the expenditures for the year 1854. 

3. Report of the Building Committee, relative to the progress made 
in 1854 in the erection of the Smithsonia-n edifice. 

4. Proceedings of the Board of Regents up to February 24, 1855. 

5. Appendix. 

Respectfully submitted. 

ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor. 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary. 
February 28, 1855. 



OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



FRANKLIN PIERCE, Ex officio Presiding Officer of the Institution. 

ROGER B. TANEY, Ciiancellor of the Institution. 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary. 

W. W. SEA TON, Treasurer. 

WILLIAM J. RHEES, General Assistant. 



ALEXANDER D. BACHE, 
JAMES A. PEARCE, 
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, 

RICHARD RUSH, 
WILLIAM H. ENGLISH. 
JOHN T. TOWERS, 
JOSEPH HENRY, 



1 
)■ Executive Committee. 

J 



J- Buildinsr Committee. 



REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



, Vice President of the United States. 

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States. 

JOHN T. TOWERS, Mayor of the city of Washington. 

JAMES A. PEARCE, member of the Senate of the United States. 

JAMES M. MASON, member of the Senate of the United States. 

S. A. DOUGLAS, member of the Senate of the United States. 

W. H. ENGLISH, member of the House of Representatives. 

DAVID STUART, member of the House of Representatives. 

JAMES MEACHAM, member of the House of Representatives. 

GIDEON HAWLEY, citizen of New York. 

J. MACPHERSON BERRIEN, citizen of Georgia. 

RICHARD RUSH, citizen of Pennsylvania. 

ALEXANDER D. BACHE, member of the National Institute, Washington. 

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, member of the National Institute, Washington. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION, 



FRANKLIN PIERCE, President of the United States. 

, Vice President of the United States. 

WILLIAM L. MARCY, Secretary of State. 
JAMES GUTHRIE, Secretary of the Treasury. 
JEFFERSON DAVIS, Secretary of War. 
JAMES C. DOBBIN, Secretary of the Navy. 
JAMES CAMPBELL, Postmaster General. 
CALEB GUSHING, Attorney General. 
ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States- 
CHARLES MASON, Commissioner of Patents. 
JOHN T. TOWERS, Mayor of the city of Washington 



HONORARY MEMBERS. 



ROBERT HARE. 
WASHINGTON IRVING. 
BENJAMIN SILLIMAN. 
PARKER CLEAVELAND 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : It again becomes m}^ duty to present to your honor- 
able Board the Annual Report of the present condition of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, and of its operations during the year 1854. 

In this report I shall follow the course adopted in the previous ones, 
namely, to state such facts as may appear to be necessary to a con- 
nected history of the Institution, and to offer such suggestions as may 
seem important in reference to its future management. 

At no period since the commencement of the Institution has it at- 
tracted more attention, or given rise to more discussion, than during 
the past year ; but, thanks to the liberality of Congress, who ordered 
the printing of twenty thousand extra copies of the last report, to which 
were appended all the preceding reports of the secretary, together with 
sundry other documents, ample means have been afforded the reading 
public to become acquainted with the will of Smithson, his pursuits in? 
life, with the law of Congress establishing the Institution, and with all 
the acts of the Regents in the discharge of their duty. 

That the disposition of a bequest of so novel a character, the inten- 
tion of which was so briefly though comprehensively expressed, should 
give rise to a diversity of opinion, or that the act of Congress in refer- 
ence to it, which received repeated amendments, and was passed, after 
a discussion of several years, b}'^ a small majority, should be difTerently 
construed, is not surprising. 

In the language of Mr. Adams : "A British subject, of noble birth 
and ample fortune, desiring to bequeath his estate to the purpose of 
increasing and diffusing knowledge throughout the whole community of 
civihzed man, selected for tlie repository!' of his trust, with confidence 
unqualified, the United States of America. In the commission of every 
trust there is an implied tribute to the integrity and inteUigence of the 
trustee ; there is, also, an implied call for the faithful exercise of those 
properties to the fulfilment of the purposes of the trust. The tribute 
and the call acquire additional force and energy when the trust is com- 
mitted for performance after the decease of him by whom it is confided, 
and when he no longer exists to witness or constrain the effective fulfil- 
ment of his design. The magnitude of the trust, and the extent of con- 
fidence bestowed in the committal of it, do but enlarge and aggravate 
the obligation which it carries with it. The weight of duty imposed is 
in proportion to the honor conferred by confidence without reserve." 

" The principal purpose of Mr. Smithson was, evidently, the discovery 
of new truths, the invention of new means for the enlargement of human 
power, and not the mere communication of knowledge already pos- 



S NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

sessed. [n this point of view the bequest assumes an interest of the 
highest order, peculiar to itself, most happily adapted to the character 
of our republican institutions, and destined, if administered in the spirit 
in which it was bestowed, to command the grateful acclamations of 
future ages." No restriction is made as to any kind of knowledge ; but 
it is knowledge, the source of all human wisdom and beneficent power, 
which is to be increased and diffused; "knowledge, which as far tran- 
scends the postulated lever of Archemides, as the universe transcends 
this speck of earth upon its face ; knowledge, the attribute of Omnipo- 
tence, of which man alone, in the physical and material workl, is per- 
mitted to participate." Let not, then, any branch or department of 
human knowledge be excluded from its equitable share of this bene- 
faction. Again, no nation, community, or class of men, is designated 
as the special recipient of this bounty ; and it would be inconsistent 
with the selt-respect of a great confederated nation to receive, from the 
hands of a foreigner, a hberal fund for the increase and diffusion of 
knowledge throughout the world of man, and to apply it exclusively to 
its own purposes. 

The Regents, at their first session, conscious of the importance and 
magnitude of the trust confided to them, and of the responsibilities which 
devolved upon them, gave to the whole subject attentive and laborious 
consideration. They were impressed with the fact that the object of 
the law was to carry out the will of Smithson, and if there were any 
doubtful points, it was their duty to construe them with a view to this 
object. In conformity with this a plan was adopted, which, while it 
fulfilled all the requirements of the law, was in strict accordance with 
a logical interpretation of the will of the donor. This plan, after seven 
years' experience, has been found to realize all the hopes and anticipa- 
tions which were entertained in regard to it by its most sanguine advo- 
cates ; and, though it was adopted provisionally, to be changed or 
modified as circumstances might indicate, yet no essential alteration 
has been considered necessary by those best acquainted with its ope- 
rations. It is true that it is not, perhaps, in all respects, the simplest 
plan which could have been designed for carrying out the will of the 
testator ; and had the Regents been entirely unrestricted, they would 
probably have devoted a less portion of the income to local objects ; 
but, under all the conditions of the problem, it is believed that it was 
the best which could have been adopted to produce the desired result. 
And it may not be too much to say, that the present condition of the 
Institution, as to general reputation and financial prosperity, is much 
more favorable than experience in the management of public trusts 
would reasonably have led us to anticipate. 

All the requirements of the act of Congress, in the opinion of the Re- 
gents, have been faithfully and fully observed. Liberal provision has 
been made for the accommodation of a library, a museum, and a gal- 
lery of art, with lecture rooms and a laboratory, in the construction of 
a building which has cost 3300,000. A librorij has been commenced 
!tnd means devised for its continual extension, which will soon form the 
best special collection of valuable works pertaining to all branches of 
positive knowledge to be found in this 'country. The books which it 
now contains, if estimated by the prices paid for those which have 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 9 

been purchased, may be valued at not less than $40,000. A museum, 
the most complete of any in existence in several branches of the natu- 
ral history of the North American continent, has been collected, which 
has been valued at $30,000. A valuable and extensive cabinet of ay- 
paratus, consisting of instruments of illustration and research, has been 
formed. A beginning has also been made of a gallery of art, consisting 
of a choice collection of specimens of engravings by the old masters. 

Not only have the objects specified by Congress received due atten- 
tion, but also by a series oi^ active operations the influence of the Institu- 
tion has been extended to almost every part of our own and foreign 
countries. The publications, the exchanges, and the researches which 
have been instituted and prosecuted by the Institution, have indissolu- 
bh^ connected the name of Smithson with the progress of knowledge 
in our day. 

In accomplishing these objects the funds have not been exhausted, 
nor have debts been incurred. On the contrary, by strict adherence 
to a well devised S3'stem of finance, not only does the fund originally 
bequeathed by Smithson remain undiminished in the Treasury of the 
United States, but there is now on hand nearly SJ40,000 of unex- 
pended income to be added to the principal. 

In other words, the funds and propert}" are now estimated at double 
the amount of the original bequest. 

The plan of increasing and difliising knowledge by means of re- 
searches and publications is in strict accordance with the will of Smith- 
son. It embraces as a leading feature the design of interesting the 
greatest number of individuals in the operations of the Institution, and 
of extending its influence as widely as possible. It supplies a want 
which has long been felt in this country, and offers a greater induce- 
ment to profound study b}' rendering the products of original research 
more available than any other plan heretofore proposed. Every one who 
makes a discovery in any department of knowledge must of necessity 
be somewhat in advance of the reading public, at least in the special 
branch to which his discovery pertains ; and therefore the number^of 
readers, and consequently of purchasers of a work giving an account of 
these discoveries will be comparatively small. "I have frequently 
congratulated myself," says one of our collaborators, "upon living at 
a time when an Institution exists in our country which would publish 
discoveries and original investigations or positive additions to know- 
ledge, without expense to the author. What would not poor Morion 
have done had he been able in this way to publish his researches, 
vv'hereas his single work on Crania Americana was o-iven to the world 
at the loss of several thousand dollars." 

The Institution does much more than ordinarv societies in the wav 
of stimulating research. It not only gives to the world with the stamp 
of" its approval the various papers which constitute its contributions to 
knowledge, but in a large number of cases it furnishes materials and 
pecuniary means for carrying on the investigations. The aid which it 
affords in this wa}', though small in amount, is sufficient to determine 
whether an investigation shall be prosecuted to a successful termina- 
tion or abandoned almost at its very commencement. 

It was at first proposed to offer premiums for original memoirs on 



10 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

different branches of knowledge ; but it has been found by experience 
that the inducements held out by the offer of publication free of ex- 
pense under the sanction of the Institution, and the assistance which is 
occasionally afforded, will produce more material of the first quality 
than will exhaust the small portion of the income which can be devoted 
to researches and publication. 

In first proposing the system of literary exchanges which is now ex- 
tended over every part of the civihzed world, a promise was made to 
all the foreign societies which should send their transactions to the 
Smithsonian library that, on the part of the Institution, at least one 
quarto volume of oTriginal contributions to knowledge would annually 
be given in return. The experience of seven years has rendered it 
evident that this promise can be fully redeemed. Indeed, were the 
funds sufficient, two large volumes might be published in the same- 
time. 

The seventh volume is nearly completed, and will be ready for 
distribution in the course of a lew weel^s. It will contain a number of 
memoirs, the largest of which are on the subject of American antiqui- 
ties. An account of one of these, viz., that on the EJigij Mounds of 
Wisconsin, was given in the last report. 

A number of memoirs have been examined and accepted for publica- 
tion since the date of the last report. 

1. A paper has been prepared at the special request of the Institution, 
by S. F. Haven, esq., librarian of the American Antiquarian Society, Wor- 
cester, Massachusetts, which will form a part of the seventh volume. 

Its intention is to give a retrospective view of the progress of know- 
ledge and opinions relative to the whole subject of American antiquities- 
For this purpose the author has, in the first place, presented a sum- 
mary of the opinions of early writers upon the question of the origin 
and sources of the native population of this country, and in this con- 
nexion has noticed some of the more prominent writers of later date 
who have sustained one or other of the ancient hypotheses. 

In the second place he has considered the accounts of the early 
Spanish and French adventurers, and the reports of the Jesuit mission- 
aries, who first became acquainted with the inhabitants in their native 
condition, so far as those accounts have a bearini? on the orio;in and 
uses of the earth-works of this country. 

In the third place he has sought to ascertain the names of the early 
explorers who examined and described any of these ancient remains, 
and to give the extent of their investigations. 

He has next followed the succession of observations and speculations 
of different periods down to the present time ; and, lastly, he has given 
a concise rcsM/ne of the facts which have thus far been established. 

These are, 1st. The nature and extent of the aboriginal monuments 
in the United States east of the Rocky mountains ; 

2d. Their location relatively to one another and to different portions 
of the country ; 

3d. Their affinities to the works of existing or recently extinct tribes. 

The memoir is intended to have a bibliographical character, so far 
as this could be effected without interrupting the continuity of the nar- 
rative. It will be found important, not only in pointing out what has 



TifE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 11 

been done and thought on this interesting subject, but also in indicating 
definite points of further research. 

The preparation of this article has cost the author no small amount 
of labor. The information was principally to be found in publications 
which, in their day, had but a limited circulation ; and now, even, 
when known to exist, are not easily found. It may be interesting to 
mention that there have been several periods during which attention 
has been particularly directed to the aboriginal remains of this country, 
and between them intervals of time in which they excited compara- 
tively no interest. Before the war of the revolution, investigations had 
been commenced, which were of course suspended or terminated by 
that event. After peace was restored and military stations were 
estabhshed in the interior, and settlements began to be extended beyond 
the Ohio, accounts of remarkable works were published in the miscel- 
laneous periodicals of the day. The officers of the army were the 
principal explorers ; but two of the most active of these, General Par- 
son and General Heart, were removed by death ; and as the mounds 
became more familiar to the settlers, the interest in them comparatively 
declined. After the war of 1812, they again became the object of 
inquiry, which resulted in the publication of Mr. Atwater's researches 
under the auspices of the American Antiquarian Society. Since then, 
though occasional articles appeared, no important additions were made 
to our knowledge in regard to them until the publication of the first 
volume of the Smithsonian Contributions. The reputation acquired by 
this work has induced a number ot" other laborers to enter the field, 
which, we trust, will soon be fully explored. Indeed, it is believed 
that samples of nearly every variety of earth-work to be found within 
the limits of the territory of the United States, east of the Rocky moun- 
tains, have been figured in the publications of the Institution. It is 
intended, however, to continue to collect all the information which may 
be obtained, and in due time to publish a map of the relative position 
of all the works which are found to exist, at least within the limits of 
the United States. 

The Institution from the first has given particular attention to an- 
tiquities, philology, and other branches of the new and interesting 
department of knowledge called ethnology, which relates to the natural 
history of man in his physical, moral, intellectual, and a^sthetical char- 
acteristics. It is a common ground, in the cultivation of which lovers 
of literature and science are equally interested. The works we have 
thus far published on these subjects have ehcited the highest commend- 
ations, and the Smithsonian Contributions are now generally referred to 
as containing important materials for their elucidation. 

2. Some years ago an artist of considerable merit and great accuracy, 
Mr. Sawkins, visited the celebrated remains of ancient architecture at 
Mitla, in the State of Oajaca, Mexico. Mr. Sawkins made careful 
drawings of the ruins by means of a camera lacida, and recorded his 
observations upon the spot. Within a few months these drawings and 
memoranda have come into the possession of Mr. Brantz Mayer, of 
Baltimore, whose writings upon Mexico and' its antiquities have been 
very largely circulated in this country during the last six or seven 
years. Mr. Mayer considered Mr. Sawkins's sketches and observations 



12 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

as of" so much value to the aboriginal history oi" our continent, and 
especially in completing the links of civihzation between North and 
South America, that he prepared a brief memoir upon Zapotec remains, 
which the Institution has considered it advisable to publish with the 
drawings. We are happy to believe that this contribution will in some 
degree supply a deficiency which lias been often acknowledged in 
regard to remains on the western slopes of the Mexican Cordillera. 

3. Another memoir presented to the Institution is on the Recent secular 
visifation of the Aurora Borcalis, b}^ Professor Denison Olmsted, of 
Yale College. This paper partakes more largely of a hypothetical 
character than most of those which have been accepted for publication. 
The facts, however, which it contains are considered so important and 
so well deserving of permanent record, that ihey outweigh this ob- 
jection. 

On the evening of the 27th of August, 1828, after a long absence of 
any striking appearances of the aurora boreaUs, there commenced a 
series of exhibitions which increased in frequency and magnificence for 
the six following years, arrived at a maximum during the years 
1835,-'6,-'7, and after that period regularly declined in number and 
intensity until November, 1848, when, according to the author, the 
series appeared to come to a close. The occurrence, however, of 
three remarkable exhibitions of the aurora during September, 1851, 
and of another of" the first class as late as February, 1852, indicate 
that the close was not as abrupt as was at first supposed, but still there 
was a diminution in the number of brilliant exhibitions after 1848. 
Professor Olmsted, in this memoir, gives the history of the foregoing 
series of auroras, which, in his opinion, are the most remarkable which 
have ever occurred since the first recorded observations. The author 
first refers the several varieties of the aurora to six diflerent forms, viz: 
1. Auroral light ; 2. Arches ; 3. Streamers ; 4. Coronas ; 5. Waves ; 
6. Auroral clouds; and afterwards distributes these different forms into 
four distinct classes. The first is characterized by the presence of" 
three out of four of tiie most jirominent varieties, viz: arches, stream- 
ers, coronas, and waves. 

The second class is formed of a combination of two or more of the 
leading characteristics of" tlie first class. 

The third class consists of" the presence ofonl}^ one of the rarer char- 
acteristics, either streamers or an arch, or irregular coruscations. 

Class fourth consist^ of the most ordinary form of the aurora, as mere 
northern twilight or a few streamers. 

From the year 1780 to 1827 striking exhibitions of the aurora were 
seldom obseived, although, probablv, a greater or less number of the 
inferior descriptions of those ot' the third and fourth classes occurred 
every year in our own latitude, and a still greater number in the 
regions nearer the poles. But aged persons who witnessed the dis- 
plays of 1827, 1835, 183(), and 1837, testify that they were similar to 
such as occurred in tlieir youth from 17C0 to 1781. Strange sights were 
described as having been seen in the air during the old French war, 
which closed in 1763. From 1781 none of equal intensity had occur- 
red for nearly half a century ; the splendid arch, therefore, and other 
striking accompaniments of the aurora of 1827 took us by surprise, and 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 13 

were viewed with wonder b}^ nearly all the existing generation. 
Immediately after this great aurora, exhibitions of the phenomenon 
became more frequent. From 1827 to 1848, 885 appearances of the 
aurora are given in the records referred to by the author. Of these, 12 
were of the first class, 45 of the second, 161 of the third, and 667 of the 
fourth. 

The author places the middle of the period about 1837 ; and by sub- 
tracting from this 65 years, he arrives at the middle of another visita- 
tion. The duration of the period he considers to be a little more than 
20 years. The middle of the next period of brilHancy, if this assump- 
tion be correct, will be about the beginning of the next century. What- 
ever may be the truth of this conclusion, the description of a large 
number of auroras which he has collected, given either Irom the records 
of others or irom his own observations, renders his communication 
valuable. He does not adopt the hypothesis of the electrical origin of 
this meteor, but considers it connected with the phenomena of the 
zodiacal hght. The most conclusive proof, however, of the truth of 
the former hypothesis is found in the fact of the disturbance of the 
magnetic needle, when dehcately suspended, during the appearance of 
the aurora, and the actual transmission of currents of electricity along 
the hnes of telegraphs which extend in a north and south direction. 
The last fact has been reported separately to us by different individ- 
uals belonging to the Smithsonian corps of observers. 

Though no complete explanation has been given of all the facts of 
the aurora, yet the most plausible hypothesis is that which attributes 
the phenomena to electricity generated principally in the torrid zone by 
evaporation. By this process the earth is rendered negative, and the 
vapor which ascends into the upper atmosphere highly positive. It is 
thence transferred towards the poles by the return trade winds, and 
descends to the earth to restore the equilibrium. A current of elec- 
tricity is thus constantly passing from the poles to the equator during 
the appearance of the aurora; and hence, according to this view, the 
disturbance of the needle. 

As an appendix to this paper, Peter Force, esq., of this city, has pre- 
sented to the Institution an extended series of notices of the aurora 
collected from all the publications in which they occur, from about 1827 
to the present year, arranged in order of time and of latitude. This will be 
a valuable contribution of facts towards a definite determination of the 
law and physical cause of these mysterious meteorological phenomena. 

It would scarcely be comphmentary to the general intelligence of the 
public of the United States, if I were again to attempt to vindicate the 
importance of investigations like that of the aurora ; and it ma}?" be a 
sufficient answer to those who would question it, to say that they are 
such as particularly occupied the attention of vSmithson himself, and 
that they mUst, consequently, be included as a part of that knowledge 
which it was the intention of his bequest to increase and diffuse among men. 

4. The next paper is on the Tangencies of circles and spheres, by 
Major B. Alvord, of the United States army. It consists in the solution 
of a series of problems which have at different times exercised the 
ingenuity and skill of the geometer. It was referred separately for 
examination to Professor Lewis R. Gibbes, of Charleston, South 



14 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

Carolina, and Professor A. E. Church, of West Point. In the language 
of one of the examiners : " The solutions of the problems relating to 
the circles, though not entirely original, are yet brought more directly to 
depend upon the fundamental principle of tangency as enunciated by 
the author, and are more elegant, than those given in any works with 
which I am acquainted. The paper also presents the only clear and 
complete explanation of the number of solutions and of the various 
positions of the tangent circles (and spheres) in each case that I have 
seen. I have not been able to find heretofore any complete solutions 
of ail the problems relating to the sphere. Those of the author of the 
memoir are accurate, and easy to be understood by any person familiar 
with the elements of solid and descriptive geometry, and I think their 
publication will furnish a valuable addition to geometrical knowledge.' 

It is a fact not without interest, that an officer of the army is enabled, 
while discharging his duty at a distant post of the frontier of our country, 
to concentrate his thoughts, and exercise his talents, on so abstruse a 
part of pure mathematics. The paper will be illustrated by three 
engraved plates in quarto. 

5. A dictionary of the Chippewa language has been offered to the 
Smithsonian Institution for publication by the Rev. S. A. Belcourt, a 
missionary among the Indians of British America. He has devoted 23 
years to the study of" this language. He urges its adoption by the In- 
stitution on the ground that in all probability this work, which, to use 
his own language, " has cost me so many years of labor and nights of 
thought, and which, in my humble opinion, will be valuable to science 
and philanthropy, especially to philology, will forever be lost; and who 
would undertake a work of such maonitude after learning the fate of 
this?" 

The language of the Ojibewas, according to the author, is the parent 
of all the dialects existing from the mouth of the St. Lawrence north 
and following the 27th parallel to the source of the Missouri. Were 
the present funds of the Institution sufficient for the purpose we should 
not hesitate to accept this work, and we are not entirely wathout hope 
that some means may be procured independent of the Institution to de- 
fray a considerable portion of the expense of its publication. 

Correspondence. — During the past year the Institution has received 
a large number of communications asking information on a variety of 
subjects, particularly in regard to tlie solution of scientific questions, the 
names and characters of objects of natural history, and the analysis of 
soils, minerals, and other materials which pertain to the industrial re- 
sources of the country. Answers have in all cases been given to these 
inquiries, either directly by the offic^f^rs of the Institution, or by reports 
from the Smithsonian colaborers. \'ery frequently certificates are re- 
quested as to the value of certain minerals, with a view to bring them 
into market ; but in these cases the inquirers are referred to certain re- 
liable anal3lical chemists, who make a business of operations of this 
kind. The information procured and given at the expense of the Insti- 
tution is such as lelates to the general diffusion of knowledge, and not 
to that which may immediately tend to advance the pecuniary interest 
of individuals. Requests are often also made to have experiments in- 
stituted for testing proposed applications of science to the arts; and 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 16 

provided these can be tried with the apparatus of the Institution, and 
the results which may flow from them are to be given to the pubhc 
without the restriction of a patent, the request is granted. 

Explorations, Researches, &c. — (1.) About the beginning of the 
year 1853, Lieutenant D. N. Couch, U. S. A., communicated to the Smith- 
sonian Institution a proposition to make at his own expense a scientific 
exploration in the States of Mexico, adjoining the lower Rio Grande. 
After this proposition was duly considered, and the details of the plan 
arranged, it was commended by me in a letter to the Secretary of 
War, and a request made that Lieutenant Couch might have leave of 
absence for the purpose of carrying out his design. The request was 
granted, and this young officer soon after embarked on his expedition. 
He was furnished with instructions and apparatus by the Institution, 
and his attention was especially directed to the existence in Mexico of 
a valuable collection of manuscripts and specimens in natural history, 
-of which information had been communicated to us. He was requested 
to examine and report as to its character. He found the manuscripts 
to contain a large amount of historical and geographical information, 
chiefly pertaining to the States of the old repubhc which lay between 
the Sabine and Sierra Madre, and a series of maps and results of to- 
pographical and meteorological observations. The collections in natu- 
ral history consisted of specimens in botany, zoology, mineralogy, &c. 

These collections were made by Luis Berlandier, a native of Swit- 
zerland, and a member of the Academy of Geneva. He came to 
Mexico in 1826, for the purpose of making a scientific examination of 
that country. Soon after his arrival he was appointed one of the 
Boundary Commission organized by the then new republic, with the 
object of defining the boundaries, extent, resources, &c., &c., of the 
northern or frontier States. This position gave him unusual facilities 
for observation and investigation relative to the character of the coun- 
try, and for making collections of its natural history. He, however, 
never returned to his native country, but married and settled in 
Mexico, and continued his researches until the period of his death in 
1851. Lieutenant Couch purchased the whole collection from the 
widow of the deceased, and transmitted it immediately to the Institu- 
tion, which bore the expense of transportation. It contains matter 
which would be valuably to the general government, and which it is 
hoped will be purchased, and a sufficient sum paid to reimburse the 
cost of procuring it. In the appendix will be found a catalogue of the 
manuscripts. 

Lieutenant Couch himself collected a large number of specimens in 
natural history, which were presented to the Institution, and have al- 
ready been examined and described. Among the specimens of mine- 
ralogy is a remarkable meteorite, weighing upwards of 250 pounds, 
portions of which have been analyzed by Professor J. Lawrence Smith, 
in our laboratory, and by Dr. Genth, in Philadelphia. 

The scientific explorations in natural history, made under the aus- 
pices of the Smithsonian Institution during 1854, w^re those of Dr. Hoy, 
Mr. Barry, and Professor Baird. That of Dr. Hay was made in west- 
ern Missouri and Kansas, and occupied about a month ; during which 
he gathered together large collections of North American vertebrata, 



16 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

and forwarded them to the Institution.- Mr. Barry took northern Wis- 
consin for the field of his labors, and spent several months in traversing 
the State, penetrating into various regions scarcely visited before by the 
white man. Several lakes and streams, not on the map, were discov- 
ered, and named by him. His most important results consisted in very 
full series of fishes from many localities. Professor Baird spent six 
weeks on the coast of New Jersey, at Beesley's Point, collecting speci- 
mens, and studying the habits of the marine fishes of the neighborhood. 
Thence he proceeded to several places on Long Island, especially to 
Greenport and Riverhead ; and afterwards made explorations at various 
points on and near the Hudson river, as far north as Sing Sing. Full 
series of fishes and Crustacea were procured at all these places, and 
sent to the Smithsonian Institution. 

(2.) Terrestrial Magnetism. — The observatory established at the 
joint expense of the Coast Survey and the Institution, described in the 
last report, lor determining the changes in the different elements of the 
magnetic force, has not yet been fully supplied with all the necessary 
instruments. This has been occasioned by the illness of Mr. Brooks, of 
England, the inventor, who has not been able to furnish the apparatus 
for recording the variations in the dip and intensity. The only part of 
the system which has been in partial operation, is that of the variation 
or declination instrument ; and in this, the glass cylinder which sup- 
ports the sensitive paper, and which is needed to render the record 
more perfect, is wanting. 

An attempt was made to supply this deficiency by means ot"a copper 
cylinder, coated with gold by the electrotype process. It was found, 
however, that the porosity of the gold allowed the acid to act upon the 
copper below, and thus to produce stains upon the paper. It is hoped 
this observatory will be fully equipped in the course of the present 
spring, and that a continued record will hereafter be kept up. 

It was mentioned in the last report, that a set of instruments had 
been furnished tlie Grinnell expedition under command of Dr. Kane. 
No intelligence, however, has yet been received from this expedition ; 
but should our most anxious hopes be realized in reference to this enter- 
prise, we doubt not a series of results will be obtained which will well 
repay the cost of the instruments. If not, the Institution should receive 
some deoree of commendation for aidino; in -an undertakina: which re- 
fleets so much honor on the intelligence and liberality of one of our 
citizens, and the gallantry and enterprise of a young officer of our navy. 

Four complete sets of instruments have been constructed in London 
for the Institution ; three of these have been purchased b}' the general 
government, and have been employed in the different surveying expe- 
ditions. The fourth has been lent, in succession, to different individu- 
als, for the purpose of accumulating magnetic observations in different 
parts of the United States. 

A simple instrument for determining the minute changes in the direc- 
tion of the magnetic needle, devised by Mr. J. E.Hilgard of the United 
States Coast Survey, is now in the process of construction, under the 
direction of this Institution, for the Academy of Natural Sciences, 
California. The cost of this instrument is defrayed by the liberality 
of the President of the Academy, Dr. A. Randall. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 17 

Observations continued for a certain time at different periods along 
the coast of the Pacific, and compared with the photographic ret^ords 
obtained by the apparatus in tli^is Institution, would afford interesting 
results as to the simultaneous perturbations of the magnetic force at 
distant places on the same continent. 

Under the head of magnetism, it may be mentioned that a complete 
set of apparatus has been obtained from Ruhmkorff", of Paris, for ex- 
hibiting the facts of the new branch of science called dia-magnetism. 
A few years ago, but four metals were known to possess magnetic 
properties, namely, iron, nickel, cobalt, and manganese. It is now 
known that all bodies exhibit analogous phenomena when placed under 
the inductive influence of powerful magnets ; but they are not all simi- 
larly affected. All bodies may, however, be divided into two classes : 
one in which polarity is developed at the extremities of a bar of the 
vSubstance, as in the case of iron, and hence called simple magnetic 
bodies ; and the other class, in which the polarity is transverse to 
the length of the bar, and the substance is hence called dia- magnetic. 
The simple repetition of these experiments in this country is of im- 
portance, and the apparatus may serve as a model for imitation to our 
ingenious artists. 

'(3.) On the 26th of last May, the central track of an annular eclipse 
passed over the northern part of the United States. Tiie eclipse itself 
was visible over almost the entire area of the North American conti- 
nent ; and as no obscuration of the sun of equal magnitude would 
again occur in this country until 1865, it was important that all the 
facilities possible should be afforded for observing its different epochs 
and pliases, as well as the concurring phenomena. For this purpose, 
in conjunction with the superintendent of the Nautical Almanac, a large 
map, exhibiting the times of beginning and ending, and the amount of 
obscuration and phases of the eclipse for every part of the United 
States, Canada, and Mexico, together with tables and explanations, 
were prepared and distributed to all thp observers in correspondence 
with the Smithsonian Institution. A set of minute instructions, pub- 
lished under the direction of the American Association tor the Advance- 
ment of Science, was also presented to the same persons. Unfortu- 
nately, the weather proved cloudy over a considerable portion of the 
space covered by the central part of the shadow, though a number of 
interesting observations were made. The expense of the map and 
tables were defrayed jointly by this Institution and by the appropria- 
tion for the Nautical Almanac. 

The results of the observations, so far as they have been reported, 
have been published in the Astronomical Journal, edited by Dr. B. A. 
Gould, jr., Cambridge, Massachusetts. They are illustrated by pho- 
tographic impressions of the sun, made under the direction of Profess(jr 
Bartlett, at West Point, and also by others, made under the direction 
of Professor S. Alexander, of Princeton, New Jersey. The expense of 
these was borne by the Institution, for which full credit has been given. 

1 may mention in this connexion that Professor Cofhn, of Lafayette 

College, Pennsylvania, has presented to the Smithsonian Collections an 

interesting map, on which are delineated the paths or central tracks of 

all the great solar eclipses of the nineteenth century which traverse the 

Mis. Doc. 24 2 



18 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

United States. These are nine in number. Seven of them have passed ; 
the first of the remaining two will occur in October, 1865, and the 
other in August, 1869. 

There are but two journals exclusively devoted to astronomy now in 
existence. The first is published at the expense of the King of Den- 
mark, and the second in Cambridge, Massachusetts, by Dr. B. A. 
Gould, jr. The latter is intended to give the earUest intelligence of 
astronomical discoveries — particularly those made in our own country. 
At the last meeting of the British Association, the president commended 
this publication, and expressed a wish that it might be continued. I 
regret, however, to say that though no branch of science is cultivated 
with more ardor <and success at the present time in the United States 
than astronomy, yet this work, so essential to its continued progress, 
is very inadequately sustained. Not only the labor of conducting it has 
devolved upon the editor, but also a considerable portion of the ex- 
pense of its publication. The Smithsonian Institution has, from the 
first, subscribed lor a number of copies, to be distributed among its 
ibreign correspondents, and, rather than suffe'" so meritorious a work, 
Avhich does so much service to the cause of science and credit to our 
country, to be discontinued, it might be well to enlarge the subscrip- 
tion. It is to be hoped that, in due time, donations and bequests will 
be made by liberal individuals for the support of scientific enterprises 
of this character. 

It is (jratifying to learn that $10,000 of the Appleton bequest have 
been devoted to the publications of the American Academy, and an 
equal sum to those of the Historical Society of Massachusetts ; and we 
may venture to ask whether there are not, in this country, wealthy in- 
dividuals who can properly appreciate the importance of the labors of 
Dr. Gould, and establish his journal on a permanent foundation. 

(4.) The laboratonj of the Lisiitutiofi, during the past year, has been used 
by Professor J. Lawrence Smitli in the examination of American mine- 
rals ; and, on behalf of the Treasury Department, in investigations rel- 
ative to the different kinds of molasses imported into this countr3^ He 
also made a series of analyses of meteorites, among which were finir- 
teen specimens belonging to the cabinet of James Smithson, the founder 
of this Institution. 

An extensive series of experiments have been made during the last 
year, and are still in progress at the Institution, under the direction of a 
commission appointed by the Secretary of War, consisting of General 
Totten, Professor Bache, and m3^self, for testing the materials employed 
in the extension of the capitol. For the purpose of" these investigations, 
we have employed the beautiful and ingenious machine invented by 
jNIajor Wade, late of the United States army, which is so contrived as 
to give in pounds per square inch of the material, the resistance to 
crushing, to twisting, and to longitudinal and transverse fracture. The 
materials have been selected and prepared under the direction of Cap- 
tain Meiirs, superintendent of the capitol extension; and the details of 
the manipulations and calculations have been entrusted to Mr. William 
Shippen. 

The commission has taken advantage of this opportunity to extend 
the experiments to a number and variety of other building materials 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 19 

subaiitted to them from different parts of the United States ; and they 
hope to be allowed to extend their inquiries until they also embrace the 
comparative strength of the most important articles used in the arts. 
For example, it is of great practical importance to know the relative 
and absolute strength of cordage, and the various textile fabrics manu- 
factured by different processes from the raw materials produced in dif- 
ferent countries. No complete series of experiments has ever been 
made upon the strength of the varieties of American timber. Enqui- 
ries, however, of this kind involve much labor and considerable expense, 
and can only be properly carried on by the aid of the government 

(5.) Meteorology. — During the past year valuable additions have con- 
tinued to be made to our meteorological collections. Though changes 
have taken place in the individuals, the number of the observers report- 
ing immediately to the Institution is about the same as that given in the 
last report. A considerable number of full sets of standard instruments, 
made under our direction by Mr. James Green, of New York city,* have 
been procured by observers, and the character of the meteorological 
returns has consequently continued gradually to improve in complete- 
ness and precision. The records we have collected now form a copious 
store of valuable materials for the solution of many interesting problems 
relative to the meteorology of this country, which have been resorted 
to by several original investigators for data necessary to their researches. 
But to render these materials more generally available for the advance- 
ment of science, it is desirable to reduce them to tabular forms, and to 
publish them in as much detail as our funds will allow. In this way 
the greatest number of persons will have an opportunity of submitting 
them to the inductive process, by which general laws are deduced from 
particular facts. There is no part of physical science in which so 
much is to be done, even in the way of partial generalization, as in 
meteorology; and hence the importance of engaging as many minds as 
possible in its investigation. 

It is the policy of the Institution to furnish all the means in its pos- 
session to aid scientific research, and not to hoard up its treasures or 
confine their use to those who may be immediately connected with the 
establishment, or who may be supported by its funds. Co-operation, 
and not monopoly, is the motto which indicates the spirit of the Smith- 
sonian operations. It is with this view that I have been anxious to have 
the materials in our possession reduced to a form for publication ; and, 
indeed, it has been a source of much solicitude that we have not been 
able before this time to present to the observers the means by which 
they could compare the results of their records with those of others in 
different districts. Few persons, however, are aware of the labor, 
chiefly of a mechanical character, required to tabulate materials of this 
kind, and the cost of printing them in sufficient fullness of detail to ren- 
der them generally applicable to scientific or economical purposes. 
Besides this, I regret to inform the Board that our attempts in the line 
of reduction have thus far not been successful. I employed for this 
purpose a person who seemed to possess all the requisite qualifications, 
and who engaged in the work with commendable industry and apparent 

*No. 422 Broadway, New York. 



20 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

enthusiasm ; but, I am sorry to have to sa}'- that before the \vork was 
conipleted, he set up such claims to a personal right of property in it, 
and to a control over the manner in which it should be prepared and 
published, as were entirelv incompatible with the rights of the Institu- 
tion, and with a due regard to its reputation. I was, therefore, obliged, 
after many attempts to induce an opposite course, to place the work in 
other hands. The reductions are now entrusted to Professor Coffin, 
of Lafayette College, Pennsylvania, the author of the memoir on the 
winds of the North American continent ; and from his established repu- 
tation for scrupulous exactness and punctuality, as well as for intellect- 
ual and moral qualities, we may conddently expect to have at least 
one part of the work ready for the press before the next session of the 
Board of Regents. 

The materials collected consist of two classes, viz: one which in- 
cludes all the records of observations published in books and periodi- 
cals, or contained in manuscripts which have been lent us for reduction ; 
and the other consists of the current observations, which now era- 
brace all the returns we have received for several years past. The reduc- 
tion of the first class, on which we have expended much money, was, I 
supposed, nearly ready for the press ; but, on examination, it has been 
found necessary to subject the whole to a careful revision, in order to 
correct the errors in it which a critical examination has brought to light. 

It may be well to state, for the information of the public, tha.t the 
appropriation which was made for the purchase of instruments to dis- 
tribute among observers has been exhausted, and that the experiment 
was not as successful as could have been wished. A considerable 
number of the instruments were broken, and but comparatively few 
returns have been received. It does not, therefore, appear advisable 
to renew the appropriation with the portion of our income which can at 
present be devoted to meteorology. 

Blank forms are furnished liberally to individuals who may desire to re- 
cord the changes of the weather, or tlie progress of periodical phenomena. 

In order to prevent difBculties similar to those which have hereto- 
fore occurred, it is important to state that all communications on the 
subject of meteorology — and, indeed, on the general business of the 
estabhshment, should be addressed to the "Secretary of the Institution." 
He alone is responsible to the Regents ; and it is, therefore, necessary 
that he should have full knowdcdge and control of the correspondence. 

Exchanges. — The system of international exchange has been con- 
ducted vc'ith very important results during the last year. The additions 
to the library from this source exceed considerably, in number, those 
of any previous year ; amounting, in the aggregate, to over three thou- 
sand volumes .and parts of volumes. Many of these consist of expen- 
sive works published l)y governments or institutions in Europe, and 
such as are not found in any other library in this country. It will not 
be extravagant to estimate the value of these returns at three thousand 
dollars ; since most of them are the current volumes of the year, and 
bear the high price of scientific periodicals. 

As mentioned in previous reports, the Smithsonian Institution acts as 
the principal medium of communication between the scientific and lite- 
rary associations of the old and the new world. During the j^ast year 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 21 

the number of the societies availing themselves of the faciUties thus 
offered has largely increased, including, among others, nearly all the 
State agricultural societies of America, publishing transactions. This 
result has been produced by a circular which was issued by the Insti- 
tution, early in the spring of last year, to make known more generally 
the system of exchange. Copious returns are being constantly received 
for the societies ; and an intercourse is thus established which cannot 
fail to produce important results, both in an intellectual and moral point 
of view. 

The governments of England and France have for some time admit- 
ted the packages of the Institution free of duty and without examina- 
tion. A request for a similar favor was made to the Prussian govern- 
ment, during the past 3^ear, and it has been liberally granted by the 
commissioners of the Zollverein. There is, therefore, no port to which 
the Smithsonian parcels are shipped where duties are charged on 
them — a certified invoice of contents by the secretary being sufficient 
to pass them through the custom-house free of duty. On the other 
hand, all packages addressed to the Institution, arriving at the ports of 
the United States, are admitted, without detention, duty free. This 
system of exchange is, therefore, the most extensive and efficient which 
has ever been established in any country. Its effect on the character 
and reputation of our own country can scarcely be too highly estimated ; 
while its influence, though silent, is lelt in every part of the globe 
where literature and science are cultivated. 

Library. — A difficulty which occurred between the librarian and 
myself has led to his separation from the Institution ; and, since the 
10th of last July, 1 have given the library, as far as my multiplied duties 
would allow, my personal supervision. With the assistance of Profes- 
sor Baird and others, means have been devised for improving its con- 
dition and for rendering it more available for consultation. At present 
it is not thought advisable to appoint a special bibliographer, but to 
endeavor to conduct the business of the library by means of the assist- 
ants now employed, and by such temporary help as may be found 
necessary. An assistant has been employed to make a catalogue 
of all the books received by exchange, and to prepare the volumes and 
parts of volumes for binding. The list is now complete and will be 
appended to the next report to Congress, for the purpose of pointing 
out to our correspondents the deffciencies in the sets of transactions, 
and thus affording the opportunity to supply them. What we cannot 
procure in this way we shall endeavor to supply by purchase. 

I have also directed that the statistics of the library should be kept, 
namely, the number of different persons who come to read, and the 
number and character of the books they call for. During the last six 
months 150 different individuals have read or consulted 742 books in 
the library ; of these 400 were works of light literature, belonging to 
the copyright deposit. During the same period 2,576 names were 
entered in the registry of visitors. The principal value of the library 
has been to the officers of the Institution, and to other persons engaged 
in research connected with the Smithsonian publications. These, dur- 
ing the period above-mentioned, have drawn out of the library 450 
volumes, principally of a scientific character. 



22 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

The reading room of the library receives the leading periodicals of 
this country and Great Britain, together with a number from France, 
Germany, &c.; and, therefore, offers desirable facilities for the reading 
community of Washington, and for those who visit the seat of govern- 
ment, to keep up with the general progress of knowledge ; while by 
means of the more profound transactions of learned societies the student 
is afforded the opportunity of becoming acquainted with the advances 
made in special branches of literature and science. 

Very erroneous ideas have been entertained as to the amount which 
has been expended on the library. It is true the whole sum directly 
paid for books has not exceeded $14,139 16; but this does not include 
the binding, the transportation, the superintendence, and all the other 
expenses connected with an establishment of this kind. Neither does 
it exhibit the value of the books procured by exchanging the publica- 
tions of the Institution for the current volumes of learned societies, or 
the cost in clerk hire and postage of the books received from the copy- 
right system. The whole expenditure on the library and operations 
connected with libraries, including a proportional part of the general 
expenses since the beginning of the Institution, is $71,429 45. To this 
should be added at least $130,000 for the cost of the part of the build- 
ing devoted to the library, and we shall then have an expenditure of the 
income of the Smithsonian bequest on the library and objects imme- 
diately connected with it of about $200,000. 

In the original programme of oi-ganization, a proposition was intro- 
duced by Professor Bache to render the Institution a centre of biblio- 
graphical knowledge, to which students in every part of the country 
could apply, by letter or otherwise, for information as to what books 
existed on a particular subject, and in what libraries they could be 
found. For this purpose a large number of works on bibliography have 
been obtained, and elibrts have been made to procure copies of all the 
catalogues of libraries in this countr3^ To facilitate the answers to 
enquiries relative to the places where particular books could be found, 
it was proposed to secure three copies of each catalogue, one to be 
preserved in its original form, and the other two to be cut up, in order 
that the titles on each side of a leaf could be pasted on cards, and the 
whole arranged in drawers so as to Ibrm a general catalogue. Con- 
siderable progress was at one time made in this work, and several 
thousand cards were prepared by a bookbinder. 

It was, however, stopped in order to prosecute the system proposed 
by Professor Jewett, namely, that of forming a general catalogue of 
libraries by means of stereotyping separate titles. It appears to me, 
however, that the first plan ought to be carried out as far as possible, 
particularly in regard to collecting catalogues; and these should not be 
confined to those of the libraries of the United States, but embrace, as 
far as practicable, those of the libraries of Europe. It may happen 
that an extract may be required by a student from a book not to be found 
in this country, and that this can be effected through the correspondence 
of the Institution, provided the location of the work in Europe is known. 

About three years ago a series of experiments were undertaken at 
the expense and under the direction of the Institution for improving and 
applying a new method of stereotyping. The right to use the process 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 23 

was purchased of the original inventor, but it was not found in a con- 
dition to be applied, particularly to stereotyping catalogues, and in 
order to improve it an arlizan trom Boston was employed under the 
immediate direction of the librarian. The experiments were success- 
ful, and the improved process has been employed by Mr. John C. 
liives in printing the Congressional Globe. I was anxious that it should 
be generally applied, in order that the art might not depend on the 
contingency of the life or will of a single individual. Besides this, 
should the process be generally introduced, the use of it for the Institu- 
tion could be more cheaply procured by contract than by attempting 
to do our own work by a separate establishment in the building. I 
have, however, just learned that a patent has been applied for, in the 
name of the artizan before mentioned, for the very improvements which 
were made at the expense of the Smithsonian fund. This act, though 
it may be in accordance with the usages of employees under the gov- 
ernment, is not, in my judgment, compatible with the liberal spirit of 
the will of Smithson. While due credit and proper remuneration should 
be given to any employee for his labors, the results should redound to 
the reputation of the Institution and to the general good of the public. 
This remark is also especially applicable to the claims set up by an 
employee in the meteorological department. 

During the past year the process of cataloguing the Congressional 
library in accordance with the plan adopted by this Institution has boon 
carried on under the direction of Professor Jillson, of Brown Univer- 
sity. The whole number of titles catalogued has been 9,654, and 
of volumes 21,805. The stereotyping of the titles has been suspended 
for the present, in order to give the workmen who have been engaged 
on it an opportunity of applying the new art to the printing of the Con- 
gressional Globe. It is hoped that an additional appropriation will be 
made during the present session of Congress sufficient to complete the 
whole catalogue. We shall then have the statistics necessary to ascer- 
tain the cost of preparation of a catalogue of this kind, and the means 
necessary to give definite information, in reference to it, to the principal 
libraries of the country. 

Tlie edition of Notices of tlie Public Libraries in the United States, 
published by the Institution in 1851, is exhausted ; and it will be 
necessary during the present year to collect the materials tor a new and 
enlarged edition. A circular* for this purpose will be issued as soon 
as possible, and it is hoped that the work will be prepared in time to 
be submitted to Congress with the annual report for 1855. I have 
entrusted the duty of collecting the materials for this purpose to Mr. 
William J. Rhees, who now occupies the place formerly filled by Dr. 
Foreman, the latter having been appointed to the position of examiner 
in the Patent Office. 

The purchases, though few in number, are of considerable value; 
and the additions from the system of exchange, as has before been 
stated, have increased in importance. The articles received on ac- 
count of the cbpyright law were more numerous last year than the 
year before, but not more valuable. 848 separate pieces of music 

*A circular distributed by the Institution is given in the Appendix to tliis Report. 



24 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 



have been received, for each of which two separate manuscript copies 
of every word of the title page was required. From this single fact 
it is evident that the operation of the present copyright law does not 
confer a material benefit upon ihe Institution, unless it be as a means 
of swelling the number of articles annually added to the library, which 
would appear to be at present a matter of some popular importance. 
It would be well to ask Congress, at least, to relieve the Institution 
from the burden imposed upon it by the additional postage to which 
we are constantly subjected on this account.* 

The additions to the library during the year 1854 are shown by the 
followina: table ; 







-t3 


















^ Ji 










w 








c -^ 


















X > 


hn 








o 










_c 






IM) 


3 


Total. 




o 








o 

3 


5 


O 




Purchase 


529 
920 


391 
2,397 








! 


920 


Donation and exchange 


1 


323 




1 




3,642 




441 


203 


16 


28 


848 


5 


69 


1 610 






































Total 


1,890 


2,991 


17 


351 


848 


6 


69 


6,172 







If we add these to the number given in the report of the librarian 
last year, we shall have the following — 



Asrsci'csroie to 1855. 





o 
o 


-^3 


fcj) 

B 






fcX) 

c 


o 

5 


Total. 




4,961 

4,821 

3,250 

873 


2,902 

7,561 

623 


1,335 
59 
54 


o 
2,136 

87 








9,200 


Donati<ni and exchange 


3,122 


31 
14 


41 
166 


14,649 
7,316 




873 


















Total 


13,905 


11,086 


1,448 


2,225 3.122 


45 


207 


32,038 











* Since this was written, Congress has passed an act allowing all copyright publications to 
be sent to the Institution /ree of postage througli the mail. A circular sent to all the pub- 
lishers in the United States on this subject will be found in the Appendix. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 25 

Museum and Collections. — (].) Tlie principal object of the Smith- 
sonian collection of specimens is to present a full illustration of the natu- 
ral history of North America. The income is not sufficient to collect 
and support a miscellaneous museum to illustrate all the branches of 
the physical geography of the globe. Such an establishment can only 
be sustained by the general government. Were the Institution to em- 
brace all the opportunities which are afforded it to collect specimens, 
the cost of transportation alone would soon absorb the greater portion 
of the sum which can be devoted to this branch of the general plan of 
operations. We are, therefore, obliged to limit our exertions, and to 
direct them to objects which are more immediately necessary in facili- 
tating certain definite lines of research, and to leave to otlier institu- 
tions the collection of such materials as may be required to make up 
the complement of specimens necessary to represent the mineral and 
organic products of our continent. 

During the last year, the additions to the museum have been more 
numerous and valuable than in any previous period of the same ex- 
tent. Mucli has been done by parties aided more or less by the Insti- 
tution, and much by persons in an indivitlual and independent capacity. 

The Institution has taken charge of the arrangement and preser- 
servation of all the specimens obtained by the various expeditions 
of the government ; but, as these embrace all objects of natural his- 
tory, they would scarcely fall within the plan of a special museum. 
The principal aim, therefore, in taking charge of all the specimens 
is not to swell the Smithsonian collection, but to preserve them from 
destruction, and to render them immediately available to science, with 
the hope that Congress will, at some future day, make a liberal appro- 
priation to support a national collection, of which these will form the 
nucleus. 

In order fo carry out the general policy of the Institution, a liberal 
distribution of the duplicate specimens should be made to societies and 
other establishments in this country and abroad. During the past 
year something has been done in this line ; and when the collections 
are properly arranged, and the number of duplicates ascertained, the 
system of distribution may be so extended as materially to affect the 
progress of natural history in this country and the world. But the 
amount of good which may be done in this way must again be limited 
by the portion of the income which can be expended for this purpose ; 
due regard being had to the claims of all branches of knowledge, of 
which this is but one. 

The primary object of the establishment being kept constantly in 
view, the specimens in all cases will be open to the use of individuals 
who may desire to increase knowledge by original research; and the 
only condition which will be required to be strictly observed is that 
full credit be given to the Institution for the lacilities which it may 
afford. 

No branch of the operations of the Institution can be carried on with- 
out the expenditure of a greater amount of labor than might, at first 
sight, appear to be necessary. Some idea of that required to attend 
to the specimens added to the museum may be obtained from the fact 
that over 360 different lots, consisting of barrels, kegs, cans, boxes, 



26 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

&c., besides many single specimens, have been received during the 
last year. All these liad to be assorted, labelled, and recorded in 
books, and in most instances duplicate lists sent to the donors. In the 
case of smaller animals, large numbers of extra specimens are gener- 
ally collected, to serve for anatomical investigation, or for distribution 
and exchange. 

(2.) Achromatic Microscope. — In the first report of the Secretary 
it was mentioned that an individual, in the interior of the State 
of New York, had successfully devoted himself to the study and 
construction of the microscope, and was able to produce specimens of 
this instrument which would compete with the best of those constructed 
in Europe; and that, to do justice to the talents and labor of this person, 
Mr. Spencer had been requested to construct a microscope of the first 
qualit}'', to be paid for by the Institution, if a commission appointed to 
examine il should find it capable of producing certain effects. Tlie artist 
made a number of instruments which fully satisfied the conditions re- 
quired by the agreement, but which still fell short of the ideal standard 
of perfection which existed in his own mind. 

He has, however, at length completed a microscope, the perform- 
ance of which far exceeds that which was anticipated when the propo- 
sition was made; and the Institution has thus not only secured a valua- 
ble instrument of research, but has assisted in developing the talents 
and making more generally known the skill of a native artist of sur- 
passing merit. I may mention that Mr. Spencer has associated with 
himself Professor Eaton, of Troy, New York; and they are now able 
to supply the increasing demand in this country lor this invaluable 
means of research which, within the last few years, has opened a new 
w^orld to the physiologist and botanist, as well as to the investigator of 
inorganic matter. 

(3.) Gallery of Art. — The Stanley collection of Indian portraits still 
remains deposited in the west w^iug of the building. They were re- 
moved, however, for a short time for exhibition at the INIaryhmd Insti- 
tute, Baltimore, and the State Agricultural Fair at Richmond, Vir- 
ginia. They have constantly excited much interest, and it will be a 
subject of great regret if means cannot be procured to^ preserve entire 
a series of portraits which has been produced at so much labor and 
cost, and which is so faithful a representation of the peculiar physiog- 
nomy and costume of the different tribes of Indians now l()und within 
the boundaries of the territories of the United States. Mr. Stanley was 
engaged as the artist of the Pacific railroad survey under Governor 
Stevens, and has thus had an opportunity of adding much to his mate- 
rial for enlarging the collection. Since it was first deposited in the 
Institution he has also added to it portraits of several individuals be- 
longing to the Indian delegations which, within the last two years, 
have visited Washington. 

(4.) Professor Wilson, of the British Commission, appointed to attend 
the Exhibition at the New York Crystal Palace, presented to tlie Institu- 
tion, in behalf of the London Society of Arts, a collection of models, 
drawings and instruments, to facilitate itistructlon in the art ot design. 
In order to render these immediately useful, they were lent to the School 
of Design, which has been estabhshed in this city by the Metropolitan 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 27 

Mechanics' Institute, under the charge of Professor Whitaker ; and they 
are still in possession of this society, and are not only valuable on ac- 
count of the immediate use to which they are applied, but also in serv- 
ing as patterns for imitation for other schools of a similar character. 

"^rhe Institution possesses, as has been stated in a previous report, a 
valuable collection of engravings by the first masters ; but these have, 
from the first, been deposited in drawers, and have therefore not been 
accessible to the general visitor. It may be well, if the expense is not 
too great, to have them placed in groups, under glass, in large frames, 
and thus exhibited to all. 

Building. — The main building of the Smithsonian Institution is at 
length completed. During the last six years, the wings, the connecting 
ranges, and the apartments in the southern tower, have alone been occu- 
pied. The unfinished condition of the edifice has undoubtedly pro- 
duced an unfavorable impression on the numerous strangers who visit 
the city of Washington. The object, however, of the delay, as has 
been repeatedly stated in previous reports, was, first, that a more per- 
manent building, and one better adapted to the uses of the Institution, 
might be provided; and secondly, that funds might be saved fiom the 
accruing interest to furnish an additional income sufficient at least to 
defray the annual expense of so large and costly an edifice. Both 
these objects have been attained. The interior of the building, instead 
of being constructed of wood and plaster, as was originally intended, 
has been finished with fire-proof materials; and improvements have 
been made in the plan first adopted whicli render the edifice better 
suited to the purposes for which it was intended. The first story con- 
sists of one room 200 feet long and 50 feet wide, which can be divided 
by a screen into two apartments, one of which may be devoted to the 
library and the other to the museum. The second story is divided into 
three spaces, the middle one of which is occupied by the great lecture 
room, capable of containing 2,000 persons, and constructed on acous- 
tic and optical principles. It is believed that this room is the most per- 
fect of its kind in ttiis country, and that it will serve as a model for 
apartments of a similar character. The spaces adjoiningthe lecture room 
east and west form rooms each fifty feet square, which may contain 
cases around the walls for apparatus and other collections of objects of 
art, and at the same time serve for meetings of societies or lor lectures 
to smaller audiences on special subjects. On the north side of the lec- 
ture room, in the front towers, are rooms intended for the preparation 
of the experimental illustrations of lectures, but which may be used as 
committee rooms, while the large lecture room serves for the more pub- 
lic addresses and exhibitions. 

The object kept in view in all the changes which have been made in 
the original design of the building is its adaptation to purposes of 
general interest, and particularly to the accommodation of conventions 
and associations intended to promote knowledge or improve the arts of 
lite. 

During the past year a number of societies have availed themselves 
of the facilities afforded by the Institution, and have held their sessions 
in the Smithsonian building. The first was the United States Agricul- 
tural Society, which continued its session for three da3'S, with lectures 



28 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

in the evening. It was attended by delegates from almost every part 
of the United States, and has published a journal of its proceedings, in 
which due credit is given to the Institution. 

The second was the American Association for the Advancement of 
Science, which met the last of April and continued in session until 
about the 10th of May. Special preparation was made lor this associ- 
ation ; and although the building was still in an unfinished state, it is 
believed the members were well satisfied with their accommodation, 
as well as the hospitality and attention they received from the Presi- 
dent and officers of the general government. 

The third was the Association of Medical Superintendents of Hospi- 
tals for the Insane, which continued in session several days. The sub- 
jects discussed were not only of much importance relative to the treat- 
ment of diseases of the mind, but also of interest to the psychologist. 
Some, too, were of a practical character, connected with the general 
economy and management of public institutions. The subjects of heat- 
ing and ventilating v/ere fully discussed. 

The fourth was the meeting of the American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Education, which has just closed its session. The Smith- 
sonian Institution is thus assisting to render the city of Washington a 
centre of literary and scientific association, which may serve to diver- 
sity its character as the political metropolis of the nation. 

Lectures. — In conformity with the law of Congress, a series of lec- 
tures was given during the winter of 1853-'4, and the experiment was 
made of establishing a full course on a single subject, namely, of chem- 
istry. This was given by Dr. J. Lawrence Smith, late of the Univer- 
sity of Virginia, and now professor of chemistry in the Louisville Medi- 
cal College. The interest in all the lectures was fully sustained until 
the last. 

A number of lectures were also given before the IMechanic's Institute 
and the Young Men's Chiistian Association in the Smithsonian lecture 
room. 

The following is a list of the lectures given, with the names of the 
gentlemen by whom they were delivered. 

A course of three lectures by Benjamin Hallowell, of Alexandria, 
Virfjinia. 

1st. The general principles of astronomy, with the movements and 
consequent phenomena of the bodies of the solar system. 

2d lecture. The sun, Neptune, the asteroids, and comets. 

3d lecture. Fixed stars, nebulae, and stellar systems. 

A course of three lectures by Professor C. W. Hackley, of Columbia 
College, New York. Subject : History of institutions of learning and 
science. 

A course of two lectures by W. Gilmore Simms, esq., of Charleston, 
South Carolina. Subject : The moral character of Hamlet. Also two 
lectures for the Young Men's Christian Association, on poetry and the 
practical. 

One lecture by Professor W. J. Whitaker, of Massachusetts. Sub- 
ject : Method of teaching the art of design. 

A course of three lectures by Park Benjamin, of New York. Sub- 



THE SMITHSOJ^IAN INSTITUTION. 29 

jects : 1st. Fashion ; 2d. Americanisrns ; 3cl. Intellectual and social 
amusements. 

One lecture by W. G. Dix, of Cambridge, Massachusetts. Subject : 
The Andes and Ecuador. 

A course of twenty-two lectures by Professor J. Lawrence Smith, of 
the University of Virginia. 

]st. The importance of the study of chemistry, and its close con- 
nexion with the progress of the arts and manufectures of the present 
age ; also general notice of the nature of bodies, more especially 
gaseous bodies. 

2d. The elements of the atmosphere: oxygen, nitrogen, and ozone, 
or ox3^gen in its allotropic condition. 

3d. The pliysical properties of the atmosphere : its weight, color, 
elasticity, &c. 

4th. The compounds of nitrogen and oxygen. 

6th. Sulphur and some of its compounds. 

6th. Sulphuric acid and its appl'cations. Phosphorus and phos- 
phoric acid. 

7th. Chlorine, its applications in the arts and its combination with 
oxygen. Iodine and its uses, with a notice of its application in the 
photographic art. 

8th. Some of the compounds of chlorine and iodine, bromine, hydro- 
gen, and its application to teronautics. 

9th. Compounds of oxygen and hydrogen ; the oxyhydrogen blow- 
pipe and the Drummond light; water in several of its relations. 

lOih. Combinations of hydrogen w'lih nitrogen, sulphur, phosphorus, 
and chlorine. 

Ilth. Carbon under its various forms of diamond, charcoal, and 
mineral coal ; the combinations of carbon and oxj'gen. 

12th. The agency of carbonic acid in forming incrustations of car- 
bonate of lime ; the respiration of plants and animals ; the formation ol 
coal-beds and the composition of coals ; carbonic oxide and some oi 
the compounds of carbon. 

13th. Compounds of carbon and hydrogen ; explosions in coal mines ; 
Sir Humphrey Davy's lamp ; combustion. 

14th. On the phenomena of combustion and ebullition. 

15th. On the phenomena of illumination, with an exhibition of every 
variety of illumination, from a candle to the electric light. 

16th. On the phenomena of illumination, with illustration of every 
form of artificial illumination; an account of the construction and prin- 
ciple of the Fresnel light used in light-houses. 

17th. On the ebullition and congelation of water, with a short ac- 
count of the application of the vapor of water as a motive power. 

18th. The conversion of water into steam ; its application as a mo- 
tive power, with some remarks on the explosion of boilers ; an account 
of some of the vapors and gases proposed as substitutes for steam as 
motive power. 

19th. General properties of the metals; potash and soda, with an 
account of their applications to the arts of glass and soap making, &c. 

20th. On the compounds of lime, alumina, and silica, with their ap- 
plications. 



30 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

21st. On some of the properties of gold, silver, mercury, and lead, 
with the manner of their occurrence in nature. 

22d. On the properties of copper and iron, with the manner of their 
occurrence in nature ; on meteoric iron and meteorites. 

From the foregoing account of the transactions of the past year, it 
must be evident to every intelligent and unprejudiced person that the 
Institution has perseveringly continued its course of usefulness, and 
tliat, although some of its operations are not of a character to attract 
public attention or elicit popular ;ipplause, yet they are eminently pro- 
ductive of the benevolent results intended by the bestovver of the 
bequest* From tiie report of the Executive Committee, it will be seen 
that the funds are still in a good condition; although, on account ot un- 
foreseen difficulties in the completion of the building, and of the unex- 
pected rise in the price of labor and material, a larger draft has been 
made upon the extra fund than was intended. This can be made up, 
however, if thought necessary, in the course of a few years, by means 
of the interest which will accrue from the same fund. 

It is evident that the collections of books and specimens have in- 
creased as rapidly as is consistent with the best interests of the Institu- 
tion. Every addition to these collections increases the cost of atten- 
dance and supervision, and therefore must, with a fixed income, tend 
to diminish the power of acquisition ; and when it is recollected that 
the Institution is, theoretically at least, to be perpetual, it will be evi- 
dent that we should be more solicitous in regard to the quality of articles 
than to their number or quantity. Though these views may not com- 
mend themselves to all, I believe they will be found to meet the ap- 
proval of a large majority of the intelligent community. 

In order to preserve the continuity of the history of the Institution in 
the annual reports of the secretary, it is necessary to allude to the 
fact that during the past year internal difficulties and changes have 
occurred which have given rise to a series of attacks on the policy 
and management of the Institution ; but however painful occurrences 
of this kind may be to those immediately concerned, yet they seem 
almost inevitable in the first organization of an estabhshment where 
precedence is wanting, and where experience furnishes no instruction. 
They had their origin in the want of a definite recognition of the re- 
sponsibilities and consequently of the powers of the secretary. 

It is evident there can be no efficient action in an Institution of this 
character without entire harmony of views and unity of purpose, and 
these can only be secured by one executive head. The Regents have 
settled this principle, and thus removed all cause of future difficulty of 
a similar character. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Listitulion. 

January, 1855. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 31 

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

Sir : I beg leave to present herewith a report for the year 1854 of 
operations in such departments of the Smithsonian Institution as have 
been particularly entrusted by you to my care. 
Respectfully submitted, 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, 

Assistant Secretary. 
To Joseph Hknry, L.L. D., 

Secretary of the SmitJison'um Institution. 

1. PUBLICATIONS. 

The sixth volume of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 
although for the most part printed in 1853, was not published and dis- 
tributed until the present year. The seventh volume, to consist mainly 
of Lapham's Memoir on the Ancient Remains of Wisconsin, is in hand, 
though delayed somewhat by the failure of the contractor to supply 
paper. The plates, over si.Kty in number, are nearly all lithographed 
and printed, and the numerous wood-cuts engraved. The paper, by 
Professor Bailey, on new microscopic organisms, with one steel plate, 
has been printed and distributed to microscopists in advance of its 
appearance in the full volume. 

The octavo publications during the year are as follows : 

Eighth annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution, pp. 310. 

On the construction of catalogues of libraries, and of a general cata- 
logue. Second edition, pp. 96. 

Directions for collecting, preserving, and transporting specimens of 
natural history, prepared for the use of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Second edition, pp. 28. 

List of foreign institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian 
Institution, pp.20. 

List of domestic institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian 
Institution, pp. 16. 

a— FOREIGN EXCHANGES. 

The following table exhibits the statistics of the sixth transmission 
of packages to Europe, made by the Institution in June, 1854. 

The circular issued by the Institution early in the spring, offering its 
services to the scientific societies of the country, in the transmission ot 
packages to Europe, was eagerly responded to by a large number. 
The rules requiring that all parcels be delivered free of cost in Wash- 
ington, that each one be legibly addressed with the name of the donor, 
and that a separate invoice be sent by mail, or apart from the pack- 
ages, were pretty generally complied with. It is to be regretted, how- 



32 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



ever, that the last named regulation was not observed in some instances, 
thus greatly increasing the labor of the officers in charge, by rendering 
it necessary to make a transcript of the titles from the bundles them- 
selves. 

Such publications ah were sent without specific addresses were dis- 
tributed as appropriately as the information in possession of the Institu- 
tion allowed. 

The boxes containing the packages enumerated in the list, left the 
Institution towards the end of June, and, having been shipped by packet, 
did not reach their European ports until some time in September. 
They were immediately unpacked by the agents of the Institution, and 
the parcels distributed, with the accompanying circulars, to their 
respective addresses. Acknowledgments for many of them have 
already been received. 

A. — Table showing the amount of printed ^matter sent abroad 
IN 1854 BY THE Smithsonian Institution. 



1. Distributed 


hj Dr. J. 


G.Fl 


ilgclt L 


eipsic 










a 


-a 


CD 


Oh 
'3 




M't. 


0) 


d 


<u 




M 


"^ 


Jf^ 


c • 


O (U 


O C3 


rt 








tw rt 




S 




S £ "»' 

0^ 5 a 
< o 

S 3 


C d. 


^ 








O^ 




-3 




o ^, 


o 






COUNXniES. 


O 








.1 
(U o 




o 


O 








O 


0) Ei 


bit r' -t. 


'OE 53 










QJ rt 


QJ-C 




^ &I 


d C VS 






-Q 




:go 


?« 


O 


E 


%^B 




3 


'S 


^ 




<! 


< 


H 


1^; 


Ph 


CL, 


^ 


i5 




8 
3 


19 
o 




15 
5 


41 
13 


22 
3 


















1 

4 
16 

9 
97 






2 

9 

29 

19 

142 


7 
33 
73 
61 

209 












11 

9 

11 

110 




13 

13 

14 

IP 








1 




Holland 


1 












11 

9 


17 
12 




18 
13 


42 
45 


21 
16 


i 






1 






1 




Total 


158 


191 


349 


252 


524 


214 


990 


4,875 


qo 







2. Dhtribntcd by Hector Bossangc, Paris. 





, 


-o 




„ 


TS c 


"^ m 










&.0 












o 
bn 


m 






be 


S^ 






O o 


o d 


d 


o 


o 




■^ s 




C P M 


C ft 


^ 


(-t 




o-r 


o s 


ta 


a. bx) 


es e 

Ai 

ution 


O t^ 


o 






COUNTRIES. 


u a, 


w >- 
o Cu 






m o 


t*-. 


V; 











O 






bce 
d c 






<u 




(U d 


£~ 




.r: (X 


, 


.bjD 

'S 


.a 




^3 


:Sc 


O 


£ 


Pack 
fro 
ins 


1^ 


3 
o 






< 


< 


H 


^ 


C-. 


H 


^ 




64 

28 


47 
24 




80 

37 

2 

5 


148 
69 
14 
20 


47 

27 








Italy 


1 






1 
4 








1 




























Total 


97 


71 


168 


124 


251 


74 


449 


1,884 


fi 







THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 33 

3. Distributed througJi the Royal Society and Henry Stevens, London. 





c 




m 


"3 






.^ 


1 

1 . 






c-S 


^ c 


m 


o 


°-n 


^ ti 


bX) 




t- 




fcn 


0^3 


u 








ci 




X 




U-' rt 


C oj 






S £ "« 




^ 


1 o 


c 


COUNTKIES. 


o 

to ci 


o 






S "3 






o 


c 




X ^-1 


m O 


o 


o rt 


B 5 *J 


btr- 


O 


i "r- 






OJ ri 


o ^ 


, 




a B 


_^ 


: 'be 


J2 




1-^ 

< 


< 


o 




Pack 
fro 
ins 


Ph 






Great Britain and Ireland . . . 


93 


98 


191 


109 


206 


108 


423 


j2,013 


5 



4. Distributed by other parties. 









OJ 


'5 




1 s 


bD 


m 


i 




fci) 


o -^ 






O 0) 


O rf 


n 






ci^ c; 










G a< 




S 




COUNTRIES. 


0) Ph 


0) P-i 


2 


c- b£ 


O 3 






o 


o 




02 — ' 




o 


S d 


bug .ti 

C3 S -^ 


bD^ 


o 


■^ 


<e 




O ri 


<u ,£: 


^ ^ 


-Q CLi 




^ . 


"bJD 

1 


Xi 






<; 


o 


^ 


Ph 


-M O 


i5 

o 


1 




IS 
9 







19 
22 


45 
26 


2 


i 






1 













1 " ' 


Total 


27 


2 


29 


41 


71 


2 


114 


1,019 


5 






Grand total ........... 


375 


362 


737 


526 


1,052 


398 


1,976 


9,791 


38 







The number of foreign institutions to which full series of Smithsonian 
publications were sent for 1854 amounted to 2C3, or five more than the 
previous year. The list is necessarily subject to considerable varia- 
tion, new names being added, and others taken off for non-compliance 
with the regulations of the Institution, or other causes. An acknow- 
ledgment of the reception of one package is imperatively required before 
another is sent, and in the failure to meet this rule, some first class 
institutions are dropped for one or two years, or until the omission is 
rectified. 

There is no port to which the Smithsonian parcels are shipped where 
any duties are charged on them, a certified invoice of contents from the 
Institution being sufficient to carry them through the custom-houses 
free of duty. 

Receipt of booh by exchange. — The additions to the library of the 
Smithsonian Institution, by its exchanges, have been very marked during 
the 3^ear. Attentioiv-was called in the last report to the very great 
increase in our foreign exchanges, in consequence of the extension of 
the list of recipients of Smithsonian publications. During 1854, the 
works received have been fully equal in value to those of 1853, con- 
taining actually a larger number of pieces, and binding up to a greater 
number of volumes. The following table exhibits the record of this 
department. The discrepancy between this record and that of the 
Mis. Doc. 24 3 



34 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

library is owing to the fact thatthe^ latter included donations Irom indi- 
viduals and other sources in this country, which the former did not, and 
that some separate sheets of maps were all bound together before being 
^placed in the library : 

B. — Table exhibitinh the number of pieces received in ex- 
change DURING 1854. 



Volumes. — Foho and <|uarto 27] 

Octavo 655 



926 



Farts of Volumes and Pamphlets. — Folio and quarto 447 

Octavo 1,021 

1,468 

Maps and Engravings 434 

Total 2,828 

As was to be expected, a large proportion of receipts by exchanges 
consisted of the publications of learned societies, many of which, in 
addition to their current volumes, have sent their back series, either in 
whole or part. This department of the library is rapidly becoming- 
more and more complete, and is believed even now to exceed that of 
any other library in the country. The catalogue now in preparation of 
the publications of societies and periodicals belcnging to the Institution 
will furnish a ready means of indicating what are the desiderata of this 
nature. 

In addition, however, to i-eturns from societies, the receipts from 
public libraries and universities of duplicates from their shelves have 
been very numerous, and consisting, as they usually do, of important 
scientific works, have proved highly acceptable. Owing to the con- 
stant communication kept up with the principal men of science at home 
and abroad, and the transmission to them of such publications of the 
Smithsonian Institution as related to their specialities, very many valu- 
able memoirs and works have been received in return from this source 

In the very great number of large donations received during the 
year it has been found impossible to give a particular enumeration ot 
them without encroaching too much in the space allotted to me. This 
is, however, less necessary, as the catalogues now in preparation, and 
shortly to be printed, will convey full information on the subject. 

The following tables contain a statement of the packages received 
from the various sources specificed, for distribution in Europe as well 
as those received from Europe for this country : 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 35 

C. — Table of packages p^rom American instttutioms for dis- 
tribution ABROAD. 

Cambridge. — Nautical Almanac 35 

Boston. — American Academy of Arts and ►Sciences 133 

Boston Society of Natural History 42 

New Haven. — American Journal of Science 47 

Neiv York. — New York L3^ceum of Natural History 99 

American Ethnological Society 19 

Philadelphia. — Academy of Natural Sciences 136 

American Philosophical Society 116 

Philadelphia College ol'Pharmacy 9 

Washington. — United States Patent Ofiice 150 

National Observatory Ill 

Light-house Board 15 

Netv Orleans. — New Orleans Academy of Natural Sciences. . . . 300 

Columbus, Ohio. — Ohio Board of Agriculture 21 

Detroit, Michigan. — Michigan State Agricultural Society 200 

Madison, Wiscovsin. — Wisconsin State Agricultural Society. . . . 143 

San Francisco, California. — Geological Survey of California. . . . 60 

Sa?iliago, Chile. — Observatory of Chili 48 

From miscellaneous sources, including individuals, &c 1,132 

Total received ., 2,816 

D. — Table of packages received from europe for distributiom. 

TO VARIOUS SOCIETIES IN AMERICA. 

Canada. — Various Societies .3 

Boston. — American Academy of Arts and Sciences 50 

Natural History Society 26 

Bovvditch Library 5 

Cambridge. — Observatory 7 

Botanic Garden 3 

Harvard University 13 

Astronomical Journal 12 

American Association 13 

Worcester. — Antiquarian Society 1 

ISeio Haven. — American Journal of Science 37 

American Oriental Society 5 

Albanij. — New York State Library 10 

New York. — New York Lyceum of Natural History 11 

American Ethnological Society 1 

Geographical and Statistical Society 3 

x\merican Institute 5 

West Foint. — United States Military Academy 1 

Philadelphia. — American Philosophical Society 47 

Academy of Natural Sciences 40 

Franklin Institute 1 

Geological Survey of Pennsylvania 5 



36 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Waslmigton. — President of the United States 1 

State Department 3 

United States Patent Office 12 

Congress Library 7 

Coast Survey 6 

National Observatory 30 

National Institute 3 

Commissioner of Indian Affairs 1 

United States Naval Astronomical Expedition, Chili . 15 

Georgcioivn, District of Columbia. — Georgetown College 6 

Chicago, Illinois. — Mechanics' Institute 5 

Colleges in different places 19 

Various State librai ies 37 

3Iiscellaneous societies and individuals 543 

Total 987 

In concluding this portion of my report, I would beg to call your 
attention to the zeal and fidelity with which the agents of the Institu- 
tion in London, Leipsic, and Paris, have discharged their duties. The 
thanks of the Institution are most especially due to Dr. J. G. Fliigel, of 
Leipsic, whose efforts in llie great cause of tightening the bonds of union 
between the literary and scientific men and institutions of the two worlds 
are beyond all praise. ^ 

3. — Domestic Exchanges. 

The copies of volume 6 of Smithsonian Contributions were distributed 
early in the summer, through the agents of the Institution in different 
cities of the Union, as follows: Messrs. J. P. Jewett & Co., Boston; 
Geo. P. Putnam & Co., New York ; Lippincott, Grambo & Co., Phila- 
delphia; John Russell, Charleston ; B. M. Norman, New Orleans ; Dr. 
Geo. Engelmann, St. Louis ; H. W. Derby, Cincinnati ; and Jewett, 
Proctor '& Worthington, Cleveland. The services of these gentlemen, 
involving considerable expense of time and trouble, ha\T, in every in- 
stance, been given without charge. 

4. MuSEUiM. 

a — Increase of tJie Musenm. 

During no period in the history of the Institution have the receipts ot 
specimens been so numerous, or valuable, as in the year 1854. Con- 
tributions have been steadily flowing in fi'om widely remote regions, 
many of which had been previously but little known. Expeditions, 
both public and private, individuals and societies, have all aided in 
gathering together what is now confidently believed to be the most 
valuable collection in the world of many divisions of the natural histor}^ 
of North America. Much has been done by parties aided directly to a 
greater or less extent by the Smithsonian Institution, and much by per- 
sons actins in an individual and independent capacity. The most im- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 37 

portant additions have, however, been received from the various gov- 
ernment expeditions mentioned hereafter. Many officers of the army, 
as heretofore, have forwarded more or less complete collections, made 
in the neighborhood of tlie posts at which they have been stationed. 

The government expeditions by which collections have been made 
are as follows : 

United States Mexican Boundary Commission, under the scientific direc- 
tion of Major Emory, United .States army ; General Robert B. Camp- 
bell, commissioner. The region illustrated by the collections received 
consisted of the Rio. Grande, from Eagle Pass to its mouth. Under the 
present organization of the commission, with Major Emory acting as 
commissioner in addition to his former duties, there is reason to hope 
for new results of the most important character. 

Survey of route for railroad to the Pacific — 

A. Northern route, under Governor I. L Stevens. Region traversed 

extending from Fort Benton, on the Missouri, to the Pacific ocean. 

B. Parallel of 38°, under Lieutenant E. G. Beckwith. From the 

Arkansas, by way of Fort Massachusetts and Salt Lake, to San 
Francisco. 

C. Parallel of 35°, under Lieutenant Whipple. From Fort Smith, on 

the Arkansas, via Albuquerque, Zuni, San Francisco mountains, 
and the Mohave, to San Francisco. 

D. Partial route, under Lieutenant R. S. Williamson. Extending from 

San Francisco to the Mohave, and Tejon Pass to camp Yuma. 

E. Parallel of 32°, under Lieutenant J. G. Parke. Extending from 

camp Yuma via Tueson to El Paso. 

F. Parallel of 32^, under Captain J. Pope. From El Paso, across the 

head of the Brazos and Colorado, to Preston in Texas. 

Exploration of the coast of California, by Lieutenant VV. P. Trowbridge, 
United States army. 

Exploration of the La Plata and its tributaries, by Lieutenant Page, 
United States navy. 

A more particular account of these several expeditions will be found 
in the article on scientific explorations. 

From these different expeditions a large number of collections have 
been received, embracing material of the first importance and interest. 
Full reports are in preparation, and will be presented to Congress for 
publication with the other results of the explorations, and with such 
amount of illustrations as circumstances may require or authorize. 

Among the more private explorations, from which results of the great- 
est importance have been received, are those of Dr. P. R. Hoy, in Mis- 
souri ; Reverend A. C.Barry, in Wisconsin; Gustavus Wurdemann, 
in Louisiana ; Lieutenant H. G. Wright, at Garden Ke}^ Florida ;■ 
Robert Kennicott, northern Illinois ; Dr. L. A. Edwards, Fort Towson, 
&c. ; together with my own, on the Jersey coast. Further accounts ot 
these will be hereafter given. 

Li view of the vast multitude of objects received during the year, it 
is manifestly impossible to give full details respecting them ; and I can 
here only refer to this subject in the most general manner, taking up the 
collections in the following order : 

Mamnuils. — A specimen of the so-called Sampson (ox, a peculiar va- 



38 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

riety of the red fo\\ or Vu/pcs fulvus, was received from Dr. Ackley and 
Dr. Kirtland, of Cleveland. Various kinds of Sorex, and other small 
mammals, from Reverend Chas. Fox, of Grosse Isle, Michigan.* Thf- 
fetus of a whale, from the arctic regions, was presented by Lieutenant 
Maury. The fresh skin and horns of a la How deer {Ctrvus damn), and 
elk [Elajf/ius canadensis,) by Colonel Tuley, of Clarke coant3% Virginia, 
whose extensive park contains many fine specimens of these species. 
A pair of living wild cats {Lynx ritfus,) were sent by Dr; Evans through 
Dr. D. D. Owen. The most important additions, however, have been 
received Irom Lieutenant Trowbridge, collected on the Pacific coast, 
including skins of deer, wolves, Ibxes, hares, lynxes, &c., with many 
small mammals. In this collection are several new species of hare. 

Birds. — A very large collection of the birds of California was received 
from Lieutenant Trowbridge, embracing nearly all of the larger aquatic 
species of the coast, and another from Mr. Cutts. A collection of over 
100 skins, from Gustavus Wurdemann, at Calc;isieu, Louisiana, in- 
cluded several ver}' rare and new species. Dr. Brewer presented some 
specimens from Wisconsin, and Mr. William M. Penrose an albino 
blackbird from near Carlisle, Pennsylvania. 

Reptiles and Jishcs. — As usual, it is in this department that the addi- 
tions have been greatest. The species of Wisconsin have been received 
from Dr. Ho}^ and Mr. Barry ; of New Jersey and New York, from 
Mr. Brevoort and myself; of xMississippi, from Cobnel Wailes and 
Reverend Benjamin Cfease; of California, from Dr. Newberry, Mr. 
Bowman, and Lieutenant Trowbridge; of lUinois, from Mr. .J. D. Ser- 
geant, Robert Kennicott, and Mi'. Harris; of South Carolina, from Pro- 
fessor Holmes, Mrs. Daniel, and Dr. Barker; of North Carolina, from 
Mr. Bridger, Mr. McNaii-, and Mr. Lineback; of Louisiana, from Mr. 
Wurdemann; of Missouri, fi-om Dr. H03', Dr. Engelmann, and Mr. 
Lear; of Alabama, irom Mr. Edgeworth ; of Minnesota, iVom Mr. 
Riggs; of Tennessee, from Protessois Owen and Johnson; of Chi- 
huahua, from Mr. Potts; of Gulf of Mexico, from Lieutenant Wright; 
of Surinam, from Dr. Wyman ; of Brazil, from Mr. Austin ; of Trinidad 
and Key West, fiom Professor W. H. Thomas; of Africa, from Dr. 
Steele ; together with many others. My limited space will not allow 
me to go into details respecting these collections beyopd stating that 
those of Lieutenant Trowbridge are the most important, adding, as they 
do, some fifty new species of fishes alone to the North American fauna. 
Collections of reptiles deposited hj Dr. Webb, who procured them in 
northern Mexico, New Mexico, and Texas, are likewise very valuable. 

Quite a large number of living reptiles — snakes, lizards, turtles, &c., 
were received during the 3-ear, but, owing to the want of means for 
their proper preservation, few survived. Among those, however, at 
present in ap[)arent good health, may be mentioned a northern rattle- 
snake f' Cro;«Z«s- Jwn,ss«5^ from Virginia; the black massasauga,(^C?-oto/o- 
phorns massasavga,) sent from Ohio by Dr. Kirtland ; six speci- 
mens of C. tergeniinns, Say, or prairie rattle, from Illinois, by Robert 



* To this gentleman the Institution has been under very great obh'gations for numerous 
specimens illustrating the zoology of Michigan, accompanied, usually, by copious notes oij 
the habits and peculiarities of the species. It is with profound regret tliat I liave to record his 
death by cholera during the past suuuner. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 39 

Kennicolt ; Uvo young alligators from Professor Forshe}', Texas : 
a snaj)ping turtle, (Chelonura serpentina) from Mississippi, and various 
others. Another season will, however, find us better prepared for a 
great variety of species already promised. Few collections of living 
animals excite more interest in the spectator than those of reptiles, 
while the habits of man}' species, at present unknown, can only be 
ascertained by tlieir study in captivit}-. None admit of such confined 
accommodations, or require so little attendance and food. 

Interlchrata. — Marine invertebrata of Jersey, were collected b}* m}'- 
self, and of Louisiana by Mr. Wurdemann. A highl}- interesting and 
valuable collection made by Mr. Jarvis, inspector of timber in the 
Portsmouth navy yard, and presented by Commodore Smith, chief of 
the Bureau of Docks and Yards, illustrates well the growth of the 
teredo and ])arnacle, with the real or pretended artificial methods of 
preventing their ravages. From the experiments of Mr. Jarvis, how- 
ever, it would seem to be proved conclusively that the white zinc 
paint, made by the New Jersey Company, as long as the surface 
covered by it I'emains unbroken, forms as effectual a protection to a 
ship's bottom as copper sheathing itself Nearly all the alcoholic col- 
lections received incladed specimens of astaci and insects from differ- 
ent parts of North America. 

Fossils. — Many valuable collections of fossil remains have been 
received. An interesting series from the vicinity of Satow was for- 
warded by the Rev. L. Vortisch ; Mr. G. Lambert, of Mons, presented 
a series of carlioniferous fossils of Belgium* specimens from Texas 
were sent in by Lieutenant J. G. Benton, United States army, and by 
Dr. Julius Froebel; from Panama by Dr. E. L. Berthoud ; from 
Illinois by Dr. Stevens ; from North Carolina by Mr. Bridger. A com- 
plete set of minerals and fossils of the remarkable brown-coal beds of" 
Brandon, Vermont, was received from David Buckland. Sharks 
teeth and mastodon bones of Florida, from Captain Casey, United 
States arm}' : fossil-wood of California, from Mr. Langton, and in- 
fusorial earth ot" Monterey, from Major Barnard. 

Minerals. — A valuable collection of specimens illustrating the mate- 
rials of which some of the principal public buildings in Europe are con- 
structed, gathered by Mr. Evans, wasdepositedinhisnanieby Lieutenant 
Gillis, and minerals of New Mexico and Texas were received from 
Lieutenant Colonel J. K. Mansfield, LTnited States army, and Dr. 
Froebel ; opal of Mexico from Mr. Rogers. A series illustrating the 
auriferous deposites of Bridgewater, Vermont, was presented by Mr. 
Cunningliam. 

Plants. — Some very large collections of plants of the Rocky Mount- 
ains and the regions west were brought in by the exploring expeditions. 
Others were sent from Texas by Dr. Ervendburg, from Mmnesota by 
Mr, Riggs, from Madagascar by Messrs. Cotheal, &c. A very large 
leaf of the Talipot tree was presented by Commodore x\ulick. 

Antiqvitics. — \'arious specimens of Indian remains in Nortli America 
have been received during the year from various sources, as also an 
ancient Peruvian vase from Talcahuana. 



40 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

b — Work done in the Museum. 

The labor of receiving, unpacking, and assorting the specimens 
received during the year has been very great, occupying a large share 
of my time as well as that of Mr. Girard. 

Some idea of the labor involved may be obtained from the fact that 
in 1854 there were received 35 kegs and barrels, 26 cans, 175 jars, 94 ' 
boxes, and 32 packages, all containing a greater or less number of 
specimens, giving an aggregate of over 350 different lots, without 
including numerous specimens received singly. All these had to be 
assorted or repacked, labelled by localities, at least, and recorded in 
the proper books, and in most cases duplicate lists sent to the donors. 
We have, however, succeeded without other than mechanical aid in 
accomplishing all that was immediately necessary to be done, leaving 
very few arrears tor the ensuing year. 

Considerable progress has, likewise, been m.ade in the determinations 
and descriptions of the collections themselves. A number of reports 
upon the vertebrata of the several explorations, both of the Pacific rail- 
road survey, and of the United States navy astronomical expedition, 
under Lieutenant Gillis, have been either completed by Mr. Girard 
and myself or are in an advanced state of progress. The series of 
descriptive systematic catalogues of the collections has been extended 
by the preparation of an elaborate account of the North American 
toads by Mr. Girard, and of the frogs and tree frogs by myself; these 
are entirely finished and ready for press, and will make a volume 
nearly as large as the catalogue of North American serpents. Full 
descriptions of the families, genera, and species of all inhabiting North 
America (including about 20 new ones) are given, and analytic and 
exhaustive methods applied to the species. Such catalogues, forming 
as they do so many manuals in North American zoology, extend the 
benefits of the museum far beyond its walls. The demand, indeed, 
for them is so great, from all parts of the world, that of the catalogue 
of serpents two editions of 1,000 copies each have been called for and 
distributed. 

A good deal of time has also been taken up in the preparation of 
specimens for examination, cleaning skeletons and skulls, dissecting, 
(fee, while the selection, labelling, packmg, and recording of the col- 
lections sent from the Institution have created no inconsiderable 
amount of labor. 

In connxtion vi\\h the subject of the work done in the museum, it 
may, perhaps, be proper to refer to the article in the appendix con- 
taining the result of my observations on the habits and peculiarities ot 
the fishes of the Jers.^y coast, as made in the summer, together with 
descriptions of the colors from life of such species as are apt to fade in 
spirits. 

c — The 2Jf'cse7]f. Condition of the Museum. 

The paragraph upon the work done in the Museum covers to some 
extent the subject of the present heading. No change has been made 
in the places of deposit of the specimens owing to the very recent 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 41 

period at which the new hall intended to receive the coilections was 
completed, and this year, it is earnestly hoped, will not pass without 
an improvement in this respect. The new hall is quite large enough 
to contain all the collections hitherto made, as well as such others 
belonging to the government as may be assigned to it. No single room 
in the country is, perhaps, equal to it in capacity or adaptation to its 
purposes, as, by the proposed arrangement, it is capable of receiving 
twice as large a surface of cases as the old Patent Office hall, and 
three times that of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 
In this room, then, there will be abundant opportunity to arrange all the 
collections which have been made or may be expected lor some time to 
come in the order best suited to the wants of the student and most inter- 
esting to the casual visitor. In the mean time, under the conditions of 
the past year, everything has been done to render the collections as 
available and accessible as circumstances would allow ; all the North 
American mammalia, amounting to over 500 specimens in skins, have 
been arranged systematically in drawers of dust and insects-proof 
walnut cases. The birds have been similarly treated, while the 
reptiles and fishes (each species Irom each locahty in a separate jar) 
have been assorted as systematically as the over crowding of the 
present confined space would allow. During the year several thou- 
sand jars have been filled with alcholic specimens, which are illy 
accommodated on shelves, nearly every square inch of which was 
occupied at the beginning of the year. The shells of mollusca with 
the minerals and iossils, have generally been repacked after entry and 
stored away lor the present, requiring as they do a less vigilant super- 
vision. This has, to a certain extent, likewise been done with the 
plants. 

d — DutribuUon of Collcctmis. 

In accordance with the spirit of llie Institution, quite a large number 
of specimens, in sets varying in magnitude, have been distributed 
during the past year to various institutions and individuals desiring 
them for purposes of special investigation. Some of these may be 
looked upon in the light of returns lor similar favors received or 
promised, but they have generally been furnished without reference to 
an equivalent of any kind. As the facilities of the Institution for re- 
ceiving and properly arranging its collections increase and the du- 
plicates are ascertained, by a proper examination of the specimens, 
this system of distribution may be. carried to an extent that shall ma- 
terially affect the progress of science throughout this country and the 
world. 

To the investigator who has heretofore been obliged to spend the 
best years of his life in collecting together the materials of his labor, 
gathered amid toils and privations to which, in the end, he may be 
forced to succumb, the advantage of finding all he needs ready to his 
hand, and in greater extent and variety than he could singly hope to 
obtain, are beyond all calculation. For this reason it is that the accu- 
mulation of a large amount of duplicate material becomes necessary, 



42 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

in addition 1.o the complete series of specimens to be retained on the 
shelves. 

Among the more important collections thus distributed ma}' be men- 
tioned one of 145 species of North American birds, in 199 specimens, 
to the Swedish Academy of Sciences at Stockholm, in return lor a very 
valuable collection of skins and skeletons of north European mammalia ; 
97 species and 160 specimens of North American birds to Mr. F. 
Sturm, of Niirnburg, in return lor collection of birds, &c., li'om central 
Europe ; 104 lots of fishes and invertebrates to Professor Agassiz, of 
Cambridge, in return lor numerous donations of duplicates- from his 
pre-eminentU'' valuable collection ; fishes of Massachusetts to Dr. D. 
H. Storer, of Boston, to assist him in the preparation of his memoir on 
the fishes of the State ; numerous birds and quadrupeds, both European 
and North American, to the Philadelphia Acadenw ot" Natural Sciences; 
eggs of American birds to Dr. T. M. Brewer, tor his work on North 
American oology ; large numbers of North American coleoptera to Dr. 
Leconte, for his memoirs on this department of entomology, &c. The 
list is capable of considerable extension, but thei'e is enough to show 
how the Institution has endeavored to co-operate with all societies and 
individuals, engaged in special investigations, re(]uiring materials ad- 
ditional to those already in their possession. 

It will, however, be sufficiently evident thai the Smithsonian In- 
stitution cannot indiscriminately undertake systematic exchange of 
specimens with other parties — with individuals especially. The force 
of the natural history department is not nowsuflicient tor this, and may 
never be. To the mere collector, as distinguished from the investigator, 
it will not be expedient to distribute specimens to any considerable 
extent, as the disposable stock may be reduced so low as to render it 
difficult or impossible to do proper justice to the student. While, 
however, the Institution canned undertake the mere business of exchange 
with individuals, unless in exceptional cases, and even with institutions, 
it can do and has done much to facilitate such exchange between other 
parties. Scarcely a week passes without the communication of infor- 
mation of the readiness or desire of exchange in particular departments 
on the part of different individuals or associations. AH notifications or 
applications of the kind are systematical^ recorded in the proper 
books and duly referred to when occasion requires. 

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL DONATIONS TO THE MUSEUM OF THE SMITH- 
SONIAN INSTITUTION DURlNCr 1854. 

Proffssor E. B. Andrews. — Keg of fishes irom the Ohio river. 

Commodore J. AnlicJc, U. S. N. — Leaf of Talipot palm (Corijp/ta i/m- 
hracavUfcra ) from Ceylon. 

Joseph B. Austin. — Jar of reptiles from Para. 

Spencer F. Balrd. — Two kegs and one hundred jarsof fishes, andinver- 
tebrates, with skins of birds, skulls and teeth of sharks and rays; from 
Beesle3'-'s Point, Cape May county. New Jersey. One keg of fishes 
fi-om Greenport and Riverhead, Long'Island. One keg of fishes from 
the fresh and brackish waters about Sing-Sing, New York. One keg 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 43 

of fishes from the Hackcnsack ri\er and Sparkill, Rockland counlj", 
New York. 

Dr. S. W. BarJicr. — Living specimens of Nerodia crijthrogaster, 
Hetcrodon niger, Ophihohis gctjdm, and Elajjs fulvus from vSouth Carolina. 

Major J. G. Barnard, U. S. A. — Infusorial earth from Monterc}', 
Calilbrnia. 

Rev. A. C. Barry. — Keg of fishes firoin southern Wisconsin ; two 
kegs of mammals, reptiles, fishes, &c., from northern Wisconsin. 

Lieutenant J. G. Be^iton, U. S. A. — Box of fossils from San Antonio, 
Texas. 

Dr. E. L. Berlhoud. — Fossils from the isthmus of Panama. Indian 
relics and fishes from Bourbon county, Kentuck}'. 

J. S. Boivman and S. M. Bowman. — Fishes and reptiles collected on 
the route from Salt Lake cit}' to Marysville, California. 

C. C. Brcvoort. — Fresh s.^pecxmen?, oi' Esox fasciatus from Long Island. 
Fresh specimens of trout and hake from New York. Fishes, in alcohol, 
from the vicinity of Brooklyn, New York. 

T. M. Brewer, M. D. — Skins of birds from Dane county, Wisconsin. 

J. L. Bridger. — Stand containing a series of tertiary fossils, with 
living serpents, Farancia abacurus, and two birds, Ortijx Virginianus, 
from Edgcombe county. North Carolina. 

David BucMand. — Box of minerals and fossils Irom the brown coal 
deposit of Brandon, A'ermont. 

Ca.p(ai}i Casey, U. S. A. — Fdssil teeth of mastodon and sharks from 
Florida. 

Rev. Be?ijamin Chase. — Stuffed Slernolhaerus from Concordia lake, 
Louisiana. 

Captain Chattcn. — Specimens, in alcohol, of Ophidium 7narginaMm 
from Beesley's point, New Jerse3^ 

Charleston College, S. C. — Duplicates of a collection of Batrachia. 

Messrs. Cotheal &f Co., New YorJc. — Specimens of seeds of silk cotton; 
leaves, fruit, and manufactured cloth from the Rafar palm, Madagas- 
car. Model of Madagascar canoe. 

Johi P. Cmmiiigham. — Box of minerals illustrating the auriferous 
deposits of Vermont. 

R. D. Cutts. — Skins of thirty species of birds from San Francisco 
county, California. 

Mrs. M. E. Daniel. — Can of reptiles and fishes from Anderson, South 
Carolina. 

Edica7-d T. Denig. — Reptiles and fishes from Fort Union, Nebraska. 

T. J. Dryer. — Specimens of minerals from the summit of Mount 
Hood, Oregon. 

J. Eckels, (United States consul, Talcahuana.) — Peruvian vase and 
ear of corn, disintered near Talcahuana. 

A. E. Edgeworth. — Can of reptiles and fishes, with dried plants, 
shells, &c., from Marengo county, Alabama. 

Dr. L. A. Edwards, U. S. A- — One box of fossils, one bale of plants, 
ten jars of reptiles and insects, and various heads and feet of birds, 
from Fort Towson, Arkansas. 

Dr. George Engelmann. — One barrel fishes, reptiles, and mammals 
from St. Louis. 



44 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

L. C. Ervcndbitrg. — Package of seeds of Texas plants. 

Di' J. Erans and Dr. D. D. Ou:en. — Two living wild cats, {Lynx 
rvfus,) from the Upper Missouri. 

Dr. Jidius Froebel. — Box of fossils and minerals from Texas and New 
Mexico. 

Professor Charles Fox. — Skin of shrew, ( Sorcx dekayi.) 

Lieutenant J. M. Gilliss, V. S. N. — Specimens of building materials 
collected in Europe, by W. W. Evans. Deposited. 

John Greiner. — Specimens oi' Phrynosoma, in alcohol, from Santa Fe. 

Dr. A. M. Grinnan. — Collection ot" plants from near Fredericksburg, 
Virginia. Can of reptiles and fish from Madison, Virginia.- 

J. O. Harris. — Fossils, insects, fishes, and reptiles, fi-om Ottawa, 
Illinois. 

Dr. Henderson, U. S. N. — Jar of fishes from Columbia county, Penn- 
sylvania. 

Mrs. Mary Hereford. — Bones of Zeuglodon, from a marl bed in Cal- 
vert county, Maryland. 

Dr. Hereford. — Living specimens of Leptophis asiivus, from Prince 
George's, Maryland. 

Dr. P. R. Hoy. — Fishes from southern Wisconsin ; keg of fishes, 
reptiles, and mammals, from lUinois and Missouri ; two kegs of fishes 
and reptiles from western Missouri ; reptiles from Mansfield county, 
Ohio. 

Rev. Thomas R. Hunt. — Red shale, with teeth of fishes, from northern 
Pennsylvania. 

R. W. Kennicott. — Two jars of reptiles, fishes, &c., from northern 
Illinois ; box containing six living Crotaloi)horus tergemifius, and other 
species of serpent, with other reptiles, from northern Illinois. 

Dr. W. S. King, U. S. A. — Skins of chaparal cock, ( Geococcyx Mexi- 
canus,) from San Diego, California. 

C. F. Kirtkmd. — Keg of fishes from Yellow creek, Ohio. 

Professor J. P. Kirtland and Dr. AcMey. — Fresh specimen of Samp- 
son fox, (Vidpes fidvus,) from Cleveland, Ohio. 

Prof. J. P. Kirtland. — Four living specimens of Crotalophorus massas- 
sanga. 

G. Lambert. — Fossils and rocks from Belgium. 

W. F. La,ngton. — Fossil wood and sulphuret of iron, from the JNIinne- 
sota mines in California. 

O. H. P. Lear. — Fishes from Marion county, Missouri^ 

Major John Le Conte. — Jar of reptiles from Liberty county, Georgia ; 
skin of Sorex from Georgia. 

J. C. Lineback. — Can of reptiles and fishes from Salem, North Caro- 
lina. 

Maj-shall McDonald. — Living specimen of Scoiophis Allcgiianiensis, 
Alleghany black snake, from Hampshire county, Virginia. 

Lieutenant A. McRae, United States 'navy. — Scorpions and crustaceans 
from Panama. 

J. C. McNair. — Eight jars of reptiles and fishes from Summerville, 
North Carolina. 

R. C. Mack. — Specimens of Zanzibar copal, enclosing an insect and 
a lizard. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 45 

Rev. Charles Mann and Masters George and William Mami. — Salaman- 
der ( AmUijstoma opaciim) with eggs taken in February, 1854. Can of 
fishes and reptiles from Gloucester county, Virginia. 

Colonel J. K. Mansjield, United States Army. — Box of minerals and 
fossils, collected between Fort Atkinson and Santa Fe, New Mexico. 

Hon. George P. Marsh. — Keg of fishes and reptiles with shells, &c., 
from Palestine, Syria, &c. 

LicutenaJit M. F. Maurij, United States Naii/. — Foetus of right 
whale, and portion of the skin of sperm whale of 75 barrels, from the 
North Atlantic. 

Professor O. W. Morris. — Young ^lenojwma just excluded trom the 
egg, Holston river, Tennessee. 

TV. E. Moore. — Skin of humming bird, from the Island of Juan Fer- 
nandez. 

Dr. J. S. Newberry. — Jar of reptiles from Bodega, California (de- 
posited.) 

Professor R. Owen. — Keg of reptiles and fishes from Tennessee. 

William M. Penrose. — Skin of albino female of Agelaius iihoeniceus. 
shot near Carlisle, Pennsylvania. 

Charles PiUichody. — Two cans of fishes from Mobile, Alabama. 

John Potts. — Skins of mammalia and reptiles in alcohol, from New 
^Mexico. Skins oi" Lejms artemisia and of several birds, with a can of 
reptiles and fishes, from Chihuahua. 

Alfred L. Riggs. — Can of reptiles and fishes, from Lac qui Parle, 
Minnesota. 

Jeremiah Rogers. — Precious opal from Mexico. 

Hon. Sion H. Rogers. — Fossil bone from Roanoke, North Carolina. 

Sir R. Schomburgh. — Land shells, from Guiana. 

J. D. Sergeant. — Specimens of Pityophis and Eutcenia, from Illinois. 

Dr. G. G. Shui7ia7-d.-^F\ve cans of fishes, one can of reptiles and 
two boxes of insects, fi^om Fort Smith, Arkansas. 

Captain E. K. Smith, U. S. A. — Fishes and reptiles, from St. Au- 
gustine, Florida. 

Commodore Smith, U. S. N. — Series of specimens illustrating the ex- 
periments of Mr. John Jarvis, inspector of timber, navy yard, Ports- 
mouth, Virginia, on the growth and ravages of teredo and barnacle, 
and means of protection against them. 

Dr. Thomas L. Steele. — Four jars of reptiles and fishes, with one 
Pterojms, from Cape Palmas, west Africa. 

Dr R. P. Stei:c7is. — Box of fossils and shells, from Illinois. 

Professor W. H. B. Thomas. — Jar of" reptiles, from Trindad, and one 
from Key West, Florida. Skin of Scalops breivcri. 

Lieutenant W. P. Trowbridge, U. S. A. — One keg and can of reptiles 
and fishes, with two boxes of skins of birds and mammals, skeletons, 
shells, &c., from San Diego, Monterey, and Presidio, California. 

Colonel Joseph Tuley. — Skins and horns of male fallow deer, Ccrvus 
dama, and elk, Elaphns canadensis, from his park in Clarke county, 
Virginia. 

Pfarrer L. Vortisch. — Collections of minerals, fossils, and antiquities, 
from Satow, Germany. 



46 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Colonel B. L. C. Wailes. — Three kegs of" fishes, from Mississisippi. 

Keg of reptiles and fishes, from Washington, Mississippi. 

Dr. T. H. Webb. — Reptiles, mammals, insects, &c., from California, 
New Mexico, and Texas. (Deposited.) 

Lieutenant H. G. Wright, U. S. A. — Keg of fishes, from Fort Jeffer- 
son, Garden Key, Florida. 

Gustavus Wurdcmmn. — Fishes, i^eptiles, and invertebrates, from 
Aransas, Texas, and New Orleans. Box of bird skins, and ten jars 
of reptiles, fishes, &c., from Calcasieu, Louisiana. Six jars of fishes, 
&c., from Fort Morgan, Mobile, Alabama. Reptiles, fishes, and in- 
vertebrates, Brazos, Texas. Fishes, reptiles, and invertebrates in 
alcohol, with skins of birds and mammals, from Aransas, Texas. 

Dr. J. Wrjrnan. — Can of fishes and reptiles, from Surinam and 
Guiana. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



47 



List of Meteorological Stations and Observers. 



State. 



Nova Scotia 

Canada .. • . 
Maine 



New Ham p si lire , 



Nnme of observer. 



Residence. 



County. 



Vermont. 



Massachusetts 



Rhode Island. 



Connecticut 



New York 



Henry Poole 

' A. T; S. Stuart 

Dr. Charles Smallwood. . 

George B. Barrows 

.Joshua Bartlett 

John J. Bell 

William D. Dana 

Samuel A. Eveleth 

Rev. S. H. Merrill 

J. D. Parker 

Samuel N. Bell 

Rev. L. W. Leonard. . . . 

R. C. Mack 

Dr. William Prescott. . . . 

George B. Sawyer 

Henry E. Sawyer 

Albert A. Young \ 

Prof. Ira Young i| 

D. Buckland 

James K. Colb}- jl 

J. P. Fairbanks «i 

Charles A. J. Marsh.. . [ 
James A. Paddock . . . . ^ 

D. Underwood 

Zadock Thompson 

Lucius C. Allin 

William Bacon 

John Brooks 

Manshal Conant 

Prof. P. A. Chadbourne.. 

Emerson Davis 

B. R. Gifford 

Amasa Holcomb 

George Chandler, M. D..! 

D. J. Holmes ) < 

James Orton (j : 

Hon. Wm. Mitchell 

R. D. Mussey ! 

Dr. J. Geo. Metcalf 

Dr. H. C. Perkins 

Henry Rice 

Samuel Rodman 

Dr. James Robbins 

Prof E. S. Snell I 

Dr. E. A. Smith | 

Albert Schleo-el ! 

Prof A. Caswell | 

George Manchester 

Samuel Powel 

Henry C. Sheldon ' 

Rev.T. Edwards ' 

T. S. Gold i 

D. Hunt : 

Prof. J. Johnston I 

Dr. Ovid Plumb I 

James Rankin 

E. M. Alba j 

Edward A. H. Allen I 

Thomas B. Arden 

Warren P. Adams 

Charles A. Avery 

John Bowman 

S. De Witt Bloodgood . 



Albion Mines 

Wolfville, Acadia Co 
St. Martin's, near M 

Fryeburg 

South Thomaston ... 

Carmel j 

Perry 

Windham 

Bluehill : 

Steuben ; 

Manchester 

Exeter ! 

Londonderry 

Concord 

Salmon Falls I 

Great Falls ' 



Pictou . 
liege, 
ontreal . 
Oxford. 
Lincoln. 
Penobscot. 
Washington. 
Cumberland. 
Hancock. 
Washington . 
Hillsborough. 
Rockingham. 
Rockingham. 
Merrimack. 
Stafford. 
Stafford, 



Hanover Grafton. 



Brandon 

St. Johnsbury. 



Rutland. 
Caledonia. 



Craftsbury ' Orleans. 

Castleton I Rutland. 

Burlington i Crittenden. 

Springfield i Hampden. 

Richmond Berkshire. 

Princeton ] Worcester. 

Bridgewater [ Plymouth. 

Williamstown j Berkshire. 

Westfield j Hampden. 

Wood's Hole ' Barnstable. 

Southwick ! Hampden. 

Worcester i Worcester, 

Williamstown I Berkshire. 

Nantucket Nantucket . 

Rockport I Essex. 

Mendon | Worcester. 

Newburyport ' Essex. 

North Attleboro', . , , Bristol. 

New Bedford | Bristol. 

Uxbridge Worcester. 

Amherst ' Hampshire. 

Worcester ; Worcester. 

Taunton. . Bristol. 

Providence Providence. 

Portsmouth | Newport. 

Newport ' Newport. 

North Scituate : Providence. 

New London 'i New London. 

West Cornwall | Litchfield. 

Pomfret ; Windham. 

Middletown ! Middlesex. 

Salisbury ' Litchfield. 

Saybrook I Middlesex. 

Angelica , Alleghany. 

Troy '■ Rensselaer. 

Beverly Putnam. 

Glen's Falls Warren. 

Seneca Falls , Seneca. 

Baldwinsville ! Onondaga. 

New York ' New York. 



48 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

METEOROLOGICAL LIST— Continued. 



State. 



New York — Con. 



New Jersey. 



Pennsylvania. 



Delaware 
Maryland 



Name of observer. 



Residence. 



County. 



Virsrinia. 



Eph. N. Byram 

J. Everett Breed 

C. Thurston Chase 

E. A. Dayton 

J. S. Gibbons I 

W. E. Guest 

J. Caroll House | 

J. H.Hart i 

Dr. S. B. Hunt { 

E. W. Johnson ! 

John Lefferts 

L. A. Langdon , 

Charles A. Lee , 

Capt. W. S. Malcom 1 

L. F. Munger ! 

Prof. D. J. Pratt \ 

Dr. J. W. Smith , 

Elias O. Salisbury ' 

Dr. H. P. Sartw'ell ! 

Rev. Thomas H. Strong. 
Stillman Spooner 

C. S. Woodward 

P. O. Williams 

Walter D. Yale 

Robert L. Cooke 

Prof. Geo. H. Cook 

Rev. Ad. Frost 

E. T. Mack 

W. A. Whitehead 

Samuel Brown 

W. O. Blodget 

Dr. A. C. Blodget 

John Comly 

D. S. Deering 

Fenelon Darlington 

Joseph Edwards 

Rev. D. J. Eyler 

John Heisely 

Ebenezer Hance 

O. T. Hobbs 

John Hughes 

M. Jacobs 

Prof. J. A. Kirkpatrick . . 

J. R. Lowrie 

Rev. J. Grier Ralston . . . 

Paul Swift 

Francis Schreiner 

Dr. H. Smyser 

Dr. R. P. Stephens 

T. H. Thickstun , 

A. D. Weir 

W. W. Wilson 

R. Weiser 

Prof. W. A. Crawford.., 

J. P. Walker 

Prof. William Baer I 

Miss H. M. Baer ^ 

Rev. John P. Carter. . . . 

Henry E. Hanshaw 

Benj. O. Lowndes. 

Prof. Jus. F. Maguire. . . 
Lieut. R. F. Astrop. . . . 

Samuel Couch 

Benj. Hallowell 



Sag Harbor 

Smitliville 

Chatham 

Madrid 

New York 

Ogdensburg 

Lowville 

Oswego 

Buffalo 

Canton 

Lodi 

Falconer 

Peekskill 

Osvv'ego 

Lo Roy 

Fredonia 

East Franklin 

Buffalo 

Penn Yan 

Flatbush 

Wampsville 

Beaver Brook.. . 
Gouverneur . . . . 

Houseville 

Bloomfield 

New Brunswick . 

Burlington 

New Brunswick . 

Newark 

Bedford 

Sugar Grove... . 

Youngsville 

Byberry 

Brookville 

Pocopson 

Chromedale 

Waynesboro' .. . 

Harrisburg 

Morrisville 

Randolph 

Puttsville 

Gettysburg 

Philadelphia . . . . 
Warrior's Mark. 

} Norristown 

I Haverford 

j Moss Grove . . . , 

j Pittsburgh 

\ Ceres 

\ Meadville 

Freeport 

Pittsburgh 

Andersville .. . - 

Newark 

Dover 



Suff^olk. 
Jefferson. 
Columbia. 
St. Lawrence. 
New York. 
St. Lawrence. 
Lewis. 
Osweo'o. 
Erie. 

St. Lawrence. 
Seneca. 
Chautauque. 
Westchester. 
Oswego. 
Genessee. 
Chautauque. 
Delaware. 
Erie. 
Yates. 
Kings. 
Madison. 
Sullivan. 
St. Lawrence. 
Lewis. 
Essex. 
Middlesex. 
Burlington. 
Middlesex. 
Essex. 
Bedford. 
Warren. 
Warren . 
Philadelphia. 
Jefl^erson. 
Chester. 
Delaware. 
Franklin. 
Dauphin. 
Bucks. 
Crawford. 
1 Schuylkill. 
j Adams. 
I Philadelphia. 
■ Huntington. 

Montgomery. 

Philadelphia. 

Crawford. 

Alleghany. 

McKean. 

Crawford. 

Armstrong. 

Alleghany. 

Perry. 

New Castle. 

Kent. 



Sykesville 

Flagerstown . . . . 

Frederick 

Blenheim 

New Windsor . . 
Criciiton's Store. 

Ashland 

Alexandria 



Carroll. 

Washington. 

Frederick. 

Prince George's. 

Carroll. 

Brunswick. 

Putnam. 

Alexandria. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 
METEOROLOGICAL LIST— Continued. 



49 



State. 



Virginia — Continued 



North Carolina 



South Carolina 



Georgia. 



Florida 



Alabama. 



Name or observer. 



Residence. 



Kentucky 



Ohio. 



Jed. Hotchkiss 

Samuel X. Jackson. . . . 

William S. Kern 

Charles J. Meriwether. 

J.W. Marvin 

A. Nettleton 

Thomas Patton 

Prof. Geo. R. Rosseter 

David Turner 

Prof. N. B. Webster . . 
Rev. Fred. Fitzgerald . 

Dan. Morelle 

Prof. Jas. Phillips 

Dr. J. Bryant Smith 

Thornton Carpenter i 

Alex. Glcnnie ' 

H. W. Ravenel 

J. A. Young 

R. T. Gibson 

William Haines 

John F. Posey 

Dr. E. M. Pendleton 

William Schley 

Prof. Wm. D. Williams. 

Dr. A. S. Baldwin 

W. C. Dennis 

John Newton 

John Pearson 

Aug. Steele 

George Benagh 

S. J. Gumming 

Prof. John Darby 

Ben. F. Holley 

R. T. Meriwether 

H. Tutwiler 

Prof. M. Tuomey 

A. R. Green 

Prof. L. Harper 

Rev. E. S. Robinson . . . . 
Wm. Henry Waddell. . . . 

Dr. E. H. Barton 

Prof. W. P. Riddel 

Prof. L. C. Ervendberg . . 

J.W. Glenn 

Dr. S. K. .Tennings 

Dr. Robert T. Carver 

George Cooke, > 

Prof. L. Griswold ^ * ' * ' 

Jas. Higgins 

Prof. Hamilton 

Prof. Ben. C. Jillson 

W. M. Stewart 

Prof. A. P. Stewart 

O. Beatty 

E. L. Berthoud 

Rev. J. Miller, ) 
Rev. G. S. Savage S * * " 

L. G.Ray 

Dr. John Swain , 

J. D. Shane , 

Mrs. Lawrence Young. . . 
Prof. J. W. Andrewst . . . 

Prof. G. M. Barber , 

j R. S. Bosworth , 

j F. A. Benton , 

Mis. Doc. 24 4 



Mississippi 

Louisiana 
Texas.. . . , 

Tennessee 



Bridgewater 

Leesburg 

Huntersville 

Montcalm 

Winchester 

Lynchburg 

Lewisburg. 

Buffalo 

Richmond 

Portsmouth 

Jackson 

Thornbury 

Chapel Hill 

Lincolnton 

Camden 

Waccaman 

Aiken 

Camden 

Whitemarsh Island.. 

Augusta 

Savannah 

Sparta 

Augusta 

Madison . 

Jacksonville 

Key AVest 

Orange Hill 

Pensacola 

Cedar Keys 

Tuscaloosa 

Monroeville 

Auburn 

Wetokaville 

McMath's P. O 

Green Springs 

Tuscaloosa 

Jackson 

Oxford 

Garlandsville ....... 

Grenada 

New Orleans 

Jackson 

New Wied 

Austin 

Austin 

Friendship 

Knoxville 

Memphis 

Trenton 

Lebanon 

Glenwood 

Lebanon 

Danville 

Maysville 

Millersburg 

Paris 

Ballardsville 

Lexington 

Springdale 

Marietta 

Berea 

College Hill 

Mount Vernon 



County. 



Rockingham. 

Loudon. 

Pocahontas. 

Albemarle. 

Frederick. 

Campbell. 

Greenbier. 

Putnam. 

Henrico. 

Norfolk. 

Northampton. 

Northampton. 

Orange. 

Lincoln. 

Kershaw. 

All Saints Parish. 

Barnwell. 

Kershaw. 

Chatham. 

Riclimond. 

Chatham. 

Hancock. 

Riclimond. 

Morgan. 

Duval. 

Monroe. 

Washington. 

Escambia. 

Levy. 

Tuscaloosa. 

Monroe. 

Macon. 

T-"-dega. 

Tuscaloosa. 

Green. 

Tuscaloosa. 

Jackson. 

Lafayette. 

Jasper. 

Yalabusha. 

Orleans. 

St. James Parish. 

Comal. 

Travis. 

Travis. 

Dyer. 

Knox. 

Shelby. 

Gibson. 

Wilson. 

Montgomery. 

Wilson. 

Boyle. 

Mason. 

Bourbon. 

Bourbon. 

Oldham. 

Fayette. 

Jefferson. 

Washington. 

Cuyahoga. 

Hamilton. 

Knox= 



60 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

METEOROLOGICAL LIST— Continued. 



State. 



Ohio — Continued . . 



Michigan 



Indiana. 



Illinois . 



Missouri 



Iowa 



Wisconsin , 



Name of observer. 



Geo. L. Crookham 

Miss Ardelia Cunningham 

Jacob N. Uesellem 

Lewis M. Dayton 

J. H. Fairchild 

L. Groneweg 

G. A.Hyde 

F. Hollenbeck 

Dr. J. G. F. Ilolston 

F. W. Hurtt 

Dr. John Ingram 

Dr. J. P. Kirtland 

G. "W. Livezay 

Jolni F. Lukens 

J. McD. Mathews 

G. S. Ormsby 

Prof. S.N. Sanford 

Robert Sliields 

E. Spooner 

Edmund West 

William Campbell 

Alfred E. Currier 

Rev. Geo. Duffield 

Dr. S F. Mitchell 

Capt. A. D. Perkins 

H. R. Schetterly 

L. H. Streng 

J. J. Strang 

Dr. M. V. Taylor 

Miss Octavia C. Walker. 
Dr. Thomas Whelpley.. . 

Lorin Woodruff 

A. Winchell 

W. W. Austin 

C. Barnes 

A. H. Bixby 

J. Chappelsmith 

W. B.Coventry 

Dr. V. Kersey 

J. Knauer 

H. Peters 

D. H. Roberts 

Prof. Joseph Tingley . . . . 

Prof. W. Coffin 

L. G. Edgerly 

John Grant , 

Joel Hall 

Dr. J. A. Harris 

Dr. John James 

Dr. S. B. Mead 

Fred. Behmer 

Dr. Engelmann 

O. H. P. Lear 

Miss Ida E. Ball 

E. C. Bidwell 

Dr. Asa Horr 

Daniel McCready 

Benjamin F. Odell 

Rev. Joshua Phelps 

P. G. Parvin..... 

E. H. A. Schccper 

Miss M. E. Baker....... 

Thomas Gay 

L. A. Lapham 

Prof. S. P. Lathrop. . , . 



Residence. 



Jackson, C. H. . . . 

Unionville 

Richmond 

Newark 

Oberliu 

Germantown 

Norwalk 

Perrysburg 

Zanesville 

Cincinnati 

Savannah 

East Rockport. . . . 

Gallipolis 

Zanesfield 

Hillsboro' 

College Hill 

Granville 

Bellcentre 

Keen 

Huron 

Battle Creek 

Grand Rapids 

Detroit 

East Saginaw 

Monroe 

Grand Traverse . . . 

Saugatuck 

St. James 

Brooklyn 

Cooper 

Brest 

Ann Arbor 

Ann Arbor 

Richmond 

Madison 

Lafayette 

New Harmony. . . . 

Kendall ville , 

Milton 

Kendallville 

Lafayette 

New Garden 

Grcencastle 

Batavia 

Granville 

Manchester 

Athens 

Ottawa 

Upper Alton , 

Augusta 

Fort Pierre 

St. Louis 

Dry Ridge , 

Keokuk 

Quasqueton 

Dubunue 

Fort Madison , 

Poultney , 

Alexander College . . 

Muscatine ., 

Pella 

Ceresca 

Belle Fontaine. . . . . 

Milwaukie 

Beloit 



Count3^ 



Jackson. 

Lake. 

Jefferson. 

Licking. 

Loraine. 

Montgomery. 

Huron. 

Wood. 

Muskingum. 

Hamilton. 

Ashland. 

Cuyahoga. 

Gallia. 

Logan. 

Highland. 

Hamilton. 

Licking. 

I>ogan. 

Coshocton. 

Erie. 

Calhoun. 

Kent. 

Wayne. 

Saginaw. 

Monroe. 

Michilimackinae, 

Alleghany. 

Michilimackinac. 

Jackson. 

Kalmazoo. 

Monroe. 

Washtenaw. 

Wayne. 

Jefferson. 

Tippecanoe. 



I 



Noble. 

Wayne. 

Noble. 

Tippecanoe. 

Wayne. 

Putnam. 

Kane. 

Putnam. 

Scott. 

Menard. 

La Salle. 

Madison. 

Hancock. 

St. Louis. 

Marion. 

Lee. 

Buchanan. 

Dubuque. 

Lee. 

Delaware. 

Dubuque. 

Muscatine. 

Marion. 

Fond du Lac. 

Marquette. 

Milwaukie. 

Rock. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 
METEOROLOGICAL LLST— Continued. 



61 



State. 


Name of observer. 


Residence. 


County. 


Wisconsin — Contin 


i 

'd.l G. F. Livingston 

i Dr. J. L. Pickard 

j J. McQuigg ) 

1 W. Porter <, 

i S. H. Carpenter ) 

J. W. Sterling ^ 

Edward S. Spencer 

J F Wiilard 




St Croix 


Platteville 


Grant 




Beloit 


Rock 


















Ptock. 




1 Carl Winkler 






Minnesota 


..! C. F. Anderson^ 

Rev. Elisha W. Carver.. 
A O Kellum 


St. Anthony's Falls . 
Pied Lake 


Ramsey. 










Rev. S. W. Mauncey 

S. R. & A. L. Riggs 

D.avid B. Spencer 

. .' Dr. H. Gibbons 


Fort Ripley 






Lac qui parle 


Dahkota. 




San Francisco 


San Francisco. 




Dr. F. W. Hatch 

Rev. J. A. Shepherd 

. . D E. Reed 






San Francisco 

Bellevieu 


San Francisco. 


Paraguay 


. . E \. Hopkins. 


Ascension 











Meteorological ohscrters — New York Univertsitij system. 



Name. 


Residence. 


County. 


M R Batchelder 




Chautauque. 
Queen's. 


John N. Brinkerhoft' 

Prof. Chester Dewey 

John Felt, jr 


Union Hall, Jamaica 

Rochester 






W H Gillespie 




Oswego. 
Chemung. 


Ira F Hart 


Ehnira 




White Plains 


Mrs M. T. Lobdell 


North Salem 










Prof O W Morris 


Institute for Deaf and Dumb. 
Albany 


New York city. 

Albany. 

Cortland. 


Prof. David Murray 

Edw. C Reed 




Prof. O. Root 






J O Stratton 


Oxford 


Chenango. 


Jos W Taylor 


Plattsburo- 


Rev. R. D. Van Kleek 


Flatbusht 


King's. 


Prof. W. D. Wilson 











52 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 



Name. 



Adams, Warren P Glen's Falls 

Alba, E. M I Angelica 




Stale . 



Troy 

Springfield 

St. Anthony's Falls , 

iVIarietta 



Allen, Edw. A. H 

Allin, Lucius C 

Anderson, C. F 

Andrews, Prof. J. W 

Arden, Thos. B i Beverly 

Astrop, Lieut. R. F i Crichton's store 

Austin, W. W ; Richmond 

Avery, Chas. A | Seneca Falls. . . 



Bacon, Wm Piichmond 

Baer, Miss H. M ; Sykesville 

Baer, Prof. Wm ■, Sykesville 

Baker, Miss M. E j Ceresca 

Baldwin, Dr. A. S ] Jacksonville 

Ball, Miss Ida E | Keokuk 

Barber, Prof. G. M : Berea 

Barnes, C ■ Madison 

Barrows, Geo. B ' Fryeburg 

Bartlett, Joshua South Thomaston. 

Barton, Dr. E. H [ New Orleans 

Batchelder, M. R ' Fredonia 

Beatty, O Danville 

Behmer, F Fort Pierre 

Bell, John J Carmel 

Bell, Samuel N Manchester 

Benagh, George | Tuscaloosa , 

Benton, F. A ' Mount Vernon. . . . 

Berthoud, E. L .'"...' Maysville 

Bidwell, E. C Quasqucton , 

Bixby, A. H Lafayette 

Blodget, Dr. A. C ' Youngsville 

Blodget, W. O j Sugar Grove . . . . , 

Bloodgood, S. De Witt New York 

Bosworth, R. S ' College Hill 

Bowman, John Baldwinsville 

Breed, J. Everett; 

Brinkerhotf , John N 

Brooks, John 

Brown, Samuel 

Buckland, D , . 

Byram, E. N 



Smithville. 

IJnion Hall, Jamaica. 

Princeton 

Bedford 

Brandon. , , , , , 

Sng Harbor,. ........ 



New York. 

New York. 

New York. 

Massachusetts. 

Minnesota. 

Ohio. 

New York. 

Virginia. 

Indiana. 

New York. 

Massachusetts. 

Maryland . 

Maryland. 

Wisconsin. 

Florida. 

Iowa. 

Ohio. 

Indiana. 

Maine. 

Maine'. 

Louisiana . 

New York. 

Kentucky. 

Missouri. 

Maine. 

New Hampshire. 

Alabama. 

Ohio. 

Kentucky. 

Iowa. 

Indiana. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

New York. 

Ohio. 

New York. 

New York. 

New York. 

MassacJiusetls. 

Pennsylvania. 

Vermont. 

pfsw York. 



Campbell, Wm i Battle Creek | Michigan. 

Carpenter, S. H : Madison Wisconsin. 

Carpenter, Thornton Camden Soutli Carolina 

Carter, Rev. Jno. P Hagerstown | Maryland. 

Carver, Rev. E. W Red Lake Minnesota. 

Carver, Dr. Robt. T Friendship Tennessc. 

Caswell, Prof. A ' Providence Rhode Island. 

Chadbourne, Prof. P. A ' Williamstown I Massachusetts. 

Chandler, Dr. George Worcester I Massachusetts. 

Chappelsmith, John ; New Harmonv Indiana. 

Chase, C. Thurston Chatham ' | New York. 

Coffin, Prof. W Batavia | Illinois. 

Colby, Jas. K St. Johnsbury j Vermont. 

Pennsylvania. 

Massachusetts. 

Tennessee. 

New Jersey. 

New Jersey. 



Comly, John , . .' Byberry. . . .* 

Conant, Marshal Bridgewater . 



Cooke, George Knoxville , 

Cooke, Robert L ,.' Bloomfield. 

Cook, Prof. George H I New Brunswick. 



Couch, Samuel Ashland Viro-in 



Coventry, W. B Utica 

Crawford, Prof. W. A ! Newark I Delav/are, 



New York. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 
METEOROLOGICAL LLST— Continued. 



63 



Name. 



Crookham, George L 

Gumming, S. J 

Gunningham, Miss A 

Gurrier, Alfred E 

Dana, William D 

Darby, Prof. .John 

Darlington, Fenelon 

Davis, Emerson 

Dayton, E. A 

Dayton, Lewis M 

Deering, D. S 

Dennis, W. G 

Desellem, Jacob N 

Dewey, Professor Chester. . 
Duffield, Rev. George 



Edgerly, L. G 

Edwards, Joseph 

Edwards, Rev. T 

Engelmann, Dr 

Ervendburg, Prof. L. G. 

Eveleth, Samuel A 

Eyler, Rev. D. J 



Fairbanks, J. P.. . . 
Fairchild, J. H.... 

Felt, John 

Fitzgerald, Rev. F. 
Frost, Rev. A 



Gay, Thomas 

Gibbons, Dr. H 

Gibbons, J. S 

Gibson, R. T 

Gifford, R. R 

Gillespie, W. H 

Glennie, Alexander. 

Glenn, J. W , 

Gold,T. S 

Grant, John 

Green, A. R 

Griswold, Prof. L.. . 

Gronevveg, L , 

Guest, W. E , 



Haines, William .. . . 

Hall, Joel 

Hallowell, Benjamin. 
Hamilton, Professor . 
Hance, Ebenezer .. . . 
Hanshaw, Henry E.. 

Harper, Prof. L 

Harris, Dr. J. O 

Hart, IraF 

Hart, J. H 

Hatch, Dr F. W.... 

Heisley, John 

Higgins, James 

Hobbs, O. T 

Holcomb, Amasa. . . . 

Hollenbeck, F 

Holley, B. F 

Holmes, D. J 

Holston, Dr. J. G. F. 



Residence. 



Jackson 

Monroeville . . . 
Unionville . . . . 
Grand Rapids. 

Perry 

Auburn 

Pocopson 

Westfield 

Madrid , 

Newark 

Brookville 

Key West .... 

Richmond 

Rochester 

Detroit 



Granville.. . • 
Chromedale. . 
New London. 
St. Louis.. . . 
New Wied. . . 
Windham . . , 
Waynesboro ' 



St. Johnsbury. 

Oberlin 

Liberty 

Jackson , 

Burlington. .. . 



Bellefontaine 

San Francisco 

New York 

WJiitemarsh Island. 

Wood 's Hole 

Mexico 

Waccaman 

Austin 

West Cornwall 

Mancliester = 

Jackson 

Knoxville 

Germantown 

Offdensbura: 



Augusta , 

Athens , 

Alexandria .. • . 

Trenton , 

Morrisville . . . 

Frederick 

Oxford 

Ottawa 

Elmira 

Oswego 

Sacramento.. . 
Harrisburg . . . . 

Memphis 

Randolph 

Sonthwick. . . . 
Perrysburg . . . 
Wetokaville. . 
Williamstown 
Zanesville .... 



State. 



Hopkins, E. A I Ascension 



Ohio. 

Alabama. 

Ohio. 

Michigan. 

Maine. 

Alabama. 

Pennsylvania. 

Massachusetts. 

New York. 

Ohio. 

Pennsylvania. 

Florida. 

Ohio. 

New York. 

Michigan. 

Illinois. 

Pennsylvania. 

Connecticut. 

Missouri. 

Texas. 

Maine. 

Pennsylvania. 

Vermont. 
Ohio. 

New York. 
North Carolina. 
New Jersey. 

Wisconsin. 

California. 

New York. 

Georgia. 

Massachusetts. 

New York. 

South Carolina. 

Texas . 

Connecticut. 

Illinois. 

Mississippi. 

Tennessee. 

Ohio. 

New York. 

Georgia. 

Illinois. 

Virginia. 

Tennessee. 

Pennsylvania. 

Maryland. 

Mississippi 

Illinois. 

New York 

New York. 

California. 

Pennsylvania. 

Tennessee. 

Pennsylvania. 

Massachusetts 

Ohio. 

Alabama. 

Massachusetts 

Ohio. 

Paraguay. 



54 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 
METEOROLOGICAL LIST— Continued. 



Name. 



Residence. 



State. 



Horr, Dr. Asa. . . . 
Hotchkiss, Jed... . 
House, J. Carroll. 
Hughes, John. . . . 

Hunt, D 

Hunt, Dr. S.B... 

Hurtt, F. W 

Hyde, G. A 



Dubuque ', Iowa. 

Bridgewater ; Virginia. 

Lowville New York. 

Pottsville Pennsylvania. 

Pomfret Connecticut. 

ButFalo I New York. 

Cincinnati '■ Ohio. 

Norwalk Ohio. 



Ingram, Dr. John . 



Savannah 



Jackson, Samuel X . . . 

Jacobs, M 

James, Dr. John 

Jenkins, J. F 

Jennings, Dr. S. K... 
Jillson, Professor B. C , 
Johnson, E. W , 

Johnston, Professor J. . 



Ohio. 



Kellum, O. A , 

Kersey, Dr. V 

Kirkpatrick, Prof. J. A. . . 

Kirkland, Dr. J. P , 

Knauer, J 



Leesburg Virginia. 

Gettysburg Pennsylvania. 

Upper .Alton Illinois. 

White Plains I New York. 

Austin j Texas. 

Lebanon ! Tennessee. 

Canton ! New York. 

Middletown Connecticut. 

St. Joseph's ' Minnesota. 



Milton 
Philadelphia . . 
East Rockport 
Kendallville . . 



Falconer . . 
Milwaukie. 
Beloit 



Langdon, L. A 

Lapham, I. A 

Lathrop, Prof. S. P 

Lear, O. H. P 

Lee, Charles A 

Lefterts, John 

Leonard, Rev. L. W... 

Livezay, G. W 

Livingston, G. Z 

Lobdell, Mrs. Mary J. , . 

Lowndes, B. O 

Lowrie, J. R Warrior's Mark 

Lukens, John F Zanesville 



Indiana. 
Pennsylvania. 
Ohio. 
Indiana. 

New York. 
Wisconsin. 
Wisconsin. 



Dry Ridge | Missouri. 



Peekskill . 

Lodi 

Exeter 

Gallipolis . . . , 

Hudson , 

Salem Centre. 
Blenheim . . . . 



New York. 
New York. 
New Hampshire. 
Ohio. 

Wisconsin. 
New York. 
Maryland. 
Pennsylvania. 
Ohio. 



Mack, E. T New Brunswick New Jersey. 

Mack, R. C ! Londonderr}' New Hampsliire 

Maguire, Prof J. F I New Windsor j Maryland. 

Malcom, Captain W. S I Oswego ' New York. 

Manchester, George | Portsmouth ! Rhode Island. 

Marsh, Chai-les A. J , .i Craftsbury ; Vermont. 



Marvin, J. W 
Mauncey, Rev. S. VV 
Matthews, J. McD . . 

McCready, D j Fort Madison 

McQuigg, J I Beloit 



Winchester Virgniia. 

Fort Ripley Minnesota. 

Hillsboro' \ Ohio. 

Iowa. 

Wisconsin. 



Mead, Dr. S. B 
Meriwether, Charles J 

Meriwether, R. T 

Merrill, Rev. S. H... 

Metcalf, Dr. J. G 

Miller, Rev. J 



Augusta Illinois. 

Montcalm ' Virginia. 

McMath's Alabama. 

Bluehill ' Maine. 

Mendon [ Massachusetts. 

Millersburg ! Kentucky. 

Mitchell, Dr. S. K i East Saginaw ' Michigan. 

Mitcliell, Hon. Wm [ Nantucket Massachusetts. 

Morehouse, A. W ! Spencertown > New York. 

Morelle, D ' Thornbury ' North Carolina. 

Morris, Prof O. W ' New York ' New York. 

Munger, L. F \ Le Roy | New York. 

Murray, Prof. David j Albany i New York. 

Mussey, R. D j Rockport ' Massachusetts. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

METEOROLOGICAL LIST— Continued. 



56 



Name. 



Nettleton, A ... 
Newton, Jno ... 
Newton, W. H. 

Odell, B. F 

Ormsby, J. S.. . 
Orton, Jas 



Paddock, Jas. A 

Parker, J. D 

Parvin, T. S 

Patton, Thos 

Pearson, Jno 

Pendleton, Dr. E. M. 
Perkins, Capt. A. D. 
Perkins, Dr. H. C... 

Peters, H 

Phelps, Rev. Joshua . 
Phillips, Prof. Jas.... 
Pickard, Dr. J. L.... 
Plumbe, Dr. Ovid . . . 

Poole, Henry 

Porter, W 

Posey, John F 

Powel, Sam'l 

Pratt, Prof. D. J 

Prescott, Dr. Wm . . . 



Ralston, Rev. J. G 

Rankin, James 

Ravenel, H. W 

Ray, L. G 

Reed, D. E 

Reed, Edward C 

Rice, Henry .. . .» 

Riddle, Professor W. P.. . . 

Riggs, S. R. and A. L 

Robbins, Dr. James 

Robinson, Rev. E. S 

Rodman, Samuel 

Root, Professor O 

Rosseter, Professor Geo. R. 



Residence. 



Lynchburg... 
Orange Hill.. 
Fond du Lac, 



State. 



Virginia. 
Florida. 
Minnesota. 



Poultney I Iowa 



College Hill. 
Williamstown. 



Craftsbury 

Steuben 

Muscatine 

Lewisburg 

Pensacola 

Sparta 

Monroe 

Newburyport 

Lafayette 

Alexander College. 

Chapel Hill 

Plattsville 

Salisburj' 

Albion Mines 

Beloit. 
Savannah . 
Newport . 
Fredonia. 
Concord. 



Norristown Pennsylvania. 

Saybrook Connecticut. 

Aiken South Carolina. 

Paris Kentucky. 

Belleview Nebraska Territory. 

Homer New York. 

North Attleboro' j Massachusetts. 

Jackson , Louisiana. 



Ohio. 
Massachusetts 

Vermont. 

Maine. 

Iowa. 

Virginia. 

Florida. 

Georgia. 

Michigan. 

Massachusetts. 

Indiana. 

Iowa. 

Nortli Carolina. 

Wisconsin. 

Connecticut. 

Nova Scotia. 

Wisconsin. 

Georgia. 

Rhode Island. 

New York. 

New Hampshire. 



Lac qui Parle. 

Uxbridge 

Garlandsville. 
New Bedford.. 

Clinton 

Buffalo 



Minnesota. 

Massachusetts. 

Mississippi. 

Massachusetts. 

New York. 

Virginia. 



New York. 
Ohio. 

New York. 
New York. 



Salisbury, Elias O 

Sanford, Professor S. N. 

Sartwell, Dr. H. P 

Savage, Rev. G. S 

Sawyer, George B 

Sawyer, Henry E 

Scheeper, E. H. A 

Schetterly, H. R 

Schlegel, Albert 

Schley, William 

Schreiner, Francis 

Shane, J. D 

Sheldon, Henry C ' North'Scituate 

Shepherd, Rev. J. A } San Francisco . 

Shields, Robert Bellecentre .... 

Skeen, William i Huntersville . . . 

Smallwood, Dr. Charles St. Martin's. . . 

Smith, Dr. E. A [ Worcester 

Smith, Dr. J. Bryant ■ Lincolnton 

Smith, Dr. J. W i East Franklin I New York 

Smyser, Dr. H ; Pittsburg Pennsylvania. 

Snell, Professor E. S | Amherst Massachusetts. 

Spencer, David B \ St. Joseph I Minnesota. 



Buffalo 

Granville 

Penn Yan 

Millersburg 

Salmon Falls j New Hampshire. 

Great Falls ! New Hampshire. 

Pella Iowa. 

Michigan. 

Massachusetts. 

Georgia. 

Pennsylvania. 

Kentucky. 

Rhode Island. 

California. 

Ohio. 

Virginia. 

Canada. 

Massachusetts. 

North Carolina. 



Grand Traverse. 

Taunton 

Augusta 

Moss Grove. . . . 
Lexinarton 



56 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

METEOROLOGICAL LLST— Continued. 



Name. 



Spencer, Edward S. 

Spooner, E 

Spooner, Stillman... 
Steele, Augustus... . 

Sterling, J. W 

Stevens, Dr. R. P . . 
Stewart, Prof. A. P. 

Stewart, W. M 

Strang, J. J 

Stratton, J. O 

Strong, L. H 

Strong, Rev. T. H.. 

Stuart, A. P. S 

Swain, Dr. John.... 
Swift, Paul 



Taylor, Jos. W. . . . 
Taylor, Dr. M. K . . 

Thickstun, T 

Thompson, Zadock 
Tingley, Prof. Jas . , 
Tuomey, Prof M.. 
Turner, David. . . . . 
Tutwiler, H 



Underwood, D. 



Van Kleek, Rev. R. D. , 

Waddell, Wm. H 

Walker, Miss Octavia C. 

Walker, J. P 

Webster, Prof N. B 

Weir, A. D 

Weiser, R 

West, Edmund 

Whelpley, Dr. Thos 

Whitehead, W. A 

Willard, J. F 

Williams, P. O 

Williams, Prof W. D.. . 

Wilson, Prof W. D 

Wilson, W. W 

Winchell, A 

Winkler, Carl 

Woodruff, Lum 

Woodward, C S 



Residence. 



Summit. . . . . 

Keen 

Wampsville . 
Cedar Keys.. 

Madison 

Ceres 

Lebanon 

Greenwood . . 
St. James . . . 

Cxford 

Saugatuck... 
Flatbush . . . . 
Wolfvillo . . . 
Ballardsville. 
Haverford ... 



Plattsburg 

Brooklyn 

Meadville 

Burlington . . . . 
Greencastle . . . 
Tuscaloosa . . . . 

Richmond 

Green Springs, 



Castleton 



Flatbush . 



Yale, Walter D 

Young, Albert A 

Young, J. A 

Young, Mrs. Lawrence. 
Young, Prof Ira 



Grenada 

Cooper 

Dover 

Portsmouth . . , 

Freeport 

Andersville... 

Huron 

Brest 

Newark 

Janesvillc . . . . 
Gouverneur. . 

Madison 

Geneva 

Pittsburg .... 
Ann Arbor .. . 
Milwaukie . . . 
Ann Arbor . . . 
Beaver Brook , 



Houseville , 
Hanover . . 
Camden . . . 
Springdale 
Hanover . . 



State. 



Wisconsin. 

Ohio. 

New York. 

Florida. 

Wisconsin. 

Pennsylvania. 

Tennessee. 

Tennessee. 

Michigan. 

New York. 

Michigan. 

New York. 

Nova Scotia. 

Kentucky. 

Pennsylvania. 

New York. 

Michigan. 

Pennsylvania. 

Vermont. 

Indiana. 

Alabama. 

Virginia. 

Alabama. 

Vermont. 

New York. 

Mississippi. 

Michigan. 

Delaware. 

New Hampshire. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Ohio.' 

Micliigan. 

New Jersey. 

Wisconsin. 

New York. 

Georgia. 

New York. 

Pennsylvania. 

Michigan. 

Wisconsin. 

Michigan. 

New York. 

New York. 
New Hampshire. 
South Carolina. 
Kentucky. 
New Hampshire. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 6T 

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

ADOPTED JANUARY 15, 1855. 

The Executive Commiltee submit to the Board of Regents the fol- 
lowing report relative to the present state of the finances, and the- 
expenditures during the year 1854. 

The whole amount of the Smithsonian bequest, depos- 
ited in the treasury of the United States (from 
which an annual income, at 6 per cent., is derived of 
$30,910 14) is $515,169 00 

Amount of unexpended interest, reported 
last year as in charge of Messrs. Corco- 
ran and Riggs $179,408 02 

From which deduct amount passed by 
them to the credit of the treasurer, to 
meet payments on building during 1854 54,408 02 



125,000 00 
Balance in the treasury, January 1, 1855 14,159 59 



139,159 59 
$654,328 59 



The following is a general view of the receipts and expenditures for the year 
1854, exclusive of amount drawn from Corcoran and Riggs on account of 



the buildins^. 

o 



RECEIPTS. 



Balance in the treasury, as per last report $6,944 68 
Interest on the original fund for the year 

1854 \ 30,910 21 

Interest on the extra fund for the year 1854 7,276 39 



,131 28 



EXPENDITURES. 

For items common to the objects of the 

Institution _ . . $12,752 00 

For pubhcations, researches, and lectures 8,094 38 

For library, museum, and gallery of art. . 9,512 19 

For building purposes — difference between 

the amount expended and the amount 

withdrawn from Corcoran and Riggs. . 613 12 

Balance in the treasury 14,159 59 



$45,131 28 



68 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



Detailed statement of the exyenditures during 1854. 



BUILDING, FURNITURE. FIXTURES, ETC. 



Pay on contracts 

Pay of architect and draftsman 

Miscellaneous incidental to building- 
Magnetic observatory 

Furniture, &c., for uses in common. 
Furniture, &c., for library 



GENERAL EXPENSES. 



Expenses of Board of Regents, &c. 
Lighting and heating 

Postage 



Transportation and exchanges 

Stationery 

General printing 

Apparatus 

Incidentals general, including salary of clerk, book-keeper, jani- 
tor, watchman, laborer, extra clerk hire 

Salary of Secretary 



PUBLICATIONS, RESEAP.CHES, AND LECTURES. 



Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

Reports on progress of knowledge 

Other publications 

Meteorology 

Investigations 

Pay of lectures 

Illustrations and apparatus for lectures. . . 
Attendance and lighting lectures, &c 



LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART. 



Cost of books 

General catalogue 

Stereotyping and printing 

Incidentals, library, including salary of two assistants, and 
binding 

Salary of Assistant Secretary 

Explorations, museum 

Expenses of collections, museum 

Incidentals, including alcohol, &c., assistance and labor, appa- 
ratus, catalogue, glass jars, &c 

Salary of Assistant Secretary 

Incidentals, gallery of art 



Total expenditures in 1854. 



$52,280 00 

1,237 00 

495 1.3 

18 77 

938 12 

52 12 



467 71 

887 30 

467 67 
1,644 43 

662 50 
1,094 22 

427 26 

3,600 99 
3,499 92 



3,773 96 

83 84 

917 89 

2,203 38 

10 00 
895 00 
156 37 

53 94 



2,166 50 
151 35 
551 71 

2,329 55 

1,319 43 

250 00 

157 19 

536 54 

1,999 92 

50 00 



In the appropriations made, April, 1854, for the year the estimated 
income of the Institution was $38,500 — [the actual income was $38,- 
186 60] — of this sum $7,000 was devoted to the building and the re- 
maining $31,500 to the operations of the Institution. 

The first mentioned sum (7,000) is included in the balance in the 
treasury, the whole of which may be appropriated during the present 
yeai to the building. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 69 

The whole expenditure on the operations of the Institution was 
^30,358 57, which is $1,141 83 less than was appropriated. 

The appropriation was not made until one-third of the year had 
passed, and this, with the unusual expenditure occasioned by a call of 
a special meeting of the Board, and the extra clerk hire and printing 
on account of the various reports, rendered it impossible to apportion 
the disbursements in exact conformity to the estimates. They will be 
found, however, approximately to agree — those for publications, &c., 
being less, and those for library, museum, &c., more. 

On account of the additions which the building committee have 
found it necessary to make to the contract for the better security and • 
adaptation of the building, the extra fund has been reduced to $140,000, 
instead of $150,000, as was formerly contemplated. It is probable a 
further reduction will be required to pay the amount still due on the 
contract, and for other purposes connected with the building, but this 
should not be allowed to diminish the extra fund below $325,000. 

The following table presents a general exhibit of all the receipts and 
expenditures on account of the Smithsonian fund, from the beginning of 
the Institution until the first of January, 1855. 



60 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



bo 

<: 



i^ GO -^ lo c! o( o to c^ n m 



l0^r5a5•^C2CT»oo<^^t~^o 



T-i o t^ cm o OJ CO 

t- CO «5 ■^ lO C\( (N 



•^Qo^rocoo-^ -i-ro 



0--t>0'— I CT50lOCnt£> 
cocoes COCJCOOCO 



Q S' 



o 



O -^ CO 
O r-1 -3" 
O CN 

(?) 






OinOOCOCOCDCSCOffl 

C'!coc---*cn.ocO'j'as 

C<(-*CO00-*i— li-HQOt^ 



o 



CO l« 
CO -* 
i-H l-O 



cooococ~-H'*<cn— (QO 
1— liOOO"— icocooi-*-* 



o 



•rfoot-coiocjcnt^-H 
QOt^ocoQocsas-*-^ 

CO OO OJ 1— I t— 00 'X 



O CT3 t^ CT 

<— I -* r-l iO 

GO OT 



in lo CO 00 cj t- lO 

CO 00 CO CO r-H CO CO 

•q< CO c* 






o 



a> oj 00 00 o o 05 

Ol 00 CO 00 LO lO o 

00 -^ CO "* oj o^ m 






C CO t~ -^ CO t^ ■^ 
CO CO C5 -^ "=r >— I 



"«. 



t; ^ -^ a; 

3 be fl ^ 



S SS 

O o 

o .- 
C cti oj 



cS^tScH^tS 



b3 ^^ 
b o o 






rf s^ 



S O tH .. Q 

fiq " rt o p 



2 = g 2^ q 



&< o 

a; o; w w w cC S S fc 



(11 ci ^ c 



Sj rf >< i^ 1^ 



■on 2 



GQQ 2 



w S — 
0) 1^ p5 



-2 >-.;£, 
o a) — 



3 rt C o5 

i^ t-i Ql .,-, • 



w J Ph H 6q O < ►S M 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



61 





c- 


-irtcooomococ 


■> CJ 


COCOCDt^OfOCOOCJOOOlO-- 


CO 


in 




OWQOOlOOOOCOC 


3 ■<* 


i-ioco'»'t-ococcor-co(M'a- 


^ 


00 




oroo-^oio-*t^oc 


3 CJ 


O^O-^COOOCCOCO— 'OiCOl^ 


'J 


03 


CO 




'tasooa^iococrsin^rsif 


3 to 


COOOOOOOaOOJOCO"*QO'Ol-- 


CD 







CO«3QOOO->r'«9"*QOC 


3 CO 


— incTJ'^QOt^uOrHOOCJ^r-H — 


C^ 


•^ 




o"c<fc»rcrF-r irTr-r o~ 


r Qo" 


^r-T CO^U-T rH^ rH~l-r 


c 


'*" 







« 


o 


^^ 1-1 




in 






CO ^ m ao 


o o r- -^ 


00 


O liO 


•000 03 


•^OX 


— 


03 


^ 




03 oo 00 ro 


O O CO C5 


CO 


in cvj 


• ca — 1 


m 03 





t^ 




I— 




CO ro t- CO 


O lO CD CO 


■^ 


CO r-^ 


I 00 t~ 


CO 03 


c 




CT 


03 




t^QO r^O 


.-i C5 lO UO 


03 


CO in 


. 'J- ic in 


CO 03 


un ir 




t~ 




tr- Cf3 CJ 


00>-H 


o 


»— ( r-( 


•COC< 1-1 


in 03 




ir 


in 


CO 


























r^ C-} 




CO 


<M 


•CO 


rH 






03 


in 




-Tt 




















00 




CiOO --H 




o •* o 


CD 


in 




(?} CO ■* 


— CJ 




CT 


(?} 


CO 




o CT to in 




O 00 -»' 


CO 


t^ 




03 


t^ 03 




■^ 


GO 


03 




O ^ «D to 




CO ^ o 


CJ 


r-l 




^ cr30 


03 03 




OC 





t^ 




CD CO .— 'tf" 




CO CO -3- 


lO 


-a' 




00 03 in I* 


r>\ 03 






CD 


-a* 




— r-<r-,CO 




t^ CO -^ 


CO 


00 




in-*C}CJ 


CM 03^ 




or 


02 

































30 rt<M 






CO 






-'CJ 


f-H 






00 


'S< 






• 


^^ 














CO 




-rf ifl O 00 


O O CO OT 


00 


t^ in C5 00 CD • f~ 


rH -^ 




CC 


CO 


^ 




i^ ir- OO 00 


OO 1-1— 1 


■^ 


t^ (7} o -a< 05 -in 


003 







CM 


CO 




i3 '-O t- CT3 


lO UO O CO 


'^ 


oo t- O! CO 02 -in 


CO 03 




ir 


00 


in 




oo_o t- 


i> 00 CO ca 


CT 


03 1^ in C3 03 • — ^ 


CO 03 









00 




t- «5 C O 


COC^J 


cs 


O^fO "-^"^ • Oi 


mm 






CO 


(O 
























lO — ^C} 


■^ 


CT 


r-T -Tcf ' 


'-' 






Oi 






■o 'TJ o o o o c m uo c: 


CJ 


O 00 • r-< « O CO 


CDOOC 







00 1 




f-OOOl^OOO'^t-C: 


CO 


O 00 '00300 


0000 




00 


-a* 1 




— iCOO-^OOLOCOtOC 


00 


CO ^ . O} 03 O CO 


O! CO 




'^l 







--(t^oaso^coi-icoc 


t~ 


1-1 1^ . o 03 in 00 






in 






CT •* i-H P5 CO 1-1 «3 CO O- 


•* 


O rl • •>* C3 — 1 


in in " 




00 


t^ 




















CO 


CO 


a \'-*^ 


^ 




t- 


03 




CO --H 00 to • O lO OJ o c 


00 


inr-o-*c<(coooooc: 




00 


CO 




COC3C3CO • O O CJ LO C 


CO 


CJ010CT0300000COO 




CO 


■Hi' 




<M UO UO CO '.CD^tTlCOC 


■ OJ 


in-*cDcoo30cocooococ 




00 


*^ i 




COCOOOLO . 35 OJ O^ CO C 


00 


C{QOincoo3in-*o(Mint-o 




CO 


! 




CO oi uo c* • ic c: 




C^CT rt 00 03^r-l in --I I- 1-1 1- 




co^ 


<n^ 1 


















CO .-) • r-l r- 


03 


•^ -H~ 




oT 


00 1 

in j 




1- 0^*00 


CT = 


CO 


'Jf 00 CO CJ 00 











ir 




CO 


t- 




OOOUOOOOO 


CO c 


o 


i-( in CO C-- 03 


in 








OJ 




00 


CO 




7> -* CT ^ irt O i-O 


00 c= 


ot 


00 rH 1— 1 O 03 


-*i 












t- 


SP 




» -^ IC '-H ?< lO i~ 


—1 ir 




t~* O ^ 03 05 


00 










03 


CM 




3 -jf i-i 00 (M a 


I— 1 1- 


CO 


00 in t^ -a< 














03^ 


CO 




of' 




^- 


(?r (>r 














co" 


oT 










o o 




o 


£- 


CO 


• o o 
















CO 


•^ 




oc 






o o 




o 


00 


00 


•oo 
















CO 


00 




CO 






1.0 » • 




o 


,—1 


in 


•oo 
















in 


f^ 1 




>o 






CJ o • 




30 


CO 


CO 


• o in 


















i^ 




c^ 






o^ 






CO 


« 


•COl- 
















i^ 


^ 




cf 












CO 




















'-^ 


irT 

CO 




o 


















o 


03 


o 




















C3 


in 




o 


















o 


o> 


o 




















03 


1* 




CD 


















CO 


o 


l-^ 























r-i 




IjO 


















>-o 


■^ 


CO 




















00 


t-~ 




{^ 


















t- 


in 






















in 



























































g 




















<t 


s 






























•i 




















s- 




























; 


- 














1 






»3 






























s 

e 


















S 












j; 




















« 










o'^ 


; 


"d 






























fcD 










qj ; 
























































^ c 


>^ _c 










* 


2 


_S 










^ • 




5 












2 ^ 














s 


"> 










c2 : 




3 












s 














i s § 










■l=s. 




^ 












.0 t 














iJ 3-5 










cS fcXlc^ 




z 












''"tO 




Cm 






( 


an Contribute 
1 progress of 


s 


J) c: 




< 




3 u 


s 

J 1 


c 
• E 


D 


> 

1 c 

• 


•^ 
•^ 


S S e; 
S 


, •- 




b 

aJ c 


' c 


D 

1 


( 




. c 

i 5 


3 c 

M 


c 
a 

a 




■J 
a 




^1 

^ - 


; < 


5 - 

I? 

"a 


1< 
> 

i 


c 

c 
C 


5 c 

5C 


3I 

y 


H a 
>-.-c 


i C 

5y 


5 C 

2f= 


3 ^ 

3Ps 


3 C 




5a 


a 
r 

"c 


: a 
Z "i 


3 c 

3 c 
3 a 
3a 


2 





62 
Dr. 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 



Fund account of 



RECEIPTS. 



1846. 
July 1 


Sept. 10 

1847. 
Jan. 1 


July 


5 


Oct. 


21 


Nov. 


26 


1848. 
Jan. 1 




15 


April 


1 




4 


May 


10 


July 


7 


Aug. 


17 




24 


Oct. 


16 


1849. 
Jan. 5 
Feb. 17 




28 


April 


17 


July 


2 




5 



To James Smithson, net proceeds of his bequest. . . . 
T6 interest tliereon to date, paid by the United States. 
To H. W. Hilliard, Regent, over payment returned. 

To interest on assumed debt, 1st July to 31st De- 
cember, 1846. first half year 

To interest on assumed debt, to 1st July, 1847, sec- 
ond half year , 

To interest on $250,000 treasury notes, to 17th Au- 
gust, six months j 

To proceeds of treasury notes sold, viz: Amount of j 
notes ' 

To interest to day of sale I 



To proceeds of Professor Henry's Lectures at Prince- 
ton 

To interest on assumed debt, to 1st January, 1848, 
third half year , 

To interest on ^240,000 treasury notes, to 17th Feb- 
ruary, 1848, six months 

To George M. Dallas, chancellor, premium paid for 
$7,000 treasury notes , 

To $7,000 treasury notes, deposit to credit of Wm. 
W. Seaton, chairman 

To proceeds of treasury notes, viz: Amount of notes, 

To premium thereon , 

To interest to day of sale 



$10,000 00 
121 67 



To interest on assumed debt, to 1st July, 1848, 

fourth half year , 

To interest on $240,000 treasury notes, to 17th Au- 
gust, six months 

To proceeds of treasury notes, viz: Amount of notes, 

Premium $200 00 

Less commission 12 50 



To interest to day of sale , 



To proceeds of treasury notes, viz: Amount of notes. 

Premium $270 00 

Less commission 11 25 



To interest to day of sale. 



To interest on assumed debt, fifth half year , 

To treasury notes, this amount redeemed and funded 

in United States six per cent, stock , 

To interest on treasury notes, $226,000, to ]7th 

February, six months 

To United States six per cent, stock sold, viz : 

Amount of stock , 

Premium $1,600 00 

Less commission 20 00 



To interest on $210,000 stock, from 17th February 

to 30th June, 1849 

To interest on assumed debt, sixth half year 



7,000 00 

140 00 

45 50 



5,000 00 



187 50 
5 00 



9,000 00 



258 75 
85 50 



16,000 00 



1,560 00 



$515,169 00 

242,129 00 

90 



15,455 07 

15,455 07 

7,500 oa 

10,121 67 



805,830 71 



1,000 00 

15,455 00 

7,200 00 

105 00 

95 00 

7,185 50 

15,455 00 

7,200 00 



5,192 50 



9,344 25 



S.232 25 



15,455 14 

226,000 00 

6,780 00 



17,560 00 

4,614 24 
15,455 07 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 
the Smithsonian Institution. 



63 
Or. 



EXPENDITURES, 



By tiie United States — assumed debt 

By Wm. W. Seaton, chairman Executive Committee — 

From treasury United States 

Repaid by Mr. Hilliard , 

From treasury United States 



By treasury notes, proceeds of warrants on treasury United States 
By Wm. W. Seaton, chairman Executive Committee — 

From treasury United States 

Second half year, interest on assumed debt 

Six months' interest on $250,000 treasury notes 

Proceeds of §10,000 notes sold 



By Professor Joseph Henry, Secretary, on account of his salary . 
By Wm. W. Seaton, chairman Executive Committee, third half 

year's interest 

By treasury notes, investment of so much interest on notes re- 
ceived this day 

By George M. Dallas, chancellor, balance of said interest 

By Wm. W. Seaton, chairman Executive Committee, deposited 

by Mr. Dallas 

Proceeds of notes sold 

Fourth half year's interest 

Interest on treasury notes due 17th August , 

Proceeds of notes sold , , 

Proceeds of notes sold 

By profit and loss, premiiun paid for $7,000 treasury notes , 



By Wm. W. Seaton, chairman Executive Committee, fifth half 

year's interest 

By United States six per cent, stock, loan of 1847 , 

By Wm. W. Seaton, chairman Executive Committee, interest on 

treasury notes, 17th February 

Proceeds of stock sold 

Interest on stock to 30th June 

Sixth half year's interest 



15,450 14 
226,005 00 

6,780 00 
17,560 00 

4,614 24 

15,455 07 

Proceeds of stock sold 11,287 50 



§515,169 00 

2,000 00 

90 

2,000 00 

250,000 00 

3,584 07 
15,455 07 

7,500 00 
10,121 67 



805,830 71 



1,000 00 

15,455 00 

7,000 00 
200 00 

95 00 
7,185 50 
15,455 00 
7,200 00 
5,192 50 
9,344 25 
105 00 



68,232 25 



64 
Dr. 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



Ftrnd account of 



RECEIPTS. 



1849. 
Oct. 20 





1850 




Jan. 


2 






4 


J 


Jiy 


2 

9 

27 



Sept. 19 

Dec. 28 
31 



■ 1851. 
Jan. 20 
July 7 

16 



1852. 



Jan. 



July 
Dec. 



2 
27 

31 

31 



1853. 

Jan. 11 
Feb. 11 
March 31 

June 30 



To United States six per cent, stock sold, viz: 

Amount of stock 

Premium $1,312 50 

Less commission 25 00 



To interest on ^200,000 six per cent, stock, to 1st of 

January, six months 

To interest on assumed debt, seventh half year. . . . , 
To interest on $200,000 six per cent, stock, to 30th 

June, six months , 

To interest on assumed debt, eighth half year , 

To United States six per cent, stock sold, viz : 

Amount of stock , 

Premium $1,400 00 

Less commission 25 00 



To United States six per cent. 

Amount of stock 

To premium 



stock sold, viz 



To Washington monument, office furniture sold to 
that society 

To interest on $180,000 six per cent, stock, to 31st 
December, six months 



To interest on assumed debt, ninth half year 

To interest on $180,000 six per cent, stock to June 

30, six months 

To interest on assumed debt, tenth half year 



To interest on $180,006 six per cent, stock to De- 
cember 31, six months 

To interest on assumed debt, tenth half year 

To proceeds of six per cent, stock sold, viz: Amount 
of stock 

Premimn thereon 



To interest on assumed debt, half year 

To repayment by J, Wyman on account of Smith- 
sonian Contributions 

To interest on $208,800 from January 26 to Septem- 
ber 11, at five per cent 

To interest on $208,800 from September 11 to De- 
cember 31, at four per cent 



To interest on assumed debt, half year 

To repayment on account of apparatus 

To repayment on account of Smithsonian Contribu- 
tions 

To interest on $208,800 from January 1 to June 30, 
at five per cent 



$10,000 00 



1,287 50 



10,000 GO 
1,375 00 



10,000 00 
1,600 00 



180,000 00 
28,800 00 



$11,287 50 



297,151 95 



6,000 00 
15,455 07 

6,000 00 
15,455 07 



11,375 00 

11,600 00 

50 71 

5,400 00 



71,335 85 



15,455 07 

5,400 00 
15,455 07 



36,310 14 



5,400 00 
15,455 07 



208,800 00 
15,455 07 

5 00 

6,554 00 

2,575 20 



254,244 34 



15,455 07 
294 63 

74 00 

5,220 00 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 
the Smithsonian Institution. 



65 
Cr. 



EXPENDITURES. 



1850. 
Jan. 2 



July 



4 

2 

9 

27 

Sept. 19 

Dec. 28 

31 



1851. 
Jan. 20 
July 7 
16 



1852. 



Jan. 



July 
Dec. 



1853. 
Jan. 11 
Feb. 11 
March 31 



June 
July 
Dec. 



By Wm. W. Seaton, chairman Executive Committee, interest 
on stock to 1st January 

Seventh lialf year's interest 

By Wm. W. Seaton, treasurer, interest on stock to 30th June. . . 

Eighth half year's interest 

Proceeds of stock sold 



297,151 95 



$6,000 00 
15,455 07 
6,000 00 
15,455 07 
11,375 00 

Proceeds of stock sold j 11,600 00 

Furniture sold on account of pay of architects, &c 50 71 

Interest on stock to 31st December, 1850 5 , 400 00 



By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, half year's interest 

By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, interest on stock to June 30 
By \V. W. Seaton, treasurer, half year's interest 



By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, interest on stock to December 31 . 

By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, half year's interest 

By Corcoran & Riggs, amount in their hands, on interest 

By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, half year's interest 

By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, repayment by Wyman 

By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, interest paid by Corcoran & Riggs 
do do do do 



By W. W. Seaton, treasurer. 

do do . . . . 

do do.. . . 

30 do do.... 

2 do do.... 

■ . .do do.. . , 

Miss. Doc. 24 5 



71,335 85 



15,455 07 

5,400 00 

15,455 07 



36,310 14 



5,400 00 

15,455 07 

208,800 00 

15,455 07 

5 00 

6,554 00 

2,575 20 



254,244 34 


15,455 07 


294 63 


74 00 


5,220 00 


15,455 07 


40 00 



66 
Dr 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



Fund accxfunt of 



RECEIPTS. 



1853. 
July 2 
Dec. 7 

31 



1854. 



Jan. 


12 




18 


April 


1 


July 


14 




21 


Aug. 


7 


Sept. 


25 


Nov. 


2 


Dec. 


30 



Jan. 


4 
14 


Marci 


1 13 




17 


July 


29 



To interest on assumed debt, half year 

To repayment on account of" Smithsonian Contribu- 
tions 

To interest on $208,8IJ0, at five percent., from July 
1 to December 31 



To interest on assumed debt from July 1 to Decem- 
ber 31, 1853 

To Corcoran & Riggs, on account of funds in their 
hands 

To Corcoran & Riggs, on account of funds m their 
hands 

To interest on assumed debt from January 1 to June 
30, 1854 , 

To Corcoran & Rigg's, interest to June 30, 1854, on 
funds in their hands 

To Corcoran & Riggs, on account of funds in their 
hands 

To Corcoran & Riggs, on account of funds in their 
hands 

To Corcoran & Riggs, on account of funds in their 
hands 

To Corcoran & Riggs, interest to December 31, 1854, 
on funds in their hands 



Repayments. 



To sale of clock, on account of apparatus 

To Minnesota Historical Society, on account of 

Smithsonian Contributions 

To Coast Survey office, on account of apparatus. . . . 
To Coast Survey office, on account of transportation . 
To J. M. Gilliss, Navy Department, on account of 

transportation 

To G. P. Putnam, sale of books, on account of 

Smithsonian Contributions 



$15,455 07 

40 00 

5,220 00 



41,758 77 



15,455 07 
48,800 00 
10,000 00 
15,455 07 

3,875 00 
10,000 00 

5,000 00 
10,000 00 

3,401 39 

400 00 

20 00 

560 92 

12 27 

16 62 

143 69 

123,140 03 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 
the Smithsonian Institution. 



67 
Cr. 



EXPENDITURES. 



1853. 
Dec. 31 



1854. 
Jan. 12 

18 

1 

14 

21 



April 
July 



Aug. 
Sept. 
Nov. 
Dec. 
Jan. 



25 

2 

30 

4 

14 

March 13 

13 

17 

July 29 



By W. W. Seaton, treasurer. 



By W. W. Seaton, treasurer. 

do do.. . . 

do do. . . . 

do do.. . . 

do do.. . . 

do do.. . . 

do do.. . . 

do do.. . . 

do do.. . . 

do do.. . . 

do do.. . . 

do do.. . . 

do do.. . . 

do do., . . 

do do.. . . 



$5,220 00 



41,758 77 


15,455 07 


48,800 00 


10,000 00 


15,455 07 


3,875 00' 


10,000 00 


5,000 oa 


10,000 00- 


?,401 39 


400 00 


20 00 


560 92 


12 27 


16 62 


143 69 



123,140 03 



68 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



The committee, after conferring with the secretary, submit the fol- 
lowing estimates tor appropriations for the year 1855 : 



BUILDING, FURNITURE, ETC. 



Pay on contracts 

Pay of arcliitects, &c 

Incidental expenses to building. 

Furniture and fixtures 

Magnetic observatory 



GENERAL EXPENSES. 



Meetings of Board 

Lighting and heating 

Postage 

Transportation and exchange. 

Stationery 

General printing 

Apparatus 

Incidentals general 

..Salaries — Secretary 

Clerk 

Book-keeper 

Janitor 

Laborer 

"Watchman 

Extra clerk hire.. . . 



PUBLICATIONS, LECTURES, ETC. 



Smithsonian Contributions 

Reports on progress of knowledge 

Other publications 

Meteorology 

Computations, researches, and investig-ations. 
Lectures 



LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERT OF ART. 



Library — 

Pay of assistants 

Cost of books and binding 

Incidentals to library, cases, &c. 
Stereotyping system 



Museum — 
Salary — Assistant secretary. 

Explorations 

Alcohol, glass jars, &c 

Assistance and labor 

Incidentals, cases, &c 

Catalogue 



Contingencies 



$8,000 00 

500 00 

500 00 

1,000 00 

20 00 



600 00 
850 00 
500 00 
1,600 00 
350 00 
250 00 
500 00 
600 00 
3,500 00 
1,200 00 
200 00 
400 00 
250 00 
365 00 
200 00 



4,500 00 
2,000 00 

500 00 
2,000 00 

500 00 
1,000 00 



2,000 00 

3,500 00 

1,000 00 

100 00 



6,600 00 



2,000 00 
200 00 
350 00 
100 00 

1,000 00 
250 00 



3,900 00 



$10,020 00 



11,365 00 



10,500 00 



10,500 00 
100 00 



42,485 00 



Respectfully submitted. 



January, 1855. 



J. A. PEARCE, 
A. D. BACHE, 
J. G. TOTTEN, 
Executive Committee. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 69 



REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMITTEE, 



The building committee of the Smithsonian Institution presmits the 
following report of their operations and expenditures during the 5'-ear 
1854. 

It was stated in the last report that the work of completing the build- 
ing was commenced by Mr. Gilbert Cameron, the original contractor, 
under the direction of Capt. Alexander, of the engineer corps, on the 
13th of June, 1853. It has been uninterruptedly prosecuted from that 
time to the present, and the committee are now pleased to inform the 
Board that the main or centre building is finished, with the exception 
of a few and unimportant additions. 

It was, however, discovered, in the progress of the work, that many 
changes and additions would be required, in the plan adopted, for the 
better security and adaptation of the building, which would involve an 
additional expense ; but in the present state of the Institution, and in 
consideration of the long delay in finishing the edifice, the committee 
thought it best to press on the work. 

The main building, which is 200 feet long, 50 feet wide, and 60 feet 
from the basement floor to the upper ceiling, is divided into three 
stories. The first story consists of the basement, separated into two 
large rooms, and the space between them for the heating apparatus. 
The two apartments are intended for store rooms and other purposes 
connected with the mechanical operations of the Institution. 

The second story consists of one large room, 200 feet long, 50 feet 
wide, and 25 feet high, the ceiling of which is supported by two rows 
of columns extending the whole length ; at the middle of the space 
corresponding to the principal entrances, are two wing walls, by which, 
with the addition of screens, the whole space may be divided into two 
large rooms, with a hall extendmg across the building between them. 
This story may be used for a library or a museum, or for both, as the 
wants of the Institution may require. It is finished in a simple but 
chaste style, and has received general commendation. Indeed it is, 
perhaps, in appearance, one of the most imposing rooms in this country, 
apart firom adaptation to its purposes. 

The floor through the middle part is formed of cut stone, that of the 
other parts is of w^ood, which, resting on the arches beneath, without 
space between to contain air, is considered sufficiently fire-proof, and 
not subject to dampness from the variation of temperature and humidity 
of the atmosphere. 

The upper story is divided into three apartments without pillars, a 
lecture room of about 100 feet in length in the middle, and two rooms, 
each 50 feet square, on either side. These rooms are intended for 
collections. The one on the west may be connected with the library, 
and that on the east with the museum. The latter has been fitted up 
with cases in which to deposit the collection of apparatus presented to 
the Institution by Dr. Hare, the other with a separate case to contain 



70 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

ihe personal effects of James Smithson. The lecture room, the optical 
and acoustic properties of which are probably unsurpassed by any 
apartment intended lor the same purpose in the United States, occupies 
one-half of the upper story of the main building, besides a portion of 
the front and rear towers ; its precise length is 96 feet, and extreme 
width 62 feet. It will comfortably seat 1,500 persons, and, when 
crowded, will contain upwards of 2,000. The apartments on each 
side of the lecture room, besides being fitted up with cases for books, 
specimens, or apparatus, can be used for meetings of associations, 
while large assemblies for public discussions can be accommodated in 
the lecture room. 

The whole arrangement of the upper part of the building is made 
with a view to afford facilities i()r meetings of large associations which 
have for their object the promotion, diffusion, or application of know- 
ledge. If at any time the space now occupied by the lecture room 
should be required for otljcr purposes, the seats and gallery may be 
removed and the partition walls which are unconnected with the roof 
may be taken down and the whole upper story converted into one large 
hall. Besides the main building just finished, the whole edifice con- 
sists of two wings, two connecting ranges, and a front and rear projec- 
tion at the middle on which towers are erected. 

The whole amount paid on account of the building, the grounds, and 
furniture is $299,414 14. The amount paid during the past year is 
$55,021 14, of which $13,000 is on the work previously done under 
the direction of the former architect. In order to secure the fiiithful 
performance of the work, fifteen per cent, has been withheld from the 
monthly payments until the whole should be finished. The sum which, 
on this account, is still due to the contractor, has not yet definitely been 
ascertained. According to an addendum to the original contract, the 
Regents were at liberty to make any changes in the building or in the 
lime of its completion which they might deem necessar}^ and the con- 
tractor should receive pro rata, according to the prices agreed upon, 
for work so executed, and reasonable compensation for damages which 
might be sustained. 

The foUowino: letter from the architect will oive additional infbrma- 
tion : 

Washington, D. C, December 30, 1854. 

Gentlemen : I have the honor to report to you that the work on 
your building has been prosecuted during the past year without inter- 
mission, and that the central portion of it is now nearly completed. 

There are some small matters yet to be attended to, and a few tri- 
fling repairs and alterations yet to be made in the other parts of the 
building. These can all be completed in a few weeks. 

I am happy to state that the building has been completed without 
any accident, either to the workmen employed, or to the building itself, 
and that in my opinion, every part of the work has been substantially 
done. 

I have devoted much study to the plans which have been executed, 
and given the work my personal supervision nearly every day. 

An examination of the rooms of the central building will impress one 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 71 

with the idea of great simpUcity. There is not much ornament, but 
still enough, as I think, to enable the building to do its duty with grace 
and dignity. 

The lower hall is equally adapted to the purposes of a museum or a 
library. The lecture room is the best which it was possible to make 
within the walls of the building, and now that it has been completed, 
I am happy in being enabled to state that were it to be made over 
again, I would not alter any of its essential features. 

I would not be doing justice to Professor Henry were I not to acknow- 
ledge the great assistance I have received from him in arranging the 
details of this room. lam free to confess that during the progress of 
the work he has given me suggestions which have materially improved 
my plans. 

It will be seen by an examination of the payments which have been 
made to the contractor, that the cost of completing the building consid- 
erably exceeds the estimates which I prepared before the w^ork was 
begun. This is due in part to the rise in the prices of materials and 
labor, but principally to the execution of many improvements which 
were not originally contemplated, but which it was thought best to 
make during the prosecution of the work. These improvements were 
the sewers for drainage ; the cisterns for supplying water ; the substi- 
tution of stone for iron stairs ; the makmg of new sashes for many of the 
wdndows ; the strengthening and in part re-construction of the roof of 
the main building, putting in copper gutter, and leaders on the towers, 
besides other alterations and additions tending to swell the cost of the 
work. 

Hoping that my efforts to improve your building will meet you appro- 
bation, as well as that of the Board of Regents, 

I am, gentlemen, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

B. S. ALEXANDER, 
Architect Smithsonian Institution. 

To the Building Committee of' the Smithsonian Institution. 

A full statement of rhe amount due the contractor cannot be given 
until a more precise estimate of all the items of work done under the 
direction of the architect has been made. 
Respectfully submitted, 

RICHARD RUSH, 
WILLIAM H. ENGLISH, 
.JOSEPH HENRY, 

Building Committee. 



72 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



• NINTH ANNUAL SESSION. 

WEDNESDAY, January 3, 1855. 

In accordance with a resolution of" the Board of Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual meet- 
ing on the first Wednesday of January of each year, the Board met 
this day in the Regents' room. 

Present: Messrs. Bache, Berrien, Douglas, Mason, Pearce, Rush, 
Towers, and the Secretary. 

In the absence of the Chancellor Mr. Pearce was called to the chair. 

The Secretary informed the Board of the re-election by joint resolu- 
tion of Congress of Hon. Rutiis Choate, of Massachusetts, and Hon. 
Gideon Hawley, of New York, as regents of the Smithsonian Institution 
for six years ensuing. 

On motion of Mr. Mason the Board adjourned to meet on Friday, 
January 12, at 10 o'clock, a. m., and the Secretary was requested to 
inform the absent members of the Board that the report of the Select 
Committee on the distribution of the income would then be taken up 
for consideration. 

FRIDAY, January 12, 1855. 

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution was held on Friday, January 12, at 10 o'clock a. m. 

Present: The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, 
Choate, Douglas, English, Hawley, Mason, Meacham, Pearce, Rush, 
Stuart, Totten, Towers, Professor Henry, Secretary, and Mr. Seaton, 
Treasurer. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

A communication from J. W. Simonton, Washington editor of the 
New York Daily Times, and S. Thayer, of the New York Evening 
Post, asking permission to attend the mieetings of the Board to report 
its proceedings, was read. 

Mr. Meacham moved that the request be granted, which was lost. 

The order of the day being the consideration of the report and reso- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 73 

lutions of the Select Committee on the distribution of the income, the 
first resolution was read, namely : 

Resolved, That the seventh resolution passed by the Board of 
Regents on the 26ih of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of 
the income between the active operations and the museum and hbrary 
when the buildings are completed, be and it is hereby repealed. 

Remarks were made by Messrs. Choate, Pearce, Douglas, and 
Berrien. 

On motion of Mr. Mason the yeas and nays were ordered. 

The question was then taken on the adoption of the first resolution as 
follows : 

Yeas. — The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, 
Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, and Totten — 8. 

Nays. — Messrs. Choate, Douglas, English, Meacham, Stuart, and 
Towers — 6. 

The second resolution was then read : 

Resolved. That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor- 
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the 
Institution in such manner as may, in the judgment of the regents, be 
necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic importance, 
and a compliance in good faith with the law. 

The question being taken on this resolution it was adopted. 

Yeas. — The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, 
Hawle}^ Mason, Pearce, Rush, Totten, Towers — 9. 

Nays. — Messrs. Choate, Douglas, Enghsh, Meacham, and Stuart — 5. 

Mr. Meacham then offered the Ibllowing resolution, which was the 
first reported by him in his minority report, namely : 

Resolved, That a compliance in good faith with the letter and spirit 
of the charter of the Smithsonian Institution, requires that a large propor- 
tion of the income of the Institution should be appropriated " for the 
gradual formation of a library composed of valuable works pertaining 
to all departments of human knowledge." 

The question being taken on this resolution it was lost. 

Yeas. — Messrs. Choate, Douglas, Meacham, and Stuart — 4. 

Nays. — The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, 
English, Hawley, Mason, Rush, Pearce, and Totten — 9. 

Mr. Meacham's second resolution was then read, namely: 

Resolved, That the expenditures for the library shall be made under 
the direction of a " library committee" of three members, to be annually 
elected by the Board of Regents from members not upon the Executive 
Committee, or upon other committees which may be appointed to 
superintend the affairs of other departments or objects of the Institution. 

The question being taken on this resolution it was lost. 

Yeas. — Messrs. Choate, Douglas, and Meacham — 3. 

Nays. — The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, 
English, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, Stuart, and Totten — ]0. 
On motion of Mr. Pearce the following resolution was adopted. 
Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed by the Chancellor 
lo confer with a Committee of the Estabhshment as to suitable means 
of communication between the two bodies, and to report thereon at a 
subsequent meeting of the regents. 



74 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

The Chancellor appointed Messrs. Mason, Douglas, and Totten. 

A communication from Gilbert A. Cameron was read ; which, on 
motion, was referred to the Building Committee. 

The Treasurer then made a statement of the condition of the finances 
of the Institution; whicli was referred to the Executi\'e Committee. 

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, 13th January, at 10 
o'clock. 

SATURDAY, January 13, 1855. 

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution was held on Saturday, January 13, at ten o'clock, a. m. 

Present: The Chancellor, Roger B. Tane}^ Messrs. Bache, Berrien, 
Choate, English, H;^\vle3^ Mason, Meacham, Pearce, Rush, Totten. 

The minutes of tlie last meeting were read and approved. 

Mr. Pearce, in belialf ot" the Executive Committee, presented the 
estimate of appropriations for the year 1855, which, on his motion, was 
laid on the table for the present. 

Mr. Pearce, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented the fol- 
lowing report in relation to the case of Mr. Blodget, which had been 
referred to tiiat committee by the Board. 

REPORT. 

At a meeting of the Board of Regents held Saturday, July 8, 1854, 
the Executive Committee was authorized to investigate and settle the 
business presented to the Board by the Secretary, in reference to the 
adjustment of" the claims of Mr. Lorin Blodget. 

The committee having investigated the matter referred to them, pre- 
sents the following report in part: 

Mr. Blodget was employed by the Secretary of the Institution to aid 
him by such labors in relation to the meteorological observations under 
the direction of the Smithsonian Institution as the Secretary might 
assign. The rates of compensation for these services were fixed fi'om 
time to time by the same officer, and Mr. Blodget is entitled to no other 
compensation than that paid to him. His footing in the Institution was 
simply that of a temporary employe ot" the Secretary, in whose hands 
rested the determination of his duties, pay, and duration of service. 
Employed and paid for these services in connexion with the meteor- 
ological operations, the Iruit of his labors belong exclusive!}' to the In- 
stitution. 

In addition to these pajmients the committee is prepared on receiv- 
ing satisfactory statements or vouchers from Mr. Blodget of reasonable 
expenses incurred during any journeys he ma}^ have made with the 
consent of the Secretary for objects connected with his duties in me- 
teorology in the Institution, to refund the amount, as also any moneys 
which may appear to the satisfaction of the committee to have been 
paid out by him and not already repaid for clerical or other services 
connected with the meteorological observations of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, and for which an equivalent advantage has been recived. 

J. A. PEARCE, ) 
JOS. G. TOTTEN, > Executive CommUtee. 
A. D. BACHE, ) 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 75 

Communications and a memorial from Mr. Blodget to the Board 
were then read and ordered to he on the table. 

The report of the Executive Committee was then adopted unani- 
mously. 

It being stated to the Board by Mr. Choate on behalf of Mr. C. C. 
Jewett that he did not design, for reasons stated by him, to ask the ac- 
tion of the regents at their present meeting on his memorial of the 3d 
July last, communicated to the Board through the Secretary, Mr. Ma- 
son moved that the said paper be returned by the Secretary to Mr. 
Jewett. 

On motion the memorial to the Board was then read. 

Mr. Choate then requested permission in behalf of Mr. Jewett to 
withdraw the memorial, which was granted. 

The Secretary then stated to the Board that he had deemed it his 
duty since its last session to remove Mr. Charles C. Jewett from the 
office of assistant to the Secretary. He deeply regretted the necessity 
which he had been under to exercise this authority, declared to be 
vested in him by the Board, and for the present he rested his reasons 
for the act on the character of a paper submitted by Mr. Jewett to the 
select committee on the distribution of the income, and upon the 
opinion in regard to that paper expressed by the committee to which it 
was submitted. 

Mr. Pearce offered the Ibllowing: 

The Secretary having stated to the Board that since the last meeting 
of the Regents in 1854 he had removed Mr. Jewett, under the author- 
ity declared to be vested in him by the resolution of July 8, 1854. 

Resolved, That while the Board regret the necessity of Mr. Jevv^ett's 
removal, they approve of the act of the Secretary. 

Resolved, That this approval by the Board is not deemed by them to 
be essential to the validity of the act of the Secretary in so removing 
Mr. Jewett. 

The Board then adjourned to meet on Monday, January 15, at ten 
o'clock. 

MONDAY, January- 15, 1855. 

The Board of Regents met to-day at ten o'clock. 

Present: Tiie Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, 
Douglas, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, Towers and Totten. 

The Chancellor, took the chair, and the minutes of the last meeting 
were read and approved. 

Mr. Pearce's resolutions offered at the last meeting on Saturday were 
then taken up. 

The question being taken on the first resolution, it was adopted. 
Yeas. — The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, 
Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, Totten — 8. 

Nays. — Messrs. Douglas, Towers — 2. 

The second resolution was then taken up and adopted. 

Yeas. — The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, 
Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, Totten — 8. 

Nays. — Messrs. Douglas, Towers — 2. 



76 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

On motion of Mr. Rush, Mr. John T. Towers was elected to till the 
vacancy in the Building Committee. 

The report of" the Executive Committee, making estimates of appro- 
priations for the year 1855, &c., was then taken up and adopted. 

On motion of General Totten, the following resolution was adopted : 

Resolved, That in case the sum required lor the completion of the 
Smithsonian building should exceed the amount appropriated for the 
same, that the Building Committee have authority to pay for any una- 
voidable excess out of funds on deposit to the credit ot" the Institution. 

The report of" the Building Committee was then read, and on motion 
adopted. 

A memorial and printed pamphlet from John Lord, of Portland, 
Maine, was read and ordered to lie on the table. 

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, January 27, at ten 
o'clock a. m. 

Washington, January 27, 1855. 

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution was held on Saturday, January 27, 1855, in the regents' room. 

Present: The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Pearce, 
Stuart, Towers, Totten. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

The following communication was read: 

House of Representatives, 

Washington, January 26, 1855. 

Sir: I am instructed by the special committee of the House of Re- 
presentatives, raised in conformity with the accompanying resolution, 
to request you to inform the Boartl of Regents of" the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution that the committee is ready to proceed to the discharge of its 
duties — and that any communication the Board may think proper to 
make will be most respectfully entertained. 

The committee will meet on Thursday, February 1, at half past 7 
o'clock, p. m., in the rooms of the Hon. W. H. Wittee, at the National 
Hotel. 

The presence of an authorized representation of the Board, during the 
investigation of the matters referred to the committee, would aid us in 
the performance of the duty imposed by the order of the House of 
Representatives. 

Very lespectfully, your obedient servant, 

CHARLES W. UPHAM, Chairman. 

Professor Jos. Henry, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Iiifilltution. 

Copy of resolution of House enclosed. 

In the House of Representatives U. S. — January J 7, 1855. 

On motion of Mr^ Meacham, 
Resolved, That the letter of Hon. Rut"us Choate, resigning his place 
as Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, be referred to a select com- 
mittee of five, and printed ; and that said committee be directed to 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 77 

inquire and report to this House whether the Smithsonian Institution 
has been managed, and its fiinds expended, in accordance with the law 
estabhshing the Institution ; and whether any additional legislation be 
necessary to carry out the designs of its founders, and that said com- 
mittee have power to send for persons and papers. 

The Speaker thereupon appointed Mr. Upham, of Massachusetts ; 
Mr. Witte, of Pennsylvania ; Mr. Taylor, of Tennessee ; Mr. Wells, of 
Wisconsin; and Mr. Puryear, of North Carohna, the said commhtee. 

On motion of Mr. Pearce, it was — 

Resolved, That a committee of five be appointed by the Chancellor 
to represent the Board of Regents before the committee of the House 
of R:^presentatives. 

The Chancellor appointed Messrs. Pearce, Mason, Bache, Rush, and 
the Secretary, as the committee. 

The Secretary laid before the Boaid his annual report. 
%.^ Communications, and a bill of charges from Lorin Blodget, were 
read, and, on motion of Mr. Stuart, referred to the Executive Com- 
mittee. 

Communication from G. Cameron, the contractor for the building, 
was read, and referred to the Building Committee. 

Communication from J. M. Stanley, artist, offering to dispose of his 
Indian Gallery, was read, and, after remarks, on motion it was — 

Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed respectfully to decline the 
offer made to the Board by Mr. Stanley. 

A communication relative to the Geographical and Commercial Ga- 
zette was read, and referred to the Executive Committee. 

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, February 10, at 10 
o'clock, a. m. 

Washington, Febniary 10, 1855. 

Present : Messrs. Bache, Mason, Pearce, Totten, and the Secretary 
There being no quorum, adjourned to Saturday, February 17. 

Washington, February 17, 1855. 
Messrs. English, Pearce, Totten, Towers, and the Secretary present. 
There being no quorum, adjourned to meet on Saturday, February 24. 

Washington, February 24, 1855. 

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Satur- 
day, February 24, 1855, at 10 o'clock a. m. 

Present: The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Doug- 
las, English, Pearce, Totten, Seaton, treasurer, and the Secretary. 

A report entitled " Report of the Hon. James Meacham, of the 
special committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, on the distribution of the income of the Smithsonian fund," &c., 
was presented, and on motion laid on the table. 

On motion of Mr. English, the following resolution was adopted: 

Resolved, That three persons be appointed a committee of finance, 
who shall inquire into the safety and propriety- of the present invest- 



78 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

merit of the funds of the Institution, not in the Treasury of the United 
States, and who shall have the authority to withdraw the said fund 
from the present place of deposit, and invest them otherwise in the 
name of the regents of the Institution. 

The chancellor appointed Messrs. English, Pearce and Mason as the 
committee. 

The following report was read : 

The committee to whom was referred the resolution of the " estab- 
lishment," proposing a conference by committee with the Board of 
Regents, lor the purpose of determining ihe mode of communication 
between the establishment and the Board of Regents, submit the fol- 
lowing report : 

That they have met and conferred with the committee appointed for 
that purpose by the establishment, and have, after consultation, agreed 
upon the following resolutions, to be reported by the committees to 
their respective constituencies, and the committee recommend that they 
be adopted by the Board of Regents, and made a part of the by-laws. 

1. The general communication between the Institution and the 
Board of Regents shall be made through their com.mon secretary. 

2. The secretary will regularly communicate to each body all such 
acts of either as may concern the other respectively, or may require 
their joint action. 

3. When either body may desire any special communication with 
the other, it will propose a conference by committee. 

All which is respectfully submitted. 

J. M. MASON, Chairman. 
January, 1855. 

The report of the committee was approved. 

The following resolution was offered by Mr. Douglas, and adopted 
by the Board : 

Resolved, That all correspondence of this Institution with any person 
or society shall be conducted by the Secretary, and no assistant or 
employee shall write or receive any official letter or communication 
pertaining to the affairs of the Institution, except under the authority 
and by the direction of the Secretary, and all such correspondence shall 
be duly registered and recorded in such manner as the Secretary ^shall 
direct. 

The Board then adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 79 

APPENDIX 

TO THE 

REPORT OF THE REGENTS 

OF THE 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Report on American ETploratio7is in the years 1853 and 1854. Bi/ S. F. 
Baird, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The report on this subject for 1853, though ready for pubhcation at 
the time of printing the last Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, was kept back until the present year, as most of the expeditions 
mentioned in it were still in the field at the close of 1853, and of many 
no definite intelhgence had been received. Nearly all of these have, 
however, returned; and their officers are now busily engaged in pre- 
paring their reports. I therefore shall present the principal events for 
1853 and 1854 in one narrative, without always distinguishing those of 
each year. 

The number of important scientific explorations embraced in this 
period, mark it conspicuously in the history of American discovery. 
Most of these are due to the appropriation for the survey of the China 
seas and Behring's Straits, and that for a survey of the several routes 
for a railroad to the Pacific, (although many more private expeditions 
were set on foot,) in addition to the regular operations of the United 
States and Mexican Boundary Survey, whose labors during the past 
years were in continuation of those commenced before. Many reports 
of explorations, commenced or completed prior to 1853, have been pub- 
lished during this period, and will be noticed in their proper places. 

With scarcely an exception, every expedition of any magnitude has 
received more or less aid from the Smithsonian Institution. This has 
consisted in the supplying of instructions for making observations and col- 
lections in meteorology and natural history, and of information as to partic- 
ular desiderata ; in the preparation, in part, of the meteorological, magnet- 
ical, and natural history outfit, including the selection and purchase of 
the necessary apparatus and instruments ; in the nomination and train- 
ing of persons to fill important positions in the scientific corps ; in the 
reception of the collections made, and their reference to individuals com- 
petent to report upon them ; and in employing skillful and trained artists 
to make accurate delineations of the new or unfigured species. Much 
of the apparatus supplied to the different parties was invented or 
adapted by the Institution for this special purpose, and used for the 
first time, with results surpassing the most sanguine expectations 



80 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

I shall now proceed to present such tacts as may be necessarj* to a 
full understanding of the history and progress of these several expedi- 
tions, considering first those having North America for their field. 

United States and Mexican Boundary Survey. 

The operations on the eastern end of the boundary line, as originally 
established, were brought to a successflil termination towards the end 
of 1853, by the energy and skill of Major Emory, and all the parties 
returned to Washington by the beginning of 1854. After the purchase 
of a portion of Sonora from Mexico, it became necessary to make 
a new survey of the Mexican boundary; and Major Emory having been 
appointed commissioner, he completed his preparations in a very short 
time, and proceeded to the field of his labors, arriving at El Paso, the 
initial point, the beginning of December, 1854. From this point he will 
proceed westward, expecting to meet halt-way the sub-party of Lieu- 
tenant Michler, who starts eastward tirom Fort Yuma. Major Emory 
is accompanied by Dr. Kennerly as surgeon and naturalist, fi-om whom 
much may be expected in the development of the natural history of the 
country, with the facilities which Major Emory has always furnished 
to the scientific corps of his several explorations. The natural history 
collections brought back from the lower Rio Grande, by Major Emor}^ 
were very extensive and important. 

Survey of routes for a Railroad t<> the Pacific. 

Just before the adjournment of Congress, in March, 1853, an appro- 
priation of $150,000 was made, to defray the expenses of the survey of 
various routes along which it was supposed that a railroad, extending 
between the Mississippi river and the Pacific, might be constructed. 
By virtue of the authority committed to him by Congress, the Secretary 
of War proceeded to organize six parties, tor the exploration of four 
main routes leading to the Pacific ; and of these, Gov. I. I. Stevens, 
Lieutenant R. S. Williamson, Captain Gunnison, Lieutenant A. W. 
Whipple, and, at a later period, Lieutenant J. G. Parke and Captain 
J. Pope, were severally placed in command. All these parties were 
abundantly provided with the apparatus and instructions, written or 
printed, necessary to enable them to make copious collections in natu- 
ral history, and observations in physical science. Each party (except- 
ing the two last, which were not so full}'' organized) went accompanied 
by a surgeon, zoologist, botanist, mineralogist, geologist, and a civil 
engineer; though, occasionally, the same person united several of these 
functions. The parties set out tor their several labors in the following 
order and organization. 

1. Northern route under Governor I. I. Stevens. 

This portion of the surve}^ was first in the field and most extensive 
in its organization. It was placed under command of Governor I. I. 
Stevens, lately of the corps of the United States engineers, and assist- 
ant in charge of the Coast Survey, who had been appointed governor 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 81 

of the new Territory of Washington, and was now about proceeding 
to the field of his duties. The survey was divided into two main 
bodies, one to proceed towards the Rocky mountains from the east, the 
other to cross the isthmus and start in li-om the Pacific side to meet the 
former. Each of these parties was again subdivided into sub-parties, the 
progress and superintendence of which is as follows : 

Governor Stevens, with the main party, proceeded from St. Paul, 
on the 8th of June, 1853, westward to Fort Union, a trading post 
belonging to the American Fur Company, situated at the mouth of the 
Yellow Stone river ; thence up the Missouri river to the mouth of Milk 
river; and up the valley of Milk river, nearly due west, to Fort Benton, 
another trading post of the American Fur Company near the Falls of 
the Missouri, where they arrived September 1. 

From Fort Benton Governor Stevens crossed to the mission of St. 
Mary's ; thence, by the Coeur d'Alene, to Fort Colville ; thence to 
Fort Vancouver and Olympia. 

Lieutenant Saxton started from Fort Vancouver, and proceeded up 
the Columbia river, by water, as far as the Dalles ; Irom the Dalles, up 
the valley of the Columbia, by land, to Walla-walla, a trading post 
occupied by the Hudson's Bay Company ; thence in a northeasterly 
direction to the western extremity of Kalispe lake, crossing Lewis's 
fork of the Columbia, forty miles from Walla-walla, and Clarke's fork, 
near the outlet of Kalispe lake ; thence along the northern shore of this 
lake and Clarke's fork of the Columbia, in a southeasterly direction, re- 
crossing the river near the mouth of the Bitter Root, one of its branches ; 
and thence nearly due south to the Flathead village of St. Mary's, situated 
on the St. Mary's fork of the Bitter Root, thirty miles south of the mouth 
of the Hellgate river. He proceeded up the valley of the Hellgate 
or Blackfoot river and the Foospinney, one of its branches, to the 
Blackfoot pass in the Rocky mountains. This pass is situated about 
ninety miles from Fort Benton, near the sources of the Teton and 
Medicine rivers. He crossed the mountains through this pass, and 
met Governor Stevens and his party at Fort Benton. From Fort 
Benton he went down the Missouri river to St. Louis — in a keel-boat 
as far as Fort Leavenworth. 

Lieutenant Donelson, with the main party, passed over Lieutenant 
Saxton's route from Fort Benton to Fort Vancouver. Dr. Suckley went 
down the river, from St. Mary's valley, in a canoe, from the Flathead 
village to Fort Colville. Captain McClellan explored the country on 
both sides of the Cascade range northward from Vancouver; he met 
Governor Stevens's parties at Fort Colville, and then continued his expe- 
dition as far north as our northern boundary line. Lieutenant Mullen went 
from Fort Benton to St. Mary's village b}^ the Jeiferson fork of Missouri. 
He remained at St. Mary's village during the winter, continuing his 
exploiations as far north as the Flathead lake, and southward to Fort 
Hall. Ait:er continuing in the mountains for nearly a year, he returned 
to Olympia in the winter of 1854-'55. Lieutenant Macfeely returned 
from St. Mary's village to Fort Vancouver by the southern Nez Perce 
trail down the valley of Kooskooskie and Little Salmon rivers. Mr. 
Tinkham, civil engineer, accompanied Governor Stevens's party as far 
a^ St. Mary's village, and recrossed the Rocky mountains to Fort 
Mis. Doc. 24 6 



82 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

Benton, and surveyed the Marias pass, situated to the north of the 
Blackibot or Cadot's pass, and proceeded to Olympia, Washington 
Territory, by a new route through some pass in the Cascade moun- 
tains. Lieutenant Grover was to make an accurate survey of the Mis- 
souri river from the Falls to the mouth of the Yellow Stone, and then 
across the Rocky mountains, in mid-winter on snow shoes, by the route 
Lieutenant Saxton followed. His object was to test the climate in the 
mountains during the most unfavorable season of the year. Mr. Doty 
was left at Fort Benton to make meteorological and other observations 
during the winter. He remained until the autumn of 1854, when he 
proceeded to Washington Territory, and joined Governor Stevens. 

Most of these parties were provided with the means of making ob- 
servations and collections in natural and physical science, and all have 
faithfully carried out their instructions. 

Dr. Suckley, surgeon and naturalist to the main party, accompanied 
Governor Stevens as far as the Flathead village, and thence down the 
riv^er, as described. 

Dr. J. G. Cooper acted in the same capacity in connexion with 
Captain McClellan's expedition. Both these gentlemen, aided by the 
officers and assistants of the command, were occupied the whole time 
in making extensive collections of the highest interest. Lieutenant 
Donelson, with the party under his command, m proceeding up the 
Missouri to Fort Union, spared no exertion to accomplish the same 
object, and gathered a large collection of plants and of specimens in 
alcohol. 

Dr. Evans, United States geologist for Oregon, accompanied by 
Dr. B. F. Shumard, visited the Mauvaises Terres of Nebraska, in con- 
nexion with Governor Stevens's exploration, and collected a very 
extensive series of the fossil mammals and chelonians of that region, 
embracing several species not previously found by him. He arrived 
in Oregon late in 1853, and has since been engaged in completing his 
regular explorations of the geology of Oregon and Washington, with 
very important results. 

Since the completion of the survey. Dr. Suckley and Dr. Cooper 
have continued their explorations most energetically. The former 
spent several months at Steilacoom, on Fuget's Sound, as United Stales 
surgeon of the post, and then went to the Dalles, from which point he 
accompanied a party sent to Fort Boise, to chastise some Indians. 
Dr. Cooper has been most of his time at Shoal-water bay. Both of 
these gentlemen have collected and sent home, from their respective 
stations, very valuable and extensive series of animals and plants, with 
important notes on their habits and peculiarities. 

2. Survey of the route near the 38th parallel, under the late Coptairi Gim- 
nison, and continued by Lieutenant BecTcwith. 

The party of Captain J. W. Gunnison originally consisted of him- 
self in command, Lieutenant E. G. Beckwith, commissary and quar- 
termaster ; II. N. Kern, topographer and draughtsman ; J. H. Peters and 
T. L. Homans, assistant engineers; Dr. Scheel, surgeon and mineralo- 
gist; F. Kreutzfeldt, botanist and draughtsman ; together with an escort 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 83 

of thirty men, commanded by Captain Morris, United States rifles. 
The party was organized at camp Shawnee Reservation, on the 20th 
of June, and proceeded up the Sandy Hill fork of the Kansas, and then 
across to the Arkansas, and up to the Abispah. After exploring this 
region, they crossed over on the Trincheres, and next to the Huerfano, 
thence across the mountains to the head of the Sangre del Cristo Pass, and 
down the valley of this stream to Fort Massachusetts. From this point 
they passed up the valley of San Luis, through Cooachotope pass, and 
down to Grand river of the Colorado ; along it, past the Uncompagre 
and Aoonakara. Beyond this they struck the old Spanish trail, and 
after crossing Green river left it and passed through Wahsatch pass, for 
Sevier river, and down this river nearly to Sevier lake. While explo- 
ring the regions about this lake, nearly the whole of the scientific corps, 
consisting of Captain Gunnison, Mr. Kern, Mr. Kreutzfeldt, and several 
other persons, were surprised by a party of the Pah Utahs, on the 
morning of the 26th of October, 1853, and all put to death. Science 
has much to deplore in the loss of these gentlemen, all so well known 
previously for their intrepid zeal as explorers : Captain Gunnison, in 
connexion with Captain Stansbury's survey of Great Salt Lake; and 
Mr. Kern as the companion of Colonel Fremont, Captain Simpson, 
Captain Sitgreaves, Lt. Parke, and others. Mr. Kreutzfeldt was also 
a member of the memorable party of Colonel Fremont, which met 
with such sad disasters in the region of his latest exploration. 

Most of the instruments and papers of the party were captured by 
the Indians, but afterwards given up; and the command devolving on 
Lieutenant Beckwith, he spent the winter at Salt Lake city, and in 
the spring of 1854 proceeded across to California by a new route. He 
returned in September, and is now engaged in completing his report. 
He brought with him a valuable collection of specimens. 

3. Survey of the route near the 35th parallel of latitude, under Lieutenant 

WIdpple. 

The third railroad party was commanded by Lieutenant A. W. 
Whipple, formerly connected with the survey of the Mexican boundary. 
His party consisted of Lieutenant J. C. Ives, principal assistant; Dr. J. 
M. Bigelow, surgeon and botanist; Jules Marcou, geologist ; Dr. C. B. 
K. Kennerly, surgeon and zoologist ; H. B. Mollhausen, topographer 
and artist; Hugh Campbell, astronomer ; Albert H. Campbell, engi- 
neer ; together with Messrs. White, Garner, Hutton, Sherburne, and 
Parke. Lieutenant Ives, with Dr. Kennerly and Mr. Hugh Campbell, 
were detailed to go by Indianola and San Antonio, to El Paso, for the 
purpose of securing certain instruments left there , after which they 
joined Lieutenant Whipple at Albuquerque. The main party went 
from Fort Smith mainly up the Canadian, and across the Llano Esta- 
cado, to Anton Chico. Here it divided, Mr. Albert Campbell, with 
the main party, proceeding directly to Albuquerque, via Laguna; Lieu- 
tenant Whipple pursuing a somewhat different route ; and all the par- 
ties, including that of Lieutenant Ives, meeting at Albuquerque, on the 
26th of October. From Albuquerque they went over to the Little 
Colorado, via the Pueblo of Zuni ; next by way of the San Francisco 



84 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

mountains to Bill Williams's fork ; down this stream to the Colorado, 
then up the jMohave, and across to San Francisco. The party returned 
to the United States in April, 1854, with the exception of Dr. Bigelow, 
the botanist, who remained a few months longer exploring the Sierra 
Nevada. 

The collections in every department were very large, and included 
many new and rare species. 

4. Survey of the several j)artial routes on the Pacific side under Lieutenant 

Williamson. 

The fourth of the principal government parties for the survey of the 
Pacific raih'oad route is that of Lieutenant R. S. Williamson, accom- 
panied by Lieutenant J. G. Parke as assistant, William P. Blake as 
geologist, and Dr. A. L. Heermann as surgeon and naturalist, together 
with a skillful artist and civil engineer. The escort was commanded 
by Lieutenant Stoneman. The party started from San Francisco and 
passed up the San Joaquin and Tulare valley, and explored the region 
about Walker's Pass, and along the Mohave over to the Colorado. 
They also examined the Tejon Pass, the Canada de las Uvas, the Ca- 
jon, the Goigona and Caliente passes of the coast range. Lieutenant 
Williamson returned in the latter part of 1854, and is now engaged in 
preparing his report, to include notices of many interesting collections 
in natural history. 

5. Survey near the 32d yaralUi of latitude, western end, under Lieutenant 

Parhe. 

After the completion of the survey of Lieutenant Williamson, Lieu- 
tenant Parke, accompanied by Lieutenant Stoneman and Dr. Heer- 
mann, started from San Diego in January, 1854, and proceeded by 
way of Warner's Ranch to camp Yuma at the mouth of the Gila, and 
thence up this river to the Pima and Maricopa villages, thence to Tuc- 
son, Fort Webster, Dona Ana and Trentera. This point was reached 
on the 24th of March, the entire distance from San Diego having been 
traversed with wagons in about sixty days. Here the exploration ter- 
minated, and the party proceeded rapidly home via San Antonio, reach- 
ing Washington in May, 1854. 

In October, 1854, Lieutenant Parke again returned to California for 
the purpose of making further surveys. He was accompanied by Mr. 
Albert H. Campbell, civil engineer; Dr. Antisele, surgeon and geolo- 
gist; H. Campbell, G. G. Garner, and N. H. Hutton, assistants. Lieu- 
tenant Parke will organize his expedition at Benicia, with all possible 
dispatch, and proceed to explore the Salinas river, from the Bay of 
Monterey to its sources, with a view of finding a practicable passage 
through the coast range into the Mohave basin, or into the valley of 
Los Angeles. Further examinations will also be made of the Mohave 
river, in the vicinity of the Colorado, on Lieutenant Whipple's route. 
Returning thence, this party will start from San Diego and go across to 
El Paso, on the Rio Grande, by the route south of the Gila. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 85 

6. Survey near the 32d parallel of latitude, eastern end, under Captain John 

Pope. 

Captain Pope, accompanied by Lieutenant Garrard, Captain Taflin, 
and Dr. DifFenderfer, with an escort under the command of Lieuienant 
Marshall, left El Paso on the 20th of February, for Preston, Texas, for 
the purpose of completing the survey of the 32d parallel, prosecuted at 
the western end by Lieutenant Parke. The line followed was nearly 
straight except through the Guadalupe mountains. The Pecos was 
passed near the mouth of Delaware creek, and the Llano Estacado tra- 
versed for a distance of one hundred and twenty-five miles. From this 
the party proceeded via head waters of Brazos and Colorado, arriving 
in Preston about the middle of May. The natural history collections 
made were very extensive and valuable, including, as they did, a por- 
tion of those gathered by Dr. T. C. Henry, U. S. A., in New Mexico, 
during a period of several years. Captain Pope has since returned to 
the Llano Estacado, for the purpose of experimenting upon Artesian 
borings in the desert. He is accompanied by Dr. G. G. Shumard, as 
surgeon and geologist, well known in connexion with explorations by 
Captain Marcy. 

Exploration of Colonel Fremont. 

In order to test the depth of winter snow along the central route 
traversed by Captain Gunnison and Messrs. Beale and Heap, Colo- 
nel Fremont started late in the season, and on the 25th of November 
was still below the mouth of the Huerfano. Entering the mountain re- 
gion on the Huerfano on the 3d of December, he emerged from it, and 
reached the Little Salt settlement on the 9th ofFebruary, having found 
but four inches of snow in the Coochetope Pass on the ]4th of Decem- 
ber. From Parowan he proceeded to San Francisco, and has since then 
been engaged in preparing a report on the results of his trip. 

Expedition of Messrs. Beale and Heap. 

Lieutenant E.F. Beale, superintendent-of Indian affairs in Cahfornia, 
about to return to the scenes of his philanthropic labors among the In- 
dians, in the vicinity of Tejon Pass, embraced the occasion to make the 
journey over land by the central route. He was in company with Mr. 
G. H. Heap. They left Westport, Missouri, on the 6th of May, and 
proceeded to Fort Atkinson on the Arkansas, crossing the head waters 
of the Osage and the Neosho. From this point they passed up the 
Arkansas to the Huerfano, and proceeded to the Mormon settlements 
near Little Salt lake and the vegas of Santa Clara, very nearly on the 
route pursued by Captain Gunnison, excepting that they went up the 
Huerfano instead of the Abispah. From the vegas they pursued the 
old Spanish trail leading from Abiquiu across the desert of the Mohave, 
and thence to Los Angeles, where they arrived on the 22d of August, 
making a distance of 1,852 miles from Westport in 100 days. Some 
of the party had travelled 715 miles more in going to Taos and back, 
in consequence of the loss of stores. The party was at one time in 



86 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

imminent danger of collision with the same band of Indians that after- 
wards massacred Captain Gunnison. 

J. Soide Bowman. 

Mr. Bowman left Kansas the 20th of May, 1853, on his journey to 
California, and travelling up the Kansas river crossed it at the Baptist 
mission, and proceeded to Salt Lake city, via Fort Kearney and Fort 
Laramie. Leaving Salt Lake city on the 29th of July, he proceeded 
to Humboldt river, passing down its north side to the sink. From the 
sink he took the Truckee river route, and thence, by Beckwith's cut 
off 10 Bid well's bar and Marysville. Shortly after his arrival in San 
Francisco he w^as attacked with the typhoid fever, which carried him 
off" in a few days. Mr. Bowman's untimely end is greatly to be la- 
mented, not only as a citizen, relative, and friend, but as a man of 
science. For many years he has embraced every opportunity for 
making collections in natural history, even under the most unfavorable 
circumstances. 

In a previous report I have referred to a collection made for the In- 
stitution by Mr. Bowman. Those gathered by him during the trip just 
referred to were of much greater extent, embracing quite a full series 
of frshes and reptiles from a previously unexplored region — many new 
to science and all in excellent condition. These were received in 
April, 1854, through the kind assistance of his brother, S. M. Bowman, 
of San Francisco, and of Lieutenant Whipple. 

Exploratio?i of the Brazos, hy Caiitain R. B. Marcy. 

Captain Marcy, having completed and published his report of an ex- 
ploration of Red river in 1852, was detailed in 1854 to select and sur- 
vey certain lands in Texas, donated b}^ that State for the benefit of the 
Indian tribes included within her limits. He accordingly left New 
York for this purpose in May, and proceeded to Fort Belknap, near 
which the reservation is situated. Accompanied and assisted b}^ Major 
Neighbors, Indian agent, he performed the duty assigned him, and from 
interviews with the chiefs of the southern Comanches, found that these 
Indians were not averse to the idea of settling down permanently and 
cultivating the soil. 

In the course of the summer Captain Marcy visited the head waters 
of the Brazos and the Big Witchita, a region previously untrodden by 
the white man. During his entire trip he was accompanied by Dr. G. 
G. Shumard, as surgeon and naturalist, who made extensive and valu- 
able collections and observations, which will be embodied in the report 
of Captain Marcy. 

Lienlcnant D. N. Conch. 

In the winter of 1852-'53, Lieutenant Couch, of the United States 
artillery, under leave of absence from the War Department, left Wash- 
ington for the purpose of making explorations in the natural history and 
geography oi Mexico. After a short stay at Brownsville, accompanied 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 87 

by several servants, he crossed the river into Mexico, and went first to 
Monterey in New Leon. Here he spent some time in examining the 
Sierras south and west of that city, and thence proceeded to Parras in 
Coahuila, 185 miles west of Monterey. He went next to the plains of 
the lower Bolson de Mapimi, Durango, visiting there the celebrated 
Durango caves. Owing to the desertion of some of his attendants, he 
was unable to extend his journey further west, and retrac ng his steps 
he explored the salt plain of Alamo de Parras before returning to the 
United States by his original route. 

During the whole of this journey Lieutenant Couch gathered copious 
collections in all departments of zoology, and made a large number of 
original notes upon the habits of the species. Many new species were 
obtained by him, and important discoveries made respecting the geo- 
graphical distribution of others. A portion of the results thus secured 
have been published by Lieutenant Couch, and others may shortly be 
expected. 

When in Matamoras Lieutenant Couch purchased the entire collec- 
tion of notes and specimens left by Doctor L. Berlandier. This was 
the result of many years of labor in the province of Tamaulipas, and 
provedfto be of extraordinary value. 

Coimt Cijpriani. 

According to Mr. Heap, Count Cypriani, ex-Governor of Leghorn, 
left Westport in IMay, 1853, for a trip to California, via Fort Laramie 
and the South Pass, Great Salt Lake, and Carson's Valley. His party 
consisted of eleven scientific men and a sufficient escort, well provided 
with all means of scientific research. No information has yet been 
received of the further movements of this party. 

Explorations of S. F. Baird. 

B}' authority of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Mr. 
Baird, during the summer of 1853, proceeded in company with Dr. 
J. P. Kirtland, of Cleveland, to Racine, Wisconsin, where they spent a 
week in exploring the streams and prairies in its vicinity, with the assist- 
ance of Dr. P. R. Hoy and Rev. A. C. Barry, well known naturalists, 
resident in that place ; and with them next visited the interior of the 
Stare, spending some time at Madison, and returning via Milwaukie. 
Dr. Kirtland and Mr. Baird next visited Ohio, spending some da^'s at 
Elyria, and a week at Poland, Ohio. From Poland they went to 
Detroit, where they were joined by Professor Charles Fox and Dr. 
Davenport, with whom they visited Ann Arbor and Port Huron, 
exploring, in addition, a considerable extent of Detroit river. Mr. 
Baird next went alone to Montreal, and down the river below Quebec, 
then back again to Lake Champlain. The principal result of this trip 
covering over 5,000 miles, was the acquisition of veiy full sets of the 
fishes of the lake basin over a water line of about 1,500 miles, serving 
to develope important facts in regard to their geographical distribution. 
A complete series of the fishes of Ohio, as described by Dr. Kirtland in 
his "Fishes of the Ohio," was also secured from the original localities. 



88 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

and idenlified on the spot by this distinguished naturalist. The entire 
collection of fishes and other alcoholic specimens filled twelve kegs and 
large cans. In 1854, Mr. Baird visited the coast of New Jersey, and 
spent six weeks in the vicinity of Beeseley's Point, at the mouth of Great 
Eo^r Harbor river, studying the habits and collecting specimens of the 
marine species. A full account of the results of this trip will be found 
in the present report. Additional explorations of similar character, 
were made at Greenport and River-head, Long Island, as also near 
Piermont and Sing Sing, on the Hudson river. At Piermont he had the 
valuable aid of Mr. John G. Bell, of New York, in collecting full series 
of the fish of the Hackensack and Sparkill, embracing several species 
new to the State, and others heretofore only found in that locality. 

Exploration in Western Missouri and Kansas, by Dr. F. R. Hoy. 

Dr. Hoy, well known as an ardent and successful naturalist of Ra- 
cine, Wisconsin, left that place on the 4th of April, 1854, for a natural 
history excursion to Missouri. Stopping at various points to make col- 
lections, he reached St. Louis on the 12th, and next day proceeded up 
the Missouri river. After a short stay at Boonville, Cooper bounty, 
Missouri, he went on to Lexington, INIissouri, and from this point made 
various excursions, some of them into Kansas; after remaining in this 
region some time. Dr. Hoy returned to Racine in June. Availing 
himself of every opportunity to add to his collections. Dr. Hoy gathered 
together many species of birds, reptiles, and fishes ; among the latter 
quite a number new to science. One hundred and fifty-two species of 
birds were observed, or obtained by him above Boonville alone, some 
of them not previously known to occur so far to the east. His alco- 
holic collections have been sent to the Institution, and prove to be of 
great interest. 

Exploration of Northern Wisco?isin, in 1854, by Rev. A. C. Barry. 

Mr. Barry left Racine on the 10th ot IMay, 1854, for his trip through 
northern Wisconsin, and reached Oshkosh, via Sheboygan and Fond du 
Lac, on the 13th. His route thence was up the Fox, to Lake Butte 
des Morts; thence up the Wolf, to the junction of the Waupacca ; 
thence to the mouth of the Embarras, and across the country to the 
Wisconsin, striking the river at Plover Portage. From this point he 
passed down the Wisconsin river, examining the country and streams on 
both sides as far as Richland city ; returning by way of Dodgeville, 
Madison, Palmyra, East Troy, and Rochester, to Racine, where he 
arrived towards the end of June. In the course of his journey, Mr. 
Barry made copious notes of his observations, which will be hereafter 
presented to the Institution. The numerous collections of fishes and 
reptiles made by him have already been received, and were gathered 
principally in the following localities : 

Lake Winnebago, Lake Butte des Morts, Waupacca river. Little 
Waupacca, Embarras river. Spring brook, Baird's lake, Wisconsin 
river, Lemmonwier river. Yellow river. Bear creek, Pine river, Green 
creek. Little Plover, Big Plover, and Carp lake. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 89 

ETploration and Survey of the China Seas and Behrhg's Straits. 

In the summer of 1852, Congress made an appropriation of $?125, 000 
for " building or purchase cf suitable vessels and for prosecuting a 
survey and reconnoisance for naval and commercial purposes, of such 
parts of Behring Straits of the North Pacific ocean and the China 
seas as are frequented by American whale ships, and by trading ves- 
sels in their routes between the United States and China." Tlie act 
was passed at too late a period in the 3'ear to allow an}^ action beyond 
the organization of the party, and the commencement of preparations 
for departure. The command of the expedition was entrusted by the 
Secretary of the Navy, Hon. John P. Kennedy, to Captain C. Ringgold, 
an officer of much experience in the duties required, Irom his connexion 
with the United States exploring expedition under Captain Wilkes. 
The necessary vessels were procured and equipped in the most sub- 
stantial manner, and fitted out with all the instruments required for 
making observations in astronomy, hydrography, magnetism, meteor- 
ology, together with the most complete equipment of natural history 
apparatus ever taken to sea. The expedition was fortunate in se- 
curing the services of Mr. William Stimpson as principal zoologist, 
and Mr. Charles Wright as botanist, both of them gentlemen well 
known for successful prosecution of their respective departments in 
former explorations. Mr. F. H. Storer went out as chemist and taxi- 
dermist, and £. M. Kern, the intrepid companion of Fremont and Sit- 
greaves, as artist and photographer. Many of the naval officers on 
board expected to lend efficient aid in the natural history department 
as well as in the physical, to which they are more especially assigned. 

The squadron, as finally organized, consisted of the tbllowing vessels : 

1. The slooj) Vincennes, bearing the flag of Commander Ringgold, 
with Lieutenant Rolando as lieutenant commanding and executive offi- 
cer ; Lieutenant J. M. Brooke, acting lieutenant and assistant astrono- 
mer ; William B. Boggs, purser and artist; Frederick D. Stuar^ 
secretary and draughtsman; William Stimpson, zoologist to expedition ; 
F. H. Storer, chemist and taxidermist, and Edward M. Kern, photo- 
grapher and artist. 

2. Steamer John HancocJc, Lieutenant John Rodgers in command ; 
Charles Wright, botanist to expedition, and A. H. Ames, assistant 
naturalist. 

3. Brig Porpoise, Alonzo B. Davis, Lieutenant Commanding. 

4. Schooner Fennimore Cooper, acting Lieutenant Commanding H. R. 
Stevens. 

5. Store ship John P. Kennedy, Lieutenant Commanding Napoleon 
Collins. 

These vessels left Norfolk in June, 1853, and went to St. Simon's 
bay. Cape of Good Hope, and after a short stay, proceeded to Hong 
Kong, China. The sloop of war Vincennes, Commander C. Ringgold, 
and the brig Porpoise, Lieutenant Commanding A. B. Davis, by the 
way of Van Dieman's Land, through the Coral seas, passing the Caro- 
line and Ladrone and Bashee islands, arriving at Hong Kong on the 
17th of March ; the steamer John Hancock, Lieutenant Commanding 
John Rodgers, the store ship John P. Kennedy, Lieutenant Command- 



90 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

ing N. Collins, and the tender Fennimore Cooper, Lieutenant Com- 
manding H. K. Stevens, by the way of the Straits of Sunda and Gas- 
per, the Carimata and Billeton passages, and the Sooloo sea. Their 
arrival at Hong Kong was reported by Commander Ringgold early in 
June, 1854. 

During the absence of Commodore Perry, with the greater part of 
the East India squadron, at Japan, the civil war raging in China, and 
particularly in the vicinity of Canton, so alarmed American citizens 
holding valuable property in that region, that Commodore Ringgold 
considered it proper to suspend temporarily the special duties to which 
he was assigned, and render protection to his exposed countrymen ; so 
that he failed to accomplish a large portion of the surveys that had 
been planned f^r the year. 

The expedition has, however, again resumed its scientific duties with 
important results. Several large collections in natural history have 
been sent home, and others are on the way. Captain Ringgold having 
returned to the United States, the squadron is in command of Captain 
Rodgers. 

Exploration of the Parana and its tributaries, hy the steamer Wafer Wilch^ 

This surveying steamer, under Lieutenant Commanding Thomas J. 
Page, left Washington in January, 1853, lor the Parana, having as an 
object the survey of this great river and its principal tributaries. Cap- 
tain Page was provided with a complete outfit of apparatus for natural 
history collections, together with a skilful horticulturist, whose business 
is the gathering of live specimens of the most interesting plants. A 
good many valuable seeds have already been sent home. The vessel 
arrived at Buenos Ayres on the 25th of May, but was detained for" 
some time in consequence of the internal dissensions of the country, and 
the necessity of protecting the interests of American citizens ; and it 
^^as not until the 7th of November that Captain Page was permitted to 
leave Ascension to proceed up the river. A small steamer of very 
light draught, was taken out by the Water Witch, in order to pursue 
the exploration into waters too shallow for the larger vessel. This 
vessel has been engaged since her arrival in Paraguay in making the 
intended explorations, as well as in protecting American interests in 
that quarter, and the collections made and sent home have added much 
to our knowledge of the natural history of the country. 

Expedition of Lieutenant MacRae, United States Navij. 

At the termination of the observations of the United States naval 
astronomical expedition in Chile, Lieutenant MacRae was instructed by 
Lieutenant Gilliss to cross the Uspallata pass of the Andes, and the 
pampas of the Argentine confederation, for the purpose of ascertaining 
the law of decrease of magnetical intensity with elevation, the atmo- 
spheric condition of the higher Andes, the geography of the principally 
travelled route between Mendoza and Buenos Ayres, and other im- 
portant facts interesting to men of science. He succeeded in making 
observations for all the magnetic elements at stations differing in eleva- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 91 

tion 3,000 feet, both ascending and descending tlie Cordilleras, and at 
each 100 miles in crossing the pampas. Having accidentally broken 
his barometer and injured his chronometer, shortly after leaving Men- 
doza, Lieutenant MacRae, as soon as he arrived in the United States, 
volunteered to return at his own expense for the purpose of completing 
observations which the loss of these instruments prevented him from 
doing on his first trip. Permission being granted by the Navy Depart- 
ment, he again embarked for South America, reached Mendoza from 
Buenos Ayres in time to observe the solar eclipse of November 30, 
1853; twice crossed the Portillo pass at an elevation of 14,319 feet ; 
again passed over the Cumbre and Uspallata passes, 12,65G feet ; and 
finally returned to the United States in March, 1854. 

Lieutenant MacRae made such collections in natural history as his 
limited opportunities allowed; among them anew species of the curious 
genus Tricliomijctenis. He also procured several fine specimens of 
Cavia australis. 

The report of his journeys will be found embodied in the first volume 
of the report of the United States naval astronomical expedition. 

Japan Expedition. 

Although not specially an exploring party, yet the magnitude of the 
squadron sent out under charge of Commodore Perry, and the import- 
ance of the interests committed to his charge, render a brief notice 
necessary in this place. The principal object of the expedition was to 
form a treaty with the emperor of Japan for the protection of American 
interests in and about the island, as well as to look after these interests 
generally in that quarter of the globe. The squadron, under command 
of Commodore Perry, consisted of the steamers Mississippi, Powhatan, 
and Susquehanna; the sloops of war Macedonia, Pl^anouth, Saratoga, 
and Vandalia ; and the store ships Supply, Southampton, and Lexing- 
ington. With a portion of this fleet Commodore Perry arrived at Jeddp 
bay on the 8th of July, and, after a brief interview with one of the 
ministers of state, left, to return in the spring of 1854. Of the happy 
results of this renewed visit, and of the treaty made with such import- 
ant bearings on commerce and humanity, I need not here speak, as they 
are well known to every one. Commodore Perry has returned to the 
United States, bringing with him copious journals of the voyage, with 
numerous drawings, and many collections illustrating the natural pro- 
ducts and manufactures of Japan. Collections of plants, seeds, reptiles, 
and fishes, of much interest, were also made by Dr. James Morrow, 
agriculturist to the expedition. 

Brig Dolphin. 

Lieutenant O. H. Berryman, in command of the brig Dolphin, has 
been engaged in a continuation of his previous labors and those of 
Lieutenant Lee of sounding the depths of the Atlantic Ocean, in con- 
nexion with the researches of Lieutenant Maury on the winds and cur- 
rents of the ocean. His results have been of the highest interest to 
science, as well as of very great practical value to the navigator. The 



92 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

report ])y Lieutenant Lee of his observations while in command of the 
Dolphin has recently been published by Congress. 

Arctic Expedition under Doctor Kane. 

The brig Advance which with her consort, the Rescue, had joined 
in 1850 the band of searchers for the long lost Sir John Franklin, was 
again fitted out and commissioned for a renewed effort in that direction, 
under command of Dr. E. K. Kane, the intrepid surgeon and annahst 
of the first or the Grinnell expedition. The Advance, liberally lent for 
the purpose by her owner, Mr. Henry Grinnell, was provided with all 
the means necessary for resisting the vigor of an arctic winter, and 
for making various deeply interesting observations in natural and piiy- 
sical science in the polar regions. The Smithsonian Listitution fur- 
nished a complete set of magnetical apparatus, besides fitting out the en- 
tire natural history equipment; and the lunds necessary for the general 
expenses were supplied by Mr. Grinnell and by private subscrij)tions. 
Doctor Kane intended to have particular attention paid to the Acalephas 
and Crustacea of the arctic seas, as well as to the collection of skele- 
tons of cetaceans and pinnipedians. Mr. Henry Goodfellow has charge 
of the natural history department; Dr. L I. Hayes is surgeon, and Au- 
gustus Sontng, astronomer. The entire fi)rce consisted of but seventeen 
men. Dr. Kane proposed to visit Uppernavik, and there procure the 
necessary dogs and Eskimos for an overland journey, to be fully 
provided with these as well as with suitable dresses of furs, &c. His 
intention was to go directly to Smith's Sound at the foot of Baffin's 
bay, and, passing up the Sound to as great a distance as possible, seek 
a secure harbor for the winter. He then expected to take his sledge- 
boats, and with seven men, besides the Eskimos, proceed by land 
or water, as the case might require, in a direction due north as far as 
circumstances would allow. 

The vessel left New York on the 3Jst of May, and the latest dates 
from Dr. Kane were from Uppernavik to July 20, 1853. He had suc- 
ceeded in obtaining what he needed for his onward march, and ex- 
pected to start immediately for the north. 

Since then nothing has been heard from him, and Congress has au- 
thorized an expedition for his succor. 

Exploration of the coast of Western Africa, bij Linitenant TV. F. Lij?ich, 

United States Navy. 

Commander W. F. Lynch, United States navy, who left the United 
States in November, 1852, on a reconnoissance of the coast of western 
Africa, preparatory to a more extended exploration at some subsequent 
period, returned on the 1st of May, 1853, having been busily engaged, 
during the greater part of the interval, in prosecuting the object of his 
mission. He examined a large portion of the coast of Liberia, and went 
up a number of the rivers. He suffered much from the sickness which 
is so constant an attendant of the white man on that coast, and which 
caused an abrupt termination of his labors. He recommends that any 
future exploring party should consist almost entirely of citizens of Libe- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 93 

ria, organized under the flag of the United States ; and that the whites 
should ride out the fever at Monrovia, on account of the existence of 
suitable accommodations there. The proper rendezvous for the inland 
march he considers to be Millsburg, at the head of navigation of the St. 
Paul's, whence the route should extend via Boporah, an important native 
town, to the range separating the tributaries of the Niger from those 
which flow into the Atlantic. That range attained, it is to be fol- 
l(Aved to the parallel of Cape Palmas, and thence to the sea. A full 
report of the exploration of Commander L3mch is presented in the an- 
nual report of the Secretary of the Navy for the first session of the 
thirty-third Congress. 

Darien Ship Canal Expedition. 

A survey of the Isthmus of Darien, in reference to the project of unit- 
ing the waters of the Atlantic and Pacific by a ship canal, was under- 
taken under the joint auspices of the English, French, and American 
governments. 

The English expedition sailed for the Isthmus on the 17th of Decem- 
ber, 1853, and arrived at Caledonia bay on the 19th of January. It 
consisted of the brig Espiegle and the survey schooner Scorpion, the 
former having on board Mr. Gisborne, Dr. Cullen, and Messrs. Forde 
and Bennett, with four assistant engineers, on the part of the Atlantic 
and Pacific Junction company, and of Lieutenant Singer, R. E., and 
staff", in behalf of the British government. The French steamer Chi- 
mere joined them, at the same time, with a scientific corps. The Uni- 
ted States sloop-of-war Cyane, under Captain Hollins, had reached 
Caledonia bay on the 8th of January ; and, after some preparation, a 
party under command of Lieutenant Strain, of the United States navy, 
started out to make the transit. Losing their way, and suffering greatly 
for want of proper food and water, a number perished, and it was only 
through the aid of an English party from the Virago that Lieutenant 
Strain and a few of his men were saved from destruction. The British 
steamer Virago, Captain Preevorst, attempted the transit from the Pa- 
cific side, and reached a point commanding a view of the Atlantic. 
From the facts gathered by the different parties, it appears conclu- 
sively that a canal is impracticable in the region where that survey 
was made. 

Exj)loraiion of the Valley of the Amazon. 

Messrs. Herndon and Gibbon, of the United States navy, after com- 
pleting the survey of the valley of the Amazon, returned some time 
ago, and have published 1 heir general report. This contains much that 
is entertaining and novel, and several large editions have already been 
called for by Congress. 

Exploration hy Mr. Scrope. 

In December, 1852, Mr. Thomas H. Scrope, an enterprising young 
gentleman of New York, left Para in a steamer for the townof Loretto, 



94 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

on the Peruvian Amazon, about 3,000 miles from Para. He took with 
him everything necessary to make collections in natural history, and 
has signified his intention of spending as much time as possible in 
gathering specimens of the animals and plants of that little knov^^n re- 
gion. Nothing has since been heard from him. 

Dr. Thomas Steele. 

Dr. Thomas Steele, a missionary of the American Colonization 
Society, lelt in the packet Shirley, in November, 1853, ibr Cape Pal- 
mas. He intended there to make such collections as were indicated to 
him as of particular interest, for which purpose a quantity of alcohol 
was sent out to him by the Smithsonian Institution. Some important 
collections were sent home by him, and it is with much regret that 
we are informed of his recent death by fever. 



REPORTS OF EXPLORATIONS PUBLISHED IN 1853, 1854. 
A — Government Reports. 

Captain L. Siigreaves, U. S. A. — Report of an Expedition down the 
Zuni and Colorado rivers, by Captain L. Sitgreaves, United States 
Topographical Engineers, accompanied by maps, views, sketches, and 
illustrations. Washington : Robert Armstrong, public printer, 1853. 
Public document, 32d Congress, 2d session. Senate executive No. 59, 
one volume 8vo., pp. 198, 78 plates, and one map. An edition was 
also published by the House. 

This report is principally occupied by an account of the natural his- 
tory of the region traversed by Captain Sitgreaves in this and a pre- 
vious exploration. The mammals and birds are by Dr. Woodhouse, 
surgeon and naturalist to the expedition : the reptiles by Dr. Edward 
Hallowell; the fishes by S. F. Baird and C. Girard; and the plants by 
Dr. Torrey. Six new species are described of North American mam- 
mals, five of birds, eighteen of reptiles, three of fishes, and ten of 
plants. 

Captain R. B. Maraj, U. S. A. — Exploration of the Red river of 
Louisiana, in the year 1852, by Randolph B. Marcy, captain 5th in- 
fantry. United States army, assisted by George B. McClellan, Brevet 
Captain, United States Engineers, with reports of the natural history 
of the country, and numerous illustrations. Washington: Robert Arm- 
strong, public printer, 1853, two vols. 8vo., pp. 320, 66 plates and 
two maps. 32d Congress, 2d session, Senate executive No. 54. 

This report includes sub-reports on the minerals, by Professor C. 
U. Shepard ; on the geology of the expedition, by President Hitchcock 
and George G. Shumard, M. D.; on the pakeontology, by B. F. Shu- 
mard, M. D.; on the mammals, by Captain Marcy ; the reptiles and 
fishes, by S. F. Baird, and C. Girard ; the shells, by Professor C. B. 
Adams and G. G. Shumard; the orthoptera, arachnida, and myriapoda, 
by C. Girard; the plants, by Dr. Torrey; and the ethnology by Cap- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 95 

tain Marcy and Professor W. W. Turner. Fourteen new species of 
tbssils are described, five of reptiles, five of fishes, ten of orthoptera, 
arachnida and myriapoda, and three of plants, all of which are figured. 
Dr. G. G. Shumard acted as surgeon and naturalist, and the collections 
were made principally by him and Captain McClellan. 

Lieutenants Herndon and Gihhon, U. S. N. — Exploration of the valley of 
the Amazon, made under direction of the Navy Department, by Wil- 
liam Lewis Herndon and Lardner Gibbon, lieutenants. United States 
navy. 

Part 1. By Lieutenant Herndon, 2 vols. 8vo. Washington : Robert 
Armstrong, public printer, 1853, pp. 418, 16 plates and three maps. 
32d Congress, 2d session. Senate executive No. 36. 

Part 2. By Lieutenant Gibbon, 2 vols. 8vo. Washington : Robert 
Armstrong, public printer. 

Some interesting collections in natural history were made by these 
gentlemen, but not published in their reports. 

Lieutenant S. P. Lee, U. S. N. — Report and charts of the cruise of 
the United States brig Dolphin, made under direction of the Navy 
Department, by Lieutenant Lee, 2 vols .8vo. Washington : Beverley 
Tucker, printer to the Senate, 1854. 15 charts and one map. 33d 
Congress, 1st session. Senate executive No. 59. 

Captain TV. F. Lynch, U. S. N. — Official report of a mission to Africa 
in 1852, 1853; pp. 329 — 366 of the reportof theSecretar}'- of the Navy, 
in President's message for 33d Congress, 1st session. Part III, 1853. 

Professor A. D. Bache. — Report of the Superintendent of the Coast 
Survey, showing the progress of the survey during the year 1852. One 
vol., 4to. Washington : Robert Armstrong, public printer, 1853. Pp. 
184 and 37 plates. 

Professor A. D. Bache. — Report of the Superintetklent of the Coast 
Survey, showing the progress of the survey during the year 1853. One 
vol., 4to. Washington : Robert Armstrong, public printer. Pp. 278, 
and 54 plates. 

H. R. Schoolcraft, LL. D. — Information respecting the History, Con- 
dition and Prospects of the Indian tribes of the United States ; collected 
and prepared under the direction of the Bureau of Indian Affairs per 
act of Congress of March 3, 1847, by Henry R. Schoolcraft. Illus- 
trated by S. Eastman, Capt. U. S. A. Published by authority of Con- 
gress . Part III, 4to., 1853, pp. 636 and 45 plates. Part IV, 

4to., 1854, pp. 668 and 41 plates. 

These volumes, in addition to the subjects specially covered by the 
title, contain valuable journals of expeditions by officers of the United 
States army and others, at various periods of time. 

Pacific Railroad Surveys. — Letter from the Secretary of War trans- 
mitting reports of surveys, &c., of railroad routes to the Pacific ocean, 
made February 6, 1854. 8vo., pp. 118. 33d Congress, 1st session, 
Ex. doc. No. 46. 

This contains the partial reports from the several expeditions, all of 
them still in the field at the date of the report. 

Report upon the northern Pacific railroad exploration and survey, 
by Gov. I. I. Stevens, made June 30, 1854. Pp. 548. 

Report of explorations lor a railway route near the 35th parallel of 



9C NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

latitude from the Mississippi river to the Pacific ocean, by Lieut. A.W. 
Whipple, corps of topographical engineers, made July 31, 1854. 8vo., 
pp.154. 

Report of Explorations for that portion of a Railway Route near the 
32d parallel of latitude, lying between Doila Ana on the Rio Grande, 
and the Pima village on the Gila, by Lieut. Jno. G. Parke, U. S. A., 
of corps topographical engineers. Made August 22, 1854. 8vo., pp. 32. 

The above are all the railroad reports published in 1854, the re- 
mainder not being finished till 1855. The maps accompanying the re- 
ports were not finished in 1854. 

B — Private reports. 

Dr. E. K. Kane, U. S. N. — The United States Grinnell Expedition 
in search of Sir John Franklin. A personal narrative. By Elisha 
Kent Kane, M. D., U. S. N. New York : Harper and Bros. 1 vol., 
8vo. 1853. 

Jol/u R. Bartlett. — Personal narrative of Explorations and Incidents in 
Texas, New Mexico, California, Sonora, and Chihuahua, connected with 
the United States and Mexican Boundary Commission in 1850-'53. By 
John Russell Bartlett, United States Commissioner during that period; 
with maps and illustrations. 2 vols., 8vo., 1854. New York: D. Ap- 
ple ton & Co. 

G. H. Heap. — Central route to the Pacific, from the valley of the 
Mississippi to California. Journal of the expedition of E. F. Beale, Su- 
perintendent of Indian Affairs in California, and G winn Harris Heap, from 
Missouri to California, in 1853. By Gwinn Harris Heap. Philadel- 
phia : Lippincott, Grambo, & Co. 1 vol., 8vo. 1854. With map and 
illustrations. 

Licnt^J. G. Strain, U. S. N. — Report of theDarien expedition. Har- 
per's JMagazine for March, April, and May, 1855. 

REPORTS ORDERED BY CONGRESS, AND TO BE PUBLISHED. 

Lieut. J. M. Gilliss, U. S. N. — Report of the United States naval 
astronomical expedition in Chile. This report will occupy several vol- 
umes quarto, and contain much matter on the natural history of the 
countr}'. 

Commodore M. C Perry, U. S. N. — Report of the Japan expedition. 

Captain C. Ringgold, U. S. N. — Report of the Expedition for the ex- 
ploration of the China seas and Behring's straits. 

Reports of the several parties for survey of railroad routes from the 
Mississippi river to the Pacific ocean. These will embrace the govern- 
ment expeditions under Gov. I. I. Stevens, Lieut. A. W. Whipple, 
Lieut. E. G. Beckwith, Lieut. R. S. Wilhamson, Lieut. J. G. Parke 
and Capt. J. Pope, with the private ones of Col. J. C. Fremont and 
Mr. Lander. 

A. B. Gray. — Report and map of surveys in New Mexico, &c. 

Professor A. D. Bache. — Report of the superintendent of the United 
States Coast Survey during the year 1854. 

H. R Schoolcraft, LL. D.— History and Statistics of the Indian 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 97 

tribes of the United States. Parts V and VI. The sixth and last part 
is to contain an abstract or synopsis of the whole work. 

CONCLUDING REMARKS. 

The record of explorations for the year will be incomplete without 
brief reference to the numerous researches and collections made at dif- 
ferent points in North America, the results of which have come to the 
knowledge of the Institution. Few have any conception of the amount 
of quiet investigation in natural history now going on in this country, 
principally by persons laboriously engaged in other duties and using 
only scattered intervals of leisure. The records of the Institution 
almost daily receive entries of contributions of facts and specimens of 
natural history from such sources. 

Some general remarks and notices on this subject will be found de- 
tailed in the report on additions to the museum in 1854. I would, how- 
ever, make a particular reference to the labors of Lieutenant W. P. 
Trowbridge, United States army, who, while successfully prosecuting 
his dut}^ as tidal observer on the Pacific coast, in connexion with the 
United States Coast Survey, has employed his leisure moments in form- 
ing one of the largest collections of natural history ever made in this 
country. In this he has been zealously aided by Messrs. Cassidy, Szabo, 
and others, members of his parties. 

Mr. R. D. Cults, likewise connected with the Coast Survey, has also 
made some interesting collections on the coast of California and trans- 
mitted them to the Institution; and a gentleman of the same branch of 
the public service, Mr. Gustavus Wurdemann, has supplied one of the 
fullest series of the animals of the Louisiana gulf coast ever received by 
the Institution. It is a subject of profound congratulation that while 
exhausting every department of physical research in connexion with 
the survey of our coast, the distinguished superintendent encourages 
his assistants to pay all possible attention to the various branches of 
natural science, recognising fully their connexion with those more 
immediately belonging to the survey. One effect has been the gath- 
ering together of vast materials illustrating the marine infusoria and 
microscopic shells of our coast, which have already been examined with 
important hydrographical results. 

Mis, Doc. 24 7 



98 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

LECTUEES 

DELIVERED BEFORE THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



No. I.— THE CAMEL 



BY HON. GEO. P. MARSH, 



The first command addressed to man by his Creator, and substan- 
tially repeated to the second great progenitor of our race, not only 
charged him to subdue the earth, but gave him dominion over all ter- 
restrial creatures, whether animate or inanimate, and thus predicted 
and prescribed the subjugation of the entire organic and inorganic world 
to human control and human use. 

Man is yet far from having achieved the fulfihncnt of this grand mis- 
sion. He has, indeed, surveyed the greater part of his vast domain ;: 
marked the outhne of its solid and its fluid surface, and approximately 
measured their areas and determined their relative elevation ; pierced 
its superficial strata, and detected the order of their historical succes- 
sion ; reduced to their primal elements its rocks, its soils, its waters, 
and its atmosphere, and even soared above its canopy of cloud. He 
has traced, tlirough the void of space, its movements of rotation, revo- 
lution, and translation ; resolved the seeming circles of its attendant 
satellite into strangely tortuous paths of progression ; investigated its 
relations of density, attraction, and motion, to other visible and invisible 
cosmical orbs: and unfolded the laws of those mysterions allied agen- 
cies, heat, light, electricity, and magnetism, whose sphere of influence 
seems commensurate with that of creation. But, notwithstanding these 
triumphs, earth is not 3^et all his own ; and millions of leagues of her 
surface still lie uninhabited, unenjoyed, and unsubdued — yielding nei- 
ther food, nor clothing, nor shelter to man, or even to the humbler tribes 
of animal or vegetable life, which, in other wa^^s, minister to his neces- 
sities or his convenience. 

In like manner, man has studied the biography, and the relations ot 
affinity or dependence, of the infinitely varied contemporaneous forms 
of organic life; traced the history of myriads of species of both plants 
and animals, which had ceased to be before the Creator breathed 
into his nostrils the breath of lite; and demonstrated the past and pres- 
ent existence of numerous tribes of organic beings, too minute to be 
individually cognizable by any of the unaided senses, and yet largely 
influencing our own animal ecpnomy, and even composing no unimport- 
4int part, cf .the crust of the solid globe ; but of the vegetables that clothe 
and dlvcrsif}'- its soil, of the a.pimated creatures that float in its atmos- 
phere, enlive:^ its surface, or cleave its waters, but comparatively few- 
have as yet hmn rendered in any way subservient to human use, fewer 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 99 

Still domesticated and made the permanent and regular denizens ot" 
his fields or companions of his household. 

The efforts of civilized man towards the fulfilment of this great com- 
mand have been directed almost exclusively to the conquest of inor- 
ganic nature, by the utilization of minerals ; by contriving methods for 
availing himself of the mechanical powers and of natural threes, simply 
or in cunning combinations ; by cutting narrow paths for facilitating 
travel and transport between distant regions; and by devising means of 
traversing with certainty and speed the trackless and troubled ocean. 

The proper savage smelts no ores, and employs those metals only 
which natural processes have reduced. He binds the blocks of which 
he rears his temples with no cement of artificial stone. He drains no 
swamps, cuts no roads, excavates no canals, turns no mills by power 
of water or of wind, and asks from inorganic nature no other gifts than 
those which she spontaneously offers, to supply his wants and multiply 
his enjoyments. 

On the other hand, the very dawn of social life, in those stages of hu- 
man existence which quite precede all true civihzation, demands, as an 
indispensable condition, not the mere usufruct of the spontaneous pro- 
ductions of organic nature, but the complete appropriation and domes- 
tication of many species of both plants and animals. Man begins by 
subjugating, and thereby preserving, those organic forms which are at 
once best suited to satisfy his natural wants, and, like himself, least 
fitted for a self-sustaining, independent existence;* and he is to end by 
extending his conquests over the more widely dissimilar, remote, and 
refractory products of creative nature. We accordingly owe to our 
primeval, untutored ancestors, the discovery, the domestication, the 
acclimation of our cereal grains, our edible roots, our improved fruits, as 
well as the subjugation of our domestic animals ; while civilized man 
has scarcely reclaimed a plant of spontaneous growth, or added a newly 
tamed animal to the flocks and herds of the pastoral ages. Indeed, so 
remote is the period to which these noble triumphs of intelligent hu- 
manity over brute and vegetable nature belong, that we know not their 
history or their epochs ; and if we believe them to be in fact human 
conquests, and not rather special birth-day gifts from the hand of the 
Creator, we must admit that cultivation and domestication have so com- 
pletely metamorphosed and diversified the forms and products, and 
modified the habits, and even, so to speak, the inborn instincts of both 
vegetables and animals, that but the fewest of our household beasts and 
our famihar plants can be certainly identified with the primitive stock. 
JMost of these, it is probable, no longer occur in their wild state and 
original form ; and it is questionable u'hether they are even capable of 
continued existence without the fostering care of man. 

In both these great divisions of organic life there arc some species 

* It is not the domestic animals alone whose existence is perpetuated by the protective, 
though often unconscious, agency of man. In the depths of our northern forests the voice of 
the song-bird, or of tiie smaller quadrupeds, is but seldom heard. It is in the fields tilled by 
human husbandry that they find the most abundant nutriment, and the surest retreat from 
bird and beast of prey. The vast flights of the wild pigeon are found, not in tlie remote, 
primitive woodlands, but along the borders of the pioneer settlements ; and, upon our west- 
ern frontier, it is observed that the deer often multiply for a time after tlic coming in of the 
whites, because the civilized huntsman destroys or scares away the wolf, the great natural 
enemy of the weaker quadrupeds. 



100 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

peculiarly suited to the uses of man as a migratory animal. The bread 
stuffs of the old world, and, in a less degree, our only American cereal, 
Indian corn, tlie pulse, the cucurbitaceous plants, and the edible roots 
of our gardens, as well as the horse, the dog, the sheep, and the swine, 
seem almost exempted from subjection to climatic laws. While, there- 
fore, a degree of latitude, a few hundred feet of elevation, a trifling dif- 
ference in soil, or in the amount of atmospheric humidity, oppose im- 
passable barriers to the diffusion of most wild plants and animals, the 
domesticated species I have enumerated follow man in his widest wan- 
derings, and make his resting-place their home, whether he dwells on 
a continent or an island, at the level of the sea or on the margin of 
Alpine snows, beneath the equator or among the frosts of the polar circle. 

Others, again, of the domesticated families of the organic world 
seem, like the untamed tribes, inexorably confined within prescribed 
geographical bounds, and incapable of propagation or growth beyond 
their original limits; while others still, though comparatively independ- 
ent of climate and of soil, are nevertheless so specially fitted to certain 
conditions of surface, and certain modes of human life, to the mainten- 
ance of which they are themselves indispensable, that even the infidel 
finds, in these mutual adaptations, proofs of the existence and benefi- 
cent agency of a self-conscious and intelligent creative power. 

Among the animated organisms of this latter class, the camel is, 
doubtless, the most important and remarkable. The Ship of the Desert 
has navigated the pathless sand-oceans of Gobi and the Sahara, and 
thus not only extended the humanizing infl.uences of commerce and 
civilization alike over the naked and barbarous Afirican and the fur-clad 
Siberian savage, but, by discovering the hidden wells of the waste and 
the islands of verdure that surround them, has made permanently hab- 
itable vast regions not otherwise penetrable by man. The " howling 
wilderness" now harbors and nourishes numerous tribes in more or 
less advanced stages of culture; and the services of that quadruped, 
on which Rebekah journeyed to meet her spouse, and which, though 
neglected and despised by the polished Egyptian, constituted a princi- 
pal item in the rural wealth of the father of Joseph, are as indispensa- 
ble to these races, as are those of any other animal to man in any con- 
dition of society. 

The camel lives and thrives in the tropics ; through almost the whole 
breadth of the northern temperate zone; and is even met beyond Lake 
Baikal in conjunction with the reindeer, with which, among some of 
the northern tribes, he has exchanged offices, the deer serving as a 
beast of the saddle, while the camel is employed only for draught or 
burden.* But his appropriate home is the desert, and it is here alone 
that he acquires his true significance and value, his remarkable powers 
being the necessary condition and sole means by which man has in any de- 
gree extended his dominion over the Libyan and the Arabian wildernesses. 

In presence of the improvements of more advanced stages of society, 
the camel diminishes in numbers and finally gives place toother animals 
better suited to the wants and the caprices of higher civilization. Upon 
good roads, other beasts of draught and burden are upon the whole 
more serviceable, or, to speak more accurately, more acceptable to the 

* Ritter, Erdkunde XIII, 662—667. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 101 

tastes of cultivated nations ; and the ungainl}^ camel sliares in the con- 
tempt with which the humble ass, the mule, and even the ox, are 
regarded by the polished and the proud. Besides this, both the pro- 
ducts and the restraints of proper agriculture are unfavorable to his full 
development and physical perfection. When the soil is enclosed and 
subjugated, and the coarse herbage and shrubbery of spontaneous 
growtli are superseded by artificial vegetation, he misses the pungent 
and aromatic juices which flavor the sun-burnt grasses and wild arbo- 
rescent plants that form his accustomed and appropriate diet; the con- 
finement offence, and hedge, and stall are repugnant to his roving pro- 
pensities and prejudical to his health, and he is as much out of place 
in civilized life as the Bedouin or the Tartar. Hence the attempts to 
introduce him into Spain, Italy, and other European countries have 
either wholly ftiled, or met with very indifferent success ; and though 
he still abounds in Bessarabia, the Crimea, and all the southeastern 
provinces of Russia, yet the rural improvements which the German 
colonists have introduced into those regions have tended to reduce his 
numbers. When the wandering Tartar becomes stationar}^ encloses 
his possessions, and converts the desert steppe into arable ground, his 
camels retreat before the horse, the ox, and the sheep, and retire to the 
wastes beyond the Don and the Volga. So essentially nomade indeed is 
the camel in his habits, that the Arab himself dismisses him as soon as he 
acquires a fixed habitation. The oases of the desert are generally 
without this animal, and he is not possessed by the Fellahheen of the 
Sinaitic jieninsula, by the inhabitants of Sinah or the oasis of Jupiter 
Ammon, or by those who cultivate the valleys of Mount Seir. 

, Of the primitive races of man, known to ancient sacred and profane his- 
tory, but one, the Bedouin Arab, has retained unchanged his original mode 
of life. It is the camel alone, whose remarkable properties, by making hab- 
itable by man regions inaccessible to the improvements of civilization, has 
preserved to our own times that second act of the great drama ot social 
life, the patriarchal condition. The Arab in all his changes of faith, 
heathen, christian, mussulman, has remained himself immutable ; and 
the student of bibhcal antiquity must thank the camel for the lively 
illustrations of scripture history presented by the camp of the Ishmaelite 
sheikh, who is proud of his kindred with the patient Job, and who boasts 
himself the lineal descendant of Ibrahim el Khaleel, or Abraham "the 
friend" of God. 

Naturalists divide the camel into two species, the Cnmdus dromcdarius, 
or one-humped camel of Arabia and Africa, and the Cauielus Bdctrimms, 
or two-humped camel of northern Asia.* It has been suspected that 
the camel of the Sahara is distinct from that of more northern Africa, 

* These geographical limitations, if not strictly accurate are nevertheless sufficiently so 
for general purposes. Although Host (Etlerrettninger om Marokos, 270) saw the two- 
humped camel at Morocco, and individuals of this species are sometimes met in Syria, yet 
it is pretty certain that he is not bred in Africa, or in the warmer regions of the Asiatic con- 
tinent, but properly belongs to northern latitudes. The one-humped camel has a wider 
range. He is found among the Kirghises, and in Tartary, and the highlands of central Asia ; 
he seems to bear the cold almost as well as the Bactrian, but he has neither the speed nor the 
powers of endurance which characterize tlie dromedary of the African and Arabian deserts. 
Although neither species probably now exists in a wild state, yet tjiere is good reason to 
believe that the Bactrian was found wild at no very remote period in the desert of Gobi, 
where this variety probably originated. Humboldt, Ansichten der Natur, I, 88. 



102 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

which is pretty certainly of the Arabian stock, and of comparatively 
late introduction into that continent;* but this conjecture does not 
appear to be supported by any direct historical or physiological evi- 
dence. The scientific specific designation of the one-humped camel is 
not well chosen. The term dromaa, as applied to the camel by the an- 
cients, was not used to indicate a specific difference. The camclus dro- 
mas was what the proper dromedary is now, that is, simply a running, or 
swiit camel, used chiefly or altogether for the saddle ; and he might be, 
as he may be still, of either species, Bactrian or Arabian. In fact, any 
light-built, easy-paced, and swift-fooled camel, of whatever species or 
variety, is a dromedary ; though there are certain breeds, in which the 
slender head, tall short body, small hump, clean limbs, and generally 
livelier color, which characterizes the stock, have become hereditary, 
just as similar pecuharities of form are perpetuated in the thorough-bred 
hunter and race-horse. In popular phraseology, the term dromedary 
has been to a considerable extent applied to designate a camel with 
two humps, from an erroneous supposition that the swift ridmg-camel 
(deloul al heiri or maherry of the Arabs, haguin or hedjin of the Egyp- 
tians) was of that species. This mistake appears to have originated 
in a misinterpretation of a passage of Aristotle by Sohnus and Theodore 
Gaza; and the error, though exposed and corrected by Gesner, three 
hundred years ago, autl by almost every naturalist who has since 
described the animal, continues to influence the language, and mislead 
the popular opinion of the nineteenth century. 

The varieties comprehended under each of the two species are 
numerous ; but they do not diftt:"r fi-om each other in size, in form, or 
in speed, more widely than the breeds of the common horse. Indeed 
the anatomical differences between the Arabian and the Bactrian camel 
are so sHght, that some naturalists have maintained their specific iden- 
tity; and it appears to be certain that the common physiological test of 
specific difference, the incapacity, namely, of the cross to propagate, 
does not hold good as applied to this animal.t The skeletf)ns of the 
two species are distinguishable, if at all, only by a slight difference of 
proportion; and the visceral structure being tne ,. Tie in both, the only 
tbundation for a specific distinction appears to be in the number of 
humps. In the living animal, the species are readily distinguished by 
tlieir outward peculiarity; and besides their obvious difference, the Bac- 
trian is shorter limbed and much more hairy than the Arabian camel. 

*Minutoli thinks he recognises the head of the camel among the figures upon an obelisk at 
Luxor. Upon the walls of some of the smaller apartments of tlie great temple of Karnac 
are carved heads, which certainly appea r to me to resemble that of tliis animal more closely tiian 
of an^' other quadruped ; and St John (Adventures in the Libyan Desert, Chap. XI I) says 
he found the camel among the sculptures of the temple at the oasis of Jupiter Anunon. But 
modern Egyptologists consider some of these figures to represent the head of the lion, others 
tliat of the giraffe, and it is certain that no part of ti)e skeleton of the camel has been met 
with in the catacombs. Although it appears from Strabo, tliat the tribes of the desert an- 
cientl}' employed the camel in the transport of merchandise between Captos and Berenice, 
as they do now between Cairo and Suez, yet tliere is abundant evidence to show tliat tiiis 
animal was not used by tlin proper Egyptians before the timeof the Ptolemies, nor does it appear 
to have been known upon the Barbary coast until a much later period. See Ritter's essay, 
Ueber die geographische \'erbreitung des Kameels, Erdkunde XII 1, where this question, and 
almost all others belonging to the geographical distribution of the camel, are discussed wit'.i 
the usual learning and ability of tliat great writer. 

■[ Ritter, Erdkunde XIU, G59. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 103 

Some writers describe the Bactrian as upon the whole smaller and weaker 
than the Arabian ; but as others state the contrary, the difference in 
this respect is probably not great. It seems well settled that in coun- 
tries where the two species exist together, the cross, though inferior to 
the dromedary in speed, is found to be a more powerful, and for general 
purposes a more serviceable animal than either of the unmixed races, 
as possessing in a good degree the most valuable properties of both.* 

The general anatomy of the camel is the same as that of other 
luminanls ; but the hump, the horizontal posture of the head, the direc- 
tion of the eye, the power of closing the nostril, the callosities upon 
the breast and legs, the spreading and cushioned foot, and above all 
the curious structure of the stomach, to which he owes his most valua- 
ble properly, the power of long abstinence from water, distinguish him 
from all other quadrupeds. The hump is simply a fleshy, or rather 
fatty, protuberance upon the back, like that of the bison, unsupported 
by any special bony process, and it is least developed in the highest 
bred animals, so that the maherry of the Sahara is popularly described 
as being without that appendage. The fullness of the protuberance, 
however, depends much upon the condition of the animal. The state 
of the hump is a test constantly referred to in the sale or hire of the 
camel, and the jocke^^s resort to various contrivances to give it an un- 
natural plumpness and solidity, t When the camel has been, for a length 
of time, full fed, and subjected to moderate labor only, the hump as- 
sumes a greater plumpness of tcJrm and hardness of texture ; but if ill kept 
or overworked, the fat of the hump is absorbed, and the protuberance 
becomes flaccid, and is sometimes even reduced to little more than its 
skin. It seems to serve as a repository of nutriment, and the absorption 
ol its substance into the general system appears to be one of the 
special arrangements by which the camel is so admirai)ly fitted for the 
lite of privation to which he is destined. | 

The head of the camel, especially of those of the Bisharye and 
Ababdeh breeds, is carried high and nearly horizontal ; and this cir- 
cumstance, with the length and curvature of the neck, and the outline 
ot the arched back, creates so strong a general resemblance between 
this quadruped and the ostrich, that the latter is called by the Arabs 
the camel-bird. The eye is projecting, sheltered above by a very 
salient bony arch, and its axis is nearly parallel to that of the head, 
though with a slight inclination towards it anteriorly. From this con- 
formation of the organ, the sight of the animal is habitually directed 
rather downwards than Ibrward, to the ground upon which he is just 
about to tread than to the distance. It is, in a great degree, to this 
structure, as I believe, that his remarkable sure-footedness is to be 
attributed. The eye always scans the surface where the foot is next 
to be placed ; and in moving about among the scattered luggage and 

*See a valuable paper, extracted from the notes of General Harlan, in the Report of the 
American Patent Office for 1853, Agriculture, p. 61. According to Hitter, Erdkundo XIII, 
646, and the authorities there cited, tlie word IJooghdee, used by General Harlan to designate 
the cross between the Bactrian and Arabian, means the young male Bactrian. General Har- 
lan's testimony in favor of the strength and power of endurance of the mixed breed is exceed- 
ingly strong ; but he appears to undervalue the pure Bactrian, which is certainly found 
extremely serviceable in European and Asiatic Russia, both for drauglit and burden, and in 
those countries, at least, is almost wholly exempt from disease. Fraser, Khorasan, 273. 
fTavernicr : Voyages, I. 132. 1 Carbuccia, 10. 



104 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

furniture of a camp, he rarely treads on the smallest article. The 
nostrils are fringed with long hairs, and provided with sphincters, 
which enable the animal to close them, and thus to exclude insects and 
the sand with which the desert winds are so often charged, while the 
hairs, to a considerable extent, perform the same office during the 
occasional partial opening of the apertures, required for respiration. 
The Bedouins understand the value of a wide nostril as well as a 
Newmarket jockey, and they frequently slit the nose of the animal in 
such a way as to give each aperture the form of a Y. The slitting of 
the nostrils is a common preparation for a race, and I once saw this 
absurd operation performed upon a dozen young dromedaries, which 
were to contend for the prize on the following day. 

The camel is provided with seven callosities, which receive the shock 
of his fall in lying down for repose, or at the command of his master 
for the convenience of mounting or dismounting, or of loading and un- 
loading, and the weight of the body is supported by them when at rest. 
One of these is upon the breast nearly between the fore legs, two upon 
each of the fore, and one upon each of the hinder legs. The callosities 
upon the breast and at the knees are evidently organic, as they consist 
of a horny substance and are found in the foetus. The others appear 
to be a mere thickening of the skin, and the}'' may be the effect of fric- 
tion and pressure. The full development of the callosities is one of 
the "points" of a good maherry, and it ought to be accompanied with 
a slender barrel, so that in the recumbent posture the belly shall scarcely 
touch the ground. 

In lying down the animal throws himself slightly forward, and first 
bending one lore leg, poises himself for an instant, and then falls sud- 
denly upon the callosities at the knees; he now advances the hind feet 
a little and drops upon the gambrel joint ; the callus upon the breast is 
brought to the ground by a third descent, and those upon the upper 
and forward part of the hind leg by a fourth. Each of these move- 
ments, (which are renewed in rising,) and especially the first, is at- 
tended with a considerable shock ; and the inexperienced rider is very 
apt to be thrown over the camel's head, unless he steadies himself by 
holding fast to the saddle pins. The Arabs slide down from and climb 
up to the saddle, without making the animal kneel, or even stopping 
him, and any active man may readily lenrn to do the same, but Eu- 
ropeans seldom practice this method. The French soldiers in Algeria 
use a long stirrup with two steiJs to mount by, and a loop upon a lance, 
such as were used by some ancient mounted troops, or attached to a 
musket, might answer the same purpose. 

The foot of the camel is equally adapted to treading upon yielding 
sand and to climbing the rugged rock, which, in all extensive deserts, 
forms a much larger proportion of the surface than accumulations of 
sand. The surface of the wilderness is in general a hard, compact, 
gravelly soil, or composed of loose stones or bare rocks, and wherever 
it is not too hard for wear, or too soft permanently to retain impres- 
sions, the valleys pursued by the caravans are furrowed with paths 
which have been thousands of years in wearing. These tracks are 15 
or 18 miles wide, and four or five inches deep, running generally par- 
allel to each other at a couple of yards apart, and now and then inter- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 105 

tersecting each other. An Arabian poem, older than the time of Mo- 
hammed, compares these paths to the stripes of a parti-colored cloak ; 
and the Arabian traveller of the present day finds the same resem- 
blance between the face of the desert and the " many colored coat" of 
its more opulent inhabitants. 

The foot is composed of two long toes united by and resting upon an 
elastic cushion with a tough and horny sole or facing. The foot 
spreads upon touching the ground, somewhat like that of the moose and 
reindeer, and affords a broader support to the weight of the animal 
than almost any other quadruped is provided with. The camel, there- 
fore, sinks less in the sand than any other large animal; but he never- 
theless instinctively avoids it, as a horse does a puddle, and prefers 
any other surface except mud, loose rolling pebbles, and sharp pointed 
rocks.* The sole, though of a horny texture, is sufficiently yiekhng to 
allow the cushion of the foot to accommodate itself to the inequalities 
of a rocky surface, t and the camel climbs with facility ascents so steep 
and rugged, or even so slippery, as to be scaled with difficulty by any 
other domestic animal. The limestone ledges in the northern portion 
of the lesser Arabian peninsula are often worn to a glassy smoothness 
by primitive water currents, or by the attrition of the desert sands, yet 
the camel traverses them in all directions with entire security. Ob- 
serving a caravan climb a long ascent of this description in Arabia 
Petrea, I had the curiosity to measure the inclination of the rock, and 
found the angle with the horizon to be fifteen degrees. The surface 
was ever3'wbere almost as slippery as polished marble, and the length 
of the slope exceeded half a mile ; but the whole caravan of more than 
fifty camels surmounted it without any accident. The northern slope 
of the pass of Negabad, on the eastern arm of the Red sea, appears to 
me even steeper than that I have just described, and the path is as 
rugged and the zigzags as short as those of almost any of the mule 
routes over the Alps, but it is constantly crossed by loaded caravans 
without difficulty. But these are trifles compared with the perform- 
ances of camels in Algeria, as stated by the French officers. Accord- 
ing to an official report to the war department of France in 1844, in 
the expedition to Milianeh, camels carrying burdens of 250 kilogrammes 
(550 pounds) climbed without accident slopes rising at an angle of 45 
degrees, and readily traversed every route practicable by mules. | 

This structure of the foot gives the animal a peculiarly noiseless 
tread. The thunder which at a distance announces the approach of 
a troop of cavahy, does not herald the advance of a caravan ; and 
even his rider hears but the faint rustling of the sand or the small peb- 
bles displaced by the foot, as they roll back to the cavity left by the 
tracks of the animal. The regularity of his step and their gentle, pur- 
ling sound, excite a peculiarly drowsy influence in the silence of the 

* Denham and Clapperton's Travels, I, chap. 3, do. p. 169. Pietro della Valle complains 
that his camel, though tiie freshest and strongest in the caravan, fell in the soft sand "more 
than seven times in one day." 

fTlie sole seems entirely impenetrable to thorns, and the camel treads with impunity on 
the strong sharp spines with which the fallen branches of the desert acacias are thickly 
armed. 

JCarbuccia: Du Dromadaire, pp. 8, 169. 



106 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

wilderness, which not even the danger of a fall enables the inexpe- 
rienced traveller always to resist. 

In mud the footing of the camel is insecure. The hind legs are little 
separated down to the gambrei joint, but from this point the}'' diverge 
at a considerable angle, so that the ancient poem I have before quoted 
compares the hinder i'eet to two water buckets borne upon a yoke, and 
the increased breadth of base thus acquired contributes much to the 
sure-footedness of the camel on dry ground. 

Upon a wet and slippery soil, on the contrary, the liability of the foot 
to slide is increased by this arrangement ; and in case of such an acci- 
dent, as the foot usually slides laterally, the hip joint is often dislocated 
or so badly wrenched that the animal is unable to rise with his burden 
and proceed upon his journey.* It is commonly said that the camel 
never rises after falling under his load, and that he immediately per- 
ishes under such circumstances. I have myself witnessed instances to 
the contrary, although I have no doubt that where the fall is from ex- 
haustion the death of the animal is nearly certain. Where the mud is 
merely a thin layer of wet earth over a rocky or other very hard sur- 
face, the camel passes over it without much risk; and I have repeatedly 
seen caravans travel at their ordinary pace and with entire confidence 
and security over pavements covered with several inches of snow and 
soft mud. 

The camel readily fords rivers with gravelly or pebbly bottoms, and 
I hav'c seen them wade around headlaftds in the Red sea, in water 
three or tour leet deep ; but the passage of streams with soft bottoms, 
or with deep water, by camels is always a matter of great difficulty. It 
is almost impossible to train them to enter a ferr}^ boat, or to lie quietly 
in crossing rivers by this mode of conveyance; and though they float 
readily, yet they are bad swimmers, the roundness of the barrel and 
the height of the head and hump above the line of flotation exposing 
them constantly to the danger of losing their balance and rolling over 
upon the side, in which case they are sure to be lost. For this reason 
it is common to lash the head to the gunwale of a boat, or to support 
it by some other contrivance in crossing deep waters.t 

But the most interesting and important anatomical peculiarity of the 
camel is that curious structure by which he is enabled to take in at 
once and retain, by a special arrangement, a sufficient quantity of water 
to supply the wants of the animal economy for several days. It was 
conjectured by Cuvier, and it is believed by some more recent natural- 
ists, that the stomach of the camel is not only able to retain for many 
days water swallowed by the animal, but that it possesses the further 
power of secreting a special fluid for moistening the fauces and viscera, 
and mingling with the food in rumination, in some such way as some 
fish are able to keep the skin moist for some time after they are taken 
from the water, by the exudation of a fluid secreted for that purpose. 
It is even said that the fluid found in the water-sack, after the death of 
the camel, possesses chemical properties which prove it to be an 

♦According to General Harlan, (Patent Office Report, 1853,) the hind legs are sometimes 
hobbled above the gambrei joint to prevent their spreading. 

fDenham and Clapperton, II, pp.80, 212. Father Hue, I, chap. 6. Lyon's Travels, 
p. 124. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 107 

animal secretion ; but it does not appear that this fact has been estab- 
lished to the satisfaction of the ph^'siological chemist.* 

It is not easy to explain the structure of the stomach without draw- 
ings, and it must suffice to say that, according to Sir Everard Home, 
it consists, like that of other ruminants, of" fonr cavities. The first of 
these performs tne functions of both the first and second in the horned 
ruminants ; the second is simply a receptacle for water ; the use of the 
third is not ascertained ; and tlie office of the fourth is the same as that 
of the corresponding stomach in other animals having four gastric 
caviiies.t 

Thus by means of the nutriment supplied by the absorption of the 
hump, and the fluid preserved in, and, perhaps, also secreted by, the 
water-sack, the camel is able to travel several days without any new 
supplies of food or water. The period of abstinence depends upon 
the breed, training, and habits of the particular animal, the season and 
temperature, and the amount of labor demanded of him. 

With respect to food, there is no doubt that the camel often endures 
two, three,! and even more days of entire privation ; but long absti- 
nence is seldom necessary, because, although there is one well attested 
instance of the existence of a tract of desert frequently crossed by 
caravans, six days' journey in width, and absolutely without a particle 
of vegetation, <^ yet there are few portions of the Libyan or Arabian 
deserts where more or less of the shrubs on which the camel feeds do 
not occur at very much shorter intervals. 

According to Denliam, the African camel is prepared for long jour- 
neys by having balls of dough crammed down his throat, while, on the 
contrar}'. Father Hue, a much less reliable authority, declares that the 
Bactrian is hardened by several days of previous abstinence. Under 
ordinary circumstances, the camel is not fed at all, even on very long 
journeys, but is left to snatch his food as he can during the march of 
the caravan, or gather it more leisurely while it halts. In a journey of 
seven weeks which I made with these animals in Arabia Petrte in the 
months of May and June, but a single camel of the caravan received 
any food from his driver. This was a fine large animal bred by the 
Ababdeh Arabs, which was fed every evening with from a pint to a 
quart of beans. 

When herbage and browse are altogether wanting, a small quantity 
of beans, a few handfulls of dates or even date-stones, a ball or two of 
dough of barley-meal, millet, or other grain, weighing from one to three 
pounds, or a small supply of some dry vegetable are given each camel 
daily. According to Edrisi, they are sometimes fed with dried fish. 
Denham says they are fond of bones, and Riley even declares that he 
sometimes saw them fed with charcoal. The favorite food of the camel 
consists of the leaves, branches, and seed-pods of the acacias and other 
prickly trees or shrubs, of thistles, and of the saline plants so common 

* According to Carbuccia, the fluid in the water-sack remains undamaged and drinkable 
several days after the death of the camel. — Du Dromadaire, 12. 

t The gall bladder is wanting in the camel, and no trace of the biliary secretion has been 
found upon dissection. — Plinii Hist. Nat. XI, 74 ; Carbuccia, 103. 

I Carbuccia, 10. 

§ Denham and Clapperton, I, c. 3. 



108 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

in the desert ; and every vegetable zone is found to furnish some plant 
specially suited to his nutriment, while, in case of necessity, he scarcely 
refuses any green thing.* His powerful jaws and teeth enable him to 
grind and masticate branches of the hardest wood as thick as the linger. 
His palate is lined with a very hard cartilage ; and the inside of the hp, 
the tongue, and the gums are protected by a skin almost equall}^ im- 
penetrable. The lips are, nevertheless, very flexible, and the upper 
iabrum is divided. In feeding on the acacia or other'^prickly plants, 
he retracts and partiall}^ inverts the lips, grasps the twigs with the 
tongue and jaws, and tlms crops and chews the thorniest shrubs with 
impunity. 

The camels domesticated in Tuscany, which, though degenerated . 
by a residence of centuries in the moist climate and alluvial soil of the 
lower Arno, are of the Arabian stock, neglect the green and tender 
cultivated grasses, but devour with avidity the leaves and smaller 
branches of the oak and the alder, and the hard dry stems of the thorn, 
the thistle, and the broom. The working camels at the grand duke's 
farm, near Pisa, are sheltered and fed on hay during the winter, but 
the rest of the herd remain in the open air, and subsist on twigs and 
withered shrubs, through the cold season. 

The Bactrian camel has the same fondness for saline plants as his 
African congener; but he feeds also upon the leaves, twigs, and bark 
of deciduous trees, the coarsest grasses, thistles, reeds, rushes, weeds, 
straw, and, in short, u]:)on such vegetable diet as is rejected by almost 
every other domestic quadruped. 

The statements of travellers difTer very considerably in regard to the 
quantity of solid li)od required by the camel. My own observation 
would lead me to think it extremely small. As I have already stated, 
he is usually not fed at all; and in travelling his only opportunity of 
gathering his food is between the evening halt and sunset, when he 
returns to the camp, with such scattering mouthfuls as he can snatch 
upon the march. The vegetation of the desert is usually so sparse that 
the quantity of nutritious food which can be collected after the day's 
journey is performed must be very inconsiderable ; and though upon 
starting in the morning the animal shows signs of hunger, and much 
annoys his rider by suddenly stopping or starting aside to crop a 
temjning thorn twig or thistle, yet in an hour or two his appetite is 
satislied, and he performs the rest of his task without seeming to crave 
food. I was assured by the keeper of the herd at Pisa, that when fed 
entirely on hay, the camel consumed little more than half as much as 
the horse; while, on the other hand, a correspondent in the Crimea 
inf()rms me that the Bactrian camel requires at least fifty pounds ofhay 
per day in waiter, and another in Bessarabia estimates the daily winter 
supply ofhay and straw at seventy pounds. Pattenger states that the 
camels in Beloochistan receive about fifteen pounds of meal daily, be- 
sides grass and shrubs, and he adds the singular fact that the Belooches 
give these animals considerable quantities of opium with their food; 
but most travellers state that when fed at all, the camel receives five 

*Carbuccia, page 10, says that the camel never touches the " aloe ; " but an othcial report, 
at page 182 of the same volume, enumerates the "cactus" among the wild vegetables con- 
sumed by him. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 109 

or six pounds of meal at most. The power of the camel to abstain 
Irom water is much more iVequently and severely tested than his ability 
to dispense with food. The testimony of travellers, as well as of na- 
tive observers on this subject varies widely ; but their discrepancies 
can generally be explained by difference of breed, of season, or the 
greater or less succulence of the solid food consumed by the animal. 

The most extraordinary statements I have seen are those of the 
ollicial reports of the French officers attached to the dromedary corps 
in Algeria. One of these reports declares that the camels of tlje corps 
employed in the expedition of El Aghouat did not drink from Feb- 
ruary to May, though the weather was very hot; and General Carbuc- 
cia, tlie commander of the corps, positively states that the Algerine 
camel under no circumstances drinks oftener than once in seven days.* 
Although many travellers have related cases of very long privation, 
while the animal had daily access to an aljundant supph' of green suc- 
culent food, 3^et that excellent observer Russell mentions an instance 
of fifteen days abstinence as altogether unprecedented ; and 1 have 
been able to find but one other well authenticated case, which is 
tiKit mentioned by Denham and Clapperton,t of so long an abstinence 
as eight days, when the animal fed mostly on dry food. Most travel- 
lers concur in saying that under such circumstances the extreme limit 
of endurance of the Arabian camel, whose powers in that respect are 
much greater than those of the Bactrlan or other northern breeds, does 
not exceed five or six days. The longest period of coniplete privation 
I have pei'sonally witnessed was lour days in very hot weatlier, and 
u])on withered fodder ; and I have always observed that the camel 
drank as often as he had an opportunity. In most countries where the 
animal is used, it is said he can dispense with drinking twice as long as 
the horse under the same circumstances. This I doubt not is a very near 
general approximation to the truth.| These facts, however wonderful, are 
by no means so extraordinary or incredible as they may at first sight ap- 
pear. The domestic ox, when supplied with abundance of green fodder, 
seldom inclines to drink. Persons familiar with sheep husbandry 
know that in rich pastures that animal thrives very well for many 
weeks in the hottest summers, without any water but that which falls 
in the shape of dew; and if I mistake not. Captain Stansbury's mules 
travelled two whole days along the margin of Salt Lake, without food 
or water. 

It is not the mere power of abstinence alone that so eminently fits 
the camel for traveUing the steppe and the desert. His preference for 
the brackish and even saline waters which almost exclusively occur in 
those regions, and which are often so highly impregnated with mineral 
substances as to be rejected by most other quadrupeds, is a property 
almost as valuable. Russell even states that he prefers sea-water to 

*Carbuccia, 10, 11,89,204. 

t Denham and Clapperton, I. c. 3. 

|Tiie quantity of v\'ater swallowed by the camel, afler long privation, is very great. I 
have seen one empty at a draught three goat skins, holding not less tlian seven gallons each ; 
and Riley speaks of even much greater quantities. The camel smells, or by some other 
sense detects water at the distance of a mile or more ; and the uncontrolled violence with 
which he rushes to the well to satisfy his thirst is one of the greatest inconveniences, not to 
say dangers, of desert travel. 



110 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF, 

fresh ; but this is not confirmed by other authorities, and I have seen 
them, when parched with ihitst, rush to the sea, wade into it, and turn 
from it with evident disappointment on finding the water sah. 

The rate of travel of the burden camel is exceedingly uniform, and 
varies little in the different species and breeds of the animal. Rennelle, 
Robinson, and other inquirers, have very carefully investigated this 
subject, with a view to the use of the camel's pace in geography as a 
measure of distance. His speed is naturally modified by the nature of 
the ground, but as all irregularities of this sort are usually compensated 
in long journeys, it may be safely averaged at two miles and one third 
per hour. Over a smooth and level surface, I have found his ordinary 
length of step to be six feet, and the number of steps of each foot thirty- 
seven to the minute. This gives a speed of two miles fifty-two hun- 
dredths to the hour, under the most favorable circurastailces ; but upon 
rougher ground it was proportionately retarded, and I believe Robin- 
son's estimate lo be a very exact average. 

The length of the caravan day's journey, when there is no special 
motive for haste, is regulated by the distance between wells and pas- 
ture grounds ; but it is seldom less than ten, and more frequently twelve 
or fourteen hours, and in most countries the entire day's journey is 
accomplished without a halt. Averaging the hours of travelat twelve, 
the distance performed would be twenty-eight miles, and this rate may 
be kept up any number of days in succession. 

This is the estimate for animals with full burdens, and left to their 
natural gait ; but in case of emergency, and especially under lighter 
loads and fleeter camels, both the rate of travel and the length of the 
day's journey may be very much increased. 

Bergmann states the ordinary day's journey of the loaded Bactrian 
camel at forty miles, and without burden at from fifty to sixty-five 
miles ; and my correspondents in Bessarabia and the Crimea agree in 
stating that upon a good dry road a pair of Bactrians will draw a load 
of 3,000 to 4,000 pounds a distance of fifty miles without eating, drink- 
ing, or halting. These authorities, which I beUeve are entirely rehable, 
show that for transportation the Bactrian camel is superior to the Ara- 
bian ; and it appears that when properly trained he is also capable of 
attaining a considerable speed under the saddle, though in this respect 
he cannot compete with the Arabian dromedary. Some of the Arab 
accounts of the fleetness of the maherry are no doubt fables, and one 
may well question whether Johnson's story of the dromedary that bore 
his master on an errand of love from Morocco to Mogador and back, a 
distance of 200 miles, in a single day, is not exaggerated. But the 
numerous well authenticated evidences of this animal's great speed 
and power of endurance, leave no doubt that in the union of these two 
qualities he far surpasses the horse, as well as all other domestic quad- 
rupeds. 

Mchemet Ali, when liastening to his capital to accomplish the de- 
struction of the Mamelukes, rode without changing his camel, fi-om 
Suez to Cairo, a distance of eighty-four miles, in twelve hours. A 
French officer in the service of the Pasha performed the same feat in 
thirteen hours, and two gentlemen of my acquaintance have accom- 
phshed it in less than seventeen. Labordc travelled the distance in the 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Ill 

same time, and afterwards rode the same dromedary from a point op- 
posite Cairo to Alexandria, a distance of about one hundred and fifty 
miles. In thirty-four hours. But the most extraordinary well authenti- 
cated performance of the dromedary Is that recorded by the accurate 
Burckhardt, under whose personal observation it fell. In this Instance 
the animal carried its rider one hundred and fifteen miles in eleven 
hours, including twenty minutes spent in crossing and recrosslng the 
Nile. Upon longer journeys the daily rate of the best dromedaries, 
though not equal to these instances, is still extraordinar3\ A French 
officer of high rank and character in the Egyptian service, assured me 
thai he had ridden a favorite dromedary ninety miles in a single day, 
and five hundred miles in ten. Mails have been carried from Bagdad 
to Damascus, upon the same animals, four hundred and eighty-two 
miles, in seven days ; and on one occasion, by means of regular relaj^s, 
Mehemet All sent an express to Ibrahim Pasha, from Cairo to Antioch, 
five hundred and sixty miles, in five days and a half. But the most 
remarkable long journey on record is that of Col. Chesney, of the Brit- 
ish army, who rode with three companions, and without change of 
camel, from Basrah to Damascus, a distance of nine hundred and sixty 
miles, in nineteen days and three or four hours, thus averaging fifty 
miles per day, the animals having no food but such as they gathered 
for themselves during the halts of the party. 

The gaits of the dromedary are all properly paces or am.bles; though 
in racing I have seen them break into an irregular gallop, as they also 
do for a short distance when hotly pursued by cavalry, and they then 
outstrip the horse.* The motion of the burden camel and the slow 
walk of the dromedary are necessarily violent, from the great length of 
step, and at first very wearisome to the rider; but a few days' practice 
accustoms him to this rough exercise, and he performs his day'sjourney 
with as little exhaustion as upon horseback. The quicker movements 
of the dromedary, at his average pace of five or five and a half miles 
an hour are much easier and less fatiguing than his walk, and a day's 
journey of fifty or sixty miles at this pace is an easy achievement. At 
much more rapid rates, however, the motion becomes again intolerably 
violent, and an inexperienced rider finds it almost impossible to cling 
to the saddle, or even to catch his breath, though at the ordinary speed 
the seat is more secure than on horseback. 

The burden of the ordinary camel varies with the age of the anlmnl, 
his breed, and training, and it ranges from three hundred and fifty 
or four hundred pounds for the lighter and more delicate of the Arabian 
camels, to twelve, and for moderate distances even fifteen hundred 
pounds for those bred by the Turcomans in Asia Minor. From six to 
eight hundred pounds would be a safe average, according to the weight 
of the animal and the smoothness or ruggedness of the route; and with 
the smallest of these loads the ordinary camel would easily surmount 
any mountain passes practicable to other beasts of" burden. The v/eight 
of the pack-saddle, which is considerable, is excluded in these esti- 
mates. In some parts of the East the Arabian camel is employed as a 
beast of draught, and is even harnessed to the plough. I have seen 

* Carbuccia, 16, 77. Bergraann apud Ritter, XIII, 691. 



112 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

them employed for transporting heavy stone on carts in Egypt, and 
they have been not unfrequently used tor drawing heavy ordnance. In 
general, however, the Arabian camel is employed altogether as a beast 
of burden. In Bessarabia the Bactrian camel is used for the plough 
and for draught, while in the Crimea he is used for draught alone, and 
is seldom or never ridden in either of those provinces. Throughout 
Chinese and independent Tartary, however, as well as in Siberia, the 
Bactrian camel, though sometimes harnessed to w'heel carriages, is 
much more generally employed for the saddle or burden ; and the pre- 
judice which has extensively prevailed that the configuration and sen- 
sitiveness of the humps forbids the use of the pack-saddle for this spe- 
cies, appears to be without foundation. 

In whatever mode the camel is employed, his harness is very sim- 
ple. In some regions he is guided by a plain halter, in others the sep- 
tum or one of the aloe of the nose is pierced, an iron ring inserted, and 
to tins is attached a cord to serve as a bridle ; and in the military ser- 
vice it has been found convenient to use the halter and this rude bridle 
in conjunction.* In the burden caravans the camels are not unfre- 
quently tied head to tail, in files of about seven animals, the driver riding 
ahead upon a donkey or a camel, and the last camel in the file carrying 
a bell, so that the driver may be advertised by the ear if the chain by 
an}'' accident is broken. 

The pack-saddle, whether for riding or for burden, is made by stuf- 
fing a bag seven or eight feet long with straw or grass, doubling it and 
sewing the ends together. This forms an oblong ring, which is fur- 
nished with a rope crupper and placed upon the back so as to enclose 
the hump. Upon this cushion rests a frame consisting of two pairs of 
flat sticks meeting at top like a chevron or pair of rafters, and connected 
at bottom by a couple of sticks two or three feet long, secured to the 
others by thongs. The pad soon fits itself to the shape of the back and 
sides, and the irame nestles into the pad, while the hump rising in the 
centre of the whole apparatus keeps everything in place, so that no gir- 
dle, or at most a loose rope, is needed to confine the saddle. The load 
stowed in sacks, or better still in rope nettings, is balanced across the 
saddle, and the v/ater-skins are suspended beneath. 

The gear of the dromedary is somewhat lighter, but of the same fash- 
ion. The wooden frame is more neatly made, the uprights being 
curved outwards and uniting at top in two conical pummels, one before 
and one behind, six or eight inches high, and perhaps two in diameter 
at the base, covered with figured brass plate or otherwise decorated, 
and terminating in a knob. Over the saddle is thrown a large pair of 
saddle-bags of striped goat's-hair cloth, ornamented with fringes and 
cowrie shells, and upon this are laid blankets, cushions and carpets, 
and perhaps a gay housing over all. The rider is perched at the sum- 
mit of this pyramid, directly over or perhaps a little in advance of the 
hump; and his stirrups, if he uses them, his w^ater-bottle, his gun, a 
smaller pair of saddle-bags or a carpet-bag, or any other convenience 
he may choose, are hung to the pommels. In riding the maherry, how- 

* Carbuccia, 44, 45, 50, 51, 133. According to Erman and Father Hue, the Northern Tar- 
tars pierce the septum of the nose and insert a piece of wood or bone, to which they attach 
the reins of the bridlo. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 113 

ever, the wilder tribes sit on a small saddle placed upon the shoulders, 
in front of the hump, and sustain themselves in their seat by crossing 
the ankles over the neck.* 

As the camel lies down to receive and discharge his burden, he is 
very quickly and conveniently loaded and unloaded ; the latter opera- 
tion generally consisting simply in loosing a knot of the cord by Avhich 
the packages are slung across the saddle, and the camel then immedi- 
ately rises and goes in search of pasture. On returning to the camp at 
veening he lies down between the packages; and if these consist of mer- 
chandize or other articles not requiring to be opened at night, the driver 
has only to knot the cord again, and the animal is ready for the march. 
The pack-saddle is very rarely removed ; and as the camel very seldom 
stretclies himself on his side or attempts to roll, the saddle is never 
lost. 

For draught he is simply yoked to the pole of the wagon, just as the 
ox is with us, and requires no other gearing. This extreme simplicity 
and economy of harness has, with trilling modifications, been carried 
into the mihtary service by the French in Algeria, and wherever else 
the camel has been employed in war, and is found to answer all pur- 
poses as completely as the costly furniture with which we supply our 
cavalry. Every soldier may be his own saddler, and he requires no 
material but bagging, straw or grass, a little cordage, and a few small 
sticks, which may be found wherever there is any arborescent vegeta- 
tion, to extemporize at an hour's warning the complete equipage of his 
beast. 

The training of the camel commences when he is quite young, and, 
as his manege is very simple, it is soon completed. At the close of his 
third or early in his fourth year he is in his full strength, and the period 
of his service begins earlier and lasts longer than that of the horse. In 
Algeria he never attains a greater age than thirty years, and he is fit 
for labor for about fifteen or twenty years. In Syria and Asia Minor 
his ordinary life and service is ten years longer ; while in the Crimea, 
as I am assured by a Russian officer of great experience in the use of 
the animal, the Bactrian sometimes lives to a hundred, and, upon an 
average, to sixty or seventy ; though another correspondent in Bessarabia 
states the ordinary term of his life at thirty-five years. 

The average height of the Arabian camels I have measured was 
nineteen hands, or six feet four inches, to the top of the hump, the head 
beinc: an inch or two higher. The tallest I have used measured seven 
feet and seven feet three inches respectively. The very powerful Tur- 
coman camel is somewhat lower than the Arabian, and the height of 
the Bactrian is stated at from six to eight feet, his weight at one third 
more than that of the ox, which in the Crimea is estimated at nine hun- 
dred pounds, making the weight of the camel twelve hundred ; and I 
was informed at Pisa that the camels of the grand duke's stables some- 
times weighed fourteen hundred pounds. 

The swift dromedary varies much in size. Layard mentions a 
deloul (the name of this variety in the S3'rian desert) from the Nedjd, 
where very fine animals are raised, which was little taller than an Arab 
horse ;t and all the true Arabian dromedaries I have met were very 

* Lyon's Travels, 114. f Layard: New Researches, 332. 

Mis, Doc. 24 8 



114 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

smalJ. The hcdjin, a dromedary of the upper Nile, on the contrary, is 
much taller, frequently, I am sure, not much below eight feet ; and the 
maherry of the great desert is taller still. Lyon speaks of a Tibboo 
maherry of seven feet eight inches as small; and on one occasion a dro- 
medary of this variety, measuring not less than nine feet and a half, 
was brought to the camp of Captain Denham.* 

The most common colors of the camel are mouse, drab, and fawn ; 
but black and white animals occur, ruid a very delicate and pleasing 
rose tint is not uncommon among the high-bred dromedaries of the 
greater Arabian peninsula. 

The milk of the camel is a very favorite drink in all countries where 
the animal is used, and it is highly salubrious and nutritious. Some 
tribes possessing large herds live wholly upon it during a great part of 
the year, and it is very frequently given to favorite horses, which are 
extremely fond of it.t My own curiosity never led me to taste it, but 
the ladies of my party drank it constantly for many weeks, and found it 
both agreeable and refreshing; though, when the pasturage was particu- 
larly dry and spicy, they thought it rather too highly flavored with the 
aromatic savors with which, as poets sing, even the air is charged in 
Araby the blest. The quantity given in the desert without green food 
is small, certainly not exceeding a quart; but the Bactrian camel, which 
enjoys in general a more succulent diet, yields twice as much. 

The utility of the camel does not cease with his life. His flesh, 
especially the hump and heart, is a favorite food among all camel- 
drivers, and when the animal is in good case it is described as little 
inferior to beef"; but in the desert the camel is seldom killed until it is 
almost ready to die of exhaustion, and European travellers have found 
it in that condition tough and ill-tasted. The skin varies in thickness 
and strength with the breed, and is found of all qualities fi-om that of 
the horse to the toughness and solidit}^ of sole leather. Athough I have 
seen camels regularl}^ sheared, yet, in general, the hair is wrenched off 
by hand at the time of shedding the coat. In southern latitudes the 
quantity is small, and the fibre short and coarse ; but the Bactrian 
yields a fieece weighing ten pounds, of longer and finer fibre ; and 
there are varieties ni the basin of the Caspian with long silivy hair 
scarcely inferior in quality and value to the wool of the Cashmere and 
Thibet goat. These breeds would be well worth introducing for the 
fleece alone. | The tallow is hard and firm, and for candles scarcely 
inferior to spermaceti or wax,§ and the bones would, no doubt, be 
found of value in the arts. 

The Arab holds the camel and the date-palm to have been formed 
out of the same clay as our common father Adam, and to have pro- 
ceeded more immediately fixim the hand of the Creator than any other 
quadruped or tree ; and he believes he shall meet them again in Para- 

* Lyon : Travels in Africa, 313. f Denham and Clapperton, I, 169. 

J Fatlier Hue. (American edition,) L chap. 9, Ritter XIH, 676, 654. Erman, Reisen, L 
19y, spealis of the camel's hair shawls brought to the fair of Nishnci Novgorod from Bokhara 
as of the most extraordinary tineness and beauty. They are made of the hair or rather 
wool combed from the belly of tlie animal, and spun into yarn as fine as human hair, and 
ai'o sold at higher prices tlian the most delicate Cashmeres. 

§ Carbuccia, 82— Ritter XIII, G92. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 115 

dise. Mohammed proclaimed his dispensation from the back of a 
camel, and was translated to Paradise by the same conveyance. 

The camel alone is permitted to carry the sacred veil to Mecca, and 
he serves as the pulpit from which the Cadi preaches at Mount Ararat 
the annual sermon to the pilgrims to that holy spot. Notwithstanding 
these high claims, the Arab seldom pets his dromedary as he does his 
horse. 

Beyond an occasional handful of food, and a dressing of the snows 
of the extreme north, he is never housed or otherwise sheltered in any 
of the wide range of climates through which he roves. To the ex- 
tremest heat of an African sun the Arabian camel is utterly indifferent; 
and the Bactrian braves, without shrinking, the chilling hosts and the 
icy blasts of northern Siberia. I have often watched tlie camel's 
habits in this respect in the desert, and though we sometimes encamped 
near palms and other trees, or where he would readily have found a 
shelter beneath the cool shadow of a rock, I could never discover that, 
even under the most glaring light and scorching heat, he at all preferred 
the shade to the sun. 

The camel, though less vicious than the horse, is not altogether so 
patient an animal as he is generally represented. His anger is indeed 
not easily excited, but when once thoroughly irritated, he long remem- 
bers the injury which has provoked him, and the "camel's temper" is 
a proverbial expression used by the Arabs to denote a vindictive and 
unforgiving disposition.* Although he sometinjes strikes with the lore 
foot, yet the hoof being unarmed, his blows are feeble, and his only 
dangerous weapon is his teeth. These are used with powerful effect 
in the barbarous fights which are sometimes got up as spectacles, but 
it is only under certain special circumstances, which are easily avoided, 
that he attacks his driver. 

His only ordinary manifestation of discontent is the harsh and ill- 
natured growl he sets up whenever he is approached to be loaded or 
mounted, and especially when any attempt is made to overcharge him. 
In the stillness of the desert the growl of a caravan, preparing for the 
morning's march, is heard for miles around ; though the true maherry 
seldom growls, and it is said there are breeds which have entirely lost 
this disagreeable peculiarity ; yet, in general, silent as is the march of 
a burden caravan, its halts are very unmistakeably announced to all 
wanderers within a long distance of its track. So harsh indeed is the 
growl of the camel, that Father Hue gravely declares that his camel- 
driver, on one occasion, put a pack of wolves to flight by tweaking his 
camel's nose till he roared again, t 

The Arabs habitually travel much by night, and this not, as has 
been supposed, for the sake of the guidance of the stars, which they 
seldom need, but partly to avoid the greater heat of the day, and more 
especially to allow the camel, which never feeds by night, the day- 

*Host, an accurate observer, says, (Efterretninger om Marokos, 269,) that the Sultan of 
Morocco had camels trained to act as executioners, and all writers concur in representing the 
male as dangerous during the rutting season. According to Carbuccia, pp. 7, 8, 83, this 
paroxyism is calmed by tarring the head of the camel, or permanently prevented by a simple 
process attended with little inconvenience, and no danger to the animal. 

t Father Hue, I, chap. 3. 



116 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

light for gathering his food.* It is common to start from midnight to 
two o'clock, and to march, without halting, ten, fifteen, or sometimes 
twent}" hours, after which the camp is formed ; and if it is not yet dark, 
the camels are turned out to graze till sunset, when they return to the 
camp, are hobbled, by tying up one of the folded fore legs, and rumi- 
nate and sleep to the hour of departure. Although so long a day's 
journey without pause is fatiguing to the rider, yet, except with light 
dromedaries, experience is in favor of the practice. To halt without 
unloading the camels would afibrd them no relief, but fatigue them the 
more by practically lengthening their day's work ; and if they are un- 
loaded and allowed to wander in search of food, the time lost in col- 
lecting them and rearranging their burdens would bring the caravan 
too late to the camping ground. Where, however, the party, as is the 
case with military expeditions of a few days' length, is unaccompanied 
by burden camels, and the dromedaries ai'e loaded with only the equip- 
age, water, and provisions of their riders, the hours of travel and repose 
can, without inconvenience, be arranged and varied to suit the exigen- 
cies of the occasion. 

The question of the practicability and advantages of introducing the 
camel into the United States for militar}^ and other purposes, is one 
of much interest and importance ; and I hope I shall be pardoned if I 
prolong a discourse, which I fear has proved but a dry one, for the 
sake of suggesting some considerations upon a topic to which I have 
devoted some attention, both at home and abroad. 

Among those who are practically familiar with the habits and pro- 
perties of the camel, and who have studied the physical conditions of 
our territory west of the Mississippi, there is, I believe, little or no 
difference of opinion on the subject ; and I am persuaded that the ulti- 
mate success of judicious and persevering effort is certain, and will be 
attended with most important advantages. At the same time, it must 
not be concealed that, as much depends on a point that nothing but 
experience can determine, — the selection, namely, of the particular 
breeds best adapted to our climate, soil, and other local conditions, — 
the result of a first experiment, unless tried on a liberal scale, and with 
animals of more than a single variety, is extremel}' uncertain. The 
question must be considered under two aspects: the one regarding the 
camel as simply a beast of burden; the other, his value as an animal of 
war. But even if it is conceded, which I by no means admit, that the 
organization of a proper mounted dromedar}^ corps is impracticable or 
inexpedient, it does not, by any means, follow that the camel may not 
be of great value in the commissariat, and in all that belongs to the 
mere movement of bodies of men, as well as in the independent trans- 
portation of military stores and all the munitions of war. 

The first question to be discussed is the adaptation of any variety of 
either species to the climate and soil of any portion of our territory. 
So far as mere extremes of temperature are concerned, it is quite cer- 
tain that we have nowhere, west of the Mississippi, fiercer or more 
lorifT-continued heats, more parched deserts, or wastes more destitute 
of vegetation, than those of the regions where the Arabian camel is 

* Fraser, Khorasan, 379. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 117 

found in his highest perfection ; and the Bactrian thrives in cUmates as 
severe as even the coldest portion of our northeastern territory. 

There is, however, it must be admitted, one point of difference be- 
tween our general climate and that of the eastern continent which has 
an unfavorable bearing on the question. I refer to the greater moisture 
of our atmosphere and the greater frequency of rains during the sum- 
mer season. In general, the countries where the camel thrives have a 
proper dry season, little or no rain falling during the summer months. 
But to this rule there are exceptions. The valley of the lower Danube 
has summer rains, and a very wet autumn, winter, and spring; and 
many northern Asiatic districts are subject to similar climatic condi- 
tions. But the objection, whatever may be its force, seems to apply 
merely to the proportion of the year during which the animal can labor, 
and not to its influence upon his constitution ; because, it appears that 
in the cold and damp Russian provinces the camel is less subject to 
disease, and attains a greater longevity, than in any other part of the 
world ; and it is remarkable that in the Crimea, at least as I am in- 
formed, he is little used in the hottest and driest season, because the 
heat is found too great lor that variety, and his services are most valu- 
able in winter. 

On alluvial and other soft soils caravans using the camel will, no 
doubt, be obliged to halt during rains and until the ground is dry ; but 
upon all other surfaces, one or other of the species may be used with- 
out i-egard to weather or season ; and as none of the passes of the 
Rocky mountains are more rugged or steeper than those of Arabia or 
Tartary, there is every probabihty that he may be advantageously em- 
ploj^ed over all the known routes between the Mississippi and the Pa- 
cific coast. 

In reference to the special properties of the^ diflferent varieties it may 
be observed that, although, as we have already seen, the Arabian camel 
traverses the roughest routes and climbs exceedingly steep ascents, yet 
the Bactrian and the cross between the two species are even better 
fitted for scaling diflicult mountain passes. This difference is, proba- 
bly, partly due to habit and training ; but the greater elongation of the 
toe of these breeds, which sometimes projects beyond the cushioned 
sole and forms a sort of claw, undoubtedly somewhat facilitates climb- 
ing by giving a grasp to the foot-hold, for which reason the Bactrian 
anciently w^as, and sometimes still is, called the mountain camel. 

My Russian correspondents, to whom 1 have so often referred, say 
that the Bactrian is chiefly used for winter transportation, and that his 
feet require no protection, but, to use their own words, are so formed 
that he travels well not only on frozen ground, but upon ice and snow. 
Timkowski saw caravans of this breed cross a glacier; and Bergmann 
says that, in winter, the Calmucks prefer them to horses for the saddle, 
because their long legs enable them to wade through deeper snows, 
and adds that they bear severe cold better than the horse, the ox, or 
the sheep. 

Father Hue and Pallas give similar accounts of the power of the 
Bactrian camel ; and Pallas adds that he is used not only in deep snows 
and half-frozen morasses, but that he fords rapid torrents, and, with a 
little training, even swims well. 



118 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

In the month of February, Erman saw, at Kiachta, on the Russo- 
Chinese frontier, herds of camels in the open air, feeding on withered 
and frozen wild vegetables, at a temperature of 25 degrees below zero 
of Fahrenheit, and remarks that they fear neither the severe winter of 
Siberia nor the parching summer heats of the sand-wastes of the desert 
of Gobi. The alternation of thaw and frost alone, says he, is danger- 
ous to them, in consequence of the icy crust formed under such circum- 
stances, which wounds their feet and limbs. 

So numerous is the camel in these frozen realms, that almost the 
whole commerce between Russia and China, by way of Kiachta, is 
carried on by means of them; and they transport merchandise over the 
whole of the vast distance between Orenburg on the Ural, and Petro- 
pawlowsk on the peninsula of Kamtschntka. In the month of October, 
Timkowski met on the desert of Gobi, in latitude 46°, and at the 
height of 2,500 feet above the sea, a herd of 20,000 camels; the Rus- 
sian expedition against Khiva and Bokhara, in 1840, employed more 
than an equal number; and Berghaus estimates the number of camels 
in European Russia at not less than 100,000. 

So far, then, as climate and soil are concerned, it may be regarded 
as quite certain that the Bactrian camel can sustain any exposure to 
which he would be subjected in our trans-Mississippian territory; 
and there is no reason to doubt that the mezquit, acacia, c.nd other 
shrubs, and the saline plants known to exist in many of those regions, 
would furnish him an appropriate and acceptable nutriment. 

I cannot speak with equal confidence of the abihty of the Arabian 
camel, and especially of the maherry of the desert, to bear correspond- 
ing trials. All high-bred animals are dehcate, and impatient of expo- 
sure to great extremes and sudden changes; and although Denham 
and Clapperton speak of hard frosts in latitude 13° north, and Lyon 
records a temperature four degrees below the freezing point, in districts 
constantly traversed by the maherry, yet the finest and fleetest animals 
will not bear the winter climate of Algiers.* But, although we may 
not be able to breed dromedaries of a speed equal to the most extraor- 
dinary performances I have described, there is no reason to doubt that 
the more common animal, which will travel eight or ten hours a day at 
five miles an hour, for many days in succession, and with greater speed 
for a shorter period, can be bred and used with advantage throughout 
our southwestern territories, and on all the more southern passes of the 
mountains which divide the valley of the Mississippi from the Pacific 
slope, as well as throughout the State of California. 

The ancient Asiatics, and, at a later period, the Romans, made a 
very extensive use of the dromedary in war, not only for the transpor- 
tation of men and munitions, but as technical cavalry in actual com- 
bat; and they are still employed in Persia, Bokhara, and Tartary, for 
military purposes, and especially for the conveyance of light pieces of 
artillery, which are mounted between the humps, and used in that posi- 
tion, the camel kneeling while the gun is loaded, aimed, and fired. In 
modern European armies they have hardly been employed, except by 
Napoleon, in transporting the baggage of his army in the Syrian cam- 

* Carbuccia, 4. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 119 

paign, ill his celebrated dromedary regiment ; and, more recently, by 
the army of occupation in Algeria. Upon the march from Egypt to 
Syria, the baggage, the camp equipage, and the sick,* of an army of 
15,000 men, were transported solely by camels. 

It is remarkable that the military archives of France furnish little or 
no information, beyond the mere number of the corps, respecting the 
dromedary regiment of the army of Egypt, the historical documents 
belonging to the subject having been chiefly lost or suppressed ; and all 
we know concerning it is derived from an imperfect and erroneous ac- 
count in the great work on Egypt, and a late paper by Gourard, one of 
the savans who accompanied the expedition. Without entering into 
minute detail, it must suffice to say that this regiment, which num- 
bered something less than 500 men, was organized in the main like a 
regiment of cavalry, and performed the same general service, witli the 
most brilliant success. Although ihe men were taken from the infantry, 
a very short time was required to teach them the new discipline and 
drill, and the animals were habituated to the necessary evolutions in an 
incredibly short space of time. The services rendered by the corps 
were of a most important character, and its performances, according to 
Pretat, were quite unprecedented in military annals. This officer 
states that the ordinary march of the regiment was thirty French 
leagues, or about seventy-five miles, without a halt ; and that a detach- 
ment belonging to it marched six hundred miles in eight days. These 
latter extraordinary statements rest on the testimony of a single indi- 
vidual, and though the corps was composed wholly of picked animals 
and picked men, and animated by the energy of a Bonaparte, it is very 
difficult to yield them full credence. 

The experiments in Algeria, though satisfactor}^ to the officers 
charged with them, whose reports seem entirely conclusive upon the 
value and economy of the camel as an animal of war, have been 
attended with less brilliant results. The prejudices of the officers and 
men against the use of this awkward and ungraceful animal in the 
regular service have proved very difficult to overcome. The peculiar 
organization of the French commissariat has interposed serious pecu- 
niary obstacles, and the government has always seemed disinclined to 
consider this question in a spirit of liberality and candor. It is, how- 
ever, proved that the use of the dromedary contributes in a most 
important degree to the economy, the celerity, and the efficiency of 
military movements in desert regions; and I cannot doubt that it would 
prove a most powerful auxiliary in all measures tending to keep in 
check the hostile Indians on the fi-ontier, as well as in maintaining the 
military and postal communication between our Pacific territory and 
the east. 

There are few more imposing spectacles than a body of armed men 
advancing under the quick pace of the trained dromedary ; and this 
sight, with the ability of the animal to climb ascents impracticable to 

* For the transportation of the wounded the camel is not so suitable, on account of the 
roughness of his motion; but, for even these, the tachlirawan, or litter borne by two camels, 
would probably answer. Invalids often travel, as I have witnessed, in a cajava, or, as it is 
fsometimes called, a mahafa. Tiiis consists of a pair of boxes or frames, properly with a can- 
vass sacking-, five feet lonw, two wide, and two deep, slung across the pack-saddle, and pro- 
tected by an awning. A strong camel will carry two persons in this way. 



120 NINTH ANNUAL KEPORT OF 

horses, and thus to transport mountain howitzers, light artillery, stores, 
and other military materiel into the heart of the mountains, would 
strike with a salutary terror the Comanches, Lipans, and other savage 
tribes upon our borders. 

The habits of these Indians much resemble those of the nomade 
Arabs, and the introduction of the camel among them would modify 
their modes of lile as much as the use of the horse has done. For a 
time, indeed, the possession of this animal would only increase their 
powers of mischief; but it might in the long run prove the means of 
raising them to that state of semi-civilized life of which alone their 
native wastes seem susceptible. The products of the camel, with wool, 
skin, and tiesh, would prove of inestimable value to these tribes, which 
otherwise are likely soon to perish with the buffalo and odier largo 
game anim;ils; and the profit of transportation across our inland desert 
might have the same effect in reclaiming these barbarians which it has 
had upon the Arabs of the Siniatic jjeninsula. 

Among the advantages of the camel for military purposes, may be 
mentioned the economy of his original cost, as compared with the horse 
or mule, when once introduced and fairly domesticated;* llie simplicity 
and cheapness of his saddle and other furniture, which every soldier 
can manufacture for himself; the exemption from the trouble and ex- 
pense of providing for his sustenance, driving, sheltering, or shoeing 
him; his great docility, his general freedom from disease,! l)is longevity, 
the magnitude of his burden, and the great celerity of his movements, 
his extraordinary fearlessness, t the safety of his rider, whether from 
i'alls§ or the viciousness of the animal, the econoniical value of" his 
flesii, and the applicabihty to many military purposes of his hair and 
his skin, tlie resources which in extreme cases the milk n)ight furnish, 
and finally his great powers of abstinence from both food and drink. || 

* The price of the camel is exceedingly low in all countries where he is bred. Except for 
the hig-licst breed, maherries, it nowhere, except in the Crimea, exceeds fifty dollars, and is 
in general considerably below this sum. The reason of tliis is that it costs nothing to breed 
the animal. The dam continues to labor during the whole period of gestation, (which runs 
according to climate, from eleven, or in some cases, ten to twelve months,) and even the 
dropping of a foal scarcely delays her march. (Denham and Clapperton, I. c. 3, Rittcr 
XUI, GIO.) The young requires no care and little training, and is already serviceable in his 
third year. 

t According to the concurrent testimony of all observers, no domestic animal is so free from 
disease as the camel. General Harlan's statement, that he is more liable to maladies than 
the horse, is unsupported by any otiier writer, and it must rest on some local peculiarity of 
climate or of breed. My correspondents in southern Russia describe the Bactrian as almost 
completely exempt from all ailments. ]n Algeria the camel suffers much from the sting, or 
more properly the oviposition of an insect; and it might be important, in importing the 
animal from that country, to select a season when he is free from the egg and the larvte, ia 
order to avoid introducing the insect with tlie camel. 

iCarbuccia, ^5, 168. 

§ The security of the seat, though at once felt by all who have mounted the camel, seems 
hardly reconcilable with tlie violence of his motion, and is not easily explained ; but nothing 
is more rare than a fall from his back. Every oriental traveller can testify that the Arabs 
often sleep upon their camels when on the marcii, and Colonel Chesncy (Expedition to the 
Euphrates, II, 671) and Layard give curious accoimts of t'.ie preparation and even cooking of 
ibod on the backs of the camels by the Arab women, during forced marches. They even 
contrive to milk the milch animals without halting. 

II The use of tiie camel has enabled tlie corps which have employed it in Algeria to dis- 
pense altogether with a baggage train, as the animal can transport a very considerable bur 
den, in addition to the soldier and his accoutrements, at a much more rapid rate than the 
ordinary march of a column of infantry or artillery. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 121 

I may field another advantage, which will be appreciated by all who 
know the difficulty of conducting a caravan of mules or horses across 
the plains. I mean the security from stampedes and other nocturnal 
alarms and losses. The dromedary is a much less timid animal than 
the horse or mule, and he is not sufficiently gregarious in his habits to 
be readily influenced by a panic terror. The mode by which he is 
confined at night furnishes a complete security against escapes from 
fright or other causes. As he lies down, he folds the forelegs under 
the body. The Arab passes a loop around one or both of the folded 
limbs, above the knee, and secures the end of the cord around the neck. 
When both legs are thus shackled, the camel can rise only to the knee : 
if one only is hobbled, he rises with difficulty, and moves very slowly; 
and if an Indian were to cut the loop, and thus free the animal, and 
even succeed in mounting him, he would not be able, without a previ- 
ous practice, which he has not the means of acquiring, to put him up 
to such a speed as to elude pursuit.* There is another point which I 
have never heard insisted on, but which has often struck me with some 
force in riding the camel. I mean the greater range of vision which, 
in a level country, the greater elevation of the scat gives the rider. 
The eye of a horseman is upon an average scarcely eight feet above 
the ground. Upon the dromedary it is two feet higher, and commands 
a wider range accordingly. 

To all these advantages I am aware of no drawbacks but the ex- 
pense of introducing the animal and experimenting with him, and the 
difficulty of accustoming horses to the sight of him. The first objection 
is too trifling to be debated in a case of so much importance ; and though 
the latter has been found formidable in Tuscany, and according to 
Father Hue, even in Tartary, where the camel has been very long in 
use, yet it is of no great force as applied to the sparsely populated 
regions of the Far West, and as the multiplication of the animal would 
be gradual and slow, it is not likely that any great or general evil 
would flow from this source. 

The facts I have recited seem to me abundantly to warrant the con- 
clusion tliat at the least the experiment is worth trying, and it is highly 
desirable that it should be tested on a scale large enough and varied 
enough to embrace all the chances of , success. t 

For transportation, the choice would lie between the Turcoman 
camel of northeastern Asia Minor and the Bactrian. The former might 
easily be procured at Aleppo, and shipped at Alexandretta, or perhaps 
betier at Trebizond, on the Black sea. The Bactrian, which seems 

* The only serious inconvenience attending the use of the camel in marching' through a 
country inhabited by hostile Indians, is the necessity of allowing him to wander in search of 
food; but as he habitually returns to camp before sunset, of his own accord, and never feeds, 
and very seldom stirs during the night, he would require to be watched only for a couple of 
hours during the whole twenty-four. 

t Very full information on the military qualities and the hygiene of the Arabian camel, 
upon the dromedary regiment of the army of Egypt, and the use of this animal in war by the 
ancients, may be found in the work of Carbuccia I have so often cited, and the papers of 
Gourard appended to it. The title is : Du Dromadaire comme bete de somme, ft comme 
animal de guerre; par le General G. L. Carbuccia. Paris, 1853. The appropriation made 
by Congress for introducing the camel ($30,000) will prove hardly sufficient, it is to be feared, 
for trying the experiment on a sufficiently liberal scale; and it is therefore doubly important 
that advantage should be taken of the knowledge acquired by the French in their African 
possessions. 



122 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

on the wliole the more promising animal, might most readily be ob- 
tained at Odessa, or in the Crimea ; but, as the camels of tho?e pro- 
vinces are trained only for draught, it would be more advisable to pro- 
cure them from the Calmucs, in the neighborhood of the Caspian, 
where they are used for burden and for the saddle, and, according to 
Bergmann, possess great speed, and they could be shipped at some of 
the ports of the sea of Azovv, or they might perhaps, with even greater 
convenience, be bought at Petropawlowsk, on the Pacific, at the sea- 
son of the visit of the caravans, and landed in California. 

The dromedaries should be brought from Algeria rather than from 
Egypt, because they are there accustomed to much severer winters, a 
moister climate, and a rougher country ; and the experience of the 
French military service in the use of them might be of great value in 
aiding in the selection of the breeds or individual animals, as well as 
in furnishing patterns of the best harness and gearing. The number of 
each ought to be at least sufficient for the organization of a small regu- 
lar corps, to be trained in the use of them, and the officers should be 
provided with all the information which can be gathered from Asiatic 
and European experience on the subject. 

"If," sa3^s General Marey Monge, "cavalry had been unknown in 
France, antl we, seeing the great advantages derived from it by ihe 
Arabs, had now for the first time attempted to introduce it into our 
military service, we should have had a thousand difficulties to over- 
come. Objections would have been made on the score of kicks and 
bites, errors would have been committed in the choice of saddles and 
bridles, the horses would have met with accidents or contracted ail- 
ments li-om our want of experience and ignorance of farriery ; in the 
first engagements, our mounted men would have been thrown or run 
away with, they would have been clumsy in managing their arms on 
horseback, and probably been roughly handled by the superior skill of 
the Arab horsemen. A party would have been formed against the 
innovators, who would themselves have become disgusted, and the 
attempt to introduce mounted corps would perhaps have been aban- 
doned ; but if, in spite of accidents, mistakes, and losses, we had per- 
severed, we should have ended by forming what we have now, an 
efficient and excellent cavahy." . 

This argument is as valid with us as it was in Algeria; and if the 
experiment shall be tried in the United States without success, it will 
probably fail for reasons as specious but as inconclusive as those which 
General Monge supposes against the introduction of cavalry into the 
French military service. 

Note. — A late writer in the Revue Orientale, 1280, says : "I knt^w 
in Egypt a camel driver who had bought a dromedary belonging to a 
sherit"of Mecca, deceased, at Cairo. This animal often made the trip 
between the latter city and Suez, going and returning in twenty-four 
hours, thus travelling a distance of sixty leagues in a single day." 
[The perfi)rmance of the dromedary is rather understated. The actual 
distance between Cairo and Suez is cigJuy-four English miles, and the 
animal must consequently have accom|)lished one hundred and sixty- 
eight miles in twenty-four hours. He remained four hours at Suez for 
rest, and therefore travelled at the rate of eight miles and four tenths 
per hour.] 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 123 

LECTURES. 



No. II.— ON THE NATURE AND CURE OF THE BITE OF SERPENTS AND 
THE WOUNDS OF POISONED ARROWS. 

BY DR. DAVID BRAINARD, OF CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. 

Among the many points in which the science of the present clay sur- 
passes the knowledge of past centuries, there is none more conspicuous 
than that which relates to the nature, the effects, and the means of de- 
tecting poisonous substances. 

To be convinced of this we have only to cast a glance at the state of 
society in the latter part of the sixteenth century, the time of Charles 
IX and Henry III, of France. 

At that period Italian manners and customs had been introduced into 
France by Catharine de Medici, and with them the knowledge of those 
poisons whose use, in Italy, had rendered the names of certain families 
pre-eminent in the annals of infamy. 

The most -distinguished surgeon of the sixteenth century, Ambroise 
Pare, has left us, in his works, a very curious account of the means re- 
sorted to by the Italian perfumers to convey poisons in a manner which 
should not be suspected. 

Pare was the surgeon of Charles IX, and, being a Protestant, was 
saved from the massacre of St. Bartholomew, concealed in the cabinet 
of the king in the palace of the Louvre, at the time when the signal for 
the slaughter w^as sounded. 

The object of the monarch in saving his lite was to have the benefit 
of his superior skill as a surgeon, and especially in the art of detecting 
poisons and counteracting their effects. 

Pare states that poisons are, " b}^ the artifices and sublimations of 
the wicked traitors, poisoners, and perfumers," deprived of their bitter 
taste, and even rendered agreeable to the palate, while they are so con- 
centrated as to prove fatal in a short time, and so subtle as to defy the 
eff')rts of the most skillful to detect them. 

In relating the case of Pope Clement, who was poisoned by the 
vapors of a torch, he says that flowers and odors of any kind were 
often used to convey the fatal influence ; and that every prelate, bene- 
ficed clergyman, or other person whose wealth or rank promised ad- 
vantage to any who might compass his death, lived in constant dread 
of poison. 

A whole chapter of his work on medicine and surgery is devoted to 
the means of guarding against bemg poisoned. He advises the avoid- 
ing of all sauces, and especially those which are sweet, salted, or in 
any way pungent; and, in like manner, being thirsty, not to drink in 
large draughts, or to eatgreedil}", but to consider well the taste ot what 
is eaten or drunk. "Moreover, we should eat," says he, "those things 
which break the force of venoms before each repast, and particularly a 
fat soup made of good meat," and only take wine or other drinks after 
having eaten. He counsels taking in the morning mithirstate or the- 
riaca, with a little good wine or malvoisie, or the leaves of rue with a 



124 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

nut and dried figs, which, he adds, " are remedies of singular effi- 
ciency." And "let not those who have a suspicion of having been 
poisoned, sleep; for the force of the venom is sometimes so great, so 
contrary to nature, that it exerts its power, and its effect in the body is 
like that of fire in dried straw." 

"The true way to avoid poisoned perfumes," he adds, in conclud- 
ing, "is never to smell them; to fly such perfumers as you would the 
plague, drive them out of the kingdom of France, and send them among 
Turks and infidels." 

Modern science has revealed the nature of these poisons so subtle, 
so mysterious, and so dreaded. 

The torch of chemistry has explored the secret chambers of those 
"wicked poisoners and perfumers." 

Armed with its light the law is enabled to cast a shield around every 
individual, and give to the humblest a consciousness of safety which, 
in Ibrmer times, the most powerful could not enjoy. 

But science in this respect is not yet perfect. There are still sub- 
stances mysterious, subtle, and dangerous, for which neither tests nor 
antidotes have been discovered. Many of the savage tribes of America 
possess the art, unknown to civilized man, of imbuing their weapons 
with a substance so deadly that a slight wound from one of them is 
dangerous, if not fatal. 

The venom of serpents, the smallest drop of which brought in con- 
tact with the blood in the system is fatal, cannot be distinguished by 
chemical tests from the most harmless mucus or saliva. 

There is reason to believe that this venom is sometimes employed 
by man; that he arms himself with the substance bestowed by Provi- 
dence on the serpent for its defence, and uses it for the purpose of pro- 
curing subsistence or satisfying his destructive instincts. 

Otthe serpents which are furnished witli this poison, the most com- 
mon and dangerous is the crotalus, or rattlesnake, several varieties of 
which are found in the western and southern States of the Union, 
where they constitute an object of dread, and a source of danger to 
the first settlers of the country. 

The rattlesnake derives its name from the peculiar structure of its 
tail, on wliich are arranged a number of rings called the rattle, with 
which a sound is made not unlike the buzzino: of the wino;s of certain 
insects. The number of these rings increases with its age; but it is 
not certain that they correctly indicate the number of years it has 
lived. 

The rattle is generally sounded whenever the serpent is angry, so 
that those familiar with the noise may avoid the danger; but in many 
instances the wound is inflicted without any warning being given. 

The rattle itself is to be regarded as a means of defence in addition 
to the fangs and venom ; for the peculiar note which it produces is ter- 
rifying to most animals, and they shrink from it with instinctive lear. 

It seems to have been regarded by some of the aboriginal inhabi- 
tants of America as highly ornamental, for it is one of the objects which 
the natives of central America have most frequently represented in the 
carvings of stone with which they decorated the front of their temples. 

The apparatus by which this serpent inflicts a wound and deposits 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 125 

the venom within it, excels in delicacy and perfection any instrument 
for inoculation which human ingenuity has as 3'et been able to devise. 
It consists of moveable fangs or teeth placed one or more on cither 
side of the mouth beneath the upper jaw. 

They are exceedingly sharp, curved, and move upon a hinge, so 
that, when in a state of repose, they lie with the point backwards, 
ahnost covered by the membrane of the mouth. The fang is perfor- 
ated at its root by a canal which terminates near the ])oint in a groove. 
It is through this that the venom is ejected so as to be thrown, not 
upon the surface, but deposited at the bottom of the wound. 

When about to strike, the fangs are raised so as to project directly 
forward, and the serpent coils himself so that, in the act of straightening, 
the head is thrust with great force a distance of about half his length. 
At the moment when the liing is most perfectly projected, the same 
muscle which elevates it presses also on the sac which contains the 
venom and ejects it, through the canal of the tooth, with force ; so that, 
if the object is not attained, it is thrown to a certain distance, and may 
be seen falling in drops. 

If the object aimed at is attained, as soon as the the teeth are inserted 
they are turned backward and drawn through the flesh like hooks to 
lacerate it. Indeed it often happens that the animal bitten, by a sud- 
den movement draws the serpent after him, or that the fangs them- 
selves are left in the wound. 

The serpent, too, with the subtle instinct of his nature, as soon as the 
wound is inflicted, coils himself so as to resist being moved and thus 
inflicts a severe injury. 

Nature, as if this weapon were indispensable to the species, has pro- 
vided in the most ample manner for its indefinite reproduction when 
accid'nitally removed or shed at stated periods. 

There exists at the side of the principal teeth in use, several others 
in different stages of development, which, in case any are shed or 
removed, grow and supply their place. 

The gland which forms the venom corresponds to the largest of the 
salivary glands in man. The duct through which it is discharged is 
enlarged so as to form a reservoir capable of containing several drops, 
which may be kept in reserve. 

That the saliva of one class of animals should contain the most con- 
centrated venom, while that of others is the mildest of fluids, presents 
a contrast of the strongest character ; but a certain analogy can be 
traced even in this instance, for in all animals when rabid, the saliva 
becomes poisonous, and in many, as in men, it sometimes assumes a cer- 
tain degree of activity which renders it dangerous from the effect of 
anger alone. 

The venom of" the rattlesnake is a fluid of the consistence and color 
of olive oil; it has a peculiar and disagreeable odor, and is said to have 
a pungent taste. 

There is no chemical test by which it is distinguished, nor are any 
peculiar appearances to be observed in it by the most powerful 
microscope. 

It may be swallowed without danger. All the venom which could 
be extracted from several serpents mixed with water and poured into 



126 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

the mouth of a young bird in the nest when it opened its beak for food, 
did it no injury. 

Persons bitten by serpents generally experience, as the first effect, an 
intense pain in the part wounded — vertigo, nausea, fainting, and coldness. 

If the venom has been inoculated directly into a vein, these symptoms 
terminate in death in a short time. If not, the part swells, becomes 
discolored, spotted over the surface of the member, and sometimes over 
the entire body. 

The swelling is sometimes very great, extending over a large sur- 
face; but the heat and inflammatory reaction which accompany it are 
of a low grade. 

If the amount of venom which has been deposited be small, or the 
wound has been properly treated, the swelling after having reached a 
certain point slowly subsides, but the part affected remains for a long 
time indurated. It has even been supposed that the extraordinary 
enlargement knovv^n under the name of elephantiasis is in many cases a 
remote effect of this wound. 

As soon as the swelhng commences to subside, another danger threat- 
ens the patient, viz : passive hemorrhage. The constitutional effects of 
the poison are such that they produce a dissolved state of the blood like 
that which exists in scurvy. Hence bleeding is liable to occur from 
the mouth, lungs, bowels, ulcerated surfaces, or the slightest wounds, 
or from all these at a time. 

In a case which occurred in the Illinois general hospital, the blood 
which flowed from the gums was found so entirely destitute of fibrine, 
the principle upon which the coagulation depends, that no trace of it 
could be detected under the microscope. At this state the breath ex- 
hales a fetid odor, which is not only sickening at the moment, but which 
is said to have produced serious illness in those exposed for a length of 
time to its influence. 

Bites which occur about the face are much more dangerous than 
those upon the extremities. 

This discoloration results from the dissolved state of the blood which 
gives rise to hemorrhage, mortification, and death. 

Nevertheless, the bite even of the most venomous species of serpents 
is not invariably nor even generally fatal. 

There are seasons when they are inactive and inflict but a slight 
wound. The venom is at times much less virulent than at others, or it 
may have been exhausted by repeated bites. Small serpents have not 
sufficient force to penetrate the skin, and bites where the skin is thick 
or covered with clothing are least danoerous. 

On the other hand if the serpent be old, of large size, and the bite 
occur in the commencement of summer, the danger is very great. 

There is reason to believe that the poison used by the Indian tribes 
on their arrows, is, in many cases, nothing else than the venom of the 
serpent preserved in a peculiar manner. 

Mr. Schomburgh himself says that the belief, that animal poisons 
entered into its composition was so rooted in Guiana, that on the occa- 
sion of his second visit, in 1837, he was unable to eradicate it. 

Messrs. Bernard and Pelouze, in a memoir presented to the Academy 
of Sciences at Paris, in 1850, express the opinion that it acts in the 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 127 

manner of a venom, that is an animal poison. They state that M. 
Goudot, who furnished them with the specimen they employed, had 
resided many years in South America, and was fully aware of the 
method of its preparation, and that he assured them that the poison of 
the most venomous serpents constantly entered into its composition. 

He even described the manner of taking the serpents, and extracting 
the poison. 

An intelligent traveller in California informs me that the Digger 
Indians in that Slate possess the art of poisoning their arrows, and that 
the substance which they use for the purpose is well known to be ob- 
tained from the rattlesnake. 

Dr. George Johnson, of St. liOuis, also told me that several tribes of 
Indians on the Rio Grande employ the venom of the serpent for this 
purpose, and that there is a species known to them which have the 
vesicles receiving the venom so large as to contain a quantity sufficient 
to poison a great number of arrows. 

An intelligent missionary, who had resided many years in the East 
Indies, states that tiie traditional account of the method of preparing the 
woorara of that country is, that the venom of serpents is mixed with it 
to ibrm the most active part. 

This substance called woorara, curare, corare, tiennas, has been va- 
riously described by different travellers as being of an animal or a vege- 
table nature, or a mixture of the two. Sir Walter Raleigh is said to 
hav^e been the first who heard of its existence ; but certain missionaries 
in South America gave at an early day an account of its effects, but so 
mingled with fanciful details as to deprive it of most of its value as 
authority. 

At the commencement of the present century, Humboldt gave a de- 
tailed account of its manufacture," stating that it is prepared by heat 
from the bark of a certain vine called by the natives on the bank of the 
Amazon, hejiico de menacure mixed with the juice of certain other 
plants to give it consistence. 

De le Condamine states that it is an extract made by heat from the 
juices of divers plants, about 30 in number, and that the bejuco is one 
ofthem. 

Robert H. Schomburgk* confirms in most respects the account 
given by Humboldt. He named the vine from which it is obtained, 
Stryclmos toxiftra. 

The Reverend Thomas Yond, who resided as a missionary in English 
Guiana, describes its mode of preparation very minutely. He states 
that two species of Strychnos and six other species of plants enter into 
its composition. 

Mr. Schomburgk treats as entirely fabulous the accounts of the em- 
ployment of animal substances, such as poisonous ants or the venom of 
serpents, in its preparation; and most English writers seem to consider 
it certain that it owes its activity to strychnine. 

On the other hand Boussingault and Roulin, (Annales de Chimie, Sep- 
tember, 1828,) who made an analysis of it, state that it does not contain 
strychnine but a vegetable principle very different from it. 

Its effects on the system sufficiently indicate that its action does not 

* Annals and Magazine of Natural History, vol. VII, p. 407. 



128 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

depend on strychnine. Il affects the brain, producing fainting, insensi- 
bility, and paralysis; while strychnine acts upon the spinal marrow, pro- 
ducing convulsions but leaving the consciousness intact. 

When injected into the veins, even in the minutest quantity, it kills 
in a lew seconds, while a much larger quantity of" strychnine is required 
to cause death when thus administered. 

Mr. Charles Waterton, in his Wanderings in South America, states 
that in addition to the woorara vine, the natives emplo}' in its compo- 
sition the black and I'ed ant and the fangs of serpents, w^hich, he adds, 
they invariably extract and preserve whenever occasion is presented. 
From a chemical analysis of this substance which I had made, 
though not completed, but which has revealed formic acid and a pro- 
tean compound among its constituents, I am enabled to state with great' 
certainty that a.iimal substances enter to a certain extent at least into 
its composition. 

Humboldt, in his voyage to the equinoctial regions of South America, 
states that Indians, who had been wounded by poisoned arrows, de- 
scribed to him the effects as identical with those of the bite of serpents. 
These cffiscts, as noticed in experiments on animals and birds, seem 
to me to bear the closest analogy with those of the venom of serpents, 
if they are not identical. 

The fact that the woorara is, like the poison of serpents, innocuous 
when swallowed, strongly militates against the opinion that it is strych- 
nine, or, indeed, any vegetable alkaloid. As usually metwdth, the kind 
which is brought Irom South America is contained in small gourds, over 
the internal surface of which it is spread. On being detached it pre- 
sents a dark color, has a resinous tractare, a bitter taste, is readily 
mixed with water, but imperfectly dissolved by it. Its appearance is 
the same when mixed with alcohol ; but both these fluids dissolve the 
active principle of it. The solution is acid. If the quantity of water 
used be small, the mixture has a ropy, tenacious consistence. The solu- 
tion is coagulated by the nitrate of silver, and by the solution of iodine 
and iodide of potash in distilled water, and, when treated w'ith the latter 
solution, neither the Dart coagulated nor ihe fluid expressed from it re- 
tarns Its poisonous quality. It does not effervesce with acids. Its 
aqueous solution is not coagulated by heat, and boiling does not impair 
its activity. 

The manner in which poisonous substances act in producing their 
effects has long been regarded as one of the most difficult subjects in 
the wide range of nature. So long as the doctrines of astrology pre- 
vailed, they were supposed to derive their properties from the malign 
influence of the stars. 

Ambroise Pare, certainly one of the most enlightened men of his time, 
was governed by the then prevailing doctrine w^hen he said: "Poisons 
which act by a specific nature do not produce their effects l)ecause 
they are hot, or cold, or dr}^ or of an excessive humidity, but because 
they have that peculiar property of the celestial influences which is 
contrary to human nature." 

In the infancy of toxicology the effect of nearly all poisons was refer- 
red to sympathy. 

When they were applied to wounds, and the heart ceased to act, it 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 129 

was said to be from a sympathetic affection, conveyed in some myste- 
rious manner by the nerves. 

The statement that any such impression is conveyed is as purely 
gratuitous as was the explanation of the pressure of the atmosphere by 
the simple expression, "nature abhors a vacuum." 

Since the experiments of Magendie, in 1809, on the subject of absorp- 
tion, it has generally been admitted that most poisons produce their 
effect on the system by being absorbed and carried into the circulation, 
and that they exert their influence by virtue of their peculiar properties. 

Conia digitaline and nicotine destroy the action of the heart; strych- 
nia acts upon the spinal marrow ; opium, the woorara, and "poison of 
serpents on the brain. 

Now, although the absorption of poisons, and their presence physi- 
cally in the blood and organs, is a most important fact, — one, indeed, 
u'pon which the whole science of toxicology reposes, — it is not to be im- 
agined for a moment that it affords the slightest explanation of their 
mode of action. 

The question still remains, whether they act by being applied to the 
sentient extremities of the nerves, or in some other manner not yet 
understood. 

Liebig has offered the explanation, that the poison by some chemical 
change is converted into the substance of brain, which is thereby ren- 
dered unfit to support vital energy. 

This hypothesis is entirely gratuitous, improbable, and, in view of 
the rapid action of many substances on the brain, impossible. 

Fontana was much nearer the truth when about a century ago he 
attributed death from the poison of the viper to the effect produced on 
the blood. He was of the opinion that, injected into the veins of ani- 
mals, it caused coagulation of the blood, which arrested the circulation. 
He made more than six thousand experiments with vipers, repeated 
and varied in every possible way. In regard to the coagulation of the 
blood in this case, 1 am not able to d^ny that it may occur, as I have 
not experimented with vipers ; but I am sure it is the reverse of what 
takes place from the bite of the rattlesnake, for it is uniformly found 
dissolved after death from this cause, and incapable of coagulating to 
the same extent as in health. I am also certain that a change does 
occur in the form of the globules of blood in pigeons and frogs poisoned 
by woorara and the bite of the rattlesnake. 

If the wing of a bat or the web of a frog's foot be subjected during 
life to observation beneath the focus of a microscope, innumerable small 
bodies are seen hurrying along the arteries, towards their extremities, 
traversing the small, hair-like vessels called capillaries, and returning 
towards the heart by the veins. 

These bodies are the blood globules. They vary in form in dif- 
ferent classes of animals, being circular and flattened in men, and ovoid 
in birds and frogs. 

The integrity of these globules is essential to life ; for whenever they 
become altered, they adhere to the sides of the vessels and to one 
another, and can no longer traverse the capillaries. 

The theory that poisons alter the form of the globules, so as to render 
Mis. Doc. 24 9 



ISO NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

them unfit for circulation, is not a new one, for Fontana alludes to it, 
but says he had not been able to detect in them any change. 

This arose, no doubt, from the imperfect instruments employed, and 
from the deficient means of examination. Fontana claimed to have 
invented the microscope, but only used a single lens, and examined 
blood in considerable quantities. 

By using the most perfect microscope, and examining the blood of 
frogs and of pigeons, in which the globules are ovoid and of large size, 
I have been able to discover that, after poisoning by serpent bite or the 
woorara, their form is constantly altered, so that, instead of being of a 
distinct and regular outline, they are found irregular, indented, and 
partially disintegrated. 

Those taken from the capillaries are most, those from the heart and 
large vessels least affected ; but even of the former only a small portion 
of the whole number will be found changed, as death takes place before 
all have time to become mutually affected. 

When death occurs quickly from the effect of the bite of the rattle- 
snake or from the woorara, it is, in my view, from these substances 
being absorbed, and acting upon the blood by altering the form of the 
globules, so as to render them unfit for circulation, whereby they are 
arrested in the capillary vessels of the brain, and thus destroy its action. 

There are doubtless other changes produced on the circulating fluid 
besides this of the globules. 

The late Dr. J. W. Burnett, of Boston, noticed that when blood ob- 
tained by pricking his finger was mingled with the venom of the rattle- 
snake, the globules ceased to run together, as they naturally do. 

But I think the change of the globules which I have detected is of 
itself quite sufficient to account for the sudden effects even of the most 
violent poisons. 

The iDclief that some substances cause death by their effect upon the 
blood seems to have prevailed long before it was expressed by Fontana. 

Shakspeare, with that intuitive perception of truth characteristic of 
his writings, has adopted it in his account of the killing of the king, 
when the ghost thus describes to Hamlet the effects of the poison: 

" Sleeping within mine orchard, 
My custom always in the afternoon, 
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole, 
With juice of cursed hebanon in a vial. 
And in the porches of mine ears did pour 
The leperous distilment, whose effect 
Bears such an enmity to the blood of man 
That, swift as quicksilver, it courses through 
The natural gates and alleys of the body, 
And, with a sudden vigor, it doth posset 
And curd, like eager droppings into milk, 
The thin and wholesome blood ; so did it mine. 
And a most instant tetter marked about, 
Most lazar like, with vile and loathsome crust. 
All my smooth body." 

We arrive now at the consideration of the second part of our sub- 
ject, the treatment of poisoning by serpent bite, and the woorara. 

According to the division of scientific studies most commonly adopted, 
the pursuit of science for itself^, pure science as it is called, ranks above 
any practical application of it, however important and useful this latter 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 131 

may be, though I regard it important in proportion as it has capacities 
for useful application. 

One might indeed devote himself to the pursuit of some of the natu- 
ral sciences for the inherent pleasure which it affords. 

But the study of the venom of serpents and its effects would be 
surrounded by lew attractions, were it not that the knowledge thus 
acquired may be made available for the relief of some of the severest 
accidents to which man is subject. 

The experiments upon birds and animals required to carry out these 
researches are painful, and can only be justified by the benefit which 
results from their performance. 

In this country there is fortunately less occasion than in some others 
for defending the study of the piactical applications of science, as the 
genius of the people, and their habits, tend to practical results rather 
than abstract researches. It is indeed possible that to many scientific 
men of our country the classic fable of Atalanta, who, in turning aside 
to seize the golden apple, lost the prize of the race, may not be inap- 
plicable. 

In reference to the venom of the rattlesnake there is much need that 
further investigations should be instituted. 

It is a substance for winch, as I have already said, no antidote has 
hitherto been known, and concerning the nature of which no adequate 
researches have ever been made. 

What is required is a series of experiments in regard to it similar to 
those which Fontana performed with the viper. 

The treatment resorted to for serpent bites varies in different coun- 
tries, that remedy being generally selected which tradition or accident 
may have suggested ; and it would be a waste of time to enumerate all 
those inert or deleterious articles whose use has been recommended 
even in books of medicine and surgery. It may suffice to say, under 
this head, that scarcely any substance can be named so inert as not to 
have been recommended, or so disgusting as not to have been em- 
ployed ; nor is any practice so absurd as not to have found favor with 
the profession. 

Among them may be mentioned burymg the member bitten in fresh 
earth, thrusting it into the entrails of animals, or even putting the whole 
body of the patient into an ox laid open for the purpose — practices 
which, as they are either cooling or sweating, are not destitute of plausi- 
ble reasons in their favor. 

Arsenic, in the fi^rm of the Tanjore pill, has been extensively used 
by British practitioners both in the East and West Indies; but although 
many successful cases were cited in its favor, it has fallen into disuse. 

Among intelligent physicians of the present day the treatment con- 
sists in washing the part, sucking it, or applying cups, to extract the 
poison, using caustic for the purpose of destroying it, while stimulants, 
such as ammonia and alcohol, are administered internally. 

Of these means, washing, applying ligatures upon the members, and 
cupping, are those alone whose utility has been well established by 
reason and experience. 

That the removal of as much as possible of the venom from the 
wound is useful, is self-evident, and sucking it for this purpose seems 



132 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

to have been an instinctive act; for not only does tradition relate that it 
was in use in ancient limes and among savage nations, but history in- 
forms us that it has been resorted to more recently. Among the nota- 
ble instances of which may be mentioned that of Queen Eleanor, wife 
of Edward I, who, it is stated, sucked the wound which her husband 
received from a poisoned dagger in the war of the Crusades, thereby 
preserving his lite. * 

The application of ligatures around a member bitten, as it retards 
absorption, has the same effect as introducing the poison in divided 
doses, and at longer intervals of time. In this way quantities might 
safely be received, which, if carried at once into the blood, would prove 
quickly fatal. 

Cupping-glasses exhausted over the wound act in the same manner, 
with the additional advantage, that by drawing fluids from the part they 
may remove at least a portion of the venom. 

The value of these means has been tested by numerous experimeiUs 
upon various animals and with different classes of poisons. 

Of the applications resorted to, aqua ammonia is that mostly relied 
upon. But Fontana found that mixing it with the venom of vipers only 
hastened deatli. He also found that alcohol, oil, the mineral acids, and 
alkalies, (except caustic potash, which instantly destroys the tissues,) 
nitrate of silver, incisions in the part, and even amputating the member 
bitten, did not prevent a fatal termination. 

In my experiments with the rattlesnake I have found that mixing the 
venom with alcohol, oil of turpentine, nitrate of silver in solution, or 
ammonia, did not diminish its activity. 

The solutions of soda and potash have no effect in retarding its action, 
unless sufficiently strong to destroy the tissues by acting as a caustic. 

My Iriend, Dr. J. C. Morfit, who aided me in my experiments, tried 
Hquor potasste, a solution of bicarb, of soda, tincture of arnica, and am- 
monia in water. The result ol my observation is, that to the present 
time no substance has been found in any degree capable of neutralizing 
the venom of the serpent or the woorara, without destro^ang the part 
bitten, except the solution of iodine, and iodide of potassium, in v/ater. 
Of the virtues of this solution I shall have occasion to speak hereafter. 

Alcohol taken internally to intoxication has at the present time the 
reputation of counteracting the effects of the venom of the rattlesnake. 

The evidence in its favor is scarcely sufficient to justify the confi- 
dence reposed in it, as the following facts will show : 

1st. The venom, when mixed with alcohol, is rapidly fatal if inocu- 
lated. 

2d. Alcohol introduced into the stomach of birds or animals bitten 
hastens death. 

3d. Persons bitten by rattlesnakes when in a state of intoxication are 
not, on that account, secure. 

I have authentic information ot" several cases in which the bite of 
that serpent proved rapidly fatal on intoxicated persons. I think it cer- 
tain, however, that the effect of alcohol taken in this way is beneficial 
rather than injurious ; but this is not my belief in regard to ammonia, 
which I think calculated to favor the action of the poison rather than 
retard it. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 133 

Among the substances in popular use in the western States of the 
Union, I ought not to omit to speak of the sulphate of alumina or alum. 
This and other astringents are principally useful in that stage of the 
affection when hemorrhages are liable to occur, and they may then be 
employed with advantage both as internal remedies and local applica- 
cations. 

It may be expected that I should here speak of those plants which, 
under the name of rattlesnake weeds or roots, possess, in the popular 
behef, a specific virtue against the bite of this serpent. The plant 
known under this name in man}^ parts of the west is a species of Liatris, 
having a broad leaf with spines along the edges. It has a pungent 
aromatic taste, and is a diffiisible stimulant of moderate force. The 
manner in which it is generally used is by beating it up into a poultice 
and placing it upon the part, and also taking an infusion as a drink. 
It has no specific virtues as an antidote, as I have known deaths to 
occur after its use ; but as a stimulant it may be, in some degree, useful. 

There are many other plants, also, reputed to possess similar virtues, 
among which may be mentioned Erijngium aquaticum, or button- 
snake root ; several species of Impatiens, or jewel weed ; the Ewpa- 
torium perfoliatum, or boneset ; the Scrophularia , the Scutellaria, 
the Planiago, and probably many others; of all of which it is 
sufficient to say, that there is no conclusive evidence to justify their 
being regarded in the fight of specifics, though, like the Liatris, they may 
be more or less useful in certain cases. 

As remedies are by some deemed important from having been used 
by the Indians, it may be mentioned that the ImiuUiens, or jewel weed, 
is said to be often employed by them. A medical officer of the army 
informs me that the common nettle applied as a poultice, and taken in 
infusion, is a favorite treatment among the Cherokees. For this, as for 
hydrophobia and most diseases, there are secret remedies, possessing, 
according to report, the most instantaneous and marvellous power of 
neutralizing the action of the poison. 

There exists, according to popular belief, a tree whose smallest 
branch or leaf has the effect if placed before a serpent of rendering him 
so timid and fearful that he will neither bite nor resent the roughest 
treatment, nor can he live in the region where it grows. The leaves 
possess the power (according to the same vague report) when beaten 
up and placed on the bitten part of instantly causing the pain to cease; 
so that the patient, like one touched by a hand of miraculous power, 
is straightway cured. The tree which is reported to possess such 
virtue is nothing else than a species oi^ Fraxinus, or common ash. It is 
certain that it has none of the powers ascribed to it, either on the 
actions of the serpent or the effects of its venom. 

Having made many experiments, with a view of determining the 
action of various substances on the venom of the rattlesnake and on 
the woorara, I have found but one which, in any degree, neutralizes it 
without destroying the tissues of the part. 

The solution of iodine and iodide of potassium in water possesses the 
power, when properly used, of invariably retarding death, if it does not 
prevent it. The manner in which the experiments were conducted 



134 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

with the woorara, was, in the first place, to ascertain the quantit 
required to cause death. 

In general I found 3- of a grain to kill a pigeon in five minutes, when 
injected under the skin. 

2. I then mixed the same quantity with 20 drops of a solution of 
iodine and iodide of potassium, of the strength of iO grains of the 
former and 30 of the latter to the ounce of distilled water, and injected 
it under the skin of the pigeon. It produced no sensible effect. 

3. I threw the poison under the skin of the pigeon, and applying a 
cupping glass lightly on the part, injected the solution of iodine through 
the same canula. No symptom of poisoning followed. 

4. I covered a deep wound of the muscle in a pigeon with a paste 
made of the woorara and water. The bird died in five minutes. 

5. I repeated the same experiment, but washed the wound with the 
solution of iodine. There was no bad effect. 

These experiments have been repeated by myself alone, and, in 
connexion with others, more than a hundred times with the same 
results. I feel confident, therefore, that their accuracy cannot be called 
in question, and that, in regard to the woorara, it is quite safe to 
affirm that the solution of iodine neutralizes its action. In making this 
statement, I would by no means be understood as asserting that it 
does so in all circumstances and in all proportions. The circumstances 
which prevent its doing so are the introduction of the poison in such a 
situation that the solution cannot reach it, or so directly into the circu- 
lation that it has not time to act upon it. In most cases of wound 
neither of these conditions is likely to occur. 

According to the experiments which I have made for the purpose of 
determining the proportion of iodine required to neutralize the poison, 
it appears that one third of a grain of woorara is perfectl}^ neutralized 
by one eighth of a grain of iodine. 

The treatment of the bite of the serpent is more difficult to determine 
by experiment than that of the wounds poisoned b}' woorara. The 
bite itself is often profound, penetrating so deeply that applications can- 
not be made to the bottom of^- it without inflicting an additional injury, 
which, in itself, would be dangerous to small animals. On the other 
hand, if the venom be first extracted fi'om the serpent, and then inocu- 
lated, its action is uncertain. Much of what appears to be venom is, 
probably, onl}^ saliva, which serves as a vehicle, and is with difficulty 
distinguished fi-om it. Nevertheless, I have succeeded in saving more 
than half the birds bitten, and in greatly prolonging life in those which 
died. 

The manner in which these experiments are conducted is as follows: 

The bite having been inflicted on a given part, by having the ser- 
pent properly confined, immediately apply a cupping glass lightly 
upon the point, then insert a fine trochar beneath the cupping glass, 
under the skin, and, while the air is being exhausted, press the solution 
of iodine into the tissues of the part with a small syringe adapted to the 
canula of the trochar. The cupping glass is retained upon the wound 
until the solution has had time to disseminate itself", and become mixed 
with the poison. 

In case of a superficial wound, when the treatment could be applied 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 135 

immediately, nothing more would be required tlian to wash it with the 
solution. 

As pigeons, upon which these experiments were made, are more 
easily affected than mammals, the antidote which succeeds with them 
more certainly succeeds in case of the bite on man. 

The principle on which the iodine operates in counteracting the 
effect of these poisons, is most probably from its antiseptic properties. 

They belong to a class described by Orfila under the name of putre- 
factive poisons, characterized by being innocuous, or of little activity, 
when swallowed, but causing wounds upon which they are applied to 
run rapidly into mortification. 

Iodine, like chlorine, has the effect of counteracting this change; pre- 
venting the discoloration which results from such wounds, and the 
alteration of the blood to which they give rise, while it possesses over 
chlorine the additional advantage of not causing inflammation or mor- 
tification, when injected under the skin and disseminated in the tissues. 

The practice of injecting it into the parts, instead of applying it upon 
the surface, is founded upon the principle, now well established in 
toxicology, that an antidote, to be effectual, must not only be intro- 
duced into the system, but brought in contact with the poison where it 
physically exists. 

Now for all inoculated poisons it is clear that to comply with this 
condition the antidote must also be inoculated ; that is, introduced into 
the same tissues, and take its course through the same vessels which 
the poison has to traverse, to reach the vital organs. 

When the poison is inoculated and the antidote swallowed, or ap- 
phed on the surface, it is impossible that they could be brought in con- 
tact in more than the minutest proportions. 

Used in this wa}', the iodine also favors the production of adhesive 
inflammation, whereby lymph is effused and coagulated around the 
wound, absorption retarded, and the disease rendered less diffusive. 
In this respect iodine, injected under the skin, is more efficient than 
blisters or cauterization with the nitrate of silver, which can only act 
superficially. 

Althouijh I have advanced the theory that iodine is an antidote to 

'Til 

septic poisons, by virtue of its anti-putrescent properties, I would not, 
by any means, be understood as limiting its effects to this method of 
action. On the contrar}^, I believe it is, to a certain extent, an antidote 
for some poisons pertaining to other classes. 

Donne found it to counteract the action of strychnia to a great de- 
gree ; and I have observed that it has a very considerable power as 
an antidote to prussic acid, an action which its analogy to chlorine 
would lead us to expect, as chlorine is well known to prevent the 
effects of this acid. 

The plan of treatment which I recommend for the bite of serpents 
and wounds from poisoned arrows, is — 

1st. To wash the part with a solution of iodine and iodide of potas- 
sium, and apply cupping-glasses over the wound, or ligatures around 
'the member, so as to prevent absorption. 

2d. If the wound be deep, or if absorption has already taken place, 



136 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

I recommend injecting the solution under the skin, beneath the cupping- 
glass, and disseminating it by friction about the wound. 

This recommendation is founded upon the result of over one hundred 
experiments with the woorara, and about sixty with the rattlesnake, 
made upon pigeons, dogs, cats, rabbits, and guinea-pigs. 

This treatment can be combined with the administration, internally, 
of such remedies as may be thought most useful; and among these al- 
cohol, in some form, taken freely is, in the present state of our know- 
ledge, to be preferred. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. ^ 13T 

LECTURES. 



No. in— THE ZONE OF SMALL PLANETS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER. 



BY PROFESSOR ELIAS LOOMIS, OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK. 



Seventy-five years since, the only planets known to men of science 
were the same which were known to the Chaldean shepherds thou- 
sands of years ago. Between the orbit of Mars and that of Jupiter 
there occurs an interval of no less than three hundred and fifty millions 
of miles, in which no planet was known to exist before the commence- 
ment of the present century. Nearly three centuries ago the immortal 
Kepler had pointed out something like a regular progression in the dis- 
tance of the ulanets as far as Mars, which was broken in the case of 
Jupiter. Being unable to reconcile the actual slate of the planetary 
system with any theory he could form i-especting it, he hazarded the 
conjecture that a planet really existed between the orbits of Mars and 
Jupiter, and that its smallness alone prevented it from being visible to 
astronomers. But Kepler himself soon rejected this idea as improba- 
ble, and it does not appear to have received any favor from the astrono- 
mers of that time. 

An astronomer of Florence, by the name of Sizzi, took decided ground 
against all such innovations of doctrine. He maintained that since 
there are only seven apertures in the head — two eyes, two ears, twa 
nostrils, and one mouth — and since there are only seven metals, and 
seven days in the weeks, so there can be only seven planets. These 
seven planets, according to the ancient systems of astronom}'', were 
Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, the Sun, Venus, Mercury, and the Moon. 

In 1772, Professor Bode, of Berlin, first announced the lingular rela- 
tion between the distances of the planets from the sun, which has since 
been distinguished by the name of Bode's law. This law exhibited in 
a striking fight the abrupt leap from Mars to Jupiter, and suggested 
the probability of a planet revolving in the intermediate region. This 
conjecture was rendered still more plausible by the discovery in 1781 
of the planet Uranus, whose distance from the sun was found to con- 
form nearly with the law of Bode. In Germany, especially, a strong 
impression had been produced that a planet really existed bet^veen 
Mars and Jupiter, and the Baron de Zach went so far as to compute 
the orbit of the ideal planet, the elements of which he published in the 
Berlin Almanac. In the year 1800, several astronomers, of whom the 
Baron was one, formed an association, whose object was to effect the 
discovery of the unseen body. For this purpose the zodiac was divided 
into twenty-four zones, one of which was to be explored by each 
astronomer. Soon after the formation of this society the planet waS' 
discovered, but not by any of those astronomers w'ho were engaged ex- 
pressly in searching tor it. Piazzi, the celebrated Itafian astronomer, 



138 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

while engaged in constructing his great catalogue of stars, was induced 
carefully to examine, several nights in succession, a part of the constel- 
lation Taurus, in which Wollaston, by mistake, had assigned the posi- 
tion of a star which did not really exist. On the first of January, 1801, 
Piazzi observed a small star which, on the following evening, appeared 
to have changed its place. On the third, he repeated his observations, 
and he now telt assured that the star had a retrograde motion in the 
zodiac. He continued to observe the star until the 11th of February, 
when he was seized with an illness which interrupted his labors. After 
the planet had approached too near the sun to admit of further obser- 
vations for that season, Piazzi communicated to astronomers all his ob- 
servations. Professor Gauss found that they might all be satisfied by 
an elliptic orbit, of which he computed the elements. The planet was 
re-discovered on the 31st of December, almost exactly in the place 
which had been predicted b}^ Gauss ; and it received the name of 
Ceres. 

The distance of Ceres from the sun was found to be almost exactl}- 
the same as had been assigned by Bode's law. In this respect, there- 
fore, the newly discovered planet harmonized with the other bodies of 
the system to which it belonged. The new planet was, however, ex- 
cessively minute, its diameter, according to Herschel's measurements, 
amounting to only one hundred and sixty-one miles. 

The discovery of this planet was soon tbllov/ed by another of a simi- 
lar nature. Dr. Olbers, while engaged in searching for Ceres, had 
carefully studied the positions of ail the small stars lying near her path. 
On the 28lh of March, 1802, after observing Ceres, he swept over the 
vicinity with an instrument termed a " comet seeker," and was aston- 
ished to find a star of the seventh magnitude in a position where he 
was sure no star had been visible the preceding month. In less than 
three hours, he found that its place had changed. On the following 
evening he looked again for his star, and found that its motion was un- 
questionable. The elements of its orbit were soon determined by Pro- 
fessor Gauss, who found that its distance from the sun was nearly the 
same as that of Ceres ; and it received the name of Pallas. 

A comparison of the relative magnitudes of the planetary orbits had 
suggested the existence of an unknown planet revolving between Mars 
and Jupiter. Instead of one planet, however, two had been discovered. 
Olbers remarked that there was a point where the orbits of these two 
bodies approached very near each other ; and he conjectured that they 
might possibly be the fragments of a larger planet, which had been 
split in pieces by some tremendous catastrophe ; and he intimated that 
there might be many more fragments which had not yet been dis- 
covered. He also inferred that, according to this theory, the orbits of 
all the fragments would have two common points of intersection situated 
in opposite parts of the heavens, through which every fi-agment must 
pass in the course of each revolution. He therefore proposed every 
month to search carefully the two points of the heavens in which the 
orbits of Ceres and Pallas were Ibund to intersect each other. The 
speedy discovery of a third planet tended to confirm the truth of this 
hypothesis. 

On the 1st of September, 1804, Professor Harding discovered a small 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 139 

Star very near the place where Olbers had asserted that the fragment^ 
of the shattered planet must all pass. On the evening of the fourth he 
found that the star had changed its place. This planet was named 
Juno. Its orbit was computed by Gauss, who found its distance from 
the sun to coincide nearly with those of Ceres and Pallas. 

Stimulated by this new discovery, Olbers continued with unwearied 
assiduitv to explore the two regions of the heavens already referred to, 
and, after three years of laborious search, his perseverance was crowned 
with success. On the 29th of March, 1807, he discovered a small star 
in a place where none had been found in his previous examinations. 
He soon satisfied himself that this object was a planet; and it received 
the name of Vesta. The elements of the orbit were determined by 
Gauss, who found its distance from the sun to be a little less than that 
of Ceres, Pallas, or Juno. 

Dr. Olbers continued his systematic examination of the heavens until 
1816, but was rewarded by no further planetary discoveries. 

In 1825, a fresh impulse was given to researches of this nature by 
the resolution of the Berlin Academy, to procure the construction of a 
series of charts showing the position of all stars down to the ninth mag- 
nitude situated within fifteen degrees of the equator. Only about two 
thirds of the charts contemplated in this great undertaking have 3'et 
been executed. 

After the discovery of Vesta, succeeded a long interv^al of thirty-eight 
years, during which the excitement created by these first discoveries 
subsided, and the search for new planets was generally abandoned. 

At length, in 1845, a fifth asteroid was announced by an observer 
hitherto unknown to fame, Hencke, of Germany. In 1847, the same 
observer announced a sixth asteroid, and from this time numerous ob- 
servers in every part of Europe devoted much of their time, while some 
devoted nearly all of their energies to the search lor planetary bodies ; 
and discoveries at once multiplied with astonishing rapidity. Three 
new asteroids were discovered in 1847, one in 1848, one in J 849, three 
in 1850, two in 1851, eight in 1852, four in 1853, and six have been 
announced during the year 1854, making at the present time a total of 
thirty-three. Of these thirtv-three ten were first discovered by Mr. 
Hind, of London; seven by Dr. Gasparis, of Naples; three by Luther, 
of Bilk ; while Dr. Olbers, of Bremen, Hencke, of Driesen, Chacornac, 
of Paris, and Goldsmith, also of Paris, have each of them discovered 
two asteroids; and Piazzi, Harding, Graham, Marth, and finally Fer- 
guson, of our own National Observatory, have each discovered one. 
Moreover, in several instances, the same planet has been independently 
discovered by more than one astronomer. 

In scarcely a single instance could these discoveries be termed the 
result of accident. They have been the result of a laborious search 
expressly undertaken for the discovery of these bodies. Mr. Hind, who 
has been the most successful explorer in this field, nearly ten years ago 
commenced comparing the Berlin charts with the heavens, and began 
to map down for himself the stars in other regions of the ecliptic, which 
did not fall within the limits of the Berlin charts. Any discrepancj- 
I between the stars on the maps and the stars in the heavens was care- 
fully scrutinized ; so that if a new star presumed to show itself within 



140 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

the limits of the charts, it was at once pounced upon as an unlicensed 
wanderer. 

The discoveries ot" Gasparis were also made partly by comparing 
the Berlin maps with the heavens, and partly by a series of observa- 
tions in zones of declination, made for the express purpose of finding 
new planets. Nearly all the asteroids have been discovered by a sys- 
tematic comparison of the visible state of the heavens, with the state as 
recorded in charts. 

The rapid discovery of twenty-nine new asteroids, after a barren 
interval of almost forty 5^ears from the discovery of Vesta, is calculated 
to excite surprise; but it is explained by the diminutive size of the new 
planets, and the great increase in the number of observers, as well as • 
the use of more powerful instruments. Vesta appears like a star of 
the sixth magnitude, Pallas of the seventh, while Ceres and Juno are of 
the eighth. Of the twenty-nine asteroids more recently discovered, 
none of them, with perhaps two exceptions, are larger than the ninth 
magnitude, while several are as small as the tenth, and one or two 
scarcely, if ever, rise so high as the tenth magnitude. The reason that 
Olbers was not more successful in his search was that he employed a 
telescope of too feeble power, and did not extend his examination be- 
yond stars of the eighth magnitude. 

Some may conclude that the number of asteroids already known is 
so great that the discovery of additional ones is a matter of no interest, 
and is unworthy the attention of astronomers. I regard the question in 
a very different light. If only one planet had hitherto been discovered 
between Mars and Jupiter, our idea of the simplicity and perfection of 
the solar system would have been satisfied ; and there might have been 
found ingenious minds attempting to prove by a priori reasoning, that 
no other planets could possibly exist, unless beyond the limits of the 
orbit of Neptune. But our theory of the solar s^^stem, altiiough appa- 
rently simple, would not have been the true theory. Every new dis- 
covery shows the solar system to be more complex than we had 
supposed ; and unless we prefer error (provided it has a show of sim- 
plicity) to truth, when it appears to our view complex, we shall value 
every new discovery in the solar system, because it promises to conduct 
us nearer to the true theory of the universe. Every new asteroid 
which is discovered is a new fact to be explained. It presents a new 
test by which every theory is to be tried. The true philosopher, 
instead of regarding the rapidly increasing number of asteroids with 
indifference, will watch each new discovery with growing interest, in 
the hope that it may furnish the key to the true theory of the solar 
system. 

The existence of thirty-three planets revolving round the sun, at dis- 
tances closely allied to each other, and differing from all the other 
planets in their diminutive size, is one of the most singular phenomena 
in our solar system. This fact will appear the more striking if we 
draw a diagram representing the orbits of all the known planets in their 
proper proportions. We shall find that while the orbits of JMercury, 
Venus, the earth, and Mars are quite detached from each other, and 
the orbits of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune are separated by 
intervals which the imagination can scarcely grasp ; between Mars 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 141 

and Jupiter is a cluster of bodies whose orbits are so interlaced as to 
suggest the apprehension of firequent and inevitable collision. The 
orbit of Fortuna approaches the orbit of Metis within less than the 
moon's distance from the earth, while the orbit of Massilia approaches 
almost equally near to the orbit of Astraea, and the orbit of Lutetia to 
that of Juno. 

It is evident then that these thirt3"-three small planets sustain to each 
other a relation different from that of the other members of the solar 
system. We see a family likeness running through the entire group ; 
and it naturall}' suggests the idea of a common origin. This idea, as 
has been already stated, occurred to the mind of Olbers after the dis- 
covery of the second asteroid, and led to his celebrated theory, that all 
these bodies originall}^ constituted a single planet, which had been 
broken into fragments by the operation of some internal force. Have 
we any means of testing the soundness of this theory? 

If the earth should be broken into fragments by the operation of 
some internal force, (such for example as that which causes the erup- 
tion of a volcano,) the fi-agments might be projected in various direc- 
tions, and with ver}' unequal velocities, but each would describe an 
ellipse, of which the sun would occupy one of the foci ; if we except 
the extreme but possible case of a fragment projected with such a ve- 
locity as to carry it beyond the limit of the sun's attraction. If we 
leave out of view the disturbance arising from the mutual attraction of 
the planets, which produces only minute effects, each fragment would 
continue to describe the same ellipse in its successive revolutions about 
the sun; in other w^ords, these ellipses ivotild all have a. common iioiiit of 
intersection. The same conclusion must h(»ld true for the asteroids, 
according to the theory of Olbers. The question, of course, arises, have 
the orbits of the asteroids a common point of intersection ? A single 
glance at a diagi'am of these orbits will settle this question in the nega- 
tive. But it is replied that the orbits of the planets are disturbed by 
their mutual attraction : these orbits should originally have had a com- 
mon point of intersection; but at each revolution they suffer a slight 
displacement, until in the lapse of time the position of the orbits has 
become so completely changed as to leave scarcely a trace of their 
original intersection. Is such a result possible? A few simple consid- 
erations will satisfy us that if the orbits of the asteroids ever had a 
•common point of intersection, such a result must have belonged to a 
period of time indefinitely remote. 

The line in which the plane of a planet's orbit intersects some 
other plane, selected for common reference, is called technically the 
line of the 7iodes. If the asteroid orbits ever had a common point of 
intersection, all the nodal lines upon one of the orbits must have 
coincided. Now, as two of the asteroid orbits are inclined less than 
one degree to the earth's orbit, we will, for greater convenience, em- 
ploy the latter as the plane of reference. On referring to a table of the 
planetary elements, we see that the ascending nodes of the asteroids 
are distributed, though unequally, through the four quadrants of the 
circle. Ten of them lie in the first quadrant, twelve in the second 
quadrant, seven in the third, and four in the fourth. The nodes of all 
the planetary orbits are in constant motion ; but the motion for a single 



142 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

year is extremely small. The annual motion of the node of Mercury 
is ten seconds ; that of Venus is twenty seconds ; Mars twenty-five 
seconds, &c. The most rapid motion tbund in the nodes of any of the 
asteroid orbits, as far as the computation has been made, is about fifty 
seconds a year. If we suppose the nodal hues of all these orbits to 
move steadily toward each other, it would require, in some of them, a 
motion of fiftji seconds a year, continued for more than six thousand 
years, to bring them to a coincidence. 

It must also be observed, that not only must the nodes of all the 
asteroids coincide, but the distance of the planets from the sun must be 
the same at that instant. Now, the distances of these bodies from the 
sun, when at their nodes, differ by more than a hundred millions of 
miles ; so that, to bring them all together, requires something more than 
a change in the position of the nodes. We may bring about a coinci- 
dence in the case of some of the asteroids, by supposing the longer 
diameter of the elliptic orbit to change its position, without disturbing 
the plane of the orbit. Such a change does really take place in the 
case of every planetary orbit, but with none of the larger planets does 
it exceed twenty seconds a year. In the case of one of the asteroid 
orbits, this motion has been found to amount to seventy seconds a j^ear ; 
but, even with this motion, it would require the lapse of five thousand 
years to bring about an intersection in the case of many of the asteroid 
orbits. When, now, it is remembered that, in order to give a common 
point of intersection to these thirty-one orbits, all the nodal lines must 
coincide, and, at the same instant, all the distances from the sun must 
be equal to each other, we must be prepared to admit that such an oc- 
currence could only have taken place myriads of years ago. 

The preceding difficulties, however, are small, in comparison with 
another which remains to be stated. The orbit of Hygeia completely 
encloses the orbit of Flora, and, indeed, several other orbits, and would 
still enclose them, although the greater diameter of each of them were 
revolved through an entire circumference — since the least distance of 
Hygeia from the sun exceeds the greatest distance of Flora. The 
same is true of ThemJs, as compared with Flora, and several other 
orbits. The least distance of Hygeia from the sun exceeds the great- 
est distance of Flora by more than tive7ity-Jive millifms of miles. In order 
to render an intersection of these orbits possible, we must suppose a 
great variation of the eccentricity. But the change of eccentricity of 
the planetary orbits is exceedingly slow, and the present rate of increase 
of the eccentricity of Vesta must be continued twenty- seven thousand 
years, to render the aphelion distance of that planet equal to the peri- 
helion distance of Hygeia. Moreover, the eccentricity of the orbit of 
Vesta is now increasing, which implies that in past ages the interval be- 
tween Vesta and Hygeia must have been greater than it is at pr'esent ; 
whence the conclusion appears irresistible, that the orbits of Vesta and 
Hygeia cannot have intersected for several myriads of years. When the 
secular variations of the elements of each of the asteroids have been 
computed, astronomers will be able to assign a limit of time, beyond 
which the intersection of all the asteroid orbits must have occurred, if, 
indeed, such an intersection ever took place. The discovery of many 
of these bodies is so recent that, as yet, there has not been sufficient 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 143 

time for such a computation ; but, from what we already know, we 
hazard little in venturing the opinion, that when this computation shall 
be made, it will appear that, if the asteroid planets ever composed a 
single body which exploded, as Olbers supposed, such explosion must 
have occurred myriads of ijears ago. Indeed, the discovery of such a 
host of asteroids seems to have stripped the theory of Olbers of nearly 
all the plausibility it possessed when it was originally proposed; audit 
would seem hardly less reasonable to suppose that the earth and Venus 
originally constituted but one body, than to admit the same for the 
thirty-three asteroids. 

But, if we reject thu theory of Olbers, what do we conclude"? That 
the asteroids bear no special relationship to each other ? Do they not 
all clearly indicate a family resemblance? And, if so, how do we ac- 
count for this relationship ? 

There are several reasons for believing in some peculiar relationship 
between the asteroids. 

1. Unlike the other planets of our system, they are all of diminutive 
size — the largest of them hardly exceeding one or two hundred miles in 
diameter. M. Leverrier, after a close examination of the nature and 
amount of the influences exerted by the entire group of asteroids upon 
the planets Mars and the earth, has arrived at the conclusion that the 
sum total of the matter constituting the small planets between Mars and 
Jupiter, including undiscovered as well as known asteroids, caimot ex- 
ceed about one fourth of the mass of the earth. 

2. The asteroids, in their position, occupy a zone entirely distinct 
from the other planets of the solar system. Between the orbits of Ju- 
piter and Saturn, as well as between Saturn and Uranus, is an immense 
interval, furnishing space enough for a host of little bodies to circulate 
around the sun ; but in not a solitary instance has any such body been 
found, except between Mars and Jupiter. Some may attempt to ac- 
count for this circumstance, by saying that astronomers have long been 
watching exclusively this portion of space, and have left all other re- 
gions entirely unexplored. An exploration conducted upon such a prin- 
ciple is simply a physical impossibility. If there were a small planet 
between the earth and Mars, it would have stood the same chance of 
detection, in the explorations of the past ten years, as if it were situated 
between Mars and Jupiter ; and, indeed, it would have stood a better 
chance of detection, inasmuch as it would appear of greater brightness 
on account of its proximity to us. If there were a small planet circu- 
lating between Jupiter and Saturn, it would have stood the same chance 
of detection as if it had been placed this side of Jupiter, except that it 
would appear somewhat fainter on account of its increased distance. 
The fact that we have discovered thirty-three small planets between 
Mars and Jupiter, and not a solitary one in any other portion of the 
solar system, points to something special in this region of the heavens. 
In other words, we have discovered a limited zone of little planetary 
bodies, and have not been able to discover a single body of the same 
class situated out of this zone. 

3. The orbits of these little bodies present some special peculiarities. 
The ascending nodes of the orbits are not distributed uniformly 

through the zodiac. The ascending nodes of twenty-two orbits are 



144 NINTH A.NNUAL REPORT OF 

included within the space of 180 degrees ; while only eleven are left 
for the remaining 180 degrees of the zodiac. A similar remark ap- 
plies to the position of the perihelia. In the first half of the zodiac 
we find twenty-five perihelia, while only eight remain for the other 
half of the circumference. We could not have anticipated any such 
bias in the orbits if they had always been entireh' independent of each 
other. 

4. But the most striking peculiarity of these orbits is, that they all 
lock into one another like the links of a chain, so that if the orbits are 
supposed to be represented materially as hoops, they all hang together 
as one system. The orbits of Hygeia and Themis being the largest 
of all the orbits, completely enclose nearly all of them, and lock into 
but a small number ; while the orbits of Massilia, Astrasa, Pallas, &c., 
lock into nearly all of the orbits, so that if we take hold of the orbit of 
H3'geia, which we fancy to be a material hoop, it will support the orbits 
of Iris, Thalia, Calliope, and two or three others, while these in turn 
lock into and support all the rest. Indeed, if we seize hold of any 
orbit at random, it will drao- all the other orbits along- with it. This 
feature, by itself, sufficiently distinguishes the asteroid orbits from all 
the other orbits of the solar system. 

If we reject the theoiy that these asteroids were originally united 
in one solid body, it seems, nevertheless, difficult to avoid the conclusion 
that similar causes have operated in determining the orbits of this zone 
of planets. It is impossible to assign any cause for these resemblances 
without adopting some theory respecting the origin of the solar s^^stem. 
Tiie theory of gradual condensation, as developed by Laplace in the 
nebular hypothesis, affords at least a plausible explanation of these 
phenomena. 

, Laplace supposes that the matter composing the bodies of our solar 
system, originall}' existed in the condition of an immense nebula, ex- 
tending beyond the limits of the most distant planet — that this nebulous 
mass had an exceedingly elevated temperature, and a slow rotation on 
its axis — that the nebula gradually cooled; and as it contracted in di- 
mensions, its velocity of rotation, according to the principles of me- 
chanics, increased, until the centrifugal force arising from the rotation, 
became equal to the attraction oi' the central mass for the exterior zone, 
when this zone necessarily became detached from the central mass. As 
the central mass continued to contract in its dimensions, and its velocity 
of rotation continued to increase, the centrifugal force again became 
equal to the attraction of the central mass for the exterior zone, and a 
second zone was detached. Thus a number of zones of nebulous 
matter were successively detached until, by gradual condensation, the 
central mass became of comparatively small dimensions and great 
density. 

The zones thus successively detached would form concentric rings 
of vapor, all revolving in the same direction round the sun. If the 
particles of each ring continued to condense without separating from 
each other, they would ultimately form a liquid or a solid ring. But 
generally each ring of vapor would break up into separate masses, 
revolving about the sun with velocities slightly different from each 
other. These masses would assume a spheroidal form : that is, they 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 145 

would form planets in the state of vapor. If one of these masses were 
large enough to attract each of the others in succession to itself, the 
ring of vapor would be converted into a single spheroidal mass of vapor, 
and we should have a single planet of great mass for each zone of 
vapor detached. But if no one of these masses had a preponderating 
size, they would all continue to revolve about the sun in independent 
orbits, and would form a zone of little planets such as we have actually 
discovered between Mars and Jupiter. 

With regard to the actual number of bodies belonging to this zone 
of planets, we can do little more than hazard a plausible conjecture. 
Already we have one asteroid of the sixth magnitude, one of the seventh, 
four of the eighth, eighteen of the ninth, and nine of the tenth or 
eleventh. It would require four hundred bodies as large as the largest 
of the asteroids, to make a body one fourth of the size of the earth ; 
and, according to Leverrier, the snm of all the asteroids cannot ex- 
ceed this limit. When we consider the shortness of the period during 
which stars below the eighth magnitude have been sj'Stematically ob- 
served, we see room for the discovery of several more planets of the 
ninth magnitude, and perhaps three or four hundred more of inferior 
dimensions. 

With such a wonderful field of probable discovery inviting the 
explorations of astronomers, maj' we not hope that the enterprize of 
America will claim its share of the labor of this research? The rapid 
progress which the last few years have witnessed in our country, both 
in the facilities for observation, and in the number of active observers, 
is one of the most encouraging signs of the times. It is scarcely a 
quarter of a century since the first telescope, exceeding those of a 
portable size, was imported into the United States ; and the introduction 
of meridional instruments of the laro;e class is of still more recent date. 
Now we have one telescope which acknowledges no superior ; and we 
have several which would be esteemed worthy of a place in the finest 
observatories of Europe. We have also numerous meridional instru- 
ments of dimensions adequate to be employed in original research. 
These instruments have not been permitted to remain unemployed. 
At the Observatory in this city, and also at Cambridge, extensive cata- 
logues of stars are now in progress ; while neai'ly ever}- known mem- 
ber of our solar system has been repeatedly and carefully observed. 
These observations are all permanently recorded by a simple touch of 
the finger upon a key which closes an electric circuit — a method re- 
centh" introduced at Greenwich Observatory, and known everywhere 
throughout Europe by the distinctive name of the American method. 

Numerous, important, and striking discoveries have been the result 
of this astronomical activity. A host of comets have been indepen- 
dently discovered on this side of the Atlantic ; and among them three, 
at least, were observed here before they were seen in Europe. The 
two nebulce which have been longest and best known, and which 
have attracted the wonderina; o;aze ofeverv astronomer since the inven- 
tion of the telescope, were never adequately figured until an Anjerican 
eye saw them, and an American pencil depicted them. The planet 
Saturn, which, for many years, was made the subject of special study 
by the elder Herschel, with his wonderful means of observation, first 
Mis. Doc. 24 10 



146 • NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

revealed to American scrutiny a new ring, and an eighth satelhte. The 
novel spectacle of a comet divided into two nearly equal portions was 
first witnessed by American eyes ; and an American observer has 
added one to the long list of planetary discoveries. 

It is gratifying to reflect that while the great powers of Europe are 
contending in mortal strife, and misery marks the progress of their 
arms, the astronomers of England are allies not only to the astronomers 
of France, but to those of America, of Germany, and of Russia also. 
The triumphs of science are bloodless and do not endanger the peace 
of nations. Let the New World contend with the Old in a generous 
emulation — not for the conquest of disputed principalities or fortified 
cities — but for a holier and a nobler conquest — the conquest of the 
skies. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 147 

LECTURE in. 



THE AMERICAN FIRE-ALARM TELEGRAPH. 



BY WILLIAM F. CHANNfNG, M. D., OF BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 



There are few positions more imposing than to stand at the capital 
of a country like our own, made up of confederated States, each State 
made up of confederated counties, each county perhaps made up of 
confederated townships ; every part, from the least to the greatest, 
conspiring to form an organized whole — one nation, one people. From 
such a centre it is natural to look abroad over the fair land, at territo- 
ries and commonwealths, at cities and handets, whose interests and 
national life are thus interwoven into one, and to ask what are the 
laws and what the means of organization by which civihzation attains 
these her great ends? It is natural, from such a point of view, to in- 
quire into the general laws of relation by which parts are intelligently 
bound together to form a composite wdiole for some end of use or 
beauty, that is, the laws of relation by which every organization, 
every mechanism, in the high sense of that word, is formed. The 
material universe, with its majestic movements of suns, stars, planets, 
light, heat, winds, tides, seasons, is such a mechanism, actuated 
ever by the infinite Power, shaped and guided by ttie infinite Wis- 
dom, animated by the infinite Love. The power which went forth 
at creation estabhshed the universe, with all its beauty and capacity, 
by the intelligent combination of outward parts. By the marriage of 
elementary atoms, by the joining of lesser unities to form greater, in 
accordance with a principle of absolute order and liarmony, nature 
took her perfect form. With this type of creation ever before us, the 
manifestation of God in his works, let not the word mechanism, if it effects 
only the humblest organization of material elements, appear to us low 
or unworthy. Whoever, in practical science, attains a result of human 
use, by the intelligent combination of outward parts, emulates, in his 
degree, the creative wisdom, which, in the language of an apocr3^phal 
writer, hath made all things b}^ number, measure, and weight. 

In the organization of states and municipalities, the object or end ia 
view, the formative principle, is some ideal of human life and society, 
some thought or aspiration for freedom, justice, brotherhood ; but the 
embodiment of these is an outward frame- work of civilization, the 
highest mechanism to which human thought and human hands have 
ever been applied, requiring the periect relation of parts, and methods 
of communication and intercourse arranged and governed by an ab- 
solute law of order. It is here that Science becomes the great instru- 
ment of Civilization. 

In the early histor}^ of this country, the thirteen colonies stretched 
along the sea-coast, and commerce joined their interests and estabhsiied 
a common circulation between them. The sailing vessel — the clipper- 
schooner — then measured the possible rate of intercourse and capacity 



148 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

of co-operation between those States. A languid life existed ; a weak 
Confederacy in the outset was formed, proportioned to their outward 
means of communication and organization. A few centuries earlier 
than this, before navigation and other arts of locomotion had made 
much progress, each settlement on the coast would have been the 
centre of a small jurisdiction, with still less power of co-operation or 
union with its neighbors; science would have slept; events would have 
been slow ; the human mind, for the most part, stagnant; civilization in 
abeyance; man isolated in industry and social sympathy from his fellow 
man. 

At the time of the formation of the American Constitution our fathers 
looked with anxiety at what seemed to them an immense territory, 
though now but a small fraction of this republic, and asked if veins and 
arteries could ever ramify through this body politic, and interfuse the 
whole system with a common lite-blood. To increase the difficulty 
and danger, new territory was added, new States in the interior of the 
country came in ; but, at the same time, the genius of civilization and 
the providence of God gave to us the realization of the dream of the 
poet in the invention of the steamboat. A new means of relating men 
to each other, of combining their industry, of introducing the era of peace 
and good will upon earth, was discovered. Wherever the great rivers 
penetrated the heart of the continent, there quick communication could 
be had with the centres of government, industry, and commerce 
throughout the land. 

A tew years later, and our population, with the instinct 5f freedom, 
spread still further over the prairies and into the wilderness. The na- 
tion was again outgrowing its means of intercommunication and com- 
mon life, when the railroad and steam-car were invented, and again the 
continuance of the commonwealth became possible ; the confederated 
republic had a new lease of lite by virtue of the application of science 
to civilization. 

Still later our empire spread to the Pacific and stretched three thou- 
sand miles across the American continent. Different oceans washed its 
two shores. Our faces on the Atlantic coast were turned eastward, 
our brothers on the Pacific looked westward, and the Rocky mountains 
rose between. By steamboat or railroad, weeks must now intervene in 
the communication between distant parts of this mighty organization of 
confederated municipalities and States. The veins and arteries were 
provided, but the living nation had yet no nervous S3^stem to flash com- 
munication firom one part to another, and to combine the whole into an 
organized body, which might, in its capacity for future expansion, 
include the whole race, and inhabit the whole earth. Before this 
time of need had fully arrived, the electric telegraph received its most 
important development, and was introduced into America. 

The electric telegraph is thus the nervous system of this nation and 
of modern society, by no figure of speech, by no distant analogy. Its 
vv'ires spread like nerves over the surface of the land, interlinking dis- 
tant parts, and making possible a perpetually higher co-operation 
among men, and higher social forms than have hitherto existed. By 
means of its Ufe-hke functions the social body becomes a living whole, 
and each of its new applications marks a step in the organization of hu- 
man life. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 149 

We are thus conducted to the result of the highest philosophy : that 
society, in its form of organization, is human, and that it presents in its 
progressive development continually higher analogies with the laws of 
individual being. In passing from these general principles to scientific 
detail, in the illustration of the municipal fire-telegraph, we shall find 
some of these analogies presenting themselves in still more definite and 
striking forms, thereby setting their seal of confirmation on the natural 
arrangement of the system of telegraphic organization, which is the spe- 
cial subject of the lecture this evening. 

Soon after the first introduction of the electric telegraph into this 
country, I conceived the idea of the municipal telegraph, as distin- 
guished from the common form of telegraph connecting distant places. 
The telegraph, as you know, usually consists of a galvanic batter}^ or 
generator of electricity in one city or town, and insulated wires or elec- 
trical conductors going out thence and proceeding to a register or tele- 
graphic instrument in another city or town, which instrument indicates 
every electrical wave or impulse that is sent over the wires from the 
distant extremity of the line. This requires that there shall always be 
what is called a, "circuit" of electrical conductors — that is, that the 
electric current shall have the opportunit}^' of going out from one pole of 
the battery, through one conductor to the distant register, and returning 
through another conductor to the other pole of the battery. When this 
"circuit" is completed, an electrical wave or current immediately be- 
gins to pass through the conductors, though they may be hundreds of 
miles in l?3ngth ; and when the "circuit" is broken anywhere, it ceases 
to pass. All telegraphic signalizing is thus effected by alternately 
completing and breaking the circuit at suitable intervals. 

The municipal telegraph, while it employs the same essential condi- 
tions, adopts a very different arrangement. Its function is not to con- 
nect distant towns or independent centres of life and activity with each 
other, but it is to organize a single city or town so as to bring every 
subordinate part into relation with its centre of government and direc- 
tion. Its purpose is to multiply points of communication, to cover the 
surface of the municipal body as thickly, if you please, with telegraphic 
signalizing points as the surface of the human body is covered with 
nervous extremities or papillre, the whole being intelligently connected 
into a system by which the municipal body shall understand itself in 
ever}^ part, and shall have a common life and vital lunclions lor its own 
essential purposes. 

The common telegraph is linear — it is a "line" of telegraph. The 
municipal telegraph is the application of the telegraph to a surface, 
making it cover a space with telegraphic nerves and papillas as thickh/ 
as required, to furnish a complete organization. The common telegraph 
connects distant points, as its very name implies, the more distant the 
better to illustrate its character. The municipal telegraph contemplates 
the linking together of a multitude oi'near points, the nearer the belter 
to illustrate the peculiarity of the system. The common telegraph con- 
nects two independent centres of life and activit}^ The municipal tele- 
graph connects a multitude of subordinate points with one centre, and 
makes the position of those points dependent upon the centre and the 
needs of the system. 



150 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

The occurrence of a fire in a city is one of the exigencies In which 
rapid and intelh'gent co-operation is necessary between the members of 
the municipal body. As our warehouses, manufactories, and public 
buildings are constructed, the extent of a conflagration depends to a 
great extent upon whether it is reached by the fire department within a 
short time or not. The first ten minutes in directing the alarm is 
worth hours afterwards. In organizing a system of fire alarms it be- 
comes, therefore, necessary that every locality in a city shall have the 
means in its immediate neighborhood of notifying the existence of a fire. 
In order that this may be done systematically and under organic direc- 
tion, it is necessary that this notification should be sent, in the first in- 
stance, to a common centre, which will naturally be at the city hall; 
and it is further necessary that the means should exist of giving thence 
an instantaneous, definite, and fuhl'ic alarm of fire. 

The first requisite for a fire telegraph is certainly in its means of 
communication. What, then, are the safeguards of the municipal tele- 
graph by which its indications may be made always reliable, and by 
which interruption, by accident or design, maybe rendered improbable 
or impossible ? These are the use of strong well-insulated wires, car- 
ried over the houses and attached to lofty and well selected buildings ; 
the use of duplicate wires, following different routes, between all the 
stations, so that if one wire is broken from any cause, another and dis- 
tant wire may still continue the circuit; and the dispensing entirely 
with the use of the ground as any part of the circuit, as used in com- 
mon telegraph lines. Instead, also, of using, in a municipal t'elegraph, 
one great circuit which should traverse a whole city, a number of lesser 
circuits may be used, radiating from the centre, like the petals of a 
flower; so that if one circuit should be interrupted, all the others would 
still be intact and operative. These safeguards prove sufficient in 
practice to make the municipal telegraph the most certain means of 
communication which has yet been devised, under all conditions of 
weather and season. 

In June, 1845, nearly ten years ago, I first published a notice of the 
fire-alarm telegraph, involving, essentially, the principles and safe- 
guards upon which it bas since been constructed. No definite action 
was taken upon it until 1848, when the subject was brought before the 
city government of Boston by the mayor, and two machines for striking 
the city bells from a distance, by means of the telegraph, were con- 
structed under direction of Moses G. Farmer, esq., one of the ablest 
and most ingenious telegraphic engineers in the country.* One of 
these machines was placed in the belfry of the Boston city hall and 
connected with the line of telegraph extending to New York. Under 
these circumstances the operator in New York, by tapping on his finger- 
key, struck the bell on the city hall a number of times, and, according 
to the newspapers of that day, thus originated a false alarm of fire in 
Boston. Tliis was the first illustration of the capacities of the fire- 
alarm telegraph. 

The matter slept, however, till 1851, wlien I brought the system 

* These original machines were exhibited, with otiier apparatus, in delivering this lecture ; 
but for the sake of connexion, reference to the experimental illustrations will be excluded 
from this written report. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 151 

formally, and with specific plans, before the city government of Boston, 
and urged their action as due to science and to the pubhc interest. 
This city government, unhke many others, induced only by the state- 
ment of scientific truth, voted ten thousand dollars to test a system 
wholly untried, and without precedent in the world. The mechanism 
and construction were placed in the hands of Moses G. Farmer, esq., 
and in 1852 were brought by him into thorough and successful opera- 
tion. The American fire-alarm telegraph, in its development as a 
practical system of organization, tested now for nearly three years, 
should thus always be ascribed to Mr. Farmer equally with myself". 

It has been stated that the conditions of the fire-alarm telegraph re- 
quire that information should, in the first place, come in from any part 
of the circumference or surface of a city to its centre, and that thence 
an alarm should go out in a definite form to the public. The organiza- 
tion of a city under the system is as follows : 

From the central station, at the city hall, go out wires over the 
house-tops, visiting every part of the city, and returning again. These 
are the signal circuits, by which the existence of a fire is signalized 
from any part of the surface of the city to the centre. Strung on these 
circuits, or connected with them, are numerous signal boxes, or signal- 
izing points, of which there ma}- be one at the corner of every square. 
These are cast-iron, cottage-shaped boxes, attached to the sides of" the 
houses, communicating, by means of wires enclosed in a wrought-iron 
gas-pipe, with the signal circuit overhead. On the door of each signal- 
box the number of the fire district, and also the number of the box or 
station itself, in its district, are marked, and the place in the neighbor- 
hood where the key-holder may be found is also prominently notified. 
On opening the door of the signal-box a crank is seen. When this is 
turned it communicates to the centre the number of the fire district and 
of the box, and nothing else. Repeated turns give a repetition of the 
same signal. By this means any child or ignorant person who can 
turn a coffee-mill can signalize an alarm from his own neighborhood 
with unerring certainty. 

Connected with the signal circuits at the central office, where they 
all converge, are a little alarm-bell and a register, which notifies and 
records the alarm received from the signal-box. The galvanic bat- 
tery which supplies all the signal circuits is also placed at the central 
station. If a fire occurs near signal-box or station 5, in district 3, and 
the crank of that box is turned, the watchman or operator at the cen- 
tral station will immediately be notified by the little bell, and will read 
at once on his register the telegraphic characters which signify district 
3, station 5. The characters used in the fire telegraph are a group of 
dots to indicate the district number — as three dots for district 3, and a 
group of dots and lines to indicate, by arbitrary characters, the station 
number. Thus a line and two dots may indicate station 5. These 
alternate on the record, and are repeated as often as the crank is 
turned. 

The register used at the central station is generally the Morse regis- 
ter; which I recommend, in connexion with the system, as being most 
in harmony with its principle of operation. 

We have traced the alarm of fire from a sio;nal-box into the central 



152 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Station. How shall the' alarm be given from that centre to the public? 
From the central station proceed also several circuits of wires, called 
alarm circuits, which go to the various fire-bells throughout the city, 
and which are connected with striking machines similar in character 
to the striking machinery of a clock, but liberated by idcgra'ph. The 
operator at the central station is enabled, by the mere touch of his fin- 
ger upon a key, to throw all the striking machines into simultaneous 
action, and thus give instantaneous public alarm. 

By what precise mechanism is this effected at the alarm-bell sta- 
tions ? The heavy hammers may be raised above the bells by any 
force which can be conveniently applied, as by a weight which may be 
wound up by hand. But in all cities where the water is confined under 
pressure in the mains, it will supply, by means of the eccentric water 
engine, known familiarly under the name of the " water meter," the 
power necessary to wield the heavy hammers with the greatest facility. 
But liow are hammers of one or two hundred pounds weight to be 
tripped by telegraph? To effect this readil}^ Mr. Farmer invented his 
electro-magnetic escapement, one of the most beautiful and original of 
recent mechanical applications. In this escapement the electro-mag- 
net, when it becomes charged by the galvanic influence received from 
the central station, attracts the little piece of soft iron or armature in 
front of it, which supports a small lever poised nearly verticall}^ and 
weighted with a little ball at its upper end. This lever and ball, when 
tripped by the withdrawal of the armature, acquires sufficient mo- 
mentum to strike up the detent of the train of wheels whicli, in their 
revolution, raise the hammer and then allow it to fall. A single blow 
of the hammer follows each electrical impulse sent from the central 
station, and the revolution of the train of wheels raises also the falling 
lever into its place and catches it again on tlie armature lever, ready 
to be disengaged or tripped for another blow. 

At the central station, connected with the alarm circuit, is a galvanic 
battery and an instrument for completing the circuit of that battery, 
called the district keyboard. This is constructed with several keys, 
corresponding to the numbers of the fire districts in the city. If you 
depress any of these the machinery inside commences to move, and the 
circuit is completed at such intervals as to strike and repeat on the 
distant alarm .bells the district number represented by that key with 
suitable pauses between. 

We supposed that the operator at the central station received the 
signal of fire from district 3, station 5. He now places his finger on 
the key of district 3, in the keyboard. Instantly all the alarm bells in 
the city begin to strike s3aichronously the district number three^ and 
continue, no matter what their number or what the weight of their 
hammers, so long as that single finger rests on that key. 

But the operator has a finger key before him connected with the 
signal circuits, by which he can answerback and strike a little electro- 
magnet, armature, and bell, enclosed in each signal box. He has re- 
ceived a signal of fire from district 3, station 5. While his hand rests 
on the key of district 3 he taps occasionally j^yfi times on the return key 
of the signal circuits, which I have just described. The little bell in 
each signal box, at the corner of every square, strikes jive. The fire- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 153 

man listens to the public alarm bells and gets from them the number 
of the district ; he runs by the nearest signal box and listens a moment 
to gather the station number from its littl^ signal bell, and he now 
knows that the fire is at district three, station five. He directs his own 
motions and his engine, from the start, to within, perhaps, one hundred 
yards of the fire. 

No other system has ever attempted to locahze a fire more precisely 
than by the district number ; and in some cities, hke New York, the 
districts may be two miles long. 

In all previous systems there has been a delay, first in getting an 
alarm from the fire to the bells, and, second, in finding the place of the 
fire in the district after the alarm was given, and reaching it by the 
shortest route. By the fire telegraph both district and station are pub- 
hcly notified; the one by the alarm bells, the other by the signal boiKes. 

Let us now consider tor a moment the analogy between the munici- 
pal organization thus described and the nervous organization of the in- 
dividual. A coal of fire falls upon my hand; one of the nervous ex- 
tremities, or papillae, the " signal box" of the part, sends instantW its 
own special signal, by means of a nerve of sensation or signal wire to 
the brain, where the existence and locality of the lesion is at once re- 
cognized. An act of intelligence and volition ensues. The watchman 
d'the central station, or brain, does his part. An impulse to motion is 
sent out over the proper motor nerves, or alarm wires, and muscles are 
called into play in a suitable manner to remove the cause of injury, just as 
the electro-magnetic muscles and iron limbs in the bell towers are 
thrown into suitable and related action to the original cause and place 
of alarm. 

Tile telegraph, in its common form, communicating intelligence be- 
tween distant places, performs the function of the sensitive nerves of the 
human body. In the fire telegraph it is made to act for the first time 
in its motor lunction, or to produce effects of power at a distance; and 
this is also connected with the sensitive function, through a brain or 
central station, which is the reservoir of electric or nervous power for 
tie whole system. We have thus an " excito-motory" systen?, in 
which the inteUigence and vohtionofthe operator at the central station 
come in to connect sensitive and motor functions, as they would in the 
case of the individual. 

The conditions of municipal organization absolutely compelled the 
relation of circuits which has been described. The analogy with the 
laws of individual life was not perceived until after the system was 
evolved, and it came then as a confirmation of the correspondence of 
tlie system to natural law, and of the necessity of the arrangement as 
a means of order. 

I should not be precluded from saying in this place, what historic 
truth at this time requires, that the development of the " motor lunc- 
tion" of electricity, or of the means by which electro-magnetic power 
can be exerted at a distance, is due to the early experiments of the 
Secretar}^ of this Institution, Professor Henr}^ whose discoveries in 
electro-magnetism and especially of the quantity and intensity ot the 
magnet in 1830, laid the foundation for all subsequent forms of the 
electro-magnetic telegraph, and made subsequent steps comparatively 



154 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

easy. In the publication of these experiments, the induction of the 
electric telegraph as thenceforth possible was distinctly made by him ; 
and at a period not much, later, wei^^hts were released and bells rung 
by him at a distance by electric influence transmitted through long 
conductors. 

In Boston, where the fire-alarm telegraph has been in successful ope- 
ration for nearly three years, a star of wires is seen radiating from the 
top of the city building. These are the signal circuits connecting into 
one system forty-six signal boxes scattered over the city, and the alarm 
circuits connecting twenty-four belfries on church, school and engine 
houses. A few large bells would be preferable to this multiplicity of 
smaller ones, but this whole number are struck by the touch of a single 
man's finger in the central station. For the sake of economy in battery 
power, the district keyboard is so arranged as to throw the battery on 
the four alarm circuits separately, but in rapid succession at each blow. 
Practically, the bells strike together or as much so as is desirable. At 
night, sometimes out of the prolbundest stillness, the district number 
will suddenly strike upon the ear in a chime of perhaps eight or ten 
bells, their sound coming in one after the other in proportion to their 
distance from the ear, but always in an invariable succession at each 
blow. Then the alarm ceases and the whole city is as suddenly silent. 
The operator at the central station is sometimes able to throw the 
bells on, and tap back to the signal boxes before the originator of the 
alarm has ceased to turn his crank in the immediate neighborhood of 
the fire. As soon as the bells strike, groups of persons will be seen 
clustering round each signal box to listen to the tapping of the station 
number, and it is soon known to the whole fire department exactly 
where the alarm originated. 

The battery employed on the Boston signal circuits is Farmer's 
protected Grove's battery, which keeps in action several weeks or 
even months without being replenished. Instead of a galvanic battery 
on the alarm circuits, a large magneto-electric machine has been re- 
cently substituted, which is driven by a water meter, and which fur- 
nishes the electric current by which the bells are rung. 

The heaviest hammer in the system at Boston weighs one hundred 
pounds, and it is wielded by the Cochituate water at an expense of 
only one gallon for each blow, and tripped by telegraph from a chstance 
of two miles. By virtue of the electric current and the pent up water, 
this bell, and others associated with it, might be rung in measured 
strokes from the beginning to the end of the year by the pressure of a 
single man's finger in a distant room. 

All of the stations in Boston are provided with " lightning catchers" 
or ground conductors for atmospheric or induced electricity. Hence 
an incidental protection from lightning commensurate with the extent 
of the network of wires above is obtained tor the city. When these 
ground conductors have been temporarily removed from the alarm-bell 
stations, a flash of lightning has been occasionally followed by a single 
blow from one or more of the bells. But where the lightning catchers 
have been in place, they have proved sufficient, except in rare instances, 
to divert atmospheric or induced currents from the electro-magnets 
to the ground. No practical or serious inconvenience has resulted 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 155 

from this source. But it hns occasionally been a matter of curiosit\- 
and interest to hear the lightning thus tolHng the alarm bell. 

The total loss by fire under the telegraph fire-alarm s3-st.em, accord- 
ing to the accurate " Report of the Boston Fire Department for the year 
1854," was only $150,772, or less than one dollar for every inhabitant; 
a loss which, for its small amount in so compact and wealthy a city, 
cannot be paralleled in America. 

Out of 195 alarms of fire in Boston in 1854, twelve are recorded as 
false ; but at least six of these were from supposed fires, leaving only 
six unaccounted for. The whole number of alarms and the proportion 
of false alarms have been greatly diminished by the system. Science 
can make no contribution to civilization without the requisite social 
conditions. The trust of the fire telegraph system, in this case was 
placed in the hands of the citizens, and it has yielded to them its full 
fruits without abuse. This may deserve perhaps to be chronicled as 
an instance of well revv^arded confidence in the sobriety and capacity for 
self-government of the American people. The signal box, which is the 
sensitive extremity of the system, may beprotected by various methods 
according to social requirements. In Boston it has been guarded by 
putting it in the most public place and exposing it to the fullest hght. 

The fire-alarm telegraph contains also the elementsof a perfect police 
system. In addition to the crank for alarm, every signal box is provi- 
ded with a finger key, by means of which communications in the ordinary 
telegraphic method can be sent to the central station, and an answer 
can be returned from the centre and read by sound from the little bell 
in the signal box. 

The mechanism of the fire telegVaph is arranged and disposed for 
the purpose of preserving wealth, the fruit of human industry and of 
nature's bounty, from destruction. It therefore accomplishes an end of 
human use. But more than this, it is a higher system of municipal 
organization than any which has heretofore been proposed or adopted. 
In it the New World has taken a step in the forms of civilization in 
advance of the Old. 



156 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



LECTURE V. 



BY PROFESSOR HENRY REED, OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA. 



[The publication of these lectures will awaken in the sympathizing 
hearts of many of their readers a painful reminiscence of" the loss in 
the Arctic of their amiable and gifted author.] 

THE UNION. 

FIRST LECTURE. 

The subject upon which I propose to address you is the growth of 
th'e American Union during the colonial era of our history. In treating 
such a subject, at the present time, it is my desire to say, in the first 
place, that I shall purposely forbear speaking of the Union as it now 
exists, with its manifold and countless blessings, its present estate, and 
its prospects. It is the retrospect which I intend to turn to, and in 
that retrospect there is abundance both of admonition and encourage- 
ment lor all after time, much to inspire a thoughtful loyalty to the 
Union, and a deep sense of responsibility for each generation coming 
to live within that Union, and to transmit it unimpaired to posterity, 
such as it has grown lo be, not by man's will or sagacity, but by the 
providential government of the world, which may be traced in the his- 
tory of our race. 

In speaking of history as making manifest such providential govern- 
ment of the world, I do but recognise and follow one of the highest 
principles which we owe to the improved culture of historical science 
in the present century. That improvement is not alone in more labo- 
rious and dutiful habits of research, in the more studious use of origi- 
nal documents, but in a truer philosophy of history, not such as in a 
former age, arrogating the title of philosophy, contracted its vision 
within the scant range of scepticism, but a philosophy which reverently 
traces on the annals of the human race marks of more than human 
agency — an overruling Providence. As in that wliich is especial!}' de- 
nominated '■^sacred history" the purposes of the Creator are expressly 
revealed, so in that which is styled, in contradistinction, ^'- iirofane his- 
tory," as purposes of the same Creator must needs exist, the thought- 
ful student may gain at least some glimpses of them, and yet refi-ain 
all the while from rash interpretation of the Divine will in the guidance 
and government of man and of the races of man to whom the earth is 
parcelled out. 

It becomes more practicable to trace the providential purposes 
when we look over long tracts of time. The history of Rome, for in- 
stance, with its twelve centuries of growth, and decay, and ruin — in one 
point of view, what is it but a purposeless record of strile, external 
and internal — conquest and the domestic feud of patrician and plebiin — 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 157 

and ended, at last, like an unsubstantial pageant, leaving no influence 
behind it ; but, in another point of view, it becomes a more intelligible 
memorial of the life of a nation that had a destiny to fulfil, an appointed 
work to do — to build up a system of law which should enter into mod- 
ern European and American jurisprudence, and with its strong Pagan 
power to pave a path for Christianity to travel into the vast regions 
which at one time were included within Roman dominion. 

Now, turning to American history, and especially that portion of it 
which is devoted to the Union, it is possible, I believe, to place the 
events in such combinations, to discover in them such a concurrent 
tendency, as to leave no room to question that those events were con- 
trolled as the secondary causes of the results to which form was given 
in our system of government. From the latter part of the last cen- 
tury — from the year of the adoption of the Constitution of the United 
States of America, with its primar}^ purpose of forming a more iierfcct 
union, back into the century of English colonization, back still earlier 
to the years of discovery, and even earlier yet to those remote centu- 
ries in which, many generations before Columbus or Cabot, European 
eyes, we may beJieve, beheld this continent for the first time — through- 
out tliat long tract of lime there is, I do not fear to say, a tendency 
more or less visible towards the future results, and not least among 
those results towards this Union. That tendency may be traced both 
in what was frustrated and in what has been achieved ; so that all things 
seem to lead to this result, the predominance in North America of one 
European race, and that race the race which speaks the English tongue. 
I thus entitle it for the want of a better and briefer name. The title 
^'^ Anglo-Saxon''' is hardly adequate or expressive enough for a breed of 
men in whose veins there runs the mingled current of Saxon and Nor- 
man blood, perhaps of ancient British, Celtic, Roman, and Danish 
blood. From the earliest time in which intercourse began between the 
eastern and western hemispheres down to our own day, the great move- 
ment has been the extension of what may be called Saxondom — a part 
of that larger movement, not confined t© N#i;th America, bat extending 
to southern Africa, to India from Ceylon to its northern mountains, 
and to Australia and the islands in the distant seas — the movement 
which is carrying the language and the laws of our race widely over 
the earth. 

My present purpose is to look at this movement as it has a connexion 
with American history, and especially with the Union; and, without 
attempting in any way to make historical facts bend to hypothesis, to 
show that the history of discovery, the history of colonization and of 
colonial government, all establish this historical truth, that the work of 
laying the foundation of a great political system in North America was 
reserved for the race that speaks the English language, by whatever 
name we may choose to call that race ; further, that, in order to de- 
velop so essential a part of that system as the union of a federal repub- 
lic, the work was reserved for liie English race at a particular period 
of their history in the mother country. Thus it is to remote causes 
that we are to trace that political power which animates a government 
extending from the lakes to the Gulf of Mexico, and from the Atlantic 
to the Pacific. 



158 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

It seems to me that there is no consideration better calculated to 
deepen in the mind of every reflecting citizen a reverence for the Union 
than a just sense of its origin ; and that is to be acquired by the studious 
asking and answering of this question, How was this Union formed? 
Has the origm of the Union a date — a day or a year? Can we find its 
epoch — as of independence, or of fhe confederation, or of the Constitu- 
tion? Was it done in convention? Did men come together by some dele- 
gated authority and deliberate in solemn council, and ordain a Union? 
Never. It was the work of time, the natural consequence of events, a 
growth from circumstances, or whatever other phrase may be used as a 
substitute for an express acknowledgment of a Providence in the destinies 
of mankind. It is not possible to trace the Union to any premeditated 
plan, the idea of any one man, or the concert of any body of men. You 
can find no authority to pronounce it the direct product of human fore- 
sight, of political wisdom and experience. You cannot point to any 
day in our history, and say that on such a day Union existed, and on 
the day before there was nothing of the kind. In truth the Union was 
not made, il grew. It grew as the tree grows, planting its roots deeper 
and deeper, and lifting its branches stronger and stronger and higher 
and higher, its vital forces coursing upward and outward to its lightest 
leaf. The Union grew as the forest grows, and the seed was not sown 
by man's hand. This element of government is at the same time an 
element of national character. It is part of the life of Saxon liberty, 
and it came with the Saxon race to be developed and expanded in a 
land which seems to have been reserved to be the Saxon's heritage. 

Whatever may have been accomplished when European enterprise 
began its work on this continent with those long unknown or forgotten 
discoveries of the Scandinavian navigators, who, 500 years before Col- 
umbus, were the first to behold these western shores, those obscure 
voyages left no abiding influence here. The Northman had no distinct 
destiny here ; and idle as it would be now to speculate on such a fu- 
ture as there might have been if Scandinavian discovery had been fol- 
lowed by conquest and softie n»ent, one cannot help thinking how fruit- 
less would have been the strife between the savage 7iadve races and the 
fierce uncivilized barbarians of the northern seas. This land was not 
meant for the Northman's home. The voyages of the eleventh and 
twelfth centuries passed away, leaving no trace behind them, and, 
what was more important, leaving the land open to the enterprise of 
other and distant generations who had a destiny here. 

When, in the fi{tef:nth century, the south of Europe was stirred by 
the spirit of maritime adventure, and Portugal took the lead in it, the 
enterprise of that kingdom found a southern and not a western direction, 
in the voyages along the western coast of Africa, planned by that re- 
markable personage. Prince Henry (a Plantagenet by the mother's 
side, let me say in passing.) This land was not given to the race of 
Portugal first, though they were among modern discoverers. 

When Spain slowly followed the career of which the neighboring 
kingdom had set the example, and when Columbus had nearly crossed 
the Atlantic, steering due westward to the continent of North America, 
then only a few days' sail distant, a flight of b>rds, as is familiarly re- 
membered from the well known story, were seen winging their way 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 159 

across the course of the vessels, and the great navigator following those 
pilots of the air south westward, lost the continent, and the power of 
Spain was planted only on the islands. As a flight of birds gave, ac- 
cording to the legend, augury for the first doings of Rome's history, so 
in another way it has a place in our earliest annals. Again, on his 
second voyage, the path of Columbus lay among the islands; and when 
the papal power was invoked to determine the disputes between Spain 
and Portugal, respecting their rights of discovery, and Alexander VI ad- 
judged his famous partition, which seems to appropriate to these two 
contending powers all that was discovered, and all that was to be dis- 
covered in the new world — soon after this exercise of power, (more 
than human by one less than human in the crimes that have made the 
name of Borgia infamous,) soon after, the sovereign of a country which 
held slacker allegiance to Rome, gave the commission to the Cabots, 
and that authority, which has been well styled " the oldest American 
State paper," set the Saxon foot upon this soil, the first of European 
feet to touch the continent. The land was not meant, either by claim 
of discovery or by papal gift, to be the Spaniards' home. The two 
small English vessels which had cleared from Bristol, "with authority 
to sail to all parts of the east, west, and north, under the royal banners 
and ensigns, to discover countries of the lieathen, unknown to Chris- 
tians, to set up the king's banner there, to occupy and possess, as his 
subjects, such places as they could subdue, with rule and jurisdiction," 
coasting along perhaps some thirty degrees of latitude, from Labrador 
to Virginia, gave to an English race their title here. Thus early, 
within a very few years after the beginning of western discovery in the 
fifteenth century, was laid the foundation of future dominion; tor what- 
ever other European races might thereafter seek a home on this portion 
of the continent, it would be only for such partial or temporary occupa- 
tion as would sooner or later be absorbed in the occupations by that 
race which was then, in that era, the first to touch the mainland. It 
was thus that the way was prepared to make the country the heritage 
of that race which speaks the English tongue, a race in whose institu- 
tions the name of people was never lost, whether in their furthest anti- 
quity in the forests of Germany, or under Saxon, Danish, or Norman 
rule, after their migration to Britain, whether under the kingly confed- 
eracy of the Saxon, or under the power of the strongest Norman sover- 
eigns, Plantagenet or Tudor ; so that, with the popular element ever 
present, every poHtical struggle has been either to regain something 
lost, or to expand and improve some ancient right. 

In studying the originating influences of our institutions, political and 
judicial, there can be no question, I believe, but that the first influence 
is to be sought in the character of the race. Powers and habits of 
thought and feehng come to us with our blood, and extend to all who 
come within the range of their influence. We have but expanded 
what the Saxon began more than a thousand years ago, before, indeed, 
the races of the north had a history of their own or a place in the his- 
tory of the more civilized south. The influence of race is most obvious 
when we think of the inheritance of the common law, or such a special 
tradition, from unknown origin, as the trial by jury. My present pur- 
pose is to trace the agency of the same principle, I mean the influence 



160 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

of r;ice, where it is less apparent, in that part of our political s3'Steni 
whicli is expressed by the term "the Union, " and then to follow it 
onward through the processes of colonization and the course of colonial 
government. 

The question to be considered is, what element was there in the An- 
glo-Saxon character and institutions, which, being transplanted to this 
country, and being left to ireer and more unrestrained action, would 
facilitate the formation of a federal government, of a Union ? Such an 
element is to be found in the tendency to local self-government, which is 
characteristic of the race, and is conspicuous in the history of their 
institutions. This is a tendency the very reverse of that which is 
described by such terms as '■^centralization'''' or ^'■consolidation.'''' Saxon 
freedom has, no doubt, been held chiefly on the tenure of this principle, 
that the central power of the State has always recognised a great va- 
riety of local powers. Even with regard to metropolitan influences, 
how obvious is it that London has never been to Ensi;land what Paris 
has been and is to France, whether royal, imperial, or republican 
France. It has been justly said that " centralization and active life 
pervading the whole body are hard to reconcile ; he who should do this 
perfectly would have established a perfect government. * * It 
seems to be a law that life cannot long go on in a multitude of 
minute parts without union ; nay, even without something of that very 
centralization which yet, if not well watched, is so apt to destroy the 
parts by absorbing their life into its own ; there must be a heart in the 
political as in the natural body to supply the extremities continually 
with fresh blood." — (Arnold.) 

Now, throughout the whole history of our race — the race that speaks 
the English tongue here and in England, during the three score years 
of our Constitution, during the brief existence of the confederation, 
during the contentional colonial period between 17G3 and 177G, and 
duiing the earlier colonial times, or, in the mother-country, during the 
various eras of the history of the race there — ^it has been the combina- 
tion of these two principles — the principle of centralization and tlie 
principle of local independence — that has distinguished the j^race, that 
has made its power, its safety, and its freedom. Political strength 
and health have been in the just distribution and harmony ot" these 
powers, having an archetype, it may be said, in the tranquil and per- 
petual harmony of the solar system — the noiseless on-goings of the 
stars. In the political system of the Saxon — royal or republican — the 
danger has ever been in any excess of either the centripetal force on 
the one hand, or the centrifugal on the other. Whatever variations 
there may have been from time to time, this may, I beheve, safely be 
pronounced the great Saxon characteristic — a habit of local govern- 
ment, exercised in a certain subordination, or rather relation, to a central 
government. And further, it would not be difficult to discover in such 
distribution of power in local institutions much of the discipline, the 
training for more expanded opportunities of government, which has 
helped onward what appears to be the destiny of the race. Observe how, 
after the Saxon occupation of Britain, the conquered territor}", small 
comparatively in extent, was divided into several petty kingdoms — 
those loosely compacted kingly commonwealths which were to form 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 161 

the heptarchy ; and again, how each of these was parcelled out into 
those various divisions, the counties, shires, hundreds, tithin,2;s, and 
other partitions, the origin of which perplex the antiquarian. The old 
Saxon spirit of local independence and authority animated the local 
institutions, assemblies, tribunals of various kinds, with an energy that 
never could have been developed under a strongly controlling central 
power. 

When the Norman conqueror sought to complete the subjugation of 
England, by introducing the laws and institutions of his own country, 
and a rigorous establishment of the feudal system, all this Saxon variety 
of law, of usage, of manners, and of men, was a perpetual hindrance, 
which it was part of the conquest to do away with. The conqueror's 
strong hand was laid on the free diversities which the Saxon had been 
used to of old, for conquest, dominion, empire, demanded more of a 
submissive uniformity ; and accordingly, as an instance of it, we find 
the conqueror introducing, for the aihninistration of justice, an office 
unknown to the Saxon — the office of chief justiciar. The biographer 
of the English Chief Justices remarks, in the opening sentence ot his 
work : 

" The office of Chief Justice, or Chief Justiciar, was introduced into 
England by William the Conqueror, from Normandy, where it had 
long existed. The functions of such an officer would have ill accorded 
with the notions of our Anglo-Saxon ancestors, who had a great anti- 
pathy to centralization, and prided themselves upon enjoying the rights 
and the advantages of self-government. 

* * * "In Normandy, the interference of the supreme 

government was much more active than in England ; and there existed 
an officer called Chief Justiciar, who superintended the administra- 
tion of justice over the whole dukedom, and on whom, according to 
the manners of the age, both military and civil powers of great mag- 
nitude were conferred." Lord Campbell adds in a note : "It is curious 
to observe that, notwithstanding the sweeping change of laws and in- 
stitutions introduced at the conquest, the characteristic difference 
between Frenchmen and Englishmen, in the management of local 
affiiirs, still exists after the lapse of so many centuries ; and that, while 
with us parish vestries, town councils, and county sessions are the 
organs of the petty confederated republics into which England is par- 
celled out, in France, whether the tbrm of government be nominally 
monarchical or republican, no one can alter the direction of a road, 
build a bridge, or open a mine, without the authority of the ' Ministre 
des Fonts et Chaussees.' In Ireland, there being much more Celtic 
than Anglo-Saxon blood, no self-reliance is felt, and a disjiosition pre- 
vails to throw eveiwthing upon the government." 

This Saxon characteristic is to be discovered not only in the number 
but also in the diversity of local institutions, arising Irom diversity of 
character and traditional influences. Although in the course of time — 
many centuries — such diversities have been smoothed down by many 
assimilating processes, perhaps no country on the face of the earth, 
within so narrow a space, presents so great variety of customs as Eng- 
land continues to do. Habits, manners, the tenure of land, rules of 
inheritance, display a free variety strongly contrasted with the servile 
Mis. Doc. 24 11 



162 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

uniformity of governments with stronger controlling central powers. 
Usages which appertain to the North Briton are unknown to the South 
Briton — the man of Kent, or Cornwall, or Wales. The cities and 
towns have a variety of municipal power and privilege resting on the 
authority of immemorial usage. 

The origin of all this diversity, in which there has been developed 
so much of practical power, is to be traced to the same cause which 
has transmitted it to America — the mode in which the land was occu- 
pied by the successive races who came to its shores. The Roman 
conquerors and colonists, the continued migrations of the Saxons, the 
abiding incursions of the Danes, the conquest by the Norman, each 
brought and left an influence, a set of laws or customs at the least ; and 
in the after ages, no tyranny was strong enough or senseless enough, 
no revolution was rash enough, to attempt that worst of all revolution- 
ary havoc, total obhteration of the past, the absolute subjugation of 
local variety and independence. 

Such diversity may possibly offend the merely speculative mind, 
which is apt to crave that which is squared and levelled to a more 
theoretic exactness and completeness ; but it is the power which has 
been disciplined by such diversity, and the freedom that accompanies 
it, which has spread the race over the earth, and has engendered our 
Union. It is well known that in material nature, in the lower orders 
of creation, considerable miij'ormky is met with ; but that the higher we 
ascend, the more diversity is found. A great modern historical philoso- 
pher adopted, as a leading principle in his science, this truth, that " as 
in organic beings the most perfect life is that which animates the 
greatest variety of numbers, so among States that is the most perfect 
in which a number of institutions originally distinct, being organized 
each alter its kind into centres of national life, form a complete 
whole." 

Now I believe that it is possible to show that during the whole of 
our colonial era, during what may be called the primitive period of our 
political institutions, the whole course of events tended to the establish- 
ment of this principle thus philosophically stated by Niebuhr. I mean 
to say explicitly, that the providential government of the doings of men 
on this portion of the world, and with reference to this portion of the 
world, iVoni the discovery of it onwards to the adoption of the Constitu- 
tion of the United States, has led on to what has i)een described as the 
highest form of political life, a repubhcan system including the principle 
of distributed local government, in the parlance familiar to us, " a Federal 
Republic," or in the philosophical language of the historian whom I just 
quoted, " a complete whole, formed of a number of institutions," origi- 
nally distinct, organized each after its kind into centres of life. I am 
aware that it may sound presumptuous to speak confidently of the pur- 
poses of the providential government over the world, or over portions 
of it, or over the movements of this or that race. But when the princi- 
ple of a providential government of the human race is recognised, as it 
must be by every mind whose belief has advanced beyond the confines 
of absolute atheism, and also, during a long course of years, near three 
hundred years in the case to which I wish to apply the principle, you 
can trace a correspondence between the events on such a period and a 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 163 

final result, 1 do not know why we need fear to affirm that those 
events were providentially controlled and guided to that result. This 
conviction is further strengthened when we can perceive beyond such 
result adequate consequences, can see how that result was in the future 
to be productive of good. The evidence of such consequences is in the 
knowledge that the form of government which alone renders popular 
institutions compatible with extent of territory, is that form which has 
its origin in this ancient element of Saxon local self-government. Who 
can question that it is such a political system that has expanded this 
republic from its primitive circumscription to its present extent, so that 
that which at first reached not far beyond the sound of the Atlantic, 
became enlarged beyond the mountains ; then beyond the Mississippi; 
and now, having crossed the second great mountain range of the conti- 
nent, has on its other border the sound of the earth's other great ocean. I 
know of no grander traditional influence to be observed in history, than 
this simple Saxon characteristic element and the mighty issues of it now 
manifest around us, the connexion between this principle of local gov- 
ernment obscurely recognised in the ancient fatherland of the Saxon, 
carried thence to England to be combined with the central power of a 
constitutional monarchy, and now a living principle here, helping, by the 
harmony of state rights and federal energy, to extend and perpetuate 
the republic. 

On an occasion like the present, I do not propose to attempt to enter 
into the details of American colonization, or to dwell upon the familiar 
story of our early history, but rather to use them only so far as it may 
be necessary to illustrate the principle I have endeavored to set forth. 
A rapid review of colonial events, brought into a new connexion and 
concentered on one principle, will, I hope answer the purpose of main- 
taining the historical argument which I desire to submit to you. There 
is perhaps nothing in our early history which now appears more re- 
markable to us than the long delay on the part of the English govern- 
ment, or the English people, in making use of the title which the right 
of discovery had given them to the soil of America. It presents a curi- 
ous blank, near a century before any attempt was made to occupy or 
to colonize the newly discovered land, and more than a century before 
a permanent settlement was accomplished. 

It has been remarked, that the only immediate result of Cabot's voy- 
age and discovery of the continent, was the importation into England 
from America of the first turkeys that had ever been seen in Europe. 
Such was the beginning of the immense commerce between England 
and America. For a long time the right of discovery seemed a barren 
title ; and it is a noticeable fact that while it was the first of the Tudor 
kings whose commission authorized Cabot to set up the English banner 
here, it was the last of the Tudor sovereigns who sought to make her 
title here a reality by planting English homes ; and indeed the whole 
dynasty passed away without anything permanent being achieved. 
Doubtless, the delay was salutary, was propitious for the future ; and 
perhaps we can conceive how it was so when we recall the character 
of that Tudor dominion and the spirit of that age. It was not the tem- 
per of that dynasty to give the colonial free-agency (it might almost be 
called independence) which was to prove the germ of republican 



164 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

nationality. It was not the spirit of that age to ask for such large 
power of local government as by a later generation was quietly assumed 
and exercised. The ancient Saxon element of local self-government 
could not well have been transplanted here, while the strong rule of the 
Tudor was centralizing so much about the throne ; and therefore, (I 
speak of it as an inference in the logic of history,) the whole sixteenth 
century passed away and the land was still the natives' ; for when the 
year 1600 came, there was not an English family, no English man or 
woman, on this continent, unless perchance there was wandering some- 
where some survivor of Raleigh's lost colony. 

It would be vain now to speculate upon the influence which might 
have been exercised on the destinies of our country if that which was 
the perishable colonization of the 16lh century had bern permanent. 
But a knowledge of what was attempted, and of the manner of it, 
serves to show that it would have been different in character, and 
therefore in its influences from the later colonization. 

When, in 1578, Sir Humphrey Gilbert obtained from Queen Eliza- 
beth letters patent, authorizing him to discover and colonize remote 
and heathen lands — the first grant of the kind ever made by an English 
sovereign — there was conferred upon him almost a monopoly of the 
right of" colonization, with privileges and authorities for the government 
of his designed colonies of almost indefinite extent, and with a prohibi- 
tion upon all persons attempting to settle within two hundred leagues 
of any place which Sir Humphrey Gilbert or his associates should oc- 
cupy during the space of six years. While we may deplore the ad- 
verse fortunes of this brave voyager — his bafHed enterprises and the 
pious heroism of his dark perishing in the mid-Atlantic — it is not to be 
lamented that a scheme of colonization so vice-regal in its character; 
should not have been accomplished. The same comment may be 
made on the grant to Sir Walter Raleigh — which was of prerogatives 
and jurisdiction no less ample — to end, after repeated efforts and the 
well known expeditions which he sent out to the new world, in disap- 
pointment and a name ; for all that has proved perpetual from those 
enterprises is the word ^^ Virginia''^ — a title given, for a considerable 
time, to an almost indefinite region of America. 

Let me here take occasion to state that some recent investigations of 
the State records m England, and particularl}^ a hitherto unnoticed en- 
try on the close-roll of the 24th of Elizabeth, have established the fact 
that another illustrious public man of those times — Sir Philip Sidney — 
had turned his earnest and active mind to American discovery, and 
probably contemplated a voyage in his own person to the western 
hemisphere. That he did so as early as 1582 — which was earUer 
than the voj^ages equipped by Raleigh — is a fact, the evidence of which 
has but very lately been discovered, and was published, tor the first 
time, only in the month of February, 1850. It appears that Sidney ob- 
tained from Sir Humphrey Gilbert, under the Queen's patent to him, a 
right to discover and take possession of three millions of acres in Ame- 
rica. The grant was large enough to be almost indefinite, and is 
another instance to illustrate the policy of colonization which prevailed 
in that generation. 

Although Sidney's meditated enterprise was relinquished, it is 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 165 

pleasing to find associated with the early plans of American coloniza- 
tion the name of one who has left so matchless a memory — the scholar, 
statesman, poet, the friend of poets, the soldier whose early death was 
mourned by a nation — a death memorable with its last deed of heroic 
charity, when putting away the cup of water from his own lips, burn- 
ing as they were with the thirst of a bleedflig death, he gave it to a 
wounded soldier with those famous words, eloquent in their simplicity, 
" Thy necessity is yet greater them mine.''^ 

Permit me to extend this digression a little further to notice an Ame- 
rican allusion which occurs in the English literature of the same period 
in which Sir Philip Sidney flourished. When, in 1590, Spenser gave 
to the world the first part of "' The Fairy Qmccw," he dedicated that 
wondrous allegory to "The most high, mighty, and magnificent Em- 
presse, renouned tor pietie, virtue, and all gracious government, Eliza- 
beth, by the grace of God, Queen of England, Frijnce, and Ireland, and 
Virginia." Yes, there stands the name of that honored State — then, 
as it were, the name of British America ; and while there is many a 
reason for the lofty spirit of her sons, the pulse of their pride may beat 
higher at the sight of the record of the "Ancient Dominion" on the 
first page of one of the immortal poems of our language. 

To return to my subject. It can readily be perceived that such 
schemes of colonization as were planned during the reign of Ehzabeth — 
Sir Humphrey Gilbert's, Sir Philip Sidney's, Sir Walter Raleigh's — 
could hardly have resulted otherwise than in the establishment of vast 
feudal principalities, to continue under rulers who would have been no 
less than viceroys, or to be resumed under the immediate sovereignty 
of the throne. Such occupation of the land could scarce have led on, 
by any natural sequence and series of events, to a popular govern- 
ment — still less to a political system in which the element of "Union" 
would exist. There would not have been enough of partition. There 
would not have been enough of either the spirit or the privilege of dis- 
tinct and separate colonization — the establishment of communities in- 
dependent of each other, destined in a later age to grow so naturally 
into Union. Colonization then would have been too much like that of 
France in Canada — something far more regular and uniform, and im- 
posing in appearance as an affair of State ; but fraught with no such 
momentous power of development as was latent in the freer Saxon 
method. There would have been far less oi' that ^^ wise and salutary 
neglect^^ which Mr. Burke spoke of when, in his speech on conciliation 
with America, he said: "The colonies, in general, owe little or no- 
thing to any care of ours. They are not squeezed into this happy form 
by the constraints of watchful and suspicious government; but through 
a wise and salutary neglect, a generous nature has been sufTered to 
take her own way to perfection." It was, indeed, " a wise neglect." 
But let me add that it was a wisdom which cannot, with accuracy, be 
predicated of a passive, negative, neglectful State policy, but of the 
providential guidance of the race by which there was bestowed upon 
them the freedom of self-discipline, of political power and expansion. 
It sounds like a paradox and a contradiction ; but it is an obvious truth 
that the first element of union is separation — distinctiveness of existence 
and of character. The history of union begins not with unity ^ but with 



166 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

the creation of such separate existences as in the future may, by some 
process of assimilation and connexion, become united bat not consoli- 
dated — forming a complete whole, the portions of which do not lose 
their distinct organization. 

Passing onward from the perishable colonization of Queen Elizabeth's 
times to that colonization w4iich proved permanent, it is apparent that 
it did take that form, and direction, and character, the natural though 
distant results of which are to be seen in what is now around us. This 
holds good of the whole period of English colonization in America, 
from James the First to George the Second — a century and a quarter ; 
from the arrival of the first permanent colony in Virginia, and the 
building of Jamestown, (1G07,) down to Oglethorpe's settlement of 
Georgia, in 1732. 

The grant to Sir Walter Raleigh having become void by his attain- 
der, British America was again in the Kind's gift — and that KiuQ- the 
first of the Stuarts. Now, although the notions of royal prerogative 
which were cherished by the Stuarts were as high as those of the Tii- 
dors, still the relative position of the sovereign was changed, for the 
progress of constitutional government had developed new sentiments of 
allegiance and new powers of resistance. The seventeenth century, 
which, in fact, may be called the century of American colonization, for it 
comprehends nearly all of it, was more propitious than the previous cen- 
tury to the planting of colonies destined to grow to a republic. The 
process of partition now began — giving scope therefor to the ancient 
Saxon principle of local government. It was at first, as is well known, 
a simple twofold partition ; for when king James the First granted the 
patent for the territory stretching fl-om the 34th to the 45th degree of 
latitude, he divided it between the two companies, the Southern or 
London company, and the Northern or Plymouth company. By virtue 
of these grants, and the settlements under them, the country was par- 
celled out into two great divisions, soon known by the familiar desig- 
nations of Virginia for the former, and New England ibr the latter. 

I do not propose on an occasion like this to trace the detailed series 
of grants and settlement: it is enough for the present to remark that 
the course of cok)nization was a continued process t)f partition; so that 
in 1732, at the time of the Georgia settlement, the strip of territory 
along the coast of the Atlantic, which then formed British America, 
was divided into the thirteen colonics — a colonial system fashioned into 
thirteen distinct political communities. 

This was not merely territorial partition ; political and social varie- 
ties distinguished the colonies. This was a consequence of what was 
a remarkable peculiarity in the Enghsh settlement of America, that 
colonization was individual enterprise, receiving the sanction but not 
the support or assistance of the government. No colony in the seven- 
teenth century, to wiiich period they nearly all belonged, had any di- I 
rect aid from king or parliament. The solitary exception occurred 
in a parliamentary grant of aid to the Georgia colony. Colonization 
which was individual enterprise partook of the variety of individual 
character and motive — of the different and even conflicting principles, 
civil and ecclesiastical, which were dominant or depressed at different 
periods of the seventeenth century. This, it seems to me, is well wor- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 167 

thy of notice, that no century of English histoiy, either earlier or later, 
was so calculated to give character — and varied character, too — to the 
colonies, as that century which was the century of colonization — the 
seventeenth. It was an age in which the activity of the nation, there- 
tofore busy in other directions, was turned to questions of government. 
The thoughts of men were anxious and occupied — not with questions 
respecting the succession of this or that branch of a royal family, but 
with the principles that lie at the very foundation of government, the 
limits of power, and the rights and duties of the subject. It was an 
age — better than any other in the annals of the mother-countr}' — fitted 
to send along with the sons who left her to seek a distant home the 
dutiful spirit of loyalt\'', willing obedience to law, and the dutiful spirit 
of freedom — the two great principles of constitutional government. 
There was political variety, as well as social ; for the colonial govern- 
ments, although all bearing a resemblance to the government oi the 
mother-country, had those distinctive characteristics by which they are 
classified into the Royal, the Proprietary, and the Charter governments. 

It seems strange that the colonial policy of one kingdom should ad- 
mit of such a diversity, that in some the king's control was perpetually 
present ; in others it was transferred to lords-proprietary, subjects to 
whom was given the half-kingly power of palatines ; and in others so 
free were the charters that the people, for a long time after the royal 
authority was wholly abrogated by independence, asked no change in 
them. (Strange as such colonial diversity appears, it was far more 
favorable to the future results than any uniform system of colonial gov- 
ejnment. 

I have endeavored to show that a principle, which may safely be 
said to be a characteristic of our race, in all regions of the earth, has 
been brought hither to become a great element in our national s^'stem ; 
and, further, that throughout the whole period of discovery and colon 
zation, whatever was adverse to that principle was checked or frus- 
trated ; while, on the other hand, the tendency of events was to the 
steady development of that principle — the creation of the materials for 
Unio7i. 

In the next lecture I propose to consider the process by which those 
materials were brought together, without the loss of their distinctive 
character, as component parts of the Union. 



168 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 



THE UNION. 

SECOND LECTURE. 

Having considered, at the close of my last lecture, the partition of 
British America into the several colonial governments, 1 propose now 
to ask your attention to the events and influences which combined with- 
out consolidating them — in other words, the formation, or, more pro- 
perly, ihegroivth of the Union. For this process there were needed two 
power^of an opposing nature — a centralizing and a repulsive power — 
the former to give connexion, the latter to preserve the distinctive local 
organization. 

Let me remark, by way of introduction, that in studying the history of 
the Union the mind is peculiarly exposed to that unconscious delusion, so 
frequent in historical studies, which consists in allowing notions and im- 
pressions of the present time to enter inappropriately into our estimate 
of the past. It is thus that we often deceive ourselves with unper- 
ceived anachronisms. The complicated frame-work of our political 
system has been lor more than half a century acquiring strength and 
solidity by the actual Working of the system and by the imperceptible 
processes of time. There are the countless interchanges arising from an 
active commercial spirit, the progress of the arts is speeding and facili- 
tating intercourse to an extent never dreamed of in the olden time, 
there are the thousands of social affinities of interest and affection by 
which fellowship is created and confirmed between various and remote 
sections of the country. Conceive for an instant the possibility of a 
knowledge of the written intercommunication, on any one day, trans- 
mitted by the agency of the post office or the electric telegraph, what 
a story it would tell of strong and incalculable affinity — j^^'^^tical, com- 
mercial, social — of community of traffic and of feeling, precious and 
far-reaching ! So habitually familiar to us is all this, that when we 
turn to an early era of our history we are apt, unawares, to carry our 
present associations back where they do not belong. Familiar as we 
are in our day and generation with the recurrence and easy gathering 
of conventions, composed of delegates from all parts of the Union, for 
every variety of purpose — ecclesiastical and political, scientific, educa- 
tional, commercial, agricultural, and fanatical — we are prone to under- 
rate the difficulties of intercourse in former times of more laborious trav- 
elling. In the early colonial period the colonies took little heed of each 
other. There was interdependence between a colony and the mother- 
country, but not between one colony and another. This was, perhaps, 
a consequence of the policy which was restriction on the commerce and 
manufactures of the colonies. It was, in a great measure, in accord- 
ance, too, with the feelings of the colonists, for Old England long had 
a place in their hearts ; but what was New England to Virginia, or 
Virfjinia to New Enfjland? '■'■Home''' was the significant and endearing 
title which continued to be apphed, with a permanence of habit that is 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 169 

remarkable, to the mother-country. When the news of the great fire 
in London, in 1666, reached Massachuselts, subscriptions of money 
were made throughout the colony for the rehef of the sufferers. 

It appears, too, both from documentary history and from private cor- 
respondence, how limited was the intercourse between the inhabitants 
of the different colonies. In the biographies of men whose movements 
are of sufficient consequence to be traced and recorded, but few in- 
stances of the kind can be collected. Washington, in 1756, travelled 
as far eastward as Boston, and in the next year he visited Philadelphia; 
but both these visits were occasioned by peculiar demands of a public 
nature connected with the old French war — the first, tor the purpose 
of a personal interview with the commander-in chief. General Shirley; 
the second, to attend a conference of governors and officers, summoned 
by Lord Loudoun. These are, I believe, the only occasions,* before 
the beginning of the Revolution, when he attended the Congress of 1774, 
that Washington went to the northern or middle provinces. Mr. Quin- 
cy's visit to the middle and southern colonies, immediatel\^ bell )re the 
Revolution, was (as is obvious from the record of it) an undertaking of 
quite an unusual character; in 1773, writing home Irom Charleston, he 
speaks of "this distant shorey No other instance occurs now to my 
recollection, except a visit to Boston of two of the Philadelphia 
patriots — John Dickinson and Joseph Reed — a few years before the 
war of independence. Even as late as the meeting of the first general 
Congress — that, I mean, of 1774 — there is much, it appears to me, in 
the private letters and other contemporary evidence of tliat period which 
shows that when the delegates to that Congress assembled they came 
together very much as strangers to each other personall}^ and repre- 
senting, too, communities strange to each other but finding more con- 
geniality than they had anticipated. 

[n thus noticing individual intercourse, as illustrative of the times, 
there is one case, indeed, which I have not spoken of, because it is 
clearly exceptional, and must so be considered in judging of the per- 
gonal intercommunication during the colonial period. I refer to the 
case of Dr. Franklin. Boston-born and Philadelphia-bred he had, no 
doubt, in consequence a less provincial feeling, a more expanded sense 
of citizenship, which was favored too by the course and opportunities 
of his remarkable career, his personal activity, and his official posi- 
tions. No man had so much to do with various colonies; for, not to 
speak of his wanderings in bo^^hood, we find him, under his appoint- 
ment in 1753 as Postmaster General for America, travellins; in his one- 
horse wagon from Pennsylvania into New England. Again, in con- 
ference with delegates from seven of the colonies at the Albany Con- 
gress of 1754, busy at Boston with Governor Shirle}^ at Philadelphia 
with a Massachusetts commissioner, and all in quick succession ; in 
Maryland acting as a sort of unofficial quartermaster for General 
Braddock; at a later period of colonial history, in England, uniting 
the agencies of Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, and Georgia. Now, al- 
though undoubtedl}^ the formation of the Union is to be traced to causes 
of deeper import than any mdividual influences, I cannot but think that 
such various and extended intercourse as Dr. Franklin's must have 
aided in no small degree in bringing about that community of civic 



170 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

feeling which at length took the shape of political union. Sagacious, 
practical, affable, a man of the people in the best sense of the term, 
led by official duties hither and thither through the land, brought into 
busuiess relations with the highest and the humblest functionaries, 
governors and generals and village postmasters, Franklin cannot but 
be regarded as an instrument imperceptibly and unconscioush" doing 
the work of union. His case was, however, an exception to the ordi- 
nary intercourse among the inhabitants of the several colonies, and as 
an exception proving what we are apt to lose sight of, that the forma- 
tion of the Union was a slow, a laborious, and reluctant process. Ha/p- 
fihj so, for thus it gained a strength which no hasty or premature coa- 
lition ever could have acquired. The period of transition from the 
original state of political severalty to the present political combination 
may be described as a space of time not shorter than a century and a 
half, making the computation from the first distinct effort at union, the 
original suggestion in 1637 of that little local coalition styled " The 
New England Confederacy, " down to the Declaration of Independence, 
or, if a later date be preferred, when in 1789 the Union was made 
'■'• more 'perfect'''' by the adoption of the present Constitution. During 
this long period the processes of combination were going on silently, 
imperceptibly, seldom thought of^, and never fully appreciated ; ad- 
vances sometimes made, and then the cause retrograding ; the power 
of attraction prevailing at one time, and the power of repulsion at an- 
other ; connexion at one period looked to lor security, and again shua- 
ned and resisted as concealing danger. 

It is not without interest to observe that there was nothing in the 
physical character of the country, with all its variety of soil and 
climate, which presented impediments in the formation of the Union. 
There was no natural frontier at any part of tiie territory occupied by 
the settlements which were for a long time limited to the country ex^ 
tending from New Hampshire to Georgia, and bounded by the ocean 
and tlie first great range of mountains. 

Rivers flowins: north and south are thought to be most influential 
upon civilization, perhaps by connecting the climate and soil of differ- 
ent latitudes. When our territor}^ was expanded to receive the whole 
valley of the Mississippi, we can look back to the long and difficult ne- 
gotiations respecting the navigation of that river, when its banks were 
held by different powers, as indicating that Nature fitted it for a great 
highway for one people, and to bind them strongly together for ever. 

No bay or river interposed a dangerous or difficult navigation ; indeed, 
the great rivers, the Delaware, the Susquehannah, the Hudson, and 
the Connecticut, each flowing through the territory of several colonies, 
served by their free navigation to fiicilitate the intercourse of the colo- 
nists. There was no such mountain intersection as would cut oft' by 
a natural barrier one portion of the country from another, such as has 
been observed in Italy, where only a few years ago a Neapolitan natu- 
ralist, making an excursion to one of the highest of the central Apenr 
nines, found medicinal plants growing in the greatest profusion which 
the Neapolitans w^ere regularly in the habit of importing fiom other 
countries, as no one suspected their existence within their own kingdom. 

Looking to the physical character of the continent in relation to tlie 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 171 

subject of social and political union, I may allude to another considera- 
tion as affecting our national progress and permanence. It has been 
observed by a distinguished French naturalist that mountain ranges 
which run east and west establish much more striking differences with 
regard to the dwellers on the opposite sides tlian those ranges which 
extend north and south, a statement confirmed by observation through 
the history of mankind. The Scandinavian Alps have not prevented 
the countries on both sides being occupied by a people of common de- 
scent, while the feeble barrier of the Cheviot hills and the Highlands 
has served to keep the Anglo-Saxon and the Celt apart even in a period 
of advanced civilization. The Spaniards and the Italians differ more 
from their neighbors across the mountains extending east and west 
than the former from the Portuguese, or the Piedmontese from the 
Provengals. Of this physical law of civilization and the destiny of 
races the most remarkable illustration is perhaps to be found in the sepa- 
ration, which continued through so man}^ centuries of ancient history, 
of the races that occupied the northern coasts of the Mediterranean and 
the races that dwelt in Central Europe. There is no more remarkable 
fact in the history of mankind ; and the barrier which so wondrously 
preserved this separation between populous nations comparatively so 
near to each other, was that east and west mountain range, which ex- 
tends from the western extremity of the Pyrennees, at the shores of 
tlie Atlantic eastward, to the shores of the Caspian. It was a parti- 
tion that remained unbroken by either the southern or the northern 
race, with rare and only partial exceptions, until at length the time ar- 
rived for those vast irruptions by which a new civilization was to take 
the place of the ancient and the Roman. The application of this law 
of Nature to our own race occupying this continent is manifest, and it 
is of momentous interest in connexion with the origin, the extension, 
and the perpetuity of the Union. The mountain ranges, great and 
small, extend in a northwardly and southwardly direction, but none in 
that direction wdiich seems to have a power for partition over the races 
of men. It is only conventional lines running east and west that per- 
plex the nation. 

The physical character of the territory occupied by these colonies 
which where to become the thirteen United States, was favorable to 
the establishment of Union. Further, it may be regarded as favorable 
to the same result that during the colonial period no addition of territory 
took place which might have introduced an incongruous element, un- 
manageble material to be brought into union. In making this remark, 
I have especially in my thoughts the failure of Cromwell's plan for se- 
curing his then recent conquest of Jamaica by co-operation with Massa- 
chusetts in planting a New England colony there. The Protector's 
proffered gift of a West India island was dechned by the practical good 
sense of the general court of the colony: and thus the community which 
was destined to grow in compact strength on their own soil was saved 
from being parted into two communities with the ocean between them. 
The interview between Cromwell and Leveret, the agent of the colony, 
as narrated by the latter in hisdespatch to Governor Endicott, (Decem- 
ber 20, 1656,') is curiously characteristic on the one hand of that intense 
and deep policy which is part of the mystery of the Protector's cha- 



172 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

racter, and on the other, of the keen, clear-sighted, common sense of the 
representative of the colony : 

" At my presenting," writes Leverett, "your letter of the 1st of De- 
cember, 1G56, to his Highness, he was pleased to inquire of New Eng- 
land's condition, and what news as to the business of Jamaica ; to 
which I gave answer according to the advice received. By his resent 
thereof, together with what I had from him the 18th November, he 
manifested a very strong desire in him for some leading and considera- 
ble company of New England men to go thither; for at that time he 
was pleased to express that lie did apprehend the people of New Eng- 
land had as a clear a call to transport themselves from thence to Jamai- 
ca, as they had from England to New England, in oixler to their better- 
ing their outward condition, God having promised his people should be 
the head and not the tail ; besides that design hath its tendency to the 
overthrow of the man of sin ; and withal was pleased to add, that though 
the people had been sickly, yet it was said to be a climacterical year ; 
that others had been to view the place, as Nevis people, who, upon 
liking, were gone down ; and Christopher's people were upon motion ; 
and he hoped by what intelligence he had from Captain Gookin, that 
some considerable numbers would go from New England. His High- 
ness was pleased to hear me in what I objected. As to the bettering 
our outward condition, though we had not any among us that had to 
boast, as some particulars in other plantations, of raising themselves to 
great estates, yet take the body of the people, and all things considered, 
they lived more comfortably like Englishmen than any of the rest of the 
plantations. To which his Highness replied that they were more industri- 
ous, what then would they be in a better country ? To which I added, that 
there were now in New England produced to bespeak us a Common- 
wealth greater than in all the English plantations besides ; the which his 
Highness granted. I objecting, the contrariety of spirits, principles, man- 
ners, and customs of the people of New England, to them that were at 
the island or on anv other plantations that could remove thither, so not 
like to cement; his Highness replied that were there considerable per- 
sons that would remove from thence, they should have the government 
in their hands, and be strengthened with the authority of England, who 
might be capable of giving check to the ill and vicious manners of all." — 
(Hutchinson's History, Vol. I, p. 176.) 

We need not now speculate what might have been the effect ; a 
people who had this consciousness of m^Lcli that hcspake them a common- 
wealth, had they been tempted away from their own stern clime and 
soil to dwell in a tropical island; but of this we may be assured, when 
we look forward to the subsequent career of that people, that it was 
happily provided that they should remain compact at home. 

In like manner at a later period of our history, all the efforts which 
at the beginning of the revolutionary struggle were made to bring the 
other British provinces into co-operation with the thirteen colonies 
proved utterly ineffectual. It will be remembered, that when the first 
general Congress met in 1774 and deliberated on plans of peaceful re- 
sistance to the obnoxious policy of the mother-country, it was a matter 
of solicitude to increase and fortify that resistance by enlarging the 
sphere of it. It must be borne in mind that all that was then aimed at 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 173 

was colonial redress ; to that, and not to independence did tlie first 
Congress direct its thoughts, its words, its action. The events of that 
time followed in such quick succession, leading so rapidly on to inde- 
pendence, and now seen to be so rapidly connected with such a result, that 
we are apt to forget that independent existence as a nation was not, for 
some time after the contest began, aimed at, or even desired. The heart 
of the people felt and avowed a sincere and natural reluctance to break 
away from an ancient allegiance. Thus contemplating a continuance 
of the colonial condition and not looking beyond it, the desire was to 
render colonial resistance as effective as possible, by bringing as 
large an amount of it as possible to l)ear on the ministry and parliament. 
Accordingly repeated exertions were made to induce all the colonies to 
make common cause. The Congress, composed at first of the delega- 
tions of twe;lve colonies, from New Hampshire to South Carolina, 
appealed to the other colonies. Nova Scotia, St. Johns, and earnestly 
and urgently to Canada. The addresses to these British provinces fill 
a large space in the journal of the first Congress. The hope was that 
all British America might be brought to think, feel, and to act in unison 
in a cause then regarded as a temporary one, simply colonial redress, 
the restoration of a former colonial policy with which the colonist was 
content. 

And here let me remark in passing that this attempted policy of gen- 
eral colonial co-operation appears to me to explain both the use and the 
disuse of a term which for several years was a very familiar one, but 
afterwards became obsolete in our political vocabulary and for a long time 
has had only a historical significance. I refer to the word " continentaV 
as employed both formally a*nd familiarly in the titles "the coniintntal 
Congress," " the contuicntal Army," and in a phrase of less agreeable 
association '' the co7?^i??c;itoZ Currenc3^" The term was an appropiiate 
one when it was meditated to make the colonial resistance co-extensive 
with the British communities on the continent; and such was the plan 
when the word came into use, and it passed into disuse when it was 
at length ascertained that such enlarged co-operation was not to be ac- 
complished, but that out of the conflict there was to arise a new nation- 
ality not co-extensive with the continental extent of British power in 
America. 

The second Congress, I mean that of 1775, clung to the same hope 
and the same policy of colonial combination on the most enlarged scale ; 
and this feeling continued even after the beginning.of hostilities. Again 
did Congress address to the non-participant provinces elaborate appeals 
and invitations : again did they communicate arguments to Canada to 
demonstrate the hidden perils of the Quebec bill, to showthe superiorit}' 
of the common law over the civil law, to expound rehgious toleration, 
persuading the French Canadian that Roman Cathohc and Protestant 
might dwell together securely and harmoniously as in the cantons of 
Switzerland. 

Nay, further, the Congress indulged the expectation of even more 
than cis-Atlantic opposition, for it sent its voice from Philadelphia 
across the sea to the people of Ireland. In the earliest scheme of con- 
federation — that submitted to Congress by Dr. Franklin, in July, 1775 
— one of the articles expressly provided for the admission of Ireland, 



174 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

the West India islands, Quebec, St. Johns, Nova Scotia, Bermudas, 
and East and West Floridas into the "Association," which was then 
rehed upon as a means of colonial redress. 

Besides the appeals and the invitations addressed to the Canadians, 
there was a hope that a successful invasion of Canada might bring the 
population there into that support of the common colonial cause for 
which the other means had failed. Accordingly, the expedition under 
Montgomery, in the winter of 1775-'6 had a purpose additional to 
mere conquest — that of gaining the support and the assistance of their 
fellow-colonists. 

Still clinging to this object. Congress resorted to one other and the 
last attempt — an embassy to speak in person to the Canadian — the 
commission composed of Dr. Franklin, Charles Carrol, and Samuel 
Chase, taking with them for their coadjutors a Roman Catholic priest, 
the Rev. John Carrol, (afterwards archbishop of Baltimore,) and equally 
pacific agents, a printer and a French translator. 

All these efforts — addresses made and made again, invasion, the 
embassy of commissioners — all proved utterly unavailing in bringing 
to those early Congresses any co-operation from other British provinces. 
The addresses were not responded to, probably were hardly heeded; 
the military expeditions failed, and the commissioners found no audi- 
ence. The printer who accompanied Dr. Franklin and the other com- 
missioners proved of no avail, in consequence of an unanticipated but 
fatal obstacle, and that was that reading was a very rare accomplish- 
ment with the P^rench Canadian population. Quebec was not more 
impregnable to Montgomery than were the minds of the Canadians to 
Franklin and a printing-press. 

These schemes for more extended colonial combination — began in 
1774, continued daring 1775 and into 1776 — all came to naught; and 
now we can see, what was not visible to those who conceived those 
schemes, how happy it was that they did come to naught. I do not 
mean to question or to disparage the sagacity of those colonial states- 
men, who during three years persevered in those schemes and the 
various methods of accomplishing them. Judged with relation to the 
objects aimed at, those schemes were wise and patriotic ; but the objects 
were only colonial opposition, and the combination which was contem- 
plated was only to be a temporary one, to cease whenever the colonial 
grievances should cease. But in God's government over the destinies 
of the race and country other and greater results were in reserve, — 
independence, nationality, union, — and considered with relation to such 
results, I repeat it was most happy that all attempts to bring about 
Canadian combination proved absohitely fruitless. It was only eleven 
years before, let it be remembered, that Canada had been transferred, 
by conquest and the treaty of Paris, from French to British dominion. 
A province so recently foreign in laws, in language, in the various 
social elements, must needs have proved an incongruous, if not a dis- 
cordant member in such a union as was on the eve of completion be- 
tween the thirteen colonies. The very I'act that it was necessary for 
Congress to cause the addresses to Canada to be translated into French, 
is of itself enough to show how little congeniality there would have 
been for the perpetual purpose of union. When, therefore, Canadian 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 175 

sympathy and co operation were invoked, "a wiser spirit" was at work 
to make that invocation of no effect. 

While the addition of these incongruous materials was happily pre- 
vented, it must not be forgotten that the portion of the continent which 
was to be the soil of the Union already included within its bounds, 
indeed in its very centre, elements equally foreign and unsuited to natu- 
ral combination ; for almost contemporaneous with the settlement of 
Virginia and of New England, in the first quarter of the seventeenth 
century, Hudson's voyage had created the claim of Holland, and the 
grant by the States General to the Dutch West India Company planted 
their settlement along the banks of the Hudson. Thus was introduced 
into the very heart of the land a hostile element, for England and Hol- 
land were at strife in the East Indian commercial settlements, in which 
regi(Mi, the massacre of the English traders, at Amboyna, occurred 
about the same period. 

Another occupation, foreign, but less antagonistic, was that which 
connects with American history the name of one of the wisest and 
noblest of Europe's continental kings, statesman, and soldier, Gustavus 
Adolphus, of Sweden ; a company of whose subjects settled, it will 
be remembered, on the banks of the Delaware. 

Settlements such as these, by two of the great European powers, 
and on most important sections of the continent, were un propitious to 
any progress of union among the British colonies, for the foreign and 
unfriendly occupation was interposed between the northern and the 
southern settlements, an occupation held too by one of these foreign 
powers for well nigh half a centurj^ and during all that time ambitious 
of larger colonial dominion, and actively aggressive. 

For the removal of these impediments to our union, there was needed 
the strong control of conquest. In one respect that process was simpli- 
fied, as if the course of things was so guided as to leave behind as 
little as possible of the ill blood and rankling recollections of conquest. 
There was engendered no animosity between the Swedes and the Eng- 
lish colonists ; lor it was Holland that did the work of conquest, and 
subjugated the little Swedish colony on the banks of the Delaware. 

For England, there was, therefore, left only one colonial adversary ; 
and the adverse element of a foreign occupation of a considerable and 
important part of the continent was done away by the result of the 
war between England and Holland ; the treaty of Breda, and the final 
cession of the territory, thus establishing English colonial dominion in 
uninterrupted occupation of the whole extent of the country, which was 
thereafter to be in union. 

It would, perhaps, not be easy now to measure the sense of repug- 
nance which survived in the minds of the conquered Dutch colonists ; 
the natural reluctance at the transfer, by conquest, of their allegiance ; 
the compulsory identification with a people who had other laws and 
usages, and another language : but whatever these feelings may have 
been, they met soon with what must have been a most unlooked for 
alleviation in the course of events in Europe; for it was only twelve 
years after the Dutch colonists in America passed under British do- 
minion, that their native country, Holland, gave a sovereign to Great 
Britain, and thus the throne of their conquerors was filled by one of 



176 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

their countrymen, him who had been their Stadtholder, their Prince of 
Orange. Thus British rule became less of" foreign rale to them ; and 
thus the revolution of 1688 may be referred to as having contributed 
a harmonizing influence to the progress of the American union. 

The Dutch dominion in America, adverse as it was to union in one 
respect, by parting the northern from the southern English colonies, in 
another respect exerted an influence favorable to colonial combination. 
It was not only the presence of hostile Indian tribes on the New Eng- 
land frontier, but it was also tiie neighborhood of the Dutch, "that 
prompted the first effort of colonial union ; that of the united colonies 
of New England" which had its beginning in 1G43, the first "confede- 
racy," the first time the word " contederacy" was used in America. It 
was the first of these combinations, serving to show how it was a sense 
of common danger, the sense of strength and security in united action, 
which, by slow and safe gradations, was to bring the several colonies 
into union, disclosing, from time to time, how natural it would be for 
the sentiment of social union, which all the while, no doubt, however 
unrecognised at tlie time, was orowinsf strons:, to be converted into 
poUtiad union ; how the sense of brotherhood, of a community of citi- 
zenship would imperceptibly prepare itself to assume political form 
and consistency. 

I cannot pause to comment on that earh' confederacy, its principles, 
its system, and its uses. It purported to be " a ycrpeiuallerigue of friend- 
ship and amity," and it contained provision for its enlargement by the 
admission of other colonies into confederacy with the four colonies who 
were the contracting parties. Limited as this confederacy was in 
the number of its members, cautiously restricted as it was in its 
powers, and close and pressing as the dangers were, five years were 
consumed in the planning of it; iKrpctiml as it professed to be, it lasted 
no more than about forty years ; no other colony was added to it, and 
as the dangers which suggested it passed away, the confederacy lost 
its intei'est, and when its existence ceased incidentally with the abro- 
gation of the New England charters, in the reign of James II, no effort 
was made to renew it. The old Saxon principle of distinctive local 
government was at work even within the narrow circuit of these kin- 
dred Puritan colonies, and no adequate motive for union presented itself. 
There are traces of mutual jealousies there ; especially was there jea- 
lousy of the centralizing authority of Massachusetts. This feeling was 
manifest in the solicitude on the part of the Plymouth colony to preserve 
its separate existence. It breaks out in the bitter humor of a not very 
felicitous pun on the Bay colony, in a despatch fiom the Plymouth 
agent to the Plymouth governor, when, writing from London in 1091, 
he says : " All the frame of Heaven moves upon one axis, and the 
whole of New England's interest seems designed to be loaden on one 
bottom, and her particular motion to be concentric to the Massachusetts 
tropic. You know who are wont to trot after the bay horse." — (Wis- 
waU to Hinckly, Nov. 5, 1G91. Hutch. I, 365.) 

In the New England confederacy, unanimity in religious creed was 
an essential principle of political concord, an inipediment to the pro- 
gress of union, if the confederacy had continued, for admission was 
refused to their dissenting fellow-colonists of Rhode Island. The Purit- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. lYT 

tan clergy who went to Virginia were ejected for non-conformity; and 
it was only about twenty years before William Penn obtained the char- 
ter for Pennsylvania, and came with his Quaker followers, that the 
'■^ Friend s^^ who ventured into New England were scourged under the 
law against " vagabond Quakers," and the sterner penalty of death 
inflicted. 

If at an early period sectarian animosity was burning lines of division 
between the colonists, the now tolerant Christianity of a later time con- 
tributed largely to the more accordant results of blending the commu- 
nities together. Each christian society was at length enabled peace- 
fully to commune with its own brotherhood in other sections of the 
country, and thus ecclesiastical s^'mpath}' became one of the means by 
which the way was prepared for civil and political sympathies. The 
inhabitants of different and distant colonies became members of one 
household in their faith, thus learning, perhaps, how they might become 
members of one political family. Among the churches of the chui'ch 
of England in the colonies, no ecclesiastical union in one collective 
representative assembly was formed until after the peace of 1783. 
The Presbyterians, feeling the want of ecclesiastical combination, as 
appears from a circular letter of the ministers and elders at Philadelphia, 
began in 1764 to take measures to elfect a union of their scattered forces. 

I turn now to another and very dif^ln^ent influence of union, which is 
to be discovered in the military colonial combinations. On repeated 
occasions the authorities of the colonies — governors and commissioners — 
were brought into connexion for conference respectiiig hostilities, offen- 
sive as well as defensive. It was upon such an occasion, in 1690, at 
New York, that the word " Congress''' first has a place in our history. 
But, besides such occasional conferences, the colonists were brought to- 
gether in joint military service, to know each other the better thereb}^ 
This kind of association may be traced as an influence of union, more 
or less operative on different occasions from the times of what were 
called " King William's war," and " Queen Anne's war," at the close 
of the seventeenth and at the beginning of the eighteenth century, down 
to the peace of Paris, in 1763, at the end of the old French war. The 
colonies contributed their respective sums of money to the general cost 
of the war, and troops levied in the different colonies served together 
in the several early attempts on Canada, in the expedition against Cape 
Breton and the capture of Louisburg, and upon what was the first 
foreign service of the colonists, (I mean foreign beyond the continent,) 
Vernon's disastrous expeditions against Carthagena and Cuba. The 
associated service in the old French war was the latest discipline of 
the kind to prepare the colonies fi^r the war of the revolution. 

While such" influences and others of a more imperceptible nature, 
which I cannot now pause to discuss, were working propitiously for 
union, there was a counter-agency produced by the indications of a de- 
sire on the part ol" the British government to adopt a different colonial 
policy, to substitute for "that wise and salutary neglect," which Mr. 
Burke afterwards commended, a more active control. In carr3'ing out 
such a pohcy there would be needed more of union, not spontaneous, 
voluntary colonial union, but compulsory union, b}- the imperial power 
on the other side of the Atlantic. It was at the close of the seventeenth 
Mis. Doc. 24 12 



178 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

century that William the Third formed the standing Council of the Lords 
Commissioners tor Trade and Plantations, vested with new and central- 
izing powers of superintendence. There had been in the more arbi- 
trary reign of James the Second indications of the same policy of more 
active colonial control; and it made itself manifest in the new methods 
of colonial administration, their policy and their phms, in one instance 
nothing less than a recommendation that "all the Ens-lish colonies of 
North America be reduced (reduced, such was the word) under one 
government and one viceroy." The consequence of all this was, that 
union began to present itself to the thoughts of the colonists in the ob- 
noxious light of a means of increasing the ascendancy of the royal pre- 
rogative; and they watched with perpetual vigilance every approach to 
combined action, to union avovvt^dly or covertly compulsory, as some- 
thing that was fatal to colonial rights. 

The ancient Saxon element of distributed power was quickened into 
renewed activity during a long period of apprehension. When, in con- 
sequence of the suggestion of the Board of Trade and of the colonial 
secretary, the Albany convention was held in 1754, WMth its delegations 
from seven colonies, extending as far south as Maryland, the plan of 
union proposed by that Congress was, as is well known, rejected ; 
although the wav with France was imminent, and although the author 
of the plan was Franklin himself, a delegate from Pennsylvania. The 
several colonial assemblies detected too much of prerogative in tiie 
scheme of union, which had the singular fate of proving also unsatisfac- 
tory in England, because of the opposite objection of too little pre- 
rogative. Franklin was discr>uraged in his hopes of colonial confedera- 
tion; and one of his correspondents said to him, writing from Boston, 
in 1754 : " However necessary a union may be for tiie mutual safety 
and preservation of these colonies, it is certain it will never take [)lace 
unless we are forced to it by the supreme authority of the nation." 

It was by the action of the supreme power of the nation that union 
did take place, but not in the way contemplated when those words 
were used. When the new and obnoxious colonial policy took the 
well defined shape of the Stump Act, union, which had been dreaded 
when the proposal came in any Ibrm from the British government, was 
instinctively resorted 1o as a means of defence and security, and the 
delegations of nine colonies, as far south as South Carolina, met in the 
Congress of 1765. 

When, nine years later, the power of the British government struck, 
with the Boston Port Bill, at one single point, the sentiment of union 
was discovered to be strong enough and quick enough to make com- 
mon cause with almost instantaneous rapidity, and twelve colonies 
(soon alterwards to reach the full complement ot" the old thirteen) assem- 
bled by their delegations in the Congress of 1774. When it is con- 
sidered that those delegations were chosen in various ways, with 
much of irregularity, of necessity, I know of nothing so remarkable in 
the history of representation as the meeting of those fifty-two men in a 
room of a building farpiliar to Philadelphians as the Carpenteis' Hall, 
locking the doors, enjojning secresy on the members, and all the 
while the people from j\ew Hampshire lo Georgia waiting quietly, 
willingly, resolutely, prepared to do, I will not say the blldvng of that 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 1*79 

Congress, but to accept the conclusions of that Congress as the voice 
of the nation. What higher proof could there be of the unknown 
strength of union? I say the indnown strength of the sentiment of 
union, because that Congress contemplated nothing more than " asso- 
ciation''^ (as it was termed) in a policy of non-importation and non- 
exportation. When the Congress of 1774 adjourned, it was a coiitingent 
adjournment, leaving it to be determined by the course events might 
take whether the colonies would again be found acting in concert. The 
plan of confederation proposed by Franklin in 1775 looked to no dura- 
tion beyond the continuance of the obnoxious acts of Parliament ; and 
even alter the war began, and the continental army was formed, perpe- 
tuity of union appears not to have formed part of the plan of operations. 
It was not until the wearied patience of the people was worn out, and 
the aggrieved sense of freedom driven to the Iflst resort, that the coali- 
tion of the colonies began to assume the aspect of permanence. Then, 
and not till then, it became apparent what had long been the tendency 
of things touching the relation between those distinct communities. 
Together they had sought redress for their grievances ; together they 
had declared their rights ; they appealed, petitioned, remonstrated 
together ; and when they encountered the same repulse and the same 
disappointment, they '■'•associated''' under solemn pledges, "the sacred 
ties of virtue, honor, and love of country," for a combined pacific re- 
sistance. At length, when all had failed, and they saw that the hour had 
come for the last appeal, they bowed down together in " public humili- 
ation, fasting, and prayer," and, with hearts thus fortified, they stood 
prepared to face the common danger. It was one war to all. Blood 
was soon shed ; and that blood, poured out for the common cause of 
all, was the seal of union. Further, when hostilities had been, con^ 
tinned for more than a year, and it became manifest that the war was 
ineffectual as a means of mere colonial redress, the process wiiich 
established national existence was at the same time the consummation 
of union. The colonies, winch found themselves in a state of revolu- 
tionary anarchy, instead of hurrying to separate action, deliberately 
sought the advice of the whole country as it might be given by Con- 
gress. They sought and they followed that guidance. This was union. 
When the final and formal act of independence came, it w^as done by 
all and for all. That was union. Therefore, th.ere is, I think, no pro- 
position in our constitutional history clearer, simpler, truer than this, 
that Union is our country. 

In conclusion, permit me to say, that I fear I have exposed m}' self to 
some condemnation for rashness in attempting to treat so large a subject 
within such limited space. I have had it most at heart to show how, 
during a very long period of time, there has been a tendency of events 
proving a providential purpose in the establishment of the Union. 
However the feelings of men may differ in respect for antiquity, what 
mind can refuse to recognise a claim for all that can be given of 
thoughtful, affectionate, and dutiful loyalty to that which for our good 
was achieved by more than human agency working through centuries.. 
For the Constitution of the United States you ma}^ carry 3'our debt of 
gratitude to the memory of that assembly of sages and statesmen who 
in convention constructed the Constitution. The debt of gratitude for 



180 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



Independence may be paid to that other assembly of wise and good men 
who declared it. But for the Union, our thanksgiving must be laid at 
the foot of the throne of God ; and therefore treason to the Union can- 
not be conceived of but as a crime which heaps upon the traitor an 
accumulated guilt of thankless impiety. I speak it with reverence and 
with humility, and with thoughtfulness in the words I use, when I say 
that this Union of ours was the work of God. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 181 



LECTURES. 



VL— ON METEOROLOGY. 



BY ROBERT RUSSELL, ESQ.,* OF SCOTLAND. 



Fiist Lecture. 

To study the peculiarities of the atmospheric changes in North 
America, and the effects of the chmate on agriculture, are the princi- 
pal objects for which I have visited this part of the world. I am much 
2:ratified to find so large a number of meteoroloo^ical observers scattered 
over all parts of this vast continent, contributing so materially to the 
advancement of science. 

Since I have had an opportunity of studying the meteorology of the 
United States, I have been much impressed with the limited area of the 
field for investigations within the British islands. It now appears as a 
mere handbreadth, in comparison to the wide territory over which you 
are prosecuting your inquiries into the causes of atmospheric disturb- 
ances. 

Your government has done considerable for the support of meteor- 
ology. It has accumulated at the National Observatory, under the 
direction of Lieutenant Maury, an invaluable collection of facts rela- 
tive to the sea. It has established observations at each of its military 
posts, and has secured the services of Professor Espy, who has done more 
lor theoretical meteorology, in my opinion, than any other living man. 

But I must confess that I would have turned my face to the Old 
World somewhat unsatisfied, if I had not had, through the pohteness 
of the Secretary, an opportunit}^ to examine the meteorological records 
collected within the walls of this Insthution, and, through them, to be- 
come acquainted with the peculiarities of your climate; and to trace out 
the nature and extent of some of the atmospheric disturbances wdiich 
had attracted m}^ attention during my tour. 

In this short course of lectures I shall not enter upon those questions 
which relate to general meteorology, but shall confine myself princi- 
pally to the analogies which seem to subsist between the action of 
atmospheric agents in Europe and in North America, and point out a 
few facts which demand more extended observations for their solution. 

*NoTE. — The author of these lectures came to this country with letters of introduction 
from Sir David Brewster, Professor Airy, and other distinguislied cultivators of science in 
Great Britaii . The Smithsonian meteorological records were opened for his investigation, 
and other facilities extended him for the prosecution of his studies. Without intending to 
endorse the peculiar views which he may have advanced, we may say that his lectures con- 
tain facts and suggestions full}' worthy of attention. J. H. 



182 ' NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

To comprehend the nature of the changes which the atmosphere un- 
dergoes, the elementary principles of meteorological science must he 
understood; but I do not intend to enter more minutely into these than 
will enable those who have not devoted much attention to the subject 
to comprehend the more important truths. 

The nature of the atmosphere was long involved in obscurity. Its 
properties could not be ascertained till chemistr}' and other branches of 
natural science were considerabty advanced. Air has so little color 
that it is almost invisible, and offers so little resistance to motion, that 
it was considered by the school of Aristotle imponderable. This 
opinion was entertained for many centuries afterwards, until the inven- 
tion of the barometer, by Toricelli, in 1640, and the discovery of the 
fact pointed out by Pascal, that the barometer stands lower on the top 
of a mountain than at its base, left no doubt remaining that air was pos- 
sessed of weight, and, consequently, that the atmosphere exerted a 
great pressure. 

If a glass tube, three feet in length, be filled v/ith mercury, and its rt-pen 
end inverted in a basin of the same liquid, the mercury in the tube will 
stand, at the level of the sea, nearly 30 inches higher than the surface 
of that in the basin. This column of mercury, which, if its section is a 
square incli, weighs nearly 15 pounds, is balanced by a column of air 
of the same section and extending to the top of the atmosphere. The 
pressure of the atmosphere is, therefore, equal to that of an ocean of 
mercury of 30 inches deep, or to a pressure on each square inch of sur- 
face of about 15 pounds. Moreover, mercury is 13^ times heavier than 
water, and 10,500 times heavier than dry air at the surface of the 
earth; hence the pressure of the atmosphere is equal to that of an 
ocean of water of about 33 feet deep, or an ocean of air, of equal density 
throughout, of 27,000 feet high. 

That the atmosphere should press on the surface of the earth, and on 
all parts of our bodies, with a weight of 15 pounds to the square inch, 
is, at first sight, a very perplexing tijct; but it is fully illustrated by the 
familiar and analogous pressure of water. The diver who descends 
below the surface of the sea is pressed on all sides by the superincum- 
bent weight of water, and, instead of being incommoded by this, is ren- 
dered more buoyant. The particles of the air are of extreme tenuity 
and of almost perfect mobility, and therefore offer no resistance to 
bodies moving among them. On these accounts the weight of the air, 
and the great pressure of the atmosphere, remained so long concealed. 

For a long time after the discovery of tlie pressure of the atmosphere, 
the world remained in ignorance of its chemical and mechanical con- 
stitution. The analysis'of air was, however, one of the first trmmphs 
of modern chemistry. Rutherford discovered hydrogen, one of its com- 
ponents, in 1772; and, two years after. Priestly and Shiel, independ- 
ently of each other, discovered the other principal ingredient, namely, 
oxygen. 

Dry air is composed of 77 parts nitrogen, 23 oxygen, by weight; 79 
parts nitrogen, 21 oxygen, by volume; carbonic acid, 1.1000 by 
weight; ammonia, only a trace. The atmospliere also contains a cer- 
tain amount of moisture. This is the only component which is liable to 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 183 

much change in its qiianlily. It varies fronn two per cent, to an inap- 
precial)le portion. 

Again, the chemical composition of air had been established several 
years before its mechanical character was fully made out. The sages 
of Egypt and of Greece disputed about the constitution of matter; but 
their speculations, however ingenious, led to no definite results. At 
the end of the last century many valuable facts had been accumu- 
lated on this point; but no great law had i^een proposed to link these 
facts together before John Dalton applied the atomic theory of the 
constitution of matter to explain the mechanical phenomena of the atmo- 
sphere. 

Dalton did much for chemical science, and is justly regarded as the 
father of meteorolog3% He was gifted with gigantic powders of mind, 
and, in other respects, possessed a noble character. 

Modern science regards matter as made up of atoms endowed with 
attracting and repelling f()rce. In the case of a solid or liquid, these 
two tierces are in equilibrium — the atoms are held at a distance 
from each other, and do not fill all the space enclosed within their 
boundaries. If a solid or liquid is subjected to pressure, the atoms are 
made to approach each otljer, and the re[)ulsion is increased ; so that, 
when the pressure is removed, the atoms fly back to their original posi- 
tion. If, on the contrary, we attempt to draw a solid apart, the attrac- 
tion comes into operation, and offers a resistance which is called cohe- 
sion. In the case of aeriform substances, the repulsion entirely pre- 
ponderates. Dalton gave to this theory a definite form, and applied it 
to the phenomena of the atmosphere. 

All our conceptions of the constitution of substances, in regard to 
their solid, liquid, or aeriform states, are more or less intimately asso- 
ciated with the atomic constitution of matter in its relations to heat. 
Thus, the action of heat converts a solid into a liquid, by giving mo- 
bility to its atoms. The action of heat converts a liquid into an elastic 
vapor, or gas, by imparting a repulsive force to its atoms. Indeed, in 
regard to gases, the repulsive force and heat are often looked upon as 
identical, and we shall consider them to be so. The elastic properties 
of gas, steam, or vapor, are, then, owing to the mutual repulsion of the 
atoms, in consequence of the action of heat. This view, arising natu- 
rally out of the atomic constitution of matter, gives an explanation of 
the mechanism of gases no less simple than consistent. 

To illustrate this principle one fact will suffice. If water is con- 
verted into steam under the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere, a 
cubic inch is transformed into about a cubic toot of vapor. The atoms 
of water are, therefore, twelve times further japart in the case of steam 
than they are in that of the liquid. The action of heat has had the effect 
of putting every atom in a state of repulsion with regard to its fellows — 
every one lends to fly from the other with as much force as if each was 
under the influence of a powerful spring. The intensity of the repulsion 
of the atoms constitutes the force of the steam. The elastic properties 
of the gases of the atmosphere are also owing to the mutual repulsion of 
their atoms, though the repulsion is much more permanent in this^case 
than in that of steam. No cold or pressure has yet been found suffi- 
cient to reduce nitrogen or oxygen to a liquid form. 



184 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

The bulk of gas is increased by heat, which must not be looked upon 
as increasing the size of the atoms, but only as increasing the repulsive 
force between them. The repulsive or expansive t()rce is measured by 
the weight which it can support. In the atmosphere, the expansive 
force of a portion of air, or its elasticity, is exactly balanced by the 
gravity of all the air above it. The weight of the atoms, from the top 
to the bottom of the atmosphere, amounts, as we have said before, to 
about fifteen pounds on each square inch; the elastic or repulsive force 
which keeps the atoms apart is exactly equal to this amount. Gravity 
and elasticity are so equally poised, and the atoms move so freely 
amongst each other, that the air is in a slate of the most delicate 
balance that can be imagined. 

The expansive property of gases is a remarkable ])henomenon in 
physics. We have no means of ascertaining its limits, but we know if 
the whole air was exhausted from I his r(X)m, a single cubic inch of 
either oxygen or nitrogen would, if admitted into so large a vacuum, 
instantly occupy every part of it, and still press, though with dimin- 
ished force, against the walls for further expansion. The repuls^'e 
force which exists among the atoms, though greatly weakened, would 
not be exliausted. 

The law which regulates the density and elasticity of gases was dis- 
covered about half a century after Toricelli invented the barometer. 
Mariotte found, by experiment, "That the density and elasticity of at- 
mospheric air are directly, but the space it occupies inversely, as the 
force of compression." Tliat is to say, if you exhausted the air from the 
receiver of an air-pump until the barometer stood at fifteen inches, the 
pressure or elasticity of the air would only be half of what it was before 
the experiment. It would take two cubic inches of air in this state of 
rarity to weigh as mucli as ont^ did when the barometer was at thirty 
inches; or, in other words, one half of the atoms being removed, the 
remaining half are fiirther apart, since they still occupy the same space. 
The number of atoms being reduced one half, if tlie temperature is the 
same, their repulsive force is also reduced in the same ratio, and, there- 
fore, the repulsion of the particles of any gas increases as the cube 
root of the distance between them diminishes. The repulsion be- 
tween the atom at tlie ver}' top of the atmosphere and those below it is 
so much weakened by separation that it is precisely equal to the weight. 

From the simple fact that the repulsion of the atoms of gases varies 
as the number of atoms contained in a given space, it follows that the 
elasticity and density of a gas are as the pressure directly, that the 
volume is as the pressure inversely, and that, consequently, the one 
can be deduced from the other by the simple rule of proportion. This 
law holds true in regard to the most minute additions of weight, and 
we have the full assurance of reason, t()unded on experiment, bther 
things being equal, that the distance which separates ever}' atom of 
air from the lop to the bottom of the atmosphere decreases as w^e de- 
scend ; in short, each atom is nearer the atom immediately below it 
than the one above. The various strata of the atmospiiere thus in 
some measure resembles fleeces of wool or loose balls of cotton piled 
upon each other. The wool or cotton is more compressed, and there- 
fore more dense, in proportion to the weight it bears ; it is most so 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 185 

next the bottom, and least so at the top. The air, in the same way, is 
more rare as we ascend to greater heights, the atoms being farther 
apart, and their repulsive force diminished. In consequence of the 
great capabilities of gases for expanding with diminished pressure, 
the atmosphere, instead of being only about five miles in height, as it 
would be if of equal density with the lowest stratum, (?) is really up- ,. 
wards of fifty miles high. 

The atmosphere is not only in a most delicate state of balance in 
respect to elasticity and pressure, but it is no less so in respect to the 
amount of heat contained in its different strata. The expansive force 
of gases, or the repulsion which exists among their atoms, seems, as 
we have already stated, to be identical w'ith heat. When air, at the 
temperature of freezing water, is condensed in the hollow globe of an 
air-gun, an immense amount of heat becomes sensiljlc. Tinder, it is 
well known, can be lighted with a single stroke of a condensing 
syringe. In the rarefied gas a large amount of heat is stored away 
and inappreciable by our instruments or senses, which is again given 
out*by compression. 

The intimate connexion subsisting between heat and the expansion 
of gases is most beautifully seen in the atmosphere. As already 
stated, the atoms of air as w^e ascend are at greater distances from 
each other. If the distance between any two atoms is diminished, 
they give out heat or render it sensible ; whereas, if w^e increase the 
distance between them, they store it away. The upper strata are 
sensibly colder than the lower, not because the atoms have less heat, 
but because the heat is diffused through a larger space when the atoms 
are farther apart. One pound of air at the level of the sea, within the 
tropics, may be said to contain no more heat than the same weight at 
the top of the highest mountain perpetually covered with snow. It is 
for this reason that the same w'infl wliich is w^arm in the valley 
becomes colder as it ascends the sides of the mountain. The diminish- 
ing pressure allows the air to expand and store away its heat. It is, 
therefore, not the snow on the top of mountains which cools the air, 
but it is the rarity of the air which keeps the snow itself from melting. 
As a general law, the decrease of temperature amounts to 1° Fahren- 
heit for every 300 feet in perpendicular height. 

A variation in the amount of heat affects the vtAume of a gas as 
sensibly as a variation in the pressure. An addition of heat increases 
thn repulsive force of the atoms, and thus expands the volume. All 
gases, reckoning from the freezing point of w^ater, expand nearly the 
480Lh part of their bulk for every degree of temperature ; or, in other 
words, if one cubic foot of air had its temperature raised 480^ above 
the freezing point, its elastic force would be doubled, or it would tend 
to expand to twice its former bulk. 

If a number of atoms of air in the low^er stratum receives a greater 
amount of heat than those in the vicinity, they will repel each other to 
a greater distance apart than they were before they were heated, and 
will have a tendency to ascend, on the same principle that a piece of 
cork rises in water. 

On these undisputed data Dalton founded his two famous conditions 
of atmospheric equilibrium, which are now regarded as the true basis 



186 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

on which all atmospheric disturbances are to be studied. First, that 
the atmosphere can only remain in a state of rest or equilibrium when 
the barometer stands at the same height at the level of the sea in all 
j)arts of the globe, because the aerial envelope lias a tendency like water 
to seek its equilibrium. Second, that the atmosphere must every where 
have the same temperature at the level of the sea, and that its various 
strata as we ascend must have a temperature corresponding to their 
position — that is, that every atom, from the top to the bottom of the 
atmosphere, must possess the same absolute amount of heat. 

A number of natural agencies are at work to disturb the equili- 
brium ot the atmosphere, and to give rise to aerial currents; among 
them the most important is the difference of temperature in different 
parts of the earth. The air within the tropics, constantly heated by 
the rays of an almost perpendicular sun, is rendered ligliter, and is 
pushed upward by the heavier air north and south of this region. A 
current in this direction from each pole is thus produced at the surface 
ol the earth, while an opposite current towards each pole is gcner§ted 
by tlje rarefied air which rises above the heated belt, and flows back- 
ward like water seeking its equilibrium. These currents, on account 
of the rotation of the earth, are not along the meridian, but those at 
the surface take a westerW direction, while those above flow in an 
easterl}^ course. This is the origin of the trade winds at the surface 
of the ea'th, and of the great westerly current which is almost con- 
stantly moving in the upper strata over the middle and northern por- 
tions of the United States. That such a current does prevail over the 
regions mentioned is clearly proved by Professor Coflin^s admirable 
report on the winds of the northern hemisphere, published in the Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Knowledge. The phenomenon of the con- 
stancy of this upper current early attracted m}'- notice in my tour 
through this country, and I learn from the records that it is the same 
all the 3^ear. The fact of the existence of this current is referred to 
by President D wight, in his History of New England, to explain some 
atmospheric phenomena; and, indeed, it is one of the keys to a know- 
ledge of the peculiarities of the meteorology of this country. 

To understand some of the peculiar actions which occur in the lower 
strata of the atmosphere, it is necessary for us to consider a little more 
attentivel}^ the effect which sometimes takes place when a large area is 
slowly heated and the air above it gradually expanded. In this 
case the heated air, increasing its volume and resting on the surface of 
the earth, pushes up the air above it, and thus retains it in a state of 
unstable equilibrium. This condition was observed by the French 
savans as existing over the heated sand ot"the desert, and giving rise to 
the mirage. It was also observetJ by Colonel Sykes, on the plains of 
Hindostan, and is quite common in all latitudes. 

This is a very unstable condition of the atmosphere, and is constantly 
liable to be overturned ; yet its philosophy is not difficult to comprehend. 
When the atoms of air in the lower stratum are gradually and ecjually 
heated, all have a tendency to rise, and the cold atoms above have a 
tendency to descend. But as there is not room for all to descend and 
all to ascend at the same time, there is little downward or upward 
motion. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 187 

This is a very simple principle, but it is the onl}^ one which enables 
us to comprehend how a dead calm often exists immediately before 
violent storms, and even before the tremendous hurricanes of the West 
India ishinds. A large amount of power is in this wa}^ held in reserve 
ready to be developed under various circumstances. We shall men- 
tion some phenomena as illustrations which are produced in this way. 

The unstable condition of the air, which results from the undue heat 
of the lower stratum, produces those great whirlwinds of dust and sand 
in the deserts of Arabia and Africa. The air flows in beneath, and 
revolves as it ascends, carrying loose material with it. Humboldt, 
when crossing over the great plains of South America during the hot 
season, recorded a curious instance of the effect of the sun's rays en the 
surface of the ground when the air was calm : "In the Mesa de Paja," 
says that illustrious traveller, " we eiUered the basin of the Llanos. The 
sun was almost at its zenith ; the earth, wherever it appeared sterile 
and destitute of vegetation, was at the temperature of 86^ to 90^ F.; 
not a breath of wind was felt at the height at which we were on our mules ; 
yet in the midst of this apparent calm whirls of dust incessantl}^ arose, 
driven on by these small currents of air which glide only over the sur- 
face of the ground, and are occasioned by the difference of temperature 
between the naked sand and the spots covered with grass." — (Personal 
Narrative, Vol. 1.) The land and the sea breezes observed in warm 
countries are caused by somewhat similar agencies. The land in the 
day time becomes heated to a much greater degree than the sea ; the 
air over the former expands and flows away above, while the compara- 
tively cold air from the sea rushes over the land. This is exactly 
reversed at night, the air over the sea being slightly warmer than over 
the land — the breeze is from the latter. All are agreed as to the 
general cause of this phenomenon, but I am inclined to think the par- 
ticular mode of action has not received that attention which it deserves. 
As I shall have occasion to show that the action of the sea breeze in 
Great Britain apparently furnishes us with the true principle upon 
which certain violent disturbances sometimes take place over one halt 
of Europe, I shall be a little particular in describing the exact mode 
of action. x\nd I am not singular in opinion that a modification ot the 
same principle applies to some of the storms of the United Slates. 
On a recent visit to Cuba I had an opportunity to study some well 
defined instances of land and sea breezes. I was particularly in- 
terested in the former, because I was less familiar with them from personal 
observation ; for while the sea breeze is common in summer on the 
east coast of Scotland, the land breeze is very rare. Hugh Miller has 
given a description of the sea breeze in his work entitled "My School 
and Schoolmasters," as it occurs on the Cromart}'- coast, which is well 
worth a perusal by those who take an interest in such matters. 

The particular summer sea breeze of North Britain, so far as I have 
had an opportunity of observing, only occurs when an upjx-r current 
is flowing from a westerly quarter. This condition seems to be essen- 
tial to its action. The breeze is always strongest on the coast, it gradu- 
ally moderates as it passes into the interior, and final.ly dies away long 
before it reaches the west coast. The mauner in which the sea breeze 
loses its force shows that it is graduall}/ absorbed into the upper current, 



188 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

and that it does not rise in one vertical column, but that there is a con- 
stant ascension and absorption going on over the whole extent agitated 
by the breeze. By way of exempUfication, and to render my exposi- 
tion more clear, I shall direct your attention to the action which takes 
place lietween soft and salt water, at the mouths of large rivers. Cap- 
tain King observed a current of salt water running up the mouth of the 
Santa Cruz, beneath the fresh water. In this case we cannot for a 
moment imagine that the salt water rises in a body at any particular 
spot, and returns as salt water to the sea ; but onl}^ that the salt under 
current is gradually absorbed into the fresh stream above, at every 
point as far as the salt water extends. 

Now suppose the sea breeze has a depth of 2,000 feet, and extends 
60 miles into the interior of the country; it will not rise in a vertical 
column of 2,000 feel in width, but will be gradually absorbed, by rising 
in small portions into the upper current along the whole distance tra- 
versed. The greater depth of salt water at the mouth of the river 
corresponds to the greater velocity of the air on reaching the land. 
The spot where the breeze is not felt has its counterpart in that point 
of the bed of the river where the salt water ceases to flow against the 
stream. The deep upper current from the southwest, which overlies 
the shallow sea breeze, performs the part of the large body of fresh 
water of the river, to which the other plienomena are merely secondary. 
The power which propels the salt water up the bed of the river is the 
difference in the weight of the fresh and salt water. In the sea breeze, 
the air over the surface of the land is lighter than that over the sea at 
the same elevation; and it is this difference in the weight of the two 
columns of air which, in this case, is the propelling power. If the ba- 
rometer was sufficiently dehcate, the rate of motion of the breeze might 
be calculated with considerable precision. 

The heat of the sun materially affects the force of the winds at the 
earth's surface in all parts of the world. The still air of evening is well 
known to be in striking contrast with the breeze of midday. During 
the night the air cools more rapidly next the ground than at a greater 
elevation. The ascending currents cease with the heat of the sun, and 
friction soon induces a calm. 

At the meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of 
Science the year before last, I took occasion, in illustrating the action 
of one class of storms wdiich agitate the atmosphere of Europe, to 
point out the fact that the sun, during the summer months, in North 
Britain, had the effect to reverse the motion of a thin stratum of air at the 
surface of the ground ; while, durivg the day., a north current constantly 
flowed above and a south current flowed below, diirhig the night the latter 
was reversed. I have tf)und similar phenomena to prevail in the United 
States. For some days, in Charleston, last January, I observed that the 
wind was south during the heat of the day, and north in the morning. I 
cannot stop now to discuss the cause of this phenomenon, though it is ex- 
ceedingly interesting in a scientific point of view. But there is an analo- 
gous effect produced, upon a grand scale, east of the Rocky mountains, 
over the United States, as well as the British Possessions, that requires 
to be noticed in this place. It has been most satisfactorily mnde out 
by Pr(jtessor Coffin, that southerl}^ winds, in North America, are much 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 189 

more common in summer than in winter ; the following are his reduo 
tions : 

Between lat.320 and 330, 9 stations, 8 ^j^j^^ N. Avinds, 3.06. - S. to W.S.W. 7.77 days. 

year s average : S Carolina, Geor- \ j^^, j^_ ^.^^^ j g3_ _ g ^^ ^^ ^^ ^^ -^^ ^^^^_ 

gia, Alabama, and Mississippi. ) -^ 

Delaware, Maryland, and Eastern Vir- / Jan., N. winds, 2.81. — S. to W.S.W. 6.29 days. 

ginia. ^ July, N. winds, 1.05 — S. to W.S.W. 13.00 days. 

New England States south of latitude ) Jan., N. winds, 3.55. — S. to W.S.W. 6.60 days. 

450, 49 stations, 5 years. ) July, N. winds, 1.44. — S. to W.S.W. 15.74 days. 

Between 450 and 50O latitude : Iowa, 1 j^^ ^_ ^^.^^^ 4.17. - S. to W.S.W. 5.73 days. 

Wisconsin, Michigan Canada, and \ j^^, j^_ ^^,.^^^ ^ ^.^ _ g ^^ ^.S.W. 10.77 days. 

Maine, 10 stations, 17 years. ) 



Total north wind 19.74 Total south wind. 76.06 

I quite concur in the opinion^ first entertained by Yolney, that the 
summer south winds of the United States are chiefly supplied from the 
trade winds of the tropics. To this wind is to be ascribed the amazing 
fertility of the climate for sugar, cotton, Indian corn, and tobacco. The 
isthmus which connects North and South America is too high to allow 
the trade winds to cross into the Pacific ocean ; and in summer they ap- 
pear to be frequently directed northwards by this great natural wall, 
and find their way across the Gulf of Mexico, and spread out as a 
surface current loaded with moisture over the Mississippi valley and 
the eastern seaboard States. If the isthmus which connects the two 
continents had been sufficiently low to allow the trade winds to cross 
into the Pacific, the valley of the Mississippi would have had, in all 
probability, a much less productive summer climate, resembling that 
of the south of Europe or the north of Africa. 

I may here mention that there is only an extremely limited area in 
Europe which has sufficient summer rains, with the requisite tempera- 
ture, to grow Indian corn, and that there are no cotton or sugar regions. 
The summers of Spain, except on the northwest of the country, are 
usually so very dry that little Indian corn can be grown without arti- 
ficial watering. The productive powers of the soil are almost entirely 
centred in the valleys, which are irrigated by the melting of the snow 
of the mountains. 

The summers of Italy are also too dr}', and the melting of the snow 
on the Alps is essential to the fertility of Lombardy. The largest and 
best region for Indian corn in Europe is in the south and east of France. 
Mr. Marsh, in his introductory lecture here, told us that for three 
months rain did not fall in summer at Constantinople. In Palestine, 
" rain in summer" is still as rare as the " snow in harvest." In the valley 
of the lower Nile, a shower of rain is a remarkable phenomenon ; the 
overflowings of the river serve for the growth of wheat, but no Indian 
corn or millet can be had without laborious irrigation ; accordingly, fifty 
thousand oxen are employed in summer to draw water for this purpose. 
In upper Egypt no crops of any kind are obtained without the same 
appliance ; and during a low current in the river the peasants are obliged 
to raise the water upwards of forty feet. When we reflect on these 
facts, the great fertility of the summer climate of North America, east 
of the Rocky Mountains, is very surprising. The aridity of the Medi- 
terranean shores is owing to the prevalence of northerly winds ; while 
the fertility of the United Spates is owing to the prevalence of those 



190 NINTH ANNUAL EEPORT OF 

from the south. This statement is amply supported b}'' Professor Cof- 
fin's researches in the Smithsonian Contributions. 

The warm surface wind which sets in from the Gulf of Mexico over 
the United States, is not only the great source of fertility, but is also the 
great disturbing element of the atmosphere at all seasons of the year. 
During the warm season, in this country, when the wind changes 
to north or northwest, the sky becomes peculiarly transparent and blue in 
color. I have frequently had occasion, in my tour through Canada and 
the United States, to observe that the lower south and southwest wind 
begins to blow, as in Great Britain, shortly after the sun heats the air at 
the surface of the ground, and that the sky soon loses its peculiar trans- 
parency. One point in regard to this surface wind from the south de- 
serves special notice. I allude to the fact that it is often at rest or very 
sluo[orish durino; the nitjht, and most active during the maximum heat of 
the day. This vast surface wind which spreads over the region east of 
the Rocky M(juntains, and over the Gulf of Mexico, is therefore daily put 
put in motion hy the heat of the sun. The short time which I have been 
able to devote to this subject leads me to believe that the breeze begins 
to stir at an earlier hour in the day in the higher latitudes, and that it is 
gradually propagated to the south. The sun rising earlier the farther 
we advance northward is probably the cause of this phenomenon. 

Mr. Thom, in his work on the " Nature and Course ot" Storms," p. 255, 
intc)rais us that south and southwest winds prevail during summer over 
the projecting shoulder of South America, at Guiana; and I was in- 
formed by the sugar-planters that in Cuba south winds are common 
during the rainy season, namely, May, June, July, and August. 
Mr. Phelps, also, in a recent communication to the meteorological 
department of the Smithsonian Institution, mentions the fact that 
at Fort Brown, on the Rio Grande, the "prevailing winds are from the 
south, or probably a point or avo to the east of south. This, he says, 
is more particularly the case during spring and the earlier part of 
sunnner, when they are usually'' pretty constant, especially' during the 
day time, blowing at the rate ot" fourteen miles an hour, or five degrees 
of latitude per day. But Professor Coffin's report, already alluded to, 
gives us the best view of this great aerial current, which fiowsover the 
Mississippi valley, as well as along the Atlantic slope. 

The two great systems of atmospheric currents, viz : the lower and 
warm surface wind from the south, and the cold and dry current flow- 
ing constantly in the upper regions from the west, are intimately asso- 
ciated with all the changes of the weather in the United States. 
But belbre we attempt to trace the nature of these changes we must 
direct attention to another element of meteorology, which we have as 
yet almost left out ot" view, viz: the elastic and invisible vapor of 
water contained in the air, and which plays so important a part in 
almost all atmospheric changes. 

Science, as we have seen, was long perplexed with the problem of 
the manner in which water existed in the air ; sometimes entirely in- 
visible, at others obscuring the heavens with clouds, or falling as rain 
or snow. For the solution of this question, we are also indebted to 
John Dalton, who gave an explanatKjn ot" the matter, no less simple 
than consistent and ingenious. He at the same time opened up a new 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 191 

view of the mechanism of mixed gases, gave us new ideas of the con- 
stitution of tbe atmosphere, and enabled us to comprehend the agency 
which " divides the waters of the firmament from the fountains of the 
deep." The hygrometry of the atmosphere will be considered in our 
next lecture. 



192 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



METEOROLOGY. 



Second Lecture. 

That water placed in an open vessel over a fire does not have its 
temperature raised above 212 degrees, however great the heat may be, 
and that tlie steam produced is no warmer, is among the first of the 
wonders which arrests the attention of the student entering upon the 
field of physical science. The heat of the fire is absorbed in the pro- 
duction of the steam. .The atoms of water are made to repel each 
other. A cubic inch of this liquid converted into steam at 212 degrees, 
at the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere, has its bulk increased 
nearly 1,700 times. The elasticity of the steam thus produced is 
equal to the weight of a perpendicular column of 30 inches of mercury. 
This must appear quite evident when we consider how steam is formed. 
It rises from the bottom of the vessel whicli contains the water, in 
bubbles, and can only be rapidly formed when the repulsion of the 
atoms is able to resist the whole weight of the incumbent atmosphere. 

Dalton, however, discovered that vapor is formed at all tempera- 
tures ; that the boiling point of water and the elasticity of the vapor 
are entirely regulated by heat and pressure. This he proved by allow- 
ing a small quantity of" water to ascend to the top of the mercury in a 
common barometer tube, where it produced vapor, the elasticity or 
pressure of which could be exactly measured by the height of the 
column, as the heat was increased or diminished. This simple experi- 
ment showed that the connexion between the temperature, density, and 
elasticity of steam is subject to the same physical law which regulates 
the density and elasticity of the permanent gases. The following 
exhibits a few cases of steam at diffisrent temperatures, with the corre- 
sponding force and weight : 

Temp. 0°; force 0.068 in inches; weight of cubic foot, 0.856 grains. 

" " 1.688 " " 

3.239 
" " 6.222 " 

11.333 
257.218 

In fact, after allowing for the difference of the temperature in steam, 
according to the law wliich holds in reference to other gases, the pres- 
sure of steam at any low temperature being given, the weight of a 
cubic foot of steam can be calculated by the simple rule of propor- 
tion. 



20° 


" 0.140 


40o 


" 0.280 


60O 


" 0.560 


80O 


" 1.060 


212° 


" 30. 00 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 193 

Steam or vapor, at all temperatures, may be considered as water con- 
taining a definite amount of heat. A pound of steam at 212° contains 
ver}'- little more caloric than a pound of vapor at 32°. This is proved 
by the fact that steam, at any temperature, when condensed, is capable 
of raising the temperature of its own weight of water more than 1,000°. 
If a cubic foot of steam at 32°, weighing 2.539 grains, were subjected 
to pressure, and none of the heat evolved during the condensation lost, 
a small volume of steam at 212° would be produced. But a cubic 
foot of steam at 32° could not e3^st in the atmosphere by itself, as it 
would be subjected to a pressure of 30 inches of mercury, whereas it 
could bear no more than one-fifth of an inch. Hence a difficulty arose 
amongst chemists in regard to the manner in which water existed in 
the invisible form in the atmosphere at all temperatures, and under all 
pressures. There was also some difficulty in accounting for the man- 
ner in which the mixture of the different gases took place. 

It has been found that air brought down from the tops of the highest 
mountains, and from the greatest elevation reached by aeronauts, is 
nearly the same in composition as at the surface of the earth. This 
fact was rather perplexing, because the different gases of the atmo- 
sphere have not the same specific gravity. A cubic foot of oxygen 
weighed more than one of nitrogen, while one of carbonic acid was 50 
per cent, heavier than either. 

Common air 1.0000 

Carbonic acid 1.5240 

Nitrogen 0.9760 

Oxygen 1. 1026 

Steam ^12° 0.6235 

The carbonic acid being the heaviest gas, it should chiefly occupy 
the lower stratum of the atmosphere; and the nitrogen the top. Dal- 
ton, to reconcile a variety of phenomena with each other, added a new 
proposition to the theory of the atomic constitution of the mixed 
gases — namely, that the atoms of oxygen do not repel the atoms of 
nitrogen, 'but only those of their own kind. That the one gas is as a 
vacuum to the other. On this principle the most complete mixture of 
gases is explained, the atoms of one gas by their mutual repulsion are 
forced apart as is in void space, and thus difi;used among those of an- 
other. At the last lecture we mentioned that if this room were com- 
pletely exhausted of air, and a cubic inch of hydrogen introduced, it 
would instantly expand and fill the whole space. Now, the same thing 
would happen if a cubic inch of hydrogen were introduced into the 
room filled with air. The process would be much slower, but the 
mutual repulsion, of the atoms of hydrogen would still be in as active 
operation as it was in the vacuum, and would still cause them to sepa- 
rate until they pressed against the walls of the room with as much 
force as if there were no air in it. 

Not only has the truth of this law been verified, but the diffusive 
velocity of the various gases ascertained by actual measurement. 
This velocity is inversely as the density of the gases ; in other words, 
the lighter the gas the greater its rapidity of diffusion. The vapor of 
water, or steam, is subject to the same law ; and this is the solution of 
Mis. Doc. 24 13 



194 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

the difficulty we mentioned as to its capability of existing in the atmo- 
sphere at all temperatures. In accordance with this law, the atoms of 
water, as well as those of the several gases which compose the atmo- 
sphere, are as far separate from the atoms of their own kind as they 
would be if each alone occupied the space. The pressure of the com- 
pound atmosphere is therefore made up of the joint pressures of the 
individual gases. 

Strictly speaking, vapor is not condensed by the pressure of air, but 
by diminution of temperature ; and^he amount of moisture which can 
exist at any time in the atmosphere depends upon the amount of heat. 
Air saturated with moisture may be likened to a vessel filled with 
round shot or sand. The spaces between the atoms of the permanent 
gases are occupied by the atoms of steam, in the same way as water 
fills up the vacant spaces between the shot or sand. The atoms of 
water are at a distance when steam at any temperature is by itself, and 
they can possess no greater repulsive force than is due to the tempera- 
ture of the evaporating surface. Pressure applied to the atoms will 
cause condensation, if the heat aiising from this act is lost. This is 
the same in the moistest atmosphere — the atoms of water are at a 
distance, and their repulsive or diffusive force is the cause of their re- 
maining invisible. Evaporation, therefore, in the atmosphere at a 
given temperature, can only take place when the atoms of water are 
removed as far from those on the evaporating surface as they would 
be in pure steam at the same given temperature. 

Air is said to be saturated with moisture when as many atoms of 
vapor are contained in it as would exist in a vacuum at the same tem- 
perature. The atoms of air merely fill up the interstices of the elastic 
vapor of water, or the converse. If the temperature be diminished, 
the repulsion of the atoms will not be sufficient to support so great a 
pressure, and a part of the vapor will be condensed into water. The 
reduced temperature at which this condensation begins to take place is 
called the dew point, or point of precipitation. 

The elastic force of vapor would ultimately cause it to rise to the 
top of the atmosphere by virtue of this repulsive or diffusive property, 
if it were not checked by other causes. At one time meteorologists 
attributed many atmospheric phenomena to the great activity of the ' 
diffiisive power of the vapor of water ; but we are indebted to Profes- ■'■ 
sor Espy for showing that this has been very much overrated, and i; 
other agents are the more active causes. 

The air has its temperature raised during the day by the direct heat 
from the sun and contact with the earth, and loses the greater part of !|i 
this heat during the night by radiation into space. The ground radiat- 
ing heat much faster than air in a clear, calm night, is generally cooled 
down below the point of precipitation of the vapor, and thus conden- 
sation of moisture is produced and dew formed. This effect of radia- 
tion has a most beneficial influence on vegetation. The formation of 
dew is regulated by a very simple law, viz : that the dewed surface is 
always colder than the air in contact with it. In the same way the dew- 
point of the air is ascertained by cooling down any bod}^ until moisture 
is formed upon it. Several hygrometers have been formed on this 
principle. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 195 

The amount of moisture in the atmosphere has a great influence in 
modifying the heating power of the sun's rays, as well as in the 
radiation of heat during the night into space. We often find two days 
in summer equally free from clouds and equally calm, while the one 
may be oppressively warm, and the other comparatively cool. This 
does not arise from a difference in the power of the sun's rays, but from 
the quantity of moisture in the atmosphere. 

The influence of moisture in tempering the sun's rays is a remark- 
able fact and well worthy of father investigation. When tlie dew 
point is high, or, in other words, when the air is filled with moisture, 
the radiation from the earth is prevented, and the temperature of the 
night remains almost as high as that of the day ; when the dew 
point is low, the sun's rays pass, without absorption, to the earth, and 
impart little of their heat directly to the air. The medium dew points 
are, therefore, most favorable to extreme heat in the atmosphere, and 
the greater heat beyond the tropics is probably owing to this cause. 

The fact that the amount of moisture in the air regulates the tempe- 
rature of the nights has not received the attention which it deserves. 
I shall hereafter show that the hygrometrical condition of the atmo- 
phere throws a very considerable amount of light on the action of 
Nortli American and European storms; and therefore I am more anxious 
to draw your particular attention to the relation between the dew point 
of the vapor of the air and the night temperatures, because this is the 
only means which I have of indicating the hygrometrical conditions 
connected with the storms of the United Stales. 

It seems to be a law which holds in general over the world that the 
temperature of the air at sunrise during calm nights, at a certain dis- 
tance from the ground, falls a fittle below the dew point of the air 
during the preceding day. The mean temperature of the^air at sun- 
rise, therefore, approximates very closely to the mean dew point. The 
great amount of moisture in the air within the tropics is the cause of 
the warm and brilliant nights. Radiation from the air and ground, 
under these conditions, seems to lose its power. On the other hand, 
travellers in all parts of the world inform us, incidentally, as to the 
connection between dry air and cold nights. Mr. Inglis, in his travels 
through Spain, relates that he was oppressed by the hot rays of the sun 
in the valley of Granada while the hoar frost was lying white in the 
shade. Eastern travellers in the deserts often complain of the broiling 
heat of the air during the day, and of its chill temperature at night. 
Beautiful allusions to the same law are also found in Scripture; many 
of you will recollect that one of the greatest hardships which Jacob 
experienced while he tended Laban's flocks was, that through the 
"drought by day and the frosts by night sleep departed from his eyes." 
On the other hand, the moisture from the Atlantic in summer allows 
the air to retain its heat in the valley of Chamouni, in Switzerland, so 
that grapes ripen in the immediate proximity of the glaciers which 
descend from the Alps. At Bergen, in Norway, the same element 
allows the cherry-tree to mature its fruit where you can pluck it and 
throw the stones upon the broad mass of ice which slowly descends 
from the mountains. 

Those days during summer in the United States on which the sky 



196 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

is very transparent are rather deficient in moisture. The air is then 
somewhat bracing, as the sun does not have the power of heating 
it up to a high degree. The great changes in the weather which take 
place at all seasons over the United States, and the very cold winters 
in comparision to those of Europe, are intimately associated with the 
hygromet;ic condition of the atmosphere, which we must now con- 
sider. 

Why are the winters so cold at^^ashington in the SS*^ of latitude,' 
the same as that of Lisbon, in Portil^l, where the orange-trees are now 
in blossom? This is owing to the great prevalence of west and north- 
west winds, which are very dry, and sweep over the vast territory 
from Canada to Florida, and are converted into the northern of Cuba 
and the coast along the Gulf of Mexico. President D wight, a most 
accurate observer, in his Travels and History of New England describes 
the character and effect of the winds so accuratel}^, that I will quote 
two short passages. He says, " In 1787 the west wind began to blow 
about the 20th November, and continued its progress with only four 
short interruptions until the 20th of the following March— somewhat 
more than 100 days. During the whole time the weather for the season 
w^as very cold." Also, "in 1780 the wind blew from the west more 
than six weeks without any intermission, and during the whole of this 
time the w^eather was so cold that snow did not dissolve sufficiently to 
give drops from the southern eaves of houses." So long as the westerly 
wind continues to blow in winter there is no cessation of your cold, and 
so lona,- as it continues to flow in a broad res^ular stream in summer 
there is no end to 3'our drought. President Dwight maintains that the 
west and northwest wind is merely the descent of the upper current 
which flows so regularly right across the Rocky Mountains. Whoever 
will take the trouble to examine the meteorological observations within 
the Smithsonian Institution, I am inclined to think, will come to 
the same conclusion. If the south wind was as common in winter as 
in summer, and if there was no descent of this upper current, your 
v/inters might be as mild as those of Portugal, whicli are tempered by 
the moist wind from the southern Atlantic. 

The question naturally arises, why is the west wind so extremely cold ? 
The answer is, simply, because in crossing the Rocky Mountains it is 
robbed of its moisture ; and becoming so dry that the sun pours down 
his rays of heat ; in vain neidier the air by day nor the ground by 
night can retain them ; they fiy off into space. The principle on which 
air is dried in passing over high mountains is a very simp.e one, if we 
merely bear in mind that air expands under diminished pressure and 
becomes colder by the heat being diffused over a greater space. Pro- 
fessor Espy has very ably investigated this subject on theoretical 
grounds. But, as our space is exceedingly limited, I shall merely 
adduce some examples by way of illustration. Mr. Walsh made an 
ascent in a balloon on the 26th August, 1852, from Kew Gardens, in 
England. The barometer stood at 30 inches, and the dew point was 
61°; or, in other words, the air contained 6,06 grains of water in every 
cubic foot. At the height of 18,370 feet the barometer stood at 35 
inches, temperature of air 70, dew point 2°8, or equivalent to 0.8 grain 
of water in a cubic loot. But at this elevation the air being expanded 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 197 

by the diminished pressure, two cubic feet will onl}' weigh about as 
much as one did at the surface of the earth. Two cubic feet, there- 
fore, would contain 1.6 grains of water. Now, it will be evident, if this 
upper air was to descend to the surface of the earth, it would have its 
temperature raised by coming under increased pressure ; but its dew 
point, as will be seen by inspecting a table, would be no higher than 
23°, instead of 61°; the radiation during one night would, therefore, 
cool down the air at the surface of the earth to this temperature. The 
dry uj^per current coming over the Rocky Mountains oiten descends to 
the earth in winter, and is the cause of the severe weather at that 
season in the country east of these mountains. The great westerly 
current of air from the Pacific in passing over the Rocky Mountains, 
and in ascending their westerly slopes, becomes colder by expansion, 
and, consequently, deposits its moisture. It is true the heat liberated 
by the condensation of the vapor will tend to elevate the temperature of 
the air on the top and at the foot of the mountain above its nominal 
point; but this effect is counteracted, as we have said, by the increased 
freedom the dry air gives to the radiation of heat from the surface of 
the earth and the lower stratum of air, particularly when it is spread 
over a wide extent of radiating surface. The descent, therefore, of the 
dry and upper current of westerly winds to the surface of the earth is. 
I think, the principal cause of the sudden and extreme changes of 
weather in this clime. President D wight states that in the month of 
July, 1804, considerable snow fell at Salem, in New England, and that 
a severe frost was experienced in different parts of the same country. 
In all parts of the world where moist winds, or those from the ocean, 
blow over high ranges of mountains, they deposit their moisture in the 
form of rain and snow on the windward slopes. This is the case on 
the coast range of Oregon and California, and also on the slopes op- 
posite the prevailingmoist winds in South America. 

In England not more than 23 inches of water falls annually in some of 
the level eastern counties during the year, while nearly 200 inches 
occasionally fall on the western side of the mountains of Cumberland. 
The west wisds of Norway are remarkably mild and rainy for such a 
high latitude, while the same winds in Sweden are comparatively 
cold ; the air, in losing its moisture on the high chain of mountains, 
loses its power of retaining the large amount of latent heat extricated 
by the condensation of vapor. 

The production of cold through expansion is the cause of clouds 
resting on the tops of mountains when they should apparently be borne 
away on the breeze. The precipitation of vapor as the air rises on the 
one side, and the evaporation of it as the air descends on the other, is 
the true cause of the phenomenon. The formation of clouds in the 
sky and precipitation of moisture are chiefly produced, as Mr. Espy 
has demonstrated, by the asceni of comparatively moist and warm 
air from below. The expansion produces cold, and of course the pre- 
cipitation of moisture into clouds and rain. The cumulus clouds of 
summer are thus formed by ascending currents of moist air. The con- 
densation of the vapor extricates a large amount of latent heat, which 
expands the air within the cloud, and thus produces an increased 
buoyancy. Before thunder-storms the air is usually moist and oppres- 
sive, the perspiration from the skin is checked by the moisture, and 



198 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

feels warmer on this account than it really is. The temperature 
within this cloud being higher than that on the outside in consequence 
of tlj(^ evolution of latent heat, the passage of a thunder-cloud over 
any place almost invariably disturbs the air at the surface of the 
ground. The extrication of heat is a motive power which con- 
stantly causes the air to ascend in the front of the storm as the 
cloud drifts along in the upper current. Squalls are produced in the 
same way. Professor Espy, in his Report on Meteorology, says : 
" Low clouds are constantly forming in the front of squalls by the 
upward motion of the moist air as fast as their hinder parts are 
swept down by the falling rain, and thus they appear constantly just 
in f-ont of the squall, for it is only in front that there is an up-moving 
column of air from below." 

We shall enter a little more particularly into this subject, to show the 
analogy between these isolated disturbances arising from the formation 
of cloud and precipitation of rain and the land and sea breezes, hur- 
ricanes of the West India islands, thunder storms of America and 
Europe, and also some of the great snow and rain storms of both con- 
tinents. 

In Humboldt's celebrated voyage from Europe to South America he 
relates that, on reaching the latitudes of the trades, the "wind fell 
gradually the further we receded from the African coast ; it was some- 
times smooth water for several hours, and these short calms were 
regularly interrupted. Black, thick clouds, marked by strong outlines, 
rose in the east, and it seemed as if a squall would have forced us to 
haul our top-sails ; but the breeze freshened anew, there fell large 
drops of rain, and the storm dispersed. Meanwhile it was curious to 
observe the effects of several black, isolated, and very low clouds 
which passed the zenitli. We felt the force of the wind augment or 
diminish progressively according as small bodies of vesicular vapor 
approached or receded. It is by the help of these squalls, which 
alternate with dead calms, that the passage from the Canary islands to 
the Antilles or southern coast of America is made in the months of June 
and July." 

From this description we gather that there was an upper current 
prevailing from the east, in which the clouds drifted, bearing them over 
the calm air resting on the ocean. The air in front of the cloud is dis- 
turbed as soon as the cloud approaches, and a violent squall prevails so 
long as it is overhead. . This shows the intimate connexion between 
the upper and lower currents of the atmosphere when clouds are 
passing. 

Unless clouds were constantl}^ replenished by vapor from below, it 
is physically impossible that they could continue to throw down such 
great quantities of rain over long tracts of country as they are some- 
times known to do. At no time, even within the tropics, is the air over 
one spot capable of precipitating more than three inches of rain. 

In the squalls described by Humboldt we observe that there was 
■calm both before and after the passage of the cloud. The motion of 
the air at the surface of the sea is much the same as if the whole por- 
tion of it under the cloud were in a slate of vertical rotation around a 
horizontal axis. You will perceive that there is a resemblance in the 
motion of the air under isolated storm-clouds to that of the air in land 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 199 

and sea breezes. The latent caloric evolved by the condensation of 
vapor is the moving power in this class of phenomena, and the differ- 
ence betv^een the temperature of the land and the sea is the disturbing 
force in the other. I have frequently attempted to show that many of 
the European storms were to be ascribed to a modification of these 
principles. Since reaching Washington it has been pointed out to me 
by Professor Henry that Professor Mitchell, of North Carolina, gave in 
Silliman's Journal a similar explanation of some of the American 
storms as far back as 1831. I had never seen this paper, and was a 
little surprised to find so great a similarity in our views, more especial- 
ly as he had actually selected the same passages I have quoted from 
Humboldt as a common starting-point. But I have since found that 
Volney more than half a century ago accounts for one American snow- 
storm on the same principle. 

I must, in the first place, draw your attention to a feature which ap- 
pears to be common to the hurricanes of the West India Islands, and 
to the local squalls in the region of the trade winds, viz : that there is 
usually a calm before these terrific disturbances of the atmosphere. 
All who have examined these meteors are of opinion that the current 
above is from the southeast, and bears the hurricane clouds over the 
still and highly heated air ; this being surcharged with moisture is in a 
most unstable state of equilibrium, which is liable to be overturned by 
the shghtest cause that conspires to produce an up-moving volumn 
of air. To illustrate this I will merely read to you Captain Marry atl's 
graphic description of the coming on of a West Indian hurricane as 
given in "Peter Simple:" "What a hot day this has been ; not a cat's 
paw upon the water, and the sky all of a mist. Only look at the sun, 
how lie goes down, puffed out to three times his size, as if he were in 
a terrible passion. I suspect we shall have a land breeze off strong. 
The heat was excessive and unaccountable, not the slightest breath of 
wind moved in the heavens or below; no clouds to be seen, and the 
stars were obscured by a sort of mist : there appeared a total stagna- 
tion in the elements. We had not pulled long before a low moaning 
was heard in the atmosphere, now here, now there, and we appeared 
to be pulling through solid darkness ; I looked, and dark as it was, it 
appeared as if a sort of black wall was sweeping along right towards 
us. The moaning gradually increased to a stunning roar, and then at 
once it broke upon us with a noise to which no thunder can bear com- 
parison. The sea was perfectly level, but boiling and covered with a 
white foam, so that we appeared in the night to be floating on milk." 

Professor Mitchell, in the paper to which I have already referred, 
expresses the opinion that thunderstorms must be much less grand and 
imposing in Europe than in America, because poets have not considered 
them worthy of particular attention. Shakspeare, however, has not 
neglected our thunder storms, and with his usual philosophical dis- 
crimination has portrayed some of their more important peculiari- 
ties: 

" We often see, against some storm, 
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still, 
The bold winds speechless, and the orb below 
As hush as death : anon the dreadful thunder 
Doth rend the region." — Hamlet. 

The formation and progress of thunder storms are very peculiar in 



200 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

this country. We have abeady alluded to the frequency of south and 
southwest winds over the United States in summer. These currents, 
derived, as we have said, from the trade winds of the tropics, contain 
a large amount of moisture, and are the source of the great fertility of 
the Mississippi valley. Extensive rains and thunder storms only occur 
after the south wind has prevailed for some time. I am inclined to 
believe that this vast aerial current, which flows below the upper west- 
erly current, is much deeper in the southern than in the northern States. 
Mr. Phelps's observations, near the mouth of the Rio Grande, show that 
in his district the thunder clouds drift in the southeast current ; and I 
have been informed that they follow the same direction in Louisiana 
and Alabama. But in the higher latitudes, as for example that of 
Washington, the thunder clouds all move in the direction of the upper 
current from a point or two north or south of west. The moisture 
which forms these clouds is no doubt derived from the lower stratum, 
whose upper surface is exposed to the erosion of the upper current, 
constantly sweeping a portion away towards the Atlantic. The action 
of the lower moist current rising into the upper and forming cloud, 
and perhaps part of the upper descending, is no doubt the principal 
propelling power of the surface wind. President Dwight gives a very 
good description of the thunder storms of New England, and refers to 
points which should be specially borne in mind. On one occasion he 
says : " The meridional line upon which I stood was crossed by the 
storm several miles to the south. During the whole day the wind had 
blown from the south, and continued to blow in the same direction on 
the surface throughout the afternoon, without a moment's intermission. 
But had the wind," says he, " which carried the cloud when it passed 
over the meridian swept the surface, the wind for a time, at least, must 
have been entirely stopped. This, however, was not the fact even for 
a moment." On another occasion, in 1809, a "thunder storm passed 
over New Haven, from the northwest, with great rapidit3^ It con- 
tinued, as I judge, from an hour to an hour and a half But though 
the clouds moved rapidly to the southeast, a soutlmest wind blew the 
whole of that day and widle the thunder storm ivas overhead icith great 
violence.'*'' 

The increase in the strength of the southwest wind, as the clouds 
drifted overhead from the northwest, shows that the lower and upper 
currents mixed together ; that as in the case of the squall mentioned 
by Humboldt, a part of the lower stratum of air rising formed cloud, 
and that a part of the upper stratum descending to the earth was car- 
ried away by the prevaihng surface wind from the southwest. This 
propelling power, I think, cannot be doubted in thunder storms ; but I 
imagine the same principle must be taken into account as a source of 
motion to the southwest surface winds whenever clouds form in the sky 
and drift in the upper current. Thunder squalls drifting from the west, 
as I am also informed by Professor Espy, often draw in the stratum of 
air from the east immediately above the earth's surface ; while the 
falling rain under the clouds forces the air outwards towards the east, 
and it rises immediately before the rain, carrying up dust and other 
materials. A slight westerly breeze then usually springs up and fol- 
lows the cloud just a little in the rear. 

In fact, from the very irregular nature of the winds of the lower 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 201 

Stratum, we must in general look for a local cause of propulsion, on the 
same principle that the motion of the air at the surface of the earth, 
during the day in summer, with clear and dry weather, is constantly 
varied by the heat of the sun at every spot over which the breeze 
passes. As soon as the warm southerly wind begins to blow as a gen- 
eral surface current over the United States, the conditions necessary to the 
production of a storm already exist. The southerly wind, often 
veering about very irregularly, will then frequently continue in the same 
direction, until the whole country from the Gulf of Mexico to Canada is 
covered with a comparatively hot and moist stratum of air. Under 
these circumstances a crisis must ensue, when the upper current from 
the Rocky Mountains resumes its sway at the surface of the earth. 
In winter it often sweeps the stratum of moist air from over the 
United States into the Atlantic, and completely changes the character 
of the weather in a very short time. In summer the changes are gen- 
erally much less marked ; for Professor Coffin's researches show that 
the northerly winds then lose their power. At ihis season the process 
usually takes place in a gradual manner. Thunder clouds, drifting 
in the upper current, as described by Professor Dwight, shower 
down their watery contents over the land, and thus enable Indian 
corn to be successfully cultivated over a surface of country vastly 
greater than in any other part of the world. How these effects are 
brought about, involves the whole question of the action of storms east 
of the Rocky Mountains. We shall leave, however, the further discus- 
sion of this for the present, and conclude this lecture by one example, 
showing the scale upon which thunder storms are sometimes developed 
much about the same time over a vast area of country. I am only 
sorry that my time has not permitted me to analyze this storm in 
all its details. 

During the first days of last September the wind was mostly from the 
south ; the weather became excessively hot and oppressive ; the news- 
papers in all parts of the country were recording the high temperatures ; 
when, on the 6th, thunder storms took place nearly simultaneously in 
Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, East and West 
Canada, and the New England States. Large quantities of rain fell in 
various parts of the country, as the storms were in several places 
somewhat locally developed. At some points the northwest upper 
current reached the surface of the earth for a time, the southwest wind 
again blowing as before, until a general change of wind to the north- 
west prevailed, and caused a great fall in the temperature. At Sara- 
toga the thermometer stood at 96° in the shade on the afternoon of the 
6th, and at 46^ on the morning of the 9th at Rochester. It is a fact 
worthy of attention that a severe storm, amounting to a hurricane, 
swept the southeastern coast of the United States just about the time 
that this great change was taking place in the north and west. It is 
certainly well worthy the investigation of American meteorologists to 
ascertain whether any connexion exists between the weather in the 
northwestern States and the hurricanes of the West Indian islands, 
for in this instance the coincidence of phenomena was quite remark- 
able. As will be seen from our next lecture, great changes occurring 
in the northwest are rapidly propagated to the southeast in the case of 
winter storms. 



202 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 



?»IETEOROLOGY. 



Third Lecture. 

When northwest winds prevail over the United States in winter, the 
air is very dry and cold ; so long as the wind remains in this quarter 
there is no termination to the cold weather. It does not moderate, at 
least the thermometer does not rise, until the moisture is increased. I 
suppose it is admitted by meteorologists that the cold spells ot weather 
in the United States are first felt in the west and northwest, and gradu- 
ally extend over the country to the southeast. This direction, it will 
be obsei'ved, corresponds very nearly with the course of the current, 
which is so constant in the upper stratum of the atmosphere in this 
region. But it is a curious fact, well worthy of the attention of mete- 
orologists, that the warm and moist surface air which precedes storms 
and cold weather travels also from northwest to southeast ; at all 
events, it apparently does so. Sometimes a belt of moist air, several 
hundred miles in breadth, and extending from the mouth of the Missis- 
sippi to the lakes, and probably much further north, seems to advance 
from the west, while there is very cold weather both behind and in 
front of it. The storms of February, 1842, described by Professor 
Loomis in the Transactions cf the American Philosophical Society, 
were of this character. On the morning of the 10th November last, 
similar phenomena were presented : the eastern portion of the Missis- 
sippi valley, and all the States south of the lakes and west of the Alle- 
ghany range, were under the influence of a comparatively moist and 
warm stratum of air, at the very moment that the temperature was 
about 20^ lower from latitude 35° to 45° on the Atlantic seaboard, and 
between the same parallel of latitude in the western States west of 
longitude 92°. By the night of the 10th November, the weather be- 
came very moist and w^arm in the Atlantic seaboard States, more so 
than it had been in Ohio the previous day. 

The moisture which was found in the broad band could not origin- 
ally have come from the west, northwest, or north, because these winds 
are always exceedingly dry ; nor could it have come firom the Atlantic 
ocean, because the weather remains cold on the coasts when it is much 
warmer in Ohio. Indeed the storm was at hand before the east wind set 
in, and this is a usual occurrence. There can be but little doubt, therefore, 
that this moisture is originally derived from the Gulf of Mexico, and 
that it is spread over the middle and eastern portion of the United States 
by the southerly current, which, as we have before remarked, is, in our 
opinion, a deflected portion of the trade winds. 

In a former lecture, I pointed out the fact, abundantly proved by 
Profisssor Coffin, that these southerly winds prevail more in summer than 
in winter ; and an important point here suggests itself for future discus- 
sion. I think it very probable that a broad band of southerly winds, 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 203 

extending across the country from Florida to Texas, may flow north- 
ward and gradually diffuse itself as a surface current over the valley 
of the Mississippi and the seaboard States. The sun heating the earth 
more at the north, during the longer days, assists in the propulsion of 
this current. The higher portions of this lower current are in contact 
with the under surface of the cold upper current from the west, and in 
the mingling of the tv^^o the moisture of the former is precipitated into 
clouds or rain. In some cases the lower current may thus be gradually 
absorbed into the upper one, and this action may take place over a con- 
siderable portion of the country, producing an extended cloudiness and 
perhaps a general fall of rain without violent atmospheric disturbance. 

In winter, the propulsion of the southerly winds is not favored by the 
heat of the sun; at this season, therefore, they do not extend to so 
great a breadth as in summer, and only flow over the northern regions in 
streams, forming narrow belts of warm and moist air, to which we have 
just adverted. This warm current is often bounded by cold air, on the 
east and the west. The cold air on both sides is' drifting from west to 
east, the warm current between (flowing from south and southwest) is 
also carried laterally to the east; and hence, the moist and warm 
weather of winter has an apparent motion from west to cast. 

Our inquiries relative to this point lead us to believe that the south 
and southwest winds in winter may begin to blow over Texas and the 
high ground a little to the east of the slopes of the Rocky Mountains, 
and cause a rise of temperature to the west of the Mississippi, when 
the northwest wind is still blowing dry, cold, and clear, over the whole 
of the middle and eastern States. 

This, however, does not continue long; the west, northwest, and 
north winds soon descend between the western edge of the southern 
current and the mountains, and gradually force the former eastwards. 
On these occasions the north or northwest wind is the predominant one, 
which, rushing along the slopes of the mountains to the south, forms 
tlie well known northers from Vera Cruz to Cuba. According to this 
view, the norther should be felt sooner at the former place than at the 
latter. This much is certain, that almost every cold spell of weather 
which is experienced in the United States during winter is propagated 
to Cuba in the form of a norther, which, though the thermometer 
seldom sinks it below 55° at sunrise, is disagreeably felt by the inhabit- 
ants of the island.* 

* Since this lecture was written, I have had occasion to examine an niteresting series of 
"Queries and Strictures," by Dr. Hare, in regard to Mr. Espy's Meteorological Report. 
The view which we have taken of the northers in the Gulf of Mexico will, as far as it goes, 
answer in the affirmative Dr. Hare's 20th query, page 5 : 

" Whether northers are not consequent to the displacement of the warmer air lying on tho 
Gulf by the colder air of the territory of the^United States north or northeast (northwest.') of 
the Gulf, to whatever cause that displacement may be due.'" 

Among the number of interesting points suggested by Dr. Hare for discussion, an answer 
to the following queries we consider would contribute much to the advancement of the meteor- 
ology of the United States ; 

" 5th. Wherefore, in one of Mr. Espy's generalizations, he alleges that storms travel from 
west towards the east during the five wmter months, instead of alleging that they travel from 
northwest to southeast, consistently with the observations of Loomis, above mentioned?" 

" 7th. Whether there is not another distinct kind of storm, long known and universally 
recognised as the ' northeaster,' or ' northeastern gale,' which has been distinguished from 
the southeaster, so called by its direction, its longer endurance, lesser violence, and by its 
not being usually followed, after a brief lull, by a northwester, nor any violent wind in a 
direction directly o])posite to that in which it blew at the beginning of the storm.'" 



204 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Oa no question has there been more discussion among meteorologists 
than that in regard to the cause of the fluctuations in the height of the 
barometer, especiafly during storms. John Dalton made the following 
remarks on this subject more than sixty years ago ; and they are well 
worthy of consideration in the present day, particularly since we possess 
better opportunities of ascertaining their truth: 

1. "Tne barometer," says Dalton, "has little variation within the 
tropics; while within the northern temperate zone, and doubtless within 
the southern also, its range increases in going from the equator. The 
mean annual range at Paris, for twenty years, was 1^ inches; the 
greatest range, or difference between the highest and lowest observa- 
tions, for the same term, was 2 inches. At Kendal, the mean range 
for five years was 2.13 inches, the greatest range was 2.65 inches. 
In Sweden and Russia the range is still greater. 

2. "In the temperate zones the range and fluctuations of the baro- 
meter are always greater in winter than in summer. 

3. " The rise and fall of the barometer are not local, or confined to 
a small district of country, but extend over a considerable part of the 
globe, a space of two or three thousand miles in circuit, at least. 

4. "It appears that the mean state of the barometer is rather lower 
than higher in winter than in summer, though a stratum of air on the 
earth's surface always weighs more in the former season than the latter. 

5. " F. Laval made observations for ten days together upon the top 
of St. Pilen, a mountain near Marseilles, which is 960 yards high, 
and found that when the barometer varied 2| lines at Marseilles it 
varied If inches upon St. Pilen. Now had it been a law that the whole 
atmosphere rises and falls with the barometer, the fluctuations in any 
elevated barometer would be to those of another barometer below it 
nearly as the absolute heights of the mercurial column in each, which 
in these instances were far from being so. Hence, then, it may be in- 
ferred that the fluctuations of the barometer are occasioned chiefly by 
a variation in the density of the lower regions of the air, and not by an 
alternate elevation and depression of the whole superincumbent atmo- 
sphere." 

I am quite aware that some of the deductions of Dalton require 
to be a little modified. His first proposition, however, that the 
range of the barometer increases in going from the equator towards the 
poles, is amply borne out as a general law by observations in this coun- 
try as well as in Europe. 

His fifth proposition is also correct, viz : that the fluctuations of the 
barometer are occasioned chiefly by a variation in the density of the 
lower regions of the air, and not by changes in the whole superincum- 
bent atmosphere. To illustrate this, I will state a hypothetical case. 
In the balloon ascent made by Mr. Walsh, alluded to in a previous lec- 
ture, it was found that the barometer stood at 15 inches at the height 
of 18,370 feet. If the whole air below this elevation had been occu- 
pied by hydrogen gas, which is much lighter than common air, being 
only about one fifteenth of its weight at the same pressure, this lighter 
gas, possessing as much elasticity as common air, would be able to 
bear up the upper stratum of the atmosphere, weighing 15 inches of 
mercury ; but at the surface of the earth the barometer would fall 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 205 

about 14 inches below its ordinary height. Now it is easily seen that 
if the warm and light wind from the southward, which blows with so 
much regularit}^ in summer, were as light as hydrogen gas, with the 
same elasticity, it would cause an immense fall of the barometer along 
the whole of the Mississippi valley when it displaced the cold air which 
has come over the Rocky Mountains. The southerly winds from the 
Gulf of Mexico are much warmer and lighter than those which have 
poured down the eastern slopes of the Rock}'- Mountains, and been 
cooled by radiation on the plains to the east. Consequently when 
they displace these colder winds in the valley of the Mississippi, a fall 
of the barometer ought, to a certain extent, to take place. I am, there- 
fore, of the opinion that the fact of the displacement of the warm and 
moist current from the Gulf by the colder air from the west and north- 
west is sufficient to account for the fluctuations of the barometer, in a 
great man}- instances, in places to the west of the Alleghany chain of 
mountains. 

Professor Espv informs me that he has traced a central line of mini- 
mum pressure, which precedes the eastern storms on the Atlantic coast 
first in the western States. This line is of great length from north to 
south ; and from an examination of his charts of the weather, in his 
Report on Meteorology, I was at once struck with the fact that its direc- 
tion corresponds with the trough of the Mississippi valley, and with the 
course of the moist winds from the Gulf of Mexico. In Europe, I have 
often been enabled to trace the connexion between the fluctuations of the 
barometer and changes in the temperature and moisture of the air ; but 
I have never found the connexions so regular and intimate as in the 
Mississippi valley, which is more removed from influences whicli tend 
to disturb this action. 

In my last lecture I showed that the temperature of the air at sun- 
rise is, as a general rule, a close approximation to the dew point. A 
high dew point, or, in other words, a large amount of vapor, has the 
effect, as we have before said, of maintaining the warmth of the air 
during the night. 

The observations collected by the Smithsonian Institution give the 
temperature at 7, a. m., and 9, p. m. As a rise or fall in the tempera- 
ture at these hours may be considered as indicating an increase or de- 
crease in tlie amount of moisture in the air, and as the fluctuations of the 
barometer are also given for the same hours, I have, therefore, in the 
diagrams, [figures 1, 2, 3, 4,] shown the connexion which exists 
between the heat and moisture of the air and the changes in the 
pressure. 

I have compared the temperature taken at 7, a. m., and 9, p. m., 
leaving out the day temperature altogether. The temperature at these 
hours, as I have stated, is a close approximation to the dew point. 
And this fact, which, as a general rule, holds true, especially in 
autumn, is the only means I possess to ascertain the hygrometrical 
state of the air during the storms of this country. The amount of 
vapor is an essential element in the investigation of atmospheric dis- 
turbances, and hence even an approximate estimate of the quantity is 
important. 



206 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



The following curves of temperature and pressure of the atmosphere 
lor 7, A. M., and 9, p. m., from the 7th to the ICth of November inclu- 
sive, are intended to illustrate the connexion between the moisture, 
temperature, and pressure, during a storm : 



No. 1 — Chirve of tempcrahire and pressure for Tuscaloosa, Mahama. Latitude 33° 12' JV. ; Lon- 
gitude 81° 12' W. 



Bar. 

.30.2 
80.1 
80.0 




7 






8 






9 




10 




11 




12 




18 






14 






15 




16 












! 1 


Mil 




















1 1 " 














1 




r 






























1 


1 






































...^ 


--' 


\"-- 






















1 




1 




1 




















\ 












l' 


~-N 


■■ 




...•' 


■, 






i 










/' 












\ 




.,, 






1 


29.9 

29.8 
29.7 
29.6 




/y^r^ 


— 'I~> 














/ 




1 








V 


' 






1 r 


■^V 


1 




■■> 












'-/' 














^ 


/ 


1 1 — ' 












\ ^ 




pN- 






/ / 


k 


















\J/ 














1"" 






■ — 


rV 


























4 


~1 i 


n 1 






1 


i 


i 






i 1 






i 1 



30° 
85° 
40° 
|450 
50° 
^55° 



Wind. SE. KE. E. NE. SE. SB. B. E. NW. NW. NW. 



SW. NW. N. KW. 



No. 2 — Cxirve of temperature and pressure for Mew IVeid, Texas. Latitude 29° 42' A". ; Longi- 
tude 97° 0' W. 



12 



13 



14 



15 



Bar. 

29.6 
29.5 
29.4 
29.3 

29.2 
29.1 
29.0 
28.9 

28.8 
28.7 
28.6 


i 1 




MM 




































Th' 


; 1 








Ml 1 




M M J M 


1 




1 1 








1 M ' 


, 




rj- K.! 1 ! 






1 










U L 


// 


— 


-i=:Cr--:. LI 


1 i M :^ 


1 












1 M 1 


/ 






^ 


-^^[>^\ !--■■ 




1 


1 ^" 










1 












/ 






1 


■^"Kj 











1 














/I 








/ 






r 


^f\ 













; 


. 







' ' 


1 


, !/ 













~^- 


\ ' 60'' 




P^ 


^, 


N 










^^ 


-^^ 




— - 






1 










1 


— ~^jx;65o 










-v^ 








/ 












1 












1 


— 1 10° 




1 




~~^r~^'r-— ^ 


/ 










1 






















j ,750 


1 


































1 




1 '80° 






































! 1 


1 1 












n 












1 




1 








! !JM„j 





W'd. NW. N. NW. SE. N. S. N. N. K. N. N. 



W. IV. W. E. K. K. 



No. 3 — Curve of temperature and pressure for jyiihvauJcie, Wisconsin. Latitude 43° 3* J^. ; 

Longitude 87° 57' W. 





r 






8 






9 




10 






11 




12 






13 




14 






15 






16 




Bar. 




















































Th'r 
































1 






















10° 
15° 








1 L 










































29.5, 


— 


^ 


^ 




\ 
















1 








/ 


IV 


















29.4 




\ 
X 














/ 


_...- -^^^^--^.J 




1/.. 


L\, 








1 ^ 




S9.3, ^ 




1 


\ 


I 1 


1 






k.'-- 


i~ '"' 




■1\ 






^i KA 




30° 


20.2,—}/' 


1 












^ 


^p/"! 


n 


.. 




_....^ 


s^ 1 


-J^ ' 


\ 




S9.1I7T7 


1, 










\ 












1 1 






v^U 


/_\ 


...-■ 






29.0, 






" 


■-■■■■ 


/ 


\ 




\ 


/■' 








1 








m:^_L 






28.9, 












■ 


■. 


^ 




















1 1 




r"^ 


50° 


28.8 






1 1 
















1 








29.7! — 




















r ! 


" i 






1 




88.6 






1 
















! T"!"^ 


1 








n 






1 r 1 


1 












1 






i 1 




W'd.w~ 


no 


s^ 




m 


_ 
. s 


w~ 


s 


s. s 


B. 


NV 


»•. \ 


T. 


w 


_! _ 

. KW. 


HVI 


r. N 


w. 


KT 


r. s 


sr. 


s\« 


' m 


_ 

w. 


NE 


. N 




1. 


6W 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



207 



^0. 4 — Curve of temperature and pressure for Steuben, Washington county, Maine. Latitude 
44° 44' JV. ; Longitude 67° 50' W. 
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 



Bar. ; t 










1 III 


























iTh'i 










i 


L 1^— > 






































.^-^ 








\ 






























SO.l — 


1 






1 ...- 




^-„ 








— 




~^ 


^~- 




















\'L 


~ 


1 


■■■■■' 




/ 




"t^^ 




1 









v^ 


1 






__ 








V'o 


29.9 — 1 — 1 




— 1.-- 


P 


g 








— H 


■^ 


1 1 











1 




-^ 


^^ 


H 


-^^ 


^, 


1 


^\ \ — 35« 


29. SV-^ 


X 




i_ 


/\ 











— 


ir 


— 




















— 


— 




^ 





\ 


1 '40° 




\ 


'.-- 




/ 


































.■ 


■' 










29.6 — 




\ 


/■ 





























■-- 


















. oir- 


29.5, — 
29.4 — 


— 


— ^ 














































1^ |_ 


— 60° 

- 65° 


■ 
















































1 






















































r 














































1 


1 


Wd. SE. 


I 


. N 


W. 


N1 


Y. >, 


w. 


N 


■w. 


S'W. 


s 


V. I 


w. 


SE. SW. 




3. S 


. 


sw. sw. 


■w 


. NE. 


KI 


. NE. NE. 



The continuous line represents the changes of the barometer, and 
the dotted Kne those of the thermometer. The figures on the left-hand 
margin of the wood-cut indicate heights of the barometer in intervals 
of one-tenth of an inch, and those on the right hand side, of the ther- 
mometer in intervals of five degrees of Fahrenheit's scale. 

The figures along the upper margin indicate the days of the month 
during which the storm continued, and the letters along the lower the 
direction of the wind during the same time. 

In order to exhibit more strikingly the relation of the temperature, 
moisture, and pressure, the dotted line is inverted so as to represent 
the highest point of the thermometer by the lowest point of the curve. 
With this arrangement the two curves in the first three figures are 
nearly parallel, showing that in the middle regions of the United States 
tlie abnormal depressions of the barometer are attended with a rise in 
the thermometer and consequently an increase of moisture, while in 
the eastern States, as illustrated by figure 4, the result is almost en- 
tirely opposite — the increase of temperature is accompanied with a 
rise in the barometer. 

If we suppose that a south wind, of 10,000 feet in height, with a tem- 
perature of 70°, occupies the Mississippi valley, and the upper current 
from the west flows across its surface, in ordinary circumstances this 
stratum of air would weigh a little more than nine inches of mercury. 
Now, if we further suppose a cold northwest wind, having its dew point 
or morning temperature down to 30°, to displace the warmer current, 
by crowding it to the east and occupying its place, as ten thousand feet 
of air at this low temperature weighs l-12th more, or f inch of mer- 
cury, this denser and colder column will cause a rise in the barometer 
to that extent. Now, if a decrease of temperature of 40° causes a rise 
of f inch of mercury, a decrease of 5° would cause a rise of nearty 
1-lUth inch. This effect would be produced without taking into ac- 
count the changes which might take place during storms in the upper 
strata of the atmosphere. 

I have compared the fluctuations of the barometer at 7, a. m., and 
9, p. M., with the changes in the temperature at these hours from the 
7th to 16th November last, in the States of Maine, Vermont, New York, 
Michigan, Wisconsin, North Carolina, Kentucky, Missouri, East Florida, 
Alabama, Texas, and also at Washington. By making 5° of temper- 



208 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

.ature correspond with 1-lOlh inch of mercury in the barometer, I find 
some very interesting results are brought out. In all the States south 
and west of the Alleghany range, the parallelism between the changes 
in the barometer and the changes in temperature are much greater than 
I anticipated. See figures Nos. 1, 2 and 3. 

Some remarkable exceptions, however, occur, in which a rise of tem- 
perature is accompanied with a rise of the barometer. These excep- 
tions are found to the east of the Alleghanies and the mountains of New 
England, where the curves of temperature and pressure of the air en- 
tirely lose the regularity which they possess in the southern and western 
States. The changes of the barometer before storms in the northeast- 
ern States appear to be very peculiar, at least I am acquainted with 
nothing like them in Europe. When the mercury rises a little above 
30 inches in Great Britain, the index of the barometer points to "set fair," 
and an eastern storm rarely comes on before the mercury begins to 
sink. When the mercury is above 30 inches in Maine, during winter 
or autumn, a storm is often at hand, and the barometer does not fall be- 
fore the weather gets colder and drier. An examination of the weather, 
from the 7th to 16th November last, (see figure 4,) apparently shows 
that the indications of the barometer, as a weather prophet, must be 
interpreted by a contrar}^ rule to that which is observed in the western 
States and in England. The probable cause of this will be afterwards 
adverted to. I shall now proceed to give you an account of a general 
storm, which will serve to illustrate the principles I have stated : 

The weather on the 12th November, 1854, presented a curious pic- 
ture of extremes over the United States. The northwest wind was 
advancing like an extended wall, from Iowa to Texas, and clearing 
the whole country of its moisture. By looking at the following table 
of temperature for that day, we shall see the progress which it had 
made at the time mentioned: 

Iowa, Poultney 11° 7, a. m. 

Wisconsin, Madison 19<^. " 

Missouri, St. Louis 26^ " 

Mississippi, Oxford 34°. 9, p. m. 

Texas, New Wied 36° " 

Oq the morningof the 12th the first killing frost was felt in Louisiana, 
and over Michigan, the northern parts of Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio, the 
ground was covered for the first time with snow. In these States the 
northwest wind was flowing beneath the colder edges of the southwest 
stream from the Gulf, forcing it to ascend and precipitate part of its 
moisture in the form of snow. As the under current rose it was caught 
by the upper current, and, as in the case of thunder storms, it was 
swept off towards the east. This at least seemed to be the process at 
Indianapolis, where, on the 12th, four inches of dry snow fell, while the 
lower wind from the north and northwest was overlaid by a current 
bearing clouds from the southwest. On the morning of the 13th, at the 
same place, the wind set in from the west. 

On looking at the meteorological chart for the morning of the 12th, we 
perceive at a glance that the temperature gradually rises from Iowa to 
Maine, from Missouri to Savannah, and iirom Texas to Florida. The 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 209 

eastern seaboard States now experienced the southwest streann of" moist 
and hot air — hotter and moister than it was in the west, because while 
this moveable current is gradually borne to the east its temperature is 
higher from having been blowing longer from a warmer quarter — on 
the same principle that an ordinary soulh wind in summer is warmer 
the second da}^ it blows than on the first. The temperatures on the 
east coast are in very striking contrast to what the}^ are on the west of 
the Mississippi. 

Florida, wind SW., temperature 70°, rainy. 

Savannah, " SE., " 04°, rain3% 

North Carohna, Thornbury, " E., " 60°, rainy. 

Washington, •"' " W., " 48°, rainy. 

New York, " WNE., " 53°, rainy. 

Maine, Steuben, " SW. , *" 54°, rainy. 

The weather remained moist and warm on the 13th in the Atlantic 
States, but the cold air was rapidly advancing from the northwest. By 
the morning of the 14th it had swept the whole of the southwest cur- 
rent into the Atlantic and brought cold and clear weather. In Florida 
the temperature of 70° on the morning of the 12th was changed to the 
freezing by the 14th ; fi-osts also occurred on the same day m Georgia, 
South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Pennsylvania, and New York. 
It is worthy of observation that at the very time the northwest wind 
was making its cold felt from Florida to New York, the south wind, or 
a modification of it, had already set in over Texas, and raised the tem- 
perature 15°, and its influence was afterwards also ftdt as far north 
as St. Louis, in Missouri. This was merely the first stage of prepa- 
ration f(jr another atmospheric disturbance which was to run a similar 
course. 

Striking changes in the temperature of the weather are produced in 
autumn by the colder wind from the west descending and bearing the 
moister stream before it; when this hot stream is extended along the 
Atlantic coast it in all probability becomes the vehicle of the hurricanes 
which proceed from the West Indian islands. A severe hurricane, 
having its course along the Florida coast, desolated the rice grounds on 
the Charles and Savannah rivers on the 8th Septemlier last; but a thun- 
der storm, extending over the greater portion of the northern States, 
began on the 6th and travelled from northwest to southeast, causing a 
great atmospheric disturbance and lowering of the temperature. 

We have only space to say a few words on the barometer duriag 
the storm of the 12th. Though rain and snow fell over an immense 
area that day, and the wind blew with great force in the Atlantic S^^ates, 
still the barometer was above the mean in the morning from Maine, in 
the east, to Wisconsin, in the west- In this section it is probable that 
the northwest current, overlying the whole storm, did not sweep away 
the ascending moist currents with sufficient rapidity, and hence the ac- 
cumulati(m of air causing the barometer to rise bef()re storms on the east 
coast. The Alleghany range must, so fiir, favor this accumulation by 
retarding or hindering the freer action of the winds from the west. 
When the air has a high temperature in summer, the increased pressure 
before storms is, I believe, not so much observed. In this storm, also, 
Mis. Due. 24 14 



210 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

I find no traces of accumulation of air in Florida, where the curves ot 
pressure and moisture coincide very accurately, as much so as they do 
throughout the Mississippi valley. The following reductions exhibit the 
state of the barometer over three sections of the United States. The 
figures show the difference of the pressure above or below the mean 
for the month, in hundredths of an inch: 

First Section. 

Maine at 7 a. m -\- .23 inches. 

Vermont " " + .21 " 

New York (State) . " " -f- .33 " 

Michigan " '' + .16 •' 

Wisconsin " " + .21 

Second Section. 

North Carolina. ... at 7 a. m mean. 

Kentucky " " — .17 inches. 

Missouri " " -|- .12 " 

Third Section. 

East Florida at 7 a. m — .18 inches. 

Alabama " " — .17 " 

Texas " " + .41 " 

During the weather from the 7th to the 16th of November, the fiucta- 
ations of the barometer in the southern and western States do not seem 
to have been greater than could be ascribed to the changes of tempera- 
lure. The great fall of the barometer in tropical storms, and the torna- 
does of the United States, seem to me to admit of no other explanation 
than that given by Professor Espy, viz: an inward ascending column 
of air becoming much lighter from the extrication of latent caloric. 

In regard to the winds, during the progress of this storm, only two 
systems are well developed. The northwest w^inds, on the 10th, 
were observed both in the rear and front, while the southwest current 
occupied the middle. The east wind is so partially developed, that we 
must regard it merely as an eddy in the more general system which 
embraces it. We cannot expect to find much regularity in the course 
of any set of winds, because this can only take place with an invariable 
temperature. Inequality of local temperature is the principal cause of 
the irregularity of the arrows which represent the direction of the wind 
on the meteorological chart. 

On the 12th, the weather was very wet and stormy along the Atlan- 
tic States, and much rain also fell in the Ohio valley. Snow fell over 
a considerable area immediately to the south of the lakes. 

We shall now ver}^ briefiy trace the peculiarities of the weather and 
storms of Europe. The east w'ind very seldom blows over a large 
area of the United States, unless during storms. In northern Europe 
the case is ver}" different: dry and cold \vinds are very common in 
spring, and, at this season, not only is the surface wind Irom the east, 
but the current in the higher regions is also fiom the same quarter. It 
usually bears cirrous clouds, thus showing the great height to which it 
extends in the atmosj^here. So long as the east w^ind blows as an 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 211 

undivided current in winter, the weather is intensely cold in England. 
Coming over ranges of mountains and a long stretch of land, it is some- 
thing like the west wind of the United States — as long as it is continu- 
ous, the cold is unabated; when the same wind prevails in summer the 
whole country is parched with drought ; but v/hen the surface east wind 
is overlaid by a current from the southwest, then the east wind becomes 
excessively wet and disagreeable. An east wind in Scotland is very 
rarely stormy either in summer or autumn, unless it has an upper cur- 
rent from the southwest. This upper current from the ocean supplies 
the moisture which is precipitated by the lower wind. After long 
periods of dry summer weather in Scotland, the barometer begins to 
fall several days before the rain storm comes on. The first symptoms 
of change are, usually, cirrous clouds floating in the upper regions of the 
atmosphere, and indicating a greater saturation going on above. Cu- 
mulous clouds at length form, and drift from southwest to northeast, often 
directly against the lower wind. A thunder storm begins the rainy 
season ; and so long as the upper current continues, the east wind is 
rainy or moist. 

The fall of the barometer, it would appear, arises from a warm and 
moist stratum of air taking the place of a colder one above ; on the 
same principle as a moister and warmer one depresses the barometer 
in the Mississippi valley. For this reason the barometer is very much 
consulted as an indicator of changes in the weather in Great Britain. 

The summer rain-storms often extend over a large area in Europe. 
I have traced the northeast wind blowing, as a broad current, from the 
Alps to the south of Scotland, while rain was falling over the greater 
part of this space. 

The winter storms are also regulated by the same principles. When 
there is no upper current from the west, the east wind remains dry and 
cold ; but when the southwest upper current begins to blow, it becomes 
wet and stormy, and almost all the great falls of snow in winter take 
place under these conditions. The barometer does not give as long a 
warning of an approaching storm in winter as it does in summer, but 
there is invariably a fall in the mercury before the storm comes on. To 
illustrate the character of our winter storms the following example is 
given : 

During the month of December, 1853, the wind was, in general, east 
in England, not only at the surface of the ground but at great eleva- 
tions in the atmosphere. The barometer was high and steady for that 
winter month. The rivers from the north to the south of the island 
were more ice-bound than the}' had been for 15 3'ears. 

On the 1st of January, 1854, the weather was very cold over Great 
Britain, as well as the northwest of Europe. There was no storm that 
day, and the temperature of the air did not differ much from Sandwich, 
in Orkney, to Brussels, in Belgium. 

Temperature. 
Wind. Max. Min. 

Sandwich Manse, Orkney NW 28^ 28° 

Keleoliess, Fife NW 34° 12° 

Highfield, Nottingham WNW 32=' 14° 

Liverpool, Lancashire NNW 36° = 27o 



.380 


= 200 


410 


340 


350 


320 


320 


24° 


,29o 


240 



212 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Holkham, Norfolk W 

Helsten, Cornwall NW 

St. Aubin, Jersey NW 

Versailles, France NW., calm. . 

Brussels, Belgium SW., calm.. 

Heligoland, Denmark N., stormy . . . 

A disturbing element was, however, after a short lime introduced ; 
at Jersey the wind set in from the westsouthwest on the morning of 
the 2d, and a thaw commenced ; the wind was high from this quarter 
at night, with heavy rain. A current also set in from the southwest, 
both at Versailles and Brussels, with snow falling more or less during 
the whole day. At Helsten, near Land's End in Cornwall, the wind 
was northeast, and 7-lOLh inch rain fell in the night ; but it is quite evi- 
dent that this rain, thrown down by the northeast wind, must have been 
derived from the upper current Irom the southwest, as the air still re- 
mained dry and frosty at Bath, on the west, and at Holkham, on the 
east. This supposition is rendered highly probable, from the fact that 
the upper stratum of clouds was from the southwest. It was some 
time before the storm was dev(doped m the eastern counties. 

The wind seems to have begun to blow very briskly from an easterly 
quarter over the south of England on the 3d, with much snow at night. 
An inch of rain fell that day in Jersey, with a squally wind from the 
east. The temperature remained low and the sky clear in Scotland 
and the north of England. The wind was from an easterly quarter 
that day at Paris, Brussels, and off the coast of Denmark. The south- 
west upper current, still prevailing, saturated the air all over England 
and the south of Scotland, and a violent storm of snow on the 4th was 
the result, which extended over a large portion of the west of Europe, the 
wind being easterly at almost all the different stations. It is curious to 
observe that no snow or rain fell at Helsten, near Land's End, on the 
4th, the point to which all the wind on the east coast was blown ; which 
shows that it must have been absorbed in some way before reaching 
the west coast. In Scotland the wind, on the 4th of January, was quite 
as violent as in the south of England ; but very little snow fell on the 
eastern coast. A deep snow fell, with a strong northeast wind, at the 
temperature of 32°. The wind was excessively cold and dry in Aber- 
deen, being as low as + 9° max. — 6° min. The upper current had not 
influenced it sufficiently to raise the thermometer above these low 
temperatures. During this very low temperature in Aberdeenshire, the 
northeast wind was about 23° higher in Belfast. This difference of 
temperature is vastly greater than in the case of a sea breeze, and might 
alone account for the violent gale on the Irish coast. 

The disturbance of the equilibrium of the atmos])here in this and our 
other winter storms seeins to be occasioned, first, by a flowing away 
of part of the cold upper current, and a warmer and lighter air taking 
its place; and, second, by the denser air below flowing towards the 
warm and moist air over the ocean, which causes the saturated air to 
rise to a greater elevation, and condense its moisture. The condensed 
vapor, by the extrication of its caloric, favors ascending currents, which 
are gradually absorbed into the upper current and carried towards the 
earth. 1 have already mentioned that no snow or rain fell at Land's End 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 213 

while the day was nearly calm, and at the same time a violent hurri- 
cane, with much snow, was apparently blowing right towards this very 
locality. But this case exactly resembles the action of the sea breeze — 
the northeast wind being gradually absorbed into the upper current 
along the whole area over which it blows. The warming influence of 
the southwest upper current is well illustrated by the fact, stated to me 
by Mr. Moyle, that snow did not cover the ground for an hour last 
winter, though much fell with the northeast wind not far to the east- 
ward of his place. 

Though the storm had begun at Heligoland on the afternoon of the 
5th, it did not reach Aberdeenshire on the 4th. The northeast winds 
were quite dry beyond this county; and the sky at Sandwich, in Ork- 
ney, was bright, and the air quite calm. Notwithstanding the preva- 
lence of the easterly winds, we find that the temperature is advanced 
from west to east, especially along the western coast of Europe ; and 
on the 6th, the upper current seems to have so completely worn away 
the lower current, that the wind was from the southwest on that day 
from Cornwall to Belgium. But in the north of England and over 
Scotland the lower current increased in depth, and tor a time checked 
the warm upper current, or drove it back, and restored cold weather. 
All places under the influence of the southwest wind had their temper- 
ature raised, while those under the northeast had it depressed. This 
will be shown by the following table of temperature and direction of 
the wind: 

Orkney E. minimum 23J<^ 

Aberdeen calm " 10° 

Fifeshire E. " 30° 

Liverpool S. E. " 30^ 

This may be taken as an example of our eastern storms. They are 
preceded b}^ a fall of the barometer, but the manner in which they ter- 
minate has nothing of that regularity which distinguishes your storms. 
Very often the southwest wind blows as a deep current, and produces 
moist and warm weather in the depth of winter. The lower eastern 
wind, which is often very stormy, must be regarded as a mere surface 
stream, which is usually absorbed by the deeper upper current. 

Now, I think it is very probable that an action similar to that of our 
northeastern storms is sometimes developed over the United States and 
in Canada. While I was sailing down the St. Lawrence, in the be- 
ginning of last October, a strong head wind prevailed from the north- 
east, at the same time that the clouds at no great height were drifting 
from the southwest. At Quebec, I also observed the same phenome- 
non ; and, according to Professor Mitchell, of North Carolina, northeast 
storms are sometimes developed over large portions of the United 
States when the clouds are from the opposite quarter. 1 have had no 
opportunities since 1 have been in this country to examine the northeast 
rain storms, which appear to be more frequent in the New England 
States than to the south. But I suspect we must alwa3^s bear in mind 
that an upper current flows from the west quarter even when the lower 
northeast wind and middle southwest current are prevailing. 

There is another class of storms of ver}^ common occurrence in Great 



Helsten, 


S. W. minimum 


360 


Jersey, 


s. s. w. 


38° 


Paris, 


s. w. 


35° 


Brussels, 


s. w. 


340 



214 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Britain, during the continuance of which there are very rarely any east 
wincis. There is also this peculiarity about them, that they seldom' 
give warning of their approach by any fall in the barometer ; indeed, 
it often shows a pressure above the mean just before they commence. 
The wind springs up from the southwest, and blows as a broad stream 
over the whole island, and in almost all these storms an upper current 
prevails from the northwest, which descends before the termination of 
the disturbance, and at once brings cold and dry weather. This par- 
ticular form of atmospheric disturbance occurs at all seasons of the 
year, sometimes as a very gentle breeze, and often as storms of the 
most violent character. The changes of the wind are from southwest 
to northwest, crossing due west at once, and at this time blowing with 
their greatest violence. But our limits forbid us to enter further into 
this subject. 

In the course of these lectures it has been my wish to state as clearly 
and distinctly as possible the general principles on which nearly all 
meteorologists are agreed, and to avoid, as far as might be, the discus- 
sions of points m reference to which there is less harmony of opinion. 
I have been anxious to place before you what I consider to be the dis- 
tinctive features of the storms of North America and of Europe. I am 
quite aware that the topic would have furnished materials for a much 
greater number of lectures, but a mere outline was all that could be 
properly attempted in the time allotted. I have presented the phe- 
nomena in the connexion in which they now represent themselves to 
my mind. I may, however, have reason to modify my present views 
of American storms when I have found leisure to arrange and discuss 
more thoroughly the ample materials I have collected in my tour. But, 
whatever may be the change in this respect, I shall always retain a 
lively and constant impression of the kindness, the hospitalit}^ and the 
liberality which I have every where met with in my travels through this- 
favored land. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



215 



APPENDIX TO MR. RUSSELL'S LECTURES, BY THE SECRETARY OF THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

As an appendix to Mr. Russell's lectures, we give the following tables, 
showing the mean diurnal variations of the temperature, moisture, 
pressure, &c., of the air. The principal series are from observations 
made at Greenwich, near London, under the direction of Mr. Glaishier. 
The tables for Bombay are from the observations of Dr. Buist, those 
for Philadelphia are from the valuable series made under the direction 
of Professor Bache at Girard College. 

By a comparison of the quantities given, it will be seen that all the 
changes are connected with and depend upon the position of the sun in 
the heavens, or, in other words, upon the amount of solar heat received 
at the different hours of the day. The numbers given in the series for 
Greenwich are deduced from the observations continued for several 
years, comprising more than 20,000 individual records, and, therefore, 
abnormal variations are eliminated, and the special changes due to 
constant causes are exhibited in their true values. 

Table I gives the mean diurnal variation of the temperature of the 
air in the shade at intervals of two hours, from 2 o'clock in the morning 
until the end of the 24 hours. It will be seen by this table that on the 
average the coldest period of the day is a little before sunrise, and that 
the temperature of the air remains nearly stationary from about 4 
o'clock until near 6 o'clock in the morning, that it then gradually rises 
until 2 p. m., when it reaches its maximum, and then declines. The 
first rays of the sun are probably expended in vaporizing the dew and 
moisture at the surface of the earth, and as this process renders a large 
portion of heat latent the air does not increase very rapidly in tempera- 
ture. 

TABLE I. 

MEAN DIURNAL VARIATION OF TEMPERATURE AT GREENWICH. 



2 a.m. 


4 A. M. 


6 A. M. 


8 A. M. 


10 A. M. 


NOON. 


2 p. M.I4 p. M. 


6 p. m.|8p. m. IOp. m. 


12NIGHT. 


450 4' 


440 8' 


440 8' 


460 9' 


50° 4' 


530 6' 55°l'i540 5' 


520 3' 49° 5' 4705' 


460 3' 



+ 

Minimum. Maximum. 

TABLE II. 

MEAN DIURNAL VARIATION OF THE WEIGHT OF WATER IN A CUBIC FOOT OF AIR AT GREENWICH. 



2 A. M. 


4 A. M. 6 A. M. 


8 A. M. 


10 A. M. 


NOON. '2 p. M. 

1 


4 p. M. 


6 p. M. 


8 p. M. 


IOp. m. 


12night. 


GR. 

3.52 


GR. GR. 

3.49 3.51 


GR. 

3.64 


GR. 

3.78 


GR. GR. 

3.88 3.92 


GR. 

3.89 


GR. 

3.79 


GR. 

3.71 


GR. 

3.63 


GR. 

3.58 


m 


inimum. 






Maximun 


1. 











Table No. II gives the mean diurnal variation of the absolute weight 
in grains of moisture in a cubic foot of the air, as determined by a 



216 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



series of calculations from the record of the observations of the wet 
and dry bulb ihermometer. 

It will be seen by a comparison of table No. 11 with table No. I that 
as the temperature increases, the amount of water which exists in the 
air as vapor also increases. The two elements heat and moisture 
mutually uifluence each other as to the quantity present in the atmos- 
phere at a given time. With an increase of elevation of the sun above 
the horizon its rays pass to the earth through the atmosphere less 
obliquely and impinge more perpendicularly on the surface. This 
produces an increased amount of vapor, with an increased elastic force, 
which enables the air in turn to absorb and retain a larger quantity of 
heat. 

'The maximum quantity of moisture is at 2 p. m. The increase in 
weight is from about 3J grains to near 4 grains. 

This table, however, does not giv^e the amount of vapor which the 
air could hold if sufficient moisture were present to entirely saturate it. 
Indeed the air is very seldom fully saturated, and in order to begin to 
precipitate the vapor it contains into water, it is generally necessary to 
lower the temperature quite a nmnber of degrees. The point of tem- 
perature at which the moisture begins to settle — for example, on the 
surface of a bright tin cup partly filled with water which is slowly 
cooled down by gradually adding ice water — is called the dew jwint. 
The greater number of degrees the water is obliged to be lowered 
before dew begins to be deposited, or the greater the difference 
between the temperature of the air and the dew point the greater is 
the dryness of the air, or the greater is the tendency of vapor to exhale 
from the skin and from all bodies containing moisture. 

Table No. Ill gives the mean diurnal variation in the dew point. 



TABLE in. 

MEAN DIURJIAL VARIATION OF THE DEW POINT AT GREENWICH. 



2 a.m. 


4 A.M. 6 A.M. 


8 A.M. 


10 a.m. 


NOON. 


2 p.m. 


4 P.M. 


6 p.m. 


1 

8 P.M. 10 P.M. 


12 NIGHT. 


430 1- 


420 9' 4209' 


440 0' 


450 2' 


1 

460i;' 460 5' 


460 3' 


450 6' 


4407' 440 1- 

1 


430 6' 



+ 

Maximum. 



Minimum. 

If we subtract the numbers in this table from those in Table No. 1, 
we shall have approximately the relative dryness, or evaporating 
power of the air ; this is given in No. IV. 



TABLE IV. 



MEAN DILRNAL 


aariation op 


DRYNESS, (approximately, 


) AT GREENWICH. 


2 A. M. 


4 A.M. 


6a.m. 


8a.m. 


10 A. M 


noon. 


2 p.m. 


4 p.m. 


6 p.m. 


8 P.M. 


10 p.m. 


12 NIGHT 


203' 


109' 


109' 


209- 


5° 2' 


704' 


SO 6' 


80 2' 


60 7' 


40 8' 


30 4 


207' 



Minimum. 



Maximum. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



217 



From this it appears that the minimum dryness or greatest damp- 
ness of the air also occurs at four o'clock in the morning, and the 
maximum dryness at two o'clock in tl)e afternoon. 

Tlie degree of humidity, however, of the air, may be more definitely 
expressed by the result of a more laborious process, namely, by 
dividing the weight of water in the air at a given time by the whole 
quantity the air could hold if it were saturated. By making the 
necessary calculation, and considering the point of saturation as unity, 
we shall have the following table : 

TABLE V. 



MEAN DIURNAL VARIATION OF THE HUMIDITY OF THE AIR AT GREENWICH 



2 A. M. 


4 A. M. 


6 A.M. 


8 A.M. 


10 a.m. 


NOON 


2 p. M. 4 p. M. 


6 P.M. 


8 P. M. 


10 p.m. 


12 NIGHT. 


0.926 


0.934 


0.938 


0.906 


0.843 


0.783 


( 

0.753 0.761 


0.800 0.851 


0.891 


0.914 



+ 

Maximum. 



Minimum. 



Wiien the quantity of water is in the least degree greater than the 
atmosphere can contain at a given temperature, condensation takes 
place, which may be either in the form of fogs or dew^ in the lower 
strata or clouds, and rain in the upper. The formation of clouds will 
therefore depend on the amount of moisture in the atmosphere. This 
is shown by 

TABLE VI. 

MEAN DirUNAl, VARIATION OF THE CLOUDINESS OF THE ATMOSPHERE AT GREENWICH. 



2 a.m. 


4 A.M. 


6 a.m. 


8 a.m. 


10 a.m. 


NOON. 


2 P.M. 


4 P.M. 


6 P.M. 


8 P.M. 


10 p. M. 


12 NIGHT. 


.65 


.67 


.69 


.70 


.71 


.71 


.71 


.69 


.66 


.62 


.60 


.61 



4- 

Maximum. 



Minimum. 



The actual weight of a given portion of the air is also affected by the 
variation of temperature. This is shown in the following table, in 
which the minimum of weight occurs at the hour of maximum tem- 
perature. 

TABLE VII. 

MEAN DIURNAL VARIATION OF THE WEIGHT OF A CUBIC FOOT OF AIR AT GREENWICH. 



2 A. M. 


4 A. M 


6 A. M. 


8 A. M. 


10 A. M. 


NOON. 


2 p. M. 


4 p. M. 6 p. M. 


8 p. M. 10 p. M. 


12 NIGHT. 


Gr. 
541.7 


Gr. 
542.2 


Gr. 
542. £ 


Gr. 
540.1 


Gr. 
536.3 


Gr. 
532.9 


Gr. 
531.0 


Gr. i Gr. 
531.5 533.9 


Gr. Gr. 
537.2, 539.4 

i 


Gr. 
540.6 



Maximum. 



Minimum. 



218 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



The next table, which gives the variation of the barometer, shows 
that the indications of this instrument are not precisely the same as 
those obtained by actually weighing a portion of air. The table ex- 
hibits two maxima and two minima in the course ot" the twenty-four 
hours. 



TABLE VIIL 



MEAN DIURNAL VARIATION OF ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURE AT GREENWICH. 



2 A. M. 


4 A. M. 


6 A. M. 


8 A. M. 


1 

10 A. M. NOON. 


2 p. M. 


4 p. M. 


6 p. M. 


8 p. M. 


10 p. M. 


12night. 


29.773 


.765 


.766 


.776 


.786 1 .785 


.774 


.767 


.768 


.777 


.784 


.784 


M 


inimun 


1. 


. 


Vlaximum. 


Minimum. 




Maximum. 



At first sight, it might appear that the weight and pressure, or in 
other words the density and pressure, ought to vary together, but a 
little reflection will make it plain that an increase of pressure on a por- 
tion of the surface of the earth may be counteracted by a variation of 
temperature. The height of the barometer indicates the weight of a 
column of air, extending to the top of the atmosphere ; now, this 
column may be unduly heated at one point, as we ascend, and unduly 
cooled at another, and while the absolute weight of a portion oi" tlie air 
at any point of the column may vary, the pressure of the whole column 
may remain the same, or the converse. It is probable, however, that 
the variation of the weight which is found at the surface does not ex- 
tend to a great elevation, and that when it is not indicated b}'' the 
barometer it is because the change is too small to be noted by that in- 
strument. 

The fact that the barometer exhibits two maxima and two minima 
in the course of the twenty-four hours has given rise to much specula- 
tion as to its cause. The most common explanation is, that it is due to 
the joint action of the variation of the temperature and moisture. In 
the morning, the moisture rising into the atmosphere increases the 
weight of the air more than the heat diminishes it by expansion, while 
at about ten o'clock, a. m., the effect of heat overbalances that of va- 
por, and again as the sun begins to dechne, the weight of the latter pre- 
dominates. Mr. Espy attributes the daily oscillations of the barometer 
to the upward and downward motion of the particles of air and moist- 
ure as they are separated or approximated by the change of temper- 
ature. The particles weigh more while the rate of separation is in- 
creasing, and less while it is diminishing. This is a true cause, but we 
are not certain that it is a sufficient one. Whatever may be the cause 
of the daily oscillations of the barometer, we know the effect is nearly 
the same in parts of the earth most widely separated. 

The diurnal variation of the pressure of the wind is also intimately 
connected with the variation of the temperature and weight of the air ; 
this is shown by the following table, which gives the sums of the pres- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



219 



sure upon a square foot in pounds avoirdupois at each hour of the 24. 
The numbers are those given by Osier's self-registering anemometer. 

TABLE IX. 

MEAN DIURNAL VARIATION OF THE PRESSURE OF THE WIND AT GREENWICH. 



1 A. M. 


2a.m. 


3a.m. 


4 a.m. 


5 a.m. 


6 a.m. 


7 a.m. 


8 a.m. 9 a.m. 


10 a. m. 


11 A. M. 


NOON. 


603 i 


584 i 


546 


558| 


575 


5851 


650 i 


781 9063 


l.OOSi 


1.2041 


1.360 


Minimum. 


1 p. M. 


2 p.m. 


3 p.m. 


4 P.M. 


5 P.M.I 6 P M. 7 P.M. 


8 p.m. 


9 p.m. 


10 p.m. 


11p.m. 


12 NIGHT. 


1.4051 


1.4151 


1.3231 


1.187 


1.032i 874 721 


649 i 


6491 


634 


650 .i 


642 i 



Maximum. 

For the purpose of comparison, and to illustrate the fact that the 
diurnal variations of the meteorological elements follow the same gene- 
ral law in the parts of the earth the most widely separated, the follow- 
ing tables are given from observations made at Bombay: 

TABLE X. 

MEAN DIURNAL VARIATION OF TEMPERATURE AT BOMBAY, 1843. 



2 A. M. 


4a.m. 


6 A.M. 


8 a.m. 10 a.m. 

t 


NOON. 


2 p. M. 


4 P.M. 


6 P.M. 


8 P.M. 10 p. M. 


12 NIGHT. 


790 4' 


780 9' 


780 4' 


790 6' 8I0 8' 


830 2' 


840 1' 


830 9' 


820 3' 


810 2' 8O03' 


7908^ 



Minimum. 



Maximum. 



The nninimum temperature in this table occurs at 6 a. m., and the 
maximum at 2 p. m. 

TABLE XI. 

MEAN DIURNAL VARIATION OF TENSION OF VAPOR AT BOMBAY, 1843. 



2 A. M. 4 A.M. 


6 a.m. 


8 a.m. 


10 a.m. 


NOON. 


2 p.m. 


4 P.M. 


6 P.M. 


8 P.M. 10 p. M. :12night. 

i 


0.766 


0.761 


0.750 


0.766 


0.771 


0.778 


0.795 


0.800 


0.802 


1 
0.801! 0.780 


0.775 




M 


inimum 


. 








M 


+ 
aximur 


n. 





220 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



According to this table the tension or elastic force of vapor at Bom- 
bay arrives at its minimum at 6 a. m., and its maximum not until 6 p. 
m. This difference in the time of the maximum and minumum at 
Bombay and Greenwich probably arises from the tropical position of 
the former. 

TABLE XII. 

MEAN DIURNAL VARIATION OF THE BAROMETER AT BOMBAY, 1843. 



2 a.m. 


4 a.m. 


6 a.m. 8 A.M. 


10 A.M. 


NOON. 


2 P.M. 


4 p. M. 


6 P.M. 


8 P.M. 


10 p. M. 


12 NIGHT. 


In. 

29.786 


In. 

29.778 


In. In. 

29.805 29.840 


In. 

29.852 


In. 
29.817 


In. 
29.776 


In. 
29.755 


In. In. 

29.77429.806 


In. 
29.825 


In. 

29.809 


M 


nimum 


M 


4- 

aximum. 




Minimum 




Maximum. 





This table exhibits, as in the case of that for Greenwich, two maxi- 
ma and two minima. 

The following tables exhibit the mean diurnal variations in the 
meteorological elements at Girard College, Philadelphia. They pre- 
sent the result of the observations for each hour of the 24. 



TABLE XIII. 

MEAN DIURNAL VARIATION OF THE TEMPERATURE OF THE AIR AT PHILADELPHIA. 

Computed from the observations made in 1842, and from the 1st July, 1843, to the Ist July, 1845. 



1 A. M. 


2 a.m. 


3 a.m. 


4 A. M. 


5 A. M. 


6 A. M. 


7 A. M. 


8 A. M. 


9 A. M. 


10 A. M. 


11 A. M. 


NOON. 


48.2 


47.8 


47.3 


46.8 


46.6 


47.0 


48.1 


50.1 


52.1 


54.1 


55.7 


56.8 


Minimum. 




1 P. M. 


2 p. M. 


3 p. M. 


4 p. M. 


5 p. M. 


3 p. M. 


7 p. M. 


8 p. M. 


9 p. M. 


10 p. M. 


11 P.M. 


12 NIGHT. 


57.9 


58.6 


58.9 


58.7 


57.7 


56.0 


54.1 


52.5 


51.0 


50.2 


49.4 


48.7 



+ 

Maximum. 

By comparing table XIII with table I, it appears that the diurnal 
variation of temperature, at Greenwich and Philadelphia, is nearly the 
same. The minimum occurs a little earlier at the latter, and the maxi- 
mum a little later. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 
TABLE XIV. 

MEAN DIURNAL VARIATION OF THE DEW-POINT AT PHILADELPniA. 

Computed from the observations made from the 1st July, 1843, to 1st July, 1845. 



221 



1 A. M. 


2 A. M. 


3 A. M. 


4 A.M. 


5 A. M. 


6 A. M. 


7 A. M. 


8 A. M. 


9 A. M. 


10 A. M. 


11 A.M. 


NOON. 


42.0 


41.7 


41.4 


41.1 


41.1 


41.4 


42.0 


42.9 


43.7 


44.1 , 


44.3 


44.5 



Minimum. 



1 p. M. 


2 p. M. 


3 P.M. 


4 P. M. 


5 p. M. 


6 p. M. 


7 p. M. 


8 p. M. 


9 p. M. 


10 p. M. 


11p.m. 


12 NIGHT. 


44.7 


44.6 


44.5 


44.1 


43.7 


43.7 43.6 


43.3 


43.1 


42.9 


42.7 


42.3 



Maximum. 

The variations of the figures, in table XIV and table Til, also follow 
the same general law. 

TABLE XV. 

MEAN DIURNAL VARIATION OF DRYNESS, (APPROXIMATELY,) AT PHILADELPHIA. 

Computed from the observations made from July 1, 1843, to July I, 1845. 



I A. M. 


2 a.m. 


3 a.m. 


4 a.m. 


5 a.m. 


6 A.M. 


7 a.m. 


8 a. m. 


9 a.m. 


10 A M. 


11 A. M. 


NOON. 


6.1 


6.2 


5.7 


5.6 


5.3 


5.4 


6.0 


6.9 


8.2 


10.0 


11.3 


12.3 



Minimum, 



1 p. M. 


2p.m 


3 P.M. 


4 p.m. 


5 p. M. 


6 p.m. 


7p.m. 


8 p.m. 


9 p.m. 


10 p. m. 


11p.m. 


12 NIGHT. 


13.3 


14.1 


14.5 


14.8 


14.2 


12.6 


10.7 


9.4 


8.3 


7.4 


6.8 


G.4 



+ 

Maximum. 

From table XV, it does not appear that Mr. Russell's rule, for 
ascertaining the dew point from the minimum temperature, holds true 
in Philadelphia. Table No. IV, gives a much nearer approximation, 
and, in moist seasons, the same will probably be the case in this 
country, particularly at the south. By comparing the quantities given." 
in table No. XV, with those in table No. IV, it will be seen that the 
relative dryness of Philadelphia is much greater than that of London, 
or Greenwich. 



222 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



TABLE XV L 

MEAN DIURN'AL VARIATION OF THE CALCULATED FORCE OF VAPOR AT PHILADELPHIA. 

Computed frmn the observations made in 1842, and from July 1, 1843, to July 1, 1845. 



1a.m. 


2a.m. 


3 a.m. 


4a.m. 


5 a.m. 


6 a.m. 7 a. m. 


8 a.m. 


9a. m. 


10 a.m. 


11 a. m. 


NOON. 


.344 


.341 


.334 


.335 


.333 


.336 .343 

1 


.351 


.359 


.363 : .365 


.369 



Minimum. 



1 
1p. m. 2 p. m.'3p. m. 


4 p. M. 


5p.m. 6p.m.|7p.m. 8p.m. 


9 p.m. 


10 p. M. 


11 p. M. 


12 NIGHT. 


.371 .375 


.375 


.373 


1 i 1 
.376 .376 i .372 \ .364 .358 


.353 


.350 


.348 



Maximum. 

TABLE XVII. 

MEAN DIURNAL VARIATION OF ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURE, BAROMETER REDUCED, AT PHILADA 

Computed from the observations made in 1842, and from July 1, 1843, to July 1, 1845. 



1a.m. 


2. AM. 


3a. M. 


I4a. m. 


5a.m. 


6a.m. 


7 a.m. ^8 A.M. 


9a.m. 


10 A. m. 


11 A.M. 


NOON. 


29.938 


29.936 


29.933 


29.935 


29.941 


29.951 


29.96029.966 


29.969 


29.967 


29.958 


29.944 


— + 
Minimum. Maximum. 





1 P. M. 2p. m. 



3 p.m. 



29.927 29.91629.910 29.909 29.911 



4p.m, 



5p.m. 



6p. m, 



29.918 



7 p.m. 



8 P.M. 



9 p.m. 10 a. m. 



29.927 29. 935:29. 943| 29.946 29.949 29.941 



11 A. M. 



12 NIGHT 



Minimum. 



4- 
Maximum. 



Table XVII shows two maxima and two minima in the height of the 
barometer, which correspond very nearly in time with those of table 
VIII for Greenwich. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 223 

TABLE XVIII. 

MEAN DIURNAL VARIATION OF THE FORCE OF WIND, IN POUNDS, AT PHILADELPHIA. 

Computed from the observations made in 1843 and 1844. 



1 A. M.I2 A. M. 


3 A. M. 4 A. M. 


5 a. m. 


6 A. M. 


7 A.M. 


8 A. M. 


9 A. M. 


10 a.m. 


11a.m. 


NOON. 


.50 1 .50 


.52 1 .53 


.51 


.47 


.47 .56 


.64 


.80 


.88 


.98 


Maximum. Minimum. 


1 p. M. 


2 p. M. 


3 p. M. 


4 p. M. 


5 p. M. 


6 p. M. 


7 p. M. 


8 p. M. 


9 p. M. 


10 p.m. 


11p.m. 


12 NIGHT. 


1.02 


1.03 


1.03 


.98 


.82 


.61 


.59 


.50 


.51 


.52 


.50 


.47 



Maximum. 



Minimum . 



Table XVIIT, compared with table IX, exhibits a greater mean pres- 
sure of the wind at Greenwich than at Philadelphia. The maximum 
intensity, during the whole 24 hours is, in both tables, at 2 p.m. 

TABLE XIX. 

mean DIURNAL VARIATION OF THE SKY COVERED BY CLOUDS, AT PHILADELPHIA. 

Computed from the observations made from the 1st July, 1843, to 1st July, 1845. 



1 A. M. 


2 A. M 


3 A. M. 


4 A. M. 


5 A. M. 


6 A. M. 


7 A. M. 


8 A. M. 


9 A. M. 


10 a.m. 


11a.m. 


NOON. 


.60 


.61 


.61 


.65 


.70 


.74 


.79 


.86 


.83 


.85 


.86 


.88 



Minimum. 



1 p. M. 


2 p.m. 


3 p. m. 


4 p. M. 5 p. m. 6 p. M. 


7 p. M. 


8 p. M.l9 p. M. 


10 p.m. 


11p.m. 


12 NIGHT. 


.88 


.89 


.87 


.88 .83 .80 


.74 


.69 \ 65 


.64 


.65 


.63 



Maximum. 



Tables XIX and VI exhibit nearly the sam.e variation in the lime 
of greatest and least cloudiness at Greenwich and Philadelphia. 



224 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



EXTRACTS 



FROM THE 



SCIENTIFIC CORRESrONDENCE 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



On Mr. John Wise's ohservations and inferences respecting the fhcnomena of 
a thunder storm-, to wliich he was exposed during an (Erial voyage, made by 
means of a balloon, June 3, 1852, from Portsmouth, Ohio. 

BY DR. ROBERT HARE. 

1. I have read with great interest the account published by Mr. 
Wise, a well known a?ronaut, ot" his balloon ascension during a thun- 
der storm. This heroic excursion should awaken much attention in 
the scientific wcjtld, as opening a new and fiuitful avenue to meteor- 
ological research in the immediate theatre of the stormy commotions of 
the atmosphere. The query " Cui bono?^^ can no longer be reasonably 
put to those who, like Wise, have been thought unwisely to have sub- 
jected themselves to risk in the sterile field of aeronautic adventure. ! 

2. The fact that this aerial voyage is the one hundred and thirty-first 
of those of which this veteran a^onaut has survived the perils, indi- ! 
cales that they have not been so perilous in reality as in appearance ; 
nor, so far as can be judged from the facts furnished by Wise's letter, 
does the unusual circumstance of a cotemporaneous thunder storm 
appear to add to the danger. Moreover, this practically safe result is 
just such as an attentive consultation of the well ascertained laws of 
electricity would justify. It is quite consistent with those laws that j 
the aeronaut, sealed in his car, suspended by silken cords Ij-om a silken ' 
globe, should be more secure than persons simultaneously situated on 
terra firma beneath the clouds by which the balloon is surrounded. 
Supported as described, in the non-conducting air, by a non-conducting 
apparatus, an animal must be too well insulated to become the means ; 
oi' an electrical discharge, whether from the clouds to the earth, or f 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION- 225 

from one cloud to another. Neither the diameter nor lenglh of the 
human frame would be sufficiently great, in proportion to th'j' interval 
to be percurred, to cause a discharge of lightning to deviate much from 
any route which it otherwise would pursue, in order to employ that 
frame as a part of its circuit in the discharge. 

3. There would be more risk of suffering by a dynamic inductive 
shock. This shock is exemplified when persons are stunned while 
near one who is directly struck. Yet while enveloped in a thunder 
cloud, the aeronaut could not be injured by any discharge, whether be- 
tween that cloud and another or between it and the earth. 

4. The most intense electrical excitement, as imparted by a powerful' 
machine to an animal supported by an insulated stool, produces no 
serious discomfort, so long as no spark is taken from any particular 
spot. The destructive violence of electricity is only displayed during 
transition, as when a comparatively slender body is made the medium' 
of reciprocal neutralization to oppositely excited surfaces. 

5. Under this view of the case, it is to be hoped that Mr. Wise ma)'' 
prove the pioneer in a new career of observation, and that encouraged 
and instructed by his example, a succession of scientific observers may 
visit the region of clouds during thunder gusts and gales. 

G. The greatest source of danger is the violence of the winds, which 
when high must make it difficult to quit the terrestrial surface, or to 
descend upon it with safety. The velocity of the wind, It oivever great, 
would have no more influence upon a balloon floating in it aloft, than 
the orbitual movement of our planet upon the bodies resting upon its 
surface. 

7. A.S, agreeably to the narrative of Mr. Wise, the ascension com- 
menced at half-past five, p. m., it is inconceivable how a landing could 
have been effected at nearly one hundred miles from the place of start- 
ing, especially as in the fifth paragraph of his s3'nopsis he alleges that 

, he was in the margin of the third storm noticed, iwenty-five minutes. 
; It is to be presumed that there is an erratum as respects the time, either 
f of the commencement or of the termination of his voyage. 

8. Presuming, however, that the observations of Mr. Wise ai-e reli^ 

i able as respects certain phenomena which bear upon the theory of 
f storms, T will endeavor to show that they are quite consistent with the 
i, idea that electricity is a principal agent in the generation of storms. 

9. Mr. Wise gives the following synopsis of the observations made 
!, during his aerial voyage: 

, "1st. Thunder storms have two plates of clouds; the upper of these 
discharging the contents, whatever they may be, whether rain, hail, or 
snow, into the lower. 

"2d. Sheet lightning, of an orange color, undulates silently between 
the upper and lower strata of clouds, with a waving motion. 

"3d. Discharges of electricity take place from the lower cloud. By 
discharges are meant thunder and lightning. 

"4th. The distance between the upper and lower cloud was not less 
than two thousand feet, by eye measurement. 

"5th. The current uprising from the terrestrial surface was not 
Mis. Doc. 24 15 



226 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

■continued higher than the lower cloud, and was rising and whirling, 
while I was in the margin of the storm, during twenty-five minutes. 

"6th. The storm was much wider below than above and divero;ino: at 
least twenty-five degrees from a perpendicular line. 

"7lh. The deposition of rain and hail was thicker about the centre 
of the storm. 

" 8th. Under the shadow of the upper cloud it is very cold, and in 
the lower cloud quite warm. The upper cloud was moved by the cur- 
rent which always moves from west to east." 

To these allegations Mr. Wise might have added tlie following, as 
they are merely a repetition of facts alleged in his narration: 

9th. A balloon, instead of being borne ahead by the current of air in 
which it floats, may be so approximated to the cloud as to be involved 
in the "outskirts of its rain," and be made to "rock by its whirling 
motion." 

10th. A third cloud may be formed by the rusliing together of two 
•others, seen previously in opposite quarters, and remote from each 
•other. 

11th. Tfie gas in a balloon may be so acted upon by the electric 
medium around it, as to acquire an augmentation of volume equivalent 
to calorific expansion. 

10. The existence of two "plates," or strata, of clouds, as stated in 
paragrapli 1st of the above synopsis, I have iov some time considered 
as the usual concomitant of rainy weather. When, agreeabl}'' to the 
observations of Dalton, on which Espy founded his theory of storms, 
the vapor in an ascending mass ot" air is condensed, b}' the rarifaction 
and consequent increase of calorific capacity, which the air acquires on 
attaining the elevated region usually occupied b}^ the clouds, this in- 
crease of capacity enables it to rob the aqueous vapor associated with 
it of heat; but by these means becoming warmer than if this vapor 
were not present, it consequentl}' acquires an ascensional power ; but by 
admixture with a larger portion of air,. the warmth and moisture are 
again absorbed in the state of vapor, so that the clouds thus created be- 
low a certain level are reabsorbed at a higher level, producing a cold 
proportionally as great as the heat resulting from its condensation. 
This may be called the level of absorption, while the level at which 
they are created may be called tfie level of condensation. Between 
these levels the clouds, in fine weather, seem to float as if they were 
persistent, when, in reality, they^ are no more of this character than 
the fog which surmounts the escape-pipe of a steam-boiler when letting 
off steam. 

IJ. Yet the moisture which escapes from permanent condensation at 
the first level at wliich this process takes place, b}' reaching a higher 
level, may be a second time condensed, by which a second stratum of 
clouds, as much colder as the associated air is rarer, may be generated. 
The process of reabsorption which had previously taken place imme- 
diately above the lower stratum, can now only take place immediately 
above the upper stratum, and, in consequence of the greater refrigera- 
tion, must proceed with proportionall>^ less rapidity. Consequently the 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 227 

absorption now no longer compensates for the condensation, and the 
excess must be precipitated as rain, hail, or snow. 

12. That the upper stratum should be colder than the lower one, as 
alleged in the synopsis, is explained: first, b}^ the difference of the alti- 
tude ; secondl}^ the evaporation going on from the upper one must rob 
it of heat by a process from which the other stratum is protected by its 
presence; thirdl5S radiation by the same superiorit}^ of altitude goes on 
copiously from the upper stratum, while this, by its interposition, checks 
radiation from the lower stratum. 

13. The formation of clouds within the space occupied by the upper 
stratum must prove the air associated with those clouds to be saturated 
with moisture. Hence the clouds formed in any subjacent stratum 
cannot be absorbed within the interval between the strata, and must, of 
course, be more likely to accumulate so as to produce rain. 

14. That the upper stratum should be so overcharged with electricity 
as to give it out in "sheet lightning," undulations, or aurora boreal cor- 
ruscations, is perfectly consistent with the suggestion which I have ad- 
vanced respecting the existence of three concentric spaces occupied 
severally by our globe — the denser non-conducting part of the atmos- 
phere, and the rarified medium beyond that last mentioned, which is suffi- 
ciently rare to form a conductor or coating, the terrestrial surface per- 
forming a similar part within, the atmospheric electric existing inter- 
mediatel3^ 

15. The frequency of the aurora boreal corruscations and flashes is 
no doubt the consequence of discharges from one part of the exterior 
concentric space to another, especially when proceeding from cither the 
arctic and antarctic regions to those of intermediate latitudes. 

16. It is well known that ice, when very cold and, consequently, 
dry, performs the part of an electric no less than glass. The friction of 
globules, as existing in the fog produced by escaping steam, has been in- 
ferred by Faraday to be a competent source for the torrents of electricity 
generated by a high steam; and it is not improbable that the friction 
between wind and the terrestrial surface may induce opposite states in 
the stratum of air bounded by that surface and the stratum occupied by 
the earth, and that occupying the space above the region of the clouds. 

17. The discharges of lightning are the means of equalization be- 
tween these spaces. Observation shows that the higher regions of the 
atmosphere are equally surcharged with electricity so as to prove dan- 
gerous to travellers among the Sierras or table lands of the Andes. 
Hence the upper stratum of clouds is liable to be surcharged with 
electricity oppositely to the earth. But whatever electrifies the inner 
terrestrial coating must produce a proportional opposite excitement in 
the outer one. 

18. When an upper stratum of clouds, such as Mr. Wise describes 
as the " cloud cap," is highly electrified by corruscations from the outer 
concentric space, as above supposed, it is consistent that it should at- 
tract the oppositely electrified air in the vicinity of the terrestrial sur- 
face. This air must at the same time undergo dilatation like that to 
which the gas in Wise's balloon was subjected, and must, of course, be 
repelled by the similarly electrified earth. Calorific expansion may 



228 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

CO operate, and thus an ascensional power be generated sufficient to 
make it rise to the region of the clouds, where rarefaction so increases 
the calorific capacity of the air, that it robs the aqueous vapor, exist- 
ing in the air, of its heat, and thus condenses it into a cloud. Mean- 
while the heat involved by the vapor m condensing keeps the tempera- 
ture higher than if the moisture were not present, and, according to 
Espy, should be productive of an upward force competent to produce a 
tornado. But according to Wise's statements, the uprising current 
does not reach the upper stratum of clouds. 

19. In the fifth paragraph of his synopsis it is alleged not to be con- 
tinued higher than the lower cloud ; but in his narrative he alleges that 
when " the balloon was half way down between the cloud and the 
lower stratum, the uprising current arrested the descent." and was 
rising and whirhng as he was in the margin of the storm. 

20. The fact that the balloon, instead of being carried ahead b}' the 
current in which the " thunder gust," first noticed by our voyager, 
floated, was carried towards it so as to be " involved in the outskirts of 
its rain," and to be affected by its motion, can only be ascribed to cen- 
tripetal currents ; and the whirl might be the natural consequence of 
the conflicting concurrence of such currents. The rising of the air in 
the axis of the whirl would require that there should be inblowing cur- 
rents to supply the deficit created by this upward blast. It is difficult 
to comprehend why the balloon was not drawn into the vortex and car- 
ried round with it. 

21. I have never seen nor lieard an}^ evidence justifs'ing the idea 
that an ordinary thunder gust involves the existence of a whirling mo- 
tion about a vertical axis. The rushing together of two thunder gusts, 
or clouds, to form a third, as stated in the narrative, and noticed in the 
9th paragraph of the synopsis, indicates the existence of two currents 
rushing towards an intermediate space, where a whirl might contin- 
gently ensue, a result which is quite consistent with the inblowing theo- 
ry, agreeably to which whirling is an incidental consequence, not a 
cause nor an essential feature of storms. In these respects Wise's ob- 
servations are irreconcilable with the rotatory theory, which assumes 
the whole of the theatre of stormy reaction to whirl about a common 
axis. Agreeabl}^ to this idea, the two thunder gusts, instead of rushing 
towards each other, would have to be carried liirther apart by a cen- 
trifugal motion, and the air, instead of rising about the axis, would 
have been drawn downward to supply the centrifugal* currents. 

22. The persistence of the upper stratum, or ," cloud cap," as this 
stratum is designated in the narrative, is inconsistent with the Espyan 
hypothesis, which requires that in ever}^ thunder gust, no less tlian in a 
tornado, that the whole mass of air, of which the commotions consti- 
tute the storm, should be turned inside out, by an upward blast pro- 
duced by the heat arising from condensing vapor. Of course, this 
force could not come into existence below the level at which the con- 
densation commences, in other words, that of the lower stratum of 
clouds, and could not continue to operate further than the inferior level 
of the upper stratum. Any buoyancy tlius created would tend to carry 
ap the "cloud cap," while it could have no effect at any level below 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 229 

that at which the increase of temperature should commence, as I have 
proved, both experimental!}'' and theoretically. 

23. Supposing the electrical charge in the upper stratum to be the 
main agent in the phenomena, it would be consistent that its influence 
should be exercised more widely, as the air acted upon should be fur- 
ther off, since distance enlarges the sphere as it lessens the force of the 
attraction. 

24. This seems to explain the widening of the storm}'^ mass affected 
towards its base, as stated in the sixth paragraph of the synopsis. 

25. Agreeably to the seventh allegation of the synopsis, the greatest 
deposition of rain took place towards the interior or central part of the 
stormy mass, while, according to Esp}^ the moisture ascends over the 
focal area, and descends on one or more sides. But Mr. Wise was not 
w^ell situated to form an accurate estimate in this respect. Until the 
facts are better examined or confirmed, it were better to postpone the 
examination of this question. 

26. The ninth paragraph is added by me, being founded on the alle- 
gations of Mr. Wise in the fourth, fifth, and sixth paragraphs of his 
narrative. 

27. It must be evident that by the narrator the words thunder storm, 
or thunder gust, are used as synonymous with a stratum of thunder 
clouds ; so that when he informs us that two tremendous thunder storms 
were approaching each other rapidly beneath him, it is evidently in- 
tended to convey tiie idea of two great thunder clouds coming together 
so as to form one. • 

28. This is not the first time that the coming together of two thunder 
clouds has been alleged to happen. In the report on the tornado of 
Chenay, by Peltier, such an approximation is stated to have preceded 
the formation of the meteor. Evidently they could not be brought to- 
gether by charges of electricity unless those charges were of an oppo- 
site kind ; but if they were of an opposite kind, the union of the clouds 
would have caused reciprocal neutralization, so far as their charges 
were equivalent. This result would have been inconsistent with that 
augmentation of electrical energy consequent to their uniting, which is 
in both cases alleged to have ensued. The only explanation which I can 
suggest, consistently with the laws of electrical reaction, is, that these 
masses of vapor were both neutral, and that they were both attracted 
simultaneously by the upper stratum of clouds, designated by Mr. Wise 
as the "cloud cap," and charged therefrom as soon as they attained 
.sufficient proximity so as to form one cloud. 

29. The last paragraph of synopsis was added by me upon the in- 
ference of the narrator that his balloon acquired an ascensional power 
which awakened surprise, and respecting which, on reflection and con- 
:sideration, he came to the conclusion ihdl '•Hlie electrical medium''^ in 
which he was floating was acting on the gas and attenuating it." 

30. In concluding an essay entitled "Additional objections to Red- 
field's theory of storms," pubHshed in Silliman's Journal about the 
year 1843, as well as on various other occasions, and especially in my 
•two strictures on Espy's report, I have advanced that aeriform par- 
deles, when existing in a mass of air electrified, either vitriously or 
aresinously, must repel each other more than when they are in a normal 



230 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

State; and, consequently, the nnass which they constitute must be dila- 
ted proportion ably to the intensity of the charge. Moreover, a mass 
so electrified must be repelled by the earth proportionably to the 
charge, so that in this way a diminution of barometrical pressure and 
atmospheric density may ensue. 

31. But, according to Dalton's observations, the temperature being 
constant, the quantity of moisture in the air is as the space occupied 
by it, since it is the capacity of the space, not that of the air, which 
regulates the proportion of moisture associated with the latter. 

32. It follows that when by electrical repulsion the air is dilated it 
will have an increase of its capacity for moisture, proportional to its 
dilatation, and when the electricity causing the increase of capacity is 
discharged the moisture must precipitate. 

33. And further, when two masses of air, oppositely electrified, 
coalesce proportionably to the neutraUzation, moisture must be de- 
posited. 

34. Such masses tnust acquire by a reaction with the earth, and an 
ascensional tendency arising from repulsion between them and the ter- 
restrial surface. Mr. Wise's observations respecting the influence of 
the electric medium upon the gas within his balloon, by which it was 
so attenuated as to create a surprising ascensional power, is altogether 
confirmatory of my inferences. 

35. It appears that Mr. Wise was enabled to vary the direction of 
his sailing by varying the altitude at which he floated. Hence, as 
there are al^a3^s two currents during gales, it would be possible for an 
aerial navigator to determine his course by his elevation, as Mr. Wise 
appears to have done. In a northeastern gale he might first use one 
current in order to go to a sufficient distance, and then use the other to 
return. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 231 

CORRESPONDENCE. 



THE CLIMATE OF SAN FRANCISCO. 



BY DR. H. GIBBONS. 



No. 1.— GENERAL REMARKS. 

Since the 1st of December, 1850, I have kept a record of ob.serva- 
tions on'the weather in this city, of which I propose to give you a summary, 
for the especial benefit of distant enquirers. It may be well to observe, 
that whife the climate of the western coast of North America possesses 
some pecuHar features, that of San Francisco and the immediate vicinity 
differs from every other place on the coast, and is, in some respects, 
the most extraordinary climate in the world. This is owing to the 
pecuhar position of the city, having the ocean on one side, and on the 
other a vast bay, extending north and south near a hundred miles, and 
separated from the ocean by a mountain wall, except at the break 
where the city is located, and where the bay communicates with the 
sea by a narrow strait. On the coast, a trade-wind from the northwest 
blows almost constantly, in the summer season especially, and a strong 
ocean current flows in the same direction. 

The thermometrical observations forming the basis of the following 
summary were made three times a day, viz : about sunrise, which is 
the coldest period; at noon, or after, being the warmest period; and 
at eleven in the evening. In computing the mean temperature for 
the month, I have used two observations only, the extremes, at sun- 
rise and at mid-day ; experience having shown that the mean thus cal- 
culated is very near the true temperature ibr the twenty-four hours. 

In the Atlantic States, the warmest period of the day in winter is 
from one to two o'clock, and in summer from two to three. In San 
Francisco the same rule holds in winter but not in summer ; for the 
sea breeze, which springs up about noon, or soon after, instantly de- 
presses the temperature, so that the warmest time of the day, from 
May to August, inclusive, is an hour or two earlier than in winter. 

For the want of proper care in the location of the thermometer, many 
of the observations which are thrown into print lose much of their value. 
The greatest error is commonly at mid-day, when the instrument is ex- 
posed to reflection from buildings and other objects on which the sun is 
shining. Every such object acts as a mirror, and tends to elevate the 
column of mercury above the proper mark for the air. The ther- 
mometer should, therefore, be excluded, not only from the direct, but 
also from the reflected heat of the sun, and it should at the same time 
be exposed to a free circulation of air ; hence, to obtain a proper loca- 
tion is otlen very difficult. The figures in my observations will be 
found lower, in many instances, than those obtained by other ob- 
servers, in consequence of the care exercised in this respect. In 
making the morning observation, I use a self-registering thermometer, 
which is certain to give the minimum temperature. 



232 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

The summary, which I will now pi-esent, uives the mean for each 
month at or before sunrise, when it is the coldest, or at noon, when it 
is warmest, and at eleven in the evening ; the mean temperature of 
the month, computed from two daily observations ; also, the warmest 
and the coldest mornings in each month, and the warmest and coldest 
days at noon, with the range of the thermometer. It embraces a 
period of fourteen months — from December, 1850, to January, 1852, 
inclusive. 

December, 1850. — Sunrise 43.29 degrees Farenheit ; noon 54.13; 
11 p. m. 45.39. Monthly temperature 48.71. Coldest morning 28, 
warmest morning, 54 ; coldest noon 38, warmest noon 64 ; range 36. 

January, 1851. — Sunrise 41.68 ; noon 56.94; 11 p. m. 44.90. 
Monthly temperature 49.31. Coldest morning 30, warmest morning 
56 ; coldest noon 50, warmest noon 64 ; range 34. 

February, 1851. — Sunrise 41.97 ; noon 60.03 ; 11 p. m. 43.64. 
Monthly temperature 51. Coldest morning 33, warmest morning 52; 
coldest j;ioon 55, warmest noon 71 ; range 38. 

March, 1851. — Sunrise 44; noon 63.68; 11 p. m. 44.84. Monthly 
temperature 53.84. Coldest morning 34, warmest morning 50 ; cold- 
est noon 53, warmest noon 74 ; range 40. 

April, 1851.— Sunrise 48.20; noon 67.27; 11 p. m. 49.80. Monthly 
temperature 57.73. Coldest morning 42, warmest morning 56 ; cold- 
est noon 57, warmest noon 84; range 42. 

May, 1851.— Sunrise 49.58 ; noon 64.32 ; 11 p. m. 50.42. Monthly 
temperature 55.95. Coldest morning 45, warmest morning 54 ; cold- 
est noon 57, warmest noon 71 ; range 26. 

June, 1851.— Sunrise 50.90 ; noon 66.73 ; lip. m. 51.80. Monthly 
temperature 58.81. Coldest morning 49, warmest morning 56 ; cold- 
est noon 60, warmest noon 78 ; range 29. 

July, 1851. — Sunrise 51.50; noon 64.32; 11 p. m. 52.10. Monthly 
temperature 57.91. Coldest morning 47, warmest morning 54; cold- 
est noon 60, warmest noon 73 ; range 26. 

August, 1851. — Sunrise 54.97 ; noon 69.45 ; 11 p. m. 56.06. 
Monthly temperature 62.21. Coldest morning 50, warmest morning 
66 ; coldest noon 63, warmest noon 82 ; range 32. 

September, 1851. — Sunrise 53.97 ; noon 69.27 ; 11 p. m. 54.20. 
Monthl}^ temperature 61.62. Coldest morning 50, warmest morning 
63 ; coldest noon 64, warmest noon 75 ; range 25. . 

October, J851. — Sunrise 53.36; noon 70.42; 11 p. m. 55.45. 
Monthly temperature 61.89. Coldest morning 47, warmest morning 
60 ; coldest noon 60, warmest noon 83 ; range 36. 

November, 1851. — Sunrise 48.93; noon 63.60; 11 p. m. 51.90. 
Monthly temperature 56.26. Coldest morning 41, warmest morning 
57 ; coldest noon 52, warmest noon 73 ; range 32. 

December, 1851. — Sunrise 46.10; noon 56.55; 11 p. m. 48.26. 
Monthly temperature 51.32. Coldest morning 35, warmest morning 
58; coldest noon 51, warmest noon 61 ; range 26. 

January, 1852. — Sunrise 44.61 ; noon 56.97 ; 11 p. m. 49.39. 
Monthly temperature 50.79. Coldest morning 35, warmest morning 
52 ; coldest noon 50, warmest noon 64 ; range 29. 

For the year 1851 : Sunrise 48.76 ; noon 64.38 ; 11 p. m. 50.28. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 233 

Yearly temperature 56.57. Coldest morning (January 17th) 30, warm- 
est morning (August 18th) 66 ; coldest noon (.January 9i;h) 50, warm- 
est noon (April 28th) 84 ; range 54. 

The average yearly temperature at Philadelphia is 51.50. Two de- 
grees south of Philadelphia, in the latitude of San Francisco, it is near 
54. It follows that the yearly temperature at this point of the Pacific 
coast is not much higher than on the Atlantic border. The vicinity of 
the Golden Gate is much colder in summer than any other point on the 
Pacific coast south of the Columbia river, owing to the almost incessant 
sea breezes, induced by the geographical features of the region round 
about. 

The most striking peculiarity of the climate of San Francisco is its 
uniform temperature. There are no extremes of heat or cold. The 
warmest day in the 3'ear was the 28th of April, when the mercury 
reached 84 ; next to this was the 19th of October, 83. On the 18th of 
August it was 82, but this was the onhj day in the three summer months 
when it rose above 79 ! The thermometer was at or above 80 only on 
nine days in the year, six ©f which were in October. At Philadelphia, 
it reaches this point on from sixty to eighty days in the year. 

Only once in the j^ear did the mercury sink to the freezing point, and 
it was below 40 only on twenty-five mornings. At Philadelphia, it 
falls to the freezing point or lower about 100 times in the year. 

The coldest day in the year,^ at noon, was 50. This is about equal 
to the warmest weather in the three winter months at Philadelphia. 
There, the months of January and February sometimes pass without 
one day as warm as this. 

The warmest month in the year, at sunrise, was August, then Sep- 
tember, then October. July, which is decidedly the hottest month in 
most other climates, was the fourth on the list, being considerably 
colder than October. 

The warmest month at noonday was October; then August, Sep- 
tember, April and June, in the order named. July comes in with May, 
being the sixth on the list, and onU- a trifle warmer at noonda}^ than 
March and November. 

At 11 p. m. August was the warmest, and next comes October and 
September, before July, which is but a trifle warmer at this hour than 
November. November was warmer in the evening than June. 

The lowest temperature in the year being 30°, and the highest 84^, 
it follows that the range of the thermometer was 54°. On the Atlantic 
border, in the same latitude, the range is nearly 100°. At Philadel- 
phia the greatest cold is 10° below zero, and the greatest heat 94° — 
making a range of 104°. At San Francisco, in December, 1850, the 
thermometer was one morning as low as 28°, and did not rise above 
38° at noon, so that ice remained in the shade all day. This was re- 
garded as an extraordinary degree of cold. Up to the present date, 
February 25, 1852, the extreme cold of the winter has been 35°, and 
it is probable the coldest weather is past. 

January is the coldest month of the year in the Atlantic States, and 
February a trifle warmer. The same is true of San Francisco, judging 
from the past year. The temperature of January, at Philadelphia, is 
about 30|°, and that of July, the warmest month, 73^° ; difierence 



234 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

43°. The difference between January and August, the coldest and 
warmest months at San Francisco, was not quite 13° ! 

To facihtate comparison, I insert the mean temperature for a series 
of years of the several months at Philadelphia: January, 30!^°; Febru- 
ary, 31fo; March, 40°; April, 50°; May, 60p ; June, 69°; July, 
73^° ; August, 71^° ; September, 64° ; October, 53° ; November, 42^° ; 
December, 33f°. By observing that one degree of latitude makes 
about one degree of difference in temperature in the Atlantic States, 
the reader may easily compute, from these data, the mean temperature 
at any given place. For example, if the place be two degrees north 
of Philadelphia, you will find its mean temperature by deducting two 
from the temperature at Philadelphia; if south, by adding. 

The coldest month in 1851, at San Francisco, (viz: January,) was 
9° warmer than the average of the coldest month at Philadelphia; 
while August, the warmest month at San Francisco, was 11° colder 
than the average of July, the warmest month at Philadelphia. 

At San Francisco, the temperature falls more rapidly in the after- 
noon and evening than in the Atlantic States, but less rapidly during 
the night. From 11 p. m. to sunrise, the mercury at Philadelphia falls 
four or five degrees on the average, while at San Francisco the differ- 
ence was less than two degrees, and in four of the months less than one 
degree ; except in the winter, when the change is similar in this respect 
at the two points. In November, December, and January, at San 
Francisco, the thermometer falls from two to three and a half degrees 
between 11 p. m. and sunrise. The same is true precisely of Phila- 
delphia. But while at Philadelphia in all the other months the fall 
during the same period of the night is twice as great, it is less than 
half as much at the former place. In other words, the temperature 
falls in the night, alter 11 p. m., four times as much at Philadelphia as 
at San Francisco, from February to September inclusive. 

In the summer months there is scarcely any change of temperature 
in the night. The early morning is sometimes clear, sometimes cloudy, 
and always calm. A few hours after sunrise the clouds break away, 
and the sun shines forth cheerfully and delightfully. Towards noon, 
or most frequently about 1 o'clock, the sea breeze sets in and the 
weather is completely changed. From 60° to Qb^ the mercury drops 
forthwith to near 50°, long before sunset, and remains almost motion- 
less till next morning. This is the order of things in three days out of 
four in June, July, and August. May and September exhibit something 
of the same character, the sea winds establishing themselves in the 
former and declining in the latter month. This subject will be more 
fully investigated under the head of winds. 

The remarkable uniformity of temperature at San Francisco maybe 
further illustrated by taking note of the number of days in the year 
which give the same degree. The most frequent temperature at sun- 
rise was 53°, the mercury standing at that point on forty-five mornings. 
The most frequent at noon was 64°, forty-two days showing that tem- 
perature. Referring to my journal kept at Philadelphia, I happened 
to open at the year 1839, which exhibits a fair representation of the 
climate there. I find the most frequent temperatures at sunrise were 
52° and 68°, but that the mercury stood at each of these points on 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 235 

fourteen mornings only. The greatest number of days in the year coin- 
ciding in temperature at noon was sixteen, with the thermometer at 68°. 

At San Francisco, in the year 1851, there were one hundred and 
sixty-one mornings with the temperature from 50° to 54° inclusive. 
At Philadelphia the greatest number of mornings within the like range 
of the thermometer, in the year 1839, was but forty-six. At the former 
place there were two hundred and nineteen days within a range of 5° 
at noon, while the greatest number within that range at Philadelphia 
was but sixty. 

It is not uncommon for the thermometer at noon to stand almost at 
the same point day after day, for one or two weeks. March, April, and 
October, were the most irregular months in this respect, being inter- 
spersed with a great proportion of warm days. But no other month of 
the year elapsed without exhibiting one or two weeks continuously 
when the mercury varied only 5°. From the 12th to the 26th Febru- 
ary, (15 days,) the lowest mark at noonday was 55°, and the highest 
60°. From tlie 2d to the 16th of June, (15 days,) the lowest was 65°, 
and the highest 70°. From the 1st to the 13th of July, (13 days,) the 
lowest was 61°, and the highest 65° ; and from the 17th to the 27th of 
the same month, the lowest was 60°, and the highest 65*^. In the first 
13 days of August, the lowest was 63°, and the highest 65° — a varia- 
tion of only 2°. From the 13th to the 21st of September, the lowest 
was 65°, and the highest 66'^ — only 1° of variation in nine days. — 
From the 2d to the 11th of November, (10 days,) the range was be- 
tween 62° and 67°; and from the 14th to the 24th, (11 days,) between 
60° and 65°. From December 8th to the 24th, (15 days,) the varia- 
tion was from 54° to 58° — only 4°. 

The sudden fluctuations of temperature incident to the climate of the 
Atlantic States are unknown here. We have none of those angry out- 
breaks from the northwest, which change summer to winter in a few 
hours. But the diurnal depressions of temperature in the afternoon are 
considerable. The average fall of the thermometer from noon to 11 p. 
M., for the whole year, is at Philadelphia 11°; at San Francisco 14°. 
The change at the latter place is the more striking, from its greater 
rapidity. In the season of the sea breezes, a few hours will reduce the 
temperature fifteen, twenty, and on some of the warmest days, twenty- 
five degrees; and this change is effected long before sunset. Under 
the head of winds, this subject will be more fully examined. 

Comparing one day with that succeeding, the difference is never 
•great. The greatest difference during the year at noon, between two 
adjoining days, was 21°. Turning to the table for 1839, at Philadel- 
phia, in the month of March alone, three instances are found exceeding 
this : the differences being in one case 29°, in the second 33°, and in 
the third 35°. Though no other month was equal to March in this 
respect, yet there were several other examples during the year which 
exceeded the extreme at San Francisco. 

As regards the influence of the seasons on vegetation, the common 
order is reversed. The entire absence of rain in the summer months 
parches the soil, and reduces it almost to the barrenness of a northern 
winter. The cold sea winds of the summer solstice defy the almost 
vertical sun, and call for flannels and overcoats. When the winds 



236 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



cease, as they do in September and October, comes a delightful Indian 
summer. In November and December the early rains fall, and the 
temperature being moderate, vegetation starts Ibrth, and midwinter 
finds the earth clad in livel}"" green and spangled with countless flowers. 
The spring opens with genial warmth, but just as the April sun begins 
to give promise of summer heat, its rays are shorn of their power by 
the winds and mists of the Pacific. 

These remarks apply only to a small portion of the State of Cali- 
fornia. Beyond the influence of the Bay of San Francisco and its out- 
let, the sea winds are scarcely perceptible, even near the ocean. In a 
subsequent chapter, ] will present the results of my observations on the 
winds, clouds, rain, and other phenomena of the climate, as noticed at 
San Francisco, together with some notes on the climate of other por- 
tions of the Slate, and also its general relations to health. 



NO. 2.— WINDS. 

In .a former article I gave the result of my observations on Temper- 
ature. The present chapter refers to the Winds. 

The course of the wind is noted in my journal b}^ three daily entries, 
viz : forenoon, afternoon and evening. Should the wind change during 
either of these periods, as it very often does, especially in the forenoon, 
the change is marked, and taken into account in the summing up. 
With these explanations, the reader will have no difficulty in compre- 
hending the following table, which shows the winds of each month of 
the year, and the total of the year : 



1852. 


N. 


NE. 


E. 


SE. 


S. 


SW. 


W. 


NW. 




35 

18 
7 
3 
1 
1 



1 

8 
10 
15 


2 
5 
2 
5 
1 
1 

1 

3 
4 
9 


1 
2 

1 


3 
o 

3 


14 
6 
8 
4 
2 
1 
2 
1 
2 
6 
8 

12 


7 
9 
4 
7 
4 
5 
1 
6 
2 

6 
15 

24 


7 

13 
14 
13 
11 
14 
14 
11 
11 

2 
12 

7 


21 
15 
34 
45 
65 
62 
74 
72 
72 
54 
30 
13 


6 


Februar}' 


16 
23 




12 


Mav 


8 


June 


5 


July 


1 




1 


September 


2 
11 


November 

December 


9 
10 




99 


33 


17 


66 


90 


129 


557 


104 



The direction of the coast is nearly NW. and SE., or about one point 
north of NW., and one point south of SE. Hence the winds from 
NW. to S., inclusive, blow from the ocean, and those from N. to SE. 
from the land. The former greatly preponderate, exhibiting an aggre- 
gate of 880 observations, to 215 of the latter. That is to say, the 
winds blew from the ocean semi-circle more than three-fourths of the 
year. 



THE gMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



237 



It is still more striking that the winds came from due west, or rather 
from the octant corresponding to that point, more than half the year ; 
the summing up of that column being 557 against 538 from all other 
points, embracing seven eighths of the compass. 

Observe the remarkable contrast between the columns of w^est and 
east winds, the latter presenting only 17 observations in the year ! It 
is a well, ascertained fact that westerly winds predominate in the tem- 
perate latitudes of the northern hemisphere, on both continents. But I 
cannot discover that in any other spot on the globe the winds blow 
from one octant 186 days, and from the opposite octant only six days 
in the year. 

Dividing the year into four seasons, January, February and Decem- 
ber being classed as the winter months, we have the following result : 



N. 


NE. 


E. SE. 

1 


s. sw. 


W. 


NW. 


! 

Spring } 11 

Summer i I 

Autumn 19 

Winter 1 68 

1 


8 

2 

7 

16 


3 14 
3 4 

5 16 

6 32 


15 38 
12 39 
33 25 

40 27 


144 

208 

156 

49 


43 

7 

22 

32 



Thus it appears that the proportion of land winds to sea winds, in 
the several months, was as follows : 

January, land winds, 52 observations ; sea winds, 41 observations. 



February, 


do 


31 


do 


do 


53 


do. 


March, 


do 


18 


do 


do 


75 


do. 


April, 


do 


13 


do 


do 


77 


do. 


May, 


do 


o 


do 


do 


88 


do. 


June, 


do 


4 


do 


do 


86 


do. 


July, 


do 


3 


do 


do 


90 


do. 


August, 


do 


3 


do 


do 


90 


do. 


September 


do 


3 


do 


do 


87 


do. 


October, 


do 


20 


do 


do 


73 


do. 


November, 


do 


24 


do 


do 


66 


do. 


December, 


do 


39 


do 


do 


54 


do. 



Grouping the months into seasons, and reducing the observations to- 
days, three observations representing one entire day, we find in the — 

Spring, land winds, 12 days, sea winds, 80 days. 
Summer, do 3 do do 89 do. 

Autumn, do 16 do do 75 do. 

Winter, do 41 do do 49 do. 



Total, 



293 



In every month of the year the sea winds exceed the land winds,, 
except Januarjs when the reverse occurred. In January, 1852, the 
land winds were 61, and the sea winds 32. In February, however, the 
former were but 27, and the latter 60. In December, 1850, the land 
winds exceeded the sea winds by one observation, the ficures standing- 
47 to 46. 

liy casting the eye over the tables, one is struck with the progressive 
increase of the sea winds after the month of January, and the almost 
entire absence of the opposite winds from May to "September, inclu- 
sive — the land winds in these five months occupying only six days. 

The winds from north and east are always dry, and in winter cooL 



23 8 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



They are nearly always aUended with a sky of cloudless blue. Those 
from northwest to southwest are cold and chiUing at all seasons, and in 
summer loaded with the ocean mists. But they do not often produce 
rain. The coast winds from south and southeast are most conducive to 
rain, and they are always warm. The course of the winds in relation 
to rain will be considered under the head of rains. 

The force of the w^inds at ditterent periods of the day, and Irom dif- 
ferent points of the compass, is a subject of some interest. It is repre- 
sented by figures — indicating calm or nearly calm, 1 a light breeze, 2 
a moderate breeze, 3 a strong breeze or wind, 4 a high wind, and 5 a 
very high wind. The observations occupy three columns, for the fore- 
noon, atternoon, and evening. The mean of each of these columns for 
every month is given in the following table, and the fourth column con- 
tains the mean of the three observations, collectively, for each month. 



January . . 
February.. 
March . . . 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August . . . 
September 
October . . 
November 
December 
1851. . 



Forenoon. 



Afternoon. 



1.21 


1.45 


1.45 


1.93 


1.68 


2.24 


1.55 


2.32 


1.77 


2.61 


1.85 


2.80 


1.66 


2.97 


1.45 


2.66 


1.48 


2.38 


.87 


2.05 


.85 


1.22 


1.37 


1.32 


1.43 


2.16 



Evening. 



.66 
1.07 
1.40 
1.33 
1.61 
1.92 
2.19 
1.77 
1.28 
.87 
.70 
1.07 
1.32 



Mean. 



1.11 
1.48 
1.77 
1.73 
2.00 
2.19 
2.27 
1.96 
1.71 
1.26 
.92 
1.25 
1.64 



The reader will perceive that the average force of the wind in the 
afternoon was greater than in the forenoon, in every month of the year 
except December. By referring to my Philadelphia tables, I find there 
is no uniformity in this respect, the morning winds being stronger in 
some months, and the afternoon winds in others. 

The evening winds were uniformly lighter than the afternoon, and 
lighter than those of the forenoon, except in the three summer months, 
when they were decidedly stronger than in the forenoon. At Philadel- 
phia the evening winds sum up lower in strength than those of the fore- 
noon or atternoon, in every month, without exception. 

The table shows a remarkable progressive increase in the force of the 
atmospheric currents from January to July, the latter being the most 
windy month of the year ; and then a decrease till November, the 
calmest month. At Philadelphia there is no such regularity. Autumn 
is the calmest season at both places, but summer comes next in the At- 
lantic States, then winter, and lastly spring, which is the windiest sea- 
son on the eastern side of the continent. 

From May to September, inclusive, there is more wind at San Fran- 
cisco than at Philadelphia; but in the remaining five months, from Oc- 
tober to April, there is less. 

Not only in regard to time do the winds from the western semicircle 
greatly preponderate, but also in force. The land winds are often very 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 239 

light and transient, not affecting an ordinary vane. Besides, many of 
the observations placed in this column in my journal are due to the in- 
fluence of the bay, from which a gentle current — really a sea breeze — 
frequently flows upon the city for a brief period in the forenoon, before 
the general current "from the ocean sets in from the opposite quarter. 
These bay currents are strictly local; and on the opposite side of the 
bay they take the opposite direction, and swell the proportion of sea 
winds i.i that location. 

The following table is a summary of three daily observations, con- 
tinued through the 3'ear 1851, showing the direction of the atmospheric 
currrents, with reference to their comparative force. 

N. &N.W. E. & N.E. S. &S.E. W. & S.W. 

Nearly calm 49 24 49 30 

Light breeze 86 39 88 146 

Breeze 69 5 36 335 

Wind 20 13 191 

High wind 2 2 29 

Very high wind 3 1 

Thus it appears that the wind was very high only on three days in 
the year. Much as is said of the violence of the wind at this place, 1 
have never yet witnessed a wind in California equal to that which fre- 
quentl}^ attends a thunder-gust or an easterly storm of the highest grade 
in the Atlantic States. 

From the east quarter of the compass the current did not rise be3^ond a 
moderate breeze in the entire year, and only for five observations did it 
reach that degree offeree. As we recede from that limit, either north- 
ward or southward, the winds increase both in frequency and strength. 
But it is not until we pass the north point on one hand, and the south- 
east point on the other, that the}^ are high. Of the twenty observa- 
tions above noted as "winds" from the north and northwest, seventeen 
were fi'om northwest, and only three from north. The two high winds 
under the same head were from northwest. So in regard to the thir- 
teen winds, three high winds, and two very high winds, in the column 
headed south and southeast; a small proportion were fi^om due south- 
east, the mass of them coming fi-om south-southeast and south. The 
high winds of wmter, when such occur, are from this quarter, and bring 
rain. The high winds of" summer are always westerly, and without 
rain. 

In the course of the year there were 169 windy days. On ]23 of 
this number, the wind did not rise till after the sun had crossed the 
meridian, and it continued after sunset on 57 only. There were but 20 
days in the 3'ear windy at sunrise. 

The sea breeze of summer, which forms the most striking trait of the 
climate of San Francisco, demands something more than a passing 
notice, and will be reserved for another chapter, together with the sub- 
jects of clouds, rains, electrical phenomena, &c. 



240 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



No. 3.— THE SEA BREEZE. 

The tables contained in my last number exhibit the great excess of 
sea winds over land winds in every month of" the year 185], excepting 
January, when the excess was in favor of land winds- In this respect, 
the month of January in the present year corresponds with the last. 
December, 1850, shows a very slight preponderance of land winds. 
From these data I infer the general rule, that the westerly or sea winds 
predominate in every month except January and December, and that 
the latter month varies in this respect, behig sometimes on the one side 
and sometimes on the other. 

I have already stated that the westerly winds increase, both in fre- 
quency and in force, from February to July, and then begin to fall off 
very gradually. The precise relation of sea to land winds, in each 
month, as to frequency, is shown by computing their per centage of the 
whole number of observations. The result tor the year 1851 is as fol- 
lows : 

January, sea winds 44 per cent. 

February, do 63 do. 

March, do 81 do. 

April, do » 86 do. 

May, do 95 do. 

June, do 96 do. 

July, do 97 do. 

August, do 97 do. 

September, do 96 do. 

October, do 78 do. 

November, do 73 do. 

December, do 38 do. 

To which may be added — 

December, 1850, sea breeze ~. 49 do. 

January, 1852, do 34 do. 

Februa"ry, 1852, do 69 do. 

Whatever may be the direction of the wind in the tbrenoon, in the 
spring, summer, and autumn months, it almost invariably works round 
towards the west in the afternoon. So constant is this phenomenon, 
that in the seven months from April to October, inclusive, there were 
but three days on which it missed, namely, on the 8th of April, the 18th 
of Ma3S and the 27th of August. And these three days were all rainy, 
with the wind from the south or south-southwest. 

The sea winds arc moderate in the spring until the month of May, 
when they begin to give trouble. In June they increase in force, reach- 
ins; their greatest violence about the beginning of July. In August they 
begin to decline in force, though not in constancy. In September they 
continue steady, though moderate; and in October they lose their an- 
noying qualities, and become gentle and agreeable. 

The sea winds of summer are commonly supposed to come from the 
northwest. But this is a great error, arising, no doubt, trom the fact 
that our citizens have mostly been accustomed to cold winds, in th^ 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 241 

Atlantic States, from that quarter. In the early spring they sometimes 
proceed from north of west. As the season advances they depart en- 
tirel}' from this course, and are almost invariably from south of west. 
From May to September, a period of five months, the direction of the 
afternoon sea breeze was north of west on twelve da3?s only ; and even 
on these occasions it was mostly within one point of west. The pre- 
vailing direction was west southwest. 

I have reason to believe that the wind off' the coast, at sea, during the 
period referred to, is more northwardly than on land, and that it is de- 
flected from that course about the bay of San Francisco. Such, at 
least, is the account given by the captains of vessels navigating the 
coast. 

There was a decided sea breeze on 2-3 days in March, 17 days in 
April, 22 days in May, 24 da3^s in June, every day in July and August, 
28 da3^s in September, 30 days in October, and 8 in November. 

The number of afternoons that might be described as windy was, in 
February 8, March 16, April 15, May 18, June 24, July 29, August 
23, September 19, October 8, November 2. On the 162 days thus 
noted, the mornings were seldom windy, the wind rising above a mod- 
erate breeze in the forenoon on 34 da3^s only. In May there were 5 
days windy at sunrise, and 1 in June ; but not one in the months of 
April, July, August, September, and October. 

The sea breeze generally rises to its height soon after noon-day, 
mostly between one and two o'clocic, but sometimes not till three or 
four. It commonly falls about sunset, or soon after. Sometimes it 
continues till midnight. In the early part of the season it is apt to set 
in earher and continue later. There were 8 windy evenings in May, 
11 in June, 11 in July, 5 in August, and none in September. 

The idea of mist and vapor is commonly associated with these 
winds ; but the sky is clear, or partially so, more than half the time 
There were 6 cloudy mornings in May, 11 in June, 16 in July, 21 in 
August, and 22 in September. About 9 or 10 o'clock, the clouds mostly 
broke away rapidly, a light breeze springing up at the same time. 
Several hours of very pleasant weather occurred towards noon, almost 
every day. The sun shone forth with genial warmth, the mercury 
rising generall}' from about 50 at sunrise, to 60 or 65 at noon ; but 
when the sun had reached the zenith, the wind rapidly increased, 
coming down in gusts from the hills, which separate the city from the 
ocean, and often bringing with it clouds of mist. But the dampness is 
never sufficient to prevent the elevation of clouds of dust and sand, 
which sport through the streets in the most lively manner. The mer- 
cury falls suddenly, and long before sunset it fixes itself within a few 
degrees above 50, where it sticks pertinaciously till next morning; 
often not moving a hair's breadth for twelve hours. Many times I have 
examined the instrument on suspicion that some defect had fixed the 
column immovably. The chilUng temperature adds to the effect of 
sand and dust. Persons who have business out of doors are seen but* 
toning up their coats or overcoats, and rubbing industriousl}^ at the 
various apertures about the face as they hurry through the streets, in 
the worst possible humor. * Such weather, at the summer solstice, with 
an ahnost vertical sun, is pronounced "perfectly ridiculous." 
Mis. Doc. 24 16 



242 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

The mist often increases towards evening, and, when the wind falls, 
remains all night in the shape of a heavy fog. Sometimes, when the 
sun has been shining brightly, the mist comes in irom the ocean in one 
great wave, and suddenly submerges the landscape. In a few minutes 
it may vanish, and give place to the cheerful sunshine. In short, there 
is no conceivable admixture of wind, dust, cloud, fog, and sunshine 
that is not constantly on hand during the summer at San Francisco. 
Not unfrequentiy you are tantalized with a rainbow at sunset. Once I 
saw a solar rainbow before night in the east, and soon afterwards 
another bow, in the west, made by the moon. 

I have already noticed the almost constant prevalence of the west 
and southwest currents. As the sea breezes become established, the 
entire absence of winds Irom north and northwest is remarkable. In 
the month of May, and in the beginning of June, there were a few 
light breezes from that quarter. But from the 13th of June until near 
the middle of October, a period of four months, there is not a solitary 
observation noted in my record, even of the lightest or most transient 
wind, from north or northwest. I think it probable that the same can- 
not be said of any other spot on the globe, in the north temperate zone. 

The uniformity of the summer weather is occasionally broken by 
the intervention of a few warm and pleasant days, when the wind is 
not high enough to convert summer into winter. Under these circum- 
stances the thermometer mounts to 70 or 75. In the latter spring and 
early autumn months it is warmer. But as soon as the " summer" has 
fairly set in, flannels and firewood are in almost constant demand, at 
least until August. 

No one but an actual observer can appreciate the utter impotency of 
an almost vertical sun during a brisk sea breeze. The rays of the sun 
have scarcely more warmth than moon beams. Instead of raising the 
thermometer 30 or 40 degrees, they seldom produce more than ten 
degrees of elevation in the sweep of the wind. 

Such is the "summer" at San Francisco. Everybody complains of 
the chilly winds, the mist, and the dust. If you have nothing to do but 
sit in the house, you are perfectly comfortable. Even for out-door 
employment or exercise, the mornings are almost invariably pleasant. 
The evenings are generally too cool to sit without fire, and the nights 
are never too warm to dispense with blankets. For the purpose of rest 
and sleep, the night in California is perfectly luxurious all the year 
through. With sprinkled streets, the afternoons will lose much of their 
bad character at San Francisco. 

It might be inferred that a climate such as I have described is unfa- 
vorable to health, especially with persons liable to diseases of the 
chest. But the fact is just the reverse. The tone and vigor given to 
the animal frame by the uninterruptedly bracing temperature, appear 
to raise it above the control of inherent tendencies to pulmonic disor- 
ders. I believe the humid and saline condition of the atmosphere 
co-operates in the benefit. But I shall consider this subject more full}' 
under a distinct head. 

In all other parts of California, except the region about the Bay of 
San Francisco, the summer is very difTerent. Along the coast are 
mists and sea breezes, but the winds are moderate and not so chilling. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 243 

Inland, they do not extend beyond the barrier of" hills which skirt the 
coast. A distance of fifty miles in any direction from San Francisco 
brings you into a different climate. In a southeast course, towards 
San Jose, you escape the winds and fogs of summer by travelling 
twenty or tnirty miles. Even in Contra Costa, directly across the bay> 
they are less severe, though the trees show, by their semi-prostrate 
attitudes, the direction of the prevailing atmospheric currents. 

The general principles on which depend the diurnal currents of air, 
which set in from sea to land, are well known. The land being more 
heated than the ocean by the sun's rays, the superincumbent heated 
air r ses in a steady column. Its place must be supplied from some 
quarter, and the colder and denser air of the ocean accordingly flows 
in, constituting a sea breeze. Independently of this, we have the 
universal westerly current, coinciding in its course and tending to add 
strength and constancy to the sea breeze, while the topographical fea- 
tures of the Bay of San Francisco, and the region of country bordering 
on it, enhance the effect. These several causes combined will explain 
the extraordinary constancy and force of the westerly winds at this 
point. 

The importance of these winds, in connexion with the climate of 
San Francisco, has led me to dilate much more than I intended in 
taking up the subject. There are other incidents of the climate 3^et to 
be considered. 



No. 4.— RAIN, STORMS, CLOUDS, AND MISTS. 

Mining and agriculture, the leading interests of California, are inti- 
mately connected with the distribution of rains. The absence of rain 
during one portion of the year, and its profuse supply during the 
remaining period, a phenomenon which maintains through a great 
extent of the western coast of the American continent, gives the subject 
additional interest as connected with meteorological science. These 
considerations induce me to enter into some details which may prove 
beneficial, although they may possibly not be so interesting to every 
class of readers. The prevailing idea of mists and fogs, and the rela- 
tion of the climate to health, furnish additional reasons for some degree 
of minuteness in the investigation. 

The subjoined table presents the following details, for each month, 
from December, 1850, to March, 1852, inclusive of both months. 

1st. column. The number of days on which rain fell. 

2d. The quantity of rain in inches. 

3d and 4th. The proportion of clear and cloudy weather. 

5th. The number of days clear, or nearly so, from sunrise to sunset. 

6th. The number of days entirely cloudy, from morning to night. 

7th, 8th, and 9th. The number of days misty in the forenoon, in the 
afternoon, and in tlie evening. 



244 



NINTH A.NNUAL REPORT OP 



Months. 



1850 
December . 

1851 
January.. . 
February. . 
March. . . . 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August . . . 
September 
October. . . 
November. 
December. 

1852. 
January.. . 
February. . 
March 



1.15 

0.65 
0.35 
1.88 
1.14 
0.69 



0.02 
1.00 
0.18 
2.14 
7.07 

0.58 
0.12 
6.40 






24 
23 
20 
20 
23 
20 
20 
21 
23 
26 
23 
19 

23 
21 
19 



fU o 



12 



5 
2 
1 
1 
2 

6 
19 
9 
2 
3 
4 


2 





It appears that the quantity of rain in the year 1851 was a small 
fraction over 15 inches. The annual quantity in the Atlantic States 
varies from 35 to 60 inches, with an average of about 45 inches. The 
<lriest season there gives more than double the amount exhibited in the 
ibregoing table. So small a quantity as 15 inches falling in one year 
would be a terrible calamity to our Atlantic neighbors. It would 
involve the entire country in embarrassment, bankruptcy, and famine. 

The winter of 1850-'51 was remarkably dry. Tlirowing it aside, 
and taking the year from the 1st of April, 1851, to the 1st of April, 
1852, so as to include the rains of the following winter, we have 19.84 
inches. I presume this figure is not very far from the mean of a series 
of years. But it is still much below the annual supply east of the 
Rocky Mountains. 

It is well known that tropical countries have the most abundant 
rains, and that the quantity diminishes as you go northward. This is 
the general rule. On examining the records in my possession, scattered 
through a variety of publications, the smallest annual fall of water that 
I can find distributed in the Atlantic States or in the valley of the 
Mississippi, is at Burlington, Vermont, on the eastern border of Lake 
Champlain. The mean for a series of 13 years was 32.24 inches, and 
the least quantity in any one year was 20.35 inches, in 1849. In 
making these statements, the snow reduced to water is always included. 

According to my own register, kept in Wilmington, Delaware, from 
1827 to 1843, and at Philadelphia from that time till 1850, the least 
annual fall of water was 38.70 inches, in 1837, and the greatest 66.87 
inches, in 1831. 

The latter is an extraordinary supply for the middle States, but it is 
exceeded in the southern and southwestern sections of the country. It 
appears by a table published in the reports of the Patent Office, that 
there fell in Union county, Arkansas, latitude 33° 18' north and longi- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 245 

tude 16° west of Washington, in the year 1850, not less than 81.37 
inches. And this is not the maximum quantity in the southern tier of 
States. 

Whether the rains in other parts of the State correspond in quantity 
with those of San Francisco, I am unable to say. I have taken 
measures to obtain exact information concerning this and other depart- 
ments of the meteorology of California. But the only data of importance 
at present in my hand, consist of a journal for 1850 and 1851, kindly 
furnished me by Dr. R. V. Abbott, of the United States army, kept by 
him at Camp Far West, in the northern part of the State, latitude 39° 
20' north, longitude 121° 18' west from Greenwich. From this record 
is taken the ibllowing account of the rain in each month of those j^ears . 

1850. 

January G.71 inches 

February 60 " 

March 5.56 

April 1.40 

May 0.00 " 

June 0.00 " 

July 0.00 " 

August 0.00 

September 2.00 

October 0.00 " 

November 2.10 " 

December 2.00 " 

Total 20.37 



1851. 




2.06 inches^ 


1.16 




3.44 




3.06 




0.86 




0.00 




0.00 




0.00 




0.30 




0.10 




1.86 




6.63 




19.57 





Thus it appears that the quantity which I'ell in San Francisco, in the 
year ending April 1, 1852, and which I have assumed as the proba- 
ble annual mean, viz: 19.34 inches, corresponds very nearly with the 
annual supply for two years at Camp Far West. 

In the two winters, or rainy seasons, embraced in my table, there 
were but four days on each of which the quantity reached one inch, 
viz: November 8, 1851, 1.50 inches; December 22, 1851, 2 inches; 
March 6, 1852, 1.20 inches; and March 8, 1852, 1.15 inches. These 
quantities bear no comparison with the rains of the Atlantic States. In 
almost every month ot the year there are rains in that region from 1 to 
3 inches in depth. The greatest quantity in a day at San Francisco 
was 2 inches. The heaviest rains at Wilmington, in each year, from 
1830 to 1840, were as follows: 1830, 2.70 inches; 1831, 3''.00; 1832 
2; 1833, 3.35; 1834, 5.10; 1835, 2.70; 1836, 3.80; 1837,2; 1838, 
3.60; 1839, 3; and in 1840, 6.75 inches. 

The last noted rain, in 1840, was nearly equal to the greatest monthly 
fall at San Francisco. That of 1834, being upwards of five inches, fell 
in the space of two hours. Compared with deluges such as these, the 
rains of Cahfornia are but gentle showers. 

The winter of 1849-50, according to the representations of those 
who then resided here, was a season of continual ourpourings, not 
excelled since the forty days and forty nights of primeval times. They 



246 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

tell us the water came down not in drops but in streams, and that the 
streets of the city were converted into flowing rivers and fathomless 
quag-mires. The tubs and casks that were left out at night were 
always found full and overflowing next morning. Unfortunately, there 
was no rain-guage to verify these statemenis. Doubtless the rains 
were copious at that time, probably much more so than since. But the 
doleful traditions respecting them may be referred in part to the 
absence of comfortable defences against the elements. The early settlers 
had to reside in tents, or beneath cribriform roofs, and tread in 
unplanked and submerged paths. These circumstances magnified and 
multiplied the lalling drops, and penetrated the sufferers with indelible 
hydropathic impressions. Hence the rainy winter of 1849-50 is 
uniformly dwelt on with great pathos and eloquence by those who 
endured it. 

The question may arise, whether the floods that occurred in March, 
1852, did not require a larger supply of rain than fell at San Francisco. 
But those who have not investigated the subject can form no adequate 
idea of the immense quantity of water requisite to make an inch of rain. 
Let us suppose the river Sacramento to drain a surface of one thousand 
square miles, and the channel at Sacramento to be 200 yards wide. 
Through this channel let one inch of rain be required to drain off" in 24 
hours, with a current of four miles an hour. It is easiW calculated that 
one inch of rain, falling on a surface of one thousand square miles, 
would, under such circumstances, raise the river eight feet and keep it 
at that height 24 hours. 

The presence of a few inches of snow, with the subjacent earth fro- 
zen, so as to prevent it from imbibing, will greatl}^ enhance the diluvial 
effects of even a moderate rain. The snow, first absorbs the water and 
retains it until fully saturated, and then the entire mass rapidly liqui- 
fies and flows off'. This was the case in the freshets that were precipi- 
tated from the mountains and hills of California in March last. One of 
the most destructive floods that ever occurred in eastern Pennsylvania 
was occasioned by a warm rain of less than two inches, which fell when 
the ground was frozen and covered with three or four inches of snow. 

It is one striking feature of the winter of California, that when the 
weather puts on its rain}^ habit, the rain continues every day for an 
indefinite period; and when it ceases, there is an entire absence of rain 
for a long lime. Thus, after three days of rain in the first week of 
December, 1851, the sk}^ was perfectly clear for 13 days. Then, be- 
ginning with the 19th, rain fell every day for 13 days, or until the end 
of the month. After this it continued clear for nearly two months, 
there being but f^ur slight rains in January, and two in February, until 
the 28th of the latter month, when the rainy diathesis again developed, 
and rain fell daily for 12 days. After the 10th of March, there were 
but four rains for more than a month. 

There appear to be two rainy seasons, rather than one — something- 
like the early and later rains of Palestine. The one takes place in the 
latter part of November or December, when the sea winds relinquish 
their swa}^, and the other in March, when they are about to resume 
their authority. Between those periods there is an interregnum of dry 
weather. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 247 

By adding together the number of rainy days in December 1850 and '51, 
and so of the corresponding months of the two seasons, the two rainy 
periods and the intervening period of drought are rendered more con- 
spicuous. 

December 1850 and '51. Days of rain, 19, quantity 8.23 inches. 
Jaauary 1851 and '52. " 8, " 1.23 

February 1851 and '52. " 8, " 0.47 

March 1851 and '52. " 23, *' 8.28 

Tims in the four months embracing the early and later periods in the 
two seasons, there were 42 days of rain, and ICi inches, while in 
the four intermediate months there were only 16 days of rain, and 
rather less than one inch and three quarters ! 

Dr. Abbott's journal, at Camp Far West, exhibits the same thing, 
though to a less extent. In that locality the early rains were continued 
into January. But February was a dry month. That the rule is gen- 
eral from year to year, the data are not sufficiently extended to war- 
rant me in declaring ; but the facts evidently tend to that conclusion. 
I am informed that the month of February was dry, in the memorable 
winter of 1849-'50, at San Francisco. 

There were 53 days of rain in 1851, at San Francisco, and at Camp 
Far West, 62 in 1850, and 68 in 1851. In the Atlantic States the ave- 
rage number of days of rain in the year is about 100. 

The average quantit}^ of water for each day of rain at San Francisco, 
during the period embraced by the table, was about one fourth of an 
inch. At Camp Far West it was something more. The average in 
the Atlantic States is about twice that amount. 

The rains in California are extremely irregular, falling almost inva- 
riably in showers. A settled and uniform fall of rain for twenty-four 
hours, or for even twelve hours, would be a strange occurrence. The 
southeast storms are the longest, but they seldom last many hours ; or 
at least the rain does not, though the wind may continue. It seldom 
rains for two consecutive minutes with uniform rapidity. Often, in the 
space of one minute, there are several distinct showers. The sun 
breaks forth frequently in the midst of a shower, and directly the sky 
is almost clear. Presently, when you have no suspicion, you hear the 
rain on the roof with the suddenness of a shower-bath. These extem- 
poraneous outpourings come from the wxst, and are always transient. 

The night is more favorable to rain than the day. No matter how 
dense the clouds, how fair the wind, and how resolute the barometer 
in its promise of falling weather, the sun rarely fails to break up the 
arrangements towards noon, and to tumble the dense vapor into con- 
fused masses. I am informed by Robert Lammont, Esq., who was en- 
gaged in grading the streets of the city in the pluvious winter aforesaid, 
that the men in his employ were forced to suspend their labors for only 
four entire days in the whole time. 

The entire season, with all its rains, is really delightful. It is not winter, 
but spring. The grass starts, and the fiowers begin to blow on the hills 
as soon as the early rains have moistened the soil. In January nature 
wears her green uniform, studded with floral jewels. As spring ad- 
vances the blossoms increase in variety and profusion, until their yellow 



248 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

carpeting shows on the hills at the distance of five miles. With the 
drought of June comes the winter of vegetation. 

I have something more to say in regard to the course of the winds 
and clouds during rain, and on the subject of mists and dews. 



No. 5.— RAIN, STORMS, CLOUDS, AND MISTS. 

In my last article I inquired whe;her moderate rains, such as have 
fallen at San Francisco, would be adequate to the production of the 
floods of last March; and I stated that a single inch ot"rain, poured into 
the river from a surface of 1,000 square miles, and forming a current of 
four miles an hour, would raise the river at Sacramento to eight feet, 
and keep it at that height 24 hours. When we consider that the Sacra- 
mento really drains something like 15,000 square miles, before reaching 
the city, we find no difficulty in accounting for the freshets without sup- 
posing an extraordinary fall of water. In the five da3^s from the 5th 
to the 9th of" March, tliere fell five inches of water at San Francisco. 
Suppose the same quantity throughout the State, and four fifths of it to 
sink into the earth, the remaining fifth, equal to one inch, running off, 
and requiring an entire week in the drainage. With a channel at Sa- 
cramento 200 yards wide, and a current of four miles an hour, the river 
would be raised seventeen fed, and kept at that height a whole week! 
With these data in mind, there is no difficulty in comprehending the 
great effects of even moderate rains in producing freshets, especially 
when the melting snows add to the supply. 

The table contained in my last article shows that thejiumber of days 
entirely or nearly clear, from sunrise to sunset, in the year 1851, was 
134. This is not very different from the Atlantic States. At Phila- 
delphia the number varies from 100 to 140, with an average of 125. 

Owing to the many days that are partly clear, the number entirely 
clear does not present a criterion of the proportion of clear weather. 
By taking also into consideration the days that were clear in part, we 
find, as the table exhibits, tlie proportion of clear weather to cloudy, in 
the year, to be 262 to 103. The ratio at Philadelphia is about 220 to 
145. The sky is therefore less clouded at San Francisco than on the 
Atlantic border. 

I have already noticed the inconstant character of the clouds, the 
sky being seldom completely clouded for 12 hours, even in the rainiest 
period. The number of days in the year entirely cloudy, from the 
rising to the setting of the sun, was 18. At Philadelphia 50 is a very 
low number, and there are often 75. Seldom does any month of the 
year elapse in the Atlantic States without one or more days perfectly 
cloudy. At San Francisco there were but three such days in the six 
months from May to October. On most of the 18 days set down as 
entirely cloudy, the clouds were at times sufficiently broken to render 
the sun visible. It is an extraordinary circumstance fi^r the sun to 
make his day's journey without showing his face. 

The chilling mists of summer, conspiring wath the wind and dust, 
leave on one's mind impressions not the most agreeable or evanescent; 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 249 

but, after all, the weather is not so misty as might be supposed. By 
referring to the table given in my last paper, the misty weather appears 
to havebeen distributed as follows, in the fQur seasons of the year: 

Winter 13 mornings, 5 afternoons, 7 evenings. 

Spring 9 do. 3 do. 4 do. 

Summer 1 do. 11 do. 34 do. 

Autumn 6 do. 4 do. 9 do. 

It should be noticed that the mornings were seldom misty for more 
than an hour or two after sunrise, and the afternoons not often misty 
throughout. The mist generally comes in detached clouds, driven by 
the wind, and sometimes in a universal stratum. Nearly alwa3^s it 
gravitates sensibly towards the earth, in the form of a very fine rain, 
occasionally wetting the surface. 

In the entire year there was mist on 27 mornings, 21 afternoons, and 
45 evenings. At Philadelphia the average is about 20 mornings, 5 af- 
ternoons, and 10 evenings. 

The tendency to the production of mist reaches its height in July. 
There were 19 foggy evenings in that month. The winter months, 
however, were most productive of mist in the morning. In the summer 
months there was but one foggy morning. 

I now come to speak of the direction of the wind and clouds during 
the rains. In the sixteen months ending with March, 1852, and conse- 
quently embracing the greater part of two rainy seasons, there were 79 
days on which rain fell, with the wind as follows: 

East 0, northeast 2, north 2, northwest 6, west 8, southwest ]7, south 
20, southeast 24. 

Or, the classification may stand thus : 

East and northeast 2 

North and northwest 8 

West and southwest - 25 

South and southeast 44 

Thus, from east and northeast, emphatically the rainy quarter in the 
Atlantic States, there was scarcely any rain. More than half the rains 
came from south and southeast. The rainiest point is in a direct line 
with the southern coast, or about south-soulheast. 

The easterly storms, which form so prominent a feature of the Atlan- 
tic climate, are unknown here. There is nothing that bears a resem- 
blance to them. The rains from southeast are often attended by high 
gales, whi("h extend over a large portion of the western coast of North 
America, and inflict some injury on shipping. But these gales are less 
violent than the most severe easterly storms of the Atlantic coast. 

The direction of the cloud producing the rain is often of greater im- 
portance than that of the lower atmospheric current. There are mostly 
two strata of clouds, the lower concurring with the wind on the earth's 
surface, and seldom supplying rain, and the higher, which is the true 
rain-cloud, varying in its course from the lower, and sometimes having 
the very opposite direction. 



250 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



In the 67 rains which furnished an opportunity of observing the upper 
cloud, its course was as follows : 

Northeast * 1 

North and northwest 7 

West 16 

Southwest 23 

South 14 

Southeast 6 

These results concur with observations made in the Atlantic States, 
showing that the higher strata of atmosphere which sweep northward 
from the equatorial i-egion, saturated with aqueous vapor, are the prin- 
cipal source of rain in the temperate latitudes. 

In the following table is recorded the number of days in each month 
on which clouds were observed in the lower and higher strata of atmo- 
sphere, the first column referring to the lower clouds, and the second 
to the higher. In the other columns is noted the direction of the higher 
clouds, as far as observed. The direction of the lower clouds, which 
mostly move with the wind near the earth's surface, is omitted. 



Months. 


Low. 


High. 


N. 


N.E. 


E. 


S. E. 


S. 


S.W. 


w. 


N.W. 


1850. 
December 


17 

15 
19 

24 
24 
26 
26 
28 
28 
29 
20 
20 
19 

22 
21 

28 


23 

29 
21 
28 
22 
24 
15 
8 
17 
14 
24 
27 
31 

29 
27 
26 








4 


4 

3 
3 

4 

...... 

2 

1 

7 
3 
5 

1 
4 
4 


8 

1 

8 
15 

8 

3 

4 
14 

8 

6 

2 

7 

...!.. 
...... 



10 

1 

8 

1 

...... 




1851. 
January 










February 










7 


March 










3 




1 


2 
1 


2 

2 




2 

""3" 
1 


1 


May 


2 


June 


2 


July 






1 


Aucust 










September 










4 
3 

4 
4 

7 

10 
4 




October 










5 


November 


4 

3 

2 


'"2" 

1 
4 
1 


1 
...... 


1 
5 

4 


7 


December 


7 


1852. 
January 


1 


February 


3 


March 


2 










Total 






10 


11 


6 


21 


44 


112 


49 


41 











The higher cloud was, in the majority of cases, a light cirrhus, often 
very partial, or seen only in the horizon, and composed probably of 
congealed vapor, at an elevation of two or three miles. In other cases 
it was a cirro-cumulus, or a nimboid-cumulus. In almost every 
month of the year, even during the dry season, the clouds put on the 
appearance of rain and then vanish. It is evident that the phenomena 
which produce rains in other climates are present in this, but not quite 
in sufficient degree to accomplish the result, except during the rainy 
season, and then only by paroxysms, with intervening periods of 
drought. 

The tabic shows the presence of an upper cloud on 260 days of the 
year 1851, and a lower cloud on 278 days. The lower cloud was 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 251 

deficient most frequently in the rainy season, but present almost daily 
in the dry season. The upper cloud was most wanting in the dry 
season, especially in July. 

The higher currents of the atmosphere, as indicated by the clouds, 
pursue the same general course as in the Atlantic States. They show 
the prevalence of an almost constant stream from the tropical regions, 
traceable to the action of the sun, which heats and rarefies the air 
within the tropics, and causes it to ascend and pour over towards the 
poles. Starting northward, the current comes over portions of the 
earth having a slower rotary motion, and is thus deflected from a due 
north course, becoming a southwesterl}^ instead of a south current. 



No. 6.- REVIEW OF THE WEATHER FOR THE YEAR 1853. 

The first part of January was cloudy and rainy, but after the 11th 
the weather was mostly clear and charming, only one rain occurring 
in the last two weeks. The lowest temperature was 41, and the 
highest 62. The mean at sunrise was 47i and at noon 56|^. The 
prevailing winds were very light from north and northwest. There 
were nine days entirely clear and lour days entirely cloudy. January, 
1852, was colder, having five mornings below 41 ; January, 1851, was 
much colder, having thirteen mornings below that point. Both these 
months were dry, scarcely any rain falling. But the first two weeks 
of January, 1852, were rainy ; the remainder of the month dry. 
Sacramento city was drowned on the first of the month. In January, 
1851, there was three-quarters inch of rain ; 1852, half inch ; and 1853, 
four inches. 

February, for the first three weeks, the weather was superb. Up 
to the 21st there were no less than seventeen days entirely clear. In 
the last week there were four rainy days, but in the whole month only 
one day was entirely cloudy. The temperature was delightful, the 
means at sunrise and noon being 48 and 60. The coldest morning 
42, and the warmest noon 67. The prevailing winds were from north, 
northwest and west, and most light. The hills were covered with 
flowers. In February, 1852, there were lour mornings colder than in 
this month, and in 1851, thirteen colder mornings. February appears 
to be always a dry month. In 1851 there was one-third inch of rain ; 
in 1852, half inch ; in 1853, one inch. 

March was mostly a pleasant month, with several moderate rains 
towards the middle, and three days of heavy rain in the last week. 
The prevailing winds were from west, northwest, and north, with an 
increasing tendency to west, and increasing force. The minimum 
temperature was 41, and the maximum 77 ; mean at sunrise 49 J, and 
at noon 62. The first week of the month was very warm. On the 
15th, Mount Diablo was covered with snow, as mostly happens 
towards the end of March. There is commonly considerable rain in 
this month. In the dry winter of 1851 there was two inches ; in 1852, 
six and a half inches ; in 1853, five inches. 

April was a pleasant month, with winds generally from west and 



252 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

northwest, and frequent light sea breezes. Temperature agreeable, 
varying from 46 to 56 at sunrise, and ii-om 59 to 75 at noon ; moans 
at sunrise and noon 52 and 65. The heaviest rain for several years 
fell on the night of the 16th, viz : upwards of three inches in twelve 
hours. The only thunder of the season occurred during this rain. 
April mostly gives us some days of rainy weather. In 1851 an inch 
of rain fell ; in 1852, only quarter of an inch ; in 1853, five inches. 
The c^oldest morning was 46. In 1851 there were five colder morn- 
ings, and in 1852 eighteen. Dry and cold weather go together in our 
winters. 

IMay was generally warm and pleasant ; the coldest morning being 
47 and the warmest 62, while the coldest lioon was 61 and the warmest 
81. The means at sunrise and noon were 53^ and 68. The wind 
settled in the western quarter, and increased in Ibrce, though not 
offensively high. There were several slight rains, with a large portion 
of cloudy and broken weather. The clouds always give their parting 
blessing in May. In 1851, there fell three fourths inch of rain ; in 
1852, one third inch ; and in 1853, one third inch. 

June was uncommonly warm ; the mercury ranging from 49 to 60 
at sunrise, and from 60 to 84 at noon. The sea winds were constant, 
but not often fraught with mist. The sky was unusually clear for 
summer. 

The weather of July was uniform; varying in temperature at sun- 
rise from 50 to 55, and at noon from 63 to 78. The means at sunrise 
and noon were 52^- and 68. Cloudy and misty weather prevailed, and 
there were but four days of clear sky from sunrise to sunset. 

August was a cloudy and misty month ; but less so than July. Its 
temperature also was very uniform, ranging at sunrise from 51 to 56 
and at noon from 63 to 76. The means at sunrise and noon were 53 
and 67. The sea winds, though constant, were not often high. 

In the three summer months of 1851, there were four misty morn- 
ings and 33 misty evenings ; in 1852, 7 mornings and 27 evenings ; 
and in 1853, 15 mornings and 36 evenings misty. 

September was rather pleasant, affording one or two da3^s really hot. 
The morning extremes were 50 and 60, and the noon extremes 63 and 
88. The sea winds continued their daily visits with diminished force ; 
and there was much cloudy and broken weather, with two small rains 
near the middle of the month. The means -at sunrise and noon were 
55 and 70. September usually brings a da}' or two of light rain. One 
inch fell in 1851, a few drops only in 1852, and the eighth of an inch 
in 1853. 

October was, as usual, warmer than several of the previous months. 
The coldest morning was 49 and the warmest 64 ; the coldest noon 60 
and the warmest 85. The means at sunrise and noon were 54^ and 
71. During this month the sea winds began to give out. The sky 
was generally fair; and one slight rain fell, amounting to 1-10 inch. 
In October, 1851, there was 2-lOth inch; and in 1852, three fourths 
inch. 

November placed the usual embargo on the sea winds. The tem- 
perature was moderate — a few slight frosts occurring. The coldest 
morning was 44 and the warmest 59 ; the coldest noon 55 and the 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 253 

warmest 73. The means at sunrise and noon were 51 and 63. There 
was much cloudy weather, with occasional moderate rains. The pre- 
vailing winds were from west and south. The first southeasterly 
storm, in '51, was on the 8th ; in '52, on the lolh ; and in '53, on the 
16th. Quantity of rain in the three years, respectively, 2 inches, 5| 
inches, and 1-^ inches. 

December was more pleasant than common. The coldest morning 
was 40 and the warmest 54 ; the coldest noon 50 and the warmest 69. 
The means at sunrise and noon were 46^ and 57^. Hoar frosts were 
frequent ; but the cold was not sufficient to injure vegetation. A 
copious rain fell on the lOlh, and several hght rains at other times. 
Prevailing wnnds from north, northwest, northeast, and south. Thun- 
der was heard on the 10th, for the second time in the year. In De- 
cember '50, there fell 1 inch of lain; '51, 7 inches; '52, 12 inches — 
the greatest quantity in any one month for three years and more ; in 
'53, 2 inches. 

The summing up for the year 1853 exhibits a mean temperature of 
51^ at sunrise, and 65 at noon, which is warmer by two degrees than 
either J 851 or 1852. The lowest point reached by the mercury was 
40 — or eight degrees above the freezing point. The extreme of heat 
was 88. In 1852, the extremes were 35 and 98; in 1851, 30 and 84; 
and in December, 1850, the thermometer fell as low as 28. The 
amount of rain in each month of 1853 was, in round numbers, as fol- 
lows : January, on eight days, 4 inches ; February, four days, 1 inch ; 
March, six days, 5 inches ; April, eight days, 5 inches ; May, three 
days, 3^ inch ; June, July, and August, none ; September, two days, 
^ inch ; October, one day, 1-10 inch ; November, eight days, 1^ inches ; 
December, six days, 2 inches ; making, in the year, forty-four days on 
which rain fell, to the depth of 19 inches. In 1851, there was rain on 
fifty-three days — quantity, 15 inches; in 1852, on sixty days — quantity, 
25i inches. From the first of January, 1853, to the dry season, the 
quantity was 16^ inches ; and from the dry season to the end of the 
year, 3"^ inches. The last rain of the spring was May 24th, and the first 
of the autumn was September 15th. The hills began to look green in 
the last week of November, and at the close of the year at least thirty 
species of plants were in bloom around the city, some of them the 
lingering flowers of summer, and a few the products of a new growth. 
There were two small specimens of thunder during the year, none of 
the aurora borealis, and a considerable sprinkling of meteors in the 
second week of August, and also in the fourth week of November. 



254 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



No. 7.— THE WEATHER OF FEBRUARY, 1854. 

The subjoined figures will enable the reader to compare this month 
with the corresponding months of 1851, 1852, and 1853: 



Mean temperature at sunrise 

Mean temperature at noon 

Mean temperature at 10 o'clock p. m.. 

Monthly temperature 

Maximum 

Minimum 

Range 

Clear, (proportion,) 

Cloudy, (proportion,) 

Whole days clear 

Rain on 

Quantity 

North and northwest winds 

Northeast and east winds 

South and southeast winds 

Southwest and west winds 

High winds 



1851. 



41.97 
60.03 
43.64 
51.00 
71.00 
33.00 
38.00 
23 days. 
5 days. 
14 days. 

4 days. 
0.35 inch. 
9 days. 

2 days. 

5 days. 
12 days. 

days. 



1852. 



45.69 
60.41 
49.59 
53.05 
65.00 
40.00 
25.00 
21 days. 
8 days. 

5 days. 
4 days. 
0.12 inch. 

6 days. 

3 days. 

4 days. 
16 days. 

days. 



1853. 



48.18 
60.07 
51.00 
54.13 
67.00 
42.00 
25.00 
22 days. 

6 days. 
17 days. 

4 days. 

1.16 inch. 
10 days. 

1 day. 

8 days, 

9 days. 
days. 



1854. 



47.93 

59.21 

49.07 

53.57 

69.00 

38.00 

31.00 

15 days. 

13 days. 

5 days. 
13 days. 

8.41 inch. 

8 days. 

2 days. 

8 days. 
10 days. 

1 day. 



The temperature of the month was about the medium standard. At 
sunrise it was not nearly so cold as 1851, but at noon it was rather 
below either of the other years, owing to the large number of cloudy 
and rainy days, which are apt to be cool at noon. On three or four 
mornings there were slight frosts. In the middle of the month, and 
again on the 28th, the coast mountains were seen covered with 
snow, as they mostly are when the rains at this point are accompanied 
with a temperature below 50. The most extraordinary feature of the 
month was the quantity of rain. February is usually a dry month, 
but this year it was the exact reverse. In February, 1851, the quan- 
tity was 0.35 inches ; February, 1852, 0.12 inches ; February, 1853, 
1.16 inches ; making in three months an aggregate of 1.63 inches, or 
less than one-fifth of the supply for the month just past. In the three 
years just mentioned, the greatest monthly supplies of rain were as 
follows : December, 1851, 7.07 inches ; March, 1852, 6.40 inches ; 
November, 1852, 5.31 inches ; December, J 852, 11.90 inches ; April, 
1853, 5.05 inches. Thus it appears that February of the present year 
exceeded any other month in that period, except December, 1852. 

Up to the first of March, the quantity of rain since the dry season 
was 16.26 inches. At the same date in 1851, the quantity was 3.40 
inches ; in 1852, 11.11 inches ; and in 1853, 23.28 inches. The rains 
of this winter, therefore, though much greater than those of 1851 and 
1852, have been but little over two-tiiirds of last winter's supply at 
this date. Subsequent to this date in 1851, and before the dry season, 
rain fell on twenty days, quantity 3.71 inches ; in 1852, on eighteen 
days, 6.89 inches ; in 1853, on seventeen days, 10.18 inches. From 
these data we may infer that our rains are by no means at an end. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 255 

Owing to the cold and wet weather, vegetation is very backward, 
having scarcely moved since the first of Januar^^ On the 15th of 
February, 1852, I found sixteen species of plants in bloom on the hills 
west of the city ; and on the 22d I gathered forty-three species on a 
walk to the fort at the entrance of the bay. Last year, also, the coun- 
try was covered with flowers in February. But this spring scarcely a 
flower has made its appearance. The spring of 1851 was equally 
backward, on account both of cold and of drought. 



No. 8.— THE CLIMATE OF SAN FRANCISCO FOR THE YEAR 1854. 

The year began with very fine weather. On the fifth was a severe 
norther, which damaged the shipping in the harbor. A few cold morn- 
ings followed, and on the 12th the rains set in. From that date to the 
24th, rain fell on nine days to the depth of four and a quarter inches. 
The rains were cold and several times accompanied with hail, and 
snow covered the distant mountains. The coldest weather on my 
record was at this time. On the 19th, 20th, and 21st, the thermometer 
stood at 31, 25, and 31. At noon on the 20th it rose no higher than 37. 
The mud was frozen solid so as to bear the heaviest wagons. Of 
course, the oldest inhabitant had never seen the like. In December, 
1850, it was nearly as cold, the mercury then falling to 27. The 
month wound up with a few very warm days. The mean temperature 
at sunrise was 42.26, at 9 a. m. 45.71, at noon 54.23, at 10 p. m. 45.26, 
being the coldest month on my book ; that is, since the winter of 1849- 
'50. The greatest heat was 69, and the extreme of cold 25. The 
prevailing winds were north, northeast, and northwest. 

It should be mentioned, as a rare phenomenon, that hail fell on the 
morning of the 15th so as to cover the ground and to lay for an hour. 
In the winter of 1849-'50 the ground was covered with hail or snow 
in like manner. 

February was rather warm. The mean at sunrise was 47.93, at 9 
A. M. 50.86, at noon 59.21, and at 10 p. m. 49.07. The extreme of 
heat was 69, of cold 38. Rain fell on no less than thirteen days, and 
in the quantity of 8.41 inches — the greatest quantity in any month on 
my record, excepting December, 1852, when there was nearly twelve 
inches. This is the more remarkable as February is usually a dry 
month. On the 12th, hail fell in a heavy shower so copiously that it 
could be gathered by the bucketfuU where it collected from the roofs. 
The prevaihng winds were from west, south, northwest, and north, in 
the order named as to frequency. Our high wind occurred from south- 
southeast. 

March was of moderate temperature. The mean at sunrise was 
47.23, at 9 a. m. 52.06, at noon 60.97, at 10 p. m. 49.45. The extreme 
of heat was 72, of cold 38. Rain fell on ten days 3.17 inches — a 
moderate supply for March. Most of the rain was during a cold storm 
on the 13th, 14th, and 15th, the wind blowing moderate!}^ part of the 
time from northeast, which is a rare direction for a rain wind. The 
westerly winds increased in frequency, as usual in this month. Those 



256 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

from south, northwest, and north, divided among them one half the 
month. There were no high winds. 

The warmest April on my book was that of 1854. The mean at 
sunrise was 51.10, 9 a. m. 59.83, noon 68.43, 10 p. m. 52.90. The 
extreme heat was 83, of cold 45. Rain on 6 days, 3.31 inches, nearly 
two inches of which fell on the 28th, — the last rain of the season. The 
sea breeze came nearly every day, though with moderate force. On 
10 days the winds were from other quarters than west. During this 
month the hills and fields assumed the gorgeous array of flowers which 
marks a California landscape in the spring. 

May was a very unpleasant montli, cold and windy, oiten cloudy 
and threatening rain. On one day onl}^ was there rain, and then but 
two-hundredths of an inch, in the form of mist. The mean tempera- 
ture at sunrise was 48.95, at 9 a. m. 59.00, at noon 64.61, at 10 p. m. 
50.68 — being three degrees below April. The mercury rose no higher 
than 73, and the low^est extreme was 43. There were light frosts on 
several mornings, and vegetation advanced tardily. Potatoes of the 
season's growth appeared in the market on the 1st. A hail storm oc- 
curred at Sacramento on the 6th. The winds were westerly on 25 
days. On 8 days they were high. 

June, also, was a cold month, rather below April in temperature. 
Mean at sunrise 50.10, 9 a. m. 61.83, noon 66. 80, 10 p. m. 51.50. The 
warmest day was 74, and the coldest morning 47. There was an un- 
usual tendenc}^ to rain, and several times a few large drops deigned to 
violate the law of the season. On the 17th it ramed moderately for 
two hours, four-tenths of an inch collecting in the guage. On the 13th 
was a heavy storm of rain and hail in Utah. On 23 days the wind was 
west, and on four northwest. It was high on eight days. 

July was rather above the average temperature. The means were, 
at sunrise 51.87, 9 a. m. 63.94, noon 70.65, 10 p. m. 54.16. In the 
three years preceding, the mercury had not reached SO in July, but in 
this year it was at or above 80 on four days, and on one day as high 
as 87, which is near the extreme heat of our climate. The lowest ex- 
treme was 46. The first week was beautifully clear, but afterwards 
there was scarcely a morning or evening without cloud and mist. The 
wind was constantly west, and on six days it was high. 

August was a trifle below the average temperature. Mean at sun- 
rise 52.42, 9 A. M. 62.39, noon 68.29, 10 p. m. 53.81. There were two 
days above 80, the highest being 85. The minimum temperature was 
50. Almost every afternoon was windy, and though the wind was 
high on one day only, yet the weather was about as unpleasant as our 
summer climate can afford. The mornings were generally cloudy and 
the evenings misty. A light shower of rain fell on the 27th. At Los 
Angeles and San Diego it rained heavil}' on the 20th and 21st, and on 
the Trinity river there was a thunder storm on the 26th, with heavy 
rain and snow on the mountain peaks. 

September, commonly the warmest month in the year, was nearly 
as cold as August. Mean at sunrise 53.30, 9 a. m. 61.43, noon 67.73, 
10 p. M. 54.40. There were two warm days, on one of which the 
mercury rose to 87. The greatest depression was 46. Cloudy morn- 
ings and misty evenings prevailed, and the sea breeze blew with great 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 257 

constancy and with more force than usual in September. This month 
seldom passes without rain, but on the present occasion the only rain 
was a trifling shower on the 15th. There was a heavy rain at Los 
Angeles about the same time. 

The weather of October was generally agreeable. Mean tempera- 
ture at sunrise, 53.32; 9 a. m., 60.97; noon, 68.13; 10 p. m., 55.42. There 
were three days above 80, the warmest being 83. The minimum tem- 
perature was 46. It was the warmest month of the year, except July. 
The winds were light, and distributed to west, northwest, north, and 
south, the first predominating. The most extraordinary feature of the 
month was its ti"equent rains. Rain fell on no less than 10 days ; quan- 
tity 2.12 inches. The first rain was' on the 4th. At Marysville the 
ground was covered with hail on the 23d. At the close of the month 
the hills around the city began to look green, and the wise men pre- 
dicted a very rainy winter. 

The climate of November was very fine. Mean at sunrise, 50.67; 9 
A. M., 55.97; noon, 65.13; 10 p. m., 53.00. The extremes were 72 and 
47. The mornings ranged Irom 47 to 55, and the noondays from 58 
to 72. The v/inds were from west, northwest, and north, and gentle 
as zephjTS. The sky was almost uninterruptedly clear. A single rain 
fell, amounting to four tenths of an inch ; and the wise men reversed 
their prediction and promised a very dry winter instead of a wet one. 

December furnished a continuation of the fine weather of November, 
with a decline of temperature corresponding to the season. Mean at 
sunrise, 47.03 ; 9 a. m., 51.32 ; noon, 60.65 ; it) p. m., 49.39. There were 
a number ol" slight frosts, and ice formed in favorable situations, though 
the minimum temperature was 38. The warmest day was 71. The 
most gentle breezes prevailed from north, northeast, and northwest. 
There were 15 days entirely clear. A trifling rain, .08 inches, fell on 
the 3d, and no more until the 31st, when a rain storm set in, which was 
quickly handed over to the new year, leaving three tenths of an inch 
to December. 

The mean temperature of the whole year sums up as follows: Sun- 
rise, 49.68; 9 a. m., 57.11; noon, 64.57; 10 p. m., 51.76. The mean 
of the sunrise and noon observations gives the figure ibr the year, 57.13. 
The temperature for 1851, deduced in the same way, was 56.57; 1852, 
56.53; and 1853, 58.51. The year 1853 appears to have been un- 
usually warm. Taking 1854 as a fair representation of the climate of 
San Francisco, it follows that our climate is two or three degrees 
warmer than that of the corresponding latitude on the Atlantic coast, 
though it does not exhibit the extremes either of heat or cold incident to 
the latter. 

The extreme of heat in 1854 was 87. There Avere only twelve days 
in the year at or above 80, of which one was in April, four in July, 
two in August, two in September, and three in October. In 1851 there 
were nine days at or above 80; in 1852. thirteen; and in 1853, eleven. 

The extreme of cold was 25. There were three days in the year 
when the mercury fell to the freezing point, all in January. In 1851, 
the thermometer tell to the freezing point on one day only ; in 1852, 
35 was the lowest depression ; and in 1853, it did not sink belov/ 40. 

The warmest month in the year was July, then October, then Sep- 
Mis. Doc. 24 17 



258 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

tember, then August, then April, and June stands the sixth in order, 
and only two degrees above November. In neither of the three years 
preceding was July the warmest month. In 1851 the warmest months 
occurred in the following order : August, October, September, June, 
July, April. In 1852: September, July, August, June, October, No- 
vember. In 1853: October, September, June, May, July, August. To 
the daily visitations of the cold ocean wind in the summer is owing this 
great variation from the order of the months as to comparative temper- 
ature in other climates. 

January was the coldest month, then February, then December, and 
next March. In other years, December sometimes takes the precedence 
of January. February, which in the Atlantic States is often the cold- 
est month in the year, is not so here. 

Rain fell on 54 days in the year, 22.12 inches in depth. This is our 
average supply, though only half the quantity that falls in the Atlantic 
States. In 1853, the quantity was 19.03 inches; in 1852,25.60 inches; 
and in 1851, only 15.12 inches. The old inhabitants tell of occasional 
seasons when scarcely any rain has fallen, and when the cattle have 
perished from want. Such very dry seasons are said to recur at in- 
tervals of eight or ten years. 

The greatest amount of rain was in February, next comes January, 
next April, then March. This differs from the ordinary arrangement. 
Taking the last four years iuto viev»^, December gives the most rain, 
and March comes next, while the intervening months are comparatively 
dry. In fact, we have the early rains, beginning in November and con- 
tinuing through December into the early partof Januajy ; and tlie later 
rains, beginning in March, and continuing at times through April. 

Lightning is seen at San Francisco on an average three or l()ur time? 
a year, and thunder is heard less frequently. On the 15lh January. 
Hashes of lightnino- were ol)served in the evenins:, during a cold rain 
Storm from the south; and on the 22d February, under similar circum- 
stances, lightning was again noticed. But no thunder was audible it: 
either case ; nor was there any further exhibition of atmospheric elec- 
tricity during the year. There was thunder three times in 1851, five 
times in 1852, and twice in 1853. 

No exhibition of auroral light was observed in the year. Since mj^ 
residence here, from August, 3850, 1 have seen the aurora borealis only 
on two occasions, once in January and once in February, in the 
year 1852. 

There was no unusual display of shooting stars during the year. In 
September, 1851, in August, 1852, and in August, 1853, the}' were 
numerous for several nights in succession. 

Earthquake shocks were distinctly felt on the mornings of the 9th' 
of January and 21st of October. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



259 






iS CO iD ifS 

O !?< 



-*OOClmQOr-li-((?^ 



ei^Or-Ct-Hi— (CD-^Tt 



rftOi-Hi— ICOlO 'i-H 



■^ CT CD 1— I to -!»< d CO i-K?} '-H (M (T* T}< 



'00 • ■^ irt lO CO 



i-H CO i-H C0 1-1 CI 



■ Oi • O ■* 05 1— I (M 



■ 1-H • COOJ Irt 



' -^ • CN l-H ^»' 



CO CO • t^ ^ CO 



(?< t^ • O rf J-- 1— I 



CO 00 "-I r- 00 c^ 1—1 



E S 
3 5 
•2.S s 

K S t^ 



sis 



's. 





>. 


m 


r>- 






r- 


nS 




T3 


O. 


TS 




13 




Cfl 


3 




0) 


O 




oupi 



^ s- 






S & 



I? 12; ;> C« CQ 02 t&i ;2j 



260 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

Remarks. — By clear days is meAt that no clouds were visible at 
the times of observation ; by cloudy, that sonie were visible ; and by 
rainy days, that some rain fell then, witliout reference to quantity. Not 
being provided in time with a suitable pluviometer, the quantity of rain 
cannot be put down in figures. The greatest amount that fell at any 
one period was on the 22d February, after raining forty -eight hours 
without intermission. The last rain of the past season occurred on the 
20th May, 1853. There was a slight sprinkle afterwards on the 26th 
.June, and on the 17th and 21st July. The first rains of the present 
season occurred on the 15lh September and 10th October. The regu- 
lar rainy season, however, did not set in until the 14th November. 
About the middle of January the coast-range of mountains presented 
the novel appearance of being covered with snow. The degree of cold 
during this month was unprecedented. Not having a thcrmometro- 
graph, the minimum, which generally occurs shortly before sunrise, 
may not have been obtained. Sutter lake was frozen over on the 6th 
and on the 21st of January, and remained so all the day of the 22(1. 
This degree of cold is one of those extraordinary occurrences which is 
sometimes experienced in the most equable and genial climates. Thus, 
for instance, in 1507 the harbor of Marseilles was frozen over its whole 
extent ; for which a cold of at least OA^ was requisite. Again, in 1709, 
the Gulf of Venice, and harbors of Marseilles, Genoa, and Cette, were 
frozen over. Such irregular occurrences are caused by the long preva- 
lence of particular winds, and should not be taken into computation in 
making an estimate of tlie mean annual temperature of au}^ place. 
Notwithstanding, however, even the past extraordinary winter, we find 
the mean annual temperature of Sacramento vicing with the land of the 
olive and the vine. An isothermal line drawn across our continent, 
from this point, would deviate as many degrees to the south as from the 
western to the eastern side of the old continent. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



261 





Irt 




on 




o 




•^ 








o 








-IM 




-M-lr 


MI- 




MIn 1 


«• 


. '^ o 


in 00 


ci: 


— • ^ 


00CTC^'*CQ<^!OO 








i3io co^ '"^ 


C7)0 0!C^iOCDi— ir-l 




?• CO C< Ci <^ 


O (M lO^ 


00 00 ■* 






co^r^ 


o -^ OS lo irt 




^ ■ 




T-H 




ir^Oi .-H 






. -^ C-.? fM 


(y( 


CO 


O 


wir) Nix -|n-|n 


o 


^OiO t- 


ao 




C\! 


(M O i-iiO CO 00 


d 


^5 f^tM (7? 


d-:^o 


OlCJlO 


o CO 00 -^ 


'"' 


S 


t^ TJ. lO 


lO CO 't' 


rl r-< 






.i-HOCD 


o 


o t- 


CD 


-\r> 


-|n-lM 


^ 
^ 


j5 rtlO t- 

g o as' o O 

i5 « C^ (M 




in _ CO 


CD CO 03 CO 


■^ O • 


lO C^ CO 


ir- CO in 


lOi-i-* 






_ 




-* '^ lO 


1— 1 


O 00 


t- 


«!« C^lro wir.-lrj-lnNiM 




^5 COC*!?J 




"O _o 
"•a-doo 


co 

ODOOiOcJ 


(yt CO CO 1-1 CO i-l(7< 

1—1 




COCJ-3< 


'^ CO CO 








ta 00 05 


CO 


o 


lO 


M|?:-|M • 


-M «h 




r. (^) CD ^ 


05 


lO 




CO £^ 


l-H TJ" CO 1-1 




2 =■ o^ o^ O 


00 OS t^ O 


(Ti^noi 




'-' : 




COCJrf 


^(7} CO 


1— 1 








. lO lO ,-H 


lO 


O lO 


lO 


^,I«N,__,-,_I„ I 


-1^5 ^J|n 


> 


_g coo CT 


o 


m CD 


CO 


CO CT i-l CO • 


CT^Oi 


o 


Sdddo 


(?} -Tf> i_o O 


05 -^ C( 


oao(Mo 


'"' : 




h5 CO CO CO 


t^ -^ U5 


■d- CO 'J' 


Ci 






tH 


. O CO CO 


_ 


o 




-|MM|r.N|r5 -lriw|;^-ln I 




^ CT iX) rt 


o 


•^ 


o 


Ci l^ 00 CO t^ r-l 


O 


SooioO 


050° 


10(7} lO 


(TJOOrH 








05 ^ CO 


lO co-^ 






o 










1 




. O LO -* 


m 


o o 


OJ 


ti\n -Iri-IM W|p3 • 




•^ 


r- C^ 00 O 


o 


lOOJ 


.i) 


i-l(M CO O lO t^ 




a, 


Jido^dO 


O QOlO O 


lOOQO 


CDCO'-H S 






^i; coCTco 


05 -^ to 


lO -^ -^ 


a, 


















^ 


.0010 


t- 


O CT 


_, 


V) Wl.r-IM Wl.-O-I?! 




3 
be 


- tr^Qoo 

h5 C^t^JfO 


oicJoiO 


lO (TJ 

CT coo 


o 
lo in rH d 


(Mi-IOOQOO 




<: 


05 lO CD 


CO'^lO 


OJ 








. CO lO 00 


O lO CO 


O 05 






Ml:^ -t?5c>i)n • 




-In 


>, 


- —• <K O 


lO t-CO 


lo u: 






c^ •* i-< t^ m 






'5 


g d d o* o 


-^ddo 


OOiO-H 


i-^ • 




'~' 






1-5 


O lOQO 
I— 1 


CD -^ CO 


C< ; 












.CJOCO 












-|M -!MW!W M)M 


<a 


J-CT030 










cr 


CD t- O CO •-< 1-1 


s 




O 03 t^ ° 








o t-cic 


'"' 


O) •^ CD 








CJ 






.00 (TJ 












-Ir;c>r|r;pi|?i-|:^ 


>. 


■S^. .^. 










CM 


rtCOi-IOOOOCOi-1^ 




go«oO 

^~ CO oi CO 


r-ooG^O 








CO -^ -^ C 




i>. Tji CD 








C^ 






O UO -^ 










c 




'.^ 


-; ^ GO o 










ir 


1-1 O T-H 00 lO CO rH 


Ci. 


Sdddo 


OOoioO 








05 CJ 03 I- 




<; 


1^ CO CM CO 


t^ ■* CO 












»o 














































S 






o 






o 
Oh 






























•^ 


p 












































lO 










































00 

■—1 








s 






f? 






.4 






■ c 


: *-o 


Its 


•'S 


C 




























!- 


t^-.m t 


i-^^-. 


:'^^-% 


^ 1 




S P 




is 
11. 




S s 




°c-s^-Sc^-^^ 




2 3 
.S Ec 






If. 






1" 

i 


\'i 


c 




>• 




c 

a 

% 




*■ 
^ 


si 

32 


52 


i < 

3 z 




> 'J 

iff 




o c 


< 




3 : 
> c 


> c 


"5 

r 


X 
c 

12 





262 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

Remarks. — By clear days is meant that no clouds were visible at 
the times of observation ; by cloudy, that some were visible ; and by 
rainy days, that some rain fell, without reference to quantity. The 
heaviest rain of the year commenced falling at noon, on the 27th Feb- 
ruary, and continued without intermission until 10, p. m., of the 28th, 
measuring 2.10 inches. The last rain of the past season occurred on 
the 17th June, 1854, and amounted to 0.20 inches. The first rain of 
the present season was on the 4th October, when 0.14 inches fell. 
Thus far the present has been a comparatively dry season. The Sac- 
ramento river remained at a very low stage until 15th March, when it 
rose 20 feet 2^ inches above low- water mark; since which time it has 
been gradually falling. The 13th July was the hottest day expe- 
rienced during the year, and, indeed, since the settlement of the coun- 
try. The thermometer was observed, in some less favored situations 
than ours, at 107°, at the hottest time of the day. The mean tempera- 
ture of the hottest part of the day for the week ending July 15th was 
97°. The night of the 16th August was the hottest as yet noticed in 
the country; the thermometer standing at 82° at 10 o'clock, p. m., and 
70° at sunrise. The weather during the whole winter was mild, dry, 
and pleasant; and the spring opened early. On the 1st February, the 
cowslip was observed in profuse blossom on the surrounding plains; 
on the 15th, the wild violet; on the 20th, the peach tree ; and on the 
23d, the willow {salix nigra) and the nemophila, a small indigenous 
blue flower. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 263 



Meteorological Observations at Sacrame?Uo, California, lat. 38° 34' 42" 
north, long. 121° 40' 05". 

BY F. W. HATCH, M. D. 

The observations with the thermometer and barometer, and record 
of the winds, embrace a period of ten months, from June, 1854; and 
those of the psychrometer, the period embraced between August, 1854, 
and March, 1855, inclusive. The means of the thermometer are calcu- 
lated from four daily observations, viz : at sunrise, (for which the mini- 
mum is used, at noon,) at sunset, and 10 p. m. ; those of the barometer, 
from three daily readings, at sunrise, noon, and 10 p. m; and the same 
number for the psychrometer, but at different hours, viz : at or near sun- 
rise, 3 p. M., and 10 p. m. The course of the wind is given four times 
daily, corresponding with the observation^ of the thermometer, and will 
serve to show the influence of the wind, both upon the elevation of the 
barometer and the humidity of the atmosphere. A long and patient 
examination and system of comparison, upon this subject, has convinced 
me of the almost perfect uniformity of a high barometer and a northerly 
wind, (north or northwest,) and the reverse condition with a south or 
southeast wind. There are some exceptions to this rule, and in our 
northwest gales the barometer often lalls low ; but what I have stated 
is the ordinary course under ordinary conditions. The source of these 
vvinds in the mountains of Oregon, and of the others (south, southeast, 
and southwest) from the Pacific, will, moreover, account for their 
respective influence upon the humidity of the atmosphere. 

Not less evident is the relation of the winds to temperature, espe- 
cially in the summer months. It is common, at this season, for the 
wind, after sunrise, to change to a northerly direction, and to continue 
in this quarter for a greater or less length of time, varying from a lew 
hours to a period of the day as late as 3 or 4 p. m. In their passage 
over the burning plains of the interior, and by contact with the heated 
air, they have acquired, before they reach here, an elevated tempera- 
ture, and are dry and occasionally hot. This state of things is, how- 
ever, mostly succeeded by a dehghtful breeze from the ocean in the 
afternoon, when both the temperature and the humidity of the atmo- 
sphere undergo a rapid transition. These facts would be more clearly 
denoted by an examination of the daily record, and especially by a 
separate observation in the forenoon, than by the means which I send, 
inasmuch as the northerly wind of the morning is frequently unnoticed 
in my regular tables, from the fact of its prevalence only between the 
hours of sunrise and noon. The above is a correct view of the ordinary 
course of the wind in the summer season. In the winter, on the con- 
trary, the north wind prevails more, and comes to us in all its original 
freshness and coolness. 



264 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



•t£Ocooo'^oorocooof^ooc»toc«Qroooorow:flots«Do 

g O •-' -^ QO -^ "O io cr; GO r^} ,— (~ cv; -rr C) «S CC CO CO CC 'X O O r". — O: UO -^ CC' O C? 



MfOotocDioroooocotocoocoocoo^oocaocooocococo 
QjOCTooot^^rt^Oior". •— ic;iO30'-ioc5t~r--CT30)00Q0i— iiocv o-f 



mrOCOiOCOOCOOOCOCOOOOO^O'-DOCOOCDCOOCOOiOCOCOO'lOCOO 
(U10CO— (QO-HQOCO^t^r- — t^-^COLO— ■COOC!C!>0-Hk.OOO — L'OiO'-^'OOO 
j2 iC era 02 ;0 O Ol CT S^ (?} (?f --I O CJ CT '— '-' '-' >— I r-. C! 0» 7! — I o o o c^ cv t^ ai ri 
o 

ca5CT3!nc:oooooo~oooooocooooooooCT3ffiC2a-. C2 

I— lOJC^CNG^COC^COCOCOCOCOCOMCOCOCOCOCOCOfOCOCOCOCOCOCOCilC^CMOJC^ 



m to CO «2 O to CO «0 to CO CO to CO coco CO CO CO CO coco CO 

O'XJCOQOQOiOCTOin^^i— lOa5t^OCTlOCOCOCOt-OJOCO(?}a:'*-^t^OCTSCO 



0JC0OC0C0C2COC0C0C0C0OC0C0C0C0C0OC0C0C0C0C0C0OOC»rOC0C0O 

a)C}>— "cocfcocoooocQCJcif^uo-*— iuoo;-*-rroo^-iocoLOioocoi-OLOo 

j-i— i-^CTCT^OCnOO— lOOOr-Hr-ioOOJOOO©'— i"-^'— 11— I0C30 



tnCOCOOOOCOCOOCOOCOOOCOCOOCOCOCOCOOCOOOOCOCOOCOtOCO 

a)CocoQOo:jao-^i:^cocoT}tDcom>X)QOio<??-^oao — — ^co-^'^Ot— iirtcnOTC-; 
^oo'Xi^'X)Ocn'30xc2a:<r3Ooa5a5C5O3OT— (oooooooi— ii— ''— 1— ic! 



mOOCOO'OOCCOtOOCO^OCOOCOCOCOCOCOOOCOOCOCOCO'OCOO 
Q GO '5" CO — I CO CO — ( CO 'XI CO C? tr '30 CO -»• CT 00 liO 'X 'T -* ^ 00 t^ t- C! QD CJ 00 00 

jsXQOXcrjXQOcTJOSicnajaiajCTioos^ass^cscnoooixcnxxt-x 
o 

>^S^C\IC}C'lC^ClCJC0O}C^OJ(NC*(r<00C0C<t?<C^!Ol(?lC<5C0OJOJC<(?lCT(7Jcr} 



mCOCOOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOOOCOCOCOCOCOCCOCOOCOCOCOCOCOOOO 
OJ C^I 00 "* t~ O CT> 'TJ CT5 'X CO -T 1^ CO CT-. O O! CO UO — O! CN lO X CO C-. lO X TJ ".O J^ C^ 

j300c7ia50a30XXoooc2CT50cr5Xt— xxxcicrjcsxaioocsCTsci 
o 

^oocTi020C20cj:o^ooc^o^aiOcr;o^Cio^Cio^CTio20^CT;<7iO:^C20^02 

h-COCOCN[C<COC^COC.l<rj00CO(r<CMCMCO<MCS!CJ(?iC<(M(7<<MC?J(MCTr0f0CT<?JC} 



mOCSCOOCOOlOCOCCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOOCOCOCOCOCOOOCOCO 

oi(ocoLoi^cocot^crco-^cocoi:~Lio'<9'cosoc3cr. in-Ht— CO — "*cococ5i^x 
j2XCr5CnXX'X'XOOOCC2XXXXS500Cr. r-j=;c^c^c-. C C-. csxxco 



mCOOOOOCOOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOOCOCOCO 



'0<co'i"'-':cot>Qoa50 — 0}co-^iccDt^xc50^-0}co-*"ocot-QDa50-H 
r-ii-(rti-irti-ii-,i-i,-irtC<ojojcrjc^!ri(MC.io}c\!coco 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



265 



oi m to o L'^ rt ?o ■ 






o o (7? Lo 'TJ o f>> o lo i.T o LT t- lo t~ irt c; lo in o o o lO o o t~ lo cj u'l m • 



|<:^Jf^'S"^rtto^'COCTJO'— icJc»:^mcot^QOCT!0-^(?}c»5'*Lr5^tr; SRSS 



,-i,_irtr-(r-<'— ■— (r-ir-i.-i(?}(M(7j(rj(?jc^oicr<(?jc?ji?:eo 



!66 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 







s 


M 


CJ 


CO 


C) 


o 


t~ 


CO 


1 






C3 


C5 


C5 


C5 


o 


o 


■"J 






ol 


05 


05 


m 


05 


o 


o 


o 






o 


CI 


d 


c< 


c< 


CO 


CO 


CO 


c 




































0) 






o 


lO 


m 


l^ 


o 


to 


to 


(U 




a 


o 


o: 


C5 


05 


o 


o 


T-H 


e 




o 
o 


05 


C5 


C5 


m 


o 


o 


o 


o 

f-l 




;?; 


c* 


CT 


CJ 


d 


CO 


CO 


CO 










































q; 


en 


o 


"O 


n 


o 


o^ 


to 






•r 


C5 


05 


m 


o 


o 


o 


1—1 






S 


C5 


C5 


CTJ 


05 


o 


o 


o 






CH 


CI 


C{ 


c< 


d 


CO 


CO 


CO 






S 


c 


c: 


o 


o 


c 


o 


o 






c 


c: 


o 


o 


c; 


o 


o 






0-1 


c 


_ 


00 


m 


c 


to 


to 






o 


IT 


tt 


vO 


lO 


in 


•^ 


CO 




to 




































s 


J ; 


o 


C 


o 


o 


<= 


o 


o 




Ol 


o 


O 


o 


o 


c 


o 


o 




u 


s 


C! 


t- 


oo 


■r)" 


c 


t^ 


o 






D 


cc 


tr 


o 


CO 


to 


in 


in 






02 


















C 




o 


c 


^ 


o 


o 


o 


o 






o 

o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 




t- 


c 


cj 


CO 


CI 


CO 


o 




'S 


^ 


cc 


r- 


t^ 


to 


to 


m 


in 




§ 




















aj 


o 


_ 


o 


o 


c: 


o 


o 






.22 


o 


ir. 


lO 


o 


c: 


in 


o 






';-• 




















5 


« 


t— 


C5 


t^ 


to 


05 


'30 






3 


•^ 


iC 


'i" 


•^ 


■<» 


CO 


d 






!» 
















33 

a 
o 




S 


o 


o 


o 


o 


c 


o 


o 




o 


o 


o 


o 


c 


o 


o 


"S 




p.; 


QC 


c: 


-^ 


cj 


iT 


^ 


t^ 


> 




o 


t- 


00 


CO 


t- 


t^ 


to 


in 


(D 




'"' 




































"5 


CD 
g 


^ 


o 


o 


o 


o 


— 


o 


o 




o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


c 


o 


o 


_>> 


o 


M 




















c 


-* 


CJ 


lO 


t~ 


to 


05 


'S' 


'5 




3 


00 


c 


C5 


00 


00 


to 


in 


-a 
c2 


03 
















3 




o 


c: 


o 


o 


o 


o 


<-, 


C 




irt 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


T 




o 
















1 


.r:^ 


o 


t-- 


t- 


o 


to 


00 


o 


to 




!«1 


^ 


00 


o- 


05 


00 


00 


t^ 


to 


O 

s 


^ 


















p 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


c 


o 






o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


s 




'tH 


tn 


c; 


05 




c 


cj 


cj 




3 


to 


t- 


CD 


to 


to 


in 


in 






M 
















H 






















^ 


cr. 


00 


o 


o 


r- 


CO 


^ 






f^ 


oc 


Oi 


t- 


to 


in 


•<* 






PlI 


tr. 


-:f 


l~~ 


c? 


c 


■«* 


i— 






o 


cc 


t- 


to 


to 


in 


in 


■^ 






















_j 


irt 


t- 


m 


ro 


l-O 


CO 


o 




s 


"S 


c 




a 


to 


c 




m 
























ri 


^ 


CI 


c 


to 


o 


00 


CO 


CO 




^ 


3 


t- 


cc 


t^ 


l^ 


to 


to 


m 




o 

&, 


W 


















S 




c^ 


■^ 


o 


CO 


Cr 


in 


CJ 






a 


c 


t- 


o^ 


CO 


C 


Cl 






>, 


O 

o 


cc 


oc 




to 


^^ 


in 


in 




'5 
Q 


12; 


r- 


00 


00 


t~ 


t^ 


to 


m 
























© 


't 


IT 


o 


00 


c 


1 


in 






.— 


c 


c 


05 


CO 


c^ 


CJ 


CJ 






s 


* ^ 


^ 


lo 


_; 


.—1 •* 


t- 






3 


ir 


cr 


lO 


in 


ir 


■^ 


CO 






M 


















d 




•>* 






















lO 






bN 




i-> 






"S 




00 






o 




o 


fl? 




p 








J 


-O 

£ 






^ 

5 








a 


_> 


3 

^1 


o 

a, 
o 


c 

c 


> 
O 


t. 
a 





THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



267 



ffi 



w 



•uTJajM 



•mnuiiuij(\[ 



•iunuiixT!i\[ 



•u^aW 



•tunui!U!j\[ 



•iunuiix^j\[ 



•a^TjQ 



•uinuiiuii\[ 



•apQ 



•iumuixi3j\[ 



•aSu^j ut;3i\[ 



•uinujiuiiu 



•mnuiixTJui 

UEa']^ 






<^ '='2! 



■— ( r-H I— 



•IM -d 01 



•UOOJy[ 



•osiaung 



s m 



O ^ Q 



Eh |o 



4J 






s o 

•5 be 



•S ^ 



ID 0) 



<u ^ 










b 


rn 


o 


C 


ht 


o 


t^ 


^ 


pj^ 


(d 


m 


Q 


<o 


S 


C 


o 


ac: 


Q 


13 



208 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 





be 




•S3q3ni 












CO 

% 




i 






•s<?T!(j; 


'^ 





ff) 


ffi 


m 


t- 


2 




1 


'saijo'ai 


* : 


ij : 




3 


° 


co 







•sjfBa 


M 





^ 


iH 





•* 







■jfpno 


p A'ljsora 
1(1! ^pnoQ 


(M 











■* 


<M 







•Jliap A'nsoiu 
.10 'Xiip \]\i .IUS13 


Oi 


CO 


CO 


CO 


00 





7~i 




3 >. 



K d 61 


<M 


tH 


i-t 





CO 


CO 


00 




•jasnng 


■* 


T-t 


(>> 


■* 


\a 


10 


o> 




•noofi 


« 


■* 


^ 


0* 


S 


CO 


c^ 




•seunng 


s 





CO 


ia 




CO 


CO 




Z s 

oii 



•K d 01 


s 



CO 




CO 


CO. 


10 




CO 




•?asnng 


s 





§5 


§ 


CO 




tM 




"UOO^SJ 


s 


C-l 


CO 


c» 





S 


CI 




■asumng 


C5 


CO 


CO 




s 




s 




c 
_o 

> 

XI 




a 
3 

a 


u 

i) 

bo 

_s 

'5 

3 

{=^ 

13 

a 


_ ■3 
■a " 


•W d 01 


<N 





10 


00 


CO 


^ 


(M 




•^asung 


50 


■* 


50 


1£> 


CO 


CO 


CO 




•aoosj 


b- 


01 


t- 


LI 





■* 


00 




■osi-inng 


-* 


CO 


-* 


CO 


CO 


<f> 


CO 




. 


n i ox 


CO 


(M 


CO 













•■}3snng 




£j 


10 


in 


or> 


b- 


(M 




•noo>j 


CO 


©1 


S 





(M 


§ 


CO 




•asi.mng 


CO 




t- 




00 


CO 


<N 






K d 01 


-- 


CN 











1» 


CO 




•lasnng 


(M 


<N 


<S 


ffl 


00 


-* 


". 




•noo\- 





C5 


10 


CO- 


^ 


no 


10 




•asijung 


(M 


CO 


iH 





CO 


•^ 


t- 







■I« d 01 


05 


o> 


>o 





05 


to 


c^ 




•?3sung 


^- 





« 


'^ 


»- 


10 


c^ 




•nooji 





CO 


-* 


s 


CO 


ot 


CO 




•asi-tung 


t- 


CO 


la 


o> 


la 


T* 


^ 




3 


W -d OX 








S 


§ 




05 


10 




•?9sung 


(M 




t- 


t- 





t- 


m 




•noo^ 





o> 


e» 




1H 


CO 





a> 




•asijung 


IN 





10 
0* 


(M 


s 


OS 


CO 




i 






•W a. OX 

















CO 


rH 




•jasntig 











c> 





•* 


-- 




•noofj 











Trt 


Ol 


CO 


■* 




•asuung 

















CO 









1 
P 




■3 « 


3 


bi 
< 


0. 

CO 





> 


ft 





THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



269 



^ ^ ^^ ^ . ,>r«i''^ ^ 

s jK := 5 72 CO ..oj '^ ^ a a> ryj oQ = ^ !> ..-7: y^ S •' '^ '^ :;; 

ca ...a .^aw ...^72 .„.. ..WH w &: 1^ a a ti; re i; ti 

t^i;siomcotom'^>r3LO'^-*'*-^irtr~a5(?Qi?5C3'joa5C5t-to3oa:<aot^to 

fO CO CO CO CO CO 00 coco coco CO coco CO CO CO 

CO coco cococooo coco coco CD coco CO CO CO 

l-fi CO CD T! -* CO O CO ■>) 'T! Ct; C2 O C; O CO 1— I t^ {^ t^ CO t- t^ C^ QO C! O CD to CO 
ci5cCCOCDCOCDCOCOCOCOCOiOCDCOCOCDC~.t— COCOCOCOCOCOCOCDt-.CDCOCD 

&.— I CTCO-^LOCOt-OOC^O"— iCNCO'^'lOCOt^QOCnO'— CJCO-^lOCOlr-OOCJO 

aj i-i 1-1 ^ 1-1 1-1 1-, — I >-i 1-1 rH oj CT (7^ c! crj (^^ ci 7J c! o! CO 

WW w S d ^ 

WtfSw -02 • W5 •- ^ «= «2 pq j> '^1 7J 

KT^^WKTart^.. .. S- !i2 .->.;> ff M ^ 02 S K a ..•\1 rt-^ ... 
mmuimm''^m Hr5 l>aia202t>'^ .-"ig -n^ mm-Ji ...-i^m 

" .. 02 ^ .,;> 72 02 ...02 ... ...> ... ... 

awaaaaa --a aaaa .-a .-a ...a ...aa'^aaa 

02 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 0)02 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 02^02 02 02 

coco CO CO CD COCOCOCOCO coco CO CO CO CD CO aOCOCDCO 

COCO COCOCO COCOCOCOCO coco CO CO CO CO CO C0CDCOC5 

CD— <uO. X)00 -*(?}■— iCO^!COOC-)COOOr-li—iCOC5r~OOt^CO'1'-fiOt— CO C! 
L(OCOCOLf5iOCOCOCDCOCDCOCOCOCOCOCOCDCOCOCOCOir:0>OlO'0'-'OinLO"OCO 

coo CO CO CO COCOCOCO CO CO CO CO CO CD CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CD 
CD -:)• rococo COCOCOCO CO CD CO CO CO CO CD CO CD CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO 

CO O -* t^ i.O 3D — 1 'X lO C2 — ' 1.0 CJ C^J t^ "* CO CO — I CO CJ CO QD t~ CO CO — CO -* irS OO 
CCC-t^COOCOC^£~l^COt.-£^t^L^t^QOaOt^C^r-l:-OCDCDCOCDCOCDCDCOCO 

S''"— I CMrO-^mcOt^QOOTOi— IC^CO'^lCCOt^QDCJOr-ICJCO^S'lCCDt.-OOOTO^H 
3 i-ii-ii-ii-irtrti-l-H^i-ICMCJ3^CMC^C{OJOJOJCMC0C0 



s« 






cm 






a- 



a 

02 

^^02 
02"-' 

a2r;i 



a . 

02 -^^ 
k"~02 ... rt - 



^^ 



aa 

02 02 



02^ 



• a 

02 02 



02> 
72 02 



-K-02 
■02 .. 

■ ..a 

;02 02 



a t 

02 c2 



02 02 



a 

02 



02 72 
02 , 

a 

02 02 02 






■a 
;72 

> ... 

'■k ■ 

•-02 



02 



"O o c o o o 



02 



■02: 



O C O O O 1^ 

-a -o "3 -a T3 .^ 



a 

02 . 

...a • 

OrH72^ 

t> ...02 .. rt 

— ..02T3 



a 



tj. ^ 72 02 -g ' 

'^.aaaa 

02 02 02 02' 72 



02 

a • 
^a 

^^02 

^7202 
a a 

72 02 



^—1 CT'CO'S'l.OCOt-OOCTSOi-H'T'} CO^i-O COt-OOOlO'.^CTCO'^'l.'OCOt^QOOO-^ 
^ 1-irtrt rti-11-1 rt--l^rtCTCQC.«<?<(NCN(MC^C!CJCOCO 



02 02, • 
O! .^^ 

^y72 

»-!-' 

a^ •' 

0202a 
0202 02 



a 
02 

^•02 
i^02. 



•"^ --^t^ 



aa 
0202 



aa 



•a^ 
:o2>^ 

'72".. 

^^'^ • 

^a^ 

72 02 

mm 



-a !>: « 

a r^ • ^ .02 

^ -r ^>0!02 ..»2 .„a3 t^ .„02>:^jr>, H 

f^ ■..=^'?.1>^02'^2!>-.H^.§02 02;2;> .!-.§ ... 
.V'02 72 =« i^^ 02 02 Z ,Z -^S ^ ^ 02 02 .,2 > 15 O! 

^ a72 02 ...aaa!>aa ao2t>>'72a a 
^ mmmmmmmmmm mmm^^mm m 

O 1— lfMCO-*UOCDt.-00 050-HOJCO-*mOt^QOCiO 



' 1— I CJ CO "* in '-3 t^ so ; 



270 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



k^ - 









>a2 






i^ 









S o o o o o 






^K 



>cn 



cna 

02 0! 



4 






12; 72 



rt CO 



So 



i-li-Hi-lr-ii-lrti-(rtrH^O{CMC^!(M(?JCSIC\!C}Cl(M0000 



W 

w 

«2g 



> >^ ^^ '^•^ -* I ^" ^^ ^S r>5'^ ^ ^Z' >^ 



.«2cn 

02 .•'.•-- ^ 



m 



5W 



5m 



1— lOJC'S-^lOCSt^QOOlO'— iC^CO'^lOWt^QOOTO-^C^fCO'^'OtOr^QOCTlO 



OiQiQi^X0^CiG\Q\0\Cicri 



i>72 

t>72 
^72 



-a d 

— "3 



^72 
'^72 

I*' 



72,, 



' -73 



, z ^ a _rt yj -z ^ ^ 

^ = -§-a -^6»2^ ..'Z^ ..^-072 = 72 =^72 '^ 
•> ^ 72^ =* .^=^72 .^7.> =^ ..=^.. ££!.,« 

I> H .^ZyaW .„tE2t>'^W Wi5W72H72 

7272 m'^uimmmm>'^m muimuimm 



w ,/ t> 
'>^m>- ■ 

-^ = 72:=,-^ 



72 02 



t>72 
-72 

^^' 

;Z7:' 

H> 

72 l> 
72 72 



W^ 



72Z 



3W 

Si . 
So 



GOO— <Cr3QOC5«:~<XiQOiOt^a2eOCTS— ICOOO-Hi— iCOQOQO-tfC^fNCOOCNOOO 

rotototo ron cocsto C5 to to to roco to cotcoo 

cocototo rocs tocDto co (X) co to coco co cdco^^o 

_H T-l ,-( i-l rH rl r-( fH r-( r-H C^ CI C^ (?J <n CT (7< !M G^ (?< « fO 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



271 



13 

El 


SE; S; S; SW. 

SE;S;S;S. 

S; SSE; NW; WNW. 

W; S; S; SE. 

E; S; S; S. 

S; SE; S; S. 

S; SE; SE; SE. 

ESE; S; S; S. 

S; S; S; WSW. 

NE; WNW; W; SE. 

SE; WSW; S; E. 

S; S; SSE; SE. 

S all day. 

SSE alfday. 

NW all day. 

NW; NW; SE;E. 

N; NNW; NW; NW. 

N; N; NW; NW. 

NW all day. 

NW; NW; NW; SW. 

NE; NW; NW;NNE. 

NNW;NNW;NW;N. 

NE; SSE; ESE; NNE. 

NW; N; NE; NE. 

NE;NW; SE; SE. 

E; N; N; SE. 

S; S; SSE; S. 

SE; SSW; SSE; SSE. 

SSE; SW; S; NE. 

SE; SE; SSE; S. 

S; SSE; S; SSE. 




<r> <n CO « to to CO co co fo co m co co eo co <mr> 
CO CO CO CO CO coco CO CO C5 00 CO CO CO coco coco 


cocoiococoa5QOCoor^cooot^oico-^coc^coG<!t^coait^-*cococoLO'S< 
i«ioomioioi/5muo^'»'Oi/5-^-<!j"co'n"uo'OiOioin>oiomi«irtirtioioio 




coco cococo coco'-ocococo coco CO coco cococococo 
coco cococo cocococococo coco CO coco cococococo 


oot^cn30t~o(Mt^T-irt^(?}-*CTit^->*'oaoa5iooCT-*'t"S'^aoc-QOQci:^ 
iniOLO'Oiococoiououoinifsuo'^-^-^mmin'OOcococococoiooirticio 


in 

00 


cirtClCO-^OCOC^QOOlO— lC>!C0-*i0C0C^Q0a>O'-HS<!C0-*l«C0t^Q0CriO-H 
k_, rt — 1 r^ — — 1 r-i ^ ^ — 1 — CM CT CM (?} (71 OJ (?J CM (?{ trj CO CO 


T3 


^ kL-C -> ^ CO i^ ^ = ^ ^.^ 7J J" Q ^ CK --^ -'M ^ -'CW H .- 




CO COCOCO cocococococo CO cococococo CO CO CO CO CO 
CO cococo cocococococo CO cococococo CO CO CO CO CO 


-^-*'a"iO'*ioiomic^r-^-*-^io^3<^T^'*cococo"»-^-^'a'inuoio 


5cq 

So 


cococo COCOCDCO cococo CO COCOCOCOCOCOCO CO CO 
rococo CO CO CO CO cococo co co co co co co co co CO CO 


-!^■tJ'Loco^uO'^■lO^O'^!0-^c^JCot^^^ — "-oooio-^cot^iftC^uoiot^ 
i-ooioo'-oiooo'-oioioin"Ouo"oo>oiO'^'3'-^"3-"^-^uomin»r5 




-5r— ICJCO-^lOCOt^OOClO'— iCJCO-^lOCOt^OOCTJO'— iCTCO'S'iCCOt^QO 
" ^-^rHr-irti-H^i-i,-irt(?}C}CMC^CM(MCM01CM 


T3 

1 


CB ^ '^ 72 =* Q > > ^ .. .-^ ^ ..a .^> CB W ^ 1^ > Ci > ;r > ^ > ^ CB 02 




CO coco CO CO CO CO CO COCO coco coco CO cococo 
CO coco CO CO CD CO CO coco coco coco CO cococo 


COC5— i^co-^in=JCOCTco-H.x>t^cot~c;e>J-*a:t^c-. cocor-CD'tcocot^CJ 

^C0^^C0C0C0-^-5)"->*-^'^C0C0C0C0C0'^-<*C0C0C0'*'3'-^'^'^-^'»'^»O 


gcQ 

So 


CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO cococo CO CO CD CO CO cococo 
CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO cococo ro CO CO CO CO cococo 


OC<)COCOi-O^Cn'*UOiOuOCOOOiCr-mOCOt^-HCJ'3>t:--^C0^0 02— (:=CO 

L.o^'^'a"cococo'*-!»''*'^-*-^cococo'3''^'^'=t"'*'*'*^^'^^'*^'^'''^ 


>-'5 
lO 

00 


s,H(7}co'*krtcot^Goa50-HCMco':f>ncot-Qoaio--HCM!:p2!;ii5 3SJ;^SOS5S;c; 

rt . rtrlr-d-Hr-li-i,— 1-Hi— lrtG^CM(MCJC^(MG^(?JCJ!?<COCO 



272 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



REMARKS CONTRIBUTING TO THE PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY OF THE 
NORTH AMERICAN CONTINENT. 



BY JULIUS FROEBEL. 



San Francisco, December 8, 1854. 

Since the annexation of California our geographical knowledge of thf 
western half of our continent has made a progress the rate of which is 
unsurpassed in the history of geography, and almost equals the fastnes- 
of California life itself, by which it has been produced. In every 
direction the great, wilderness of the western table-lands, and of the 
continental slope along the Gila and Colorado, together with the ad- 
joining portion of Sonora, is traversed by engineers, by cattle traders, 
emigrants, prospecting miners, and bold adventurers, who all contribute 
in daily augmenting our store of topographical details concerning these 
vast regions. But while this store is accumulating, it cannot be ex- 
pected that travellers, who have to pay attention to some particular 
and more or less immediate interest, should trouble themselves with 
geographical questions of a more general character. Thus some mis- 
conceptions in our general ideas of the physical structure of our conti- 
nent, produced by some former and premature generalizations of sj-s- 
tematic geography, are still propagated by maps and books, as well as 
Congressional railroad speeches, and the influence of these errors on 
different branches of science, as well as on common life, is important 
enough to make it worth while to correct them. I am referring here 
to the prevailing notions of the geographical system of our continent, or 
the manner in which its mountain chains and table lands are generally 
believed to be arranged and connected, or separated. As this arrange- 
ment, together with the geological constitution of the soil, form the 
principal conditions of the local deviations of climate and of the distri- 
bution of organic life, it is easy to conceive how the most interesting 
chapters of physical geography must be affected by any prevailing 
misconception in that respect. 

A correct knowledge of the whole system of elevations and depres- 
sions ol the surface of a country can onl}^ be the result of a complete 
and careful topographical survey and subsequent representation. To 
execute such a task over a large continent, like that of North America, 
can only be the work of generations. Even the most advanced States 
of Europe, small as they are in extent, and almost unlimited as the 
power of their governments is to expend money for such a purpose, 
have only lately succeeded in possessing good topographical maps of 
their territories. But while thus we must resign to our grandchildren 
the satisfaction of having a clear and correct conception of the ups and 
downs of the continent we inhabit, we are under the necessit}^ tor our 
own present wants, to form an approximate idea. Insufficient as the 
number of our observations must be, and discontented as they are in a 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 273 

great measure, we must try to fill up the lacuncb oi' our knowledge by 
generalizations and ideal connexions. It is natural that, in so doing, 
we should be exposed to error ; but we shall keep our mistakes within 
the narrowest possible hmits, if we proceed by the M'ay of simple induc- 
tions, and refuse to submit to premature theories. No doubt the pro- 
pensity of the human mind to bring isolated facts into an ideal con- 
nexion originates in our highest intellectual facult}^ b}^ which alone we 
are able to discover the general laws which govern the endless variety 
of cases. But there is scarce^ one science which has not been led 
astray from time to time by this same propensity, and no science, per- 
haps, more so than geology, of which orography, or the knowledge of 
the external form of the dry surface of our globe, may, in some respects, 
be said to be a chapter, while physical geography in general is its 
descriptive department. 

Among the many mistaken notions still prevalent on that subject, 
is the opinion that the principal S3"stems of water-courses or the great 
river basins and continental depressions must be divided by mountain 
chains. In America this is not more true than in any other part of 
the world. But great and important as is the number of well known 
facts which prove that the less striking differences of level followed 
by the w^ater-courses of a country may be independent of the system 
of real mountain chains, both being very often the results of two 
entirely different series of causes, still these facts are regarded as mere 
exceptions to a general rule, and, wherever positive observations are 
wanting, geographers continue to fill up the blanks in our maps accord- 
ing to that supposition. Thus, to separate the Pacific from the Atlantic 
slope, and especially from that towards the ]\|exican Gulf, the Rocky 
Mountains have been brought into an imaginary connexion with the 
Sierra Madre of Mexico, and this latter chain has been forced on our 
maps to take a direction which it does not take in reahty. I have 
often heard the name of the former unhesitatingly extended to the 
latter by Americans living in northern Mexico, though there is an 
interval of several hundred miles in longitude and. latitude between 
their nearest points. A generalization even of a bolder character is 
sometimes made, when the Sierra Madre and the Rocky Mountains 
together are said to be the continuation of the "Cordilleras" of South 
America. But the system oi the Andes does not continue through the 
Isthmus of Darien ; and the hills of the Isthmus of Panama have little 
to do with them. These hills, again, are not connected with the moun- 
tains and table lands of upper Mosquitia, of Honduras, and Guatemala, 
' nor with the volcanic cones which rise in isolated beauty from the 
plains of Nicaragua and San Salvador. 

It may be observed that these interruptions of continuity are not 
important enough to affect a general view of the subject, and it may 
be conceded that this is true. Certainly we may speak with all pro- 
priety of the mountains and table lands of the western side of the new 
world as of one great system following the course of its western coast 
from Terra del Fuego to the northern Polar ocean, and separated by 
wide tracts of flat and, comparatively speaking, low country, from 
the groups and chains which occupy certain sections of the eastern side 
of both the northern and southern continents. But this is only repeating 
Mis. Doc. 24 18 



274 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

a fact almost too general and simple to be much dwelt upon. It being once 
known, as it is, to everybody, the special arrangement of the numerous 
subordinate members becomes the object of investigation, and it is this 
object we have here in view. 

In this investigation the question is not only whether certain groups 
or chains of mountains are really connected or separated, bat what 
other relations may exist between them, relations that may be of high 
interest to the geologist and meteorologist, or to those who are studying 
the laws of the distribution and diversity of vegetable, animal, and 
human life. Mountains, though separated by intervening space, may 
be the pinxlactions of simultaneous and connected geological processes, 
or, by taking corresponding situations in reference to the whole geo- 
graphical structure of their respective regions, may form corresponding 
parts in the system of natural circumstances and conditions, so that 
one may be said to be the equivalent of the other in one or the other of 
the different series of causes and effects which constitute the great 
organism of nature. Thus we may not only ask whether the Rocky 
Mountains are connected with the Sierra Madre or not, but we may, if 
the latter be tlie case, put the question whether the one must not be 
considered, at least, as the equivalent of the other. This question, in- 
deed, has been raised by the geologists of this country in respect to 
the different chains of our own system of mountains. It has become 
an interesting question of geology and ph3^sical geography, whether the 
peninsular chain of Lower California is the southern equivalent of the 
Sierra Nevada, or is that of our coast range, and whether the so-called 
San Bernardino chain is corresponding to any of the three, or has its 
own independent character and existence. 

Since Elie de Beaumont has drawn the attention of geologists to 
certain relations which appear to exist beiween the bearings of" moun- 
tain chains and the geological periods of their respective upheavals, it 
has been asserted that such questions should be decided ; and that the 
classifications and nomenclature of geography should be regulated by 
the facts which constitute geological character, and not by those of mere 
outward form. But it is easy to shovv^ that, by subjecting the whole 
matter to the domination of a mere scientific principle, we yield to the 
claims of one science at the cost of the equally just claims of another, 
as well as of every~day utility. Thus, for example, it is a well estab- 
lished fact of geology, that different sections of the Alps are to be re- 
ferred to very different geological epochs, while each of these sections 
has its geological equivalents in certain more or less distant parts of 
the world. Still it is in the interest of climatology and of the study of 
the distribution of plants and animals, as it is in that of common life 
and of human history, to adhere to the old and natural way of viewing 
and naming, by which the Alps are considered as one mountain chain, 
which has nothing to do with certain mountains or hills in Spain, in 
Scandinavia, and in Greece. It is an ecjually well established fact, 
that the hills in the south of England and a certain section of the 
Caucasus, that the Thuringian forest in Germany and certain moun- 
tains in Greece, that one section of the Pyrenees and a certain section 
of the Alps, are to be referred respectively to the same geological 
periods. Still no sensible man, unless he is considering the matter 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 275 

expressly under a geological point of view, would say that these 
mountains respectively belong to each other. Even not to augment 
the sufferings of schoolmasters and schoolboys, v.-e should abstain from 
innovations which would oblige them to become good geologists before 
they could understand, the one what he is teaching, the other what he 
is learning. The outward forms of the surface of our globe should 
be considered independently of the system of geological periods and 
mineral masses. The knowledge of each, though there is an inlimate 
connexion between the two, has its own peculiar interest, and the 
claims of the geologist in that respect have no better foundation than 
those of the botanist who would propose to give different names to 
two sections of the same chain of mountains, because one is covered 
with pine trees, the other with oak. 

After these preliminary remarks, intended to clear the subject of 
some confused notions in respect to its general principles, I ma}^ pass 
over to a statement of facts, which shall be mostly such as have fallen 
under my own observation. 

1. The great chain of the Rocky Mountains divides, in the neighbor- 
hood of the origin of the Rio Grande, into two ranges, of which one 
runs along the eastern, the other along the western side of that river, 
down to about the latitude of Santa Fe. 

Every one who has travelled from the Missouri river to the capital 
of New Mexico, is well aware of the fact that the latter part of the road, 
from Las Vegas to its termination, turns round the southern promontory 
of the eastern range. To the north he leaves steep, high, and mostly 
snow-covered mountains, while the elevations to the south are of two 
kinds, but both different in character from the great chain to the north. 
Some there are, it is true, which have been caused by plutonic eruptions, 
and the upheaval of metamorphic and sedimentary masses ; but they 
are merely little isolated groups, or ridges, such as the Placer, Sandilla, 
and Manzana mountains. The rest are either mere declivities, or de- 
tached portions of the general table land. This latter, at an average 
altitude of nearly 7,000 feet above the sea, turns round that same south- 
ern promontory, from the eastern to the southwestern side of the great 
chain, and, running out here in a projecting corner to the westward, 
reaches the very borders of the valley of the Rio Grande, where, at 
many places, the traveller has a view over its edges down into the val- 
ley near Albuquerque. The little groups and ridges just mentioned 
have entirely the general character of the numerous mountains which, 
like the islands of an archipelago, are scattered all over the high plains 
of western Texas and Mexico. If, nevertheless, they be considered 
as the southern continuations, or representatives, of the Rocky Moun- 
tains, which in a certain sense they really are, it should be in view 
of the correspondence of the natural arrangement of elevations in that 
section of country to the western terminal range, which, south of Santa 
Fe, appears to pass over to the eastern side of the river, following, 
in this way, the general south-by-east course of the system. 

2. Whoever has travelled from EI Paso to California by the Gila 
route knows that, following Cook's route in its southern bend, he has to 
pass over several mountain spurs ; but that, choosing the straight line of 
a more northern track, called Leroux's route, he passes from the Rio 



276 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

'Orande to the Gila, near the Pima villages, without the necessit}- of 
surmounting a single real mountain-chain. In general, there is no 
doubt that, if tlie traveller were not bound to touch the few watering 
places, and to avoid difficulties of another character, he could keep off 
from mountains altogether. If, therefore, the western terminal range of 
the Rock}^ Mountains should reach so far south as the origin of the Gila 
river, it certainl}' does not pass over to the south of that locality. It is, 
however, much more likely that the road from Albuquerque to Zufii, 
and, perhaps, even the old Spanish trail from Santa Fe, by Abiquiu 
and the head waters of the San Juan river, to Los Angeles, turns round 
the real southern promontory of the western terminal range. 

It is true that iurther south, in the neighborhood of Socorro, in about 
34° of latitude, mountains of considerable elevation, and steep, Alpine 
forms, stand on the western side of the Rio Grande. They appear, 
however, to be separated from the Rocky Mountains by a wide interval 
of Hat and open country, M'hich has been made use of for the pas- 
sage of several routes. This section of country I do not know h'om 
personal observation, except from what I could see in coming 
dovv^n the Rio Grande. Now, even conceding lliat reasons might be 
found to consider the mountains near Socorro as a continuation of the 
western terminal range of the Rocky Mountains, still they would not 
Ibrm a connexion wiili the Sierra Madre, because such a connexion 
cannot be found further south. Between Valverde and Santa Barbara 
the same group of mountains form tliose impassable narrows of the 
valley of the Rio Grande, which compel the traveller to leave the 
river and traverse, for ninety miles, the ill-reputed desert of the Jornada 
del Muerto, or "dead man's journey," the south-eastern portions of the 
group thus proving to stand on the eastern side of the Rio Grande. 

3. The mountains which here obstruct the valley, those further north 
which rise in picturesque forms from the western side of the river near 
Socorro, together with the Copper IMine Mountains, and the little group 
of Ben Moor, appear to belong, in reality, to a central and separate 
system, in which the Gila river takes its origin, and which might be 
called the Upper Gila mountains. Its centre appears to be the Sierra 
Blanca, so called, not from being covered with eternal snow, as mighi 
be supposed, but from tiie white color of its rocks. In a deep and nar- 
row cafion of the southern portion of the system I observed wliite masse.- 
of a porphyritic or trachytic formation, with transitions into pearlstone. 

It has been pretended that the real connecting link between the 
Rocky Mountains and the Sierra Madre is formed by a chain called the 
Sierra de los Mimbres. But the traveller in the section of country' 
where it should exist will look in vain for such a chain. The name, 
indeed, is only applied to the restricted and subordinate mountain 
localit)'^ on the southern verge of the Upper Gila Mountains, so called 
from the Rio de los Mimbres, a small creek which, during the dry sea- 
son, is lost in the plain, but is said to continue its course so far south as 
to reach the Laguna de Santa Maria, a lake situated west by south of 
El Paso. Mimhrc is the Mexican name of a beautiful bignoniaceous 
shrub (a Chilojms) exclusively growing in the alluvial beds of sand and 
pebbles of little intermittent streams. The little creek, therefore, has 
its name from tlie shrub; and the mountain locality in which the creek 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 277 

has its origin, near the now deserted Fort Webster, obtains its appella- 
tion from the creek — a fact which shows its subordinate character. 

4. After having approximately defined the southern extremity of the 
Rocky Mountains, I have now to follow the course of those detached 
groups and ridges which, in a certain sense, to be explained hereafter, 
may be called its southern equivalent. I have already stated that, if 
such an equivalent exists, it is to be looked lor on the eastern aud not on 
the western side of the Rio Grande. The traveller coming from San 
Antonio de Bejar, on his way to El Paso or to the Presidio del Norte, 
has to pass these mountains, which, situated west of the Pecos river, 
mark a step from a lower to a higher section of the plateau of western 
Texas. In steep and singular forms, of a character entirely different 
from the hills formed by dechvities and detached portions of tableland, 
as common in western Texas as they are on the head waters of the Pecos 
and the Canadian, these groups and ridges of plutonic and metamorphic 
masses, formed by a combination of upheavals and eruptions, emerge 
from the high surrounding plains. 

On the road to the Presidio del Norte they are passed in the Puerto 
del Paisano, on the road to El Paso, in the Puerto de las Limpias, or 
"Wild Rose" Pass, two locahties of the most striking character of wild 
and romantic mountain scenery — particularly the latter of the two, 
where the walls of immense porphyritic eruptions are separated into 
innumerable strange shapes of needles, spires, columns, and spheroids. 
South of the Presidio del Norte, in the neighborhood of San Carlos, this 
line of mountains strikes again the Rio Grande, passing from the east- 
ern to the western side of the river without changing its general direc- 
tion, the river forming here a great eastern bend, in a long, deep, nar- 
row, and impassable gorge, through which, in a series of rapids, it pours 
down from the elevated countr}^ of its upper and middle course into the 
deep country of the Mexican gulf. Oa its western side, then, the line 
of mountains bordering the Bolson de Mopimi to the east runs further 
south through the States of Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, San Luis Potosi, 
. and Vera Cruz, where it forms the eastern margin of the plateau of 
Anahuac. 

5. I come now to speak of the Sierra Madre. This denomination 
has been the cause of many geographical misunderstandings and mis- 
constructions. It has been understood as a real proper name, while it 
is but an appellative, meaning the mother chain of mountains — i. e., the 
principal chain of a country in general, just as the Mexicans call aceqida 
madre the principal channel of a system of irrigation. Thus the name 
may occur in different localities without thereby authorizing geogra- 
phers to conclude that all the mountain chains which have received that 
denomination belong to one and the same system. It ma}', therefore, 
really be as some maps have it — I do not know from what source — that 
a certain chain ms^ofDurango, belonging to the line of ridges which passes 
over from Texas to Mexico, is known under the name of Sierra Madre, 
too. But it is certain, and every one who has travelled across Mexico 
in that latitude knows it, that the Sierra Madre, in the sense generally 
adopted in the country, is 7iot east but is ivest of Durango, and is passed 
by the road firom that city to Mazatlan. Of a mountain chain in New 
Mexico called Sierra Madre, and pretended to be situated on the west- 



278 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

ern side of the Rio Grande, I have never heard. But if the name should 
occur there, too, as some maps likewise have it, I am almost sure that 
it has only been used by some Mexican theorist who wanted to convey 
a general idea of the geography of his country according to his own 
fancy — that it is not, therefore, a commonly employed term there — and 
under no consideration could even a fact contrary to this conviction 
prove any connexion of the Rocky Mountains with the Sierra Madre 
proper, which, following the direction of the Pacific coast of Mexico, 
borders the interior table-land of that country towards the low country 
of Michoacan, Jalisco, Sinaloa, and Sonora. If such a conclusion could 
be allowed to be drawn from a mere name, it would certainly be as 
justifiable to prove a connexion, or at least a relation, of the Sierra 
Madre proper to that chain of" mountains which our geologists now call 
the San Bernardino chain, but which the old Californians likewise 
know under the name of Sierra Madre. 

Now as to the Sierra Madre proper, there is a singularity in the 
natural structure of this marginal chain, which, though by no means 
uncommon in other similar chains in different parts of the world, is one 
of the principal causes of the misconstructions of our maps in respect 
to western and northern Mexico. Nearly all the more considerable 
rivers which empty into the Gulf of California have their origin on the 
high plains of the interior table-land — that is to say, on the eastern side 
of the Sierra Madre — and, bursting through deep and narrow gorges or 
rents, cross the chain at right angles belbre they come down on a lower 
terrace of the country, and ultimately into the '■Hierra caliente''' of the 
coast. This fact is to be seen in the most striking manner on the road 
from Chihuahua to the rich mining place of Batoseagachic, where the 
traveller passes, without any ascent, from the high plateau on the eastern 
side of the Sierra down into the deep country on its western side, 
through one of these openings; the road coming out on the latter side 
at an elevation of several thousand feet above the lower country, where 
he may see the orange and banana, while he is still in the region of the 
pine-trees and of a northern climate. The water-course at the bottom 
of the transversal gorge is tributary to the Rio del Fuerte, which 
empties into the gulf somewhat south of the Rio Yaqui. One of the two 
principal branches of this latter river, the Rio de Papigochic or Con- 
ception, shows a similar phenomenon. For nearly a hundred miles it 
runs along the eastern side of the sierra in a northerly direction, through 
the beautiful savannas of the western table-land of Chihuahua, passing 
many fine little towns, until at last it makes a sudden turn to the west, 
enters a gap in the mountains so narrow that it is scarcely perceptible 
in the landscape, and through it dashes down into the deep country on 
the western side of the chain. One of these two passages must be had 
in view by the projectors of the railroad I'rom El Paso or the Presidio 
del Norte to Guaymas, for which Santa Anna has lately given a con- 
cession. As geographers, however, have not understood this character 
of the chain, they have placed it so far to the east of its real situation 
as to get it on the eastern side of the origin of the rivers of Sonora and 
Sinaloa. 

At the same time there are some reasons to suspect that the astro- 
nomical Dositions of the interior of these two States are likewise too far 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 279 

east ; by which circumstance, if my supposition, suggested chiefi}' by the 
comparison of distances on both sides of the mountain chain, should prove 
just, the sierra, even keeping its relative situation, would be brought 
nearer to the hne of direction of the Rocky Mountains than it comes in 
realit}^ and by the combinations of the two errors the disfigurations of 
our maps appear to have been doubled. Thus, while the southern 
terminal ranges of the Rock}^ Mountains have been laid down too far 
west, the northern terminal ranges of the Sierra Madre have been laid 
down too far east, and both have been brought nearer to each other 
than they really are. 

6. Of the latter ranges, the extreme northern spurs, situated south of 
the middle and lower Gila, are passed by Cook's route on the trail 
between the Guadalupe pass and Fort Yuma. Near the latter place, 
or the junction of the Gila and Colorado, the Coast Range of Sonora 
and Sinaloa, which forms the western foot of the whole Sierra Madre 
system — a system which, throughout its whole extension, is formed by 
parallel ranges — has its northern termination. Beyond the Gila and 
Colorado, however, its direction is continued by a chain of mountains 
which the traveller on his way through the desert, between the latter 
river and Carizo creek, has at some distance to his right hand. At 
a very acute angle it converges with the chain which comes from the 
peninsula of Lower California, till at last it falls in with it, the San 
Bernardino peak forming, as I have been assured by persons who have 
been on the spot, the point of junction. Thus the extreme northwestern 
spur of the Sierra Madre constitutes what has been called by geologists 
the San Bernardino range, but has been known to the old Californians 
under that same name of Sierra Madre, as I have already stated. If, 
therefore, the Sierra Madre has a northern equivalent, we have to look 
for it not in the Rocky Mountains but in the Sierra Nevada system. 
But the real meaning of all these relations will receive more light from 
their connexion with the more general structure of the w^estern halt of 
our continent, of which, therefore, 1 shall try to give a few outlines. 

This western half is known to be composed of a great longitudinal 
basin, extending, in a direction corresponding to the Pacific coast, from 
the Isthmus of Tehuantepec to the polar region. Through the greater 
part of its extent it is confined between an eastern and w^estern marginal 
chain of mountains. The greater part of its surface has an elevation 
which gives it the character of a table land, and by its marginal 
chains it is separated from an eastern and a western lateral terrace. 

In California and Oregon, Utah and New Mexico, and in the coun- 
tries farther to the north, the two marginal chains are clearly and con- 
spicuously marked by nature. The eastern one is formed by the 
Rocky Mountains, the western one by the Sierra Nevada, Cascade 
Mountains, and their more northern equivalents. In Mexico, the w^estern 
chain is constituted by the Sierra Nevada, and is likewise clearly traced 
by nature ; but the eastern one, composed of that line of detached and 
irregular groups and ridges which crosses the Rio Grande from east to 
west at the narrows and rapids of San Carlos, is less conspicuous, and 
may be entirely overlooked by those who are not sufficiently informed 
about the matter. Nevertheless, as already stated, if the Rocky Moun- 
tains have a southern equivalent, it must be recognised in the mountains 
of western Texas, Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, San Luis Potosi, and Vera 



280 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Cruz ; and if the Sierra Madre has a northern equivalent, it must be 
recognised in the Sierra Nevada, the Cascade Mountains, and their 
more northern continuations : because the first line forms the eastern, 
the second line the western borders of the great longitudinal basin of 
our western interior, the whole construction being thus under the rule 
of a strict physico-geographical analogy. 

8. Though in respect to its prevailing elevation, this great basin may 
be called a plateau or table-land, still it has considerable differences of 
altitude, and three great slopes — not to speak of similar phenomena of 
a minor importance — which form transitions from the inner and higher to 
the outer and lower countries: that of the Rio Grande, thatof the Colorado 
and Gila, and that of the Columbia — the former breaking through the 
western marginal chain. 

Between the middle part of the valley of the Rio Grande and the 
middle part of the valley of the Gila, the country is less elevated than to 
the north and south of that line. The level o^Lake Guzman, situated west- 
southwest of El Paso, is, according to Mr. Schuchart, even lower than 
that of the Rio Grande at El Paso^ Lake Santa Maria must have 
about the same leveL Into this latter lake the Tlio Mimhres, which 
comes from the north, is said to empty in time of copious rains ; while 
from the south the Rio de Santa Maria, emptying into the same lake, 
rushes down from the central plains of Chihuahua. A line traced from 
these two lakes to the Dry Lagoon of Cook's route, forms a north- 
western continuation of this depression of the table-land ; and from the 
latter place the middle part of the Gila may be reached without over- 
coming any considerable elevation, which, however, would be found 
to exist to the north as well as to the south of that line. The upper 
Gila runs in a narrow part of the higher country north of it ; and 
though its bottom may be even lower than the level of the open country 
along the general line of depression, still that does not form an objec- 
tion against the general construction, as it has neither an opening to 
the Rio Grande nor is it accessible much higher up than where the 
road from Tucson first strikes it. If Cook's wagon route, in taking 
from Dry Lagoon a southwestern course to the Guadalupe pass, 
deviates to the south of our line, it is because it follows a series of fine 
watering and pasture-places, situated just between the mountains of the 
highest section of country, M'hich contains the origin of the southern 
affluents of the Gila and of the northern river of Sonora. 

9. Thus it would appear that an ocean of a level not much higher 
than the Rio Grande near El Paso would separate Mexico from the 
rest of North America. 

But an ocean of that level — setting aside the more important changes 
it would produce in the form of our continent — would cover the Colo- 
rado desert, and, extending over the deep mountain passes southeast 
of Los Angeles, would gain the Pacific here, and make an island of 
Lower California. 

It is very possible that such a state of things has really once existed. 
The nearly horizontal strata of the cretaceous formation of Texas 
appear to enter in a western direction and unconformable superposition 
between elevations of other sedimentary rocks and granite, syenitic, 
porphyritic, and trachytic mountains, which must have already existed 
when, and must have been above the surface of the ocean in which 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 281 

the cretaceous strata were deposited. Strata of that formation, in un- 
conformable superposition, appear to exist at several places between 
upheaved and eruptive tracts of country, in northern Chihuahua and 
Sonora. And if a closer geological investigation should really prove 
that, a little south of the upper and coinciding with the lower Gila, a 
branch of the ocean should once have formed a strait across what is 
now forming our present continent, we might say that some hundred 
thousand years ago the natural line of a railroad, which in our days 
should connect the eastern and western side of that continent, was 
already traced by nature. 

It is an interesting fact that the desert north of the Lower Colorado, 
which is in the western continuation of that old range of lower country, 
is, even now, perhaps, the lowest spot of the American continent — as, 
according to recent measurements, it is in part even somewhat under 
the level of the ocean. While travelling through that country, I was 
struck by certain phenomena connected with the periodical filhng and 
drying of what has been called Neu River, and of the several lagoons 
connected with it. The immense mud deposits of Little Lagoon, 
which I have examined, prove the former existence of long and unin- 
terrupted periods in which the water of the Colorado entered the 
desert and kept the bed of New River, together with the basins of this 
lagoon, full; while the existence of mezquit trees, now killed by its 
water, from which the upper parts of their trunks and branches 
emerge in a dead state, proves that otlier uninterrupted periods have 
passed when the water of the Colorado did not enter the desert. Now, 
it has been asserted that these fluctuations are the consequence of the 
more copious or more scanty rains in the countries drained by the 
Colorado and its tributaries; but the fluctuations appear to have 
been of such an extent in time and level, that the cause assigned to 
them appears to me to be inadequate to the effect, and I am more 
inclined to believe that the phenomenon is, at least in part, produced 
by fluctuations of the ground in consequence of the action of subterra- 
nean forces. There is a large solfatara even now in action at the 
northern side of the Lower Colorado. 

10. But to return to my strictly geographical object: It follows from 
the foregoing statements and remarks that the great longitudinal basin 
which constitutes the inner part of the western section of our continent, 
is divided, by a depression of soil which runs from the Middle Rio 
Grande to the Middle Gila, into a northern and a southern table-land, 
the former being that of New Mexico, Utah, Upper Oregon, and other 
more northern countries — the latter that of Mexico in its present 
confines, as they have been fixed by the Gadsden purchase. At 
the same time it can be seen how great an error it is, affecting 
the whole physical geography of the continent, to bring the Sierra 
Madre into connexion with the Rocky mountains. It makes the western, 
marginal chain of the southern to be the continuation of the eastern 
marginal chain of the northern half of the great longitudinal basin, 
separating analogous and confounding heterogenous phenomena of 
orography, of climatology, and of the distribution of vegetable and 
animal life. Those who have studied the climate, and the flora and 
fauna of these regions, will find that I am right in my assertions. 



282 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



MISCELLANEOUS CORRESPONDENCE 



NATU RA L HISTORY 



Some Retnarh on the Natural History of Beaver Isjaiids, Michigan. 

BY JAMES J. STRANG. 

Saint James, Beaver Island, December 7, 1853. 

Secretary of Smkhso7iia7i Institution : 

I have prepared for your use the following lists of animals, plants, 

&c., found upon the "Beaver Islands," in Lake Michigan, which I beg 

to submit to you. I am aware that these lists are quite imperfect, but 

hope they will serve some useful purpose until better can be prepared. 

Truly and sincerely, vours, 

JAMES J. STRANG. 

DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 
Horses, oxen, sheep, swine, dogs, cats. 

WILD ANIMALS. 

Foxes, red, quite numerous. 

Foxes, black, scarce; silver grey, very rare. Some hunters assert 
that these are the same variety, the colour only distinguishing the sex. 
The silver grey is the most valuable fur in market, a single skin being 
priced at more than fifty dollars. 

Hare, or rabbit. Two species, large and small. 

Chipmunk, or red ground-squirrel. 

Otter, very scarce. 

The beaver are extinct. Caribou, or reindeer, range as far south as 
here, but visit the islands only on the ice, and very rarely. Elk are 
found on the east shore, and bears on both. American deer are found 
as near as Green Bay and Manistee river, piloting civilization. 

BIRDS. 

Geese, brant, duck (numerous varieties), loons, gulls (two varieties), 
crows, hawks, (several varieties), woodcock, pigeons, blackbird, robin, 
redheaded woodpecker, snipe, snowbird, pewee. 

FISHES. 

In some of the small streams on the mainland "brook trout" are 
found in abundance. Most of the streams are destitute of them, but 
abound in other fish, the names of which I do not know. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 283 

The small lakes within the islands, as well as the mainland, are well 
stocked with fish, of which perch, suckers, and bass, are the most 
abundant. 

In lake Michigan, among and around the islands, are sturgeon, pike, 
pickerel, siskowit, trout, whitefish, herring, suckers, perch, ling or 
lawyers. 

Sturgeon, {Aupenscr.) — I have been able to learn ver}- little of the 
habits of the sturgeon. While the shoal channels among the islands are 
frozen, the tribe of Indians residing on Garden Island depend much 
upon them for subsistence. They are usually taken with spears, in 
from one to four fathoms water. 

The quality of the flesh is very fine. Properly cooked, it can scarcely 
be distinguished from veal cutlet. They also make from them conside- 
rable quantities of lamp-oil, quite superior to that furnished by contract- 
ors for the light-houses. 

The mode of taking them is as follows : The fishermen go onto the 
ice at the favorite resorts of the sturgeon, and cut holes through the ice 
about one foot in diameter. By the side of the hole they put down a 
small quantity of hemlock or cedar brush, (either of which is an anti- 
dote to frost.) 

On the brush the fisherman lies down, with his head over the hole, 
covering himself entirely with his blanket, so as to keep out all light, 
except what reflects up from the water. He is provided with a spear 
of great strength, usually consisting of but one tine, with three or four 
barbs on one side. The spear-handle is thirty or forty feet long, and of 
heavy wood, so that it \\'\\\ penetrate the water with a slight effort. 
The spear is not made fast to the handle, but slightly pressed into a 
mitre in the end of it; so that the first motion of the fish will take the 
spear out of the handle. But the spear is connected to the handle b}' 
a strong^ cord several fathoms in leuQlh. The reason for this is, that the 
struggles of the fisli would break a very strong sjjear handle if the 
spear was fastened. But, by this arrangement, the fish spends his 
strength in pulling upon the cord, without being able to get loose. 

It is supposed the fish congregate around the holes m the ice to 
breathe the fresh air. The fisherman w'atches their coming, and seiz- 
ing the first favorable opportunity, seldom fails of taking one if within 
twenty or thirty feet. The sturgeon are exceedingly shy. The}^ are 
not sought in the summer, and ver}^ seldom taken in seeking other fish. 

I have never learned the weight of sturgeon in this region. They 
are usually from four to seven feet long — and arc of value simply as 
winter subsistence for the Indians. 

Pike and Pickerel. — I can communicate nothing reliable concerning 
pike and pickerel. They are taken in small quantities for market ; but 
none of the fishermen have been able to give me any information as to 
their habits. It is even disputed among fishermen whether they are 
not one and the same variety offish, though, I think, without any good 
reason. 

Siskowit, {Salmo siskowit.) — Siskowit abound principally in Lake 
Superior, where the best quality are taken. But the}^ are taken in 
limited quantities in Lake Michigan. Fishermen generally suppose 
they are a mule between trout and white-fish, and their appearance 



284 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

favors this opinion. But they are very abundant in parts of Lake 
Superior where the quantity of white-fish and trout is not large, and in 
various parts of Lakes Huron and JMichigan. Where white-fish and 
trout are always found together, no siskowit are found ; which is hardly 
consistent with the theory that they are produced by a crossing of the 
two. Five minutes' intelligent observation at the spawning season 
would dispel the doubt, but I can find no person who has made it. 

The siskowit is the fattest of all fish, and yet has no unpleasant or 
oily odor. It is valued in market above all the fish of the lakes. But 
there is a speciesofwhite-meated trout, of indifferent quality, so greatly 
resembling siskowit that it is frequently sold under that name, by which 
means the siskowit is undervalued, except where well known. 

Mackinac Trout {Salmo amethrjslus). — The trout of this region have 
a world-wide fame, under the name of Mackinac trout. There is no good 
reason for the use of this local name, as they are found from Dunkirk, 
on Lake Erie, to Fond du Lac, on Lake Superior, and Milwaukee, on 
Lake Michigan, and I presume through a much wider region. What 
relation they bear to the trout of other regions I am unable to deter- 
mine. 

The trout are great eaters, and subsist principally on other fish. 
They are always pursuing white-fish and herring, and are not unfre- 
quently caught in the nets while stealing white-fish from them. 

Lidians take them in the winter with spears, in the same manner as 
the sturgeon ; also, in the same manner, with snatch-hooks instead of 
spears, using an artificial deco}'^ fish, but no bait. 

Trout are taken for market by trolling, with snatch-hooks, set liooks, 
gill-nets, and seines. 

The apparatus for snatching trout can hardly be described as " a 
stick and a string, with a worm at one end and a fool at the other." 
A trout hook is made of steel wire, from one fourth to three eighths of 
an inch in diameter, is weighted with about two pounds of lead, in the 
shape of two cones with the bases joined, through which the shank 
passes lengthwise. The line is a cotton one of the strength of a bed 
cord, usually from three to six hundred feet in length. In fishing 
through the ice, the moment a bite is felt the fisherman throws the line 
over his shoulder, and runs with all his might, in a direct line, till the 
fish is on the ice. When in a boat, he allows the fish to run with the 
hook, occasionally pulling lightly, till the captive's strength is exhausted, 
and then pulls him in. As high as eighteen barrels have been snatched in 
one week by two persons ; but lour barrels a week is vei}^ good 
fishing. 

Of trolling and set-hooking I could add nothing to what is generally 
known, except that the apparatus corresponds in strength with that 
used in snatching. Seining and gill-netting will be described under the 
head of whitefish. 

I think the average weight of trout caught in seines and gill-nets 
(after dressing) is not above four pounds. Those caught with hooks 
are a trifle heavier. But individuals weighing fifteen pounds are com- 
mon, and the}^ have been taken of above fifty pounds weight. 

Their spawning season is in autumn, about the first of November; but 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 285 

individuals are found with mature spawn several months earlier. I 
have thought it possible that they spawn more than once a year. 
5' Whitefish (Coregomis). — The wiiitefish are the most abundant, 
and, as an article of commerce, the most valuable fish of" this region. 
Fifty thousand barrels per annum are taken among the Beaver Islands, 
and the quantity is rapidly increasing. As an article of food they are 
preferred to the trout, and inferior onlj^ to siskowit. Indians occasion- 
ally take them througii the ice with spears. But the}' are only caught 
in quantities with seines and gill-nets. 

Seines of all sizes are used in the usual manner. The seining begins 
soon after the disappearance of the ice in the spring, and lasts from one 
to three weeks, when various kinds of fish are taken, suckers being- 
most abundant, but whitefish are taken in large quantities. Tl:ie 
spawning season makes about three weeks of whitefish seining in 
November. 

Fishing is principally done with gill-nets. The season begins from 
the middle of May to the forepart of June, according to the warmth of 
the weather, and usually ends the first week in December. 

Gill-nets are usually about five or six feet wide, and twenty rods 
long. If designed for trout the meshes are four inches, for whitefish 
three and a half, and lor herring three inches. When set for fishing, one 
edge is weighted with stones and the other buoyed up with cedar floats, 
so that they maintain a vertical position. From six to twelve nets 
are bridled too-ether and called a oano. 

When the nets are prepared for setting, the fisherman takes them to 
.-ome favorite resort of the fish, usually a feeding or spawning place, 
and first sinks a stone anchor to the bottom and makes fast to it a 
buoy with a flag-staff and flag attached; then fastening the end of the 
gang to a buoy by a line long enough to reach the bottom, he rows or 
sails his boat in the direction he wishes to place the nets, paying out 
the nets as the boat moves till lie gets to the end, when he fastens to it 
another buo}' and flag by a line long enough to drop the net to the 
bottom. 

The nets are usualty leli in the water three days, when they are 
filled, the fish taken out, stones and floats taken off, and the nets dried, 
repaired, and prepared for setting again. Twenty fish to a net is a 
good yield, but as many as one hundred are sometimes taken. 

Whitefish come into the shoals in the spring (tor what purpose I 
have been unable to learn) ; hence the spring seining. The first 
gilling is usually in from two to five fathoms water. As the season 
advances they retire to deeper water, till by the first of September they 
are found in from fifty to one hundred and fifty fathoms water. Indeed, 
off Fox Island nets have been set with success in water fourteen hun- 
dred feet deep. The largest fish come from the deep water. 

The spawning season begins in November, and terminates in Decem- 
ber. This year (1853) it commenced November 11, and is apparently 
just closing (December 7). The spawning season is indicated by 
the fish leaving deep water and appearing in immense numbers on 
rock}^ shoals. The first day they appear upon the shoals the nets take 
all males, apparently well stocked with milt. The second day a few 
females appear among them, plump with spa^^"n. The proportion of 



286 . NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

females increases till after a week or ten days, when they are two, 
three, and four times as many as the males, after which the females 
slowly disappear, and the males last leave the spawning ground. 

The best opinion seems to be that the males precede the females 
only to prepare the ground, especially as they at that time assume an 
extraordinary roughness of the scales, and employ themselves con- 
stantly in scraping up gravel on which the spawn is subsequently 
deposited. Some, however, believe that the mere inclination to milt 
causes them to seek the proper positions without reference to the pres- 
ence or absence of females. Others still are of opinion that they pre- 
ceed only to wait for the females, and do not commence milting till the 
spawning commences. The males have been accused of lingering on 
the spawing ground to feast on the spawn ; but this is contrary to nature, 
and, undoubtedly, a slander. The most careful observers assure me 
they are employed in coverijig up the spawn. 

Seining during the spawning season is the most productive of ail 
fishing. Twenty barrels with a seine one hundred rods long is a com- 
mon haul. One hundred and forty-seven barrels have been taken at a 
single haul. But there are very few places adapted to it. The only 
situation adapted to it is a smooth sand or shingle beach, a bottom free 
from rocks and surrounded by rocky reefs. 

Herring {Coregonus). — Herring are taken in the same manner as 
whitefish; also in gill nets, set under the ice in winter. They are 
usually the first taken in the spring. I have not been able to learn 
their spawning season ; and their habits have been very httle observed. 
When heavy winds prevail, they seek shelter in quiet bays, and in the 
lee of the various islands. Flocks of gulls hover over them continually, 
and carnivorous fish pursue them wherever they go, even into the nets. 
They are killed by a very slight touch. Indeed, they seem to be the 
prey of everything that eats fish. 

The average weight of dressed herring is not above one pound. 
They are usually pickled in the same manner as whitefish, and not 
unfrequently sold under tliat name, but are too small to be desirable. 
When scalded and smoked, after the' Scotch mode, they are equal to 
any ever found in market, and are remarkable for fatness. Labor is 
too dear to justify saving them in this manner. 

I have never compared them anatomically with salt-water herring, 
and therefore do not know whether these are genuine herring. But 
from flavor and general appearance, I presume they are. [They are 
entirely different. — S. F. B.] 

Herring, whitefish, and trout, are found of several varieties, diftering 
materially in their qualities, and something in their appearance and 
habits. But we have no names for the several varieties, and their 
peculiarities have not been noted. 

Suckers {Catastomuf). — The lake suckers, though similar to the 
fish of the same name in most ot^ the western rivers, are very superior 
in quality for eating. For this reason, and to avoid the ill repute of 
the name "swc/cer," they are usually sold under the name of "lake 
shad," a name founded merely on caprice, and used for purposes of 
fraud. They are not supposed to bear any resemblance to the shad. 

Suckers are usually taken with seines, early in the spring, at the 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 287 



I 



mouths of rivers and brooks. • They frequent particular shores and 
shoals in June, but whether for spawning or some other purpose, I 
have been unable to learn ; they are there taken with seines in great 
quantities. Suckers are sometimes taken for manure alone. 

Perch. — Perch abound in all the waters of this region, except mere 
brooks, and are in constant use fresh, but are never preserved in any 
way. I find no man who has observed their habits in any respect. 
They are taken with hooks and spears with so much facility, that 
children hook them with pins, and spear them with sharpened rods. 

Bass. — Bass, of two or three varieties, are found in one of the lakes 
within this island ; I presume they abound in others. No notice has 
been taken of their habits, and I can get no information concernino- 
them from those who fish for them every 3'ear. They are taken both 
winter and summer. 

Ling or Lawyers (Lota). — These are a valueless fish, taken in 
small numbers. They will live twenty-four hours out of water. No 
amount of boihng will make the flesh tender. If exposed it will not 
rot, but only dries up like an oxhide. The Indians eat the livers only. 

SuNFiSH (Pomotis). — Sunfish abound in all the small lakes. Nothing 
is noted of them. I cannot get even an intelligent description of them, 
though they are frequently caught for food. 

General remarks. — Trout subsist on all kinds of fish. They 
are a voracious fish of prey, seizing and devouring, so far as we 
can learn, every other kind, even their own. Herring are their con- 
stant prey. Whitefish of two pounds weight have been found within 
the belly of the trout. Small trout are sometimes found in them. 
Whitefish in gill-nets are gnawed and torn by them, and in this opera- 
tion the largest trout are fi^equently themselves tangled in the meshes 
of the nets and taken. It is supposed they seek the spawn of other 
kinds of fish, and that the whitefish seek rocky shores to avoid them ; 
and in support of this theory it is alleged, among other things, that 
when the whitefish are spawning nets set a little further out catch 
trout. Possibly, however, this may arise from the habit of the trout 
of spawning in a little deeper water. 

Whitefish subsist on a kind of worm of the same structure as the 
leech. Probably it may be a leech, but white and semi-translucent 
for want of red blood,to prey upon. Also upon the seed of a kind of 
seaweed, or submarine moss, which exists in great abundance in all the 
deep waters of this region. On inquiry of a dozen intelhgent fishermen 
I can hear of but one instance of a whitefish being found with fish in 
his belly. 

Throughout the fishing region there are vast submarine meadows, 
rising almost to the dignity of forests. Probably most of the fish sub- 
sist on this growth, and a few only by prey. If this is the case, the 
supply of fish will ever be regulated by the productiveness of these 
fish-meadows ; for so numerous ai-e the spawn, that no conceivable 
amount of catching can sensibly diminish the stock offish. The usual 
spawn of a female is between fifty and one hundred thousand. 

Whitefish are only found in very pure water. In channels of the 
greatest depth, where steamboats are constantly passing and occasion- 
ally throwing over ashes and litter, the whitefish disappear. 



288 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Where fishing is extensively carried oh, many nets are lost by the 
lines parting, and the buoys and flags going loose. The nets remain 
at the bottom continually catching fish, which remain and perish. 
Other nets, with fish in them, are broken up by storms and left scat- 
tered about the bottom. The effect of this is to drive off" the fish and 
destroy the fisheries. But no amount of fishing, wiiere these calamities 
were avoided, has ever sensibly diminished their productiveness. 

Spawning grounds. — In passing over the lake in the fishing region, 
when the surface is perfectly unruffled, the man of science is surprised 
to see the bottom regularly yaved with large stones. Careful observation 
shows that, naturally, the bottom was strewn with boulders, varying 
in weight Irom such as can be lifted with one hand to mountain masses 
of detached rock. 

Selecting some convenient point with a large boulder as a nucleus, 
the others have been rolled together, so as to form a compact pavement, 
in some instances, of many acres in extent without a single blank 
S{face. In doing this work all the other ground is cleared of rock, ex- 
cept here and there a boulder of several tons weight. Throughout 
these pavements a few large boulders remain scattered as by the hand 
of nature. But, except them, the smallest rocks are in the centre of 
each pavement, gradually enlarging as j'^ou approach the circumference, 
till the outside courses are only perceptibly less than the scattered 
boulders which remain unmoved. There is an entire absence of all 
mathematical arrangement, but in its kind no work of man can be more 
perfect. 

The islands oi" this region are an upheaval, and in several places 
these pavements are now above water and can be examined to ad- 
vantage, and there can be no mistake as to their structure. They are 
found in the greatest depths that the eye can penetrate. Some are a 
few rods and others many acres in extent ; and the vacant spots inter- 
vening are (except occasionally an immense boulder) as thoroughly 
cleared of every kind of stone as a well-kept lawn. They present 
only the appearance of clean washed sand. 

Fish, when spawning, are observed to place small stones and pebbles 
in this same order, and all are agreed that these are spawning grounds. 
When it is considered that the ponderability of stone in water dimin- 
ishes as the depth increases, it rriay not be deemed incredible that the 
present known species of fish have made these pavements for spawn- 
ing grounds. I will not, however, speculate further, but submit the 
fact for the consideration of those more capable of judging. 

A thousand avocations and duties constantly pressing upon me have 
prevented my giving the attention to these subjects that I would be pleased 
to. But if the lew facts I have been able to obtain, and this hurried 
communication, prepared in haste (with many others) in the few hours 
that the last steamboat of the season lies in this harbor, is of any value, 
I shall be quite happy to continue to correspond, and to continue, as 
far as possible, to make observations for that purpose. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. ^ 289 

Oti (he habits of the Black Bass of the Ohio, (Gnjstcsfasciaius.) 

BY JOHN EOFF, ESQ., OF WHEELING- 

•'On my return from a small hunting expedition to the head waters 
of Sand creek, Jackson County, Virginia, I Ibund your kind letter of No- 
vember 26 ; and, in order to comply best with your wishes and views 
therein expressed, I will give you such a description of one particular 
species of iish, (which I consider the most valuable, on account of their 
quality as a pan-fish and their quantity,) in our western streams, viz : 
the bass, (called by the early settlers in the western country, yellow, 
or black perch). They are a remarkably active and voracious fish, with 
a large and hard mouth, and vary in size, according to their age, from 
three quarters of a pound to three pounds, and occasionally have been 
caught to weigh as high as six pounds or seven pounds. Their food, 
when small, appears to be all kinds of insects, (flies, worms, &c.); 
when larger, though not entirely leaving oft^ their earlier habits, their 
principal food is the smaller fish of other kinds. In the winter season 
they retire to deep and still water, and apparently hide under rocksy 
logs, &c., and remain there until the 1st of April, when they come out 
and begin to ascend the streams, apparently to find a convenient place 
for spawning, which commences about the 15th of" May, varying some 
little according to the warmth of the season, &c. When that event is 
about taking place, they appear to separate into pairs, male and female, 
and hunt out some retired place, or nook, where the water is about 
eighteen inches deep, and still, but adjoining deeper water, to which they 
can escape if alarmed; they there commence making their nests, 
that is, washing all the mud, &c., off the bottom, so as to leave it per- 
fectly clean, in a circular form, the diameter of the circle (or nest) being 
about twice the length of the fish; after which the female begins de- 
positing her eggs, which appear to become glued to the bottom, or small 
stones, in rows, after the deposit has taken place. She remains night 
and day, either on her nest, or swimming round about it, apparently 
guarding the eggs, and driving every other smaller fish away. This 
watching or guarding continues until the eggs are what is called 
hatched, which occurs in from eight to ten days, according to the tem- 
perature of the water. The young fish at first remain near the bottom, 
I and appear like a gauze veil floating. In two or three days they grad- 
ually rise and spread, the old one leaves them, they separate, and each 
one shifts for itself, i. e., hides under leaves, small sticks, and stones. 
I, as yet, have had no positive means of determining the precise time 
for a young bass to arrive at maturity, but suppose it to be three years, 
from the following facts. In the spring of the year (April) you may 
I find large numbers of young bass about two or two and a half inches in 
f i length, rather in company with other minnows ; in the following autumn 
(i and fall of the year you will find very few of that size, but congrega- 
ting together, and alone you will find a number from three to four inches 
in length; while during the same fall you may catch young bass of 
about eight inches long, with the formation of the 3'oung egg within 
them, preparatory for spawning the following spring. In the spawn- 
Mis. Doc. 24 19 



290 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

ing season you will find a large number of nests of small bass, 
the bass being ten or eleven inches long, which I have always con- 
cluded were three years old. Hence, from the above facts, you will 
perceive that the bass of our western country are valuable, and, at the 
same time, can be easier transferred, and in greater quantities, from 
one stream to another, than almost any other fish. All that is neces- 
sary to suppl}'" a pond with any quantit}^ would be to examine their 
nests at the time they are spawning, and to pick up the small gravel 
out of their nests, with the eggs attached thereto, and put them in a 
bucket of water, and place them in your pond, in such a position that 
smaller fish could not devour the eggs ; and in a short time they would 
hatch, and the young ones would help themselves. Or, to secure a 
larger (juantity in a short time, wait until the young are hatched, and 
are in innumerable (juantities, suspended over the nest; then, with a 

.(piece of gauze net, dip them up and empty them in a vessel containing 
as much pure water as will sustain them until you can convey them to 
your pond ; and then, as I before observed, they can support them- 
selves, while young, on insects, &c. Or, early in April or May, if you 
are fond of angling, you can go to a stream in which there are plenty, 

vand in catching fifteen or twenty, will almost always get nearly one 
half the number smaller ones. Put these into your pond unhurt; and, 
as they have not spawned that season, they will soon stock the water. 
Then all that remains to be done is to supply 3'Our pond with other 
small fish, minnows, &c., for food for tlie large bass, and they will in- 
crease in quantity just in proportion to their supply of food. Hence I 
am satisfied that if a farmer would convert one acre of his land into a 
pond, well supplied v^^ith fresh water, that acre would raise and support 
more fish yearly (the value of w^hich would be more,) than any other 
two acres cultivated in any other manner — the expense of cultivating 
deducted from each. 

Mr. William Shriver, a gentleman of this place, and son of the late 
David Shriver, esq., of Cumberland, Maryland, thinking the Potomac 
•river admirably suited to the cultivation of the bass, has commenced 
(he laudable undertaking of stocking that river with them; he has al- 
ready taken, this last season, some twenty or more in a live box. in the 
water tank on the locomotive, and placed them in the canal basin at 
Cumberland, where we are in hopes they will expand and do well, and 
be a nucleus from which the stock will soon spread. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 291 



Some RemarJcs on the Natural History of the country about Fort Ripley, 

Minnesota. 

BY J. F. HEAD, SURGEON U. S. ARMY. 

Comnmnicated by the Surgeon General of the United States .^rmy. 

[Extract.] 

* * * The mammalia most frequentlj'" found are the prairie and 
large gray wolf, (Canis latrans and C. occidentalism) the former very 
abundant; the red deer, {Ccrvus virginianiis,) not very numerous; the 
ground squirrel, {Sciurus striatvs,) field mouse, (Mus leucopus?) weazel, 
{Mustcla crminea,) muskrat, {Fiber zibethicus,) barlger, {Meles lahrado- 
ria,) and porcupine, {Hystric dorsata,) and occasionally the otter, {Lu- 
tra braziliensis,) marten, {Mustcla martes,) mink, {M. lutrcola,) skunk, 
{Mephietis amer.,) lynx, {Lynx canadensis,) and red fox, {Canis fulvus.) 
Other varieties of fox are taken somewhat further north, {C decus- 
satus, C. argentatus, and C. cinereo-argentatus,) and may inhabit this 
neighborhood. The black bear, {Ursus americanus,) though found 
in the surrounding country, has never been seen in the immediate 
vicinity of the post. The moose {Cervus alces) and carabou {C. 
tarandus) are said to be occasionally seen at about one hundred and 
fifty miles north, and the elk {C. canadensis) on the prairies thirty or 
forty miles west of this place. The gray squirrel {Sciurus caroli- 
nensis) is not found in any part of the territory. The buffalo {Bison 
americanus) does not approach within one or two hundred miles. In 
the autumn of 1848 the varying hare, {Lepus americanus,) vulgo "white 
rabbit," was very abundant, but during the following year {the winter 
of which was not unusually severe) they almost completely disappeared 
lirom a region for many miles around this point. Many of the Indians, 
-who depend much on these animals for subsistence during the winter, 
were consequently reduced to actual starvation. 

Of birds the following species have been identified : The golden 
eagle, {Falco fulvus,) bald eagle, {F. Icucocephalus,) owl, {Strix virgin- 
iana,) meadow^ lark, {Siurn'us ludovicianus,) red-winged and cow black- 
birds, {Icterus phcenicetis and I. pecoris,) crow blackbird, {Quiscalus versi- 
color, raven, {Corvus corax,) crow, {C. americanus,) blue jay, {C. cris- 
tatus,) chickadee, {Farus atricapillus,) cedar bird, {Bombycilla caroli- 
nensis,) kingbird, {Muscicapa tyrannus,) pewee, {M.fusca,) thrush, {Turdus 
rufus,) robin, {T. migrator ius,) yellow bird, {Sylvia (estiva?) blue bird, 
{Sialia wilsonii,) (rare,) snow bunting, {Emberiza nivalis,) wood-peck- 
ers, {Picus a.uratus, P. erythrocephahis, P. pubescens, king-fisher, {Alcedo 
alcyon,) swallow^ {Hirundo rvfa,) whipper-will and night-hawk, [Capri- 
mulgus vociferus. C. virg.,) pigeon, {Columba, migratoria,) " pheasant," 
or "partridge," {Tetrao umbellus,) grouse, {T. cupido,) *golden plover, 
{Charadrius pluvialis,) killdeer, {Ch. vociferus,) crane, {Grus canadensis,) 

*This bird, at first rather rare, but now rapidly multiplying in this vicinity, differs some- 
what in plumage, and perhaps in its habits, from the descriptions of T. cupido. It is possiblj 
T. phasianellus. Never having examined other species before coming to this station, and pos- 
sessing neither a plate nor a good description of the latter bird when specimens were procura- 
ble, I am at present unable to determine the question. 



292 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

green heron, (Ardea virescens,) curlew, {Namejims longirostr'is,) sand- 
pipers, (TrhigcE,) yellow-feet, {ToUmus vocifcrus,) smaller do., [T. jia- 
vipes, (peet-weet,) (T. manihmus,) upland plover, {T. hartramn?) snipe, 
[Scolapax wilsonii,) a few woodcock, {Sc. minor,) rail, (Rallus,) coot, 
{Fulica americana,) horned grebe, {Podiccps comutus,) terus, {Sterna^ 
several species,) goose, {Anscr canadensis,) brant, {A. bernicla,) loon, 
[Cohjmbus glacialis,) Mergus merganser, M. cucullatus. Ducks of the fol- 
lowing species, and doubtless others not identified : the golden-eye, 
{Fidigula clangttla,) scaup duck, or blue-bill, {F. marila,) bufFel-head, 
{F. albeola,) dusky duck, [Anus ohscura,) mallard, {A. bosckas,) summer 
duck, [Amis sj)onsa,) and teal {A. discors and A. crecca). The ducks* 
pass this point nearly in the order of the above enumeration, on their 
way northward, the first appearing about the middle of April, and re- 
turn nearly in an inverse order late in August and early in September. 
A few indivichials of nearly all the above-mentioned species appear to 
ibreed in this latitude, as does also occasionally the Canada goose. 
Lingering for a few weeks about the rice-lakes in this vicinity, where 
they acquire a fine condition and flavor, they continue their course to 
the south in October and November, by the middle of which month the 
last of the migratory tribes have disappeared ; and the grouse having 
retired into the recesses of the forest, the raven, blue jay, and snow 
bunting are left apparently the sole feathered inhabitants of this deso- 
late region. 

The reptiles have scarcely been noted. Of serpents, the only species 
seen are the common "garter snake," {Coluber sirtalis,) and a species 
of adder. The rattle-snake, if ever met above the falls of St. Anthony, 
must be very rare. Two are reported to have been killed at Sac 
Rapids, about 50 miles south of this place. 

The Jish most abundant in the Mississippi at this point, and in the 
neighboring streams and sm.all lakes, (which appear to be least scantily 
supplied with them,) are the "glass-eye," Ohio "salmon," or pike 
perch, {Luciopcrca americana,) lake bass, {Grystes ?iigrica,ns?) and 
rock bass, {Centrarchus ceneus'?) or species much resembling them; 
yellow perch, (Perca jiavescens,) of small size and somewhat rare ; a 
large species of sun-fish, {Pomotis appendix,) pike weighing from one to 
eight pounds, (Esox vittatus?) small cat-fish, {Pimelodus,) and a variety 
of suckers, &c., {Ci/prhiidae). The gar-pike {Lepidoste^is) has never 
been seen, nor are any of the salmonidae found in the streams falling 
into the Mississippi north of the Falls of St. Anthony. A species of 
whitefish, called by the Indians tulabie, (a Coregonus?) is taken, how- 
ever, in some of the lakes nearer to the sources of this river. A large 
pike, specifically distinct from that above mentioned, and weighing 
from eight to forty pounds, is occasionally taken here, and more fre- 
quently in the river Minnesota. Two specimens captured here 
weighed, respectively, 18 or 20 pounds. The only one examined 
seems to differ both from E. boreus and E. estor. 

The entomologist would find a wide field for research in this region. 
Insect life here appears to compensate for its brevity by its astonishing 
activity. During the short summer, the woods and prairies swarm 

*The canvass-back duck and red-head (F. valisneria and F. ferina) have never been ob- 
served here, though both are frequently met at Fort Snelling. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 293 

•with insects, among the most noticeable of which are the mosquito, the 
large "horse-fly," and the "black fly" — a small dipterous insect with 
black body and white legs. The last two species iniiict almost incon- 
ceivable torture on the domestic animals, effectually keeping in poor 
condition those turned out to graze, and obliging the farmer regularly 
to make a large smoke at night to windward of his cattle yard. The 
mosquitos are said to be more abundant here during June and July 
than in the swamps of Louisiana, and are a most serious annoyance, 
both by day and night, to those whose pursuits call them abroad. The 
honey-bee is unknown here, but is reported to have appeared in the 
southern portion of the Territory within a few j'^ears. * * 



On the habits of the Gojiher of Illinois ( Geomys hiirsarins). 

BY J. B. PARVIN, ILLINOIS COLLEGE. 

I send to the Institution a young gopher, a little more than naif 
grown, which I hope will reach you in safety. If he arrives alive, 
take a flour barrel and fill it half full of moist earth, potatoes, crn, or 
beets, at the bottom, for food, and he will dig down and help himself, if 
the earth is compact, so that he can make a hole in it without its 
caving in upon him. I have never seen them drink; but it will be well 
to set a dish of water where he can come out on the top of the earth 
and drink it. Keep the barrel covered loosely, but so that he cannot 
climb out ; and set it on a floor or plank, so that if he should get out 
he need not get easily into the ground. His habits of" digging and eat- 
ing you will see only by careful watching in the barrel. He uses his 
paws and his pouches to carry both dirt and food. He digs long holes 
in the ground, extending sometimes for rods or even miles, about two 
feet below the surface, and at suitable distances makes side cuts, at an 
angle of about 45^, running from the longitudinal main track up to the 
surface. Through these side cuts he carries up the dirt from the trunk 
below, as long as he finds it convenient to retain it, in his poaches — then 
he turns back and fills this side cut full of quite hard earth down to his 
main trenches, and then makes another and another side cut further 
on — filling all these up and stopping every crevice where light or air 
can enter, so that his abode, when finished, is one long winding pas- 
sage, wholly excluded from all light and air, from one to three or four, 
perhaps more feet under ground — generally about two feet, except in 
places where it is made deeper to deposite food in piles, or to procure 
water. In these subterranean passages he lives at all times, and 
gathers food, roots, &c., in summer, and stores them in large deep 
holes for winter. He is never seen above ground except in the rare 
cases when food becomes scarce in one field, or for some other cause 
he prefers another ; then he will sometimes condescend to walk a part 
of the way above ground, rather than persevere in his migration by 
digging below, and then for most part only in the night. Whether 
they live in droves or families, or only in pairs, is uncertain ; but 
if two strange gophers are put together, tliey at once attack each 



294 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Other, and the victor devours his antagonist. I cannot, therefore, send 
you a pair at once, as I promised ; and this is the first and only one I 
have seen this summer, except one killed and mangled in taking, so 
thoroughly did my boys wage their war of extermination on them last 
year. I will watch for more in the spring, if wanted. I have not 
time now for a more particular description, but will answer in future 
any questions desired. You are aware of its mischievous destruction 
of hedges and fruit-trees, as also of clover and all root crops. 



On the habits of a specica of Salamander, ( Amhhj stoma opacu?n.) Bd. 

BY THE REV. CHARLES MANN. 

Gloucester C. H., Virginia. 
One of my sons requests me to sa}'^ that, in all the cases in which he 
had found the Salamander with eggs, the latter were under the animals, 
both male and female being curled up over them. From the number 
found in this way, there can be little doubt of the eggs having been laid 
by the animals. This was the case with the specimen sent. The 
first specimen obtained a year ago with eggs, which he could find no 
means of sending you, and the one sent, ivejx found in November. He 
says, he has seen them in the summer with eggs. The localities are 
the beds of small iwnds in the woods, which in rainy seasons have 
water in them, but were dr}" when he obtained these. I sent a younger 
son, the other day, to get other specimens; and he returned saying he 
found but one pair, and they ran into the water (the late rains having 
partially filled the pond). These had hatched, and had several young. 
The nests of theone sent, and of others previously taken, were in a small 
hollow in the surface of the earth, deeply covered with leaves, and 
under which were tunnels extending in various directions. In these 
hollows the animals were, as I have said, curled up over their eggs. 
M}'' son has been too much otherwise engaged to look for other speci- 
mens as 3^et, but will search for more and send them on if he succeeds 
in getting them. The specimens I mentioned in my letter were more 
interesting, because the eggs contained the embryos, as I supposed,, 
near the period of hatching. Not knowing how to keep them, I put 
them in a box of sand ; the old ones escaped, and the eggs dried up. 
The other varieties were found in a spring branch. We are fully 
assured they are oviparous; the old opinion of the young taking refuge 
in the stomach of the mother, may or may not be true. Of the com- 
mon lizard, we have more than once found the eggs with perfectly 
formed animals in them, on one occasion so formed, that the young one 
ran away on the covering of the egg being cut. 

My sons request me to send you some more Salamanders. A 
large one with one hundred and eight eggs under it was found in 
December. The young animals were so far matured that they were 
in motion as soon as released from the covering. Tlie largest specimen 
was found near a pond, sa}'^ twenty or thirty feet from it, and tunnels, 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 295 

like those of mole hills, extended from the nest in every direction under 
the leaves, as if the animals had been in search of food. Nosmallones have 
been found out of the water, except the very small ones which we send 
you, and these have come from the broken eggs. 



On the Amblystonia luridum, a Salamander inhabiling Wisconsin. 

BY p. R. HOY, i\I. D., OF RACINE, WISCONSIN. 

Characteristics: Back bluish-black, with light amber spots; tail com- 
pressed, larger than the body ; length 11 inches. 

Description: Bod}' robust, smooth, and shin}''; head large; snout 
rounded ; eye moderately prominent ; neck short, with a distinct cer- 
vical fold ; nostril small, sub-lateral; mouth opening beyond the eyes ; 
tail sub-quadrangular at its origin, then becomes compressed laterally, 
moderately arched, and terminated in an obtuse point, rounded on the 
upper and under edges, with a notch above just below the vent. A 
vertebral furrow at the termination of the body and origin of the tail. 
Legs stout, anterior four toed, the posterior five toed, and two fifths 
larger. 

Color: Above, back, tail, head, and extremities bluish-black, with 
reddish reflection, and spotted with pale amber; mouth and circle 
round the e3'e reddish lemon ; flanks with a row of large oblong orange 
spots slightly varied with lemon yellow. Below, abdomen slate-blue, 
spotted irregularly with pale lemon and orange ; tail, inside of legs and 
feet, thickly punctate with black, toes all tipped with the same ; throat 
and chin orange, irregularly sprinkled with crimson points. 

Length 11.00 

Head and body to centre of vent 5.25 

Tail 5.75 

Head, length to gular fold 1-20 

" breadth between the eyes 0.72 

" just back of the eyes 1-00 

" breadth between the nostrils 0.40 

Tail, breadth at vent 0.80 

" " one inch below 0.95 

" " at the vent 0.35 

Hind -leg, including longest toe 1.75 

Fore-leg, " " " 1-30 

Longest toe of hind-foot 0.43 

Longest toe of fore-foot 0.26 

Their motion on land is slow, but they swim with activity. They resent 
any insult offered to their mouth or eyes by quick and repeated strokes 
with their ample tails. I have met with but two individuals of this fine 
reptile, which were found about my cellar after a wet night. — (The 
first October 20, ]849, and the last November 1, 1850.) They are 
nocturnal, and, probably, only quit the water in the fall in order to seek 
some congenial winter quarters. 



296 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



DIARY 

Of an excursion to the ruins of Abo, Quurra, and Gran Qiihira. in New 
Mexico, under the command of 

MAJOR JAMES HENRY CARLETON, U. S. A. 

Wednesday, December 14, 1853. 

A squadron of cavalry, tbrraed of company "H," first dragoons, 
commanded b}^ First Lieutenant Samuel D. Slurgis, and company 
"K," first dragoons, commanded by Brevet Major James Henry Carle- 
ton, in all one hundred strong, with one 12-pounder mountain howitzer, 
left Albuquerque, at eleven o'clock this morning, as an expedition to 
explore the country around the ruins of Gran Quivira, New Mexico, 
and for other objects connected with the bands of Apache Indians who 
often infest that portion of the territory. 

Our route, for the first forty miles, lies down the left bank of the Rio 
Grande. This part of the country has often been described. Its prin- 
cipal features are easily named. The Rio Grande, at this point, 
averages about one hundred j^ards in width, and not more than eighteen 
inches in depth. Its waters are turbid, like those of the Kanzas. Its 
bottom and banks are composed of sand. The valley along the river 
is very level, and usually not over two feet higher than the surface of 
the water. In some places it is more than two miles bi'oad. It has a 
great deal of sand mixed with the soil; but it is remarkably fertile. 
From this valley a second bottom, or table-land, extends, by a gradual 
ascent, back to the mountains on either hand. This table-land is desti- 
tute of water and uncommonly sterile. The lower level, which skirts 
the river, and which is irrigated from it, is the source of nearly all the 
agricultural wealth of New Mexico. 

A storm of rain which came on yesterday continued, almost with- 
out intermission, for the whole of last night and until late this forenoon ; 
the roads are, therefore, ver}^ mudd}'. In consequence of the heavi- 
ness of the travelling, the squadron was encamped near the residence 
of an American gentleman, named Baird, seven miles 694 yards below" 
Albuquerque. Here we are able to obtain wood and hay ; but we are 
obliged to send across the Rio Grande to purchase corn. 

Thursday, December 15, 1853. 
About four o'clock this morning it commenced snowing, Nvith a 
piercing wind from the north. Our poor horses, exposed to the in- 
clemency of the storm, were soon chilled and trembling with the cold. 
By eight o'clock the weather began to moderate ; but we had snow- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 297 

squalls, from different points of the compass, for the whole forenoon. 
Before we reached a little hamlet, called Valencia, fourteen miles 265 
3^ards from our camp of yesterday, we encountered a shower of rain 
and sleet. As in this place we could get two corrals, wherein our 
horses could be partially sheltered, it was decided that we should en- 
camp here for the night. The weather seems singularly unpropitious 
for an expedition. It is said to be quite unusual to have these storms 
in New Mexico at this season of the year. To-night, however, at nine 
o'clock, the clouds have all left the heavens, and we have promise of 
a fair day to-morrow. 

Three Mexican citizens of respectability, a Mr. Chavis and two of 
his sons-in-law, came to our camp this evening, and informed Major 
Carleton that it was their intention to establish a colony of settlers at a 
point east of a range of mountains known as the Sierra Blanca, and 
along some streams affluent to the Pecos, called the Seven Rivers; that 
they proposed going with this command as far as Gran Quivira ; and that 
from that point to the Seven Rivers they desired to be furnished with 
an escort of dragoous. They were told that they could accompany the 
expedition as far as Gran Quivira, but that no escort would be given 
beyond that point. They were informed that Brevet Lieutenant Colo- 
nel Chandler, of the army, was about to proceed from near Dona Ana, 
with three companies, directly to the country in the neighborhood of 
the Seven Rivers, and, if they wished to do so, they could have the ad- 
vantage of his protection. Mr. Chavis concluded to go by the way of 
Gran Quivira, at all hazards; and to proceed across the country, from 
that point, even without an escort. The truth doubtless is, the old 
gentleman fancies that the purpose lor which this squadron is going into 
that country is to search for a great amount of treasures which are 
said to be buried beneath the ruins there, and he hopes he may be 
able to obtain a share of them. 

Friday, December 16, 1853. 

The weatlier became very cold last night ; all the ponds of water 

extending up and down the valley are frozen over, and the ground is 
I hard and resounds loudly at the tread of the column. The sand-bars 
= along the river seem to be covered with geese, ducks, and brant, which 
i have been driven by the ice from the lagoons and sloughs. They are 

so tame they hardly fly at our approach. 
[ We arrived at a little town, called Casa Colorada, about four o'clock 
! this afternoon. This place is thirty-nine miles 537 yards from Albu- 
\ querque. Here our road leaves the river for the mountains toward the 
; east. As it will take two days to march to Manzana, the next and last 

point where we can procure any corn, we are encamped for the night ; 

and shall here buy, and haul in our wagons to-morrow, the forage our 

animals will require to that town. 

The citizens of Casa Colorada gave a ball this evening in honor of 

our coming. The sudden arrival amongst them of so many armed 
' men is a matter of great astonishment. 

The result of our observations, as regards the general appearance of 

the inhabitants of the country, made during these first forty miles of 



298 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

our march, may be stated in a few words. The dirty little villages 
through which we have passed, as well as those we have seen in the 
distance, have generally turned out their inhabhants en masse to get a 
sight at us. This gave us a sight at them. Had we been painters it 
would doubtless have been an interesting one ; for men, women, 
children — motley assemblages — exhibited themselves to us in groupes 
picturesque, as well as in crowds grotesque. Some blanketed, with 
sombreros and cigarritos ; some with whitewashed and some with scar- 
let-dyed faces, some with rebosos, some nearly naked, some on house- 
tops shading their eyes with their hand, and some peering through 
chinks and crannies in the mud walls of their dwellings; but all 
curious as to whence we came and whither we were going. The 
national expression ot" Quie?i sabe appeared deeply written on every 
face. In no rancho or village have we seen a solitar}" indication of 
industry, cleanliness, or thrift since we lell Albu(|uerque ; and it may 
be remarked, parentheticall}^ that we have yet to see, in that town, 
the first evidence of these cardinal virtues. Indolence, squalid poverty, 
filth, and utter ignorance of everything beyond their corn-fields and 
acequias, seem to particularly characterize the inhabitants who are 
settled along the east bank of the river. We have seen nothing de- 
noting energy on the part of any one, save that shown by the old man 
Chavis and his two sons-in-law. On the contrary, we could but ob- 
serve atnongst them what seemed to be a universal proclivity for rags, 
dirt, and flllhiness, in all things; with sheer laziness and listlessness 
marking their ever}'^ movement and all that they do. It may be said 
that the people whom we saw were of the lower order ; but we were 
justified in coming to that conclusion from not seeing any of a better 
class. 

Saturday, December 17, 1853. 

We started this morning at eight o'clock. For about two miles our 
road lay up a gradually inchned plane, where we found ourselves on 
an almost level mesa that stretched, uninterruptedly, eastward to the 
base of those mountains which commence at the Snndia Peak and ex- 
tend towards the south below El Paso del Norte. 

This plain is sandy and entirely destitute of water. We saw several 
herds of cattle grazing upon it; but, so far as we could observe, there 
was very scanty pasture. Our guide, a Mexican, informed us that 
these herds are driven to the Rio Grande for water only once in two 
days. We saw but a solitary flock of antelopes, numbering some ten 
or twelve. Tfiis was midway between the river and the mountains. 

The scenery, viewed from elevated points on this plain, was very 
beautiful. The Socorro and the Ciboletla ranges of mountains, and 
the distant peaks of others toward the north, were covered with snow, 
and gleamed in tlie sun with dazzling splendor. The long Sierras 
towards which we were now moving were also clothed in a wmter-robe 
of white. They bounded the whole eastern horizon. Their tall sum- 
mits and jagged outline, like a fringed edge, standing sharp and cl arly 
defined against the morning sky, glowed in the light as if burnished 
with silver. While towards us, along their whole western slope — which 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 299 

descended toward the plain as a coast towards the ocean — the valleys 
and precipices reposed in cold blue shadows, chilly enough to make the 
beholder shudder in looking upon them. 

Just before arriving at the loot of these mountains, we found a pond 
of water four hundred yards to the right of the road. Our guide 
informed us that in the dr}^ season no water can be obtained at this 
place. 

There are here two passes through the mountains; the one on the 
left hand going eastward, leading through a difficult caTion;, is practi- 
cable only as a bridle path ; the one oh; the right hand affords every 
natural facility for making a most excellent road for wagons. 

These passes are known, in the language of the countr}', as Los 
Puertos de Aho. The summit of the right hand pass is nineteen miles 
and sixty-three yards from Casa Colorada, and hes east 20° south from 
that town. The road for this whole distance is by far the finest we had 
seen in New Mexico, and is not surpassed, in any point of excellence, 
by the celebrated shell road at New Orleans. 

The first outcropping of stone which we observed as we approached 
the mountains was of quartz, trap, and greenstone. These are sur- 
mounted b}'^ numerous strata of fossiliferous limestone, of good quality. 
These strata in some places are hundreds of feet in thickness. This 
latter formation prevails exclusively at the summit of the pass. 

There is no timber of any kind to be met with until you come near 
the top of the mountains ; the growth then is entirely of dwarfish piiion 
and stunted cedar. 

We encountered snow half way up the pass. The scene presented 
by the column winding its circuitous route to the summit, with parts of 
it lost to view behind some jutting crag, or just emerging into sight 
from some deep gorge — the foreground filled with the dragoons moving 
upon different turns of the road, the sun glancing brightly on their ap- 
pointments — the towering snow-clad peaks on either hand — the back 
ground the valley of the Rio Grande, with the distant mountains in the 
northwest marking with a serrated line the far off horizon — was a pic- 
ture whose beauty w"ill not easily be Ibi gotten. 

The general direction of the chain of mountains stretching north- 
ward of the pass toward Sandia Peak is north 10° west. The first 
elevated peaks southward of Sandia are called La Tetilla; the next La 
Sierra de la, Manzana; then come Los Puertos de Abo; and then the high 
range still further south which is known as La Sierra del Palo Duro. 

From the summit of the pass for the first two or three miles the road 
is very circuitous. It then has an easy gradual descent for about three 
miles further, when you come to a deep cailon which lies entirely to 
the left, but in sight of the road, and at a distance from it of six or 
eight hundred yards. There, in the cafion, good sweet water is always 
found. This place is called Agica de Juan Lvjan. Near this, but a 
few hundred yards further east, we passed a large spring of salt water. 
It is known by the Mexicans who travel the road as La Saluda. Pass- 
ing this, we next encountered, for some three or four miles, 7ncsas of 
dark chocolate-colored sandstone, through which w^ wound our way to 
a point where the roads forked. We took that which leads to the left 
hand. In less than half a mile, our road lying up the dry bed of a wet- 



300 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

weather creek, we came to a fine streamlet of fresh water. This was 
fringed by a beautiful gi'ove of cotton wood. At the distance of four 
hundred yards, after we struck the water, we came to the Ruins of 
Abo. Here we are encamped for the night. 

At this time, when so many surveys are making from different points 
along the Mississippi toward the Pacific, with a view of ascertaining 
the best route for a railroad track, perhaps the suggestion ma}^ be ot 
value that the Pass of Abo offers advantages in this respect which ma\ 
not be found in an}^ of the other passes through these mountains. Thev 
are certainly of sufficient consideration to make it an object to have 
this pass thoroughly explored before others shall be adopted. By 
directing the route from Anton Chico, on the Pecos river, immediately 
past the Ruins of Abo, and thence through the canon by which the 
bridle-path lies that has already been spoken of, the open plain in the 
great valley of the Rio Grande can be reached without tunnelling a rod, 
and with no more difficulty as to the blasting of rocks and grading 
down of acclivities, than has been encountered on any of the ordinary 
railroads in the United States. Let the road be directed across the 
plain so as to pass the Rio Grande at the mouth of the Puerco river, 
thence up the valley of that river to its west branch, and up the valley 
of that branch to Laguna; thence to Zufii, and from that point by the 
route which the indefatigable Whipple will without a doubt find, to the 
shores of the Pacific. These suggestions ma}^ possibly be of practical 
utihty to those who are engaged in by far the greatest enterprise of 
modern times. 

The Ruins of Abo consist of a large church, and the vestiges of 
many other buildings, which are now but little else than long heaps of 
stones, with here and there portions of walls projecting above the sur- 
rounding rabbish. There is yet standing enough of the church to give 
one a knowledge of the form and magnitude of the building when in 
its prime. The ground plan of this structure is in the form of a crosS; 
it^ longitudinal direction beins? within ten deorees of the magnetic meri- 
dian. It was, perhaps, situated exactly upon that meridian when the 
building was erected — the variation of the compass accounting for the 
present difference. The great entrance was in the southern end. From 
thence to the head of the cross, where the altar was doubtless situated, 
it is one hundred and thirty-two feet, inside. This, the nav^ of the 
church, is thirty-two feet in width. The short arm of the cross, or 
what in cathedrals is called the transept, is fbrt}-one feet in length and 
twenty-three in breadth. The transept is sixty-six feet from the door- 
wa}^ These measurements were made with a tape-line in a very high 
wind. The round numbers in feet are, therefore, only given, without 
noting the fractional parts of a foot. 

The walls are of great thickness, and their height is, at this day, in 
over half the structure, all of fifty feet. The upper edge of these walls 
is cut into battlements. The church, as well as the neighboring build- 
ings now in ruins about it, was built of a stratified, dark red sandstone, 
such as crops out along the creek and makes its appearance on the 
sides of the surrounding hills. The pieces of stone do not average 
over two and a half inches in thickness, and are not generally over one 
foot in length. Each piece is of the form it had when it was broken 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 301 

from its native bed. We saw not a single dressed stone about the 
ruins. These stones are laid in mortar made of the ordinary soil from 
the ground immediately at hand. The roof of the church was evidently 
supported by beams and covered with earth, as in the churches still 
occupied as places of worship throughout New Mexico. We saw no 
signs of an arch, nor any indication that those who planned and built 
the church at Abo were at all acquainted with architecture as a science. 
The walls over the doors and windows, so far as we could observe, 
had been supported by beams of wood. When these had become de- 
stroyed, those stones which were liberated above had dropped down; 
so that now, over each window there is a rude sort of Gothic 
arch, owing its form, not to design, but to accident. The wood-work 
of the church was evidently destroyed by being burnt. Wherever in 
the walls portions of beams still remain they are found charred and 
blackened by fire. 

The form of the church alone, proves it to have been designed by 
Christians. Perhaps the workmen employed in its construction were 
Indians. We saw a distinct mark of an axe in one of the pieces of tim- 
ber, which is imbedded in the east wall of the church some six feet 
from the ground. Saws also were doubtless used, but we discovered 
no marks of them. The stick of timber marked with the axe, and some 
beams that supported a landing at the head of the stairway which is 
made in the west wall, were the only pieces of wood about the ruins 
which were not burned so much over their surface as to obliterate all 
marks of tools. 

The extent of an exterior wall, which, from the appearance of the 
present heaps of stones, once surrounded the church and the town, was 
about nine hundred and forty-two feet north and south, with an average 
width east and west, of say four hundred and fifty feet. A large popu- 
lation must have occupied this town and its neighborhood, if one were 
to judge of the number of people by the size of the church built to 
accommodate them at their devotions- 

We saw few, if any, unmistakeable signs that the ground had been 
cultivated in the vicinity of these ruins. Nor is there any good arable 
land, so far as we could observe, at any point nearer the Rio Grande ; 
for uplands to be arable, in the climate of New Mexico, must be so 
situated as to be capable of irrigation. The stream of water at Abo is 
in a deep ravine. It is very inconsiderable in point of size, and loses 
itself in the sand in less than five hundred yards below the springs 
which feed it. The adjacent country is rolling and broken, and cov- 
ered with pifion and cedar. The underlying rocks are secondary red 
sandstone. The summits of the mesas and neighboring eminences are 
composed of grey limestone filled with marine fossils. 

It was nearly night when we reached Abo. There was a keen 
freezing gale from the northwest, and the whole appearance of the 
country was cheerless, wintry, and desolate. The tall ruins, standing 
there in sohtude, had an aspect of sadness and gloom. They did not 
seem to be the remains of an edifice dedicated to peaceful, religious 
purposes, a place for prayer, but rather as a monument of crime, and 
ruthlessness, and violence.' The cold wind when at its height appeared 
to roar and howl through the roofless pile hke an angry demon. But 



302 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

when at times it died away, a low sigh seemed to breathe along the 
crumbling battlements; and then it was that the noise of the distant 
brook rose upon the ear like a wail. 

In the mystery that envelopes everything connected with these ruins — 
as to when, and why, and by whom, they were erected ; and how, and 
when, and why, abandoned — there is much food for very interesting 
speculation. Until that mystery is penetrated so that all these ques- 
tions can be answered without leaving a doubt, Abo belongs to the 
region of romance and fancy ; and it will be for the poet and the painter 
to restore to its original beauty this venerable temple, to rebuild its 
altars, and to exhibit again unto us its robed priests, its burning cen- 
sers, its kneeling worshippers. 

Sunday, December 18, 1853. 

It took us until half past nine o'clock this morning to complete our 
examination of the ruins. We then marched over a rolling and, in 
places, broken countr^^ twelve miles 760 yards, and in a general direc- 
tion of N. 12° E. For the whole of this distance the country is covered 
with groves of cedar and pinon trees. We then came to the Ruins of 
Quarrd. These appear to be similar to those of Abo, whether regarded 
with a view to their evident antiquit}^, the skill exhibited in their con- 
struction, their preservation at the present time, or the material of 
which they are built. They too are situated upon a small stream of 
water that soon disappears in the earth. 

The church at Quarra is not so long by thirty feet as that at Abo. 
We found one room here, probably one of the cloisters attached to the 
church, which was in a good state of preservation. The beams that 
supported the roof were blackened by age. They were square and 
smooth, and supported under each end by shorter pieces of wood carved 
into regularly curved lines and scrolls, hke similar supports which we 
had seen at the ends of beams in houses of the better class in Old 
Mexico. The earth upon the roof was sustained by small straight 
poles, well finished and laid in herring bone fashion upon these beams. 
In this room there is also a fire-pkce precisely like those found in the 
Mexican houses at the present day. 

We had heard that in a stone panel inserted in the front end of the 
church at Quarra we should find emblazoned the ^/ewr-fZe-Zii, the ancient 
armorial bearings of France; and many therefore supposed that possi- 
bly this church had been erected by French Catholics who had come 
as missionaries across the country from the direction of New Orleans. 
But we saw no panel, no fleur-de-lis, and no stone of any kind, that 
bore marks of a chisel or of a hammer. Every piece in the church, in 
the cloisters, and in the debris of a neighboring village, was in the same 
rough form which it had when it was broken tj-om the quarry. 

The course from Quarra to the town of Manzana is, W. 35° N. ; the 
distance is four miles 1,145 yards. We now find ourselves at a very 
great elevation. The whole country is clad in a winter garb. The 
high Sierra de las Manzanas, and the towering pyramidal peaks called 
Las Tetillas, gleam with a depth, it is said, of more than two feet of 
snow. 

The town of Manzana is situated at the base of the Sierra of that 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 303 

name, and a small rivulet which, in running eastward to the open plains, 
soon sinks into the ground. Several dams are constructed along this 
rivulet, to collect and retain the water for purposes of irrigation. The 
town is built partly of logs set on end jacal fashion, with the interstices 
filled with mortar, and with roofs covered with earth, and partly of 
adobes. It sports a very dilapidated church, erected, it would seem, 
as a practical antithesis to the morals of the inhabitants ; for Manzana 
enjoys pre-eminently the wide-spread notoriety of being the resort of 
more murderers, robbers, common thieves, scoundrels, and vile aban- 
doned women than can be found in any other town of the same size in 
New Mexico, which is saying a good deal about Manzana. Fortunately 
it contains but few inhabitants, not more than five or six hundred at 
most. It is not an old town. When the first settlers came here they 
found two groves of apple-trees, one just above the site now occupied 
by the town, and one just below. Tradition says these trees were 
planted at the time Abo and Qiiarrawere inhabited; and yet, tradition 
has lost all trace of when that lime was. It is said the Catholic church 
of New Mexico claims that they were planted by some priests, but 
admits that it has no records or authentic traditions about the ruins 
we have visited. Her claim, however, that some priests did this at 
some period or other, is good enough to authorize her to farm out 
these two orchards yearly, as we were informed, to the highest bidder. 
Two of the largest trees in the lower grove were found to be respec- 
tively eight feet and six feet in circumference. The largest was hollow 
— a mere shell of an inch or two in thickness. These trees have a 
venerable appearance. They have never been pruned, and have, 
therefore, grown gnarled and scraggy. Many of them are much smaller 
than those which were measured. They have grown, doubtless, from 
seeds which have fallen from the older ones. How long this process of 
self-planting has been kept up, of course, no one can know. Apple- 
trees are not indigenous to New Mexico. Assuming it to be true, how- 
ever, that the largest of these trees were planted at the period referred 
to, then the ruins of Abo and Quarni are more than two centuries old. 

These two groves, or rather these two clumps of trees, are not stand- 
ing regularly in rows and orchard-like; on the contrary, they are 
crowded together in the most irregular and natural manner. 

The name of this town, and of the towering Sierra to the west of it, 
was adopted from finding these orchards 'here ; Manzana being the 
Spanish for apple, and Mavzano the botanical name m that language 
for apple-tree. The nam.e of the town is spelt indiscriminately in both 
ways throughout New Mexico. 

Immediately about Manzana, and up the slope towards the high 
mountains west of the town, there is a pine forest many miles in extent, 
of most excellent timber for boards and for building purposes. Some 
twenty-five or thirty miles in an easterly direction there is a large salt 
lake, which has no outlet. This lake, supplies nearly the whole of the 
upper portion of the territory with salt. There are fine n^ads leading 
towards it from different directions. We were informed that the bottom 
of the lake is covered with a sheet of solid salt, which, in the dry 
season, is some three or four inches in thickness. When the rainy 
season sets in, filling the lake with fresh water drained from the sur- 



304 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

rounding prairies, this sheet of salt is said to dissolve down to half this 
thickness. We were not prepared to exaniine and visit this lake. It 
lies directly off our route, and has neither wood nor fresh water within 
many miles of it. The proper time to go to it would be during the 
rainy season and when there is grass. 

We had procured orders from the vicar general of New Mexico for 
what corn we should require at Manzana — corn which had been paid 
in by the peasantry as tithes (diezmos) to the Catholic church. When 
we arrived there, we found that the corn belonging to the church was 
some six or eight miles off, at another village, called Torreon. So we 
were forced to buy on credit what forage we required. 

Here we learned that a small party of Texans had recently been at 
the ruins of Gran Quivira in search of treasures. Whilst there they 
sent an Apache Indian in to Manzana for some articles they wanted. 
An American named Fry, a hunter, who lives at Manzana, went out to 
the ruins in company with two Mexicans to see these Texans; when 
he reached there he found them gone. He ascertained while he was 
gone that there was no water to be found at a "pond where our Mexican 
guide expected we should find it, as it had dried up ; and that unless we 
found another small pond some six or eight miles from that, and which 
our guide knew nothing about, we should be obliged to go without any, 
tor he said there was probably no snow about the ruins, as about 
Manzana, which we could melt. So Fry was employed to pilot us to this 
pond, as, failing to find it, we could obtain no water nearer to Gran 
Quivira than at the little stream at Quarra, which is a distance of thirty- 
five miles. 

Monday, December 19, 1853. 

This morning we loaded the wagons with all the corn they would 
hold ; but it did not amount to over two days' feed, as our other supplies 
had to be taken along besides. In addition to this the dragoons put 
into their haversacks enough for their horses for one night. We started 
about ten o'clock in the morning and retraced our steps toward Abo, to 
a point on the road known as arroijo tie la Cienega — a dry bed of a wet- 
weather stream. This is nearly two miles below Quarra. Here we 
left the beaten track and took a course across the country in the 
direction of E. 40° S. After travelling some six miles we struck an 
Indian trail which leads from Manzana to the country of the Mescalero 
Apaches. This we followed in the same general direction to some 
holes in the rocky bed of another wet- weather stream called Las Agua- 
clias. These often contain water enough for a small party with 
animals, but we found them quite dry. One, only, had a small cake of 
ice, but no water. They are 13 miles 1,022 3'ards from where we left 
the road. The country for this distance is quite barren. It has but 
little grass, but is covered with the tall branching cactus, and with 
scattered clumps of pinon and cedar-trees. On our right hand, for the 
last third of this distance, we have had a mesa covered with timber to 
its summit, which is called L,a, Mesa de Jos Tumanes. It is improperly 
laid down upon the maps as a Sierra, or mountain range. It runs from 
west to east, commencing a few miles south of Abo and ending in a 
point on the plains about fifteen miles east of Las Aguachas, where we 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 305 

cross over it by ascending gradually through an open prairie, which can 
easily be seen from the place where we left the road below Quarra. 

The stone that crops out at Las Aguachas is a remarkably fine sand- 
stone, suitable for grindstones and whetstones. The best is at the 
upper end of the ravine where the last pool of water would be found 
in the wet season. 

When we reached this point it was nearly night. A cold piercing; 
wind was blowing, and it was yet some miles to the place where we 
hoped to find water. The wagons were some two or three miles 
behind; Major Carleton pushed on with the squadron, having Fry for a 
guide, to find the pond before dark ; leaving Lieutenant Sturgis with 
twelve men at Las Aguachas, to wait for the wagons, and then follow 
with them on the trail. The Mexican guide stayed with the lieutenant, 
that he might track the squadron after night should set in. After travel- 
ling a little over five miles, the squadron arrived at the water. It was 
found in a deep hollow in the open prairie. The pond is not over 
eighty or one hundred yards in diameter, and might easily be missed 
afi:er dark even by one acquainted with its locality. The water is 
fresh and sweet. This pond is nearly a mile from timber. It lies 
immediate^ off against the mouth of a pass through the Mesa de los 
Tumanes, and is known to the shepherds as JLa Laguna de la Puerta, 
the Lake of the Pass. Here we made holes in the ice, and, having 
watered all the horses, moved up into the pass, where we found wood 
in abundance, and very good protection from the cold wind. We soon 
had large fires burning, which served as a beacon to the lieutenant, 
who was behind bringing up the wagons. Shortly after dark he arrived. 
One of the wagons was immediately unloaded and sent with the water- 
kegs to the lake; the men taking lanterns to see to get the water through 
the ice. By ten o'clock at night our horses were groomed and fed, 
the men had had their suppers, and large piles of pinon wood were 
blazing the whole length of the camp, giving it a cheerful and pictu- 
resque appearance. 

This camp is twentj'-five miles and 90 3rards from Manzana. 

Tuesday, December 20, 1853. 
As we knew it would be quite impossible to march to Gran Quivira 
and make the necessary observations there and back to the laguna in 
one day, it w^as decided to rest this forenoon, and to fill the kegs and 
India rubber water-tanks with water, and then to march to the ruins in 
the afternoon ; to encamp near them to-night; to employ the forenoon 
of to-morrow in their examination ; and then to return to-morrow even- 
ing to this place. In this way our animals would not be without wate 
more than a day and a half We accordingly broke up our camp 
about half-past twelve o'clock. After we had filled our kegs and 
tanks at the laguna, we ascended a high ridge for a mile or more, when 
our guide pointed out to us what he said was the great church or cathe- 
dral, at Gran Quivira. It was in an air line all of thirteen miles dis- 
tant, and yet we could see it distinctly with the naked eye. We could 
have seen it easily when five or six miles further off, had there been no 
obstruction to the view ; a proof of the remarkable clearness of the 
atmosphere in this elevated region. It lies S. 5° E by the corn- 
Mis. Doc. 24 20 



306 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

pass from Laguna tie la Puerta, and served for a land-mark towards 
which to direct our march. Our course was a verj'' straight one ; for 
the country, which is an open rolling prairie, offered no impediment to 
our moving in a right line. The weather changed to be very cold 
during the afternoon ; when near sunset a fierce wind arose from the 
direction of the snow-clad mountains in the west, and a cold vapor 
like a cloud came over the country, enveloping everythmg in a dense 
fog, and covering men and horses with a hoar frost. It was feared 
that the gale would change into one of those dreadful winter northers 
which are sometimes experienced in this country, and which are so 
fatal to men and animals when exposed to their fury on the open 
-prairie. So the direction of the march was changed, that we might get 
•the shelter of the timber on the slope of the Mesa de los Tumanes, 
•which stretched along our right at a distance of not more than three or 
four miles. This we struck very opportunely, just as night was setting 
in. We soon had large fires blazing, and all our horses well blanketed 
and picketed on the leeward side of them, to get the benefit of the 
heated air and of the eddy in the wind from the long line of tents. In 
this way they were kept Irom suffering, although the night was uncom- 
monly cold and inclement. 

So still another day has passed away, and the ruins are not yet reached. 
Quivira would seem alwa3^s to have been a difficult place to arrive at. 
We find in Castaneda's history of the expedition into this country 
made by Francisco Vasques de Coronado, in 1540, '41, and '42, that that 
general was forty -eight days in hunting for it, starting from some point 
between the Rio Grande and the Gila river. All the way from Albu- 
querque we have asked the people of the country where the ruins 
were situated"? How they looked"? Who built them"? &c., &c. To 
all these questions we could seldom get a more definite reply than 
Quien sabe'^ It seemed as if the genii who, in the Eastern tale at least, 
-are said to guard the depositories of great treasures, were determined 
to make the existence of such a place as Gran Quivira as much of a 
problem to us as to the Mexicans themselves. We had seen, before 
the fog set in, an edifice in the distance, which had seemed to move 
away as we approached it, like the weird lakes of water in a mirage. 
But to-morrow, at all events, will decide for us whether that edifice be 
a Fata Morgana or not. 

Wednesday, December 21, 1853. 

At daybreak this morning every tree and spire of grass, and even 
the blankets upon our horses, were covered with ice. The trees 
seemed as if every twig was made of frosted silver. The wind had 
gone down, and overhead the sky was clear; bat a lieavy bank of fog 
extended all along the east, obstructing our view of the Sierra de las 
Gallinas, which bounds the horizon in that direction. It was long ere 
the approaching sun waded up through so dense a veil. 

Soon after we left camp we again saw the cathedral of Gran Qui- 
vira ; but in surmounting one eminence after another as we moved 
along over a rolling country, the ruins, phantom like, seemed to 
recede before us the same as yesterday. When we first saw them 
this morning thev appeared to be about a mile and a half distant, when 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 307 

in reality they were more than five miles off. The last three of these 
five miles' travel was over nothing but a succession of sand hills 
covered with a tall coarse grass, with two or three heads on each stalk, 
which seemed to be peculiar to this place. The horses sank more 
than fetlock-deep into the soft yielding sand ; while it was with great 
difficulty that the mules, at a snail's pace, drew the wagons along. 

At eleven o'clock in the forenoon we came to the last high ridge on 
the point of which the ruins are situated. This ridge is composed of 
dark blue compact hmestone, which crops out in several places along 
its slopes. The ascent is quite abrupt on every hand, except towards 
the east; the ridge is prolonged in that direction for several miles. We 
all felt rejoiced that finally we had reached a place about which so 
much had been written, and yet so little had really been known. 

Whatever may have been the grandeur and magnificence of that 
place in ages long past, its present appearance and condition are easily 
described. 

We found the ruins of Gran Qaivira to consist of the remains of a 
large church, or cathedral, with a monastery attached to it; a smaller 
church or chapel; and the ruins of a town extending nine hundred feet 
in a direction east and west, and three hundred feet north and south. 
All these buildings had been constructed of the dark blue hmestone 
which is found in the vicinity. 

The cathedral, which we had seen from Laguna de la Puerta, is one 
hundred and forty feet long outside, with the walls nearly six feet in 
thickness. It stands longitudinally W. 15c> S., with the great entrance 
in the eastern end. The altar was in the western end. Like the 
churches at Abo and Quarra, it is constructed in the form of a cross. 
From the doorway at the foot of the cross to the transept, it is eighty- 
four feet seven inches ; across the transept it is twenty-one feet six 
inches ; and from thence to the head of the cross it is twenty-two feet 
seven inches ; making the total length, inside, one hundred and twenty- 
eight feet eight inches. The width of the nave is twenty-seven feet ; 
the length, inside of the short arm of the cross, is thirty-six feet. A 
gallery extended along the body of the cathedral for the first twenty- 
four feet. Some of the beams which sustained it, and the remains of 
two of the pillars that stood along under the end of it which was nearest 
to the altar, are still here ; the beams in a tolerably good state of pre- 
servation — the pillars very much decayed ; they are of pine wood, and 
are very elaborately carved. There is also what, perhaps, might be 
termed an entablature supporting each side of the gallery, and deepl}^ 
embedded in the main wall of the church ; this is twenty-four feet long 
by, say, eighteen inches or two feet in width ; it is carved very beauti- 
fuU}^, indeed, and exhibits not only great skill in the use of various 
kinds of tools, but exquisite taste on the part of the workmen in the 
construction of the figures. These beams and entablatures would be 
an ornament to any edifice even at the present day. We have cut one 
of the beams into three parts, to take back with us. The entablatures 
are so deeply set in the walls that we are unable to procure a piece of 
them. The beams are square, and are carved on three sides; the 
floor of the gallery rested on the fourth side. 

The stone of which the cathedral was built was not hewn, nor even 



308 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

roughly dressed; but the smoothest side of each piece was laid to the 
surface with great care. We saw no one piece in all the ruins which 
was over a loot in length. The mortar was made from the ordinary 
soil found upon the spot ; it affords but a poor cement to resist the 
action of the elements and the ordinary ravages of time. 

The walls of the cathedral are now about thirty feet in height. It 
was estimated, from the great quantity of stones which have fallen 
down, forming a sort of talus both within the walls and outside of 
them, that, originally, this building was all of fifty feet in height. 
There is a small room to the right as you enter the cathedral, and 
another room, which is very large, and which communicates with the 
main body of the building by a door at the lelt of the transept. There 
was also communication between this large room and the monastery, 
or system of cloisters, which are attached to the cathedral. The 
chapel is one hundred and thirty feet from the cathedral. This building 
is one hundred and eighteen feet long, outside, and thirty-two in width ',. 
its walls are three feet eight inches in thickness ; it is apparently in a 
better state of preservation than the cathedral, but yet none of the 
former wood-work remains in it. 

A short distance from the chapel there is an enclosure, which we 
supposed was the ancient cemetery. 

The remains of the town are but heaps of stones, with here and 
there some evidences of narrow streets running nearly east and west, 
and north and south. Through these stones pieces of beams and sticks 
of wood are seen to project; these indicate, by moss and otherwise, 
that they are of very great antiquity ; they are bleached white by the 
weather, and are deeply gnawed by the tooth of time. 

We saw some deep pits, which were circular, ' and walled around 
like wells; we believed them to be the remains of cisterns — they were 
not deep enough lor wells ; some have concluded that they were 
estufas. Two hundred and ninety feet north of the cathedral there 
are evident traces of an estanque; this, as well as the cisterns, was 
probably made to collect the rain-water which ran from the different 
buildings. 

Toward the east we saw a well defined road, which kept the ridge 
for a few hundred yards, and then turned off" toward the southeast, 
where all further vestiges of it are lost in the sand. Where it is the 
most plainly marked along the summit of the ridge some large cedar 
trees are growing directly in the middle of it; these trees look to be 
very old indeed. 

In every direction about the ruins we found great quantities of broken 
pottery, many specimens of which we have collected to take to Albu- 
querque. Some of it is handsomely marked and well glazed. We 
also found several stones which were evidently once used as matates. 
These matates are in use to this day, to rub boiled corn upon until it 
becomes a kind of dough, suitable to be kneaded into cakes called 
tortillas. We have selected two, which we shall take home with us. 
These prove to us that the ancient inhabitants of Gran Quivira knew 
the use of corn as an article of food. 

There is no sign that the ground in the vicmity has ever been culti- 
vated, and no mark whatever of irrigating ditches. Indeed, an acequia, 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 309 

or open aqueduct, could not, it is believed, have brought water to the 
Gran Quivira, for the point occupied by the town appears to be con- 
siderabl}^ higher than the surrounding country. 

We were informed by men at Manzana who had been 'pastores in 
their youth, and had herded sheep in this region of country, that there 
is a fine bold spring of water at the base of the Sierra de las Gallinas, 
about fifteen miles from the ruins, and that they had heard that water 
once ran in an aqueduct from that spring to the Gran Quivira. This 
could hardly have been possible, unless the aqueduct was a closed 
pipe ; because, from appearances, the country intervening between 
those two points is considerably lower than either of them. 

We saw no indications that there had ever been such an aqueduct, 
nor did we see any sign that wells had been digged in the neighbor- 
hood. From every feature of the country, both within and without the 
surrounding sand-hills, we could but be lost in conjecture as to the 
method adopted by the inhabitants to obtain even water to drink, let 
alone for purposes of irrigation, unless they were supplied by some 
spring or stream that has long since disappeared. The nearest point 
where water can always be obtained 71010, is the spring which the fas- 
tores spoke of as being at the base of the Sierra de las Galhnas, fifteen 
miles away. The Laguna de la Puerta is 14 miles 773 yards from 
Gran Quivira, in nearly a direct line; but this is said to become 
entirely dry in seasons of great drought. 

As at Abo and Quarra, we were surprised at not finding, in the ca- 
thedral and chapel, some of the doorways and windows surmounted 
b}^ an arch. Had they been so, originally, these buildings would be in 
a better state of preservation. The beams across windows and doors, 
in giving way to the weight above as they became decayed, made a 
fair beginning towards letting down the whole superstructure. 

Mr. Gregg, in speaking of the ancient ruins of New Mexico, says: 
"The most remarkable of these are La Gran Quivira. This appears 
to have been a considerable city, larger and richer b}' lar than the 
capital of New Mexico has ever been. Many walls, particularly those 
of churches, still stand erect amid the desolation that surrounds them, 
as if their sacredness had been a shield against which time dealt his 
blows in vain. The style of architecture is altogether superior to any 
thing at present to be found in New Mexico. What is more extraordi- 
nary still is, that there is no water within less than some ten miles of 
the ruins ; yet we find several stone cisterns, and remains of aqueducts, 
eight or ten m-les in length, leading from the neighboring mountains, 
from whence water was no doubt conveyed. And as there seem to be 
no indications whatever of the inhabitants having ever been engaged in 
agricultural pursuits, what could liave induced the rearing of a city in 
such an arid woodless plain as this, except the proximity of some val- 
uable mine, it is difficult to imagine. From the peculiar character of 
the place, and the remains of cisterns still existing, the object of pur- 
suit, in this case, would seem to have been a filacer — a name applied 
to mines of gold-dust intermingled with the earth. Other mines have, 
no doubt, been worked in the adjacent mountains, as many spacious 
pits are found, such as are usually dug in pursuit of ores of silver; and 
it is stated that in several places heaps of scoria? are found. 



310 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

"By some persons these ruins have been supposed to be the remains 
of an ancient pueblo, or aboriginal city. This is not probable; for, 
though the rehcs of aboriginal temples might possibly be mistaken for 
those of Catholic churches, yet it is not presumed thatthe Spanish coat 
of arms would be found sculptured and painted upon their facades, as 
is the case in more than one instance. The most rational accounts 
represent this to have been a wealthy Spanish city, before the general 
massacre of 1680, in which calamity the inhabitants perished, — all 
except one, as the story goes, — and that their immense treasures were 
buried in the ruins. Some credulous adventurers have lately visited 
the spot in search of these long'lost coffers, but as yet (]845) none 
have been found." 

There is no indication that the escutcheon of Spain was ever sculp- 
tured or painted on any facade about the ruins; and the facts, as re- 
gards the style of architecture and the remains of an aqueduct, do not, 
as is shown by this journal, agree with his statement. Mr. Gregg 
must have described the appearance of this place from what he heard 
about it; for on all those subjects of which he wrote from personal ob- 
servation he is most excellent authority. 

Pedro de Castaneda accompanied Francisco Vasquez de Coronada 
in his great expedition to the north in search of gold. He wrote a his- 
tory of the campaign. General Vasquez de Coronada arrived in a 
counlry which was called Qidvira, in the month of June, 1542. //'the 
present ruins of Gran Quiviraare in a region identical with the Quivira 
then visited, it ma}^ be of interest to state what Castaneda says of it 
and of its inhabitants: 

"Up to that point the wliole country is only one plain; at Quivira, 
mountains begin to be perceived. From what was seen, it appears to 
be a well peopled country. The plants and fruits greatly resemble 
those of Spain : plums, grapes, nuts, mulberries, rye, grass, oats, penny- 
royal, origanum, and flax, which the natives do not cultivate, because 
they do not understand the use of it. Their manners and customs are 
the same as those of the Teyas; and the villages resemble those of New 
Spain. The liouses are round, and have no walls; the stories are like 
lofts ; the roofs are of straw. The inhabitants sleep under the roofs ; 
and there they keep what they possess." 

The manners and customs of the Teyas, to which he hkens those of 
the people of Quivira, are described as ii:)llows : 

"These natives are called Querechos and Teyas. They live under 
tents of buffalo skins tanned, and subsist by the chase of these animals. 
These nomadic Indians are braver than those of the villages; they are 
taller, and more inured to war. They have great troops of dogs, which 
carry their baggage ; the}^ secure it on the backs of these animals by 
means of a girth and a little pack-saddle. When the load becomes 
deranged, the dogs begin to bark to warn their master to adjust it. 
These Indians live on raw meat, and drink blood ; but they do not eat 
human flesh. Far from being evil, they are very gentle, and very 
faithful in their friendships. They can make themselves very well un- 
derstood by signs. They cut meat in very thin slices, and dry it in the 
sun; tliey reduce it afterwards to a powder, to preserve it. A single 
handful tlnown into a pot answers for a meal, lor it swells greatly. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 311 

They prepare it with the fat which they preserve when they kill a buf- 
falo. They carry around the neck a great intestine filled with bloody 
which they drink when thirsty. If they open a buffalo, they squeeze' 
the masticated grass which is found in the stomach, and drink the juice 
which runs out; they say that this is the whole substance of the belly.. 
They open a buffalo at the back, and divide it at the joints, by means 
of a piece of pebble attached to the end of a stick, with as much facility 
as if they used a knife of the best steel." 

The present ruins are not the remains of the round houses with roofs 
of straw, which Castaneda describes as the dwellings of the inhabitants 
of Quivira, three hundred and twelve years ago; and if they had had 
in those days instruments to shape and carve these beautiful beams 
and pillars, and entablatures, they would hardly have used pebbles at 
the ends of sticks in cutting up the buffaloes which they had killed. 
Besides, the matates we have found are almost positive proof that the 
people who once resided here ate as food tortillas made of corn ; whilej, 
from Castaneda's account, one is obliged to beheve that the inhabitants 
of the country which he calls Quivira lived entirely upon the flesh of 
the buffalo, as the Comanches do at the present day. 

Castaneda says likewise that : " The Indians of the country had 
neither gold or silver, and were not acquainted with the precious 
metals. The Cacique wore on his breast a plate of copper, which he held 
in the greatest esteem." 

Many have supposed that the ancient Aztecs built the edifices at 
Gran Quivira, Abo and Quarra, during their migration from Aztlan 
•toward Anahuac ; and that the ruins now found in the Navajo country, and 
the Casas Grandes which are still to be seen along the Gila river, were 
• built by the same people and at about the same period of time. Cap- 
tain Johnson, of the first dragoons, visited the ruins of the Gila river in 
November, 1846 ; from his description of one of the Casa Grande, the 
largest and best of any he saw, we can discover no point of resemblance 
between it and these now before us. Captain Johnson says : " After 
marching six miles, still passing plains which had once been occupied, 
we saw to our left the Casa de Montezuma. I rode to it, and found 
the remains of the walls of lour buildings, and the piles of earth show- 
ing where man}'" others had been. One of the buildings is still quite 
complete, as a ruin. The others had all crumbled but a few pieces of 
low, broken wall. The large Casa was fifty feet by forty, and had been 
four stories hia-h ; but the floors and roof had lono- since been burnt out. 
The charred ends of the cedar joists were still in the wall. I examined 
them, and found that they had not been cut with a steel instrument. 
The joists were round sticks. There were four entrances, north, south, 
east, and west ; the doors are about four feet by two. The rooms had 
the same arrangement on each story. There was no sign of a fire- 
place in the building. The lower story was filled with rubbish ; and 
above, it was open to the sky. The walls were four feet thick at the 
bottom, and had a curved inclination inwards to the top. The house was 
built of a sort of white earth with pebbles, probably containing lime, 
which abounded on the ground adjacent; and the surface still remained 
firm, although it was evident they (the walls) had been exposed to great 
heat from the fire. Some of the rooms did not open to all the rest, but 



312 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

had a hole a toot in diameter to look through. In other places were 
smaller holes." Clavigero, the historian, believes that this great move- 
ment of the Aztecs from the north towards the south commenced about 
the year of our Lord 1160, and that Casas Grandes were built by them 
at various halts which they made in their circuitous journey towards the 
valley of Mexico. It has been shown that in 1542 there were no 
buildings of the size and character of the Casas Grandes, or such as are 
found here now, in all the country called Quivira, which Castaneda 
visited and described. So one must conclude that, so far as the Aztecs 
are concerned, whatever they may have had to do with the building 
of the edifices either in the Navajo country, or on the Gila, or those 
found 250 miles northwest of Chihuahua, they never planned or con- 
structed those at Gran Quivira. 

History represents that Vasquez de Coronada, finding no gold during 
his great expedition, returned to Mexico, where he fell into disgrace and 
died in obscurity. 

The Spaniards did not return to colonize the province of New Mexico 
until the year 1581 ; and the country could not be considered as con- 
quered until 1595. For eighty-five years after this the colony seems to 
have prospered and to have grown in power. Towns and villages 
were built, and valuable mines of gold and silver were found and 
worked with success. The Catholic clergy were aided in their efforts to 
convert the Indians to Christianity by the government, at whose expense 
large churches were erected in different parts of the province of New 
Mexico, corresponding with the 7nissions, which were built for the same 
purpose and at about the same period in the other provinces of Texas- 
and Cahfornia. It was daring this time, doubtless, that the large edi- 
fices at Abo, Quarra, and Gran Quivira were erected. It is more than 
probable that valuable mines of the precious metals were found in their 
vicinity, and worked under the direction of the Spaniards by the Indians 
who had been subjugated ; for there is every reason to believe that the 
mountains east of the Rio Grande are at this day rich in gold and 
silver. 

It appears that daring these eighty-five years the Spaniards treated 
the Indians with the most cruel oppression, until finally the latter re- 
volted against them. The night of the 13th of August, 1680, was the 
time set throughout all New Mexico, when the Indians should rise 
and make an indiscriminate massacre of all the Spaniards in the 
country. This plot was made known to Don Antonio de Otermin, then 
the governor and military commandant of the province, by two Indian 
chiets. Ever}'- effort was made for defence and to avert the coming 
storm, but witliout success. The Indians rose as agreed upon : after 
various conflicts, they destroyed great numbers of the inhabitants ; and, 
finally, by the latter end of September of that year, succeeded in dri- 
ving all the rest, with Governor Otermin included, to El Paso del Norte, 
entirely beyond the confines of the territory. 

We have been informed that there is now a tradition amongst the 
Indians, that as soon as their forefathers had become successful in ex- 
pelling the Spaniards, they filled up and concealed all traces of the 
mines where they had toiled and suffered for so many years ; declaring 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 313 

the penalty to be torture and death to any one who should again make 
known their locality. 

Old Mr. Chavis, who overtook us soon after our arrival at Gran 
Quivira, informed Major Carleton that he had been told, when in his 
youth, by very old people, that a tribe of Indians once lived here called 
the Piiehlos of Quivira ; that the Spanish priests came and lived 
amongst them, in peace and security, for twenty 3^ears ; that during 
this period these large churches were erected ; and that at the time of 
the great massacre there were seventy priests and monks residing 
here — all of whom were butchered excepting two, who contrived to 
make their escape ; that, previous to their massacre, the priests had 
had intimation of the approaching danger, and had not only buried the 
immense treasures which had been collected, but had concealed hke- 
wise the bells of the churches; that many j^ears afterwards the people 
of Quivira died oH" until but few remained ; that one of these, a de- 
scendant of the chief, knew where the treasures were buried ; that the 
remnant of the tribe afterwards emigrated and joined other Pueblos 
below El Paso ; and that many years ago an old man, one of the last 
of the tribe, had told in what direction from the church these great 
treasures had been concealed. So far as the building of the churches 
and the massacre of the monks and priests are concerned in this ac- 
count, as well as the final decrease and removal of the people who 
once lived here, there is no doubt but the story told by Mr. Chavis is, 
in the main, correct. The account of the depositories of the bells and 
the treasure is said to have been written down as given from the lips 
of the last cacique of Quivira, who, at the time he made the disclosure, 
was living away below Mesilla, on the Mexican side of the river. A 
copy of this paper has been secured, and is here inserted in the original 
language, tor the benefit of those who may take an interest in such 
matters. 

"En el Semetario de la Parroquia granda en el centro del costado 
derecho segun la figura numero uno esta una entraiia escarbando estan 
dos campanas tomando la linea de la abertura que dejan las dos cam- 
panas se bera al oriente para el callejon que deja la eglesia vieja y el 
pueblo una lomita a distancia de tres cientas varas mas o menos que 
no hay otra que forme linea con las campanas debajo de dicha loma 
hai un sotano de diez o mas varas retacado de piedras el cual tiene el 
gran tesoro. 

"Nombrado por Carlos quinto de la Gran Quivira."* 

The grammar of this document is preserved, as in the original. 
There can be no doubt but the belief that a large amount of gold and 
silver has been buried here, has for a great number of 3'ears been 
seriously entertained. We find in the cathedral and in the chapel, in 
every room in the monaster3S in every mound of stones in the ^neigh- 
borhood, and in every direction about the ruins, large holes dug, in 
many places to the depth of ten feet, by those who have come from 

)^*" In the cemetery of the great parish church, in the centre of the right side, according to 
figure number one, there is a pit, and by digging will be found two bells. By taking the line 
of the opening left by the two bells, there will be seen to the east, along tlie lane left by the 
old church and the town, a hill, at the distance of three hundred yards, more or less, which 
forms precisely a Hue with tlie bells. At the foot of said hill is a cellar often yards or more, 
covered with stones, which contains the great treasure. 
"Mentioned by Charles Fifth of Gran Quivira." 



314 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

time to time to seek for these hidden treasures. Some of these holes 
look as if they were made more than a century ago, while others ap- 
pear to be quite recent. Even the ashes of the dead have not been 
left undisturbed during these explorations. Near the east end of the 
chapel we saw where the people who had been digging had thrown 
up a great many human bones, which now lie scattered about. From 
these we have selected six skulls to send to some one who is skilled in 
the science of craniology, that he ma}'^ determine, if possible, to what 
race of people they once belonged. These skulls are thought to be 
unusually large. 

The ruins of Gran Quivira have hitherto occupied the same position 
with respect to the boundless prairies which the fabulous island of Atlantis 
did to the ocean in days of antiquity. No one seemed to know exactly 
where this city was situated. Bat the uncertainty of its localit}'' seemed 
to make no difference in regard to the interest that was felt concerning 
it ; lor people would believe in its existence, and receive great pleasure 
in listening to traditions about its marvellous beauty and magnificence, 
even when to a reasonable mind those traditions and accounts ran 
counter to probability. 

Men of genius and distinction have taken great pains in following up 
mazes in the labyrinth of reports concerning it, whether oral or written, 
and in their glowing descriptions it has appeared almost like a city of 
enchantment. To them it had paved streets, and fluted columns, and 
ornate friezes, and sculptured facades ; it had the remains of aqueducts 
and fountains; it had long colonnades, and even barbaric statuary; it 
had the groined arch, the shouldering buttress, the quaint gargoyle, and 
everything in outline and in detail that could betoken skill, and taste, 
and opulence. It was a city, they said, whose inhabitants departed 
from it so long back in the gloom and mists of the past as to leave in 
utter obscurity all other records concerning them. 

The sphynx, they said, about whose bosom the sands from the Lybian 
desert had drilled lor unknown centuries, was no more of an enigma 
than this was. Here were palaces and temples, and deserted courts, 
and long-echoing corridors, and grass-grown streets, and reigning over all 
a silence so profound as almost to be heard. 

Historical societies had taken up these descriptions, and filed them 
away among their transactions as documents of deep interest. Vene- 
rable and learned ethnologists searched in dusty manuscripts and black- 
letter volumes of antiquity for some authentic account of that race of 
men who reared and then abandoned such a city. But to this moment 
their researches have proved fruitless, and the story they seek is still 
recorded in an unsealed book. 

Our business is not that which will permit us to clothe with imagi- 
nary grandeur these vestiges of a people whose name has been erased 
from the book of nations, nor that which will allow us time to indulge 
ill abstruse speculations as to their race or their language. These 
things belong to the poet and philosopher. With all those pleasant 
reveries and romantic fancies which these ruins away here on a desert 
are so wonderfully calculated to awaken we can have nothing to do. 
We came here to note realities ; and now the facts we have seen, the 
theories we have read which were of value, the traditions we have 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 315 

heard deserving of attention, and the conclusions to which we have 
come concerning this interesting place, are all written down. All else 
save the things we saw admits of doubt, and is obscured by so dark a 
cloud of uncertainty as to leave much ground for new theories, and for, 
perhaps, infinitely more valuable conclusions. 

We found that the Mescalero Apaches, with whom we had some busi- 
ness of interest, had all gone far towards the south. Our guide, who 
was a captive amongst them for eight months, gave us some information 
as to their strength in warriors, which is worthy of record. He says 
they live in small bands, or families, in order to distribute themselves 
over a greater extent of country for purposes of hunting. When they 
are engaged in war, or upon any other enterprise of importance, these 
bands become united. When separated, they are each controlled by a 
sub-chief; when acting in concert, they choose a head-man to direct 
affairs for the time being. The ibllowing list shows the name of each 
of these sub-chiefs and the strength of his band in fighting men : 

Santos has forty men ; 

Josecito has nine men ; 

Barranca has nineteen men ; 

Negrito has twenty men ; 

Jose Largo has fiiteen men ; 

La Pluma has thirteen men ; 

Santana has nineteen men. 

Two chiefs who live in the Sacramento mountains, whose names are 
unknown, have fifty men. 

Add to these the ten sub-chiefs, and we have in this tribe two hun- 
dred and eight men capable of bearing arms. 

They are represented as having many good rifles, and as being most 
excellent shots. Living in the neighborhood of the great ihorougfare 
that leads from Texas to California, and having mountain fastnesses in 
which to take refuge when pursued, they are able, and very willing, to 
do a great deal ot" mischief. 

From Gran Quivira, the northern point of the Sierra Blanca bears 
by the compass S. 30° E., and is distant about fifty miles. 

The highest point of the Sierra de las Gallinas bears E. 5° N., and 
is distant about fifteen miles. 

The peaks known as Las Tetillas bear N. 36'*^ W., and are distant 
about fitty-five miles. 

We left the ruins about three o'clock in the afternoon, and retraced 
our steps to the Laguna de la Puerta, where we arrived an hour after 
dark. 

Thursday, December 22, 1853. 

To-day we returned to Manzana, over the same track we had made 
to the Lao;una. Here we encountered a snow-storm. This town is so 
elevated that hardly a cloud passes the mountains that does not shower 
upon it either rain, snow, or hail. From what we have observed 
during our second visit to this place, this Botany Bay of New Mexico, 
we have concluded that our former estimate of the character of the 
inhabitants was premature and ill-judged; we now beheve that there 



316 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

is not one single redeeming trait of disposition or habits to be found 
within its borders. 

Friday, December 23, 1853. 

Our course to-day was about N. 10^ W., and lay along the eastern 
slopes of the Sierra de la Manzana. We faced a snow-storm for nearl}^ 
the whole forenoon, and were therefore unable to observe much about 
the features of the country. Six miles 729 yards from Manzana we 
passed a small mountain sti'eam running towards the east — a mere 
brook, that is soon lost in the ground. On this there is a httle village 
called Torreon. Two miles 1,181 yards further north we passed ano- 
ther similar brook, and another small town called Tagique. From 
this last place, over a rolling, broken, and well timbered country, we 
marched to a small hamlet called Chilili. This town, like Torreon and 
Tagique, is situated upon a mere rivulet, running from the mountains 
to the open plains towards the east. Here we encamped in the snow, 
and sutiered much durins: the whole nio;ht from a cold wind frcm the 
north. 

Saturday, December 24, 1853. 

This morning, before we left camp, an old Mexican brought us some 
ore, which he said is to be found in great abundance near the Tetilla 
Peaks, but that it is now covered so deeply in the snow as to be diffi- 
cult to be procured. We believe the specimen he gave us contains 
silver. When the snow has melted, it will be worth the trouble, per- 
haps, to explore these mountains thoroughly, with a view to the dis- 
covery of precious metals. 

After travelling north for about two miles this morning, we turned 
off' toward the west, by a road that leads to Albuquerque by the Cailon 
del Infierno. As we ascended the eastern slope of the mountain, we 
passed through extensive groves of large pine-trees, suitable for boards 
and other building purposes. The snow was a foot in depth, and the 
air dry and cold, as in mid-winter in the extreme north. The Canon 
del Infierno is 10 miles 562 yards in length. It is very circuitous. 
The mountains rise abruptly thousands of feet above it on either hand. 
This makes it a pass of great ruggedness, as well as of a wild and pic- 
turesque beauty. Halt-way down through it we came to a fine spring 
of water. The rocks are the same stratified, fbssiliferous limestone, 
which we saw at Los Puertos de Abo. From the mouth of the Canon 
del Infierno to Albuquerque, the road descends through an open prairie, 
entirely destitute of water for the whole distance, which is 20 miles 
492 yards. 

We arrived at Albuquerque at 8 o'clock in the evening, having 
marched to-day 36 miles 317 yards. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 317 

REPORT 



FISHES OBSERVED ON THE COASTS OF NEW JERSEY AND LONG ISLAND 
DURING THE SUMMER OF 1854, BY SPENCER F. BAIRD, ASSISTANT 
SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

A period of six weeks spent on the coast of New Jersey, principally 
at Beesley's point, and Long Island, New York, furnished an oppor- 
tunity of Studying the habits and distribution of the principal species of 
fishes that are found on that portion of our shores during the summer. 

Although many others, doubtless, are to be found in the same region, 
yet none have been introduced except those which were actually caught 
and carefully examined. A considerable number of the species whose 
habits and peculiarities are given at some length, have hitherto had 
nothing placed on record concerning them ; and it is hoped that the 
present article may be found to contain some interesting information, 
given here for the first lime, in addition to its character as a contribu- 
tion to our knowledge of the geographical distribution of species. 

The difference of the names applied to the same species of fish at 
various points of our coast, even when these happen to be connected 
very closely, both commercially and geographically, must strike every 
one with astonishment. 

It is scarcely too much to say that no one species of fish bears the 
same vernacular appellation from Maine to Maryland, still less to 
Florida or the coast of Texas. This is probably owing to the fact that 
our shores have been originally settled by various nations from widely 
remote parts of Europe, each introducing its peculiar nomenclature, or 
deriving names from the equally isolated aboriginal tribes with their 
various languages. Thus the names of blue fish, white fish, perch, 
black fish, bass, king-fish, porgee, hake, tailor, whiting, horse mackerel, 
shad, smelt, dog-fish, &c., may apply equally to two or more very 
different species. Among the synonyms of the species will be found 
the vernacular equivalents in the regions visited, together with some 
from other localities. It will be sufficiently evident, therefore, that 
before any species referred to under a trivial name can be identified, 
the origin of the fish or that of the writer must be ascertained. 

Although most of the facts recorded in the following paper have 
reference to Great Egg harbor. New Jersey, during a period extend- 
ing from the middle of July to the end of August, it has been thought 
not amiss to incorporate the results of a visit to Brooklyn, Riverhead, 
and Greenport, Long Island, as well as to some points on the Hudson 
river, in September. Some valuable information was thus obtained 
tending to illustrate more fully the natural history and distribution of 
the species found on the New Jersey coast. 

And here I take occasion to render an acknowledgement for much 
kind assistance and important information derived from various gentle- 
men at the different points of operation. Among these I will particu- 
larly mention Messrs. Samuel and Charles Ashmead, at Beesley's 
point, who devoted all their time to the furtherance of my objects 



318 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

in this exploration. I may also mention Messrs John Stites, Willis 
Godfrey, Washington Blackman, John Johnson, in fact, most of the 
residents of Beesley's point. Much benefit was derived at Green- 
port, Long Island, from the companionship of Mr. E.D. Willard, of the 
National Hotel, Washington; while to Mr. J. Carson Brevoort, of Bed- 
ford, Long Island, well known as the first ichthyologist in New York, 
and surpassed by no one in his know^ledge of our marine species, I am 
under the greatest obligations. Through the kindness of Mr. John G. 
Bell, of New York, and Smith Herring, of Piermont, I was enabled to 
make a complete collection of the fishes of the upper Hackcnsack and 
Sparkill. 

It must be understood that the present article does not aim at giving 
a complete account of the species referred to. Such descriptions of 
color as have been given were in every case taken from the fresh and 
living fish, the object being to place on record features not usually 
preserved in alcoholic specimens. Of the species whose colors 
were known not to fade or alter in spirits no notes of their peculiarities 
in this respect were taken, while the tints of others were so evanescent 
as to have escaped or altered before a description could be noted down. 

Very little respecting the habits or history of the species has been 
added from other authors, nor does the nomenclature profess to be at all 
final as to critical accuracy. To have accomplished this latter object, 
would have required more time than is at present at my disposal, 
involving, as it would, the entire revision of American ichthyology 
generally. The names given are principally those of De Kay in his 
history ot"the fishes of New York, and can thus be readily identified. 

As will be seen in the course of the article, several of the species 
collected appear new to science ; to these I have been obliged to give 
names for the sake of proper reference, without at the same time 
furnishing a complete scientific description. This will, however, be 
supplied soon through another medium — want of time preventing its 
being done in season for the present Smithsonian Report. For import- 
ant assistance in determining the species I am under many obligations 
to Mr. Girard. 

The coast of New Jersey is well known to consist, lor most of its 
extent, of a low beach with sand-hills, separated from the mainland by 
a wide strip of low meadows filled with small ponds, and intersected 
by creeks and thoroughtiares, which traverse it in every direction. 
There is no rock or stone of any description, and, consequently, there 
is a deficiency in the plants and animals which frequent rocky locali^ 
ties. At Beesley's point there is scarcely a pebble of the smallest 
size to be seen. 

The meadows are densely coated with grass, and are covered with 
water only during unusually high tides. 

Beesley's point is situated at the mouth of Egg Harbor river, where 
it empties into Great Egg Harbor bay. The water is, of course, salt at 
this point, though somewhat diluted by the volume of fresh water 
brought down by the river. 

The distance from the mouth of the river, or head of the ba}", to the 
inlet on the beach, is about two or three miles ; the extreme width 
about the same, although extending into thoroughfares, through which 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 319 

a boat may be taken to Absecom on the one side, and to Cape May on 
other, without going outside of the beach. The mouth of the river is 
occupied by very extensive beds of oysters, which are celebrated for 
their excellent flavor. The bottom of the bay is in some part hard 
and shelly, in others sandy, or again, consists of a soft mud ; the latter 
condition prevails near the shore, or wherever the current is of little 
strength. 

There are numerous mud-flats or sand-bars in the bay, some of them 
bare at low tide, or nearly so, and occupied by various species of water- 
fowl. These flats, continuing to increase in height, and at length ac- 
quire agrowthof grass which fixes still more the accumulating mud and 
sand, so that in time what was formerly a bar becomes an island 
elevated some feet above the water. 

This transition is, in fact, so rapid, that many of the inhabitants now 
living have known islands several acres in extent to form within their 
own recollection. 

The greater part of the bottom of the bay and of the thoroughfares, 
generally, is a soft mud, rich inorganic matter, and covered with a pro- 
fuse growth of Zostera marina and alga3 of various species. Mr. 
Samuel Ashmead, who has been engaged for some years in studying 
the sea- weeds of our coast, has Ibund a much greater variety of spe- 
cies at Beesley's point than Professor Harvey allots to the New 
Jersey coast. The water being generall}^ shallow except in the chan- 
nels, the sub-marine vegetation can be seen to great advantage, while 
sailing over the surface. The water becomes very warm during the 
summer, and supplies all the conditions necessary for the development 
of young fishes of many species. The young of all the large fish of 
the bay may thus be tbund in greater or less numbers along or near 
the shore. 

The ponds in the meadows, like the waters of the bay itself, are 
generally muddy at the bottom, sometimes bare of vegetation, and 
sometimes covered with a thick growth. The fishes tbund in these 
ponds consist almost entirely of cyprinodonts of various species, with 
occasional specimens of Atkerina, small mullet, or sticklebacks. The 
creeks likewise contain cyprinodonts, generally of different species from 
those of the ponds, with young fish of various kinds. Crabs and eels 
are found everywhere. 

The line of beach is two or three miles from the mainland, and con- 
sists of a clear white sand raised into hills ten to thirty feet high, a few 
hundred feet from the water's edge. It is in the inlets at the ends of 
is these beaches that the greatest variety of fish is to be found, particu- 
I larly in the small indentations, protected from the roughness of the 
■i waves, and the bottom of which is covered with Ceramium or sea-cab- 
*] bage. 

Corson's inlet, frequently mentioned in the following pages, is situa- 
ted at the southern end of Peck's beach, which begins directly oppo- 
site Beesley's point at the entrance to the harbor, and extends to this 
inlet over a distance of about five miles. 

The only fresh water near Beesley's point is Cedar Swamp creek. 
I This stream, rising in a cedar swamp, and flowing with a very slug- 
gish current, (the water of a chocolate color,) is cut off from the tide 



320 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

by a dam at Littleworth, three miles trom the point. The bottom is 
very muddy. But little variety of fresh-water fish is to be Ibund in 
this stream. Several species of Esox, two Leuciscus, one eel, three 
Pomotis, one each of Aphredoderus, Labrax, Etheostoma, and Melanura, 
and several cyprinodonts. The species are nearl}^ all different from 
those ibund in the interior of Pennsylvania on the same latitude. 

Another Cedar Swamp creek occurs on the opposite side of Egg 
Harbor river, in Atlantic county. In many respects it differs from that 
first mentioned in being of more rapid current, and the bottom at some 
distance from the tide-water dam consisting of sand or small pebbles. 
The water too in small quantity is clear, though where of considerable 
depth it appears almost black. Fewer species of fish were found 
here than in the other ; the only additional one being the Caiastomus 
tuberculatus. 

Ludley's Run is a small run crossing the road to Cape May, about 
eight miles from Beesley's point ; fresh at low tide but Hooded at high 
water. The only fish found in it consisted of two cyprinodonts, and 
the Gasterosteus qiiadracus. 

Note. — For the sake of avoiding a constant repetition, the initials only 
of the names of the fins are used. Thus, D. indicates the dorsal fin ; C, 
the caudal ; A., the anal ; V., the ventral ; and P., the pectoral. 



THE SMITHSOMIAN INSTITUTION. 321 

LIST OF FISHES. 
1. Labrax lineatus, Cuv. and VaL 

Rock-Fish — Striped Bass. 

Labrax lineatus, Cuv. and VaL, Hist. Nat. Poiss. II, 79. — 
Storer's Report, p. 7. — DeKay, Fauna of" New York, Fishes, 7, 
plate i, (ig. 3. 

The well known rock-fisli, or striped bass, was not caught abund- 
antly during my sta}', although occasionally taken in the mouth of" the 
river, and near blufi" banks along the thoroughfares. In winter and 
spring they are captured in considerable numbers in seines, and of a 
weight extending to twent}' or thirty pounds. Individuals of this size 
are, however, rarely met with. No youni' ones were seen, as they had 
not yet returned from the upper portion of the river. At Sing Sing, 
New York, a few weeks later, several sizes of young were taken. 

The rock takes a bait readily, and, from the vigor of its actions, 
affords fine sport with the rod and reel; the fly is especially adapted 
to the capture of this species. 

As is well known, the rock-fish is the associate of the shad and seve- 
ral species of herring, in a vernal migration from salt water to fresh, for 
the purpose of depositing their eggs. The development of their young- 
is very rapid, as, when they return to the sea in the fall, they have already 
attained a lengti] of about four inches ; up to a size somewhat greater 
than this they exhibit decided indications of vertical dark bars, as in 
the yellow perch, but this fades out in a shoi*t time after being taken from 
the water. 

The rock-fish is more abundant in Chesapeake bay and its tributa- 
ries than anywhere else to the northward. Here they occur all the 
year round, and are taken in great numbers. During their migration, 
they feed voraciously upon the herring bound on the same errand up 
the fresh water streams. These they ascend to a great height; in the 
Susquehanna, before the dams were built, reaching the forks at North- 
, umberland, and possibly beyond. The falls of the Potomac offer serious 
; impediments to their passage much above the city of Washington. 
; Arrested in this way, they accumulate in considerable numbers, and 
5 afford great sport to the citizens of this place during spring and earl}"^ 
I summer. The late Mr. Webster was frequently to be seen patiently 
( exercising that skill which made him eminent among the celebrated 
1 fishermen of the day. 

, Owing to its abundance, the rock is the chief staple of the Washing- 
:, ton fish-market, where it is to be seen throughout most of the year. It 
j is usuall}'^ sold at a moderate price, and it is no uncommon thing to have 
^ the opportunity of purchasmg one of 30 or 40 pounds for 75 cents. 
Much interest has been excited in the experiments of Mr. R. L. Pell, 
of Pelham, Ulster county, New York, in reference to the breeding of 
rock-fish and shad in fresh w-aters. I have been kindly furnished by 
this gentleman with the following communication, which explains his 
method of stocking fish-ponds. 
Mis. Doc. 24 21 



322 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

"I have succeeded in rearing the slriped bass, known in our river as 
the Croton bass, thus: male and female were placed in a small pond, 
the water of" which was salted twice each week until the small fry ap- 
peared, when salting ceased. Sixty days after, the old fish languished, 
and became excessively weak, in which state they continued to exisi 
ten days, when they died. The small fry of both shad and bass grew 
rapidly, and when six weeks old were placed in a larger pond, and 
their progeny became fresh-water fish. 

"I have a trout pond, which you probably did not see, in which I 
placed several hundred brook trout, varying from four to twelve 
inches in length. I was accustomed, for several years, to feed them 
frequently, and, to my surprise, they became very tame and confiding. 
On one occasion a large trout fjllowed me around the pond, and so 
pertinacious was he, that if I suddenly passed around he crossed over; 
the next day he did the same thing several times, and, finally, I lifted 
him from the water and discovered a corroded hook in his mouth, after 
removing which I replaced him in the pond. How can you account 
for so much instinct in a fish?" 



2. Labrax mucronatus, Cuv. nnd \'al. 

White Perch. 

Labrax mucronatus, Cuv. and VaL, Plist. Nat. Poiss. II, 86. 
plate xii. — Storer's Report, 8. — Labrax rufas, DeKa\-, Fauna of 
New York, Fishes, 9, plafe iii, fig, 7. 

The white perch was nt no time during the summer taken in the bay, 
although in winter they occur there in great numbers, and are caught 
in seines, with rock-fish, eels, and flounders, which constitute the prin- 
cipal kinds of that season. They are very common in the Tuckahoe 
river and Cedar Swamp creek. Cape May county; indeed the}^ exist in 
almost all the creeks of the salt meadows. The largest were taken in 
the perfectly fresh water of Cedar Swamp creek, above the tide-water 
dam, and exceeded a foot in length ; very few, however, attain this 
size. 

I found them abundant at Suig Sing, New York, in the brackish wa- 
ters of Croton river; they are also very common, the 3''ear round, about 
Washington. 

By setting a net across the current of a creek, at high tide, a great 
many white perch can usually be caught. I have seen many bushels 
taken out when the ^vater was low. Great care must be exercised, 
however, lest the crabs, which are intercepted at the same time, eat 
holes in the net while nibbling at the fish gilled in the meshes. ™ 

The white perch bites readily at a hook, and is frequently caught in ! 
this way in great numbers. The flesh is very insipid and rather tough ; 
in fact, the fish is one of the poorest of all the marine species of our 
coast. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 323 

The yellow perch, Perca flavescejis, does not appear to occur at Bees- 
ley's Point. 



3. CeiVTropristes nigricans, Cuv. and Val. 

Blade Bass — Sea- Bass. 

Ccntroprlstes nigricans, Cuv. and Val. Hist. Nat. Poiss. Ill, 14. 
— Storer's Rep. 9. — DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 25, plate 
ii., fig. 5. 

Like the porgee and several other species, the sea-bass or black 
fish, taken in Great Egg harbor, are of diminutive size, compared with 
those caught some distance out at sea. I do not remember any exceed- 
ing 20 ounces in weight, while most of them were not above half that 
size. They were seldom taken in large numbers, and in fact were 
rather difficult to catch at all, owing to their habit of nibbling at the 
bait without swallowing the hook. A very small hook, with a bait of 
corresponding proportions, was found to furnish the best mode of cap- 
turing them. Where they abounded, however, they generally put a 
stop to any successful fishing. 

The black fish appears to be a summer visitor in Egg harbor, as I 
could not learn of its capture in winter. They were generally to be 
found off steep bars near the channels, very rarely near the shore. A 
few young ones, about an inch long, were captured at Corson's Inlet. 

The black fish, as an article of food, may be reckoned among the 
best of the fishes of the coast. The meat is firm and very white, and 
the comparative absence of bones renders it possible to eat those of 
quite a small size. 

Few authors, in their description of this fish, mention the broad, ver- 
tical, dark bands so conspicuous in the fish when first caught. 

Color of young specimens. — Each scale on the body with a yellowish 
green ©r greenish white centre, and a border of darker. The sides, 
between the head and tail, crossed by five or six broad vertical bars of 
blackish, (constituted by the above mentioned borders,) not, however, 
obliterating the lighter centres ; the borders of the scales between these 
bars are olivaceous. Head dark olive, the centres of the scales, the 
inferior border of the orbit, and several lines radiating from the eye 
towards the snout, rich green. Lower jaw blue, the extreme tips 
olive ; isthmus inside the mouth and gill-covers, with the branchial 
arches, yellow, branchioslegal membrane brown. D. with the membrane 
olive green, brightest towards the edge ; between each two adjacent 
rays of the dorsal are transverse bars of bluish white, and a larger 
number in the soft portion of this fin. These bars are slightly oblique 
to the rays, or, when the fin is erect, nearly parallel to tlie dorsal out- 
line. Extreme margin of D. greenish white, with a narrow border of 
black on the soft portion ; C. A. V. with membranes dark olive at base, 
then greenish white, and margined with black, the dark portions occa- 
sionally relieved by lighter patches of whitish or olivaceous, especiall}' 
along the rays. P. olive green. Length 8 inches. August. 



324 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

4. PoMOTis OBESUs, Ginircl. 
Pomoiis obe.sus, Girartl in Proc, Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., V, 1854, 40, 

General color dark olive green, with six or eight vertical bars of 
darker on each side, covering a breadth of three or four scales. The 
skin at the base of the scales, in the space covered by these vertical 
bars, shows spots of golden purplish ; cheeks with narrow lines and 
spots of the same and similar spots on the basal portion of the membrane 
of the vertical tins. A. and V. are glossed with metallic green on the 
interradial portion. Opercular flaps, rich velvet black, bordered (ex- 
cept behind) witli a narrow line of golden purple ; a crescent of the 
same on the basal half, the convexity anterior ; opercles metallic 
green. P. transparent olivaceous. In some specimens a distinct verti- 
cal bar passes through the eye. In some, too, there is a shade of violet 
on each side, above the anal fins. 

This species was only Ibund in the Cedar Swamp creeks. Cape May 
county, and Atlantic county, among the splatterdocks, or in small runs 
or ditches. They w'ere most abundant in muddy water, though occa- 
sionally occurring where it was (},uite clear. Fins nearly black. 

This modestly colored species of sun-lish appears to be confined to 
the fresh water in the immediate vicinity of our Atlantic coast. I first 
detected it in the boggy brooks near Framingham, Massachusetts, and 
have since taken it at other points. It was very abundant in the Spar- 
kill, near Piermont, New York, but does not appear to have been 
caught by any one but myself Of its southern range along the coast 
I cannot speak, although a fish strongly resembling it is contained in a 
collection recently received Ifom Georgetown, South Carolina. 



5. PoMOTis CHyETODON, Baird. 

Banded San-Fish. 

• 

Pomotis cluctodon, Baird. — General form sub-circular ; greatest depth 
of body comprised less than twice its length; dorsal and ventral out- 
lines regularly convex ; profile descending towards the snout, which is 
obtuse. The mouth is small ; the eye large, its diameter contained 
but three times in the length of side of head ; spinous portion of dorsal 
extending over a base nearly equal to that of the soft portion, and 
almost as high ; caudal subtruncated posteriori}^ and largely developed, 
and extending a little more posteriorly than the caudal ; tip of ventrals 
extending beyond the three anal spines; pectorals rather small, their 
extremity reaching as far backwards as the ventrals. 

D. X.'ll; A. Ill, 12; C. 4 I. 8, 7, 1.3; V. I. 5; P. 10 or 11. Scales 
quite large ; lateral line concurrent with the dorsal outline. 

General color dirty white, with clouds of olivaceous ; the tints clearer 
in smaller specimens ; sides of abdomen silvery. Six well defined ver- 
tical bands of black on each side, covering each a breadth of two or 
three scales ; the first passes through the pupil across the cheeks ; the 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 325 

second is posterior to the edge of the preoperculum, but interrupted in 
the middle so as not to cross the operculum ; the third is posterior to 
the first ray of dorsal ; the fourth posterior to the spinous rays of anal ; 
the fifth posterior to the end of the dorsal and anal ; the sixth passes 
across the base of the tail. Between the third and fourth bands are 
short bars, one proceeding from the dorsal, the other from the ventral 
outline in the same vertical line, and parallel to the others. This may 
in fact be described as an additional bar interrupted in the middle. 

Fins greenish yellow, with mottlings of dark. Ventrals black cen- 
trally, yellow posteriorly, and deep I'ed on the two anterior rays and 
intermediate membrane. Dorsal with the three anterior rays and their 
membrane black; the membrane between the third and fourth rays 
red. Pectoral plain- 
In large specimens the tints are darker, and the ground color tinged 
with olivaceous. The red of the dorsal is not distinct. Length three 
inches. 

Abundant in the muddy water of Cedar Swamp creek. Cape May 
countv. New Jersev. 



(i. Centrarchus pomotis, Baird. 

The Bass Sun- Fish. 

Cenlnirvhus j'omolis, Baird. — General form elongated, subllisiform 
in profile; upper and lower lines reo;ularly curved. A depres- 
sion above the eye. Snout very much abbreviated ; lower jaw 
longest. Mouth large; posterior extremity of maxillary extending to 
the vertical posterior rim of eye. Diameter of the eye contained 
about four limes in the length of the side of head. Head constituting 
two sevenths of total length. Six rows of scales above the lateral 
line; twelve row\s beneath. Lateral line concurrent with the dorsal 
outline. Spinous portion of dorsal quite low, and extending over a 
base twice as long as the soft portion. Caudal rounded posteriorly. 
Anal extending a little more backwards than dorsal. Five short 
anal spines. External soli, ray of ventrals extending as a filiform 
appendage beyond the other rays, which do not reach the anterior 
margin of the anal. Tip of pectorals extending to a vertical \vhich 
would intersect the vent. 

D. XL 12; A. V. 10; C. 4. 1. 7. G. L 3; V. L 5; P. 12 or 14. 

Color. — Dark greenish olive, with three or tour irregular longitudinal 
bands of dull greenish yellow, and occasionally cloudy spots of golden 
green. Sides of the head of this color, with three indistinct bands of 
dark olive. A dusky spot at the end of operculum. Iris purplish 
brown ; cornea olive green. Fins quite uniform, ver}" dark greenish 
olive, with darker margins, except the pectorals, which are light oliva- 
ceous, and the ventrals, the spinous rays of which are uncolored. 
Length six inches. 



326 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

Some specimens may be beller described as dark golden green, with 
longitudinal bands of dark olive, broken up by cloudings of greenish. 

This species was only found in muddy water, or where there was- 
considerable cover. They were stirred out from along the banks. I 
sometimes thought that they lay at times completely embedded in the 
mud. They were not rare in Cedar Swamp creek, and I caught a few 
in the Hackensack, Rockland county, New York. 



7. Aphredodehus sayanus, Lesueur. 

Aphredoderus saijamis, Lesupur. — DeKay, Nevv' York Fauna, Fishes, 
35, plate xxi, fig. 62. 

Prevailing color dark olive brown, with occasional obscure dots of 
lighter. Abdomen nnd under surface of the throat and head, with the 
sides of the latter, yellowish, with fine punctations of greenish brown 
indistinctly visible on the sides. A vertical dark bar beneath the eye. 
Iris silver}^ dotted with black. 

D. C. and A. dark olive, with darker margin and base. This cha- 
racter on the tail shows as a vertical bar, parallel to which is another 
near the base of the tail. P. olive, V. greenish yellow, with cloudings 
of dusky towards the tip. Lateral line lighter than the ground color. 

Largest specimens four and a half inches. Ditches of Cedar Swamp 
creek. Cape May county. 

This species was very abundant in a small branch of Cedar Swamp 
creek, above Littleworth, wlwre many were taken in a short time. 

The size above given is probably a maximum one, as most I have 
seen from other localities are considerably less. The species is little 
known to naturalists, although occurring in many streams on the 
Atlantic coast. 



8. Sphyr^na borealis, DeKa}'. 

NortJiirn Barracuda . 

Sphyra'na borealis, DeKav, New York Fauna, Fishes, 39, plate 

Ix, fig. 196. 

Nothing specially noteworth}- was observed as to the habits of this 
diminutive representative of the f"erocious barracuda of Florida. None- 
of the specimens caught, in fact, exceeded four inches in length. They 
were taken from a smaJl cove at Corson's inlet ; a few of them were 
found among the grass at the mouth of the river. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 327 

9. Prionotus pilatus, Storer. 

Flying Fish. 

Prionotus pilatus, Storer, Proc. Bost. Soc. NaL. Hist. 11, 77; also, 
Hist, of the Fishes of Mass. 20, plate vi, lig. 1. 

Above mottled olive and reddish brown, with three or lour large 
quadrate spots of" darker across the back. The reddish brown spots 
predominate along the lower part of the sides, in some cases almost 
terming a longitudinal stripe. Abdomen and inferior part of the body 
generally reddish white. Head reddish brown, cheeks coppery. Bran- 
chiostegal membrane and inside of mouth behind, brownish black. 
Pupil violet ; iris olive-green externally, brassy or coppery internally. 
Anterior dorsal olivaceous dusky at base, with two^ or more inter- 
rupted bars of pale bluish nearl}" perpendicular to the rays. A distinct 
dark spot on the membrane, between the fourth and fifth dorsal spines. 
Posterior dorsal transparent, mottled or coarsely vermiculated with 
olivaceous. P. very dark olive-green, with reticulations of a lighter 
color; chalk-white on the posterior edge of the lower surface. A. C. 
V. W'ith the pectoral processes reddish brown, brightest along the mar- 
gin ; the former white along the base. Length six inches. 

This species was very abundant, and frequently taken with the 
hook, when its disentanglement proved to be a matter of some danger, 
on account of the spines of the head. In one instance a man was con- 
fined to the house for two weeks in consequence of a puncture received 
in this way. 

When caught, this fish commences a loud croaking or barking, the 
sound apparently produced in the abdominal region. This is so loud 
and constant that in hauling a large seine the presence in the net of a 
single specimen of this gurnard, however small, could general^ be de- 
termined by the peculiar sound emitted. For this reason it is sometimes 
called pig-fish by the inhabitants. 

The pectoral processes are used as organs of progression, the fish 
dragging itself slowly upon the bottom by their aid, or raising itself up 
and resting on their tips. In swimming, or resting, the broad pectoral 
fins are generally spread out horizontally to iheir fullest extent — pre- 
senting a very beautiful and striking appearance, and closely resem- 
bling the wings of some butterfly. 

The flesh is sweet, white, and palatable, though on account of its com- 
paratively small size this fish is seldom eaten. Specimens caught on the 
surf or out at sea are usually much larger than those in the bay, some- 
times exceeding a foot in length. It is said to be only a summer 
visitant. 



328 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

10. AcANTHocoTTUS viRGiNiANUs, Girafd. 

The cQinmon Sculjnn. 

Acanthocottus virginiamis, Girard, Proc. Bosl. Soc. Nal. Hist. Ill, 
1850, 187. — Coitus virginianus, Storer, Rep. — DeKay, New York 
Fauna, Fishes, 51, plate v, fig. 13. 

A dried specimen of a sculpin was given uie by Mr. Ashmead, which, 
unfortunately, was mislaid and lost. It was taken in the winter, but 
does not seem to be abundant. 



11. BoLEOsoMA Fusi FORME, Girard. 
Darter. 

Boleosoma fusiforme. Girard, Proc. Bost. iSoc. Nat. Hist. V, 41. 

The only specimens procured were taken from Cedar Swamp creek, 
at Littleworth, where it was seen lying motionless at the bottom of the 
water, darting off swiftly when disturbed. 



12. Gasterosteus quadracus, Mitch. 

SticMehacJc. 

Gasterosteua quadracus, Mitch. Trans. Lit. and Philos. Soc. 430, 
plate i, fig. 11. DeKav, New York Fauna, Fishes, 67, plate vi, 
fig. 18. 

Reddish olive above; sides with a broad but ill-defined band of 
mottled dark brown, of irregular outline, extending from the snout to 
the tail, with finer mottlings of the same above and below. This is 
sometimes broken up into irregular mottlings of dark and lighter brown, 
with better defined and larger blotches of darker interspersed. 

Region of lateral line generally lighter ; lower part of cheeks and 
under parts yellowish silvery ; fins, transparent with dark mottlings 
on the rays ; ventrals red behind the anterior spine. 

A few specimens were taken, at intervals, in the salt-ponds in the 
meadows, or among the grass and sea-cabbage of the bay. They were 
most abundant in Ludley's run, at the crossing of the Cape May road ; 
where the water is perfectly fresh at low tide, and brackish at high 
water. Here they kept along and underneath the bank, whence they 
were dislodged with considerable difficulty. This species was also 
taken in the brackish waters about Sing Sing, New York. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 329 

13. Leiostomus obliquus, DeKav. 

The Lafmjette. 

Leiostomus obliquus, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 69, plale Ix, 

fig. 195. 

The "Cape May Goody" of the Jersey coast, so called from its great 
abundance at Cape Island, is very rarely taken in winter, and appears 
to be rather a summer visitor. It makes its appearance, in large num- 
bers, at Cape May, in August; the first run being composed of quite 
small individucds, and the larger ones succeeding these. The}^ enter 
the creeks in crowds, and are caught there in company with the white 
perch. When perfectly fresh they are most delicious — excelled in 
flavor by no species on the coast. Their usual -i^e in the bay is about 
six inches, though occasionally caught measurii „' ten. 

This species is somewhat capricious in its visits to tlie northern 
shores; intervals of years sometimes interveii.ng between periods of 
abundance. 

From a coincidence of one of these runs ."ind the last visit of General 
Lafayette to America, they are known by his name about New York. 



14. Otolithus regalis, Cu\ . and Val. 

Weak Fish — Sqiieteague — Blue Fish. 

Otolithus regalis, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat., Poissons, V, 67. — De- 
Kay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 71, plate viii, fig. 24. 

Young. — Back greenish, shading into yellowish silvery, with purple 
reflections on the side. In some specimens there are indications of 
subvertical blotches on the sides. None of the spots of the adult are 
seen until the fish exceeds 4 inches in length. D. and C. dusky; P. V. 
A. yellow ; Iris, silvery. Length, 4 inches. 

The adult, when first caught, in addition to the markings which are 
retained in alcohol, presents all over a rich tint of purplish red, which 
very soon fades out into a dull silvery. 

This species, known as blue fish at Beesley's point, weak fish at 
New York, shecutts at Greenport, Long Island, and trout in Philadel- 
phia and Baltimore, is the species most abundant of all those considered 
as game by the fisherman. It makes its appearance early in the spring, 
and leaves (or the sea late in the autumn, attaining its period of greatest 
abundance towards the end of July. It is very easily captured with 
almost any bait — clam, soft crab, or pieces of fish. Indeed, some of 
the best sport I ever witnessed with this fish was had by using the 
eyes of those already caught as bait. 

No species on the coast shows so large a count in a successful day's 
fishing as the weak fish, it being not uncommon for a single boat of 
three or four men to lake from 150 to 250 in an hour or two. When 



330 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

caught in such numbers, however, the size is not great, perhaps not 
averaging three-quarters of a pound. The large specimens are generally 
scattering in their appearance, being seldom taken in numbers. These 
fish moves about in shoals of greater or less extent, usually swimming 
pretty near the surface, and requiring for their capture a line leaded 
very lightty or not at all. They take the bait at a snap, seldom con- 
descending to nibble, thus requiring the line to be kept taut and ready 
to haul in at a moinent's warning. It is, however, only for a short 
time that they bite voraciously, the run seldom lasting more than one 
hour. 

These fish keep much in the channel ways of the bay and river, 
when moving, but during ebb-tide, they settle in the deep holes in 
great numbers, remaining until flood, when they again sally forth. The 
old stagers arc always on the alert to move up to the places of this 
kind well known to them, and, anchoring their boat, wait patiently for 
the fish. Alter passing some time without a nibble, the sport suddenly 
begins, and, for half an hour to an hour, the excitement of hooking a 
fish almost the instant the line is dropped, is kept up, when it again as 
suddenly ceases b}^ the disappearance of the game. The most noted place 
of this kind about Great Egg harbor is Molasses point, already referred 
to, where the current is very strong during height of tide, and the great 
deptl] of water scared}^ extends for one hundred 3^ards. 

During the night the weak fish runs much up into the larger creeks 
of the salt meadows, and, by putting a net across the mouths of these, 
the weak fish, king fish, and some other species may be penned up 
and caught in great numbers. In any attempt to retain specimens of 
moderate size, or. of the small species generally, great annoyance is 
experienced from the crabs, (Lupa dicantha,) which are exceedingly 
abundant, and, arrested by the same operation, leisurely set themselves 
to work in catching the fish gilled in the net. In so doing, they cut 
the meshes very badly, in fact some of my best seines were almost 
totall}'- ruined by them. 

The weak fish appears to require, during the summer, a slight 
dilution of fresh water in the marine element it inhabits, as it concen- 
trates in large numbers about the mouths of rivers in dry weather. 

During the excessive drought of the past summer, it was observed 
that the weak fish was taken much higher up rivers than ever known 
before. They disappeared almost entirely from Beesle3'-'s point about 
the middle of August, and could only be heard of towards Tuckahoe 
and higher up. The fishermen prayed devoutly for rain to weaken 
the waters of the bay, and bring back the weak fish. 

At Sing-Sing, New York, and even much higher up the North river, 
they were taken in numbers in August and September. 

The young weak fish were very abundant along the edges of the 
bay and in the small creeks, of sizes not exceeding four or five inches. 
It is quite probably that they spawn early in the season, and that these 
are the fry of the year. At this time they are broadly banded verti- 
cally, and, with their much compressed bod^s would never be referred 
to the weak fish but for the two prominent canines of the upper jaw. 
A few only had the spots of the adult. 

As a table fish, this species is very much inferior to almost any other 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 331 

captured on the coast. It looses its rigidity soon after being taken, 
becoming soft and flabby. It can hardly be used whole a few hours 
out of the water, and is usually served up cut into short pieces. The 
flesh, when cooked, is somewhat gelatinous and translucent, very dif- 
ferent from the snowy opacity of that of the king flsh. 

As usual, the fish of this species taken outside in the surf, either 
with the line or by hauling the net, are much larger than the common 
run of those in the bay and rivers. The largest 1 have ever seen 
weighed about five pounds, though they are said greatly to exceed this 
occasionally. 

When taken, this species makes a peculiar croaking, somewhat like 
that of Prionotus. This is s^id at times to be heard above water when 
the fish is at the bottom.' 



15. Cor VINA argyroleuca, Cuv. and Val. 

The Silver Perch. 

Corvina argyroleuca, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss. V, 105. — 
DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 74, plate xviii, fig. 51. 

A single specimen only of the adult fish was taken during my stay 
at Beesley's point. It was caught in the bay by Captain Townsend 
Stites, and seemed to be unknown to the fishermen. 

The young, however, were very abundant in the grass along the 
edge of the river, of various sizes, not exceeding three inches. The}'' 
had no markings of any kind, tlie sides being of a uniform j^ellowish 
white. 

It is not unfrequently brought to market in New York, where it is 
knov/n as silver perch. 



16. Umbrina alburnus, Cuv. and Val. 

The King-Fish. 

Umbrina alburnus., Cuv. and Val. — DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 

78, plate vii, fig. 20. 

This species is known at Beesley's point as the hake, a name derived 
probably from its possessing one barbel at the chin, in common with 
the Phycis americana, which bears the same appellation with more pro- 
priety. About New York it is called king-fish, and its congener at the 
south is known as whiting. Everywhere it bears the deserved reputa- 
tion of being one of the finest fish caught, the sheepshead {Sargus ovis) 
scarcely excepted. Of Jate years this fish appears to have become 
(juite rare about New York, but they are still abundant on the Jersey 
coast. At Beesley's point they come next in the cT)unt of a day's 



332 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

sport to the weak fish, although thirty or forty may be considered as a 
first rate catch for a single boat and tide. 

The king-fish makes its appearance in the bays earl}^ in the spring, 
leaving in the fall, and appears to observe much the same periods with 
the weak fish. Like this species, it is fond of a shght mixture of" fresh 
water, running up the mouths of rivers and ascending in proportion to 
the duration of dry weather. 

During the past summer several were taken at Sing Sing, New 
York, where they had previously been unknown. 

The young fish were exceedingly abundant in the river at Beesley's 
point, on sand}^ bottom, as well as in the surf", hundreds being taken 
at a single sweep of a small net. The smallest were about an inch 
long, probably the spawn of the spring. As usual, the largest speci- 
mens of the fish were caught with nets in the surf, thougli none that 
were seen exceeded fifteen inches in length. 

The king-fish keeps much in schools, in or near the bottom where il 
is sandy or hard, preferring the edge of channels or the vicinity of sand- 
bars. They keep about oyster beds, and when oysters are being taken 
up frequently congregate in large numbers about the boats in eager 
quest of the worms and other minute animals dislodged by the opera- 
tion. They bite very readily at clams, crabs soft or hard, andattitnes 
make little objection to pieces of fish. Tlie best time t()r capturing 
them is on the young flood. 

Like the weak fish they at times run up the small creeks in the sah, 
meadows at night, and are taken by intercepting their return with the 
falling tide. This, however, is by no means so common a habit as 
with the other species. 

The eastern range of the king fish is not extended. Dr. Storer re- 
cords a single specimen onl\^ as having been taken in Boston harbor. 



17. POGONIAS FASCIATUS, LaC^p. 

The Banded Drum. 

Pogonias fasciatiiSy Lacep., Hist, des Poiss. — DeKay, New York Fauna. 
Fishes, 81, plate xiv, fig. 40. ' 

Sides yellowish silvery, with six or seven broad, dark, vertical bars 
between the head and tail. D. and C. dusky towards their borders, 
the anterior D. quite dark ; P. colorless ; V. and A. yellow. 

The young fish of this species were found very abundantly during 
August in the small bays along the shore about Beeslev's Point. Few 
were seen in the rivers. 



18. LoBOTES EMARGiNATUs, B. and G. 

Lobotcs emarginatiis, B. and G. Body elongated, subfiisiform in pro- 
file; head subconical, contained a little more than three times in the 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 333 

total length. Posterior extremity ot" maxillary extending to the vertical 
line of the anterior rim of pupil ; eye circular ; its diameter contained 
about four times in the length of side of head; external soil ray ofven- 
trals continued into a membranous thread extending beyond the other 
rays, but not reaching the anal fin. Caudal emarginaled posteriorly. 

D. X. 14; A. III. 8; C. 4, I. 8, 7, I. 3 ; V. I. 5 ; P. 15. 

Scales well developed ; in six rows above lateral line, and fourteen 
to fifteen below. 

General color light olive green, with narrow, well defined longi- 
tudinal lines of purplish brown along the sides ; one through the centre 
of each row of scales. These lines, above the lateral line, are parallel 
to it ; below, they are somewhat oblique, ascending behind. A nar- 
row, well defined horizontal line of steel blue passes beneath the eye, 
tangent to the orbit ; a broader one of violet extends through the pupil, 
parallel to the upper outline of the head. 

D. light olive green, the distal half of the spinous portion dull pur- 
plish; the membrane elsewhere mottled with purplish brown. C.with 
rays 3'ellow and red, the membrane mottled with purplish. 

A. and V. yjurplish red anteriorly, yellow behind, the former some- 
what mottled. P. greenish voUow. A narrow margin of D. A. and 
P. pale violet. Length, three inches.. 

A few specimens were taken, in August, among the grass along the 
river. 



19. Pagrus akgvrops, Cuv. and Val. 

The Big For gee. 

Pagrus argyrops, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. des Poiss. VI, fig. 164. — 
DeKa}'-, New York Fauna, Fishes, 95, plate ix, fig. 25. 

About six vertical broad bars of dark purpfish brown on each side 
between head and tail; the first just anterior to the dorsal fin. The in- 
termediate space, wlien viewed directly, appears of a brownish olive 
and greenish white mixed; but, held a little obliquely, this resolves into 
;i silvery tint, with well defined longitudinallines of purplish, a line for 
t:ach row of scales, and usually along the adjacent edges. Above the 
lateral line these lines are oblique, and nearly parallel with the dorsal 
profile anterior to the D. fin. Head above (excepting a lighter bar be- 
neath the eyes), operculum, and an obhque bar beneath the eye rich 
purplish brown. Back along the dorsal fin and a space on each side 
of the nape witli reflections of rich metallic green. A dark spot on the 
base of th(> pectoral bones. Belly white, closely punctate wdth dark 
brown. 

D. with the rays silvery, the membrane mixed green and purplish 
brown, the margin clear dark reddish brown. C. brown at base, then 
greenish, then violaceous white, and ending in dark purplish brown ; 
these colors in rather ill defined V-shaped bands, parallel with the 



334 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

posterior margin. Extreme tips of caudal lobes of a brighter brown; 
A. green and purplish brown, bluish towards the edge, which itself is 
milk white. V. similar. P. transparent, tinged with dusk3% Iris 
dark reddish brown. Lengdi, six inches. 

After death, and, indeed, most specimens when fresh caught, exhibit 
but faint traces of the vertical bars, the sides being silvery, with longi- 
tudinal lines of brassy yellow. Iris silvery. 

This species is caught with a hook, in water from six to twelve feet 
deep. They feed on the bottom, and are very destructive to bait, which 
they nibble off from the large hake and blue fish hooks in a very "short 
time. Few exceeded six inches. 

The porgee did not make its appearance in Egg Harbor bay until 
towards the middle of August, although said to be found at sea at an 
earlier period. As usual, the specimens were smaller than those taken 
outside the beach, though exhibiting the same beauty of color. Very 
few descriptions or figures convey any idea of the variety of delicate 
tints on this beautiful fish, which fade in a short time after death into 
a uniform silvery hue. 

After the arrival of the porgees in the bay and mouth of the river, 
they become very troublesome by their great numbers and the destruc- 
tion of bait caused by their incessant nibbling. A large hook will be 
cleaned entirely in a moment, while all efforts to catch the depredator 
prove vam. The only way of taking them is to use a fine line, and 
very small minnow hooks, baited with small bits of clams, fish, or other 
food. These will be swallowed boldly, and, as they bite voraciously, 
large numbers can be taken in a short time. It is only necessary to 
throw the line out to its fall extent, and then at once haul it in slowly, 
during which movement the bait will generally be seized. A single 
clam, chopped fine, may serve to catch twenty or thirt}^ 

Quite large porgees are taken about Greenport, Long Island, in very 
great numbers, with seines. The usual ground is on the east side of 
Shelter island, where a fishing smack will frequently be loaded at a 
single haul. During the months of August and September these fish 
constitute the principal stock of those sent to the New York market over 
the Long Island railroad. The flesh of the porgee is excellent when 
fresh — scarcely surpassed by that of any other fish on the coast. 



Genus EUCINOSTOMUS, B. and G. 

Genus Eucmostomus, B. and G. — This genus has been established 
to include a species of the Menid family, possessing the following 
generic characters: Mouth small and very protractile; when protruded 
presenting a subconico-tubular appearance ; hps thin ; palate and tongue 
toothless ; opercular apparatus without either spines or serratures. 
The second spine of the anal itself is less developed than in the genus 
Gerres, a genus to which the present one bears a close affinity. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 345 

20. EuciNosTOMUs ARGENTEUs, B. and G. 

Eucinostomus argenteus, B. and G. — Mouth very small ; when re- 
tracted the posterior extremity of maxillary extends slightly beyond 
the vertical of anterior rim of the eye; base of spinous portion of dorsal 
etjual in length to that of the soft portion ; posterior extremity of soft 
dorsal rays extending a little more backwards than those of the anal 
fin. 

D. IX, 10; A. Ill, 7 or 8 ; C. 5, I, 8, 8, I, 4 ; V. I, 5 ; P. 13. 

Head forming about one fourth of the whole length ; eye large, its 
diameter contained nearly three times in the length of the side of head; 
scales larfje ; 2;roand color silvery, with transverse fascia? of a darker 
hue in immature specimens. 

This species was quite abundant in the latter part of August, in the 
river and small bays. None were taken exceeding three inches in 
length. 



21. Cybium maculatum, Cuv. and Val. 

The spotted Cijbhim — Sjuinish Macherd. 

Cybium maculatum, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss. XIII, 181. — De- 
Kay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 108, plate Ixxiii, fig. 232. 

Of this fish but two specimens were taken during my stay at Bees- 
ley's point, and the species is scarcely known to the fishermen. It 
was more abundant at Greenport, Long Island ; and in the Peconic 
bay, towards Riverhead, four hundred were caught at one haul of the 
seine. The flesh is excellent, having much the flavor of true mackerel, 
only a little softer and richer. 

The fish bears a high price in the New York market, where it has 
been but recentl}'' known. It has beea more abundant ofFour coast gener- 
ally this season than ever before ; and in the lower part of the Potomac, 
numbers have been taken and salted down. They may frequently be 
found in this state in the Washington market, and readily recognised 
by the round yellow spots on the sides, and the size so much larger 
than that of the common salted mackerel. The posterior portion of the 
body, to the base of the tail, is slenderer and much more elongated 
than in the other species. 



22. Lichia CAROLINA, DcKay. 

Lichia caroUna, DeKay, Nevi^ York Fauna, Fishes, 114, plate x, 

figure 30. 

Bright silvery, with bluish reflections on the back and upper part of 
sides ; dorsal transparent, dusky towards the tips of the longest soft 



336 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

rays. C. A. yellowish towards their margin — the latter brightest an- 
teriorly; V. white, tinged with yellow; P. brownish anteriorly. Iris 
silvery. Length, 5 inches. 

This species was very abundant in the edge of the surf on the beach, 
moving about slowly in small schools. Occasionally they were seen 
in great numbers in the small slues running up into the beach, where 
several bushels were frequently taken in a sweep of ten yards with a 
seine eight feet long. They are most delicious as a pan-lish, and give 
very little trouble to fit them for cooking, not requiring scaling and 
scarcely gutting. The only preparation needed is to cut off the head 
a little obliquely, which will remove all the intestines. 



23. LiCHiA spiNOSA, Baird. 

The spinalis Dory. 

Lichia spinosa, Baird. — Trachinotus spi/iosus, DeKa}^ New York Fauna, 
Fishes, 117, plate xix, fig. 53. 

Similar in colors to the L. Carolina. The anterior 3'^ellow of the dor- 
sal and anal is, however, brighter — even gamboge yellow ; basal half 
of the anal, dusky; ventrals, chalk white, yellow anteriorly. Length, 
2i inches. 

Caught in verv small numbers with L. Carolina. 



24. Caranx chrysos, Cuv. and Val. 

The ijeMow Caranx — Yellow Mackerel. 

Caranx chrysos, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss. IX, 97. — DeKay, 
New York Fauna, Fishes, 121, plate xxvii, fig. 85. . 

Sides bright wax color, becoming olivaceous along the back ; a 
darker tinge ot" yellow on the cheek and operculum than elsewhere. 
In some lights there is a violet reflection on the back. A black spot 
on the upper part of the posterior edge of the operculum. Dorsals, 
dark olive green, dusky along the margin ; C. dark wax yellow at the 
base, then lighter yellow — the tips blackish brown; A. dark wax yel- 
low, the margin and spinous portion opaque white; V. white, yellow- 
ish centrally; P. greenish yellow. Length, S^ inches. 

Only one specimen of this fish w^as seen during my stay. It Wcis 
caught in the bay with a hook. A fev^ more were found among the 
porgees at Greenport, Long Island. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 337 

25. Argyreiosus capillaris, DeKay. 

The Hair-Jinned Dory. 

Argyreiosus capillaris^ DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 125, plate 

xxvii, fig. 82. 

One specimen was taken in August while hauling the seine in the 
surf. 



26. Temnodon saltator, Cuv. and Val. 

The Blue Fish — Horse-MacJcerd — Skip-Jack. 

Temnodon saltator, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. des Poiss. TX, 225, 
plate 260. DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 130, plate xxvi, 
fig. 81. 

The blue fish, or horse-mackerel, as it is called at Beesley's point, 
arrives in the bay early in the spring, accompanying the weak fish in 
its migration and preying habitually upon it. It is not usual to take 
them of large size during the summer ; later in the season, however, 
specimens of two and three pounds are not unfrequently captured. 
Their usual size in August was from eight to twelve inches. The very 
3'oung ones were found abundant at Corson's inlet, measuring two or 
three inches in length. At this age they are much more compressed 
than afterwards. 

The blue fish is one of the most voracious fishes on the coast. It bites 
readily at any object drawn rapidly through the water, as a bone 
squid, or metal spoon, minnow, white rag, and, in fact, any con- 
spicuous bait. They are generally caught by trolling on the surface of 
the water, best by sailing back and forth across a channel way, when 
the wind and tide are in opposite directions. Unless the line is armed 
with quill near the hook, or wired for a short distance, it is cut off by 
the sudden snap of their nipper-like teeth, this species ranking with 
the shark in the facility with which it takes off" the hook. 

The blue fish keeps near the surface of the water, and frequently 
leaps some distance into the air. It preys habitually upon the weak 
fish, and its ravages among the latter species seem to have diminished 
greatly its numbers off the coasts of New York and New England. It 
finds, likewise, an easy prey in the schools of Mossbunkers, among 
which it is said to commit such havoc that the gulls are attracted far 
and near in quest of the bits of flesh and mutilated fish which float on 
the surface. 

Such congregations of birds often indicate to the fishermen the pre- 
sence of blue fish on his grounds. 

This species, like the weak fish, runs up the mouths of rivers even 

to where the water is comparatively fresh. Small ones were very 

abundant at Sing Sing the past summer, and were caught readily frora 

the rocks or along the wharves. They were known as white fish. 

Mis. Doc. 24 22 



338 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

They are taken in large numbers in the Potomac river as far up as 
Acquia creek, as well as in Philadelphia, where they are called tailors. 



27. Peprilus triacanthus, Cuv. 

Harvest' Fish. 

Peprilus triacanthus, Cuv., Regne Anim. 3d ed. — Rhombus triacanthus, 
DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 137, plate xxvi, fig. 80. 

Several specimens were taken in a net at Corson's inlet. They 
were occasionally seen swimming slowly in small schools close to the 
steep banks of the inlet. The flesh is said to be tolerably well flavored, 
though less so than that of many other scomberoid species of the Jersey 
coast. 



28. Atherinopsis notatus, Girard. 
The Silverside — Sand-Smelt. 

Athcrinojisis notatns, Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc, Philad. VIT, 1854, 
J 98. — Athcrina notata, Mitch. — DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 
141, plate xxvi, fig. 88. 

This dinjinutive species may be said almost to out-number all others 
on the coast, the cyprinodonts not excepted. It is found quite abund- 
antly everywhere throughout Egg Hai'bor bay, though of small size; 
but it is along the sands of the beach and about the inlets that its vast 
schools are met with. Here they come in with the rising tide, espe- 
cially when it flows over an extensive tract of sands bare at low water 
or with only a few pools. At times the water will appear in a state of 
constant agitation with the attempts of the fish to keep in the erlgc of 
the tide as it rolls on, and bushels can be taken in a short time merely 
with scoop-nets. Several parties, provided each with a fine meshed 
seine of twenty or thirty feet in length, could readily fill a wagon in a 
little while. Although no use is made of these "silver sides" on 
our coast, except as bait, there is no doubt that, potted and prepared 
as sarthnes and anchovies, they would be excellent. 

With the exception of Hydrargira jlavula, which is found in large 
numbers in the same localities, few other fish are met widi in these 
large schools of atherinas. A few scattered Cyprinodon ovinus and 
small mullets only are to be seen. The maximum size to which the 
atherina attains is about six inches, althougli fish of this length are 
seldom caught in the bay. The flesh is nearly translucent and very 
sweet ; and no preparation being required to fit them for the frying-pan, 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 339 

they might, though comparatively small, be eaten more frequently than 
they appear to be. 

The silver-side, or sand-smelt, as it is called further east, makes an 
excellent bait for blue fish, weak fish, and, in fact, almost any other 
species. It must constitute the chief article of food for the larger fish 
on our coast, as it is found everywhere, even far up the mouths of 
rivers. It was very abundant at Sing Sing. In fact, I have seldom 
drawn a net anywhere in salt water or brackish without seeing it. 
It is a constant associate of the cyprinodonts in the salt ponds and 
meadows. It bites readily at a hook, although very seldom swallowing 
the bait owing to the smallness of its mouth. 



29. MuGiL ALBULA, Linn. 

The White Mullet. 

Mugil albula, L. — DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 146. 

Back dark bluish black ; sides lustrous silvery ; beneath opaque 
white ; a dark bluish black spot on the body, at the base of the pectoral 
fin ; iris silvery, with a yellowish tinge above, as also on the opercu- 
lum; D. and C. dark bluish on the membrane, especially towards the 
extremities ; P. less strongly marked in the sam^i manner ; V. and A. 
opaque white, the latter with a lew brown dots on the rays. Length 
4^ inches. 

Although small mullets were caught in considerable numbers in the 
creeks and about the inlets, none of large size were seen. The larger 
ones do not arrive until September, when they are said to be abundant. 
They then come close to shore among the grass, and run up the creeks 
in numbers, even where the water is shallow. When intercepted in a 
seine they leap over the upper edge with great readiness, one ibllowing 
the other, like a flock of shep. Their maximum size is from eight to 
ten inches. 

This fish becomes extremely fat, so much so as to require no grease 
in frying. The flesh is said to be very palatable, though rather rich. 
The large mullets do not remain long in the bay, generally returning 
to the sea in the fall. A few, however, are said to remain all winter in 
the salt ponds. 



30. GOBIUS ALEPIDOTUS, BoSC. 

TJie variegated Goby. 

Gobius alejudotus, Bosc. — DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 160, 

plate xxiii, fig. 70. 

Translucent olive green, with seven or eight vertical lines of lighter 
along the side; vertical fins, mottled with dusky spots, arranged in 
series transverse to the rays. Length one inch. 

A few specimens only of this rare fish were taken in the grass along 
the beach of the river. 



340 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

31. Batrachus variegatus, Les. 

Toad-Fish — Oyster-Fish. 

Batiachus variegatus, Les., Journ. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philad. Ill, 398. — 
DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 171. 

Body olivaceous, closely but rather coarsely vermiculated with 
darker; three or four quadrate spots across and along the back; iris 
greenish yellow, with four broad double radii of greyish; fins reddish 
brown towards the borders, their general color light olivaceous ; C. and 
P. with well defined bands of darker, transverse to the rays; D. and A. 
with similar bands disposed obliquely towards the rays, the angle ante- 
rior; a dark spot on the anterior dorsal ; V. and inferior parts of body 
reddish white — in large specimens, the latter yellowish, with dark 
blotches. Length six inches. 

The toad-fish, or, as it is called at Beesley's point, the oyster-fish, 
on account of its frequenting the oyster beds, is one of the fishermen's 
pests, from its great abundance, and pertinacity in taking the hook 
baited for nobler game. Few fish are more repulsive in appearance 
than this species, with its large, flattened head, broad mouth, laciniated 
processes or fringes about the jaw, goggle eyes, and slimy body. It 
will live a long while out of water, snapping at the finger even when 
almost dried up. It is capable of inflicting quite a severe bite, and is 
always handled with a great deal of caution. 

The eggs are said to be laid on oyster shells, or between their empty 
valves, at Beesley's point, in the entire absence of stones or pebbles, 
which constitute the usual place of deposite. An artificial pile of stone 
near Chattin's tavern is a favorite locality with them. The eggs are 
about the size of number 6 shot at first, but enlarge to the bulk of a 
pea; their color is a bright yellow. The fish watches its nest very 
vigilantly, and can scarcely be driven away, snapping at the finger or a 
stick, and when forcibly removed returning with the first opportunity. 

The flesh is said, by those who have been able to overcome their 
aversion to the fish, to be very sweet and palatable. 

The toad-fish seldom comes very near shore, few having been taken 
in the hauling of small seines. I have never seen it up the small 
creeks. 



32. Tautoga Americana, Cuv. and Val. 

Taufog — The Black Fish. 

Tautoga amcricana^ Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. des Poiss. XIII, 293. — 
DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 175, plate xiv, fig. 39. 

The tautog, smooth black fish, or chub, as the species is indifferently 
called, was not abundant at Beesley's point during the past summer, 
although their number is said to be greater in the fall. They are 
caught off the steep banks, in the channel- ways and the thorough tiires. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 341 

The flesh is not very remarkable for its excellence, being greatly sur- 
passed by several other species. 

Owing to the toughness of the skin and the firm adhesion of the 
scales, it is customar}^ to skin the tautog before cooking, whenever of 
sufficient size to permit it. 

Young fish of this species were taken in considerable numbers in 
the river and about the inlets, when hauling the nets. Their color 
was generally of a light ohve green. 



33. AiLURiCHTHYs MARiNUs, B. and G. 
Sea Cat- Fish. 

AUurichtliys marhius, B. and G., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philad. VI. — 
Galcichthys marinus, De Kay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 178, plate 
xxxvii, fig. 118. 

The sea-cat or channel-cat, was occasionally taken with the hook in the 
channel of the river. Nothing specially was learned of its habits. The 
flesh is very indifferent, being coarse and rank, tasting much like that 
of small sharks. 



34. Leucosomus americanus, Girard. 
Dace. — Wind-Fish — Shiner. 

Leucosomus americanus, Girard in Storer, Hist. Fishes of Massach. 117, 
plate xxi, fig. — Abramis versicolor, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 
191, plate xxxii, fig. 103. 

This species was very abundant in the fresh waters of Cedar Swamp 
creek and Cedar creek, two streams emptying into the Egg Harbor 
river on opposite sides. None were seen excepting in perfectly fresh 
water above the tide dams. They were in considerable numbers, as 
being the principal representative of the cyprinoids in the New Jersey 
streams. This species is found everywhere in the streams of the At- 
lantic coast to Maine. Nothing of special interest was noted as to its 
habits. 



35. Catostomus gibbosus, Les. 

The Horned SucJcer — ClmhsucTcer. 

Catostomus gibbosus, Les. — Lahco gibbosus, DeKay, New York Fauna, 
Fishes, 194, plate xxxii, fig. 101. — Cutostomus tubcrculatus, Les. — 
DeKay, ibid, 199, plate xxxi, fig. 97. 

This was the only sucker found in the Cedar creeks, nor is any other 
species believed to occur there. It is everywhere constantly associated 



342 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

with the Leucosomus americanus ; and these, with a small species of iew- 
ciscus allied to L. hudsonius, constitute almost the only cyprinoids of the 
fresh waters on our coast. I have seen no other species from New 
Jersey to Maine in streams emptying directly into the ocean or into 
brackish waters, except when quite removed from the salt water. 



36. Melanura pygm^a, Agass. 
Mud-Fish. 

Melanura pygmaa, Agass. — heuciscus ingmaeus, DeKay, New York 
Fauna, Fishes, 214, plate xlii, fig. 134. 

Only one specimen of this species was obtained, caught in a muddy 
ditch along side the fresh waters of Cedar Swamp creek. Of the five 
or six species of this genus indicated by Professor Agassiz, all appear 
to have the same pecuharity of living almost entirely in mud. A locality, 
which, with the water perfectly clear, appears destitute of fish will 
perhaps yield a number of mud-fish on stirring up the mud at the bot- 
tom and drawing a seine through it. Ditches in the prairies of Wis- 
consin, or mere bog-holes apparently affording lodgment to nothing be- 
yond tadpoles, may ihus be found filled with melanuras. Their usual 
associates in such places in the west are Gastcrostcvs inconstans, Kirt. 

I found none on Long Island, although they doubtless occur in the 
muddy streams about Riverhead. Mr. J. C. Brevoort, obtained a single 
specimen near Bedford, and Dr. Ayres some at Brookhaven. This 
genus appears to be confined to a few points near brackish and salt 
waters, and to the vicinity of the great lakes ; they are especially abun- 
dant on the plateaus dividing the waters of the lakes from those of the 
Mississippi. I have caught them all around Lakes George and Cham- 
plain ; on the American shores of all the great lakes except Lake Supe- 
rior ; and on their dividing ridges, as already stated, as far west as the 
Mississippi, in Wisconsin. They have, however, not yet been detected 
much south of this region in the interior. 

This species of Melu?iura is probably identical with Leuciscus ijygmcBUs 
of DeKay, an unfortunate name, as it belongs to an entirely different 
family than the C3"prinidae, and attains to a larger size than the rest, 
much larger than many of the Leucisci. Specimens taken in Rockland 
county, New York, and in the same localities whence Mr. J. G. Bell 
obtained those sent to Dr. DeKay, measure nearly six inches in length. 
I procured a large number of them during the past summer. 



37. FuNDULus zebra, DeKay. 

Fundulus zebra, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 218. 

Above, dark olive green, lighter on the sides ; on the throat and belly 
greenish white ; 12 to 15 vertical bands on each side of greenish 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 343 

white, with spots of greenish golden sprinkled in the intervals. Oper- 
culum bronzed, iris greenish blnck, with a narrow golden ring on the 
inner border; D. and C. dark olive, margined with light grass green, the 
former with greenish white spots on the posterior half, some of them 
occasionally confluent; the latter with smaller spots of the same on the 
membrane, arranged in series transverse to the rays ; A. and P. gamboge 
yellow on the distal half, with black spots posteriorly, the former with 
some light spots. Length three inches. 

Female fishes corresponding to the F. v'lridescens of De Kay, and 
probably of this species, are uniform olive, with the belly j'ellowish 
white. Some specimens have obscure vertical dark lines. 

This species is exceedingly abundant in the small creeks of the salt 
meadow^s, less numerous in the ponds. They are very active in their 
movements, darting to cover at the slightest alarm. Like all the other 
species, they are excessively voracious, and a dead fish of considerable 
size will be eaten up in a few minutes by the dense crowd of these 
diminutive scavengers, darting upon it from all points. A clam 
pounded up and thrown in among them, will in a moment attract many 
hundreds, and they are frequently taken for bait, by putting the clam 
into a scoop-net, and withdrawing the net suddenly, with the fish en- 
closed. 

There is no doubt that the various species of cyprinodonts on our 
coast perform very important services in rapidly removing dead ani- 
mals, as fishes, crabs, shells, &c., from the water, and thus keeping up 
the proper equilibrium. This they do to a mucli greater extent than 
the crabs, which, however, assist in the labor. Abundant everywhere 
along the shores and in the creeks and ponds of the meadow's, they are 
always on hand to do their work. 

Nothing was observed at Beesley point in regard to the reproductive 
peculiarities of any of the cyprinodonts, the season of the year not be- 
ing favorable. It is very probable, however, that most of them are 
viviparous, like many other species of the family. Like the others, this 
one is remarkably tenacious of life, resisting successfully long absence 
from water, even to the extent of considerable desiccation. 

A few specimens were caught in the fresh waters of Cedar Swamp 
creek. Tliey are, however, essentially a salt water species. 



38. FuNDULUs DiAPHANUS, Agass. 

Hydrnrgira diaphajia, Lesueur. — DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 219. 

This species was found abundantly in Ludlum's run, at a point 
where the water is perfectly fresh at low tide, but becomes brackish 
during high water. It was also taken in the fresh waters of Cedar 
Swamp creek. I do not remember to have ever noticed it in perfectly 
salt water. 



344 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

39. FUNDULUS MULTIFASCIATUS, CuV. 

Fundulus multi/asciatus, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. des Poiss. XVIII, 
200. — Hijdrarp^ira multifasciata, Lesueur. — De Kay, New York 
Fauna, Fishes, 220. 

This species was found everywhere associated with H. jiavula, but 
in quite hmited numbers. 



40. Hydrargira flavula, Storer. 

Hydrargha jlavula, Storer. — Esox flavulus, Mitch. — Fundulus fa sciatus, 
DeKay, New York Fauua, Fishes, 216, plate xxxi, fig. 98. 

This species may be called the giant of the northern cyprinodonts, 
attaining a size only approached by the females of Fundulus zebra. As 
in F. zebra, the female is considerably larger than the male. Specimens 
were taken nearly eia;ht inches in len2;th. 

The H. flavula is very rarely found in the ba3's and meadows, the 
few that occur in such localities being very small, and much scattered. 
It is along the beach, and about the inlets, that the immense numbers 
that exist on our coasts can be appreciated. As the tide is rising and 
flowing over flat sands, or up the narrow shores and channel ways, 
this species will be seen in dense schools, slowly swimming with 
the tide, and readily recognised by its large size and the light spot near 
the dorsal fin. 

It generally keeps distinct from the alherinas, which are equally or 
even more abundant in the same situations. A few Cyprinodon ovinus 
are sometimes seen in company, rarely any other species of the same 
family. 

The sexes of this species are conspicuously different in marking, the 
male having many broad vertical bands on each side, from head to tail, 
the female two or three lonsitudinal ones. 



41. Hydrargyra luci^, Baird. 

Hydrargira Iucue, Baird. — General form elongated, though of rather 
short appearance. Head constituting less than one-fourth of total length. 
Insertion of anal slightly in advance of origin of dorsal, and rather 
more developed than the latter. Vertrals very small; their extremity 
reaching the anus. Tail large. D. 8 ; A. 9 ; C. 6, 1. 8, 7, 1. 5; V. 6; 
P. 15. 

Dark olive green above, lower part of sides and beneath rich ochre 
yellow. Sides with 10 or 12 broad, well defined, vertically disposed' 
dark bars, nearly as large as their inter-spaces, which are of a faint 
tint of greenish white. All the fins but the dorsal are of a uniform 
yellowish, lighter than the abdomen. Dorsal, yellow on the terminal 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 345 

half, the basal portions olivaceous, with a large black spot posteriorly, 
and immediately anterior to it a white one. The dark spot is bordered 
above and behind by the yellow part mentioned. In one specimen the 
posterior half of the base of the dorsal fin is dull white, with a large 
subcircular spot of black in the centre. Length about one inch. 

P. similar, the dorsal unspotted, the yellow less intense. 

A few specimens only were taken, in a small ditch at Robinson's 
landing. Peck's beach, opposite Beesley's point. 



42. Cyprinodon ovtnus, Val. 

Cyprinodon ovinus, Valenc. — Esox ovinvs, Mitch. — Lchias ovinus, DeKay, 
New York Fauna, Fishes, 215, plate xxvii, fig. 87. 

This species was very abundant in the salt ponds, more so than any 
other ; it was seen but rarely in the creeks or in the bays. Specimens 
were taken of much larger size than the supposed average; and the 
males, recognised by the black band on the end of the caudal fin, were 
found to be lar-er than the females. 



43. Cyprinodon parvus, B. & G. 

Cyprinodon iiarv%is, B. and G. — Form elongated, resembling a diminu- 
tive Lcuciscus ; head constituting less than a fourth of the total length ; 
eye quite large and circular, being contained three times in the length 
of the side of the head ; caudal posteriorly rounded. — D. lU; A. 10; C. 
5. I. 7. C. I. 4; V. 6; P. 15. Scales quite large, deeper than long, and 
disposed in eight longitudinal series upon the line of greatest depth of 
the body ; seven series may be observed upon the peduncle of the tail. 

This species was found in the small ponds of the salt meadows, 
generally in the grass ; and owing to their diminutive size the males 
were not often taken, and, in fact, neither sex was found in anything 
like the abundance of most other species. The colors during life were 
very plain, being without any of the peculiar patterns of other species. 
I observed it, sparingly, in many localities in Long Island, especially 
at Greenport. It has a close resemblance to the females of Heter- 
andri 



la. 



44. Esox FAsciATus, DeKay. 
Short- billed Pike. 

Esox fasciatus, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 224, plate xxxiv, 

fig. 110. 

Brownish olivaceous ; a longitudinal lighter vertebral stripe. On 
each side of the body a median longitudinal irregular band of golden, 



346 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

sending off bars transversely above and below, sometimes opposite 
each other, sometiaies alternate, occasionally branching and anasto- 
mosing. Beneath greenish or yellowish white. Iris purphsh brown, 
with a golden interior ring. 

Dorsal and caudal fins plain olive, tinged with red. A. V. P. pink — 
this color becoming rather deeper after death. Length, 10 inches. 
Abundant in Cedar Swamp creek. Specimens of considerably larger 
size were taken. 



45. ESOX RETICULATUS, LcS. 

PicTierd. 

Esox rcticulaius, Les. — DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 223, plate 

xxxiv, fig. 107. 

Rather rare in Cedar Swamp creek. Associated with E.fasciatus. 



46. Belone trunx'ata, Les. 

The Bill-Fish— Sea-Pike— Silver Gar-Fish, ^c. 

Belone truncata, Lesueur. — DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 227, 

plate XXXV, fig. 112. 

Color. — Back dark green ; sides opaque silvery white ; beneath 
dull white — the lines of separation between these colors very distinct ; 
cornea green ; iris silvery ; fins subtransparent, with fine punctations 
of greenish on the membrane, much thickest on the D. and C; length, 
8 inches. 

The silver gar made its appearance, in August, in considerable num- 
bers, though of quite small size. It was found in the shallow bays and 
creeks — more abundantly in the slues on the beach, keeping in com- 
pact bodies, and swimming slowly along. 

This species is fond of running up into fresh water during the sum- 
mer, and is often taken a considerable distance from the ocean. I 
have seen them in the village of Riverhead, Long Island ; and they are 
at times quite abundant off" the city of Washington. They have been 
seen at Columbia, Pennsylvania, in the Susquehanna. They some- 
times are taken with a hook, although such an occurrence is quite rare. 
When of large size, their flesh is of excellent flavor. 



47. Saurus mexicanus, Cuv. 

Saurus mexicanus, Cuv., Regne Anim. — (Griff*, transl.) X, 431. 

A single specimen of this fish was taken in a seine in the river. 
Although abundant off'the southern coast, it is rarely seen so far to the 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 347 

north. Dr. DeKay does not enumerate it among the fishes of New- 
York, yet several have been procured by Mr. Brevoort about Long 
Island. 



48. Engraulis vittata, B and G. 

The Anchor]). 

E-ngraidis vittata, B and G. — EiigrauUs mitchilli, Cuv. and Yah, Hist. 
Nat. Poiss., XXI. — Clupea vittata, Mitch. — DeKay, New York Fauna, 
Fishes, 254. 

It is a little remarkable that no mention of the occurrence o{ Engrau- 
lis on the Atlantic coast of the United States, is made by any Ameri- 
can writer. The species was long ago described by Dr. Mitchill, so 
accurately as clearly to indicate this genus ; but Dr. DeKay does not 
appear to have noticed it at all. 

The anchovy made its appearance early in August in the shal- 
low waters along the beach, although of very small size. They 
became subsequently more abundant ; and towards the end ot the 
month, while hauling a large net in the surf, many were taken measur- 
ing over six inches in length. As the meshes of the net were very 
large, the greater portion readily escaped ; but with a seine properly 
constructed enough could be readily procured to supply the American 
market. 

I procured several specimens of this fish, in 1847, at the residence 
of Mr. Audubon, on the Hudson river, above New York. 



49. Alosa menhaden, Mitch. 

The Moss-BonTcer — Bony Fish — Hard Head. 

Alom menhaden, Mitch. — Storer, Rep., p. 117. — De Kay, New York 
Fauna, Fishes, 259, plate xxi, fig. 60. 

Back dark green, shading into yellowish, silvery on the sides and 
beneath. Iris silvery. A rounded dark spot behind the upper part of 
the operculum, and five or six smaller ones, less distinct, in a longi- 
tudinal row behind it, the latter sometimes indistinct. All the spots are 
on the skin, show'ing through the transparent scales. 

D. and C. yellowish, with a dark margin ; the remaining fins color- 
less. 

The moss-bonker is a fish of great economical importance, as much 
so, perhaps, as any other on our coast. This is not on account of its 
flesh, which, though sw^eet, is too full of bones to be generally accept- 
able ; as a manure, however, it replaces all other fertilizers on and 
near the sea-shore. 



348 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

The countless schools of moss-bonkers, most of them of vast extent, 
seen everywhere on the Atlantic coast, represent a species quite equal 
in numbers to any other of the same size belonging to our fauna. 

Every bay and river-mouth along our coast is filled with them 
during the summer, and they can everywhere be taken with great ease. 
The schools swim at the surface, their dorsal fins projecting above the 
water, and keeping it in such agitation as to be readily discernible at 
a great distance. They are generally followed by blue fish, sharks, and 
other predacious species, which commit such havoc in their ranks, it 
is said, that the gulls frequently follow in their wake to feed upon the 
fragments left floating behind. 

The fishermen about Greenport, when in pursuit of moss-bonkers, 
lie some distance oft' shore, with two seines joined together, each seine 
resting on a separate boat, provided with its crew. When a school is 
seen of suflicient size to warrant the trouble, the joined ends of the nets 
are dropped into the water, and as the boats separate they make a turn, 
and thus enclose the fish ; the ends of the nets are then taken to the 
shore, and the net itself drawn up by means of a windlass. Many 
thousands are taken at a haul, and meet with a ready sale. Quite 
recently several establishments have been erected on Long Island for 
the manufacture of oil from the moss-bonker. The fish, as brought in, 
are chopped up and boiled, and the oil skimmed oft"; a heavy pressure 
on the residuum expresses the remaining oil, and what is left is still use- 
ful as a manure. The oil finds a ready market. It has been estimated 
that a single fish will furnish enough oil to saturate a surface of paper 
eighteen inches square. 

Most of these fish, however, are used directly as fertilizers, by being 
ploughed or hoed in the ground. It is quite customary when planting 
corn to place a fish in each hill, the result being seen in a ver}'^ luxu- 
riant growth of the plant. 

Besides being taken in the manner just described and by single 
seines put out from the shore, many are captured in gill-nets set in 
channels of rivers and other localities frequented by them. Many are 
taken in this way in the Hudson river and tributaries, as well as else- 
where. 

Besides its use as manure, the moss-bonker, from its abundance, is 
employed to a great extent as bait f()r other fishes. Chopped up fine, it 
constitutes a chief bait for eels in eel-pots, and the flesh is very attrac- 
tive to the blue fish and other species. When used as food, it is usually 
skinned, to remove the oilier layer of black fat, and the back bone is 
generally taken out at the same time. 

The moss-bonker is much infested b}^ a species of lernaean, which 
is buried in the skin by its star-shaped processes with a long projecting 
thread. 

The moss-bonker is not much sought after at Beesley's point, nor 
didi hear of any who made a business of catchingthem there for manure. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 349 



50. Alosa mattowaca, DeKay. 

!)eKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 
127. — Clupea mattowaca, Mitch. 

A few specimens were caught in the surf with a large seine. 



Alosa mattowaca, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 250, plate xl, fig. 
127. — Clupea mattowaca, Mitch. 



51. Alosa teres, DeKay. 

Alosa teres, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 262, plate xl, fig. 128. 

A number of specimens of this rare species were found one day in 
the edge of the surf along the beach ; they seemed to be very weak, 
and died soon after their capture. 



52. Chatoessus signifer, DeKay. 

Thread-Herring. 

Chatoessus signifer, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 264, plate xli, 

fig. ]32. 

A few specimens were taken in a net in the bay. In life the back 
is bright green ; the caudal fin yellow, black at the tip. 



53. Platessa ocellaris, DeKay. 

The long-toothed Flounder. 

Platessa ocellaris, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 300, plate 

xlvii, fig. 152. 

This flounder is caught very abundantly during the summer, es- 
pecially in the month of July, when it frequently constitutes the chief 
result of a day's fishing. It is generally found on sandy bottoms, and 
bites readily at almost any bait. They are sometimes taken in large 
numbers by means oi'nets in the deep slues along the beach. 

In winter they at times seem to be quite torpid on the shallow 
grounds, suffering themselves to be taken up with oyster tongs without 
making any attempt to escape. 



54. Platessa plana, Storer. 

The New York Fiat-Fish — Winter Flounder. 

Platessa plana, Storer. — DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 295, plate 
xlviii, fig. 154, and plate xlvix, fig. 158. 

A few specimens only of this species were taken in the shores on 
the beach. It is said to be found abundantly in the bay during winter. 



350 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

55. Rhombus maculatus, Girard. 

The spotted Turhot. 

Rhombus maculatus, Girard, in 7th Ann. Rep. Reg. Univ. N. Y., on 
State Cab., 23. — Pleuronectes maculatus, Mitch. — DeKay, New York 
Fauna, Fishes, 302, plate xlvii, fig. 151. 

Taken occasionally of small size in the surf. 



56. ACHIRUS MOLLIS, CuV. 

The Neiv York Sole. 

Achirus mollis, Cuv., Regno Anim., II. — DeKay, New York Fauna, 
Fishes, 303, plate xlix, fig. 159. 

A few specimens were caught in the river by means of seines. The 
species, though resident, is taken most frequently in early spring. 
When thrown on the shore it buries itself in the sand, and is out of 
sight in a few moments. It is familiarly known at Beesley's Point 
under the name of hog-choker, as when seized by the hogs it doubles 
itself up, and, filling the oesophagus, obstinately resists b}'' the scabrous 
nature of its scales all effort on the part of the animal to swallow it. 



57. Anguilla tenuirostris, DeKay. 

Anguilla tenuirostris, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 300, plate 

liii, fig. 173. 

As might be expected from the vast mud-flats of the bay and its 
generally muddy bottom, eels are exceedingly abundant about Bees- 
ley's point. In passing slowly over the shallow waters near the shore, 
they will be seen darting out from among the sea-weeds at the bottom 
every few rods, and may readily be captured by a skillful hand armed 
with a gig. They can be caught readily, likewise, by means of a hook 
and line, by bobbing, with eel-pots, and the other devices suitable to 
the capture of the genus. Night is, of course, the best time for taking 
them in any way. 

In winter they bed in the soft mud, to the depth of about a foot, and 
are then easily secured by means of a broad gig or spear. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 351 

58. Conger occideiN talis, DeKay. 

The Conger Eel. 

Conger occidentalism DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 314, plate liii, 

fig. 172. 

Clear olive above, shading into silvery on the sides and beneath. 
Vertical fins thin and transparent, with a narrow and well defined 
margin of brownish black. Iris, silvery. After death the silvery hue 
is more predominant. 

Only one specimen of this species was taken at Beesley's point. It 
was captured on the 16th of August at Molasses point, and seemed 
entirely unknown to the residents. 



59. Ophidium marginatum, DeKay. 

Ophidium marginatum, DeKay, New York, Fauna, Fishes, 315, plate 

lii, fig. 169. 

One specimen was taken during the past winter, and presented by 
Mr. Chatten. 



60. Syngnathus viridescens, DeKAY. 

The Green Pipe-Finh. 

Syngnathus viridescens, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 321, plate 

liv, fig. 176. 

This pipe-fish was very abundant in the sea-weed and grass near 
the mouths of the inlets, every haul of the net bringing in hundreds. 
They were of many shades and colors, and of sizes varying from 
one inch to eight. 



61. DiODON MACULATO-STRIATUS, Mitch. 

The Spot- Striped BaUoo?i-Fi^h. 

Diodon maculato-striatus, Mitch. — DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 
323, plate Ivi, fig. 185. 

A few specimens were taken in the river. 



62. DioDON FULiGiNosus, DeKay. 

Diodon fuliginosus, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 324, plate Iv 

fig. 181. 

A few specimens captured in the river by means of a seine. 



352 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

63. Tetraodon turgidus, Mitch. 

Toad-Fish, 

Tetraodon turgidus., Mitch. — DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 327, 

plate Iv, fig. 178. 

Dark olive green above and on the upper part of the sides, with 
fine black points intermixed. Abdomen and beneath, pure opaque 
white. Lower part of sides ochre yellow, with six or seven large 
vertically oblong and rounded blotches of brown. Above these are 
occasionally traces of dark mottling ; fins pale yellowish. Iris red- 
dish brown, with an inner circle of a coppery or brassy color. 

This fish is frequently caught in the bay of Great Egg harbor, 
while fishing for better species. When drawn up, it immediately in- 
flates its body to a prodigious size by means of short jerking inspira- 
tions, the sac becoming distended with air if in the atmosphere, or 
water, when submerged. By scratching it on the belly or pounding it, 
it will readily inflate itself several times in succession, and again dis- 
charge its load at a single effort through mouth and gills. When in- 
flated and thrown on the water, it will sometimes float to a great dis- 
tance before collapsing. 

The skin around the eye of this species is contractile to such an ex- 
tent as completely to close up the latter by a kind of puckering. 

This fish is most abundant in summer ; rarely, if ever, taken during 
the winter, and only occasionally in early spring. 



64. Carcharias c^ruleus, DeKay. 

The small blue SharJc. 

Carcharias caruleus, DeJCay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 349, plate 

Ixi, fig. 200. 

The blue shark was quite abundant in the bay during the summer, 
and quite a number were captured by various parties. Tliey were 
taken by means of large shark-hooks baited with eels or other fish, a 
small keg being used as a float. Several of the boats always carried 
shark-fines, which were put out when on suitable ground, the buoy 
being allowed to float oft' to some distance. On getting a bite the 
small lines would be taken up, the anchor raised, and every effort 
made to tire out the shark. Sometimes the fish would be towed to an 
island and hauled up, or again drawn in to the side of the boat, and 
killed by means of a harpoon or sword. The largest taken in this way 
was about nine feet long. 

Though sufficiently abundant to be seen any day swimming with 
their dorsal fins above the surface, no instance was mentioned by the 
inhabitants of their attacking bathers while in the water. 

Small specimens were occasionally taken on hooks baited for other 
fish. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.. *337' 

65. MusTELus — CANis, DeKay.- 

The Ho2md-Flsh — Dog-sharh 

Mnstchis, Mitch., canis, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 355, plate 

Ixiv, fig. 200. 

The little dog-shark was sufRciently abundant to constitute a griev- 
ous pest to those who aimed alter something more edible. It was no 
uncommon thing to see fi-om ten to twenty taken in a few hours' fish- 
ing. They bite at almost any bait, and their presence is generally 
fatal to much success among other species. The fiesh is not very pa- 
latable, having much of the coarse and rank flavor of the sea cat-fish- 



66. ZygvEna tiburo, Val. 

Zygana tiburo, Val. — ^Yarrell, Brit. Fish., 1, 507 — Squalus tiburo, 
Linn. Syst. Nat. I, 399, 6. 

Only one specimen of this shark was obtained, although several were 
taken by the fishermen. This one was caught by Mr. Charles Ash- 
mead, in the bay, and measured about eighteen inches. The Z. malleus 
is also said to occur even more abundantly than the present species. I 
do not find this species recorded hitherto as occurring on the American 
coast. 



67. Pastinaca hastata, DeKay. 

Tlie Whip Sting-ray. 

Pastinaca hastata, DeKay, Nev/ York Fauna, Fishes, 373, plate Ixv, 

fig. 214. 

This species was found to be abundant in the bay and elsewhere. It 
was frequently taken tvith the hook, and every haul of the seine in the 
surf brought in numbers. The smallest caught were about the size of 
a breakfast plate, the largest measured about four ieet across, with a 
tail five feet long. 

The wounds inflicted by means of the serrated spine on the tail of 
the sting-ray are justly dreaded by the fishermen, who use the greatest 
care in handling them. The usual practice is to cut off the tail at 
once, and thus render the fish hors dii combat. Instances have been 
known of this spine being driven through the hand with such violence 
as to render it necessary to pull it out trom the opposite side. 

The large ones, when brought in by the seines, are so heavy as mate- 
rially to impede the hauling of the net. In this case some of the men 
were in the habit of thrusting the handle of an oar into the orbit, and 
with this convenient point (Tappui sliding the monster out upon the 
bank. 

Mis. Doc. 24 23* 



*338 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 






JS.I 



% 



•!U to 

S •"§ 

CO S 

or 



^" 



C3 



'^ 



(« CO 

00 *r 



^ 



1^' 



00 



«o 









o 


>i 


^ 


i-O 






« 


§ 


«2 


.^r> 


?i 


1 








S 


g 








CO 


-^ '^ 


o 


i? 


ie 


« 



5^ 



©^ e 



^• 



a 






O o o c 



■S-o 



a d 'i 

ja .i: -3 


«««*, 


^ 



ess 



o o o 



c c o o o 

-^ -XJ "^ "w 'T3 



"■•Si: 
£ o c 



-t: t- 2 cti 

S ts E o 

5 o — -c «- 

ctf — » -3 ci 

;q = o c o- 

C Cm •= C . 

5 _; or. K o 



rt 


r" 




rt 


i>. 


c 


7. 




t; 


o 














rt 






r! 


Ob-OO 



»Hi?}e<5'9"««t-QOC30rHOjw^vocct^aoo 



'-o»s*5-''''"5^r-aoiS)Or-40Jc-5'*i/:wi^ooo; 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



^339 



o o o o 

t3 t3 -T3 -^ 



OcJk!c5oO''5000 

Q1Z-SO"3)o 6 00 
O O Oi Ei4 O 



ooooooooooo 



3 

^ o 



o o o o o 



O O !- 

o o "^ 



Q._2-^' 



ooc'^■o:i"■-ooooo,J^^.^oooo 



-e-o 



w 






S 2 



'T3 ^ 






-c— c 



MpaS 



j U >-/ l_J W. IJ 

(5 S S 






51 

o . 
-a CLi 

£ d 



0-. O'-lClfO-^intSt'-QOOlOi— l<MCO-a'tDt^OOC50'-l(MM'^u'^tOt-QOS5'--H(NCO-^f<^!CO-^vOCJ 

t-- Cl uT 



cscocococ^r^c^coco'^ "^^ 



=340 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



K 



O O O D O O 
'^ 'O 'O 'XS t3 'O 



M ^ O O O 
"o "73 * ' ■ 



O O o o o o o 

'O T3 'O 'w n3 "^ T3 



4> <r> .S 
Ceo 

^ ^ G 
5 -a T3 T3 .5 "S t^ 
' • - - Si C r^ 

> ci-:^ 



o o o o o o o 

13 TS 13 "TS -O "C -3 • 






,50000 

; • - " 13 -5 -o 



||qqqJq-5qqq 



u, u O u 



o o^q.^ 



O ID O - 
> > > 3j p- 

•^ -^3 '^ 13 '-5 
rt rt d a; Ki 

;2;;2;!z;ci;2; 



° ■& 

S >^ 

o "3 

o ?• 

'- .s 



o 2 



Cl,-3 



O-K !g rf 



m- 



G, w 

G tjD-a 



■^ 5- 






tD , O 



t5^ 



<5S 



<^ ^3 " =- ■— 



£^ 



gQ 



Q SQHfoH <g 






•JT 1- i- i- i- {- f- f- t^ l^ l^ r- i 



t^ t- X/ X> X 



.£0 

<5 o 



3 00 aO 00 C'J CQ ^1 CJ S~J ro C^ r-H O C: 1— I — I .— I 1— I rH .— I r-i — 1 i-H C! (?} C>J CJ i:»3 en CO 

CO ro ro rj o lo i-^ 'O 1- r- i- j^ t- i^ i^ 1^ t^ r~ t^ t^ t^ i^ t^ i- t— 






r-r-t^t^t^j-i-i-2oaoxcox)3oaiXico30c^ciCT:ciC^c-. 00-. c^cno^'^'^'S 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



341 



So 



^c 



a> a> o) 
a. a. a, 
».fx a, 
o o o 
o o o 

? 6 o 6 ? 9 9 



03 c; 






^•S 






. bCTS 



"'tis - s-:, "i 1-, *j -3 



^ se 



!> »•> • ri-= 



tH tH '^ =* fc, g t- 

oj OJ S (_ o .2^ o; 
o o o :::: o G o 



0)00 



O C) 






w 



y o 






r o o r o r 
5 ^ 



ooaooocox'-^— 1— c~r-i— ii-i/;i 



^7 M C^ C^ CO 






; ^ ^T* ^ '^ ^i* ^ 



*342 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



.s 

S 

o 
O 















o g 



o 



o 



;s-;: rt 



•-i f- -^ ' 



O O 



.3 =. 

O _ rt — !d 
>'^ O O. O 

.S'g.S.S.S 

^ ;^ Si L. ^ 

O U O O) CJ 
CL, CI. &. Ci. 0-. 

a. Cs o- G. ;^ 
o o o o o 
o o o u o 

© q; OJ O O) 

•^ -^ -^ -^ -^ Q Q • 

d rf d te ri 



■^■^ 






5- d-a 



■-GQ 






S o °- 

T3 .^ I — ' 



C ® rt 



Q 0-, S ^ O 2 



• • «* .3 



2 S S £ 



d rt " o 

S C (D « 

rt d 






■£•3 c 
^ ^ o 



2JJ -Hd£o oojdd 



%-i t^ ^ o a> 



a.cx 



a, <u « © o 



•^t: t- d d 






; c^ n ro ^ "-^ LT L"5 1."^ c^ r: CO o n r^ -^ *r "»"*"* Lt o >-T o r- r- 



<; £ 



'T m era X 05 O — ' CO -T '.t '.O t^ X' C5 O — < L- 



^ o* in cc i~ GO • 






r~ X ri o X ^j o ■ 

C( ^I CO t^ t^ X '-*-J ^J'-' *>'^ ^'- •"• "'^ "^ *-" 



faX) 



I f~xa50'-|'^»co-*>.':!:o^^x^:lO-^'^ J co-T L-5 iOf^xoicD— I (^)co-f 1.0 ot~eo 
' TT -"f "3" >o lo '6 10 "O o uo 'O uo in ^o ;o to CO to «D <o o to CO t- r^ i^ t^ t^ t- r- t^ i~ 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



^343 



S^3 

Suvo 

" =J <a 

S .S o 
= e " 

'rt'iS S* 



u u g 

SOI-. 

a c rt 
o o D. o 

'S S tS 
> >-, 



a (D 



CUD.' 



teg 



rf cd 



cu o 



. bD 



a. a ~ 

ft. c -o 

■■^ ^ c 









" oj 5 ^'is. 






T3 --Q ' 






> 


tive 
alcii 
Do. 


'5 


-S 
>.'^ 


BJ 


rt c 




i/fl 


^i;2;< 


<:o<; 



'H § 5 ? S 
o 2 oiJ^ 

£u- ^ 2 S =^ " 
;3 ='B rt 3 rt >XX 

2 .S £,-:3 T3 T3 'J O Q 
C o C? o o a d 



-^ii 



■- 3 



!=.S 



5 a. 
■5 a- 






So 



^'^ 



w w w s 

S 'S 'S -- 
> > > o 



Oh Q. a. c 
a. a, a. rf 



n a; 
a. a. 
a. a. 
o o 



o o o o ^ 



O 



-§£. 



5 ^ 
^ "-5 



=> o > > 

3 Q -^ -5 



.5 2 



2 -a 
5 bf 



cd -g g 

^ -a -3 

~ 0} a 
5 i^ ■ 






O 0) 

•^ -^ a 6 Q a 

ni .-0 5 2 



-5 &i 






t— i--t-r-t^i~t— t— t^t— r-t~-t— r~-r~r-r~i— f— t— t^t— t~.t— tH.i-.i--t— t^-i—i— f.. t—t— t-t— i— t— i^i~» 






(-aoaoooooooooaoaDQOoocno2oa5C5Cja3sr205a50ooco<=ooooi=< ^ — ^^^r-iUii; 



=344 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



3 C 



o c — - >H a, 
5 — d a o 

iOOOOO 00^1,0(3,0 
> £1,-5 



? i* O rt 

^ t. > s 



"1 o o n r^ (~i -s; o .£ M -tf, 



< J 



5Q S 



o o o o o 






I- t- i- I- t- I- i- I- i~ t~ X QC 00 00 00 coo t~ i^ t~ CO r^ ct CO r? c: ri CO in ift 



<?5 0>-IOJI«5-^»-';Ol^XO-^C<CO-«r rJ-UOO 
(J50OOOOO0OO^-*-^-3--^ CJO?(>< 

ic t- I— t- t~ t^ t^ t^ t~ i^ t~ t^ r- t^ i^ o o o 



ia«OC^COC^C»5COCOMCOu-5 



0) ^ 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



^345 



S O <= O o 
S -O O T3 -^ 



o o o o o 



-t3 



o a s 



t. > p 









'S. „ ■= -5 -5 -S -S 



■-go 

C-'S '^ 



OS 

S^ P 8 2 

c c a s a 



(Ba)<aaai>o3 
Sh Ch P-. 2, a,'^ cujs 
^ O^ Zl, Cl, O^ Pi Cu ^, 

oooooco— - 
ooooociu" 



«u to fc^ r^ Lu — ^ «; ^^ 

J2; ^ ;? ^ ^ S ;?; w 



^ " ^ V l- u ^ u 

• S jg .^ -^ C Q Q a 






Q >0 






OriJ-2 O^tJJ o O 2 



(2iH cqk: 






cc&-o^oooc 



£ 'E be 
'E ^- ■"■ 

2 S '^ 



S bilX. 
o ;= o 

g p o 

. o o « 

-2 &. '^ ?- 
■^ « ^'Z 

m c " ri 

§ ! "J 

cS ci cj a, 

o- a-c. 

M w CR %-t 

2 12 "^3 O 
,o Jo; "3 <D 



-a -a-a ;5 
a> c o a; 



-";ioxaonr;cor5r-5coror:ncoro«r-3nr5r5r5r;«'3''?«*-*'3''3'-^T}<«3-t-^'3-'*'5-'* 



iOu^LTu^iOooxro«coc^c^c^cocoMcococ»5cocncooicooococ^coroc'^ccfCC-;riric^«c^r-;'3"'3> 



ir> lo '-0 lO lo lO vo o o lO to «5 SB CO ;o cc to to CO :o 1^ t- t^ f~ r- t^ l~ t- t- t- 00 00 00 QO QO QC 00 QC OD QO < 
<7< CJ ?J Tl C< C^ « OJ CJ CJ CJ 0» 0< 0« C< (?* O* Of C^ OJ C< OJ C^ C« O* C« (7J l?J (W CJ CJ cy c« 0» C-) (?< C^ C< O! 7) ' 



^346 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 



; "^ "T? 'O ^3 



on 


t» 


(JO 


Q> 


o 




> 


^ 


no 


ca 




M 


^ 


«i 


>^ 






Id 


n-o 


s 


'a, 


M 


« 








/•^ 


c 


a. 




c 


•, 






n 


0) 






> 


o 


> 








^ 


;-• 


i< 


01 


a> 


0) 


> 


> 


> 








)-t 


*-< 


w 


o 


<D 


a> 








bl betas 


P3 


« 


■P 



-a Si 



S m 



> ^ ;- 



2-s^ &) „;: 



■3 —- m 



u ^ 



njOOriOOOO 






. -a Ts "5 
• 3 S 3 



O O -13 • -3 -^3 rf 






>-^ 



rf rf i) 



ODE 



T3 -O 

hB bij o 
£ c 



03 ^ 3 



br o. <p 
c g So 



-T3 i^ Cu . C 



— j-o ^ -3 



bJD = 
^3 






+j a> 
2 .S 

a.M3 IB 



2 o a 
So J 

^ i< ii 

a> u c} 

a. a. cu 
^ a^ O' 



o o o o c o 



Q -^ a Q -2 G Q Q Q .2 Q S Q Q -^ -2 -2 



2; 



^ S ^^^ 



;iotststc«5a:ooxQoaoxQDxaoooQC'Qoaoooo 



^2 



— I C) CO -^ LO to r- X' s^ o — < ci c^ -^i lO CO (-- CD C-. o 1— I s* « -a" o to t- 00 o o -- CJ rj 
OTai(3ia5CT>a>c^cnooooooooooot— (-Hf-ii— II— (r-i>— 11— I— ir- iCTOfc^iT* 
.'7('?*'7*T*c<C^cit^)CJc<5c<?ricoc<vroc':!C*5or!«r5t-;r;r»5««Ot»5C»5«»:c»5coir5CC 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



^347 



■CO ^ 



\^ a 



© 00 » lO 

td Id 






Kl WW 



'So bX) 



Hfa 






Ok_5 
.2 2 






S 5 q;> U3 

-= 02 -= ^ 



J .i^ 



Oh Q. a; 
OhO. a 



'5 y 



"S jg 



^ S 5 = s o " 
5 ci-5 d £ o ^ 

■ST >.. >,*. g. 



OJ ' 



D ■ 



O g ^ 8 « '=^^ 

p 0) 0,0 a. ""h^ 



^^ 



^1 ;! 



Nt2 






0^1 

O. m ^ 

O. o ^ 

= S 3 



a ■" .- 



o o. o- 
> o- a. 



0) (U o o 

rt rt rf 

12; 12; 12; 



3 -r; bx) 

^ Oh ^ 

■5 t« T3 

." w'rt 
O O "? _ 



o, . ~ ^ 

cd t3 -^ -O 

-^ "5 "o "S 



o,fcJ)taCi= ° ° 



s :5 



O p <D OJ • 

c3 o <D cu . 

3 S 5 S ! 

bD bD bj) bB , 

C S c H * 

(d rf cd cd • 

s s s £ : 

o o o o : 



o o o o 



0<<0 



U U l-i U ,j ^ ^ ,j o ,^ o o 

a C Q O -^ -g -g 73 Q - Q Q 

_ri cd jd (d _!d 

mSEqS S 



o o c: o o o r-s CO tc -^ to T -Jt • 



' "^ 1" 'T ■^ O '-'1 LC 1 



: i-T O 1"5 O 



CB 00 O) QD 00 «' 
OT O C^ O Ci c^ 



<r>cvC3n~c;nc-;iCioirt-ri"'*'T-f-r-^-^- 



' "^ "^ "^ ^S* ■'^ ^T "^ 



C<f<5-*l0C0i-a0C:>O'-<(J*C'5"^>CtOi^00a3O'-((rjC'5'*lf5C0t- 

n5o:ic^cnr'5c-;ronior^c»5c*5rocQfOo?Mrorortforonc'5c':M 



348 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



o 

O 






















[fi . . 

«^ ! ! 

5 • • 
"3 : : 

o . . 

>i • '. 

c . • 

Ni 

g-S : 

!§:: 

K 3 . 

o ^ ■ 

M is : 



ooooo^ij-rOca 



g O B 
« fi ^ 

-^ o 









a,' 

O rt 






G ■»^ ■*-> ,i- 
O 3 W^^ 



o o q o o 






hB 7j bjD 0) bB o 
3 " " " 



^ g n § c g 

'3 jD o -S^ O . 
g M Q _m o 



« 3 
O 

ad £ 

be S 



CO aj 



bJDo 
3 g 



s^s 



0,0 

o:s 



s's 



o 'C .^ 

■^-zS o 

O t, M "' 

CQ o O •"' 

be 3 bo t> 

2 ■- S ■* 



pq„- 



f^ 



J3^ 

bflbl) 

d rf „ 

o o . 






P5Wrt 



Eh Qi 



bo 



-2 2 
— 3 0^ 



--I -C a> 



Q g< -i? Q 



Q a 



c.^ 


fcflc 




o 


C K 




O cS 


•S 6 


C 


- o 


^13 


^ 

s 


ai &, 


" a 




^ s 


^N 


!30 


-2 " 




'S 


■a £ 


>>3 


cd 


*-> ? 


c!j ty 


B 


rt ==B 


bB'^ 


O 

u 


o ^ 


JZ 3 


a, 


o« 


►J> 


H 



c >> 



a 



o 2 



cc -^ '^ ' 



C O^ c: C-- 



Oi a> (?» « « c; o o oo — -h i— i — 



— . — ■^ tfi mm 

'» i3 C-. C5 C3 O 






'X o^ o r-i « ro "3- L^. 


'-0 t- 


00 C-. 


lo lO ^ CO to (C'jD tr: 


CO to 


CO CO 


c^'nc-2nr^r»::^r-: 


f^ ro 


coro 



•rf li^ CO r- 

C-5 « C-5 ri 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



349 



O *J 



O 3 



jL. 53 c '^ "^ "O 'O 



O Q.' 



o ^ 



Q-S 









"^ c S 



c a S 



•T3 T3 -a 
O O p u cj ;j 

O CD O Q H W 



O hj) o _ . 



o 



g .2 g .S 

> 3 o u 
-. -^ "^ — 






9-^-S 



(B ■ 






. TS .= ^ 03 

' o s S -S^ 



T fclB 



000 



O © 



> it - 



■-H 3 9-^ 



' — I CJ 00 q; .X ^ 

^^ >^ 2 1? "« 

" rf g S £ •> 

'-' C" s 2 o 

■a S cd rt ^ .s 

Ji ti "S >- m g 

" cd rt =2 >,<= 



! " .2 ^ bfl 



O, Cm S. ^ 



CD o, 



Q Q a Q Q Q Q S .^ .^ .^ . £ 



n, oi -D ^ -Q 



Oh C 



. o (d ci rt o 
S "^ "^ "^ a ^ C 



C§ <<< 






OwcricTJC^cicnc^icnc-. c5cncf5Ciaiff:c;c2-*'3'-*; 



~ -Z) oooooo-^-^-* 



J^l^ 00— IC-JCT(T-!C^C:<;3— 1— 1— I,— (-^1— .1— l--Hr-Hr-l>— l^H-Hi— ( r-(t— I CJCtCMCTCTC^CJCJi— c 



OOOOOO'*-*-^ 



CDOO OOC10QOOOOOOOQO(TJCT5CT2C50505a5C3Cr3C500C3000 00 OO"— l—H'-'^H-Hi— li— 1 



*350 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



c^ 



o : s 

'S • o 



o 



ti far 



"d i - 



C 



M 



o o g o 
■a T3 — ^ -c 



Sr o ^.S 



1^ 



?:? o rt o o a 



"o o • c -r • 






■ o -.^ >-^" t. 

"r ■ - rt rt 

. t3 J- C- r- 

. -3 ^"^ . S . 

• O c fc, — — 
' CL C o cj O 



wo- 









d - 



X ai 0) 



C J3 O 



r'- C a 



■j: ■— t- m 

"C fcjD bi)T3 

02 C G X 

_ _ _ a» 

»-< (u q; ^ 



>HH>^OoSc;0 ?c; edffi 



^ c 5 o § '^ 






•^ •^ •cf »»■ •* -T tj- ■ 



Tf -r). Tf -^ •<T TC ■«?• • 



-* «J «0 C: "* -* -^ 



' ^ 'Si* ^ C^ O^ 



;^^ 






2^ 






THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



351 



in H CQ H 

'S .ii '5 ji 

c ;: s b 



» T3 OJ -3 



bn CL, bx) c 

T3 in -T3 t. 



£ >^^ >,2 



o o 5^ C O 

o o o c u 



9^ t-> X 



^§-§5 2 

c ° <D ° aT 

c t- o t^ 03 

o o a) u c 

c 2 e o H ^ 



S £ 



a- 5 

^ 2 

a> >-. « 

C 3 ft. 



c c 






>^2 
bii'H.ii 

- o >% 

ttj br 



c :: ° 

S ?- o >.'-i'7: 






<V o 



' i^^tn-S 



- 5 C =^' 

— bt'c w 

X ::r -— o :^ C ^ 

o S c j: 53 -a 2 

u, -r o 3 t- T? C 

.0 & c -J-. ^ j: o 
- - .. ' ..t„ "K 

53 o o g a; o -c 

d ri rt .- rf ij 5 

-; c; C 03 o ^ 

=: cd ci fi « a; 



£.2 
bt 






00000 



-a — tts 'o x) 



T3 -c "t: -0 






rJoD 



0) -tJ • 
a aJ 
o >- 



1 o o 



C3 O C O j; O O 






. • • " . 

o o c "^ o 



w 



o 






■n c~. ~ o 3^. 3-. J-, en c~. c o 3) ~ ~ CI 05 G-. cri ~ o o c c o o o o o o o o 



a»o i-i<>j 

CT3 ^d* ^* ^" 

00 00 00 00 



•^ "S" •^ •^ -* •^ irt li^ 10 'O o lO 10 lo o '.I cc c:i CO in 1/5 i.T uT to lO cj? d cc io tc 1:0 to 
00 CD oc 00 -x oc .X X' X X «i X X X X X X X x 3: C5 en a> cr. ci 05 o: o a; c. CD en 



•:r>o<or-X050 •— 'CjcO'^O'or 

u^ O O >/5 '.■5 O <X1 "' '~ •-»--.•-«■-- 
"^ ^t ^}< .^ ^^ .^ -Tj* 



t3t£>t--t-r-r^t^t~t-t~r-t^0OXXQ00OQO 



352 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



O" 



<3 






O 'xj 






'Son. 



c^ o 

.S „" 
c c 
"S2 - 

ti «J o 

o ■- 
o o 
„ > 

c .:: 
o ^ 

c a. o &■ 

I §-^ §■■ 
•* o . o 

2 I- • *- 
a, <a . m 

CL, > • > 

on:: • ~ 



godgoggo 



& > 

- <* ^ 
o I-. s 



I2 "^ 

d "bo 






J2 =! 



•S.S 



o 0-> 

O CL, 

„ o 

a. 'J 



rt .= eS 



"OOgO"gO 

■^ Q Q .^ O -^ -^ Q 



I ^2; 



^ ;l^ ^ 



a. a,, -3 p 
o o ti-S" 

o > > J2 ^ > 



r- = ° .. 



Qj oj •; 
o o s 



-Q 


hc^ 


-T3 


be Ki 



r-o >--?_!-• 



t-, U, ^ tH Lh U 

o o 05 at Q) o 

a, B. e. a. o- Dh 
a a. a a a a. 
o o c o o o 
000000 



jjOOOOoOoOOOOOCqo 



Q .^ Q . S .t .^ .t . S . S Q 



ctf cti :^ cd cj 



l?;;?;^!?; ^; ^l?;^^^)?; 



Q-B 



■^■>*-^-*'3'-*-^-5>^-J"-q'-r-r--f-r'.C 



tc 'X --c '^ to O w 'O tC -sO ■«" ■ 



-*"*'«•'» 






^s 



-J- -J- -r* -^ "^ 10 lO lO lO lO >0 10 »0 LO O CO 






QOQOQOQOa>OiC305030Cn03Cr3CDC30 00000000^^— '-^-^-Hi-irt.-< 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



353 



> a 



a. d 

o l< M 

.2- " -^ o 



o o o 



fcc; 





c5 


:oJ 








o 










%^ 


• tl 










• tr 


















>. >> • >. >> 








• c a 






.-S r 


• d d 








- • c ^ 






§ £ 


: P s 






o C 


• o o 






oc 


:oo 






s c 


I c s 






d r 


! d d 






i) c 


o o 





s s 

<< 



^^ 



£ S 



l?^ 



_ w w - a, -5 o o o 
to &i !y) d a. 



d ^ -' 

-o -a a> 

O © rt 
^ :^ *-* 

-i o o ^ 



fcD 



-o ^ 



d 



<" N S S s 

s o 



bo 



, fcE 



o .: 



3 S d c i —. •* t: 
c o g--^ = d i^_c: 

iJd^-gc|o^- 



c 


r 


n 


(U 


c 
o 

c 


^ " O 30 


c 
5 


'E 

'd 


c 

'd 

"S 


c 
o 
tn 

c 


mpose 
mine, 
ificati 
.15—1 


u 


O 

o 


o 
o 


0) 

> 


> 




0) 


0) 


01 




0) 


o P 1 


o 


o 


o 




fcn 


MN 


5 
> 


3 
> 


> 


c 
o 
o 


-a 

d 
-3 


> E"? m 



cuQ,D.a; G.D-a.l'' — 
G.CL,fi.>a.ci.PH.i !>, 
ooonrooo"'- 
u u u «i u o u 



QQ' 



o oj o o m g o 



£ rf E 

dllj 



I tn ^ 






■a 

t- d 

. d CL. 



C-3 


Gi2 


OJ d 






c 


o? 




fi t: 




C Ki 


a 1- 


O 3 


> =S 




d =" 


U^ 


C o 


D,T3 


-o'd 




e o 


o tn 






d o . - > i, 5 o 
r- "t: '^ "O ^n ., 



a d a; 



d -a -o , 



CO -O 



£ rt 






"d 



o 



^ ^ o 



^ 


~ O 


rl 


d TS 










>>>> 



S S^ o 



oo 






Tji.5t"<a<'«t'S"'^!OQ0CX)cri'X)00Q0Q0a0Q0Q0000000Q0Q0G0Q0CB C5ff!C5CT) C3 CVClCiaJCT} C5S5 



•^'^-^■^■^•"^CDt-t^t^t^t^t^t^l^t^r^t^t^t^lr-l^t^t-OO 00 CO CC' CO oo OOOOOOOOOO G0( 



Q0a5O-H(M«-*mtDi— aoOTO-H(r»ro-<>>>fltot— oooo>-icj 



O -* if5 CO 
^^ -rr -rf ^i« 

m lO o lO 



00 C5 O •-I (TJ M -* 
•^ -^ O O lO lO »o 

irt m lO lO 'rt lo o 



Mis. Doc. 24—23 



354 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

































. i^ i~ 












'. '. ° 










































• r*" r*" 














. ,4-> . • 










































• • .. 






.^« . 
































"a 3 i^ 














































•-^ ►^ s 












































- ^ d 

o C -^ 








: : s 

• • o 

: :u 






ill: 
































ti > o 








■ ! t, 


^ 


•^rt • 


_>, 


>> 

c 

o, 

S 
o 
O 


























g c .2 








. o 


o -^2 o * 

12; 6^^ o 


























o S a, 

S .3 3 








• 3 


d . d d . 


o 


s 






















^ ^ ^ 








'. o 


"a ; m "m ' 




























_ r- O 








. .^ 






3 
£ 




c 


o o c 


_c 


: : : : :.o .h j : 

_OOOOOl- !:■ '^OC 


1 . . d 

: : :-^ 

P o o_ 






g-^ 


t: 


t: 


"= 


- 






-c 


x 


-c 


t: 


S S c • 




■« -a g 


2^"= 






<; 


< 






















< < "■ 








; 


"" d 

aj •- 
^ S 


d d • 




-— 


^ 






















— — 3 








• 3 


s s • 




"^ 


" 






















^ "S -2 








• o 


d a 


tt) Q> ■ 




;-i 


;-! 






























• ^ ^ 




O 


O 






















o 3 o 








. o 


"o 


. o o I 




'^ 


^ 






















^ ^ 25 








• m 


fq 


pqm . 




















J3S 










m >3 


s 






c 

d 


































0.3 










3 d 

:3 " 


o 






































jj'S 










g| 


br 






^4 




• ® 








. 
































^ £ 

O bD 


;= 






d 




; "S 






























-u ■> 










's^ 


.O 

d 


6 


o 


c 


3g 




























^ 








■^ -2 s' "^ 

d2^"g 


3 


T3 


Ol 

1-1 


-c 


'C 0) 






















1; 




2 O o' 






bo 

C 

S 






bu 

^" 

'S 

"d 

3 

O 




• d» 

: c„ 

. o 

• -J 



















y 




N 




o rt o 

^3 c 






o "3 'o -s 
"S 'J 1 '> 


CD 








', 2 
















-*-» CO ». 


G 








w .- X d 


CJ 

o 


_C 




3 


c 


! 4> 
O Ji 








a • 

d • 


a 










s 

a. 






'3 


-c 


-a ;3 

I 3 

. a, 

• d 

I 0) 








j3 ; 
5 1 


o 


!- C >- u c5 
rt O ^ t^ ^ 

3 ^ 3 be Q. 

^ £ S o o 


o s o £^ 
o s o ci. 






= S^^ "3 3 *r 

1> • - cj ^ a> ... C 


5 




> 

d 

O. 
w 

o 










^ • 

o » 

bD : 

CI . 

^ • 

o * 




»- 'O iTi s 3 
^1 1- " 


Ill's f.fe 

"S S '53 i5 g '^ 


c 


- is - 9 Oh „ -J 

.s|.S.Bl-Sg 

>-. d >-. t- 1 I- , 

(P 2 O U (U ^ 


Q 

"3 


"d 
o 

"o 
'S • 


1 


o s 

• d 


c 
c 
c 


c 


c 


m • 
&, • 
a. • 
o • 




o o o :: C 

o c g I ■;: 

> o i o a; 


s = fl b^^ 5 

U tH J-. , , t- 






•-0 


o , 
o 


'C 


c*» • 
o • 

05 • 




o OJ (D rt tn o 


<u a. 












•^ &.■" &< a. 


&, c G. c: -;3 c 


O. CI, o-o &,o 


T3 G..!: 




I "rt 


3 




:; «5 




rt p,k! a. c 


d^ ex, CLi'O ^ ^ 


pj^ o, a, tj a, tc 
o- o o o 2 o C 
" m u u § " -S 
OdOo_oaj>-_ 


log-'i 




5" 




_B,0 




c o n o o 


o o o a> M o 




• '14-1 






O O O O O (- 


o a> oj g c o p 


d "■;: 


o 


• o 


=" c 


c 


to o 




[g-5 ^-^-^a-^-^-S-S -^Q-B^-B-B B P>^B 


QQ3 

-O 


f ° li 






SizS^^ '^'^'.^Q ^ ^o^;?; ^ <;?; 


0(£ 


o . 








. X 


Ci^3^-. c;C2C50C^J3Ci os^cr-^oo -r •'i^^-s-. 


C5 05 05 


ifl L-; uo rt i."^ 


o o 


r-^ 1— * 






^■^ 








'S^ 




ojoeo 


050 i-(C» « 


O o 


l^t-QOOOOOCnCnOCTl 050305020^02 l^ l^t^CO 


CO -^ '* 


CO ■=1' -^ -^ -^ 


6.S 


ooaoaoaoooooQOQOX)ao aocBGOX)0505 ■o' •^'S'o; 


05 03 05 


lO IC lO lO to 


, 






&, 








bo 

2? 


l.'iCOt~a0O5C-HO!C»5-q> ifltOt^QOOiO ^ OlM'J' 


lO CO t- 


Q0 050 — C* 


lO ITS lO lO »0 CO CO ;0 !£> '-O to CO CD to CO c^ 1-- l^ t^ t^ 


r^ i~ I— 


t- t^ 00 00 00 


i!^ in irnrun iTi lO wi u:i iTi L'^irjioirtioo to lOiOift 


lO »o o 


lO lO "O lO to 


tH-S 























































THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



355 



-2!?!? 



W-c js 



0) a, © 



S ° £ ° 



S £ S 
<D 53 oj 



Wpqm 



ooPofiPPocjo 



s^ 



w 



S £ £ 
o <u <u 
^ J= J5 
o o o 



o c 



^p-e 



o- 5- 



P £ 2 'g ^ 
2 ■ c S !3 o 

"o^ >. C CU.3 

■"oo'"''^ooo^oc2<£'so5"'oo 
":: ':!':? '■:i o ^ <'^ K, o •~ 



M 



o o 



OOOoOqOo 






■"O ^O 'w ^I^ T3 ^^ 'O ^^ .-^ ^I^ 



'm 



.5 ^ 






fe fe ^ o 






d d 



^<A 



O 



« 



'o '^ "S 



S O 

u r* c _ 

s £"S § • 

tt." iu ^ ;£ . 






- £-0 --„ 



fcu 



>-i ^ S (h 






Q,^ 



O O "^ ^ o 



o t. <-r S '■' *- *-• 



10 o o lO 10 lO ut o o lO 10 lO lO 10 Lt in o irt L"^ ut ic i/^ u^ lO o o o :o CO 50 o cj C5 m 05 CTJ c: C5 



iQiooio'Oioi-'jio'OiO'oi.'sioioic'OiniooiooioiOLniO'n ioioio'oc5<33030oo50505 



CO-q.iOCOt^QOCTSO'— l(>J«'*'0CDt^Q0a5O>-IC<C0'rt<i0COt^CD 
OOOOQOGOaOQOQOCnOOCiCnOOOCTJClOOOOOOOOO 
v.-5lrtirtl.'5 0mirtiOiO'0»mnO'COi.'5vn«l»«COtO»?OiDiO 



StOWWtS'J^DiCOWXitO 



356 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



o 



o-a rt-^-^ 



,0000 ,0000 



^ § " 






S >- -■ " 

S bn-S ^ 
3 -.-=^-3 









5 o •— 






& 3 

o >> 

-5 o 



5 5 P 



O o ";2 ^ 



Q. o 



^002 

o i- a, - 
*-■ 3 O- •^ 
3^00 
— a, o .ti 

fcl. 






- o £ o2 

3 c o rt -- 

■| -3 J :2 § 






— a -3 
rt t- !S 

hi tj) fcn 



o 



d ci g 






a. c a.Q 

d rt c3 



dew 
•— = d 

O &. 3 
~ d ►-• 



Sod 

t300 



fc£ fcn jsc 


(U » 

3 3 3 
y3 yr y3 


mpact 
mpact 
)mpact 



t, t- S-t 

(U o o 

C 0. Q- 
a. cu cu 



S a d d <S 




05 O C-. CO 



O iC irt irt 1.-5 i.~ O iC -^ CO IC tC «0 to W to tC CO « O iC i3 tCHO 



2:2; 



10 CO t^ t^ 

CO 00 C^QO 
C5 O C5 L/3 



C; O -H CJ CO "S" I" C5 <M CO O — < CJ 00 CO I— QO O O CO -:f m CD t- 

cot^r-t-i-i-r-t^oooox^oocc-H— ' — "C^^^-*'*-* 
muomio'rtirtoifococououoiotococococococococococo 



•^irOCOt- Q03>O-^C>C0-^iJ0t0t~Q0OO— 'OJCO'^lOCOr^OOdOr-J 

CIO!CT<M eiC^COCOCOCOOOCOrOCOCOCO'*''*'^'*'^^'"^*''"''"'*"'!^ 
C^COCOCO COCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOw 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



357 






O ^ '^ "^ "^ 



M g t- L 

d fee 



o 



o 2 p- r\ 



^ *; .■= Z! M 



_2 — 



■"3 _2 — _ " 



ss 



CO I 

fee br bD £1 1 



o u o tJ o 

O O GJ Q^ ^ • 



■- ^J >• > > > 

I> r' -^ _ « r- 
> !- C C G S 



oooo'o'ooC-i 

'-' s Vj ■-►^ '-S '-P '^ w cj - 
O ^ t^ f^ rt rt 






ns TS d) -o 



S-iOOCOOOOC-SOOOOOOOO 



XJ '^ ^3 T3 n3 O 



oooooooo 



oooooooo 



&0 



00 o f2 



OCOOOQOQOaOOOOOaOQOOOQOaOOOOOaOOOOOQOOOaOQOaOOOOCCCOOOOOOOOQOODOOQOOOQOO 



lOO-^— 1'-<^^— 'rH— Hr-c-}(MO}cscocot^t^^>C5or3C5cr3C2a;<j;dO<noocr>ooO'-i 

to l» r- 00 00 00 00 00 CC 00 aO CB 00 t^ I- t^ i~ t- t- I- £^ t- l^ I- t^ t^ l^ C^ CO CO 00 00 00 00 QO 00 o 



o lo lOioiooiootototritototnvocotocDt^t^i^i^t^-i^t^t^r-i^ooooQOXJOOoooooooOQoai 
to to cocotototototocotoco^cocotocototocotototococototo^cotototototototototo^ 



358 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



OOOOOo°® 

r2 -a 'T3 'O (1) 13 -^3 



102 



o o o o 






bJD O^ 






bjo'H 



_2 o 

o ■ - 






d a,rH i^^ts 









ID > o ai a> 



d O O 
- o o 



~ 3 13 



Q o Q> I 

o o o '^ "H 

'^ 13 13 ( 



0) (U O _5 
Cl^ Cl^ O^ Q 

a. c cu !- 















ex Q a, cj 
2 =^ I, c 



5JD 6 fcicS 

>-, o >^ .2 

d ,- C3 (D 
13 •t:'^ > 



O) o d o 

Ch a- a. J- 
o. a. a. — 
o o o o 
o o o o 



C -3 



a 


su> 3 


& 


h ^« 






^ 


a s > 







o-g u bD 

S5 d a-ji o 

t*- U d 1- "" 

.s a ;2 ^ 

>, g- I a. 

£? '^-ii a, 

u o »- o 

^ cj d o 



o J, £ 
"_s a 
a br^ 



<D S 



d d U „ -— 5 —; 



> > E> ;> . . 

•^ '^ 'J ■;; ^ U 
J2 J? ^ t5 '^ 'd 



' ^^ »! O OJ 

t< bD d -fJ d * 
d Q^ i- ci ^ 



5P'§ 
.a d 

.5 o 
d .ti 

a S" 

s-g 

a. ^ 

f^ bfl 

■^ s 

o'd 



Q> 



^- 



OOOCrQOQOOOM<OOOOaOQOaOQOaOOOQOOOOOODQOQO-*-^OOQOOOQOQOaOQOQOCC 






£^ 



(x:coo!at30caiOiDr-r-r-t--i— t— t^t— i^t^t-t— I— t-r— t— i^-t-t-t— i"-t— t~t— 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



359 



S 5 
J2 I 



. - o S 

o 2 oj -;:; 



O TJ -O 



^y. 


■^ ^ 


S 


O tD 


a o 


a 


O O 


o a 


O 


-a -a 


o o 




^ > 




c. c 


■*-' 


0) o 


Oh ri 






O) - 


ri 


:_ ^ 




QJ 




O) 0) 


■^l 


^ di 


c:. =. 




^ C- 


a. a- 


O 


o o 


o o 


— ' 



<D O Q (D t^ 0) 

> > > > tH > 






bo o 
■S a 






a 5 i3 o o 



<c o 



-a 0,-0 ■^ -a 



bn"^ 



Q-S--s-S-5^-|QQ 






ri cd rt ffd ^2 






-J a o 

"O .3 *^ '^ 
OJ aj ti 



O c-*:; 



^^° ^ 



is '-2 
a -a 



— g C ci 
be o ."5 F? 

a i: '-^ ?> 

a ^^o 
.a <D — 

a - o cS 

" J2 r-. I 

a.rp -a Ch 












_:2 a; "o cr*'- 



-2 P "^ 
tJ O 

to ^ 



, a -a ■ 



.a-= -g-a o^g* 
S S^ 2 o 



a. c 
o o 



O 



& o 

a t>- 

a> 

&^ 















ri t, OJ o 



' o i5 £ 



03 C335a2C20 a-. OOOOQOQOQOOOaOGOGOGOOOOO C. CiCi oooooo ofoooyjc: 



o 1— iffjco-TfincDi— iCTM-^crio-^CTn'^i/stot— Qoa3cot~Qoa5 tof^oocioo tDcotni'-r'S'i" 
o oooooc^ooooc^cocococ^rocoooooo'^'^-*'-^ C5<r>c5aiOO otootcjm-^ 

O 05 03 C3 05 as CT5 O (^^ O O 00 00 CX> QO aC GO QO 00 O O O CfJ 05 05 05 03 03 03 C3 O O O CO lO lO to 05 



LOCDt^QOOSO'— iCTC0-^mt0r-C0C5O>— lO{CO'*u'^Cni^00O3 Oi— IC^CO-^IO tCt^OOOiO-H 



360 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



JJ^ 



3 3 



-5 "O TT -o 



■^ rt 



<u 



02 



OOO'^OOOOO 



rt-u-3 



-S "O -^ 
m ra -^ — 

- = • = " e- 

-2 .2 ^ J3 c -^ 



-O ^ "^3 T3 'O 



o a> a) 

&. O. Q. 

Q. a. e^ 



ri rt (d rt rf 



C5l.0i«O"Ot£Ow)!X>3^J>OO5r>' 



! C^ CT C) C^ O) C^ 



-3"COt^t^30Q030C2c:rvO-*C>!nc»5XIQDOOOOQOaOC50>C3C5C3C5C5CC«3tOCncjCJ 



1-11-1"^ C^CM 



(Tjro-a-iotor^oocnO'— iCTco-^ioc£it^oocio-^(NfO'*mtDt^Q005C5-HO}co-^ 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



361 



o 2 - 

'a o o 
c o 



I— < HH T3 

CD 



^ oo 



w 






WW c 
o 



be- 






o o -a "O t3 > 



.in a, Dh a. &, 



°ffi o 



o O O O o o o 



(L> 

03 



ri o O O O 
So > > > 

cx-g 



oooooooo 
-a'a-a-a-a-a'O'B' 



•J > 
o ■;; 

C .S — -6 






ri ■ r; a- c3 

"1 o" 
C c o C 

CD ^ CD 

CD ^ O 0) 

fcx)'> -^ Ed 



iI^^^q;?;;?; 



'ori^ooooooooooo^^SiJO 



bD=* 



CD c .- 
c'5 S 



fi- B ?, (^ 



^3 N ^3 N 



o i; .ii .2 i3 

Q t, I- t, J-, 

I— I rt d d rt 



ffi 



5 o 



ri -J — i'-' -jj "^ "^ 



;2;o'G^ o'o'Gi'c'H fi; o ;?: 



(7* (Tf tN (N (N CN CTJ (M (M C^ (M (TJ O! . 



t ci oi om a oi a 






t^f^i^l-^t^QOQO C»(X)CBCO(X)<X)00(X)(»(ri<X)aOC»OOQOC»QOQOOOOOOOOOQOQOQOQOGO(X)COQOQO(XiaO 



362 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



I t3 -a 4^ • 






p 


-a -o 


^a 


ft. 


ft. 




OJ 


cu 


g 


fl 


c 










j-i 


fH 


a> 


1) 


0) 


c- a^a. 


ci^a, a, 


o 


o 


o 


u 


o 


o 


o 


o 


a 



; o o o o o o 

, -a "^ t3 'O '^ T3 



rtOOOoooo.S'O'a 



^ »-a 



o -^ 



•^ • £ . S p Q Q 
ni d rf 



P o 

■5Q 



QJ K*% 



S5 1^ 






bflC^ 






"O -o T3 -a -t; 



^ .5 s'^ -2 5 



1^5 


QJ ^ ft. 




.S^" 


1- t- o 

a.ft.S 





o o <o c 



m"^ 



Q Q Q Q a Q -^ C Q -^ "H^Q -^ -^ § -^ -g ^ 

;? ;2; o 15 cB f^ 



O O o o o 
OQQQG 



^ci 



C? CJ 5>> O! O 0>J CJ ffj (TJ (?* CJ (?< (M C^J C^! CM CT C-J CJ C^ C< (?> CJ C^ CJ (M O! C-J C< C^ CJ CM 



C-tCOfOMCOCOUSCMCMC-iCMCMCMCMCMCMOCOOOCOCOeOCOrO'S'^CO COCpOOtpcp 
CMiy!CMCMC<CMCMl-Hr-(,-ll-ll-,t-lrtl-lr-li-HrHrt^i-lt-l,-Hr-lrHi-HC-J 



CM CM C< C^i C» 



OOQOQOQOQOQDCCiOOQOaOQOQOCOC»OOOOOOQOCOQOOOOOQOX)OOOOCC GO 00 00 00 00 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



363 



'O "C 13 2 "3 



o 


W 




s 


V 


o 




M 


f> 




k 








, -3 rj 'g O 



! a a^oico 



3 

3 




3. 
p: 

C 

c 

(L 


c 

13 




C 


d 

13 



.^ 



-^ 


(>i 


c 


%-. 




o 


o tn 






■—I 


!d 


W 




,_, 


;?; 


o 


~ 



S S c 



00 C!i f-i 



O G-S 



O C " g o 

^^5 2 « 2 
Q Q Q -^ Q Q -^ Q Q Q g-l §-^ g^ 

cd d U( <x} u-i d t-i 



be 



0) 



* o 

-C O 

S S 

3 ^ 

3 5^ 



-I 

>-• -a 
"^ bD o 



S-'^ 3 



iQ e-Q'2 



3 o . -2 o 



^ Eh 









oj 3 d 

. J- O IH 



o o o o 
9-QQQQ 



o ^ o P 



CJ (TJ <M t^J CJ CJ CJ (^J CT CJ O! O} (?* C^! C-J Qi Ol C^l Ci Ci CI O^ Ol Qi C) Oi Ci C^ Ci Oi Oi Ci Ol Ci Ol C^ C^ (TJ C^ 



tDr^00-*m:S(?}C0'*'OCT3OC'!-*Q0 
tOCOCDir5rOC»^'*'J''*-^l-CZjGOOO 
OJC^(Mr-(rt1-lr-(i-l^rHrHrtrH(7)C>» 



■*t^'»"c:cit^ooa3C50i-<cj'*ocrj0500^o^" 

(?<^(Mi-li-lrH-^.-HrtCT(MCJOJ'-li-li-(CTrHCN 



CO t^ 00 CC 

_ _ (31 1— I 1— I i-t 



t^ooCT50'HC\(eo->*iocot^GoaiO^ (??«'* otot^oocrsO'—iCTco-^iotor-oocnor-i ojco-^in 

COCOCDt^l^t^t~l:~l--l^t^t^t^0000 000000000000000003050503050503050503100 OOOO 
00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 GO 00 00 00 00 OQ 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 03 03 03010305 



364 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 







O O !U 



— o o -i; G 



t— X t^ 1^ 






A a. 



-SW 5 



' -C -3 >-.'3 13 



O O ^ © 



o o o o o o o 



-3 -d 



„ •-■ -a -3 



rt rt 03 rt 






O-p^E-H^ ^ Ih;^;?; 



o 1-3 



— cl-~~° 



QJ o o o 

o o o o 

o o o o 

O O O (U 

•^ • S .^ ± Q O Q : 

rt eS cJ d 



; O O O O O 
■ 13 'O 'O T3 '^ 



' 3 O O O O 

jQCQQQ 



C! 5>! OJ O! Ol (M CJ CJ CO '>! (?J (M CT CT S^ (7J (M ff J CT CJ (?J (TJ OJ CJ CT (7J (N OJ C>J CJ C^ C^ (?} 






2^ 



OOOOf-i-^ — -H^^rti— lT-Hr-l(>JO}CMfNCJOJC!CNC^C<MCOCOC»5fOCOC<5C»5CO 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



365 




GiOiCiOiCiCiCic^aciciCiOtOiCiCin c^nnnnnmmmnnnnnc^nn moooo 



I— ' -^ -^ to lo in o i-'^ »o »o lO »Q »o tT) <— ( I— 1 1~- 



in ID t— 00 C5 O ■— I -^ lO to 1:- OC t^ O Crj O -* 00 CO "* in CO 

r^t^f^t-i-ooQOQOQOOOQDOo<nr-ooc^c:i cnt-t^t^t^ 



co-^'*'^-^'D"'^'^-*'^-a"minmininin inminmti^otDcstootDtDtocnr— r^t~ t— r~r— r-r- 



366 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



l?^ 



o — 

o 



o o o o o o o 



J T3 aj -O 'O -O "O "O 



'U 0) 13 13 'O 'T3 



« 



Q 






>. £ g iH t- " o 



■S IS -J - rs 

i-'cj O 5 5 S i, 

5"" rt O C C *^ 

O fl i3 "'Sc-S 



!" !<■ 



o c- 
o o 



1^ d "P o 5^ u 
O "2 - rt o o ts 



.S s 



S rt 






&i o 



QQ 



Cos 

bJ3 &D > a) t» 



o o o N o 
t, I- "^ ^ " 
O 01 OJ "S <u 

2 2.^ -S.-Q 

O O ^ J-i ^ 

« 03^0)2; 



d o .ti c 

bX)2 



te— o 
■^ o) -a 






a, " L, 
u o t, o 

^ _ 03 pj C5 M 



TD (X 



3^ 



c-iC^CJCiroricorororocococorocofocorocococofccococoMcocococ^cofor^ 



COCOC5M'a5^HCTCO-HfMCOlOCDQOC>}OOCr50'*>rtCT50rHCO-^lCtOt^O'— iWrnt— 

OOwlOfOtOt^QOOOaiCTJaiOSOl-— lOOO (>(•--■— cc^OOOOOOO— II— !■—(•— i^H 






000201— lOCO-^lfltOlr-OOClO.— lS'je<?-^lOtDt^a3CT50'-IC<CO'^lOtOt^Q0050 
l--t— 0000000000000003000005050050505050505000000000001— I 
050505050505050505050305050505050505050050500000000000 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



367 



K o 



60 



'.O 



^j 

ts *aS ^ '^ '^ ' 
a > - - - 



^ £ 5 



^ S W - IH - 

• — ' 2S ;^ >i o >-» 

fl\ cd flj x-i u fc- 

^ ^'i — O (U o 



S^ Cl CN CJ OJ CJ 



1-1 c> CO -^ in CO 
oooo o o 



1^ 



•-^ 



'^ 



^« 



o 




2^ 



Q O O O O 



" o o o o o 

-^ ^3 '^ '^ 



o o o o o 



o o o o o 

^ '^ 'O '^ ^ 



o o o o o 



d g a) 

m m rt 



6 f 



o o o o o 
t; -u -a " 



'i'^li 



rt c "* 

be a> _r 

^ a 



OTKM •DOTCOM 

"C 'fcH 'C • 'C 'C 'fc^ 'iH 

a.'ooooooooooo6oa,a,cc>a,a,o,a,o 



g bX)^ 
" " i^ o'Sld'^. 

" ri 2 



U « r-t 

(d td'"S 

(I) o — 

13 'd "2 

bubfig 



•0-5 Sl3 
: 13 o ~ bi 



• T3 x) 



a: w * V} xn 



bx) _ 

T3 'T3 



nj n! _ ri 






368 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



03 O O O O O O 
"^ >XJ rQ -^ ^ ^ ^ 



_? T"^ _rxJ "^ '^ ""O "O _? 



= ^ 5 P. 



T3 -^ 



ci,o.oei,oooo 



-a t3 m 



p^ c^.t; o a. fi- o ^ _ » 



rt fee 



S. O rt o 



o o .- 



[:l.E£< 



►i3 O 






vi5 OO C 



oocn-<f^!co■>*'lflcot^'30oc£>t^aocco■rfo5a5■«i•mco-*to^^ooc50 i-hojooci 

>— I ■>* ■^ O to v£> 



^2 



£;?; 






THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



369 



o o o o 






^Ji ^ 



S. r^ 



o o o o o 
-o "O -a "T! -o 



o O) Q^ 'O 



a. a- M K £"'2^ 



U U j; 

^ -^ s u o .i: 



S-^^H 






C o u S -^ 



OOOOOOOO 

QOQQQaaQ 



"■ ~ c fcn bu_ _ -o «! -a -^ 

c c^-o-B 2 £ E S^ - S 2 
o o rt a> a>±;J:±;.--r " - 



•j: 



ci •= >t ci >-, 






oa,ooooooco 






«ri^^«Cj-,ji.OOOcOOOa,OOOOOOGO 



OO 



1— I •<*< -a" in ■«*< ?o « c< ITS 1/: lo <£> to to CD CD CO 



<0t^00(T5O-H(MC0'S'iOCOt^C0<r5O'-l(>JC)-^ lOtDt^OOOlO'— IC^CO-^lOtDr-QOClO'— ICQCO-^UI 

«rtir5if5'OCDtDCDCDtDCDCDOco(oc^t--t^t-t-. r-.r-t-.r-.t^ooQOQOooooQOQOQOQCoooia5cnai05a» 



Mis. Doc. 24—24 



370 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 






C 
O 

O 



<5 



^ 

•^ 

e 



1^ 



bo 



6 



g a. 






o o o o 



OOOOcOOgO 



ooooooooooooo 






c o o o o 



M 

rt 


t4-C 
O 


o 


m 


13 

C 


'S 


^ 




rt 


d 




o 




13 
C 
d 





c^ 



rt d rt oii ri J2 

COO timOm 



o o-ri«c»5"^-^"=J<coi;^t^t-QoaoQOQDaDC5C3a5iy30^'-i-^oo-- rtt--22 






C5 OlClOOOOOOOOOOOr— (r— (^^1— (i-Hi-Ht— I.— (f-<i— lC<C\}(7JCNC^OJ(N2 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



S71 



O O O o o 



o o o o 



CD O 



1:^ 



2 S 



3 

c'-s 



§3 

EG ID 



> £ 



•^ © 



'- s. -^ 

■^^^ 
p. — ^- 



^ w r^ 






O •;; -a -U 



■S" c 



- S o s •= ^ 

:5 '^r "r; c^ r" I ■ 



o c 



o •; 



" — * 5 ^ 



- 0) 






^•2 L 

O o m 
9. rf " 



c 2 






ad 



coo 
o r- e 
a> © 05 



^ >^ o era 
&, rt a< c s u 



^ c 5b 
3 o ri c 



£ ^ 



S o 



!- o -a rf " 



■5 ^ g. o i c ■« 

rt •— "^ CO 5j ra -jJ 

"^ o"5 C c s 

''J' o 3 5 P O t- 
.= 2 rt m tn 

C „ *" T3 "H 



.<u 



— rf 3 ^ o o 






o — c — >^J^ o 

O^ S rJ rt "2 J2 

. o o >-. C w 

-O Oc5C"^Si^ 



5 5-5 



.2o 

o o 



o -^ 



ii 



; -a -a 



o o 2J o ■» 






„wotosr°oos^ 



g .rf ET' 






OJOlOl O-<(>JtMtr>iDOt-H'-i^(M0-J«Mrt CrSt-Cl^'OtOOCTOOCSOOOO^^C* 



372 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



ooooooooooo 



.i^ 


--^ 


0) 


,4_) 


Ti 


j:2 


rt 


OJ 


, 








C 




0) 


s 


















<u 


o 


■^ 



' — cd s. I 



p 


*-> -O „- F^ Cj 




o a> 










o 


Weucit^pq 


cr; 


<< 



Q-ifQ 



la -3 



-^-^ o — « 



^ ° .. .. 

Q -a t3 

ID O) 



o «-> O O O U tJ 



1 >--a ^0 2:=; 



^iz; 



o CO 50 r^ ic {^ co.<n OT^cro-viotor^ oooi 
c< «: <» t^ (TJ (TI (71 !7) cocoMC»5f^coroc<5 c. n 



-Hi-Hi-nnvOrHl-HtMC^CJCN-^'S" 






THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



373 



o 



oooooooooo 



o o o o o o o 

o ^ ^ ^ ^ '^ '^ 



"5 "* 









-r X 
So'-'" 



pq <t: -< O U < CQ <; <; 



^ m a> 



e = -e "5 Cu 






^oi 






SCQ- 



I- o 

"Q. 



a a 



;qq 



' ^ ■ - -S o o -2 o 



Id: OS 






r-Q 



O 5J 



trococococococococ^ 



■^iO■-H■<T■^<-H•*■^■^•^■^l-H1-Hl-H(^^c<(^^0'--lOlO'001— ii-ii-Hioor-^irsi— (I— ic^c»5coc^c»5cooocoM 



C505OOOOOOOOOO— — — I— '-Hi— I— I— I— I— iC^i:>jrN(7((>J(^)C^<M'T^C-}C»5fOCOrOCOCOC^COCO 



374 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



o o o o 

•^3 '^ '^ ^ 



<u <: <!K <; < m « ■< <; 



pqpapqooooo 



fqfqmocQ 



OOOMO 



& c5 "-; -C o 

O S £ rt-O 






-2 o 

p-QQ 



m «3 « M 
CD ^ QJ o 

Cl, CU &. p, . _ . , 

666o66d6^ooiiii>iDQjOa)Oooco6ooooooo 
QQQQQOQQ £-3 g; g; £ g;0 g-Q Q d Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q O Q 
3 o o o o o 

CL, OOOO O 









6^ 



0-i-K 






THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



375 



o o o o o o o 

'O "^ T3 "^ "^ "^ "^ 



OOOOOOOO 



O O O O 

"^ "-^ -"O "^ 



cq 



O M M O ca M O M <: O 



00-5J 



<<< 



oo 



.S £ o o 
^ ^ ^ 

g O o O 

■f-> t< >-■ «^ 

•^ o oj a; 

^ X^ fT" S^ 
c- — ?< S^ 



fax) 

'ii 



CQ<CP50M0 



oo 



^ ^ fccai 



2^ 



" p 

s ^ 



oooooooooooooooa)00oo5i3oii£ ' ^ ^ 



a. c-Q 'S 'i^ 



H ^H 



Sec 



CO«CCCOCO«COCni«CO«COf001C»5fOCOCOOOMCOCCCOC<5COC»5fOCOCOCOfOC^C^«COCf5COCOCOrOin» 






t—C-t^t-t^t^t^t-QO'XiaO'JOQOQOaOQOQOQOCTJClCTlOlCJaiCTiCTiasa^OOOOOOCnOCSO'-Hr-;-^ 



376 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 



M 



;-<3 



joooooortd 



o 



-2 t^ 

Si " 
o >> 



C O F^ C; 



O-QOO-a-r-roootr'^ mCO 






C"Q 



■ o c o 



-^ o o o 



ci ci 



0:5 



;?2 






CJ C"! C-! fff T^ CO C) OJ C) C^ C^ rC' « CO CC --I" •>a> -* -Tt- -S" -rf ■-)■ »* ■^ •^ lO lO lO iC '-'5 lO ^ 






r-^Hr-(i— II— I — --(>}(>}C}(r<C\((MOi(MOJ(>)COCOCOCOC»3C»5rCC'5COn'1-^}>-<»>-<5'^5<- 
COeOC»5fOCOe»5COC»5COCOrOCOCOfOCOC»5f»5C»5COC'5C>^COCOC*5COfOCOrOC»5fO'ncO( 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



377 



o o o o o 



ooooooooooooooooooooOo 



-^ -a -a ■*; -c -^ 



o -^ 

Oj -3 



G. ■- "^ 
- ho 



C O O O o 



-0 13 XJ ^ 5 
O rt 

m 0) 
O 2 

"2-3 






? S " 
O q; 3 



oooooodooodooooooooooo-rdod'— oooo-S°oo 



<!^ 



O "3 o 
"S ^ O 3 • 

" 2 ^ s • 



^^ ^s* ^* "^ ' 



'■«f-^^'^'^-^'^'^"^-^-^-^'^'^'^'^-^'^'^-j*-^'^-^'3"#"*'^^"*'^fO'^rororoco 



to C£^ CD to to <» ^ 'O :0 1-- r- l~ i^ t~- t^ t^ 1-^ I- t^ X' Xi QO TO QO GO OD .Xj QO en en CD 00 O) Of (TMO C^ lO lO lO ir> 

i»'5Lt5ioiou^in>oioiO"OioioO'rtioiO'OioioioiciO'Ooioi/5'nLOiooirtoto;o!0'^to-^"»'^'^ 



toi— oociO'— iCTC7'*mcot^ooo50 — CTc^i^fO'Ot^cooo^HCTM-^ictor^asoo-H'Moo'^voco 

■V-f-*-*ir5 0iO'Oi.'^iO'OiCiO'-~tOtCCOCOCOCDtOCOCOCOt~{— t— {— t^r-t^t~-t~r^00COQ00DQDXQ0 



378 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



o o o o o o o 

"^ "^ "^ "^ "^3 "^ 



o 5 



S & ^ ^ 






tB CO 



S 3 3 S S o o 

=" m "= M "> a>^ 

_2 (D 2 2 5 ri . - 

^ te ^ Js ^ S-a 

- S r. e fl^ S 



bL 



72 CC 



„ S 3 3 O "S 

X X S^ X >< u „ 

o a) o u Qj 55 

t; -3 -o -o -a gj -o 



tJ © 



t/3 



V} M 



w a 



o o o o 



d 



o o 



o Q Q S 'o 'o 'o 3 'o '5 '5 '5 'c -a >>r^ Q Q Q Q ^J2 J! Q Q 



fe 



fafc&^fe fc fe fc fc Lt, ;» O cq 



O) 0) o 



S-QQQ 







'^>T^>TJ<■eJ<'3"-^<•^'3'■>3<•<s•■^•*•^c'5^0(^J(^^c^O}c^}c^^(^^OJ(^^(7^c^^(^^OJc^^^or^cooo 



o g 



ao'X)OOOio^CT5CT5C^a>C5C50CT500oooo<:roor'-^'-<-^-^'— I"— 1-^ — '^'-< 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



379 



-o -a -c -a 



oooooooooooooooo 



:oi 



!'-0'0'T3'T3'O'T3'^"a'U^T3T3'T3"O 






U o o o 



"S^" 
^^H: 



5-^^ 



.Ho 



» 0) 3 

;= ^ ^ ^ & 



OOOOOOCOOOrt 

la-a'Ti-aTS'a-a'-a-a-o c- 






'rt bjj 
3 T 

^1 

S =- =- 
s o aj 

OJ ;S ^ 



o <a 4) 

Qi O O 






SEE 



ESS 

3 J,5 



QCl 



JO 



6o 






e-a 



o o o o 



Kf-I 






<-: a 



ri rt c 



-Srii o o 



!-^-^ h a^l 



i^rtcio'O O 



C^ COCOCOCOrCCCrOS^C^C^COC^COC'^COCOCDCOCSCOC^COCOCOCOCOO^C'^COCC C*5 



^* ^* ^^ ^* ^* ^t* ^^ ^* 



000SC30— 'C-iOO^^ — — irt^HCsiCJCJCMCOCOtM'— l^-l(?!CT(rOi?JCT(?'eOC»3 OOiO-— l(MCCCOCT3C3 



o— lOjro'S'u^cct^aoa^o— <C!m-*ictor^QOCTio— iCTcO'f'Ocot^aocio-H C}rO"*iotot-Qoa3 



380 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



ci 



^ I^iU 



O -3 

a 5 



o ■- 



o o o o 



o c: g 



• "O -^ -S ^ o 






S "TS 



;7. m 

.5 .5 .5 <p o c s s a, 

C-S.C-> > rt 5 etfm 

, „ . „ „i-ot-2 

c c c s c 0.-0 o-y^ 
o o o o o M ,J2 t*- 

in ai !r. ir. m — ^St; 
O Q O O 0,ai'ot'^T3 

B S E S S^ S^^ 
._ .:: .- .- .~ 13 o "O »; 

— (. l-^r— .^-^ Q^ t^ Q^ O 

■^■^■■^mSi ° ° 2 ? 

■ ° aa = s a~^Z " ° 
) Q h(j M & Ed bp « -S ?? TJ -^ 



:: -T7 -^ rt . 



5- 

c 

. - ^^ £ 

O 0) (U 5 -2 o 

-" ~ -a P -o -a 



C Qi 



j= -3 o o o 



-« d 



CJ 



) UB =1) =U aj -S tn ■ o ' 



o o ■" 

rf Cd r- 

= ^^ 

SD C O 

fc. O !- 






;33 S g 



53 



■^ §■£ 






"' o o 
c 2 0-2 



6 o^ pQaQ5 






J---:::::::::::::::::;:::;::: 






CI C-l --1 i-H " C» CM ^ CM r-. CJ JO rt « CJ CJ d Oi (M (71 (M C^ C-! (M Ol (M (Tl CJ C-J CM (N 



t„^ 






THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



381 



o 

^ O o 



I 5 ^ " 
^ rt o O 



■^^ 



o o 



Q 

ill > 



Tt '=(' O 



11 



"s 'S rs [3 2 i 

tH ^ 0) O O 



© o o — 



p-^ 






II 
i rt 

in 
5 '^ 



^ a- >. 
' ? ° c 

JO) s-i 

- -^ bv^ ^ *-J w 

: ^ •= •= "^ -^- >. 

u J •- J- ^ -y 

3 Vh = is '^ '^ -2 

^_- " o - £ o 

f y ' " C &. J:; 



'-' rt rt 

o iJ'B 

Q !- S C 
^ n d rt 

OfOO 



-^'' i' " £ 2 ■£ i 

O o 3 o %-c 3 rt 
^ ? ^ ^ a-S 

N^ r ^ -- — cT* 

'- C u _o J^ •* "^ 
1- «- ■" ^ *j T^ ■- •-• 



- 2 ^ o 

.— C3 rt t- 2 F-J — 

— o o ^ r; t 
OOOHOO 



-a -o be a. ; 



5? E S £ 



o a> o o T -t: 'c 



rt r! d d 



d o S O 



■ aj fee's 
' «J n, '- 
■^ S SO 

■ "^rt 2 
' .S otS 

oT © a; 



CJ 



O .S 'p (SJ 

'U " CO 

" s' =^'' ^ 

O -^ ■" t- 

o !> a^ d 



J"rP 



a) 



<<< 



<a ^ C o _ . 

©'cCQ 'S '5 '5 

< JB JBCCm 



© ^_ _. ►; 5; 

t. c; CN >- — 

O k^ v; — O 
•■ O O CD 

S "- "^ a-S 
© i: £ o 



^^^..^^^^^^•.3...^-^r3<-^Tt'<i<->a<-^<-^-^-rt<'<1''<*-^-^T)<-^'^'^'r-^'*-^'*'^-^'^'a"'a''«l" 



oc^o^t^t--^iocf3«c^!^-^o^oc^ooaO'^t^aoc?>'#to-^io«t~oomooQOi02toi;-Qooi-<CJCj 



r^o)M'*iovot-c»OTO'-HS<icO'r)<in^r-oocy50-HC^cv5-*ir5tor-a300--0?M^'fttot^aoo5 



382 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



3 g O 



j/2 G^ ^5 ^ 

05 CNt '- (7! 



!-§W 



03 o 






CO t^ i» ix> - 

cj (>} c^ c^ S 

^ , , , o 

CO to to to .'^ 
■^ -^ '^ -* tin 



O o o o o 



o o o o 



o„ 



^ — ^ CO 

^ CO (yi 
'~ coco" 









i — ' 'c:3 



2 -s •- 



c " o 



k3 £ 2 '^J' 

— I o Cn t*, 

cS i => ° 5^ 

-T-! 'w "O "O m • 
£cB § g C • 



o ° d 



ST CO 



"-SSUffloO^O^ 



« s 

cc <^ 

T3 — 
QJ CJ 

g O 

o ^ 



^ 1 

cd -2 

O bj) o. 

Ch-- e,c4_ 
td .3 cs o 



3^ O 

o2 " 









^ ^ .^ Q S2 Q 



tH tj -« -!^ ■^ Q 



1^ O o O 3 






'-'t,Ct^C0ajrf0.O,303 






cjc^cjoi'oococbtoioifsi-'^irto'ooioinincococotocococococococoiovc 



be , 



■-HCJfO-^'Ocoi^aocnoi-HrNc'5'<ti.ocot^aoaiO'-i(Mco-^iotoi— oocjo— ic* 

COC»5COfOC^COC'3C»5CO'CP"3'"*'*'9"'3"-^'^'^'^'-'^>OmiOmi^lO"^lOlOCOCOtp 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



383 



bo fcD 

c c 
■c"5 



,^ o'o. 



^ rt "- 

"^ fl p- 

c 2 o 

° S^ 






■ to ^ q 



• O -S-T^ 



" fl '^ 



^i=-a 



o s s 

o o -• 

2 O =^ — 



^M 



•s S s 






2 o ^ 



72 



" Kj 



rt »j far' 5 

• ^ t- « 
I, i-< c £ S 

^2 2 1-^0.^ 

~ ^ ~ o a> ^ 



; x> a 



S o S 2 S 



; CO ■ 



- m^ 

5 £c sj) s =e « - 
£ a> o - S ^''^ 









QO -H 






CO -^ ~ 



C f^ 1- 

.-ad 



us 



O O =» -e-=-^ r 






2 3 J3!.-e;"S '^ 

>.to ^ 

^ ^ rr 



^ O O '5 .S ■£ CJ 
So- 



o Pi 



00 ' 






C C 



d <D > 



. <C t O 



P.3 



S 3 _2 



o^J2 3 
Ammo 



O) o 



J ID O — ^ '—J 

3-5 a. 



^ g t- tc c 



d^J2 



o 1. 1; _" - 

O d rt *^ 
I- - ^ ■-; 

o<mO 



= 3 



• — > ' — ' *- 
lO CO d 



< ^;>^ 



•»J"'*""*'^'*'^'*-^'*'*'*'*'"*^'^-*-^'^(M' 



1— l(?<Cr>«C0'*lO^t— C50QOl/5U^CO-^OJOi— lOT 






884 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



■s 


^ ^ 


o 


OJ u 


Ch 


ci-a. 


c^ 
















o 


UU 


& c 


& fi 


O '^ 


O O 








Q <U 


_2 


^^ 


a> 


Qi O 



£ E 



SS 



O r/j O O O 

'O ■"■ 'O '^ '^ 



£ S 



- o 

- -a 



■co-oooooo 
•r T3 •;; -a -Tj -o -3 -a 






iQQ^GQ 



Iq 



£ rt rt 



-- ^ • O) S ■ 

- ri • o te: 
_5 ■t: •-Hi. 






:d^ 



hU) 



^ -; -r-a > 



d iH rt .= 






d oQQ o 



o . 


c 


& i« 






^J^ 




3 




rf . 


(U o 




c c 






o o 














SQ 


C 


P c 


■*^^ 


[Tl 


■ ~ Kj 


< 


o 


-_:c/j 



^-a— ' cj^ cd-^ d" rf rt— '^ 

..^ (U >-, U t, 1- u, 

^C4 Q O O 00 



:: t>fa: 



^ s 



(i^- 



^^ t-lrtr-lr-H-li-li-(r-lf-<i-l<M(r5C<C<l?<CT<?<C<(?< 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



385 



O O O O s o 



= 00000 



a SP 






o a; --• — 



o o o ■= 



u o o t^ o 
5 5 3 '~'~ 



5D 



3 bQ oQ 

CO* « 



^ o 
.2Q 



S N 



rt 
















S 


« 










— CO 












-;?-?. g tfi 



^ o 



rt -o 

S 2 ^o S rt 



& ^ 



- d 



— -3-3 S-3-0-3 3-3 



lo- 



bfe- 



tH O .5 






cfc 



S. 



^ o _5' d c a 



: 6 c o 



O r- ' 



■is 



I C rt'.t 






2 J2 .^'' 
Ma2--5U 






Mis. Doc. 24—25 



386 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 





























































I'o 
































































































































^ 







































bil'bl) * "Sd I 





















































.2 =■ 


. a . 



















































't^ 


'&'3o I 'Sc 1 














;^ 




































^ 


rt rt . n! : 




u 




. i-> 




































ri 


W.W '^ ' 




o 




o 


• i: 


































fa 






: 


> 




> 


• tE? 




































C ^ . C . 


^ 


fee 




•ol! 






























_M 




^ 


,0 • .2 • 

• u • 


13 
o 
o 






.fill 




























_bfi 


. > . 






s^ 


'■> Z 


•5: bH rt 












c" 0* c 


] _oooc-Sofaco^^'c^o 








•«-s •« *^ -— 




















,.■0 ^-^s 


















^w'^-)'^ «^w „ 




r~ 




t~ c S - " 


fO • -^ — < 
















J_^ 


LO LO 


c: 


> 'i^ • 




C) 






ro fo ro CO 
















1^ 


, CO CO 


CJ c 


t"^ ! 




—~* 




sr; " 


C3 
CO CO O) 5j CO 
















r-M 


1 CO CO 


Or- 


1 ! r-( ! 




CO 




:ro ^— =^ 
















CO 


; CO CO 




. CO , 




^ 




-* -T'^ cf 


cfLO C^O 
















^^ 


00 


00 tr 


" -00 • 




•^ 




• •^ ,-^ fi; -* 


«a< -q" •<3' -^ ^ 
















T 


• 1.0 


-^ t3 


. . -^ . 






























fcD 








-i 






















































*> 







































































> 



















































































































^& 








,3 




























^"^ 






















'^ u< 








-♦-* 




























fc 






















: ^ 








K 


















































« X 





































is ~ 


o c 
















0^ 3 

£ -2 








'5 




























_3 






















~ 








•rr- 






















































































rt 






















•- ~ 


0000 




























_s 






















cu '^ 


-o '13 t: 


















































i; 
























































C Q 




































„ 





























X 


























— 










fa 










rt "^ 














^ 




















ID 























































O 










" 








^ 


^ 2 ~ 








t*-] 






'tl! 






























Cj 





















































Is 






c. 


ty 








0) 



























'^ 










'^ '-i 




r3-^ - 3 








3 






>• 
















,*=^ 


"^ c 


^ 


c 






CD 






— c 

S 2 2-s 








-3 




p 


cT 
















fa 


sscrip 


5 




-n 





















;£ 


3 


3 







fa 


■N 






i?l 














































Q 


rt 










= 






■^^ "5 "5 ^ 








>. 


zi 


^ 




' ^ 






:^ c 




CI 

c 



















^ 


_c 


_c 












1 s 






: 2 p 
:'5 














"3 '. 




^""-'-5 g 









^ 





m" 








: E^ 














^" 




^^"'a. 














-— 










. ct ^ 




£ 
















^ ^ 

j£|| 








3 


S 







■%y> 






• - ^ 




r^ 











bJD 














• - 







So 






:r-g 




5 
























^ 


tn 






rt ^ 






• c 












ci 






'b1~^^ 








J2 


^ 


• 
a 


- 





: ? - 




5d 

s 






a. 




a 






3 — 3 

-^ 2; „ 










XT. C 


3 
7; 


S 1 . 

0) u 


^ a 
*j 




c 



•1 i 






^ 




rt 

■^■r 


rr. c 





• - ^ "^ c- <- 


c 


c 


c 


•- 


g c 


*j 

c " 
;5J2 C 



1 c 


5 s 




p"C; 


QQg-gC =Q3 S-g g 


OCQ g 


g=xSa5-^,Q&Q 


Qs^s 




o 
O 


s i o 6cjSS 


S 


s is 6< ^ 


60 


t<-. 












o . 












. X 


r— 1 <— 




1— ( rH <— « 1-^ 




^— ^^ -^ 




fa :: 




^ ^ ^ ^ 




z z ^ 


tfi 












!4-. c 

o O 


C5 C 


C}--iC-X>0^OT«C50-<*>0 


«st^ox 


CO 10 -^ — < OJ CO >-;? -* 


«t-x 


« t- 


t^ t^ t~ t~ X X C» 00 C- Ci X 00 


X X X X 


ooot-t-oc5C-. OTcn 


3> OS 03 


i— 
























m 












m 6 














'^ u- 


io t— X c~. s — 1 c> rr* o "^ t- 


X C-. " 


17? CO 'S' >-0 Ci l^ X C S ^ 


■7J CO -^ 


t- r- 


t- c~ r- r- X X X X X X X X 


XXC3 c; 


3^. r-. CT. C: 03 C~. C5 ^. 


oc 


g > 




1 




f— • — i 


1— 1 ^^ t— t 


P--X 































































THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



387 



be 
'SJD 






OOC 



fe, 






^C.. 



00 



bo 






S 



■•S.(yD 

.. 00 



'^ 



l-ii 






o 

bjD 



^ t^ to CI 






o S 



c 



.« +^ C ., CI 



3 



.E: o '5 — -^ ^ -2 '5 









O 



■<-' y 
o o 



SI! ^ 

Ss 



3 1 






o u 



«^ Cj_ "" - "" 

. c -2 c • - ^ "o 
— d -3 ■■^ °^ 

^^ie^.2 






s >>■ 



« § 5 



a. o 



^ (1> O ±S --^ bj] X 

Cjg02rtO>> 

"l-S c^ Sj^ S-= : P-r- 

'^ ^ =^1 Si -J S = ^S 2.ti^-5o g-5^ " i 



•-J - .Z, 



5^-2 



■5 rt 



=^ i 
"» o 

SbD 



■" bj) 

(S •- 




388 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



5a ^ 



to to 



O 



H3 









-^ ODX, 






-^ 2 — 






-= ^y^> 






^^S.; 



.3 5 c "= =^ s 



S^ 



O 



-^ o 






-a 73 



& & 



o ri •jj 

a. o u 

(X— o 

o ^ !- 






^ O > -a 
0^ ^ ^ ^ 






^ cj a 

— 0) ."ti 



o a u — . 






u 



o g 3 • - c„ _, g 
^ g-" g ° S P 

^ 2 S o s- a> _o 



1 


t»-i 




fcl.O 










« 


M 




t< 









c^ 


M 














tr 


<D 


H 



r, 5 S 
o =* s 

.S p" S 

3 ,^ 



■3 CJD 

■a.5 " 



3 IH 



X' ^ 



o 5 "^ "^ "^ T 
ti:^ o'':2 °-^ 

^r* ^ -M rt r- -. 

g- 2?^ a 5- 

^ ^ « c • - s 

0-3 — *j a. 

O U O rt — j; 

^ta S*- bj)^ 
2 2^ 



3 o rt 

bjD'p: 



o o 



» a.o.3.= .5c^ 









O ri 



._3 o o £ 
♦J *? -te c: 



'2 ^ 



•[• -^ o 2 ^ iT 

G.-3 O ^ O rt 
Or2 ^ C '3 =^ 



c8 rt 



p-z: 






-^ -3T3 



Sp:; 



> f* g o 3 !- 'w 



WH ;2;ofaf>< 



\af^ 



= S 0) ° g bo g, 

© bD .- >,3- 

vi u. "ti 3 P 

<5 cd .^ - o 






c; 


-^ 




















(rt 


? 





^ 





Cu 


a 


«W< 



bD„ 



^ (?J CO 



rt — . r-l — . ^ rt CJ CJ C?) 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



389 



h^ 






o o c o 



■■i: O 



O 32 s 



:^ = 






42 ^ ^ 

W o -5 



2 d 



^ .S-K -f -g 



00 00 



o o o O 



12 'T^ 'T3 'O 



;0 



;^ c^ 



'12 fq 



•= P o 5 o 

i; S t- c G 



! H "a T3 ;z; ' 






a :i3 



0) D 

CI. ^ 
C 2i 



fefl •_- 



. • ^ S" 






£ ::3 






,~ .-ii <u 



bD 



5 & 






S ^"3 
^ 3^ 2 

i; - ^ o ^-^ 
ce - ^ =^-" 



g S = =.g 2 



C^r;:^ 






CD a> '^ 
rj^ rt g "= 

^ S 3 J "^ 
m o s t-. c 
St3 '^ 5 oj 

;jq C N ^-- d 

a. ci a o 

6 oS (i 



:'"^^< 



.||- 



.S^- rt o „ 1- 



"3 ?5 »: g • 
o ho o 2 






^ 






S-^ o o 



'sis 

O • Kj G rt 

'^ O "3 ■> N 

fi > c ^ *j 

" '^ M -a 3 

"; — _ m c^ 



rt 






a> 



03 



03 0) 



N -tS *^ "3 Oh S. OJI 

-; N 3 ^--' o r-> 

;=: o 



° -3 



s S. rt s Ids s rf " 



^^ l^-^^ 



N 



o 






o 



■ C" 

13 ■ 

^ ^ S-^ 03 
03 P 03 ^ 

Pi 0-1 



03 

o o 



5 >) 






Qci 



390 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 











^ 




























> 


-» * 


































































































.^ 












5 
















^ 




































^ 












y 
















^ 




































H 












1 
















c 




































iC 












th 






o 








r- 




































t*-. 














^ • c 












(^ 








































o 








• '^ 




•~ 








_3: 




































- 




O ! 






o 






" 








1r 


































• 

"3 - 


-1 : 

ci .5 






c 




O ri 


o 
O 










o 












O 
^ 

c^ 


o 




O 
-^1 






o^ 


SS . 






s 




bfl 




C 
C 






^ S 

^ c 












3 


-a 










5-^ 


t 


o 






;^ 




s.i 






^ 


_c. 




-a w 






















S " 


> T* C 


^ 




> 


. c 


.-H^ oS c 


_c 


_, 


^.■M C 


_c 


^'^o c 


o 




,~, 


























3 

CO 

o 




-^ o 

3 o 








'. ! Co' u- 

T -* -^ -^ 






















































tc-T 




t- 






r-- 




5,2, 


TJ 




^ 






oo 






O C~. X X X CO 








■-IO 




<M 






c 




CJ 




CO 




CO -^ 






.g- -^ -^ tt ■>*• -"^r 






~ 




i 






3 




'-0 

p 




' I 






































;^ 






'> 




o 










■ 3 




c 
r 




































;^ 






o 




o 










o 




C 
















































s 






aj 




K 






























2_ 










* jr 






2 




(-< 










' ^ 




"p 




























- 










t "o 




















O 






























o 










. o 






72 




o 




o 








_^ 


























o 










• l< 






o 








-^ fc- 




S 




r 


























o 










* ^3 






'3 

-a 




o 




'i-. c> 




o 






























> 






















o &< 




o 




t4_ 










• 
































fee 

5 




5" 




is 








c 










3 
























. 3^ 










ri 




^ > 


.-^ rt 




,r 










©■ 








o 






















O 

o 




s2 










5 


'■S 


























.T3 








o 
o 




On. 

Tfl *Jh 

O o 

^O 
11 

1^ 

faDp 

rt o 

^^ 

Pi 

^^ c 

3" " 

o o S: 
c« ^ ■;: 

o O 

-a S 
o d 
cqtn 


cl " 
It 

o „ 

I" 

c — . 

O d 
*i o 

li 
s^ 




c 

c 

c 
c 


o 

'■a 


r 


- 


■II 

o S 

~ 2 






> 

-3 




a 

o 

Q 
:-< 
bD 


o o 
o 


t. 


• -2 

! >-< 

• o 

• '7-1 


o 

CO 

a 

o 




_o 

o 
o 

'3 

13 
< 


c 

z 


f 

c 

& 

o 

-a 

o 

cT 

' 5 

-a 

c 

a: 

•s 

O 

< 




c 


O gt 

to o .E 

o o ■»: 

« u =^ 

C2 « a 


r"i3 5 w *■ 
3 g rtiZ c 

d d QJ ri C 

3 5 2.4 = 

M pj M o r 

=! 3 5'3 fc 


3 

C 

C 

i: 

c- 
■J 

c 

r: 

£ 

?: 

r 
C 

c 


G. 

c 

c 
c 

0. 
EC 


to ; 
^ t 

- >..i 

a 1- 

- ^ "i 

- i^ ^ 

-a a 

be— 

.11 


c 
c 

0. 

> 


(U 

CI. 
C 
o 

CJ 

e« 
O 
o 

"S 
'(^ 
o 

--a 
- o 

Is 


c :5 

3--5 = 
=3"i 

"^ '-'"■- 

Jl] 

-3P = 
? 3 S 

O 'o c 


c 
c 

i 

o 

-J 


', > 

"•1 

* Z 

;'c 

. "3 
. o 

• ^ 

I ' 


"i 


t4-, 

o 


>< 




























6 


o 


S 


























^ 




























«_ 


a 


•^ 


L*^ 




CO r- 


oo s^ 




O 


^ CJ « "^ L'i <0 t- 


00 


c; 05 i-i 


CI CO '^ »c <o t^ X 


C50 


o 




u-S 


o 




L-: o 


L- 1.-5 




C0500»;050WW 


« 


CO t- r- 


l~ t^ t^ I- 1- I- I-- 


?- X 


6 

12; 


3 
S 
































6 


o 


CO 




r~OD 


C^. =5 






52 r; Ti; ^^ S rx Z' 


c^ 


o-^(?? 




L'; CO I— X n 




to 

o 


> 


tr; 


o 




L*^ 1,* 


i.-: -o 




— 




CO 


t^ r- t~ 


t-^ I-^ 


c^ t- t^ l^ I- 


XX 

































































THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



391 



O 6 



O 



— u - 



■3 s: s 



— ( i-H O CO 



cTcTt 



-^ .- o o 






51 1^!^ 



" a 



„ s o a 

_ o >-< ,^ 

.ti to 3 

o =s g 



^1 



S§K 



b S15 



e-o 






sib 

a p o 



M C > 

~ o o 
i£ il bl 



• = u 
rt O " 
o'5 bjD 

= c .S 
o ■- fl 

'^ ►- c; 









O o 



^ O 



^ 6 2 > 



jM ro ^ 

■"'-§§ 2 & -3 



kj 6 "ts 



ceo*? 



cq 






o:> 






>> . H, t, >- :5 •£: 



St 



Its :^_=, 



r2 ? 
o 3 o 

rsj ~ ^ 



— N 

^ n ^ c 






> u a 



g -^ ••? 



C«3 

5 "5 






O -" i-t -*-> 

" t- i^ o 

^ --. O t. 






o fe -r 



~ o o s c; 



& -H. 



S o N ;2 
C? s rf o 
c2 <!;pqeiSSSoo>h:iCO 



392 



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 



^ '^ 7Z 



o 


^ 


u 


u. 


■csi 


ci 










p* 


c 






s 




:_ 


^ 


o 






n 






oicq 


, 


t« 


u 


O 


rt-c 


m 


dj 






CTC< 


mm 



Pi o 






S-% 



bu--~ 






O -^ — O 3 

2 § aJ - = 

^ -a rf ^ 

O ^ S jO j:; 



O a: O 
3 m cS^ 



rt 



3 c s'H 

" -3 C- =^ 



bSi<D S.^ 
r- " d o 



^ -^ r^ - -> 



S d S o 
be" rt-3 






=^5 

-a .2 



brs 

>>- 

=: bi) 






ft.^ 2 "" 



- c >->E g 
'3 S '^ 



a.T3-- -S 



g- 1 la 'bD 

£ ci c 

■- _, bjj m 

•-^ S >-, 









> B 






br-^ 



ho,. 



1--5 CO t^ 00 C^ ~ 
^ _- „_ -H — (TJ 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Cakdogiie of geological specimens collected by Dr. D. D. Owen, and 
deposited in the Smithsoniav Institution by the Commissioner of the 
Land Oficc, December, 1851. 

1. Ameth3'stine quartz, Prince's Bay, Lake Superior. 

2. Lepidodendron, Muscatine quarries, Iowa. 

3. do. do. do. 

4. Pecopteris, do. do. 

5. Calc. tufa., St. Croix. 

6 and 7. Tutenmergel, near Amsterdam, Des Moines R., Iowa. 

8 and 9. Lithostrotion ananas, D'Orb., Iowa R., Dev. 

10 and 11. Tutenmergel, Keith's Rapids, Des Moines R., Iowa. 

12. Plaster stone, 5 miles below Lizard Fork, Des Moines. 

13. Cannel coal, Barcroft bank, near Marion, Missouri. 

14. Pakeotherium Proutii, 2 lower jaw. Bad Lands, Nebraska. 

15. Ripple marked sandstone, South shore. Lake Superior. 

16. do. do. do. 

17. Fossil turtle. Bad Lands, Nebraska. 

18. Shell beds of the limestone of the Iowa, Devonian. 

19. Calc. spar crystals. Falls St. Croix. 

20. Lingula bed, F. ], b. of report. Falls St. Croix. 

21. do. do. do. 

22. do. do. do. 

23. Marine Mill trilobite grit, 4th trilobite bed of report, St. Croix. 

24. Portion of large ammonite, Fox Hills, Nebraska. 

25. do. do. do. 

26. do. do. do. 

27. Third trilobite bed. Mountain Island, Upper Miss. 

28. do. do. do. 

29. do. near Mouth Miniskah, 

30. do. do. do. 

31. Cannel coal, on branch of Aux Vasse, Callaway Co., Missouri. 

32. Coralline beds of Iowa city, containing Alveolites, Celleporites of 

D'Orb., Calamapora polymorpha of Goldf., pi. 27, fig. 3. 

33. Do., containing Favosites cronigera, D'Orb. 

34. Do., containing both corals. PI. 27, fig. 3. 

35. Orthis umbraculum, opposite Iowa Point, Missouri R. 

36. Selenite trom the upper Carbs. limestone, Indian Creek, Iowa. 

37. Leptiena limestone, containing L. planumbona, 3 miles above 

Savannah, Wisconsin. 

38. Do., containing L. sericea. 
39. 

40. Bituminous limestone, containing Asaphus (Isotelus) megistos of 
Locke, Otter creek, Turkey R , Iowa. 

41. Part of scapula of Palaeotherium Proutii, Bad lands. 

42. Casts of Leptasna, undet. Falls St. Anthony, F. 3, a of report. 

43. Oolitic limestone, Lower Carbs. limestone, Burlington, Iowa. 

44. Retepora Archimedes, Keokuck Rapids. 

45. Encrinital hmestone from the Lower Carb. hmestonc of Bur- 
lington, Iowa. 

46. Do., containing Pentremites melo. 



394 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OP 

47. Productal limestone, containing P. Cancrlni, 10 miles below Fort 

Kearney, Missouri river. 

48. Spirifer striatus limestone, upper beds of Carb. limestone of 
Augusta, Iowa. 

49. Productus punctatus, Keokuk Rapids, Miss. 

50. Do. 

51. Do. 

52. Do. 

53. Fusulina cylindrica in Carboniferous limestone, 10 miles below 

Fort Kearney, Missouri. 

54. Fucoidal beds, Marine IMills, St. Croix, F 1, d, in part. 

55. Litliostrotion, probably a var. ot" basaltica, Sugar creek near the 

Iowa line. 

56. Stromatopora concentrica, Iowa cil)^ Dev. 

57. Productal limestone, a few miles above the Racoon Forks on the 

Des Moines River. 

58. Head of femur of Palaeothcrium Proutii? Bad Lands. 

59. Magnesian limestone, with green particles of silicate of iron dis- 

seminated, intercalated with the lower sandstones, F;. I, of report. 
(Lower Silurian date.) Sac Prairie, Wisconsin river. 

60. Magnesian limestone, intercalated with F. 1, 14 rriiles above Sac 

Prairie. 

61. Lower sandstone, F 1 of report. Dalles of the Wisconsin river. 

62. Lower sandstone, F 1, (Lower Silurian date,) 7 miles Ijelow 
Helena, Wisconsin river. 

63. Magnesio-calcareous bed containing impressions of Orthis intercal- 

ated in F 1. Section 5 miles above Plymouth, Wisconsin river, 
138 feet above river. 

64. Magnesio-calcareous rock, intercalated in F 1, 143 ft. above Wis- 

consin river, 5 miles above Plymouth. Contains remains of 
encrinites. 

65. Lower sandstone, F 1. Petenwell Peak, 200 ft. above the Wis- 

consin, (Lower Silurian date.) .. 

66. Do. of Castle Rock, 65 feet above Wisconsin river. 

67. Green beds of F 1 d. charged with silicate of iron. Miniskah 
Pass, Upper Mississippi. 

68. Brown magn. calc. bed of F 1 d. Miniskah, Upper Mississippi. 

69. Lower sandstone of Petenwell Peak, 80 feet above Wisconsin. 

70. Lower sandstone, F 1, 5f miles east of Adams, Barraboo river. 

71. Quartzite, 5f ra. e. of Adams, Barraboo river, Wisconsin. 

72. Do. gra}'. 

73. Red beds of Lower sandstone, F 1, 1 m. above Fortification Rock, 

Wisconsin river. 
73^ Yellowish-red beds of F 1. Castle Rock, 35 I'eet above the Wis- 
consin river. 

74. Quartzite in F 1, betwetni the Wisconsin river and Adams on the 

Barraboo. 

75. Reddish cpartzite 2i- m. e. of Adams, on the Barraboo river, 

Wisconsin. 

76. Light pink quartzite, sec. 34, townsiiip 12, R. 6 east of 4th P M, 

Wisconsin. 

77. Gray (juarLzitCj Devil's Lake, Wisconsin 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 395 

78. Pink quartzite, F 1, Devil's Lake, Wisconsin. 

79. Conglomerate of F 1, Devil's Lake, Wisconsin. 

80. Obolus beds of F 1, b. Miniskah River. 

81. Lower Magnesian Limestone, F 2, 3 miles above Lansing lowsi. 

82. Lower Magnesian Limestone, F 2, Cape Winnebago, Upper Mis- 
sissippi. 

83. Red Conglomerate, below Lac Travers, Snake River, Minnesota. 

84. Specular Iron, associated with the quartzite, 2J m. E. of Adams, 
Barraboo River, Wisconsin. 

85. Do. with the milk}^ quartz. 

86. Cherty masses, in F 2, b. near Lanzing, Iowa. 

87. Cellular quartz, in F 2, b. do. in the lead bearing beds. 

88. Rugged cherty beds of Lower IMagnesian Limestone, (lead bearing 
beds,) near the mouth of the Kickapoo, Wisconsin. 

89. Lower Magnesian Limestone, F 2, a. Prairie a la Crosse, 
Wisconsin. 

90. Do. 20 feet below the top of section. 

91. Cryst.alUzations of hydrate brown oxide of iron, on chest in beds 
F 2, b. of Lower Magnesian Limestone. Prairie a la Crosse, 
Wisconsin. 

92. Kikapoo Copper ore. Sterling's Diggings. 

93. Kikapoo Lead ore, (Galena,) in F 2, b. 

94. Coarse green Liligula grit, F I, c. Lawrence creek, near the St. 
Croix River. 

95.. Coarse Lingula grit, F 1, c. Mountain Island, Wisconsin. 

96. Amygdaloid asssociated with the trap of Snake River, Minnesota, 
near Lac Travers. 

97. Do. 

98. Trap of Snake River, i mile below Lac Travers, Minnesota. 

99. Do. 2 miles below Lac Travers. 

100. Trap of Kettle River, 3 m. above its mouth, Minnesota. 

101. Do. 16 miles above its mouth. 

102. Greenstone trap from the Range near the Falls of the St. Croix, 
Minnesota. 

103. Porph3Titic trap, Fails St. Croix, Minnesota. 

104. Obolus grit, F. 1, b., nearly opposite old mouth of Black river, 
Mississippi river. 

105. Slab, full of lingulas, &c., from the Falls St. Croix, F. 1, b. 

106. Pebbly sandstone, of F. 1, a. L'Eau Clair. 

107. Coarse sandstone, F. 1, a., six miles below the falls of the Chip- 
pewa, Wisconsin. 

108. Fragmentary and concretionary bed of hmestone, above the coral- 
line beds at Iowa city. Dev. 

109. Favosites basaltica, Cam. Calamopora of Goldf , pi. 26, jfig. 4,. 
from the coralline beds of Iowa city. 

110. Do. 

111. 5th trilobite of F. 1, near the base of La Grange Mountain, 
upper Mississippi. 

112. 5th trilobite bed of F. 1 of Report, lake St. Croix, Minnesota. 

113. Limestone containing Retepora prisca? Fenestela choetetes. Sec. 
Upper carboniferous limestone, near mouth of Missoui'i.- 



396 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

114. Spirifer limestone, near top of the lower carboniferous series, 
Keokuk Rapids, Mississippi. 

115. Do. 

116. Iron stone, similar to the "black band " of the Scotch iron mas- 
ters, near Bennington, and elsewhere on the Des Moines river. 



CATALOGUE 



BERLANDIER'S HISTORICAL A^'D GEOGRAPHICAL MSSr 

In the year 1826 Luis Berlandier, historian, geographer, and natu- 
ralist, a native of Switzerland, arrived in Mexico lor the purpose of 
making researches in that republic. He died near Matamoros in 1851. 
The result of his extensive labors are in manuscripts, now deposited at 
the Smithsonian Institution, comprising an amount of information of the 
countrj^ west of the Sabine of the highest importance. 

The following is a brief catalogue of the MSS. : 

Travels in Mexico and Texas, 1826 to 1834, inclusive. Containing 
notes upon the statistics, early settlements, and Indian tribes between 
the Sabine and Pacific, &c., &c., &c. — 7 vols. 

Travels in Mexico, 1828-30. Comprising interesting notes of the 
early settlers of Texas, by the Spanish and French ; account of the 
ancient Indian tribes, &c., Sec. — 3 vols. 

Geography and statistics of the republic of Mexico. 

History of the Indian tribes that formerly ranged from the Sabine to 
the gulf of Cahfornia. — 2 vols. 

Notes upon the different Indian tribes of the ancient republic. — 1 vol. 

Vocabularies of different tribes bordering the Rio Grande. — 1 vol. 

Of the Cotonames, Carrissos. — 1 vol. 

Of Indians that formerly lived to the northeast of Texas. — 1 vol. 

Of different tribes in the neighborhood of the missions. — 1 vol. 

Revolt of the Tepeguanas, 1616. — 1 vol. 

Indian assassinations of the priests. — 1 vol. 

Of the Texian Indians. Buit. — 1 vol. 

Indians of Texas and Coaliuila; fertility of their soil, &c. — 1 vol. 

Medicine of the ancient and modern Indians of Mexico. — 1 vol. 

Paintings of thirty different Indian tribes. — 1 vol. 

History of the agriculture of ancient and modern Mexico. — 1 vol. 

Regulations of the ancient Presidios, 1772. 

1. — Travels in Tamaulipas and New Leon, 1844. 

2.— " " Tamaulipas, San Luis Potosi, 1846. 

3. — " " the country west and south of Matamoros, 1847. 

The above vols., 1, 2, 3, of travels, give an interesting history of the 
country adjacent to the Sierra Madre. 

March and espionage of the American army from Corpus Christi till 
the occupation of Matamoros. — 1 vol. 

Geographical Gazetteer of the territory lying between the Sabine and 
Pacific, comprising a historv of places, situations, positions, &c.. Sec. — 
12 vols. 

Geography of ancient and modern Mexico. — 1 vol. notes. 

* See p. 13 of this Report. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 397 

Geography of Puebla, Mexico, Mechoacan, Oaxaca. Posilion of 
places in the above Archbishoprics. — 1 vol. notes. 

Diary of the Commission of Limits in Northern Mexico, 1830. — 3 vols. 

Diar}' of Gen. Rivera, New Mexico and Texas, 1728. — 1 vol. 

Com. Limits, Geography and stat. Physiques, &c., &c., by various 
authors, with notes by Berlandier. — Notes. 

Astronomical observations made in Northern Mexico, Texas, &c. — - 
6 vohimes. 

Dictionary. Geology of the rocks and minerals between the Sabine 
and Sierra Madre. 

Upon the Meteorology of Texas and the valley of the Rio Grande, 
comprising some important deductions in the science. — 15 vols. 

Observations, cyanometer, pendelum. — 2 vols. 
Disquisitions upon the Fevers of the lower Rio Grande, &c., &c., &c. 
— Notes. 

Maps of States accurately and scientifically projected by Berlandier, 
member of the Geographical Society, viz : Tamaulipas, Vera Cruz, 
San Luis Potosi, Zacatacas, Juanaxata, Orirava, Tampico and adjacent 
country. Gulf of Mexico, vicinity of Vera Cruz. 
Maps in MSS. of journeys, routes, valleys, defiles, suburbs of towns, 

villages, &c., &c., of the country lying between the Sabine and Rio 

Grande and valley of Mexico. 

1. — Topography of routes and sections in New Leon, Tamaulipas, 
San Luis Potosi, made in 1844, with distances. 

from San Luis to Matehuala, distances, &c. 
from Matamoros to Morelos, Guajuco, &c. 
from Victoria to Tampico, Soto la Mariana San- 



do. 


do. 


do. 


do. 


2.— 


do. 


tander. 






' do. 




do. 




do. 



Matehuala to Boquillo, Palo Blanco to Missions. 
Tampico to the city of Mexico. 
Tampico to Matamoros, accompanied with 
notes. 

3. — Topography in detail of the route from San Antonia to Laredo, 
in Tamaulipas, &c., &c. 

Of the country between Matamoros, Barreales, Mosquete, Caracol 
and Anacahuetas, Tamaulipas. Survey of the Rio Grande from the 
mouth to San Elirario, plans of Presidios, &c., &c. Maps and topo- 
graph}^ of different portions of the country south of the Rio Grande, 
between Reynosa and San Fernando. 12 MSS. Tampico and its 
environs, lower Tamaulipas, San Patricio and Monclova, city and 
environs of Tampico, plans of Tamaulipas, of different sections of the 
State, &c., &c., and 13 maps in MSS. Various routes of ancient 
Texas, giving positions of the Indian tribes that formerly inhabited 
Missions. Different plans of the State, sections, ancient maps, &c., 
&c. 25 maps in MSS. 

Upper Tamauhpas, Coahuila, N. Leon, with topography in detail of 
various routes in the centre of the Repubhc, bars and entrances of the 
coast south ofBrasos Santiago, &c., &c., Sec 23 maps in MMS. 

Maps of different portions of the coast between Tampico and River 
Goasacoalco, 8 MSS. 

Department of Orizava, Jalf^pa, Canton of Cordova, Orirava, 
Cosamaloapan, plan of Cordova and Birava cities, &c.; of the Isthmus 



398 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 

•of Tehuantepec; State of Mexico, of the Lakes, Valley, Tenango, 
Queretaro. The Huasteca, San Luis, routes through the Sierra Madre 
east and north, valley of Vernallo, Mateuala to the north and east, &c., 
,&c., 16 MSS. 

Topography in detail, of the country lying between San Luis and 
San Fernando, Gulf coast, &c., &c., 6 MSS. 



CIRCULAR. 
[See page 23 of this report.] 

Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, March 22, 1855. 

Nearly five years have elapsed since the publication of a report on 
the Public Libraries in the United States by the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. This report contained all the information respecting American 
Libraries which could be collected at that time ; but great changes 
have taken place in the Libraries then in existence, numerous others 
have since been established, and a new and enlarged edition of the 
work, it is believed, will supply a want much felt. " The following 
-circular has therefore been prepared lor the purpose of collecting in- 
formation relative to Libraries, and it is particularly desired that the 
ansv/ers be transmitted without delay to this Institution. As some of 
the questions may relate to points which have not heretofore received 
your attention, it is suggested that the replies be now forwarded to 
those only which can be answered at once, and that the other blanks 
.be filled up and returned, when the materials can be collected. 

It is a part of the original plan of the Smithsonian Institution to 
render it a centre of bibliographical knowledge, and for this purpose it 
is deemed highly desirable to collect cataloges of all the libraries in 
the country. The student can then learn where to find any particular 
book by addressing the Smithsonian Institution. 

It is suggested that catalogues of all hbraries be printed, in order 
tthat they may be rendered more generally useful, and it is earnestly 
.requested that copies of these be sent to the Smithsonian Institution. 

A duphcate circular is enclosed, which you are requested to fill up 
,at the end of the present year. 

A copy of the Report will be sent to every Library in the United 
;Statcs, and another also to the individual furnishing information. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT ON PUBLIC LIBRARIES IN THE UNITED STATES. 

Please return this yaper ivith the answers to the Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, D. C 

1. Name of Library. 

2. Locality. 

3. Name and address of the Librarian? 

4. Officers employed, and their salaries'? 

5. When founded, and by whom. 

6. How supported and governed. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



399 



7. Receipts from all sources during 1854, $ 

8. Expenditures during 1854 for Books. $; 

" " Bindino-, 

" " Periodrcals, 

Salaries, 
" " Incidentals, 

9. Wild are entitled to use the Library? 

10. On what terms ? ' 

11. Is it a reference or a Lending Library"? 

Special, or Miscellaneous"? 

12. Are the books arranged on the slielves b\^ subjects? 

If not, what is the arrangement? 

13. How many days and liours is the Library open? 

14. How many volumes were lent during 1854? 

15. How many per.w;2s have borrowed books during 1854? 

16. What number of volumes in the Librar}- are in the English lan- 

guage ? — French "? — 

German"? — Spanish? — Other Modern Languages"? — Latin? — 
Greek "? — Hebrew ? — Oriental ? — 

17. What is the date of the last printed Catalogue? 

Cost of its publication, size, and number printed? 

18. What system of classification is adopted in the construction of the 

Catalogue ? 

19. If possible, state what number of books have been read during 

1854, in the different classes of literature — how many works of 
theology, law, medicine, fiction, &c. — and what particular books 
have been most called for. 

20. On the 1st of January, 1855, how man}' books, »&c., in the Li- 

brary ? 



Books. 


Pamph- 
lets. 


Manu- 
scripts. 


Maps. 1 Music. 


Engrav- 
ings. 


Specimens of 0*er articles, 
«,, „ «! as coins, me- 
fi"'^ '^''*- dais, &c. 


Total. 


Purchases 












.■ 








Donations 






i 












Exclianges ' 








i 1 

; 1 


Total 






! 

1 







21. What collections of Natural Histor}^ are connected in any way 

with the Librar}' ? 
22., What is the nature and extent of these collections? 
23 'iWhat other Natural History collections, public or private, are found 

in your neighborhood, and what is their character? 

24. Have any regular pubhcations of Memoirs, Transactions, Proceed- 

ings, &c., been made by any Institution or Society with which 
the Library is connected, and of what character and extent? 

25. Please send copies of your Catalogue, Charter, Rules and Regula- 

. tipns, &c., and any information respecting the history or condi- 



400 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT, ETC. 

tion of the Library which you desire to be included in the Re- 
port ; also a list of all Reviews, Magazines, and Newspapers 
taken regularly in your library or reading-room. 



Copyright Laws, ^'c, relating to the Smithsonian Institution. 
CIRCULAR. 
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, 1855. 
Sir : Your attention is respectfully called to the fact that an act of 
Congress of August 10th, 1846, requires you to send to the Hbrar^- of 
the Smithsonian Institution a copy of any " booh, map, chart, musical 
co7nposition, print, cut, or engraving,'''' which shall be copyrighted b}^ you. 
The following is the law on the subject : 

'■'■An act to establish the ^Smithsonian Institution,'' tyc. 

•'Sec. 10. And be it further enacted. That the author or proprietor of 
any book, map, chart, musical composition, print, cut, or engraving, 
for which a copyright shall be secured under the existing acts of Con- 
gress, or those which shall hereafter be enacted respecting copyrights, 
shall, within three months from the publication of said book, map, 
chart, musical composition, print, cut, or engraving, deliver, or cause 
to be delivered, one copy of the same to the librarian of the Smithson- 
ian Institution, and one copy to the librarian of the Congress Library, 
for the use of the said libraries. 

"Approved August 10, 1846." 

An act of Congress passed at its last session, and approved March 
3d, 1855, contains the following section : 

" Sec. 5. Aiid be it further enacted, That all books, maps, and charts, 
or other publications entered for copyright, and which, under the act of 
August 10th, 1846, are required to be deposited in the Library of Con- 
gress, and in the Smithsonian Institution, may be sent through the mail 
free of postage, under such regulations as the Postmaster General may 
prescribe.' 

"Approved March 3, 1855. 

The following instructions have just been issued by the Postmaster 
General in reference to these acts : 

"No. 35. Copyright books, charts, &c., [see law annexed,] required 
to be delivered to the Library of Congress or Smithsonian Institution, 
and which are entitled to pass free in the mail, should be superscribed 
'Copyright for Congress Library,' or 'Smithsonian Institution,' as the 
case may be." 

These provisions will enable you to send all your copj^right publi- 
cations to the Institution free of charge, and you are requested to for- 
ward them Ijy mail, in the manner indicated. 

Please inform us by letter when any articles are sent, and enclose a 
postage stamp if you wish a certificate of deposit to be returned. 
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 



CONTENTS. 



REPORTS OF THE SECRETARY. 

Page. 

Letter from the Secretary to Hon. Linn Boyd 3 

Letter from the Chancellor and Secretar}' to Congress 4 

Officers and Regents of the In.«titution 5 

Members ex-officio of the Institution 6 

Honorary Members of the Institution 6 

Report of the Secretary for 1854 7 

Report of Professor S. F. Baird, Assistant Secretary 31 

Donations to the Museum 42 

List of Meteorological Stations and Observers 47 

Meteorological Observers. New York system 51 

Alphabetical List of Meteorological Observers 52 

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES TO THE BOARD. 

Report of the Executive Committee for 1854 57 

General Statement of Expenditures gO 

Fund Account g2 

Report of the Building Committee for 1854 69 

BOARD OF REGENTS. 

Journal of the Board of Regents 72 

EXPLORATIONS. 

Report on American Explorations in 1853 and 1854. By S. F. Baird 79 

LECTURES. 

Lectures gg 

" The Camel." By Hon. George P. Marsh 98 

"On the Nature and Cure of the Bite of Serpents, and the Wounds of 

Poisoned Arrows." By Dr. D. Braintard 123 

" The Zone of small Planets between Mars and Jupiter." By Professor E. 

LooMis 137 

" The American Fire-Alarm Telegraph." By Dr. W. F. Cha.vning 147 

" The Union." By Professor Henry Reed 156 

"Meteorology" By R. Russell, Esq 181 

Appendix to Mr. Russell's Lectures. By the Secretary of the Institution . 215 

Ex. Doc. 24 26 



402 CONTENTS. 

CORRESPONDENCE PHYSICAL SCIENCE. 



Page. 



On Mr. John Wise's Observations and Inferences respecting the Phenomena of a 
Thunder Storm to which he was exposed during an Aerial Voyage, made by 
means of a Balloon, June 3, 1852, from Portsraoutli, Ohio. By Dr. Robert 

Hare 224 

The Climate of San Francisco. By Dr. H. Gibbonjs 231 

Meteorological Observations at Sacramento, California. By Thomas M. Logan, 

M. D 259 

Meteorological Observations at Sacramento, California. By F. W. Hatch, M. D. 263 

Remarks contributing to the PJiysical Geograpi y of the Nortli American Continent. 

By Julius Froebki 272 

CORRESPONDENCE NATURAL HISTORY. 

Natural History of Beaver Islands, Michigan. By James J. Strang 282 

Habits of the Black Bass of the Ohio (Gryslesfasciatus). By John Eoff 280 

Natural History of the Country about Fort Ripley, Minnesota. By J. F. Head, Sur- 
geon U. S. A 291 

Habits of the Gopher of Illinois {Gcomys hursarius). By J. B. Parvin 293 

Habits of a species of Salamander {^Imhlijstoma opaciim). By Rev. Chas. Makn.. . 294 

On the .ixnhlysloma luridum, a Salamander inhabitiiig Wisconsin. By P. R. Hoy, . 295 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Diary of an Excursion to the Ruins of Abo, Quarra, and Gran Quivira, in New 

Mexico, under the command of Major James Henry Carleton, U.S. A 29(i 

Report on the Fishes observed on the coasts of New Jersey and Long Island during 

the summer of 1854. By S. F. B.mrd 317 

Catalogue of Rocks, Minerals, and Ores collected during the years 1847 and 1848, on 

the Geological Survey of tiic United States Mineral Lands in Michigan. By Dr. 

Charles T. Jacksok 338 

Catalogue of Rocks, Minerals, Ores, and Fossils collected by Dr. John Locke 367 

Catalogue of Rocks, Minerals, &c., collected by J. W. Foster .384 

Catalogue of Rocks, Minerals, &c., collected by J. D. Whitney 387 

Catalogue of Geological Specimens, collected by Dr. D. D. Owen 393 

Catalogue of the Berlandier Collection of Manuscripts, Maps, &c 396 

Circular sent for information respecting Libraries 398 

Circular to Publishers respecting Copyrights 400 



INDEX. 



Page. 

Abbott, Dr. R. V., Table of Rain by 245,247 

Aberdeen 212,213 

Abiquiu 85,276 

Abispah river 83,85 

Aboriginal remains, attention directed to 11 

Abo, Ruins of 300 

Abraniis versicolor 341 

Absorption, Level of 226 

Absorption, Magendie's Experiments on 129 

Abstinence of Camel 109 

Acacia 118 

Academy of Natural Sciences 35,42 

Academy of Natural Sciences, Cal., Magnetic Instruments for 16 

Academy of Sciences at Paris, Memoir on Poisons 126 

Acanthocottus virginianus {common Sculpin) 328 

Achievements of Man 98 

Achirus mollis (J^''eio York sole) 350 

Achromatic Microscope, Description of. 26 

Ackley, Dr 38 

^cquia Madre 277 

Adams, J. Quincy, Language of, respecting Will of Smithson 7 

Adams, Professor C. B » 94 

Adaptation of Camel to climate and soil of the United States 116 

Additions to the Library during 1854 24 

Additions to Library by Exchange 20 

Addresses of Congress to Canada 173 

Addresses of packages 32,33 

Addresses to Canada, printed in French 174 

Admission of packages for Smithsonian Institution duty free 21 

Advance, Brig , 92 

Advantages of Camels in security against stampedes 121 

Advantages of Fire-Alarm Telegraph 153 

Advantage of greater range of vision on the Camel than the Horse 121 

Advantages of introducing the Camel in America 116 

Advantages of the Camel for Military Purposes 120 

Aeronaut, Safety of, in Thunder Storm 224 

Africa 38,45 

Africa, Exploration of 92 

Africa, Whirlwinds i 187 

Agassiz, Prof 42 

Agassiz, Prof , Species of Fish described by 342 

Age attained by the Camel 113 

Agents for distributing Volumes 36 



404 INDEX. 

Page. 

Aghouat, Ger. 109 

Agriculture, connected with Rain 243 

Aguachas, Las 304 

Agua de Juan Lujan 299 

Aid afforded Lieut. Strain by Englisli party 93 

Aid furnished Exploring Expeditions by Smithsonian Institution 79 

Ailurichthys marinus (Catjish) 340,341 

Air, Composition of. 182,193 

Airy, Prof 181 

Alabama 38,43,46,49 

Alabama, Direction of Thunder Clouds in 200 

Alama de Parras 87 

Alarm Bell tolled by Lightning 155 

Albany 35 

Albino Blackbird 38 

Albino female of Agelaius Phoeniceus 45 

Albuquerque 37,83,275,316 

Albuquerque, Expedition from 296 

Albuquerque to Zuiii, Road from 276 

Alcohol in Cases of Serpent Bite 132 

Alcohol no security against effects of Venom of the Rattlesnake 132 

Alcohol, use of in Treatment of Serpent Bite 136 

Aleppo, Turcoman Camel procured from 121 

Alexander, Capt. B. S 69,70 

Alexander, Prof. S. A., Photographs of Eclipse by 17 

Alexander VI 159 

Alexdretta 121 

Algeria, Army of Occupation in 119 

Algeria, Camel used in, by French 113 

Algeria, Camels suffer from sting of insect in 120 

Algeria, Dromedaries should be brouglit from 122 

Algeria, Performance of Camels in 105 

Algiers, Winter too severe for Arabian Camel 118 

Alkalies in Cases of Serpent Bite - 132 

Alleghany Black Snake 44 

Alleviation of feelings of hostility between Dutch and English 175 

Alligators • 39 

Aloe, said not to be touched by the Camel 108 

Alosa Mattowaca 349 

Alosa menhaden {jMoss Banker, Bony Fish, Hard Head) 347 

Alosa Teres 349 

Alphabetical list of Meteorological Observers .■ 51 

Alps 274 

Alum used for Serpent Poison 133 

Alvord, Major B., memoir by, on Tangencies of Circles and Spheres 13 

Amazon 127 

Amazon Valley, Exploration of 93 

Amboyna, Massacre of English Traders at 175 

Amblystoma luridum (salamander) 295 

Amblystoma opacum 45,294 

Ambroise Pare, the most distinguished surgeon of the 16th century 123 

American Academy, Appleton Bequest to 18 



INDEX. 405 

Page. 

American Academy of Arts and Sciences 35 

American Antiquities, Account of History of 10 

American Antiquities, Hrstory of, by S. F. Haven 11 

American Association for the Advancement of Education, meeting of 28 

American Association for the Advancement of Science, meeting of 28,35 

•American Astronomers, Triumphs of. 145 

American Colonization Society 94 

American Etlmological Society 35 

American Fire-Alarm Telegraph, Lecture on 147 

American Fur Company 81 

American Institute 35 

American Institutions, Packages sent from 35 

American Journal of Science 35 

American Method of Recording Astronomical Observations 145 

America, not an Englishman in, in 1664 164 

American Oriental Society 35 

American Philosophical Society 35,202 

American Societies, Packages for 35 

American State Paper, the oldest 159 

Ames, A. H 89 

Ammonia favors Action of Serpent Poison 132 

Amount expended on Library 22 

Anahuac, Plateau of 277 

Analogy between Municipal Telegraph and Nervous Organization of Individual. . . 153 

Analysis of Air 182 

Analysis of VVoorara 127,128 

Anatomy of the Camel 103,106 

Anchovy 347 

Ancient Peruvian Vase 39 

Anderson, S. C 43 

Andes 90,227,273 

Andrews, Prof. E. B , 42 

Anemometer 219 

Anglo-Saxon, Title not expressive 157 

Anguilla tenuirostris 350 

Animals exempted from Climatic Laws 100 

Animals, Existence of, perpetuated by Man 99 

Animal Substances enter into Composition of Woorara 128 

Ann Arbor 87 

Annals and Magazine of Natural History 127 

Annales de Chimie, Analysis of Woorara in 127 

Annual Report of Secretary presented 77 

Answer to Difficulties in the way of Introducing the Camel 121 

Antelopes, Flock of 293 

Antidote to Poisons 135 

Antidote to Venom of Rattlesnake hitherto unknown 131 

Antioch Ill 

Antiquarian Society 35 

Antilles 198 

Antiquities 10, 39, 45 

Antisel Dr 84 



406 INDEX. 

Page, 

Antiseptic Properties of Iodine 135 

Anton Chico 83,300 

Antonio de Otermin 312 

Aoonakara river 83 

Apaclie Indians 296 

Apliredoderus sayanus 326 

Apparatus by which Serpent inflicts a Wound 124, 125 

Apparatus, Cabinet of, collected 9 

Appendix to Mr. Russell's Lectures 215 

Appendix to the Report of the Regents 79 

Appendix to the Report of the Secretary 31 

Appleton Bequest 18 

Appleton, D., & Co 96 

Apple-trees at Manzana 303 

Appropriation by Congress for Explorations 89 

Appropriation by Congress to introduce Camels 121 

Appropriations for 1855 68 

Aqueduct at Gran Quivira 309 

Aqua Ammonia applied to Cases of Serpent Bite 132 

Arabian Camel, Information respecting Military Qualities and Hygiene of. 121 

Arabian Dromedaries , 110 

Arabian Poem older than Mohammed 104 

Arabia, Whirlwinds in 187 

Arab, has remained immutable 101 

Arab, opinion of, respecting origin of Camel 114 

Arabs habitually travel by night 115 

Arab's regard for Dromedar}' and Horse 115 

Arabia Petrsea, Ascent of Caravan in 105 

Arabia Petrtea, Journey in 107 

Aransas 46 

Arctic Expedition 91 

Argentine Confederation 90 

Argyreiosus capillaris {Hair-finned Dory) 337 

Aridity of Mediterranean Shores 189 

Aristotle 182 

Aristotle, Passage of, respecting Camel 102 

Arkansas 37, 45 

Arkansas, Fall of Rain at, during 1850 244 

Arkansas River S3, 85 

Army of 15,000 men transported solely by Camels 119 

Armstrong, Robert 94, 95 

Arnold, quotation trom, on Centralization and Active Life 160 

Arrangement of Smithsonian Building 70 

Arroyo de la Cienega 304 

Arsenic used for Serpent Bite 131 

Artesian Borings 85 

Ascension 90 

Ashmead, Charles *337 

Ashmead, Charles, Thanks to 317 

Ashmead, Samuel, Thanks to 317 

Ashmead, Samuel, Sea- Weeds found by 319 



INDEX. 407 

Page. 

Ash , Wonderful Properties of. ■ 133 

Asia Minor HI 

Asiatics, Use made of Camel in War by .. 118 

Association of Medical Superintendents of Hospitals for the Insane, meeting of 28 

Astaci ■ ^ 39 

Asteroids all of diminutive size 143 

Asteroids, Discovery of. 138, 139 

Asteroid Orbits distinguished from all others 144 

Asteroids, Relationship between 143 

Asteroids, Cause of 141 

Astraca, Orbit of. 141 , 144 

Astronomers, Association of, to discover Planet 137 

Astrology, Doctrines of, respecting Poisons 1--8 

Astronomical Discoveries in America 145 

Astrorfomical Expedition to Chile "o 

Astronomical Journal 3o 

Astronomical Journals, only two in existence 1" 

Astronomical Journal, Observations of Eclipse published in 17 

Astronomical Positions of Mexican States incorrect 279 

Atherina 319 

Atherinopsis notatus {SilveTside, Sand-Smelt) 338 

Atlanta, Classic Fable of 131 

Atlantic and Pacific Junction Company 93 

Atlantic Ocean, Depths of. 91 

Atmospheric Currents 190 

Atmospheric Pressure at Greenwich 218 

Atmospheric Pressure at Philadelphia 222 

Atmosphere, Pressure of. 182 

Atomic Constitution of Mixed Gases 193 

Atwater's Researches 11 

Audubon, Mr 347 

Auguste, Tension Tables of. 267 

Aulick, Com. J 39,42 

Auriferous Deposits of Vermont 39, 43 

Aurora Boreal Coruscations 227 

Aurora Borealis, Explanations of. 13 

Aurora Borealis, History of Exhibitions of 12 

Aurora Borealis, Memoir on, by Prof. D. Olmsted 12 

Aurora Borealis, Notices of, by Peter Force 13 

Aurora not seen at San Francisco 253, 258 

Austin, Joseph B 38, 42 

Ayres, Dr - 342 

Azow, Sea of. 122 

Aztecs, Suppositions respecting 311 

Bache, Professor A. D., Commission on Building Material 18 

Bache, Professor, Observations by 215 

Bache, Professor, Proposition by, relative to Bibliography 22 

Bache, Professor A. D 95,96 

Bactrian Camel, obtained at Odessa 122 

Bactrian Camel, Superior for Transportation 11^ 



408 INDEX. 

Page. 

Baffin's Bay 92 

Bagdad to Damascus, Mails carried by Dromedary from, in seven days Ill 

Baird, Mr., Encampment near Residence of. 296 

Baird's Lake 88 

Baird, S. F 16, 31, 38, 42, 79, 87, 94, 317 

Balloon Ascent by John Wise 224 

Balloon Ascent by Mr. Walsh 196 

Banded Drum-Fish 332 

Banded Sun-Fish 324 

Baptist Mission, Kansas 86 

Barker, Dr. S. W 38, 43 

Barometer at Bombay 220 

Barometer, Cause of Fall in Tropical Storms 210 

Barometer, Cause of Fluctuation • 204 

Barometer, During Storm of 12th 210 

Barometer, Fluctuations of, from 7th to IGlh November, 1854 207, 209, 210 

Barometer, invention of 182 

Barometer, two Maxima and Minima of. 218 

Barometer, Variations of 218 

Barometrical Observations at Sacramento, California 264 

Barnacle, Growth and Ravages of, and Protection against 39, 45 

Barnard, Major J. G 39, 43 

Baron de Zach 137 

Barranca, Indian Chief 315 

Bartlett, Jno. Russell 96 

Bartlett, Professor, Photographs of Eclipse by 17 

Barry, Rev. A. C IC, 37, 38,43,87 

Basrah ,. Ill 

Bashee Islands 89 

Bass of Beaver Islands 287 

Bass Sun-Fish 325 

Batrachus variegatus ( Toad-Fish, Oyster-Fish) 340 

Batoseagachic, Rich Mining Place 278 

Batrachia , 43 

Battery Employed in Boston Firo-Alarm Telegraph 154 

Bay of Monterey 84 

Bay of San Francisco 242 

Beale, Lieutenant E. F 85, 96 

Bear creek 88 

Beaumont, Elie de 274 

Beaver Islands, Michigan, Natural History of 282 

Beckv^ith, Lieutenant E. G 37, 82, 96 

Beckwith's Cut 86 

Bedouin Arab, the only Race that retains Original Mode of Life 101 

Beesley's Point, New Jersey IG, 42, 43, 88, 317, 318 

Bejuco dc Menacure 127 

Belcourt, Rev. S. A., Dictionary of Chippewa Language by 14 

Belfast 212 

Belgium 39, 44 

Bell, Jno. G 88, 318, 342 



INDEX. 409 

Page. 

Bell on City Hall, Boston, struck by Telegraphic Operator in New York 150 

Belone truncata {Bill-Fish, Sea- Pike, Silver Gar-fish) 346 

Beloochistan, Food of Camels in 108 

Benicia 84 

Benjamin, Park, Lectures by 28 

Ben Moor Mountains 276 

Bennett, Mr c 93 

Benton, Lieut. J. G 39, 43 

Bergen, Norway, Temperature in 195 

Bergiiar.s, Estimate of Number of Camels by 118 

Bergmann 1 10, 11 1 , 117, 122 

Berlandier, Luis, Account of 15, 87 

Berlandier Collection, Catalogue of 396 

Berryman, Lieut. O. H 91 

Berlin Almanac 137 

Berliu Maps 139, 140 

Bermudas, to be Admitted into tlie Confederation 174 

Bernard, Mr., Opinions of, respecting Poisons 126 

Berthoud, Dr. E. L 39, 43 

Bessarabia Ill 

Bessarabia, Age of Camel, in 113 

Bessarabia, Camel abounds in 101 

Behring's Straits 79, 89, 96 

Bibliographical Centre at the Institution 22 

Bibliography, Works on, collected 22 

Bidwell's Bar 86 

Bigelow, Dr. J. M 83, 84 

Big Plover 88 

Big Porgee 333 

Big Witchita 86 

Billeton Passage 90 

Bill-Fish 346 

Bill Williams's Fork 84 

Biographer of tlie English Chief Justices 161 

Birds 43 

Birds of Beaver Islands 282 

Birds of Minnesota 291 

Birds, North American 42 

Birds received 37 

Bird Skins 46 

Bitter Root River 81 

Bite of Serpents, Nature and Cure of 123 

Bhck Bass 323 

Black Bass of the Ohio, Habits of 289 

Black Fish 340 

Blackfoot Pass , 81, 82 

Blackfoot River , 81 

Blackman, \^'ashington, Thanks to 318 

Black Massassauga 38 

Blake, William P 84 

Blank Forms for Meteorological Observations, &c., furnished 20 



410 INDEX. 

Page. 

Blodget, Lorin, Report of Executive Committee relative to 74 

Blodget, Lorin, Communication and Bill from 77 

Blood Globules 129 

Blue Fisli 329 

Blue Shark 352 

Board of Regents, Proceedings of 72 

Bodega, California 45 

Bode, Professor, Law of. 137 

Boggs, W. B 89 

Bokham , 114 

Bokhara, Camel used for Military Purposes in 118 

Boleosoma fusiforme (Darler) 328 

Bolson de Mapimi 87, 277 

Bombay, Meteorological Tables for 215, 219, 220 

Boneset, used for Serpent Poison 133 

Bony Fisli 347 

Booglidee, the cross between Bactrian and Arabian Camel 103 

Books read in the Smithsonian Library 21 

Boonville, Missouri 88 

Boporah, Liberia 93 

Borgia, Name of, infamous 159 

Bossange, Hector, Distribution of Matter by 32 

Boston 35, 36 

Boston, Appropriation from, for Telegraph 151 

Boston, Fire-Alarm Telegraph introduced into 150 

Boston, Visits of Dickinson and Reed to , 169 

Boston Society of A^atural History 35 

Botanic Garden 35 

Botany Bay of New Mexico 316 

Boundary Survey of United States and Mexico 80 

Bourbon County, Kentucky 43 

Boussingault, Analysis of Woorara by 127 

Bowditch Library 35 

Bowman, J. Soule 38, 43, 86 

Bowman, S. M 86 

Brainard, Dr. David, Lecture by 123 

Brandon, Vermont „ 39 

Brazil 38 

Brazos 37, 46, 85 

Brazos, Exploration of the 86 

Brevoort, J. Carson , 38, 318, 342 

Brevoort, C. C 43 

Brewer, Dr. T. M 38, 42, 43 

Brewster, Sir David 181 

Breda, Result of Treaty of 175 

Bridger, Mr. J. L 38, 39, 43 

Bridgewatcr, Vermont 39 

Bristol, Vessels from 159 

British Association for the Advancement of Science 188 

British Association, commendation of Astronomical Journal by 18 

British Practitioners' use of Arsenic 131 



INDEX. 411 

Page. 

Britisli Provinces, Efforts to obtain co-operation of, with tlie Thirteen Colonies .... 172, 173 

British Rule repug'nant to Dutch , 175 

Brooke, Lieut. J. M. 89 

Brooklyn, New York 42, 317 

Brown Coal Beds of Vermont 39, 43 

Brownsville 86 

Brussels, Belgium 212, 213 

Buckland, D 39, 43 

Buckhardt Ill 

Buenos Ayres 90 

Building, Amount expended on 70 

Building, cause of Delay in completing 27 

Building Committee, Authority to use Punds on deposit 76 

Building Committee, Report of. 69 

Building Committee, Jno. T. Towers elected to 76 

Building, Description of. 27, 69 

Building Materials collected in Europe 44 

Building Materials, Commission on 18 

Building Material, Specimens of, from Europe 39 

Buist, Dr., Observations by 215 

Bureau of Yards and Docks 39 

Burke, Speech on Conciliation with America , 165 

Button Snake-Root, used for Serpent Poison 133 

Burlington, Vermont, has smallest annual Fall of Rain 244 

Burnett, Dr. J. W. , Observations on Blood-Globules, by 130 

Cabot, commission to 159 

Cabot's Voyages, result of. 163 

Cacique of Quivira, statenient by, respecting Treasure in New Mexico 313 

Cactus consumed by Camel 108 

Cadet's Pass 82 

Cairo 110, 111 

Cajava , 119 

Cajon Pass 84 

Calcasieu, Louisiana 46 

Caledonia bay 93 

Caliente Pass 84 

California Academy of Natural Sciences, instruments for 16 

California 37, 38, 39, 46, 51, 83, 84, 87 

California, general remarks on Climate of. 231 

Winds of 197, 236 

Sea-breeze of 240 

Rain, Storms, Clouds, and Mists of. 243, 248 

Review of Weather for 1853 251 

of Weather for February, 1854 254 

of Weather for 1854 255 

Calliope, Orbit of 144 

Calmucks 117, 122 

Calvert county, Maryland 44 

Camel, lecture on, 98 ; as an animal of war, 116 ; age of, 113 ; accounts of the power 
of, 117 ; Arabian, indifferent to heat, 115 ; appropriate home of, 100 ; advan- 



412 



INDEX. 



Page. 
'Camel — continued — 

tages of for military purposes, 120 ; anatomical differences between the Arabian 
and Bactrian, 103 ; appropriation by Congress to introduce, 121 ; burden of. 111; 
best place to procure them for the United States, 122 ; bad swimmer, 106 ; civilized 
life prejudicial to, 106 ; caravans cross glaciers, 117 ; color of, 114 ; domesticated 
in Tuscany, 108; detects water at great distance, 109 ; difficulties in introduction 
of, 121 : endures privation from food, 107 ; effects of introduction of, among the In- 
dians, 120 ; foot of, 105 ; fords rivers, 106 ; free from disease, 120 ; favorite food of, 
107; feeding at temperature of 25° below zero, 118; fleece of some species 
equal to the wool of Cashmere goat, 114 ; finest and fleetest Arabian will not 
bear winter climate of Algiers, 118 ; growls of the, 115 ; hair shawls, 114 ; 
beiglit of, 113 ; harness of, 112 ; instances of fleetness, 110 ; in some parts of 
the East employed as a beast of draught. 111 ; longevity of, greatest in the cold 
and damp Russian provinces, 117 ; milk of, 114 ; milked without halting, 120 ; 
method of securing at night, 121 ; most valuable in winter in the Crimea, 117 ; 
moisture of our climate unfavorable to, 117 ; most important peculiarity of, 106 ; 
not fed ordinarily, 107 ; nostrils of, slit by Bedouins, 104 ; nomade in his habits, 
101 ; never feeds at night, 115 ; numbers of, 118 ; not as patient as represented, 
115 ; practicability and advantages of introdu^^ing into America, 110; perform- 
ance of, in Algeria, &c., 105 ; price of, 120 ; preferred to horses by the Cal- 
mucks, 117 ; period of gestation of, 120 ; paroxysms of, calmed, 115 ; power of, 
to abstain from water, 109 ; quantity of food required by, 108 ; rate of travel 
of, 110 ; security of seat on, 120 ; skeleton of, not found in the catacombs, 102 ; 
special properties of different varieties, 117 ; surpasses all domestic quadrupeds 
in speed and endurance, 110 ; species of, 101 ; used to carry sacred veil to Mecca, 
115 ; transportation of an army by, 119 ; travels with security over snow and 
mud, 106 ; training of, 113 ; used in war, 118 ; utility of, 114 ; used by Napo- 
leon, 118 ; used in military service, 113 ; weight of, 113. 

Camelus bactrianus 101 

Camelus dromas 102 

Camelus dromedarius 101 

*' Camel's temper," proverbial expression 115 

Camels, food prepared and cooked on the backs of 120 

Camels in General Aghouat's Expedition did not drink from February to May 109 

Camels of tlie Sultan of Morocco 115 

Cameron, Gilbert 69, 74, 77 

Campbell, Albert H 83 

Campbell, General Robert B 37 

Campbell, Hugh 83, 84 

Campbell, Lord, Observations of 161 

Camp Far West, Rain at 245, 247 

Camp Shawnee Reservation 83 

Cai7ibridge 35 

Cambridge Observatory 145 

Camp Yuma 37, 84 

Canada 35, 47 

Canada, embass}' from Congress to 174 

Canada, efforts to obtain co-operation of, with thirteen colonies 173 

Canada, expedition under Montgomery to 174 

Canada, transfer of, from French to British dominion 174 

Canada, Thunder-storm in 201 



INDEX. 413' 

Page. 

Canada de las Uvas 84> 

Canadian river 83 

Canal at Isthmus of Darien impracticable 93 

Canary islands 198 

Canoe from Madagascar 43 

Caiion del Infierno 316 

"Cape May Goody" 329 

Cape of Good Hope , 89 

Cape Palmas 45, 94 

Caranx clirysos ( Ydloio Caranx, Yellow Mackerel) 336 

Caravan, day's journey, length of 110 

Carboniferous Fossils 39 

Carbuccia 103, 105, 107, 108, 1U9, 111, Hi, 114, 115, 118, 120, 121 

Carcharias cosruleus (siaall Blue Shark) 352 

Carimata passage 90 

Carleton, Major James Henry, Excursion in New Mexico by 296 

Carlisle, Pennsylvania 38, 45 

Caroline islands 89 

Carol, Rev. John, mission to Canada of. 174 

Carp lake 88 

Carrol, Charles, mission to Canada of 174 

Carson 's Valley 87 

Casa Colorada 297, 298 

Casa de Montezuma 311 

Casas Grandes, seen along Gila river 311 

Cascade range 81, 82 

Cascade mountains , 279, 280 

Casey, Captain 39, 43 

Cashmere Goat 114 

Cassidy, Mr i 97 

Castaneda's History 306, 310, 311, 312. 

Catalogue of geological specimens collected by J. W. Foster 384 

Catalogue of geological specimens collected by Dr. Cliarles T. Jackson. . , *338 

Catalogue of geological specimens collected by Dr. John Locke 367 

Catalogue of geological specimens collected by D. D. Owen , 393 

Catalogue of geological specimens collected by J. D. Whitney 387. 

Catalogue of Berlandier collection , 396 

Catalogues of Stars 145 

Catalogues of Libraries collected 22. 

Catastornus gibbosus (Horned Sucker, Chub-sucker) 341 

Catacombs, skeleton of Camel not found in the , 102 

Cat-Fish 340 

Catharine de' Medici 123. 

Catholic Clergy in New Mexico 303, 312.' 

Caucasus, HiJs in 274- 

Cause of Westerly Winds at San Francisco 243 

Cause of West Winds bemg cold 196 

Caustic Potash in cases of serpent bite 132 

Cavalry, introduction of, in France 122 

Cavia australis 91 

Cedar Swamp creek , 319, 322. 



414 INDEX 

Page. 

Centralization 160 

Centrarclms pomotis {Bass Sun-Fish) 325 

Century of American colonization 166 

Contropristes nigricans (Black Bass) 323 

Ceramium, or Sea-cabbage 319 

Ceres, discovery of the planet 138 

Cervus dama 38, 45 

Cette, Harbor of, frozen 260 

Ceylon, Palm-leaf from 42 

Chacornac, of Paris, Asteroids discovered by 139 

Chaldean Shepherds, Planets known to 137 

Chamouni, Temperature in 195 

Chandler, Lieut 297 

Channing, Dr. W. F. , Lecture by 147 

Chapparal Cock 44 

Character of Inhabitants of New Mexico 298 

Charles Fifth of Gran Quivira 313 

Charles IX, Times of. 123 

Charleston College, S. C 43 

Charleston, Wind at 188 

Charleston, spoken of as " The Distant Shore" 169 

Charleston, S. C 36 

Chase, Rev. Benjamin 38, 43 

Chase, Samuel, Mission to Canada of. 174 

Chatten, Capt 43 

Chattin's Tavern 340 

Chatoessus signifer {Thread Herring) 349 

Chavis, Mr 297,313 

Chelonians, from Nebraska 82 

Chelonura serpentina 39 

Chemistry, Lectures on, by Dr. Smith 29 

Chenay, Tornado of 229 

Cherokees, Treatment of Serpent Poison by 133 

Cherry-Tree in Norway near Ice 195 

Chesney, Col Ill, 120 

Cheviot Hills 171 

Chicago, 111 36 

Chief Justiciar, an Oflice introduced into England by William the Conqueror 161 

Chihuahua 38, 45, 278 

Chile, Astronomical E.xpedition to , 96 

Chilili 316 

Chimere, French Steamer 93 

China Seas 79, 89, 96 

Chinese Tartary, Camel in, nsed for Saddle or Burden 112 

Chippewa Language, Dictionary of. 14 

Chlorine, Effect of, on Poisons 135 

Choate, Rufus, re-elected Regent 72 

Choate, Rufus, Resignation as Regent 76 

Choate, Rufus, Statement relative to Paper by Mr. Jewett, by 75 

Church at Abo 300 

Church at Quarra 302 

Church, Prof. A. E., Examiner of Major Alvord's Memoir 14 



INDEX. 415 

Page. 

Ciboleta Mountains 298 

Cincinnati 36 

Circular for Information on Libraries 23, 398 

Circular to Publisiiers respecting Copyrights 400 

Civilization, changes, forms, products, and habits of Vegetables and Animals 99 

Civilization, Demands of 99 

Civilization, Science the Instrument of. 147 

Civilized and Savage Life 99 

Circuit, necessary for Electrical Conduction in the Telegraph 149 

Clapperton and Denham 105, 106, 107, 109, 114, 118, 120 

Clarke county, Virginia 45 

Clarke's Fork 81 

Clavigero, Opinion of, respecting Aztecs 312 

Clear and Cloudy Days at San Francisco 244 

Cleveland, Ohio 30, 38, 44 

Climate, Difference of, between Eastern and Western Continent 117 

Climate of California, in Summer 242 

Influence of, on Health 242 

Climate of San Francisco, by Dr. II. Gibbons 231 

Climate of San Francisco during 1854 255 

Climates, Camel adapted to different 115 

Clouds at Philadelphia 223 

Clouds at Sacramento, California 268 

Close-Roll of the 24th of Elizabeth 164 

Clouds, Formation of 197,217 

" Cloud Cap" described by Mr. Wise 227, 228, 229 

Cloudiness cf the Air at Greenwich 217 

Clouds, Direction of, during Rains 249, 250 

Clouds, Mists, Rain, Storms, at San Francisco 243, 248 

Clupea mattowaca 349 

Coagulation of the Blood produced by Viper Poison 129 

Coahuila 87,277 

Coast Range of Sonora and Sinaloa 279 

Coast Surve}' 36, 66, 96 

Coast Winds at California 238 

Coeur d'AIene 81 

Coffin, Prof. J. H 17,20, 186, 188, 190,201,202 

Coincidence of Explanation of Storms between Mr. Piussell and Prof. Mitchell. . . . 199 

Colcasieu, Louisiana 38 

Coleoptera 42 

Coldest Montli in California 257, 258 

Coldest Month of the Year 233 

Coldest Period of the Day 215 

Collections Received for Museum 37 

Colleges 36 

Collins, Lieut. Napoleon 89 

Colonial Combination 174 

Colonization of the French in Canada , 165 

Colonization, Schemes of, in the 16th Century 164 

Colorado River 37,83, 84, 85,94 

Columbia, Pennsylvania • • ■ 44,346 

Columbia River 81 



416 INDEX. 

Page. 

Columbus, Discoveries before 158 

Columbus, Discovery of America by 158, 159 

Columbus, Ohio 35 

Comanches 86 

Combination of Principles of Centralization and Local Independence IGO 

Comets, Discovery of. 145 

Commerce between England and America, Beginning of 163 

Commerce between Russia and Cliina carried on by means of Camels 118 

Commission on testing Building Materials 18 

Commissioner of Indian Affairs 36 

Committee appointed to attend Committee of House of Representatives 77 

Committee of Conference with Establishment 74,78 

Committee of Finance appointed 77 

Committee of House of Representatives appointed to investigate Affairs of the 

Institution 77 

Common Sculpin 328 

Communication between Regents and Establisliment 73,78 

Communication from G. Cameron 74,77 

Communication from Hon. C. W. Upliam 76 

Communication from J. M. Stanley 77 

Communication from L. Blodget 75,77 

Communication relative to Geographical Gazette 77 

Communications to be addressed to " Secretary of the Institution." 20 

Conclusions of Mr. Frcebel 281 

Concordia, Lake 43 

Condamine 127 

Condensation, Level of. 226 

Confederacy, Ciiaracter and Duration of the First 176 

Confederacy, the First in America 176 

Conger Eel 351 

Conger occidentalis (Conger Eel) 351 

Congress, Appropriation by, for Surveys 80 

Congress, Appropriation by, for Introducing the Camel 121 

Contrrcss, first object of, to obtain Colonial Redress 173 

Congress of 1774 169 

Congress Library 23,36 

Conia Digitaline destroys Action of the Heart 129 

Connecticut 47 

Connexion of different Ranges of Mountains 275 

Constantinople, Rain at 189 

Constitution, Adoption of 170 

Constitution of United States, Primary Purpose of. 157 

Contents of Nintli Annual Report 401 

" Continental," use of the Term E.xplained 173 

Contra Costa, Winds at 243 

Conventional Lines running East and West 171 

Cooachotope Pass 83,85 

Cooke's Route 275,279 

Co-operation and not Monopoly, Maxim of Institution 19 

Cooper, Dr. J. G 82 

Cooper, Schooner Fennimore 89 



INDEX. 417 

Page, 

Copal inclosing Insect and Lizard 44 

Coppermine Mountains 276 

Copyright Law, Operation of 24 

Copyright Laws and Instructions 400 

Copyright Publications sent free of .Postage to the Institution 24, 400 

Copyright Receipts 23 

Coral Seas 89 

Corare, Description of 127 

Corcoran and Riggs 57,65,66 

Cordilleras 91,273 

Cornwall 162 

Coronado, Francisco Vasquez de 306,310,312 

Correspondence of the Institution, Character of 14 

Correspondence on Natural History 282 

Correspondence, Resolution of Board respecting. 78 

Corson's Inlet 319 

Corvina argyroleuca (Silver Perch) ' 331 

Coryplia umbracaulifera 42 

Cotheal, Messrs 39,43 

Cotton Regions, none in Europe 189 

Cotton, Seeds of, from Madagascar 43 

Cottus virginianus.. 328 

Couch, Lieut. D. N 15,86,87 

Count Cypriarii 87 

Crabs 330 

Creed, Unanimity in, required in Confederacy 176 

Cretaceous formation of Texas 280 

Cretaceous Strata 281 

Crimea, Age of Camel in the 113 

Crimea, Camel abounds in 101 

Cromarty Coast 187 

Cromwell and Leverett, interview between 171 

Cromwell's Plan for Securing Conquest of Jamaica 171 

Crotalophorus massasauga 38,44 

Crotalophorus tergeminus 44 

Crotalus, or Rattlesnake 124 

Crotalus durissus 38 

Crotalus tergeminus 38 

Crustaceans 44 

Cuba, Land and Sea Breezes in 187,190 

Cuba, Northers at 203 

Cucurbitaceous plants 99 

Cullen, Dr 93 

Cumberland, Rain at 197 

Cumbre Pass 91 

Cunningham, John P 43 

Cunningham, William 39 

Cupping glasses, use of in cases of Serpent Bite 132 

Mis. Doc. 24 27 



418 INDEX. 

Pajre. 

Curare, description of. 127 

Cure of the Bite of Serpents 123 

Currents at the Surface of the Earth and above it 186 

Curves of temperature and pressure 206 

Curve of temperature and pressure for Miivvaukie, Wisconsin 206 

Curve of temperature and pressure for New Wied, Texas 206 

Curve of temperature and pressure for Steuben, Maine 207 

Curve of temperature and pressure for Tuscaloosa, Alabama 206 

Customs, great variety of, in England 161 

Catosloinus tuberculatus 341 

Cutts, R. D 38, 43,97 

Cuvier, Conjecture of 106 

Cyane, sloop-of-war 93 

Cybium maculatum (Spotted Cybium, Spanish J\Iackaxl) 335 

Cypriani, Count 87 

Cyprinodon ovinus 344,345 

Cyprinodon parvus 345 

Cyprinodonts 319 

Dace 341 

Dallas, George M 62 ^ 63 

Dalles 81,82 

Dalton, John, the Father of Meteorology 183 

Dalton, John, on Fluctuations of Barometer 204 

Dalton 's Conditions of Atmospheric Equilibrium 185 

Dalton 's Explanation of the existence of Water in the Air 190 

Dalton 's Experiments on Vapor 192 

Dalton 's Observations 220,230 

Dalton 's Tables of Force of Vapor 267 

Dalton 's Theory of Constitution of Gases 193 

Damascus Ill 

Dane county, Wisconsin 43 

Daniel, Mrs. M. E 38,43 

Daniel's Hygrometer 267 

Darien Ship Canal Expedition 93,96 

Darter 328 

Date-Palm, Arab's opinion of Origin of. 114 

Davenport, Dr 87 

Davis, Lieut. Alonzo B 89 

" Dead Man's Journey" 276 

Declaration of Independence 1 '" 

Deer 38,45,99,100 

DeKay, Nomenclature of. 318 

Delaware ^" 

Delaware Creek ""* 

Delaware River, Settlement on 1''^^ 

De le Condamine, Account of Woorara by 127 

Deloul, species of Camel •'^'' 

Dcnham and Clapperton 105,106,107,109,114,118,120 

Denig, Edward T *^ 



INDEX. 



419 



Page. 

Deposites of Specimens of Natural History 44,45,4 

Depths of Atlantic ocean, Soundings of. 91 

Derby, H. W 36 

Desert, home of the Camel 101 

Desert, north of the Lower Colorado, lowest spot of the American Continent 281 

Desert of Gabi 118 

Desert, six days' journey in width, without any vegetation 107 

Deserts, few portions of without shrubs 10 

Deserts, nature of Soil of 104 

Detroit, Michigan 35, 87 

Detroit river 87 

Dew, law of formation of. 194 

Dew point at Greenwich 215 

Dew point, explanation of. 216 

Dew point, Russell's rule for ascertaining 221 

Diablo, Mount - 251 

Dia-magnetism, Explanation of 17 

Dia-magnetism, Ruhmkorff's apparatus 17 

Diary of an Excursion in New Mexico, by Major J. PI. Carleton 296 

Dickinson, Jno., Visit to Boston of. 169 

Dictionary of Chippewa Language 14 

Diifendorfer, Dr 85 

Difference between climate of Eastern and Western continents 117 

Diodon fuliginosus 351 

Diodon maculato-striatus (Spot-Striped Balloon- Fish) 351 

Discovery of the Asteroids 138, 139 

Dissenting Colonists of Rhode Island Refused Admission into Confederacy 176 

Distribution of Collections 41 

Distribution of Duplicate Specimens in Natural History made 25 

Division of Longitudinal Basin of American Continent by Depression of Soil 281 

Dix, W. G., Lectures by 28 

Dodgeville, Wisconsin , 88 

Dog-shark...' *337 

Dolphin, Brig 91,95 

Domestic Animals of Beaver Islands 282 

Doiia Ana 84,96,297 

Donations to Museum during 1854 42 

Donelson, Lieut 81,82 

Donne, found Iodine to counteract Strychnia 135 

Doty, Mr 81 

Douglas, Stephen A., Resolution of, respecting Correspondence 78 

Dromedary Corps in Algeria 109 

Dromedary Corps Practicable 116 

Dromedary, Description of 102 

Dromedary, Johnson's Story of 110 

Dromedary, not a Camel with two Humps 102 

Dromedary, Performance of a 122 

Dromedary Regiment of Napoleon 119 

Dromedary should be brought from Algeria 122 



420 INDEX. 

Page. 

Drought, caused by Westerly Winds 196 

Dryer, T. J 43 

Dry Lagoon of Cooke's Route 280 

Dryness, Maximum and Minimum 217 

Dryness at Greenwich 216 

Dryness at Philadelpliia 221 

Dutch Dominion favorable to Colonial Combination 176 

Dutch West India Company, Grant to 175 

Durango 87,277 

Dwight, President 186,196, 197,200,201 

Eagle Pass 37 

Ear of Corn from Talcahuana, Peru 43 

Earthquake Shocks in California 258 

Earth not yet Subdued by Man 98 

East Indies, Method of Preparing Poison in 127 

East and West Floridas to be Admitted into the Confederation 174 

Eastman, Capt. S 95 

East Troy, Wisconsin 88 

Eaton, Prof., Associated with Mr. Spencer 26 

Eccentricity of the Planetary Orbits 142 

Eckels, J 43 

Eclipse of Sun, May 26, 1854, Account of 17 

Edgecombe County, N. C 43 

Edgeworth, A. E 38,43 

Edrisi, Camels Fed with Dried Fish, according to 107 

Edward I, Life Saved by his Wife 132 

Edwards, Dr. L. A 37, 43 

Effects of Serpent Bite 126 

Effect of Poisons referred to Sympathy 128 

Effects of Wounds of Poisoned Arrow identical with those of the Bite of Serpents, 128 

Efficient Action Secured by Harmony of Views and Unity of Purpose 30 

Effigy Mounds of Wisconsin 10 

Eterrctningcr om Marokos 115 

Eggs of American Birds 42 

Egypt, Irrigation Required in 189 

Egyptologists, Opinion of, respecting the Camel 102 

Elaps fulvus 43 

Elaphas canadensis 38, 45 

Elasticity of Steam 192 

Eleanor, Wife of Edward I, Saved his Life from Wound of a Poisoned Dagger .... 132 

Electricity, Agent in Generation of Storms 225 

Electricity, E.xperiments of Professor Henry in 153 

Electro-Magnetic Escapement » 152 

Electric Telegraph described 148 

Electric Telegraph, introduction of 148 

Elephantiasis, in Many Cases Remote Effect of Serpent Bite 126 

Elie de Beaumont •■ ""4 

Elizabeth, Queen 164 



INDEX. 421 

Page. 

Elizabeth, Queen, Dedication of the Fairy Queen to 165 

Elk 45 

El Paso del Norte 37, 80, 84, 85, 275, 278, 298, 312 

Elyria, O 87 

Embarrass River 88 

Embassy to Canada from Congress 174 

Emory, Major W. H 37, 80 

Endicott, Governor, Leveret's Dispatch to 171 

Engelman, Dr. George 36, 38, 43 

England, Annual Fall of Rain in 197 

England and Holland, War between 175 

England, great Variety of Customs in 161 

England, Hills in 274 

English colonization in America 166 

English, Delay of, in colonizing America 163 

English Expedition to Isthmus of Darien 93 

English Party, Rescue of Lieut. Strain by 93 

English Race, Title of, to America 159 

English Writers attribute Poison of Woorara to Strychnine., 137 

English, W. H., Resolution of, to appoint a Committee on Finance 77 

Engraulis vittata {Jlnchovy) 347 

Engravings, Collection of 27 

Entomology 42 

Entomology of Minnesota 292 

Eoff, John, Habits of Black Bass, by 289 

Equivalents of Mountains 274 

Erman 112,118 

Ervendburg, Dr. L. C 39, 43 

Eryngiumaquaticum, or Button-Snake Root 133 

Escapement, Electro-Magnetic 152 

Esox fasciatus {Short-BUled Pike) 43, 345 

Esox flavulus 344 

Esox ovinus 345 

Esox reticulatus (Pickerel) 346 

Espiegle, Brig 93 

Espy, Professor 194, 196, 197, 198, 200 

Espy, Professor, his Explanation of Fall of Barometer 210 

Espy's Explanation of Oscillations of the Barometer 218 

Espy, Professor, Hypothesis of ~~^) "29 

Espy, Professor, Line of Minimum Pressure traced by 205 

Espy's Meteorological Report, Hare's Queries on "03 

Espy, Professor, his Services in Meteorology ■'^"■'■ 

Espy's Theory founded on Dal ton's Observations -''^o 

Estanque at Gran Quivira 30a 

Estimates for Building exceeded '1 

Estimate of Appropriations for 1855 '4 

Estufas at Gran Quivira 308 

Ethnology, Attention especially paid to H 



422 INDEX. 

Page. 

Euclnostomus argenteus. 335 

Eacinostomus, genus 334 

Eupatorium perfoliatum, or Boneset 133 

Europe, Packages from, for American Societies 35 

Europe, no Cotton or Sugar Regions in 189 

Europe, Peculiarities of Weather and Storms of 210 

Europe, Public Buildings in 39 

Eutcenia 45 

Evans, Dr. J 38, 39, 

Evans, Dr. J 43, 44, 82 

Evaporation 194 

Exceptions to Rule of Rise of Temperature with Rise of Barometer 208 

E.xchanges, Account of System of 20, 31 

" Excito-Motory " System of Fire-Alarm Telegraph 153 

Executive Committee, Estimates by 74 

Executive Committee, Report of 57 

Expansion of Air causes Cold 196, 197 

Expansion of the Republic 163 

Expedition to the Arctic 91 

Expedition to the Euplirates 120 

Expedition to the Isthmus of Darien 93 

Expenditure on Library 22 

Expenditures during 1854 57, 58 

Experiments for testing Building Materials 18 

Experiments in Algeria on Camel 119 

Experiments in Stereotyping 23 

Experiment of introducing Camel should be tried on a large scale 121 

Experiments on Serpent Poison 133, 134 

Experiments with Rattlesnakes 132 

Exploration in Western Missouri and Kanzas 88 

Explorations by Dr. Hoy, Mr. Barry, and Professor Baird 15 

Exploration by Herndon and Gibbon : 93 

Exploration by Thomas H. Scrope 93 

Exploration of Beliring's Straits 89 

Exploration of China Seas 89 

Exploration of Coast of Western Africa 92 

Exploration of Northern Wisconsin 88 

Exploration of the Parana 90 

Exploration of the Red River 94 

Exploration of the Valley of the Amazon 93 

Exploration of the Zuiii and Colorado Rivers 94 

Explorations, Government 94 

Explorations, Report on 79 

Extracts from Scientific Correspondence 224 

Fabulous Stories respecting Ruins of Gran Quivira 314 

Fairy Queen, Dedication of. 165 

Fallow Deer 45 

Falls of the Missouri 81 

Fangs or teeth of Rattlesnake described 125 



INDEX. 423 

Page. 

Faraday ~27 

Farancia abacurus 43 

Farmer, M. G., Invention by 150,152 

Farmer's Protected Grove's Battery 154 

Father Hue 106, 107 

Father Hue 112 

Father Hue 114,115 

Father Hue 117 

Father Hue 121 

February, 1854, Weather of San Francisco during 254 

Federal RepubHc, Development of 162 

. Ferguson, Asteroids discovered by 139 

Fertility of United States, Cause of 189 

Finance, Committee of 1° 

Financial System, good Results of. 9 

Fins, Abbreviations of Names of. 320 

Fire-Alarm Telegraph, Lecture on 147 

Fire-Alarm Telegraph, Construction of by M. G. Farmer 151 

Fire- Alarm Telegraph contains elements of a perfect Police System 155 

Fire-Alarm Telegraph, Experiments to test 151 

Fire-Alarm Telegraph, First Experiment with 150 

Fire-Alarm Telegraph, First Notice of 150 

Fire-Alarm Telegraph, Method of Action 152 

Fire-Alarm Telegraph, System of Organization 151 

Fire in London in 1G66 168 

Fires in Cities 150 

Fishes 38,42,43,44,45,46 

Fishes Collected in the. Lake Basin 87 

Pishes of Beaver Islands 282 

Fishes of Long Island 317 

Fish of Minnesota 292 

Fishes of New Jersey, Report on 317 

Fishes of the Ohio 87 

Fishes, Vernacular Appellations of different 317 

Flathead Lake 81 

Flathead Village 82 

Fleece of Camel Equal to Wool of Caslmiere Goat 114 

Flight of Birds, Legend respecting 159 

Flood in Eastern Pennsylvania 246 

Flora, Orbit of 142 

Florida 37, 49 

Florida, Temperature at 209 

Fliigel, Dr. J. G., Distribution of matter by 32 

Flugel, Dr. J. G., Thanks to 36 

Fluctuations of Temperature 235 

Flying Fish 327 

Foetus of Riglit Whale 45 

Fog at Sacramento, California 268 

Foospinney River 81 



424 INDEX. 

Page. 

Fond du Lac 88 

Fontana attributes Death from Serpent Poison to effect on Blood 129, 130 

Fontana's Experiments 131 

Force of the Winds at Cahfornia 238 

Force of Vapor at Philadelphia 222 

Force of Wind at Philadelphia 223 

Force, Peter, Series of Notices of Aurora by 13 

Forde, Mr 93 

Foreign Elements in the Union 175 

Foreign Exchanges, Statistics of 31, 32 

Foreman, Dr., left the Institution for Patent Office 23 

Forshay, Professor 39 

Fortuna, Orbit of. 141 

Fort Atkinson 45, 85 

Fort Belknap 86 

Fort Benton 37, 81, 82 

Fort Boise 82 

Fort Brown, prevailing Winds at 190 

FortColville 81 

Fort Hall 81 

Fort Kearney 86 

Fort Laramie 86, R7 

Fort Leavenworth 81 

Fort Massachusetts 37, 83 

Fort Morgan 46 

Fort Ripley, Natural History of country about 291 

Fort Smith 37 , 45 , 83 

Fort Towson 37, 43 

Fort Webster 84 , 277 

Fort Union, Nebraska 43,81,82 

Fort Vancouver 81 

Fort Yuma 80, 279 

Fossil Bone, from North Carolina 45 

Fossil Mammals from Nebraska 82 

Fossil Wood 39, 44 

Fossils 39, 43, 44, 45 

Foster, J. W., Catalogue of minerals, &c., collected by 384 

Foxes 38 

Fox, Rev. Charles 38, 44, 87 

Fox river 88 

Franklin, Benjamin, Character and influence of 170 

Franklin, Benjamin, Mission to Canada of 174 

Franklin, Benjamin, Postmaster General 169 

Franklin, Benjamin, Scheme of Confederation of 173 

Franklin, Benjamin, Travels of 169 

Franklin Institute 35 

Franklin, Sir John 92, 96 

Framingham, Massachusetts, Fishes at 324 

Fraser 103, 116 



INDEX. 



425 



Page , 

Fraxinus, or common Ash ^'^"^ 

Fredericksburg, Virginia '** 

Fremont, Col. J. C 83,85,89,96 

French Canadians read little 1'^ 

French Expedition to Isthmus of Darien "^ 

French naturalist, observations by, on Mountain Ranges HI 

Fulton 148 

Fund Account of the Institution • 62 

Fundulus diaphanus 343 

Fundulus fasciatus 344 

Fundulus multifasciatus 344 

Fundulus zebra 342 

Frenchmen and Englishmen, characteristic Difference between 161 

Freshets 246 

Frosbel, Dr. Juhus 39 

Froebel, Julius, Physical Geography by. ■ 272 

Frogs, Account of 40 

Frost in July in New England 197 

Frosts in Latitude 13° North 118 

Fry, an American Hunter at Manzana 304 

Gadsden Purchase 281 

Galeichthys marinus 341 

Gallery of Art 9,26 

Garden Key, Florida 37 

Garner, G. G 83,84 

Garrard, Lieutenant 85 

Gases, Diffusive Velocity of. 193 

Gases, Mechanism of 183 

Gases, Properties of 184 

Gases, Specific Gravity of 193 

Gasparis of Naples, Asteroids discovered by 139,140 

Gasper 90 

Gasterosteus inconstans 342 

Gasterosteus quadracus (Stickleback) 328 

Gauss, Prof. 138 

Gaza, Theodore 102 

General Catalogue of Libraries 22 

General Remarks on Fishes of Beaver Islands 287 

General Statement of Expenditures 60 

General View of Receipts and Expenditures, 1854 57 

Genoa, Harbor of, frozen 260 

Geococcyx mexicanus , 44 

Geographical and Commercial Gazette, Communication relative to 77 

Geographical Distribution of the Camel 101, 102 

Geographical Knowledge of California 272 

Geography, Science of 273 

Geological Character of California 280 

Geological and Statistical Society 35 

Geological Survey of California 35 



426 INDEX. 

Page. 

Geological Survey of Pennsylvania 35 

Geological Survey of United States in Michigan *338 

Geologists, Question raised by, respecting Mountains 274 

Geology, well established fact of. 274 

Geometry, Contribution to 14 

Geoinys bursarius (Gopher), Habits of 293 

George II 166 

Georgetown 36 

Georgetown College 36 

Georgetown, S. C, Fisli from 324 

Georgia 49 

Georgia, Settlement of 166 

Germany 45 

Germany, Opinion in, respecting Planets 137 

Gessner, Error respecting Dromedary exposed by 102 

Gestation of the Camel 120 

Gibbes, Professor L. R., Examiner of Major Alvord's Memoir 13 

Gibbon, Lieutenant Lardner .< 93, 95 

Gibbons, Dr. Ilcnry, on the Climate of San Francisco 231 

Gila River 84,276 

Gila, Valley of the 280 

Gilbert, Sir Humphrey 164 

Gilliss, Lieutenant J. M 39,40,44,66,90,96 

Girard, C 40,94,318 

Girard, Charles, Catalogue of Exclianges by 21 

Girard College, Prof. Bache's Observations at 215 

Gisborne, Mr 93 

Glaishier, Observations by 215 

Gloucester county, Virginia 45 

Gobius alepidotus ( Variegated Goby) 339 

Godfrey, Willis, Thanks to 318 

Goldsmith of Paris, Asteroids discovered by 139 

Goodfellow, Henry 92 

Gookin, Captain 172 

Gopher of Illinois, Habits of the 293 

Gorgona Pass 84 

Goudot, !M., opinion of, respecting Poisons 127 

Gould, Dr. B. A., Astronomical Journal 17, 18 

Gourard's paper on Dromedary regiment 119, 121 

Government Expeditions sending Collections 37 

Government reports of Explorations 94 

Graham, Asteroids discovered by 139 

Granada, Temperature in 195 

Grand Duke of Tuscany, working Camels on farm of 108 

Grand River 83 

Gran Quivira, Excursion to 296 

Gran Quivira, Ruins of 307 

Grapes ripen near glaciers in Switzerland 195 



INDEX. 427 

PatTc. 

Gray, A. B 96 

Great Britain, Barometer in 208 

Great Britain and Ireland 33 

Great Britain, Sovereign of, from Holland 175 

Great Egg Harbor, Fishes at 317 

Great Egg Harbor river 88 

Great Salt Lake 83, 87 

Greece, Mountains in 274 

Green Creek 88 

Green, James, Meteorological Instruments by 19 

Green Pipe-Fish 351 

Greenport, Fishes at 317 

Greenport, Long Island 16, 42, 88 

Graen River - 83 

Greenwich, Observations at 215, 216, 217, 218, 219 

Greenwich Observatory 145 

Gregg, Mr., on the Ruins of New Mexico 309 

Greiner, John 44 

Grinnan, Dr. A. M 44 

Grinnell Expedition 92, 96 

Grinnell Expedition, instruments furnished to 16 

Grosse Isle, Michigan 38 

Grove's Battery 154 

Growth of the American Union during the Colonial Period, Lecture on 156 

Grystus fasciatus, (Black Bass,) habits of. 289 

Guadalupe Mountains 84 

Guadalupe Pass 279 

Guatemala, Mountains of 273 

Guaymas, Railroad from El Paso to 278 

Guiana 45, 46 

Guiana, Belief respecting Animal Poisons in 126 

Guiana, Prevailing Winds at 190 

Gulf of Mexico 33 

Gulf of Venice frozen 260 

Gunnison, Captain 80, 82, 83, 85, 86 

Gustavus Adolphus, Settlement by Subjects of I75 

Guzman, Lake 280 

Hackensack, Fishes of the gg 318 

Hackley, Prof. C. W., Lectures by 28 

Hair-finned Dor}^ 337 

Hake from New York 43 

Hall of Museum, Description of 41 

Hallowell, Benj., Lectures by 28 

Hallowell, Dr. Edward 94 

Hamlet, Description of Tliunderstorm in 199 

Hamlet, Effects of poison described in 130 

Hampshire County, Virginia 44 

Hancock, Steamer John gg 

Hard Head , 347 



428 INDEX. 

Page. 

Harding, Asteroids Discovered by 138,139 

Hare, Dr. [lobert, Apparatus presented by 69 

Hare, Dr. Robert, Queries and Strictures by 203 

Hare, Dr. Robert, his Remarks on Wise's Observations 224 

Hares 38 

Harlan, General 103, 106, 120 

Harris, J. 38, 44 

Harper and Brothers 96 

Harpers' Magazine 96 

Harvard University 35 

Harvest-P'ish 338 

Harvey, Prof. , Seaweeds of New Jersey 319 

Hatch, F. W., Meteorological Observations at Sacramento, California, by 263 

Haven, S. F., Paper on Antiquities by 10 

Hawley, Gideon, re-elected Regent 72 

Hayes, Dr. J. J 92 

Head, J. F., Natural History of Country about Fort Ripley, by 291 

Health promoted by Climate of California 242 

Heap, G. H 85,87,96 

Pleart, General, active Explorer 11 

Heat in the Atmosphere increased by Moisture 195 

Heerman, Dr. A. L 84 

Hedjin, a Dromedary of the Upper Nile 114 

Heligoland, Denmark 212 

Helsten, Cornwall 212,213 

Hencke of Driesen, Discovery of Asteroids by 139 

Henderson, Dr 44 

Henry III. of France, Times of 123 

Henry, Dr. T. C 85 

Henry, Prof. Joseph, Electrical Experiments of 153 

Henry, Prof, Fact stated to Mr. Ru?sell by 199 

Henry, Prof, Suggestions respecting Lecture-Room 71 

Henry, Prof, Lectures at Princeton 62 

Hereford, Dr 44 

Hereford, Mrs. Mary 44 

Herring, Habits of. Manner of Catching, &c 286 

Herndon, Lieut. Wm. Lewis 93,95 

Herring, Smith 318 

Heterandria 345 

Heteron niger 43 

Herschel, study of Saturn by 145 

Herschel's Measurements of Ceres 138 

Highfield, Nottingham 211 

Hilgard, J. E., Magnetic Instrument by 16 

HiUiard, II. W 62,63 

Hillsgate River 81 

Hind, of London, Asteroids discovered by 139 

Hindostan, Observations in 186 

Historical Society of Massachusetts, Appleton Bequest to 18 



INDEX. 329 

Page. 

History, Sacred and Profane 156 

Hitchcock, President 94 

Hog Choker {Achirus mollis) 350 

Holkham, Norfolk 212 

Holland, Claim of to Territory in America 175 

Holland jjave sovereign to Great Britain 175 

Hollins, Captain 93 

Holmes, Prof. 38 

Holston River, Tennessee 45 

Homans, T. L 82 

" Home," applied to Mother Country 168 

Home, Sir Everard, his Description of Stomacli of Camel 107 

Honduras, Mountains of. 273 

Hong Kong 89 

Honorary Members of the Institution 6 

Hood, Mount, Oregon 43 

Host 101, 115 

Hound Fish *337 

House of Representatives, Special Committee of. 76 

Hoy, Dr. P. R 15, 37, 38, 44, 87, 88, 295 

Huerfano River 83, 85 

Hudson River, Fishes and Crustacea from 16, 88 

Hudson River, Settlement on 175 

Hudson's Bay Company 81 

Hudson 's Voyage 175 

Humboldt 101 , 187 

Humboldt, Account of Manufacture of Woorara by 127 

Humboldt, Squall DesiM-Jbed by 198, 200 

Humboldt, Voyage of, to South America 128, 198 

Humboldt River 86 

Humidity of the Air at Greenwich 217 

Humidity of the Air, Means of ascertaining 217 

Humming Bird 45 

Hump of Camel, Test of Condition of the Animal 103 

Hunt, Rev. Thomas R 44 

Hurricanes of West Indies 187, 198, 199 

Hurricane on the Charles and Savannah Rivers 209 

Hutchinson's History 172, 176 

Hutton, N. H 83, 84 

Hydrargira diaphana 343 

Hydrargira flavula 344 

Hydrargira lucise 344 

Hydrargira Mullifasciata 344 

Hydrophobia, Indian Remedies for 133 

Hygeia, Orbit of 142, 144 

Hygrometers, Principle on which formed 194 

Ibrahim Pasha , Ill 

Ice, performs part of an Electric 227 

Ichthyology 318 

Illinois 37,38,39,44,45,50 

Illinois Hospital, Case of Serpent Bite in 126 



430 INDEX. 

Page. 

Illinois, Thunder Storm in 201 

Impatiens, or Jewel Weed, used for Serpent Poison 133 

[mportant to select Proper Season for Importation of the Camel 120 

Importation of Turkeys into England from America 163 

Improvements in l^lan of Building 71 

Increase of the Museum during 1854 36 

Independent Tartary, Camel is used for Saddle or Burden 112 

Indiana 50 

Indianapolis, Snow at 208 

Indiana, Thunder Storm in 201 

Indian Corn 99 

Indian Corn, best Region for, in Europe 189 

Indian Galler}', Proposition to dispose of 77 

Indianola 83 

Indian Portraits, Stanley Collection of 26 

Indian Relics 39, 43 

Indian Tribes, Schoolcraft on 95 

Indians on the Rio Grande, Poisoned Arrows by 127 

Indians in California, Poisoned Arrows by 127 

Indians use Venom of Serpents on Arrows 126 

Indian Warriors in New Mexico 315 

Indians, Plot of New Mexican 312 

Indian Tribes in Texas, Lands donated to 86 

Indians, Habits of resemble tho;e of the Nomade Arabs 120 

Indians, Remedies for Serpent Poison used by 133 

Influence of Race 159 

Influence of Seasons on Vegetation , 235 

Infusorial Earth of Monterey 39, 43 

Inglis, Mr., Travels in Spain 195 

Inoculation in case of Poisons , 135 

Inorganic nature, Conquest of, has been chief object of Man 99 

Insects 39, 44, 46 

Instructions for observing Eclipse published 17 

Instruments constructed in London for the Institution 16 

Instruments for Meteorological Observation not furnished 20 

Intercourse between Colonies limited 169 

Intercommunication, facilities of 168 

Intoxication does not prevent effects of Rattlesnake Venom 132 

Introduction of camel desireable for the fleece alone 114 

Invertebrata, received 38 

Invertebrates 38, 42, 46 

Investigations in Laboratory 18 

Investigations in State Records Ig4 

Iodide of potassium, use of, in Serpent Poison 132 133 

Iodine, effect of, on Poisons I35 

Iodine, solution of, only substance capable of neutralizing Venom of the Serpent or 

Woorara 132^ I33 

Iowa, Thunder storm in 201 



Iowa , 



50 



INDEX. 431 

Pag-e. 

Ireland, Admission of, into Confederation 173 

Ireland, Address from Congress to 173 

Ireland, no Self-reliance felt in 161 

Iris, Orbit of 144 

Island of Juan Fernandez 45 

Isthmus of Darien 273 

Isthmus of Darien, Expedition to the 93 

Isthmus of Panama 43 

Italian Manners introduced into France 123 

Italian Perfumers, Method of, to convey Poisons 123 

Italy, Summers of 189 

Ives, Lieutenant J. C 83 

Jackson, Dr. C. T., Catalogue of Minerals, fcc, collected by *338 

Jacob's Hardships from Drought and Frost 195 

Jalisco 278 

Jamaica, Cromwell's Plan to secure Conquest of. 171, 172 

James 1 166 

James 11 176 

Jamestown, Building of 166 

Japan 90 

Japan Expedition 91, 96 

Jarvis, John 45 

Jarvis, Mr., Experiments by, on Teredo, Barnacle, &c 39 

Jeddo Bay 91 

Jefferson Fork of Missouri River 81 

Jersey Coast 37 

Jewel Weed, used for Serpent Poison 133 

Jewett, Proctor, and Worthington 36 

Jewett, C. C, Notices of Libraries 23 

Jewett, C. C, Memorial from, withdrawn 75 

Jillson, Professor, Catalogue of Library of Congress 23 

Jose Largo, Indian Chief 315 

Johnson, Dr. George, Statement of, respecting Poisons 127 

Johnson, Professor 38 

Johnson, Captain,. Ruins visited by 311 

Johnson, John, Thanks to 318 

Johnson's Story of the Dromedary ^ • 110 

Jornada del Muerto, or " Dead Man's Journey " 276 

Josecito, Indian Chief. 315 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board ''2 

Juno, Discovery of the Planet 138 

Juno, Orbit of 141 

Jupiter, Planets between Mars and 137 

Jupiter, Orbit of 143 

Kalispe Lake 81 

Kamschatka 118 

Kane, Dr 91 

Kansas 86 

Kansas, Exploration in, by Dr. Hoy 15, 88 

Kansas River .". 83, 296 

Keleoliess, Fife 211,213 



432 INDEX. 

Page. 

Kendal, Mean Annual Range of Barometer at 204 

Kennerly, Dr. C. B. R 83 

Kennedy, Hon. John P,, Secretary of Navy 89 

Kennedy, Storeship John P 89 

Kennicott, R. W 37,38,44 

Kent 162 

Kentucky 43 

Kepler 137 

Kern, E. M 89 

Kern, R. N 82,83 

Kew Gardens 196 

Key West, Florida 38, 45 

Khiva • 118 

Khorasan 116 

Kiachta 118 

King, Captain 188 

KincT of Denmark, Astronomical Journal published by 18 

King, Dr. W. S 44 

King-Fish 331 

Kirgh ses, One-humped Camel found in the 101 

Kirtland, C. F 44 

Kirtland, Dr. J. P 38, 44, 87 

Kooskooskie River 81 

Laboo gibbosus 341 

Laboratory of the Institution, Investigations in 15, 18 

Laborde HO 

Labrax lineatus (Rockfish — Striped Bass) 321 

Labrax mucronatus ( While Perch) 322 

Labrax rufus 322 

Lac-qui-Parle '*5 

Ladrone Islands 89 

Lafayette-Fish 329 

Laguna 83, 300 

Laguna de la Puerta 305, 315 

Laguna de Santa Maria 276 

Lake Butte des Morts 88 

Lake Champlain 87 

Lake Guzman, Level of 230 

Lake Santa Maria, Level of 280 

Lake Shad 287 

Lake Winnebago 88 

Lambert, G 39, 44 

Lammont, Robert, of California 247 

Land Breezes 187 

Land Shells 45 

Land Winds and Sea Winds in California 237 

Lander, Mr 96 

Langton, W. F 39, 44 

La Place, Theory of 144 

La Plata 37 

La Pluma, Indian Chief 315 



INDEX. 433 



Las Vegas, road from 275 

Laval's Observations on Barometer 204 

Law of Decrease of Magnetical Intensity 90 

Law of Decrease of Temperature for Increase in Height 185 

Law of Density and Elasticity of Gases 184 

Layard 120 

Layard's Researches 113 

Leaf of Talipot Palm from Ceylon 39, 42 

Lear, O. H. P 38,44 

Lebias ovinus 345 

Le Conte, Dr. J. L 42, 44 

Lecture Room, description of 27,70 

Lectures 98, 137, 147, ] 56, 181 

Lectures, during 1853-4 28 

Lee, Lieutenant S P 91,95 

Leiostomus obliquus (Lafayette Fish) 329 

Leipsic 3G 

Lemon weir River 88 

Leptophie ostivus 44 

Lepus artemisia - 45 

Leroux's Route 275 

Letter from Secretary of War on Pacific Railroad 95 

Letter of the Secretary to the Speaker of the House 3 

Leucosomus americanus ( Dace, Wind-fish, Shiner) 341 

Leuciscus pygmeeus 342 

Level of Absorption and Condensation 226 

Leveret and Cromwell, Interview between 171 

Leveret's Despatch to Governor Endicott 172 

Leverrier, M ; 143, 145 

Lewis's Fork 81 

Lexington, Mo 88 

Lexington, Storeship 91 

Liatris, species of, used for Serpent Poison 133 

Liberia 92 

Liberty County, Ga 44 

Library, Amount expended on 22 

Library, Difficulty in 21 

Library of Congress, Catalogue of 23 

Library, Statistics of 21,24 

Library, Value of Books in 9 

Libraries in the United States, Account of New Edition of 23 

Libraries, Circular sent to 398 

Lichia Carolina 335 

Lichia piuosas (Spinous Dory) 336 

Liebig's Explanation of the Action of Poisons 129 

Ligatures, Beneficial in cases of Serpent Bite 132 

Light house Buard 35 

Lightning at San Francisco 258 

Mis. Doc. 24 28 



''434 INDEX. 

Page. 

Lightning Catchers 154 

Lightning, Protection from, to the City of Boston 154 

Limestone in New Mexico 31G 

Lineback, J. C 38,44 

Line of the Nodes 141 

Ling, or Lawyers, of Beaver Islands 287 

Lippincott, Grambo &Co 35, 96 

Lisbon and Washington Winters compared 196 

List of Meteorological Stations and Observers 47 

Little Colorado 83 

Little Lagoon, Mud Deposites of 281 

Little Plover 88 

Little Salmon river 81 

Little Salt lake 85 

Little Salt settlement 85 

Little Waupacca 88 

Littleworth 320 

Liverpool, Lancashire » 211,213 

Lizard enclosed in Copal 44 

Lizards received 38 

Llano Estacado 83, 85 

Lobotes Emarginatus 332 

Locke, Dr. John, Catalogue of Minerals, *&c., collected by 367 

Local Independence, Principle of 160 

Logan, Thomas M., Meteorological Observations by 259 

Lombardy, Fertility of, owing to melting snow 189 

London 33, 36 

Loudon Company, Grant of Land to — 166 

London Society of Arts, Models, &c., from .* 26 

Long Island 43 

Long Island, Fishes of 317 

Longitudinal Basin of American Continent 281 

Long-toothed Flounder 349 

Loouiis, Professor Elias, Lecture by 137 

Loomis, Professor, Storms described by 202, 203 

Lord, John, Memorial, &c , from 76 

Loretto 93 

Los Augelos 84, 85, 256, 276 

Los Puertos de Abo ^ 316 

Loss by Fire in Boston under Telegraph Fire- Alarm System 155 

Loudoun, Lord 169 

Louisiana 37,33,39,46,49 

Louii-iana, Direction of Thunder Clouds in 200 

Louisiana Gulf coast 97 

Lowest Spot on American Continent 281 

Leuciscus 345 

Ludley'sEun 320 

Lupa Dicantha 330 

Lutetia, Orbit of 141 



INDEX. 435 

Page. 

Luther of Bilk, Asteroids discovered by 139 

Luxor, Head of Camel on Obelisk at 102 

Lyon's Travels 106,113,114,118 

Lynch, Lieutenant W. F... 92,95 

Lynxes 38 

Lynx rufus 38, 44 

Macedonia, Sloop-of-war 91 

Macfeely , Lieutenant 81 

Mackinac Trout 284 

Mack, R. C 44 

Madagascar Canoe 43 

Madison, Va 44 

Madison, Wis 35,87,88,208 

Magendie' s Experiments on Absorption 129 

Magnetic Apparatus lent to Arctic Expedition 92 

Magnetic Instruments, Account of J6 

Magnetic Observatory 16 

Magnetism, Ruhmkorff's Apparatus 1 *" 

Mahafa 119 

Maberry of the Desert 103,114 

Maine 47 

Mamelukes llj 

Mammalia 45,291 

Mammalia, North European - 42 

Mammalia of Minnesota 291 

Mammals 37,43,44,46 

Mann, George - 45 

Mann, Rev. C 45 

Mann, Rev. Chas., on habits of a Salamander 294 

Mann, William 45 

Mansfield, Colonel J. K 39,45 

Mansfield, Ohio 44 

Manure, Fish for 347 

Manzana 315 

Manzana, Character of inhabitants 303 

Manzana, description of town 302 

Manzana Mountains 275 

Manzana, Spanish name for apple 303 

Map of Earth-works to be published 11 

Map of Eclipse published 17 

Map of Solar Eclipses by Professor Cofiin 17 

Maps of Mexico, misconstruction of 278 

Maps to Report on Pacific Railroad. ....„, 96 

Marias Pass 82 

Marcy, Captain R. B 85,88,94 

Marcou, Jules 83 

Marengo County, Alabama 43 

Maricopa Village 84 

Marine Infusoria - 79 



436 INDEX. 

Page. 

Marion County, Missouri 44 

Marriotte 1^4 

Mars and Jupiter, Planets between 137 

Marseilles, Barometrical Observations at 204 

Marseilles, Harbor of, frozen over 260 

Marshall, Lieutenant 85 

Marsh, Hon. George P., donation from 45 

Maruh, Hon. G. P., Lecture on the Camel 98 

Marsh, Hon. G. P., Eemarks respecting rain at Constantinople 189 

Marryatt, Captain, Description of Hurricane by...' 199 

Marth, Asteroids discovered by 139 

Maryland 48 

Marysville, California 43, 86 

Massachusetts 47 

Massachusetts, aid from, to sufferers at the London fire, 1666 169 

Massacre of English Traders at Amboyna 175 

Massacre of Spaniards in New Mexico 312,313 

Massacre of St. Bartholomew 123 

Massilia, orbit of 141,144 

Mastodon Teeth 43 

Mastodon Bones 39 

Matamoras 87 

Matates, from Gran Quivira 308, 311 

Materials for the Union 167 

Matter, Composition and Nature of 183 

Maury, Lieutenant M. F 38,45,91,181 

Mauvaises Terres 82 

Mayer, Brantz, Memoir by, on Mitla remains 12 

Mazatlan 277 

McClellan, Captain George B 81,82,94,95 

McDonald, M 44 

McNair, J. C 38,44 

MacRae, Lieutenant 44,90,91 

Meacham, Jas., motion to admit Reporters 72 

Meacham, Jas., Report of, on Distribution of Income presented 77 

Meacham, Jas., Resolution on Library 73 

Meacham, Jas., Resolution on Library Committee 73 

Mean Temperature calculated by table 234 

Mean Diurnal Variation of Temperature at Greenwich 215 

of the weight of water in a cubic foot of air at Greenwich.. 215 

of the dew-point at Greenwich 216 

of dryness at Greenwich 216 

of the humidity of the air at Greenwich 217 

of the cloudiness of the air at Greenwich 217 

of the weight of a cubic foot of air at Greenwich 217 

of atmospheric pressure at Greenwich 218 

of the pressure of the wind at Greenwich 219 

of temperature at Bombay 219 

of tension of vapor at Bombay 219 



INDEX. 437 

Page. 

Mean Diurnal Variation of the barometer at Bombay 220 

of the temperature of the air at Philadelpliia 220 

of the dew-point at Philadelphia 221 

of dryness at Philadelphia 221 

of the calculated farce of vapor at Philadelphia 222 

of atmospheric pressure at Philadelphia 222 

of the force of wind at Philadelphia 223 

of the sky covered by clouds at Philadelphia 223 

Mecca, Sacred Veil carried to by the Camel 115 

Mechanics' Institute, Chicago 35 

Mechanics' Institute, Lectures for 28 

Medicinal Plants, discovered by Neapolitan Naturalist 170 

Medicine River 81 

Meeting of the Board of Eegents January 3, 1855 72 

January 12, 1855 72 

January 13, 1855 74 

January 15, 1855 75 

January 27, 1855 76 

February 10, 1855 77 

February 17, 1S55 77 

February 24, 1855 77 

Mehemet Ali Ill 

Meigs, Captain M. C, Speciojens of Building Material selected by 18 

Melanura Pygmtea, ( Mud-['ish ) 342 

Members ex officio of the Institute 6 

Memorial from C. C. Jewett withdrawn 75 

Memorial from John Lord 76 

Mendoza 90 

Menopoma 45 

Meridional Instruments, introduction of 145 

Mesa de los Tumanes ■ 304 

Mesa de Paja 187 

Mesas of Sandstone in New Mexico 299 

Mescalero Apaches 304 

Metis, Orbit of 141 

Meteorological Instruments cannot be furnished 20 

Meteorological Materials, Description of 20 

Meteorological Observations at Sacramento, Cal 259, 250, 261 

Meteorological Reductions by Prof Coffin 20 

Meteorological Stations and Observers 47 

Meteorological System of New York University 51 

Meteorological Tables 189, 209, 210, 211, 212, 213, 215, 216, 217, 213, 219, 230, 

221, 222, 223, 232, 233, 234, 235, 238, 237, 238, 239, 240, 
241, 244, 245, 247, 249, 250, 251, 252, 253, 254, 255, 256, 
257, 258, 259, 261, 264, 265, 266, 267, 263, 269, 270, 271. 

Meteorology 19,47, 181,224,231,259,263 

Meteorology, Russell's Lectures on 181 

Meteorite, remarkable one presented by Lieutenant Couch 15 

Meteorites, Analysis of, by Dr. Smith 18 



438 INDEX. 

Page. 

Meteors at San Francisco in 1853 253 

Metropolitan Mechanics' Institute, School of Design 26 

Mexican Boundary Commission 37, 80, 96 

Mexico - 33,45 

Mexico, Exploration of, by Lieutenant Couch 15, 86 

Mexico, separated from rest of North America by an Ocean 280 

Mezquit Trees 118,281 

Michigan - 50 

Michigan, Minerals from ♦SSS 

Michigan State Agricultural Society -- 35 

Michigan, Zoology of 38 

Michler, Lieutenant 80 

Michoacan '. 278 

Microscope, Fontana claimed Invention of 130 

Microscope made by Mr. Spencer, Account of 26 

Microscopic Shells 97 

Milianeh, Expedition to 105 

Milk of the Camel ., 114 

Milk River 81 

Miller, Hugh 187 

Millsburg 93 

Milwaukie, Wis 87 

Milwaukie, Wis. , Curve of Temperature and Pressure for 206 

Mimbres , 276 

Mineral Acids in cases of Serpent Bite 132 

Mineral Lands in Michigan *338 

Minerals received 39, 45 

Minerals, Investigations relative to, by Dr. Smith 18 

Minerals received 39 

Mining connected with Rain 243 

Ministre des Fonts et Chausseea 161 

Minnesota 38, 39, 45, 51 

Minnesota Historial Society 66 

Minnesota, Natural History of 291 

Minnesota, Mines in California 44 

Minutoli 102 

Mirage 186 

Miscellaneous Correspondence on Natural History 282 

Missionaries in South America, Account of Poison by 127 

Missionary to East Indies, Account of Poison by 127 

Mission of Man 98 

Missions in New Mexico 312 

Mississippi 38,39,46,49 

Mississippi, Steamer 91 

Missouri 37,38,44,50 

Missouri, Exploration in, by Dr. Hoy 15 

Missouri River 81 , 82 

Mists, Rain, Storms, Clouds, at San Francisco 243,248 

Misty Weather, Table of at San Francisco 249 



INDEX. 439 

Page. 

Mitchill, Doctor, Fish Described by 347 

Mitchell, Professor, Explanation of Storms by 199,213 

Mitla, Mexico, Ancient Remains at H 

Mobile, Alabama 45,46 

Model of Madagascar Canoe '*<■ 

Mode of Life of Indians modified by Introduction of the Camel 120 

Models Presented by Professor Wilson 26 

Mogador HI 

Mohammed, Tradition relative to 115 

Mohave Kiver 37,84,85 

Moisture in Air Increases Heat 195r 

Moisture of Atmosphere Unfavorable to Camel 117 

Moisture, Time of Maximum 216 

Molasses, Investigations Respecting, by Dr. Smith 18 

Molasses Point 330 

Mollhausen, H.B 83 

Monge, General Marcy, Remarks of Respecting Cavalry 122 

Mons 39 

Monrovia 93 

Monterey .^ 39,43,45,87 

Montgomery's Expedition to Canada 174 

Montreal 87 

Moore, W.E 45 

Morfit, Doctor J. C, Experiments with Rattlesnakes : 132 

Mormon Settlements 85 

Morris, Captain 83 

Morris, Professor 0. W , 45 

Morocco 101,111 

Morocco, Sultan of 115 

Morrow, Doctor James 91 

Morton, Remark Respecting the Work of 9 

Mosquitia, Mountains of 273 

Mos({uitos in Minnesota 293 

Moss Bunker, Great use for Manure 347 

Motion of the Nodes of the Planets 142 

Motor Function of Electricity 152 

Mountain Camel, Reason why so called H* 

Mountain Ranges, Influence of upon Civilization 1~0, 17] 

Mountains between El Paso and California 27< 

Mountains, Character of. West of Pecos River 27 i 

Mountains, Relations between 274 

Mount Ararat, Annual Sermon Preached at H* 

Mount Diablo ^^^ 

Moyle, Mr., Fact stated by. Respecting Snow 213 

Mud Fish 342 

Muga Alhala, i White Mullet) 339 

Mules in Captain Stansbury's Expedition, travelled two Days without Food or 

Water ." 1^^ 

Mullen, Lieutenant ' ^1 



440 INDEX. 

Page. 

Municipal Telegraph ]49 

Museum, Additions to 25 

Museum, Character and Value of 9 

Museum, Donations to during 1854 42 

Museum, Object of 25 

Music Copyrights 23 

Mustelus Canis, ( Hound Fish, Dog Shark) *337 

My School and Schoolmasters, Hugh Miller's Work 187 

Names of Fishes, Great Diversity in 317 

Napoleon, Camels employed by 118 

National Institute 36 

Natural Bistory Apparatus, best ever taken to Sea 89 

Natural History, Correspondence on 282 

Natural History of Beaver Islands, Mich 282 

Natural History of the Country about Fort Ripley , 291 

Natural History, Specimens Collected by Lieutenant Couch 15 

Natural Histoiy Society 35 

"Nature and Course of Storms," by Mr. Thorn 190 

Nature and . ure of the Bite of Serpents 123 

Nautical Almanac , ]7 35 

National Observatory 35 36 145 

Navajo Country, Ruins in 311 

Naval Astronomical Expedition to Chile 90, 96 

Neapolitan Naturalists, Medicinal Plants discovered by 170 

Newberry, Dr. J. S 38,45 

Nebraska , 51,82 

Nebular Hypothesis 144 

Nedjd, fine Camels from II3 

Negabad, Pass of IO5 

Negrito, Indian Chief 315 

Neighbors, Major gg 

Neosho g5 

Nerodia Erythrogaster 43 

Nettle used by Chorokees for Serpent Poison 133 

New England 166 

New England Confederacy 170,176 

New England, Dwight's History of 196 

New England, Thunder Storm in „„_ 201 

New Hampshire 47 

New Haven 35 

New Haven, Storm in 1809 at 200 

New Jersey 38,39,48,88 

New Jersey, Description of Coast of 318 

New Jersey, Exploration on Coast of, by Professor Baird 16 

New Jersey, Fishes of 317 

New Jersey Ziac Company 39 

New Leon 87 

New Mexico 38,39,44,45,46 

New Mexico, Character of Inhabitants of 29b, 303 



INDEX. 441 

Page. 

New Mexico, Gregg's Description of Ruins in 309 

New Mexico, Major Carleton's Excursion in 296 

New Mexico, Report of Surveys in 96 

New Mexico, Mountains in 277 

New Orleans 35,36,46 

New Orleans Academy of Natural Sciences 35 

New Orleans, Shell Road at , 299 

Nez Perces Trail 81 

New River, Periodical Filling and Drying of 281 

New Species of Mammals, «S6C 94,95 

New Wied, Texas, Curve of Temperature and Pressure for 206 

New Wied, Texas, Temperature at 208 

New York 35,36,33,47,48 

New York Flatfish 349 

New York Lyceum of Natural History 35 

New York Solefish 350 

New York State Library 35 

New York, Temperature at 209 

New York, Thunder Storm in 201 

New 1^0 rk University, Meteorological System 51 

Nicaragua, Volcanic Cones of « 273 

Nicotine destroys Action of the Heart 129 

Niebuhr 162 

Ninth Annual Session of the Board of Regents 72 

Nishnei Novgorod 114 

Nitrate of Silver in cases of Serpent Bite 132, 135 

Norfolk 89 

Norman, B. M 36 

Norman Conquests 161 

North Britain, Summer Sea-breeze of 187 

North Briton 162 

North Carolina 38,39,49 

Northern Barracuda 326 

Northern Route to the Pacific 80 

Northern Wisconsin, Exploration of 88 

Northers, Description of 203 

Northers in New Mexico 306 

Northman, America not Meant for the Home of 158 

Norway, Temperature in 195 

Norway, West Winds of 197 

Notices of Public Libraries in the United States (new edition) 23, 398 

Nova Scotia 47 

Nova Scotia to be Admitted into the Confederation 174 

Nuevo Leon 277 

Oases of the Desert without the Camel 101 

Observations at the Smithsonian Institution 205 

Observatory, National 35 

Observatory of Chile 35 

Observatory in Washington, Catalogues of Stars made at 145 



442 INDEX. 



Ocean, Depths of 91 

Officers of the Institution 5 

Oglethorpe's Settlement of Georgia 166 

Ohio 38,49,50 

Ohio Board of Agriculture 35 

Ohio, Thunder Storm in 201 

Oil in cases of Serpent Bite 132 

Ojibwas, Facts Respecting Language of. 14 

Olbers, Astronomical Discoveries by 138,139, 140, 141 

Olmsted, Prof D , Memoir by, on Aurora Borealis 12 

Olympia 81,82 

Oology, Work on, by Dr. Brewer 42 

Opal of Mexico 39, 45 

Ophibolus Getulus 43 

Ophidium Marginatum 43, 351 

Opium acts on the Brain 129 

Opium given to Camels by Belooches 108 

Orange Trees 196 

Orange and Banana in Region of Pine-Trees 278 

Orbits of the Planets 140,141 

Ore from Tetilla Peaks, New Mexico 316 

Oregon, Winds at 197 

Orenburg 118 

Orfila, Poisons Described by 135 

Organic Nature not fully developed by Man 98 

Orography 273, 281 

Ortyx Virginianus 43 

Osage 85 

Oshkosb, Wisconsin 88 

Osier's Self-registering Anemometer 219 

Ostrich called by Arabs the Camel Bird 103 

Otolithus Regalis, ( Weak-fish) 329 

Ottawa, Illinois 44 

Owen, Dr. D. D 38,43 

Owen, Dr. D. D., Catalogue of Geological Specimens collected by 393 

Owen, Prof R 45 

Oxford, Mississippi, Temperature at 208 

Oyster Fish 340 

Oysters at Beesley's Point 319 

Pacific Railroad „ 37, 80, 95 

Pacific Railroad, Advantages of Pass of Abo for 300 

Pacific Railroad, Line traced by Nature 281 

Pacific Railroad Reports ii6 

Packages from American Institutions for Distribution abroad 35 

Packages sent abroad 32, 33 

Packages received from Europe for American Societies 35 

Pack-Saddle for Camel described 112 

Page, Lieutenant Thomas J 37, 90 

Pagrus Argyrops, ( Big Porgcc) 333 



INDEX. 443 

Page. 

Pah Utahs, Destruction of Gunnison's Party by 83 

Pallas, Accounts of Power of Camel, by 117 

Pallas, Discovery of the Planet 138 

Pallas, Orbit of. 144 

Palestine 45 

Palestine, Early and Latter Eains of 246 

Palestine, no Rain in Summer in 189 

Palmas, Cape.... 93 

Palm Leaf from Ceylon 42 

Palmyra, Wisconsin 88 

Panama 39, 44 

Para 93 

Para, Reptiles from 42 

Paraguay 51 , 90 

Parana River 90 

Pare, Ambroise, Opinion of, respecting Influence of the Stars on Action of Poisons... 128 

Paris 36,204,212,213 

Paris, Mean Annual Range of Barometer at 204 

Parke, Lieutenant J. G .„..., 37,38,80,84,96 

Parliamentary Aid to Georgia ' 166 

Parowan 85 

Parras 87 

Parson, General, active Explorer U 

Parvin, J. B., on the Habits of the Gopher 293 

Pascal, Discovery by 182 

Passes through the Mountains 299 

Pass of Abo, Advantages of 300 

Pastinaca Hastata, ( Jrkip Stingray) ''337 

Pattenger 108 

Patent Office Report, Meteorological Table in 244 

Patent Office Report,Notes Respecting Camel in 103, 106 

Paths in the Deserts worn by Caravans 104 

Patrapawlowsk 118 

Pearce, James A., Estimate of Appropriations hy 74 

Pearce, James A., Report from, on L. Blodget 74 

Pearce, James A., Resolution approving Removal of Mr. Jewett 75 

Pearce, James A., Resolution to appoint a Committee to attend meetings of House 

Committee. '7 

Pearce, James A., Resolution on Conference with Establishment 73 

Pearce, James A., Resolutions on Income 73 

Peck's Beach 319 

Pecos River 85 277 

Peculiarities of the Orbits of Asteroids 143, 144 

Pell, R. L., Experiments on Breeding of Rockfish in Fresh Water 321 

Pelouze, Mr., Opinion of, Respecting Poisons 126 

Peltier, Report on Tornado of Chenay 229 

Pennsylvania 44, 48 

Pennsylvania, Thunder-Storm in •--- 201 

Penrose, William M 38,45 



444 INDEX. 

Page 

Peprilus Trleiinthus, (Harvest-fish) 333 

Perch of Beaver Islands 287 

Perry, Commodore M. C 90,91,98 

Persia, Camel used for Military Purposes in 118 

Puruvian Amazon 93 

Peruvian Vase 39, 43 

"Peter Simple," Hurricane Described in 199 

Peters, J. H 82 

Petrapawlowsk 118, 122 

Phelps, Mr 190,200 

Phenomena in Desert of Colorado 281 

Philadelphia 35,36 

Philadelphia, average Temperature of 233 

Philadelphia, Clear Days at 248 

Philadelphia College of Pharmacy 35 

Philadelphia, Meteorological Tables at 215,220,221,222,223 

Philadelphia, Winds at 238 

Photographic Views of Eclipse 17 

Phrynosoma 44 

Physical Character of America no Impediment to Union 170 

Physical Geography of the North American Continent 272 

Physical Law of Civilization 171 

Phycis Americana 331 

Piazzi 137,138,139 

Pickerel 346 

Piermont, New York 83 

Pietro Delia Valle 105 

Pigeons, Experiments with, on Serpent Poison 134 

Pig Fish 327 

Pike and Pickerel of Beaver Islands 283 

Pilgrims to Mount Ararat 115 

Pillichody, Charles 45 

Pimas Village 96,276 

Pima Villages 84 

Pine River 88 

Pisa, Weight of Camels at 113 

Pityophis 45 

Placer Mountains 275 

Planets known to the Ancients 137 

Plan of Treatment for Serpent Bite and Poisoned Arrows 135 

Plantago used for Serpent Poison 133 

Plants 39,43 

Plants, Seeds of, from Texas 44 

Plants used for Serpent Poison 133 

Platessa Ocellaris, [Long-toothed Flounder) 349 

Platessa Plana, {New York Flatfish, Winter Flounder) 349 

Pleuronectes Maculatus 350 

Plan adopted in accordance with Will of Sraithson ^ 9 

Plan adopted to carry out Intentions of Smithson 8,9 



INDEX. 445 



Plan to make General Catalogue of Libraries ; 22 

Plioii, Hist. Nat 107 

Plover Portage 88 

Plymouth Company, Grant of Land to 166 

Plymouth Governor, Despatch to 176 

Plymouth, Sloop of-War - 91 

Poem Older than Mohammed 104 

Pogouias Fasciatus, {Banded Drum) , - 332 

Poiut of Difference between Climate of Eastern an J Western Continents 117 

Poison, Action of 129 

Poison by Serpent Bite, Treatment of. 131 

Poison, Cause o the Effects of 130 

Poisonous Substances, Nature of, and Means of Detecting 123 

Poisons conveyed by Italian Perfumers 123 

Poisons deprived of their Bitter Taste by Perfumers, &c 123 

Poisons, Effect of, referred to Sympathy 128 

Poisons, Knowledge of, introduced into France 123 

Poisons, Manner in which they Act 128 

Poisoned Arrows, Method of Preparing, in South America 127 

Poisoned Arrows, Treatment for Wounds from 135 

Poisoned Arrows, Wounds of 123 

Poisoning, Means of avoiding, by Pare 123 

Poison of Serpents acts on the Brain 129 

Poison of Serpents, Treatment of, by Indians 133 

Poison used by Indians on Arrows, the Venom of Serpents 126 

Poland, Ohio 87 

Police System of Boston by Fire- Alarm Telegraph 155 

Pomotis Chaetodon {Banded Sunjish) 324 

Pomotus Obesus 324 

Pope, Captain J 37,80,85,96 

Pope Clement, Poisoning of, by Vapors of a Torch 123 

Popular Belief erroneous respecting properties of common Ash Tree 133 

Porphyritic Mountains 280 

Porpoise, Brig 89 

Port Huron 87 

PortilloPass 91 

Portsmouth, 0., Balloon Ascension from 224 

Portsmouth, Va 45 

Portugal, Climate of 196 

Portugal, Maritime Adventure in 158 

Potomac river suited to Bass 290 

Post, New York Evening, S. Thayer, of 72 

Potts, John 38,45 

Poultney, Iowa, Temperature at 208 

Powhatan, Steamer 91 

Power of Bactrian Camel 117 

Practicability of introducing the Camel into the United States 116 

Practical Results and Abstract Researches 131 

Prairie Rattle-snake 38 



446 INDEX. 



Precious Opal from Mexico 45 

Preevoort, Captaia 93 

Premiums not necessary 10 

President of tlie United States 36 

Presidio del Norte 45,277 

Preston, Texas 37, 84 

Pressure of tlie Wind at Greenwich 219 

Pretat's Accounts of Dromedary Regiment 119 

Priestly Ig2 

Prince George County, Md 44 

Prince Henry, Voyages planned by 153 

Prince of Orange 176 

Principle on which Iodine acts on Poison 135 

Prionotus Pilatus {Flying-fish) 327 

Private Explorations, Results from 37 

Private Reports of Explorations 96 

Probable discoveiy of New Planets 145 

Proofs of Divine Creator 100 

Proposition to buy Stanley's Indian Gallery declined , 77 

Providential Government of the World 162 

Prussian Government, action of, relative to Exchanges 21 

Prussic Acid, Antidote to , 135 

Psychrometrical Observations at Sacramento, Cal 267, 269, 270, 271 

Pteropus 45 

Publications during 1854, quarto and octavo 31 

Public Buildings in Europe 39 

Publishers, Copyright Circular to 400 

Pueblo of Zuni 83 

Pueblos of Quivira , 313 

Puerco river 300 

Puerto del las Limpias 277 

Puerto del Paisano 277 

Puertosde Abo 299 

Puget's Sound 82 

Pulse 99 

Pun in a Despatch from Plymouth Agent 178 

Puryear, Hon. R. C, Member of Investigating Committee of the House of Repre- 
sentatives 77 

Putnam, George P., & Co 36, GO 

Putnam, G. P 66 

Putrefactive Poisons 135 

Pyrenees 171,274 

Quadrupeds 42 

Quantity of Food required by the Camel 1*^8 

Quantity of Water required to make an Inch of Rain ~-lG 

Quarrtl, Excursion to 296 

Quarrii, Ruins of. <''0'- 

Quebec 87 

Quebec, to be admitted into the Confederation 1 ''4 



INDEX. 447 

Page. 

Quebec, Winds at 213 

Queen Eleanor, Wife of Edward I., Historical allusion to 132 

Querechos, Manners and Customs of 310 

Queries and Strictures, by Dr. Hare 203 

Quincy's Visit to Southern Colonies 169 

Eacine, Wisconsin 87 

Radiation 194 

Rafar Palm 43 

Railroad from El Paso to Guaymas 278 

Railroad to Pacific 37,80,96,281,300 

Railroad to Pacific, Line traced by Nature 231 

Railroads, Invention and Introduction of 148 

Rain, Amount of, from air over one spot 198 

Rain, Annual Quantity on Atlantic and Pacific 244 

Rain at Sacramento, California 268 

Rain, Fall of, during 1854, in California 258 

Rain, Quantity of, to Produce Floods 248 

Riiin, Qantity of Water to make an Inch of 246 

Rain, Storms, Clouds, and Mists, at San Francisco 243, 248 

Rain, Usual quantity of in Atlantic States 245 

Rainy Seasons in California 246 

Rainy Winter of 1849-'59, at San Francisco 245, 246 

Raleigh, Sir Walter 127, 164, 166 

Randall, Doctor A., of California, Liberality of 16 

Rattle of Rattlesnake Carved on Temples in Central America 124 

Rattlesnake, Description of 124 

Rattlesnake, Dr. Brainard's Experiments with 132 

Rattlesnake Weeds or Roots 1 33 

Rattlesnakes Presented to Museum 33 

Ray's teeth 42 

Reading, a Rare Accomplishment with the French Canadians 174 

Reading-room, Character of 22 

Receipt of Books by Exchange 33 

Receipts during 1854 57 

Reed, Joseph, Visit to Boston of. 169 

Reed, Professor Henry, Lectures by 156 

Re-election of Regents 72 

Redfield Theory 228,229 

Red River 86 94 

Red Shale 44 

Reduction of Meteorological Observations 19 20 

Regents of the Institution 5 

Regents, Re-election of Rufus Choate and Gideon Hawley as 72 

Register used in Fire-Alarm Telegraph 151 

Remarkable Brown Coal-beds of Vermont 39 

Remarkable Fact in History of Mankind 171 

Remarks contributingto the Physical Geography ofN.AmericanContinent.byJ.Froebel 272 

Remedies for Poisoning 124 

Removal of Mr. Jevvett 7r^ 



448 INDEX. 

Page, 

Eennele's Estimate of Speed of Camel 110 

Eeporters not to attend Meetin^^s of Board 72 

Eeport of Coast Survey 95 

Eeport of Executive Committee oh L. Blodget 74 

Eeport of the Assistant Secretary 31 

Eeport on American Explorations, in 1853 and 1854 79 

Eeport of the Building Committee 69 

Eeports of Explorations, published in 1853-54 94 

Eeport of the Executive Committee 57 

Eeport on Estimates of Executive Committee adopted 76 

Eeport on the Fishes of New Jersey, by S. F. Baird 317 

Eeport of Mr. Meacham, on Distribution of Income, presented 77 

Eeport of Secretai-y for 1854 7 

Eeport of Secretary presented 77 

Eeport of Special Committee on Communication between Board and Establishment 78 

Eeports on Vertebrata of Exploring Expeditions 40 

Eepreseutation from Board requested to attend Special Committee of House of 

Eepresentatives 76 

Eeptiles received 38,39,43,44,45,46 

Eeptiles of Minnesota 292 

Eequirements of the act of Congress complied with 8 

Eesearches 15 

Eesearch stimulated by Institution 9 

Eescue, Brig 92 

Eesolutions approving Eemoval of Mr. Jewett t- 75 

Eesolution giving authority to Building Committee to use Funds on Deposit 76 

Eesolution to appoint Committee of Finance 77 

Eesolution to appoint Committee to confer with Committee of Establishment 73 

Eesolution to appoint "Library Committee" 73 

Eesolution to appoint Committee to meet Committee of House of Eepresentatives. 77 

Eesolutions on Distribution of Income 73 

Eesolutions on Income Appropriated to Library 73 

Eesolution of House of Eepresentatives on Eesignation of Mr. Choate 76 

Eesolution of Mr. Douglas, Eelative to Correspondence 78 

Eesolutions of Select Committee, on Distribution of Income adopted 73 

Eesults of Plan 8 

Eeview of Weather at San Francisco for 1853 251 

Eesolution of 1683, Influence of, in Producing the Union 176 

Eevue Orientale 122 

Ehees, William J., Collection of Materials for Notices of Libraries by 23 

Ehees, William J., succeeded Dr. Foreman 23 

Ehode Island 47 

Ehode Island Colonists, Eefused Admission into Confederacy 176 

Ehombus Maculatus, {Spotted Turbot) i350 

Eichland City 88 

Eiggs, Alfred C 38,39,45 

Eiley saw Camels fed with Charcoal 107 

Einggold, Captain C 89,90,96 

Eings of Eattlesnake ' 124 



INDEX. 449 

Page. 

Rio de los Mimbres 276 

Eio de Papig&chic, or Conception 278 

Rio del Fuerte 278 

Eio de Santa Maria 280 

Eio Grande, Collections from the 37 

Eio Grande, Division of Eocky Mountains at 275 

Eio Grande, Features of 296 

Eio Grande, Level of, at El Paso 280 

Eio Mimbres 280 

Eio Yaqui 278 

Eitter 100,102,103,111,114,120 

Elvers, Influence of, upon Civilization 170 

Eivers in Mexico 278 

Elver Head, L.I 16,42,88,317 

Eives, John C, Stereotype Process adopted by 23 

Eoads in New Mexico 299 

Eoanoke, N. C 45 

Eobinson, Estimate of Spe«d of Camel .....o 110 

Eobinson's Landing 345 

Eochester, Wis 88 

Eochester, N. Y,, Temperature at 201 

Rock-fish 321 

Eocky Mountains 39,81,82,196,197 

Eocky Mountains, Divides into two Eanges 275 

Rocky Mountains, Southern Extremity of, defined 277 

Rocky Mountain Passes, not more rugged or steeper than those of Arabia and Tar- 

tary 117 

Eodgers, Lieutenant John 89, 90 

Rogers, Hon. Sion II 45 

Rogers, Jeremiah • --- 39,45 

Rolando, Lieutenant.. 89 

Romans, use of Camels in War by ■ US 

Rome, View of History of ^ 156 

Eouto Proposed for Pacific Eailroad 300 

Eoulin, Analysis of Woorara by 127 

Eoyal Society, Books distributed by 33 

Euhmkorff, Apparatus for Dia-Magnetism I'' 

Ruins of Abo, Description of - 300 

Ruins of Gran Quivira 307 

Ruing of New Mexico 309 

Ruins of Quarra - 302 

Russell, John 36 

Russell, Robert, First Lecture on Meteorology 1°1 

Second Lecture on Meteorology 1^^ 

Third Lecture on Meteorology 202 

Appendix to Lectures by 21<^ 

Russell's Rule for ascertaining Dew Point - >-. 19-^> 221 

Russell mentions Abstinence of Camel for Fifteen Days 109 

Mis. Doc. 24 29 



450 INDEX. 

Page. 

Eus&ia, Mean Annual Range of Barometer at 204 

Russian Expedition against Khiva and Bokhara 118 

Russian Provinces, Longevity of Camel in 117 

Rutherford 182 

Sacramento, Cal., Hatch's Meteorological Observations at 263 

Sacramento, Cal., Logan's Meteorological Observations at 259,260,261 

Sacramento City, great Rain at 251 

Sacramento River 246 

Safety of Aeronaut in Thunder Storm 224 

Salada, La 299 

Salamander 45,294,295 

Salamander of Wisconsin, Description of 295 

Salem, N.C 44 

Salem, Snow fell in July, 1804 197 

Salinas River 84 

Salt Lake 37 

Salt Lake City 43,83,86 

Salt Lake near Manzana ,.- 303 

Sampson Fox 37, 44 

San Antonio 43,83,84 

San Antonio de Cejar 277 

Sau Bernardino Chain 278 

San Carlos, Narrows and Rapids of 279, 280 

Sand Creek, Va., Expedition to 289 

SandiaPeak 298 

Sandilla Mountains 275 

San Diego 44,45,84,256 

San Diego, Rain at 256 

Sand Smelt 338 

Sandwich Manse, Orkney 211, 213 

Sandy Hill Fork 83 

Sau Francisco 35, 37, 84, 86 

Sau Francisco County, Cal., Birds from 43 

San Francisco, Climate of 231, 255 

Sau Francisco Mountains 37, 63 

Sangre del Christo 83 

San Joaquin 84 

San Jose, Winds at 243 

San Juan River ---- 276 

San Luis Potosi 83, 277 

San Salvador, Volcanic Coves of 273 

Santa Anna, Concession by - 278 

Santa Anna, Indian Chief 315 

Santa Barbara 276 

Santa Cruz 183 

Santa Fc 44,45,275 

Santa Maria, Laguna de 276, 280 

Santiago, Chile »- 35 

Santos, Indian Chief 315 



INDEX. 451. 

Page. 

Saratoga, Sloop-of-war 91 

Saratoga 201 

Sargus Ovis ^,. 331 

Satow, Germany 39, 45 

Saturn, Orbit of 143 

Saturn, American Discoveries respecting 146 

Saurus Meiicanus 346 

Savages possess Art of Poisoning imkno wn to Civilized Mau 1'24 

Savannah, Temperature at 209 

Sawkius, J. G., Description of Kuins at Mitla, by 11 

Saxon Characteristics IGl, 163 

"Saxondom" 157 

Saxton, Lieutenant 81, 82 

Scaiops Breweri „ 45 

Scandinavian Discoveries 158 

Scandinavian Alps 171 

Scenery in New Mexico 293 

Scheel, Dr 82 

Schomburgk, Sir R 45 

Schomburgk, Sir Robert, Statement of, respecting Poisons 126, 127 

Schoolcraft, H. R 95,96 

School of Design, Models lent to 26 

Schuchart, Mr 280 

Science the great Instrument of Civilization 147 

Scientific Correspondence 224 

Scorpions 44 

Scorpion, Schooner 93 

Scrope, Thomas H 93 

Scotland, Land and Sea Breezes in Ig7 

Scotland, Winds in , 211 

Scotophis Alleghaniensis ^ 44 

Scripture, Law of Temperature alluded to in I95 

Scrophularid, Used for Serpent x'oisuh I33 

Sculpin . = „., 328 

Scutellaria, Used for Serpent Poison 133 

Seaton, W. W 62,63,05,67 

Sea Bass 323 

Sea-Breezes in Europe 187 

Sea-Breeze in California 240 

Sea Catfish 34I 

Sea Pike ^ 346 

Sea Water, Use of by Camels 100 

Secretary of the Navy 89, 93 

Secretary of War 80,95 

Secretary, Annual Report of, Presented to the Board 77 

Secretary of the Institution, Appendix to Mr. Russell's Lectures, by 215 

Sedimentary Rocks of Texas 280 

Seeds of Silk Cotton 43 

Seeds of Texas Plants. 44 



452 INDEX. 

Page. 

Sergeant, J. D 38,45 

Sermon at Mount Ararat 115 

Serpents, Nature and Cure of the Bite of 123 

Serpents Furnished with Poison • 124 

Serpents, Treatment for Bite of 1 35 

Settlements by Dutch and Swedes 175 

Seven Planets only Supposed to Exist 137 

Seven Rivers 297 

Seventeenth Century, that of Colonization , 167 

Seventh Volume Smithsonian Contributions 10 

Sevier Lake 83 

Sevier Eiver 83 

Shakspeare, Description of Thunder-Storms, by 199 

Shakspeare's Accoimt of the Killing of the King, in Hamlet 150 

Sharks 352 

Shark's Teeth 39,42,43 

Shawnee Eeservation - 83 

Sheboygan, Wisconsin 88 

Shecutts 329 

Sheet Lightning - 225,227 

Shells 45 

Shelter Island ■. 334 

Shepard, Professor C. IT - 94 

Sherburne, Mr - - - - 83 

Shiel 182 

Shiner - 341 

Ship Canal Expedition 93 

Ship of the Desert 100 

Shippcn, William, Experiments by 18 

Shirley, General 169 

Shirley's Packet 94 

Shoahvater Bay 82 

Shooting-Stars in California 258 

Short-Billed Pike 345 

Shrew Skin 44 

Shriver, Mr. William, Introduction of Bass into the Potomac, by 290 

Shriver, David 290 

Shuuiard, Dr. B. F 82,94 

Shumard, Dr. George G 45,85,86,94,95 

Siberia, Camel in, used for Saddle or Burden 11'2 

Siberia, Bactrian Camel indifferent to the Cold of. 115 

Sickness of Whites at Liberia 93 

Sidney, Sir Philip, Character and Enterprises of 1G4, 165 

Sienitic Mountains 280 

Sierras 87,227 

Sierra Blanca 276,297,315 

Sierra de las Galliuas 306,315 

Sierra de la Manzana 299, 316 

Sierra del Palo Duro 299 



INDEX. 453 

Page. 

Sierra de los Miinbres 276 

Sierra Madre, Remarks respecting 273 

Sierra Madre, Erroneous Idea entertained of 277 

Sierra Nevada , • 84 

Signal Circuits and Boxes 151 

Silliman's Journal 229 

Silliinan's Journal, Explanation of Storms in ] 99 

Silk, Cotton Seeds of , 43 

Silver Garfisli 346 

Sil verside 338 

Silver Perch 331 

Simms, W. Gilmore, Lectures by.- 28 

Simonton, J. W 72 

Simpson, Captain 83 

Sinaloa, Coast Eauge of 279 

Singer, Lieutenant 93 

Sing Sing, New York 42,88 

Sing Sing, White Perch at 322 

Siskowit, Habits 283 

Sitgreaves, Captain 83, P9, 94 

Sixteenth Century, State of Society in 123 

Size of the Camel 113 

Sizzi, an Astronomer of Florence 137 

Skin of Sperm Whale 45 

Sky covered by Clouds at Philadelphia ' 223 

Smith, Captain E. K 45 

Smith, Commodore 39, 45 

Smith, J. Lawrence, Investigations by, in Laboratory 18 

Smith, Dr. J. Lawrence, Lectures by 2-3, 29 

Smithson, James, Proceeds of Bequest of,.,-, 62 

Smirhson, James, Personal Effects of 70 

Smithson, James, Analysis of Specimens of Meteorites belonging to Cabinet of 18 

Smithsonian Bequest 57 

Smithsonian Contributions, Distribution of Volume VI 36 

Smith's Sound 92 

Snakes 33 

Snapping Turtle 39 

Snow, Effects of 246 

Societies meeting in Smithsonian Building 27 

Society in the Sixteenth Century 123 

Society of Arts, London, Models, &c., from 26 

Socorro Mountains 276,2^8 

Soft and Salt Water 188 

Solar Eclipse of May 26, 1854, Account of 1~ 

Solar Eclipse of November 30, 1853 91 

Solar Eclipses, Map of, by Professor Coffin 1'? 

Solar System more Complex than supposed 140 

Solfatara, on Northern Side of Lower Colorado 281 

Solinus, Mistranslation by 102 



454 INDEX. 

Page. 

Solution of Iodine Prevents or Eetards Death from Serpent Bite 133 

Sonora 80,83,278,279 

Sontag, Augustus 92 

Sooloo Sea. 90 

Sorex Dekayl 38,44 

South America 33 

South America, Humboldt's Voyage to 198 

South America, Method of Preparing Poisoned Arrows in 127 

Southampton, Storeship 91 

South Carolina 33,43,49 

Southerly Winds prevail more in Summer tfian in Winter 202 

South Pass 87 

Spain, Maritime Adventure in 158 

Spain, Summers of 189 

Spanish Expeditions to New Mexico 306, 312 

Spanish Mackerel 335 

Spanish Trail 83,270 

Sparkill, Fishes of the 88,318 

Spawning Grounds in the Lakes 288 

Special Locality of Little Planetary Bodies 143 

Special Committee of House of Representatives 76 

Species of Camel 101 

Species of Animals Suited to Man as a Migratory Animal 99,100 

Specific Gravity of Gases 193 

Specimens Illustrating Experiments on Growth of Teredo and Barnacle, &c 45 

Spencer, Mr., Microscope by 26 

Spenser's Allusion in the "Fairie Queen" to Virginia 165 

Sphyraena Borealis, (Northern Barracuda) 326 

Spinous Dory 336 

Spot Striped Balloon Fish 351 

Spotted Turbot 350 

Spotted Cybium 335 

Springbrook 88 

Squalls, Cause of 198 

Squalus Tiburo *337 

Squeteague 329 

Stampedes, Security against, by using Camels 121 

Stanley, J. M., Communication from 77 

Stanley, J. M., Indian Collection by 26 

Stansbury, Captain 83 

Stansbury's Mules Travelled Two Days without Food or Water 109 

Stars, Catalogues of 145 

State Department 36 

State Libraries 36 

State Records iu England, Recent Investigations in Ii34 

Statistics of Library for 1854 21 

St. Aubin, Jersey 212,213 

St. Augustine, Florida 45 

St. Bartholomew, Massacre of 123 



INDEX. ' 455 

Page. 

Steam 183,192 

Steamboat, Introduction of 148 

Steele, Dr. Thomas E 38,45,94 

Steilacoom 82 

Stereotyping, Experiments in 22 

Sternothaerus 43 

Steuben, Maine, Temperature at 207, 209 

Stevens, Dr. R. P 39,45 

Stevens, Governor I. 1 37,80,95,96 

Stevens, Henj-y, Books distributed by 33 

Stevens, Lieutenant H. R 89 

Stickleback 328 

Stites, Captain Townsend 331 

Stites, John, Thanks to 318 

Stimpson, Wm 89 

St. John found Camel at Oasis of Jupiter Ammon 102 

St. -John's to be Admitted into the Confederation 174 

St. Lawrence, Winds on 213 

St. Louis, Missouri 36, 43, 81 

St. Louis, Missouri, Temperature at , 208 

St. Mary's Mission 81 

Stocking Fish-ponds, Pell's Method of 321 

Stomach of the Camel lOG, 107 

Stone in New Mexico 299 

Stoneman, Lieutenant 84 

Storer,Dr. D. H 42,332 

Storer, F. H 89 

Storm in Europe, Example of, by Mr. Russell 211 

Storm of November 12, 1854 208 

Storms iu New Mexico • 297 

Storms of February, 1842 202 

Storms, Peculiarities of, in Europe 210 

Storms, Rain, Clouds, and Mists at San Francisco 243, 243 

St. Paul's..... 1 81 

St. Paul's River, Africa 93 

St. Pilen, Barometrical Observations at 204 

Strabo 102 

Strain, Lieutenant 93,96 

Straits of SunJa 80 

Strang. J. J., Natural History of Beaver Islands by 282 

Striped Bass 321 

Strychuos Toxifera 127 

Strychnia acts upon Spinal Marrow 1'^^ 

Strychnia counteracted by Iodine 135 

Strychnine, Poison of Woorara attributed to 127 

Strychnine. Effects of. 128 

St. Simon's Bay ^^ 

Stuart, Frederick D 89 

Sturgeon, Habits, Manner of Catching 283 



456 INDEX. 



Sturgis, Lientenant S. D 295 

Sturm, F 42 

Suckers, Habits, Qualities, Method of Catching, &c 286 

Sucbley,Dr 81,82 

Suez to Cairo, Eighty-four Miles 110 

Sugar Regions, None in Europe 189 

Sulphate of Alumine or Alum used for Serpent Poison 133 

Sulphuret of Iron 44 

Sultan of Morocco's Camels 115 

Summary of Means of Temperature for San Francisco, December, 1850, to January, 

1852 232 

Summer Climate of California 241 

Summers of Spain, Italy, &c 189 

Summerville, North Carolina 44 

Sunfish of Beaver Islands 237 

Supply, Store-ship 91 

Surface Wind at rest at night 190 

Surgeon General U. S. A., Eemarks on Natural History, communicated by 291 

Surgeon, most distinguished of the 16th century 123 

Surinam 38,46 

Survey of Eoutes to Pacific , 80 

Surveying Parties, Order and Organization of i 80 

Susquehanna, Steamer 91 

Sutter Lake, California, frozen over 260 

Sweden, mean annual Range of Barometer at 204 

Sweden, West Winds of 197 

Swedish Academy of Sciences 42 

Switzerland, Temperature in 195 

Sykes, Colonel 188 

Syngnathus Viridesceus, ( Green Pipe-fish) 351 

Synopsis of Wise's Observations on Aerial Voyage 225 

Syria 45 

Syria, age of Camel in 113 

Szabo, Mr 97 

Table for calculating Mean Temperature 234 

Table-lands in Mexico 280 

Tachtirawan, or litter borne by Camels 119 

Tallin, Captain 85 

Tagique 316 

Tailors, Temnodon Saltator, known as 338 

Talcahuana 39,43 

Talipot tree 39,42 

Tamaulipas 87 

Tangencies of Circles and Spheres, a Memoir on 13 

Tanjore Pill, Arsenic in the form of 131 

Taos 85 

Tavtary 121 

Tautoga Americana, ( Tautog, Blackfish) 340 

Tartary, Camels used for military purposes in 118 



INDEX. 457 

Page. 

Tartary, one-humped Camel found in 101 

Tavernier 103 

Taylor, Hon. N. G., member of Investigating Committee of House of Representatives . 77 

TejonPass 37,84,85 

Telegraph, Fire-Alarm 147 

Telegraph for Cities described 150 

Telegraph, differences between common and the municipal 149 

Telescope, first imported inta the United States 145 

Temperature at Bombay 219 

Temperature of San Francisco in 1853 253 

Temperature at Philadelphia '. 220 

Temperature on East Coast contrasted with that on the West of the Mississippi 209 

Temperature at Greenwich 215 

Temperature of United States west of the Mississippi adapted to Camel 116 

Temperature of California 231 

Temperature and Pressure Curves 206 

Temnodon Saltator, ( Blue-fish, Horse Mackerel, Skip Jack) 337 

Tendency to local self-government 160 

Tennessee ~ 38,45,49 

Tension of Vapor at Bombay 219 

Teredo, Growth and Ravages of, and Protection against 39, 45 

Tertiary Fossils 43 

Terrestrial Magnetism 16 

Terra del Fugo 273 

Tetillas, Las 299,302,315 

Tetraodon Turgidus {Toadfisli) 352 

Texans, Visit of, to Gran Quivira 304 

Teton river 81 

Texas 38,39,44,46,49 

Texas, Surveys in 66 

Texas Plants, Seeds of 44 

Teyas, Manners and Customs of the 310 

Thalia, Orbit of 144 

Thayer, S 72 

Thermometrical Observations at Sacramento, California. ».... 265,266 

Themis, Orbit of 142, 144 

Thermometrograph, Observations with 267 

Theories respecting Action of Poisons 129 

Theory of Olbers respecting Asteroids 133, 141 

Theory of Gradual Condensation 144 

Thirty-eighth Parallel, Pacific Railroad Route on 62 

Thirty-fifth Parallel, Survey of Route to Pacific on the 83 

Thirty-second Parallel, Survey of Railroad Route on the 84 

Thorn, Mr 190 

Thornbury, N. C, Temperature at 209 

Thomas, Professor W. H. B 38,45 

Thread Herring 349 

Three great Slopes of Table-land 280 

Thunder-clouds coming together 226,228,229 



458 INDEX. 

Page. 

Thnncier only heard twice in San Francisco, in 1853 253 

Thunder in California 258 

Thunder-storms less grand in Europe than America 199 

Thunder-storms 197,198,225 

Thunder-storms have two plates of clouds 225 

Thunder-storm, Phenomena of, during aerial voyage 224 

Thuringian Forest 274 

Tibboo Maherry 114 

TIennas, Description of 127 

Times, New York Daily, J. W. Simonton, editor of 72 

Timkowski 117,118 

Timber in New Mexico 299 

Tinkham, Mr 81 

Toad fish „ 340,352 

Toads, North American, Account of 40 

Topographical Maps, necessity of. 272 

Torreou 304,316 

Torrey, Dr. J 94 

Toricelli 182,184 

Tornado of Chenay 229 

Tortillas 308,311 

Totten, General, Eesolution relative to Building 76 

Totten, General, Commission on Building Material 18 

Towers, John T., elected Member of Building Committee 76 

Toxicology, Principle of, well established » 135 

Trachy tic mountains 289 

Trachinotus Spinosus 336 

Trade Winds, Origin of 186 

Tradition respecting Mines in New Mexico 312, 313 

Training of the Camel 113 

Translation of Spanish Account of Treasure 313 

Transactions of the American Philosophical Society 202 

Travel, Rate of, by Camel 110 

Traveller in California, Account of Poison by 127 

Travelling with Camels 116 

Treasurer, Statement of Finances to Board 74 

Treasures supposed to be in New Mexico 304 

Treatment of Poisoning by Serpent Bite and Woorara 1 30 

Treatment of Serpent Bite in different Countries - 131 

Treatment for Serpent Bite and Poisoned Arrows 135 

Trebizond 121 

Trentera 84 

Trincheres Pass 83 

Trial by Jury 159 

Trichomycterus 91 

Trinity River, Thunder Storm at 256 

Trinidad 38,45 

Tropical Countries have most Rains 244 

Trout from New York 43 



INDEX. 459 

Page. 

Trout, Method of Catching, Snatching, &c 284 

Trowbridge, Lieutenant W. P 37, 3S, 45 97 

Trucliee River gg 

Tuckahoe River, White Perch in „ 302 

Tucker, Beverley 95 

Tudor Kings, nothing achieved by 163 

Tueson 37 34 

Tulare g4 

Tuley, Colonel Joseph 3S, 45 

Tumanes, LaMesadelos 304 

Tuni 37 

Turcoman Camel very powerful 113 

Turcoman Camel obtained at Aleppo 121 

Turcomans Ill 

Turkeys first imported into England 163 

Turner, Professor W. W 95 

Turtles 38 

Tuscany, Camels domesticated in 108 

Tuscany 121 

Two Maxima and Minima of Barometer 218 

Tuscaloosa, Alabama, Curve of Temperature and Pressure for 206 

Umbrina Alburnus, (King Fish) 331 

Unanimity in Religious Creed required by Confederacy 176 

Uncompagre River 83 

Unfavorable Condition of Climate of Western Continent to the Camel 117 

Uniformity in Lower Orders of Creation 162 

Uniform Temperature of California 233 

Union County, Arkansas, Fall of Rain at o... 244 

Unexpended Income on hand 9 

United States Military Academy, West Point 35 

United States Patent Office 35, 35 

United States and Mexican Boundai'y Survey 80 

United States Agricultural Society, Meeting of 27 

United States Naval Astronomical Expedition 36 

Union, The, Lectures on 156 

L'^uiou, The, how formed 158 

United Colonies of New England I'^G 

University System of New York 51 

Uppernavik 92 

Upbam, Charles W., Commuuication from ''(> 

Upham, Charles W., Chairman of House Investigating Committee 77 

Uranus, Discovery of -^"^' 

Uspallata Pass 90,91 

Utah, Heavy Storm of Rain and Hail in 256 

Utility of the Camel » H^ 

Valley of the Lower Danube has Summer Rains H''' 

Valverde 276 

Valencia 2J7 

Van Dieman'sLand 89 



460 INDEX. 

Page. 

Vandalia, Sloop-of-war 91 

Variation of Temperature at California 242 

Variegatfld Goby -. 339 

Vegas of Santa Clara 85 

Venom of Serpents used by Indians on Arrows 126 

Venom of the Kattlesnake 125 

Venom of Serpents used by Man 124 

Veuom of Serpents cannot be distinguished by Chemical Tests from Saliva 124 

Vera Cruz 277 

Vera Cruz, Northers at 203 

Vermont 47 

Vermont, Auriferous Deposits of. 39, 43 

Vermont, remarkable Brown Coal-beds of 39 

Versailles, France 212 

Vesta, Discovery of 139 

Vertebrata, Reports on 40 

Vincennes, Sloop 89 

Virago, British Steamer 93 

Virginia 38,48,49 

Virginia, Arrival of First Colony in 166 

Virginia, Title to an Indefinite Region of America 164 

Virginia, Mentioned on first page of " The Fairy Queen " 165 

Volney 189 

Volney, Explanation of Snow Storm by 199 

Volume V, Distribution of. 36 

Vortisch, Reverend L 39, 45 

Voyages Planned by Prince Henry : 153 

VulpesFulvus 38,44 

Wade, Majoi-, Testing Machine invented by 18 

Wahsatch Pass 83 

Wailes, Colonel B. L. C 38,46 

Wales 162 

Walla- Walla 81 

Walker's Pass 84 

Walsh, Mr., Balloon Ascent by 196,204 

Wanderings in South America, by Charles Waterton 128 

Warmest Month in California 257 

Warmest Month of the Year 233 

War Department , 86 

Warner's Ranch 84 

War, use made of the Camel in 118 

Washington 35,36 

Washington and Lisbon, Winters Compared 196 

Washington, Direction of Thunder-clouds at 200 

Washington, Mississippi 46 

Washington Monument Society 64 

Washington, Roch-fish Chief Staple of 321 

Washington, Temperature at 209 

Washington Territory 81,82 



INDEX. 461 

" Page. 

Washington, Travels of. 139 

"Water-meter" described ^ 152 

Waterton, Charles, Statement by, respecting Woorara 128 

Water-Witch, Steamer <J0 

Waupacca river 88 

Weak fish 329 

Weather of February, 1854, at San Francisco 254 

Weather of San Francisco for 1853 251 

Weather, Peculiarities of, in Europe 210 

Webb, Dr. T. H , 38,46 

Webster, Daniel, a celebrated Fisherman 321 

Weight of a Cubic Foot of Air at Greenwich 217 

Weight of Boxes sent abroad 32,33 

Weight of Cubic Foot of Steam calculated 192 

Weight of the Camel 113 

Weight of Water in a Cubic Foot of Air at Greenwich 215 

Wells, Hon. Daniel, Member of the Investigating Committee of the House of Rep- 
resentatives 77 

Westerly Wind, cause of cold 196 

Western Afi ica. Exploration of 92 

Western Missouri, Exploration in 88 

West India Islands, Hurricanes in 187 

West India Islands to be admitted into Confederation with the Thirteen Colonies .. 174 

West Indies, Hurricanes of 198,199 

West Point 35 

Westport 85,87 

West Winds preponderate at California -- 240 

Whale, Fcetus of 38 

Whipple, Lieutenant A. W 37,80,83,86,96 

Whipple's Route to Pacific 300 

Whip-sting ray ''337 

Whirlwinds in Arabia and Africa 187 

Whitaker, Professor J., Lectures by 27,28 

White, Mr 83 

White-fish at Sing Sing 337 

White-fish, Method of Catchmg, Habits, &c 285 

White Mullet 339 

White Perch 323 

White Zinc Paint 39 

Whitney, J. D., Catalogue of Minerals, &c., collected by.... 387 

Wild Animals of Beaver Islands 282 

Wildcats 38,44 

Wild Pigeon, Flights of 99 

Wild Rose Pass, Wild and Romantic Scenery at 277 

Willard, E. D., Thanks to 318 

William the Conqueror 161 

Williamson, Lieutenant R. S 37,80,84,96 

Wilkes, Captain 89 

Wilmington, Delaware, Fall of Rain at 244 



462 INDEX. 

Page. 

Wilson, Professor, Models, &c., Presented by 26 

Wind at Greenwich 219 

Wind at Sacramento, California 263,239,270,271 

Wind, Direction of, during Rains 249 

Wind-fish 341 

Wind, Force of, at Philadelphia 223 

Winds and Currents of the Ocean 91 

Winds at Philadelphia 238 

Winds, Course of 186 

Winds, Cause of Coldness of Westerly 196 

Winds, Direction of, in United States 189 

Winds during Storm of November 12 210 

Winds in Scotland 211 

Winds in Winter in United States 196 

Winds of California 236 

Winds, Reductions by Professor Coffin 189 

Winds, Relation of, to Elevation of Barometer, the Temperature and Humidity 263 

Winter Flounder 349 

Winter of 1 849-50 in San Francisco 245 

Winters, Cause of Gold, in United States „ 196 

Wisconsin 37,38,43,44,50,51 

Wisconsin, Explorations of 16, 88 

Wisconsin State Agricultural Society 35 

Wise, John, Balloon Ascension by „ 224 

Wise, John, Dr. Hare's Remarks on Aerial Voyage of 224,230 

Wiswall to Hinckly 176 

Witte, Hon. W. H., Member of Special Committee of House of Representatives... 76 

Wolf River 88 

Wollaston 138 

Wolves 33 

Woodhouse, Dr 94 

Wool of Cashmere Goat 114 

Woorara, Description of 127, 128, 129 

Woorara, innocuous when Swallowed 128 

Woorara, Opini(ms respecting Poison of 127 

Woorara, Poison of, does not depenTl on Strychnine ,. 128 

Woorara, Quantity of, required to cause Death 134 

Woorara, Treatment of Poisoning by 130 

Worcester, Mass ,. 35 

Work done in the Museum 40 

Wounds of Poisoned Arrows 123, 135 

Wright, Charles 89 

Wright, Lieutenant H. G 37, 33, 46 

Vv'urdemam, Gustavus 37,33,39,46,97 

Wyman, Dr. J 38,40,64,65 

Yellow Caranx 3:'6 

Yellow Creek, Ohio 44 

Yellow Mackerel 336 

Yellow River , 88 



INDEX. 463 

Page. 

Yellowstone Eiver :... 81,82 

Yond, Rev. Thomas, Description of Woorara by 127 

Young Men's Christian Association, Lectures for 28 

Zanzibar Copal 44 

Zeuglodon 44 

Zone of Small Planets between Mars and Jupiter 137 

Zoology of Michigan 38 

Zostera Marina. 319 

Zuni 94,300 

Zygaena Malleus „.,.„ *337 

ZygaenaTiburo *337 















■cf:o:-cs<c. 












^ " ■^&-»^:-t' 



>fe;v:Sg. 









<:c<<: 



c:=<3<::2'*.«c: 



^c::^^ 









<;^cKt '.<!- 















■ ^i^ 






' r d. -^^d- '-^ ^ 






















































<:^r<G:''^ 






::^:."<^ 












^^^ ^V ^ c 



<r <e 









. -^ -. c ^'<£'■ 









«r:.-<sc ':'^, ^ cc.-c o ^-' 

■r^v-^c:: ^<t^ '^- 7£:,\: <_ <: 










SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 




3 9088 01421 6147 




