ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



SHOWING 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



FOR 



THE YEAR 1883. 



WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 
1885. 



Forty-eighth Congress, First Session. 

The following resolution was agreed to by the Senate June 10, 1884, and concurred 
in by the House of Representatives Juue 24, 1884 : 

Resolved by th« Senate (the House of Representatives concurring therein), That the annual 
report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1883 be printed; and that there be 
printed sixteen thousand and sixty extra copies, of which three thousand shall be for 
the use of the Senate, six thousand and sixty for the use of the House of Representa- 
tives, and seven thousand copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution, 
ii 




LE TTER 

FROM THE 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



ACCOMPANYING 



The annual report of the Board of Regents of that Institution for the year 

1883. 



June 24, 1884.— Ordered to be printed. 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washingtan, D. C, January 21, 1884. 

Sib : In accordance with section 5593 of the Eevised Statutes of the 
United States, I have the honor in behalf of the Board of Begents to 
submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expenditures, 
and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1883. 
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Spencer F. Baird, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 

Hon. George P. Edmunds, 

President of the United States Senate. 
Hon. John G. Carlisle, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

m 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 

THE YEAR 1883. 



SUBJECTS. 



1. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the session of January, 
1884. 

2. Report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial affairs 
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re- 
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1883, and the estimates for 1884. 

Report of the same committee on the inauguration of the Henry 
statue. 

3. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations 
and condition of the Institution for the year 1883, with the statistics of 
collections, exchanges, &c. 

4. General appendix, comprising a record of recent progress in the 
principal departments of science, and special memoirs, original and 
selected, of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institu- 
tion, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. 

IV 



CONTENTS. 



Page. 

Resolution of Congress to print extra copies of the Report ii 

Letter from the Secretary, submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to 

Congress Hi 

General subjects of the Annual Report iv 

Contents of the Report v 

List of Illustrations viii 

Regents of the Smithsonian Institution x. 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents xi 

Report of the Executive Committee for the year 1883 xiii 

Condition of the funds January 1, 1884 xiii 

Receipts for the year xii£ 

Expenditures for the year xiv- 

Estimates for the year 1884 xiv 

National Museum appropriations by Congress xiv 

Appropriations for Ethnology x^- 

Appropriations for Exchanges xv 

Report of the Executive Committee on the Henry Statue xvii 

Ceremonies at the unveiling of the statue xix: 

Order of exercises xx: 

Prayer by Rev. Dr. Hodge xxii 

Address of Chief Justice Waite xxiit 

Oration by President Noah Porter xxv 

Members ex officio of the Establishment xxxviii 

Regents and officers of the Institution xxxviii 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The Smithsonian Institution 1 

Introductory t 

The Henry Statue * 

Scientific writings of Professor Henry 2 

Meetings of the Board of Regents £ 

Finances * 

Condition of the fund January, 1883 4 

Buildings * 

Smithsonian building * 

Progress in re-modelling and fire-proofing the east wing * 

National Museum building & 

Armory building 6 

Natural History workshop - 7 

Necessity for an additional Museum building 7 

Meetings of Scientific Bodies 

Routine work of the Institution H 

V 



VI CONTENTS. 

Page. 
Report of the Secretary.— The Smithsonian Institution— Continued. 

Administration 11 

Correspondence 11 

Explorations 11 

Labrador and Newfoundland 12 

Greenland 14 

Arctic coast 14 

Alaska 15 

British Columbia, Washington, and Oregon 19 

California 20 

Lower California, Arizona, and New Mexico 20 

The Atlantic sea-board 22 

Mexico 24 

Yucatan 24 

Central America 25 

South America 26 

Japan, China, and Corea 26 

Other countries 26 

Publicatione 27 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 27 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 27 

Twenty-fourth volume 28 

Twenty-fifth volume 28 

Twenty-sixth volume 28 

Twenty-seventh volume 28 

Separate publications 20 

General catalogue of scientific periodicals 30 

Physical and meteorological tables 31 

Bulletins of the National Museum 31 

Proceedings of the National Museum 32 

Smithsonian Annual Report 33 

Contents of Report for 1882 33 

Astronomical announcements by telegraph 33 

Transfer of the same to Harvard College Observatory 34 

Exchanges 35 

International exchanges 35 

Government exchanges 38 

Library 38 

Additions for the year 39 

Relations of the Institution to other bodies 39 

The Navy Department 39 

The War Department 41 

The United States Signal Service 41 

The Treasury Department... 42 

The Light-House Board 42 

The Interior Department 42 

Relations to foreign Governments 42 

Transportation facilities 43 

International and State Exhibitions 43 

Electric-light accommodation 44 

Forestry inquiries 44 

Necrology 45 

Edward H. Knight 45 

Paul Schumacher 45 



CONTENTS. VII 

P«ge. 
Eepobt of the Secretary. — The Smithsonian Institution— Continued. 

Necrology — Continued. 

Hermann Diebitsch 46 

John Lawrence Smith, M. D 46 

George Shoemaker 47 

LeonardD. Gale, M. D 47 

John Lawrence Le Conte, M. D , 48 

Miscellaneous 49 

The Mercer Bequest 40 

Naval Museum of Hygiene 49 

Portrait of Darwin , 49 

Relics of Dr. Priestly*. 49 

Memorial objects in the new Pension building 50 

Instructions for Cave Research 50 

Obsequies of John Howard Payne 50 

National Museum 51 

Bureau op Ethnology 56 

United States Geological Survey ___ 66 

United States Fish Commission 81 

General results 82 

Cruise of the "Albatross" 82 

Fish-hatching 82 

Bulletin of the Fish Commission 83 

The London International Fisheries Exhibition, 1883 83 

Fisheries branch of the census of 1880 86 

Appendix to the Report of the Secretary 87 

Correspondence on Astronomical Announcements 87 

Report on exchanges for 1883 91 

Receipts of packages for distribution 93 

Foreign 93 

Domestic 94 

Government 95 

Transmissions of packages 95 

Foreign 95 

Domestic 102 

Government 105 

Correspondence relating to Government exchange Ill 

International Conference on Exchanges, at Brussels 120 

List of official publications from Public Printer, 1883 150 

Report on National Museum by Assistant Director and Curators . 161 

Assistant Director's report 162 

Materia-medica collection 190 

Foods and textile industries collection 196 

Archil ological collection 198 

Mammalian collection 208 

Bird collection 220 

Reptilian collection 225 

Fish collection 228 

Insect collection 239 

Mollusk collection 244 

Marine invertebrate collection - 250 

Fossil invertebrate collection 260 

Fossil plant collection 263 

Geological and lithological collection 263 



VIII CONTENTS. 

Pag*. 
Appendix to the Report of the Secretary — Continued. 

Report on National Museum — Continued. 

Mineral collection 266 

Metallurgy and economic geology collection 268 

Library of the National Museum 271 

Appendix A, officers of the National Museum 275 

B, bibliography of National Museum, 1883 276 

C, list of contributors to National Museum, 1883 322 



GENERAL APPENDIX. 

Page. 

I. — Record of Scientific Progress, 1883 363 

Introduction, by Spencer F. Baird 363 

Astronomy, by Edward S. Holden 365 

Geology, by T. Sterry Hunt 443 

Geography, by F. M. Green 465 

Meteorology, by Cleveland Abbe 483 

Physics, by George F. Barker 571 

Chemistry, by H. Carrington Bolton 629 

Mineralogy, by Edward S. Dana 661 

Botany, by W. G. Farlow 681 

Zoology, by Theodore Gill 699 

Anthropology, by Otis T. Mason 753 

II. — Miscellaneous Papers 797 

Papers relating to Anthropology .*.... 797 

Australian Group relations, by A. W. Ho witt 797 

Mounds of Sangamon County, Illinois, by James Wickersham 825 

Mounds in Spoon River Valley, Illinois, by W. H. Adams 835 

Ancient relics at Dayton, Ohio, by Aug. A. Foerste 838 

Mounds in Butler County, Ohio, by J. P. MacLean 844 

Earth-work in Highland County, Ohio, by J. P. MacLean 851 

Mounds in Berrien County, Georgia, by William J. Taylor 853 

Mounds and shell-heaps on west coast of Florida, by S. T. Walker.. 854 

Stone mounds of Hampshire County, W. Virginia, by L. A. Kengla . . 868 

Remains in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, by John A. Ruth 872 

Relics in Poughkeepsie, N. Y. , by Henry Booth 876 

Notes on the Wampanoag Indians, by Henry E. Chase 878 

Antiquities from Omc tepee, Nicaragua, by Charles C. Nutting 908 

On the Phonology of four Siouan Languages, by J. Owen Dorsey ... 919 



Index to the volume 931 



CONTENTS. IX 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Page. 

Statue of Joseph Henry, on Smithsonian Grounds xvii 

Sketch map of Australia 805 

Ross Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois 826 

Olcott Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois 827 

Dawson Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois 829 

McClernard Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois 829 

Watson Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois 830 

Lyon Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois 831 

Farr Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois 832 

Group of Mounds, Ross Township, Butler County, Ohio 847 

Mound in fort, Ross Township, Butler County, Ohio 848 

Fortified hill, Ross Township, Butler County, Ohio 850 

Mound on fortified hill, Ross Township, Butler County, Ohio 850 

Sketch of earth-work in Highland County, Ohio 852 

Map, Pensacola Bay and vicinity, Florida 855 

Map, Escribano Point, Florida 856 

Mode of interment at Escribano Point, Florida 857 

Map, Choctawhatchee Bay, Florida 861 

Plate of four figures, of baked clay, from Florida 863 

Plate of four figures, of baked clay, from Florida 864 

Plate of three figures, of baked clay, from Florida 866 

Remains in Durham Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania 873 

Grave and relic sites in Poughkeepsie, N. Y 877 

Sketch map of Cape Cod, Massachusetts 905 

Stone figure from Ometepec, Nicaragua (front and side view) 911 



REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



By 'the organizing act approved August 10, 1846, Be vised Statutes,, 
title Lxxin, section 5580, " The business of the Institution shall be con- 
ducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Regents, named the 
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the Vice- 
President, the Chief Justice of the United States [and the Governor of 
the District of Columbia], three members of the Senate, and three mem- 
bers of the House of Representatives, together with six other persons, 
other than members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the 
city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some 
State, but no two of them of the same State." 



BEGENTS FOB THE YEAB 1883. 

Term expires. 
The Vice-President of the United States : 

David Davis {pro tern.) Mar. 3, 1883 

George F. Edmunds (elected March 3, 1883) Mar. 3, 1885 



The Chief Justice of the United States: 
Morrison R. Watte. 

United States Senators: 

George F. Hoar (from Feb. 21, 1881. Resigned Jan. 19, 1883) Mar. 3, 1883 

Nathaniel P. Hill (from May 19, 1881) Mar. 3, 1885 

Samuel B. Maxet (from May 19, 1881) Mar. 3, 1887 

George F. Edmunds (appointed Jan. 19, 1883. Resigned Feb. 21, 

1883) Mar. 3, 1885 

Justin S. Morrill (appointed Feb. 21, 1883) Mar. 3, 1885 

Members of the House of Representatives : 

Otqo R. Singleton (appointed Jan. 7, 1884) Deo. 23, 1885 

William L. Wilson (appointed Jan. 7, 1884) Dec. 23, 1835 

William W. Phelps (appointed Jan. 7, 1884) Dec. 23, 1885 

Citizens of Washington: 

Peter Parker (first appointed in 1868) Deo. 19,1885 

William T: Sherman (first appointed in 1871) Mar. 25, 1885 

Citizens of a State : 

John Maclean, of New Jersey (first appointed in 1868) Dec. 19, 1885 

Asa Gray, of Massachusetts (first appointed in 1874) Dec. 19, 1885 

Henry Copper, of Pennsylvania (first appointed in 1874) Dec. 19, 1885 

Noah Porter, of Connecticut (appointed in 1878) Jan. 26, 1884 



Morrison R. Waite, Chancellor of the Institution and President of the Board of 

Regents. 
x 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF 
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Washington. D. 0., April 19, 1883. 

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day, at 
4 o'clock p. m., to attend the ceremonies of unveiling: the statue of Pro- 
fessor Henry. 

At the conclusion of the ceremonies the Board adjourned sine die. 



Washington, January 16, 1884. 

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution fixing the time of the annual session on the third 
Wednesday in January of each year, the Board met to-day at 10 o'clock 
a. m. 

Present: The Chancellor, Chief Justice Morrison R. Waite; the 
Acting Vice-President, Hon. George F. Edmunds; Hon. Nathaniel 
P. Hill, Hon. Samuel B. Maxey, Hon. Justin S. Morrill, Hon. 
Otho R. Singleton, Hon. William L. Wilson, Hon. William W. 
Phelps, Hon. Peter Parker, General William T. Sherman, Dr. 
Asa Gray, Dr. Henry Coppee, Dr. Noah Porter, and the Secre- 
tary, Professor Baird. 

The Secretary stated that since the last meeting the following changes 
had taken place in the Board : Hon. G. F. Hoar had resigned as Regent, 
and Hon. G. F. Edmunds had been appointed by the President of the 
Senate to fill the vacancy. Mr. Edmunds had declined the appoint- 
ment and Hon. J. S. Morrill had been appointed and accepted for the 
term ending March 3, 1885. 

Hon. G. F. Edmunds having been elected President of the Senate 
became ex-officio Regent. 

The Speaker of the House of Representatives (Mr. Carlisle) had ap- 
pointed Hon. O. R. Singleton, Hon. W. L. Wilson, and Hon. W. W. 
Phelps as Regents for the Forty-eighth Congress, in place of Hon. N. 
C. Deering, Hon. E. B. Taylor, and Hon. S. S. Cox. 

The journal of the Board was read and approved. 

A letter from Rev. Dr. John Maclean was read, regretting that the 
condition of his health would not permit him to attend the meeting of 
the Board. 

XI 



XII JOURNAL OP THE BOARD. 

Dr. Parker presented the report of the Executive Committee, which 
was read by General Sherman. 

On motion of Dr. Gray the following resolution was adopted: 

"Resolved, That the report of the Executive Committee be accepted, 
and that the income for the year 1884 be appropriated for the service 
of the Institution upon the basis of the above report, to be expended by 
the Secretary, with full discretion as to the items, subject to the ap- 
proval of the Executive Committee." 

Dr. Parker, from the Executive Committee, presented a final report 
on the Henry statue. 

On motion of Dr. CoppCe it was resolved that the report of the Exec- 
utive Committee on the Henry statue be printed as a part of the annual 
report of the Institution. 

The Secretary presented the annual report of the operations of the 
Institution for the year 18S3, which was read in part. 

On motion of General Sherman it was resolved that the annual report 
of the Secretary be referred to the Executive Committee, with authority 
to transmit it to Congress. 

Dr. Copp6e called the attention of the Board to the subject of the pub- 
lication of the scientific writings of Professor Henry, and suggested the 
propriety of providing that a part of the edition should be bound in 
library style, and much better than that of the "Henry Memorial" 
volume. 

Dr. Gray suggested the importance of careful selection of the manu- 
scripts of Professor Henry and judicious arrangement of the material, 
which might require two volumes, one for his published scientific 
papers, the other for miscellaneous writings, extracts from correspond- 
ence, &c. 

The Secretary stated that nothing had yet been done in arrauging the 
material for the work proposed, but copies had been made of a large 
number of Professor Henry's letters, to be carefully examined before 
printing. It would be edited by Mr. W. B. Taylor, of the Institution, a 
gentleman perfectly acquainted with Professor Henry's scientific work, 
and in every respect well qualified for the duty. 

After some discussion as to the scope of the work, on motion of Mr. 
Edmunds it was — 

" Resolved, That the publication of the writings of Professor Henry 
be supervised by a committee consisting of Dr. Gray, Hon. Mr. Wilson, 
and Professor Baird, to act in conjunction with Mr. W. B. Taylor, the 
editor assigned to that duty by the Secretary." 

Senator Edmunds called attention to the phraseology of the act 
of Congress in regard to the appointment of an Acting Secretary in case 
of the death, disability, or absence of the Secretary, which he considered 
imperfectly adapted to provide for an emergency, and, on motion of 
Senator Maxey, it was — 

"Resolved, That Senator Edmunds be requested to prepare an amend- 
ment to the act to be submitted to Congress." 

On motion of Senator Maxey the Board then adjourned sine die. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF 
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 

1883. 

The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution respectfully submit the following report in relation to the 
funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the National 
Museum and other purposes, the receipts and expenditures for the 
Institution and the Museum for 18S3, and the estimates for the year 1884. 

Condition of the fund, January 1, 1884. 

The bequest of James Smithson, deposited in the United 

States Treasury, act of Congress, August 10, 1846 $515, 169 00 

Residuary legacy of Smithson, added to the fund in the 

United States Treasury, act of Congress, February 8, 

1867 26,210 63 

Addition to the fund from savings, &c, act of Congress, 

February 8, 1867 108, 620 37 

Addition to the fund by bequest of James Hamilton, of 

Pennsylvania, 1874 1, 000 00 

Addition to the fund by bequest of Simeon Habel, of New 

York, 1880 500 00 

Addition to the fund by proceeds of sale of Virginia bonds, 

1881 51,500 00 

Total permanent Smithson fund in the United States 
Treasury (bearing 6 percent, interest) January 1, 
1884 $703, 000 00 

Statement of the receipts and expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution 

for the year 1883. 

RECEIPTS. 

Interest from the fund $42, 180 00 

Balance cash on hand January 1 , 1883 20, 637 45 

Total receipts. , $71,817 45 

EXPENDITURES. 

Building : 

Repairs and improvements $935 15 

Furniture and fixtures 556 09 

General expenses : 

Meetings of tbe Board 985 05 

Lighting and heating 38 51 

Postage and telegraph 319 06 

xm 



XIV REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Expenditures — Continued. 

Stationery $850 72 

General printing, blanks, &c 2G6 45 

Incidentals, ice, hauling, &c . . . 520 21 

Books and periodicals 1, 747 60 

Salaries and labor 15, 773 67 

Publications and researches : 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 3, 047 24 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 9, 565 78 

Smithsonian Annual Eeport 2, 255 81 

Explorations . ... 2, 799 47 

Apparatus 50 10 

Literary and scientific exchanges 6, 192 34 

Total expenditures $45,903 25 

Balance, January 1, 1884 $25, 914 20 

ESTIMATES FOR 1884. 

The following are the estimates of receipts by the Institution for the 
year 1884, and of the appropriations required for carrying on its opera- 
tions during the same period : 

Receipts. 

Interest on the permanent fund, receivable July 1, 1884, 

and January 1, 1885 $42, 180 00 

Expenditures. 

For building and repairs $1, 500 00 

For general expenses, including salaries 19, 000 00 

For publications and researches 12, 000 00 

For exchanges 7, 000 00 

For contingencies 2, 680 00 

Total $42, ISO 00 

NATIONAL MUSEUM, AND OTHER OBJECTS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS 
TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

The following is a statement of the accounts of appropriations made 
by Congress for disbursement under the direction of the Smithsonian 
Institution : 

PRESERVATION OB 1 COLLECTIONS, NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Balance available January 1, 1883 $44, 823 30 

Appropriated for fiscal year ending June 30, 1884 ($96,000, 

$4,112.82) 100,112 82 

144,936 12 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XV 

Expended in 18S3, as per vouchers audited by the Treasury- 
Department $98, 277 61 

Balance January 1, 1884, (available for six months ending 
with fiscal year June 30, 1884) 46, 658 51 

ARMORY BUILDING. 

Balance available January 1, 1883 $1, 495 79 

Appropriated for fiscal year ending June 30, 1884 2, 500 00 

3,995 79 
Expended in 1883, as per vouchers audited by the Treasury 
Department 2, 470 29 

Balance January 1, 1884 (available for six months ending 
June 30, 1884) 1, 525 50 

FURNITURE AND FIXTURES. 

Balance available January 1, 1883 , . $31, 182 12 

Appropriated for fiscal year ending June 30, 1884 60, 000 00 

91,182 12 
Expended in 1883, as per vouchers audited by the Treasury 
Department 55, 161 63 

Balance January 1, 1884 (available for six months ending 
June 30, 1884) 36, 020 49 

NORTH AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY. 

Balance available January 1, 1883 $20, 440 44 

Appropriated for fiscal year ending June 30, 1884 40, 000 00 

60,440 44 
Expended in 1883, as per vouchers audited by the Treasury 
Department 40, 495 04 

Balance January 1, 1884 (available for six months ending 

June 30, 1884) 19, 945 40 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 

Balance available Jauuary 1, 1883 $2, 500 00 

Appropriated for fiscal year ending June 30, 1884 7, 500 00 

10,000 00 
Expended in 1883, as per vouchers audited by the Treasury 
Department 6, 500 00 

Balance January 1, 1884 (available for six months ending 

June 30, 1884) 3, 500 00 



XVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

RECONSTRUCTION EASTERN PORTION SMITHSONIAN BUILDING. 

Appropriated by act of Congress March 3, 1883 $50, 000 00 

Expended as per vouchers audited by the Treasury De- 
partment in 1883 37, 322 86 

Balance January 1, 1884 12, 677 14 

POLARIS REPORT. 

Balance available of $8,000 appropriated by act of Con- 
gress, 1880 $1,918 90 

Expended in 1883, as per vouchers audited by the Treasury 
Department 1, 116 73 

Balance January 1, 1884 802 17 

CONCLUSION. 

The Committee has examined 835 vouchers for payments made from 
the Smithson income during the year 1883, and 2,014 vouchers for pay- 
ments made from appropriations by Congress for the National Museum, 
making a total of 2,849 vouchers. All these bear the approval of the 
Secretary of the Institution, and a certificate that the materials and 
services charged were applied to the purposes of the Institution or of 
the Museum. 

The balances above given correspond with the certificates of the dis- 
bursing clerks of the Interior and Treasury Departments. 

The quarterly accounts, the bank and check books and journals have 
been examined and found correct. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Peter Parker, 
W. T. Sherman, 

Executive Committee. 

Washington, January 16, 1884. 




HHHIi; . 'IRl^BHMHBHP 1 !- iI^Hhk 



BRONZE STATUE OF JOSEPH HENRY. 

KHECTKII ON THE 6MITW5ONJAN GROUNDS BY AUTHORITY OF AN ACT OF CONGKESB APPKOVED JUNE 1, 
1880; AND UNVEILED APRIL 19, 1883. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF 
REGENTS ON THE HENRY STATUE. 



To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : Aii act of Congress (No. 71), approved by the Presi- 
dent June 1, 1880, authorized "the Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution to contract with W. W. Story, sculptor, for a statue in bronze of 
Joseph Heney, late Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, to be 
erected upon the grounds of said Institution ; and for this purpose, and 
for the entire expense of the foundation and pedestal of the monument, 
the sum of $15,000" was appropriated. 

In accordance with the authority conferred in the above act, the 
Regents of the Institution executed a contract with Mr. Story on the 
8th of December, 1880, for the statue. At Mr. Story's request a num- 
ber of photographs of Professor Henry were sent to him to be used in 
preparing the model of the statue, and also a cast of the face and bust 
executed by Mr. Clark Mills, together with an academic gown similar 
to the one used by the professor when a member of the faculty of 
Princeton College. A contract was made with the Maine Red Granite 
Company and the Quincy Granite Polishing Works for a pedestal ac- 
cording to a design furnished by Mr. Story — the die of Red-Beach 
granite finely polished, octagonal in shape, 4 feet in diameter, 4 feet 
high, and the cap and bases of Quincy gray granite, fine-axed, the 
whole pedestal being 7 feet 3 inches in height. The statue itself is nine 
feet high. 

Owing to certain imperfections found in the statue after it had been 
cast, it became necessary to reproduce it, and it was not until Novem- 
ber, 1882, that it was actually completed and shipped from Pome. The 
statue was received in Washington in December, but, owing to the late- 
ness of the season, it was decided to defer its erection until the follow- 
ing spring, and the date selected was the 19th of April, 1883, that being 
the time when the National Academy of Sciences (of which Professor 
Henry had been president at the time of his death) would hold its semi- 
annual meeting in Washington. For the site of the statue a triangular 
plot on the Smithsonian grounds, about 150 feet to the northwest of the 
building, was chosen by the Regents, and the selection met the full ap- 
proval of Mr. Story, who visited Washington in the winter. 

The Chancellor of the Institution was requested by the Regents to 
perform the ceremony of unveiling it. 

H. Mis. 69 ii xvii 



XVIII REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. 

Hon. Hiester Clymer was selected to deliver an address appropriate 
to the occasion, but on account of ill health declined the appointment, 
and President Noah Porter, of Yale College, one of the Eegents, was 
invited by the Executive Committee to perform the service. 

Eev. Dr. John Maclean and Kev. A. A. Hodge, of Princeton, N. J., 
were invited to offer prayer on the occasion. By reason of ill health, 
however, Dr. Maclean was prevented from attending. 

The direction of the executive details of the occasion were assigned 
by Professor Baird to Mr. William J. Ehees, the chief clerk. 

By direction of the Board of Eegents, the following letter was ad- 
dressed by Professor Baird, Secretary of the Institution, to the Hon. 
Speaker of the House of Eepresentatives, January 17, 1883 : 

"Sir: I have the honor to inform the House of Eepresentatives that 
in accordance with the act of Congress of June 1, 1880, providing that 
the Eegents of the institution be 'authorized to contract with W. W. 
Story, sculptor, for a bronze statue of Joseph Henry, late Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution, to be erected in the grounds of said insti- 
tution,' the statue has been executed and received in Washington, and 
that Thursday the 19th of April has been selected as the day for the 
public unveiling of the same. 

"The Congress of the United States having ordered this statue and 
made the appropriation necessary therefor, the Board of Eegents re- 
spectfully invite the Senate and House of Eepresentatives to be present 
on the occasion of its formal presentation to the public. 

"I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant." 

A joint resolution was passed by Congress, February 24, 1883, accept- 
ing the invitation to attend the inauguration of the statue. 

"No. 16. Joint resolution accepting the invitation of the Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution to attend the inauguration of the statue of Joseph Henry. 

" Whereas, in a communication from Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution, Congress was informed that in accordance 
with an act of June first, eighteen hundred and eighty, the bronze 
statue of Joseph Henry, late Secretary of the Smithsonion Institution, 
had been completed; and whereas, in the same communication, Con- 
gress was respectfully invited to be present on the occasion of its formal 
presentation to the public, upon Thursday the nineteenth of April next; 
Therefore be it 

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States 
of America in Congress assembled, That the said invitation be, and the 
same is hereby, accepted by the Senate and House of Eepresentatives ; 
and that the President of the Senate select seven members of that body, 
and the Speaker of the House of Eepresentatives fifteen members of 
that body, to be present and represent the Congress of the United 



REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XIX 

States upon the occasion of the presentation and inauguration of said 
statue." 

Approved February 24, 1883. (Statutes, volume xxn, page 659.) 

The following gentlemen were selected as the joint committee to rep- 
resent Congress : 

Senators : Hon. George F. Hoar, of Massachusetts ; Eli Saulsbury, 
of Delaware ; Samuel J. R. McMillan, of Minnesota ; Joseph R. Haw- 
ley, of Connecticut; William Mahone, of Virginia; Omar D. Conger, 
of Michigan ; James B. Groome, of Maryland. 

Members of the House of Representatives : Hon. John T. Wait, of Con- 
necticut; William Aldrich, of Illinois; Thomas M. Browne, of Indiana ; 
John A. Kassou, of Iowa; George M. Bobeson, of New Jersey; John 
W. Candler, of Massachusetts; R. J. Walker, of Pennsylvania; A. H. 
Pettibone, of Tennessee; J. Proctor Knott, of Kentucky; J. Randolph 
Tucker, of Virginia; Andrew G. Curtin, of Pennsylvania; Randall L. 
Gibson, of Louisiana. 

In accordance with the previous arrangements, the statue was un- 
veiled on Thursday afternoon, April 19, 1883, at 4 o'clock. The day 
was clear, mild, and propitious, and about ten thousand people assem- 
bled to witness the ceremonies. 

The invited guests met in the lecture hall of the National Museum, 
and proceeded to the platform which had been erected around the statue. 
General O. M. Poe acted as chief marshal, and Messrs. Daniel Leech, 
John D. McChesney, and George S. Hobbs as assistant marshals. 

The following order of arrangement was adopted : 

The President of the United States ; * the Chief Justice of the United 
States, Chancellor of the Institution ; the orator of the day, President 
Noah Porter, LL.D., of Yale College; the chaplain of the day, Rev. 
A. A. Hodge, D. D. ; the family of Professor Henry. 

The establishment of the Smithsonian Institution, viz, the Vice- 
President, Secretary of State, Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of 
War, Secretary of the Navy, Secretary of the Interior, Postmaster-Gen- 
eral, Attorney-General, Commissioner of Patents. 

The Regents and Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and Ex- 
Regents; the Joint Committee of the Senate and House of Representa- 
tives, appointed to represent Congress ; the Diplomatic Corps ; the As- 
sociate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States ; Judges of 
United States Courts; Claims Commissions; ^Judges of the Supreme 
Court of the District of Columbia ; Senators and Members of the House 
of Representatives ; Commissioners of the District of Columbia ; the 
General and Officers of the Army ; the Admiral and Officers of the Navy; 
Ex Members of the Cabinet and Ex-Ministers of the United States; Na- 
tional Academy of Sciences ; Founders of the Henry trust fund for 
Science ; the Commissioner of Agriculture ; the Assistant Secretaries of 

* The President was absent from the city at the time. 



XX REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE- 

Departments; Solicitor-General and Assistant Attorneys-General; the 
United States Marshal and Officers of courts; the Light-House Board ; 
the Heads of Bureaus ; the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, the 
Superintendent of the Naval Observatory, the Superintendent of the 
Nautical Almanac, the Director of the Geological Survey, the Li- 
brarian of Congress ; the Commissioner of Public Buildings, the Archi- 
tect of the Capitol, the Superintendent of the Government Printing 
Office, the Superintendent of the Botanical Gardens, the Visitors of 
the Government Hospital for the Insane ; officers of tbe Senate and 
House of Representatives ; Trustees of the Corcoran Gallery of Art ; the 
Washington Monument Society ; officers and employes of the Smithso- 
nian Institution, Bureau of Ethnology, National Museum, and United 
States Fish Commission ; Alumni of the College of New Jersey ; mem- 
bers of scientific organizations, &c. 

While this procession was moving from the hall in the Museum build- 
ing to the platform at the statue, the Marine Band, furnished through 
the courtesy of Hon. William E. Chandler, Secretary of the Navy, and 
of Colonel McCawley, Commandant of the Marine Corps, played a grand 
march, "Transit of Venus," composed by J. P. Sousa, the leader of the 
band. 

The following was the order of exercises : 

I. Music— Marine Band (J. P. Sousa, conductor), "The Hallelujah Chorus" 
(Messiah), Handel. 
II. Prayer— Rev. A. A. Hodge, D. D., of Princeton, N. J. 

III. Address — Chief Justice Waite, Chancellor of the Institution. 

IV. Unveiling the Statue. 

V. Music (Philharmonic Society and full Marine Baud, R. C. Bernays, con- 
ductor) — Grand chorus, " The Heavens are Telling" (Creation), Haydn. 

VI. Oration — Rev. Dr. Noah Porter, President of Yale College. 

VII. Music (J. P. Sousa, conductor) — Grand March Triumphale, "Schiller," 
Meyerbeer. 

The Philharmonic Society was assisted by members of the Washing- 
ton Operatic Association, the Bossini and Church Choir Choral Socie- 
ties, the Washington Sangerbund and Germauia Manuerchor. The 
arrangements for the music were made by a Committee of the Philhar- 
monic Society, of which Prof. F. Widdows was chairman. The Chief 
of Police furnished a detail for the grounds ; Mr. Edward Clark, Archi- 
tect of the Capitol, supplied music stands and stools for the Marine 
Band ; the Quartermaster's Department lent flags, and the Department 
of Agriculture living plants for decorating . the platform. Mr. W. B. 
Smith, Superintendent of the Botanic Gardens, also furnished floral 
decorations. 

The platform was constructed under the superintendence of Mr. C. 
W. Schuerman and Mr. G. W. Field, and the mechanical arrangements 
for unveiling the statue were devised by Mr. Joseph Palmer. At the 



REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXI 

moment of unveiling the statue the news was telegraphed from an in- 
strument on the platform, which had been placed there by Mr. L. Whit- 
ney, the Superintendent of the Western Union Telegraph Company. 
The ushers on the platform were Messrs. W. C. Lewis, Harry C. Shus- 
ter, Henry D. Finckel, William T. Wyman, Edward C. Bryan, Frank 
Bryan, William B. Stimpson, and Ellis Lammond; Mr. Henry Horan, 
Superintendent of the National Museum, having general charge of the 
accommodations of the public. 

Besnectfully submitted. 

Peter Parker, 

W. T. Sherman, 



Executive Committee. 



Washington, December 15, 1883. 



XXII REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. 



PRAYER 



BY 

REV. r>R. HODGE. 



Eternal and almighty God, Creator, Preserver, and Governor of the 
world, we have gathered here to adore Thy holy name, to implore Thy 
divine protection, and to invoke Tby blessing. 

We bless Thee that, having brought the physical universe to its pres- 
ent perfection and made it the vehicle of reflecting and expressing Thy 
transcendent perfections, Thou hast made man in Thine own likeness 
and endowed him with intelligence, capable of discerning and of inter- 
preting the intellectual basis of all phenomena, the personal element in 
all law. We bless Thee that Thou hast never left Thyself without a 
witness even in the darkest period of human history ; that wherever 
men have sought the Lord, however feebly, if haply they might feel 
after Him and find Him, He has been found always to be not far from 
any one of us, seeing that He is imminent in all existence and in all 
life, and that in Him we live and move and have our being. 

We bless Thee that Thou hast sent through the ages a long line of 
inspired prophets and teachers, crowned by the incarnation in human 
flesh of Thy co-equal Son, to reveal in ever-increasing fullness the nature 
of Thy moral government, the method of Thy redemption, and the glory 
of Thy kingdom ; so Thou hast in these later days sent into the physical 
universe many intelligent and earnest students, who, in various depart- 
ments, are investigating the secrets of nature, and interpreting the 
methods of Thy sublime working throughout the vast areas of time 
and space. We bless Thee that Thou art gathering to Thyself so vast 
and rich and constant a revenue of glory through the loving ministry of 
science in all her various provinces. We thank Thee that so many of 
her princes have been loyal to Tliy service and have rejoiced to make 
all men to realize the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and of the 
knowledge of God. 

Especially we thank Thee for the spotless example of Thy servant, 
whose illustrious career is to be commemorated throughout all time by 
the monument we are now unveiling. We bless Thee that he was as 
humble and simple in his Christian faith as he was great in his intel- 
lectual achievements or pre-eminent in his world-wide fame. We pray 
Thee that his memory as a Christian philosopher may be preserved in 
imperishable freshness and force through succeeding generations, that 
his influence for good may be ever extended, and that his example may 



REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXIII 

be followed as his serene fame excites the emulation of multitudes of 
the interpreters of nature and of the teachers and benefactors of man- 
kind. 

And now, in anticipation of the general judgment, when in the res- 
urrection the perfected Church shall enter the new heavens and the new 
earth of the perfected physical universe, we ascribe unto Thee, at once 
the Lord of nature and of grace, blessing and glory, and wisdom, and 
thanksgiving, and honor, and power, and might, unto our God that sit- 
teth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb, for ever and ever. Amen. 



ADDEESS 

OF 

CHIEF JUSTICE WAITS 



On the 1st of June, 1880, at the instance of Mr. Morrill, of Vermont, in 
the Senate, and of Mr. Clymer, of Pennsylvania, in the House of Repre- 
sentatives, Congress authorized the Regents of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion to contract with Mr. W. W. Story ' ; for a statue, in bronze, of Joseph 
Henry, late Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, to be erected on 
the grounds of the Institution"; and the Regents, availing themselves of 
the presence in Washington of the members of the National Academy 
of Sciences, with which Professor Henry was so prominently and so hon- 
orably connected for many years, have asked you here to-day to witness 
the presentation to the public of the result of what has been done under 
this authority. 

On the 10th of August, 1846, Congress established the Smithsonian 
Institution, to take the property which had been given to the United 
States by the will of James Smithson, of England, to found an estab- 
lishment of that name "for the increase and diffusion of knowledge 
among men." 

The business of the Institution was to be managed by a Board of Re- 
gents, and they were required to elect some suitable person as Secretary 
of the Institution. On the 3d of December, 1846, the Board met to per- 
form that duty, and before entering on the election adopted the follow- 
ing resolution : 

" Resolved, That it is essential for the advancement of the proper in- 
terests of the trust that the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 
be a man possessing weight of character and a high grade of talent j 
and that it is further desirable that he possess eminent scientific and 
general acquirements ; that he be a man capable of advancing science 
and promoting letters by original research and effort, well qualified to 



XXIV REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. 

act as a respected channel of communication between the Institution 
and scientific and literary individuals and societies in this and foreign 
countries ; and, in a word, a man worthy to represent before the world 
of science and letters the Institution over which this Board presides." 

Immediately after the adoption of this resolution the Board proceeded 
to the election, and the first ballot resulted in the choice of Professor 
Henry, then occupying the chair of natural philosophy in Princeton 
College. Experience has shown that the world possessed no better man 
for such a place. He was all the resolution required, and more; and 
from the day of his election until now, the wish has never been ex- 
pressed that another had been chosen in his stead. 

He accepted the appointment on the 7th of December, and on the 
next day, the 8th, finished and sent to the Eegents an elaborate paper 
giving his views of the will of Smithson, and presenting a plan for the 
organization of the Institution. He entered on the performance of his 
duties on the 21st of December, and from that day until his death, on 
the 13th of May, 1878, almost one-third of a century, he was engaged 
in making the Smithsonian Institution what its munificent founder de- 
sired it to be — an active and efficient instrument for the increase and 
diffusion of knowledge. 

The statue which will now be unveiled has been erected by the 
United States as a token of gratitude for the labors of his useful life, 
and for his faithful administration of the important public trust so long 
in his keeping. 



ORATION 



BY 

PRESIDENT NOAH PORTER. 



We are assembled to complete the long series of public honors to the 
late Joseph Henry by unveiling the statue which has been erected to his 
memory. These honors have been manifold, but each one of them has 
been well deserved and most cordially bestowed. 

His funeral obsequies were attended by the President of the United 
States and other officials of the Government which he had so faithfully 
served, by representatives from the many learned and scientific socie- 
ties of which he had been a conspicuous member and ornament, and by 
a large following of those who honored and mourned him as a friend. 

Subsequently a more formal commemoration of his scientific and pub- 
lic services was held at the Capitol, at which were present the Execu- 
tive of the nation, the Judiciary, the Senate, and the House of Repre- 
sentatives. On this occasion a discriminating and sympathizing sketch 
of his personal and public life was given by one who had known him 
long and was singularly qualified to do him justice in every particular. 
This was followed by other warm and eloquent tributes to his genius 
as a philosopher and his excellence as a man. Memorable among 
these were the ringing words of the noble Rogers, whose own sudden 
euthanasia was like the translation of a prophet ; and the warm- 
hearted eulogy of the generous and glowing Garfield, whose noble life 
was slowly wasted that it might measure the intensity of the nation's 
grief. 

Many, if not all, of the institutions of the country with which Pro- 
fessor Henry had a more or less intimate connection have also honored 
him by records and estimates of his services to science, education, and 
philosophy. The tributes to his honor from other countries have also 
been cordial and numerous. 

Last of all, the two Houses of Congress, with the approval of the 
President, have ordered that a statue in bronze should be erected within 
the grounds of the Institution, which was the creation of his genius 
and industry, as a permanent memorial of his services and his worth. 
This statue is now completed, and has this moment been unveiled to 
public view. We are here to receive the first impressions of this endur- 
ing monument, which we trust will stand for many generations, to declare 

XXV 



XXVI REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. 

the fame and attest the manifold excellences of this eminent servant of 
science and benefactor of the American people. 

The proprieties of the occasion forbid that I should recite the events 
of Professor Henry's life or attempt a critical judgment of his services 
or his merits as a philosopher. To do either were superfluous, in view 
of the accuracy and fullness with which both have been done by others. 
All that I shall aim to do is to give a summary expression to that esti- 
mate of the man and his work which I am confident other generations 
will accept, and which this statue is designed to suggest and perpetuate. 

It is pleasant for us to notice that Professor Henry was bora on the 
eve of this century ,«so memorable for the development of the sciences 
of nature and their splendid applications to art; that just as this new 
era was opening, the wonders of the physical universe were begin- 
ning to be explored by the wondering eyes of our infant philosopher. 
They were wondering eyes indeed, wakeful, sensitive, and responsive 
from the first. It is a mistake to suppose, because Professor Henry's 
external circumstances were unfavorable to the early discipline of 
books and the school, that his mind was ever crass and inactive. His 
own testimony and that of his friends is positive that from the first he 
was a sensitive and dreamy boy, who found enough in the common 
earth and air, and the play of common scenes to stimulate his creative 
powers and to furnish material for his long day dreams, as he lay on 
the sunny hillside and looked up into the glowing sky. Against the 
animalism and sensuality which are incident to an aimless youth he 
was defended by the stern moralities and the wholesome religion of his 
domestic training, enforced as these were by the economies of a 
straitened but not ignoble household. Indeed, the household was far 
removed from either. Were we curious in these matters we should 
find that he was born of gentle blood, being of Celtic stock on the 
mother's side, running back through many generations to a noble house, 
and preserving its coat of arms and motto, " I fear no one, I despise no 
one," which this noble descendant never dishonored. His mother was 
beautiful and refined and full of spirit, who had a home in Albany, and 
but little else, when her husband died, the son being then seven years 
of age. Before this event he had been removed to the country, the 
mother's original home, the family retaining their house in Albany as 
their principal reliance. In this village young Henry was the pet for 
several years, handsome, frolicsome, and venturesome on the one hand, 
and dreamy, wondering, and self-reliant on the other, rejoicing in 
adventure rather than in books, till a romance suddenly falling in his 
way kindled his imagination, and unveiled human life as pictured by 
the fancy with prismatic hues — awakening thus a brief passion for 
fiction and the drama. The transition to the acted drama was natural 
to his inventive and energetic nature, and for a time he delighted to 
attend dramatic representations when at Albany for longer or shorter 
periods, and to reproduce them at home, as his changing life led him 



REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXVII 

from one occupation to another. If we connect these well-known facts 
with what he himself has written of the elements and order of educa- 
tion, we conclude that bis early musings and questionings, his boyish 
sports and adventures, were fondly remembered by bim as the inspira- 
tion of his rational and scientific life. " The cultivation of the imagi- 
nation," he writes, " should be considered an essential part of a liberal 
education, and this maybe spread over the whole course of instruction, 
for, like the reasoning faculties, the imagination may continue to im- 
prove until late in life." " Memory, imitation, imagination, and the 
faculty of forming mental habits exist in early life, while the judgment 
and reasoning faculties are of slow growth." " The order of nature is 
that of art before science, the entire concrete first and the entire ab- 
stract last." These are wise and weighty words, but they are of special 
interest when we bethink ourselves that the writer, when he penned 
them, was doubtless all the while thinking of a dreaming boy, half 
buried in the grass, looking up wistfully into the sky, thinking won- 
drous thoughts too deep for tears, perhaps peopling with phantoms and 
fairies that world of nature which he subsequently penetrated by those 
wise questionings and ingenious theories which his sagacious experi- 
ments turned into solid verities. He certainly could have been think- 
ing of no one else when in the same connection he so positively affirms, 
" The future character of a child, and that of a man also, is in most 
cases formed probably before the age of seven years." 

From these musings he was awakened in his later boyhood suddenly 
and abruptly, as by a call from nature herself. During a week of indis- 
position, perhaps of serious reflection over an aimless and possibly a 
tempted life, he was suddenly aroused by the consciousness that the 
common phenomena of nature are the products of forces acting under 
laws, and that it is possible for man to interpret these mysteries. It was 
a simple sentence or two from a common-place though useful book, but 
the thought in that sentence kindled a fire in the mind prepared for a 
flame which was never extinguished. This thought held his attention; 
it took possession of his memory; it quickened the imagination already 
glowing with romances of another sort; it decided his life. These words 
had been read and recited by thousands of boys before, but to this boy 
they were spirit and life. They became a fire in his bones, and proved 
the intellectual energy which had been slumbering within, by the force 
of the reaction which they aroused. So definite was the impression 
which they made, and so fervent and serious the resolve which they 
called into life, that he promptly summoned his companions, that he 
might solemnly announce to them his purpose henceforth to dedicate 
himself to a priesthood of love and service at the altar of science. To 
prepare for this service was no holiday work. His novitiate involved 
labor and self-denial. He must earn the means which would buy not 
only books and leisure and tuition, but also food and clothing. How 
these difficulties were surmounted it is needless to recite. The story is 
more or less familiar to you all. 



XXVIII REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. 

It is important to notice that this work of preparation was neither 
hasty nor superficial. He did not rush with reckless impetuosity within 
the temple, nor leap with a bound to the footsteps of the altar. He 
mastered the geometry, without which Plato admitted no man even to 
the vestibule of science. He became familiar with the Calculus, as the 
magic spell by which to interpret her inner mysteries. Experiments 
with that wondrous chemistry which was then at its most brilliant stage 
of promise and performance fascinated and quickened his imagination 
and his intellect. Each forward step was taken in orderly succession, 
though each single step was the stride of a giant. 

At the age of twenty-eight we find him a professor in the Albany 
Academy, of which he had been a graduate, charged with the work of 
teaching several hours every day, and tasking himself with burning 
zeal over every possible inquiry in chemistry and physics. As we have 
said already, it was in the brilliant dawn of modern chemistry. As 
this new science steadily rose above the horizon, one new discovery 
after another flashed its light toward the zenith and indicated its up- 
ward path of triumph. In its train appeared those new and mysterious 
agencies which were then just beginning to fix the attention and to task 
the analysis of the oldest and the newest discoverer. To these novel 
phenomena the young Professor Henry devoted his special attention, 
and soon astonished the world by achievements which first awakened 
the excitement of bewildered wonder, to convert it into the homage of 
amazed conviction. There was nothing to be said when, as the plunger 
went down into its bath, the impotent bar of iron became possessed of 
a giant's strength, and could pick up and hold a weight of more than a 
solid ton, and as the same plunger was lifted this gigantic energy van- 
ished as at the word of an enchanter. The speaker well remembers the 
excitement which this discovery occasioned when the first experiment 
was tried at Yale college, in presence of a few spectators who casually met 
at the call of Professor Silliman, who was glowing with animation and 
delight. The ponderous platform was loaded with pig-iron and other 
heavy weights, with a few slight additions of living freight. Among 
the last was the speaker, being the lightest of all, and therefore con- 
venient to serve on the sliding scale. It is more than fifty years ago, 
but the scene is as vivid as the events of yesterday. The question went 
around, " Who is Professor Henry, and how did it happen that nature 
revealed to him one of her choicest secrets'?" Thoughtful men asked, 
"What is this wondrous Protean force which he was the first to follow 
in its sinuous hiding places and evoke by a magician's wand; and 
what are its relations to its kindred agents, and, above all, to the mat- 
ter about us, which we can measure and weigh and see and handle?" 
Others asked the still more important question, "How came the dis- 
coverer to surmise its mysterious capacities and to penetrate to the 
laws of its action?" To some it seemed but a successful guess by a 
daring adventurer, a happy hit by a rude fumbler among nature's tools, 



REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXIX 

a lucky accident, like the drawing of a prize in a lottery. It was not 
so with those who retraced the successive steps of close observation, of 
sagacious interpretation, of boundless invention, of ingenious construc- 
tion, of patient trial, of loving sympathy, which preceded this single 
achievement, and all of which combined lifted at once this youth, hith- 
erto unknown, into the rank of the most eminent discoverers, brilliant 
as was iheir company then and since. This achievement was not soli- 
tary. It was quickly followed by others almost as fruitful as the parent 
discovery. Conspicuous among these were the possible and certain 
application of the electro-magnetic power to distant communication, by 
the alternate lifting and dropping of the armature, moving as a lever, 
when conjoined with the indefinite linear extension and multiplied 
intensification of the subtile and enormous agency. Herein was dis- 
covered the scientific secret and the assured prophecy of telegraph and' 
telephone, with their wonders of written language and audible speech. 
From Albany, in the year 1832, Professor Henry was transferred to 
Princeton, through the wise sagacity of our honored associate, Rev. 
President John Maclean, and the generous and cordial recommendations 
of some of the most honored leaders of American science. The step was 
a bold one, and might seem almost rash, to transfer to a college a man 
who had himself lacked the breadth of early culture and the discipline 
and acquisitions of scientific thought which the college curriculum is sup- 
posed to give. His insight into nature's secrets might seem to be mag- 
ical ; but for this very reason could he share these secrets with his pupils ? 
Would not the very swiftness of his own processes of thought disqual- 
ify him from imparting them to others? Would not the lightning 
rapidity with which, as a discoverer, he had leaped from indication to 
theory, and combined probabilities into evidence, hinder him from dis- 
cerning that there were any steps in the process or any articulation in 
the proofs! Whatever misgivings of this sort there might have been — 
and the failures of many eminent scientists have proved that they were 
not without reason — were all set aside by his acknowledged skill as an 
instructor at Albany and his pre-eminent success at Princeton. Not 
only did he give himself to instruction with exemplary zeal and pains- 
taking, but he studied the theory of teaching as he studied electro- 
magnetism, by reflecting upon its conditions and laws, and using wise 
experiments in concrete applications. He did more. He used his 
special studies as examples of general philosophical inquiry, whatever 
might be the subject-matter, and sought by means of these to introduce 
his pupils to the theory of inductive research and the nature of scien- 
tific evidence, however these should be applied. This was a subject 
which he had ever at heart — the discipline of the mind to a true philo- 
sophic method, as the best preparation and security for sound science, 
clear insight, strong convictions, and practical wisdom. But he was 
none the less but rather the more active and enterprising in his favor- 
ite studies, a living and inspiring example of scientific ardor, of wake- 



XXX REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. 

ful enterprise, and unceasing experimentation. It would seem as 
though every thunder storm brought him a new opportunity; every 
gale of wind swept into his mind some new freightage of thought; 
every apartment proposed or solved some problem in acoustics; every 
morning dawn waked him for some fresh experiment, and every even- 
ing shut down the day with some new acquisition. His very house 
was made an enormous electric accumulator and conductor of electric 
energy. In all these varied avocations it was not in that he was busy 
or many-sided that his marked superiority was seen, but in that he was 
original, wide-minded, and persevering. His insight seemed to pene- 
trate at a glance into the secrets of nature, and his capacity for saga- 
cious hypothesis almost to call into being the forces which it uncovered 
and to impose the laws which it interpreted. Besides this there was a 
largeness and originality in his experiments which invested him with 
the authority of priest and magician in the presence of nature. In all 
combined there was the strength and simplicity of scientific genius. 

This active and fruitful life continued for fourteen years, when, at the 
age of forty-eight, in the year 1846, he was called to Washington as the 
first Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

At first it might seem that a situation like this would be attractive to 
any man, but on second thought many reasons would suggest themselves 
why, to a man like Professor Henry, interested as he was in teaching, 
devoted to research, and with the scientific world watching eagerly his 
experiments, the attractions of the place should be scanty and feeble. 
It is only when we learn how he regarded the possibilities and demands 
of the place, and his own capacity and purpose to meet them, that we 
can explain the readiness with which he responded to this call. The 
Secretary was to initiate and control the policy of a novel institution, 
with a handsome but not extravagant endowment given to the United 
States, for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. Loosely 
interpreted, the terms of the gift might admit any application of pop- 
ular usefulness. But when read in the light of the known tastes of the 
giver and the previous bequest of his estate to a society which was se- 
verely scientific in its functions, and especially when interpreted by the 
eminent need and certain usefulness of a special application, it became 
clear to Professor Henry that this gift should be used exclusively in the 
interests of the increase and diffusion of scientific Tcnoicledge. He fore- 
saw and foretold that his theory would at first encounter active dissent 
and opposition. He was equally confident that it would finally become 
popular and attractive. Before he entered upon his duties the Institu- 
tion had been partially committed to another policy. It was not till 
after eight years of discussion and reports in committees and in both 
houses of Congress, in which some of the ablest and most brilliant mem- 
bers were conspicuous, that the policy of Professor Henry at last pre- 
vailed, and has ever since justified itself to the approval of the nation. 
It was not because Professor Henry despised literature that he did not 



REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXXI 

favor the attempt to found a splendid library, for few men were more 
sensitive to its charms or appreciative of its power. Much less that he 
did not understand the value of a museum to an ardent interest in which 
he was pledged by his fondness for natural history and his curious zeal 
in ethnology and archeology, but because he saw a need and opportu- 
nity for an institution that should be limited to the increase and diffu- 
sion of scientific knowledge. Finis coronat opus. The experiment has 
justified the theory. Not only have the workings of the Smithsonian 
Institution vindicated the wisdom of his anticipations, but it is itself a 
monument to his strong convictions and unyielding tenacity, tempered 
as these were by singular simplicity, patience, and unselfishness. Had 
it not been for these characteristics the Smithsonian Institution as we 
know it would never have existed at all. Were it not for the modesty 
of the man we could hear this statue speak as it surveys the scene of 
his life-work, Si monumentum quccris, circumspice. More than this should 
be said. Every one of the great interests which were at first loaded 
upon the Institution, as the National Library, the Museum, and a collec- 
tion of Art, has in the end been better provided for and attained a more 
vigorous growth or a more hopeful promise than had Professor Henry's 
policy failed. Had he relaxed from his tenacity, or had a man of less 
commanding influence represented his opinions, these separate interests 
might have foundered with the central bureau, or had the Smithsonian 
Institution survived, it might have been what it seems to many a casual 
visitor — merely a show place to stimulate and gratify an aimless curi- 
osity, or in which to pass an idle hour of gazing and wonder — instead 
of being what it is, a busy working place, where research is devised, di- 
rected, stimulated, and rewarded, at which its results are reported and 
thence diffused through the countless nerve centers which animate and 
build the complicated organisnrwhich maintains the scientific life of the 
civilized world. In this organism this Institution holds a place and 
performs a function which has no exact counterpart. It is a function 
which is specially needed in a young and growing country like our own, 
so vast in its spaces, so comprehensive in its geology, so varied in its 
climate, so ample in its physical resources, so fascinating in its archae- 
ology, So mysterious in its ethnology, so instructive in its history — all 
the parts of which are connected by political bonds with its capital, 
and respond with a more or less ready sympathy to the pulses of life 
which throb at the Nation's heart. It was no slight service which Pro- 
fessor Henry rendered to his country as well as to the world when he 
gave character and efficiency to this new agency in the life of both. 

To mature and carry into effect the conception of such an institution, 
with no model after which to copy, was the work of a master mind and 
was worthy of a devoted and laborious life. That Professor Henry 
gave to this work the best activities of more than thirty years no man 
will doubt j that he was unwearied in his labors and cares, faithful to 
the minutest details and energetic in administration, is confessed by all 



XXXII REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. 

men. His official correspondence would have been burdensome had it 
been merely a correspondence of routine, but much of it involved pro- 
found reflection, productive invention, and the skillful enforcement of 
principles. Into all these services he entered with a spirit which was 
conscientious and patient in the extreme. 

It would not have been surprising if his scientific ardor had thereby 
been cooled, his invention bad been limited, and his many-sidedness 
had been curtailed. This does not seem to have been true. From the 
beginning to the end of these more than thirty years he was almost as 
inventive, ingenious, alert, and wide-minded as when he achieved the 
triumphs of his earliest manhood. Though many of his discoveries and 
inventions were in the line of his official responsibilities, they all bore 
the stamp of scientific genius. During all this period, it should be re- 
membered, the sciences of nature were making a progress such as the 
world had never witnessed before — progress in every form, from the 
severest mathematical analysis, through the ever ascending steps of ad- 
venturous speculation, up to the most gorgeous cloud-lands of theory. 
Experiment, too, had never made such daring ventures, whether in 
the form of applications to art or the determination of problems purely 
scientific. With every one of these onward movements, whether of 
theory or experiment, Professor Henry was in active sympathy. In 
many of the most important he was the leader of thought and act, as 
witness his place in the very earliest anticipations of the doctrine of the 
correlation of force; his prophetic experiments and suggestions in re- 
spect to the use of the telegraph in meteorological observations and the 
reports of astronomical discovery ; his devices to render available the 
reports and essays scattered over the scientific world by a systematized 
bibliography; his long-continued researches in respect to light aod 
sound which were incidental to bis official experiments as a member of 
the Light-House Board; his comprehensive experiments in respect to the 
sustaining capacity of building stone; and his never-ceasing study of 
acoustics in every possible production, prolongation, and disturbance 
of sound, whether in his own parlor,' in solitary walks, in fog or sun- 
shine, or in travel by land or sea. 

It was, as I have said, a great thing for science and for the' country, 
that in this formative and fermenting period such a man resided at the 
capital and represented the interests of science by his official connec- 
tion with this one national institution which was sacredly devoted to 
scientific research and information. He had foreseen and foretold from 
the first that Washington would certainly become a great center of sci- 
entific activity; that it must inevitably be the residence and resort of 
an increasing number of men of scientific tastes and pursuits. He had 
this in mind from the first, and uttered it as a prophecy, before his own 
policy in respect to the Smithsonian Institution had been accepted, and 
long before the signs had multiplied of its speedy fulfillment. 

This fulfillment was indeed conditional on the continuance of the 



REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXXIII 

nation's integrity and the perpetuation of its united life. There were 
times when this seemed doubtful, when from the Capitol itself, and even 
from this Institution below it, there might almost be descried the threat- 
ening Hues and fortifications of those who would not scruple to sacrifice 
both to the impetuous necessity of what was called lawful war. During 
these years of agitating strife it was but the dictate of a well-poised 
self-command which kept Professor Henry quietly at his work, with no 
doubtful loyalty indeed, but in such singleness of aim, that when peace 
was conquered it found n<5 personal bitterness towards himself in the 
ranks of scientific men. To his philosophic wisdom and his unques- 
tioned integrity it may, iu part, be owiug that, after the centennial 
anniversary of 1876, the natiou was so ready to enlarge the appliances 
of science and at the same time to commemorate its own continued 
life by erectiug upon these grounds, under the care of the Smithsonian 
Institution, the splendid National Museum, which all delight to visit 
and to praise. 

The fact cannot be disguised that the devotees of science have aliena- 
tions and strifes of their own, sometimes arising from personal jeal- 
ousies and more frequently from opposing theories. Professor Henry 
was lifted above all personal partisanship by the severe singleness with 
which he devoted himself to his scientific and official activities. He 
never sought for place or honor, directly or indirectly. He was fasti- 
diously sensitive in respect to the appropriation of his own inventions 
by the production of a patent or a claim for extra compensation. His 
salary was notoriously smaller than he might have earned in other posts, 
but he never either deserted his post, or asked for increase of pay. In- 
deed the last was declined more than once when suggested by his friends. 
It was only when his truthfulness was questioned in respect to one of 
the most important of his discoveries, that he vindicated his claims to 
scientific confidence. Whoever might be jealous of his fellow scientists, 
no one could question Henry's even-handed justice or his personal up- 
rightness. 

Iu the wars of theory against theory he was recognized as an upright 
mediator, who thoroughly understood the criteria by which scientific 
truth can be established and would impartially apply them. If political 
or ethical or theological traditions seemed to conflict with established 
scientific principles or facts, he calmly awaited the issue and insisted 
that science must have its rights whatever might be the consequences 
to any received ethical or theological interpretations. Though his own 
faith was fixed and fervent iu respect to the leading Christian verities, 
he scorned with all the energy of scientific integrity to apply these con- 
victions as a test to any question that was properly scientific. It would 
have been strange if a man who was always learning something new 
had not modified his views of objective and practical Christian truth 
with the progress of his mind and his manhood, but he would never 
acknowledge any t>ase compromise of sentiinentalism or mysticism or 
H. Mis. 69 in 



XXXIV REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. 

one eyed dogmatism with the processes or conclusions of his scientific 
thinking. Within the domain of Science proper he was a clear-eyed, 
impersonal, and uncompromising arbiter and judge. Theorists might 
complain, dogmatists might rage, zealots might bemoan, but not one of 
them would dare accuse the judge of an ignorant or partisan decision. 

The multitude of fancied inventors, discoverers, and projectors who 
came to him for help and encouragement, the crowd of scientific dreamers 
who craved a favorable decision or official help or patronage, the scores 
and hundreds whom he was forced to reject and disappoint often of the 
hopes and dreams of their lives, these all felt that however mistaken 
he might be, he was upright and kind so far as he knew. They were 
always patiently listened to and gently dismissed, though they did not 
always heed his benediction to go in peace. 

For all these high and varied functions, in his high position, Professor 
Henry had one supreme advantage, in that he had not only studied and 
mastered so many of the sciences of nature, but that he made science 
itself in its principles and processes the subject of his profoundest reflec- 
tion. We have abundant evidence that from the time when he made 
his earliest discoveries his mind was not content to search after the 
secrets of nature without, but was equally curious to discover the secret 
of the processes by which man interprets the forces and laws which 
nature hides with such studious reserve. From the time when he began 
at Albany till the end of his life this was prominently and avowedly 
the theme of his constant meditation. In making this a study he was not 
singular among eminent scientists, but only in that from the beginning 
to the end this seemed to haunt him as the most wonderful problem of 
all. This habit forced him to contemplate all the sciences of nature as 
an organic whole, having intimate relations that are broader and deeper 
than those which are limited to any single class of phenomena. It 
forced him to study and question most closely the process of knowledge, 
the sublimest and most fundamental phenomenon in nature, that he 
might know how far to trust its products and by what criteria to test its 
conclusions. We find evidence of this habit of mind in the questions 
which he suggests in his earlier essays and in the partial solutions 
which he gives in his miscellaneous writings. Such a habit would 
insensibly train him to exalt the human intellect in its higher functions, 
with its principles and laws, its axioms and intuitions, its theories and 
anticipations, its forecasting questionings, its creative hypotheses, its 
tentative theories, and its decisive experiments, and to assure himself 
that an agent or agency such as this could have no affinity with matter 
and own no allegiance to physical laws. Even in the suggestion that the 
thinking agency which interprets the universe by authoritative question 
and answer, could once have slumbered in a fiery cloud or could have 
been evolved from any material mind-stuff, by any series of physical 
processes, however daintily phrased, seems never to have been enter- 
tained by him for an instant as having the semblance of scientific prob- 



REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE XXXV 

ability. And yet there Is abundant evidence from bis writings, both 
early and late, that he was in no sense behind the times or ignorant of 
the fascinating plausibilities of the-newest and the most fantastic of 
theories. While he was almost the earliest in the field to formulate and 
defend the doctrine of the correlation of force and to concede that it may 
be applied to all the processes that are properly physiological, he was 
equally sharp and positive in the assertion that the mental agencies of 
every kind cannot be the correlate of any physical or biological agency. 
He insisted with equal positiveness that the so-called vital force cannot 
be the product of any mechanical or chemical activity, siugle or in com- 
bination, 1 ut must lie a directive and constructive agent of itself. Later 
in life he recognized the manifold indications of the presence of a law 
of progressive variation in the history of animal and vegetable life, and 
so far accepted evolution as a working hypothesis. But had he been 
asked at any time whether evolution as a force or evolution as a law, 
one or both, apart or together, could explain the origin of life and of 
living men, of intellect and will and the capacity for science and faith 
in science, I think he would have regarded the question somewhat as 
though he had been asked whether he believed in the vortices of Des- 
cartes or in Kepler's directing angels. Had this doctrine been defended 
in a scientific association, either in the soaring gyrations of winger! 
speech or the dry assertions of dogmatic positiveness, I am confident 
he would have remanded its champions at once to the blackboard, and 
have begged them first to explain whether evolution w ( re an agent, a 
force, or a law, and then desired them to identify it if it were an agent, 
to define it if it were a force, or to formulate it if it were a law. 
Large as was the sphere which he assigned to the imagination, and 
important as the role which he allowed to hypotheses, he would bring 
every theory, however brilliant and plausible, to the triple test of co- 
herence, sufficiency, and experiment. 

Forward and hopeful as he had been all his life long to follow the 
fruitful suggestions of analogy, he never would allow this winged steed 
to cross the chasms of scientific theory with any flying leaps, without 
insisting that it should first fold and pack its pinions, and then carefully 
retrace its steps along that hard pathway of fact and law which alone 
can carry us safely from a scientific hypothesis to a scientific truth. 
The science of America owes somewhat to his example and authority in 
this regard, that its brilliant promises and solid achievements have 
been so far kept free from the speculative audacities and the physio- 
logical cosmogonies from which the science of England and Germany 
has not been wholly exempt. 

This, be it observed, was his position within the domains of pure 
science. For the region beyond, whether it is called the domain of 
philosophy or the domain of faith, let it suffice to say that he had too 
positive a respect lor his own mind to doubt for an instant that this intel- 
lect was the reflex of that supreme intellect which sustains and controls 



XXXVI REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. 

the universe which the scientist interprets. The existence of a per- 
sonal God was accepted by him as a well nigh self-evident truth which 
is as necessary to our confidence in scientific study as to our hopes for 
man's social and moral well being. The moral and spiritual capacities 
and destiny of man were regarded by him as dominant facts and chief 
ends in the universe made up of matter and spirit, facts and ends so 
important and so pressing as to create the need and establish the truth 
of the Christian's faith and hope. He believed moreover in no inherent 
law of progress in human nature or human society as such. On the 
contrary he asserted often that our supreme hope of such progress, even 
in scientific culture and achievement, must rest on moral integrity and 
culture as the supreme conditions. In his closing address to the Na- 
tional Academy he urged " that moral integrity is essential to conscien- 
tious fidelity in scientific research," and added, "Indeed, I think that 
immorality and great mental power exercised in the discovery of scien- 
tific truths are incompatible with each other; and that more error is 
introduced from defect in moral sense than from want of intellectual 
capacity." To the Philosophical Society of Washington he had designed 
to give, as probably his last formal communication, an address npon the 
relations of science and religion, and also upon the true import of prayer. 
This he was not permitted to do, but those who knew him best knew most 
fully that in prayer he found constant delight and strength. Almost 
the last lines which he penned contain a positive and tender yet ra- 
tional confession of his Christian faith. Almost the last words which 
he uttered were with tearful eyes and from quivering lips, "Upon Jesus 
Christ as the one who, for God, affiliates himself with man — upon Him 
I rest my faith and my hope." 

Such a man was Joseph Henry. With eminent truth may we say of 
Mm, as Wordsworth wrote of Milton : 

Thy soul was like a star, and dwelt apart ; 

Thon hadst a voice whose sound was like the sea, 

Pure as the naked heavens^ majestic, free; 

So didst thou travel on life's common way, 
In cheerful godliness ; aud yet thy heart 

The lowliest duties on itself did lay. 

For more than fifty years, the most memorable and critical which the 
sciences of nature have ever seen, he has been indeed a guiding, star to 
their devotees in all this land, ever shining with a serene yet command- 
ing light. During the critical years of its young and buoyant life, 
American science has found much of the guidance and inspiration which 
it needed in his childlike yet kingly spirit. And now as it rejoices in 
the security of its position and its ever-increasing honors, it is most fit- 
ting that its assembled representatives should here gratefully acknowl- 
edge their obligations to their eminent benefactor and distinguished 
leader, and cordially welcome this statue, which by its c^ommanding pro- 
portions gives new dignity to the ground so long honored by his pres- 
ence and associated with his name. Long may it stand to express to 



REPORT ON THE HENRY STATUE. XXXVII 

them and to other generations the sturdy self-confidence, the keen in- 
sight, the benignant spirit, the soaring yet docile genius, the self-rely- 
ing yet devout temper which made Joseph Henry a leader and com 
mander in their conquering hosts. And as here by day and by night, 
in sunshine and in storm, our honored friend shall ever as in his life- 
time keep watch and guard over the scene of his cares and labors, of 
his conflicts and triumphs, so may his memory be kept in fresh and 
grateful recollection by the coming generations. And as this Institu 
tion, so eminently the creation of his mind, shall become more and more 
busy in its activities and more and more conspicuous in its usefulness 
and its fame, may the spirit of its eminent originator continue to inspire 
its aims and direct its counsels — to the strength and glory of this nation 
and the well-being of man. 

To the icell-being of man. For let us never forget that science knows 
no nationality, least of all in this place and in this Institution, which 
was the gift from the mother to the daughter land, whose sacred trust 
and solemn duty has ever been, as it ever should be, to promote " the 
increase and diffusion of knoicledge among men." 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE "ESTABLISHMENT." 

(January 1, 1884.) 



CHESTER A. ARTHUR, President of the United States. 

GEORGE F. EDMUNDS, President pro tempore of the United States Senate. 

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States. 

FREDERICK T. FRELINGHUYSEN, Secretary of State. 

CHARLES J. FOLGER, Secretary of the Treasury. 

ROBERT T. LINCOLN, Secretary of War. 

WILLIAM E. CHANDLER, Secretary of the Navy. 

W. Q. GRESHAM, Postmaster-General. 

HENRY M. TELLER, Secretary of the Interior. 

BENJAMIN H. BREWSTER, Attorney-General. 

B. BUTTERWORTH, Commissioner of Patents. 



REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 
(January, 1884.) 

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, 

President of the Board. 
GEORGE F. EDMUNDS, President pro tempore of the United States Senate, 
NATHANIEL P. HILL, member of the Senate of the United States. 
SAMUEL B. MAXEY, member of the Senate of the United States. 
J. S. MORRILL, member of the Senate of the United States. 
O. R. SINGLETON, member of the House of Representatives. 
W. L. WILSON, member of the House of Representatives. 
W. W. PHELPS, member of V, e House of Representatives. 
JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey. 
PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington, D. C. 
ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts. 
HENRY COPPI5E, citizen of Pennsylvania. 
WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, citizen of Washington, D. C. 
NOAH PORTER, citizen of Connecticut. 



Executive Committee of the Board of Regents. 
Peter Parker. John Maclean. William T. Sherman. 



OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION. 
(January 1, 1884.) 



SPENCER F. BAIRD, 

Secretary, Director of the Institution. 
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. 
DANIEL LEECH, Corresponding Clerk. 

XXXVIII 



REPORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD, 

SECRETAEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR 1883. 



To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 
Gentlemen: I have the honor to present herewith the annual report 

of the operations and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the 

year 1883. 

This, in accordance with the usual custom, will include an account of 

the work performed by the Smithsonian Institution proper, and also 

that by the branches of the public service placed by Congress under 

its charge, namely, the National Museum and the Bureau of Ethnology. 

To this will be added a sketch of the work of the United States Fish 

Commission, which is also under my charge. 

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

INTRODUCTORY. 

The principal points of interest to be considered in more or less detail, 
apart from an account of the regular routine work, are the arrival and 
inauguration of the memorial statue of Professor Henry, the recon- 
struction in a fire-proof manner of the eastern end of the Smithsonian 
building, and the use, under the authority of the Regents, of the halls 
of the National Museum by the National Academy of Sciences and the 
American Pharmaceutical Association. 

The general progress of the Institution and its dependencies has been 
very satisfactory. The funds are in good condition, those of the year 
being sufficient to meet all its liabilities. The publications of the In- 
stitution and of the National Museum have been much larger than 
usual, and constitute an important contribution to theoretical and prac- 
tical science. The labors of the Bureau of International Exchanges 
have been more extensive than ever ; the additions to the library have 
been of unusual magnitude; while in no year of the history of the 
Institution, with perhaps the single exception of the Centennial year, 
have the collections received by the National Museum been more varied 
and important. 

THE HENRY STATUE. 

I am gratified to announce the completion and erection of the statue 
of Prof. Joseph Henry, ordered by Congress in June, 1880. 
Mr. Story, the artist, visited Washington last winter, and fully ap- 
H. Mis. 69 1 l 



2 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

proved the site for the statue which had been selected by the Executive 
Committee of the Board of Begents. 

It was deemed appropriate to have the ceremonies of unveiling per- 
formed at the time when the National Academy of Sciences held its 
annual meeting in this city, and April 19 was accordingly chosen. The 
day was propitious, the attendance of distinguished men of science 
and an audience of ten thousand persons very gratifying, and the 
ceremouies in every respect were successful and satisfactory. 

The following was the order of exercises : 

I. Music — Marine Band, J. P. Sousa, conductor, "The Hallelujah Chorus." (Mes- 
siah.) Handel. 
II. Prayer — Rev. A. A. Hodge, D. D., of Princeton, N. J. 

III. Address — Chief Justice Waite, Chancellor of the Institution. 

IV. Unveiling the Statue. 

V. Music — (Philharmonic Society and full Marine Band, R. C. Bernays, conductor.) 

Grand chorus, "The Heavens are Telling." (Creation.) Haydn. 
VI. Oration — Rev. .Dr. Noah Porter, President of Yale College. 
VII. Music — J. P. Sousa, conductor. Grand march triumphale, "Schiller." Meyer- 
beer. 

A full report by the Executive Committee in relation to the statue, 
with the addresses delivered on the occasion of its unveiling, accompa- 
nies the proceedings of the Board of Begents. 

It is proper to remark that the execution of the statue by Mr. Story 
has added to the high reputation of that eminent artist, and gives 
satisfaction to the family of Professor Henrys to his former friends and 
associates, and to the public, and contributes a notable addition to the 
works of art which adorn the capital of the nation. 

SCIENTIFIC WRITINGS OF PROFESSOR HENRY. 

The Board of Begents having at its last meeting instructed the Sec- 
retary to collect and publish the scientific papers of Professor Henry, 
several assistants have been employed in collecting the material for 
this work, and a large amount of manuscrij)t has been prepared to be 
carefully examined and edited for the press. 

It is proposed to reprint verbatim all the contributions made by 
Professor Henry to the Transactions of the Albany Institute, the Be- 
ports of the Begents of the University of New York, the Edinburgh 
Journal of Science, Silliman's American Journal of Science, the Journal 
of the Boyal Institution of Great Britain, the Transactions of the Amer- 
ican Philosophical Society, the Journal of the Franklin Institute, the 
Princeton Beview, the Smithsonian Beports, the Agricultural Beports, 
the Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of 
Science, the Proceedings of the American Association for the Advance- 
ment of Education, the Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts 
and Sciences, Appleton's Cyclopedia, the Bulletins of the Philosophical 
Society of Washington, the Beports of the Light-House Board, Johnson's 
Cyclopedia, the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, etc. 

Besides these published papers, others in manuscript and extracts 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 3 

from his extensive correspondence will be collected, the whole forming 
one or more volumes of the series of "Miscellaneous Collections." 

The printing- will probably be commenced during- the present year, 
and it is hoped that the work will be readv for distribution at the next 
meeting of the Board. 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

The annual meeting of the Board was held on the 17th of January 
last, and a special meeting on the 19th of April, for the purpose of 
attending the ceremonies of dedication of the Henry statue. 

The resignation of Senator Hoar, of Massachusetts, as a member of 
the Board of Regents, was followed by the appointment of Senator Ed- 
munds, of Vermont, in his place. That gentleman, however, declining 
to serve, Senator Justin S. Morrill was appointed to fill the vacancy. 

The terms of office of the members of the Board from the House of 
Representatives, Messrs. Peering, Cox, and Taylor, having expired 
with the termination of the Forty-seventh Congress, new appointments 
have been made by Hon. J. G. Carlisle, Speaker of the House, for the 
term of the Forty-eighth Congress, viz : Hon. O. R. Singleton, of Missis- 
sippi ; Hon. William L. Wilson, of West Virginia; Hon. William Walter 
Phelps, of New Jersey. 

Provision for Acting Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. — In the 
original law establishing the Smithsonian Institution the only officer 
recognized was the Secretary, and no action was valid excepting as per- 
formed directly by him. In the event, therefore, of his death or disa- 
bility, the operations of the Institution would be greatly embarrassed, 
if they did not stop altogether ; and it was for this reasou that, on the 
death of Professor Henry, in May, 1878, his successor was appointed 
almost immediately. To provide for this contingency a bill was intro- 
duced by Senator Hamlin, shortly after Professor Henry's death, and 
was, on January 24, 1879, enacted into a law, providing that " in the 
case of the death, resignation, sickness, or absence of the Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution, the Chancellor thereof shall be, and he is 
hereby, authorized to appoint some person as Acting Secretary, who 
for the time being shall be clothed with all the powers and duties 
which by law are devolved upon the Secretary, and he shall hold said 
position until an election of Secretary shall be duly made, or until the 
Secretary shall be restored to his health, or, if absent, shall return and 
enter upon the duties of his office." 

Xo appointment has been made under this provision until the present 
year. The Chancellor expecting to make a long trip in the West, re- 
quiring several youths for its completion, and involving an interrup- 
tion of mail or telegraphic communication of possibly a week or more 
at a time, it was thought desirable that a provisional appointment of 
Acting Secretary should be made in readiness for any emergency that 
might arise. I therefore nominated for the position Mr. William J. 
Rhees, the chief clerk of the Institution, who, more than any one else, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



is conversant with its working and policy, and lie was accordingly so • 
designated by the Chancellor. 

FINANCES. 

Nothing unusual has occurred in the financial affairs of the Institu- 
tion. The principal of the fund remains the same as at the last annual 
report, namely, $703,000, on which the interest at 6 per cent, is paid by 
the Treasurer of the United States on the 1st of each January and 
July. 

The appropriation by Congress for the international exchange system 
was increased last year from $5,000 to $7,500, half of which was available 
in 1883. 

The balance of the Smithsonian income on the 1st of January, 1884, 
is $25,914.20, which will be required for carrying on the operations of 
the establishment until the 1st of July next. 

BUILDINGS. 

Smithsonian Building. — In the last report an urgent plea was pre- 
sented for measures to secure the removal of the old combustible and 
decayed wood-work of the interior of the eastern portion of the Smith- 
sonian building and the substitution of fire-proof materials. The Ee- 
gents having directed the Secretary to memorialize Congress on the 
subject, the facts in the case and the arguments in favor of the measure 
were presented by him. The result, I am happy to state, was the 
appropriation of $50,000 "for fire-proofing the eastern portion of the 
Smithsonian Institution." 

The preparation of plans, the details of construction, and architect- 
ural requirements were placed in charge of Messrs. Cluss and Schulze. 

Advertisements of proposals for the work to be done were inserted 
in the newspapers, and the bids were opened on the 26th of April, 1883. 
The removal of the contents of the building was soon effected, the offices 
of clerks and others were transferred to the large hall on the first floor 
of the main building, and accommodation for storage provided by the 
erection of a temporary wooden shed on the south of the Institution. 

The following contracts were awarded : 



Description. 


Contractors' names. Amount. 






$4,699 00 

10,500 00 

8,219 00 

5,157 00 

892 00 

828 00 

134 20 


Brick-work 

Iron roof and floor beams 


C. A. Schneider's Sons 






Water and sewer pipes 




A. E. Rendle .V 




O. L. Wolfsteiner 


150 00 




450 00 




Wenzel Pneumatic Clock Company 

George White & Co 


156 00 




948 00 






1,532 00 


Slate rooting 




454 00 









REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5 

The work has progressed satisfactorily and without interruption, and 
the building will be ready for occupancy in a few weeks. 

The appropriation was found sufficient to secure the fire-proofing of 
the building, but a number of other desirable objects remain to be 
secured, such as a heating apparatus, a passenger elevator, a freight 
lift; the introduction of speaking tubes, electric bells, telephones; a 
concrete floor in the basement, an underground communication between 
the Smithsonian and the new Museum buildings, &c, for which an 
additional appropriation of $15,000 has been asked. 

As the whole interior of the eastern end of the Smithsonian building, 
including both range and wing, was to be torn out, it of course became 
necessary to provide accommodations elsewhere for the officers and 
employes, and as already stated the lower museum hall of the center 
building was made use of for this purpose. The table cases in the 
alcoves Were removed elsewhere, and the spaces fitted up for the pur- 
poses in question. The Regents' room was re-occupied by the librarian, 
and my own offices were established in the northwest pavilion of the 
Museum building. 

The greatest difficulty was experienced in properly providing for the 
archives and the books and packages in storage. This matter was, 
however, ultimately arranged, and with much less inconvenience to the 
current work of the Institution than might be reasonably expected. It 
is hoped that by the 1st of April, 1884, a portion, at least, of the recon- 
structed part of the building can be occupied. 

The principal work of repair in the main building has been the 
renewal of the water-closets on the lower floors of the northeastern 
tower of the central edifice, the old ones having become unfit for use. 
Connections were prepared for closets on the upper stories of the recon- 
structed portion, should they be considered necessary. 

The west basement was provided with wire screens, dividing the room 
into two apartments — one for the storage of bird skins, and the other 
for alcoholic specimens of fishes. 

National Museum Building. — This building continues to preserve the 
reputation it has acquired as representing the maximum of convenience 
and adaptation to its purposes with the minimum of original cost and 
expense for repairs. The principal expenditure during the year for 
the latter object has been made in the tinting of the walls, mending of 
broken glass, occasional slight repairs to the plumbing, &c. 

Some of the down-spouts carrying off the water from the roofs were 
frozen up and burst during the cold of the past winter, causing leaks in 
the walls, which have all been duly repaired. 

Ever since the completion of the Museum building there has been 
more or less trouble in regard to the drainage, especially on the west- 
ern side, where the rain or melting snow banks up against the building 
and soaking down enters the basement rooms, and produces very serious 
inconvenience. Several temporary arrangements were made to obviate 



6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

this evil, but as these were not satisfactory, Colonel Rockwell, the Su- 
perintendent of Public Buildings and Grounds, very kindly undertook 
the work as a part of the general improvement of the Smithsonian 
reservation, which is in his charge. A trench was dug, and the water 
carried northward instead of discharging into an already overtaxed 
sewer on the south side of the building. No trouble has been ex- 
perienced since the work was completed, and it is hoped that there will 
be none at any time in the future. 

Armory Building. — This edifice has been used during the past year 
mainly for the purposes of the United States Fish Commission. The 
lower story has been converted into a fish-propagating establishment, 
for the hatching of shad, salmon, and other food-fishes; and as a store- 
bouse from which to distribute carp, black bass, &c. The second floor 
is devoted to a series of offices, laboratories, and rooms for the mes- 
sengers connected with the fish distribution service. The third floor is 
used as a depot for supplies and materials, and the fourth story as a 
storage room. A large shed has been built on the Armory grounds for 
the deposit of the collections from the International Exhibition at Phila- 
delphia. 

The entire reservation belonging to the Armory has been inclosed by 
a high and substantial fence, and the interior space concreted, with the 
exception of two oval spaces, in which it is proposed to construct ponds 
for holding carp and other fish while awaiting distribution to distant 
points of the country. 

In these grounds are also two tracks connecting with the Baltimore 
and Potomac Railway system, and capable of holding four passenger 
cars or six freight cars. This is a very great convenience both to the 
Fish Commission and to the Smithsonian Institution, as, apart from the 
facility for distributing fish, it makes it possible to load and unload 
cars containing collections relating to the National Museum or to the 
Smithsonian Institution. The entire shipment of articles for the Lon- 
don Exhibition, filling some fifteen cars, was, put on board directly 
from the Armory yard, the boxes and packages being carried over by 
the wagon of the Institution and loaded directly in place, thus greatly 
facilitating the work. 

In a similar manner the cars containing the return exhibits were 
brought into the yard and the contents transferred either to the storage 
shed adjacent or brought over to the National Museum. 

Natural History Workshop. — This building continues to be used as a 
workshop for the modeling of plaster and papier-mache casts of speci- 
mens and for the photographic service of the Geological Survey. 

The work of taxidermy has been removed in part to a temporary 
wooden structure on the grounds east of the Museum. The necessity 
for providing suitable work rooms for the taxidermists has become very 
great, and in connection with this, provision for the storage of alcoholic 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7 

collections and for the packing and unpacking of boxes of specimens is 
urgently required. I have therefore submitted an estimate to Congress 
for an appropriation of $10,000 "for the erection of a fire-proof brick 
storage building east of the National Museum, for receiving, unpacking, 
assorting, and storing the natural history collections of the Government, 
to replace the wooden structures now used for the purpose." 

Necessity for an additional Museum Building. — No better illustration 
can be had of the increase in the collections of the National Museum 
than the fact that an additional building is urgently required for their 
proper accommodation, as explained in the last report (1882). 

In 1875 the collections then in charge of the Smithsonian Institution 
were comfortably accommodated within the limits of the Smithsonian 
building, in rooms having an aggregate area of 30,000 square feet. 
They consisted principally of specimens of natural history and eth- 
nology ; confined almost entirely to North America, with the exception 
of objects of Polynesian manufacture, forming part of the Wilkes col- 
lection. 

In 1875 an appropriation was made by Congress to enable the Smith- 
sonian Institution and the Fish Commission to prepare an exhibit of 
objects illustrating the resources of the United States, as derived from 
the animal and mineral kingdoms, and, with the assistance of a special 
appropriation to the Indian Bureau, of a collection of North American 
anthropology. A large sum of money was expended in the preparation 
ot this exhibit, which was forwarded to Philadelphia in 1876, aud con- 
stituted a part of tbe Government display which attracted much atten- 
tion. 

At the close of the Philadelphia Exhibition very large donations 
were made to the United States by foreign countries, including both the 
official commissioners and individual exhibitors. Many objects of much 
interest were contributed on the same occasion from American displays. 
These collections, Idling some fifty freight cars, were brought to Wash- 
ington, and were stored for a time in the Armory building, assigned by 
Congress for their reception. 

After several fruitless efforts an appropriation of $250,000 was ob- 
tained for the purpose of putting up an inexpensive edifice for the 
storage of these articles, aud their transfer was begun in the autumn 
of 1881, but little more than two years ago. 

Since then large numbers of collections of very great importance have 
come to hand, chief among them being the gatherings of the United 
States Geological Survey, and of the Ethnological Bureau, made on a 
scale of unexampled magnitude, and well befitting the operations of a 
nation like the United States. The many scientific explorations, made 
either separately by the Smithsonian Institution, or conjointly with the 
United States Signal Service or other Bureaus or bodies, the work of 
the Fish Commission, and the enormous aggregate of many smaller col- 
lections, have tended largely to increase the material to be provided for. 



8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Iii addition to this, the exhibition by the United States, at London, 
of illustrations of its fisheries, (the freight bulk of which amounted to 
not less than 24,000 cubic feet, and consisting, in very large part, of 
new objects and articles, obtained at the expense of the appropriations 
of Congress for that purpose,) must also be provided for; as also the 
very valuable and extensive collections in mineralogy, geology, and 
metallurgy made by the American Institute of Mining Engineers, and 
presented to the United States, but stored in Philadelphia, awaiting 
an appropriation for its transfer. 

It may be stated in brief, therefore, that, at the present time, the vast 
building, finished scarcely more than two years ago, is now filled to 
overflowing; while there is additional material enough on hand belong- 
ing to the Government to occupy fully half of a second building of the 
same size, and with a probability that the entire space will be required 
before the construction can be accomplished, even supposing that it is 
begun at the earliest possible time. 

The Smithsonian Institution has always acted in hearty co-operation 
with the affiliated scientific branches of the Government even where 
no official relationship existed, this being notably the case in regard to 
the United States Geological Survey. This important Bureau, in the 
rapid increase of its work, has been greatly hampered by want of the 
necessary accommodations ; and it was with much gratification that the 
Institution proffered a share of the new building to the Director, Major 
Powell, for the accommodation of his collections, and for the office and 
laboratory work. It was, however, unable to do as much as was desir- 
able, owing to the inadequacy of quarters for the purpose. 

Should an appropriation be made for the new building, for which the 
Board authorized application to Congress, it is intended to share it with 
the Geological Survey so that it may have all the facilities required for 
its important work. 

It will be remembered that Congress in the act of 1846 set aside for 
the use of the Smithsonian Institution 20 acres in the southwest corner 
of the square bounded by Seventh and Twelfth streets, and nortli and 
south B streets, the center of the Smithsonian building being exactly 
in the middle of the square. It was in the southeast quarter of this 
reservation that the new Museum building was erected, forming a very 
unsymmetrical annex to the original Smithsonian building. It is now 
proposed to take the southwest corner of the reservation for the new 
edifice, which, when completed, will be essentially of the general char- 
acter of the present Museum building, and will restore the proper archi- 
tectural balance. 

Congress has now been asked to make an appropriation for one 
wing of this new building to be specially fitted for the use of the offi- 
cers and laboratories of the National Museum and of the Geological 
Survey; and, if the amount can be obtained at the present session, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9 

occupation of the building can be assured within eighteen months from 
the commencement of operations. The vacating of the rooms now oc- 
cupied by the Geological Survey will also furnish much-needed accom- 
modation to the Museum; possibly enough until the remainder of the 
building can be provided f or> The proposed wing, however, will be 
complete in itself, architecturally, and will not involve any addition 
for its proper harmonious effect. 

MEETINGS OF SCIENTIFIC BODIES. 

On the 17th of April the annual meeting of the National Academy 
of Sciences was held in the hall of the National Museum, and, in accord- 
ance with the authority granted by the Executive Committee, the same 
room was also used by the American Pharmaceutical Association. The 
meeting of this body, which lasted several days, was attended by a 
large number of delegates, who found in the building all the accommo- 
dations necessary for their purpose. A large floor space was vacated 
temporarily and filled by the extensive collections brought for exhibition 
on the occasion, and in many instances the Institution was able to sup- 
ply empty cases, constituting a great convenience to the exhibitors. 

The collections of materia medica belonging to the Museum were 
greatly appreciated, and it was resolved that the collections of the 
National Museum should be considered as under the special patronage 
of the association, and that all new preparations devised by members 
of the association should be deposited therein. 

Similar action was taken by the Association of Wholesale Druggists, 
which met in New York later in the year; so that the collections of the 
Museum are likely to receive great benefit. 

The " Saturday lectures," under the auspices of the Anthropological 
and Biological Societies of Washington, were continued during the win- 
ter of 1882-'83. The following is a list of the lectures delivered : 

On rivers. Capt. Clarence E. Dutton, TJ. S. A. January 13. 

The races of men. Prof. Otis T. Mason. January 20. 

Mountains and mountaineers of the Caucasus. Mr. George Kennan. 
January 27. 

Mesmerism in animals (with experiments). Dr. D. Webster Prentiss. 
February 3. 

Mythical animals. Prof. Theodore Gill. February 10. 

Germs and epidemics. Dr. John S. Billings, U. S. A. February 17. 

The plant life of the globe, past and present. Prof. Lester F. Ward. 
February 24. 

Pearls and pearl fisheries. Mr. William H. Dall. March 3. 

Indian mythology. Maj. J. W. Powell. March 10. 

Adaptation and interdependence between plants and insects. Prof. 
C. V. Riley. March 17. 

The teachings of paleontology. Prof. C. A. White. March 24. 



10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Human proportion in art and anthropometry. Dr. Robert Fletcher, 
U. S. A. March 31. 

Dr. D. W. Prentiss, of Washington, delivered, by invitation, a course 
of lectures in connection with the department of Materia Medica of the 
National Museum. The lectures were illustrated by specimens and 
other material from the collections selected for that purpose by Dr. Flint, 
curator of the department of Materia Medica. The following was the 
programme : 

Lecture I. — Introductory : Remarks upon the general plan of the 
National Museum. Description of the Materia Medica department ; its 
high value for the purpose of study. Classification and arrangement. 

Lecture II. — On the classification of medicinal forms : Illustrated by 
specimens. Exhibition of microscopical sections. 

Lecture III. — Opium : Its value as a medicine. Cultivation and 
statistics of consumption. In legitimate medicine. In patent medi- 
cines. In opium habit. Exhibition of specimens. 

Lecture IV. — Cinchona : Natural history and sources. Native for- 
ests. Cultivation. Artificial quinine. Alkaloids. Exhibition of 
specimens. 

Lecture V. — Vegetable cathartics: Rhubarb, aloes, senna, manna, 
colocynth, elaterium. Exhibition of specimens. 
w Lecture VI. — Vegetable cathartics : Jalap, scammony, gamboge, cro- 
ton oil, podophyllum. Exhibition of specimens. 

Lecture VII. — Vegetable astringents : Tannic acid, gallic acid, nut- 
galls, catechu, kino, krameria, logwood. Exhibition of specimens. 

Lecture VIII. — Animal products used in medicine : Cantharis (Span- 
ish fly), coccus cacti (cochineal), castoreum (castor), moschus (musk), 
fel tauri (ox bile), ichthyocolla (isinglass). Exhibition of specimens. 

On the completion of the lectures by Dr. Prentiss, a number of per- 
sons who profited by the occasion addressed a formal letter of thanks 
to the Institution. 

The annual address of Major Powell, the retiring president of the 
Philosophic Society of Washington, to which the members of the An- 
thropological and Biological Societies were invited, was held in the lect- 
ure-room of the Museum on the 8th day of December. On this oc- 
casion the room was lighted by the Brush-Swan storage-battery system, 
supplied by the dynamo machine lent to the Institution indefinitely by 
the Brush Company, of Cleveland. Several exhibitions of this light 
had previously been made in the lecture-room under the direction of 
Mr. A. A. Hayes, and the plant was left in the room for any subsequent 
demand that might be made upon it. 

The Biological Society has held regular fortnightly meetings in the 
Museum lecture-room. 

On the 26th and 27th of February an exhibition was held of the col- 
lections about to be sent to the Fisheries Exhibition in London, which 
attracted large crowds of interested spectators. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11 

ROUTINE WORK OF THE INSTITUTION. 

Administration. — ]So change of importance has taken place in the 
personnel of the Institution during the year, and all of the several di- 
visions have discharged their functions satisfactorily. The usual in- 
crease in the magnitude of the work has, however, been strongly 
marked, and this, in connection with the inconvenient accommoda- 
tions referred to above, has naturally taxed the abilities of all con- 
cerned to the utmost. 

Correspondence. — The work in this department — steadily increasing — 
is not marked by any special departures from its accustomed range. 
The number of visionary projects and of novel or ancient scientific 
speculations presented and urged for publication has rendered neces- 
sary the following circular, to accompany the letter of reply : 

"This Institution being in frequent receipt of communications an- 
nouncing discoveries or theories supposed b} r the writers to be both 
new and important, it should be stated that owing to the number of 
such papers the usual course is to refer them to one or more specialists 
in the particular subject discussed, and to communicate briefly by let- 
ter to the authors the results of such examination. This may some- 
times involve a delay of several weeks before the expected answer is 
returned. 

" In order to correct a very common misapprehension, it is proper to 
state that the Institution has not offered any standing prizes for the 
solution of difficult problems or for the discovery of new scientific 
principles. The proper course for those who wish to obtain pecuniary 
advantage from their supposed contributions to knowledge is to make 
some practical application thereof, for which they may secure a patent 
from the United States Patent Office. It may also be remarked that a 
rule adopted by the Board of Regents forbids the Secretary or his as- 
sistants giving, for personal benefit, an official opinion as to the merits 
or demerits of inventions or other projects." 

EXPLORATIONS. 

A very important part of the work of the Smithsonian Institution, 
representing no inconsiderable portion of its expenditures, consists in the 
prosecution of explorations having for their principal object the gather- 
ing of material illustrating the natural history and the physics of the 
regions involved. 

The hearty co-operation of the Signal Office and of other branches 
of the Government, and the associated work of the Ethnological Bureau, 
during the year have greatly increased the amount of research in this 
direction, and it may safely be claimed that in no year in the history of 
the Institution has more been accomplished. The actual expenditures 
on the part of the Institution have amounted to $2,733.35, no incon- 
siderable portion of the entire income, the largest amount expended in 



12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

any one direction being about $600, and from that down to very small 
amounts. The results, however, are, in most cases, of a magnitude far 
out of proportion to the cost. 

A special report will be made by Mr. Goode, Assistant Director of the 
Museum, upon the collections as such; my duty here being to present 
the historical part of the subject, and to give the history and places of 
operation of the more important expeditions. In doing this, as hereto- 
fore, I take up the subject by regions, commencing with the circumpolar 
area of North America. 

Labrador and Newfoundland. — In the report for 1882 reference was 
made to the establishment at Fort Chimo, in Ungava Bay, Northern 
Labrador, of an observing station by the United States Signal Office, 
and of the detail of Mr. Lucien M. Turner, for many years in the service 
of that Bureau. As on previous occasions, Mr. Turner was furnished 
by the Institution with all the materials necessary to make collections 
and observations in natural history; this, of course, in addition to what 
was done for him by the Signal Office in connection with the more im- 
portant object of his mission, namely, the observation of meteorological 
and physical phenomena. 

As in many cases heretofore, the Hudson's Bay Company extended 
a hearty co-operation, in the first place, by authorizing the sending of 
Mr. Turner to one of its posts, and then by taking him to destination 
on its vessel and caring for him on his arrival. Embarking at Montreal 
on a schooner, Mr. Turner was transferred at Bigolet to the steamer, 
and reached his place of destination in due season. Some collections 
made by him on the way were received in Washington in the latter 
part of that year. Since then, advices from Mr. Turner to date of Sep- 
tember 8, 1883, show that he has been very successful in his work, has 
made continued and uninterrupted observations in climatology, and 
has also collected very largely of objects of natural history and ethnol- 
ogy. These were sent home by him by the Hudson's Bay Company's 
vessels to London, where they were transshipped in bond and for. 
warded to New York, coming from London by the Monarch Line of 
steamers without any charges, in accordance with the courtesy of that 
company mentioned in another part of this report. 

Twenty-seven boxes and casks have been received from Mr. Turner, 
containing rich treasure of birds and eggs, mammals, and marine ani- 
mals, and many interesting specimens of ethnology. 

Mr. Turner will probably return from his post of duty in the summer 
of 1884, which will give him an additional season of research. 

This portion of Northern Labrador has for many years been a region 
of great interest to the naturalist and ethnologist ; and Mr. Tamer's 
experience as a collector and observer will undoubtedly enable us to 
solve, for the most part, the principal problems in regard to it. 

Mr. Turner has also made arrangements to obtain specimens from 
Eastern Labrador, especially at Bigolet, Nain, Ovac, &c. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13 

In connection with the researches of Mr. Turner in Northern Labra- 
dor, it may be stated that the Institution, in return for the many favors 
rendered by the Hudson's Bay Company in that connection, ottered to 
present to it a series of his collections, to be sent to such point as it 
might designate. Professor Dawson, of McGill College, of Montreal, 
asked the company to indicate the Redpath Museum, of which he was 
the director, as the repository in question. This was assented to, and 
the Institution has promised that the collection shall be forwarded as 
soon as the expedition is completed and the materials can be suitably 
overhauled. 

Dr. C. Hart Merriam, of Locust Grove, N. T., one of the most ac- 
complished of the young school of American naturalists, has been 
very much interested in questions of the specific relationships and the 
natural history of the American seals, and, for the purpose of studying 
this group of animals, left his home February 21, 1883, and proceeded 
by rail to Halifax, whence, sailing per steamship Newfoundland, he 
reached Saint John's, Newfoundland, on the night of March 2, after 
passing through nearly 500 miles of " pan-ice." Through the courtesy 
of J. & W. Stewart, and the kindness of their manager, John Syme, 
esq., he was accorded the rare privilege of visiting the seal fishery as a 
guest upon their fine steamship Proteus, Capt. Eichard Pike, master. 
At G o'clock on the morning of the 10th of March the Proteus left, and 
encountered a belt of heavy drift-ice near the island of Baccalieu, 
remaining beset in the proper field-ice at 11 p. m. the same day. From 
that time until the return no open water was seen excepting in narrow 
leads and ice-holes, her progress being exceedingly slow, and she was 
often nipped, and several times jammed in the heavy ice. 

Seals were first met with in numbers on the 18th, in latitude 52° 42' 
N. They were the large hooded or bladder-nose seal (Cystophora cris- 
tata), and no less than a thousand were killed and hauled aboard that 
day. When not beset, the steamer was among the " hoods " the greater 
part of the time till the 29th, when the cargo was completed, every 
available space having been filled with skins and fat. Returning in a 
storm, during which the vessel, thus heavily laden, narrowly escaped 
being swamped, the party re-entered the harbor of Saint John's on the 
1st of April. This trip was one of the quickest and most successful on 
record, the skins and fat of 12 harp seals and 14,G23 hooded seals, 
weighing gross G8G£ tons, being deposited in the company's factory. 

The results of this expedition, from a scientific point of view, were 
particularly gratifying, the specimens obtained being of extreme rarity 
both in the museums of this country and in those of Europe. They 
consisted of the skins and skulls of 7 harp seals (Phoca grcenlandica), 
and 112 hooded seals (chiefly skulls) of both sexes and all ages. In 
addition to these, Dr. Merriam had the good fortune to procure a full 
grown foetus of the square flipper seal (Erignathus barbatus), which is 
supposed to be unique. 



14 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Whatever of value may attach to these specimens is insignificant by 
comparison with the importance of the very extended notes Dr. Merriam 
was enabled to make concerning the breeding habits of the hooded 
seal, and upon the structure and nature of their peculiar inflatible pro- 
boscis or " hood," which is wrongly figured and described in all the 
published accounts. 

Greenland. — Previous reports make mention of the expectation of in- 
teresting collections in natural history and ethnology on the part of 
Lieutenant Greely and his Signal Service expedition to Lady Frank- 
lin Bay, as tbey took with them a very complete outfit of apparatus 
and supplies for natural history work. In the failure of the relief par- 
ties of 1882 and 1883 to reach them, we are, of course, unable to form 
any idea of what they have accomplished. It is to be hoped, however, 
that the measures about to be taken for their assistance will be suc- 
cessful, and that they will be found in the enjoyment of good health 
and with ample results of their ex pi orations. 

It is generally known, of course, that the steamer Proteus was char- 
tered by the United States Signal Office to carry Lieutenant Garling- 
ton and his party to the north for the purpose of establishing con- 
nection with Lieutenant Greely and his companions, and of bringing 
them back to the United States. The Navy Department, at the re- 
quest of the Secretary of War, furnished the steamer Yantic, under 
Commander Wilde, as convoy and aid. Two naval ensigns, Messrs. 
H. G. Dresel and A. Ackerman, who had been assigned to duty at the 
National Museum, volunteered their services to accompany the Yantic, 
and were ordered to her by the Navy Department as natural history 
assistants. They were placed somewhat under a disadvantage by the 
necessities of the service, but succeeded in making some very interest- 
ing and acceptable collections ; Mr. Dresel devoting himself more par- 
ticularly to natural history, and Mr. Ackerman to mineralogy and geol- 
ogy. A number of well-filled boxes were brought back, and their con- 
tents have been duly sorted and distributed in the collections. 

Both these gentlemen were ordered again to the National Museum, 
where Mr. Dresel is still engaged. Mr. Ackerman, however, volun- 
teered for duty with the Albatross in her proposed expedition to the 
Caribbean Sea, and is now on board that vessel. 

Arctic Coast.— -The most important exploration that has ever been 
prosecuted directly on the Arctic coast of the United States is that of 
the Point Barrow party, under Lieutenant Ray, sent up in 1881 by the 
Chief Signal Officer for the purpose of taking part in the international 
system of certain polar meteorological stations. Lieutenant Ray was 
accompanied by Messrs. J. E. Murdock and Middleton Smith, as civil- 
ian assistants in meteorology and magnetism, and also as collectors and 
observers in natural history. 

The expedition was organized in San Francisco, the last member of 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

tlie original party of ten reporting- for duty on July 5, 1881, and it 
sailed from that city on the 18th of the same month, in the schooner 
Golden Fleece. 

On September 8 the vessel arrived at Cape Smyth, 10 miles from 
Point Barrow, to the southwest, and it was decided to establish the 
station here, as the ground at Point Barrow itself was unsuitable for 
this purpose. The supplies of the party were accordingly landed with 
all possible speed, on account of the lateness of the season, and on Sep- 
tember 16 the schooner returned. 

The house was finished and occupied October 3, and the regular 
work of the station commenced October 17. The station received its 
official name, " Ooglaamie," from an Eskimo village of the same name, 
about half a mile distant. The expedition succeeded in obtaining a 
continuous series of hourly meteorological observations from October 
17, 1S81, to August 27, 1883, when the party was recalled and the sta- 
tion abandoned. Hourly magnetic observations began on December 1, 
1881, and continued till the station was closed. The 1st and 15th of 
each month were observed as magnetic-term days, the observations 
being made every five minutes on these days. Numerous observations 
were also obtained of auroras, tides, temperature of the sea and earth, 
&c. 

The zoological work was carried on assiduously when the season per- 
mitted, and resulted in the securing of 497 bird-skins, comprising about 
50 species, and 177 sets of eggs, mostly of wading birds; a small col- 
lection of skins, skulls, and skeletons of mammals ; 11 or 12 species of 
fishes, not yet identified ; a very few insects ; and some marine and 
fresh- water invertebrates. The plants of the region were carefully col- 
lected. 

A considerable number of Eskimo vocabularies were obtained, to- 
gether with a large collection of implements, clothing, &c. 

The commanding officer made two expeditions into the interior, 
which resulted in the discovery and partial exploration of a large river 
flowing into the Arctic Ocean. 

The Arctic whaliug fleet visited the station, bringing mail, in the sum- 
mers of 1882 and 1883 ; and in 1882 a relief expedition in the schooner 
Leo brought supplies and reenforcements. 

The steam-whaler North Star, of Xew Bedford, was crushed in the 
ice near the station, July 8, 1882, and her crew were, received at the 
station and cared for till they could be placed on board the other 
vessels. 

The station was closed and abandoned August 27, 1888, and the ex- 
pedition proceeded on the schooner Leo to San Francisco, where it was 
disbanded October 15, 1883. 

Due report will be made by Lieutenant Ray to the Chief Signal 'Offi- 
cer of the meteorological and physical researches of the party. The 
collections in natural history and ethnology just referred to are of the 



16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

very greatest interest and value, including large numbers of birds, some 
plants, but principally rich iu ethnological matter. 

The National Museum has heretofore been much favored by ample 
illustrations of the life of the Eskimo of Greenland, of the Mackenzie 
River region, and of Northwestern River from Kotzbue Sound around 
to Cook's Inlet. The acquisition of very large collections from Northern 
Labrador, made by Mr. Turner, and from Point Barrow and its vicinity, 
by Lieutenant Ray and his party, nearly completes the series, and 
enables the Institution to claim for the National Museum the possession 
of by far the finest series in existence of illustrations of Eskimo life. 

Among the choice ornithological treasures of the Point Barrow Ex- 
pedition are over 50 skins of Ross's gull, a bird of which only a few 
specimens are elsewhere known. 

Alaslca. — Quite a number of interesting collections have been received 
from the different stations in Alaska, although not in such quantity as it 
has been sometimes our pleasing duty to record. From Saint Michael's 
nothing has come in 1883; the exhaustive work, however, at that point, 
first of Messrs. Kennicott, Dall, and Pease, of the Western Union Over- 
land Telegraph Expedition of 1865, and then of Mr. Turner and Mr. 
Nelson, has left practically very little to be accomplished. It is ex- 
pected, however, that something will soon come to hand from the Signal 
Service observers at that station. 

It is with deep regret that I here record the death, by drowning, 
April 19 last, of Charles L. McKay, in charge of the United States 
Signal Service station at Nushagak, Fort Alexander, Alaska, and whose 
important collection has been the subject of notice in several of the 
previous reports. 

He started on a tour of exploration to Cape Constantine on the break- 
ing up of the ice in the river, and, returning, his boat was capsized and 
he was drowned. The body had not been recovered at the latest ad- 
vices. 

Mr. McKay had been in the service of the Signal Office about two 
years, having been nominated by the Smithsonian Institution, through 
the courtesy of General Hazen. He was not only an efficient meteorol- 
ogist, but also an accomplished naturalist, trained under the direction 
of Professor Jordan. 

All the collections made by Mr. McKay at tbe time of his death have 
been received, through the courtesy of the Alaska Commercial Com- 
pany, and properly disposed of. They include some very rare forms 
of animal life, as also numerous ethnological specimens of much interest, 
showing that the people in the vicinity of Nushagak are essentially 
Eskimo, but somewhat aberrant in their habits from those in the more 
northern localities. 

Mr. W. J. Fisher, stationed at Kodiak, in the service of the United 
States Coast Survey, has also continued his very valuable co-operation by 
sending many interesting specimens of natural history and ethnology. 






REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 

Among his more recent transmissions are included a new species of 
petrel, which lias been named in his honor. Mr. Fisher is contemplat- 
ing an extended exploration of the interior of Alaska at some future 
day, and will doubtless make his mark, owing to his thorough prepara- 
tion for the work. 

A few collections of a miscellaneous character have been received 
from Sitka, although none of any particular importance. 

Lieut. Commander H. E. Nicbolls, in command of the United States 
Coast Survey steamer Hassler, in the course of his labors in Alaskan 
waters, during the year 18S3, has utilized bis opportunities, as hereto- 
fore, in the interest of the National Museum, by collecting a large num- 
ber of objects of interest and transmitting them to Washington. 

Among the localities in the North Pacific Ocean least known to nat- 
uralists are the Commander Islands (Bering and Copper), situated 
about 70 miles off the coast of Kamtschatka, and forming a connecting 
link between that mainland and the Aleutian Archipelago. 

The chief interest of this group of islands lies in the fact that it was 
the home of the great northern sea-cow (Rhytina gigas), a marine 
mammal related to the manatee, and of enormous size, reaching a length 
of 30 feet and a weight of several thousand pounds. 

This animal was only known by civilized man for a small number of 
years before its complete extermination, and more than one hundred 
years must have elapsed since the existence of the last survivor. 

The Smithsonian Institution has for some time taken special interest 
in the Commander Islands in connection with the northern sea-cow ; 
and also in the desire to determine what are the faunal and floral re- 
lationships between them and the Asiatic continent on the one side, 
and the American islands on the other. 

In the Report for 1882 brief mention is made of the opportunity which 
presented itself for exploring the region in question .through the court- 
esy of the Alaska Commercial Company in offering its most liberal aid 
in carrying out the undertaking. 

The Signal Office also desired to have a station on the island and 
another on the adjacent mainland of Kamtschatka, so as the more read- 
ily to connect the observations of the Russian Government on the con- 
tinent of Asia with those on the Aleutian Archipelago and circumpolar 
regions, partly under its own direction and partly under that of the 
Canadian Government. 

Dr. L. Stejneger, an eminent Norwegian naturalist, at the time iu 
"Washington, accepted the invitation of the Smithsonian Institution to 
take charge of the proposed exploration 5 and, as stated in the last Re- 
port, he left Washington towards the end of March, 1882, expecting to 
sail from San Francisco on the 1st of April. He was, however, delayed 
for several days by snow on the line of the Union Pacific Railroad ; the 
Alaska Commercial Company, with unexampled courtesy, holding their 
vessel until the doctor's arrival in San Francisco, 
H, Mis. 00—2. 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Leaving San Francisco April 5, the doctor landed on Bering Island 
on the 8th of May, and after starting work on the island proceeded to 
Petropaulowski, where he spent several weeks in establishing a second, 
class station, to work in connection with a first-class station on Bering 
Island. 

Dr. Stejneger spent the summer on Bering Island ; and on August 
21 made a boat expedition around the island, especially for the purpose 
of collecting the bones of the Rhytina. This work occupied twelve 
days. 

The winter was spent on Bering Island, during which time several 
expeditions were made in dog sledges into the interior. 

In May Dr. Stejneger proceeded again to Petropaulovski to inspect 
the station, and made numerous collections^ and observations in the 
vicinity. In the summer he visited Copper Island, for the purpose of 
studying the habits of the fur-seals, of which there are large rookeries, 
worked by the Alaska Commercial Company. 

Returning to Bering Island, Dr. Stejneger finished his work there, 
and left on the steamer St. Paul for San Francisco, where he arrived 
October 29, 1883, and shortly after reached Washington. 

The most noteworthy results of Dr. Stejneger's expedition consisted — 
first, of 4 more or less complete series of vertebrae and long bone and 
about 18 skulls of the Rhytina; second, 1 skull of a bearded whale, 
and several skulls of three different genera of toothed whales, embracing 
forms of great rarity, and previously unknown in the North Pacific ; 
third, three specimens of the Kamtschatkan mountain sheep; fourth, 
about 700 bird-skins, including 7 adults of the great Kamtschatkan 
sea-eagle, together with a large collection of birds of Kamtschatka and 
the Commander Islands, some of them new to science ; fifth, collections 
of the fishes, marine invertebrates, &c. ; and, finally, sixth, collections 
of Tertiary fossils. 

A considerable number of the water birds and fishes of the Com- 
mander Islands are supposed to be identical with, or else very closely 
related to, those of Alaska on the one side and Kamtschatka on the 
other ; the precise determination of this fact, however, depending upon 
a careful comparison of specimens. 

No museum in the world has heretofore furnished the opportunity 
which is now presented in the National Museum for making final decis- 
ion on these doubtful points. 

Dr. Stejneger makes mention in his report of the most liberal and 
generous aid rendered by Messrs. Hutchinson, Kohl, Philippeus & Co., 
as well as by the Alaska Commercial Company and their employes, that 
was shown him in every possible way, including free passage to and from 
the islands and quarters during his stay. 

He also especially mentions in the same connection Mr. N. Crebnitsky, 
manager on the part of the Russian Government of the Commander 
Islands, for valuable assistance and liberality in adding many of the 
most interesting specimens to his collection. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

British Columbia, Washington) and Oregon. — Much the most important 
research prosecuted under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution 
was that by Mr. James G. Swan in the Queen Charlotte Islands. The 
aid rendered by Mr. Swan to the Institution in its various enterprises 
is mentioned in many of the preceding annual reports; for more than 
a quarter of a century his contributions having" been most noteworthy. 
To him we owe very extensive collections illustrating* the life and work 
of the Indians of Puget Sound, as also everj'thing relating to the fish- 
eries of that region, whether prosecuted by the savage or the white man. 
The aboriginal fishery implements collected by Mr. Swan and exhibited 
by the United States at Berlin and London attracted very great atten- 
tion. 

During the past year the Institution was enabled, by the appropria- 
tion for the prosecution of ethnological researches, to send Mr. Swan 
on an extended exploration of the Queen Charlotte Islands — a region 
of which but little has hitherto been known. Such is the ease of com- 
munication with Alaska and the adjacent regions at the present time, 
and such the extent of travel in that direction, that objects of native 
manufacture, whether prehistoric or modern, are becoming extremely 
scarce and very costly. As these characteristics increase day by day, 
there is, of course, no time to be lost in securing that complete repre- 
sentation required for the service of the National Museum in Wash- 
ington. 

Fortunately for this object, the Queen Charlotte Islands have been 
more out of the way of travel, and much less well known ; and Mr. 
Swan, with the hearty cooperation of officers of the Hudson's Bay 
Company, especially of Mr. George, was able, at reasonable rates, to 
secure a collection of extraordinary magnitude and interest. This, till- 
ing some thirty boxes, has reached Washington, and is now being cata- 
logued and arranged. It includes a full series of everything relating 
to the life and customs of the Indians, and especially to the modes and 
results of their fishing, which of course constitute a very prominent 
feature in their life. 

One of the most important results of Mr. Swan's work was the dis- 
covery of the use of a fish of great food value, known as the Beshowe, 
or black cod. This is the Anoplopoma fimbria of ichthyologists, and 
is in no way related to the cod, although improperly so called. It 
is an extremely abundant fish, easily caught, and when salted keeps 
well, and is very palatable. Specimens sent by the United States Fish 
Commission to Boston were smoked and pronounced to be superior to 
the halibut similarly treated. It is not improbable that an extensive 
eastern demand can be established for this fish. 

Capt. Charles Bendire, whose official co-operation in the work of the 
' Smithsonian Institution has been already referred to, has, during the 
year, made some interesting collections at Fort Klamath and forwarded 
them to the Institution. 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

California. — As usual, the collections from California have been of 
much importance, and furnish material not only for the reserve collec- 
tions of the National Museum, but also for distribution and exchange. 

The most important collection was furnished by Mr. Charles H. Town- 
send, an employe of the United States Fish Commission at the salmon 
hatchery on the McCloud River. Large collections of birds and their 
eggs, skins of mammals, specimens of reptiles and fishes, fossil re- 
mains, &c, have all been sent in large quantity, furnishing the means 
for an elaborate monograph of the animal productions of Shasta County. 
Mount Shasta itself was visited, and the distribution of animal life 
carefully noted. Mr. Livingston Stone, who has charge of the salmon 
hatchery, also made some important contributions. 

From Mr. J. J. McLean, Signal Service observer at Cape Mendocino, 
were received some very desirable collections ; and Mr. K. E. C. Stearns 
also furnished large numbers of antiquities, as well as of recent shells. 

Lower California, Arizona, and Nerc Mexico. — The explorations of this 
region by the several correspondents of the Institution have furnished 
some valuable matter, especially the gatherings of Mr. L. Belding in 
the vicinity of the Gulf of California. 

Nearly a quarter of a century ago Mr. John Xantus, an accomplished 
naturalist and collector, prosecuted an extended exploration to Cape 
Saint Lucas and the southern end of the Gulf of California, in the in- 
terest of the Smithsonian Institution. The additions made by that 
gentleman to our knowledge were of the utmost interest and impor- 
tance. 

Since then almost nothing has been done in that region until in 1881, 
when, at the suggestion of the Institution, Mr. L. Belding, of Califor- 
nia, undertook to revisit the same region, with a view of ascertaining 
what changes, if any, had occurred since the time of Mr. Xantus, and 
whether any additional facts or species could be obtained. 

Starting on his mission in 1881, Mr. Belding was occupied at La Paz 
for about three months, from the middle of December to the middle of 
March, making side trips to Espiritu Santo and other points in the 
vicinity. 

He then proceeded to Cape Saint Lucas by steamer, and from there to 
San Jose, where he remained until May 18, with occasional excursions 
to Miraflores, after which he returned to California. 

During this time Mr. Belding gathered a great many extremely ac- 
ceptable specimens, which were duly transmitted to the Smithsonian 
Institution. He ascertained that most of the species which were found 
by Mr. Xantus, and supposed to be peculiar to Cape Saint Lucas, had 
quite an extended distribution northward, although he was unable to 
define exactly their limitations. 

His collections included all kinds of animals, even to the marine 
invertebrates, some plants, and some very interesting archaeological 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

Daring a good part of the time his bands were disabled by contact 
with the spines of the eactus, and he was consequently unable to use 
them in preparing skins of birds to the extent lie desired. 

Mr. Belding" revisited Lower California in 1882-'83, arriving at Guay- 
inas on December 7, during which dine he collected extensively in the 
vicinity. 

From La Paz he went to San Jose del Cabo, and then proceeded 
to Lagiiana for the purpose of making explorations in the Victoria 
Mountain. 

On February 15, having been joined by Dr. Ten Cate, a naturalist 
acting in behalf of the museums of Leyden, Holland, and who had 
previously been in Washington, he proceeded to a point about 50 
miles north of San Jos6, in search of aboriginal ruins as well as of objects 
of natural history. They explored the region pretty thoroughly, and 
ascended the mountain, 4,500 feet in height. 

In the beginning of March the two gentlemen again started from La 
Paz to various poiuts on the coast, among them Ballena, Las Paritas, 
San Antonio, San Jacinto, &c. In the course of the expedition they 
found some aboriginal remains of much interest, of which series were 
collected and sent to Washington. 

Among the aboriginal remains were some curiously- marked rock 
paintings, which attracted much interest. 

On March 23 Mr. Belding returned to Guaymas, from which point he 
was obliged by illness to return home to California. 

Mr. Emerich, of Guaymas, has also laid the Institution under obli- 
gations by transmitting a collection of stone implements of very re- 
markable character, and from some regions previously unrepresented. 

Mr. H. H. Eusby has completed his proposed explorations in Ari- 
zona, especially in connection with its botany. A series of his collec- 
tions has been furnished the National Museum, as also a collection of 
photographs representing the geological and archaeological features of 
the country. 

From the remaining portions of the United States, collections have 
been received from many points, and representing more or less valua- 
ble material in archaeology, natural history, mineralogy, and geology. 
These will all be duly noted in the report of the assistant director, 
Mr. Goode. 

Parties of the Geological Survey, under Major Powell, have secured 
an immense number of specimens — those of fossils and rocks by the 
ton. The extensive collections in anthropology made by Mr. James 
Stevenson in New Mexico have not yet been received. 

A large collection of fossils, reptiles, and fishes has been furnished 
by Mr. George Stolley, of Austin, Tex. 

Dr. Shufeldt, of the Army, while statioued at Jackson Barracks, near 
New Oilcans, devoted himself to the complete exploration of the nat- 
ural history of that region ; his collections being especially rich in rep- 



22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tiles, fishes, and insects. He also secured some desirable objects from 
the mounds in the vicinity. 

Mr. A. A. Eobinson, chief engineer of the Atchison, Topeka and 
Santa Fe Railway, presented eighteen boxes of samples of the building 
stones found along the line of the railway mentioned, constituting a 
very important addition to the building stone department of the Na- 
tional Museum. 

An almost equally valuable collection of building stones from North 
Carolina was presented by Professor Kerr. 

Additional collections of fossils, bones, &c, were furnished by Mr. 
Crooks, of New Iberia, La. 

The Atlantic seaboard. — From the Atlantic coast of the United States 
the most important collections have been those of the United States 
Fish Commission, and especially from the work of the steamer Alba- 
tross. These embrace a vast variety of animal species for the most 
part taken in depths down to 3,000 fathoms. Over thirty new species 
of deep-sea fishes, of remarkable character, were obtained during the 
season. It is, of course, understood that the main researches into the 
temperatures, depths, salinity of water, and other indications were car- 
ried on, as well as the collection of specimens. 

A most important research into the natural history of the Atlantic 
coast of the United States has been carried on by the Institution with 
the co-operation of Mr. S. I. Kimball, Superintendent of the Life-Sav- 
ing Service. In the early part of the year circulars from the Institu- 
tion were distributed by Mr. Kimball, which asked for telegraphic 
notification of the occurrence or capture of any remarkable marine ani- 
mal, and its careful preservation until word could be received from the 
Institution in regard to it. 

The arrangement made by the Superintendent of the Life-Saving 
Service, early in the year, for the telegraphic announcement to the 
Smithsonian Institution, of the stranding of marine animals has already 
been productive of important results. The series of specimens thus 
far received is in every way remarkable, and should the system continue 
to be so productive it is impossible to say what good may not result to 
zoology. The first specimen received was that of a shark (Pseudotriacis 
microdon) from station No. 10, at Amagausett, N. Y., Mr. Joshua B. 
Edwards, keeper. This species had hitherto been captured only off 
the coast of Portugal, and its discovery in our waters was a matter of 
great interest to American ichthyologists. The only specimen known 
to be preserved besides this one is the type of the species. 

Shortly after this shark was received a still more remarkable animal 
was announced from station No. 8, at Spring Lake, New Jersey, Mr. 
Henry S. Howland, keeper. This was a pigmy sperm whale, entirely 
new to the North Atlantic, and apparently new to science as well. It 
has been piovisionally named Kogia Goodei. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23 

Few specimens of this genus have ever been collected, and these from 
the most remote parts of the globe, some from New Zealand, and one 
from Mazatlan at the entrance of the Gulf of California. These animals 
resemble the great sperm whale, to which they are closely related, but 
do not seem to attain a length of more than nine or ten feet, and are 
truly the pygmies of their race. The New Jersey specimen was pecu- 
liarly interesting in that it was a female with young. In dissecting 
the animal a foetus fully three feet long was found, which is probably 
the first ever seen by the naturalist. 

The enthusiasm aroused by the arrival of this specimen had scarcely 
abated when the stranding of another cetacean was announced from 
station No. 17, at Barnegat City, N. J., Mr. J. H. Ridgway, keeper. 
This remarkable animal floated in upon the tide and was secured 
by Mr. Ridgway and his crew after considerable exertion. The cura- 
tor of mammals and an assistant were dispatched from the National 
Museum, and a cast of the exterior was made and the skeleton prepared 
for shipment to Washington. As the huge animal lay upon the sand, 
the question of its identity proved quite a puzzling one to the zoologist 
who viewed it, but when the skull was cut out, it was at once apparent 
that the animal belonged to the whales known as the Ziphioids, and 
probably to the species Ziphius cavirostris, an animal for which no com- 
mon name exists, but which may be termed a bottle-nosed whale. It 
is probably the second specimen ever taken on the coast of the United 
States. Ziphioid whales have a most interesting history. In ages 
past they were very abundant, perhaps as much so as the common por- 
poises of today, but at present only stragglers are found in remote 
quarters of the globe. It would seem as if they were but the surviv- 
ing relics of a great race which sprung into existence, reached the 
maximum of its abundance, and declined long ages before man ap- 
peared on earth. 

From the station No. 25, at Fire Island, New York, Mr. Daniel S. 
Hubbard, keeper, and the station, No. 37, at Turtle Gut, New Jersey, 
Mr. Uriah Cresse, keeper, came two specimens of a porpoise, which, 
unlike the cetaceans which have been already referred to, is of common 
occurrence on our Atlantic coast and is probably also represented in 
European waters. The casts, however, whicli the National Museum was 
enabled to make are probably the first of the species in any museum 
in the country, and with the skeletons which were preserved form an 
excellent basis for comparison with other forms. The animal is com- 
monly known as the bottle-nose dolphin, and is identical with or closely 
allied to the species Tursiops truncatus. 

In addition to the shark previously mentioned, several peculiar and 
interesting fishes have been received. Among these is a fish known as 
the ''star gazer" (Astroscopus anoplus) from station No. G, at Deal's 
Island, North Carolina, Mr. Malachi Corbel, keeper. The " star gazer" 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

is a southern species which occasionally strays northward as far as 
Cape Cod, but it is very rare in museums. A very closely allied species 
(Astroscopus y-grcecum) is said to possess electrical powers in life. 

From station No. 2, at Point Judith, Rhode Island, Mr. Herbert M. 
Knowles, keeper, was received a specimen of the "lumpfish." The 
"lumpfish" as a rule is an inhabitant of colder waters than that in 
which it was found. The "flute mouth" (Fistularia serrata), from the 
same station, is a very rare species on our coast. The angel -fish (Pom- 
acanthus aureus) taken at Barnegat City, N. J., has not been known 
hitherto north of Florida. 

In several cases, too, the keepers of the light-houses have rendered 
services similar to those of the officers of the life-saving stations, nota- 
bly Mr. Burnham, of the Cape Canaveral light-house, who, at the request 
of General O. E. Babcock, light-house inspector, collected the skulls and 
bones of a large number of sperm whales, and transmitted them to the 
Institution. The keeper of the light-house at Monoinoy Point, on Cape 
Cod, enabled the Institution to secure the first specimen recorded on the 
coast of the United States of the small fin-backed whale, Balamoptera 
rostrata. 

Mexico. — Since the completion of the railway lines on the southern 
border of the United States, and extending into Mexico, access has 
been easy to an extremely interesting region hitherto more or less 
inaccessible, and several parties have asked and obtained assistance 
of the Smithsonian Institution in carrying on their researches. Among 
these Mr. H. H. Busby, of New Jersey, with quite a large party, visited 
various parts of Mexico and Arizona, more particularly in search of 
botanical novelties. He made a large collection of photographs of the 
ancient ruins, of which a series has been presented to the National Mu- 
seum. The facilities extended by the Institution consisted principally 
in the way of free passes, obtained especially for the occasion, and of 
transportation of specimens from various points to Washington. 

Another expedition of a similar character has been arranged for dur- 
ing the year, under the direction of Mr. C. G. Pringle, of Charlotte, Vt. 
This gentleman, who is well known as a botanist, will visit Northern 
Mexico, and in return for the facilities extended him by the Institution 
will supply a series of his duplicates* 

Yucatan. — Mr. George F. Gaumer, formerly of Santa Fe, N. Mex., 
but more recently of Kansas City, Mo., resided for a number of years in 
Yucatan, engaged for the most part in making collections of specimens 
of natural history. He returned to New York with a large collection, 
especially of birds, many of which proved to be of new species. Mr. 
Gaumer has recently been appointed United States consular agent at 
Cainpeche, to which point he will proceed early in the coming year, and 
it is hoped to secure his services in completing the collections of the nat- 
ural history of Yucatan already in possession of the National Museum. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

Central America. — By far the most important collections received 
from this region is the series of casts from squeezes taken by Mr. Char- 
nay in the course of his explorations of Mexico and Central America, 
prosecuted largely at the expense of Mr. Pierre Lorillard, of New York. 
It is well known that Mexico and several States of Central America 
prohibit absolutely the removal from their borders of native antiquities, 
aud it has, therefore, become almost impossible, even as a smuggling 
operation, to take away any but the smaller and more portable objects. 
Mr. Charuay, however, was permitted to copy what he pleased, and in 
the vicinity of the ruins of Palenque, Uxmal, and other localities he suc- 
ceeded in obtaining the material with which, on his return to Paris, he 
made two sets of casts. Of these, one became the property of the 
French Government, and the other of Mr. Lorillard, who kindly trans- 
ferred it to the National Museum, and paid the expenses of a suitable 
person to accompany the specimens from Paris to Washington, and to 
erect them in a room assigned for the purpose. This room has been 
made the depository of all other collections of a similar character from 
the same region. These include a large number of statues obtained 
along the line of the Costa Pica Railroad, and supplied by Mr. Minor 
C. Keith, engineer of the road. Statues obtained in the same region 
have also been supplied by Mr. Nutting and Mr. Harrington. 

A very important exploration of Central America, carried on under 
the direction of the Institution, was conducted by Prof. Charles H. Gil- 
bert and Mr. C. C. Nutting, both aided in every possible way, first by 
the issue of free passes on the part of the Pacific Mail Steamship Com- 
pany, and then by the hearty co-operation of Capt. John M. Dow, the 
agent of that company at Panama. Mr. Gilbert devoted himself to the 
study of the ichthyology of the two shores of the isthmus, and collected 
a large number of species, including many new to science. These were 
by permission taken to the State University at Bloomington, Ind., 
where, unfortunately, they were nearly all destroyed by the disastrous 
fire in which the museum of the university was consumed. 

Mr. Nutting's work was prosecuted mainly in Costa Rica, and he 
brought back a valuable collection of birds and other objects, as well as 
some extremely interesting antiquities. Among these was a large stone 
image, nearly perfect in its character. His most important acquisitions 
were made on the San Juan River ? at which point six new species of 
birds were secured. 

Mr. J. C. Zeledou, of San JosC, Costa Rica, also furnished a continu- 
ation of the results of his extensive explorations into the natural history 
of his native country. 

A large collection of pottery, stone implements, and some of metal, 
made in Chiriqui, by Mr. James McNeill, was received by the Institu- 
tion during the year. 

The services of the United States Government were invoked by 
Guatemala in the selection of an astronomer to take charge of the run- 



26 REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 

ning of 11 boundary line between that country and Mexico, and to rep- 
resent it officially on that occasion. Prof. Miles Rock, of the Washing- 
ton Observatory, was selected for the position in question, and kindly 
offered his services to the Institution in any practicable way that might 
be designated. 

As it is believed that the region to be traversed by the commission 
contains many interesting archaeological remains, Professor Rock was 
requested to secure photographs or drawings of as many of these as 
possible, as well as to obtain any portable specimens. To this he 
kindly assented, and on his departure, in midsummer, he carried with 
him a photographic outfit, furnished by the Institution. Much is ex- 
pected from Professor Rock's labors, as he is an accomplished specialist, 
as well as being versed in photographic manipulation. 

South America. — Not much material of importance has come to hand 
from South America, with the exception of a large collection of rare 
and remarkable Peruvian pottery, presented by Mr. W. W. Evans. 
Lieutenant Very, of the Navy, also furnished some specimens from 
Patagonia. 

Japan, China, and Corea. — In previous reports reference has been 
made to the important work prosecuted by Mr. P. L. Jouy in China, a 
region first visited by him in connection with the service of'the United 
States steamer Palos. After the completion of his engagement on the 
Polos, Mr. Jouy remained in Japan, where, with the kind aid of Messrs. 
Owstou, Snow & Co., he was enabled to prosecute his explorationsTn 
certain litth -known portions of the empire. The collections sent by 
him relate to all branches of zoology as well as to archaeology, and have 
proved to be of extreme interest. Through his exertions the National 
Museum now possesses very good collections of the birds of Japan, the 
fishes, in large part, having previously been received through the mu- 
seum at Tokio. 

On the opening of intercourse with Corea, Mr. Jouy accompanied 
Minister Foster, and was enabled to obtain facilities for further re- 
search, the results of which have not been received. Ensign Bernadou, 
one of the naval officers detailed by the Department for service in the 
National Museum, volunteered for service in Corea, and was ordered 
thither by the Department, to prosecute his explorations under the 
auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. Well trained in chemistry, 
mineralogy, and geology, Mr. Bernadou expects to make some impor- 
tant researches in those branches, as well as in anthropology and gen- 
eral natural history. 

Other Countries. — The collections from the other parts of the globe 
have not been of much importance, in view of the fact that the Institu- 
tion occupies itself but little in explorations in the Old World, believing 
that this is best done by agencies in Europe. Collections in materia 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

inediea have been received from the Government authorities in Cal- 
cutta and Madras, as also from the directors of the museum at Kurra- 
chee, iu India. 

During the performance of his functions as Fishery Commissioner to 
the London Fishery Exhibition, Mr. Goode, Assistant Director of the 
National Museum, obtained a number of desirable collections in ex- 
change, and these have added materially to our knowledge, especially 
of the ichthyology of Europe. ^ 

PUBLICATIONS. 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. — During the past year a me- 
moir was published belonging to the quarto series of Smithsonian pub- 
lications, entitled "On the contents of a bone-cave in the island of An- 
guilla (West Indies)." By Edw. D. Cope. It gives a description of the 
fossil vertebrates, shells, and also of the indications of human occupa- 
tion discovered during the excavation of a cave iu the West Indian 
island of Anguilla. 

The remains were first discovered in 1868, and brief notices of them 
made, but the publication of a full account was delayed in the hope 
that other objects might be added to the collection. The memoir was 
submitted to the Institution in 1878, but the other works in progress 
prevented its publication until last year. 

The importance of the subject is shown by the fact that it is the first 
investigation of the life of the cave age in the West Indies; that it gives 
the first reliable indication of the period of submergence and hence of 
separation of the West Indian islands ; that it furnishes the first evi- 
dence as to the antiquity of man iu the West Indies, and that it de- 
scribes some very peculiar forms of animal life not previously known. 

The paper consists of 34 pages, and contains 5 plates, with 105 fig- 
ures, the illustratious being made particularly full on account of the 
archaeological interest attaching to those animals which were probably 
the contemporaries of the earliest men of tropical America. 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. — For several years past the In- 
stitution has expended a considerable portion of its publishing fund in 
reproducing, in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, the Bulle- 
tins aud Proceedings of the National Museum ; as also the Proceedings 
of the Philosophical, Anthropological, and Biological Societies of Wash- 
ington, this being considered strictly germane to the plan of the Institu- 
tion and representing both divisions of its functions — the increase aud 
the diffusion of knowledge. The stereotype plates are furnished free of 
cost, leaving only the press-work and paper to be provided for. 

By publishing these works in the series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous 
Collections they are placed in all the principal libraries and establish- 
ments for research throughout the world; the cost to the Institution 
being simply that of press-work and paper. This is the only mode by 
which ample publication can be secured. 



28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Four volumes of this series have been gathered and published during 
the year, some of the constituent papers of which (it is to be understood) 
had been previously issued separately. 

Volume XXIV contains but one article, and comprises in all 1,081 
pages. The article is entitled " Synopsis of the Fishes of Xorth Amer- 
ica." By David S. Jordan and Charles H. Gilbert. 1882. 8vo. 1074 pp.. 

Volume XXV contains five articles, comprising in all 786 pages. 
Article 1, "Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington," Vol. 
IV, October 9, 1880, to June 11, 1881. 8vo. 1883. 189 pp. Article 2, 
"Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington," Vol. V, Octo- 
ber 8, 1881, to December 16, 1882. Svo. 1883. 189 pp. Article 3, 
"Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington," Vol. I, 
February 10, 1879, to January 17, 1882. Svo. 1882. 142 pp. Article 4, 
"Abstract of Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washing- 
ton," from March 4, 1879, to January 18, 1881. 8*vo. 1883. 150 pp. 
Article 5, "Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (with 
the addresses read on the occasion of the Darwin Memorial Meeting, 
May 12, 1882)," Vol. I, November 19, 1880, to May 26, 1882. Svo. 1883. 
110 pp. 

Volume XXVI contains four articles, comprising in all 867 pages, 
with 70 illustrations. Article 1, " The Toner Lecture, No. VII, Sug- 
gestions for the Sanitary Drainage of Washington City." By George E. 
Waring, jr. Svo. June, 1880. 26 pp. Article 2, "List of Foreign 
Correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution, corrected to January, 
1882." Svo. April, 1882. 174 pp. Article 3, "Additions and Correc- 
tions to the List of Foreign Correspondents, to January, 1883." Svo. 
1883. 56 pp. Article 4, "Classification of the Coleoptera of North 
America." By John L. Le Conte and George H. Horn. 8vo. 1883. 
605 pp. 

Volume XXVII contains four articles, comprising in all 815 pages. 
Article 1, " The Constants of Nature, Part IV, Atomic Weight Deter- 
minations ; a Digest of the Investigations published since 1814." By 
George F. Becker. Svo. 1880. 152 pp. Article 2, " The Constants of 
Nature, Part V, a Eecalculation of the Atomic Weights." By Frank 
Wiggles worth Clarke. Svo. 1882. 293 pp. Article 3, "Catalogue of 
Publications of the Smithsonian Institution (1846-1882), with an Alpha- 
betical Index of Articles in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl- 
edge, Miscellaneous Collections, Annual Reports, Bulletins and Proceed- 
ings of the U. S. National Museum, and Report of the Bureau of Eth- 
nology." By William J. Rhees. Svo. 1882. 342 pp. 

The separate papers under this class published during the year are 
the following: 

No. 479. The Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 
for the year 1881, to the Board of Regents of the Institution. This was 
not actually published till 1883. It is an octavo pamphlet of 53 pp. 

No. 480. "Classified List of Publications of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion." Svo. 24 pp. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29 

No. 481. "Miscellaneous Papers relating to Anthropology," from the 
Animal Report tor 1881. 8vo. 160 pp. 

No. 482, also from the Report for 1881, on "Tuckakoe, or Indian 
Bread," by Prof. J. Howard Gore, was noticed in the Report for 1882 
(pp. 23, 24), but was not actually issued till the spring of 1883 8vo. 
15 pp. 

Nos. 483, 484, 485, 486, 487, and 488. Accounts of Progress in Astron- 
omy, Meteorology, Physics and Chemistry, Botany, Zoology, and An- 
thropology, for the year 1881, were not published till 1883. 

No. 400. "Additions and Corrections to the List of Foreign Corre- 
spondents, t<> January, 1883." 8vo. 56 pp. 

No. 401. "Report of the National Museum Building Commission, and 
of the Architects, January, 1882." 8 vo. 10 pp. 

No. 408. "Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington, Vol. 
I V. < October 0, 1880, to June 11, 1881." 8vo. 180 pp. Illustrated with 
1 map and 2 plates. 

No. 400. " Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (with 
the addresses read on the occasion of the Darwin Memorial Meeting, 
May 12, 1882), Vol. I, November 10, 1880, to May 26, 1882." 8vo. 
110 pp. 

No. 502. "Abstract of Transactions of the Anthropological Society 
of Washington, from March 4, 1870, to January 18, 1881." 8vo. 150 pp. 

No. 503. " Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington, Vol. 
V, October 8, 1881, to December 16, 1882." 8vo. 180 pp. Illustrated 
with 2 maps. 

No. 507. The " Classification of Goleoptera of North America," by Drs. 
J. L. Le Conte and George H. Horn (referred to in the last report), 
has been published during 1883. The first edition of this work was 
published in 1861-'62, and ended with the Cerambycidoe. Within the 
last twenty years not only have the collections of Coleoptera largely 
increased, but many new genera have been discovered. The authors 
have carefully examined all the new material, studied all the works by 
foreign authors, and now present this volume as combining all the 
literature of the subject. Its value is much increased by the addition 
of a bibliography prepared by Mr. Samuel Henshaw, of Boston. The 
introduction describes the peculiar characteristics of coleopterous in- 
sects, defines their classes, and is illustrated by 67 figures of antennae, 
mouth parts, thoraxes, legs, claws, &c. It forms an octavo volume of 
606 pages. 

No. 520. The "Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, for the year 1882, to the Board of Regents of the Institution," is an 
octavo pamphlet of 56 pp. 

No. 524. "Report of the Assistant Director of the United States Na- 
tional Museum, G. Brown Goode, for the year 1882." Addressed to 
Prof. S. F. Baird. 8vo. 145 pp. 

No. 525. "An Account of the Progress in Astrouomy iu the year 1882," 
By Prof, Edward. S. HoWon, 8vo, 48 pp. 



30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

No. 526. "An Account of the Progress in Geology in the years 1881- 
1882." By Dr. T. Sterry Hunt. 8vo. 21 pp. 

No. 527. "An Account of the Progress in Geography in the year 1882." 
By Commander F. M. Green, U. 8. N. 8vo. 18 pp. 

No. 528. An Account of the Progress in Meteorology in the year 1882." 
By Prof. Cleveland Abbe. 8vo. 99 pp. 

No. 529. "An Account of the Progress in Physics in the year 1882." 
By Prof. George P. Barker. 8vo. 50 pp. 

No. 530. "An Account of the Progress in Chemistry in the year 1882." 
By Prof. H. Carrington Bolton. 8vo. 23 pp. 

No. 531. "An Account of the Progress in Mineralogy in the year 
1882." By Prof. Edward S. Dana. 8vo. 17 pp. 

No. 532. "An Account of the Progress in Botany in the year 1882." 
By Prof. William G. Parlow. 8vo. 13 pp. 

No. 533. "An Account of the Progress in ^oology in the year 1882.'? 
By Prof. Theodore Gill. 8vo. 68 pp. 

No. 534. "An Account of the Progress in Anthropology in the year 
1882." By Prof. Otis T. Mason. 8vo. 41 pp. 

No. 535. " Miscellaneous Papers relating to Anthropology." Published 
in the Annual Smithsonian Report for 1882. By Don Leon Fernandez, 
R. T. Bron, George C. Van Allen, James M. Williamson, William Mc- 
Adams, John G. Henderson, G. W. Homsher, J. P. MacLean, James 
M. Null, Benjamin W. Kent, J. Francis Le Baron, M. H. Simons, John, 
P. Smith, H. E. Chase, and J. F. Bransford. Followed by brief abstracts 
from the anthropological correspondence of the Institution. Forming in 
all an octavo pamphlet of 155 pp., illustrated with 48 maps and figures. 

No. 537. A sketch map of the District of Columbia (12 inches square), 
indicating the localities of aboriginal remains; by L. P. Kengla. 

No. 543. " Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington." Vol. 
VI. January 3, 1883, to December 19, 1883. 8vo. 168 pp. 

No. 544. "Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washing- 
ton." Vol. II. February 1, 1882, to May 15, 1883. 8vo. 211 pp. 
Illustrated with 43 figures. 

No. 560. "Report on the Pharinacopaeias of all Nations." By Dr. 
James M. Flint, U. S. N. (Extracted from the report of the Surgeon- 
General of the U. S. Navy for 1882.) 8vo. 28 pp. 

" General Catalogue of Scientific Periodicals, ," — The publication of this 
work by Dr. H. Carrington Bolton, of Trinity College, Hartford, Conn., 
has been continued during the year, 344 pages having been printed and 
stereotyped. Extra proofs of each signature are printed and distributed 
to about 50 public libraries, with the request that they be returned with 
the titles checked of those works possessed by each library. Complete 
sets are marked with a "C," nearly complete sets with "Inc." written 
on the margin. In the appendix to the work it is proposed to give a 
list of all the libraries in which any of the periodicals cited may be 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31 

found. This will add much to the value of the catalogue, aud the 
prompt response and ready cooperation of librarians in this enterprise 
is very gratifying. 

Professor Bolton's catalogue is intended to include independent jour- 
nals in every branch of science, both pure and applied. Transactions 
of societies are generally excluded, as well as medical and art journals. 

Physical and Meteorological Tables. — This work, published by the In- 
stitution in 1852 (212 pages), and revised in 1859 (638 pages), has been 
taken up by the author, Prof. A. Guyot, of Princeton, N. J., with the 
purpose of adding new and important tables and carefully revising the 
old ones. This has been a labor requiring much time, and has occupied 
several years. The manuscript was, however, completed and sent to 
press in 1883, and the printing has proceeded as rapidly as the nature 
of the work would permit. 

The volume will be published during the year 1884, and will doubt- 
less be in great demand, as very few of the publications of the Insti- 
tution have met with such steady call as the former editions of these 
tables. 

Bulletins of the National Museum. — An additional series of publications 
lately included in the Miscellaneous Collections consists of the Bulletins 
of the United States National Museum, primarily printed under the di- 
rection of the honorable Secretary of the Interior. This series was in- 
stituted for the purpose of furnishing a prompt publication of original 
descriptions of the specimens received by the Museum, many of which 
are new to science, as well as of presenting such other interesting in- 
formation on subjects of biology as may be given by its collaborators. 
From the stereotyped plates thus produced a supplementary edition is 
printed off by the Institution, aud distributed among its numerous cor- 
respondents in the same manner as its other publications. The following 
bulletins were published during the year: 

Bulletin No. 16 (Smithsonian No. 492) contains a " Synopsis of the 
Fishes of North America." By David S. Jordan and Charles H. Gilbert. 
The table of contents of this elaborate work occupies 47 pages, and the 
work itself forms an octavo volume of 1018 pages. 

Bulletin No. 20 (Smithsonian No. 508), the first of a proposed series 
of extended catalogues of the writings of American naturalists, com- 
prises a bibliography of " The Published Writings of Spencer Fullerton 
Baird from 1843 to 1882." By George Brown Goode, Assistant Director 
of the National Museum. The work is prefaced by a biographical sketch 
of Professor Baird of 9 pages, and includes (1) a " Chronological Cata- 
logue" of his published writings (forming the bulk of the volume) ; (2) 
a " Systematic Catalogue," in which the various species described or 
treated of are arranged in the order of biologic classification ; (3) a 
" List of Species Discussed and Illustrated," similarly classified. The 
whole forms an octavo volume of 393 pages, 



32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Bulletin No. 24 (Smithsonian No. 493) contains a " Check-List of 
North American Beptilia and Batrachia, with catalogue of specimens 
in the United States National Museum." By Dr. H. 0. Yarrow. 8vo. 
255 pp. 

A brief* abstract of the preceding (Smithsonian No. 517) is a "Check- 
List of North American Beptilia and Batrachia, based on specimeus 
contained in the United States National Museum," by Dr. H. C. Yarrow. 
Svo. 28 pp. For the convenience of collectors, this list has been 
printed on the right-hand page only. 

Bulletin No. 26 (Smithsonian No. 500) is an "Avifauna Columbiana: 
being a list of birds ascertained to inhabit the District of Columbia, 
with the times of arrival and departure of such as are non-residents, 
and brief notices of habits, etc." By Drs. Elliott Coues and D. Webster 
Prentiss. This is the second edition, revised to date and much enlarged, 
of the Catalogue of the Birds of the District of Columbia, prepared by 
the same authors twenty years ago, and published in 18G2 in the Annual 
Eeport of the Smithsonian Institution for 1861. The present edition 
has been entirely rewritten to embrace all the additions which have 
been made to the list during the interval between the two editions, to- 
gether with a review of the changes the Avifauna has undergoue, a 
sketch of the topography of the District with reference to the haunts 
and habits of its birds, and much other new matter ; and is handsomely 
illustrated with wood-cuts or lithographs. It appears as one of the series 
of natural history monographs of the District, following the Flora re- 
cently published, and to be succeeded by articles upon other depart- 
ments of the Fauna. 

It forms an octavo of 138 pages, with a full- page illustration of rail 
shooting on the Anacostia marshes, District of Columbia, and folded 
colored maps of the Potomac Eiver region, of the Bock Creek region, 
and of the Eastern Branch or Anacostia Biver region of the District of 
Columbia ; also a large map of Washington and vicinity. 

Proceedings of the National Museum. — This is an allied series of pub- 
lications, designed to furnish to naturalists early announcements and 
descriptions of specimens received, more particularly when of new 
species. 

Volume V of the Proceedings of the United States National Museum 
was completed during the year. It contains memoirs by numerous con- 
tributors, and comprises 714 octavo pages. 

Proceedings No. 19 (Smithsonian No. 539) contains a "Classification 
of the Materia Medica collection of the U. S. National Museum and cata- 
logue of specimens." By James M. Flint. 8vo. 45 pp. 

Educational series (Smithsonian No. 516), " List of duplicate marine 
invertebrates distributed by the U. S. National Museum." Prepared 
by B, S, Tarr, under the direction of Richard Rathbun, 8vo, 5 j p. 



REPORT OF 'SME SECRETARY. 33 

Proceedings jSTo. 20 (Smithsonian No. 541), a circular " Request for 
Specimens) of Drugs and Information concerning them." 8vo. 1 p. 

Smithsonian Annual Report. — The Annual Report of the Regents to 
Congress for 1881 was transmitted on the 1st of March, 1832, but copies 
were not received from the Public Printer until October, 1883. 

Its contents were referred to in the last report. 

The report for the year 1882 was sent to Congress on the 19th Janu- 
ary, 1883, but copies have not yet been received for distribution. 

It will include the Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents, 
with the reports of the Secretary and the Executive Committee. The 
''General Appendix" contains the continuation of the record of recent 
scientific progress commenced in the Annual Report for 1880, and con- 
sists of the following articles: 

Account of receut progress in Astronomy, by Prof. E. S. Hoklen. 

Account of recent progress in Geology, by Prof. T. S. Hunt. 

Account of recent progress in Geography, by Commander F. M. 
Green. 

Account of recent progress in Meteorology, by Prof. C. Abbe. 

Account of recent progress in Physics, by Prof. G. F. Barker. 

Account of recent progress in Chemistry, by Prof. H. C. Bolton. 

Accouut of recent progress in Mineralogy, by Prof. E. S. Dana. 

Account of recent progress in Botany, by Prof. W. G. Farlow. 

Account of recent progress in Zoology, by Prof. Th. Gill. 

Account of recent progress in Anthropology, by Prof. O. T. Mason. 

Miscellaneous papers and extracts from correspondence on Anthro- 
pology. 

ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS BY TELEGRAPH. 

During the past year an important change has been made in the di- 
rectorship of the astronomical telegraphy so long undertaken by this 
Institution. It was stated iu the last report that the " Science Observer" 
of Boston, under the editorship of John Bitchie, jr., of the Harvard 
College Observatory, had for some time past supplemented this work by 
issuing '• special circulars" furnishing successive elements and ephe- 
merides of observed comets, &c, and also by frequently telegraphing the 
same by cable dispatches in a peculiar phrase code adopted for this 
purpose. 

On being informed that this enterprising agency was willing and pre- 
pared to take the entire charge of the system, the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, agreeably to its settled policy not to expend its energies on in- 
terests otherwise provided for, expressed its readiness to transfer the 
control of this useful service to the Harvard College Observatory, on 
the formal acceptance of the same by its director, Prof. Edward C. 
Pickering. The principal portion of the correspondence relative to this 
matter is presented in the appendix to this report. On the receipt of 
H, Mis. oi) ;; 



34 REPURT OF THJE SECRETARY. 

Professor Pickering's reply the following circular was published a?ij 
distributed to all our astronomical correspondents : 

" Smithsonian Institution, 
" Washington, D. C, January 10, 1883. 
"Arrangements having been completed with the director of the Har- 
vard College Observatory for conducting the system of telegraphic an- 
nouncements of astronomical discoveries, which was established by this 
Institution in 1873, you are hereby informed that from and after this 
date the American, center of reception and distribution of such an- 
nouncements will be ' The Harvard College Observatory, Cambridge, 
Mass.,' to which address all astronomical telegrams should in future 
be sent. It is hoped and believed that this transfer of a highly impor- 
tant service will prove beneficial to the interests of astronomical science." 

Thus the work of receiving and distributing transatlantic announce- 
ments of astronomical discoveries, established and faithfully conducted 
by this Institution for the past ten years, has been committed to other, and 
we feel assured worthy, hands. It is believed that astronomical inter- 
ests will be benefited by the transfer ; and while retiring from its future 
charge, we shall always be ready to co-operate as far as practicable in 
this important field "for the diffusion of knowledge.' 1 

This notice will properly close with a copy of the circular prepared 
by Processor Pickering (dated February 14, 1883) on assumiug the 
charge : 

11 Circular relative to the collection and distribution of astronomical in 
telligence. — The arrangements described in this circular have been mad< 
in order to render the transmission of astronomical intelligence inort 
speedy and accurate. 

"An association of about fifty European observatories has receutb 
beeu formed, with its headquarters at the Eoyal Observatory, Kiel 
Germany, directed by Professor Krueger, who has taken charge of tin 
business" of the association. Connections by cable have been established 
witlwSouth America, South Africa, and Australia, and the Harvard 
College Observatory has been requested to co-operate with it in the 
United States, by receiving and distributing in this country the tele 
graphic information sent from Kiel, and by forwarding to Kiel by tele- 
graph any similar information of importance collected from American 
astronomers. By the courtesy of Professor Baird, Secretary of tin. 
Smithsonian Institution, the function hitherto performed by the Insti- 
tution, of collecting and transmitting announcements of discovery, has 
been transferred to the Harvard College Observatory. 

" In accepting this transfer it is right that a public acknowledgment 
should be made of the service rendered to science by the Smithsonian 
Institution in undertaking the labor from which it now retires. For 
many years its action has relieved a want generally recognized, although 
not otherwise provided for; while, as soon as astronomers were prepared 
to assume the task, the Smithsonian Institution courteously offered to 
facilitate the change which has just been made. 

"The members of the European association above mentioned have 
agreed to contribute a fixed annual sum for the payment of its expenses, 
in return for which they are to receive from Kiel the dispatches which 
may be received at that place. 

" In the absence of any similar action on the part of American astrou- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35 

omers, the dispatches sent from Kiel to this country will be imme- 
diately communicated to the Associated Press, and to the observatories 
and such other institutions and persons as may make special arrange- 
ments for obtaining them. 

" The importance of the work thus begun requires that a special offi- 
cer of the observatory should be intrusted with it. Mr. John Eitchie, 
jr., of Boston, has accordingly been appointed assistant in charge of 
this service, and the details of the proposed system are explained by 
him in the circular distributed with this. 

"American astronomers are requested to send to the ' Harvard Col- 
lege Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.,' telegraphic information of dis- 
coveries of comets, asteroids, or phenomena of any kind requiring im- 
mediate attention. Arrangements will be made to refund the cost of 
such telegrams to the senders when their contents are of importance. 
It is very desirable that the messages should conform to the principles 
stated in Mr. Ritchie's circular. 

"The success hitherto attained by Messrs. Chandler and Ritchie — 
both of whom are now connected with the observatory — in their pro- 
ject of improving the mode of transmitting astronomical telegrams 
encourages the belief that the system now adopted will prove expedi- 
tious and satisfactory. Mr. Chandler will continue his computations of 
cometary orbits, w T hich will be distributed by telegraph, as heretofore, 
when that course seems to be desirable. 

"Edward C. Pickering, 
" Director of Harvard College Observatory. 

"Cambridge, Mass., February 14, 1883." 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 

Among the subjects occupying more than any other the attention of 
the Smithsonian Institution is the system of international exchanges, 
as initiated about the year 1850, and carried on with constantly expand- 
ing scope to the present time. It was begun purely for the purpose of 
enabling the Institution to distribute its own publications and obtain 
exchanges in return, but gradually its sphere was extended first to 
scientific institutions and specialists of the United States, then to in- 
stitutions and individuals of the remainder of the ]Sew World, and 
finally to the various Bureaus of the Government and the Congressional 
Library. The number of packages from foreign countries for distribu- 
tion in the United States during 1S83 was 8,262, and filled 232 boxes. 
Those received from institutions and individuals in America, including 
the United States Government, for transmission abroad consisted of 
18,063 packages, and required 495 boxes for their accommodation, each 
box averaging contents of perhaps 8 cubic feet and weighing 78,647 
pounds. 

In the accompanying report of Mr. Boehmer, the officer in charge of 
this branch, will be found full details of this work — so important a 
factor in accomplishing the mission of the Smithsonian Institution. 

From the 1st of July, 1883, by enactment of Congress, the disburse- 
ment of a specific appropriation for international exchanges (eonsti- 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tutiug the third) has been under the State Department, amounting to 
$7,500. This allowance has been a very important relief to the In- 
stitution, which originally was obliged to meet all the costs of this 
work, sometimes to the amount of $12,000 annually, out of its small in 
come. The appropriation by Cougress, first of $3,500, next of $5,000, 
and, next of $7,500, has enabled the Institution to meet the burden 
more* easily and to greatly increase the efficiency and extent of the 
system, although the additional cost in 1883 met from the Sinithsouiau 
fund has been $6,192.34. 

If the Institution were obliged to pay the full freight charges on its 
packages carried by ocean steamers, the cost would necessarily be in- 
creased by several thousands of dollars. Thanks, however, to the 
liberality of the principal steamship companies, no charges whatever 
are made for such transportation. 

The principal companies making this concession are the following: 

American Colonization Society, Washington, D. O. 

Anchor Steamship Company (Henderson & Bro., agents), New York. 

Atlas Steamship Company (Pirn, Forwood & Co., agents), New York. 

Bailey, H. B., & Co., New York. 

Beadle, E. E., Philadelphia. 

Bixby, Thomas & Co., Boston, Mass. 

Bland, Thomas, New York. 

Borland, B. R., New York. 

Cameron, E. W., & Co., New York. 

Compagnie Generale Transatlantique (L.de Bebian, agent), New York. 

Cunard Royal Mail Steamship Line (Vernon Brown & Co., agents), 
New York. 

Dallett, Boulton & Co., New York. 

Dennison, Thomas, New York. 

Hamburg American Packet Company (Kunhardt & Co., agents), 
New York. 

Inman Steamship Company, New York. 

Merchants' Line of Steamers, New York. 

Monarch Line (Patton, Vickers & Co., agents), New York. 

Munoz y Espriella, New York. 

Murray, Ferris & Co., New York. 

Netherlands American Steam Navigation Company (H. Cazaux, 
agent), New York. 

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, New York. 

New York and Mexico Steamship Company, New York. 

North German Lloyd (agents, Oelrichs & Co., New York ; Schu- 
macher & Co., Baltimore). 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York. 

Panama Railroad Company, New York. 

Red Star Line (Peter Wright & Sous, agents), New York. 

Spinney, Joseph S., New York, 






REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



37 



Steamship Lines for Brazil, Texas, Florida, and Nassau, N. P. (C. 
W. Mallory & Co., agents), New York. 

AVhite Cross Line of Antwerp (Fundi, Edye & Co., agents), New 
York. 

Wilson & Asmus, New York. 

The Monarch Line, recently added to the list, running direct from 
New York to London, greatly facilitates the exchanges between the 
United States and Great Britain. 

The Pennsylvania Railroad Company and the Baltimore and Ohio 
Company have continued their concessions of reduced fares, and the 
freight steamer lines between Washington and New York have also 
made liberal concessions, which have been of very great value. 

Acknowledgments are also due to the foreign ministers and consuls 
of the various Governments for their assistance in taking charge of the 
packages intended for the countries which they respectively represent 
and transmitting them with care to their destination. 

The following tables will give some particulars of the statistics of 
the distribution of packages thus made: 

Receipts. 



Purpose of aud source of receipt. 



1. For foreign distribution: 

From Government Departments (packages). 

From Smithsonian Institution 

From scientific societies 

From individuals 



2. For home distribution 

3. For Government exchanges 



In 1881. ! In 1882. In 1883 



4, 326 

5,436 

3, C31 

768 



14,161 
7,890 
15, 550 



Total receipts, packages 37,551 



6,470 

7, 056 

5,119 

647 



7, 105 
6, 2 ! 8 
3, 900 

780 



19 292 
7,187 
31, 568 



58, 047 



18, 003 

8.20J 

37, 5C9 



63, KU 



Transmissions during the last eight years. 
1. FOREIGN EXCHANGES. 



Items. 



1876. 



1877. 



1878. 



1879 



1880. 1881. 



1882. 



1883. 



Number of boxes . 
Bulk, in cubic feet 
Weight, in pounds . 



323 

2,261 

80, 750 



397 

2,779 

99, 250 



309 

2,160 

69, 220 



311 

2,177 
69, 975 



268 

1,976 

60, 300 



407 422 

2, 800 2, 950 

100,750 105,500 



495 

3, 2t-'8 

122, 205 



2. DOMESTIC EXCHANGES. 






Total addresses to institutions 

Total addresses to individuals 


310 
328 

3, 705 
1,148 


392 
374 


392 
370 


444 
341 

5,786 
1,185 


385 

560 

4,021 
1,566 


600 
454 


548 
399 


423 
471 


Total number of parcels to institu- 
Total number of parcels to individ- 


3,868 
1,094 


4,059 
1,233 


7,086 

1,347 


7,192 
1,167 


8,677 
2, 323 






Total number of parcels 


4,853 


4,962 


5,292 


6,971 


5, 587 


8,433 


8,359 


11, 000 



3. GOVERNMENT EXCHANGES. 



lotal number of boxes. 



122 



;ti 



38 report of the secretary. 

Government Document Exchange. — The exchange of official publica- 
tions of the United States Government for those of most other foreign 
nations bas been continued, as in previous years, under tbe auspices of 
the Smithsonian Institution, in accordance with the law of Congress, 
and a large number of valuable publications have been sent to agencies 
designated by their respective countries. 

Previous reports contain full details of the arrangement. The essen- 
tial points consist in the receipt by the Joint Library Committee of Con- 
gress of fifty extra copies of all Government publications to be used in 
the distribution. 

I regret to say that comparatively few of the nations, even of those 
which had formerly agreed to enter upon an exchange, have carried out 
their promises 5 and it is a somewhat serious question as to whether our 
own self-respect will permit us to continue all these transmissions with- 
out corresponding returns. We cannot, of course, ask for the equiva- 
lent in bulk, as no nation prints so large au amount of official matter as 
the United States does. It is, however, not too much to ask that what- 
ever may be published, however small in quantity, shall be forwarded. 

Some of the most important nations are conspicuous by their absence 
from this arrangement, notably Germany, with which we have found it 
impossible to make any arrangement. Great Britain, which, until 1883, 
has not been on our list, has, during the year, made the most satisfac- 
tory arrangements, and it is expected that a large number of works of 
important character will be received and transferred to the Library of 
Congress. 

It is of course understood that this entire transaction was intended 
by Congress to be for the benefit of the Library of Congress, and all the 
publications when received are immediately transferred to Mr. Spofford's 
care. 

LIBRARY. 

The usual steady increase in the number of books reported by the 
library as received is indicated for 1883 — 12,675 pieces, as against 11,779 
of 1882. These are, for the most part, obtained by exchanges ; to a less 
extent by absolute donations, and still less by purchases. As heretofore, 
these books have been transferred on arrival to the Library of Congress, 
exceptiug where purchased expressly for the use of the National Museum, 
or needed for the service of that branch of the Institution ; all serials, 
however, being regularly transferred. 

In many cases we have been enabled to obtain a second series of 
many important .journals and publications of societies, in exchange for 
the volumes of the Bulletins and Proceedings of the National Museum, 
which are eagerly sought after, and the acquisition of which is consid- 
ered to be a matter of great importance. 

In this latter establishment the same system as heretofore has been 
continued — namely, that of allowing all books on special subjects to be 
taken charge of by the curators of those branches, while mixed or 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



3!) 



general works are retained in the central library room. The librarian 
keeps, of course, an accurate record of the disposition of each book, so 
that any applicant can be referred at ouce to the place of deposit of 
mch book in possession of the Museum that he may wish. 

Attention is again called to the importance of an arrangement by 
rtiiich a card catalogue of all books in the libraries of the various De- 
partments can be kept in charge of the Congressional Library, so that 
the actual depository, and the most convenient one, of any book may be 
indicated to an applicant. 

The following is a statement of the books, maps, and charts received 
by the Smithsonian Institution during the year 1883, and transferred 
to the Library of Congress and the National Museum : 



Description. 



Volumes 

Parts of volumes. 

Pamphlets 

Maps and charts . 



Octavo or 
smaller. 



Quiirto or 
larger. 



1,312 
4, U60 

2,200 



Total . 



442' 
4,170 
368 



Total. 



1,754 

8, 134 

2,568 

219 



12.675 



RELATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TO OTHER BODIES. 

The hearty co-operation of the various Departments of the Govern- 
ment in the scientific work of the Smithsonian Institution, whether re- 
lating more particularly to the National Museum or to the solution of 
scientific problems iu general, has never been more strongly marked 
than during the past year ; and it is with great pleasure that I take 
this occasion to make proper mention of the same. 

The Navy Department. — Previous reports have referred to the experi- 
ment initiated by the Navy Department of detailing six ensigns for the 
service of the National Museum. The object of this measure of the De- 
partment was to impart to a body of young naval officers such training 
as might enlarge their sphere of mental activity, and enable them to 
utilize in the interests of the Department and of science the many op- 
portunities of research and investigation presenting themselves in the 
course of their cruises and other duties. 

The first detail of this kind was made in the autumn of 1881 ; the 
second in 1882, and the third in the autumn of 1883. 

These gentlemen, as mentioned hereafter, have all been assigned to 
duty with the curators of the Museum and assistants of the United States 
Geological Survey, their own preferences being considered as far as pos- 
sible. 

I am very happy to say that the experiment has proved to be a de- 
cided success, the officers applying themselves to their work with great 
diligence, and obtaining a fair knowledge of the subjects upon which 



40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

they are engaged in a reasonably short time. There is every reason to 
believe that from year to year, as this service is continued, the Navy 
will receive back a body of officers who will reflect luster on the De- 
partment and on the country. 

The measure in question appears to be quite popular in the Navy, 
judging from the number of officers who have made application for par- 
ticipation in the benefits. 

The details for the past three years have been as follows : 

First year, 1881. 

R. H. Miner, attached to Albatross. 

E. E. Hayden, in hospital at Portland, Me. 

J. B. Blish, attached to Jamestown. 

H. S. Ohase, National Museum. 

L. M. Garrett, attached to Albatross. 

C. C. Marsh, National Museum. 

Second year, 1882. 

H. G. Dresel, National Museum. 
J. B. Bernadou, ordered to Corea. 
A. A. Ackerman, attached to Albatross. 
A. P. Niblack, National Museum. 
E. Wilkinson, National Museum. 
W. E. Safford, National Museum. 

Third year, 1883. 

H. M. Witzel, National Museum. 
O. G. Dodge, National Museum. 
J. H. Fillmore, National Museum. 
0. S. McClain, National Museum. 
H. S. Knapp, National Museum. 
G. H. Harlow, National Museum. 

Lieutenant Winslow, who was detailed for duty in securing statistics 
of the production, distribution, and varieties of the oyster industry of 
the United States for the census of 1880, has completed his report on 
that subject, and was subsequently occupied in collecting material of a 
similar character for the London Fisheries Exhibition, and also in ar- 
ranging and labeling the collections made for that object. He is now 
devoting himself to the special investigation of a number of the useful 
mollusca of the country. 

Dr. J. M. Flint, of the medical department of the Navy, still continues 
the efficient relationship to the National Museum referred to in the pre- 
ceding report. 

Among the special divisions of the National Museum a collection of 
the medicines of all nations has been receiving much consideration. 



Report of the secretary. 41 

With the cooperation of the leading druggists, and by means of ex- 
tended exchanges, a collection has been brought together superior to 
any other in the United States and scarcely excelled by any in Europe. 

Dr. Flint has had supervision of this collection, and has brought it 
into admirable condition, the specimens being all neatly put up and 
properly labeled with the scientific and common names, and made 
available for study. Further reference to this collection will be found 
in another part of the report. 

At the suggestion of the Institution, the Secretary of the Navy de 
tailed Messrs. Diesel and Ackerman, two ensigns on duty at the Insti- 
tution, to the Yantic — the naval vessel which convoyed the Proteus in 
her trip for the relief of Lieutenant Greely and his party at Lady 
Franklin Bay. These gentlemen made very valuable collections in zo- 
ology and mineralogy, which have been turned over to the National 
Museum, and have been absorbed in the general collections. 

The Secretary also assigned Ensign Bernadou, at the suggestion of 
the Institution, for duty with the steamer Alert, about to proceed to 
Corea, with the understanding that he was to be detached from that 
vessel on reaching Corea, and permitted to devote himself to scientific 
research, under the direction of the Institution. He is specially inter- 
ested in chemistry, mineralogy, and geology ; but he hopes to make com- 
prehensive collections in many other branches. 

The Secretary of State also furnished Mr. Bernadou with a special pass- 
port to Corea, and a letter commending him to Mr. Foote, the United 
States minister to that country. 

The Pinta being under orders for Alaska, Dr. Crawford, of the Navy, 
offered his services as collector, and applied for the necessary appa- 
ratus for making alcoholic collections. Suitable tanks filled with alcohol 
and other supplies were forwarded to the vessel; but as Dr. Crawford 
was detached from service on her, his successor, Dr. Willsou, very kindly^ 
renewed the offer, and will doubtless make due report of his labors. 

The War Department. — The United States Signal Service. — The close re- 
lationship existing between the objects of the Smithsonian Institution and 
the United States Signal Office, as established by the transfer to that 
Bureau of the entire meteorological organization, has continued to the 
present time. The most important connection is in the prosecution of 
scientific research in various parts of the country, as shown more par- 
ticularly in the establishment of stations in northern or Arctic America. 
Many of the persons selected by the Signal Office for carrying on re- 
search in the interests of climatology, either for its own special purposes, 
or in co-operation with the international arrangements, have been nom- 
inated by the Smithsonian Institution, at the request, or by the perrnis 
siou of the Chief Signal Officer. Instructions as to the special desiderata 
have been issued, and the additional expenses needed in the way of out- 
fit and supplies have been furnished by the Institution. The result has 
been to add a great amount of important information to what we pre- 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

viously knew of the natural history,* geology, and anthropology of the 
regions north of the United States ; while, of course, full provision has 
been made for the necessary physical research required by the Signal 
Office. 

The Treasury Department. — A somewhat similar arrangement to that of 
the Signal Office has been made with the Life-Saving Service, under 
the direction of Superintendent Kimball, who instructed the keepers of 
stations to carry out the provisions of a circular issued by the Institu- 
tion, requesting telegraphic announcement in regard to the stranding 
of cetaceans, strange fishes, and any other unusual inhabitants of the 
sea. 

In another part of this report will be found a full statement of the 
very important results already accomplished. 

The Light-House Board of the Treasury Department has also con- 
tinued its co-operation by requiring observations of ocean temperatures 
at various light-ships and light-houses along the coast. The data ac- 
cumulated in this way have been of the utmost importance in connection 
with the general problems of ocean physics, and have been used to very 
great advantage in solving many questions concerning the migrations 
of fishes along the coast. 

The Interior Department. — Another extremely important addition to 
the exhibits of the National Museum results from the transfer of the 
entire collection of Washington relics from the Interior Department, 
where they had been until now in the custody of the Commissioner of 
Patents. In this was included not only the old collection that had 
been on view for so many years, but also a large number of objects 
purchased some years ago by Congressional appropriation from Col- 
onel Lewis, and never unpacked after their arrival in the city. These 
articles have all been placed temporarily in large cases in the north 
hall, and will as soon as possible be transferred to more suitable de- 
positories, where they can be more readily observed and appreciated. 
The utmost care is taken of this collection, which is justly prized as 
one of the most valuable properties of the National Museum. 

Some other articles of historical interest were also received on the 
same occasion. 

Relations to Foreign Governments. — Under the head of " Explorations 
in Labrador" will be found a reference to the researches of Mr. Lucien 
M. Turner. It became necessary in the earlier part of the year to 
renew the supplies of alcohol, ammunition, &c, to Mr. Turner ; and as 
the vessel by which communication is effected starts for Montreal and 
Quebec, and not from any American port, the question of duties — on 
the alcohol especially — became one of some importance. 

By the assistance of the Department of State, the intervention of 
Mr. Bobbins, United States commercial agent at Ottawa, with the 
Canadian minister of finance was secured; and it was finally arranged 
that on the request of the Secretary of the Treasury to that effect small 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 43 

quantities of supplies for Mr. Turner or other agents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution in the Provinces might be sent in by it to several 
ports of entry free of duty, the collectors of customs at Montreal, 
Quebec, and Victoria being notified to that effect. Use was made of 
this privilege, not only in connection with Mr. Turner's work, but also 
in the sending of alcohol to Mr. James G. Swan preliminary to his re- 
searches of the season in the Queen Charlotte Islands. 

Transportation Facilities. — The occasion of having a large quantity of 
freight to forward to London, for the service of the International Fish- 
ery Exhibition in that city, made it of great importance to secure as low 
rates as possible, the quantity to be shipped representing an aggregate 
of about 24,000 cubic feet, or 600 measurement tons. 

The Pennsylvania Kailroad Company promptly responded to an appeal 
for aid by furnishing cars at most favorable rates, to be loaded by the 
Institution, and made very satisfactory arrangements in regard to light- 
erage of the packages and their transfer to the steamers. 

An arrangement was also made with Messrs. Patton, Vickers & Co., 
agents of the Monarch Line of steamers, plying between New York and 
London direct, by which the goods were carried at reduced rates for the 
round trip. 

The gentlemen just referred to also kindly agreed to carry the regu- 
lar boxes of international exchanges system of the Institution free of 
charge, in this respect following out the liberal example of all the other 
lines between New York and the rest of the world. 

Very favorable offers for freights between New York and Wash- 
ington have also been made by the Inland and Seaboard Coasting Com- . 
pany, and accepted by the Institution. 

International and State Exhibitions. — Since the International Exhibi- 
tion in Philadelphia, in 1876, exhibitions of a somewhat similar char- 
acter, although more limited, have been held in many of the cities of the 
United States, these usually opening in August or September and lasting 
till towards the end of the year. Application is usually made to the In- 
stitution by the directors of these organizations for the loan of specimens 
from the National Museum. In most cases, however, it has not been 
considered expedient to take any action, excepting in cases where impor- 
tant contributions to the National Museum could be expected in return, 
or where Congress definitely authorized a loan in the particular case. It 
is not generally understood that, excepting where the Museum is to be 
benefited, there is no authority for allowing any specimens to leave the 
walls of the Museum buildings, and it was only by direct authority of 
Congress that displays were made at Philadelphia and in the Fishery 
Exhibitions at Berlin and London. 

Quite a large collection, however, of duplicate specimeus was fur- 
nished for exhibition at the International Exposition held at Louisville 
during the year 1883, this consisting, in large part, of showy objects, 
such as an ethnological display from Alaska, the skeleton of a whale, 



44 REPORT OE THE SECRETARY. 

some mounted mammals, &c. The stipulation iu the Congressional 
enactment, that they were to be taken from and returned free of expense 
to the Institution, has been carried out, and the various objects have been 
returned with but a moderate amount of deterioration. 

Earlier in the year similar action was taken in regard to the Chicago 
Railway Exposition, in the loan of one of the earliest locomotives used 
in Pennsylvania, and presented, at the Philadelphia Centennial, to the 
National Museum by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company. 

Some collections were lent to the Foreign Exhibition Avhich opened 
iu Boston September 14 and continued to the end of the year. This 
was, however, on condition that a very valuable exhibit made by the 
Rajah of Lahore, and at the disposal of the authorities of the exhibition, 
be presented to the National Museum at the close. 

Electric Light Accommodation. — The loan by the Brush- Swan Electric 
Company of a powerful dynamo machine of six 3,000-candle-power, and 
of a series of arc-lights for the purpose of experiment upon the lighting 
of the Museum building, as also for use in electric photography, has 
already been mentioned. A suitable engine for working the dynamo 
was obtained at the expense of the Museum, and the apparatus put in 
efficient running order. This has since been under the direction of Mr. 
A. A. Duly, the engineer of the building, and Mr. William J. Green, 
the electrician. 

On several occasions the halls of the building have been lighted with 
this apparatus; and very constant use was made of it in the prepara- 
tion of enlarged photographs of scenes connected with the fishery 
industries, to be used for exhibition at London. Several hundreds of 
these were enlarged from a size of 10 by 12 inches to that of 30 by 40 ; and, 
being finished up in crayon, constituted a very interesting and striking 
element of the international display at London. 

In December, Mr. A. A. Hayes, representing the Brush Company, 
asked the privilege of making an exhibition, in the lecture room of 
the Museum, of the Brush storage battery system, which was readily 
granted. A battery was placed iu the lecture room, connected with 
forty of the Swan incandescent lights, and was charged by the Brush 
dynamo machine referred to. The exhibition was continued several 
successive evenings, and was witnessed by a number of Government 
officials and prominent citizens of Washington who were present by 
invitation. The exhibition was reported to be entirely satisfactory. 

The light was also used on the occasion of the lecture of Professor 
Powell, before the Biological and Anthropological Societies of Wash- 
ington, as already mentioned. 

The apparatus has been left iu the lecture room for such additional 
use by the Institution as it may desire. 

Forestry Inquiries. — At the request of the Biological Society of Wash- 
ington, which is very much interested in the question of forest trees (either 
native or planted) in the District, the Institution issued a circular asking 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45 

various persons informed on the subject, including superintendents of 

parks and grounds, for lists of the trees the existence of which in the 
District is known to them. The information thus obtained will be col- 
lated and presented in the form of a map, which will undoubtedly be 
of much interest. 

Among - the various courtesies extended, directly or indirectly, to the 
Institution, was an invitation to the Secretary to permit his name to 
be used as one of a committee on a bill providing for the protection of 
American forests. He was also asked to serve as a member of the jury 
in the International Horticultural Exposition, to be held at St. Peters- 
burg on the 17th of Hay, under the auspices of the Imperial Horticult- 
ural Society of Russia. 

NECROL()(i\. 

The usual melancholy task of recording some deaths dining the year, 
of employes and collaborators of the Institution, again falls upon me. 
1 shall follow the order in time of the respective dates of decease. 

Edward H. Knight, born in London, June 1, 1824, came to this 
country and settled in Cincinnati in 1815, at the age of twenty-one. He 
died at Bellefontaine, Ohio, January 22, 1883, at the age of fifty-nine 
years. In 1801 he was employed in the CTnited States Patent Office as 
general editor of its publications. During his connection with this great 
institution, availing himself of his rare advantages, he compiled his 
'•American Mechanical Dictionary," which was completed and pub- 
lished in 1873 in three large octavo volumes. In 1870 he was selected 
as the commissioner in charge of the Patent Office exhibit at the Cen- 
tennial Exhibition at Philadelphia. As one result of his observations 
at that great international display he wrote "A Study of the Savage 
Weapons at the Centennial Exhibition," which was published in the 
Smithsonian Report for 1870, occupying 86 pages, and illustrated with 
117 sketches of various weapons sketched by himself. In 1S78 he was 
appointed a commissioner to the International Exposition held in Paris 
in that year; and in the following year supervised the publication of 
the olficial report of the United States commissioners to the Exposition, 
in five octavo volumes. He had undertaken for the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution the preparation of an elaborate work on the "Development of 
the Mechanic Arts," a subject he was well qualified by his studies and 
tastes to discuss in a comprehensive manner, but a project he did not 
live to accomplish. 

Paul Schumacher was born in Hungary April 10, 1813. In 1805, 
at the age of twenty-two, he came to the United States. He remained 
several years in New York, where he acquired the English language by 
his own efforts. He left New York on account of ill health, and weut 
to San Erancisco, where he remained until he was employed by the 
United States Coast Survey. In this service he made his firs! collec- 



46 REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 

tion of Indian relics along the southern coast of California and on the 
neighboring islands. Afterward, in 1875, he was employed by the 
Smithsonian Institution to extend his explorations as far north as Ore- 
gon. In 1880 he went to Guayinas, Sonora, to pursue his vocation 
of civil engineering and surveying, and also with the intention of con- 
tinuing his archaeological researches. While there, he became interested 
in mines, and during a visit to the San Antonio copper mines he was 
taken with fever, and died, after an illness of three days, on the 22d of 
May, 1883. 

Hermann Diebitsch was born inNeustadt, Silesia, Germany, on the 
ICth of March, 1818. He died at his residence in Washington, Septem- 
ber 30, 1883. In 1825 he entered the academy of his native town, at the 
age of seven years; and in 1831 he entered the University at Breslau, 
but left it in 1835 to enter the Military Academy in Berlin, where he 
was graduated as lieutenant in 1838, and soon gained high rank in the 
Prussian army. In 1850 he came to this country, became connected 
with the Smithsonian Institution as meteorological clerk and observer 
in 1853, and remained there with some interruptions (during which he 
was employed in mathematical work for the Naval Observatory) until 
his death. For a number of years preceding his death he had charge 
of the exchange system of the Institution, though for the last year or so 
incapacitated from active work by a partial paralysis. He was a man 
of scholarly attainments, and possessed a clear, critical, and analytic 
quality of mind. 

John Lawrence Smith, M. D., was born near Charleston, S. C, 
December 1G, 18 L8, and died at his residence in Louisville, Ky., October 
12, 1883, iu the sixty-fifth year of his age. He was a graduate of the Uni- 
versity of Virginia, and subsequently of the Medical College of Charles- 
ton After receiving his medical diploma, he spent several years in 
Europe, pursuing his studies. In 1844 he was appointed assay er of 
the State of South Carolina. In 1847 he received an invitation from 
the Turkish Government to become its miniug engineer and to investi- 
gate and report on the conditions of cotton-growing in that country. 
While pursuing these new duties, he made a careful study of the geo- 
logical and mineralogical characteristics of the emery mines of Turkey, 
spending about four years in this service. His memoir on the subject 
was published in the Memoires des Scwants Strangers. He also examined 
chemically and published a report on the thermal waters of Asia Minor. 

Dr. Smith also invented, in 1851, the ''inverted microscope," by which 
liquids placed upon a horizontal stage of thin glass could be conven- 
iently examined from beneath, the illuminating rays passing downward 
and being then reflected upward to the eye. 

In 1854 he visited Washington City, and became for a year or two 
the chemist of the Smithsonian Institution, in the laboratory of which 
he found a congenial place for pursuing his analytical researches, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47 

From the study of mineralogy — in which field Dr. Smith made impor- 
tant original observations — he was led to a careful examination of meteor- 
ites, to which subject he devoted the greater portion of his later years, 
and in which he became a recognized authority. He had accumulated 
a very large and valuable collection of these interesting cosmical bodies, 
now in the possession of Harvard College. A volume of 400 octavo 
pages, comprising his principal scientific writings, was published in 1873. 
Fully oue-fourth of this matter is occupied with his various papers on 
meteorites. 

Dr. Smith filled successively several professorships ; was a United 
States commissioner to the Universal Exposition of Paris in 1867, and 
to that of Vienna in 1872; was president of the American Association 
in 1872; and was a member of the National Academy of Sciences. 

George Shoemaker, an efficient assistant in the department of 
birds, died October 12, 1883, at his parents' residence in Georgetown, 
D. C, after an illness of more than a year. He was born in 1842, and had 
passed his 21st birthday only 16 days. His disease was pulmonary con- 
sumption, which first developed itself about the middle of September, 
1882. Soon after being taken ill he went to Philadelphia, where he 
spent two months, thinking the change might be of benefit. In the 
spring of 1883 he went to Florida, and, after remaining two months, re- 
turned without having derived any benefit from the journey, but, on the 
contrary, much reduced in weight and strength. Early in September, 
on the recommendation of his physician, he went to Loudoun County, 
Virginia, iu order to try once more the effects of a change of atmosphere. 
There he continued to lose ground so rapidly that he decided to return 
at the end of two weeks. He reached home in a very much weakened 
condition, but managed to keep up until within a very few days of his 
death. Mr. Shoemaker was a young man of much promise ; faithful and 
consciencious in the discharge of his duties, and possessed of many ex- 
cellent traits of character. He death was no less a loss to the depart- 
ment than a sad bereavement to his friends. 

Dr. Leonard Dunnell Gale was born at Millbury, Mass., in 1800. 
He was graduated from Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., in 1825, and 
devoting himself chiefly to the pursuit of chemistry became early a 
professor of that science in several institutions of learning. In 1833 he 
made a geological survey of Manhattan Island, and not long afterward 
was appointed professor of chemistry and mineralogy in the New York 
City University. Iu 1836 he there formed the acquaintance of Prof. S. F. 
B. Morse, and by his familiarity with the discoveries of Professor Henry 
was enabled to render his colleague's project of an electro-magnetic 
telegraph successful in operation. In 1846 he came to Washington, and 
for eleven years was an examiner in the Patent Office in charge of the 
depart inent of chemical inventions. In 1857, having been removed from 
that office, he practiced in this city for some years as expert and attor- 
ney in chemical applications. 



48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

hi 1871 Dr. Gale became connected with this Institution as chemist 
in the laboratory, where be continued for a year or two. 

He became considerably enfeebled in his later years, and died in this 
city October 23, 1883, at the age of eighty-four. 

Dr. John Lawrence Le Conte was born in New York May 13, 
1825, and died in Philadelphia November 15, 1883, in the fifty-ninth 
year of his age. His father, Maj. John E. Le Conte, of the Engineer 
Corps, was a writer on botany and zoology. Dr. Le Conte was gradu- 
ated in 1840 from the College of Physicians of New York. He wrote 
some early papers on miueralogy and palaeontology, but bis principal 
studies were in the department of entomology, and more especially in 
the class of Coleoptera, to which division he devoted the labor of many 
years, and in which he made a very large and valuable collection of 
specimens. In 1850 he published a "Monograph of Pselaphida3," and 
not long afterward an "Attempt to classify the Longicorn Coleoptera of 
America north of Mexico." 

In 1858 Dr. Le Conte was requested to prepare for the use of the In- 
stitution "Instructions for collecting Coleoptera," which paper was pub- 
lished in the Smithsonian report for that year, and was also separately 
printed and widely distributed (as a circular) to collectors. In 1859 a 
paper by him on "The Coleoptera of Kansas and Eastern New Mexico" 
was published in the Smithsonian Contributions, Volume XI, occupying 
64 quarto pages, with two plates and one map. In 1862 the Institution 
published his "Classification of the Coleoptera of North America," 
Part I, in 312 octavo pages, with 49 wood-cuts. (This was included 
in Volume III of the "Miscellaneous Collections.") In 1866 appeared 
"List of the Coleoptera of North America," Part I, in 82 octavo pages. 
(" Mis. Coll.," Volume VI.) In the same year "New Species of North 
American Coleoptera," Part I, in 180 octavo pages. ("Mis. Coll.," 
Volume VI.) In 1873 "New Species of North American Coleoptera," 
Part II, in 74 octavo pages. ("Mis. Coll ," Volume XL) In the same 
year Part II of his "Classification of the Coleoptera of North America" 
in 72 octavo pages. ("Mis. Coll.," Volume XL) 

These works remain incomplete, but their author, after years of prepa- 
ration, decided upon an entire revision and complete presentation of his 
subject. Meanwhile he prepared an important contribution to entomol- 
ogy in a treatise devoted to the "Species of Ehyncophora," which was 
published in 1876 by the American Philosophical Society. 

In 1882, assisted by his pupil and friend, I >r. George H. Horn, he had 
ready (after an interval of ten years from its first issue) the new and 
revised edition of his "Classification of the Coleoptera of North Amer- 
ica" greatly extended. Early in 1883 this important and elaborate 
work, comprising the latest labor of his life, was published by the In- 
stitution. It occupies (including the introduction) 605 octavo pages. 

Dr. Le Conte was president of the American Association in 1874. He 
was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, president of the 



BEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49 

American Entomological Society, and a vice-president of the American 
Philosophical Society. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

The Mercer Bequest. — Reference has been made in a previous report 
to the will of the Rev. Dr. Mercer, of Newport, R. I., by which the 
Smithsonian Institution was made an ultimate legatee with Harvard 
and Yale Colleges and one or two individuals to administer a certain 
sum of money intended for educational purposes. 

It is not expected that the Institution will be called upon to take any 
action for many years, possibly not in the course of a generation. The 
estate, however, has proved to be much larger than was originally im- 
agined, and amounts to over $1,000,000. 

Friendly proceedings are now under way for the purpose of deter- 
mining the precise status of the several legatees, and the action which 
the executrix, Mrs. Pell, should properly take in the premises. 

Naval Museum of Hygiene. — The Navy Department has been engaged 
for several years past in bringing together an exhibit of sanitary appa- 
ratus and appliances, whether used in the Navy or elsewhere ; and as 
this subject at present has no special assignment or place in the Na- 
tional Museum, it was thought expedient, as a method of carrying out 
proper reciprocity with the other Departments, to transfer all the ap- 
paratus of that character to the charge of the Naval Museum of Hy- 
giene. 

The principal objects consisted of articles of terra-cotta and metal, 
intended for sanitary uses, and obtained at the International Exhibi- 
tion of 1870. The specimens furnished constitute a very acceptable 
addition to the" Naval Museum. 

Portrait of Darrein. — The picture gallery of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion during the year has been enriched by a life-size portrait of Darwin, 
painted by E. F. Andrews, of Washington, and given by the artist. 
This has been duly assigned and placed in the Museum, and attracts 
much interest. 

Priestley Relies. — At the suggestion of Professor Leeds, of the Stevens 
Institute, Hoboken, N. J., I made application to Mrs. Priestley, of 
Northumberland, Pa., in behalf of the Institution for the collection of 
apparatus used by her husband's ancestor, Dr. Joseph Priestley, the 
eminent physicist, and brought by him to this country many years ago. 
As the discoverer of oxygen, and other important elements in chemical 
science, and as one of the first to carry on chemical research irr the 
United States, the memory of Dr. Priestley is highly revered by Amer- 
ican chemists, and it was with much gratification that they learned of 
Mrs. Priestley's willingness to make the transfer. 

By the assistance of Professor Leeds the collection was securely put 
up in a number of crates and hogsheads, which were forwarded to Wash- 
H. Mis. 69 4 



50 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ingtou. Arrangements will now be made to unpack these articles and 
place them where they will be most accessible to all persons interested. 

Memorial Objects in the Pension Building. — One of the largest and most 
imposing buildings in Washington is the one being erected under the 
direction of General Meigs, in Judiciary Square, for the use of the Pen- 
sion Office. A part of the architectural effect of this building consists 
in a series of columns of enormous size, and the happy thought occurred 
'to General Meigs of making each column the depository of the archives 
and documents relating to the history of a Department of the Govern- 
ment. .The offer of a column to the Smithsonian Institution was 
promptly made use of by furnishing a series of documents giving some 
notice of the past history and present condition of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution and the National Museum. 

Instructions for Gave Research. — The Smithsonian Institution has al- 
ways taken much interest in the investigations of caves for the purpose 
of obtaining specimens of prehistoric man, and of extinct and recent 
vertebrated animals. 

In addition to the large collections made by myself at various times 
in this direction, and now forming part of the collections of the National 
Museum, the proceeds of the Hamilton bequest have been devoted for 
several years to this purpose. So far, however, the caves of the United 
States have not been as productive in collections as those of Europe. 
Having received very valuable collections of bones and relics from the 
celebrated Kent's Cavern in England, made under the direction of Mr. 
William Pengelly, that gentleman was asked to prepare a special treat- 
ise on cave research, to be published by the Smithsonian Institution 
in its Miscellaneous Collections. This offer has been kindly accepted, 
and it is hoped that the manuscript will soon be received and put to 
press. 

Abert Collection of Minerals. — Among the most important single con- 
tributions to the National Museum during the year was that of four 
cases of minerals, presented by Col. James T. Abert, of Washington 
City, and constituting a large portion of the collection of his father, the 
late Colonel Abert, of the Topographical Bureau. This collection, al- 
though somewhat antiquated, from representing the condition of min- 
eralogy more than twenty years ago, embraces a large number of very 
rare and interesting minerals, the localities of which have for the most 
part been exhausted, and which are now only procurable with great 
difficulty. 

Obsequies of John Howard Payne. — Mr. John Howard Payne, so well 
Iknown as the author of "Home, Sweet Home," died many years ago in 
Tunis, during his incumbency of the office of United States consul at 
that place. 

Desirous of rendering proper tribute to his memory, Mr. W. W. Cor- 
coran, the eminent philanthropist of Washington, undertook to have 
these remains transferred to the United States and placed under a 
suitable monument in the Oak Hill Cemetery near Washington. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51 

The reinterment took place on the 9th of June ; and in the appoint- 
ment of pall-bearers, the Smithsonian Institution, among other literary 
and scientific establishments of the city, was recognized by the selection 
of its Secretary, to act in the above-mentioned capacity. The serv- 
ices on that occasion were very impressive, and attracted a large gath- 
ering of people. 

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

During the year the officers of the Museum have continued the work 
of rearranging the materials under their charge on the greatly extended 
space afforded by the completion of the new building. It will be remem- 
bered that this building was first occupied late in 1881, and that there- 
fore 1883 is really only the second year of systematic effort. Some ex- 
periments in installation were made in 1881, but the chief thing accom- 
plished was the accumulation in some of the inner courts of the building 
of the great mass of unassorted material which had been gathering for 
many years in the various store-rooms of the Smithsonian building and 
elsewhere, and which, on account of lack of space, had been allowed for 
the most part to remain in the original packing cases. 

After a struggle of twenty-four months with this mass of unassorted 
material, the floors of th© Museum have at length been cleared, and only 
three of the seventeen exhibition halls are now occupied for storage pur- 
poses. 

A provisional classification of the departments of the Museum was 
adopted early in 1882, and during the past two years has been prac- 
tically applied. Twenty-two scientific departments were provided for 
and grouped in five divisions, namely, anthropology, zoology, botany, 
geology, and exploration and experiment. There are also eleven exec- 
utive departments, grouped together in the division of administration. 

A brief review of what has been accomplished in each department 
up to the present time, and especially during the past year, will per- 
haps be the most satisfactory mode of bringing before the Board the 
present methods and tendencies of the work in the Museum. I shall 
not, however, attempt to discuss the additions of the year to the Mu- 
seum, as those will be treated of in detail in the reports of the several 
executive officers, and of which a complete list, arranged alphabetically 
by donors, will be found in the Appendix to the Keport of the Assist- 
ant Director. 

Department of Art and Industry. — In the department of art and in- 
dustry is included for the present all ethnological material except that 
belonging to prehistoric archaeology. Under the head of ethnological 
material are included the products of the arts and industries of civil- 
ized as well as of semi-civilized and barbarous races. These collections 
are being arranged in accordance with a teleological rather than a geo- 
graphical plan of classification, objects of a similar nature being placed 



52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

side by side — musical instruments together, weapons together, &c. — 
and arranged in such a manner as to show the evolution of each idea 
from the most primitive type. In discarding the ethnographic method 
of arrangement, almost universal among museums, special care has 
been taken not to sacrifice the possibility of bringing together the ob- 
jects belonging to any particular locality or race, if this shall at any 
time be required for purposes of study. 

The department of art and industry must in time necessarily be sub- 
divided iuto a number of special departments. At present, and until 
the material now on hand is properly assorted, such subdivision is not 
particularly to be desired. There have grown up, however, a number 
of sections in this department, the result of the accumulation of large 
quantities of material requiring the care of a special officer. 

Section of materia medica. — This section is already thoroughly under 
control, the specimens beirg installed in exhibition cases in systematic 
order, and a large number of labels being attached. This department 
has been for two years under the care of Dr. James M. Flint, surgeon, 
U. S. N., who has been detailed for this service by the Surgeon-General 
of the Navy, and to whose skill the Museum is indebted for the develop- 
ment of a collection of medicinal substances probably unequaled else- 
where. 

Section of methods of transportation. — The collection of models of 
boats and vessels now includes between two and three hundred speci- 
mens. This collection has been developed in connection with the fish- 
eries collection, and is especially complete in representation of Ameri- 
can forms, both aboriginal and modern. The series of primitive types 
is particularly full, and the collection, which will be installed in the 
room adjoining the fisheries collection, will, when arranged upon the 
evolutionary plan, be thoroughly unique. 

Section of foods and textiles. — The Museum is very rich in the textile 
products and food substances of the North American aborigines and a 
number of foreign countries, acquired at the close of the Philadelphia 
Exhibition. Prof. W. O. Atwater, of the Wesleyan University, Mid- 
dletown, Conn., has been acting as honorary curator of the section of 
foods, and has carried on extensive operations in the analysis of food 
products for the benefit of this collection and of the Fish Commission. 
Mr. Eomyn Hitchcock, of New York, an experienced microscopist and 
chemist, has recently been designated acting curator of the department 
of textiles and acting assistant curator of the department of foods. 

Section of Aboriginal pottery. — Mr. W. H. Holmes has been detailed 
by the Director of the Bureau of Ethnology of the Institution to pre- 
pare a report upon American aboriginal pottery, and the entire collec- 
tions of the Museum have been placed in his hands for that purpose. 
This collection is very rich, and after its arrangement has been com- 
pleted will be one of the most impressive in the whole Museum. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53, 

/Section of historical relics. — The relics of George Washington and other 
distinguished persons, for many years displayed in the Patent Office, 
and the Lewis collection of Washington relics, purchased by Congress, 
and stored in the Patent Office, but kept in the original packing boxes, 
have during the year been given into the charge of the National Museum 
by the Commissioner of Patents. These have been placed on exhibi- 
tion in temporary cases, together with many articles of similar nature 
already in the possession of the Museum. 

Section of costumes, architecture, &c. — The wealth of the Museum in 
articles of costumes derived from the North American aborigines is very 
great, as well as in objects of all the classes of implements and other 
articles which usually make up the bulk of ethnological collections. 
The mass of unassorted material is still very large, and is being in- 
creased every week by the arrival of new collections. 

The Catlin collection of Indian paintings, presented in 1881 by Mrs. 
Joseph Harrison, of Philadelphia, have been unpacked and placed on 
exhibition in the lecture-room. 

The collection of musical instruments is deserving of mention, since 
it is, up to the present time, the only one, excepting the fisheries collec- 
tion, which has been thoroughly arranged and labeled in accordance 
with the accepted plan of installation. 

Department of Antiquities. — The department of prehistoric antiquities, 
under the charge of Dr. Charles Rau, has advanced with its usual steps 
of progress during the year. The present somewhat unsettled condi- 
tion of the upper main hall of the Smithsonian building, in which these 
collections are stored, is due to the fact that the art and industry col- 
lections, formerlj' exhibited here, have been only in part removed, owing 
to the lack of exhibition cases in the new building. 

Department of Mammals. — The accessions of the year have been nu- 
merous and important. The curator of mammals has devoted a consid- 
erable portion of his time during the year to the reorganization of the 
collection of skeletons, which is exceedingly rich in North American 
material. The cases for their reception not having been finished, the 
mounted preparations still remain in the Smithsonian building. The 
articulated skeletons have all been systematically arranged in the oste- 
ological gallery. 

Departmei t of Birds. — In the department of birds, under the care of 
Mr. Robert Ridgway, the work of the year has necessarily been con- 
fined to the laboratory, all the space in the ornithological galleries out- 
side of the cases having been occupied by the offices of the Smithsonian 
Institution during the reconstruction of the easterc end of the building. 
There has been, however, very much important work accomplished in 
the rearrangement of the study series, and valuable collections have 
been received, especially from Dr. Stejneger and from others already 
mentioned in ^mother part of this report under the head of " Geograph- 
ical Explorations." 



54 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Department of Reptiles and Batrachians. — Under the charge of Dr. H. C. 
Yarrow, honorary curator, the usual administrative work has been ac- 
complished, and an annotated catalogue of the American specimens 
belonging to the Museum has been published. 

Department of Fishes. — This department is perhaps one of the most un- 
wieldy in the Museum, its material being for the most part alcoholic. 
From 1865, when it was thoroughly disorganized by the fire in the Smith- 
sonian building, up to 1871 this department was without a curator, 
though subsequently to 1881 the bulk of the collection was largely in- 
creased every year by the work of the United States Fish Commission. 
For two years Dr. Tarleton H. Bean, the curator, assisted by Messrs. 
Parker, Dresel, Miner, and Bean, has been engaged in re-arranging the 
entire collection and preparing a card catalogue, a task which has been 
doubly difficult owing to the lack of sufficient room in which to work. 
The collection is, however, now very well under control, and several 
thousand bottles have been set aside for the exhibition series. From 
June to October of this year Dr. Bean, was detailed for special service 
in connection with the International Fisheries Exhibition, and devoted 
a considerable portion of this period to the study of the ichthyological 
collections in London, Paris, Genoa, Vienna, Berlin, and Liverpool, es- 
tablishing additional relations of exchange in those cities. This de- 
partment has been, as usual, enriched by the work of the United States 
Fish Commisson, whereby many new species and genera have been 
added to the fauna of North America. 

Department of Molluslcs. — This department continues under the charge 
of Mr. William H. Dall as honorary curator, Mr. B. E. C. Stearns acting 
during a portion of the year as non-resident assistant curator. The col- 
lection has been greatly enriched by the acquisition of Mr. Stearns's col- 
lection of American mollusks and the very rich collections of J. Gwyn 
Jeffreys, esq., F. G. S., &c, of London. 

Department of Insects. — The Museum is still unfortunately without a 
collection of entomological specimens worthy of the name, the valuable 
collections accumulated by the Government service havingyears ago suf- 
fered destruction in the hands of the Department of Agriculture, with 
whom they were deposited. Prof. 0. V. Biley, who is acting as honor- 
ary curator of this department, has deposited his extensive collection of 
American insects in the Museum, and it is hoped that in time this may 
become the property of the United States. 

Department of Marine Invertebrates. — The collections of crustaceans, 
radiates, worms, and protozoans are administered in charge of Mr. Bich- 
ard Bathbun, being grouped together under the general heading of 
"Marine Invertebrates." The west hall of the Smithsonian building 
has been assigned to this department for exhibition purposes, but is 
still occupied in large part by collections belonging to other departments, 
so that the curator has had but little opportunity for perfecting the ex- 
hibition series. Very extensive progress, however, has been made dur- 






REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65 

ing the year by the curator, assisted by Ensign W. E. Safiford, Ensign 
C. S. McClain, and Mr. R. S. Tarr, in the way of assorting the material 
already on hand, and the distribution of duplicates. A card catalogue of 
the collection is nearly completed, and a number of important exchanges 
with several European museums have been made during the year. 

Department of Invertebrate Fossils. — This department is now divided 
into two sections, Dr. C. A. White, honorary curator of the department, 
retaining charge of all except the Paleozoic fossils which are in the hands 
of Mr. C. D. Walcott, honorary curator of that department. 

Department of Recent Plants. — The collection of recent plants, for many 
years in the custody of Dr. John Torrey, of New York, and afterwards 
deposited in the Department of Agriculture, have been kept in excellent 
condition by Dr. Yasey, curator of the department. 

Department of Fossil Plants. — This department is administered by Prof 
Lester F. Ward, honorary curator, who, like the curators of fossil in- 
vertebrates, is an officer of the Geological Survey. 

Department of Lithology and Physical Geology. — The collection of build- 
ing stones under the charge of Mr. George P. Merrill, assistant, acting 
as curator, presents each month a more imposing appearance in the ex- 
hibition gallery. The space assigned to it has been considerably in- 
creased during the year. Owing to the expense of preparing the speci- 
mens, little has fieen done towards getting ready for exhibition the great 
hoard of material which lies at present unutilized, in the southwest 
court. 

The curator of this department has recently undertaken the develop- 
ment of the collections in physical geology, but has not yet had oppor- 
tunity to seriously begin work. 

Department of Minerals. — Since the death of Dr. George W. Hawes r 
curator of this department, Mr. W. S. Yates, aid in the Museum, has 
had charge of the mineral collections, and has nearly completed the task 
of rearranging and classifying the material. Prof. F. W. Clarke, chem- 
ist of the United States Geological Survey, was appointed honorary 
curator on December 3. 

Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology — Mr. Frederick P. 
Dewey has been appointed fall curator in this department. Until 
within a few weeks nothing had been done towards developing the ex- 
hibition series, the time of the curator and his assistant having been 
devoted to the overhauling and cataloguing a portion of the great mass 
of unassorted metallurgical material acquired by the Museum at the 
close of the Philadelphia Exhibition. There is still an immense quan- 
tity of ores and metallurgical products stored away in the original pack- 
ing boxes within the Museum building, and also in a temporary shed 
attached to the arinory building. This latter was obtained by Mr. 
Thomas Donaldson at the close of the so-called " permanent exhibition" 
on the Centennial grounds in Philadelphia. 



56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

During the absence of the Assistant Diiector in Europe, Mr. Freder- 
ick W. True, curator of mammals, rendered most efficient service. 

BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY. 

The appropriation made by Congress for the prosecution of ethno- 
logical researches among the North American Indians was increased 
at the last session from $35,000 to $40,000. The work has remained 
in charge of Maj. J. W. Powell, who has furnished the following account 
of operations during the past year: 

Mound Exploration. — The work of exploring the mounds and other 
ancient monuments of our country, begun in 1882, was carried on during 
the year 1883 under the charge of Prof. Cyrus Thomas. 

The same persons, to wit, Col. P. W. Norris, Mr. James D. Middleton, 
and Dr. Edward Palmer, who were engaged during the previous year, 
were retained as the regular field assistants through 1883. 

Colonel Norris spent the latter part of the winter and early spring 
in Arkansas and Mississippi, and made, in the months of June and 
July, a trip to Upper Wisconsin, Northern Minnesota, and Dakota in 
order to ascertain the character of the new earthworks found in that 
northwestern region. The remainder of the year he was engaged in 
opening mounds in the Kanawha Valley in West Virginia. 

Mr. Middleton's field of operation for the latter half of the winter and 
the spring was confined to the northern parts of Georgia and Alabama. 
During the last part of the year he has been carrying on mound explo- 
rations in Wisconsin and southward as far as Northern Arkansas. 

Dr. Palmer has confined his operations during most of the year to 
Central and Southern Arkansas and Northern Louisiana. He was en- 
gaged a short time in examining interesting cave deposits in Central 
Alabama. 

Besides these regular assistants, Mr. John P. Ragan, Mr. John K. 
Emmert and Mr. L. H. Thing were engaged for short periods as tem- 
porary assistants. 

In June Mr. Ragan explored certain mounds in Caldwell County, 
North Carolina, which had been reported by Dr. J. M. Spainhour, of 
Lenoir, who also rendered very great aid in this work. Afterwards 
Mr. Ragan was sent to the southern part of Georgia and into Florida. 
Mr. Emmert was temporarily employed in opening mounds and graves 
in East Tennessee, and in investigating the maufactnure of imitations 
of anciut relics in Western North Carolina. Mr. Thing devoted a short 
time to the exploration of the earthworks and ancient cemeteries of 
Southern Illinois and Southeast Missouri. 

The number of specimens collected during the fiscal year ending 
June 30, 1883, as shown by the catalogue prepared for the bureau, is 
4,110. It is believed that about one-half, or 2,000, of these specimens 
Trere obtained in the first six months of 1883. The number collected 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57 

during the latter half of the year has not been accurately ascertained, 
but is supposed to be 1,500, making in all for the calendar year 1883 
about 3,500 specimens. They embrace almost every type of articles 
hitherto found in the mounds and other ancient works of that portion 
of the United States to which the operations of the year have been con- 
fined, as well as quite a number of new types. 

Among the more interesting finds are a remarkably line series of pol- 
ished celts, a huge number of steatite pipes with handles, three winged 
pipes of green chlorite slate finely worked, two very large stone image 
pipes, gorgets, plummets, and boat-shaped ornaments. 

A very fine collection of mound pottery has been obtained, contain- 
ing many whole pieces, presenting almost every type, both as to form 
and ornamentation, heretofore discovered in these earthworks, also a few 
that are unique as to shape and decoration. Quite a number of shell 
and bone ornaments and implements were obtained, among which are 
some of the finest specimens of engraved shells so far discovered. 

The collection also includes a number of copper implements and orna- 
ments, some of which are very fine and unique. 

Among the articles obtained indicating contact with European civil- 
ization are some iron implements from a North Carolina mound and 
fragments of copper plate from several localities bearing the impress 
of machinery. 

The most important results of these explorations to the students of 
American archaeology are the facts brought to light concerning the 
manners and customs of the mound-builders and the purposes for which 
these mounds and other ancient works of our country were erected. 
They clearly demonstrate that a large portion of those in the Southern 
section were built for domiciliary purposes or as foundations for houses, 
and that these houses were plastered with clay, the plastering often be- 
ing stamped with an implement made of split reeds, and frequently 
painted, and that the houses were usually thatched with grass or straw. 

Anew class of mounds, so far as the internal structure is concerned, 
has been discovered, bringing to light a different mode of sepulture from 
any previously observed. 

The number of mounds opened during the year was large, reaching 
several hundreds, but cannot be definitely stated. 

These explorations have been specially successful in the light they 
have thrown upon the question often asked, "Who were the mound- 
builders?" 

Explorations in the Southicest. — In continuing the investigations of the 
preceding year, excursions were made by Mr. James Stevenson in the 
summer and fall of 1883 through sections of the Southwest not hereto- 
fore carefully examined, for the purpose of obtaining their archaeologic 
value and to determine to what extent luture explorations would be re- 
quired. These observations resulted in the discovery of several more 
ruined cave and cliff cities differing in some respects from any before 



58 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

examined. The most remarkable was a village of sixty-two underground 
dwellings, situated near the summit of one of the volcanic foot-hills of 
the San Francisco Mountains in Arizona. The surface stratum of the 
hill had by exposure become hardened, and formed the common roof for 
the entire community. The dwellings were excavated after a common 
pattern, and a description of one will convey an idea of the whole. 
They had no communication beueath the surface, and were only accessi- 
ble by means of square holes leading from the surface by a vertical 
shaft to the main room of the dwelling. Foot-rests — holes at convenient 
distances along the sides of the shaft — served the purposes of a stair- 
way. At the bottom of the shaft was found an oval-shaped arched-roofed 
room, about twenty feet in its smallest diameter. At the ends and on 
the sides opposite the entrance low doorways connected the main room 
with smaller rooms, the whole suite of rooms or dwelling consisting of 
four apartments. One of the smaller rooms had its floor excavated to 
a depth of two or three feet below the floors of the other rooms, and is 
supposed to have served the purpose of a store-room or cellar for the 
ancient occupant. The other small rooms may have been sleeping rooms. 
A groove 18 inches deep by 15 in width, extending from the floor of the 
main room up one side of the shaft to the surface of the hill, its bottom 
filled with ashes and its sides blackened by smoke, formed the fire-place 
and chimney of the establishment. Around the mouth of the shaft a 
stone wall was found, forming by its inclosure a kind of door-yard to the 
dwelling below. Considerable debris was found in these dwellings, an 
examination of which led to the discovery of many curious objects, 
illustrating some of the social and domestic customs of the inhabitants. 

Stone mauls and axes, the implements used in excavating the dwell- 
ings; pottery bearing a great variety of ornamentation; bone awls, 
and needles of delicate workmanship; the metate or family grinding- 
stone for grain, its well-worn surface indicating long use; shell and 
obsidian ornaments and implements of wood, the uses of which were 
undiscoverable, were among the trophies of the exploration. Search 
was made for a water-course or spring, but no appearance of the exist- 
ence of water in the neighborhood was discovered. 

There were signs of intercommunication between this village and a 
cliff-city some 15 miles distant, which indicated the contemporaneous 
inhabitancy of the two. 

This city, or rather cluster of villages, also a new discovery, occupied 
the sides of a canon which has recently been christened Walnut Canon. 
The sides have been gullied by storms and torrents, leaving shallow, 
cave-like places of great length at different heights, along the bottoms 
of which, wherever the ledge furnishes a sufficient area, dwellings in 
groups or singly were built. The season was well advanced when the 
place was reached, and only little time was spent in its exploration. 

All the ancient methods of approach have been loug worn away, and 
access to the nearest of the groups of houses was a work of difficulty. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59 

The group or village which was most narrowly examined was about 
half a mile in length, and consisted of a single row of houses, the com- 
mon rear wall being the lining-rock, while the sides and front were 
made of large squared stones laid in clay. A narrow street or pathway 
extended along the entire front. Other and similar villages could be 
seen along the canon for some distance. 

Among the relics found here was'a wooden spindle whorl similar to 
those in use by the Pueblos of the present time, but unlike them in the 
apparent manner of its manufacture. Xothing indicating the use of 
metallic tools of any description was discovered. The surface of the 
wood of which the whorl was formed had apparently been charred and 
then ground down to the required size and shape by rubbing it upon 
sandstone. A shaft of reed resembling bamboo still remained in the 
whorl. It had been broken by the maker and neatly mended by wind- 
ing about it a piece of tine twine. The ends of this twine being exam- 
ined under the microscope disclosed the fact that its fiber was made of 
very fine human hair. 

Articles of wood, corn-cobs, and even theperfect grains of corn; wal- 
nuts, bones of elk, antelope, and wolf; portions of wearing material of 
a fabric resembling the mummy cloth of Egypt, but made from mate- 
rial unfamiliar to the explorers', and other perishable articles, were found 
in abundance buried in the piles of debris which partially fill these 
deserted homes, and would, at first thought, seem to indicate somewhat 
recent inhabitancy. On the other hand, however, the preservative 
qualities of the atmosphere of this region are remarkable, and it is the 
belief that centuries have elapsed since the last of the departed race or 
races occupied these old cities and villages as homes. 

Explorations in Arizona and New Mexico. — Mr. Victor Mindeleff, aided 
by Messrs. dishing and Atkins, proceeded, in the early part of the 
year, to the Moki towns for the purpose of making ethnologic collec- 
tions. 

O-rai-be, the most distant of the villages, was the first visited, but 
much opposition was encountered, in that a large majority of the na- 
tives were found to be inimical to Americans. 

In consequence of this the O-rai-be collection was small, numbering 
only about oue hundred and fifty pieces, which had been secretly of- 
fered in trade, despite the strict injunctions to the contrary of those in 
authority. A catalogue of this material was prepared by Mr. Cushing 
t from notes made in the field. 

After leaving O-rai-be, camp was established at a point convenient 
to the remaining villages, near Ma-shong-i-ni-vi, of the " middle mesa. ,r 
Here a large collection was secured, principally from the villages of 
the middle mesa, of modern pottery, basket ware, dance paraphernalia^ 
and stone implements, as well as a valuable collection of well-preserved 
ancient pottery, embracing a variety of forms and decorations. 



60 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

During the intervals of collecting at Moki, several visits were made 
to Mr. Thomas V. Keam's place, near by, where drawings, notes, and 
photographs were made of his extensive collection of ancient pottery. 

On August 15, Mr. Miudeleff again took the field for exploration 
among the cliff ruins of Canon de Chelley, but on reaching the fitting- 
out point an anticipated outbreak among the Navajos and the unset- 
tled condition of the Indians compelled a temporary postponement of 
work in that region, during which time a visit was made to the exten- 
sive ancient pueblo ruin known among the Navajos as "Kin-tiel." 
This ruin is situated near the eastern border of Arizona, about 25 miles 
south of Pueblo, Colorado. 

Small subordinate ruins occur on various prominent points, border- 
ing the long narrow valley that extends north from the main ruins 
which from their position, overlooking arable land, may have served as 
farming habitations occupied only during the summer season, as 
Nutica and Pescado, near Zuiii, are at the present day. This large and 
compactly built pueblo is on two sloping hillsides which come together 
in an " arroyo," or wash. A large part of the northern half, where the 
walls follow a broad curve, is still standing to a height of from 10 to 
15 feet. The masonry shows a high degree of skill and is in a good 
state of preservation. The external curved wall is nearly 3 feet thick 
in many places on the lower floor, and usually 6 inches less above. A 
noticeable feature is the occurrence of small square loop-holes pierced 
obliquely through the external wall. The walls of the lowest story 
were usually several inches thicker than those above, thus forming a 
projecting ledge upon which the floor beams rested. Several beams 
were found in place. Architectural plans of the ruin were made, to- 
gether with a contour map of the ground to illustrate its relation to the 
topography. Sketches and photographs were also made. 

In excavating on the bank of the "arroyo" a short distance from the 
ruin, a nearly complete skeleton was found lying on its right side. 
From the grave were taken two bowls of ancient ware, but no trace of 
textile fabric was discovered. At a point within the ruins the bank of 
the "arroyo," having been partly washed away, had caved in, exposing 
to view a complete vertical section of two rooms. On clearing away 
the debris, broken pieces of pottery and fragments of a pierced round 
stone disk were found. 

Digging at a number of places resulted in the exposure, at the east- 
ern end of the ruin, of a large room in which many objects of interest 
were found, among them an unbroken circular stone slab, with a hole , 
large enough to admit the body of a man, solidly built into a partition 
wall and serving as a doorway. 

The same room contained a well-preserved fireplace, large, smooth, 
baking stones, metates, mortars, broken pottery, and bone implements. 

The manner in which these objects were scattered about the room in- 
dicated a sudden abandonment. While here, Indians brought in re- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61 

ports of remains farther south, extending into the neighborhood of Zuiii. 
These reports were confirmed by statements of Mormons from that 
vicinity. These men also gave accounts of numerous pueblo remains in 
the region southwest of Zuiii, near the headwaters of the Little Colo- 
rado, in and about Eouud Valley. 

November 1, Mr. Mindeleff reached Canon de Chelley. A closely 
detailed meander survey was made of the caiion, with its network of 
branches, as also of a small neighboring canon containing ruins, not 
heretofore visited. This plot was made on a large scale to admit of 
showing the relation of the position of the ruino to the arable land and 
other topographic features. 

The lateness of the season and short supplies (for one month's stay) 
made it necessary to devote nearly all of the time to exploring, mapping 
and securing plans and sketches of the ruins. Some excavations, how- 
ever, were made, and interesting textile remains, such as rugs, sandals, 
and cordage of yucca fiber and cedar bark, were found. 

The number of ruins found was far beyond what was expected, about 
one hundred and thirty-five ruin-sites having been noted. 

In exploring branch canons many ruins of large extent were observed, 
some of them containing several large circular chambers with very thick 
massive walls beautifully finished inside with smooth coats of cement, 
and sometimes with a decorative band near the floor. In one case the 
drawing was very skillfully executed in red paint on a white ground, 
very similar in character to designs found on ancient pottery. These 
larger ruins are not nearly so well preserved as the small ones. They 
have evidently been the principal dwellings of the ancient people of 
this region, and seem to have been visited with a destruction which the 
more insignificant cliff outlooks have escaped. 

On finishing the work in Canon de Chelley, a trip was made to the 
pueblo of Acoma. A representative collection of modern ware was se- 
cured, composed principally of large jars, small vessels being compar- 
atively rare at this pueblo. Very few specimens of ancient pottery 
were found here. 

During intervals of collecting, a survey and a plan of Acoma were 
made for the preparation of a model similar to those of Zuiii and the 
Moki villages. 

Explorations at Zufii. — In August, 1882, Mr. F. H. dishing proceeded 
to the Seneca Iroquois Keserve, in Western New York, with the Zuiii 
Indians who had accompanied him on his Eastern trip. Here he visited 
the Senecas of Tonawanda, learning important and obscure facts rela- 
tive to their social and more especially their "Medicine" organizations. 
In the latter he found evidence of a society of "medicine priests" func- 
tionally identical with a similar organization among the Ziiiiis, the latter 
being that of the K&'-M-thla na Kwe or " Grand-Mediciue-Dauce Society." 

Proceeding thence, he ariived at Zuiii, ]ST. M., on the 23d of Sep- 
tember. Here, during the month of October, he resumed note-taking, 



62 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

sketching of Zuni dances and ceremonials as they happened to occur, 
adding to his vocabularies and memoranda on the sociologic system of 
the tribe, their ceramic-art decorations, and mythology. On the 5th of 
November he went to the Moki towns to assist, in concert with J. Stanly 
Brown, esq., in the collecting of ethnologic specimens therefrom. On 
nearing Ream's Canon, the point of rendezvous, it was determined ad- 
visable that he should make a visit of reconnaissance to Oraibe. Near- 
ing Walpi, he was driven in by a severe snow storm, but he had the 
good fortune to meet there a visiting chief from Oraibe. With him he 
consulted and negotiated, making him the messenger of his arrange- 
ments for trading with the tribe in question. He then returned to 
Keam's Canon. 

Pending the arrival of goods at Moki, Mr. Cushing returned across 
the country to Zuni, for the purpose of observing more minutely than 
on former occasions the annual sun ceremonials. En route he dis- 
covered two ruins, apparently before unvisited. 

One of these was the outlying structure of Khi'4-Km, called by the 
Navajos Z'inni-jin'ne, and by the Zunis He'-sho'ta pathl-tdie, both, ac- 
cording to Zuni tradition, belonging to the Thlee-td-lace, the name giv^en 
to the traditional northwestern migration of the Bear, Crane, Frog, 
Deer, Yellow-wood, and other gentes of the ancestral pueblos. 

It is a two-story structure, of selected red sandstone slabs, around the 
base and over the summit of a huge outcropping bowlder, and is nearly 
intact, most of the floor of the second story, roof, lintels, etc., still being 
in good state of preservation. It is situated in the mouth of one of the 
arms of K'm-i-k6el, or " Dead Run " Canon, 25 miles northwest of the 
station of Navajo Springs, on the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad. In 
the ground-room of this structure, leaning against a trap opening in 
the floor of the second story, were found the poles of a primitive ladder, 
notched with stone instruments at regular intervals on the correspond- 
ing sides. To the lower portion of the poles was bound with yucca 
fiber a much -decayed round, still complete, but too feebly attached to 
allow of disturbance. The structure details of the rooms of the second 
story were noteworthy features, indicating the relationship of the build- 
ing with the ruin of K'in-i-k6el, and thus, in a measure, confirming the 
Zuni tradition. 

As soon as the ceremonials of the sun had been completed, Mr. Cush- 
ing again set out, with Nanahe (a Zuni of Moki nativity) as interpreter, 
for Moki, via Holbrook, Ariz., and proceeded with Victor Mindeleff, 
e sq., and his expedition to Oraibe on the 19th of December. On ac- 
count of the unfavorable attitude of the natives, it was determined that 
further efforts would prove comparatively fruitless of results ; hence the 
expedition proceeded from Oraibe to an encampment near the mesa of 
the two Moki towns, Mi-shong-i-ni-vi and Shipaui-li-vi. Here Mr. 
Cushing superintended the collecting of more than twelve hundred 
specimens, at the same time noting several examples of Moki folk-lore 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63 

and tradition, and studying the considerable collections of antique pot- 
tery gathered, some of the results of which latter studies will appear in 
forthcoming reports. 

On the 19th of January, 1883, Mr. Gushing returned to Zuiii and 
continued his investigations relative to the sociologic system of the 
Zunis. He added during the months of March and April more than 
five hundred pages to his notes on Zuui folk-lore. He also made a brief 
trip to the ruin sections of Zufii tradition, lying toward the southwest, 
accompanied by an artist, W. L. Metcalf, as a volunteer assistant, and 
two Indians. His discoveries near the Escudilla and farther north, in 
Eastern Arizona, were more important, arch geologically, than he had 
before made. 

Linguistic Field Work. — Mrs. Erminnie Smith, whose former work had 
been devoted to the Iroquoian tribes of New York and Upper Canada, 
was this year engaged among those of Lower Canada, principally Mo- 
hawks. The isolation of these Indians for nearly two hundred years 
from the other Iroquois has afforded interesting comparisons regarding 
dialect and customs. A large amount of literature, consisting of ser- 
mons, catechisms, vocabularies and dictionaries, the most important of 
which was in manuscript, the work of French Catholic missionaries, was 
obtained. By this mearjs the Mohawk synonyms for many words before 
collected by Mrs. Smith in the Tuscarora, Onondaga, and Seneca dialects, 
were ascertained. 

Mr. Jeremiah Curtin visited the Indians on the Seneca Eeservation, 
New York, and collected a large body of linguistic and mythologic ma- 
terial, and afterwards proceeded to Indian Territory with the same 
object. 

Mr. H. W. Henshaw, in the latter part of the year, was occupied in 
Nevada and California. He procured a very complete vocabulary of 
the Washo language from the members of that tribe, about 300, in the 
neighborhood of Carson, establishing the former supposition that the 
Washo language is the sole known representative of a linguistic stock. 
A similar vocabulary of the Panamint language, hitherto unknown, 
was obtained, showing it to belong to the Shoshone stock. The Pana- 
mint tribe was found not to be so near extinction as had been popularly 
supposed, there remaining about 150 individuals. 

Dr. W. J. Hoffman visited the Ottawa, Ojibwa, and Pottawatomie In- 
dians of Northern Michigan, and the Sisseton and Mdewakantannawn 
bands of Dakota, in Minnesota and Dakota, with special reference to the 
study of pictographs and gesture language. 

Eev. J. Owen Dorsey, during January and February, was on the Kan- 
sas and Osage Reservations, in the Indian Territory, where he gained 
considerable linguistic and ethnologic material from the Indians, who 
speak dialects related to that of the Ponkas and Omahas. Among this 
material may be specified two dictionaries, of fully three thousand words 



64 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

each, grammatical notes in each dialect, native texts, including' myths r 
historical papers, and epistles and sociologic notes. 

Office Work. — Col. Garrick Mallery, United States Army, has been en- 
gaged in further researches and extensive correspondence for the com- 
pletion of a monograph on sign language, and in the preparation of an 
introduction to the study of pictographs, with the requisite illustrations. 
In this work he has been assisted by Dr. W. J. Hoffman. 

Dr. H. C. Yarrow has continued the preparation of his monographs 
on mortuary customs, and also has been occupied in obtaining data 
for a work upon the medicine practices of the North American Indians. 

Mr. H. W. Henshaw was engaged in preparing a report upon Indian 
industries, both from historical data and from the returns of the Indian 
census. 

Prof. O. T. Mason has prepared a report upon Indian education, 
based upon material obtained from the office of the Commissioner of 
Indian Affairs, from correspondence with every school and college in 
the United States, from the reports of the Indians, and from the general 
census. This has been arranged with reference to the name, location, 
and linguistic stock of every tribe, detailing the school facilities, attend- 
ance, and literacy. 

During the year Mr. W. H. Holmes had general charge of the col- 
lections of the Bureau outside of those from the mound district, and has 
made the necessary classification and catalogue thereof. He has also 
been acting as honorary curator of pottery in the National Museum, and 
has spent much time in classifying and arranging the very large collec- 
tions in that department. In connection with this work he has made 
some interesting investigations relating to ancient American ceramics. 
The most important of these were studies of the use of textile fabrics in 
the manufacture of pottery by the ancient tribes of the Atlantic slope, 
and of the art of "coiling" for the same purposes by all the American 
people. Exhaustive papers have been prepared upon these subjects. 

Mr. Holmes has also had charge of the department of illustration of 
the Bureau conjointly with that of the Geological Survey. 

Mrs. Erminnie Smith was engaged in translating into English the 
manuscript French-Mohawk dictionary of Rev. Father Marcoux, pro- 
cured by her, in which the spelling of the Indian words was changed to 
that adopted by the Bureau of Ethnology. She also prepared a chres- 
tomathy of the Mohawk dialect, and a table containing a large number 
of words in use among the isolated Mohawks, with their synonyms as 
used by the Mohawks on the " Six Nation Reserve." 

During the year the Bibliography of North American Linguistics, by 
Mr. J. C. Pilling, was slowly put in type, only 350 pages having been 
added. To this work Mr. Pilling has only been able to give such time as 
could be spared from other more pressing official duties. In the spring 
he made a trip to the west coast of the United States for the purpose of 
inspecting the books in certain libraries in California, and in the fall a 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65 

visit of a few weeks to some of the principal libraries of the East, nota- 
bly the Lenox Library and the Astor Library of Xew York, and the val- 
uable private libraries of Dr. J. Hammond Trumbull, of Hartford, and 
Dr. D. G. Brinton, of Media, Pa. There are now 900 pages of the Bib- 
liography in type. 

Mr. Jeremiah Curtin prepared, in part from material in the office, 
vocabularies of the Muskoki, Caddo, and Seneca languages, and of the 
Chinook jargon, also a collection of Seneca folk-lore. 

Mr. C. C. Boyce resumed the preparation of a historical atlas of In- 
dian affairs. 

This work will indicate upon a series of charts the boundaries of all 
cessions of land made to the United States by the several Indian tribes, 
the location of present and former Indian villages, and all points or 
places of historical interest, reciting briefly the location, character, and 
condition of each tribe in its earliest relations with the whites ; its mi- 
gration, wars, and diplomacy to the formation of the Federal Govern- 
ment, and a particular account of the various treaties with the United 
States, together with the causes and results thereof. The progress of 
the year covers the cessions in all the States and Territories between 
the Mississippi Biver and the Pacific slope ; also the greater part of 
Wisconsin, Michigan, and much in Tennessee, North Carolina, and 
Georgia, as well as the collection of a large amount of historical data 
relating to the different tribes. 

Mr. Albert S. Gatschet was engaged in revising the items compos- 
ing his English-Klamath Dictionary and putting them in shape so as to 
be ready for the press. 

Many of the longtr items had to be rewritten entirely from the ma- 
terials on hand. 

In the middle of May type-setting began on the work, and it was com- 
pleted and stereotyped by the latter part of August. Including the 
preface, this second part of the dictionary now contains 205 quarto 
pages, with about 1,400 items. 

Mr. Gatschet also undertook the revision of the manuscript of his 
grammar, part of which had to be rewritten. 

The Dakota-English portion of the Dakota Dictionary of Rev. S. B. 
Biggs, D. D., being 055 pages of proof, was finally corrected in April, 
1883. The death of this distinguished missionary and scholar in Au- 
gust, 1883, required the transfer of the preparation of the English- 
Dakota part of the dictionary to Rev. John P. Williamson, who has 
since been engaged upon it. 

From March to December, inclusive, Rev. J. Clwen Dorsey was occu- 
pied in the preparation of a Kwapa vocabulary of several hundred 
words, and the Kansas and Osage dictionaries, from the material col- 
lected by him in Indian Territory, as well as in the transliteration of part 
of the Ponka dictionary, to make it conform to the last alphabet of the 
H. Mis. G9 5 



66 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Bureau. This last work will form Part II of " Contributions to North 
American Ethnology, Volume VI, The $egiha Language." 

Prof. Cyrus Thomas, who had charge of the explorations of mounds, 
has taken the precaution to have all the specimens carefully and prop- 
erly labeled and numbered, from the time they were discovered in the 
field until they received the Museum catalogue number. He has also 
prepared a corresponding catalogue, in which are carefully noted the 
locality where each specimen was found, the name of the collector, and 
whether found in a mound, grave, or on the surface, so that archaeolo- 
gists can ascertain the history of any specimen by reference to the spe- 
cimen itself. 

In addition to this, a catalogue of the collection of the fiscal year 
ending June 30, 1883, with numerous illustrations, has been prepared 
for the Bureau and is now awaiting publication. Each assistant has 
made a full report of his work up to June 30, 1883, which will be brought 
together in the general report now in course of preparation by Professor 
Thomas. A large number of plates and illustrations of mound groups, 
ancient works, and mound sections accompany these reports, which 
will be used to illustrate the general report. 

Mr. Victor Mindeleff was engaged during part of the year in making 
a series of large models in papier-mache" of the Moki villages from the 
plans and measurements taken by him on the ground. 

The Third AnnuaL Report has been prepared and delivered to the 
Government Printer, its contents being as follows: 

Manuscript Troano, by Prof. Cyrus Thomas. 

Masks of the Northwest, by William H. Dall. 

Omaha Sociology, by Rev. J. O. Dorsey. 

Navajo Weavers, by Dr. Washington Matthews. 

Catalogue of a portion of the ethnological and archaeological collec- 
tions made by the Bureau, etc., by William H. Holmes. 

Textile Fabrics of the Mound Builders, derived from impressions on 
pottery, by William H. Holmes. 

Illustrated catalogue of the collections from New Mexico in 1882, by 
James Stevenson. 

During the year many linguistic manuscripts of value were received 
from collectors to whom the " Introduction to the Study of Indian Lan- 
guages" had been furnished. 

UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY. 

It has been customary for the Secretary of the Institution to present 
each year a condensed account of the work performed by the Govern- 
ment Survey; aud accordingly the following summary of its operations 
is given, kindly furnished by Major J. W. Powell, Director of the Sur- 
vey: 

In the act making appropriations for the fiscal year 1882-'83 Con- 
gress required the Geological Survey to make a geologic inap of the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67 

United States, thereby giving the Survey authority to extend its opera- 
tions over the entire country in so far as necessary to effect that pur- 
pose. Inasmuch as the preparation of a geologic map requires a cor- 
rect topographic map as its basis, it became necessary to adopt a scale 
for a general map of the United States, and also a method of graphic 
representation. The experience of the various geologic surveys carried 
on by the General Government and by the several States has shown 
that the smallest scale that can ordinarily be used on a map for general 
geologic purposes is 4 miles to the inch, and that vertical relief is best 
indicated by contours with intervals of 25 feet or 200 feet, according aa 
the country represented is plain or rugged in its topographic features- 
Certain districts in which the geology is complex may require elaborate 
maps on larger scales, but for the general map the scale of 4 miles to> 
the inch has been adopted as best suited for the purpose of geologic 
representation. 

It is proposed to publish this general map in atlas sheets, each to 
include one degree of longitude by one of latitude. 

To accomplish this topographic work in the shortest possible time 
and with the greatest economy, it was decided to take advantage of all 
work previously done, whether by the General Government, by the 
several States, by counties, townships, or by industrial corporations 
and individuals. In order to compile and adjust the material obtained! 
from these various sources, a topographic division was organized, under 
the charge of Mr. Henry Gannett, who, in addition to the work of com- 
pilation and adjustment above referred to, began field operations, car- 
ried on to a limited extent in 1882, but extended and systematized in 
1883. 

Topographic Work. 

The plans for the topographic field work for the season of 1883 con- 
templated a large increase of work in the Southern Appalachian region,, 
the commencement of work in Massachusetts, the further prosecution 
of work in New Mexico and Arizona, in Northern California, and the 
commencement of a detailed map of the Yellowstone National Park, It 
was further proposed to extend the map of the Elk Mountains in Colo- 
rado, which was made by the survey under Dr. F. V. Hayden in 1874, 
besides numerous detailed maps in different sections of the country. 
Field work in the Arizona and New Mexico district, known as tbe "Win- 
gate division," was commenced in the latter part of May,under the direc- 
tion of Prof. A. H. Thompson. The division was organized first witli 
one party for carrying on triangulation and two for topographic work, 
which organization was continued until the 1st of July, when another 
topographic party was added. The character of the country, which 
consists essentially of rolling plateaus commanded by buttes of no 
great height, was such as to permit of very rapid topographic work. 
The weather also was favorable during the entire season, and the result 
was that this division covered a very large area, estimated at 22,000 



68 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

square miles, comprising the region lying between the parallels of 35° 
and 37°, and the meridians of 109° and 111°, and with an additional 
rectangle on the southeast, comprised between the parallels of 35° and 
36° and the meridians of 107° and 109°. A small portion of the latter 
had been surveyed during the previous year. While this region was, 
as stated before, in the highest degree favorable to the rapid prosecu- 
tion of topographic work, it was decidedly unfavorable for triangulatiou, 
requiring almost everywhere the use of artificial signals and much cut- 
ting away of timber. The area covered includes much that has been 
hitherto a terra incognita, partly on account of its aridity and barren 
condition, and partly on account of the difficulty of traversing it. So 
little has been known of it that within the area surveyed by Mr. H. M. 
Wilson (in charge of one of the topographic parties) a small mountain 
range has been indicated as occupying two places on the same map. 
Mr. Wilson is also the first white man to ascend Navajo Mountain, a 
dome-shaped mass that rises 4,000 feet above the general level of the 
country, between the San Juan and the Colorado Rivers, near the mouth 
of the former. At the close of the field season, Professor Thompson 
determined by astronomic methods the geographic position of Fort 
Wingate. 

The field work of the California division was, as during the previous 
year, intrusted to the charge of Mr. Gilbert Thompson. The division 
was organized and took the field early in July. It consisted of two 
parties, one under the immediate supervision of Mr. Thompson and the 
other under Mr. Mark B. Kerr. The season proved to be exceptionally 
unfavorable. Not only was the work seriously interfered with by storms, 
but during nearly the whole season smoke and haze obstructed the view. 
In spite of these difficulties the topographers surveyed an area estimated 
at between 4,000 and 5,000 square miles, lying in the northern part of 
the State, about Mount Shasta, and extending westward therefrom into 
the Coast Range. 

The work of preparing a detailed map of Yellowstone Park upon a 
scale of 1 mile to an inch was intrusted to Mr. J. H. Renshawe. Out- 
fitting his party at Bozeman, Mont., he reached the Park and com- 
menced work on the 7th of August, prosecuting work as late as the 
season would admit. Early in October, however, severe snow-storms 
caused a cessation of field operations, and he was obliged to withdraw 
to lower altitudes. The area covered by his party during the season 
was about 1,500 square miles, lying in the northwestern corner of the 
Park, and embracing the southern eod of the Gallatin Range, and a 
•considerable area of plateau country, extending hence southward down 
to the Geyser basins. Upon the return of the party to Bozeman, in 
October, a remeasurement with compensated bars was made of the base 
line at that place laid out and surveyed by the "Geographical Surveys 
West of the One Hundredth Meridian" in 1877.- 

During the year 1874 the Geological Survey of the Territories, under 
Dr. F. V. Hayden, made a somewhat detailed topographic map of 



REPORT OF TIIE SECRETARY. 69 

the Elk Mountain region, in Western Colorado. This region, compris- 
ing one of the finest bodies of mountains in the country, has recently 
acquired prominence as a mining district both of the precious metals 
and coal. The extension of this work on the southwest, in order to 
include within its limits all of the mining district as now constituted, 
was intrusted to Mr. Anton Karl. It was commenced during the month 
of July, and carried on nearly to completion when Mr. Karl was called 
away for the purpose of verifying the survey of the Maxwell grant, in 
Northern New Mexico. Mr. Karl performed this latter duty to the sat- 
isfaction of the Department, and, upon its completion, the season being 
far advanced, field operations in the Elk Mountain Region were post- 
poned until the following year. 

The revision for the survey of the Southern Appalachians was organ- 
ized upon a considerablj- enlarged scale, five topographic and two tri- 
angulation parties being put into the field. Three of the former, under 
Messrs. Yeates, Bien, and Pearson, took the field during the month of 
June, and at the same time one of the triaugulation parties, under Prof. 
W, C. Kerr, commenced work. The area assigned to Mr. Yeates com- 
prised the southwestern part of the mountain region of North Carolina; 
that to Mr. Bien, the northeastern part of this area, the southwestern 
corner of Virginia, and McDowell County, in West Virginia; that to 
Mr. Pearson, the valley of East Tennessee, with instructions to work 
from the boundary line of Virginia down the valley as far as the season 
would permit. The triaugulation party was instructed to cover the area 
assigned to these three parties with a scheme of triaugulation of suf- 
ficient accuracy to control their work. Early in July, topographic party 
No. I, under Mr. W. A. Shuniway, was put into the field, with instruc- 
tions to survey the area lying between the Kanawha and Big Sandy 
Rivers, in West Virginia. Triaugulation party No. 2, under Prof. J. 
Howard Gore, also took ttie field about this time, with instructions to 
connect the Coast Survey transcontinental belt, which follows generally 
the Kanawha River, with the work of the other party under Professor 
Kerr. At the same time, topographic party No. 5, under Mr. S. II. 
Bodfish, was put into the field, with instructions to survey the western 
part of Maryland and the adjacent portions of Northern West Virginia. 
Shortly after Mr. Bodfish took the field his health failed and it became 
necessary for him to relinquish charge of the party. Mr. W. T. Griswokl 
was intrusted with the further prosecution of the work. 

The weather throughout this region was unfavorable. The journals 
of the parties show that fully one-half of the days were so stormy as to 
preclude field work ; furthermore, the character of the country, espe- 
cially the density of its forests, makes field work at all times slow and 
difficult. Nevertheless, an area of fully 2,200 square miles was sur- 
veyed, a result attained only by great energy and ingenuity in over- 
coming and circumventing obstacles. 

The survey of Massachusetts was intrusted to Prof. H. F. Walling, 



70 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

so long well known as the compiler of maps of the Northeastern States, 
and latterly by his topographic work npou the United States Coast and 
Geodetic Survey. Work was commenced among the Berkshire Hills in 
Massachusetts in July, and carried on until the close of the year, an 
area of 1,500 square miles having been surveyed, upon a scale of 2 
miles to an inch. In carrying on this work very material assistance 
lias been derived from surveys, either by the United States or State 
authority, or by private corporations or individuals. 

In the Mono Basin, Mr. Willard D. Johnson spent the summer in 
topographic work, under the immediate supervision of the geologist in 
charge of the division of the Great Basin. He was occupied the greater 
part of the season upon a map of the hydrographic basin of Mono Lake, 
including an area of about 2,000 square miles, and executed on a scale 
of If miles to the square inch. About half the area is mountaiuous 
and difficult, including the western slope of a portion of the Sierra 
Nevada. Local maps were made of the Mount Lyell glaciers, and of a 
group of ancient moraines at the mouth of Parker Canon. 

The total area covered by the topographic work of the season 
amounts to about 53,000 square miles. 

Geologic Work. 

Diskdcl of the South Atlantic. — Prof. H. E. Geiger was detailed to 
investigate the geology of certain portions of Virginia. He spent the 
early part of July in the eastern part of the State. During that month 
and August he studied all the formations from the Greenbrier River 
to the east of Alleghany Station, West Virginia. 

In September he packed and shipped to Washington specimens from 
the Devonian formations, in Greenbrier County, and transferred his 
work to Alleghany County, Virginia. He there made a study of the 
formations, which are well exposed in that section, and procured some 
•excellent geologic specimens. In October he extended his work from 
Alleghany County to Rockingham County, Virginia, where he studied 
the limestone fossils and made a special study of the foldings between 
the Blue Ridge and North Mountain. He made a careful comparative 
examination of the limestones of Alleghany and Rockbridge Counties, 
and at the end of the month came to Washington. The thauks of 
the Survey are due to Professor Campbell, of Washington and Lee 
University, who rendered great service to Professor Geiger. 

Prof. Ira Sayles spent the early part of July in the examination 
©f caves near Clinch River, Virginia, and the general features of the 
surrounding region. He then studied the coal beds of Big Yellow 
Creek, in Bell County, Kentucky, and the dyestone iron deposits a few 
miles down Poor Valley. In August he continued his work near the 
Clinch River, especially with the object of ascertaining the extent and 
direction of the faulting which was displayed there, and also ex- 
amined the upper Coal Measures of the region, and made a running 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 71 

field chart of the county. Later in the season be discovered, in Haw- 
kins County, Tennessee, some very interesting cave deposits, which he 
carefully studied and from which large collections were sent to the 
office in Washington. From this point, in October, he went southeast- 
wardly through Hawkins County, studying the formations on the way, 
and by the last of the month was at Knoxville, where he examined the 
rocks of the Potsdam deposits, to supplement Mr. C. D. Walcott's 
work. The work in the vicinity of Knoxville and Centerville was con- 
tinued through the latter part of the year, although bad weather in- 
terfered considerably with his work. 

District of the Rocky Mountains. — Work in this district, under the 
charge of Mr. S. F. Emmons, was begun early in July. Mr. Whitman 
Cross was assigned to work in the Silver Cliff region. The report on 
this region will be of value from the fact that it is a camp of abortive 
processes, a true history of which will serve as warning by pointing 
out the errors which caused the failures there. Work was continued in 
this region through July, August, and part of September. Mr. S. S. 
Sackett was detailed to gather statistics as to reduction works in 
the district. A short trip was made to the Sangre de Cristo Range, on 
the opposite side of the valley from Silver Cliff, to determine the geo- 
logic relations of the rocks of this range to the Silver Cliff deposits. 
Work in the Denver coal basin was begun, but had to be stopped be- 
fore the end of the season. Some attention was paid to the subject of 
artesian wells, and the material obtained will be embodied in the re- 
port ou the Denver basin. In the office the notes on the ten-mile dis- 
trict were worked up, a geologic map and sections were prepared, and 
lithological determinations were made preliminary to final elaboration 
and publication. Messrs. Cross and Chapman have been engaged in 
the preparation of geologic maps, and some field work was done by Mr. 
Cross in the vicinity of Golden and Morrison, on the Mesozoic rocks 
which are exposed in this region. 

Yellowstone National Pari: — Mr. Hague began field-work in the Yel- 
lowstone Park in the latter part of July. His investigations were mainly 
confined to a preliminary examination to ascertain what the geologic 
problems really are. The Upper and Lower Geyser Basins were visited 
in August, and a geologic reconnaissance was made from the Upper Basin 
to Shoshone Lake of the Heart Lake Basin, for the purpose of comparing 
them with the Upper Basins of the Firehole, and to ascertain what thermal 
and other changes have occurred since 1878. Mr. Hague thinks that 
Mount Sheridan is a volcanic crater, so modified by glacial action as to 
practically obscure its true origin. A collection of 200 specimens of gey- 
serites was carefully made for the educational rock series. In September 
permanent camp was established near the Great Valley of the Yellowstone, 
and short trips were made into the adjacent region. The Mount Wash- 
burne group was examined, and the headwaters of the Gardiner and 
Gibbon Rivers and the region of the Grand Canon were visited. The 



72 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

bottom of the Grand Canon was reached at four different points. A 
reconnaissance was made to Steamboat Point on Yellowstone Lake, and 
Mount Chittenden, one of the highest peaks in the vicinity, was ascended. 
During this time a study of the geysers in the Upper Geyser Basin was 
contiuued by Mr. Hague's assistant until September 25, when the camp 
there was broken up and a new camp was established at Mammoth Hot 
Springs. From this a trip was made to the western limits of the Park 
over the summit of the Great Plateau and back via Madison Caiion, 
where a fine section of rhyolitic rocks is exposed. The region north of 
Mount Holmes, on the west side of the Park, was also examined, but 
the results were meager on account of the severity of the storms. A 
geologic reconnaissance was also made via the East Fork of the Yel- 
lowstone to the headwaters of Soda Butte Creek and the Clark's Fork 
mines. Although the country was covered with snow, the work accom- 
plished was of great value for general geologic purposes, and especially 
as suggesting plans of operation for next season. About the middle of 
October the weather became so inclement that the parties were obliged 
to leave the field. Mr. Iddings was sent to Eureka, Nev., to make col- 
lections of rocks for the educational series. He secured sufficient ma- 
terial for 200 cabinet specimens of five characteristic rocks. Three 
of these illustrate igneous rocks from the Great Basin, and two belong 
to the supplementary series. "All will be described in the Geology of 
the Eureka district." 

District of the Pacific — Survey of the Quicksilver District. — Mr. G. F. 
Becker, who is in charge of the division of the Pacific, has been engaged 
in the examination of the quicksilver deposits of California. During 
the early part of the season he carried on an investigation in the vicin- 
ity of the Sulphur Bank, California. A trip was made to the North Fork 
of Cache Creek and Tulare Lake, the only localities in this section where 
fossiliferous strata occur. The early part of September was spent on 
the North Fork of Cache Creek, and the map of the Clear Lake region 
was completed. Returning to Sulphur Bank, soundings of the lake 
were taken, and careful examinations made of the mines. The party 
then proceeded to San Francisco to prepare for the winter's work, which 
consists of the revision of Mr. Curtis's memoir of the Eureka mines, the 
arranging of the Clear Lake and Sulphur Bank collections, and analy- 
ses of the minerals, rocks, and waters collected, and the general routine 
of office duties. 

Work was undertaken during the season by Mr. Turner, in the re- 
gion of Knoxville, but was interfered with by his sickness, which obliged 
him to enter the hospital at San Francisco. 

Volcanic rocks. — Capt. C. E. Dutton, who has charge of the investiga- 
tion of the volcanic rocks of the division of the Pacific, has been busy 
most of the year with the completion and preparation for jmblication 
of his memoir on the Hawaiian volcanoes, which were visited by him 
for the purpose of studying the features and processes of volcanoes in 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 73 

action, that the practical knowledge thus obtained might be used in the 
study of the extinct volcanoes of our western coast. His assistant, Mr. 
Diller, took the field at Red Bluff, Cal., early in July, and immediately 
began the study of Lassen's Butte. The plain around Bed Bluff' is vol- 
canic conglomerate of andesitic fragments, which formation extends for 
25 miles eastward. During the latter part of the month he was en- 
gaged in the examination of the region surrounding Mount Shasta. 
Later, he made a geologic reconnaissance of the Cascade range. Inter- 
esting studies were made of the faults on the eastward side of the range, 
near Klamath Lake. In September he visited Union Peak, Mount 
Thielson, Crescent and Summit Lakes, and Diamond Peak. Mount 
Thielson proved to be a very interesting ruined crater of large propor- 
tions. From Diamond Peak he proceeded to the group of volcanic 
cones known as the " Three Sisters." Here both Mr. Diller and his 
assistant, Mr. Hayden, met with an accident which obliged them to 
suspend work. Later in the season the reconnaissance was resumed 
and the west side of the range examined from Portland, Oregon, to Bed 
Bluff, California. 

District of the Great Basin. — The work in this division has consisted 
for several years in the investigation of the system of lakes which in 
Quaternary time occupied so many of the valleys. This work is now 
so far advanced that it is believed the most important generalizations 
have been reached ; and the Director decided to close it as a means of 
enabling him to increase the working force on the Atlantic coast. The 
corps was therefore reduced early in the year, and those who remained 
were instructed to devote the season to supplementing the material 
already gathered so as to put it in the best shape for publication. The 
office at Salt Lake City, which had been the base of operations for the 
division, was closed in June. 

Mr. G. K. Gilbert, geologist iu charge, took the field soon after, visit- 
ing in Northern Utah, Northern Nevada, and the Mono Basin of Cali- 
fornia, localities necessary to complement his earlier notes. 

He was accompanied in Utah and Nevada by Mr. B. Ellsworth Call, 
who is temporarily attached to the survey for the purpose of studying 
the molluscan faunas of the Quaternary lakes. The Quaternary shells 
are all of existing fresh-water species, but are depauperate as compared 
with their modern representatives in the same region; and the problem 
undertaken by Mr. Call is to determine the climatic conditions indicated 
by this depauperization. 

Mr. Israel C. Russell has had immediate charge of the investigation 
of Lake Lahontan, the Quaternary ancestor of Pyramid, Carson, and 
Walker Lakes, and also of the investigation of the Quaternary history 
of the Mono Lake Basin. He devoted the summer to the completion 
of his field examinations. The six Quaternary glaciers which debouched 
into Mono Valley were studied in detail and traced to their common 



74 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

source in the great ne" ve" of the Sierra Nevada. Within the area of that 
neve are a number of small modern glaciers which were included in the 
investigation. 

Messrs. Gilbert and Eussell have devoted the time not consumed by 
field-work to the preparation of reports, preliminary and final, on the 
Quaternary lakes. The final reports will include monographs on Lake 
Bonneville, Lake Lahontan, and the Mono Basin. 

Study of Metamorphic rocks. — Prof. R. D. Irving had five parties in the 
field continuing the investigation of the copper-bearing rocks. The 
examination of the Huronian rocks, in the vicinity of Sault Ste. Marie, 
Mich., was completed, and the field of investigation was extended north 
of Lake Superior to the National boundary, and along the latter west- 
ward to Rove Lake, Michigan. Special investigations were made in the 
vicinity of Sault Ste. Marie and at various other points in the neighbor- 
hood of Lake Superior. A study was made of the crystalline rocks of 
Morrison and Todd Counties, Minnesota, and a study of the Huronian 
quartzites of the Minnesota Valley. Professor Todd's report on the 
" Copper-bearing Rocks" is in type and awaiting the completion of the 
illustrations before publication. Early in September the Animikie group 
was examined along a route which gave two complete sections of the 
series from the junction with the Keweenawan, on the islands near 
Pigeon Point, along the boundary line to the underlying granite of 
Sanaga Lake, and along the west side of Thunder Bay to Port Arthur. 
The examination of the Minnesota Valley, begun in the latter part of 
August, was continued until the middle of September, when field work 
was stopped for the season. Considerable microscopic work has been 
done by Professor Todd and his assistants. Since the beginning of their 
study of the metamorphic rocks in 1882 thin sections of 500 rocks have 
been made, of which number written descriptions of 300 have been pre- 
pared. They include tfocks from the original Huronian, the Huronian 
of the Marquette and Menominee regions, the Animikie group of the 
National boundary, the folded schists of the same region, and the crys- 
talline rocks of the Minnesota and Mississippi Valleys. Professor Irving, 
in October, made a personal examination of the quartzites of Nicollet 
and Cottonwood Counties, Minnesota. A comparative study of the 
greenstones, etc., of Huronian age will be carried on. Office work has 
developed some interesting results in relation to the structure of the 
quartzites of the Huronian of Lake Huron and of the Marquette and 
concerning their relations to each other. 

Yellowstone and Missouri Rivers. — The region between the Missouri 
River at Bismarck, Dak., and the Yellowstone Valley at Glendive, 
Mont., and along the Yellowstone River from Glendive to Livingston, 
Mont., with a portion of Montana in the vicinity of Bozemau, was the 
field of a geological reconnaissance by Dr. F. V. Hayden, who was 
assisted by Dr. A. C. Peale. Sections were made at various points along 
the line of the Northern Pacific Railroad with especial relation to the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 75 

line of division between the Laramie group and the beds that lie beneath 
it. Collections were made at various points, mainly of fossils from 
strata' of the Laramie group, and the numerous coal outcrops in the 
vicinity of the railroad were examined, as were also the borings for 
artesian wells at Bismarck in Dakota, and at Billings in Montana. 

Quaternary geology. — An investigation of the glacial and associated 
formations of the interior basin has been in progress under charge of 
Prof. T. G. Chamberlin. In the early part of June he made a brief re- 
examination of the stony clays bordering Lake Michigan, with a view 
to discriminations between true glacial deposits and those produced by 
floating ice. Later in the month he made a cursory examination of 
some points on the southern border of the newer drift in Central Iowa, 
and on the loess and drift of Northeastern Nebraska, carrying a recon- 
naissance as far west as Fort Niobrara. In July he studied the outer 
bonier of the drift in Dakota, adjacent to and west of the Missouri 
River. In August a reconnaissance of the drift margin in the Ohio 
Basin in Southern Illinois, Indiana, and Southwestern Ohio was under. 
taken. September and the remainder of the available field season, 
reaching into the early part of December, were devoted to a supple- 
mentary examination of the bqrder of the later drift and of its moraines 
in the plaine region, stretching from the Scioto to the Illinois Valley, in 
which the ridging of the drift is least conspicuous. 

Prof. J. E. Todd, as assistant, devoted the main portion of the field 
season to an investigation of the moraines and associated drift deposits 
of the Territory lying between the James and Missouri Valleys and 
south of the Northern Pacific Pail way in Dakota. Subordinately he 
made brief supplementary studies of the glacial phenomena of the south- 
eastern corner of Dakota and the northeastern border of Nebraska. 

The chief subject assigned Prof. R. D. Salisbury, assistant, was the 
character, quantity, and topographical associations of the residuary 
clays and other disintegration products of the driftless region of Wis- 
consin, Minnesota, Iowa, and Illinois. In connection with this study 
he traced out the limits of some portions of the driftless area that had 
not been determined with accuracy, and examined the character of the 
drift border with a view to comparison with the observations on the 
outer drift margin above indicated. He also gave attention to the loess- 
like loams of the western and southern portions of the district and to 
the valley drift. In November he was temporarily diverted from these 
studies to assist in glacial examinations in the Wabash Valley. In the 
latter part of November he transferred his field to Eastern Missouri, and 
began an investigation of the residuary clays, loess, and drift border 
analogous to that previously undertaken in the driftless region, and 
with the object, among others, of intercomparison. This work was con- 
tinued until interrupted by snow-fall, about the middle of December. 

The surface geology of the District of Columbia. — The superficial de- 
posits of Washington, D. C, and vicinity have been made the subject 



76 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

of casual study during the past summer by Mr. W J McGee, whose re- 
ports may be summarized as follows : 

The uppermost deposit consists of a unipartite but heterogeneous layer 
of gravel and loam, reposing unconformable* upon the several older 
rocks of the region up to an altitude of 200 feet or more above tide. In 
general, the layer thickens toward waterways and is attenuated toward 
highlands, and the coarser materials predominate toward its base. 
The gravels are in part quartzitic, small, and well rounded, and in part 
of various sublocal rocks of all sizes up to fully four feet in diameter, 
and little worn ; while the loam is sometimes of such fineness and local 
homogeneity as to simulate the coarser varieties of loess. The whole 
deposit is unfossiliferous, but is probably quaternary. 

Below these superficial gravels and above the crystalline schists and 
gneisses of the easternmost Appalachian belt occur laminated sands 
and plastic clays, unfossiliferous within the District so far as known, 
but presumably of Cretaceous or Jurassic age. The series includes one 
or more pebble-beds, consisting mainly of small and well-rounded quartz- 
itic pebbles, which dip seaward with the arenaceous and argillaceous 
strata, and soon disappear beneath the surface. Most of the eminences 
of the region are outliers of these obdurate beds, isolated by erosion ; 
and from each such eminence is a talus, tlerived from and more or less 
closely resembling the undisturbed deposit, which descends the slopes' 
and ranges, perhaps by imperceptible degrees, into the gravels of sup- 
posed Quaternary age. This intermingling of similar deposits of widely 
different ages is most puzzling, and greatly increases the difficulty of 
the investigation. 

East of the District richly fossiliferous eocene rocks overlie the Cre- 
taceous, but thus far they have been only partially examined. 

Beneath the superficial gravels sometimes occurs a ferriferous and 
lignitiferous subaerial deposit, in some cases of age manifestly ap- 
proaching that of the Cretaceous or Jurassic rocks upon which it re- 
poses, and in other cases of so recent aspect as to be generally mistaken 
for post-Quaternary accumulations. Local exposures of this discontin- 
uous stratum may represent any portion, and the totality of exposure 
apparently represents the whole of the period intervening between the 
Jurassic and the Quaternary. Its iron ores are sometimes of economic 
importance. 

Connected with the deposits is a complex system of terraces, both 
fluviatile and littoral. Preparatory to the exhaustive study of these 
terraces in their relations to the deposits with which they are associated, 
and to the orographic movements which they attest, a topographic map 
delineating the terraces in contours has been begun by Mr. S. H. Bod- 
fish. 

Geologic map of the United States. — Pending the accumulation of ade- 
quate material for the construction of the large-scale geologic map, a 
small-scale map of the United States, embodying our present knowledge 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



77 



of the distribution of American rocks, is now being colored geologically. 
The base is that employed in the atlas accompanying the final reports 
of the Tenth Census, which corresponds in size to the double atlas- 
sheets of the survey. Since the minor divisions of the geologic column 
cannot be indicated upon so small a scale, and since, moveover, our 
information respecting the rocks of various regions is insufficient for 
nice discriminations, only the general divisions will be represented on 
this map. These divisions are indicated by symbols and colors. The 
following is the scheme adopted : 



Group. 


System. 


Symbol. 


Color. 




Quaternary 


Q 

M 
E 






r Pliocene ) 






J Miocene ) 
\ Oligocene } 










^ Eocene $ 

( Cretaceous 

< Jurassic ) 


K 






( Triassic $ 

(Permian ? p 

1 Carboniferous 5 

^Devonian D 

1 Silurian ! S 

















To an extent, the map is an experimental one ; and the method of 
geologic cartography and the system of geologic classification to be 
ultimately adopted by the Survey are being developed as the map pro- 
gresses. At the same time, since the sources of information drawn upon 
in its preparation embrace not only the latest publications (both official 
and unofficial), but also much unpublished material in the hands of 
different attaches of this Survey, of several State geologists, and of 
various amateur geologists, the map may properly be regarded, when 
completed, as the most satisfactory representation of American rocks 
extant. It is essentially complete in manuscript, and will probably be 
published within a few months. It is the present intention, indeed, to 
lay it before the Congres Geologique Internationale at the approaching 
Berlin meeting, as an illustration of the system of cartography and 
classification finally adopted by the Survey. 

The work is in the hands of Mr. W J McGee, who has had for a 
time the collaboration of Prof. C. H. Hitchcock. 

Paleontologic Work. 

WorTi of Prof . 0. C. Marsh. — The search for extinct vertebrate re- 
mains and their study has been assigned to Prof. O. C. Marsh. During 
the season of 1883 he has had field parties at work in Colorado, Wyo- 
ming, and Oregon. Professor Marsh himself spent the month of August 



78 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

in Colorado clearing up some doubtful points on the Sauropoda, on 
which he is preparing a volume. Interesting collections were made of 
mammals from the Jurassic of Wyoming, and some important speci- 
mens were secured from the Tertiary of Oregon. Field work was 
brought to a close in Oregon in October, but in Wyoming and Colorado 
it was continued until late in the year. 

Work of Mr. C. D. Walcott. — Mr. Walcott's studies have been devoted 
mainly to the invertebrate fossils of the Paleozoic age. During the 
summer, he made an examination of the Potsdam and Calciferous forma- 
tions in New York, for the purpose of comparison. He also examined 
the Phillipsburg section of the Canadian Geological Survey, situated 2 
miles north of the Vermont State line. The Cambrian strata of Frank- 
lin County, New York, were also investigated, and the outcrop of lime- 
stone at Greenfield, N. Y., was visited. Large collections were made 
and full notes taken in regard to the complicated geological structure 
of the regions examined. His office work has been mainly the study 
of the Paleozoic fossils from near Eureka, Nev., and the preparation of 
a map and section illustrative of the geology of the Grand Caiion of the 
Colorado east of the Kaibab Plateau in Arizona. He has also prepared 
the paleontologic portion of the Report on the Eureka district, which 
will be published as Part II of Mr. Hague's report. It will include the 
data obtained from the White Pine district. 

Work of Dr. G. A. White. — Dr. C. A. White is in charge of the study 
of the invertebrate fossils from the Mesozoic and Tertiary formations. 
He began field work, with Mr. J. B. Marcou as assistant, early in July r 
making Fort Benton, in Montana, his outfitting point. Thence he pro- 
ceeded eastward down the Missouri River to the mouth of Judith River, 
where a special examination was made of the Judith River group. At- 
tention was given also to the structure of the mountains in the vicinity 
and to drift phenomena. The central and piir<cipal mass of the mount- 
ains was found to be a trap rock different in stri cu e from that found 
in the Rocky Mountains in Colorado. Moccasin Mountain and Square 
Butte were found to be trachytic with stratified rocks flexed against 
them. Bear Paw Mountain was found to be essentially the same. The 
northern drift was found near the latter. Returning to Fort Benton, 
Dr. White was joined by Prof. L. F.Ward, and after an examination of 
several localities in that neighborhood, including the Great Falls of the 
Missouri, they together descended the Missouri River in a boat from 
Fort Benton, Mont., to Bismarck, Dakota. Only the Laramie group was 
noted in this distance, and large collections were made. Later in the 
season the Cretaceous strata near Sioux City were examined. 

Office work has been confined mainly to the study of the collections 
and the revision of the text and illustration of a memoir on the " Os- 
treidse of North America." Progress was made also in the preparation 
of paleontologic bibliography. Mr. Marcou has devoted considerable 
time to the arrangement and cataloguing of the Jurassic fossils for study 
and revision, and has also prepared for publication a catalogue of maps. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 79 

Work of Prof . Lester F. Ward.— Prof. Lester F. Ward, paleobotanist 
of the Survey, spent the mouths of July and August making large 
and valuable collections of fossil plants in the vicinity of Grlendive, 
Montana. In September he proceeded to Fort Benton, Mont., where he 
joined Ur. White and accompauied him down the Missouri Kiver, 
adding largely to his collections of fossil plants. Since his return to 
Washington the latter have been carefully arranged for study. This 
study is facilitated by the acquisition of the fossil plants described by 
Professor Lesquereux in his quarto report made to the Survey of the 
Territories. Professor Ward has prepared a catalogue of fossil plants, 
with their geologic horizons indicated. 

Work of Prof H. S. Williams. — Prof. H. S. Williams, assigned to the 
study of the Devonian section of Western New York, has reached some 
interesting conclusions as the result of this study during tbe season. 
He worked southward across Allegany County, New York, into Penn- 
sylvania, and thence across McKean County, in the latter State. Two 
months' work furnished data for the construction of a continuous section 
(geographic and geologic) in a nearly direct line from Batavia, Genesee 
County, New York, to Alton, McKean County, Pennsylvania, passing 
from the base of the Devonian to the Coal Measures of the Carboniferous. 
He also prepared a meridional section, starting in Oneida County, New 
York, crossing Madison County, and terminating in Delaware County. 
This section passes geologically from the Carboniferous limestone to 
the red rocks referred to the Catskill formation. A preliminary re- 
port on the faunas of the Upper Devonian along the meridian from 
Cayuga Lake southward through Tompkins, Tioga, and Chemuug 
Counties, in New York, and Bradford, in Pennsylvania, has been pre- 
pared for publication and will be issued as a bulletin of the Survey. 

Work of Mr. L. C. Johnson. — In the district of the South Atlantic 
Mr. L. C. Johnson has been carrying on palseontologic work, preparatory 
to a more careful survey of the structural geology to be undertaken 
hereafter. He has made extensive collections from the Tertiary and 
Mesozoic formation in the Gulf States, especially in Alabama. The 
greater part of July was spent in Tuscaloosa, from which point 19 boxes 
of specimens were sent to Washington. During the early part of August 
he was investigating the boundary line between the Cretaceous and the 
Carboniferous, and between the rotten limestone of Greene County, Ala- 
bama, and the Eutaw group of the Cretaceous. Later he made a re- 
connaissance of the Tombigbee and Alabama Rivers. The section con- 
structed by Mr. Johnson will go far towards defining the line between the 
Cretaceous and Tertiary. October and November were mainly devoted 
to the study of the Tertiary near Bridgeport, Ala., and the Cretaceous 
in Autauga County, Alabama. December was devoted to the investiga- 
tion of the Tertiary. Large collections were made and many interesting 
facts developed. One of the results of the work will be to extend the 
boundary line of the Tertiary from 6 to 10 miles farther north than is 
usually shown on the geologic maps of this region. 



§0 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Work of Prof. W. M. Fontaine. — Prof. W. M. Fontaine during the 
summer examined the Tertiary strata of Eastern Virginia, especially 
near Richmond, making collections of fossil plants. He has prepared 
drawings of many of the specimens collected. He is also engaged iD 
the preparation of a memoir on the older Mesozoic plants of Virginia. 

C hemic Work. 

Prior to the fall of 18S3 the chemical work of the Survey was done 
at various laboratories scattered through the country, and at the field 
laboratories in Denver, Salt Lake, and San Francisco. With the re- 
moval of the headquarters of the division of the Great Basin to Wash- 
ington the field laboratory at Salt Lake City was abandoned, but work 
is still carried on at the others. With the appointment of Prof. F. W. 
Clarke as chief chemist of the Survey a laboratory was organized at 
Washington, in rooms furnished by the United States National Museum, 
where work has been begun on analyses of waters and various speci- 
mens brought iu by the various field parties. 

Professor Clarke, during the summer, made several mineralogical 
field trips and secured abundant material for future investigation. 

In the laboratory at Denver Mr. Hillebrand has been making analyses 
of a number of minerals new to Colorado, and has been examining the 
various igneous rocks collected during the summer in the district of 
the Rocky Mountains. Dr. Melville, at San Francisco, has been doing 
similar work for the division of the Pacific. 

A laboratory for physical research will probably be established in 
connection with the chemical division at Washington. This work has 
been carried on at the physical laboratory at New Haven by Dr. Carl 
Barus and Dr. William Hallock, who have been conducting experiments 
as to the exact measurement of exceedingly high temperatures. 

Economic Work. 

Statistics of Mineral Resources. — In accordance with an act passed by 
the Forty-seventh Congress, the Geological Survey was charged with 
the duty of reporting upon the present condition of the mining indus- 
tries other than those of gold and silver. This work is in the charge 
of Mr. Albert Williams, jr., chief of the division of mining statistics 
and technology, whose first report, entitled the "Mineral Resources of 
the United States," an octavo of some 800 pages, was issued in October. 
This report contains the statistics of the metallic and mineral produc- 
tion of the country for 1882 and the first six months of 1883, besides 
the figures for preceding years, descriptions of localities, metallurgical 
papers, and such information as seems important from a practical and 
industrial point of view. The statistical work of the Survey thus supple- 
ments its purely scientific investigations, and, while it is the first attempt 
of the kind, has met with a gratifying public interest. Mr. Williams 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81 

has boeu so fortunate as to secure the co-operation of a strong- array of 
contri butors among the engineers, metallurgists, and authorities on trade 
statistics, and has thus been enabled to conduct operations on a much 
more comprehensive plan than Mould be possible with a force limited 
to regular employes. 

Forestry of West Virginia. — Mr. George W. Shutt, during the field 
season of 1S83, examined the State of West Virginia, especially the 
southern aud eastern portions, with especial reference to the distri- 
bution of timber, its economic value, aud the facilities of transportation 
to market via the streams of the State. He traveled more than a thou- 
sand miles by wagon, and two hundred on horseback, and expresses the 
opinion that nearly one-half of the State is covered with a virgin forest, 
the value of which, if rendered marketable, would amount to billions 
of dollars. 

Publications. 

During the year the following publications were issued, viz : 

Bulletin No. 1. On Hypersthene-Andesite aud on Tricliuic Pyroxene 
in Augitic Rocks, by YY hitman Cross ; with a geological sketch of 
Buffalo Peaks, Colorado, by S. F. Emmons. 1883. Svo. 40 pp. 

Bulletin No. 2. Gold and Silver. Conversion tables, giving the coining 
value of Troy ounces of fine metal, &c, by Albert Williams, jr. 1S83. 
Svo. S pp. 

Mineral Resources of the United States, by Albert Williams, jr. 1883. 
Svo. S13 pp. 

The reprint of the Second Annual Report for the use of the survey, 
was also issued during the year; and 50 copies of the Third Annual 
Report were issued without the complete set of illustrations. Dr. C. A. 
White's paper on "The Non-Marine Fossil Mollusca of North America," 
from the Third Annual Report, was also issued as a separate publication 
early in the year. 

Although the monographs of Captain Dutton and Mr. George F. 
Becker ("The Tertiary History of the Grand Canon" and the "Geology 
of the Comstock lode and Washoe district," both accompanied by at- 
lases) bear the imprint of 1882, they were not furnished to the survey 
for distribution until 1883. 

The papers prepared for publication are numerous, and a number are 
in type and will soon be issued; among them are the Third and Fourth 
Annual Reports, two bulletins, and several monographs. 

Collections. 

About 200 boxes of fossils, rocks, and minerals were sent on to the 
main office of the Survey during the season by the various field parties. 

UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION. 

As exercising the double function of Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution and of United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, I 
H. Mis. 69 6 



82 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

have been in the habit of giving in the Smithsonian Annual Beport some 
account of the work accomplished in the last mentioned capacity; ami 
I take great pleasure in saying that the workings of the Commission 
have continued to show the usual ratio of increase in extent and ap- 
parent practical value. 

The difference in extent between the work of 1871 and that of 1883 
is very great, each year showing some extension of tbe scheme, and 
more and more important measures instituted for investigation into the 
conditions of the fisheries, and for increasing the fisheries supply. 

The full details of operations of the Commission will be found in its 
very voluminous reports year by year; these embracing not only the 
general history of the Commission, but also a report of what is done in 
the same direction by other establishments throughout the world. 

The most important fact in this connection is the completion of the 
steamer Albatross, of which mention was made in the last report, and 
the result of her investigations in regard to the physics and natural 
history of the various parts of the ocean. Many regions were surveyed 
and important facts ascertained respecting the existence and extent of 
new fishing banks, while the amount of material gathered, new to 
science, has been enormous. Many undescribed species of deep-sea 
fishes were secured, some of these from a depth of more than three 
miles. 

As in previous years, the summer station of the Commission was at 
Wood's Holl, Mass., where the arrangements for making a permanent 
establishment, principally for the purpose of hatching sea-fish in very 
large numbers, were actively prosecuted. The construction of build- 
ings was commenced aud well advanced before the close of the year. 
The Government pier, for which appropriation was made in the Eiver 
and Harbor bill, was already begun, but will not be sufficiently com- 
pleted to promise much service before 1885. 

The work of propagation of food-fishes generally, was conducted on a 
larger scale than before, especially in connection with the whitefish of 
the lakes, of which about one hundred millions of eggs were secured 
aud placed in the hatching houses at Northville and Alpena, Mich., for 
development. 

The number of eggs of the shad obtained was not as large as the 
year before, owing to the meteorological conditions, which interfered 
with the free influx of the fish from the ocean. 

About the average of work was accomplished in connection with the 
Penobscot and the land-locked salmon. 

An increase was effected in regard to the California trout. 

Beyond a few millions of eggs taken of the California salmon, not 
much was accomplished, in consequence of the interruption to the up- 
ward migration of the fish in the Sacramento Eiver, caused by the 
blasting of rocks along the shores for the purpose of railroad construc- 
tion. 

Perhaps the greatest success of the Commission has been with the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83 

carp, for which the demand continues to a degree that it is impossible 
to meet. Every Congressional district in the United States, and in fact 
nearly every county, has made application to receive a supply of fish, 
and large numbers of persons were left misapplied at the close of the 
season from exhaustion of the stock. It is proposed to extend consid- 
erably the area of these ponds in Washington, so as to meet the still 
increasing demand. 

Numerous researches have been prosecuted in regard to the oyster 
and other fishes, for the purpose of securing a proper basis of practical 
work. These investigations have been carried on principally by Mr. 
John A. Ryder, the biologist of the Commission, and have added 
greatly to his deserved reputation. 

Bulletin of the Fish Commission. — Reference has been made in pre- 
ceding reports to the authorization by Congress of the printing of a 
bulletin to contain current news of interesting facts in regard to fish 
culture and the fisheries. Most of such matter has been furnished 
from the correspondence of the Commission, although some articles 
have been introduced from other sources. 

The work is printed signature by signature as the matter is ready, 
and distributed in this form to fish commissioners and specialists who 
desire it, this requiring about 200 copies. The remainder of the edition 
is bound and supplied in that form. 

Of this work the House of Representatives receives 2,500 copies and 
the Senate 1,000, all of which are eagerly sought for. 

International Fisheries Exhibition, 1883. — In the spring of 1882 Con- 
gress authorized the United States Fish Commission to participate in 
the International Fisheries Exhibition to be held in London in 1883, 
and work was soon after begun and pushed forward with great activity. 
A preliminary exhibition of such of the material as could conveniently 
be displayed was held in the National Museum February 26, and the 
work of packing the collections for transmission to London was begun 
the following day. Mr. Thomas Donaldson made a satisfactory arrange- 
ment with the Pennsylvania Railroad Company for shipping the col- 
lections to isew York, and Messrs. Patton, Vickers & Co., agents for 
the Monarch line of steamships, billed the goods to Loudon at greatly 
reduced rates. 

Being myself unable to go to Loudon, I designated Mr. G. Brown 
Goode to the President as special commissioner. He was assisted by 
Dr. T. H. Bean and Messrs. R. E. Earll, J. W. Collins, A. H. Clark, 
W. V. Cox, H. C. Chester, and Reuben Wood. In addition to these 
gentlemen, Lieut. C. H. McLellan, U. S. R. M., was detailed by the 
Life-Saving Service, Mr. Max Hansman by the Light-House Board, 
and Sergeant James Mitchell, U. S. A., by the Signal Office. Mr. R. 
I. Geare accompanied the party as secretary. 

The collections arrived in London in excellent condition, but it was 
found that the space asked for by the United States was entirely inad- 



84 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

equate. Arrangements were, however, subsequently made for addi- 
tional space in vaiious parts of the reservation. 

The exhibition, which was held in the grounds of the Royal Horti- 
cultural Society, was the largest special one ever held, and was par- 
ticipated in by 31 nations and colonies. The area occupied was 21 
acres. 

The formal opening of the exposition was made by the Prince of 
Wales on the 12th of May, in the presence of the Court, and by June 
1, everything was in perfect order. The American section was gen- 
erally admitted to be the most important division of the entire exhibi- 
tion, both on account of its contents and the manner in which they 
were arranged and displayed. 

A series of catalogues — numbering seven — illustrative of the United 
States exhibits, was prepared and published, and will form Bulletin of 
the National Museum No. 27. The series is as follows: 

A. — "Preliminary Catalogue and Synopsis of the Collections exhibited 
by the United States Fish Commission, and by special exhibitors. 
(With a concordance to the official classification of the Exhibition.)" 
Prepared by G. Brown Goode. Svo. 107 pp. 

B. — "Collection of Economic Crustaceans, Worms. Echinoderms, and 
Sponges." By Richard Rathbun. Svo. 31 pp. 

C. — "Catalogue of the Aquatic and Fish-eating Birds, exhibited by 
the United States National Museum." By Robert Ridgway. Svo. 40 pp. 

D. — "Catalogue of the Economic Mollusca, and the Apparatus and 
Appliances used for their capture and preparation for market, exhibited 
by the United States National Museum." By Francis Winslow. Svo. 
86 pp. 

E. — "The Whale Fishery, and its Appliances." By James Temple 
Brown. Svo. 116 pp. 

F. — "Catalogue of the Collections of Fishes exhibited by the United 
States National Museum." By Tarleton H. Bean. Svo. 124 pp. 

G. — "Descriptive Catalogue of the Collection illustrating the scien- 
tific investigation of the Sea and Fresh Waters." B} T Richard Rathbun. 
Svo. 109 pp. 

Mr. Goode expresses himself as much gratified by the courtesy and 
aid which the members of his party received from the managers of the 
exhibition, particularly from Mr. Edward Birkbeck, Professor Huxley, 
Sir Philip Cunliffe Owen, Mr. A. J. R. Trendell, literary superintendent, 
Surgeon-General Francis Day, Mr. Fell-Woods, Mr. W. Oldham Cham- 
bers, aud Sir James G. Maitland. From the opening of the exhibition 
to its close the buildings and grounds were thronged with visitors, not 
only in the daytime, but at night, when they were illuminated by elec- 
tric lights. The total number of visitors was 2,690,000, an average oi 
18,545 a day. 

After the exhibition had got fairly under way the fishery conferences, 
began, the opening address being made by Professor Huxley. These 
meetings continued three months, and the reading of papers was usu- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85 

allv followed by a general discussion. About fifty papers were read and 
discussed, all being of great importance, and many dealing with sub- 
jects never before discussed. One of the most important papers was 
read by Mr. Goode, and treated of "The Fishery Industries of the 
United States, and the work of the United States Commission." Pro- 
fessor Huxley, in responding, held up the aetion of the United States as 
a worthy example for other nations to follow. He said that, with all 
respect to the efforts of Sweden, Germany, Holland, &c, he did not 
think any nation had "comprehended the question cf dealing with the 
fisheries in so thorough, excellent, and scientific a spirit as the United 
States." The conference papers, with the discussions, have all been 
printed, and, together with a series of illustrated popular hand books, the 
reports of the juries, and the prize essays, will form a very important 
contribution to the literature of fish and fisheries, making about twelve 
volumes octavo. The catalogue of the exhibition is in itself a cyclo- 
paedia of the fisheries, the account of the exhibit of each country being 
prefaced by a description of its fisheries by some expert. The estab- 
tablishment of a literary bureau, in charge of Mr. Trendell, was an im- 
portant advance in exhibition administration. 

The efficiency of the American exhibit was rendered more perfect by 
the fact that the employes were experts in their several departments, 
and were constantly in attendance and ready to explain the collections. 
The assistance of these gentlemen will also be of great importance in 
preparing the official report. This report will embrace, in addition 
to the narrative and descriptive part by -r. Goode, special reports upon 
the European fisheries and fish-culture, the herring and sardine fisher- 
ies, the mackerel fisheries, the English fish-trade, life-saving appliances, 
&c. 

In compliance with my request, Mr. Goode devoted a great deal of 
time to studying the methods of managing museums in the great estab- 
lishments of England. He made a short visit to Paris also, to study 
museum methods there, having previously, in 18S0, visited the estab- 
lishments in Germany and Italy. 

The exhibition was formally closed October 30, and by the end of 
the year the entire collection — of a bulk of over 500 tons — had been 
returned to Washington, where a force was at once put to work in set- 
ting it up for permanent exhibition in the National Museum. 

Many important accessions to our collections were received during 
the exhibition. Most of these came by exchange. Prominent among 
them were exhibits from Greece, Spain, India, Sweden, and China. The 
Marquis of Hamilton presented an Irish coracle; Mr. W. B. Scgetmeier 
furnished illustrations of the net-maker's art; Mr. Arthur Fedderseu, 
of Viborg, presented a model of a Danish vessel, &c. A considerable 
collection of fish-cultural appliances was given to the new National 
Fisheries Museum at South Kensington, in exchange for objects from 
India and China. 



86 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

As far as prizes are concerned the United States has been eminently 
successful. The number of awards made to this country is far greater 
than was expected. Eighteen gold and four silver medals were given 
to the Fish Commission and one gold medal to the National Museum. 
The total number of awards that came to this country was one hun- 
dred and fifty-one. 

Fishery branch of Census of 1880. — The reports for several years past 
have contained detailed reference to the work prosecuted under the 
direction of the United States Fish Commission, and with the assistance 
of funds from the census of 1880 in connection with the preparation of 
an exhaustive series of reports upon the present condition and past 
history of the fisheries of the United States. 

Most of the special reports of the fishery experts have been completed, 
and the force, with the exception of that permanently connected with 
the Institution and the Fish Commission, has been disbanded. Although 
there is still much work to be done, in the absence of an appropriation 
for the purpose, this must be accomplished by the Fish Commission at 
its leisure. A number of reports have been published, and large quan- 
tities of the manuscript are now in the hands of the Superintendent of 
the Censns. A summary of the statistical results of the inquiry was 
printed in the Compendium of the Tenth Census, pp. 1402, 1403. 

In view of the vast material to be printed directly by the Census 
Office, application was made to Congress for authority to print the 
more purely natural history and biological articles in a separate series 
under the auspices of the Fish Commission, aud the first volume of this 
series, relating to the natural history of the useful animals of the sea, 
especially of fishes, cetaceans, and invertebrates, has all been put in 
type during the year, and it is hoped that it will be published early in 
1884. 

This volume forms Part I of the proposed work, and contains 900 
pages of text and 270 plates. It will be followed by other parts ap- 
proximately in the order below : 

Part II. Fishing Grounds and the Geographical Distribution of Food 
Fishes. 

Part III. A Geographical Eeview of the Fisheries. 

Part IV. The Apparatus of the Fisheries. 

Part V. Fishery Vessels and Boats. 

Part VI. The Methods and History of the Fishery Industry. 

Part VII. The Preparation of Fishery Products. 

Part VIII. Commerce in Fishery Products. 

Part IX. Fish Culture and Fishery Legislation. 

Part X, A Dictionary of American Fish aud Fisheries. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX TO THE SECRETARY'S REPORT. 



CORRESPONDENCE RELATIVE TO THE TRANSFER OF AS- 
TRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS BY TELEGRAPH. 

Letter from Harvard College Observatory, May 2, 18S2, fo Smithsonian 

Institution. 

Dear Sie : The suggestion lias been made to me that discoveries 
of comets should occasionally be telegraphed from this observatory to 
Europe by means of the " Science Observer" cipher system. 

I am desirous to avoid any possibility of interference with the work 
of the Smithsonian Institution, and for this reason I have hitherto 
avoided making any such announcements of discoveries. The dis- 
patches have been conliued to statements of elements, ephemerides, 
and the tirst accurate positions obtained of comets, which would of 
course be subsequent to the original discovery. If, however, you see no 
objection to a similar announcement of discoveries in cases where it 
may be requested, there will be no. difficulty in making it. I should be 
very glad to have your opinion on the subject. 

Yours respectfully, 
Edward C. Pickering. 

Letter from Smithsonian Institution, May 4, 1882, to Prof. E. C. Picker- 
ing, Harvard College Observatory. 

Dear Sir : The Smithsonian Institution does not possess any mo- 
nopoly of transmitting astronomical information abroad, and it will not 
interfere in any way with its plans to have you make any communica- 
tions you may desire in the cipher of the " Science Observer." 

I have not felt at liberty to change the general system of communi- 
cating astronomical data, as arranged by Professor Peters, to whom 
the suggestion of this transmission is primarily due. 

Whenever the astronomers of this country agree upon a change of 
system, it will give me great pleasure to carry it out. 

Very truly yours, 
Spencer F. Baird. 

Letter from the Science Observer, Boston, December 15, 1882, to the Smitli- 

sonian Institution. 
Hear Sir : In the matter of comet telegrams, I have the following 
report to make, I think ought to be made to you. You remember, with- 
out doubt, that when at Wood's Holl this fall you told me to go ahead 

87 



88 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

with my system, and I bave done it. You are doubtless aware that an 
organization of observatories bas been effected in Europe, including 
Greenwicb, Kiel, Vienna, Berlin, Paris, and over tbirty otbers, and tbe 
organization proposes to use tbe Science Observer Code with transmis- 
sion of astronomical information. Regarding tbeir arrangements witb 
eacb otber, or tbeir relations to tbe former system, witb Vienna as a 
center, I am not informed. Dr. A. Krueger, of Kiel, bas written to me 
in this matter, desiring tbe necessary publications, &c, and in one of 
bis letters states: "I wish that you and Mr. Chandler or Ilarvaid Col- 
lege Observatory would be tbe center for the United States." Tbis let- 
ter seems to have been followed by a circular of which a c >py has not 
betn received here, but concerning which very definite information has 
been received fi om other sources, to the effect that Harvard College 
Observatory was established as a center for (presumably) the collection 
and diffusion of discovery announcements in astronomy. 

Tbe letter from which the quotation is made, was dated in Kiel jSTo- 
vember 11, and tbe circular November 14, hence it is evident that no 
answer could have been received at Kiel from here. What 1 did reply 
under date of December 2 was to the effect that under the existing ar- 
rangements the Smithsonian was deputed to secure and forward to Eu- 
rope tbe earliest announcements of discoveries, &c, and that so long as 
these arrangements remained in force it would not be courteous to at- 
tempt tbe collection of precisely the same data. I wrote that whatever 
information was received here would be gladly forwarded to Kiel, and 
that second positions would in all cases be i-ent (as per our present agree- 
ments with Lord Crawford and Berlin), also elements and ephemerides, 
if desired. I further stated to him that messages received here would 
be distributed here as have been all previous ones, viz, by special circu- 
lar, by telegram, and by Associated Press. And thus the matter rests. 
I have always felt, as I expressed to you, a desire not to trench upon the 
grounds of another, but at the same time I have u gone ahead," and 
trust tbe same will meet your approval. 

I am sincerely yours, 
J. Eitchie, Jr. 

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, December 22, 1882, to Mr. J. Ritch ie, 
jr., of the Science Observer. 

Dear Sir : In reply to your favor of December 15 I may say that I 
am gratified to learn that your system of astronomical telegraphy 
has been so successful, and that so many foreign observatories are pre- 
pared to adopt the " Science Observer Code." 

It has never been the pol cy of this Institution to occupy a position 
of rivalry in any scientific enterprise, but the moment it appears that 
any work can be as well or better performed by other agencies, we cheer- 
fully extend our encouragement to such, and are always ready either to 
co-operate therewith, or to transfer thereto, tbe special field of activity. 
I do not doubt that you are well prepared to conduct this important 



CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 89 

branch of international exchange of discovery and research, and prob- 
ably with better facilities than this Institution. If therefore you desire 
to take the entire charge of this field, so far from feeling any dissatis- 
faction, I shall very gladly resign the matter to your hands; and on re- 
ceiving direct announcement of your wish and ability to conduct the 
service, I shall cordially lend assistance to jour purpose by preparing 
a circular addressed to our correspondents, giving them a formal noti- 
fication of the transfer. 

Yours, very respectfully, 
Spencer F. Baird. 

Letter from the Science Observer, December 28, 1882, to the Smithsonian 

Institution. 

Dear Sir: Your favor of 22d instant, with reference to the matter 
of notification of astronomical discovery, &c., is at hand, for which, many 
thanks. I have delayed answer a few hours that the subject might be 
discussed with Professor Pickering, of Harvard Observatory, and his 
opinion incorporated with mine. As to ability to conduct the "service," 
I think nothing further need be necessary in evidence than what is shown 
by the work of the past two years, during which we have sent such data 
to Europe, as did not lie within the province of the Smithsonian, and 
which was somewhat more complicated, including as it did the collec- 
tion of observations in this country, the performance of the necessary 
computations, and the forwarding of the results. 

Since the whole matter of collection and reduction of data will be 
best accomplished at the Observatory, where, as well night or day, 
there are always present persons prepared for action without delay, 
and no loss of time will ensue should Mr. Chandler, Professor Picker- 
ing, or myself be absent, it seems advisable to have all telegrams sent 
to the Observatory (as are all messages from Europe under the exist- 
ing arrangements). Further than this, an impersonal address can best 
be remembered, and is not liable to change through death of any par- 
ticular individual, it seems best to have the address sitnply : 

" Harvard College Observatory, Cambridge, Mass." 

All necessary arrangements are now in force, and whenever it seems 
to you advisable to make the transfer it may be done. It will, how- 
ever, be necessary to receive from the Smithsonian Institution a list of 
those to whom messages of announcement are now being sent. Fur- 
ther than this there seems to be nothing necessary, save the circular 
to which you refer. 

With many thanks for your interest in the matter, 

I am, sincerely, yours, 
J. Ritchie, Jr. 

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, January 3, 1883, to Prof. E. C. 
Pickering, of Harvard College Observatory. 
Dear Sir : From correspondence with Mr. J. Ritchie, jr., of the " Sci- 
ence Observer," relative to the transfer of telegraphic announcements 



90 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

of astronomical discoveries (heretofore conducted by this Institution), 
I learn that you are prepared to co-operate with him in the reception 
and distribution of such telegraphic message between this and foreign 
countries. As it will be necessary to send circulars to each of our cor- 
respondents, notifying them of the change, it seems proper that before 
requesting them to send dispatches to the "Harvard College Observa- 
tory" (as indicated by Mr. Kitchie), we should have your formal request 
or authorization to that effect. Will you kindly inform me of your 
wishes in the matter, at your earliest convenience? 

Yours, very respectfully, 
S. F. Baird. 

Letter from the Harvard College Observatory, January G, 1883, to the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

Dear Sir : Your letter of January 3 is at hand. The Harvard Col- 
lege Observatory is now prepared to undertake the reception and dis- 
tribution of telegraphic announcements of astronomical discovery in 
this country, and to transmit by telegraph to Europe similar informa- 
tion of discoveries made in this country. 

The Observatory is also prepared to transmit by telegraph the re- 
sults of early observations of newly discovered objects, when these re- 
sults appear to be of sufficient importance to require early distribution 
among astronomers. 

You will greatly oblige me by sending this intelligence to any of 
your correspondents who would be interested in kuowiug it. 

Yours, respectfully, 
Edward C. Pickering. 

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, January 24, 1883, to Prof. E. C. 
Pickering, of Harvard College Observatory. 
Dear Sir : I send you herewith a few copies of the circular of this 
Institution about to be distributed to all our astronomical correspond- 
ents, giving formal notice of the transfer to the Harvard College Ob- 
servatory of the system of telegraphic announcements. 

Yours, very respectfully, 
S. F. Baird. 

Letter from the Harvard College Observatory, January 27, 1883, to the 
Smithsonian Institution. 
My Dear Sir : The copies of your circular announcing the transfer 
of the American center for transmitting astronomical information from 
the Smithsonian Institution to the Harvard College Observatory are 
duly received. I take this occasion to thank you tor allowing no other 
considerations to interfere with those of a purely scientific character. 
Hoping that the new system may lead to a highly efficient distribution 

of astronomical information, I remain. 

Very resi>ectfully, yours, 
Edward C. Pickering. 



EEPOKT ON SMITHSONIAN ENCHANGES FOE 1883. 

By George H. Boehmer. 

The delays resulting from the removal of the exchange office into 
temporary quarters pending - the restoration and fire-proofing of the 
eastern portion of the Smithsonian building and in obtaining the Con- 
gressional appropriation made for the Bureau, considerably retarded 
operations during the past year. 

The work of reorganization of the service, begun in 1880, bas been 
continued during the past year, and the service now represents four dis- 
tinct divisions, viz, the Eecord, Foreign Exchange, Domestic Exchange, 
and Government Document Exchange divisions, each of which is in 
charge of a competent assistant, whose duties are confined to his special 
department. 

The Record Division. — Mention was made in the reports for 1S81 and 
an illustration given in that for 1882 of a system of card catalogues, on 
the debit and credit system, with the corresponding societies in Aus- 
tria, France, Germany, and Great Britain and Ireland. This system 
has been extended to comprise all establishments enumerated in the 
list of foreign correspondents, and now numbers about 1,000 cards. 
Over 18,000 entries were made ontbese cards during the year, and from 
them the invoices prepared which accompany every sending. In addi- 
tion to this work, the assistant in charge of this division is required to 
credit the correspondents with the acknowledgments made by them of 
the parcels received, and to keep a daily record of the incoming letters. 
All the files are kept in this division. 

Foreign Exchange Division. — The duties of the assistant in charge of 
this branch also included the domestic exchanges until the 1st of March, 
when these were placed in charge of a new assistant. This had become 
necessary on account of the constantly increasing work in both depart- 
ments. 

A full description of the work of receiving and preparing for trans- 
mission the packages of foreign exchanges was given in the report 
for 1882, and a repetition of it is superfluous ; it may only be stated 
that the receipts for this branch were 18,0G3 packages, which were sent 
abroad in 419 boxes. A detailed statement is appended in the general 
statistics. 

The work connected with the Government document exchanges is 
still performed by the foreign exchange department, but, both branches 
increasing so very rapidly, the suggestion made in the report for 1882, 
of placing this work in the hands of one assistant, is now renewed. 

Domestic Exchange Division. — This separate branch was established on 

91 



92 



KEPOKT ON EXCHANGES. 



the 1st of March, and of the work performed, Mr. N. P. Scudder, the 
assistant iu charge reports as follows : 

"Elsven thousand parcels have been distributed in the United States 
and Canada. Of these I have classed as individuals 2,323, because they 
were addressed to individuals, though a very large portion were proba- 
bly intended for societies, public libraries, &c, and have doubtless been 
turned over to their proper destination by the persons to whom they 
were addressed. The remaining S,G77 parcels have been sent to the in- 
stitutions, &c, for which they were intended, 8,450 being distributed in 
the United States and 227 in Canada. 

" During the year several improvements have been introduced in the 
method of keeping the records of the domestic exchanges. One of these 
is a card catalogue of addresses. The address of the society or individual 
is taken from returned receipts and the date of the signing of the receipt 
is noted. If any address is doubtful or incomplete, the following blank 
is sent to the party for full information : 









(Slip to bo returned.) 










Please write your full address on the 


oth 


er 


side of this 


si 


p, as it 


will fac 


ilitate the prompt delivery 


of 


parcels sent 


to 


you by 


the Sin 


thsonian Institution. 






(over.) 



Name 

Street and No. 

P. O. box 

City or to\vn_ 

County 

State 



(over.) 



"By this method the address of the party is obtained directly and 
the date is noted. 

" Another improvement has been introduced at your suggestion, i. <?., 
a card ledger of all the parcels sent out. A sample card is inclosed (it 
is unnecessary to reproduce this sample card, being in general the same 
form as adopted for the foreign exchange and illustrated in the report 
for 1882). By means of this ledger a glance will show what hits been 
sent to any institution or individual. The ledger has been carried back 
to the beginning of the year 1883." 

Government Exchange Division. — This portion of the service is still de- 
pendent for the performance of the necessary work on the force of the 
foreign exchange branch, though its constant increase would justify the 
employment of one assistant, and, though not quite to the exclusion of 
any other duties, he might be utilized in general office work when not 
employed in receiving, distributing, recording, cataloguing, or transmit- 
ting these exchanges and assuming all the necessary correspondence 
connected with this branch. Thus far the work in this department has 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



93 



generally been most pressing just at times when the force of the foreign 
department could be least spared for this purpose. 

The receipts in this division were 37,5G9 packages, weighing 27,395 
pounds, which were transmitted to foreign Governments as specified in 
the appended statistics. 

I. RECEIPTS. 
1. For foreign distribution. 



Wheucc received. 



(«) From Government Departments : 

Adjutant-General's Office, U. S. A 

Agricultural Department 

Bureau of Education 

Bureau of Engraving and Printing 

Bureau of Ethnology 

Bureau of Military Justice 

Bureau of the Mint 

Bureau of Statistics 

Coast and Geodetic Survey 

Comptroller of Currency 

Department of Justice 

Engineer Bureau 

Fish Commission 

General Land Office 

Geological Survey 

Hydrographic Office 

Interior Department 

Internal Revenue 

National Museum 

Nautical Almanac 

Naval Observatory 

Ordnance Bureau, U. S. A 

Pension Office 

Post-Office Department 

Second Comptroller 

Signal Office 

Surgeon-General's Office 

Treasury Department 

War Department 

Total 

(&) From Smithsonian Institution 

(c) From scientific societies: 

Americar Association for the Advancement of Science 

American Geographical Society 

American Journal of Arts and Sciences 

American Medical As.sociation 

American Philosophical Society 

American Statistical Association 

Boston Academy of Arts and Sciences 

Boston Society of Natural History 

Cambridge Entomological Club 

Canadian Institute 

Canadian Journal 

Cincinnati Society of Natural History 

Essex Institute, Salem 

Johns Hopkins University 

New Jersey Geological Survey 

New York Academy of Sciences 

New York State Cabinet 



1883. 





• 


Packages. 


Weight, 


Number. 


Pounds. 


1 


1 


400 


1,279 


2 


y 


1 


1 


8 


70 


1 


1 


20 


34 


6 


43 


Q 


42 


1,000 


1,002 


3 


3 


382 


2,803 


1?0 


847 


1 


1 


G76 


13,137 


18 


8' 


3 


56 


2 


2 


67 


3, 193 


8 


45 


1,110 


3, 105 


3 


m 


1 


i 


1 


i 


2 


i 


3,244 


18, 502 


15 


230 


9 


63 


8 


59 


7, 1G5 


44, 637 


(5, 218 


22, 566 


138 


410 


2 


39 


203 


85 


53 


132 


672 


843 


13 


72 


298 


500 


295 


1,007 


2 


4 


1 


2 


114 


25 


1 


5 


172 


275 


4 


49 


(5 


5 


273 


90 


93 


563 



94 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



i. receipts— Continued. 
1. For foreign distribution— -Continued. 



Whence received. 


18S3. 




Packages. 


Weight. 


(c) From scientific societies — Continued. 

New York State Lil >rary 

Numismatic and Antiquarian Society 


Number. 

129 

8 

24^ 

3r> 

58 

270 

19 

38 


Founds. 
3,025 
6 

83 




215 




41 


Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences 


6J9 
94 




620 




1 






2 
66 

99 
- I 
114 
288 
186 






53 




122 


"Western Bank Note and Engraving Company 


31 
150 




1,710 




76 






Total 


3, 900 


11,003 








7.-.0 


441 








18, 063 


78 648 







2. For domestic distribution. 



From — 



Argentine Confederation 

Belgium 

Central America 

Costa Rica 

Cuba 

Denmark 

England 

France 

Germany 

Holland 

India 

Italy 

Jamaica 

Mexico 

New South Wales 

Norway 

Portugal 

Russia 

South Australia 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania. 

Trinidad 

Victoria 

Total 



1883. 



Boxes. Parcels 



No. 



3 

11 
L0 

7 
1 

4 

73 
2D 
53 



232 



Ko. 

134 

574 

10 

35 

5 

124 

1,629 

1,489 

2, 249 

117 

2 

521 

1 

420 

34 

219 

56 

468 

23 

1 

112 

27 

9 



8,262 



Weight. 



Pounds. 

506 

3, 057 
950 

4, 035 
107 
137 

14, 209 

9,050 

10, 212 

708 

100 

2, 361 

10 

680 

21 

1,025 

676 

1,401 

90 

9 

100 

50 



49, 608 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



95 



To these 8,202 packages received from abroad for domestic transmis- 
sion 3,200 should be added, received from home institutions for this 
purpose; but being partly included iu the general invoices, the labor of 
separating them from the sum total received would have been an unrea- 
sonably complicated one. It was therefore concluded to leave this 
additional number in the sum total of parcels for foreign transmission. 
About 450 parcels remain on hand at the end of the year. 

3. For Government exchanges. 



For what and whence received. 



1883. 



Boxes. Packages. Weight. 



(a) For Library of Congress from- 

Austria 

England 

France 

.Sweden 

Victoria 

(b) For foreign Governments from- 

Public Printer 



Total 



Xo. 



24 



No. 



38, 250 



37, 569 





Pounds. 


751 


770 


18 


3,470 


522 


1,820 


27 


90 


1 


180 



21,065 



27, 395 



RECAPITULATION. 



For what and whence received. 


1882. 


1883. 


Packages. 


Weight. 


Packages. 


Weight. 


1. For foreign distribution from — 

(a) Government Departments. 

(b) Smithsonian Institution.. 

(c) Scientific societies 

(d) Individuals 


No. 

6, 470 

7,056 

5,119 

647 


Pounds. 

60,118 

13, 447 

8,101 

2, 054 


No. 
7,165 
6,218 

3, 900 
780 


Pounds. 

44,637 

22, 566 

11,003 

441 






2. For domestic distribution 

3. For Government exchanges ... 


19, 292 

7, 187 

31,568 


83, 720 
30. 904 
28, 750 


18, 063 

8,263 

37, 569 


78, 647 
49, 608 
27, 395 


Total 


58, 047 


143, 374 


63, 894 


155, 650 





II. TRANSMISSIONS. 

1. Foreign transmissions. 

The total uumber of boxes sent during the year is 405, an excess of 
73 boxes over last year ; but, notwithstanding this marked increase, 
enough material remains on hand to fill at least 50 additional boxes. 
It was much desired to dispose of all books and parcels on hand, apol- 



96 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



icy adopted aud executed during the past few years, never to allow any 
accumulations which might be worked off, but the difficulties above 
mentioned made it impossible to obtain this desired end. 

The transmissions for the year compare with those of former years as 
follows : 



Items. 


1876. 


• 1877. 


1878. 


1879. 


1880. 


1881. 


1882. 


1883. 




323 

1,503 

80, 750 


397 

2,779 

99, 250 


309 

2, 160 

69, 220 


311 

2,177 
69, 975 


268 

1,976 

60, 300 


407 

2,800 
100, 750 


422 

2,950 
105, 500 


495 


Bulk in cubic feet .. 
Weight in pounds .: 


3, 288 
122, 265 



These figures include in all cases the boxes sent under the system of 
Government document exchange to the various Governments specified 
in the appended report. The distribution was made as follows : 



Country. 



Government 
boxes. 



AFRICA. 



Algeria 

Egypt, etc. 



Total 



AMERICA. 

British America 

Mexico 

Central America: 

Costa Eica 

Guatemala 

Nicaragua 

West Indies: 

Bahamas 

Barbadoes 

Cuba 

Guadeloupe 

Hayti and Dominica 

Jamaica 

Porto Rico 

St. Thomas ' 

Trinidad 

Turk's Island 

South America: 

Argentine Confederation . . 

Bolivia 

Brazil 

British Guiana 

Chili 

Dutch Guiana 

Ecuador 

Peru 

Uruguay 

United States of Colombia. 

Venezuela 



Total 



Smithsonian 
boxes. 



20 



Total. 



10 



14 
14 

1 
1 
1 

1 
1 
2 
1 
4 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 

9 

1 

11 

1 

5 
2 

1 
1 
1 
4 
3 

84 



REPORT* ON EXCHANGES. 



D1 



Country. 


Government 
boxes. 


Smithsonian 
boxes. 


Total. 


ASIA. 

Chiua 


> 


4 
9 
1 


4 


India 


2 
2 


11 


Japan : 


3 






Total - 


4 


14 


18 


AUSTRALASIA. 

T^ew South Wales 


2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 




2 


New Zealand 




2 


Queensland 




2 


South Australia 




2 


Tasinauia 




2 


Victoria 


*""" **' 


9 






Total 


12 




12 








EUROPE. 

Austria-Hungary 


2 

2 
2 
2 
2 


15 

1 

3 

4 

103 

1 

54 

72 


17 


Bavaria* 


3 




5 


Denmark 


6 


England 


105 




1 


France 


2 
2 
2 

2 

2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 


56 


German v 


74 


Greece 


2 


Holland 


9 

17 

3 

4 


11 


Italy 


19 


Norway 


5 


Portugal 


6 


Prussia * 


2 


Russia 


21 

1 
4 
8 
8 
3 


23 


Saxony * 

Spain 


3 

6 


Sweden 


10 


Switzerland 


10 


Tu i key 

Wurtemberg * 


5 
2 






Total 


40 


331 


371 







* The Smithsonian exchanges are included in the 72 cases for Germany. 

RECAPITULATION. 





Countries. 


Government 
boxes. 


Smithsonian 
boxes. 


Total 






• 




10 
64 
14 




10 


America 


20 
4 

12 
40 


84 


As a 


18 


Australasia 


12 


Europe - 


331 


371 








Total . . . 


70 


419 




495 







II. Mis. G9- 



98 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

Transportation Companies. — The liberality of transportation companies 
and parties interested in shipping hitherto extended to the Smithsonian 
Institution in aid to the scientific exchanges, and thus far granted by 
thirty-three companies antl foreign consuls in the United States, has, 
during the past year, again been demonstrated by the addition of nine- 
teen new firms, all desirous to further the object in question. These 
new additions now open channels for free transmissions to the following- 
named countries: Bahamas, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Den- 
mark, Dutch Guiana, England (and all its colonies through their respect- 
ive agents in London), Liberia, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru, Polynesia, 
San Domingo, Siam, Syria, Turk's Island, Uruguay, and West Indies. 

These companies, granting free freight on all cases and parcels of ex- 
changes bearing the Smithsonian stamp, are: 

American Colonization Society, Washington, D. C. 

Anchor Steamship Company (Henderson & Bro., agents), New York. 

Atlas Steamship Company (Pirn, Forwood& Co., agents), New York. 

Bailey, H. B., & Co., New York. 

Biddle, E. R., Philadelphia. 

Bixby, Thomas, & Co., Boston, Mass. 

Bland, Thomas, New York. 

Borland, B. R., New York. 

Cameron, R. W., & Co., New York. 

Compagnie Generate Transatlantique (L. de B6bian, agent), New York. 

Cunard Royal Mail Steamship Line (Vernon, Brown & Co., agents), 
New York. 

Dallet, Boulton & Co., New York. 

Dennison, Thomas, New York. 

Hamburg American Packet Company (Kunhardt & Co., agents), New 
York. 

Inman Steamship Company, New York. 

Merchants' Line of Steamers, New York. 

Monarch Line (Patton, Vickers & Co., agents), New York. 

Muiioz y Espriella, New York. 

Murray, Ferris & Co., New York. 

Netherlands-American Steam Navigation Company (H. Cazaux, 
agent), New York. 

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, New York. 

New York and Mexico Steamship Company, New York. 

North German Lloyd (Oelrichs & Co., New York, Schumacher & Co., 
Baltimore, agents). 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York. 

Panama Railroad Company, New York. 

Red Star Line (Peter Wright & Sons, agents), New York. 

Spinney, Joseph S., New York. 

Steamship Line for Brazil, Texas, Florida, and Nassau, N. P. (C. W. 
Mallory & Co., agents), New York. 



HEPOItT ON EXCHANGES. 



99 



White Cross Line (Fuuch, Edye & Co., agents), New York. 

Wilson & Asinus, New York. 

In addition, the following- named foreign consuls have consented to 
receive and transmit Smithsonian exchanges for their respective coun- 
tries, as follows : 

Carlos Carranza, New York, to Argentine Republic. 

Charles Mackall, Baltimore, to Brazil. 

D. de Castro, New York, to Chili. 

Hipolito de Uriarte, New York, to Cuba and Spain. 

Melchor Obarrio, 2Sew York, to Bolivia. 

Lino de Pombo, New York, to United States of Colombia. 

Heurik Braem, New York, to Denmark. 

Thomas Schmidt, New York, to Denmark. 

Francis Spies, New York, to Ecuador. 

D. W. Botassi, New York, to Greece. 

M. Kaffo, New York, to Italy. 

Sainro Takaki, New York, to Japan. 

Juan N. Navarro, New York, to Mexico. 

Alex. I. Cotbeal, New York, to Nicaragua. 

Christian Bors, New York, to Norway and Sweden. 

M . Severance, San Francisco, to Polynesia. 

Gustav Amsink, New York, to Portugal. 

John Stewart, Washington, D. C, to Paraguay. 

Isaac T. Smith, New York, to Siam. 

Enrique Estrazulas, New York, to Uruguay. 

Shipping List. — The following is the shipping list at present used in 
the transmission of the Smithsonian exchanges : 



Country. 


Shipping agent. 




Compaguie G6nexale Transatlantique, New York. Trans- 
fer made by the French Commission of Exchanges, in 
Paris. 

Consul-General Carlos Carranza, New York. Shipments 
to the United States are made through either Lewis & 
Co., Portland, Me., or George F. Browu, New York, rep- 
resenting Samuel B. Hale & Co., of Buenos Ayres. 

Thomas Deunison, New York. 


Argentine Confederation.. 




North German Lloyd, Baltimore. Transfer made by Dr. 

Felix Fliigel, Leipsic. 
Murray, Ferria & Co., New York. 








White Cross Liue, New York. 
Consul-General Melchor Obarrio, New York. 




Consul Charles Mackall, Baltimore. 




E.B.Borland, New York. 

Baltimore and Ohio Express Company. 

Adams Express Company. 

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by W. Wesley, 
London, Eugland. 

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by agent-gen- 
eral for Cape colonies in London, England. 

Consul D. de Castro, New York. 




Cape colonies 


Chili 



100 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



Country. 



China 

Colombia, United States of 
Costa Rica 

Cuba 

Denmark 

Dutch Guiana 

Ecuador 

Egypt 

Finland 

France , 

Germany 

Great Britain 

Greece 

Guatemala 

Hayti 

Iceland 

India 

Italy 

Japan — 

Liberia 

Madeira ") 

Malta 1 

Mauritius I 

Mozambique J 

Mexico 

Netherlands ? 

Netherlands India $ 

New Caledonia 

New South Wales 

New Zealand 

Nicaragua 

Norway 

Paraguay 

Peru 

Philippine Islands 

Polynesia 

Portugal 

Queensland 

Russia 

St. Helena 

Siam 

South Australia 

Spain 

Straits Settlements 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Syria 



Shipping agent. 



Salter & Livermore, New York, direct to Shanghai. 
Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made through Crown 

agents for the colonies, Loudon, England. 
Consul-General Lino de Pombo, New York. 
Munoz y Esprilla, New York. 
Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York. 
Consul-General Hipolito de Uriaite, New York. 
Consul-General Henrik Braem, New York. 
Consul Thomas Schmidt, New York. 
Thomas Bixby & Co., Bostou, Mass. 
Consul Francis Spies. 
S. L. Merchant & Co., New York. 
North German Lloyd, Baltimore. Transfer made by T. A. 

Brockhaus, Leipsic, Germany. 
Compagnie G6nerale Transatlantique, New York. 
North German Lloyd, New York or Baltimore. 
Hamburg-American Packet Company, New York. 
Monarch Line of Steamers, New York. 
North German Lloyd, New York or Baltimore. 
Cunard Royal Mail Steamship Company. 
Inman Steamship Company. 
Consul D. W. Botassi, New York. 
Consul Jacob Baez, New York. 
Atlas Steamship Company, New York. 
Consul Henrik Braem, New York. Transfer made by K. 

Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen. 
Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by Secretary 

of State for India, India Office, Loudon, England. 
Consul-General M. Raffo, New York. 
Consul Samro Takaki, Now York. 
American Colonization Association, Washington, D. C. 

Monarch Line to Smithsonian agent, London. 

Consul Juan N. Navarro, New York. 
Consul R. C. Burlage, New York. 

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by Gordon & 
Gotch, London, England. 

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 

Consul-General Alex. I. Cotheal, New York. 

Consul Christian B6rs, New York. 

Consul John Stewart, Washington, D. C. 

Joseph S. Spinney, New York. 

Spanish consul, San Francisco. 

Consul Severance, San Francisco. 

Consul Gnstav Amsink, New York. 

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by Queensland 
department, London, England. 

Hamburg-American Packet Company, New York. Trans- 
fer made by Russian consul-general, Hamburg, Ger- 
many. 

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by William 
Wesley, London, England. 

Consul Isaac T. Smith, New York. 

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 

Consul-General Hipolita de Unarte, New York. 

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by William 
Wesley, London, England. 

Consul Christian B6rs, New York. 

North German Lloyd, Baltimore. Transfer made by Con- 
sul von Heytian, Bremen. 

Presbyterian Rooms, New York. 






REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



101 



.Country. 



Tasmania . . . 

Turkey 

Turk's Island 
Uruguay 
Venezuela ... 

Victoria 

West Indies . 



Shipping agent. 



Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by Crown agents 
for the colonics. London, or by G. W. Wheatley & Co., 
156 Leaden hall street, Londou, England. 

Ottoman legation, Washington, D. C. 

Wilson & Asinus, New York. 

i 'harged'AiVa ires Enrique Est nizulas, Brooklyn, New York. 

Dallct, Boulton & Co., New York. 

R. W. Cameron &, Co., New York. 

H.B.Bailey & Co., New York. 



CENTERS OF DISTRIBUTION. 



Countries. 



Agencies. 



Algeria 

Argentine Confederation.. 

Antigua 

Aust ria Hungary 

Bahamas 

Belgium 

Bolivia 

Brazil 

British America 

British Guiana 

Cape colonies 

Chili 

China 

Colombia, United S*ates of. 

Costa Rica 

Denmark 

Dutch Guiana 

Ecuador 

Egypt 

Finland 

France 



Germany 

Great Britain. 

Greece 

Guatemala . .. 

Iceland 

India 



Italy 

Japan 

Liberia 

Madeira 

Malta 

Mauritius 

Mozambique 

Mexico 

Netherlands 

Netherlands India 
New Caledonia . .. 
New South Wales 

New Zealand 

Nicaragua 

Norway 



M. Carette, chef d'etat major da genie, service m6teoro- 

logique, Algiers. 
Maseo Publico, Buenos Ayres. 

Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic, Germany. 

Commission Beige d'Eckange Internationa ux, Brussels. 

Commissab Central Brazileira de Permutacoes Interna- 
ciouaes, Rio Janeiro. 

McGill College, Montreal ; Geological Survey, Ottawa. 

Observatory, Georgetown. 

Agent General for Cape Colony, London, England. 

Universidad, Santiago. 

Crown agents for the colonies, London, England. 

United States consul-general, Shanghai. 

Central Commission of Exchanges, National Library, Bo- 
gota. 

Universidad, San Jos6. 

K. D. Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen. 

Surinaamsche Koloniaale Bibliotheek. Paramaribo. 

Observatorio del Colegio Nacional, Quito. 

Institut Egyptien, Cairo. 

Kejserliga Alexanders Universitet, Helsingfors. 

Commission Franchise des Echanges Internationaux, 
Paris. 

Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic. 

William Wesley, London. 

National Library, Athens. 

Sociedad Ecouomica ile Amigos del Pais, Guatemala. 

Islands Stiptisbokasafu, Reykjavik. 

Secretary to Goverum nt of India, Home Department, 
Calcutta. 

Biblioteca Naziouale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome. 

Minister for foreign affairs, Tokio. 

Liberia College, Monrovia. 

William Wesley, London, England. 

William Wesley, London, England. 

Agent-general for Cape Colony, London, England. 

Agent-general for Cape Colony, London, England, 

Senor Ministro de Justicia y Istrucciou Pubhca, Mexico. 

Bureau Scientifique Central Neerlaudais, Harlem. 

Gordon &. Gotch, London. 

Royal Society of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Parliamentary Library, Wellington, New Zealand. 

Government of Nicaragua, Managua. 

K. N. Frederiks Universitet, Christiania. 



102 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



Countries. 



Paraguay 

Peru 

Philippine Islands 

Polynesia 

Portugal 

Queensland 

Russia 



St. Helena 

Siara 

South Australia . . . 
Spain 

Straits Settlements 
Sweden 



Agencies. 



Government of Paraguay. 

Biblioteca Nacional, Lima. 

Royal Economic Society, Manila. 

Royal Hawaiian Agricultural Society, Honolulu. 

Escola Polytechnics, Lisbon. 

Government Meteorological Observatory, Brisbane. 

Commission Russe des Echauges Internationaux (Bib- 

liotheque Imp^riale Publique), St. Petersbourg. 
Crown agents for the colonies, London, England. 



Astronomical Observatory, Adelaide. 

R. Academia de Ciencias, Madrid. 

Crown agents for the colonies, London. England. 

K. S. Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm. 

Switzerland i Eidgenossenscho Bundes Kanzlei, Berne. 

Syria . 

Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobarton. 



Tasmania ... 

Turkey 

Turk's Island 

Uruguay 

Venezuela... 

Victoria 

West Indies . 

Cuba 

Hayti . . . 



Trinidad 



Public Library, Grand Turk. 
Bureau de Statistique, Montevideo. 
University, Caracas. 
Public Library, Melbourne. 

R. Universidad, Havana. 

S6cre"taire d'fitat des Relations Exte"rienres, 

Prince. 
Scientific Association, Port of Spain. 



Port-au- 



2. Domestic transmissions. 

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from abroad, and 
distributed to the following-named institutions and individuals in the 
United States and British America : 



Number of 
packages. 



(a) Societies : 

Alabama 

Arkansas 

California 

^Colorado 

Connecticut 

District of Columbia 

Georgia 

Illinois 

Indiana 

Iowa 

Kansas 

Kentucky 

Louisiana 

Maine 

Maryland 

Massachusetts 

Michigau 

Minnesota 

Missouri 

New Hampshire 

New Jersey 

New York 



L 
4 

78 

1 

318 

3, 845 

7 

82 

29 

130 

13 

4 

39 

50 

106 

1,205 

56 

30 

200 

17 

41 

702 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



103 



Number of 
packages. 



(a) Societies — Continued. 

Ohio 

Pennsylvania 

Rhode Island 

South Carolina 

Tennessee 

Texas 

Vermont 

Virginia 

Wisconsin 



Total in United States 
British America 



Total for societies 
(6) Individuals 



Grand total 



407 

662 

31 

14 

1 

2 

26 

16 

133 



8, 450 
227 



8,677. 
2, 323 



Ll.OCO 



111 analyzing the operations of the exchange office in regard to do- 
mestic transmissions, it will be observed that on an average 400 parcels 
have been added annually for the past ten years. Daring the past year 
(1S83) this average was largely exceeded, the increase amounting to 32 
per cent, of the entire number of packages sent out in 1882, and this 
was the result of the year entirely, all accumulations having been worked 
off before the close of 1882. Furthermore, nearly 450 packages remain 
on band yet, thus swelling the increase considerably above 32 per cent. 

The total number of packages transmitted compares with the pre- 
ceding seven years, as follows : 



Items. 


1876. 


1877. 


1878. 


1879. 


1880. 1881. 


1882. 

548 


1883. 


Total addresses of insti- 


316 


392 
374 


'292 
370 


444 
341 


385 

5G0 


600 

454 


423 


Total addresses of indi- 
viduals 


328 


399 


471 


Total number of parcels 
to institutions 

Total number of parcels 
to individuals 

Total number of 
parcels 






3.705 
1,148 


3,868 4,059 
1,094 1,233 


5, 786 
1,185 


4,021 , 7,086 
1,566 1,347 


7, 192 8, 677 
1,167 2,323 


4,853 


4,962 


5, 292 


6,971 


5,587 8,433 


8,359 11,000 

i 



104 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES 



The history and condition of domestic exchanges, from their com- 
mencement to the present time, are exhibited in the following table: 



Year. 



1846- 

1851. 

1.-52. 

1853 

1854. 

18." 5. 

1856. 

1857 

1858. 

1859 

1830. 

1801. 

1862. 

1863. 

1864. 

1865 

1866. 

1867. 

1868. 

1869 

1870. 

1871. 

1872. 

1873. 

1874. 

1875. 

1876. 

1877. 

1878 . 

1879. 

1880. 

1881. 

1882. 

1883 . 



-1850 











For institutions and 


Received for the Smithsonian 


library. 


individuals in the- 
United States and 










British America. 




Parts 


Maps 








Volumes. 


and pam- 


and en- 


Total. 


Addresses. 


Packages. 




phlets. 


gravings. 


1,098 






470 


624 

618 
2,106 


4 

1,749 






549 


1,167 

5, 336 




1,481 




96 


637 


1,440 


991 


125 


2, 556 


160 


1,052 


926 


1 , 468 


434 


2, 828 


149 


987 


1,0 SI 


1,707 


26 


2,770 


219 


1,445 


1,356 


1,834 


140 


3, 330 


189 j 1,245 


555 


1, 067 


138 


l,7o0 


193 | 1,273 


723 


1,695 


122 


2, 540 


243 1 1,539 


1,022 


2, 540 


40 


3, 602 


293 | 1,933 


1,271 


4,180 


220 


5,671 


335 j 1,908 


82 L 


1,945 


120 


2,886 


274 ! 1,406 


1,611 


3, 369 


55 


5, 035 


273 | 2,111 


910 


3, 479 


200 


4,589 


273 1,522 


8J3 


2, 754 


109 


3,(186 


299 2,482 


767 


3, 256 


1-3 


4,206 


315 2,368 


1,243 


4, 509 


121 


5, 873 


329 2, 703 


1,557 


3, 946 


328 


5, 831 


317 971 


1,770 


3, 605 


134 


5,509 


436 


2, 394 


1,234 


4,089 


232 


5,555 


501 


4, 130 


1,113 


3. 890 


179 


5, 182 


567 


3,705 


936 


3, 579 


82 


4, 597 


573 


3, 952 


1,262 


4,502 


198 


5, 962 


587 


4, 635 


889 


4,354 


454 


5, 697 


689 


4,782 


863 


4, 521 


162 


5, 546 


750 


4, 326 


1,120 


5,813 


114 


7, 047 


610 


4,661 


1,017 


6, 193 


375 


7, 585 


644 


4, 853 


1 , 8,-9 


6,511 


326 


8,726 


766 


4,962 


1,263 


7, 392 


74 


8, 729 


662 


5,292 


1,949 


8,071 


183 


10,203 


785 


6,971 


1,143 


7, 275 


152 


8, 570 


945 


5, 587 


1,867 


9, 904 


188 


1 1 , 959 


1,054 


8, 433 


1,296 


10,341 


152 


11,789 


947 


8, 359 


1,754 


10, 702 


219 
7,338 


12, 675 


894 


11,000 


39, 927 


142, 830 


190, 095 


15, 127 


114, 124 



From the foregoing table it will be observed that the addition to the 
Smithsonian library, during the year 1883 amounted to 12,675 parcels. 
Of this number 2,432 were received through the regular channels of 
transmission, while the remaining parcels arrived through the mails. 
All the additions to the Smithsonian library being the direct results 
of the system of exchanges, this excess should properly be added to the 
number of packages received. Heretofore mail parcels for the Smith- 
sonian library have been entirely ignored by the exchange office, not 
passing through this channel, but being delivered directly into the 
library. Tin's method, however, works great injustice to the exchange 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 105 

office, siuce all the returns to the Smithsonian library are direct results 
of the efforts and labors of this office, and it is, therefore, recommended 
that in future all packages addressed to the Smithsonian library, as ex- 
changes, should pass through the exchange office, that an exact and 
complete record may be obtained of the actual results of the working 
of this office. 

3. Government transmissions. 

Although Congress, by act of July 20, 1840, authorized the printing 
and binding of 50 copies of all volumes published by the two houses, 
•which volumes were to be reserved for the purpose of exchange with 
foreign powers, yet from the omission to provide for the extra print- 
ing, or from other cause, this liberal arrangement failed to go into 
operation. 

An act of March 4, 184G, directed the Librarian of Congress to pro- 
cure a complete series of the United States courts and of the laws of 
the United States, and to transmit them to the Minister of Justice of 
France, in exchange for works of the French law presented to the 
United States Supreme Court. 

June 20, 184S, the Joint Committee on the Library was authorized to 
appoint agents for the exchange of books and public documents; 
all books transmitted through these agents of exchange, for the use of 
the United States, for any single State, or for the Academy at West 
Poiut, or the National Institute, to be admitted free. 

A resolution of June 30. 1848, ordered that the Joint Committee on 
the Library be furnished with twenty-five copies of the Revolutionary 
Archives, twenty-five copies of Little & Brown's edition of the Laws of 
the United States, seven copies of the Exploring Expedition then pub- 
lished, and an equal number of subsequent publications on the same 
subject, for the purpose of international exchange. 

A joint resolution of March 2, 1849, directed that two copies of certain 
volumes of the Exploring Expedition bj sent to the Government of 
Eussia, in lieu of those which were lost at sea on their passage to that 
couutiy. The Secretary of State was also directed to present a copy of 
tne Exploring Expedition, as soon as completed, to the Government of 
Ecuador. 

By the act of August 31, 1852, the act of 1818, regulating exchanges, 
was repealed. 

In 1852 the Smithsonian Institution urged that Congress should make 
some systematic and permanent arrangement for distributing complete 
>eries of its works to European libraries, to ax least thirty of which they 
might be judiciously supplied. It was also suggested that particular 
works of scientific interest, as reports of patents, coast survey operations, 
Government explorations in geography and geology, and others of a 
similar character might be assigned in larger numbers, of from one 



106 EEPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

hundred to three hundred, as had already been done in some instances 
by the Senate. These might be distributed by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution at moderate cost to the Government, and direct returns of ex- 
changes obtained for the Library of Congress, if desired. 

August 18, 185G, the Secretary of State was authorized to purchase 
one hundred copies each of Audubon's Birds of America and Quadru- 
peds of North America, for exchange with foreign Governments for val- 
uable works. 

The next steps for inaugurating a system of government documents 
exchange was taken in 18G7, when Congress, in its thirty-ninth session 
passed the following resolution to provide for the exchange of certain 
public documents: 

"Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States 
in Congress assembled, That fifty copies of all documents hereafter printed 
by order fit either house of Congress, and fifty copies additional of all 
documents printed in excess of the usual number, together with fifty 
copies of each publication issued by any Department or Bureau of the 
Government, be placed at the disposal of the Joint Committee on the 
Library, who shall exchange the same, through the agency of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, for such works published in foreign countries, and 
especially by foreign Governments, as may be deemed by said commit- 
tee an equivalent; said works to be deposited in the Library of Con- 
gress. 

"Approved March 2, 1867." 

The last and decisive Congressional action was taken on July 25, 
1868, when it passed. 

"(No. 72) A resolution to carry into effect the resolution approved March 
2, 1867, providing for the exchange of certain public documents. 

" Resolved, by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States in Congress assembled, That the Congressional Printer, whenever 
he shall be so directed by the Joint Committee on the Library, be, and he 
hereby is, directed to print fifty copies, in addition to the regular num- 
ber, of all documents hereafter printed by order of either house of Con- 
gress, or by order of any Department or Bureau of the Government, and 
whenever he shall be so directed by the Joint Committee ou the Library 
one hundred copies additional of all documents ordered to be printed, 
in excess of the usual number ; said fifty or one hundred copies to be de- 
livered to the Librarian of Congress, to be exchanged, under direction of 
the Joint Committee on the Library, as provided by joint resolution 
approved March 2, 1867. 

"Sec. 2. And be it further resolved, That fifty copies of each publica- 
tion printed under direction of any Department or Bureau of the Govern- 
ment, whether at the Congressional Printing Office or elsewhere, shall 
be placed at the disposal of the Joint Committee ou the Library, to carry 
out the provisions of said resolution. 

"Approved July 25, 1868," 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



107 



The first transmission under this system of exchange was made in 
1873, and this and the subsequent shipments are exhibited in the follow- 
ing table : 



v 

\ear 


1873. 1874. l-::.. 


1876. 


1877. 


1878. 


1879. 


1880. 


L881. 


1882. 


1883. 


Total. 




2 


18 64 


122 


78 


7:5 


67 


35 


98 122 


76 


750 



(a) DISTRIBUTION OF GOVERNMENT EXCHANGES. 



Governments. Box 1. Box 2. Box 3. Box 4. Box 5. Box 6. Box 7 



Argentine Confederation 

Bavaria 

Belgium 

Brazil 

Buenos Ayres 

Canada (Ottawa) 

Canada (Ontario) 

Chili 

Colombia, United States 

of 

Denmark 

Frame 

France (second set) .... 

Germany (Empire) 

Great Britain 

Greece 

Hayti 

Hungary 

India 

Italy 

Japan 

Mexico 

Netherlands 

New South Wales 

New Zealand 

Norway 

Portugal 

Prussia 

Queensland 

Russia 

Saxony 

Scotland 

South Australia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

WiirtcmberiT 



1875 
1878 
1875 
1875 
1876 
1874 
1874 
1875 

1882 
1879 
1875 
1879 
1874 
1876 
1877 
1876 
1882 
1882 
1881 
1874 
1875 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1873 
1875 

1876 

1876 
1881 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1879 

40 



1875 
1878 
1875 
1875 
1876 
1874 
1874 
1875 

1882 
1879 
1875 
1879 
1874 
1876 
is? 7 
1S76 
1882 
1882 
1881 
1874 
1875 

i>?:. 

1876 
L876 
1873 
1875 
1876 
1876 

ISM I 

1876 
1876 

1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1879 

40 



1875 
1878 
1875 
1875 
1*76 
1874 
1874 
1875 

1882 
1879 
1875 
1879 
1874 
1876 
1877 
1876 
1882 
1882 
1881 
1874 
1875 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1881 
1876 
1876 
1876 
ls?6 
1875 
1876 
ls?(i 
1-75 
1876 
1876 
1879 

40 



1875 

1878 
1875 
1875 
1876 
1874 
1874 
1875 

1882 
1879 
1875 
1879 
1874 
1876 
18/7 
1876 
1882 
1882 
1881 
1874 
1875 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1881 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
lc?ti 
1875 
1*76 
1876 
1879 

40 



1875 
1878 
1875 
1875 
1876 
1874 
1875 
1875 

1882 
1879 
1875 
1879 
1876 
1876 
1877 
ls76 
1882 
1882 
1881 
1874 
1875 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1881 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1H75 
1876 
1876 
IS? 5 
1876 
1876 
1879 

40 



1875 

1878 
1875 
1875 
1876 
1875 
1875 
1875 

1882 
1879 
1875 
1879 
1876 
1876 
1877 
1876 
1882 
1882 
18-1 
1875 
1875 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1881 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
L875 
1676 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1879 

40 



1877 
1878 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 

1882 
1879 
1877 
1879 
1876 
1876 
1877 
1877 
1882 
1882 
1881 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1881 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1877 
1876 
1879 

40 



108 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

(a) distribution OF EXCHANGES —continued. 



Governments. 


Box 8. 


Box 9. 


Box 10. 


Box 11. 


Box 12. 


Box 13. 


Box 14. 


Argentine Confederation 
Bavaria 


1877 
1878 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 

1882 
1879 

1877 
1879 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
18-2 
1882 
1881 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1881 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1879 


1877 

1878 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 

1882 
1879 

1877 
f879 

1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1882 
1882 
1881 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1881 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
187 7 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1879 


1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 

1882 
1879 

1878 
1879 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1882 
1882 
1881 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1881 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1879 


1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 

1882 
1879 

1878 
1879 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1882 
1882 
1881 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1881 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1879 


1879 

1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 

1882 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1880 
1879 
1879 
1882 
1882 
1881 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1881 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 


1880 
1880 
1«80 

1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 

1882 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1882 
1882 
1881 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1881 
18S0 


1881 
1881 


Belgium 

Buenos Avres 


1881 
1881 
1881 


Canada (Ottawa) 

Canada (Ontario) 

Chili 


1881 
1881 
1881 


Colombia, Uuited States 
of 


1882 


Denmark 


1881 




1881 


France (second set) 

Germany (Empire) 

Great Britaiu 


1881 
1881 
1881 


Greece 


1881 


Hayti 


1881 


Hun jrarv 


1882 


India 


1882 


Italy 

Japau 


1881 
1881 


Mexico 


1881 


Netherlands 

New South Wales 

New Zealand 


1881 
1881 
1881 


Norway 

Portugal 

Prussia 


1881 
1881 
1881 


Queensland 

Russia 


1881 
1881 


Saxony 


1881 


South Australia 

Spain 


18-0 

1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 


1881 
1881 


S weden 


1881 


Switzerland 

Tasmania 


1881 
1881 


Turkey 

Venezuela 


1881 
1881 


Victoria 


1881 


Wiirtembercr 


1881 








40 


40 


40 


40 


40 


39 


39 






Governments. 



Argentipe Confederation.. 

Bavaria 

Belgium 

Brazil 

Buenos Avres 

Canada (Ottawa) 

Canada (Ontario) 

Chili ' 

Colombia, United States of 

Denmark 

France 

France (second set ) 

Germany (Empire) 

Great Britain 

Greece 



Box If). 



1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1882 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 



Box 16. 



1882 
18-2 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 



Box 17. 



1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
18-2 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 



1882 
1882 
1882 



Box 18. 



1883 

1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 



1883 
1883 
1.883 



Box 19. 



1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 



1883 
1883 
1833 



Total of 
boxes. 



19 
19 
19 
19 
19 
19 
19 
19 
19 
19 
19 
16 
19 
19 
19 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 
(a) distribution of EXCHANGES — continued. 



109 



Governments. 


Box 15. 


Box 16. 


Box 17. 


Box 18. 


Box 19. 


Total of 
boxes. 




1881 
1882 
1882 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 


1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 

1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 


1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 


1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 


1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 


19 




19 




19 


Italy 


19 




19 




19 




19 




19 




19 




19 




19 




19 




19 

19 




19 




12 




1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 


1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 


1882 

1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 


1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 


1883 

1883 
1883 
1883 

1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 


19 




19 




19 




19 
19 


Turkey 


19 




19 




19 




19 








39 


39 


38 


38 


38 


750 



(b) 


GOVERNMENTS IN EXCHANGE WITH THE UNITED STATES. 


Governments. 


Establishments designated for the reception of Govern- 
ment exchanges. 


Argentine Confederation.. 


Minister of Foreign Affairs, Buenos Ayres. 






Konigliche Bibliothek, Munich. 




Bibliotheque Royal, Brussels. 

Commission of International Exchanges, Rio Janeiro. 




Buenos Avres. 




Government, Buenos Avres. 






Parliamentary Library, Ottawa. 


Do 


Legislative Library, Toronto. 
Bibliotheca Nacional, Santiago. 
National Library, Bogota. 


Chili 


Colombia, United States of. 






Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen. 


France 




Commission des Exchanges Iuternationaux, Paris. 






Bibliothek des Deutschen Reichstags, Berlin. 


Great Britain 


British Museum, London. 




Bibliotheque Nationale, Athens. 

Sdcr^taire d'Etat des Relations Exterieures, Port-au- 










Prince. 


Hungarv 




Presidium des Koniglich Ungarischen Ministeriums, 






Budapest. 






Secretary to Government of India, Calcutta. 


Italy 




Biblioteca Nazi on ale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome. 






Minister of Foreign Atfairs, Tokio. 






National Library, Mexico. 


Netherlands . . 




Library of the States General, The Hague. 


X.w South W:i 


les 


Parliamentary Library, Sydney. 


New Zealand 




Parliamentary Library, Wellington. 


Norway 




Foreign Office, Christiania. 


Portugal 




Government, Lisbon. 


Prussia 




Konigliche Bibliothek, Berlin. 



no 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



(b) GOVERNMENTS IN EXCHANGE WITH THE UNITED STATES— Continued. 


Governments. 


Establishments designated for the reception of Govern- 
ment exchanges. 






Russia 


Commission Russe des Echanges Internationaux (Biblio- 

theque Imperiale Publique), St. Petersburg. 
Konigliche Bibliothek, Dresden. 
Government, Adelaide. 




South Australia 




Government, Madrid. 


Sweden 


Government, Stockholm. 


Switzerland 


Eidgenosseusche Bundes Kanzlei, Berne. 
Parliamentary Library, Hobarton. 
Government, Constantinople. 
University Library, Caracas. 
Public Library, Melbourne. 
Konigliche Bibliothek, Stuttgart. 


Turkey 

Venezuela 

Victoria 





(c) SHIPPING AGENTS OF GOVERNMENT EXCHANGES. 



Country. 



Argentine Confederation 

Bavaria 

Belgium 

Brazil 

Buenos Ayres 

Canada 

Chili 

Colombia, United States of 

Denmark 

France 

Germany 

Great Britain 

Greece 

Hayti 

Hungary 

India 

Italy 

Japan 

Mexico 

Netherlands 

New South Wales 

New Zealand 

Norway 

Portugal 

Prussia 

Queensland 

Russia 

Saxony 

South Australia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

Wiirtembere 



Agent. 



Carlos Carranza, consul-general, New York. 

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore. 

Red Star Line, New York, White Cross Line, New York. 

Charles Mackall, vice-consul, Baltimore. 

Carlos Carranza, consul-general, New York. 

Baltimore and Ohio Express Company. 

D. de Castro, consul-general, New York. 

Lino de Pombo, consul-general, New York. 

Henrik Braern, consul-general, New York. 

Compagnie G6n6rale Transatlantique, New York. 

North German Lloyd, Baltimore. 

Monarch Line, New York. 

D. W. Botassi, consul-general, New York. 

Atlas Steamship Company, New, York. 

Hensel, Bruckmann & Loibacher, New York. 

Monarch Line, New York ; transfer made by Secretary of 
State to India, London, England. 

M. Ratio, consul-geueral, New York. 

Samro Takaki, consul-general, New York. 

Juan N. Navarro, consul-general, New York. 

R. C. Burlage, consul-general, New York. 

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 
Do. 

Christian Bors, consul-general, New York. 

Gustav Amsink, consul-general, New York. 

North German Lloyd, Baltimore. 

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by Queensland 
department, London, England. 

Hamburg-American Packet Company, New York. Trans- 
fer made by Russian consul-general, Hamburg. 

North Germau Lloyd, Baltimore. 

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 

Hipolito de Uriarte, consul-general, New York. 

Christian Bors, consul-general, New York. 

North German Lloyd, Baltimore. Transfer made by Con- 
sul von Hey man, Bremen, Germany. 

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by Crown agent 
for the Colonies, London, England. 

Turkish legation, Washington, D. C. 

Dallet, Boulton & Bliss. New York. 

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 

North German Lloyd, Baltimore. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 1 1 1 

CORRESPONDENCE RELATING TO GOVERNMENT EXCHANGE. 

Letter from the Department of State, April 16, 1883, to the Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution. 

Sir : I inclose herewith for your information and consideration a copy 
of a dispatch from Mr. Lowell, the American minister at London, in re- 
lation to certain publications which he received from the British Gov- 
ernment to be forwarded to the Smithsonian Institution in exchange 
for the similar publications of this Government, adding that it will af- 
ford me pleasure to instruct the legation at Loudon to take any further 
action in reference to the matter which may be necessary to place the 
exchanges of documents between the two Governments upon a proper 
footing, 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
Fred'k T. Frelinghuysen. 

(Inclosure.) — From Mr. Lowell, London, March 21, 1883, to Mr. Freling- 
huysen. 

Sir : I have the honor to inclose herewith the copy of a note which 1 
have just received from Lord Granville, informing me that the lords of 
the treasury have given directions to forward certain books to the sec- 
retary of the Smithsonian Institution in pursuance of a proposition which 
his lordship states had been made by that association for the interchange 
of the official publications of the two nations. 

In my reply I have expressed the thanks of my Government for this 
gift, and requested that the volumes should be sent to the agent of the 
Institution here for transmission to Washington. 

There seems to be some confusion in respect to this matter which per- 
haps can be more conveniently explained at Washington than here. 

In my note of the 8th of October, 1880, to which Lord Granville refers, 
I asked a gift of the record publications on behalf of the library of the 
Department of State. These were given to us and have already been 
forwarded. I have since, at the instance of the Secretary of War, which 
was communicated to me through the Department of State, asked for 
certain publications of the British ordnance survey and the India Office 
in exchange for those of our War Department. I do not find that I 
have ever formally proposed on the part of the Smithsonian Institution 
that there should be a general interchange of public documents. Per- 
haps this has been done through the British legation at Washington. 

I venture to suggest as to the record publications, if the Smithsonian 
Institution do not possess the previous volumes, it would seem proper 
that those now to be sent should be given to the library of the Depart- 
ment of State in continuation of the series it has already received. 

I have, the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant, 

J. It. Lowell. 



112 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

(Inclosure.) — From Lord Granville, March 20, 1883, to Mr. Lowell. 

Sir : With reference to your letter of the 8th October, 18S0, and 
subsequent correspondence relating to the interchange of official pub- 
lications proposed by the Smithsonian Institution at Washington, I 
have now the pleasure to inform you that the lords of Her Majesty's 
treasury have given directions to forward to the Secretary of that insti- 
tution a complete set of English publications for the year 1882, viz: 

1. Papers of all kinds printed for or presented to either house of Par- 
liament. 

2. Historical, scientific, or antiquarian works published by the Gov- 
ernment, such as record publications. 

3. Maps or charts published by Government. 

4. Departmental publications which are placed on sale ; and to con- 
tinue to forward to the same address complete setj of English official 
publications for 1883 and subsequent years, and I have the honor to 
request that you will inform me as to the manner you would wish these 
publications to be forwarded. With respect to these publications which 
are proposed to be sent to Her Majesty's Government by the Smithso- 
nian Institution in return, directions have been given to Mr. West, Her 
Majesty's minister at Washington, to make the necessary arrangements 
for their transmission direct to the British Museum. 

I have, &c, 
Granville. 

From the Smithsonian Lnstitution, April 19, 1883, to the Hon. F. T. Fre- 
linghnysen, Secretary of State. 

Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 
16th April, with one from Minister Lowell, in reference to the exchange 
of publications through the Smithsonian Institution between the Brit- 
ish Government and that of the United States, and suggesting that in 
the absence of any such negotiation through him that possibly the 
proposition may refer to proposals made by him in behalf of the Depart- 
ment of State. 

In reply I beg to say that this question of a full and exhaustive ex- 
change of the official publications of the two Governments has been 
proposed for many years by the Smithsonian Institution, sometimes 
through the Department of State to the American minister in England, 
sometimes through the British minister in this country, and sometimes 
by direct correspondence of the Smithsonian Institution with the foreign 
office in London. It has also formed the subject of special conference 
between the officers of the Smithsonian Institution and the British min- 
isters here, all of whom seemed to be surprised at the want of notion on 
the part of their Government. There will, I presume, be no difficulty in 
obtaining special works for the Department of State. The exchange 
now proposed by Lord Granville, and respecting which I have direct 
word from the foreign office, is intended specially for the benefit of the 
Library of Congress. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 113 

In further reference to this interchange, it has been arranged that 
Mr. William Wesley, agent of the Smithsonian Institution in London, 
is to apply, at stated intervals, for the publications of the British Gov- 
ernment, and to forward them in cases, which he sends semi monthly or 
more frequently to Washington. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
Spencer h\ Baird. 

From the Department of State, April 23, 1883, to the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 
Sir: Acknowledging the receipt of your letter of the 19th instant, 
I have to inform you in reply that I have communicated a copy of it to 
Mr. Lowell, our minister at Loudon, with instructions to inform the 
foreign office of the desire of the Government to have the Smithsonian 
Institution officially recognized as the channel through which exchanges 
of documents between the two countries are in future to be effected. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
Fred'k. T. Frelinghuysen. 

From the Department of State, May 9, 1883, to the Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

Sir : I have the honor to inclose herewith, for your information and 
consideration, a copy of a note to this Department from the British 
minister at this capital, communicating to this Government a copy of 
the rules which the lords of Her Majesty's treasury have adopted for 
regulating the interchange with foreign countries of Parliamentary 
papers and other official documents published by the British Govern- 
ment. 

It is supposed by this Department that we have already presented to 
Great Britain most of the official publications of our Government, and 
received, in return, nearly all those scheduled in the rules of the lords 
of the treasury, for the Library of Congress. If it shall appear, how- 
ever, that there are any British publications which are needed to com- 
plete the collection of those documents possessed by that Library, it 
will afford this Department pleasure to make application for the same 
through the British legation in replying to the above-mentioned note. 

Bequesting that lists of any British publications desired by the Libra- 
rian of Congress to complete his collection be furnished as soon as 
practicable, 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
John Davis, 
Acting Secretary. 

{Inclosure.) — From the British Minister, Mr. West, Washington, April 29, 

1883, to Mr. Frelinghuysen. 
Hon. Frederick T. Frelinghuysen : 

Sir: In the note which Sir Edward Thorntou addressed to your pred- 
ecessor under date of the 14th of April, 1881, he acquainted the Depart- 
H. Mis. 69 8 



114 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

merit of State that a committee had been appointed by Her Majesty's 
treasury to inquire into and report upon the question of the interchange 
with foreign Governments of Parliamentary papers and other official 
documents, and I have now the honor to inform you that the committee 
therein alluded to has now made its report, and that the lords of Her 
Majesty's treasury have been pleased to lay down the following rules 
upon the subject, which will be found in the accompanying paper, and 
which Earl Granville has instructed me to make known to the Govern- 
ment of the United States. I am at the same time requested to state 
that in all cases in which an exchange may be agreed upon, and in 
which presentations may be made, the books and papers will be packed 
at the stationery office, and forwarded to such address as may be given 
by the foreign minister in London of the Government making the ap- 
plication, the cost of transmission in each case being defrayed by the 
Government to whom the books are presented. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 
L. S. Saokville West. 

(INCLOSURE.) — RULES FOR THE INTERCHANGE WITH FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS OF PAR- 
LIAMENTARY PAPERS AND OTHER OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS. 

Whenever any application is made by the Government of an inde- 
pendent state for a "complete" exchange of its public documents with 
Great Britain, the lords of the treasury will be prepared to entertain 
such a proposal on the following understanding : 

1. That a complete set of the English publications to be exchanged 
would be understood to consist of the following documents : 

(a.) Papers of all kinds printed or presented to either House of Parlia- 
ment ; 

(b.) Historical, scientific, or antiquarian works published by the Gov- 
ernment, such as the Record publications ; with liberty, however, of 
reserving very costly works, of which only a small number of copies 
may be printed, as subjects of separate negotiation ; 

(c.) Maps aud charts published by the Government; and, 

(d.) Departmental publications which are placed on sale, but not to 
include works published by booksellers with the aid of grants or sub- 
scriptions from Government. 

i 2. That the Government making the application would in return under- 
take to send a " complete" set of its own publications for the Library 
of the British Museum, the "completeness" being of course left to the 
good faith of that Government. 

But besides this general or what maybe termed a national exchange, 
the lords of the treasury will be prepared to entertain within reasonable 
limits applications which may be made to it through the foreign office 
for gifts of special classes of British Official publications, such as mili- 
tary, Parliamentary, and statistical works, for the use of national or 
parliamentary libraries, or of state-supported institutions, or of other 
libraries of historic interest, provided the Government making the ap- 
plication be ready to give its own works of the saiie class ; but such ap- 
plications will, as heretofore, be considered on their own merits. Appli- 
cations for the presentation of official publications to libraries of muni- 
cipal authorities or voluntary associations of individuals, such as scien- 
tific societies or others connected with the state, cannot be entertained. 






REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 115 

From the Smithsonian Institution, May 14, 1883, to the Hon. John Davis, 
Acting Secretary of State. 

Sir : I beg to thank you for a copy of the note of the minister resi- 
dent of Great Britain communicating the rules adopted by the lords of 
Her Majesty's treasury for the regulation of the interchange with for- 
eign countries of Parliamentary papers and other official documents pub- 
lished by the British Government. 

I will hereafter acquaint you with the titles of the publications of the 
United States Government presented to Great Britain. Meanwhile I 
shall endeavor to secure from the Librarian of Congress his desiderata 
of British publications, to enable him to complete the series in his 
charge so far as the rules of the lords of Her Majesty will permit. 

Thanking you for your kind offer to make application for any publica- 
tions still desired to complete the series presented to the United States 
by Great Britain through this Institution, 

I have the honor to be, very truly, yours, 
Spencer F. Baird. 

From the Smithsonian Institution, May 25, 1883, to the Hon. F. T. Fre- 
linghuysen, Secretary of State. 

Sir : Referring to your letter of the 9th instant, to which I replied 
und'-r date of the 14th, I beg to state that the library of the British 
Museum is now supplied with the official documents of the United States 
mentioned in the three small pamphlets herewith, and a eomplete set of 
those previously published since 1868 as far as the same can be furnished. 
We should, of course, be only too happy to supply any deficiencies if 
in our power. 

The documents supplied prior to those mentioned in box 15 are given 
in the appendix to the History of the Exchanges, herewith, and to 
which your attention is invited. 

I also have the pleasure of presenting herewith a list of the publica- 
tions of Her Majesty's Government desired by the Congressional Library, 
and which you were kind enough to inform us you would make an effort 
to secure. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Spencer F. Baird. 

From the Legation of the United States, Brussels, June 21, 1883, to the 

Department of State. 

Sir: Referring to my Nos. 114 and 126, I have now the honor to in- 
close herewith six copies of a note from the British envoy to the Bel- 
gian minister for foreign affairs of April 15 (sic) last, which was read 
at the session of the conference of 13th April last. 

There is evidently a mistake as to the date of the note from the Brit- 
ish legation. 



116 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

I also send yott l'J copies of the report of the Proceedings of the Con- 
ference, with the British legation's note. 

1 strongly recommend to your notice the position of the British Govern- 
ment concerning exchanges of publications. By defining clearly and con- 
cisely what publications she is willing to exchange and by confining the 
offer to certain Governments, she assumes no great burden without 
being sure of an equivalent return. It is a position which appears to 
me to recommend itself to the large and powerful countries, and to pro- 
tect them from the inequal exchanges involved by a convention with 
the smaller and less literate countries. 

In the proof copy of the proceedings (inclosure 5 to my No. 114) no 
mention of the British note was made, and it is consequently not men- 
tioned in the translation thereof (inclosure 6 to No. 114). Should the lat- 
ter be published, I respectfully suggest that it be revised so as to make 
it a translation of the completed edition of the Proceedings of the Con- 
ference, herewith transmitted. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 

Nicholas Fish. 

Letter from the Department of State, October 15, 1883, to Prof. Spencer F. 

Baird. 

Sir : With reference to previous correspondence in regard to the es- 
tablishment of a complete exchange of public documents between this 
country and Great Britain, I have the honor to inclose herewith copies 
of correspondence between this Department and the British legation 
in regard to certain publications which Her Britannic Majesty's Gov- 
ernment has presented k> the National Library of the United States in 
response to the request made through this Department for certain works 
needed to complete to the present date the collection of British docu- 
ments in that library. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
Fred'k T. Frelinghuysen. 

(Inclosure.) — From the British Minister, Washington, October 8, 1883, to 
the Department of State. 

Sir : Referring to your note of 1st June last respecting the inter- 
change of Parliamentary papers, I have the honor to inform you for 
the information of Professor Baird of the Smithsonian Institute, through 
whose agency the exchange of the future publications of the two Gov- 
ernments is to be regulated, that the controller of Her Majesty's sta- 
tionery office has been authorized to supply the agent of the Smith- 
sonian Institution in London with the works which are mentioned in 
the inclosed list for the National Library of the United States. 

The trustees of the British Museum, expressing their thanks to the 
United States Government for the ofter to supply that institution with 
any Government publications that might be wanting, have stated that 
they are not aware of any deficiencies which need to be supplied, but 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 117 

have expressed their -wish to be supplied with all the United States 
Government publications commencing with the year 1883. 

I have the honor to be, with the highest consideration, sir, your obe- 
dient servant, 

L. S. Sackville West. 



From the Department of State, July 9, 18S3, to the Smithsonian Institution. 
Sir : I inclose a copy of a dispatch from our minister at Brussels, and 
a copy of the completed edition of the Proceedings of the Brussels Con- 
ference on International Exchanges, to which it refers ; also a copy of 
the "Note from the British Envoy" therein mentioned. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
John Davis, 
Acting Secretary. 

(Inclosure.) — From the United States Legation at Brussels, June 21, 1883, 
to the Secretary of State. 

Sir: Referring to my Nos. Ill and 126, I have now the honor to in- 
close herewith six copies of a note from the British envoy to the Belgian 
minister for foreign affairs of April 15 (sic) last, which was read at 
the session of the conference of 13th April last. 

There is evidently a mistake as to the date of the note from the 
British legation. 

I also send you twelve copies of the Report of the Proceedings of the 
Conference with the British legation note. 

I strongly recommend to your notice the position of the British 
Government concerning exchanges of publications. By defining clearly 
and concisely what publications she is willing to exchange, and by con- 
fining the offer to certain Governments, she assumes no great burden 
without being sure of an equivalent return. It is a position which ap- 
pears to me to recommend itself to the large and powerful countries, 
and to protect them from the inequal exchanges involved by a conven- 
tion with the smaller and less literate countries. 

In the proof copy of the proceedings (inclosure 5 to my No. 114) no 
mention of the British note was made and it is consequently not men- 
tioned in the translation thereof (inclosure 6 to No. 114). Should the 
latter be published I respectfully suggest that it be revised so as to 
make it a translation of the completed edition of the Proceedings of the 
Conference, herewith transmitted. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 

Nicholas Fish. 

From the Department of State, September 11, 1883, to the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 
Sir : I have the honor to inclose herewith for your information and 
consideration a copy of a dispatch from Mr. Lowell, the American min- 
ister at London, inclosing a copy of a communication from the colonial 



118 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

secretary of Cape Colony asking that steps may be taken to establish 
an exchange of publications between this Government and that colony. 
In this connection I would suggest that it might be well to take into 
consideration the practicability of extending the Smithsonian system 
to all the British colonies, particularly those in Australia, some of which 
have manifested a desire to establish exchanges by sending their pub- 
lications to our Government through this Department. 

Adding that the publications referred to in Mr. Lowell's dispatch have 
been forwarded to the Library of Congress, 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, ' 
John Davis, 
Acting Secretary. 

(Inclosure.) — From the Legation of the United States, London, August 22, 
1883, to the Secretary of State. 

Sir : I have the honor to inform you that the agent general of the 
Cape Colony, Africa, called at this legation yesterday, bringing with 
him three large packages of public documents, which the authorities of 
that colony desire to present to our Government, and which I shall re- 
quest the dispatch agent here to transmit without delay to the Depart- 
ment of State. 

The agent general at the same time placed in the hands of the lega- 
tion a letter to him from the under colonial secretary at Cape Town, 
a copy of which I inclose herewith. This letter expresses the desire of 
the authorities of Cape Colony to establish with our Government a reg- 
ular and mutual system of interchange of statistical and other publica- 
tions emanating from or circulating under authority of Government De- 
partments. It mentions that copies of the results of the census of 1880 
and of the forms, books, and instructions made use of in that under- 
taking, would be particularly interesting. 

It sems to me eminently desirable that the wishes of the authorities 
of Cape Colony in this matter should be complied with. 

I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant, 

J. R. Lowell. 

(Inclosure.) — From the Colonial Secretary's Office, Gape Town, May 22, 
1883, to the Agent- General for the Gape Golony, I,ondon. 

Sir : The colonial secretary is very anxious to establish with the 
Government of the United States of America a regular and mutual 
system of interchange of statistical and other publications emanating 
from or circulating under authority of Government Departments. 

2. With this object in view I had the honor last year, by Mr. Scanlan's 
direction, to forward to your address under cover of letter No. 220 of the 
23d September last, for transmission to the honorable the Secretary of 
State, Washington, three copies of the Colonial Blue Book, 1881. 

3. Up to the present date the colonial secretary has not had the sat- 
isfaction of receiving any reports or papers in return. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 119 

4. May I request of you therefore the favor of your good offices iu 
endeavoring to so arrange matters with the American minister at the 
Court of St. James that the desired result can be obtaiued. 

5. Copies of the results of the 1880 census of the United States, and 
of the various forms, book instructions, &c, made use of in connection 
with that undertaking- would be particularly interesting ; and Mr. Scan- 
Ian will feel obliged if you will procure and forward all such reports. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
Hampden Willis. 

From the Smithsonian Institution, September 15, 1883, to the Hon. John 
Davis, Acting Secretary of State. 

Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 
the 11th September, inclosing a copy of a dispatch from the American 
minister in London, covering a communication from the colonial sec- 
retary of Cape Colony, in reference to establishing an exchange of pub- 
lications between the United States and that colony. 

In reply I beg to say that at present there is no arrangement by 
which such small colonies of Great Britain as Cape Colony could be 
•placed on the list of exchanges for general publications; but I think 
there will be no difficulty in making the necessary arrangements with 
the Joint Library Committee of Congress, by which a larger edition of 
the more important publications of the United States Government can 
be placed at the command of the Smithsonian Institution. 

By a reference to my letter of a few weeks past you will notice that I 
alluded to the committee as now having authority to increase the edition 
of public documents for foreign exchanges. Perhaps 50 more sets of a 
portion of the series will answer every purpose. 

I shall take great pleasure in conferring with the Department of 
State, after my return to Washington, in regard to this subject. 

In reference to your suggestion of extending the system of govern- 
ment exchanges, I may remark that at present Canada, New South 
Wales, ISTew Zealand, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, and Vic- 
toria, are all in the first class of exchanges; receiving a full set of 
everything we have to furnish, and supplying a corresponding series in 
return, for the benefit of the Library of Congress. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
Spencer F. Baird, 

From the Public Library, etc., of Victoria, Melbourne, November 10, 1882, 
to the Smithsonian Institution. 

Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 
the 1st July, 1882, and in reply to inform you that I have this day for- 
warded to you through our London agent, the agent-general for Victoria, 
a copy of fbe Victorian Parliamentary Papers for the sessions 1877. 1878, 
1881.' 



120 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

These papers will, in future, be regularly sent you at the end of 
each session of Parliament. 

With regard to your desire for additional copies of documents relat- 
ing to the civil and natural history of the colony, I have to state that 
every effort will be made by the trustees to comply with your request. 
At present a scheme for placing the disposal of Government publications 
in the hands of the trustees is under the consideration of the Govern- 
ment, and as soon as the subject has been dealt with by the ministry I 
shall be in a position to announce to you more definitely the intentions 
of the trustees. 

I may add that I am also forwarding copies of our Parliamentary 
Papers, (1) to the Boston Public Library, (2) to the New York State 
Library, (3) to the Mercantile Library Association San Francisco, and 
that I shall be glad to know whether it is your wish that works intended 
for these or other American institutions should be forwarded to you for 
registration, or whether any notification of their presentation should be 
made to the Smithsonian Institution. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 

T. F. Bride, 

Librarian. ' 

Report on the International Conference on Exchanges, held at Brussels, Bel- 
gium, on the 10th of April, 1883. 

Duriug the months of August and September, 1875, an International 
Congress of Geographical Sciences was held at Paiis, consisting of sev- 
eral hundred delegates from all parts of the globe. A prominent result 
of this conference was a unanimous resolution to enlist the co-operation 
of the respective Governments there represented in securing the free 
interchange of official and other publications, in accordance with a 
proposed plan for the international exchange of scientific publications 
to be submitted to the contracting powers. 

A number of Governments having expressed their adherence to the 
project, bureaus were established for the purpose indicated. 

Iu 1877 and again in August, 1880, conferences took place in Brussels, 
and after an experieuce of some six years a new conference was invited 
to assemble in Brussels on the 10th of April, 1883, and the proceedings 
of this conference and the correspondence attendiug it are here pre- 
sented : 

From the Department of State, January 10, 1883, to the Smithsonian In- 
stitution. 
Sir: I beg to inclose to you herewith, for your information and con- 
sideration, a copy of a note received from Mr. Bounder de Melsbroeck, 
the Belgian minister, dated the 14th ultimo, on the subject of interna- 
tional exchanges, and a draft of a convention calculated to accomplish 
that end. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
Fred'k T, Frelinghuysen. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 121 

(Inclosiire.) — From the Belgian Minister, Washington, December 14, 1882, 
to the Department of State. 

M v. Secretary of State : The delegates of various European states 
met <it Brussels in the month of August, 1880, for the purpose of dis- 
cussing questions relative to the system of international exchanges of 
scientific and literary documents and publications. 

Belgium, Austria, Denmark, Spain, Frauce, Italy, Portugal, Russia, 
and Sweden were represented at that conference. 

The provisional arrangement then made has since been converted 
into a draft of a convention, one of the articles of which reserves the 
privilege of adhesion to all countries. 

Brazil, Spain, Italy, and Portugal have agreed to this draft of a con- 
vention. France has proposed some amendments to it, which appear 
to be calculated to facilitate its adoption. Austria-Hungary has ex 
pressed no opinion, either one waj* or the other. 

Belgium intends to propose the addition of an article, to which refer- 
ence will be made hereafter. Under these circumstances, and in view 
of the small number of adherents to the draft in question, my Govern- 
ment thinks it desirable to submit all the arrangement.-, with regard 
to which an agreement might be reached, to a re-examination in com- 
mon. 

Other countries, perhaps, are unable to execute the clauses drafted 
in 1880, and it may be that other states desire the adoption of modifi- 
cations which are essential to the establishment of their exchange 
service. It is, consequently, inclined to think that, without radically 
changing the projected arrangements, it might be well to seek to render 
it more easy of adoption by relaxing certain stipulations, which might 
be thought vigorous. 

It is not probable that any government desirous of the attainment of 
a beneficial result would refuse to send delegates to Brussels to take 
part in discussions of the text of the convention to be definitively con- 
cluded by those countries which feel interested in the establishment 
of a system of international exchanges. These discussions would enable 
the delegates to form a correct idea of the object had in view by the 
contracting states. 

They would call forth explanations relative to the arrangements to 
be made, and would probably pave the way to additional accessions. 

Bepoi ts on the proceedings of these delegates would be submitted by 
theni to their respective Governments, and a day would then be fixed 
for the meeting of the conference which would be charged with the con- 
clusion of the final arrangement. 

My Government has, therefore, instructed me to invite the Govern- 
ment of the United States of America, if the foregoing considerations 
meet its approval, to take part in another conference at Brussels of 
persons who are familiar with questions connected with international 
exchanges. 



122 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

It is proposed that this conference shall meet on the 10th of April, 
1883, since that date seems best to suit the convenience of the states 
interested. 

To the end that your excellency may be pleased to take immediate 
cognizance of the modifications, and to give beforehand the necessary 
instructions to the delegates whom you may be pleased to designate, I 
have the honor herewith to transmit to you the original text of the 
draft of a convention (Inclosure A), the same draft with the amendments 
proposed by France (Inclosure B), aiul finally the arrangements, together 
with the one whose adoption is asked for by Belgium [article L0 of the 
draft marked C]. It reads as follows: 

"The Governments concerned agree, moreover, to transmit to the 
legislative chambers of each contracting state, without the intervention 
of the exchange bureaus, one copy [two copies] of their official newspaper 
and of their annals and parliamentary documents." 

The Belgian Government does not anticipate the feast opposition to 
this proposal. All countries are interested in the prompt transmission 
of official documents and the reports of parliamentary debates. 

I think it proper for me to add that my Belgian colleagues at Berlin, 
Berne, Bucharest, The Hague, Lisbon, London, Madrid, Paris, Rio de 
Janeiro, Rome, St. Petersburg, Stockholm, and Vienna, have likewise 
received instruction to address invitations to the conference of April 
10 to the Government to which they are respectively accredited. 

I trust that your excellency will favorably receive the invitatiou 
which I hereby have the honor to address you, and I will thank you to 
favor me with a reply. 

I gladly avail myself of this occasion to renew to your excellency the 
assurances of my highest consideration. 

de Bounder de Melsbroeck. 

[Inclosure. — A.] 

His Majesty the King of the Belgians, His Majesty the Emperor of 
Austria, King of Bohemia and Apostolic King of Hungary, His Maj- 
esty the King of Denmark, His Majesty the King of Spain, the Presi- 
dent of the French Republic, His Majesty the King of Italy, His Maj- 
esty the King of Portugal and the Algarves, His Majesty the Emperor 
of all the Russias, His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, desir- 
ing to establish on the basis adopted by the Brussels conference, a sys- 
tem of international exchanges for the official documents, and for the 
scientific and literary publications of their respective states, have ap- 
pointed as the plenipotentiaries, to wit : * who, having exhibited 

to each other their full powers, which were found to be in good and 
due form, have agreed upon the following articles: 

* Names of delegates omitted. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



123 



A. Text adopted. 

Article 1. A bureau having 
charge of the exchange service 
shall be established in each of the 
contracting states. 

Art. 2. The contracting states 
agree. to exchange the following- 
publications: 

1. Parliamentary and executive 
documents published by them. 

2. Works issued by order and at 
the expense of or with the aid of a 
subsidy from the Governments. 

3. Publications issued by acade- 
mies or learned societies, universi- 
ties, and schools, so far as it may 
be in the power of the Govern- 
ments to procure tbem. 

Art. 3. Each bureau shall cause 
to be printed a list, as complete 
as possible, of the publications 
that it may be able to furnish to 
the contracting states. 



Art. 4. During the first quarter 
of each year each bureau shall 
publish a report of the progress of 
the service and of the results ac- 
complished in the course of the 
preceding year. This report shall 
contain all necessary corrections 
and additions to the list mentioned 
in Art. 3. 

Art. 5. Exchange bureaus shall 
arrange with each other as to the 
number' of copies which, in certain 
cases, may be asked for and fur- 
nished. 

Art. 6. The exchange bureaus 
shall arrange among themselves 
with regard to the method of trans- 
mitting the various publications. 

Art. 7. The documents shall be 
transmitted directly from bureau 
to bureau. Uniform models and 
forms shall be adopted for lists of 
the contents of boxes, and for all 
executive communications, re- 
quests, acknowledgment of receipt, 
<&c. 

Art. 8. When documents are 
to be sent abroad, each state agrees 
fo pay the expenses of packing and 



B. Modifications proposed. 



Art. 2. The contracting states 
agree to exchange the following 
publications : 

2. Works issued by order and at 
the expense of the Governments. 



Art. 3. Each bureau shall cause 
to be printed a list, as complete as 
possible, of the publications that it 
may be able to furnish to the con- 
tracting states. 

This list shall be corrected and 
completed each year and addressed 
to all the exchange bureaus. 



Articles 3 and 4 are combined 
in one, and Article 5 thus becomes 
Article 4. 



Art. 6 becomes Article 5. 



Art. 7 becomes Article 6. 



Art, 8 becomes Article 7, 



124 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



trail sportation to the place of des- 
tination, and, when the documents 
are to be sent to countries lying be- 
yond the sea, to pay snch expenses 
to the port where they are to be 
discharged. 

Art. 9. The exchange bureaus 
may, unofficially, serve as medi- 
ums between the learned societies 
of the contracting states tor the 
reception and transmission of the 
publications of the said societies. 



Art. 10. These provisions aie 
applicable to none but documents 
and works published at or subse- 
quent to the date of this conven- 
tion. It is, nevertheless, desirable 
that the contracting states should 
endeavor to procure the preceding 
series of volumes, so that a com- 
plete copy of each collection may be 
in at least one library in each State. 

Art. 11. States that have not 
taken part in this convention shall 
have the privilege of adhering 
thereto whenever they may express 
a desire to do so. 

Notice shall be given of such 
adhesion, through diplomatic chan- 
nels, to the Belgian Government 
and by that Government to all the 
signatory states. 

Art. 12. This convention shall 
be ratified, and the ratification 
shall be exchanged at Brussels, as 
soon as possible. It is concluded 
for ten years, reckoned from the 
day of the exchange of the ratifi- 
cation, and shall continue to exist 
after that time until one of the 
Governments shall have declared, 
six months beforehand, that it de- 
sires the cessation of its effects. 



Art. 8, § 1. The exchange bu- 
reaus may, unofficially, serve as 
mediums between the parliaments, 
the Government departments, and 
the learned societies of the con- 
tracting states for the reception 
and transmission of their publica- 
tions. 

§ 2. It shall, however, be under- 
stood that, on these occasions, the 
functions of the exchange bu- 
reaus shall be confined to the free 
transmission of the works ex- 
changed, aud that these bureaus 
shall iu no wise take the initiative 
in bringingaboutrhe establishment 
of such relations between foreign 
parliaments, governmental depart- 
ments, and learned societies. 

Art. 10 becomes Article 9. 



Art. 11 becomes Article 10. 



Art. 12 becomes Article 11. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 125 

[The .draft referred to in Mr. de Bounder de Melsbroeck's letter as in- 
closure C, differs from the adopted text in the following respect: 

After Article 3 the following words are inserted: "This list shall be 
corrected and completed each year and regularly addressed to all the 
exchange bureaus. 7 ' 

Article 4 of the adopted text is omitted. 

Article 5 of the adopted text becomes Article 4 of this draft, and a 
similar change is made in each article (i. e., its numbers diminished by 
one) up to Article 10, which is a new article added in this dratt. 

Article 9 of the adopted text becomes Article 8 of this draft. 

It is here divided into two sections, and is identical with Article 8 of 
the modified text given in parallel columns with that adopted. 

Article 10 of the adopted text becomes Article 9 of this draft. 

Article 10 of this draft is, as above stated, an entirely new one, and 
reads as follows : 

Article 10. The Governments concerned agree, moreover, to transmit 
to the legislative chambers of each contracting state, without the in- 
tervention of the exchange bureaus one copy [two copies] of their official 
newspaper and of their annals and parliamentary documents. 

Articles 11 and 12 of this draft are identical with Articles 11 and 12 
of the adopted text.] m 

From the Smithsonian Institution, February 27, 1883, to the Secretary of 

State. 

Sir : Your letter of January 10, inclosing a communication from the 
Belgian minister in Washington, was duly received, but I have delayed 
an answer in order to give a careful cousideration to the various ques- 
tions involved. 

The proposition to have a conference of official delegates at Brussels 
on the 10th of April next is, of course, a practical one ; but, on its ac- 
ceptance by the United States, it will be necessary to determine whether 
the American minister in Belgium or some other official of the State De- 
partment in Europe can be charged with the duty, or whether it will be 
expedient to send some one from Washington who has had a thorough 
practical acquaintance with the system now iu operation by the Smith- 
sonian Institution and who can point out any technical difficulties or in- 
conveniences. Perhaps, in any event, such ageut should be on hand to 
make the necessary explanations and suggestions. 

Mr. George H. Boehmer, the author of the report of the Institution 
to the Department on this very subject, could be spared for this pur- 
pose ; but the cost of his mission could not conveniently be defrayed 
from the funds of the- Institution, or from the appropriations of Con- 
gress for the purpose of international exchanges. Whether the State 
Department has the means at its command to send him, or whether it 
will be expedient to ask for a moderate appropriation of say $500 is for 
you to decide. 



12() REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

There is nothing among the details agreed upon at the conventions 
of 1877 and of 1880 differing materially from the practice of the Smith- 
sonian system so far as the purely governmental exchange is concerned ; 
but in the interchange of publications between the learned bodies of 
the two countries, respectively, there is a decided difference. The Smith- 
sonian Institution aims at establishing direct relationships — parcels for 
foreign societies and institutions being sent to us addressed by the do- 
nors and the Institution simply charging itself with securing their safe 
delivery abroad — while the foreign exchange agencies, on the other hand, 
ass ume also the responsibility of delivering un addressed packages to 
such societies as they deem suitable. While the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion has at times performed this latter service, on special request, it 
nevertheless endeavors to establish direct relations between donor and 
recipient, confining itself, as far as possible, to the work of a carrier. 
This method is, I think, very much the better of the two. 

Permit me to inquire whether the wording of Article 8 has been cor- 
rectly rendered in the translation, so far as the use of the word " post" 
near the end is concerned? If this be port it will be in strict accord- 
ance with the practice and preference of the Smithsonian Institution. 
In the entire inability to follow a package across the water to its ulti- 
mate destination, we deliver the same either at New York or at the cor- 
responding port in Europe, and expect to be responsible for charges only 
from the opposite i)ort, or from New York, as may be agreed upon. 

I may say, in conclusion, that the system of governmental exchange 
does not work as satisfactorily as where we have our own agents in the 
respective countries, and it is extremely difficult to induce Government 
officials to take the necessary pains to see that packages addressed to 
minor institutions or to individuals reach their destination. Book- 
sellers, who have usually served as our agents, attend to this matter 
much more carefully. 

I inclose an article prepared bv Mr. Boehmer, showing the parallel- 
ism in the letter of the Belgian minister and the practice of the Smith - 
souiau Institution, together with a general brief of the Smithsonian plan. 
For full details I would refer to the report of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion on this subject made to the Department of State some mouths ago. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
Spencer F. Baird. 

Comparison of proposed and Smithsonian systems. 

ARTICLES AGREED UPON BY BRUSSELS WORK DONE BY THE SMITHSONIAN EX- 
CONFERENCE. CHANGE. 

Article 1. A bureau having The establishment of the Smith- 
charge of the exchange service sonian exchange service is fully ex- 
shall be established in each of the I plained in the " History of the 
contract in if states. Smithsonian Exchanges." 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



127 



Art. 2. The contracting - states 
agree to exchange the following 
publications : 

1. Parliamentary and executive 
documents published by them. 

2. Works issued by order and 
the expense of or with the aid of a 
subsidy from the Governments. 

3. Publications issued by acade- 
mies or learned societies, universi- 
ties, and schools, so far as may be 
in the power of the Governments 
to procure them. 

Art. 3. Each bureau shall cause 
to be printed a list, as complete as 
possible, of the publications that it 
may be able to furnish to the con- 
tracting states. 

Art. 4. During the first quarter 
of each year each bureau shall pub- 
lish a report of the progress of the 
service and of the results accom- 
plished in the course of the preced- 
ing year. This report shall contain 
all necessary corrections and addi- 
tions to the list mentioned in Arti- 
cle 3. 

This list shall be corrected aud 
completed each year and addressed 
to all the exchauge bureaus. 

Art. 5. The exchauge bureaus 
shall arrange with each other as to 
the number of copies which in cer 
tain cases may be asked for and 
furnished. 

Art. 0. The exchange bureaus 
shall arrange among themselves 
with regard to the methods of trans- 
mitting the various publications. 



Art. 7. The documents shall be 
transmitted directly from bureau 
to bureau. Uniform models aud 
forms shall be adopted for lists of 
the contents of boxes and for all 
executive communications, re- 
quests, acknowledgment of receipts, 
&c. 

Art. 8. Whenever documents are 
to be sent abroad, each State agrees 
to pay the expense of packing and 
transportation to the place of des- 
tination, and, when the documents 
are to be sent to countries lying be- 
yond the sea, to pay such expenses 



The Smithsonian Institution dis- 
tributes (see act of Congress March 

2, 18G7). 

The official documents printed 
by either house of Congress and 
delivered by the Public Printer in 
fifty copies. 

3. Publications of societies, &c, 
are obtained by the Smithsonian 
Institution at the request of foreign 
correspondents. 

Such a list forms a part of the 
annual report of the clerk in charge 
of exchanges submitted to the Sec- 
retary of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion at the close of each year. 

This is also given in the statis- 
tics of the exchanges appended to 
the Secretary's annual report. 



Of the 50 copies supplied by Con- 
gress to the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion only 8 are uuassigned. 

The method adopted by the Sm ith- 
sonian Institution is to transmit 
whenever a sufficient number of 
books have accumulated to fill one 
regulation "size" caseforeach Gov- 
ernment. 

This method has been adopted 
by the Smithsonian Institution 
since the first establishment of ex- 
change bureaus (iu Paris, France, 
in 187(3) resulting from the Geo- 
graphical Congress in August aud 
September, 1875. 

The Smithsonian Institution pays 
the expenses of packing, &c, and 
delivers the boxes free of charge to 
the representative (generally the 
consuls) of the respective Govern- 
mental any seaport in the country, 
while the returns are to be deliv- 



128 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



to the port where they are to be 
discharged. 

Art. 9. The exchange bureaus 
may, unofficially, serve as mediums 
between the learned societies of the 
contracting states for the recep- 
tion and transmission of the pub- 
lications of the said societies. 

It shall be understood that on 
rhese occasions the functions of the 
exchange bureaus shall be confined 
to t he free transmission of the works 
exchanged, and that the bureaus 
shall in no wise take the initiative 
in bringing about the establishment 
of such relations between foreign 
Parliaments, governmental depart- 
ments, and learned societies. 

Art. 10. These provisions are ap- 
plicable to none but documents and 
works published at or subsequently 
to the date of this convention. It 
is nevertheless desirable that the 
contracting states should endeavor 
to procure the preceding series or 
volumes, so that a complete copy 
of each collection may be in at least 
one library in each state. 

Art. 11. States that have not 
taken part in this convention shall 
have the privilege of adhering 
thereto whenever they may express 
a desire to do so. Notice shall be 
given of such adhesions through 
diplomatic channels to the Belgian 
Government, and by that Govern- 
ment to all the signatory states. 

Art. 12. The convention shall be 
ratified and the ratifications shall 
be exchanged at Brussels as soon 
as possible. It is concluded for ten 
years, reckoned from the day of the 
ratification, and it shall continue 
to exist after that time until one of 
the Governments shall have de- 
clared, six months beforehand, that 
it desires the cessation of its effects. 



ered to the regularly appointed 
agents of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion located in the several countries. 
This constituted the most impor- 
tant branch of the Smithsonian op- 
erations. Scientific productions 
are distributed throughout the 
world so as to secure for them a 
greater circulation than could be 
obtained in any other way. 



The complete collection of official 
publications, which the Smithson- 
ian Institution distributes under 
the system of international ex- 
changes com prises 17 boxes of about 
260 pounds eacb, to the set, and in- 
cludes all the Government docu- 
ments issued between the year 1807 
and the present time. 



Details of Smithsonian Exchange Operations. 

[1. A list of the addresses and a statement of the contents of each 
sending is to be mailed to the Smithsonian Institution at or before the 
time of transmission. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 129 

2. The packages must be enveloped in stout paper and securely pasted 
or tied with strong twiue; they must be legibly addressed and indorsed 
with the name of the sender ; they must not exceed one-half of one 
cubic foot each in bulk; they must have no inclosures of letters; they 
must contain a blank acknowledgment to be signed and returned by the 
party addressed, and must be delivered to the Smithsonian Institution 
free of expense. 

3. On arrival of exchanges for transmission, the parcels are compared 
with the list of addresses, and, if found correct, acknowledgment is 
mailed to the sender and each entire sending entered as a single trans- 
action in the book of incoming exchanges. 

4. The addresses in the invoices and on the parcels are then provided 
with the numbers corresponding to those in the " List of Foreign Cor- 
respondents " and the consignees charged with the parcels on their ac- 
count, which are kept in this office in the form of a card catalogue. 

5. The packages are then laid away in bins, each representing a cer- 
tain city or cities or a part of them in any given country. 

6. When a sufficient number of parcels have accumulated to justify a 
sending to any country, invoices are made up from the card catalogue 
of all parcels for any one society ; this is inclosed in an envelope and 
sent by mail to the consignee. This invoice is the notification of the 
sending and enables the consignee to correspond with the agent of the 
Smithsonian Institution in his country regarding the final disposition 
of his package. 

7. While the invoices are being made out, the accumulations are taken 
from the bins and all the parcels for any one society, after being com- 
pared with the invoice, are wrapped in one or more bundles. 

8. All the bundles for one country are then packed in boxes of uni- 
form, or nearly uniform, size, the lids fastened with ten screws and the 
boxes addressed to the agent of the Smithsonian Institution in that 
country. 

9. The shipment is made through local express and railroad freight 
to the shipping agent at any given seaport, receipts being taken from 
the respective carriers. 

10. The shipping agent forwarding the cases mails one bill of lading 
directly to the agent and duplicate copies to the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, which retains one copy and mails the other to the agent. 

11. The agent distributes the parcels in accordance with the instruc- 
tions received from the respective consignees, taking for them receipts, 
which he forwards to the Institution.] 

From the Department of Mate, May 15, 1883, to the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. 

Silt : I inclose a copy of a dispatch from our minister at Brussels, 
giving the results of the Brussels conference on international exchanges, 
H. Mis. G9 9 



130 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

also, its original inclosures, and have to ask for an expression of your 
views in the premises, and especially as to the Belgian proposals. [In- 
closure 9.] 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
John Davis, 
Acting Secretary. 

(Inclosure.) — From the Legation of the United States, Brussels, April 24, 
1883, to the Secretary of State. 

Sir : Eeferring to your Instruction No. 26, and to my dispatches 106 
and 107, I have the honor to inclose herewith a copy and translation of 
a note from the Belgian Government of the 4th instant, respecting the 
conference to draft a convention to regulate the international exchanges 
of official documents, and scientific and literary publications. 

Immediately upon the receipt of the pamphlet, " History of the Smith- 
sonian Exchanges," I commenced a careful examination of the question 
to be discussed at the conference. 

The letter from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to you of 
February 27 last, and its accompaniment, with the pamphlet above men- 
tioned, constituted my instructions. 

On studying the comparison made by Mr. Boehmer between the arti- 
cles agreed upon in 1880 at Brussels, and the work done by the Smith- 
sonian Institution in regard to the exchanges, I found the principal di- 
vergence to be in reference to article 8. The provisions of that article 
are thus stated by him : " When documents are to be sent abroad each 
State agrees to pay the expenses of packing and transportation to the 
place of destination, and, when the documents are to be sent, to coun- 
tries lying beyond the sea, to pay such expenses to the port where they 
are to be discharged." There is no disagreement as to the cost of pack- 
ing, but merely as to the transportation by and beyond the sea. The 
Smithsonian's rule being " to pay the expenses of packing, &c, and to 
deliver the boxes free of charge to the representative (generally the 
consul) of the respective Governments at any seaport in the United 
States, while the returns are to be delivered to the regularly ap- 
pointed agents of the Smithsonian Institution located in the several 
countries." 

Under the existing generous action of the various steamship liues 
the question of ocean transportation is not a material one, but I con- 
sidered that I should endeavor to avoid signing a draft which, if rati- 
fied, would bind us to the payment of the ocean freight, even if we re- 
ceived the return exchanges free of cost in our own ports. 

The new text of this article, which becomes article 6 in the present 
draft, leaves the question of the transportation by sea a matter to be 
fixed by special arrangements. This will permit the continuation of 
the method pursued by the Smithsonian Institution. 

In the conference the countries represented were the United States, 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



131 



Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil, France, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Rou- 
mauia, Servia, and Switzerland. 

It may not be altogether uninteresting to compare them as to extent 
of territory and population. I gather the following from the Almanaeh 
de Gotha : 



Countries. 



Square kilo- 
1 meters. 



United States 9,331,360 

Austria-Hungary. 6"J-\ 168 

Belgium '. 29,445 

Brazil ! 8.337,218 

France (proper) ' 528, 572 

France (colonies) 1,994,113 

Italy (proper) 296,323 

Italy (colonies) 632 

Portugal l proper) i 89,625 

Portugal (colonies) 1, 825, 252 

Roumania 129,947 

Spain (proper) 500, 443 

Spain (colonies) 436, 747 

Servia 48,590 

Switzerland 41,390 

Total 



To the 
Population, square kilo- 
meter. 



24,214,835 



50, 

37, 

5, 

10, 

37, 
30, 

'-'-. 

4, 

3, 

5, 

16, 

8, 
1, 

2, 



442, 066 
869,954 
519, 844 
108,291 
672, 048 
173,234 
459, 451 
1,193 
160,315 
333, 700 
376, 000 
342, 996 
839, 015 
700,211 
846, 102 



5.4 

61.0 

187.0 



71.0 



96.0 



46. 



41.0 
33.0 



35.0 
69.0 



242,844,420 



The development of the sciences and literature in the respective coun- 
tries and the amount of the illiterate classes would doubtless furnish a 
better gauge of the desirability and advantages of entering into a con- 
vention of this nature, but in the absence of such statistics the forego- 
ing will not be altogether useless. 

In addition to the countries represented in the conference, Greece, 
Russia, Sweden and Norway, and Uruguay have evinced a desire to 
adhere to the convention. 

The same statistics concerning them are — 



Countries. 



Square 
kilometers. 



Greece 

Russia 

Sweden and Norway 
Uruguay 



54,688 

5, 016, 024 

775, 997 

186, 290 



Population. 



To the 
square kilo- 
meter. 



1,979,423 

81,598,569 

6,772,568 

438, 245 



31 
16 



Total | 6,042,999 



90, 788, 805 



The conference met under the presidency of Mr. Rolin-Jacquemyns, 
the Belgian minister of the interior, on the 10th instant, at 11 A. m. 
The president, after a short address, declared the general question open 
for debate, whereupon the Swiss delegate, Mr. Abt, read a statement 
defining the position of Switzerland, and opposing the extension of the 



13'2 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

obligation to exchange other than official parliamentary and adminis- 
trative documents, and works executed by order of, and at the expense 
of, the contracting states. I invite particular attention to this docu- 
ment, which is given in full in the protocols of the conference. 

The Austrian delegate, Mr. de Dechy, maintained that the convention 
of 1880 would not affect the exchange between the literary and scien- 
tific societies. 

Mr. Charmes, the French delegate, maintained that while the ex- 
change of official publications should be rendered obligatory, the bu- 
reaus should also be allowed to act as the friendly agents for effecting 
exchanges between the learned scientific and literary societies of the 
different countries. 

The president agreed with Mr. Charmes, and this appeared to be the 
sense of the conference. Mr. Alvin, one of the Belgian delegation, the 
venerable head of the Eoyal Library of Brussels, explained his expe- 
rience of the working of the exchanges. As the Eoyal Library is the 
regularly appointed agent of the Smithsonian Institution, his remarks 
have a special interest. He mentioned a newly created readiug-room 
for periodical literature, attached to the library, where 1,100 or 1,200 
publications are accessible to the public. (I regret to say that those 
of the United States are conspicuous by their almost total absence.) 

Mr. Alvin expressed the hope that similar readiug-rooms might be 
established in all the great centers of population and that the exchanges 
would greatly benefit them. 

The discussion of Article 1 was then begun. Mr. Charmes (France) 
said that Article 1 prescribed the establishment of bureaus of exchange 
in each contracting state, but until now it has not been -carried into 
effect. 

The president called attention to the fact that until now there was 
no obligation, and suggested that we should cursorily examine the con- 
dition of affairs in the respective countries. Mr. Alvin said that bureaus 
had been established in France, in Bussia, in Italy, and in Spain. 

Mr. de Villeneuve (Brazil) said that in Brazil there was a bureau. 

Mr. Alvin said that in the United States there was the Smithsonian 
Institution, but- that as it was not an official bureau it did not fully 
answer the ends that the conference sought, 

Mr. Vacaresco ( Ron mania) said that in Boumania there was no 
bureau, and he could not guarantee the establishment of one until the 
ratification of the convention. 

I said that in the United States the Smithsonian Institution had un- 
dertaken the exchanges of Government publications ; that as to the 
other publications it was sometimes difficult to obtain them from the 
societies, but that the Institution willingly undertook to send them at 
the request of the learned societies. 

That Congress had placed 50 copies of the official publications at the 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 133 

disposition of the exchanges, and that but eight of these remained un- 
distributed. 

Mr. Alviu added that the Smithsonian also distributes European 
packages in North and South America, bat not officially. Article 1 was 
then adopted without alteration. 

Upon the discussion of Article 2 as it was in the draft of 1880, there 
was a conjunction of obligatory stipulations with a contingent stipula- 
tion. In the present draft this is avoided by the unanimous omission 
of the last paragraph. 

The words, " with the aid of a subsidy," in the next to last paragraph, 
were also suppressed. 

Article 3 was adopted so as to read : " Each bureau shall cause to be 
printed the list of the publications that it is able to place at the disposal 
of the contracting states. 

"That list shall be corrected and completed each year and regularly 
addressed to each of the bureaus of exchanges." 

In the morning session of 11th of April Article 4 was adopted with 
the omission of the words "in certain cases." 

Article 5 was omitted. 

Article 6 having become Article 5, was adopted. 

Article 7 (having become Article 6) was then taken up for discussion 
and Mr. Euelens (Belgium) explained that the reason of making a dis- 
tinction in regard to payment of the sea transportation, was because it 
is generally impossible for the shipper to know the railway tariffs be- 
yond the port of debarkation, and that when they are known there is 
great difficulty in obtaining the railway receipt for the freight. 

I stated the custom of the Smithsonian of sending its boxes to the 
consuls at our own ports free of charge. 

Mr. Alvin and Mr. Euelens seemed surprised to learn that we did not 
pay the charges to the port of debarkation, and were of opinion that 
we did so in regard to the shipments to Belgium. 

I read the rule of the Smithsonian quoted above, taken from Mr. Boeh- 
mer's memorandum, and explained to the conference that these gentle- 
men were doubtless misled by the fact that the steamship companies 
had consented to carry the parcels of the Institution free, but that I 
could not guarantee that our Government would bind itself to deliver 
them free of cost beyond its own ports. 

Neither Mr. Alvin's, Mr. Euelens', nor my own remarks in regard to 
steamship companies are fully given in the printed accounts of the pro- 
ceedings of the conference, but the text of the article as finally adopted 
rendered an amendment on this subject in the accounts of the proceed- 
ings unnecessary. 

The president calling attention to the fact that shipments by sea 
were sometimes made to countries that were not beyond the sea, sug- 
gested substituting therefor shipments by sea. 

The discussion of the article was then postponed. It was resumed 



134 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

in the session of the 14th instant, upon my demand that in the final 
protocol mention should be made that I had reserved the rights of 
the United States in regard to this article. 

The president then suggested the adoption of the article in the fol- 
lowing form : 

" Pour l'expedition a l'exterieur chaque £tat se charge des frais 
d'emballage et de port jusqu'a destination. Toutefois, quand l'expedi- 
tion se fera par mer, des arrangements particuliers regleront la part de 
chaque etat dans les frais de transport." 

(Translation : For shipment to foreign countries, each state assumes 
the cost of packing and of transportation to destination. When, how- 
ever, the shipment is to be made by sea, special arrangements shall de- 
termine the proportion of each state in the cost of transportation.) 

Which was adopted. 

Article 8 (become Article 7) was then taken up, and gave rise to a 
long discussion. 

The suppression of the last paragraph of Article 2 had left the con- 
vention relating solely to the obligatory exchanges of official documents, 
parliamentary and administrative. 

- I felt that the omission of a provision creating a voluntary channel 
for the exchange of literary and scientific societies would be a most 
regrettable result, and that it would seriously interfere with one of the 
most useful and extended means of spreading information and knowl- 
edge. 

The enactment of the provision, although merely optional in its char- 
acter, would materially aid the Smithsonian in carrying out this, in Mr. 
Boehmer's opinion, " the most important branch of its operations." 

It would be of equal benefit in case the bureau of exchanges were to 
be transferred to the Department of State or any other branch of the 
Government. I therefore assumed that I was carrying out your wishes 
in endeavoring to secure its retention, if not in its letter, at least in its 
spirit. 

The text as it now stands was adopted to avoid a pleonasm in the 
former French text, and to define more clearly the societies whose publi- 
cations may be exchanged. 

There is no greater obligation created than in the former convention, 
and the result may be considered as merely an improvement in the 
phraseology of the text. 

The discussion of this article is worthy of a perusal, and for its full 
comprehension that of Article 2 should be also consulted. I hope my 
remarks in favor of its retention will merit your approval. 

Article 9 (now become Article 8) was adopted with the omission of 
the second paragraph, the latter wish being expressed in the final pro- 
tocol. 

Article 10 (the new proposal of the Belgian Government) is as follows: 

" The respective Governments further agree to cause to be sent to the 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 135 

legislative chambers of each contracting state, as soon as they are pub- 
lished, and without passing through the intermediary bureaus of ex- 
changes, a copy of the official journal and of the parliamentary docu- 
ments and annals." 

In your instruction to me there was no mention of this proposition. 
It is not referred to by Professor Baird or by Mr. Boehmer in his mem- 
orandum. 

Upon verbal inquiry at the foreign office, I ascertained that it was 
sent in November last to the Belgian legation at Washington, with in- 
structions to bring it to your notice. 

I had therefore to deal with the proposition entirely as a measure of 
possible utility to Congress. I saw that the transmission of fifteen or 
twenty copies of the Congressional Record, of all the bills, motions, peti- 
tions, reports, &c, by post would involve a large outlay in postage, in 
addition to the cost of paper and printing, and that it would entail the 
employment of additional clerks to attend to it. On the other hand, 
the daily receipt of similar matter from fifteen or twenty Governments 
would require a considerable staff to sort and care for the publications, 
and soon involve the construction of additional room for their preser- 
vation. 

I have no doubt that such an exchange established with certain Gov- 
ernments would prove of great usefulness to Congress, but I very 
much question whether it would be wise to bind ourselves to such an ex- 
change with all the countries represented in the convention. If you 
should differ with me, the way is still open for our Government to enter 
into such an arrangement, as the article proposed by the Belgian Gov- 
ernment was omitted from the convention signed by all the delegates 
to the conference, and was made the subject of a special convention 
between those which supported it. 

The delegates of Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil, Italy, Portugal, 
Roumania, Spain, and Servia signed the two conventions. 

The delegates of the United States, France, and Switzerland, being 
opposed to the Belgian proposal, signed only the draft of the general 
convention, which was signed by all the delegates. 

For a more thorough comprehension of the discussion of the con- 
ference I inclose herewith (inclosure 3) a copy and (inclosure 4) a 
translation of the proposals originally submitted to our discussion at 
the opening of the conference, and a proof copy of the proceedings 
of the conference (inclosure 5), of which I have made a tree transla- 
tion (inclosure G). 

I inclose herewith copies and translations of the final protocol which 
was signed by the delegates of all the powers represented at the con- 
ference (inclosure 7), and of the. draft of the convention signed by them 
(inclosure 8). 

I also inclose a copy and translation of the convention embodying 
the Belgian proposal for the immediate exchange of parliamentary doc- 



136 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

uments (inclosure 9), which was signed by the delegates of eight of 
the eleven powers represented at the conference. 

The original text of these documents being in French, my transla- 
tions of them will require careful revision. 

I likewise inclose lithographic copies of the two conventions and of 
the final protocol (iuclosures 10, 11, and 12). The latter was only re- 
ceived to-day. The convention adjourned late in the afternoon of the 
14th instant. 

On the 12th the King received ns at Lacken, and although suffering 
from a severe cold, exhibited his wonderful knowledge of the current 
events of all countries, which with his courteous manners render him 
always a most entertaining host and a most enlightened sovereign. 

The Belgian minister of the interior, Mr. Rolin Jacqnemyns, enter- 
tained the delegates at dinner the same evening. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 

Nicholas Fish. 

IXCLOSUKKS. 

1. Mr. Frere-Orlean to Mr. Fish, 4th of April, 1883. 

2. Translation of No. I. 

2. Proposals originally submitted for the discussion of the contents. 

4. Translation of inclosure No. 3. 

5. Proof copy of proceedings of conference. 

6. Translation of inclosure No. 5. 

7. Final protocol of conference signed by delegates of all the states represented, with 

the translation. 

8. Draft of convention for the international exchanges of official documents and of 

scientific and literary publications, signed by the delegates of all the states, with 
translation. 
9 Draft of convention for the immediate exchange of parliamentary documents, 
signed by the delegates of eight of the eleven states represented at the confer- 
ence, with translation. 

(Inclosure 1, 2, Translation.) — From the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Brus- 
sels, Uh April, 1888, to Mr. Fish. 

Mr. Minister : The Belgian minister at Washington has informed 
me that the Government of the United States of America, acceding to 
the request which was made to it in my name, has decided to take part 
in the conference which is to be held at Brussels on the 10th of April 
instant, and that it has confided to you the duty of representing it at 
that assembly. 

No doubt you arc aware that at present a preparatory reunion is con- 
templated, to discuss and determine all the questions relating to the 
system of international exchanges of official document and scientific 
and literary publications. 

It is to be hoped, however, that it will be possible to agree upon the 
text of a project of convention, which shall be afterwards submitted to 
the approbation of the respective Governments interested therein. 

Belgium, Austria, Denmark, Spain, France, Italy, Portugal, Russia, 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 137 

and Sweden were represented at the first conference, which was held 
at Brussels in 1880. The provisional arrangement which resulted from 
that preliminary conference has siuce been converted into a project of 
convention, the text of which is herewith annexed (A). 

Certain modifications to this preliminary project of conventions have 
been proposed. They are set forth in the document which you wdl also 
find inclosed herewith (B). 

The Government of the King has demanded on its part the adoption 
of an amendment which seems of incontestable utility. It would be the 
tenth article of the new arrangement, of which I have the honor, Mr. 
Minister, to communicate to you the text, and concerning which the de- 
liberations of the reunion of the 10th April will be held. As I stated 
to you above, Mr. Minister, the labor of the delegates will be submitted 
by them to their respective Governments, and thereafter the time of 
meeting of the conference which will be held for the purpose of signing 
the final arrangement will be fixed. 

The following is, Mr. Minister, the text of the amendment which I 
have proposed : 

"The respective Governments moreover engage themselves to cause 
to be forwarded to the legislative chambers of each contracting state, 
as soon as they are published, and without passing through the inter- 
mediary of the bureaus of exchange, one [two] copies of the official jour- 
nal, parliamentary annals, and documents." 

I do not presume that this proposition can incur any opposition. A 
common interest is attached to it for all countries to secure the prompt 
communication of official acts and documents relating to parliament- 
ary debates. In the last Belgian legislative session a member of the 
Chamber of Bepreseutatives called my attention to this important point, 
and it seemed to me that the projected convention furnished an oppor- 
tunity of attaining, by a channel more efficacious than any other — that 
is, of an international agreement — the object which we have in view. 
Each Government will no doubt deem it expedient to admit a clause 
which cannot fail to be fertile in good results and which cannot raise 
any difficulty. 

1 will add, Mr. Minister, that the following powers have been invited 
to participate in the deliberations to which I allude : Germany, Eng- 
land, Austria-Hungary, Brazil, Denmark, Spain, United States of 
America, France, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Boumania, 
Bussia, Servia, Sweden and Norway, and Switzerland. 

The meetings will be held in the session room of the Boyal Academy 
of Belgium, in the Palace of the Academies (Bue Ducale 1). The first 
meeting will be held Tuesday next, April 10, at 11 o'clock. The instal- 
lation of the conference will be under the care of the minister of the 
interior. 

Pray accept, Mr. Minister, the assurances of my most distinguished 

consideration. 

FrEre-Orlean. 



138 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



(Iuclosurc 3, 4.) — TRANSLATION OF PROPOSALS ORIGINALLY SUBMITTED FOK THE 
DISCUSSION OF THE CONFERENCE. 

Amendments made to the drafts 
agreed upon by the conference of 
1880. 



New draft of a convention for the 
international exchange* of official 
documents and of scientific and 

literary publications. 

Article 1. There shall be estab- 
lished in each of the contracting 
states a bureau charged with the 
duty of the exchanges. 

Art. 2. Publications which the 
contracting states agree to ex- 
change are the following: (1) The 
official documents, parliamentary, 
administrative, which are published 
in the country of their origin; (2) 
the works executed by order and 
at the expense of the Governments; 
(3) the publications of academies 
and learned societies, of universi- 
ties and schools, as far as the Gov- 
ernments shall be able to obtain 
them. 

Art. 3. Each bureau shall cause 
to be printed a list, as complete as 
possible, of the publications that 
it is able to place at the disposal 
of the contracting states. 

That list shall be corrected and 
completed each year, and regularly 
addressed to all the bureaus of ex- 
change. 

Art. 4. The bureaus of exchange 
will arrange between themselves 
the number of copies which in cer- 
tain cases they may demand and 
furnish. 

Art. 5. The bureaus of ex- 
changes will determine among 
themselves the models of packages 
of different publications. 

Art. 6. Shipments shall be made 
directly from buieau to bureau. 
Uniform models and formulas for 
the invoices of the contents of the 
cases, as well as for all administra- 
tive correspondents' requests and 
acknowledgments of reception, 
&c, shall be adopted. 

Art. 7. For shipments to foreign 
countries, each state assumes the 
cost of packing and of transporta- 
tion to destination and for coun- 
tries beyond the sea to the port of 
debarkation. 



Without alteration. 



The words u witli subsidies" have 
been omitted from the second para- 
graph. 



The second paragraph of this 
article replaces the fourth article 
of the draft of 1880. 



Article 5 of the draft of 1880. 



Art. 6 of the draft of 1880. 



Art. 7 of the convention of 1880. 



Art. 8 of the draft of 1880. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



139 



Art. 8, § 1. Bureaus of ex- 
changes may in an official capac- 
ity serve as the intermediary be- 
tween the Parliaments, the admin- 
istrations, and the learned societies 
of the contracting states for the re- 
ception and forwarding of their 
publications. 

§ 2. It remains, however, well 
understood that in such eases the 
duty of the bureaus of exchanges 
will be confined to the transmis- 
sion free of cost of the works ex- 
changed, and that those bureaus 
will not in any manner take the in- 
itiative to bring about the estab- 
lishment of such relations between 
the parliaments, administrations, 
and leaned societies of foreign 
countries. 

Art. 9. These provisions apply 
only to documents and works pub- 
lished after the date of the present 
convention. It is nevertheless de- 
sirable that the contracting states 
should endeavor to obtain the pre- 
ceding series or volumes, so that 
a complete set of each collection at 
least should be found in one of the 
libraries in each state. 

Art. 10 [New]. The respective 
Governments agree further to cause 
to l>e seat to the legislative cham- 
bers of each contracting state, as 
soon as they are published, and 
without passing through the inter 
mediary of the bureaus of ex- 
changes, a copy of the official jour- 
nal and of the parliamentary docu- 
ments and annals. 

Art. 11. The states which have 
not taken part in the present con- 
vention are admitted to adhere to 
it upon making the request. 



This adhesion is to be notified to 
the Belgian Government through 
the diplomatic channel and by the 
latter Government to all the other 
states signing it. 

Art. 12. The present conven- 
tion shall be ratified and the rati- 
fications exchanged at Brussels as 
soon as it is practicable. It is con- 



§ 1 is a reproduction of Article 9 
of the former draft, to which have 
been added the words Parliament 
et administration. 



§ 2 is new. 



The amendments to the forego- 
ing articles were requested by the 
French Government. 



Art. 10 of the draft of 1880. 



Proposed by the Belgian Gov- 
ernment. 



These last two articles did not 
form part of the text agreed on in 
1880; they have been adopted by 
the department of foreign affairs 
of Belgium at the same time as the 
introductory formula of such dip- 
lomatic documents. 

It is not deemed necessary to 
here reproduce that preamble in 
which all the contracting states 
should be enumerated. 



140 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

eluded for ten years from the day 
of the exchange of ratifications, and 
it shall remain in force beyond that 
time so long as one of the Govern- 
ments shall not have declared six 
months in advance that it de- 
nounces the same. 

(Inclosureb, 6, omitted.) 
llnclosure 7. — Translation.] — Final protocol of a conference signed by all the 

DELEGATES. 

The undersigned delegates of Austria-Hungary, of Belgium, of Spain, 
of Brazil, of the United States of America, of France, of Italy, of Por- 
tugal, of Ronmania, of Servia, and of Switzerland, met at Brussels on 
the 10th of April, 1883, with a view of preparing an international con- 
vention, having for its object the exchanges of official documents and 
literary and scientific publications. 

As a result of the deliberations recorded in the minutes of their 
meetings, they have signed a draft of the convention annexed to the 
present final protocol, marked A. They agreed to submit it to the ap- 
probation of their respective Governments. 

The undersigned deem it proper to remark that in preparing this draft 
of a convention the delegates of the Governments represented at the 
conference sought to attain two quite distinct ends. 

1. To centralize as much as possible in a single library in each of 
their countries all those official documents, parliamentary and admin- 
istrative, that the contracting Governments publish, and such of the 
publications of the learned bodies, and of the literary, scientific, artistic, 
&c, societies, as they may be able to procure. 

2. To facilitate for these learned societies in all countries the means 
of exchanging their publications among themselves. 

The role of the contracting countries will therefore be twofold ; on 
the one hand initiative, corresponding to the formal obligation to furnish 
the documents emanating from them; on the other hand, a role of vol- 
untary intermediary in the assistance which they will accord at their 
pleasure to learned societies and bodies of all sorts for the establishment 
of relations with similar institutions in foreign countries. 

In the opinion of the delegates such assistance should always remain 
purely friendly and officious. The obligation to exchange extends in 
no respect to the independent associations ; but the Governments may 
demand in return for the services they render to those societies, as iu- 
intermediaries and for the free transportation which they accord them, 
a certain number of documents which will increase the number of those 
which the bureaus of exchange have for the purpose of sending abroad. 

The undersigned delegates of Austria-Hungary, of Belgium, of Brazil, 
of Spain, of Italy, of Portugal, of Roumauia, and of Servia, considering 
the utility of direct and prompt exchanges of parliamentary documents 
between the legislative assemblies of the different states, have, moreover, 
signed the draft of a convention annexed to this final protocol, marked 
B. They agree to submit it at the same time as the dralt of the general 
convention, marked A, to the approbation of their respective Govern- 
ments. 

The undersigned delegates of France, while recognizing the incon- 
testable advantage of rapid exchanges among the various Parliaments, 
and the exceptional interest which the international conference may 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 141 

assign to thein, deem that those exchanges do not reqnire to be direct, 
that they may be very rapidly made by the bureaus of exchanges, and 
that they should remain entirely free for the Parliaments. The dele- 
gates of France think that it would have sufficed to express the wish 
of the chambers, and to render them regular. 

The undersigned delegates of the United States of America and of 
Switzerland share this opinion. 

Finally, before separating the conference expresses the wish that the 
contracting states shall endeavor to obtain the series or volumes pub- 
lished prior to the date of the general convention, so that a complete 
set of each collection will be found in at least one library in each state. 

In testimony whereof the undersigned delegates have drawn up the 
present final protocol and have set their signatures thereto. 

Done at Brussels the April, 1883. 

The signatures of the delegates of Austria- Hungary, Belgium, Brazil, 
Spain, United States of America, France, Italy, Portugal, Koumania, 
Servia, and Switzerland follow. 

[Inclo8ure8. — Translation.] — (A.)— Draft of convention signed by all the dele- 
gates TO THE CONEEKENCE AT BRUSSELS, APRIL, 1883. 

Article 1. There shall be established in each of the contracting 
states a bureau charged with the duty of the exchanges. 

Art. 2. The publications which the contracting states agree to ex- 
change are the following: (1) The official documents, parliamentary 
and administrative, which are published in the country of their origin ; 
(2) The works executed by order and at the expense of the Governments. 

Art. 3. Each bureau shall cause to be printed the list of the publica- 
tions that it is aide to place at the disposal of the contracting states. 

That list shall be corrected and completed each year and regularly 
addressed to all the bureaus of exchanges. 

Art. 4. The bureaus of exchanges will arrange between themselves 
the number of copies which they may demand and furnish. 

Art. 5. The shipments shall be made directly from bureau to bureau. 
Uniform models and formulas for the invoices of the contents of the 
cases, as well as tor all administrative correspondence, requests, and 
acknowledgments of reception, &c, shall be adopted. 

Art. 6. For shipments to foreign countries, each state assumes the 
cost of packiug and of transportation to destination. When, however, 
the shipment is made by sea, special acknowledgments shall determine 
the proportion of each state in the cost of transportation. 

Art. 7. (§ 1.) The bureaus of exchanges will serve as the official in- 
termediaries between the learned bodies and the literary, scientific, &c, 
societies of the contracting states for the reception and forwarding of 
their publications. 

(§ 2.) It remains, however, well understood that, in such cases, the duty 
of the bureaus of exchanges will be confined to the transmission free of 
cost of the works exchanged, and that those bureaus will not in any 
manner take the initiative to bring about the establishment of those 
relations. 

Art. 8. These provisions apply only to the documents and works pub- 
lished after the date of the present convention. 

Art. 9. The states which have not taken part in the present con- 
vention are admitted to adhere to it upon making the request. 

This adhesion is to be notified to the Belgian Government through 



142 EEPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

the diplomatic channel and by the latter Government to all the other 
states signing it, 

Aet. 10. The present convention shall be ratified and the ratifications 
exchanged at Brussels as soon as practicable. It is concluded for ten 
years from the day of the exchange of the ratifications, and it shall re- 
main in force beyond that time, as long as one of the Governments shall 
not have declared six months in advance that it denounces the same. 

(The signatures of the delegates of Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil, 
Spain, United States of America, France, Italy, Portugal, Boumania, 
Servia, Switzerland, follow.) 

[Inclosure 0. — Translation.]— (B.) — Draft of convention for the immediate ex- 
change OF PARLIAMENTARY DOCUMENTS. 

Brussels, April, 1883. 

Article 1. Apart from the obligations arising from article 2 of the 
general convention of April, 1882, concerning the exchange of official 
documents and of scientific and literary publications, the respective 
Governments agree to cause to be forwarded to the legislative cham- 
bers of each of the contracting states, as soon as they are published, a 
copy of the official journal and of the parliamentary annals and docu- 
ments which are made public. 

Art. 2. The states which have not taken part in the present conven- 
tion are admitted to adhere thereto upon requesting it. 

This adhesion is to be notified by the diplomatic channel to the Bel- 
gian Government and by the latter Government to all the other states 
signing it. 

Art. 3. The present convention shall be ratified and the ratifications 
exchanged at Brussels, as soon as practicable. It is concluded for ten 
years from the day of the exchange of the ratifications, and it shall re- 
main in force beyond that time, so long as one of the Governments shall 
not have declared six months in advance that it denounces the same. 

(The signatures ol the delegates of Austria-Hungary, of Belgium, of 
Brazil, of Spain, of Italy, of Portugal, of Ronmania, and of Servia fol- 
low.) 



Remarks by Mr. Boehmer, on the proceedings of the Brussels Conference. 

| The principal desire of the delegates to the conference at Brussels 
(at least of those of European powers) appears to have been to central- 
ize — by the establishment of bureaus of exchange — in a single library 
in each of their countries all the official documents, parliamentary and 
administrative, which the contracting Governments publish, and those 
publications of the learned bodies and of literary, scientific, and artistic 
societies, &c, which they may be able to procure. 

Although M. Charmes (delegate from France) said, " To confide to an 
institution the exchange of all that may interest science is a chimera, or, at 
least, a very complicated affair? the Smithsonian Institution has shown 
that such a thing is possible, and had the Institution the necessary 
means it would not be a very difficult task, with its experience of thirty- 
four years and constant improvements on the system, to demonstrate the 
feasibility of a universal exchange, comprising all scientific societies in 



REPORT OX EXCHANGES. 143 

the world. The increase to its library, from this source, during the year 
has been 11,789 books, and its total number of books received from the 
exchange of its publications with scientific establishments abroad since 
its organization now represent 177,41*0 books. The number of packages 
received from abroad for scientific establishments and individuals in the 
United States and British America during the year 1882 is 8,359 pack- 
ages, and a total of 103,121 packages since the introduction of the 
exchange system. The packages sent abroad through this channel in 
1882 were 58,017, representing a bulk of 2,950 cubic feet, and the entire 
transmissions abroad from the United States since introduction of 
theexchange system represents a bulk of 35,525 cubic feet, weighing 
1,100,113 pounds. 

The system now in operation in its methodical and business-like char- 
acter of bookkeeping could readily bo extended so as to meet all re- 
quirements and include every known society in the world desiring ex- 
changes with the United States. 

The French Government, however, does not appear to be particularly 
anxious to promote a general scientific and literary exchange to any 
great extent. At her request Mr. Ch amies intioduced the following 
modification : 

"It remains, however, well understood that in such cases (the exchange 
between societies) the duty of the bureaus will be confined to the transmis- 
sion, free of cost, of the works exchanged, and that those bureaus will not, 
in any manner, take the initiative to bring about the establishment of such 
relations.'' 

The Governments of Austria and Switzerland express themselves 

through their delegates to the effect that the bureaus of exchange shall 
confine themselves to the exchange of Government documents and leave 
the exchange between societies to themselves. 
Mr. Alvin, of the Belgian commission, states: 

"There is a bureau of exchanges in the United States, the Smithsonian 
Institution, but which, not being official, docs not fully answer the object 
ice aim at" 

The general impression of the delegates at the conference seems 
to have been that the Smithsonian Institution, as a private establish- 
ment, has gradually possessed itself of the exchanges, both of scientific 
and of Government documents, without, authority, and cannot be con- 
sidered as fully responsible, or equal to the bureaus established in con- 
sequence of the convention.] 

Comments on the Articles of Convention. 

[Art. 2. This article in its original form was to include as (3) The pub- 
lications of academies and learned societies, of universities and schools, as 
far as the Government shall be able to obtain them. 

This paragraph was discussed at great length and objected to by the 
delegate from Switzerland on the same grounds as would prevent the 



144 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

adhesion of the United States, both of which have not a centralized 
Government in respect of public instruction, each State or county hav- 
ing a separate system. 

In monarchical countries the Government controls the majority of 
educational establishments and also subsidizes a large number of socie- 
ties. Their publications, therefore, would, in a measure, be available 
to the Government for exchange purposes. But the case does not apply 
to a republic. 

All the delegates who favored the passage of this paragraph gave it 
only a secondary importance ; hence its defeat was easily obtained. 

Art. 4. It was suggested to furnish as many as 15 or 20 copies to each 
bureau to enable them to supply the principal libraries. This, however, 
was opposed by the delegate from Austria-Hungary, who thinks one 
copy of each work sufficient for each country. 

The Smithsonian Institution, on behalf of Congress, under the existing 
laws could not give more than one copy to each country, and even at 
this rate only 8 copies are left for distribution. 

Art. 5. The question of forms, receipts, &c, appears to be satisfac- 
torily settled by the Smithsonian blanks, which are the result of an 
experience of many men and extending over many years. 

Art. 6. This paragraph has been opposed by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution since its first introduction for several good reasons, which were ex- 
plained by the United States delegate at the convention. The Smith- 
sonian Institution, on behalf of the Government, should protest against 
its passage, which would work great injustice to the United States. 

Art. 7 (Sec. 2). The delegates of Austria-Hungary and of Switzerland 
explain that the duty of the bureaus of exchanges should be confined 
to Government publications, and state that in their respective countries 
the scientific societies have established a system of exchanges between 
themselves. 

The delegate from France proposes that only the exchange of Gov- 
ernment documents shall be obligatory, while the bureaus may serve as 
intermediary for the exchange of the others, so as to form for that ex- 
change a sort of well-organized postal service. 

To the Smithsonian Institution, the greater part of whose library has 
been the direct result of exchange, and in " taking the initiative to bring 
about the establishment of those relations" (repudiated by the 2d sec- 
tion of the 7th Article), the importance to itself, no less than to the great 
body of learned societies, of the liberal interchange of scientific transac- 
tions and journals is too well recognized to be lightly surrendered. 

Another supplementary point discussed by the convention and ac- 
cepted by all the delegates, except those of the United States, France, 
and Switzerland, provides : 

Art. 1. Apart from the obligations arising from Article 2 of the general 
convention concerning the exchange of official documents and of scientific 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 145 

and literary publications , the respective Governments agree to cause to be 
forwarded to the legislative chambers of each of the contracting states, as 
soon as they are published, a copy of the official journal and of the par- 
liamentary annals and documents which are made public. 

This article of agreement cannot, under existing circumstances, be 
accepted by the Smithsonian Institution on behalf of the Government, 
owing to the limited number of copies at the disposal of the Institution. 
The sendiugs of the United States Government publications are made 
in the comparatively short intervals of about six months, and contain 
all the documents that are desired in two copies under this act. This 
would constitute three copies to each bureau. The additional number of 
copies could only be obtained by special act of Congress, and it would 
be an unnecessary expense, both in cost of printing and transportation, 
without giving an equivalent advantage.] 



From the Department of State July 9, 1883, to the Smithsonian Institution. 

Sir: I inclose a copy of a dispatch from our minister at Brussels, 
and a copy of the completed edition of the proceedings of the Brussels 
Conference on International Exchanges, to which it refers; also, a copy 
of the " note from the British Envoy," therein mentioned. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
John Davis, 
Acting Secretary. 

From the Smithsonian Institution, July 10, 1883, to the Hon. John Davis, 
Assistant Secretary of State. 

Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the copy of the 
dispatch from the United States minister at Brussels, giving the results 
of the Brussels Conference on International Exchanges, inclosed with 
your letter of May 15, and respectfully return the same herewith in ac- 
cordance with your request. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
Spencer F. Baird. 

From the Smithsonian Institution, July 24, 1883, to the Hon. John Davis, 
Acting Secretary of State. 

Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communica- 
tion of July 9, and to thank you for the copy it inclosed of the proceed- 
ings of the Brussels Conference on International Exchanges. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
Spencer F. Baird, 
H. Mis. 69 10 



146 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

From the Smithsonian Institution, August 20, 1883, to the Bon. John Dae is. 
Acting Secretary of State. 

Sir: In forwarding here a special communication in reference to the 
proposition for the immediate exchange of parliamentary documents, 
I beg to offer some general remarks upon the proceedings of the Bel- 
gian convention. 

I was much gratified to find that the position of the Smithsonian 
Institution in regard to the expenses of the transportation of packages 
was, in great measure, acceded to. As suggested by Mr. Eueleus, it is 
usually perfectly practicable to arrange for the prepayment of charges 
for land transportation through from the point of transmission. The 
case is very different where shipments by steamer interpose; and it is 
for this reason that the Smithsonian Institution urges that delivery, 
free of expense, should terminate at the port of embarkation, rather 
<even than at the port of debarkation, although the latter could perhaps 
be arranged for, if the former were not equally convenient. In no event 
can it agree to arrange for delivery free of charge at the ultimate des- 
tination of the sending. 

The Smithsonian Institution does not insist on delivery to consuls of 
foreign Governments at the shipping ports, although this is a conven- 
ience. It is quite willing to deliver directly on board the steamships, 
although it has found no hesitation whatever on the part of any foreign 
consuls in taking charge of the packages. In some cases these parcels 
are forwarded by Government vessels that happen to be in port; in 
others, by regular foreign steamship lines carrying free under subsidies. 
In all cases a bill of lading for each shipment is transmitted direct by 
the Institution to the agent of the international exchange in the coun- 
tries addressed. 

The second point which seems to have involved more or less debate 
-was whether the system of exchange should include the publications 
of the Governments only, or those of societies and individuals generally. 

The Smithsonian Institution agrees with those who take the more 
liberal and comprehensive view, as the increase and diffusion of knowl- 
edge depend much more upon the interchange of information in regard 
to scientific, industrial, and technical researches than upon the trans- 
mission of the publications alone of the several Governments. 

It was solely and exclusively for the distribution and exchange of its 
own publications, and those of affiliated bodies, that the Smithsonian 
Institution undertook, nearly one-third of a century ago, its responsible 
<iuty, and unless permitted to include both divisions in its functions, it 
would prefer to confine itself to the more comprehensive and original 
one. 

As, however, the machinery of administration is sufficiently elastic to 
embrace the whole subject, and the additional expense attendant com- 
paratively trifling, there appears to be no good reason for a duplication 
of agencies. It is fully believed by the Institution that a cessation of 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 147 

its general system of exchanges would be considered, the world over, a 
very disastrous blow to the cause of science and education. 

The Institution however does not undertake any responsibility in 
the matter beyond transmitting what is offered to it, or in distributing 
what comes through its agencies; although it is frequently called upon 
to make out lists of addresses, both in America and elsewhere, to which 
special or continued publications may be advantageously supplied. 

I may say in this connection that our experience of the administra- 
tion of the system of miscellaneous exchanges by Government bureaus 
has not been satisfactory. In nearly all cases where we have changed 
our agency from that of a bookseller, or other private party, to that of 
an international bureau, there have been energetic and earnest expres- 
sions of dissatisfaction in regard to the latter. This, however, will 
doubtless be remedied with time and experience. 

Referring to the expression of Minister Fish's regrets as to the absence 
of American publications among the 1,100 or 1,200 periodicals in the 
leading room of the Royal Library of Brussels, there would appear to be 
no particular obligation on the part of the publishers of such journals 
in the United States to forward them to any one library other than in 
exchange, or in return for a proper compensation. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
Spencer F. Baird. 

From the Smithsonian Institution, August 20, 1883, to the Eon. John 
Davis, Acting Secretary of State. 

Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your communication 
of July 24, inclosing a second copy of a dispatch from Minister Fish, 
of the 24th April, in reference to the proceedings of the Convention on 
International Exchanges, held in Brussels during the present year. 

The proposition for this supplemental exchange of parliamentary doc- 
uments involves the transmission from Washington, to all nations giv- 
ing their adhesion to the same, of copies of the Congressional Record, 
of all bills and joint resolutions, and of official reports made by Con- 
gress, day by day as they come from the press; but does not include 
the publications of the Departments, which are embraced in the general 
system of distribution by the Smithsonian Institution. 

This will involve the procuring of a second set of the publications in 
question for the legislature of each Government, in addition to that 
which is now furnished to a designated depositary. 

It will be impossible to promise such a second set of legislative pub 
lications to a considerable number of addresses without ascertaining 
the views of the Joint Library Committee of Congress in regard to it. 
This body, however, already has the power to enter into the arrange- 
ment, as existing law directs the Public Printer, in addition to the reg- 
ular number of fifty sets, to furnish fifty additional copies of any work- 
that may be indicated by the aforesaid committee as needed for purpo- 
ses of international exchange. 



148 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

At present all the Governments of the several countries engaged in 
this system of international exchanges have indicated some public li- 
brary as the recipient of what may be sent from the United States, 
and in most cases the actual agent of collection and distribution. The 
transmissions themselves, however, are made by an international bureau. 

To make daily sendings of the publications in question would involve 
much additional trouble and very great expense for postage; and I 
would suggest that the State Department take the necessary measures 
to bring to the notice of the International Postal Union the propriety 
of considering all matter of this kind as privileged, and to be forwarded 
free. As all the great nations of the world are members of the Union, 
and each Government collects its postages in advance, it will simply 
amount to the relinquishing by each of the postal charges on its own 
official matter. It would seem quite proper, in addition, that the frank 
should extend to all official correspondence of the United States Gov- 
ernment with parties outside of its limits, although American members 
of the Postal Convention appear to have been largely instrumental in 
preventing this simplification of the official intercourse. 

In view of all these circumstances, it would, I think, be quite proper 
to notify Minister Fish that, while the United States accepts the general 
principle of this supplementary exchange, formal action and participa- 
tion must be deferred until the pleasure of the Joint Committee of the 
Library of Congress can be ascertained. 

In this connection I would inquire whether it might not simplify mat- 
ters to deliver to the agents in Washington of the respective Govern- 
ments the publications to be forwarded under this regulation. In the 
contrary event, each country should be requested to designate a specific 
address to which the publications in question should be transmitted. 

I may mention that at present a definite exchange of the publications 
in question has already been indicated through the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution between the United States House of Eepresentatives and the 
Legislative Chambers of France, in virtue of a proposition to that effect 
from France, and formally accepted by resolution of the House of Eep- 
resentatives. These, however, are sent in bulk, or by sessions, and not 
day by day as proposed. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
Spencer F. Baird. 

From the Department of State, September 26, 1883, to the Smithsonian 

Institution. 

Sir: Acknowledging the receipt of various letters from you bearing 
date the 20th August last, touching different features of the question 
of the international exchange of documents, which formed the subject 
of consideration at a recent conference in Brussels, I beg to inclose here- 
with a printed report of the proceedings of the conference, and to ob- 
serve that the Belgian Government informs the Department through its 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 149 

minister here that it adheres to the two drafts of a convention marked 
respectively A and B, and to the final report of the deliberations of the 
conference [pp. 36 ct seq. of the inclosed pamphlet], and expresses a 
desire to learn the attitude of the United States with respect to these 
conclusions at the earliest' convenient date, in order that the conference 
which is to adopt the final arrangement may be convoked with little 
delay. 

Although the view already stated by you in your various communi- 
cations of August 24 are apparently ample, it seems proper that the 
questions thus formally submitted by the Belgian minister, should be 
referred for such supplementary consideration of the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution as he deems it pertinent to give. 

A more special response to one or more of your letters of August 24 
will doubtless soon be prepared. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
John Davis, 
Acting Secretary. 

From the Smithsonian Institution, October 4, 1883, to the Son. John 
Davis, Acting Secretary of State. 

Sir : I have just received at this place your letter of the 26th of Sep- 
tember asking a formal consideration of paragraphs A and B and the 
general conclusions of the report of the conference in regard to inter- 
national exchanges held at Brussels. 

In compliance therewith the Smithsonian Institution recommends 
the acceptance of section A in its actual form, and begs to express its 
willingness to carry out the provisions thereof as far as the means at 
its command will allow. More than one series of Government publica- 
tions cannot at present be promised to any one foreign Government. 

The latitude permitted by Article 6 in reference to shipments by sea 
removes the objection made to the previous agreement. 

So far as the class of beneficiaries referred to in Article 7 is concerned, 
the Institution reserves the right, as a branch of its own original system, 
to use such additional agencies of distribution aVs it may deem proper, 
since experience has shown that in some cases at least these are the 
moie expeditious channels of transmission. The same reservation is 
made in reference to the service between scientific men in America and 
those elsewhere ; between individuals and public libraries, as also in 
connection with the interchange of specimens of natural history, for 
none of which is provision made as recommended by the Institution 
subject to the approval and co-operation of Congress. 

The general conclusions of the conference, as indicated on page 36 of 
the pamphlet (herewith returned), are satisfactory to the Institution; 
but modifications may be found necessary in carrying the system into 
full operation. 

I have the honor, &c, &c, Spencer F. Baird. 



150 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



LIST OF OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED FROM THE PUBLIC PRINTER 
DURING THE YEAR 1883. 

AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT. 

Artesian wells upon the great plains. 37 p. and map. 8vo. Paper. 

Preliminary report on the forest trees of the Mississippi Valley, and tree planting on 
the plains. 45 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Results of field experiments with various fertilizers. By Prof. W. O. Atwater, Ph. D. 
183 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Annual report 1881-'82. 704 p. 8vo. Cloth. 

Culture of the date. By W. G. Klee. 25 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Encouragement to the sorghum and heet sugar industry. A record of practical ex- 
periments conducted under the direction of the Commissioner of Agriculture. 
64 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Investigation of sorghum as a sugar producing plant. Season 1882. Peter Collier. 68 
p. 8vo. Paper. 

Contagious diseases of domesticated animals. Investigations hy the Department of 
Agriculture. 271 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Special Reports. 

No. 52. Report on yield per acre of cotton, corn, potatoes, and other field crops, with 
comparative product of fruits; also local freight rates of transportation com- 
panies. November, 1882. 109 p. 8vo. Paper. 

No. 53. Report upon product and price of principal crops of 1882. Also freight rates 
of transportation companies, including changes of the winter tariff. December, 
1882. 79 p. 8vo. Paper. 

No. 54. Sorghum sugar industry. Address of the Hon. George B. Loring before the 
Mississippi Valley Cane-Growers Association. Saint Louis, Mo., December 14, 

1882. 19 p. 8vo. Paper. 

No. 55. The Grange. Its origin, progress, and educational purposes. 18 p. 8vo. 
Paper. 

No. 56. Report upon the numbers and values of farm animals, of product and qual- 
ity of cotton, and comparative values of American and European farm imple- 
ments ; also rates of transportation in Europe and the United States. February, 

1883. 74 p. 8vo. Paper. 

On j ute culture and the importance of the industry. By Prof. S. Waterhouse. 21 p. 

8vo. Paper. 
No. 57. Report on the distribution and consumption of corn and wheat, and the rates 

of transportation of farm products. March, 1883. 39 p. 8vo. Paper. 
No. 58. Report on the area and condition of winter wheat, and the condition of farm 

animals. Also spring rates of transportation of farm products. April, 1883. 46 p. 

8vo. Paper. 
No. 59. Report of condition of winter grain, the progress of cott»n planting, and esti- 
mates of cereals of 1882, with freight rates of transportation companies. May, 

1883. 65 p. 8vo. Paper. 
No. 60. Report of acreage of spring grain and cotton, the condition of winter wheat, 

and European grain prospects, with freight rates of transportation companies. 

June, 1883. 56 p. 8vo. Paper. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 151 

No. 61. Report on the area of corn, potatoes, and tobacco, and the condition of grow- 
ing crops in the United States and Europe, with a report on rates of transporta- 
tion. July, 1883. 48 p. 8vo. Paper. 

No. 62. Observations on tfce soils and products of Florida. By William Saunders. 30 
p. 8vo. Paper. 

No. 63. The Grasses of the United States. By Dr. George Yasey. 47 p. 8vo. Paper. 

No. 64. Report on condition of crops, American competition, and freight rates of trans- 
portation companies. August, 1883. 80 p. 8vo. Paper. 

No. 65. Report on condition of crops, and freight rates of transportation companies.. 
September, 18b3. 55 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Division of Entomology. 

Bulletin No. 1. Reports of experiments, chiefly with kerosene, upon the insects injuri- 
ously affecting the orange tree and the cotton plant. 62 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Bulletin No. 2. Reports of observations on the Rocky Mountain locust and chinch 
bug, together with extracts from the correspondents of the division on miscel- 
laneous insects. 36 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Bulletin No. 3. Reports of observations and experiments in the practical work of the 
division made under the direction of the Entomologist. 75 p., and plates. 8vo. 
Paper. 

Chemical Division. 

Bulletin No. 1. An investigation of the composition of American wheat and corn. By 
Clifford Richardson, assistant chemist. 69 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Division of Statistics (new series). 

Report No. 1. Report on condition of crops, yield of grain per acre, and on freight 
rates of transportation companies. October, 1883. 28 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Report No. 2. Report on yield of crops per acre, on the progress of sorghum growing, 
the crops of Europe, and on freight rates of transportation companies. November, 
1883. 59 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Miscellaneous. 

Special Report No. 1. Forest trees in the United States. Address of the Hon. George 
B. Loring, before the American Forestry Congress, at Saint Paul, Minn. August 
8, 1883. 41 p. 8vo. Paper. 

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF THE RED CROSS. 

Constitution for State and Associate Societies of the Red Cross of the Geneva Con- 
vention. With notes. 10 p. 8vo. Paper. 
History of the Red Cross. 227 p. 8,vo. Paper. 

CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION. 

Civil service act, rules and regulations. 18 p. 8 vo. Paper. 
Amended civil service rules. 8 p. 8vo. Paper. 

COURT OF CLAIMS. 

Cases decided in the Court of Claims at the December term, 1881, with abstracts ol 
decisions of the Supreme Court in appeal to cases from October, 1881, to May, 
1882. Reported by Charles C. Nott and Archibald Hopkins. Vol. 17. 499 p> 
Hvo. Paper. Vol. 18, December term, 1882-'83. Reported by William A. Rich- 
ardson. 814 p. 8vo. Paper. 



152 REPORT ON EXCHANGES 

UNITED STATES CONGRESS. 

Congressional directory, second session, Forty-seventh Congress, first edition corrected 

to December 11, 1882. 17G p. 8vo. Paper. 
Memorial address. Ferdinand Wood. February 28, 1881. 40 p. 8vo. Cloth. 
Congressional Record, second session Forty-seventh Congress. Vol. 14. Parts 1-4- 

o,777 p. 4vo. Half Russia. Index to Vol. 14. 221 p. 8vo. Half Russia. 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. 

Digest and manual of the rules and practice of the House of Representatives. Sixth 

edition, second session Forty-seventh Congress. 401 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Executive documents: 

Second session Forty-sixth Congress. Vols. 2, 10, 14, 18, 20, 22. 8vo. Sheep. 
Third session Forty-sixth Congress. Vols. 1, 5, 0, 9, 10,11,14, 15,28,29,30. 

8vo. Sheep. 
First session Forty-seventh Congress. Vols. 5, 8, 13, 15, 19, 24. 8vo. Sheep. 
House journal: 

First session Forty-seventh Congress. 2,380 p. 8vo. Sheep. 
Second session Forty-seventh Congress. 834 p. 8vo. Sheep. 
House reports: 

First session Forty-seventh Congress. Vols. 1,5. 8vo. Sheep. 
Miscellaneous documents: 

Forty-fifth and Forty-sixth Congresses, 1876-1880 inclusive. Digest of elec- 
tion cases. 522 p. 8vo. Sheep. 
First session Forty-seventh Congress. Vols. 1, 9, 11, 14,24. Parts I and II. 
8vo. Sheep. 

UNITED STATES SENATE. 

Senate journal: 

Special session, October 10, 1881, and first session Forty-seventh Congress. 

1,750 p. 8vo. Sheep. 
Second session, Forty-seventh Congress, 742 p. 8vo. Sheep. 
Executive documents : 

Third session Forty-fifth Congress. Coast Survey Report, June, 1878. 306 p. 

Appendices and maps. 8vo. Sheep. 
Special session, October 10, 1881. Proceedings of the International Sanitary 

Convention. 8vo. Sheep. 
Miscellaneous documents: 

Second session Forty-sixth Congress. Vol. 3. 846 p. «vo. Sheep. Coast 

Survey Report. 214 p. 32 maps. 4vo. Sheep. 
Third session Forty-sixth Congress, and special session Forty-seventh Con- 
gress. Vol. 1. 8vo. Sheep. 
First session Forty-seventh Congress. Vol. 4. 
Second session Forty-seventh Congress. 'Nos. 33-85, except 77 and 84. 8vo. 

Sheep. Special session, October 10, 1881, and first session Forty-sesenth 

Congress. Vol. 2. 
Senate reports : 

First session Forty-seventh Congress. Vols. 1,2, 3. 8vo. Sheep. 

INTERIOR DEPARTMENT. 

Report on the Hot Springs of Arkansas. By Alonzo Bell. 27 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Laws, regulations, &c, relating to the Hot Springs Reservation. 1883. 25 p. 8vo. 
Paper. 

Register of the Department, corrected to April 25, 1883. 152 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Register of the Department, corrected to July 15, 1883. 160 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Supplementary catalogue of books added to the library of the Department from Feb- 
ruary 1, 1881, to June 30, 1883. 15 p. 4to. Paper. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 153 

i 

Census Office. 

Area and product of cereals grown in 1879 as returned by the census of 1880. 97 p. 
8vo. Paper. 

Bureau of Education. 

Bulletin. Natural science in .secondary schools. 9 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Bulletin. High school for girls in Sweden. 6 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Circular No. 4, 1882. Industrial art in schools. By Charles G. Leiand. 37 p. 8vo. 
Paper. 

Circular No. 5, 1882. Maternal schools in France. 14 p. 8vo. Paper. 

C'rcular No. 6, 1882. Technical instruction in France. 63 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Circular No. 1, 1883. Legal provisions respecting the examination and licensing of 
teachers. 46 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Circular No. 2, 1883. Co-education of the sexes in schools of the United States. 40 p. 
8vo. Paper. 

Circular No. 3, 1883. Proceedings of the department of superintendence of the Na- 
tional Educational Association, at its meeting in Washington, February 20 and 
22, 1383. 81 p. ,8vo. Paper. 

Sketch of Philadelphia normal school for girls. 39 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Historical sketches of the universities and colleges of the United States. Edited by 
Dr. Frauklyn B. Hough. 72 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Articles exhibited in the Southern exposition of 1883, at Louisville, Ky., from the 
Museum of the United States Bureau of Education. 17 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Answers to inquiries about the United States Bureau of Education, its work and his- 
tory, prepared under the direction of the Commissioner by Charles Warren, M. 

D. 29 p. 8vo. Paper. 

General Land Office. 

Restoration of lost and obliterated corners. March 18, 1383. 13 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Decisions of the Department of Interior and General Land Office in cases relating to 
lands and land claims. From July, 1881, to June, 1883. 669 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Mining laws and regulations thereunder. October 31, 1883. 36 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Rules of practice in cases for the United States district land offices, the General Land 
Office, and the Department of the Interior. Approved December 28, 1882. 16 p. 
8vo. Paper. 

Instructions to special agents appointed to prevent timber depredations on Gov- 
ernment lands, and to protect the public timber from waste and destruction. 39 
p. 8vo. Paper. 

Circular. Instruction relative to entries under the homestead, pre-emption, and tim- 
ber-culture laws. March 20, 1883. 8 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Circular July 19, 1883. In regard to fencing of public lands. 1 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Circular. Iustructions as to deposits by individuals for the survey of public lands. 
September 15, 1883. 10 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Indian Office. 

Rules governing the court of Indian offenses. 8 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Laws and regulations relating to trades with Indian tribes. Novomber 1, 1833. 10 p. 

8vo. Paper. 
Peace ratified in the Creek Nation. Report of Commissioners Clinton 15. Fisk and 

E. Whittlesey, Muskogee, Ind. T. 34 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Report on the condition and needs of the Mission Indians of California. Made by 
Special Agents Helen Jackson and Abbot Kinney. 35 p. 8vo. Paper. 



154 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

National Museum. 

Bulletin No. 16. Synopsis of the fishes of North America, by David S. Jordan and 

Charles H. Gilbert. 8vo. Paper. 
Bulletin No. 24. Check-list of North American reptilia and batrachia, with catalogue 

of specimens in the United States National Museum, by H. C. Yarrow, M. D. 249 

p. 8vo. Paper. 

Patent Office. 

Rules of practice. Revised February 1, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 

Rules of practice. Revised November 15, 1883. 92 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Decisions of the Commissioner for the year 1882. 594 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Names and addresses of attorneys practicing before the United States Patent Office, 

Washington, D. C. 26 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Supplemental list of attorneys. August 1, 1883. 10 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Catalogue of additions to the library of the United States Patent Office, from May l r 

1878, to May 1, 1883. 452 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Pen si on Office. 

A digest of the laws of the United States governing the granting of Army and Navy 
pensions and bounty-land warrants ; decisions of the Secretary of the Interior, 
and rulings and orders of the Commissioner of Pensions thereunder. Compiled 
by Calvin B. Walker. 314 p. 8vo. Paper. 

A treatise on the practice of the Pension Bureau, governing the adjudication of Army 
and Navy pensions, being the unwritten practice, formulated by Calvin B. Walker. 
129 p. 8vo. Paper. 

General instructions to special examiners of the United States Pension Office. Re- 
vised December 1, 1882. 44 p. 8vo. Cloth. 

List of special examiners, May 14, 1883. 23 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Roster of examining surgeons appointed under authority of the Commissioner of Pen- 
sions. 138 p. 8vo. Paper. 

COMMISSION OF FISH AND FISHERIES. 

Forms of quarterly returns of property. 80 p. 8vo. Paper. 

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE. 

Register of the Department. Corrected to July 1, 1883. 230 p. 8vo. Paper. 

NATIONAL BOARD OF HEALTH. 

Annual report for the year 1882. 43 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Index to volume 3, 1881-'82. Bulletin. 17 p. 4vo. Paper. 

NAVY DEPARTMENT. 

Navy register : 

January 1, 1883. 186 p. 8vo. Paper. 
August 1, 1883. 76 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Theoretical researches on the effects of gunpowder and other explosives, by M. E. Sar- 
ron. Translated by Lieutenant Meigs, U. S. N. Part 1. 35 p. 8vo. Paper. 

The probability of hitting an object of any form, by P. Breger, Captain Navy artil- 
lery. Translated by C. A. Stone, lieutenant, U. S. N. 58 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Acts and resolutions relating chiefly to the Navy, Navy Department, and Marine 
Corps, passed at the second session of the Forty-seventh Congress. 1881-'82. 39 p. 
8vo. Paper. 

Regulations relating to the uniforms of the officers of the United States Navy. Janu- 
ary 22, 1883. 14 p. 5 plates. 8vo. Papers. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 155 

Regulations governing the admission of candidates into the Naval Academy as naval 
cadets. 1882-'83. 5 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Specifications for a three-cylinder horizontal bach-acting compound screw-engine for 
each of the United States steamers "Boston" and "Atlanta. ,: 48 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Specifications for two direct-acting compound twin-screw beam engines of 5, 000-horse 
power for the United States steamer " Chicago." 46 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Specification for steam machinery for the United States dispatch-boat (1,500 tons). 
59 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Compilation of laws relating to the Navy, Marine Corps, &c. ; from the Revised Stat- 
utes and subsequent acts to March 3, 1883. Prepared by John W. Hogg. 401 p. 
8vo. Paper. 

Bureau of Navigation. 

American Practical Navigator, being an epitome of navigation and nautical astron- 
omy. 674 p. 
Useful tables from the American Practical Navigator. 
Naval scientific papers No. 10. Discussions on iron ships. 176 p. 13 plates. 8vo. 

paper. 
Naval scientific papers No. 11. Steel for shipbuilding. 208 p. and tables. 8vo. 

Paper. 
Naval scientific papers No. 12. Papers and discussions on screw-propulsion. 222 p. 

Papers. 
Naval professional papers No. 14. Papers and discussions on experiments with steel. 

82 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Naval professional papers No. 15. Papers and discussions on ships guns, and armor. 

Reprinted from various sources. 119 p. and 9 plates. 8vo. Paper. 
Telegraphic determination of differences of longitude in the West Indies and Central 

America. By Lieut.-Commander F. M. Green. 12 p. 4vo. Paper. 
Telegraphic determination of longitudes in Japan, China, and the East Indies. By 
Lieut.-Commander F. M. Green and C. H. Davis and Lieut. J. A. Norris, U. S. 
N. 1881-'82. 73 p. 4vo. Paper. 
Information from abroad : 

The war on the Pacific coast of South America between Chili and the allied 

republics of Peru and Bolivia in 1879-'81. 77 pages. 8vo. Paper. 
Operations of the French Navy during the recent war with Tunis. 30 p. 

8vo. Paper. 
Observations upon the Korean coast, Japanese and Korean ports, and Siberia, 
made during a journey from the Arctic stations to the United States, 
through Siberia and Europe, June 3 to September 8, 1882. 163 p. 8vo. 
Paper. 
Coasts and islands o!' the Mediterranean Sea, Part IV, compiled from various sources, 

by Lieut. John M. Hawley, U. S. N. 417 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Azimuth tables, prepared by Lieut. S. Schroeder and Master W. H. H. Southerland, 
U. S. N. 109 p. 4vo. Paper. 

Hydrograph ic Office. 

Charts and plans published during the quarters ending- 
December 31, 1882. 7 p. 8vo. Paper. 
March 31, 1883. 8 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Nautical Monographs, No. 4. North Atlantic cyclones of August, 1883, by Lieut. W. 
H. H. Southerland, U. S. N. 22 p. 4vo. Paper. 

List of geographical positions, for the use of navigators and others. Prepared by 
Lieut. Commander F. M. Green, U. S. N. 99 p. 4vo. Paper. 

Publications of the United States Hydrographic Office during the quarter ending — 
June 30, 1883. 8 p. 8vo. Paper. 
September 30, 1883. 9 p. 8vo. Paper. 



156 . REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

Supplement to pilot chart of the North Atlantic for December. 11 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Supplement, navigation of the strait of Magellan. 19 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Hydrographic notices : 

1882. Nos. 55-59 to 69 except 65, and index. 8vo. Paper. 
1883. Nos. 1-16; 19; 22-47; 53-56; 56-69; 72. 8vo. Paper. 
Notice to mariners : 

1882. Nos. 33, 82, 91, 92, 94, 95, 97-124, and index 1-124. 8vo. Paper. 

1883. Nos. 1-11 ; 13-30 ; 32-38 ; 50 ; 52-61 ; 63-94 ; 96-137 ; 149 ; 153-180. 8vo. 
Paper. 

Bureau of Steam Engineering 

Report made to the Board of Steam Engineering, Navy Department, March 3, 1883, 
by B. F. Isherwood, Chief Engineer, U. S. N., on the hull, engine, and boiler of the 
steam-yacht " Siesta, "constructed by the Herrsehof Manufacturing Company, at 
Bristol, R.I. 62 p. and pi. 8vo. Paper. 

Report on an air refrigerating machine for applying cold dry air to vessels, hospitals, 
&c, made to the bureau April 6, 1883. 32 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Nautical Almanac. 

Catalogue of the Library. 110 p. 8vo. Paper. 

The American Nautical Almanac for 1884. 266 p. and tables. 8vo. Paper. 

United States Naval Academy. 
Annual register: 

1882-'83. 76 p. 8vo. Paper. 
1883-'84. 63 p. 8vo. Paper. 
The theory of the construction of ordnance, with special reference to the resistance 

of guns to tangential strain. 31 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Notes on navigation and the determination of meridian distances. For the use of 
naval cadets at the United States Naval Academy. 145 p. and pi. 6mo. Paper. 
Examination papers, 1881 and 1882. 59 p. 8vo. Paper. 

United States Naval Observatory. 

Washington astronomical and meteorological observations : 

1878. Vol. 25. 4to. Cloth. 

1879. Vol.26. 4to. Cloth. 

POST-OFFICE DEPARTMENT. 

Regulations international money-order busiuess between the United States, Belgium, 
and Tasmania, respectively. 8 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Regulations to take effect July 2, 1883, for the guidance of postmasters in the trans- 
action of international money-order business between the Uuited States and 
Portugal, including the Azores and Madeira Islands. 7 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Regulations and instructions for the transaction of the postal-note business, to take 
effect September 3, 1883. 13 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Instructions to railway postal clerks, October 5, 1883. 37 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Schedulo of the railway post-offices on the principal through mail-routes of the Uuited 
States. Corrected to June 1, 1883. 72 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Departmental quarterly, monthly, and daily salary pay tables, calculated and care- 
fully revised by Ricbard T. Bryan, for the several quarters of the common and 
leap year, showing the quarterly, monthly and daily pay of salaries from $1,000 
to $25,000 per year. Printed by order of the Postmaster-General. 375 p. 4to. 
Paper. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 157 



STATE DEPARTMENT. 



Register of the Department. Corrected to October 1, 1883. 109 p. 8vo. Paper. 
The statutes at large of the United States of America from December, 1881, to March, 

1883, and recent treaties, postal conventions, and executive proclamations. Vol. 

22. 1,147 p. 4to. Sheep. 



SUPREME COURT. 

Rules of the Supreme Court of the United States, and rules of practice for the circuit 
and district courts of the United States in equity and admiralty cases, and orders 
and references to appeals from Court of Claims. 77 p. 8vo. Paper. 

TREASURY DEPARTMENT. 

Fifth annual report of the Treasurer of the United States on the sinking fund and 
funded debt of the District of Columbia. 28 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Custom-house fees. Document No. 377. February 3, 1883. 14 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Custom-house fees to be collected from all vessels navigatiug the waters of the north- 
ern, northeastern, and northwestern frontiers of the United States. 13 p. 8vo. 
Paper. 

Comparative duties and the relation of the Treasury Department to tariff legislation. 
By Joseph Ximmo, jr. February 20, 1883. 22 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Laws and regulations for the government of customs inspectors, weighers, gaugers 
and measurers, and list of penalties for violation of customs- revenue and navi- 
gation laws. 213 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Digest of appropriations, 1884. 242 p. 4to. Half Russia. 

Catalogue of books and blanks issued by officers of the customs at the port of New 
York, October, 1883. 70 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Bureau of Statistics. 

Fifteenth annual list of merchant vessels of the United States, for the year ending 

June 30, 1883. 454 p. 4to. Paper. 
Summary statements of the imports and exports of the United States: 
. No. 3. September, 1882-'83. 10 p. 4to. Paper. 

No. 4. October, 1882-'83. 10 p. 4to. Paper. 

No. 5. November, 1882-'83. 20 p. 4to. Paper. 

No. 6. December, 1882-'83. 12 p. 4to. Paper. 

No. 7. January, 1883-'84. 10 p. 4to. Paper. 

No. 8. February, 1883-'84. 10 p. 4to. Paper. 

No. 9. March, 1883-'84. 10 p. 4to. ' Paper. 

No. 10. April, 1883-'84. 10 p. 4to. Paper. 

No. 11. May, 1883-'84. 10 p. 4to. Paper. 

No. 12. June, 1883-'84. 12 p. 4to. Paper. 

No. 2. August, 1883-'84. 14 p. 4to. Paper. 

No. 3. September, 1883-'84. 14 p. 4 to. Paper. 
Quarterly reports relative to the imports, exports, immigration, and navigation of the 
United States for the three months ended — 

September 30, 1882. 157 p. 8vo. Paper. 

December 31, 1882. p. 158-359. 8vo. Paper. 

March 31, 1883. p. 361-464. 8vo. Paper. 

June 30, 1883. p. 465-572. 8vo. Paper. 

United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. 

Report of the Superintendent for the year ending June, 1882. 18 p. 8vo. Paper. 
A treatise on projections. By Thomas Craig. 4to. Paper. 
Catalogue of charts, 1883. 64 p. 4to. Paper. 



158 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

Tide tables of the Atlantic coast of the United States, 1884. 136 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Tide tables of the Pacific coast of the United States, 1884. 66 p. 8vo. Paper. 
General instructions for hydrographic work, 1883. 81 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Original topographic and hydrographic sheets registered in the archives of the United 
States Coast and Geodetic Survey. 70 p. 4to. Paper. 

First Comptroller's Office. 

Decisions in the matter of the right of the United States, after payment is made to a 
contractor for a quarter's service on carrying the mails, to deduct from compensa- 
tion due him for services thereafter performed (1) the price of trips so paid for as 
performed when not in fact performed, and (2) not exceeding three times the price 
for failure to perform said trips occasioned by fault of the contractor. Reeside's 
appeal. 29 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Internal Revenue. 

Internal- revenue laws in force since March 4, 1879. Reprint, with subsequent laws. 
234 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Life-Saving Service. 

Official register, June 1, 1883. 15 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Annual report, June 30, 1882. 504 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Supervising Architect. 

Annual report, September 30, 1882. 45 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Supervising Inspector-General of Steamboats. 

Annual report, June 30, 1882. 15 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Laws governing the inspection of foreign steam-vessels, &c. 27 p. 8vo. Paper. 

WAR DEPARTMENT. 

Record of engagements with hostile Indians within the military division of the 

Missouri from 1868 to 1882. 112 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Report of an exploration of parts of Wyoming, Idaho, and Montana in August and 

September, 1882, made by Lieutenant General Philip Sheridan. 69p. 8 vo. 

Paper. 
Report of an expedition from Fort Colville to Puget Sound, Washington Territory, 

made by First Lieut. Henry H. Pierce, Twenty-first Infantry. 25 p. and maps. 

8vo. Paper. 
Regulations for the United States Military Academy at West Point, N. Y. 82 p. and 

18 p. Index. 8vo. Paper. 

Adjutant-General. 

General court-martial orders : 

For 1882. Nos. 54-85, except 67 and 70. 

For 1883. Nos. 1-51, except 12 to 15. 
Index to.general court-martial orders for 1882. 8vo. Paper. 
General orders : 

For 1882. Nos. 86., 87, 93, 103, 106, 109, 110, 113, 118, 119, 122, 123, 125-138. 

For 1883. Nos. 1-81, except 9, 39, and 89. 
Official register, January 1, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 
Circular 1. March 7, 1883. 4 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Circular 2. March 16, 1883. 3 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Circular 3. April 10, 1883. 2 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Circular 5. June 22, 1883. 3 p. 8vo. Paper. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 159 

Circular 6. August 10, 1883. 2 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Circular 7. August 14, 1883. 2 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Circular 8. September 8, 1883. 1 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Circular 9. October 12, 1883. 1 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Index to general orders for 1882. 56 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Engineer Bureau. 

Professional papers, No. 25. Report upon the practice in Europe with the heavy 
Armstrong, Woolwich, and Krupp rifled guns. Submitted by the Board of Engi- 
neers for Fort ilicat ions. 48 p. and 5 pi. 4to. Paper. 

United Slates Hiliiary Academy. 

Annual report, 1883. 6 p. 8vo. Paper. 

The fortifications of to-day. Fire against models of coast batteries and parades. 
Horizontal and curved fire in defense of coast. 29 p. and pi. 4to. Paper. 

Ordnance Office. 

Notes on the construction of ordnance: 

No. 20. May 8, 1893. The secretion of gas in steel casting. 28 p. 4to. 

Paper. 
No. 21. Fabrication of cannon in Russia. 42 p. and 5 pi. 4to. Paper. 
No. 22. The structure of steel. 12 p. and pi. 4to. Paper. 
Ordnance notes : 

No. 293. Preservation of moisture for seasonable rainfall. 3 p. 4to. Paper. 
No. 294. The English military power and the Egyptian campaign, 1882. 

13 p. 4to. Paper. 
No. 295. Researches on the penetration of projectiles. 19 p. 4to. Paper. 
No. 296. Captain Dutton's report on the tertiary history of the Canon Dis- 
trict. 3 p. 4to. Paper. 
No. 297. The cavalryman and his horse. 6 p. 4to. Paper. 
No. 298. Improved arms rack. 3 p. and 3 pi. 4to. Paper. 
No. 299. Subjects for a military library. 11 p. and 4to. Paper. 
No. 300. The French army. 10 p. 4to. Paper. 
No. 301. Theoretical and practical ballistics. 7 p. 4to. Paper. 
No. 302. Notes on the embarkation and debarkation of horses and their care 

on board ship. 5 p. 1 pi. 4to. Paper. 
No. 303. The practice regulations of some European artilleries. 4to. Paper. 
No. 304. Notes on field artillery. 13 p. 4to. Paper. 
No. 305. The effects of the increased powers of infantry weapons. 5 p. 

4to. Paper. 
No. 307. Improved capstan. 5 p. aud 1 pi. 4to. Paper. 
No. 308. Armor, June 22, 1883. 7 p. 4to. Paper. 
No. 309. Description of some of the improvements introduced at Frankford 

Arsenal during the present fiscal year. 13 p. and 12 pi. 4to. Paper. 
No. 310. Report on naval experiments against armor plating. 17 p. aud 

4pl. 4to. Paper. 
No. 311. Headless shell extractor for Springfield rifle and carbine. 2 p. 4to. 

Paper. 
No. 312. On the discovery of gunpowder by the Chinese. 4 p. 4to. Paper. 
No. 313. Ballistic apparatus employed by the French marine artillery. 79 p. 

and 22 pi. 4to. Paper. 
No. 314. Armor-plate experiments. 2 p. and 1 pi. 4to. Paper. 
No. 316. The critical condition of the British army. 16 p. lto. Paper. 
No. 318. A short history of the iron-clad trains. By Lieut. E. Warre-Slade, 

R. N. 4 p. and 1 pi. 4to. Paper. 



160 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

Ordnance notes — Continued. 

No. 319. Infantry fire versus artillery fire. By Col. Lonsdale Hale, Staff 

College. 8 p. 4to. Paper. 
No. 320. The duties of the personnel of a battery of field artillery in action. 

By Lieut. Col. B. Kemmis, R. A. 12 p. 4to. Paper. 
No. 322. The combination anvil in small-arm cartridge, lp. and 5 pi. 4to. 
Paper. 
Index to notes : 

23G-259. 4to. Paper. 
260-284. 4to. Paper. 
285-219. 4to. Paper. 

Quartermaster-General. 

Specifications of the plumber work and materials required in the construction and 
completion of the various buildings comprising the United States Army and Navy 
Hospital at Hot Springs, Ark. 

1. Specifications. 9 p. 8vo. Paper. 

2. Plans. 20 pi. 8vo. Paper. 

3. Circular. 4 p. 8vo. Paper. 

The military shoe. By Maj. S. A. Salquin. 58 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Signal Office. 
Professional papers : 

No. IX. Charts and tables showing geographical distribution of rainfall in 
the United States. By H. H. C. Dunwoody, first lieutenant, Fourth Ar- 
tillery. 51 p. and pi. 4to. Paper. 
No. XI. Meteorological and physical observations on the east coast of British 
America. By R. A. Taft Sherman. 202 p. 4to. Paper. 
Signal Service notes : 

No. 9. Weather proverbs. By H. H. C. Dunwoody, first lieutenant, Fourth 
Artillery. 148 p. 8vo. Paper. 
Official danger, distress, and storm signal code for Signal Service sea-coast stations 
and mariners. 74 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Subsistence Department. 

Regulations governing the clerical and other employe's in the office of the Commis- 
sary-General of Subsistence. 8 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Surgeon- General. 

Medical and surgical history of the war of the rebellion. Part III. Surgical volume. 
986 p. 29 p. Index. 4to. Cloth. 

Standard supply table of the Medical Department of the United States Army, 1883. 
30 p. 8vo. Paper. 

Index catalogue of the library. Vol. IV. 1033 p. 4to. Paper. 

Circular No. 3. September 1, 1883. Instructions for the government of medical offi- 
cers in preparing the medical and surgical reports of the Army Medical Depart- 
ment. 21 p. 8vo. Paper. 

The foregoing list of official documents received from the Public 
Printer during the year 1883 represents 721 distinct publications; each 
being delivered in 50 copies, they form an aggregate of 36,250 copies, 
weighing 21,005 pounds, and were packed in two boxes apiece for each 
set, which now consists of 19 boxes of about 2G0 pounds weight. 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE U. S. 
NATIONAL MUSEUM, TOGETHER WITH THE REPORTS 
OF THE CURATORS, FOR THE YEAR 1883. 



Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

Director of the U. 8. National Museum : 

Sir : In accordance with your instructions, I have the honor to submit 
herewith a report upon the present condition of the U. S. National 
Museum and upon the work accomplished in its various departments 
during the year 1883. 

In accordance with established usage, I have reviewed the work of 
the several scientific departments of the Museum, as well as that of the 
Division of Administration. The reports of the curators are this year 
for the first time printed in full, their extent and importance being so 
great as to render this necessary. In my own report I have included 
an account of the operations of the department of arts and industry, 
for the present assigued to ray care, in preference to preparing a spe- 
cial curator's report upon this department: the reports of certain of 
the curators of "sections" of this department are, however, furnished 
with the others. 

In the present report, as in those which have preceded it, are incorpor- 
ated certain suggestions relating to the administration of the Museum, 
for which I desire to be held individually responsible, and which the 
readers should not assume to be definitely determined elements of the 
policy of the Museum, since they may, any or all of them, at some future 
time either in their present form or with modifications, be recommended 
for adoption, or pronounced undesirable. 

Should Congress during its present session make provisions for the 
publication of a special report upon Museum work, it is the desire of 
myself and my associates, should you approve, to present in the first 
report of the new series a somewhat exhaustive statement of the present 
condition of the Museum, together with a review of its past history as 
a whole, and of its several departments, together with the history of the 
steps by which the present position of he establishment has been at- 
tained. 

Very respectfully, 

G. Brown Goode, 

Assistant Director. 

Washings on, January, 1884. 161 

H. Mis. 69 11 



162 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 

During the year the officers of the Museum have continued the work of 
rearranging the materials under their charge in the greatly extended 
space afforded by the completion of the new building. It will be re- 
membered that this building was first occupied late in 1881 ; and that 
1883 is really, therefore, only the second year of systematic effort. Some 
experiments in installation were made in 1881, but the chief thing ac- 
complished was the accumulation, in some of the inner courts of the 
building, of a great mass of unclassified material which had been gath- 
ering for many years in the various store-rooms of the Smithsonian build- 
ing and elsewhere, and which, on account of lack of space, had for the 
most part been allowed to remain in the original packing cases. 

After a struggle of twenty-four months with this mass of unassorted 
material, the floors of the Museum have been almost cleared, and at 
present only three of the seventeen exhibition halls are occupied for 
storage purposes, viz : The southwest court, which is still full of speci- 
mens belonging to the departments of metallurgy, mineralogy, and 
lithology; the southeast court, which is used as a general receptacle 
for empty cases and unmounted material belonging to the departments 
of zoology and anthropology; and the northeast court, which has been 
temporarily given up to the uses of the Geological Survey and the 
Bureau of Ethnology. 

A provisional assignment of exhibition space has been made as fol. 
lows: North Hall, the historical collections and costumes; east Hall and 
west Hall, general collections in ethnology and art and industry; south 
Hall, collection of mammals; east north range, fisheries collections; 
north east range, collection of models of boats and other appliances of 
transportation; south-east range, sculpture and architecture; east-south 
range, the osteological collections, the table cases in the west half of the 
room being temporarily occupied by storage cases for fossil plants and 
invertebrates; the eastern end of the west south range-, mineralogy; its 
western end, lithology and physical geology; south-west range, metal- 
lurgy and economic geology; the southern end of north-west range, the 
collections of materia medica; its northern end, the collection of foods 
aud pigments, &c. The west north range is used for a lecture-room and 
hall for the meetings of societies, and also for the temporary exhibition 
of recent accessions to the collections. The inner courts, being used as 
work-rooms, are as yet unassigned, save the northwest court, which is 
devoted to North American pottery. 

In the Smithsonian building the four main exhibition halls are as- 
signed as follows: Main hall, ornithology ; upper main hall, prehistoric 
archaeology; west range, ichthyology ; west hall, marine invertebrates. 
These assignments are entirely provisional, and, indeed, the separation 
of the material belonging to the different departments is not yet entirely 
accomplished, ' 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 163 

It will be observed that several departments — notably, those of rep- 
tiles, inollusks, and fossils — have received no assignment of space in the 
exhibition halls. The curator of mollusks and the curators of inver- 
tebrate fossils are, however, provided with particularly commodious 
and well-fitted laboratories, which, from the nature of the material un- 
der their charge and the at present only partially organized condition 
of the collections, are considered adequate for their immediate needs. 

Organization of the departments and assignment of staff. — A provisional 
classification of the departments of the Museum was adopted early in 
1882, and during the past two years has been practically applied. As 
is shown by the accompanying schedule, twenty-two scientific depart- 
ments were provided for and grouped in five divisions, namely: An- 
thropology, zoology, botany, geology, and exploration and experiment. 
There are also eleven executive departments, grouped together in the 
Division of Administration. 

Classification of the departments. — The following classification of the 
collections has been provisionally adopted:* 
Division of Administration : 
Department A. — Direction. 

(Supervision of routine work ; installation and labeling ; apart- 
ments and keys; cases and furniture ; supplies; offers, bids, 
and contracts ; certification of accounts ; requisitions and 
complaints; assignments of work — leaves of absence ; gen- 
eral correspondence and circulars ; supervision of other de- 
partments in division of administration; reports.) 
Department B. — Eegistry and storage. 

(Eegistry; reception and assignment; packing and unpacking; 
shipment ; storage ; catalogues, blanks, and labels ; ac- 
knowledgments ; transportation.) 
Department C. — Archives. 

(Eecords and registers; files.) 
Department D. — Library. 
Department E. — Publication. 
Department F. — Duplicates and exchanges. 

(Preparation of duplicates for distribution ; distribution of du- 
plicates ; applications and proposals for exchanges.) 
Department G. — Property and supplies. 

(Purchase; registry; storage; requisitions and issue ; samples 
and price-lists.) 
Department H. — Accounts. 

(Estimates; contracts and orders; audit; disbursement.) 
Department I. — Buildings aud labor. 

(Police and inspection; mechanics and labor; heating and light- 
ing ; construction and repairs ; cleaning ; public comfort.) 

* This classification is founded solely upon considerations of present convenience in 
Museum administration. 



164 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Division of Administration — Continued. 

Department K. — Electric service. 

(Telephone service; time service; burglar-alarm service; 
watch-clo k service.) 

Department L. — Preparation. 

(Taxidermy; modeling; skeleton preparation; mounting and 
attaching labels; lapidaries' work; stone-cutting work; 
draughting; photographing; painting; poisoning and ap- 
ply in g preservators. ) 
Division of Anthropology : 

Department I. — Art and industry. 

Department II. — Kaces of Men. 

Department III. — Antiquities. 
Division of Zoology : 

Department IV. — Mammals. 

Department V. — Birds. 

Department VI. — Reptiles and Batrachians. 

Department VII. — Fishes. 

Depariment VIII. — Mollusks. 

Department IX. — Insects. 

Department X. — Crustaceans. 

Department XI. — Worms. 

Department XII. — Radiates and protozoans. 

Department XIII. — Invertebrate fossils. 
Division of Botany : 

Department XIV. — Becent plants. 

Department XV. — Fossil plants. 
Division of Geology : 

Department XVI. — Mineralogy. 

Department XVII. — Lithology and physical Geology. 

Department XVIII. — Metallurgy and economic Geology. 
Division of Exploration and Experiment: 

Department XIX. — Exploration and field work. 

Department XX. — Chemistry. 

Department XXI. — Experimental Physiology. 

Department XXI I.— Vivaria. 
A brief review of what has been accomplished in each department 
up to the present time, and especially during the past year, will per- 
haps be the most satisfactory mode of bringing before the Board the 
present methods and tendencies of the work in the Museum. I shall 
not, however, attempt to discuss the additions of the year to the Mu- 
seum, since these will be treated of in detail in the reports of the sev- 
eral executive officers, while a complete list, arranged alphabetically by 
donors, will be found in the appendix to this report, 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 165 

DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATION. 

Department A : Direction. — During tbe period of the reconstruction of 
the east end of the Smithsonian building- tbe Director bas occupied an 
office in the northwest pavilion of the Museum. Early in the year tbe 
assistant director was appointed commissioner to the International Fish- 
eries Exhibition to be held in London from May 1 to November 1, and 
his duties in this connection necessitated his absence from the middle 
of April until the 1st of October: during tbis period Mr. Frederick W. 
True was appointed to serve as acting assistant director, and rendered 
most efficient service. 

The assistant director was instructed while in Europe to study the 
methods of administration of the most important museums, and has 
now in preparation a report upon his observations during the present 
year and in 1880 upon the chief museums of England, France, Ger- 
many, and Italy. He desires in tbis place to make acknowledgment of 
numerous courtesies and valuable aid received from Sir Philip Cuuliffe 
Owen, director of the South Kensington Museum ; Dr. A. C. G. Gun- 
ther, keeper of the zoological collections of the British Museum ; Prof. 
W.*H. Flower, curator of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons; 
Dr. P. L. Sclater, secretary of the Zoological Society of Loudon ; Dr. Will- 
iam Murie, librarian of the Linuaean Society of London ; Mr. W. Saville 
Kent, curator of the Buckland Museum of Practical Fish Culture, South 
Kensington; Prof. H. N. Mosely, of the University of Oxford; Mr. John 
W. Clarke, superintendent of the Cambridge University Museum; Mr. 
A. J. R. Trendell,of the Science and Art Department, South Kensington; 
Prof. Thomas C. Archer, director of the Edinburgh Museum of Science 
and Art; Mr. T. J. Moore, curator of the Liverpool Museum; Mr. 
Mark H. Judge, curator of the Parkes Museum of Uygiene ; Mr. John 
Durand, of Paris; Dr. E. Sauvage, of the Museum of Natural History, 
Paris; Prof. E. H. Giglioli, director of the Royal Museum of Vertebrates, 
Florence; Dr. Franz Steindachner, keeper of the Imperial Cabinet, 
Vienna; and Baron N. De Solsky, director of the Musee Imperial Agro- 
nomique, St. Petersburg. 

The act of Congress authorizing and directing the participation of 
the United States in the International Fisheries Exhibition at London 
necessarily added an enormous weight to the work of the division of 
administration. 

Departments B and C : Registry and storage, and archives. — These de- 
partments, under the supervision of Mr. S. C. Brown, registrar, have 
been efficiently administered. The total number of packages received 
was 2,196. The regular storage rooms in the Smithsonian building 
having been temporarily dismantled, a shed for the reception of the daily 
acquisitions was erected at the south entrance of the Smithsonian build- 
ing, and the contents of several of the store- rooms transferred to the 
Armory. The shed, built adjoining the Armory in 1882, and also the 



166 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

upper stories of the Armory building, are now filled with boxes full of 
specimens awaiting assignment; and, as has already been stated, three 
of the inner courts of the Museum building are now filled in the same 
manner. The collection of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, 
presented to the Museum, has been packed and stored under the direc- 
tion of Mr. Thomas Donaldson in the basement of the Memorial Hall, 
Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, and cannot be removed to Washington 
without a special appropriation for that purpose. 

In the department of archives two copyists are constantly employed 
in making a duplicate copy of the Museum registers — a work which is 
considered to be of great importance owing to the fact that the original 
catalogues, being distributed through numerous departments, may acci- 
dentally suffer mutilation or destruction. 

Department D : Library. — The library has remained in charge of Mr. 
Frederick W. True. The importance of this library to officers of the 
Museum and others, who by an exchange of courtesies are allowed its 
privileges, is very considerable. In fact, without it, Museum work 
would be greatly crippled and retarded, since, for every reference re- 
quired, it would be necessary to dispatch a messenger to the Congres- 
sional Library, where the Smithsonian Library has for many years been 
deposited. One additional sectional library has been established during 
the year, viz, that in the section of foods and textiles. These sectional 
libraries are of material advantage to the curators of the various depart- 
ments, since they may thus have close at hand all the available author- 
ities required for the prosecution of their several specialties. The care 
of these sectional libraries however devolves upon the librarian, and does 
not encroach upon the time of the curators themselves. 

By the introduction of a large sky-light in the roof of the library much 
additional illumination has been "secured. Full details of work con- 
nected with the library will be found in the report of the librarian. 

Department E: Publications. — During the year volume 5, Proceedings 
of the U. S. National Museum, a book of 714 pages, has been published; 
also Bulletin 16 (Synopsis of Fishes of North America, by D. S. Jor- 
dan) ; Bulletin 20 (Bibliography of writings of Spencer Fullerton Baird, 
by G. Brown Goode); Bulletin 22 (Guide to the Flora of Washing- 
ton and vicinity, by Lester F. Ward) ; and Bulletin 24 (Checklist of 
North American Reptilia and Batrachia, by H. C. Yarrow). The de- 
scriptions of these will be found in the bibliographical appendix. A 
portion of Bulletin 27 was also published in 7 sections, these being a 
collection of the special catalogues of the American Department at the 
London International Fisheries Exhibition. Dr. T. H. Bean has ren- 
dered his usual efficient service as editor of the publications : the prep- 
aration of the admirable indexes of the volumes of the Proceedings has 
been his special care, and add greatly to the value of the volumes as a 
record of current work. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 167 

It is hoped that Congress may order the preparation and publication 
of a special report upon the work of the Museum, which, if the necessary 
provision is made for illustrations, will afford the means of publishing, 
more fully than has hitherto been possible, the archives of the Museum. 

The preparation of printed labels has been a work of considerable 
magnitude during the year, and over four thousand labels, the average 
length of which is about one-sixth of an octavo page, have been prepared 
at the Government Printing Office. In addition also a large number of 
special labels iu black and gold for the outside of cases, have been pre- 
pared by the Museum printer. Important additions have been made 
to the stock of the Museum printing office, which is now thoroughly 
equipped for all kinds of job-work. 

Mr. A. Howard Clark has been temporarily placed in charge of the 
printing and general administration and section of labels. 

Department F: Duplicates and exchanges. — The distribution of speci- 
mens to Museums, colleges, and individuals for the year is represented, 
in the table appended hereto, viz : 

Boxes and packages. 

Minerals, ores and rocks 21 

Invertebrates 73 

Marine invertebrates (duplicate sets) 59 

Bird-skins 57 

Ethnological objects 28 

Insects 7 

Plants 17 

Fossils 7 

Mammals 9 

Building stoues - 2 

Fishes H 

Reptiles 19 

Skeletons 1 

251 

Including an aggregate of about 16,270 specimens. 

During the year 84 applications for specimens of general natural his- 
tory, from museums, schools, and individuals in the United States and 
Territories, have been filed, and. many of them have already been filled. 

The shipments of miscellaneous packages to the great International 
Fisheries Exhibition at Loudon, England, consisted, of 917 packages of 
all kinds. Considerable returns have been received iu the way of ex- 
changes for specimens distributed. These are referred to in the reports 
of the several curators. 

Department G: Property and supplies. — In this department a large 
number of exhibition and storage cases have been made during the year, 
chiefly by contract as hitherto. Cases to the value of about $10,000 
were provided at the expense of the appropriation for the Loudon Fish- 
eries Exhibition j these have been returned to the Museum and will be 



1G8 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

used iu the permanent installation of the fishery collection. The num- 
ber of cases and screens now in use in the Museum exceeds 800, and the 

number of drawers for storage and exhibition purposes is more than 
7,000. In next year's report I hope to present a detailed account of these 
cases, and the methods of administration employed in the Museum. 
Appended is a list of the cases received during the year.* 

"CaseC, 1-3.— Door screens, 8' 6" X 1' 3" X T 20 

2-2.— Door screens, 8' 6 " X 2' 2" X 7' '. 10 

2-6.- Door screens, 8' 6" X 2' 6" X 7' 6 

Total 36 

CaBeD, 1-3.— Sliding screens, 8' 6" X 1' 3" X 7' 60 

1-10.— Sliding screens, 8' 6' X 1' 10" X 7' 30 

2-6.— Sliding screens, 8' 6" X 2' 6" X 7' 20 

Total 110 

Case E.— Flat screens 100 

Case F. — Fold screens, whole pillar 1 

Case G. — Slope screens 20 

Case G, 1-2. — Slope screens .' 1 

Case H, 1-2.— Table uprights 2 

Case I.— Unit tables 20 

Case J.— Unit drawers, 2-inch * 199 

3-inch : 386 

4-inch 891 

5-inch 246 

6-inch 228 

8-inch 162 

9-inch 9 

10-inch 110 

12-iuch 10 

Total 2,331 

Case K.— Unit boxes, 2" x 24" x 30" 200 

3"X24"X30" 300 

4"X24"X30" 20 

8"X24"X30" 83 

13*" X 24" x 30" 3 

14*" X 24" X 30" 1 

Total 607 

Case K.— Uni , boxes, 3" x 24" x 61*" 43 

4"X24"X6H" 40 

6''X24" X61*" 40 

8" X24"x61^' 40 

12"X24" X61*" 40 

18" X 24" X 61*" 16 

Total * 219 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 1G9 

During his absence in Europe the assistant director made studies of 
exhibition cases used in the best arranged museums, and a number of 
additional forms of cases are now being made for trial. It may be said, 
however, that in most of the European museums the cases are far in- 
ferior in workmanship and in adaptation to the needs of the museum 
to those already in use in our buildings. This opinion is confirmed by 
the experience of Prof. Edward S. Morse, director of the Peabody Museum 
of Salem, Mass., who also visited the European museums in 1883, and 
who states in his annual report that he saw no cases which he considered 
preferable to those used by the Smithsonian Institution aud the Pea- 
body Museum of Archaeology at Cambridge. Many of our standard 
museum cases were used in connection with the London Fisheries Exhi- 
bition, and their construction and the manner in which the specimens 
were mounted in them met with general approbation among museum 
administrators. 

Tbe system of purchase and issue of general supplies was described 
in last year's report. Minor modifications have been introduced during 
the year and others are in contemplation. Mr. C. W. Schuermann has 
rendered efficient service as property clerk. He has submitted inven- 
tories of all articles in the several buildings, and also statements of the 
exact quantity of each kind of article received during the year, balanced 
by a report of the quantity of each article now in stock, and the exact 
disposition of such articles as have been issued upon requisition. He 
has also been charged with the duty of inspecting and reporting upon 
each article of furniture and all supplies purchased for the Museum, 
and of unpacking and cataloguing these articles when received, of issu- 
ing the same upon "house requisitions," and of preparing a semi-annual 
report. 

Department H: Accounts. — As heretofore, all accounts have been ad- 
ministered under the direction of the chief clerk of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, and all payments have been made through his office. The 
question of receipts and expenditures will not be discussed in this report, 
since it is included, as hitherto, in the report of the Executive Com- 
mittee of the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Department I: Buildings and labor. — The administrative staff for po- 
lice and inspection now consists of one superintendent of buildings, two 

Cask L. — WaD uprights: 

f Corner sections 12 

I Door sections 14 

1 case j P ane l sections 12 

• Triangle sections 3 

| Panel sections 5 

^Door sections 4 

Door sections 4 



1 case \ 

Panel sections & 

Case P. — Sectional library cases 44 

Case S.— Quarter tables 51 



170 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

assistant superintendents, thirteen watchmen, and three doorkeepers ; 
for construction, care of building, and repairs : two carpenters, a painter, 
and a mason; for labor and cleaning: sixteen laborers and six attend- 
ants and cleaners. For heating and lighting there are employed one 
engineer and four firemen ; for messenger service, one messenger and 
three office boys. The messenger service is almost entirely replaced by 
the electric service. For out-door messenger service the District Tele- 
graph Company has been made use of. This is advantageous in respect 
to both economy and efficiency, the whole cost to the Museum for all 
outside messenger work not exceeding $10 a month. The messenger 
employed in the building is engaged in circulating packages between 
the different laboratories, and in receiving and distributing mail, recep- 
tacles for which have been placed in every executive office. 

To expedite communication between the various officers, one special 
messenger has been detailed to go from office to office, taking in and 
carrying out mail, memoranda, &c. In almost every office has been 
established a mail box or tray, made in two partitions, one of which is 
labeled " incoming," and the other " outgoing." By this means all un- 
necessary delay is avoided. He simply deposits in the former whatever 
he may have collected in the other offices for the one in which he may 
happen*o be, and takes from the latter all letters, &c, intended for 
other offices, arranging them alphabetically in a large folding case, con- 
taining 26 sections, one for each letter of the alphabet. 

In addition to the regular force of laborers and mechanics, it was found 
necessary during the spring to employ additional help on account of the 
extra work involved in the preparation and packing of the exhibit for 
the London International Fisheries Exhibition. Notwithstanding the 
increase, however, the men were obliged to work night and day, in order 
that the material might be in London in time for the opening day of the 
exhibition. 

The carpenter shop has been transferred from the southeast court to 
the frame building east of, and adj oining, the Museum. This has materi- 
ally increased the storage facilities for specimens in the Museum. 

Extensive improvements have been made in the drainage. Addi- 
tional sewers have been laid, and connected with the main on B street 
immediately south of the Museum. This action was hastened by the 
backing up of the water in the basement of the cafe" and southeast pavil- 
ion, during sudden, and severe rain storms, which caused considerable 
damage to flooring and traps. 

Department E : Electric Service. — Under the management of Mr. W. J. 
Green the electrical service has been improved and extended during 
1883. There are now 40 separate telephone lines connecting the resi- 
dences of the chief officers of the Smithsonian and Museum buildings, 
and lines have also been put up connecting the Armory building, carp 
ponds, and the Central Telephone Exchange with the Museum. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 171 

The whole system, as completed at the end of the year, consists of 
the following* apparatus : One 50- drop telephone annunciator. One 100- 
drop burglar alarm annunciator, connecting three hundred windows and 
85 doors. One time and watch-clock which is connected with 1 4 stations, 
and records the time and place of the watchmen patroling the Museum 
building and its annexes. There are also 50 electric push-buttons, sit- 
uated in different parts of the building, connected with a 100-drop annun- 
ciator for the use of floor inspectors, watchmen, and others who may be 
in need of assistance. 

There is one standard-time clock connected with the Naval Observa- 
tory. This is regulated every day at noon. There has also been erected 
one control-clock giving standard time to six 30-inch dials in the differ- 
ent exhibition halls, and seven 15-inch dials in various offices. 

In addition there are eight 10 inch electric bells for general calls; 12 
test-boards to facilitate testing and putting in wires in different parts 
of the building ; 1 watch-box, which records the watchmen's signals on 
the watch-clock dial, and in the offices of the police and messenger com- 
pany ; 40 incandescent lamps ; 10 call bells worked from the telephone 
office ; 250 feet of wire cable have also been used in connection with the 
outside telephone service. 

The Brush Swan Electric Light Company have placed a storage bat- 
tery in the lecture room and put in 43 burners for the use of the Mu- 
seum. 

The electric light service consists of one 6-light Brush-dynamo and 
one 1-light Brush-dynamo, which are driven by a 20 horse-power engine. 
There are also six arc lamps of 1,500-candle power, and three electric 
focusing lamps of 2,000-candle power. These are used for photographic 
purposes. In addition there are forty incandescent lamps of 10-candle 
power, and a Brush storage battery of 03 elements. All of the exhibi- 
tion halls are furnished with wire for electric light, and in such a man- 
ner that one or all can be illuminated at a given time. It is estimated 
that 75,000 feet of insulated wire are required to carry on these systems 
in both the Smithsonian and Museum buildings. At least eight miles 
of wire are in use for the outside connections. 

Department L : Preparation. — The efficiency of the various taxider- 
mists has undoubtedly increased during the year. A number of very 
excellent pieces of work were -prepared for the London Fisheries Exhi- 
bition. 

The Museum has adopted the plan of printing upon the labels of large 
pieces of taxidermic work the names of the preparators, and is doing all 
jm its power to encourage the taxidermists of the country in improving 
their standard of work. To this end it has offered to the Society of 
American Taxidermists the privilege of exhibiting in the Museum, in 
a section devoted especially to taxidermy, examples of the finest work 
which may from time to time be produced in connection with this col- 
lection. Mr. W. T. Hornaday is in special charge of this matter, and has 



172 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

already secured for the Museum a considerable number of very inter- 
esting specimens, which, however, are not yet on exhibition, and there- 
fore need receive here only passing notice. 

It was gratifying to the Museum that a number of the members 
of its staff of preparators received special awards at the third annual 
exhibition of the Society of American Taxidermists held in New York * 

The appearance of the mammal gallery has been very greatly im- 
proved by the mounting of eighteen new specimens of pinnipeds, the 
most important of which is a large hooded seal, and a young elephant 
seal, mounted in a swimming attitude. 

Mr. Joseph Palmer, chief modeller, was in the early part of the year 
busily engaged in makiug lay-figures of fishermen and Indians. Two 
large specimens of whales were cast, and a number of porpoises and 
fishes. He also made a series of models illustrating the oyster fisheries, 
in addition to preparing specimens for the Louisville Exhibition. His 
assistant, Mr. William Palmer, spent several months in New Haven, 
making, under the direction of Mr. J. H. Emerton, the large paper mod- 
els of the giant squid and octopus for exhibition in London, and now 
permanently displayed in the fishery section of the Museum. Pearly 
in October, Mr. William Palmer was sent to Barnegat City, N. J., where 
he successfully made a mold of the "bottle-nose" whale (Ziphius curvi- 
rostris), and preserved the skeleton in perfect condition. This latter is 
now in maceration, preparatory to being mounted. In addition he spent 
some time in making molds and papier macliS casts of the Moqui towns. 
These casts and molds were made from clay models prepared under the 
direction of Mr. Victor Mindeleff. 

Mr. Marshall has, as usual, devoted his time to the mounting of birds. 
He prepared five noticeable groups for the London Fisheries Exhibition, 
and has mounted during the year about five hundred specimens. 

Mr. A. Z. Shindler has been employed in making sketches from new 
fishes received, and in painting the casts made by Mr. Palmer. He has 
also been engaged in painting casts of Indian implements, and lias per- 
formed most efficient work in the completion of the collection of casts 
of fishes and reptiles. 

Although much has been done in the preparation and mounting of 
skeletons, as well as in the repair of those already on exhibition, yet 

* Prizes and commendations awarded to preparators of the U. S. National Museum 
at the third annual exhibition of the Society of American Taxidermists at New- 
York, May 1 to May 5, 1883. 

To William T. Hornaday : Silver medal for best specimen of taxidermy in the ex- 
hibition, African elephant Mungo. Special medal recommended for setter dog and 
quail. Hairless Mexican dog and cinnamon bear highly commended. 
To Frederic A. Lucas : Bronze medal for group of turtles. 

To William Palmer : Special medal recommended for cast of leather-back turtle'-a 
head. Certificate of merit for birds. 
To Joseph Palmer : Casts of mammal heads and fishes very highly commended. 
To L. M. McCormick : Certificate of merit for birds. 
To J. W. Hendley : Cast of fishes very highly commended. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 173 

the greater part of the year has been consumed in the transfer of the 
large collection of unmounted inaimnal skeletons and skulls from storage 
in the Smithsonian building to the osteological hall (east south range) 
of the National Museum building. Owing to the length of time during 
which this large amount of material has been accumulating, and to the 
lack of suitable accommodations, the collection had fallen into a state 
of confusion. Moreover, a portion had never been catalogued, and a 
still larger portion remained unidentified. It was therefore necessary to 
compare each specimen with its original record, while a large number 
were identified or entered tor the first time. For lack of room, a portion 
of this collection, namely, the skeletons which have not yet been cleaned, 
has been temporarily stored in the Armory building. The remaining 
portion has been arranged, labeled, and placed in table cases in the 
osteological hall. Seventeen cases are thus occupied, and many more 
will eventually be required to accommodate this important and steadily 
increasing collection. The service of Mr. F. A. Lucas as an aid in the 
department of osteology has done very much to stimulate its growth. 

Messrs. E. H. Hawley and T. M. Sweeney have rendered efficient aid 
in the mounting of specimens in the cases for exhibition, and to the 
former especially the Museum is indebted for numerous ingenious con- 
trivances for the better display of its material. Mr. T. W. Smillie, pho- 
tographer, produced for the Loudon Fisheries Exhibition enlarged pho- 
tographs of fishermen and fishing scenes. These, which were printed 
by the electric light, and in some instances retouched by Messrs. Elliott 
and Moeller, constituted a prominent feature in the American section 
at the Fisheries Exhibition, and received a gold medal — the only one 
awarded to photography. They seem to deserve especial mention 
here, since it is believed that pictures of this description can be used 
with great effect hereafter in various departments of the Museum. 

Mr. Hendley has done some excellent work in the preparation of lay 
figures for the London Fisheries Exhibition. Two of these figures were 
representative of the negro fisherman of the United States, and five, 
of the white fisherman. He has also commenced the work of preparing 
casts of vegetables, fruits, meats, &c, to be arranged hereafter in the 
food collection. 

Preliminary exhibition of the fishery collection. — On the 26th of Feb- 
ruary an exhibition of the collections about to be seut to London was 
held in the halls of the Museum. Preparations for this exhibit were 
made in three days' time by dint of hard work of an extra force night 
and day. The building was lighted for the first time by the electric 
lamps, and the display was considered a great success. On the follow- 
ing night the building was also opened for the inspection of these 
exhibits. On the first evening 2,339 persons were present, and on the 
following night, 2,298. During the week before the collections were 
packed the attendance in the Museum averaged nearly 2,000 a day. 



174 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The Southern Exposition of Louisville, organized in 1882, obtained per- 
mission from the last Congress to remove certain objects from the Na- 
tional Museum, with the sanction of the Director and without cost to 
the Government, for exhibition in the Southern Exposition. (See Rev. 
Stat., Forty-seventh Congress, second session, chap. 99.) This exposi- 
tion opened on August 1, and a collection, the contents of which are 
elsewhere enumerated, was sent from the Museum, and was returned 
after the close of the exhibition, in good order, on November 8. The 
contributions of the Museum were greatly appreciated by the visitors 
to the exhibition, and the expenses incurred in its preparation were 
promptly and cheerfully paid by the company. Several applications 
from other similar exhibitions were received, but the Museum has always 
taken the position that loans of this kind cannot be made without spe- 
cial Congressional enactmeot. It is, however, my desire to prepare for 
such purposes a special series of specimens which may be temporarily 
sent to different parts of the United States for the purpose of public 
instruction and of awakening interest in museum work. An excellent 
precedent for this move may be found in the policy of the Science and 
Art Departments of Great Britain, which at the present time has eight- 
een loan collections of this kind in different parts of the United King- 
dom. 

Exhibition of the Pharmaceutical Association. — On September 10, the 
Pharmaceutical Association held its annual meeting and exhibition in 
the Museum, the lecture-room being used for the meeting and the north- 
east and east-north ranges for the exhibition, which was very largely 
attended, the number of visitors during the five days of its session 
amounting to 7,571. 

On the 4th, 5th, and 7th of December the Brush-Swan Electric Light 
Company gave an exhibition of its incandescent lights produced by the 
Brush storage battery. During the four evenings of the display there 
were 1,543 visitors. 

Meetings and lectures during the year. — The National Academy of 
Sciences held its regular semi-annual meeting in the lecture-room of the 
Museum on April 17. The Biological Society has held its regular fort- 
nightly meetings in the lecture-room. The Philosophical Society held 
its annual meeting in the lecture-room of the Museum on December 8. 
The Pharmaceutical Association, as has already been mentioned, held 
its annual meeting in the lecture-room on the 10th of September. 

A course of 12 lectures, under the auspices of the Biological and An 
thropological Societies of Washington, was given on successive Satur- 
days, commencing on January 13. These were followed by a course of 
8 lectures on materia medica by Dr. D. W. Prentiss, commencing April 
7 and continuing until May 26, illustrated by specimens from the materia 
medica section of the Museum : they were attended by about 200 stu- 
dents of medicine and pharmacy. 



EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 175 

Number of visitors. — By means of the tally machine, it has been as- 
certained .that the total number of visitors to the Museum during the 
year was 202,112, making a daily average of 074. The number of visit- 
ors to the Smithsonian building for the year was 104,093, or a daily 
average of 349. 

The above figures show an increase during 1883 of 34,057 visitors to 
the Museum building over the number registered in 1882, and a decrease 
of 48,051 visitors to the Smithsonian Institution. 

DIVISION OF ANTHROPOLOGY. 

1. Department of Art and Industry. 

In the Department of Art and Industry is included for the present all 
ethnological material except that belonging to prehistoric archaeology. 
Under the head of "art and industry" are included the products 
of the arts and industries of civilized as well as of semi-civilized and 
barbarous races. These collections are being arranged in accordance 
with a teleological rather than geographical plan of classification, ob- 
jects of a similar nature being placed side by side, musical instruments 
together, weapons together, &c, and arranged in such a manner as to 
show the progress of each idea from the most primitive type. In dis- 
carding the ethnographic method of arrangement, almost universal 
among museums, special care has been taken not to sacrifice the possi- 
bility of bringing together the objects belonging to any particular local- 
ity or race, if this shall at any time be required for purposes of study. 

In our method of installation, objects are mounted in glass-covered 
trays or deep frames, 24 by 30 inches in dimension, which are arranged 
for study or exhibition in cases of various forms. The articles belong- 
ing to two different tribes are never mounted together in the same tray ; 
and if at any time it should be found desirable to bring together the 
collections from any given race, for instance, from the Eskimos, the Sia- 
mese, or the Japanese, this might be accomplished in a few hours; in 
fact, when once the present system of mounting has been completed, the 
rearrangement of the Museum upon the ordinary ethnographic plan 
would be the work of only a few hours, and may be effected by a small 
force of mechanics and laborers under the direction of a single curator. 

The system of classification just described has been criticised in cer- 
tain particulars by administrators, and from their standpoint the criti- 
cism is a just one. I therefore take this opportunity to explain that 
the policy of the department has been misunderstood by them. It is 
no part of the plan, nor has it ever been, to separate articles which be- 
long together. The parts of any collection or group of objects which 
may justly be considered a unit of administration are always kept to- 
gether ; for instance, if a costume is complete it is not intended to dis- 
sect it and distribute its parts. Hats, gloves, boots, and coats are only 
placed by themselves when they have no related objects associated with 



176 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

them. In the same way a costume of a family, whether composed of 
two or ten individual suits, might with propriety be regarded as a unit. 
Collections illustrating the history of a special tribe in a monographic 
way may also with propriety be kept together. Such a collection would, 
however, not be assigned to the department of art and industry, where 
the preferred method of arrangement is evolutionary or progressive, but 
would rather be made over to the department of ethnography. The 
teleological plan of arrangement has already been criticised by persons 
who prefer the more usual system of arrangement by race, a system 
which is in many respects no less desirable and for some museums 
is to be much preferred. This system, however, is not at present con- 
venient for the uses of this establishment. It is probable that these 
critics have not studied the plan of the classification of the Museum suf- 
ficiently to be aware that an ethnographic series of objects as well as 
the teleological series is provided for. It has been publicly suggested 
that the plan of classification, sketched out provisionally and submitted 
for consideration in my report for the year 1881, has been settled upon 
" without allowing the voice and criticisms of scientific men to be heard." 
In response to this I can only say that this plan, which, it may be stated 
in passing, has never been anything more than a tentative and provis- 
ional one, is simply an extension of the plan adopted in the archaeolog- 
ical division of the Museum previous to 1874, and reported upon favor- 
ably by a committee of the Board of Regents early in 1875.* 

The department of art and industry must in time necessarily be sub- 
divided into a number of special departments. At present, and until 
the material now on hand is properly assorted, such subdivision is not 
particularly to be desired. There have grown up, however, a number 
of sections in this department, the result of the accumulation of large 
quantities of material requiring the care of a special officer. 

A very large part of the material now in the custody of this depart- 
ment may with propriety be given over to the proposed new curator- 
ship of races of men. 

Section of Fisheries. — The collection to illustrate the fisheries of North 
America has been the object of close attention since 1875, when a 
special appropriation was made by Congress to enable the Commissioner 
of Fisheries to present a thorough representation of this industry at the 
Philadelphia Exhibition. The same collection, largely expanded by 
means of a second appropriation, was sent to the International Fisheries 
Exhibition at Berlin in 1880, and again in 1883 to a similar exhibition 
in London. Although a considerable portion of each special appropria- 
tion was consumed in expensive transportation and temporary installa- 
tion, yet considerable sums from each were devoted to improving this 
collection. Expanded as it has since been by gifts from and exchanges 

* See report of Asa Gray and Henry CoppeY, special committee on Museum, in An- 
nual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1874 J 
pp. 126-138. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 177 

between foreign Governments, it is now not only as perfect as possible 
a presentation of the fishery industries of the United States, but is 
by far the most complete exposition in existence of the fisheries of the 
world. In addition to material from various foreign countries pre- 
viously secured, this collection has during the present summer been en- 
riched by large contributions from England, India, the Straits Settle- 
ments, Siam, Greece, Spain, Sweden, and Russia. The Government of 
Greece presented to the United States its entire exhibit in London, and 
the Government of Spain was equally liberal, sending the United States 
everything which was indicated as desirable from the collections ex- 
hibited in London by the Madrid Naval Museum. 

The American section of the Fisheries Exhibition occupied about 25,000 
square feet, and the high appreciation with which it was received is 
marked not only by the verdict of the juries, by whom it was awarded 
150 medals and diplomas,* but by the universal commendation of the 
European press. 

The last shipment of this material has been returned, and in two or 
three months will be re-installed as a permanent section of the Museum. 

The concentration of a considerable amount of money upon this col- 
lection has enabled us to provide for it all necessary cases, to do the 
required work of mounting, to prepare printed labels for every specimen, 
and to bring together a large number of pictures, photographs, and 
sketches, which supplement the labels and complete the significance of 
the specimens. It will, consequently, for some years no doubt, stand as 
the first completed and most thoroughly arranged section of the depart- 
ment of art and industry. 

Section of Historical Belies. — The relics of George Washington and 
other distinguished persons, for many years displayed in the Patent 
Office, and the Lewis collection of Washington relics purchased by 
Congress at a cost of $12,000, which was stored in the Patent Office 
but kept iu the original packing-boxes, have, during the year, been 
given into the charge of the National Museum by the Commissioner 
of Patents. These have been placed on exhibition in temporary cases, 
together with many articles of similar nature already in the possession 
of the Museum. It is intended, as soon as practicable, to install tbe 
Washington relics in a more effective manner, perhaps by placing the 
furniture in a case, the interior of which shall resemble one of the apart- 
ments in the Washington homestead at Mount Vernon. In the Lewis 
collection are two portraits of General Washington and Mrs. Martha 
Washington, painted by Col. John Trumbull, which are among the 
choicest treasures of American art. 

Section of Materia Medica. — This section is already thoroughly under 
control, the specimens being installed in exhibition cases in systematic 
order, and a large number of labels being attached. This department 

* Fifty of this number were awarded to the National Museum and Fish Commission 
and their employes. 

H. Mis. 69 12 



178 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

has been for two years under the care of Dr. James M. Flint, surgeon, 
U. S. N., who has been detailed for this service by the Surgeon-Gen- 
eral of the Navy, and to whose skill the Museum is indebted for the 
development of a collection of medicinal substances probably unequaled 
elsewhere. 

The whole number of specimens at present on exhibition is 3,240. 
The series begins with objects that illustrate the forms in which medici- 
nal substances appear in commerce or are prepared for administration 
by pharmacists. The labels attached give concise and accurate defini- 
tions of each class. Next following is the general collection arranged 
according to the detailed classification published elsewhere, beginning 
with animal products in their zoological order, and succeeded by vege- 
table products in their botanical order, &c. Supplementing the general 
collection is an exhibit of the most popular mineral waters, and, finally, 
as a distinct series, a considerable number of Chinese drugs. The plan 
of organization and the methods of work in this department, together 
with a full account of what has been accomplished, will be found in the 
report of its curator. 

Section of Naval Architecture. — The collection of models of boats and 
vessels now includes between two and three hundred specimens. This 
series has been developed in connection with the fisheries exhibit, and 
is especially complete in representations of American forms, both abo- 
riginal and modern. The series of primitive types is particularly full, 
and the collection, which will be installed in the room adjoining the 
fisheries court, will, when arranged upon the evolutionary plan, be 
thoroughly unique. Of that most primitive of types, the skin boat, the 
Museum now possesses five examples, the bull-boat of the Haidatsa 
Indians, and four others obtained during the summer, namely, the cora- 
cle of the Ganges, gift of the Government of India; the Irish curragh, 
gift of the Marquis of Hamilton ; the Boyne coracle, and the Dee cora- 
cle, obtained from persons at the Fisheries Exhibition. The Govern- 
ment of India contributed also some exceedingly interesting and primi- 
tive forms of dug-outs. A number of other specimens have been ac- 
quired during the year, chiefly by gift. This collection has been placed 
in the charge of Capt. J. W. Collins, of the U. S. Fish Commission, to 
whom very much of its recent expansion is due. 

Section of Keramics. — The specimens of pottery and porcelain from 
Europe and the Orient are not numerous, but include a number of very 
important pieces, such as the two immense Centennial vases given by 
Haviland & Co., a very excellent representation of the products of Doul- 
ton's Lambeth pottery, and a large number of decorated tiles exhibited 
by Minton & Co., and Moore, Maw & Co., at the Philadelphia Exhibi- 
tion. During the year the Museum has received from the French Gov- 
ernment a gift of seventy -five specimens from the Manufacture Nationale 



EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 179 

de Sevres. This is a technological display, including the materials, im- 
plements, and products used in this establishment. There has also been 
received a very valuable vase from the same place decorated in gold and 
colors by F. de Courcy, the gift of L. Straus & Son, of New York, im- 
porters. 

Mr. W. H. Holmes has been detailed by the Director of the Bureau of 
Ethnology of the Smithsonian Institution to prepare a report upon 
American aboriginal pottery, and the entire collections of the Museum 
have been placed in his hands for that purpose, and are now concen- 
trated in the northwest court, where cases are already prepared for 
their reception, which will be occupied as soon as the interior fittings 
are decided upon. This collection is wonderfully rich, and, after its 
arrangement has been completed, will be one of the most impressive in 
the whole Museum. It has been increased during the year by a number 
of important contributions, among which may be mentioned especially 
a gift of 100 pieces of Peruvian pottery from Mr. W. W. Evans, of New 
Eochelle, N. Y. 

Section of Costumes.— Mr. J. K. Goodrich and Ensign A. P. Nib- 
lack, TJ. S. N., have rendered efficient service in the work of assorting 
and preparing labels for the general collections of costumes, imple- 
ments, &c. The wealth of the Musenm in articles of costume derived 
from the North American aborigines is very great, as also in all classes 
of implements and other articles which usually make up the bulk of 
ethnological collections. The mass of unassorted material is still very 
large, and is being increased every week by the arrival of new accessions. 

The extensive collections of the Bureau of Ethnology from the pue- 
blos of New Mexico and Arizona were transferred to the custody of the 
Museum in November, including numerous specimens of basket-ware, 
pottery, gourds, grinding-stones or mortars, weapons, ceremonial, house- 
hold, agricultural, and industrial implements. In referring to this ma- 
terial I feel it my duty to call attention to the fact that many of these 
specimens have suffered deterioration during the interval between the 
time when they were collected and the time when it became practicable 
for the Museum to assume their custody, as must necessarily be the case 
when perishable objects of wood, grass, wool, and feathers are allowed 
to remain without the protection of dust- and insect-tight cases. Very 
many of them, too, suffered damage in the necessarily rough carriage 
on pack-mules from the remote regions where they were collected to the 
lines of railroad transportation, and consequently are by no means so 
beautiful and well preserved as they would appear to be from the illus- 
trations of them published in the reports of the Bureau of Ethnology, 
which represent them in their best condition as seen in the hands of their 
original owners by the persons who gathered them. 



180 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Ensign A. P. Niblack has furnished the following list of the most 
valuable accessions: 

Among the most important collections made by employe's of the Government in con- 
nection with their regular work under other branches, and which were paid for out of 
the fund previously alluded to, may be mentioned — 

A collection from William J. Fisher, the Coast Survey tidal observer on Kadiak Isl- 
and, Alaska, who made several trips on the peninsula and mainland. It embraces 
about 100 specimens, the most interesting being several heavy elaborate bead- work 
head-dresses, some of them weighing as much as 2J pounds. 

The collections made by the U. S. Signal Service observers are as follows : — 

1. One by C. L. McKay, from in and around Bristol Bay, north of the Aliaska Pen- 
insula, from the Nushagag-mut and Ugulmut Eskimos of that region — about 45 speci- 
mens in all, including a full outfit for a Beluga-whale hunter, which was exhibited 
in London last year. This outfit includes harpoons, lines, buoys, extra heads, killing 
lances, &c. A second collection of about 50 or 60 specimens, consisting of household 
utensils and articles of personal adornment, were received after the death of McKay. 
He was drowned in April, 1883, while out in a kaiak in Nushagak river in bad 
weather. 

2. One by J. J. McLean, from around Sitka, wh ich had been pretty well worked up 
by other collectors. Besides the usual lot of wooden carvings, kantags, or wooden 
dishes, &c, there are some fine specimens of native wicker and basket work in the 
collection made from a species of grass, Iris tenax. 

3. A kaiak, with complete fittings, from Greenland, deposited by the Chief Signal 
Officer of the Army. It was exhibited iu London. 

4. The Point Barrow collection which was brought down when the expedition re- 
turned recently. The collection is a good one and embraces over 700 specimens. Mr. 
Mui'dock is now working up the collection, and I will not anticipate his report. Part 
of the earlier collection which came down on the Corwin went to London to the 
Fisheries Exhibit. 

5. Mr. Stejneger, of the Signal Service, made a small collection from the Aleuts on 
Bering Island, Commander Group (off the coast of Kamschatka). There are some 
interesting models of fox and bear traps and boats, some seal-skin costumes worn in 
their native dances, besides some accessions of costumes peculiar to the Aleuts. 

6. A collection coming more properly under 1884 was received several weeks since 
from L. M. Turner, of the Signal Service, from the Eskimos of Ungava Bay, New Lab- 
rador. It is a fine one, and embraces over 450 specimens. The articles have not the 
oily, used look that most Eskimo implements have, which indicates that other collect- 
ors have been among them recently, although a great many specimens are models of 
traps, snow-shoes, tobogans, and spears, and are necessarily new. There are some 
large tobogans and snow-shoes of a peculiar pattern. The costumes are remarkably 
handsome, and show the effects of contact with civilization. 

A second collection from Fisher, made in the Aleutian Archipelago and Aliaska Pen- 
insula, has just been received. It consists of about 120 specimens of costumes, Aleu- 
tian heads, household utensils, accessories of costume, &c. 

Among the small purchased collections may be mentioned, a Zufii sacred blanket, 
100 Peruvian water-bottles, or huacas, and some shoes, hats, dishes, baskets, &c, from 
the La Costa Indians of South California, woven of mescal fiber and palm leaves. 

(1.) Among the principal donations are 40 musical instruments supplemental to the 
set of American musical instruments, all presented by Mr. J. Howard Foote, of 31 
Maiden Lane, New York. 

(2.) The original Catlin collection of Indian portraits, &c, p ainted by him during 
his eight years amongst the 48 tribes, of which he has handed down to us these most 
raluable ethnological records. There are about 500 in the collection, which Mrs. Har- 
rison, of Philadelphia, has so generously presented to the Institution. 



KEPORT 'ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 181 

(3.) At the close of the Boston Exhibition, recently, some 50 musical instruments, 
numerous clay figures, and various other specimens were presented to the Institution 
by Sourindro Mohun Tagore, rajah of one of the provinces of India and president of 
the Bengal music school. The musical instruments are accompanied by full notes, 
and the Museum is taking steps to obtain a supplemental collection to complete the 
series. These objects were installed a few days since and are now on exhibition. 

Among the principal exchange collections are — 

(1st.) Some miscellaneous weapons from Polynesia and South America, obtained at 
the Fisheries Exhibition. 

(2d. ) Some 16 musical instruments and accessories, from Tiflis, in the Caucasus, ob- 
tained through Mr. Englemann, of Saint Louis. 

(3d.) About 40 specimens from the Leipzig Museum, consisting of knives, bows, ar- 
rows, baskets, mate, &c, from Africa, particularly the Loango coast, and Gaboon 
River, on the west coast. The admirable native steel implements are well illustrated. 
This collection, combined with a few stray or miscellaneous articles and a small num- 
ber given by Rev. Dr. Gurley, constitutes but a meager African ethnological exhibit. 

The Museum has just sent to the Trocadero, at Paris, an ethnological collection, se- 
lected from the material in its possession, and doubtless their exchange will embrace 
some additions to the above. 

Mr. J. G. Swan, in addition to the regular collections which he sends in from time 
to time, last summer made a special trip for tbe Smithsonian Institution to the Queen 
Charlotte Islands, B. C, and the results have just been received. 

In the early part of the year he sent in some photographs and about 100 specimens, 
supplemental to his series illustrating the fisheries of the Indians in and around Cape 
Flattery, Washington Territory. The complete collections went to London. 

In the trip referred to above, he started from Masset Sound, N. of Graham Island, and 
coasted around the west side ; then through Skidegate Channel to the southeast coast ; 
then home to Victoria. Now that he has partially carried out his long-cheri6hed de- 
sire, it is to be hoped that his forthcoming notes will prove as valuable as those 
previously published. A better kuowledge of the Haidah totems and toteinic carv- 
ings is desired. The collection is rich in masks, wood carvings, ladles, ancient stone 
implements, robes, clubs, shamans' wands, ceremonial bows, whistles, rattles, fishing 
gear, &c, but particularly So in the slate carvings, of which he sends 30 specimens — 
dishes, boxes, and models of totem posts. There was already on hand a sufficient 
number of specimens to illustrate the Haidah wood carvings and working in silver, 
but the additions to the slate carvings have made it appear desirable to install the 
latter as a monographic collection, illustrating this art, which alone places the Hai- 
dahs at the head of the Indians of the northwest coast. 

The Catlin collection of Indian paintings, presented in 1881 by Mrs. 
Joseph Harrison, of Philadelphia, have been unpacked and placed on 
exhibition in the lecture-room. The value of this collection is almost 
inestimable, consisting, as it does, of over 600 paintings made by Catlin 
previous to 1840 in various parts of the western United States, Mexico, 
and British North America, and representing members of what were 
then considered to be forty-eight distinct tribes. About one-half of the 
figures are portraits, while the others represent ceremonies, games, and 
hunting scenes. It was claimed by Mr. Catlin that over 3,000 figures 
are represented in these paintings, and they are of the greatest value 
as contemporary delineations of costume in addition to their importance 
as portraits of the various types of Indian before they had become 
changed by contact with the white man. This collection, which con- 



182 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

sists of the original paintings made by Catlin in the field, is quite dis- 
tinct from the one exhibited in the Smithsonian building many years 
ago, and is in excellent condition, notwithstanding the fact that it has 
been stored in a warehouse in Philadelphia for fifteen or twenty years. 

The collection of musical instruments is deserving of mention, since 
it is, up to the present time, the only one, excepting the fisheries collec- 
tion, which has been thoroughly arranged and labeled in accordance 
with the accepted plan of installation. This material has been con- 
siderably extended during the year by gift of modern European instru- 
ments from Mr. J. Howard Foote, of New York City ; an exchange col- 
lection of Caucasian instruments from Dr. George J. Engelmann, of Saint 
Louis; the gift from the Eajah Sourindro Mohun Tagore, of Madras, of 
a series of 80 instruments from Hindoostan, exhibited at the Foreign 
Exhibition in Boston. The thanks of the Museum are due Col. C. B. 
Norton for his friendly offices in securing for the Museum this valuable 
donation. 

Another important accession to this department has been the contri- 
bution by Mr. L. Prang, of Boston, of a series of specimens illustrating 
the history and methods of lithography in all its branches. These were 
selected, arranged, and labeled by Mr. S. R. Koehler, of Roxbury, Mass., 
who has in preparation a hand-book, to be printed by the Museum, and 
to accompany the collection. Rev. C. H. A. Dall, of Calcutta, has con- 
tributed a considerable collection of foods, textiles, and other substances 
from India. 

A most interesting and rare accession to the Museum during the year 
is that of a piece of antique Roman mosaic, which formed a part of the 
floor of the temple of Astarte, and which was secured by Sir Richard 
Wood, British consul-general at Tunis, exhibited at the Centennial Ex- 
hibition, Philadelphia, 1876, in the collection of his Highness the Bey of 
Tunis, and presented to the Museum by Sir Richard Wood, at the in- 
stance of GL H. Heap, esq., United States consul to Tunis. This speci- 
men has been placed on exhibition, after having been carefully repaired 
and mounted under glass by Mr. E. H. Hawley. 

Section of Foods and Textiles.— The Museum is very rich in the textile 
products and food substances of tbe North American aborigines and of 
a number of foreign countries, acquired at the close of the Philadelphia 
Exhibition. Prof. W. O. Atwater, of the Wesleyan University, Mid- 
dletown, Conn., has been acting as honorary curator of the section of 
foods, and has carried on extensive operations in the analysis of food 
products for the benefit of this collection and of the Fish Commission. 
Mr. Romyn Hitchcock, of New York, an experienced microscopist and 
chemist, has recently been designated acting curator of the department 
of textiles and acting assistant curator of the department of foods. 
The work of preliminary arrangement has been rapidly pushed forward. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 183 

These departments are full of interest, and that of foods especially, as 
has been shown by the experience of the Bethnal Green Museum, in 
London, may be made one of the most instructive to the public. 

II. Department of Races of Men. 

The experience of the past year has impressed upon us more strongly 
than ever before the importance of the organization of this department, 
which was provided for in the original plan of classification, but which, 
owing to lack of mouey, has not yet been organized. It is hoped that 
during the coming year it may be possible to appoint a skillful ethnol- 
ogist to this curatorship. The department of arts and industries is 
now overburdened with material which cannot properly be cared for, 
owing quite as much to the lack of knowledge and skill on the part of 
its officers as to the inadequacy of the numbers of the staff employed. 

III. Department of Antiquities. 

The department of prehistoric antiquities, under the charge of Dr. 
Charles Bau, has advanced with its usual steps of progress during the 
year. The present somewhat unsettled condition of the upper main 
hall of the Smithsonian building, in which these collections are stored, 
is due to the fact that the arts and industries col lections, formerly exhib- 
ited here, have been only in part removed, owing to the lack of exhibition 
cases in the new building. An exceedingly important addition to this 
department, which, on account of its size, has been installed in the 
Museum, is the Lorillard collection of Central American antiquities, 
consisting of a series of forty eight casts of wall sculptures and picture- 
writings, made in Mexico aud Yucatan, by M. Desire Charnay, at the 
expense of Mr. Pierre Lorillard, of New York. This collection, of which 
a duplicate is deposited in the Trocadero Museum in Paris, was for- 
warded from that city in May, and set up in the most skillful and 
artistic manner by M. Barbiei, from the Trocadero Museum. The Mu- 
seum is greatly indebted to Mr. Allen Thorndike Eice, editor of the 
North American Eeview, who, at Mr. Lorillard's request, acted as di- 
rector of the Charnay expedition, and by whose advice its results were 
deposited in Washington. 

In the same gallery with the Lorillard collection has been installed a 
considerable number of monolithic statues from Yucatan, Costa Eica, 
and Nicaragua, which have been for some time in the possession of the 
Museum, but not exhibited until recently on account of a lack of room ; 
also the Syrian sarcophagus for many years exhibited in front of the 
Smithsonian building, and a number of casts of prehistoric statuary 
from Egypt and elsewhere. 

A large collection from the mounds of the United States has been 
transferred by the Bureau of Ethnology. This collection has been 
made under the direction of Prof. Cyrus Thomas in important localities 



184 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

from Dakota Territory to Florida, and from Nevada to the New England 
States, and forms the basis of his reports to the Bureau of Ethnology. 
This collection of aboriginal remains embraces skulls, bones, celts, frag- 
ments of pottery and walls of dwellings, shells, copper and iron imple- 
ments, flints, flakes, pipes, arrow-heads, perforated tablets, stone disks, 
ceremonial stones, &c. The number of specimens estimated by Pro- 
fessor Thomas in 1883 was 3,544. A small lot of quartz celts from 
Madras was also received from the same bureau. 

DIVISION OF ZOOLOGY. 
IV. Department of Mammals. 

The accessions of the year have been numerous and important, and 
are discussed in full in the report of the curator, Mr. F. W. True. The 
most noteworthy, perhaps, are various species of cetaceans, hitherto 
unknown in American waters, obtained through the co-operation of the 
U. S. Life-Saving Service ; and the collection of Greenland seals, ob- 
tained for the Museum by Dr. C. Hart Merriam during his trip on a New- 
foundland sealing steamer. Dr. Stejneger's magnificent collection of 
Ehytina bones from Siberia have been received mainly during the year, 
and by efforts in various directions the Museum series of Sirenians has 
now been completed. Mr. Hornaday's group of Bornean Orangs has 
been placed on exhibition in the mammal gallery ; also several other pro- 
ducts of the skill of the Museum taxidermist, by which the appearance 
of this collection has been greatly improved. In this connection may be 
also mentioned the gift by Mr. Edward Kemeys, the sculptor, of the 
original model of his bronze figure, " The Still Hunt," and a large num- 
ber of working models of various species of North American mammals 
which are of great interest to the student of art as well as to the mamal- 
ogist and the taxidermist. The curator of mammals has devoted a con- 
siderable portion of his time during the year to the reorganization of the 
collection of skeletons, which is exceedingly rich in North American 
material. The cases for their reception not having been finished, the 
mounted preparations still remain in the Smithsonian building. The 
articulated skeletons have all been systematically arranged in the oste- 
ological gallery. It is but fair to the curator to state that, owing to his 
appointment as acting assistant director during the absence of the as- 
sistant director in Europe for six months of the year, the work of the 
department was necessarily interrupted. 

The number of specimens added during the year was 365 ; 260 of which 
were skins and 105 osteological specimens. The total number of speci- 
mens now in the custody of the curator is estimated at 8,663. In his 
report several important suggestions are made, all of which I would 
recommend for adoption. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 185 

V. Department of Birds. 

In the department of birds, under the care of Mr. Bobert Bidgway, 
the work of the year has necessarily been confined to the laboratory, all 
the space in the ornithological galleries outside of the cases having been 
occupied by the offices of the Smithsonian Institution during the re-con- 
struction of the eastern end of the bnilding. There has been, however, 
very much important work accomplished in the rearrangement of the 
study series, and valuable collections have been received, especially 
from Dr. Stejneger, Mr. Ridgway, Mr. Nutting, Captain Bendire, and 
Mr. Belding. 

The total number of specimens in the custody of the curator is esti- 
mated at 47,246, of which 6,000 are on exhibition, 13,000 are duplicates, 
and 28,246 are in the reserved skin series. 

VI. Department of Reptiles and Batrachians. 

Under charge of Dr. H. C. Yarrow, honorary curator, the usual ad- 
ministrative work has been accomplished, and an annotated catalogue 
of the American specimens belonging to the Museum has been pub- 
lished. 

A considerable number of species lacking in the Museum series has 
been added during the year, chiefly by B. W. Shufeldt, Mr. George 
Shoemaker, Mr. Bobert Bidgway, Col. Nicholas Pike, Mr. S. Belding, and 
Mr. G. W. Mamorly, and the work of assorting and arranging the col- 
lections of exotic reptiles has been pushed nearly to completion. No 
exhibition space has as yet been assigned to this department. 

VII. Department of Fishes. 

This department is perhaps one of the most unmanageable in the 
Museum, its material being for the most part alcoholic. From 1865, 
when it was thoroughly disorganized by the fire in the Smithsonian 
building, up to 1878, this department was without a curator, though 
subsequently to 1881 the bulk of the collection was largely increased 
every year by the work of the U. S. Fish Commission. For two years 
Dr. Tarleton H. Bean, the curator, assisted by Messrs. Parker, Dresel, 
Miner, and Bean, has been engaged in rearranging the entire material 
and preparing a card catalogue, a task which has been doubly difficult 
owing to the lack of sufficient room in which to work. The collection 
is, however, now very well under control, and several thousand bottles 
have been set aside for the exhibition series. From June to October 
of this year Dr. Bean was detailed for special service in connection with 
the International Fisheries Exhibition, and devoted a considerable por- 
tion of this period to the study of the ichthyological collections in Lon- 
don, Paris, Genoa, Vienna, Berlin, and Liverpool, establishing addi- 
tional relations of exchange in those cities. This department has been, 
as usual, enriched by the work of the U. S. Fish Commission, whereby 



186 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSLUM. 

many new species and genera have been added to the fauna of North 
America. 

The curator estimates the number of specimens in his department at 
65,000, of which 20,000 are on exhibition and 10,000 are duplicates, the 
remainder being held in the study series. 

VIII. Department of Molluslcs. 

This department continues under the charge of Mr. William H. Dall, 
as honorary curator, Mr. It. E. C. Stearns having acted during a portion 
of the year as non-resident assistant curator. The collection has been 
greatly enriched by the acquisition of Mr. Stearns' cabinet of American 
mollusks and the very rich collections of J. Gwyn Jeffreys, esq., F. G. S. 
&c, of London. Lieut. Francis Winslow, U. S. N., who was detailed to 
duty at the Smithsonian Institution, has rendered important service to 
this department during the year in developing and classifying the col- 
lection of oysters and other economic mollusca for the London Fisheries 
Exhibition, and later in the year assisting in the administration of the 
general collections. 

It is earnestly recommended that the staff of this department be in- 
creased by the appointment of at least one person who will be able to 
give his whole time to the care of the material. As is shown in the an- 
nual report of the curator, serious damages have resulted every year to 
some portions of the collections, owing to the lack of constant care, 
which he, being fully occupied with other duties in a remote part of the 
city, could not, of course, be expected to give. 

IX. Department of Insects. 

The Museum is still unfortunately without a collection of entomolog- 
ical specimens worthy of the name, the valuable specimens accumulated 
by the Government service having years ago suffered destruction in the 
hands of the entomologists of the Department of Agriculture, with whom 
they were deposited. Prof. C. V. Riley, who is acting as honorary cura 
tor of this department, has deposited his extensive cabinet of American 
insects in the Museum, and it is hoped that in time this may become the 
property of the United States. In the mean time all possible efforts to 
keep up a nominal department of insects are being made through the em- 
ployment for a few months in each year of an assistant to Professor Riley. 

X, XI, XII. Department of Marine Invertebrates. 

The collections of crustaceans, radiates, worms, and protozoans are in 
charge of Mr. Richard Rathbun, being grouped together under the gen- 
eral heading of " marine invertebrates." The west hall of the Smith- 
sonian building has been assigned to this department for exhibition 
purposes, but is still occupied in large part by property belonging to 
other departments, so that the curator has had but little opportunity 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 187 

for perfecting the exhibition series. Very extensive progress, however, 
has been made during the year by the curator, with the assistance of 
Ensign W. E. Safford, Ensign C. S. McClain, and Mr. li. S. Tarr, in the 
way of assorting the material already on hand and the distribution of 
duplicates. A card catalogue of the department is nearly completed, and 
a number of important exchanges with several European museums have 
been made during the year, and valuable collections have been received 
from the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., from 
Prof. H. E. Webster, from Mr. Edward Potts, of Philadelphia, and from 
Messrs. McKesson & Bobbins, New York. Professor Verrill, who is in 
charge of the marine research work of the Fish Commission in New 
England waters, has delivered to the Museum considerable quantities 
of material, upon which investigations have been completed. Important 
collections have also been received from the Fish Commission steamer 
"Albatross." Interesting accessions to this department have been a 
series of foraminifera from the deep sea, collected by the "Challenger" 
expedition, and presented by Prof. William B. Carpenter, being the types 
of his official report. 

Extensive collections of echinoids and crawfishes have been received 
from the Museum of Comparative Zoology; of mnrine annelids in alcohol 
from Prof. H. E. Webster ; an exhaustive exhibit of the Florida com- 
mercial sponges, from McKesson & Bobbins; important accessions from 
Alaska, obtained by Dr. Stejneger, Lieutenant Kay, and Mr. John Mur- 
doch; and a series of the edible Crustacea of San Francisco, froin Prof. 
R. E. C. Stearns. 

XIII. Department of Invertebrate Fossils. 

This department is now divided into two sections, Dr. C. A. White, 
honorary curator of the department, retaining charge of all except the 
palaeozoic fossils, which are in the hands of Mr. C. D. Walcott, honorary 
curator of that department. Both Dr. White and Mr. Walcott are offi- 
cers of the U. S. Geological Survey, and are devoting themselves almost 
exclusively to the re-arrangement of these collections for purposes of 
study and preparation of reports. The two laboratories attached to 
these departments have been fitted up as thoroughly as possible, and a 
considerable portion of the specimens are arranged therein. The acces- 
sions have been of great magnitude, and include the extensive gather- 
ings of the various exploring parties of the Geological Survey. 

DIVISION OF BOTANY. 

XIV. Department of recent Plants. 

The collections of recent plants, for many years in the custody of 
Dr. John Torrey, of New York, and afterwards deposited in the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, have been kept in excellent condition by Dr. Vasey, 
curator of the department. The Museum has recently received a very 



188 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

extensive accession of European, Asiatic, and African plants, compos- 
ing the herbarium of the late George Joad, esq., of London, the gift of 
the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew, through Dr. Asa Gray. This col- 
lection is still in the custody of Dr. Gray, who has kindly assumed the 
direction of the work of mounting and labeling. Cases have been pre- 
pared for its reception in the laboratory of the curator of materia medica. 
The exhibit of living aquatic plants, under charge of Dr. Rudolph 
Hessel, superintendent of the Government carp ponds, is assuming con- 
siderable importance. 

XV. Department of Fossil Plants. 

This department is administered by Prof. Lester F. Ward, honorary 
curator, who, like the curators of fossil invertebrates, is an officer of 
the Geological Survey. Additional space has been assigned to the 
laboratory and a large number of storage cases supplied. With the as- 
sistance of Ensigns E. E. Hayden and 0. C. Marsh, U. S. N., the curator 
has accomplished much in reducing the Museum specimens to system- 
atic order. Extensive additions have been made during the summer 
through the explorations of Professor Ward in the West. 

DIVISION OF GEOLOGY. 

XVI. Department of Mineralogy. 

Since the death of Dr. George W. Hawes, curator of this department, 
Mr. W. S. Yeates, aid in the Museum, has had charge of the mineral 
collections, and has nearly completed the task of rearranging and classi- 
fying the material. Prof. F. W. Clarke, chemist of the TJ. S. Geological 
Survey, was appointed honorary curator on December 3. An exhibi- 
tion floor space of 2,000 square feet has been assigned, and show-cases 
are in process of construction. Mr. Joseph Willcox, of Philadelphia, 
has deposited his cabinet of North American minerals, and has placed 
1,000 of the choicest specimens on exhibition. A considerable number 
of acquisitions have been made during the year. The Abert collection 
of minerals, for a long time the property of the Museum, has been un- 
packed and proves to be of great value. During the year, Ensigns H. 
S. Knapp and O. G. Dodge, TJ. S. K, were appointed, and Ensign Wil- 
kinson, U. S. N., re-assigned, to this department. 

XVII. Department of Lithology and Physical Geology. 

The collection of building stones, under the charge of Mr. George P. 
Merrill, assistant, acting as curator, presents each month a more impos- 
ing appearance in the exhibition gallery. The space assigned to it has 
been considerably increased during the year. Owing to the expense of 
preparing the specimens, little has been done towards getting ready for 
exhibition the great hoard of material which lies at present unutilized 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 189 

in the southwest court. The curator of this department has recently 
undertaken the development of the collections in physical geology, but 
has not yet had opportunity to seriously begin work. The laboratory 
has been supplied with some important pieces of apparatus during the 
year, notably a machine for sawing rocks, made by B. T. Jenks, of Mid- 
dleborough, Mass. The saw-blade is simply a thin plate of soft iron, 
which swings back and forth across the stone and is fed with wet emery 
or sand. Besides this, has been furnished a small diamond circular saw 
for cutting thin sections of rock. This was made by Kerr, of Provi- 
dence, R. L, and set up by Mr. Jenks. Ensign J. H. Fillmore, U. S. K, 
is now attached to this department. 

XVIII. Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology. 

Mr. Frederick P. Dewey has been appointed full curator in this de- 
partment. Until within a few weeks nothing had been done towards de- 
veloping the exhibition series, the time of the curator and his assistant 
having been devoted to overhauling and cataloguing a portion of the 
great mass of unassorted metallurgical material acquired by the museum 
at the close of the Philadelphia Exhibition. There is still an immense 
quantity of ores and metallurgical products stored away in the original 
packing boxes within the Museum building, and also in a temporary shed 
attached to the Armory building. This latter was obtained by Mr. 
Thomas Donaldson at the close of the so-called "permanent exhibition" 
on the Centennial grounds in Philadelphia. Work in this department, 
as in that of minerals and lithology, has been very much trammeled by 
the fact that until very recently there have been no full curators in the 
division of geology. This deficiency having now been supplied, the 
work in these three departments is rapidly progressing, and during 1884 
the inorganic collections will undoubtedly begin to assume the import- 
ance which they deserve on account of the wealth of the material already 
in the possession of the Museum. 

DIVISION OF EXPLORATION AND EXPERIMENT. 

XIX. Department of Exploration and Field work. 

Very much has been accomplished in this department ; not, however, 
by the direct efforts of the Museum, whose appropriations cannot be ap- 
plied to this purpose, but through the efforts of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution and its Bureau of Ethnology, the Fish Commission, the Geological 
Survey, and also through the valuable assistance of the U. S. Signal 
Service and the U. S. Navy. Mr. Pierre L. Jouy, of the Museum staff, 
has been for some years in China and Japan, and recently, at the ex- 
pense of the Institution, has been attached to the embassy in Corea, 
where he is making mineralogical and ethnological collections in the 
vicinity of Seoul. Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. K, having volunteered 



190 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

bis services in that country, was detailed by the Navy Department for 
two years' work in studying tbe mineralogy and ethnology of this new 
land. 

XX. Department of Chemistry. 

The work of the chemical laboratory has been carried on in the usual 
manner, and considerable additions have been made to the fittings of 
the laboratory. Mr. Frederick W. Taylor, chemist, has on account of 
illness received five months' leave of absence, and has gone to Colorado. 

Prof. F. W. Clarke, as an officer of the Museum, has, with his assist- 
ant in the Geological Survey, Dr. T. M. Chatard, been allowed the 
use of the chemical laboratory for the investigations connected with 
his official position. Dr. Jerome H. Kidder, U. S. N., of the Fish Com- 
mission, has been allowed the use of the upper laboratory during the 
reconstruction of the Smithsonian building. 

XXI, XXIT. Departments of Experimental Physiology and Vivaria. 

No changes have been made in these departments, their conditions 
being much the same as described in the report for 1882. 



SECTION OF MATERIA MEDICA, DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND INDUSTRIES. 

J. M. Flint, Curator. 

In the establishment of a Museum designe d to illustrate man and 
his environment it is proper that the materials and methods used for 
the prevention and cure of disease should have a place. Medicine, 
like food, clothing, and habitation, has a direct and important relation 
to the welfare, progress, and longevity of man, and the remedial meas- 
ures in use by a people may be as indicative of the degree of their in- 
tellectual development as is the nature of their food, or the character 
of their dwellings, or their social and religious customs. A collection 
of medicinal substances, of medical, surgical, and pharmaceutical in- 
struments and appliances, may not only be instructive to the specialist, 
physician, pharmacist, or anthropologist, but ought also to possess a 
general interest for the public, since none may escape the occasion for 
their use. 

So much in brief explanation of the presence of a materia medica 
exhibit in the TJ. S. National Museum. 

In the comprehensive scheme of Museum classification which has been 
devised, a place for such a collection has been provided in the Division : 
" Ultimate Products and their Utilization." Glass : " Medicine, Surgery, 
Pharmacology, Hygiene," &c. 

For the objects belonging to this class the general term " materia 
medica" has been adopted, extending the common definition to include 
everything, medical or surgical, used in the treatment of disease. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 191 

In determining upon a classification for this department of the Mu- 
seum it was necessary to consider the subject from various points of 
view. 1. The historical, as relating to the origin and progress — the 
evolution of medical and surgical science and art. 2. The ethnographical, 
regarding the medicines and methods peculiar to different races and 
nations. 3. The therapeutical, which considers drugs in relation to 
their effects on the animal economy. 4. The physical, having regard 
to the sources, physical characters, and natural relations of the speci- 
mens. 

The first method is obviously not adapted for a general classification 
of a large collection, but should always be kept in view and may be em- 
phasized, particularly in the development of the section of surgical in- 
struments and appliances. The second may be carried out in part, as 
in separate exhibits of Chinese and Corean medicines and the medicines 
of the North American Indians. The third, though perhaps the most 
instructive method to the student, presents insurmountable difficulties 
in the way of accomplishment. The physiological action of a drug may 
so vary with the dose as to make its assignment to a class purely arbi- 
trary, and the very classification would give a wrong impression as to 
its properties. Moreover, the investigation of many drugs has been so 
limited as to leave their therapeutical qualities in great doubt, so while 
the medical properties, as far as known, should be briefly stated on the 
label for each specimen, yet, they cannot properly be used as a basis of 
classification. 

There remain, then, only the physical relations of drugs to be con- 
sidered, and of these the natural sources from which derived furnish the 
most readily available, and the most comprehensive ground for a classi- 
fication. 

In view of these considerations the following has been adopted : 

Classification and Arrangement of the Materia Medica Collection. 

I. Organic materia medica: (1) Animal products; (2) vegetable prod- 
ucts ; (3) products of fermentation and distillation. 

II. Inorganic materia medica. 

1. The animal products are arranged according to the zoological posi- 
tion of the animal from which the drug is derived, following the usual 
classification, and beginning with the class Mammalia, order Carnivora. 

2. Vegetable products are classified to the botanical affinities of the 
plant furnishing the drug, and the authority followed is that of Bentham 
and Hooker's " Genera Plantarum " for the Phaenogamous plants, and 
Luerssen's "Medicinisch Pharmaceutische Botanik" for the Cry ptogams. 

3. Products of fermentation and distillation include the products of 
the acetous and vinous fermentations, and the derivatives, chloroform, 
ether, &c, as well as distillates, such as carbolic acid, pyroligneous acid, 
&c. This division is not subdivided. 



192 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

4. Inorganic products are arranged according to their fundamental 
elementary constituents, following the classification of the chemical ele- 
ments given in Roscoe and Schorlemmer's " Treatise on Chemistry." 

In each of the four divisions, under each natural order or elementary 
title, are brought together the drugs of that order, and each drug is rep- 
resented in its various natural and commercial varieties and its impor- 
tant preparations. 

The collection as actually presented for study begins with a series 
designed to illustrate the forms in which medicinal substances appear 
in commerce or are prepared for administration by the pharmacist. In 
this series the effort has been made to present representative specimens 
of each class; and what is considered to be of greater importance to at- 
tach thereto labels giving concise and accurate definitions of the classes. 

Following this exhibit of medicinal forms is arranged the general 
collection according to the classification given above, beginning with 
animal products in their zoological order, succeeded by vegetable prod- 
ucts in botanical order, &c. The succession of specimens is from left 
to right and top to bottom of each section of the exhibition cases in 
which the collection is presented. Each order and its limits are indi- 
cated by symbol and name on the case. 

Succeeding the general collection is an exhibit of some of the most 
popular mineral waters. Each of these is shown in the quantity of 10 
liters and with it each of its saline constituents, in the exact weight 
which analysis has shown to be present in that volume of the water ; 
thus representing to the eye the quantity of each constituent salt in- 
gested with a given quantity of water, and furnishing a quantitative 
table, without the use of figures, for comparison of the different min- 
eral waters. 

Finally is presented, as a distinct exhibit, a considerable collection of 
Chinese drugs, which were gathered by the Chinese Imperial Customs 
Commission for the Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia in the year 
1876, and subsequently presented to the United States Government. 

The whole number of specimens, including the Chinese collection, 
registered in the books of this department of the Museum, up to Decem- 
ber 31, 1883, is 4,037. Of these, after rejection of duplicates and uni- 
dentified and injured drugs, there have been classified and placed on 
exhibition 3,240. 

The sources from which they have been obtained are, (1) contribu- 
tions from large commercial houses engaged in the wholesale drug 
trade, notably the firm of W. H. Schieffelin & Co., New York, and gen- 
erously, but less lavishly, Park, Davis & Co., of Detroit ; McKesson & 
Eobbins, of New York ; and Wallace Brothers, of Statesville, N. C. ; (2) 
exchanges with foreign museums, as the Kurrachee, India, the museum 
of the Pharmaceutical Society, London, and the Eoyal Gardens of Kew 
and Calcutta ; (3) collections of cinchona barks, made under direction 
of the English Government from the plantations in India j (4) remains 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 193 

of the drug exhibit of several countries, at the Centennial Exhibition 
at Philadelphia in 1876, which were presented to the United States by 
the authorities of those countries. 

As a whole the collection already represents the principal drugs in 
most of their commercial varieties in present use among the civilized 
people of the world, including most of the new remedies that have 
been lately introduced to the notice of the profession. 

An alphabetical index to the collection has been prepared and printed, 
giving the details of the classification and the position therein of every 
specimen on exhibition. 

The collection of cinchona barks is especially complete, comprising 
specimens of nearly all the natural barks of South America, and every 
variety of the cultivated product from the Government plantations of 
India, with many from Java, Ceylon, Mexico, and Jamaica. 

The India and Jamaica barks are accompanied by herbarium speci- 
mens of the leaf and flower, and in some cases the fruit, of each variety 
of cinchona tree from which the bark is taken. 

For the proper preservation and exhibition of the whole collection 
great care has been taken. Every specimen is inclosed in a clear glass 
bottle or jar, furnished with a well-fitted glass stopper. The bottles 
have been made of uniform shapes and sizes according to the standard 
established for the Museum. Care has been exercised that every speci- 
men should be thoroughly dry before being inclosed, and, if liable to at- 
tacks of insects, has been enveloped in an atmosphere of chloroform by 
introducing into the bottle a small slip of blotting-paper wetted with 
the insecticide. The cases in which the collection is exhibited are of 
Mexican mahogany, 7 feet high and 8^ feet long, with plate-glass doors, 
the door-frames being rabbeted so as to make the cases practically dust- 
proof. The cases contain each four shelves, the lowest 18 inches, and 
the highest 5 feet, from the floor, thus bringing every specimen within 
easy range of vision. Each bottle stands upon a wooden pedestal 4 
inches square and 1 inch high, and to this pedestal is attached the la- 
bel. 

Without doubt the most important duty connected with the installa- 
tion of the collection is the preparation of the labels. Monotonous rows 
of bottles bearing only the name of the drug inclosed would furnish lit- 
tle interest and less of information to the general visitor. Indeed, the 
exhibition of many articles which present no physical peculiarities dis- 
cernible by the naked eye, is only to be justified by the fact that the 
specimen calls attention to and gives support for a label which inter- 
prets it. 

In the preparation of these labels more difficulty has been encoun- 
tered than was expected, chiefly in making choice from the mass of in- 
formation at hand of those facts most important to be presented, that 
could be concentrated into the few lines of type to which the label must 
be restricted, at the same time keeping in mind the popular as well as 
H. Mis. 69 13 



194 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

scientific use of the collection. Such physical characters as are presented 
to the eye by the specimen itself have been in all cases omitted, and 
such facts selected, relating to source, habitat, mode of production, con- 
stituents, medical properties, &c, as seemed to the writer to be of 
greatest public as well as professional interest. Two kinds of labels are 
used : (1.) Generic labels, applicable to series of specimens compris- 
ing natural and commercial varieties, and preparations of given drugs. 
These are not strictly limited as to size, are printed in large type, 
and contain general information relating to the substance in question. 
(2.) Specific labels. These are attached to every specimen, are limited 
in size to 4 inches by H inches, are printed in ordinary clear type, and 
contain the name and synonyms, source, medical properties, dose, and 
other facts that can be considered within the given limits. 

The number of specimens already furnished with printed labels is 575 ; 
copy for 530 labels is ready for the printer. 

Arrangements have been made, or are in progress, by which the nat- 
ural sources of the drugs of commerce may be very fully illustrated. 
Models or stuffed specimens of the animals furnishing substances used 
in medicine may be found in the different sections of the zoological de- 
partment of the Museum ; the chemical elements, ores, &c, in the chem- 
ical and mineralogical departments. For the plants furnishing the veg- 
etable medicinal products a large series of colored plates and photographs 
have been obtained. Upwards of 1,000 medicinal plants can thus be 
illustrated by colored lithographs taken from works on medical botany 
and by photographs now in the possession of this section of the Museum. 
More than half of these are already mounted in swinging frames where 
they are easily accessible to all visiting the Museum. The nucleus of 
an herbarium has already been formed and arrangements are complete 
for its rapid development so soon as the necessary dispositions have been 
made for its care, and exhibition. 

Early in the organization of this section of the Museum effort was 
made to obtain the latest editions of the Pharmacopoeias of all nations, 
in order that from them a list might be compiled of the drugs in prin- 
cipal use among the civilized people of the world. Nearly all the latest 
Pharmacopoeias have been obtained, and, besides furnishing mere lists 
of medicines, they have supplied much interesting material for study 
and comparison. Some of the results of this comparative study have 
been presented in a report to the Surgeon-General of the Navy.* The 
work of comparison has been carried much further, and the attempt is 
being made to prepare a compend which shall contain a full official syn- 
onomy of each of the drugs mentioned in any of these Pharmacopoeias 
and tables giving composition and strength of every preparation. More 
than half of this compilation has already been made, but being consid- 
ered of secondary importance to the work of the collection proper pro- 
gress upon it has been irregular and slow. 

•Report of the Surgeon-General of the Navy for the year 1861, p. 600, "Report on 
the Pharmacopoeias of all Nations." 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. l'J5 

To summarize what has beeu accomplished, it may he said that the 
organization of the materia medica section of the Museum is complete; 
the classification has been established in its details; over 4,000 speci- 
mens have been received, examined, and registered, and most of them 
bottled and arranged according to the classification; the whole collec- 
tion has been provided with temporary labels, and 575 specimens with 
permanent labels, each requiring a study of the specimens and of the 
literature regarding it; illustrations of most of the medical plants have 
been obtained and more than 500 of them mounted and on exhibition; 
a medical herbarium has been commenced and its development assured; 
a complete catalogue of this collection has been made by means of which 
any specimen on exhibition may be readily found, and a considerable 
library of references has been formed; the Pharmacopoeias of nearly all 
nations have been obtained, and half the work of compiling a compend 
of sixteen of them is done. 

In the future development of this section of the Museum a wide field is 
clearly open for interesting and valuable work. The collection as it now 
stands includes samples of the great majority of the drugs found in the 
commerce of the country, as well as many specimens of rare drugs or 
varieties known only to foreign medical practice. It remains now to 
make use of the prestige of the scientific institution with which the Mu- 
seum is connected, and of the ready means at the disposal of the Na- 
tional Government, through its naval and consular services, supple- 
mented by personal correspondence with importers and their agents, 
and foreign scientists and travelers, to gather materials and information 
which shall be rare and valuable. There is still much to be learned re- 
gardingthe source and mode of production of many of our standard drugs, 
and new remedies of doubtful origin are constantly appearing in the 
market. For the increase of our knowledge of these substances, for the 
investigation of these questions of doubt, no more favorable conditions 
can be conceived than those here existing, namely, a great Museum un- 
der the patronage of the nation, associated with a scientific institution 
of world-wide renown, having correspondence with all parts of the 
world, and friendly relations with scientific establishments in all coun- 
tries. 



196 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



SECTIONS OF FOODS AND TEXTILE INDUSTRIES, DEPARTMENT OF ARTS 

AND INDUSTRIES. 

Eomyn Hitchcock, Curator. 

Owing to the short time I have been connected with the Museum, it 
is not possible to know precisely what donations have been received 
during the year, since they are recorded in different catalogues, the 
special catalogues of the section having been opened in November. So 
far as I am able to learn however there have been no donations to the 
textile collection of special importance during the year, unless some 
valuable specimens promised by certain parties in London have been 
received by Mr. Earll, and are on the way with the other collections. 

In the collection of foods, I am likewise at a loss to know just what 
has been received during the year. Since November however I have 
a perfect record of all that has come in, and among other donations one 
fine set of specimens in duplicate, illustrative of the manufacture of co- 
coa and chocolate, is worthy of especial mention. This set was received 
from Messrs. Cadbury Brothers, of Brown ville, near Birmingham, Eng- 
land. There are 18 different specimens, embracing cocoa pods, cocoai 
beans from seven different localities, and specimens showing the va- 
rious stages of the manufacture of cocoas and chocolates. Labels for 
this collection have been written, and are ready to be printed. 

Messrs. Burgoyne, Burbidges & Co., wholesale druggists of London, 
have also presented G specimens of pure vegetable colors used in con- 
fectionery. 

Mr. Charles B. Orcutt has presented 3 specimens of Indian foods 
from California, among which is a fine cake of "mesquite" meal. 

A number of specimens of articles of food used in England have been 
added to the collection by purchase. 

The work of arranging the food collections has been done mainly by 
Mr. Towne, who has been almost steadily engaged upon the collection 
of Indian foods for some time past. This part of the work should be 
completed in a short time, when it will be possible to label and classify 
the specimens. 

My own work in installation has been mostly confined to the textiles, 
and particularly directed to exhibiting the different varieties of fibers. 

It is proposed to separate all the textile material, as the work of ar- 
rangement progresses, into three parts : (1) For exhibition, (2) for study 
series, and (3) for exchanges. This plan has been carried out thus far ; 
but no attempt has yet been made at a systematic classification of the 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 197 

specimens in either series, for the reason that not a sufficient number 
of specimens is yet in the cases to make it either practicable or useful. 

There are on exhibition in the collection of fibers ami textiles 318 
specimens (including 72 specimens of cotton), and 37 specimens of furs. 
In addition to these there are a number of old forms of spinning and 
weaving machinery placed on top of the cases and on the floor, awaiting 
cases which are to be made for them. 

It is impossible to state the number of specimens now in the collec 
tion which will be placed in the series for study or among the dupli- 
cates. All of the material would require to be looked over and classi- 
fied, which would require weeks of labor to do in a proper manner be- 
fore the number could be even approximately known. 

In the collection of foods there are, by actual count, 742 specimens 
in the cases. Besides these there are 270 specimens of seeds, barks, 
and other unclassified material, 74 paints and pigments used by the 
hndiaus, and 158 specimens of oils, making a total of 1,244. It is prob- 
able that this number will be materially reduced when the collections 
are properly arranged and duplicates or imperfectly known materials 
are taken out. 

Among the duplicates there are 14 different specimens of foods from 
Siam, in most cases 5 or C specimens of each kind, now ready to be 
exchanged, 27 of Chinese foods, 33 Indian foods, and 10 miscellaneous 
samples. 

There are also 106 specimens of different oils in the duplicate series, 
of which there are, in many instances, several duplicates. 

To conduct the work of this section in a creditable manner, a certain 
number of books of reference are absolutely required. The only work 
that can be done without books is preparing specimens for exhibition, 
and even this, without a system of classification, is only practicable to 
a limited extent. 

The food collections will be arranged upon the scheme worked out 
by yourself. The system for textiles requires much further study. The 
routine work of preparing the specimens now in the Museum demands 
from the acting Curator an expenditure of time which might be used to 
much better advantage for the Museum, if an assistant or preparator 
were appointed to work in the textiles division. It would then be pos- 
sible to devote more time to study, and to the perfection of the classifi- 
cation* the preparation of labels, and to what is, in fact, the most im- 
portant part of the Curator's duties. 

The exhibition of a series of food stuffs becomes of value only when 
the specimens are named and explained. The same may be said of 

ery other set of specimens, but to write labels requires more knowl- 
edge than any person can acquire without access to books of reference. 
In the textile division, however, a kind of knowledge is required which 
cannot be acquired from books alone. It would be a great advantage 



198 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

to the section if the acting curator could spend a short time visiting 
some of the large spinning and weaving establishments to become prac- 
tically familiar with the processes. 

Although it is very desirable that the microscope should be brought 
into use in the study and identification of the fibers and fabrics, foods 
and adulterants, the opportunities for such examinations are extremely 
limited at present. They are certainly important, and the credit of the 
Museum demands that its officers should be competent to treat any 
question of importance that is presented intelligently, and with ade- 
quate knowledge of the work and methods of others. To do this re- 
quires much study and experimenting. At present the acting Curator 
in this section is uncertain whether it would be better to devote his 
time principally to study and investigation, or to the display of speci- 
mens without order or reason. In the one case the benefits would be 
seen in the future, in the other the activity of the section would be seen 
now. The appointment of an assistant, as suggested, would solve the 
difficulty in the most satisfactory way by permitting the work of in- 
stallation to go on steadily while the other work is progressing. 

There is one part of the work of this section that has not received 
any attention as yet, but which can doubtless be begun early in the 
year, as soon as the material now being worked up in the food collec- 
tion is out of the way. This is the arranging of series illustrative of the 
process of nutrition, showing the relative value of foods, drinks, etc. ; 
and various other illustrative collections which have already been men- 
tioned in a previous communication. 

It is also desirable that specimens showing the process of spinning 
and weaving should be obtained for the textiles division, and these can 
doubtless be readily obtained by a personal visit to the mills. 

It is with no little diffidence that the needs of this section are set 
forth thus at length, knowing the personal interest you have manifested 
in its progress and development, and your willingness to advance its 
interests by every possible means. Nevertheless, since you have asked 
for " recommendations and remarks," it has seemed a proper occasion to 
indicate what the experience of two months has clearly shown to be 
essential needs for the proper conduct of the work of the section. 



DEPARTMENT OF ANTIQUITIES. 

Charles Eau, Curator. 

The classifying and preparing for exhibition of the collections received 
has been continued in accordance with the plan indicated in my annual 
report for 1882. The general collection of typical objects in the Museum 
is now so large, that more space can be given to special collections, and 
when enough specimens have been received from one locality to fill one 
or more trays, they are separately exhibited. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 
Character of routine work. 



199 



The following is a list of special collections which have been placed 
on exhibition during the year: 



Where from. 


By whom sent. 


Where from. 


By whom sent. 


Wisconsin 

New York 

Alabama 

Kentucky 

Ohio....' 


J. E. Gere. 
Ira Van Ness. 
C. L. Herrick. 
W. T. Knott. 
J. S. Robinson. 
A. C. Black. 
1 J. M. Roberts. 
Braiuerd Mitchell. 
C.S. Grigsby. 
Dr. E. R. Reynolds. 
J. A. D. Stephenson. 
Frank Burns. 


Arkansas 

Florida 

Illinois 

Pennsylvania .. 

Do 

Ohio 


J. E. Adcox. 

G. B. Frazar. 

E. C. Brown. 

W.C.Brown. 

F.G.Galbraith. 

Dr. A. M. H. DeHaas. 


Louisiana 


Massachusetts.. 

Ometepee Isl- 
and, Lake Ni- 
caragua 

India 


U. S. Fish Commission ; 
W. Nye, jr. 

C. C. Nutting. 

J. H. Rivett-Carnac. 


Tennessee 

Virginia 

North Carolina . 
Alabama 



A series of Xorth American stone and bone weapons and implements 
in their original shafts and handles has been carefully arranged for per- 
manent exhibition. Visitors frequently make inquiries concerning the 
hafting of stone implements, and this series has been brought together 
for the purpose of illustration. 

A collection of 116 Xorth American stone relics was made to be sent 
to the Museum at Havre, France, in exchange for flint objects received 
from that Museum. 

A collection of 2sorth American relics and casts, embracing 358 objects, 
was made for the American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Mass. 
This collection is given in exchange for the well-known "Kentucky 
mummy." 

One thousand three hundred and twenty-nine specimens of stone im- 
plements, &c, collected under the auspices of the Bureau of Ethnology 
during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1883, were transferred from the 
new Museum to the Smithsonian building. They have been placed tem- 
porarily under table-cases, but will be assorted and exhibited early this 
year. 

Four boxes containing Californian specimens collected during the 
Wheeler survey were received in this department, but could not be 
opened for want of time. 

Researches prosecuted upon material belonging to tlie Department. 

The composition of my work on prehistoric fishing necessitated a 
careful study of all articles bearing on fishing. Dr. J. F. Bransford, 
U. S. N"., was occupied during a part of the year in writing an account 
of his latest explorations in Central America, and describing the speci- 
mens there collected. Mr. W. H. Holmes, of the Bureau of Ethnology, 
has, for literary purposes, examined the shell objects and ceramic speci- 
mens in this department. 



200 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

I have devoted all my tirae not spent in routine work to ray publica- 
tion on fishing, and have therefore not composed smaller articles, ex- 
cepting one on " Indian Stone Graves," which appeared in the American 
Naturalist for February, 1883, pp. 130-134. 

Present state of the collection. 

XUMBER OF SPECIMENS. 

1. In reserve series 8, 043 

2. On exhibition 24, 731 

3. Duplicates 7, 717 

4. Total 40, 491 

ACCESSIONS DURING THE YEAR 1883. 

1. Exhibition 3, 514 

2. Eeserve or study series 055 

3. Duplicates 1, 170 

4. Total 5, 339 

Important additions during 18S3. 

B. E. C. Stearns. Berkeley, Alameda County, California. — Collection of 
pestles, mortars, and baking-stones from Yuba, Nevada, Placer, and 
Alameda Counties, Cahfornia. 

James Harrington, City of Mexico.— Three stone sculptures, one (mon- 
key-shaped) from Tamiahua, and the others (human figures) from Tain- 
pico, Mexico. Very fine specimens, and a valuable addition to the col- 
lection of Mexican antiquities. 

J.H. Bivett-Camac, Allahabad, India, — Collection of nuclei and flakes 
of flint and chalcedony, and chipped and polished celts, from the Banda 
district, Northwest Provinces of India. Two of the celts were sent 
through Dr. E. Meyer, Wilkesbarre, Pa. 

Albert I. Phelps, Damariscotta, Lincoln County, Maine. — Collection of 
flint flakes, rude implements, arrow-heads, bone implements, fragments 
of pottery, &c, from shell-heaps in Lincoln County. 

U. S. Fish Commission, assisted by Willard Nye, jr. — Collection of rude 
implements, cutting tools, perforators, scrapers, arrow-heads, sinkers, 
bone implements, fragments of pottery, &c, from Menemsha Pond and 
Soaring Brook, Martha's Vineyard, and from Nonamesset Island, and 
Wood's Holl, Massachusetts. This collection is of special interest, as 
it shows the stages in the manufacture of stone implements in those 
localities. 

J. E. Gere, Biceville, Washington County, Wisconsin. — Collection from 
the vicinity of Biceville: Bude and leaf-shaped implements, cutting 
tools, scrapers, arrow- aud spear-heads, grooved axes, and a copper 
spear-head or knife. In this collection are some fine types of arrow 
and spear-heads, and the grooved axes exhibit unusual forms. The 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 201 

copper spear-head (or knife) is a valuable addition to the scries of objects 
of that metal thus far acquired. 

August Shmcdtie, Washington, D. C. — A stoue sinker (notched), from 
a cave near Santo Domingo, Isthmus of Tehuantepec, Mexico. 

Dr. D. S. Kellogg, Plattsburg, Clinton County, Xeic York. — Collection 
of rude scrapers, leaf-shaped implements, arrow-heads, fragments of 
pottery, and of bones of birds and quadrupeds, from old refuse heaps 
at Plattsburg. The implements and pottery show nearly the same de- 
gree of skill in workmanship as those from the shell-heaps ou the north- 
ern Atlantic coast. The animal bones have been identified as belong- 
ing to the deer (Cervus virginianvs), and to some carnivore, probably 
the bear ( Ursus americanus). 

C. L. Uerrick, Minneapolis, Minn. — Collection of hammer-stones, chips, 
and flakes of flint, chipped celts, arrow and spear-heads, shells and frag- 
ments of pottery, from a shell-heap on the Tennessee River, near Deca- 
tur, Ala. 

C. S. Grigsby, Fayetterille, Lincoln County, Tennessee. — The collections 
sent at different times during the past year comprise : Eude and leaf- 
shaped implements, scraj)ers, cutting-tools, perforators, arrow and spear- 
heads, hammer-stones, pitted stones, chipped and polished celts, grooved 
axes, discoidal stones, gaming discs (?), a pierced ceremonial weapon, 
and pierced tablets, all from the vicinity of Fayetteville. Representa- 
tive specimens of each class of objects have been placed on exhibition. 
Worthy of special mention are a leaf-shaped implement, partially 
"glazed," a fragment of a large flint implement, showing patina of con- 
siderable depth, and some perforators, spear-heads, and a discoidal stone 
of very line workmanship. 

J. M. Roberts, Clinton, East Feliciana Parish, Louisiana. — Collection 
from the vicinity of Clinton : Perforators, cutting tools, arrow and spear- 
heads, a hammer-stone (?), a small paint-mortar of remarkable form, a 
pestle, a small boat-shaped article, a large bead of compact quartzite, a 
pebble showing a slight cavity, and a fragment of a polished celt. Alto- 
gether a good collection. 

Dr. H. C. Yarrow, Washington, D. G. — A clay vessel with handles, 
from a child's grave in Caldwell County, Xorth Carolina. The grave 
was half filled with ashes intermixed with hair and teeth. On top of 
the vessel lay a round cover of native copper. 

W. T. Knott, Lebanon, Marion County, Kentucky. — Collection of copper 
articles from a mound in Marion County : a celt, a breast-plate (?), 4 
spool-shaped objects, and 2 concavo-convex discs. There were also 
found pieces of galena, one of which was sent by Mr. Knott. 

James 8. Robinson, M. C, Kenton, Hardin County, Ohio.— Collection of 
copper and stone implements and ornaments from a mound in Hardin 
County: 2 copper celts, a breast-plate (1), in 3 pieces, a fluted ornament 
with silver plating, and a crescent-shaped ornament, a thin sheet of 
silver, 9 sheets of mica, a flint scraper, an arrow-head, and a pierced tab- 



202 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

let. The mound is situated on a slight rise of ground, about 10 rods 
south of the Scioto Eiver, in Lynn Township, Hardin County, and on 
lands owned by Lester T. Hunt and General James S. Eobinson. It is 
about 30 feet in diameter and 4 feet high, and was overgrown by large 
forest trees of white ash, beech, and oak. The mound has not been fully 
explored, but is believed to contain the remains of at least three per- 
sons. A quantity of charred corn was found near the place where the 
relics were taken out. 

Alexander G. Blade, Surgcon-GeneraVs Office, Washington, D. G. — Col- 
lection from Eandolph County, Indiana : Flakes, scrapers, cutting-tools, 
leaf-shaped implements, arrow- and spear-heads, polished celts, notched 
and grooved axes, mauls, pestles, one ceremonial weapon, partly drilled, 
and two pierced tablets. The character of this collection, which con- 
sists of surface finds, is above the average, care having been taken to 
preserve the specimens in the condition in which they were found. 

W. Emmet Gatewood, Stoclcport, Morgan Gounty, Ohio. — A large stone 
mortar with funnel-shaped cavity, taken from the foundation wall of a 
building at Stockport; originally from an Indian camp. 

Tennessee Historical Society, Nashville, Tenn. — A cast of an image of 
potstone, found in Bartow County, Georgia, and described by Col. 
Charles C. Jones in his work entitled "Antiquities of the Southern 
Indians," p. 432, &c; a cast of a stone image representing a woman, 
locality where found not yet known ; a cast of a smoothing tool with 
handle. The original made of clay, was dug up in North Nashville, in 
1866, by James Wyatt, superintendent of water- works. The originals 
were loaned, with other relics, by the above-named society, and the 
casts made in the -National Museum. 

Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Mass.; through Prof. F. W. Putnam. — 
A cast of a fish carved from slate; original found near Ipswich, Mass. 

F. G. Galbraith, Bainbridge, Lancaster Gounty, Pennsylvania. — Collec- 
tion of relics found on the surface near Bainbridge : Flakes of porphyry, 
jasper, quartzite, and slate, trimmed flakes, rude and leaf-shaped imple- 
ments, arrow and spear-heads, chipped celts with ground cutting 
edges, a chisel (small), grooved axes, large unfinished maul, a grinding- 
stone, notched sinkers, fragments potstone, clay vessels and sherds, 
and a paint-stone. Collection from Bed Hill Cave, near Bainbridge : 
Fragments of animal bones and teeth, a rude stone implement, arrow 
and spear-heads, fragments of pottery, and a shell ornament. Collec- 
tion from Haldeman's shell-heap, 2 miles south of Bainbridge : Jaws, 
bones, and teeth of animals, fragments of a human skull, fragments of 
quartz and other stone, fragments of pottery and of shells. Collection 
from Northumberland, Lancaster, Perry, and York Counties: 28 grooved 
axes, 6 polished celts, a cutter (chipped), a pestle, a mortar, a moccasin- 
last, a cup-stone with cavities on both sides, 3 unfinished ceremonial 
weapons, 4 small stone sculptures, a stone ball, and a hematite paint- 
stone. A number of the axes show the oblique groove often character- 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 203 

iiang Pennsylvanian specimens of this kind. The moccasin-last is a re- 
markable specimen — a natural formation modified by pecking. 

8. T. Walker, Milton, Santa Rosa County, Florida. — Two arrow-heads, 
1' fossil oysters, and 3 fragments of fossil bones from a clay bluff at the 
head of Tampa Bay, Fla. 

IV. W. Evans, New Bodhelle, Westchester County, Xetc York. — Collec- 
tion of Peruvian relics : a bronze mace-head (star-shaped), a bronze 
spoon with ornamented handle, 4 bronze figures (human), a small group 
of 3 figures (human), one of bronze and two of gold, and 2 silver figures 
(human). In addition, a small terra-cotta head from the Isthmus of 
Tehuantepec, Mexico. 

Eugene A. Smith, Tuscaloosa, Ala. — Casts of an animal-shaped pipe and 
an engraved stone plate, from Hale County, and of a scraper-like imple- 
ment, from Tuscaloosa County, Alabama. The originals, on exhibition 
at the University of Alabama, were loaned, with other specimens, 
through the agency of Mr. Smith, and the casts made in tbe National 
Museum. The material of the pipe is pale-gray limestone, and that of 
the engraved plate, gray sandstone with particles of mica. The scraper- 
like implement is also composed of gray sandstone with mica. 

Frank Burns, Blountville, Blount County, Alabama. — Collections re- 
ceived during the past year: A large stone mortar, found 50 years ago 
in a creek, 5 miles from Blount's Springs, Blount County, Alabama. 
Collection from Blount and Winston Counties, Alabama : Arrow and 
S] >• ar-heads, celts, grooved axes, hammer-stones, discoidal stones, a paint- 
mortar, paint-stones, a hematite sinker, fragments of potstone vessels, 
and of pottery, a silver ornament (perhaps Spanish), and human and 
animal bones. Collection (surface-finds) from Blount and Colbert Coun- 
ties. Alabama: Leaf-shaped implements, perforators, arrow and spear- 
beads, hammer-stones, chipped and polished celts, pestles, a stone bead, 
a bone implement, fragments of potstone vessels and of pottery. Col- 
lection from Colbert, Lauderdale, Saint Clair, and Blount Counties, 
Alabama : Rude and leaf-shaped implements, trimmed flakes, cutting 
tools ; arrow and spear-heads, a muller, 2 boat-shaped objects, 2 polished 
celts, and 2 large stone mortars; a handled clay vessel, from a mound 
on the banks of the Tennessee River, near Florence, Lauderdale County, 
and fragmentsof large wooden troughs, from a cave in Blount County, 
locally known as the Crump Cave. Concerning this cave, I copy the fol- 
lowing statements from a communication by Mr. Burns: "When the 
cave was first discovered (in 1840) there were 8 or 10 of these troughs, 
but now they are all more or less split or injured, except this one. It 
is about 1\ feet long, 10 or 20 inches wide, and G or 7 inches deep. It 
has been hollowed out by the use of fire, and stone or copper chisels, 
one of the latter having been found with the troughs when the cave 
was first examined. There were also found 12 or 15 skulls and a large 
number of other bones; 6 small wooden bowls, tolerably well polished, 
5 or G wooden trays, somewhat like a modern bread-tray, but very rough 



204 EEPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

and unpolished; a small copper hatchet, a copper chisel 5 inches long, 
20 copper ornaments, 6 or 7 large shells, some of which are said to hold 
a gallon of water; some shell discs or beads, and pieces of bark or cane- 
matting, 6 inches square, but very much decayed. Scattered among the 
bones were about 200 pounds of very fine lead ore. The troughs did not 
contain any bones, but some of the lead ore was in one of them. The 
ornaments mentioned were of native copper and perhaps beaten out with 
stone hammers, as the workmanship was very rude. The chisel and 
one of the ornaments are now at the residenoe of the late Rev. William 
Crump, in this county." 

William Pengelly, Torquay, England. — Collection of bones, teeth, &c, 
from Kent's Cavern, near Torquay; 23 finds from the cave-earth or 
hyenine deposit, and 7 from the breccia or ursine deposit, the oldest in 
the cavern; in all, 1,270 specimens. It is to be regretted that Mr. Pen- 
gelly has sent the bones undetermined. They were for the present 
placed on exhibition according to the layers in which they occurred. 

Iu Belding, Stockton, San Joaquin County, California. — Collection from 
the neighborheod of La Paz, Lower California : Arrow and spear-heads 
(some very fine), and a human skull and 10 bones. I take from the 
letter of Mr. Belding the following: "The skull and bones (which are 
probably those of the ancient Periciies) were dug out of coarse, dry, 
granite sand in a cave, or overhanging rock, at a rancho called Zorillo, 
20 miles north of Cape Saint Lucas. They were neatly wrapped in 
cloth made from the fibre of the agave — three-ply cord, made as sailors 
plait sennit." 

H. F. Emeric, Guaymas, State of Sonora, Mexico. — Two celt-shaped 
implements, 2 shuttle-shaped objects, an ornamented reel (?), carved from 
slate, and an amulet of alabaster (animal-shaped), found 6J feet under 
loose rock and on the original surface. The Indians here do not know 
anything concerning the relics, and there are no signs of a mound 
where they were found. 

Rev. Samuel Lockwood, Freehold, Monmouth County, New Jersey. — A 
cast of a human head carved in stone. The original, found within a mile 
of the shore of Raritan Bay, Monmouth County, N. J., was loaned by 
Mr. Lockwood for the purpose of making a cast at the National Museum. 
For a detailed account see "American Naturalist," October 1882, p. 799. 

A. Fairhurst, Lexington, Ey. — Collection from Knox County, Indiana, 
and from Clark and Bourbon Counties, Kentucky: Arrow and spear- 
heads, hammer-stones, polished celts, grooved axes, a pierced tablet, 
and a ceremonial weapon. Mostly very good specimens. 

John E. Younglove, Bowling Green, Warren County, Kentucky. — Col- 
lection from the vicinity of Bowling Green : Leaf-shaped implements, a 
cutting tool, a notched scraper, a perforator, arrow and spear-heads, and 
small pierced shell discs. 

Robert Ridg way, U. S. National Museum. — Small collection from Wheat- 
land, Knox County, Indiana: Flakes, rude and leaf-shaped implements, 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 205 

arrow-beads, a spear-head, and fragments of pottery. The spearhead 
mentioned is of exquisite workmanship, being strongly barbed and 
having very thin edges; length, 4 inches. 

IS. W. Greer, Eddyville, Lyon County, Kentucky. — Collection from dif- 
ferent localities in Kentucky and Tennessee : Large flint implements, 
chipped celts and chisels with polished cutting edges, cutting tools, 
scrapers, perforators, arrow and spear-heads, hammer-stones, sinkers, 
discoidal stones (a very fine specimen from a mound in Tennessee), mul- 
lers, gaming discs, stone beads, paint-stones, a small stone carving (hu- 
man face), animal teeth (one notched), clay vessels and handles of such 
in the form of birds, &c. Owing to a pressure of other work Mr. Greer 
was unable to copy from his note book the localities where the speci- 
mens were found, except in a general way, but will send a full report 
later. 

Br. G. H. Taylor, Mobile, Ala. — Collection from shell-heaps near Mo- 
bile : Fragment of a large chipped celt, and handles of clay vessels in 
the form of bird-heads, &c. 

C. C. Nutting, U. 8. National Museum. — Collection from Cmetepec 
Island. Lake of Nicaragua : Round and shoe-shaped burial urns, small 
vessels of various shapes, some painted and others ornamented with 
incised lines or with figures in relief, toy vessels found in burial urns, 
clay sinkers, legs of tripod vases, rude stone carving (human head), flint 
flakes, an arrow-head, a shell implement, and a number of fragments 
of human skulls and bones. Also a large stone figure (human), to be 
described in Mr. Nutting's report. The clay vessels arrived in a very 
fragmentary state, especially the large ones, but they have partly been 
restored. Among the painted vessels are some very fine specimens. 

Jose Zeledon, Costa Eica. — A stone carving (human head), a stone 
figure (animal-shaped), a small metate, a pestle, and 10 clay vessels, 
some painted, others ornamented with raised figures. There is no state- 
ment concerning the localities where the specimens were found, although 
(with the exception of one vessel, which is undoubtedly of Peruvian 
origin) they do not differ in character from other Costa Eican objects 
sent by Mr. Zeledon last year. 

Samuel Johnson, Parkersburg, Wood County, West Virginia. — Eight 
arrow-heads found in the vicinity of Parkersburg. Very good speci- 
mens. 

Ernest E. T. Seton, De Winton Farm, Carbcrry, Manitoba, Canada. — 
Two grooved mauls and 27 chips of chalcedony, jasper, &c, found on 
Big Plain, Carberry, Manitoba. Also 2 arrow-heads from Gait, Water- 
loo County, Ontario, Canada. The mauls are very good specimens. 

Minor C. Keith, Limon, Costa Rica. — Twelve large sculptures repre- 
senting men and animals, and 3 small fragments. From Dos Novillos, 
on the line of the Costa Eica Railroad, about 49 miles from the coast. 
A valuable addition to the collection ot antiquities from Costa Eica. 



206 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Dr. J. F. Bransford, U. S. Navy. — Two small stone sculptures (human) 
from the Pacuare Cut, Limon Bailroad, Costa Eica. 

Copt. A. Briand, Havre, France. — A hammer-stone and 16 flint scra- 
pers (neolithic), from Elbeuf, Department of Seine- Inf6rieure, France. 

James Harrington, Tampico, Mexico. — Two stone sculx^tures in human 
shape. 

A. B. Beck, Lititz, Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. — A carved stone 
pipe (obscene). Said, to have been brought from South America, but 
probably of Northwest Coast origin. 

J. A. D. Stephenson, Statesville, Iredell County, North Carolina. — A 
scraper and 96 arrow-heads, from a deposit in Alexander County, North 
Carolina. I take from Mr. Stephenson's letter the following state- 
ments : " This deposit was found recently by some quarrymen near the 
Catawba Eiver, in the southeast corner of Alexander County, buried in 
the soil against the side of a large rock. I know of no locality nearer 
than 70 miles from which the material composing the specimens could 
have been obtained." 

E. Stanley Gary, Baltimore, Md. — A ceremonial weapon, from Elk 
Eidge, Howard County, Maryland. 

J. B. Aldrich, Memphis, Tenn. — A New Zealand war-club (mery), 
taken from a mound in Bent County, Colorado. Original loaned, and 
cast made in the National Museum. This specimen is identical in mate- 
rial and shape with a New Zealand war-club in the collection of the 
National Museum, and belongs to the class of so-called " intrusive 
relics,'- sometimes found in this country. 

Trocadero Museum, Paris, France. — Collection of large casts taken by 
M. Desir6 Charnay from sculptures iu Mexico and Central America. 
The importance of this collection can hardly be overrated. The casts, 
entered under 57 heads, fill a large hall in the National Museum, and 
embrace the important bas-reliefs and glyphic inscriptions described 
and figured by Del Eio, Dupaix, Waldeck, Stephens, and other explor- 
ers. They offer to the investigator facilities for study which otherwise 
could only have been pursued in the far-distant regions of this conti- 
nent, where the traces of a higher aboriginal civilization are found. 
The casts are the duplicates of those exhibited in the Trocadero Mu- 
seum at Paris, the visible tokens of Mr. Lorillard's munificence. 

J. C. Howell, U. S. Navy. — A tombstone from the plains of Troy. 

Charles J. Turner, Brunsicick, Chariton County, Missouri. — Collection 
from Chariton, Linn, Saline, Boone, and Howard Counties, Missouri. 
An arrow-head with strongly jagged edges, stone sinkers (some of 
hematite), hematite celts and axes, a polished cutter, a sickle-shaped 
natural formation, prepared for cutting purposes, a grooved double- 
pointed head of a war-club, carved pipes, ceremonial objects, a shallow 
stone dish, a stone ring with incised lines, a rubbing stone, a large 
grooved adze-head, a large stone slab with foot-shaped depression and 
cup-formed cavities placed around it, natural formations (clay iron ore), 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 207 

prepared to serve as receptacles, and a copper axe. This is one ot the 
best collections ever acquired by the National Museum. 

J. E. Adcox, Benton, Saline County, Arkansas. — Collection from Saline 
County : Rude implements, cutting tools, scrapers, perforators, arrow 
and spear-heads, a hammer-stone, celts, notched and grooved axes, and 
a muller. 

C. L. McKay (deceased). — Collection from Alaska: Six cutters (slate), 
4 spear-heads, 4 chipped celts, a chisel (?), 2 adzes (one very hue), a piece 
of worked argillite, 2 oval pebbles, one with polished cavity, an un- 
finished bone socket for harpoon-head, and 2 clay vessels. 

J. F. Kummcrfeld, Long Grove, Scott County, Iowa. — A grooved axe 
(very fine), from Pottawattamie County, Iowa. 

C. T. Wiltheiss, Piqua, Miami County, Ohio. — Cast of an animal- 
shaped pipe. The original was found 3 miles from Piqua, near the 
Miami River, having been washed out by high water. Material, pale- 
gray limestone. 

G. B. Frazar, Mount Auburn, Middlesex County, Massachusetts. — Col- 
lections from shell-heaps at Old Enterprise, Mellonville, Lake Munroe, 
Lake Harney, and Spear's Landing, Saint John's Eiver, Florida: 32 
shell adzes, 14 fragments of shell adzes, a shell chisel or gouge, a shell 
sinker, a shell bead, 23 fragments of pottery, 3 fragments of potstone 
vessels, a grinding-stone, 2 worked prongs of antlers, 3 bears' teeth, and 
a small piece of galena. 

Ernest C. Broicn, Warren, Jo Daviess County, Illinois. — Collection from 
mounds and their vicinity in Jo Daviess County : a large digging-tool, 
leaf-shaped implements, scrapers, perforaters, arrow- and spear-heads, 
polished celts, grooved axes, a pierced stone object of unknown use, a 
fragment of a platform-pipe, and fragments of pottery. I take from 
Mr. Brown's letter the following: "The mounds are situated on a bluff 
about J 00 feet high. So far as opened they appear to be sepulchral, 
the bodies lying with the heads to the south. They were all encased in 
Trenton limestone slabs of about 8 inches in thickness and from 2 to 5 
feet long. Eelics are very rare." 

W. C. Broicn, Liverpool, Perry County, Pennsylvania. — Collection from 
Perry County: Rude chipped implements, arrow-heads, rude celts, 1 
pestle, notched sinkers, and fragments of pottery. 

G. W. Emricli, Northumberland, Northumberland County, Pennsylvania. 
— Collection from Northumberland County : Flakes, rude and leaf-shaped 
implements, scrapers, perforaters, cutting tools, arrow-heads, rude celts, 
an unfinished grooved axe, rude grooved axes, pestles, notched sinkers, 
fragments of ceremonial weapons, and a carved stone pipe. The pestles 
and grooved axes are good examples of aboriginal methods in working 
stone, being natural formations somewhat approaching in shape the im- 
plement desired, modified by flaking and pecking. 



208 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 

Frederick: W. True, Curator. 

Accessions. 

The accessions of the Department of Mammals during the past year 
were numerous, varied, and important. The number of specimens re- 
ceived from the collectors of the Smithsonian Institution and those of 
other Departments of the Government, and by gift, purchase, and ex- 
change, amounts to no less than 365. The numerical relations of the 
accessions from each of these sources are indicated in the subjoined 
table : 

Table of accessions in 1883. 













a ■£ 


O 03 
















1— 1 u 


















fl © 


a 
















=3 « 


03 © 










of 

a 

O 


© 


DO 

c3 


g • 

GO O 

,4 W 


ga 

© £ 










-^ 

£ 


e3 


r3 

© 


a o 


So 


o 








a 


o 


f-< 


w ■** 




Ph 








o 


M 
















n3 


© 


d 


B *=> 






c3 






t>> 


>> 


>a 


P"-5 


o "2 


>3 


O 






09 


PQ 


PQ 


Pm 


PH ° 


.PQ 


H 




C Total 


69 
48 
21 


11 
9 


3 
3 



11 

10 
1 


8 
6 
2 


76 

26 


102 




) Skins 












1 Total 






71 
50 


45 
43 


4 
4 


48 
41 


12 
9 


147' 


180 


Species 


< Skins 






( Osteological specimens 


21 


2 





7 


3 


33 






l Total 


• 




86 


70 
64 


6 
6 


150 

88 


53 

47 


9.60 ' 


365 


Specimens .. 


} Skins 




f Osteological specimen 


31 


6 





62 


6 


105 


























.. 



It appears from this table that more than two-fifths of the entire 
number of specimens received were obtained from the collectors em- 
ployed by the Smithsonian Institution, somewhat less than half that 
proportion by gift and exchange, respectively, and a still smaller number 
from collectors of the various departments of the Government. The 
accessions from the latter source, however, are of high value. 

The influx of important specimens of aquatic mammals during the 
past year was remarkable. The recently perfected arrangement be- 
tween the United States Life-saving Service and the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, for the telegraphic announcement of the stranding of large aquatic 
animals, the activity of the friends of the Museum at various points on 
the coast, and the explorations of Dr. Leonhard Stejneger in the Com- 
mander Islands, have all conspired to cause the accumulation of an 
exceedingly interesting series of cetaceans, the majority of which are 
new to the collections, some additions to the fauna, and some apparently 



REPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 209 

new to science. The specimens of Ziphioid and Physeterine whales 
are especially worthy of attention. 

In April a specimen of an apparently new species of Kogia, which 
has been provisionally called K. Goodei, was received from the life-saving 
station at Spring Lake, New Jersey. In October the curator assisted 
in making a cast and secGring the skeleton of a specimen of Ziphius 
car irostr is, stranded near the life-saving station at Barnegat City, N.J. 
Both these specimens are the first of their kind reported from the north- 
western Atlantic. Among the specimens collected by Dr. Leonhard 
Stejneger in Bering Island are the skulls of two ziphioid whales, which 
have been described by that gentleman under the names of Berardius 
Bairdii and Ziphius GrebniteJcii, and are, so far as I am aware, the 
first ziphioid s from the northern Pacific. In August a large number of 
sperm-whale bones was received from Cape Canaveral, Florida, where a 
small school of individuals of different ages stranded in the fall of 1882. 
Mr. Almout Barnes, United States consul in Venezuela, transmitted 
from Messrs. Fairup and Gorsira, a collection of bones of killer whales, 
Orca sp., from the Aves Islands. It will be an interesting task to clear 
up the history of these remains, which are represented as occurring in 
great quantities on the islands referred to. In July the skeleton and fine 
set of whalebone of a Lesser Rorqual, Balcenoptera rostrata, stranded at 
Monomoy Point, Cape Cod, were received from Mr. William Bloomer. 

Other interesting cetaceans, including specimens of Phoccena commu- 
nis, Phoccena lineata, Delpliitms delphis, and a dolphin, apparently new, 
and which was provisionally named Tursiops subridens,* were received 
aud are recorded in the list of accessions. 

Some important sirenians have also been received. The Linnean 
Society of New South Wales, through Dr. Macleay, presented a speci- 
men of the Dugong of Australian waters, Halicore dugong, a species 
which was wanting in the collections. By exchange with the British 
Museum the Institution obtained a skin and skeleton of the African 
manatee, Triclieclius senegalensis. These, with the specimens of Ameri- 
can manatees received during the last and previous years, complete the 
collection of sirenians, which now includes every existing species. 

The Museum is indebted mainly to Dr. C. Hart Merriam and Dr. Phil- 
lipe Poey, of Havana, for the majority of the important additions to the 
collections of seals received in 1883. Through Dr. Poey's disinterested 
action the Institution was enabled to purchase for the Museum a mounted 
skin and skull of the rare West India seal, Monachus tropicalis, which, 
with the exception of a skin now or until recently existing in the British 
Museum, is the only specimen in any scientific collection in the world. 

The seals obtained by Dr. Merriam during his expedition to Labrador, 
although not rare species, are very important, in that they exhibit the 
changes incident upon growth and the differences of males and females 
of the same species. The species included in the collection are Phoca 

* This species is now known to be synonymous with T. tursio. — F. W. T. 
II. Mis. 09 U 



210 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

grcenlandica, Cystophora crisiata, and Erignatlms barbatus. The speci- 
men of G. cristata, mounted according to the obeervations of Dr. Mer- 
riam, presents a strong contrast to the usual representations of this 
species, at least so far as the form and position of the " bladder" is con- 
cerned. In addition to these specimens the department received from 
Mr. A. G. Brown a fine specimen of a young Califoruian sea-elephant, 
Macrorhinus angustirostris, which was one of several brought alive from 
California for exhibition in Philadelphia. The collection of pinnipeds 
is now in excellent condition, but good skins of the Atlantic and Pacific 
walruses and most of the Stenorhyncine seals are still wanting. 

Among the indigenous terrestrial mammals, the most interesting speci- 
men received in 1883, was a black-footed ferret, Putorius nigripes. 
This species, which could not be obtained by Professor Baird when en- 
gaged upon his monograph of North American mammals, is at present 
represented in the collection by several skulls, and by at least eight 
skins, two of which were rceived in 1883. 

Of the accessions of exotic mammals the collections of Mr. P. L. 
Jouy in Japan, and from the museum of Kurrachee, India, rank first 
in interest. Mr. Jouy's collection includes 36 specimens of Japanese 
mammals, all of which were previously unrepresented in the Museum. 
Prom the Kurrachee Museum were received 36 specimens of Indian 
mammals, nearly all of which are also new to our collections. 

Administrative work. 

Museum registers. — The number of entries made in the two registers, 
at present in use in the department, is as follows: 

Entries in the register of skins in 1883 349 

Entries in the register of bones in 1883 198 

Total * 547 

Whole number of entries in the register of skins 14,003 

Whole number of entries in the register of bones 21,075 

Total 35,078 

The number of entries in these catalogues during the past two years 
has considerably exceeded the number of specimens received during 
that period, since an effort has been made to record the specimens which 
have accumulated in the storerooms of the Museum. At present the 
number of unentered specimens is very small, and will probably be re- 
duced to zero before the close of this year. With some exceptions all 
the accessions of 1883 were recorded within a few days after receipt, 
and it is understood that this work shall take precedence over all other. 
The records of distributions made in past years have been examined, 
and the names and addresses of the recipients of specimens copied into 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 211 

the registers opposite the original records of the same. Reference to 
the registers, therefore, reveals not only what specimens are actually 
in the collection, but also the disposition of those distributed. 

It was possible during the summer of 1883 to have the work of copy- 
ing the original registers taken in hand. Up to this time three vol- 
umes of the register of skins have been copied, and the originals filed 
with the registrar. It seems very desirable that this work should con- 
tinue. The original records date back to the foundation of the Mu- 
seum, and contain a vast amount of information relative to the collec- 
tions, which, as is well known, have formed the basis of the principal 
monographic works upon mammals published in this country during the 
last half century. 

Card catalogues. — The preliminary card catalogue of skins, mounted 
and unmounted, has been copied upon the printed cards provided for 
the purpose. The arrangement is, as before, an alphabetical one by 
genera. The work of checking the specimens actually in the collections 
upon the preliminary catalogue of bones has not yet been completed, 
and the permanent copy of that record has not been made. 

Worlt upon the collections. 

The osteological collection. — Early in the year the entire collection of 
bones, with the exception of the mounted skeletons, was removed from 
the gallery of the lower hall of the Smithsonian building to the east- 
south range of the Museum. The mass of material in storage was also 
removed to the same range. Here the specimens were assorted and 
afterwards arranged by orders upon the temporary shelves in the 
southeast court. Each specimen was checked in the registers to show 
its presence in the collection and its identification made sure. This 
work occupied nearly nine months. When completed, the specimens 
were once more removed to the east-south range, and arranged in table 
cases by orders and families. The shelves behind the new wall-case in 
that range were also filled with specimens, principally of the ruminants 
and larger cetaceans. A collection of skulls of rodents, insectivores, and 
bats, consisting largely of type specimens, very valuable for study, has 
been placed temporarily upon the south balcony. A small number of 
boxes, containing duplicate specimens of cetacean skulls and the like, 
have been temporarily stored. 

As intimated above, a large exhibition case has been built upon the 
north side of the east-south range. In this case it is intended to display 
the mounted skeletons of the larger species of mammals. A few species 
however such as the giraffe, elk, etc., will be arranged upon a raised 
base on south side of the range. For reception of the smaller skeletons 
it is proposed that special cases shall be designed. 

The collection of sMns. — The entire collection of unmounted skins, with 
the exception of a series of rodents, was treated with preservatives dur- 
ing the summer. The larger skins, such as those of bears, seals, mini- 



212 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

nants, and the like, were placed in an arsenic bath, and afterwards dried. 
They are thus rendered secure from the attacks of moths. It was 
thought undesirable to apply this preservative to the smaller species, 
which are much handled, and they were, therefore, treated with a com- 
pound of benzine and other ingredients, and dried. By this method 
the skins are entirely freed from vermin, but are not rendered abso- 
lutely secure from fresh attacks. Against these, the vigilance of the 
Curator alone will avail. 

The skins referred to are at present stored in seven table cases in the 
•south exhibition hall, and in eight large storage boxes, four quarter- 
unit cases, and twelve small tin herbarium cases, upon the south bal- 
cony. Late in the year the work of attaching pasteboard labels to the 
specimens was begun, and is not yet completed. These labels are in- 
tended to contain the name of the species, the name of the donor, and 
the locality, thus supplementing the metallic numbers hitherto in use. 
The work of separating the collection into duplicate, reserve, and exhi- 
bition series cannot conveniently be commenced until this task is com- 
pleted. 

The exhibition series is displayed in two large wall cases and twenty- 
one other cases, and upon two large terraced bases, in the south hall. 
Case-labels have been provided for nearly the entire series, and further 
experiments have been made in species-labels. 

Twenty-five skins have been submitted to the taxidermist during the 
year for mounting. Of these, 20 specimens have been completed. In 
addition 6 specimens have been remounted and 5 repaired. Most prom- 
inent among the new specimens is a group of 5 oraugs of different ages 
ages and both sexes. It is a very accurate and praiseworthy work, 
both as regards the mounting of the specimens themselves and the ar- 
rangement of the foliage and other accessories. The group occupies a 
specially-made ash case 12 feet long, 7 feet wide, and 11 feet high. 

The seals added to the exhibition-series are principally those received 
from Dr. C. Hart Merriam during the year. The adult crested seal, 
no. 13,742, is especially worthy of attention as representing a more ac- 
curate imitation of the shape of this species in life than has hitherto 
been obtained. 

The collection of casts. — The collection of cetacean casts has been ma- 
terially added to. The most important accessions are the casts of Kogia 
Ooodci and Ziphius cavirostris, the former showing the entire exterior 
of the animal and the latter of half the same. The complete list of 
casts made in 1883 is as follows: Kogia Goodei, Ziphins cavirostris, Tur- 
siops Uirsio, Trichechus manatus, Macrorhinus angustirostris, Canis famil- 
iaris (pug-dog), Phocama lineata. 

Experiments have been made with a view of suspending the majority 
of the cetacean casts from the roof in the south hall. These casts are 
very light in weight and will bring no strain upon the roof, while their 



EEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 213 

appearance when suspended is more pleasing to the eye than when 
they are placed upon supports. 

The alcoholic collection. — The alcoholic collection is contained in 910 
bottles and 13 tanks, and is still kept in a small room in the south tower. 
The collection includes about 103 anatomical specimens, properly speak- 
ing, the remainder being adult animals, fceti, and the like, preserved 
whole. It is doubtful whether it would be desirable to exhibit any of 
the latter in bottles, but the skins can be mounted in the dry way quite 
as readily as those of fresh animals. The collection includes a great 
number of duplicates, all of which will be separated before the close of 
the present year. 

The anatomical specimens are in excellent condition and can be dis- 
played with advantage in the exhibition halls when suitable cases and 
jars have been designed. 

Distribution of duplicates. — The number of distributions during the 
year 1883 was 8, of which 3 were gratuitous distributions and the re- 
mainder exchanges. The whole number of specimens distributed was 
14, 7 gratuitously, and the remainder in exchange for other specimeus. 

Assistance. — The operations of the department were carried on during 
the larger part of the year by the Curator and two copyists. The serv- 
ices of the osteological preparator were also received in connection with 
the re-arrangement of the osteological collection. The work of poison- 
ing the collection of skins was performed by another preparator of the 
Museum. 

The work of the chief taxidermist in building up the exhibition se- 
ries has already been referred to. 

From March to October the Curator held the position of acting assist- 
ant director, and was unable therefore to give his entire attention to 
the department. His duties as librarian have also continued during the 
year. In December he secured permission from the director to visit 
certain of the museums of Europe with a view of studying their 
methods of preparation and installation. 

• Work in research. 

The number of papers and notes based wholly or in part upon the 
material of the department, published in 1883, was eight. Of these the 
curator furnished five, Dr. Leonhard Stejneger one, Mr. Charles Nutt- 
ing one, Dr. G. E. Dobson, of the British Museum, one. 

The work of the Curator has been mainly of a preliminary character, 
and he has directed his attention especially to the cetaceans and pinni- 
peds. An annotated catalogue of the mammals displayed at the London 
Fisheries Exhibition was prepared at the request of the Commissioner. 
The papers contributed to the census report have not yet been pub- 
lished. The papers now in course of preparation relate to the ceta- 
ceans and seals recently received, and to a comparative study of a 



214 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

large series of skulls of two other species. A code of instructions for 
the use of collectors of cetaceans is also in preparation. 

The Curator has also furnished to Science a series of abstracts of im- 
portant papers upon the morphology and anatomy of mammals. 

Mr. H. L. Todd was engaged during the summer in making a number 
of drawings to accompany a code of instructions to collectors of ceta- 
ceans. Twenty-six species were drawn — 24 from selected illustrations, 
and 2 from photographs and other original sources. He also made four 
drawings of the Ribbon seal, Phoca fasciata, to accompany a paper 
now in press for the Proceedings of the Museum. 

A series of photographs, of type skulls of North American cetaceans 
was made for the London Fisheries Exhibition, and the set was after- 
wards extended to include all the type specimens in the Museum, to- 
gether with some other representative species. This series includes the 
following species : Kogia Goodei, Delphinapterus catodon, Qlobiocephalus 
Scammoni, Delphinus Bairdii, Kogia Ploweri, Leucorhamplius borealis, 
Phocama vomerina, Tursiops erebennus, D. delphis, Sagmatias amblodon, 
Delphinus plagiodon, and some others. 

Present state of the collection. 

Number of specimens. — As intimated above, the collection has not yet 
been separated into exhibition, duplicate, and reserve series. The num- 
ber of specimens in the collection at the end of 1882, and the additions 
in 1883, are shown in the following table : 

Number of mounted and unmounted skins and alcoholic speci- 
mens in 1882 4, 6G0 

Number received in 1883 . 260 

Total January 1, 1884 4, 920 

Number of mounted and unmounted osteological specimens in 

1882 3, 535 

Number received in 1883 105 

Total January 1, 1884 3, 040 

Number of anatomical specimens in 1882 70 

Number received in 1883 33 

Total January 1, 1884 103 



The number of specimens of mounted skins on exhibition on Decem- 
ber 31, 1883, was 715. This number will probably remain approximately 
the same for two or more years, since the condition of many of the 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 215 

specimens now on exhibition is such that it will be necessary to replace 
them by others. 

The condition of the collections is decidedly better than when last 
reported upon. The application of preservatives to the series of skins, 
the re-examination of the osteological collection, and all of the other 
operations referred to in previous parts of this report, have had a most 
beneficial effect upon the specimens. As has been already stated, the 
exhibition series of mounted skins needs renewing, a work which has 
already been begun. 

The alcoholic series is in better condition than hitherto, but many of 
the specimens cannot be introduced into the exhibition series on account 
of the loss of fur caused by the weakening of the alcohol. To avoid 
this difficulty in the future it is proposed to seal the bottles withparaffine. 

The osteological collection does not deteriorate by neglect so rapidly 
as the other series, and after some repairs have been made, will be in 
an excellent condition. 

The living mammals exhibited in the rotunda (see Eeport, 1882, p. 39) 
have not fared well. The Mexican deer and the two specimens of the 
tufted marmoset have died. The spermophiles escaped from their cage 
in the night and for a long time could not be found. At length two of 
the specimens were discovered among some storage-boxes, and one was 
recaptured unhurt ; the other was hurt during the moving of the boxes, 
but revived sufficiently to escape once more, and has not since been 
seen. The owl monkey has remained in good condition. A prairie dog 
and an opossum have been added to the collection. 

Plans and recommendations. 

Desiderata. — The collection of mammals is at present most deficient 
in African species. An expedition to that continent could be profitably 
made for no other pdrpose than the collection of mammals. Any of 
the great number of species of ruminants which abound in that country, 
as well as of insectivores and bats, would be most acceptable. The 
mammals of Asia and Europe are also represented in the collections only 
by a comparatively small number of specimens. 

The department is richest in the species inhabiting North, Central, 
and South America. Good specimens of the Atlantic and Pacific wal- 
ruses, however, are still prominent desiderata. The series of cetaceans 
of the northern Pacific presents many gaps. It is probable that a com- 
plete skeleton of the gray whale, Rhachanectes glaucas, does not exist in 
any collection, though the species is apparently somewhat more abundant 
than previously. More skins and skeletons of the American manatees 
are exceedingly desirable, in order that it may be definitely determined 
whether the species are one, two, or three in number. Among South 
American mammals more specimens of the monkeys, bats, and small 
rodents are much needed. 



21G REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Plans. — The Curator is of the opinion that it would be best to arrange 
the exhibition series upon a different principle from that at present 
adopted whereby it would be attempted to show ouly single representa- 
tives of the various genera. An exception should be made in the case 
of the species inhabiting the United States, all of which should be 
exhibited. 

The number of families of mammals now recoguized by zoologists 
varies from 86 to 136. Estimating the number of genera at 1,100, if each 
were represented in the exhibition series by a single species the collec- 
tion would still be so large as to occupy a very considerable space. 
Such an arrangement would, I believe, be much superior, from an edu- 
cational point of view, to that at present adopted. 

Species not represented in the exhibition series could be kept in 
drawers and be conveniently examined by those specially interested in 
any branch of mammalogy. This view is in no way original, the plan 
having already been adopted in a number of museums. 

It is proposed to substitute for the exhibition cases now in use others 
specially designed for mammals and which will display the specimens 
to better advantage. 

It is very desirable that specimens which are not in cases should be 
protected from the constant handling and ruthless mutilation of visitors. 
To devise a railing which will afford protection but not disfigure the 
exhibition halls is a very difficult matter. The experiments which have 
been made in this direction hitherto have not proved successful. 

Alphabetical list of accessions during 1883. 

Mr. Byron Andrews. A gopher skin (Geomys talpoides bulbivorus), from 
Kingsbury County, Dakota. 

Messrs. Barton & Logan, Washington, I). G. A monkey (Ghlorocebus 
sabmus) and a raccoon (Procyon lotor). Both of these specimens were 
received in the flesh. 

Mr. 0. R. Beall, Leeland, Md. An example of monstrosity in the hog. 

Mr. L. Belding, Stockton, Gal. A tail of the mule deer ( Gariacus macrotis). 

Mr. E. G. Blackford, Fulton Market, New York. A young South Amer- 
ican manatee (Trichcchus manatus) from Brazil. (Purchased.) 

British Museum, London, England. A stuffed skin and skeleton of the 
Senegal manatee (Manatus senegalensis). (Exchange.) 

Mr. A. G. Broicn, Zoological Gardens, Philadelphia. A specimen of a 
young California sea-elephant (Macrorhinus angustirostris). Received 
in the flesh. 

Mr. J. T. Brown, JJ. S. National Museum, Washington, D. G. Three er- 
mine skins (Putorius erminea); one spermophile (Spermophilus empe- 
tra, var. empetra), from Hudson Bay, British America. 

Mr. E. G. Bryan, JJ. 8. National Museum, Washington, D. G A bat skel- 
eton ( Vesperugo serotinus). 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 217 

Mr. 0. Burnham, Cape Canaveral, Florida. A collection of bones and 
a number of teeth of the sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). These 
specimens represent the remains of a small school of sperm whales 
which stranded in the fall of 1882. 

Mr. Stephen Calrerley, Barnegat City, N. J. Three albino mice (Mm 
musculus). 

Mr. Alvin Chapin, Loudon County, Virginia. A fox squirrel (Sciurus 
niger, var. ludovicianus). 

Capt. James E. Coleman, Provincetown, Mass. A foetus of a fin-back 
whale. 

Mr. T. H. Collins, Washington, D. G. An example of monstrosity in the 
dog and cat. 

Dr. Elliott Coues, Washington, D. C. A specimen of an albino fox squir- 
rel (Sciurus niger, var. niger). 

Mr. John S. Crary, KnoxHlle, Tenn. Human skull from the farm of Mr. 
H. Fraser. 

Mr. Henry L. Dawes, Texas. A pair of ox horns (Bos taurus). 

Miss Maud Diemann, Washington, D. C. An Angora cat. 

Mr. Vinal N. Edwards, Wood's Holl, Mass. An abnormal deer skull 
(Cariacus virginianus) from Naushon Island, Massachusetts. 

Messrs. Fairup and Gorsira, Aves Islands, Venezuela (through Mr.Almont 
Barnes, United States consul). Fragments of skulls and skeletons of 
a killer whale (Grca sp.). A number of vertebrae of a whalebone 
whale. 

Lieutenant Julian Fillette, TJ. S. Navy. A skull of a chief of the Mar- 
quesas Islands, Pacific Ocean. (Deposited.) 

Mrs. Haag, Washington^ D. 0. A Mexican hairless dog (Canis famili- 
ar is). 

Mr. E. H. Haicley, TJ. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C. An al- 
bino rat (Mus decumanus). 

Mr. George S. Hobbs, TJ. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C. A foetus 
of a Maltese cat. 

Mr. J. Hoffman, keeper TJ. S. life-saving station, Turtle Gut, Cape May, 
N. J. A dolphin (Tursiops tursio) in the flesh. This specimen was 
made the basis of a new species, called T. subridens, but is now known 
to be identical with T. tursio. 

Dr. W. J. Hoffman, Petoskey, Mich. A melanistic woodchuck (Arctomys 
monax). 

Mr. Wm. T. Hornaday, TJ. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C. Spe- 
cimen of a bat. 

Mr. H. S. Howland, keeper TJ. S. life-saving station, Spring Lake, N. J. A 
pygmy sperm whale and foetus (Kogia Goodei sp. n.). This valuable 
specimen is the first of the genus recorded from the iforth Atlantic. 
Another specimen, however, is known to have been taken off the coast 
of Florida. 

Messrs. S. R. and D. S. Hubbard, keepers TJ. S. life-saving station, Fire 
Island, New York. A dolphin (Tursiops tursio). 



218 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Mr. Wm. Bloomer (through Mr. Asa L. Jones, lighthouse keeper, Monomoy 
Point, Harwich Port, Mass.). The skeleton and whalebone of a fin- 
back whale (Balwnoptera rostrata); This is one of the few specimens 
of this species taken on the east coast of the United States. 

Mr. P. L. Jouy, Japan. A number of mammal skins and skeletons from 
Japan. A valuable series, mostly new to the collection. 

Mr. Anton Karr, Washington, B. C. A pug dog. 

Mr. F. H. King, Wisconsin. A specimen of the shrew (Blarina tal- 
poides). 

Kurrachee Museum, Kurrachee, India. A collection of thirty-six mam- 
mal skins and skulls from India. A valuable series, mostly new to 
the collection. 

Mr. Charles P. Lincoln, Washington, B. G. A Siamese cat (Felis domes- 
tica), from Bangkok, Siam. 

Mr. Jos. Lorange, Stavenger Museum* Sweden. A European moose (A Ices 
machlis). 

Mr. Wm. Macleay, Linnean Society, Sydney, Australia. A dugong skin 
(Ralicore dugong). 

Mr. R. G. Mais (through Mr. W. W. Evans), Australia. A number of 
fossil teeth of the genus Biprotodon. A very interesting collection 
of the teeth of this fossil marsupial. 

Mr. G. L. McGormich, Falls Church, Va. A fresh specimen of a cat. 

Br. C. H. Merriam, Locust Grove, N. Y. A collection of skins and skulls 
of the hooded seal (Cystophora cristata), the Greenland seal (Phoca 
grcenlandica), and a foetus of the bearded seal (Erignathus barbatus). 

Mr. George P. Merrill, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. G. A 
bat ( Vesperugo noctivagans) from Auburn, Me.. 

Mr. David Miller, Gamp Rill, Pa. A star-nose mole (Condylura cris- 
tata). 

Br. J. G. Neal, Archer, Fla. A collection of fossil mammal bones from 
Florida. 

Commodore H. E. Nichols, U. S. N. A tuft-tailed pocket mouse (Perog- 
nathus penicillatus) from Sonora, Mexico. 

Mr. George Y. Nickerson, New Bedford, Mass. Carpal bones of a whale 
(Balcena sp). 

Mr. C. G. Nutting, Ornetepe, Nicaragua. A monkey and an opossum 
(Mycetes palliatus and Bidelphys quica). 

Mr. C. B. Orcutt. A ground squirrel (Tamias asiaticus var. quadri- 
vittatus) from the Cantiles Mountains, northern Lower California. 

Prof. Felipe Poey, Havana, Cuba. Seal (Monachus tropicalis) ; a mounted 
specimen containing skull and leg bones. This specimen of the West 
Indian seal is the only one known to exist in any scientific collection, 
with the exception of the British Museum. This museum contains or 
did contain a single imperfect skin received from Jamaica a number 
of years ago. The skull is especially interesting as affording characters 
by which the genus has been determined. The generic identity of this 
animal has long been in question. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 210 

Mr. J. P. Puckett (through Mr. J. P. Caldwell), Neio Statesville, N. C. 

Horse's tooth (Eguus caballus). 
Mr. J. H. Bid g way, keeper U. S. life-saving station, Barnegat City, N. J. 

A bottle-nosed whale (Ziphius cavirostris). This specimen is the first 

of its genus and species taken in the Northwestern Atlantic, unless 

that in the museum of the college of Charleston, forming the type of 

Hyperoodon semijunrtus proves to be a Ziphius, which seems very 

probable. 
Mr. Bobert Bidgway, U. S. National Museum, Washington, B. C. A 

collection of twenty-five mammal skins, mostly rodents, from Illinois. 
Mr. Charles Buby, Wyoming. A specimen of the black-footed ferret 

(Putorius nigripes) from Duck Creek, 12 miles Cheyenne, Wyo.; two 

human skulls (Homo sapiens) from Fort Eobiuson, Nebr. This 

specimen of Putorius nigripes is the second recorded this year, and is 

the seventh skin in the collection of the Museum. 
Br. B. W. Shufeldt, JJ. S. A. A collection of mammals, principally 

bats, from Louisiana. m 

Mr. Alexander Skinner, Washington, B. C. A jumping mouse (Zapus 

hudsonius) from Arlington, Va. 
Mr. B. E. C. Steams, Berkeley, Gal. A bat (Anthrozous pallidus) and a 

mole, from Berkeley, Cal. 
Br. L. Stejneger, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, B. C. A collection 

of mammals from Bering Island and Kamtchatka, includiug the 

mountain sheep, far seal (Callorhinus ur sinus), the harbor seal (Phoca 

vitulina), and the sea-lion (Eumetopias Stelleri). 
Mr. George Stolly, Texas. Two bats (Atalapha noveboracensis and 

X jietinomus brasiliensis). 
Mr. George L. Taylor, Wyoming. A specimen of the black-footed ferret 

(Putoris nigripes). Another specimen of this rarespecies was received 

from Mr. Charles Buby. 
Mr. William J. Taylor, Allapaha, Ga. A gopher (Geomys tuza) and 

another rodent. 
Mr. Aurelius Todd, Coquille, Oreg. Two fine specimens of the sewellel 

(Haplodon rufus). 
Mr Frederick W. True, U. & National Museum, Washington B. C. 

Two bats (Atalapha noveboracensis), a muskrat (Fiber zibethicus) in the 

flesh, and a mandible of the same animal. 
U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, B. C. Five specimens of the skunk 

(Mephitis mephitica), from Wood's Holl, Mass. 
U.S. Life- Saving Service, Son. S.I. Kimball, Superintendent (see Messrs. 

J. H. Bidgway, S. B. & B. S. Hubbard, H. S. Howland, and J. Hoff- 
man). 
Br. C. H. Van Patten, San Jos6, Costa Bica. Several species of the 

mammals of Cost Rica, includiug a youug specimen of Tapirus 

Bairdii. 
Mr. S. W. Very. A skull of a puma (Felis concolor) from Santa Cruz, 

Patagonia. 



# 

220 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Mr. W. J). Watlcins, Akron, Ohio. Lower jaw and teeth of a liorse 
(Equus caballus) ; tooth of a hog (Sus scrofa). 

Mr. W. G. Wetdon, U. 8. National Museum, Washington, D. G. Speci- 
men of an albino rat {Mas decumanus) ; Guinea pig (Gavia cobaya). 

Prof. Burt G. Wilder, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. A skin and 
leg bones of a baby orang-utan (Simia satyr us). (Exchange.) 

Miss Nellie Williams, Washington, D. G. Bat ( Vesperugo serotinus). 

Mr. George Y. Wise, Genito, Va. The skull of a beaver, the trap which 
caught the beaver, aud the tree which the beaver had gnawed. 

Mr. J. W. Wood, Baraboo, Wis. A specimen of a shrew (Sorex sp.). 

Mr. George W T oltz, TJ. 8. National Museum, Washington, D. G. A speci- 
men of the domesticated rabbit (Lepus cuniculus). 

Mr. John Yarrow, V. 8. National Museum, Washington, I). G. A gray 
squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis var. leucotis). 

Mr. Jos4 G. Zeledon, San Jose, Gosta Rica. Skin of a sloth ( Gholopus 
Soffmani) ; skull of a paca {Gmlogenys paca). 



DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 

Eobert Eidgway, Curator. 

Accessions. 

The accessions to the collection of birds during the year 1883 number 
134, including all that were entered in the Museum register during the 
year.* 

The total numer of specimens entered in the Museum register of birds 
for 1883 is 3,651 , the last number of the catalogue being 93,091. 

Following are the more important lots received during the year : 

(a) ACCESSIONS OF STUFFED BIRDS. 

L. Belding. Three lots, as follows: (1) 35 specimens, 24 species, from 
Laguna and San Jos6 del Cabo, Lower California ; (2) 57 specimens, 
34 species, from Guaymas, Souora, aud various localities in Lower 
California ; (3) 59 specimens, 38 species', from various localities in 
Lower California. (S. I.) 

Gapt. Charles Bendire, U. 8. A. 223 specimens, 72 species, from Fort 
Klamath, Oreg. (Gift.) 

Amos W. Butler. 11 specimens, 4 species, of warblers, from Brook- 
ville, Ind. (Exchange.) 

* Some accessions entered during January, 1883, were in reality received in the lat- 
ter part of 1882; -while other specimens received in December, 1883, were not entered 
untilJanuary, 1884. These are not included in the above statement, as is likewise 
the case Avith specimens which had lost their labels and been re-entered, and a few 
others which, although in the collection for a number of years past, appear never to 
have been catalogued. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 221 

Charles B. Gory. Two lots : (1) 3 newly-discovered birds from Santo 
Domingo. (Exchange.) (2) 7 specimens, 5 species, chiefly from 
Santo Domingo. (Exchange.) 

William Butcher. 12 specimens, in flesh, of Passer •cuius princeps. (Gift.) 

George F. Gaunter . One adult 2 of Phoznicopterus ruber Linn. (Gift.) 

N. S. Goss. 37 specimens, 37 species, from Guatemala. (Gift.) 

P. L. Jouy. 312 specimens, 131 species, from Japan. (S. I.) 

G. J. Maynard. 27 specimens, 18 species, from Dominica. (Purchased.) 

G. L. McKay {deceased). Two lots: (1) 117 specimens, 61 species, from 
Nushagak Eiver, Alaska ; (2) 40 specimens, 22 species, from same 
locality. (Signal Office.) 

Lieut. Jeff. T. Moscr, U. S. N. 2 fine specimens of Ossifraga gigantea, 
and 4 of Baption capensis, from the Rio de la Plata, the former 
mounted for the exhibition collection. (Gift.) 

Prof. William Nation (Lima, Peru). 1 specimen each of Buarremon 
nationi Scl., and Porzana erythrops, Scl., both new to the collection. 
(Gift.) 

Norwich Museum (England). 3 species of Falconidoe new to the collec- 
tion. (Exchange.) 

C. C. Nutting. Four lots from Nicaragua, as follows : (1) 100 specimens, 
53 species, from San Juan del Sur ; (2) 199 specimens, 75 species, 
from Sucuya; (3) 136 specimens, 45 species, from Ometepec; and (4) 
167 specimens, 76 species, from Los Sabalos. (S. I.) 

B. Bidgway (Curator Beparimient of Birds). Three accessions, as fol- 
lows: (1) 221 specimens, 95 species, from Wheatland, Ind. ; (2) 99 
specimens, 50 species, from Richland County, Illinois; (3) one adult 
bald eagle (Halicetus leucocephalus) in flesh ; purchased for Museum 
and mounted for exhibition series. (S. I.) 

G. Salvin and F. Bu Cane Godman. 156 specimens, 145 species, of neo- 
tropical birds, nearly all new to the collection. (Exchange.) 

P. L. Sclater. 14 specimens, 11 species, of Accipitres, from British 
Guiana. (Exchange.) 

Ernest E. T. Seton. Two lots: (1) 22 specimens, 18 species, from Mani- 
toba ; (2) 51 specimens, 36 species, from Manitoba. (Gift.) 

George Shoemaker. 40 specimens, 24 species, from Gainesville, Fla. 
(S. I.) 

Br. B. W. Shufeldt, U. S. A. 58 specimens, 24 species, from New Or- 
leans, La. (Gift.) 

Br. L. Stejneger. 486 specimens, 126 species, from Commander Islands 
and Petropaulski, Kamtsckatka. (S. I.) 

Charles H. Townsend. Four lots, from Shasta County, California, as fol- 
lows: (1) 198 specimens, 76 species; (2) 102 specimens, 44 species; 
(3) 161 specimens, 49 species; (4) 198 specimens, 76 species. (S. I.) 

Br. H. Van Patten. 51 specimens, 38 species, from Costa Pica, includ- 
ing 2 species (Selasphorus torridus and Leucopternis princeps) new to 
the collection. (Gift.) 



222 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

J. Wallace. 13 specimens, 13 species, 6 species new to the collection. 
(Purchased.) 

G. W. Ward. 11 specimens, 8 species, of herons, &c, from Southwest- 
ern Florida. (Gift.) 

H. A. Ward. 1 skin of adult Ardea occidtntalis. purchased for exhibi- 
tion collection. 

Prof. H. E. Webster. 1 mounted specimen of the black gyrfalcon (ffiero- 
falco gyrfalco obsoletus) from New York. (Exchange.) 

Charles K. Worthen. 3 lots, chiefly from Illinois and California, as fol- 
lows: (1) 21 specimens, 6 species; (2) 22 specimens, 16 species; (3) 9 
specimens, 6 species. (Exchange.) 

JosS G. Zeledon. 31 specimens, 28 species, from Costa Eica ; 4 species 
new to science. (Gift.) 

(&) ACCESSIONS TO THE EGG COLLECTION. 

Gapt. Charles Bendire, TJ. S. A. 18 specimens, 16 species (nests only), 

from Oregon. (Gift.) 
James Bell. Eggs of Aramus giganteus, from Florida. (Gift.) 
JDr. E. Cones. Nests and eggs of Myiadestes iownsendi and Parus mon- 

tanus, from Colorado. 
P. L. Jouy. 17 specimens, 11 species, from Japan. 
James A. K. Moore. 1 egg of great borned owl from Loudoun County, 

Virginia. . 

B. Bidgway ( Curator Department of Birds). 3 accessions, as follows : (1) 

11 specimens, 8 species, from Wheatland, Ind. ; (2) 34 specimens, 15 

species, from Eichland County, Illinois ; (3) 1 egg of Carolina parakeet 

(Gonurus carolinensis), laid in confinement. (S. I.) 
Ernest E. T. Seton. 16 specimens, 15 species, from Manitoba, including 

nest and eggs of Oporornis agilis, the first discovered. (Gift.) 
Livingston Stone. 42 specimens, 19 species, nests and eggs, from 

McCloud Eiver, Northern California. 
Charles H. Toivnsend. 42 specimens, 18 species, from Shasta County, 

California. . 
Mrs. Mary E. Turner. Nest and complement of 11 eggs of Bewick's 

wren (Thryomanes bcwicJci), from Mount Carmel, 111. 

General routine work, arrangement of collections, eto. 

(a) GENERAL ROUTINE WORK. 

Besides the labor involved in the cataloguing, labeling, and installa- 
tion of the 3,651 specimens acted on during the year, a large amount of 
other routine work has also been done, such as the writing of special 
papers, based on material in the collection, for publication ; correction 



REPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 223 

of proof, writing official letters, &c: The exact extent of this work is 
as follows : 

Papers prepared for publication 13 

Pages of proof (in Museum publications) corrected 246 

Galleys of proof (in Museum publications) corrected 104 

Official letters written 190 

Official memoranda written 219 

Orders for work written 76 

Memoranda of packing written 82 

Eequisitions for material, &c 158 

(fc) DISTRIBUTION OF SPECIMEN8. 

The total number of specimens sent out during the year was 1,133, of 
which 759 were exchanges and 374 loaned to specialists for examina- 
tion; the number of species being 385 exchanged and 127 loaned. 
There were also exchanged 23 specimens and 17 species of eggs, while 
16 specimens and 11 species of skeletons were loaned for examination. 

The number of packages sent out was 85, of which 43 were sent by 
mail, 36 by express, 2 by international exchange, 2 by messenger, and 2 
doubtful.* 

(c) ARRANGEMENT AND CLASSIFICATION OF COLLECTIONS. 

A vast amount of work under this heading has been done during the 
year. The entire reserve and duplicate series of smaller birds, embrac- 
ing about 30,000 specimens, has been wholly rearranged systematically, 
in new quarter-unit cabinets, aud the drawers carefully labeled. The 
reserve specimens of larger birds in the west basement have likewise 
been thoroughly overhauled and rearranged. This part of the collec- 
tion, although containing less than 10,000 skins, is by far the most 
bulky, and the handling of it has involved a very great deal of labor. 
Some dozen or more boxes containing duplicate specimens of the larger 
birds (chiefly water birds and birds of prey), which have been kept in 
storage, have been brought out and overhauled ; but it was found neces- 
sary, on account of lack of drawer space, to repack the duplicates in 
the same large boxes. They were, however, first classified, and then 
an invoice made of the contents of each box. Advantage was taken of 
this opportunity to select specimens for the Indiana State University, 
the zoological collections of which were completely destroyed by fire in 
July preceding ; but, although the greater part of this work was done in 
December, 1883, it is not yet finished, and the statistics pertaining to 
this matter will therefore be deferred until the annual report for 1884. 

The cases aDd drawers containing the reserve series and part of the 
duplicates have been numbered, and a key to the arrangement prepared 
that will greatly facilitate ready access to the specimens. 

* These two were foreign packages, the manner of sending them not being discre- 
tionary with the curator. 



224 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

(d) WORK ON EXHIBITION SERIES. 

Owing to the fact that access to the exhibition collection has been, 
during the entire year, practically cut off by the transfer of the Smith- 
sonian offices to the main hall, no work of any consequence has been 
done on the exhibition series. About 300 specimens have been mounted 
during the year, and these have, when possible, been placed in the 
cases where they properly belong, but many of them have been tem- 
porarily arranged in cases in the southwest gallery. The accessions 
include many birds of great interest, among which may be mentioned 
the type specimen of Wurdemann's heron (Ardea wurdemanni), a fine 
adult of the great white heron (Ardea occidentalis), a fine adult female 
of the American flamingo, the type specimen of a supposed new sea 
eagle from the Commander Islands (Raliaetus hypoleucus Stejneger), a 
fine series of pheasants and other Japanese birds, collected by Mr. P. L. 
Jouy, and other interesting specimens, too numerous to mention. 

Bibliography of publications based upon Museum material. 

See Bibliographical Appendix, under the names of L. Belding (4), 
William Brewster (2), Elliott Coues (2), Pierre Louis Jouy (1), Eobert 
Bidgway (7), Howard Saunders (1), P. L. Sclater (2), and Leonhard 
Stejneger (2). 

The total number of papers published is 31 ; the number by each 
writer is indicated by the figures in parentheses following the names in 
the above enumeration. 

Present state of collections. 

The present state of the collections is first class, except in the case of the 
duplicate collection, which is chiefly included within cases affording no 
protection from insects, but partly packed in large boxes, and thus very 
inconvenient of access when exchanges are to be made. That portion 
accommodated in the unsuitable cases above mentioned requires con- 
stant watching and frequent use of bisulphide of carbon, a very efficient 
insecticide when put in tightly closed drawers or cases, but of only tem- 
porary utility in open receptacles, on account of its rapid evaporation. 
The exhibition collection is also in constant peril, the cases being in 
every respect unsuitable for the safe keeping of specimens. It is, in 
fact, a great risk to put valuable specimens inside of them. 

Number of specimens in the collection. 

It is impossible to give at the present time an exact statement of the 
number of specimens in the several series of the collection, which would 
require a special inventory. The approximate total can however be 
ascertained by simply adding to that existing at the end of the year 1882 
the number of specimens catalogued in 1883, and subtracting therefrom 
those distributed. This gives a total of 47,216 specimens to December 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 225 

31, 1883. An approximately correct estimate of the number of speci- 
mens in the several series gives the following result : 

Specimens. 

In reserve skin series 28, 24G 

On exliibitiou G, 000 

Duplicates 13, 000 

Total 47, 246 

Desiderata. 

Since the publication of the " List of species of Middle and South 
American birds not continued in the United States National Museum," 
in December, 1881,* more than 200 species of Neotropical birds have 
been added to the collection, by far the larger number of additions 
being the direct result of the judicious distribution of the list iu ques- 
tion. The greater number of these additional species have been fur- 
nished by Messrs. Salviu & Godinan in England, and Count von Ber- 
lepsch in Germany; but Mr. George N. Lawrence, of New York City, 
has contributed several. We have already the promise of nearly the 
same number of species still remaining on our list of desiderata from 
the gentlemen named above. The great utility of these lists is therefore 
apparent, and I would suggest, as the best means of still further reducing 
the number of desiderata of the Museum, that special lists of the most 
desirable species of those counries of tropical America from which we 
possess fewest species be drawn up ; these lists to be sent to the Gov- 
ernments of those countries with a request for their assistance in obtain- 
ing the species wanted. 



DEPARTMENT OF REPTILES. 

H. C. Yarrow, Honorarj^ curator. 

As iu previous years, the Museum, through the kind efforts of its 
friends and collectors, has received many and valuable accessions to its 
different series, amongst the most noteworthy of which are the follow- 
ing: 

From Dr. Eobert W. Shufeldt, U. S. A., a large and interesting col- 
lection from the Mississippi delta, embracing about 678 specimens of 
about 30 species. While no new or especially rare forms have been 
secured, it will be of great value in studying the reptilian fauna of the 
region, and for purposes of exchange with other museums. 

Another interesting collection of 120 specimens, from the vicinity of 
the Potomac River, was received from the late Mr. George Shoemaker, 
a young naturalist, whose untimely demise must be greatly regretted 
by all students of natural history who have had the good fortune to be 
associated with his labors. 

Mr. Robert Ridgway, Curator of birds, has found time, notwithstand- 

* Proceedings United States National Museum, vol. m, pp. 165-203. 
H. Mis. 09 15 



226 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

ing his other duties, to collect and present 54 specimens of reptiles from 
the vicinity of Wheatland, Ind. Some of these were living, and have 
added greatly to the attractions of the serpent vivarium. Not the 
least important part of Mr. Itidgwav's work has been a careful series 
of notes regarding his specimens, the value of which cannot be over- 
estimated. Among the very rare serpents were several belonging to 
the new subspecies described by the curator in the proceedings of the 
National Museum, ]882, p. 438, under the name of Ophibolus getulus 
niger, and this additional supply of material fully confirms the conclu- 
sions reached in the paper mentioned. 

Mr. Theodore Roosevelt has presented a collection of 67 specimens, 
mostly from the State of New York. 

We are again under obligations to Mr. L. Belding, of California, for a 
valuable and rare collection from La Paz, Cal. 

The Kurrachee Library and Museum of British India has also pre- 
sented a fine series of Indian reptiles, numbering 49 specimens. Many 
of these the Museum did not before possess. 

Mr. Jos§ Zeledon, of Costa Rica, has also presented a collection of 
27 rare and valuable specimens made in the vicinity of his coffee plan- 
tation. 

A valuable and almost unique collection of reptiles from Mauritius, 
numbering 47 specimens, has been presented by Mr. Nicholas Pike, of 
Brooklyn, formerly United States consul to the island. This is only 
one of the many donations made to the National Museum by this gentle- 
man. 

Mr. G. W. Marnock, of Helotes, Bexar County, Texas, has as in pre- 
vious years added most materially to our collections, and from him have 
been received a number of specimens of species not before possessed by 
the Museum. 

Other collections have been presented by Mr. James Bell, of Gaines- 
ville, Fla., Dr. Gamier, of Luckuow, Canada, Mr. G. M. Merrill, of Au- 
burn, Me., Lieut, J. F. Moser, U. S. N., Dr. J. Schenk, C. H. Gilbert, 
George Stolley, William J. Taylor, H. F. Emeric, R. E. EarlJ, Dr. W. 
Nelson, C. R, Orcntt, Benjamin Miller, B. A. Bean, J. B. Adams, and 
many others; in fact, we have no cause for complaint as to scarcity of 
contributions. 

The routine work of the department has been carried on by the Cura- 
tor and two young assistants. It consists in entering promptly in the 
record book all accessions, the specimens having been previously iden- 
tified when possible, and tagged with a stamped tin label bearing the 
current number. They are carefully examined with a view to determin- 
ing in which series they should be placed, after which a separate record 
is made so that at any time the specimen may be found without difficulty, 
according to its classification. 

The entire collection of reptiles is divided into two great series, one 
called the "Reserve series," intended for purposes of study, and from 
which is selected the exhibition set, the other entitled the "General se- 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 227 

ries," from which selections are made for donations to other museums or 
to amplify the "Eeserve series." It is to be regretted that space will 
not admit of a proper display of the exhibition set of reptiles, domestic 
and foreign. 

In addition to the official record book of the department the follow- 
ing records are also kept with great care : "Beeord of reserve series;" 
"Beeord of general series;" "Beeord of letters received;" "Beeord of 
letters sent;" " Beeord of requisitions." 

In these may be found recorded every matter of business transacted 
in the department of reptiles. It should be stated that no inconsidera- 
ble labor is involved in giving prompt attention to the official corre- 
spondence, which at times ^s quite voluminous, for many letters of inquiry 
are received from all parts of the world, which to answer require much 
time, thought, and labor. During the year 1883, 90 letters have been 
sent and 100 received. 

It has long been the desire of the Curator to have prepared a card cata- 
logue of the entire collection in his care, but up to the present moment 
it has been found impossible to spare the time from other and more im- 
portant duties. 

The preparation of a Manual of Herpetology, based upon the collec- 
tions in the National Museum, has been prosecuted as rapidly as circum- 
stances would allow, and the manuscript is now nearly ready for the 
printer. Nearly all the illustrations of serpents have been carefully 
prepared by Mr. J. L. Eidgway, and others are now in the hands of the 
artists. 

No special researches have been made by the Curator and his assist- 
ants apart from those necessary in the preparation of the manual before 
mentioned, but material has been furnished Dr. S. "Weir Mitchell for his 
investigation in reptile venoms, to Dr. Mason, of Newport, B. I., and to 
Dr. E. W. Shufeldt, U. S. A. " 

The collection may be said to be at the present time in very good con- 
dition, as prompt attention is given it whenever needed. 

Number of specimens on hand at present. 

In reserve series 8, 342 

In general series . 7, 918 

In exhibition set: 

Domestic 600 

Foreign 150 

Not classified and exotic specimens, probably 5, 000 

Total 22, 000 

Total number of entries in record for the year 1883 965 

Total number of specimens received to January 1, 1884 , 1, 535 

Total number of entries in record to date 13, 745 

By the authority of the Director, a number of specimens have been 
distributed in exchange for others more desirable, but no complete sets 



:28 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



of duplicates have been made during the past year. It is hoped, how- 
ever, soon to be able to arrange. sets and in this way get rid of what is 
superfluous material. 

The statement made in the report of the Curator for 18S2, regarding 
want of accommodation for the department of reptiles is again urged, 
for at the present time it is well nigh impossible to accommodate fur- 
ther accessions ; the reserve series shelves are filled and overcrowded, 
and we are obliged to make use of the adjoining hall to store valuable 
specimens, which should properly be placed in the curator's room ; in 
fact, the entire collections of Testudinata is outside the laboratory. Any 
attempt to establish a reserve and general series of foreign reptiles 
similar to those employed for our American reptiles must be fruitless 
under existing circumstances. 



DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 

Tarleton H. Bean, Curator. 
Important accessions during 1883. 

There were 108 accessions during the year, of which 55 were gifts r 
37 by Museum collectors, 13 by United States Fish Commission collect- 
ors, and 3 by exchange. 



Synopsis of the accessions. 

Alabama 4 

Arkansas 1 

California 2 

Chesapeake Bay 1 

District of Columbia 4 

Florida 4 

Georgia 4 

Indiana 1 

Iowa 1 

Louisiana 4 

Maine 2 

Massachusetts 8 

Maryland 3 

Michigan 2 

Minnesota 1 

Mississippi Eiver 1 

Montana 2 

New Jersey 2 

New York 8 

North Carolina , 2 

Ohio 2 

Oregon 1 

Pennsylvania 1 

Potomac Eiver 4 



Puget Sound 1 

Rhode Island 3 

South Carolina 2 

Tennessee 1 

Texas 2 

Virginia 4 

Washington Territory 2 

Wisconsin 1 

Deep sea 4 

Extra-limital. 

Alaska 4 

British America 3 

Ceylon 1 

France 1 

Guatemala 1 

Indian Archipelago 1 

Japan 1 

Mauritius 1 

New Brunswick 2 

Pacific Ocean 1 

Panama 2 

South America 3 

Vancouver Island 1 

West Indies 4 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 220 

By addition we would have a larger number of accessions than 108 ; 

but in some cases the accession was partly from one locality and partly 

from another, and each is credited as one in the synopsis. 
Following is a summary of the most interesting accessions catalogued 

during the year: 

S. Albro, Coddingtorts Cove, Rhode Island. Accession ; cata- 
logue, 33194. An example, taken October 16, of Elops saurus, a 
species of only occasional occurrence in southern New England. 

Tarleton R. Bean, Potomac River, District of Columbia. Catalogue, 
32564. A remarkable specimen of Esox reticularis of a pale green 
color without a trace of dark reticulations. 

Capt. Charles Bendire, Cceur d?Alene Lake. Catalogue, 32576. In a 
large collection of Salmonidoe taken in Oregon and Washington Ter- 
ritory was included the type of Salmo purpuratus, var. houvieri, Ben- 
dire, which may be only a color variety of Clark's trout. Typical 
Salmo purpuratus was also forwarded, and Salmo gairdneri, Onco- 
rhyncuus nerka, 0. chouicha, and Salvelinus malma. 

E. G. Blackford, New York Market. Accession 13065; catalogue, 32753. 
A specimen of mackerel Scomber scombrus (?) without any traces of 
black half bands. It does not seem to differ otherwise from scombrus. 

E. G. Blackford, Fort Pond Bay. Long Island. Accession 13539; cat- 
alogue, 33158. A very fine example of Scriola lalandii, measuring 
more than 30 inches in length. Complete measurements have been 
taken. This is unquestionably the 8. lalandii of Bull. 16, IT. S. Nat. 
Mus., p. 912, a species hitherto known on our coast from Florida only. 

E. G.Blackford, West Indies, South America, &c. Accession 13737; 
catalogue, 33222-33265, 33589-33780. This is part of a full series 
of the fishes formerly belonging to J. C. Brevoort, which Mr. Black- 
ford has presented to the National Museum. Besides the tank speci- 
mens there are four barrels full of jars containing fishes in alcohol. 
I have not yet been able to identify the species, but will report upon 
them more fully hereafter. 

California Fish Commission, Paper Mill Creek, California. Accession 

; catalogue, 32588-9. Number 32589 is a remarkably large 

Salmo gairdneri. weighing 16 pounds, of which a cast and the skeleton 
are preserved in the Museum. 

Malachi Corbel, u The Cape,'''' North Carolina. Accession 13073; cata- 
logue, 32754. An example of the comparatively rare Astroscopus 
anoplus, of which this Museum has only a few individuals. 

D. C. Cor dery, Atlantic County, New Jersey. Accession, 12949; cata- 
logue, 32580. An adult example of Cyclopterus lumpus, which is un- 
usual so far south. 

J. E. Curtis, Gallatin and Madison Rivers, Montana. Accession 13122; 
catalogue, 32799. The whitetish sent by Mr. Curtis is Coregonus 
williamsoni. As this species is supposed not to occur in any streams 
except those of the Pacific watershed, the locality should be verified. 



230 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Thomas S. Boron, Montgomery, Ala. Accession 12998; catalogue, 32629. 
A fine large rock-fish, more nearly related to Roccus septentrionalis than 
to the chrysops of the Mississippi Valley. The fish is a gravid female 
nearly 3 feet long and remarkably deep-bodied. A cast was made 
and the example then preserved entire. 

J. B. Edwards, Amagansett, Long Island. Accession 12701 ; catalogue, 
32516. Mr. Edwards, keeper of the life-saving station at Amagan- 
sett, sent a shark belonging to the family Scylliidw, the Pseudotriacis 
microdon, Oapello, a species never before known in our waters, which 
was described from a single example taken in the deep water off the 
coast of Portugal by a deep-line fisherman. Casts of one side and of the 
head were obtained. A good drawing was made by Mr. H. L. Todd, 
and Mr.F. A. Lucas has prepared a skeleton. The skin will be mounted. 

Wm. J. Fisher, Kodiak, Alaska. Accession 12209; catalogue, 32537-8. 
In Mr. Fisher's collection were two very large specimens of Gottus 
niger, Bean, first found at Saint Paul Island, Bering Sea, and now 
known to occur also in the Gulf of Alaska. 

James Fletcher, coast of British Columbia. Accession 13039 ; catalogue, 
32664. Mr. Fletcher sent, through Dr. Eobert Bell, a fine example of 
Rhamphocottus richardsoni, Gthr., a curious and rare Cottoid, of which 
we now have three specimens, the other two being from Kodiak and 
Monterey Bay. 

Prof. G. LT. Gilbert, Charleston, S. C. Accession ; catalogue, 

33161-8. This small portion of Professor Gilbert's collection included 
the following species, which are not well represented in the Museum, 
and seem to be rare : Larimus fasciatus, Stelliferus lanceolatus, Rhino- 
batus lentiginosus. 

Dr. J. A. Henshall, Jupiter Inlet, Florida. Part of accession 11429 ; 
catalogue, 33213. Among other valuable species Dr. Henshall ob- 
tained Fundulus confluentus, which was known from the single type 
only. 

W. P. Hillyer, Cherrystone, Va. Accession 13599; catalogue, 33160 
Fistularia tabaccaria, a rare species in our waters. 

Jordan and Stearns, Pensacola, Fla. Part of accession 12991; catalogue, 
33173. A remarkable species of pipe-fish, Siphostoma crinigerum, Bean 
and Dresel MSS., allied to 8. crinitum (Jenyns), which inhabits the 
coast of Northern Patagonia. It has an extremely short snout (shorter 
than the eye), and the dorsal rays are only 16 to 17. The name re- 
fers to the minute filaments found upon the head and sides of the 
body. Two males are described as the types of the species. 

Capt. R. M. Knowles, Point Judith, Rhode Island. Accession 13653; 
catalogue, 33193. A specimen of Fistularia serrata, a species which 
is very rare on our coast. 

Royal Museum of Natural History, Leiden, Indian Archipelago. Acces- 
sion 13058; catalogue, 32689-32751. A collection embracing up- 
wards of 60 named species of fishes in return for American species. 



EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



231 



Historical and Scientific Society, Winnipeg, Manitoba. Accession 11897; 
catalogue, 31940-9 and 31951-5. A collection of the more important 
species of Winnipeg, secured through the instrumentality of Mr. 
Strong, of the Canadian press. The entire list is worthy of record: 

1. Moxostoma carpio, (Val.) Jord. ''White-scaled sucker. M 

2. Gatostomus teres, (Mitch.) Le S. "Blue sucker." 

3. Moxostoma macrolepidotum. (Le S.) .lor. "Red sucker." 

4. Hyodon alosoide.s, (Rat.) Jor. & Gilo. "Gold eye." 

5. Stizostedium canadense, (Smith) Jor. "Pickerel." 
C. Esox Indus, L. " Pike." 

7. Amiunis vulgaris, (Thomp.) Nelson. "Mud pout." 

8. Perca amcricana, Schranck. "Perch." 

9. Catostomus longirostrum. Le S. " Black sucker." 

10. Carpiodes tumidus, Baird and Girard. "Buffalo." 

11. Haploidonotus richarsdsoni, (C. & V.). 

12. Coregonus clupeiformis, (Mitch.) Milner. "Whitensh." 

13. Hyodon alosoides, (Raf.) Jor. & Gilb. "Gold eye." 

14. Catostomus teres, (Mitch.) Le S. "Black sucker." 

15. Moxostoma macrolepidotum, (Le S.) Jor. "Red sucker." 
Fred. Mather, Adirondack Lakes, New York. Accession 13811; cata- 
logue, 33917-33999. Mr. Mather has described, for the Adirondack 
survey report, two new species of Catostomus and forwarded the 
types to the National Museum. One of these is Catostomus nanomy- 
zon, Mather, from a tributary of Big Moose Lake. I am inclined to 
think that these are simply young, or dwarfed, examples of Catosto- 
mus longirostrum, which have early begun reproduction. I can see 
no specific characters to warrant their separation from longirostrum. 
Catostomus utoicana, Mather, from Blue Mountain Lake, Hamilton 
County, New York, and also from Big Moose Lake, I should call G. 
teres, (Mitch.), the commonest of the northern suckers. The fact that 
these two species were found spawning when of small size does not 
warrant their separation as distinct species, this being probably a 
climatic phenomenon. 

Lewis G. Mitchell, Barnegat, N. J. Accession 13671 ; catalogue, 33197. 
Mr. Mitchell forwarded a fine Pomacanthus arcuatus, which we have 
not before known to exist in our seas north of Florida. A color 
sketch and a cast were made, and Mr. Todd is now at work on a 
drawing of both the adult and the young. 

E. W.Nelson, Saint MicliaeVs and vicinity, Alaska. Accession ; 

catalogue, 32S21-987. This includes the major portion of Mr. Nel- 
son's collection of fishes and contains many valuable species. There is 
a large series of Oncorhynchi, Goregoni. and other Salrnonoids. besides 
the following: Chirolophus polyactocephalus (Pall.); Mr. Nelson ob- 
tained the only specimens we have of this blenny; Lycodes turnerii; 
Anarrhichas lepturus ; Parophrys ischyurns, from Unalashka, the most 
northern record from Alaska : Brachyopsis sp. : V ran idea, from mouth 
of Tananali River; Mureenoides, probably a new species. 



232 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Capt. H. E. Nichols, U. 8. N~., British Columbia and Alaska. Accession 
13757; catalogue, 33781-33803,33910-33913. Among numerous species 
of interest were the two following : Delolepis virgatus, Bean, the singu- 
lar scaled genus of Cryptacanthidce which Captain Nichols was the 
first to discover ; Prionistius macellus, Bean, of which we now have 
two examples, both obtained from Captain Nichols. 

Capt. H. E. Nichols, U. 8. N., Alaska and British Columbia. Accession 

; catalogue, 31956-32019. A collection of forty-three species, 

in fine condition, including the following of special interest: 

1. Triglops pingelii, not previously taken in Alaska. 

2. Prionistius macellus, Bean, a new genus and species related to 

Triglops, described iu Proc. Nat. Mus. for 1883, pp. 355-359. 
A second example was taken by Captain Nichols and is men- 
tioned with the type. 

3. Gymnacanthus galeatus, Bean, extending its range considerably 

eastward. The species was discovered first at Unalashka. 

4. Potamocottus gulosus, its first occurrence in Alaska. 

5. Micrometrus aggregatus, the first Embiotocoid known from 

Alaska. 

6. Somniosus microcephalus, jaws cut from an Alaskan example 8 

feet long, demonstrating the existence of the species in South- 
eastern Alaska. 

Prof. Felipe Poey, Havana, Cuba. Accession 13463 5 catalogue, 33079- 

* 33141. This collection contains many species, among which are: 
Elops saurus, Echeneis, several species, Gerres zebra, Holacanthus parrce, 
Tetrodon occipitalis, Opisthonema, Murcena, Ophichthys, Tylosurus, 
Agonostoma, Fistularia, Plectropoma, several species, Trachinocephalus 
myops, Xyrichthys, Aulostoma. 

Silas 8tearns, Pensacola, Fla. Accession ; catalogue, 33915. 

Mr. Stearns sent the example here recorded to Professor Jordan with 
some other species and, for a time, it was believed to be new ; but a 
comparison with typical specimens shows it to be Emblemaria nivipes, 
Jor. & Gilb., a species first made known from the Pearl Islands in the 
Pacific, whence it was bfought by Prof. F. H. Bradley. The occur- 
rence of this fish in the Gulf of Mexico is quite interesting. 

Silas Stearns, Pensacola, Fla. Accession 12247 ; catalogue, 31891- 
31939. A collection of great value, containing the following, among 
many other species : 

1. Stenotomus caprinus, Bean (young), the singular "goat's-head 

porgy" recently discovered at Pensacola by Mr. Stearns. 

2. Opisthognaihus scaphiurus, Goode & Bean. 

3. Echeneis albescens, Temm. & Schleg., now for the first time re- 

corded in our waters. 

4. Phycis floridanus, Beau & Dresel, a manuscript species, of 

which a brief diagnosis has been prepared for publication in 
Proc. Biological Society of Washington, Vol. 11. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 233 

5. Coryphcena equisetis, L. (? or hippurus, L.), 13 examples of rather 

small size. 

6. Aprion ariommus, Jor. & Gilb., a species recently described in 

Proc. Xat, Mus. for 1883, pp. 142, 143. 

Silas Steams, Pensacola, Fla. Part of accession 12991; catalogue, 
33000-33001. The first of these is an example of Conger caudiculo. 
Bean, the second one known in this Museum. The other is Antenna- 
rius pleur ophthalmitis, Gill, which has not been previously obtained for 
many years. 

Silas Stearns, Pensacola, Fla. Accession 12991 ; catalogue, 32755-32767. 
Among these fishes were two which have not before been known to 
occur in Florida ; these are Brotula barbata, (Bl. Schn.) Cuv., a species 
of the Caribbean and West Indies, and a new species of Phycis, 
Phyeis floridanus, Bean & Dresel, a manuscript species about to be 
described in Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Vol. II. 

Silas Stearns, Pensacola, Fla. Accession 12991 part; catalogue, 
32632-32637, 32647. Among the species are the following rare ones : 
Diplodus sp., Tylosurus gladius, Bean, Diplodus caudimacula, Poey, Cau- 
lolatilus microps, Goode & Bean. Batrachus pardus, Goode & Bean, 
Ophichthys guttifer, Bean & Dresel, a new species just described in 
manuscript for Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Vol. n. 

Dr. Leonard Stejneger, Commander Islands and Kamtschatka. Accession 

; catalogue, 33804-33908. This is a collection of great value, 

which was made by Dr. Stejneger during the years 1882 and 1883, 
while in the service of the Signal Bureau, U. S. A. The collection is 
valuable because of its bearing upon geographical distribution and 
from the fact that it contains many hitherto doubtful Pallassian spe- 
cies from localities visited by Steller, besides others which appear to 
be undescribed. The species are not yet fully identified, but the fol- 
lowing may be mentioned as reasonably ascertained : 

33806, 33837. Cyclopterichthys species, two specimens from Ber- 
ing Island. The genus is extremely rare in collections, and 
very little known, save from a description by Dr. Steiudachner, 
which is accompanied by a good figure. Pallas described the 
fish under the name Cyclopterus ventricosus, and Steindachner 
re-described it as Cyclopterichthys glaber. Our specimens are. 
in all probability, C. ventricosus. 

33807. Gymnacanthus galeatus, Bean. I did not learn much from 
the type of G. pistilliger in Berlin, because of its very bad con- 
dition. It may be that my species is, after all, identical with 
that of Pallas, but of this I cannot be sure. 

33809. Hypomesus, probably olidus. 

33817. Coitus diceraus from Kamtschatka, the original locality of 
the species. 

33821. Pleurogrammus monopterygius from Bering Island, extend- 
ing its range very much to the westward. 



234 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

33848. Blenny not yet made out. 

33849. Agonid not yet identified. 

338G9. Bathymaster signatus, Cope, from Bering Island, greatly 

extending its range. 
33870. Gymnclis, from Copper Islaud. There is a splendid lot of 
Cottoids and also of Salmonoids which will throw much light 
on the relations of the Kamtchatkan fauna to that of Alaska. 
Capt. Thomas Stratton (through Jas. G. Swan), Port Angelos, Wash. Ter. 
Catalogue, 32547. This was an example of Delolepis virgatus, Bean, 
and is the third example known to be preserved. It was picked up 
on the beach. Mr. Swan writes that "specimens are occasionally 
but rarely seen in the Victoria market." 
James G. Swan, Port Townsend, Wash. Ter. Accession 12647 ; cata- 
logue, 32492-32503. Mr. Swan had in this collection the following 
among other species: Brama rail, whose occurrence in the North 
Pacific he was the first to detect. Macrurus acrolepis, Bean, a new 
species described in Proc. Nat. Mus. for 1883, pp. 362-363. This is 
the first specimen of the genus known from the Eastern Pacific. 
U. S. Fish Commission, off Southern New England coast and southward to 

Chesapeake Bay. Accession ; catalogue, 33266-33587. This 

large collection was made mainly by the parties on the steamers 
"Albatross" and "Fish Hawk," in depths varying from 35 to 2,949 
fathoms. In this greatest depth the following fishes were taken : 
Gyclothone lusca (many), Scopelus sp. (three?), Alepocephalid juv ; (one), 
Mancalias uranoscopus (one), Plectromus (one). The collection em- 
braced many of the species recently described by Goode & Bean, from 
specimens trawled by the "Blake," but not previously in the Na- 
tional Museum, and there was, besides, a goodly number of new forms 
which have been for the most part briefly characterized by Professor 
Gill and Mr. J. A. Ryder. 

Of the " Blake " species the summer explorations yielded the follow- 
ing: Chalinura simula, Goode & Bean; Goryphamoides carapinus, Goode 
& Bean ; Afacrurus asper, Goode & Bean ; Bathysaurits agassizii, Goode 
& Bean; Halosaurus macrochir, Gunther; Alepocephalus agassizii, 
Goode & Bean ; Lycodonus mirabilis, Goode & Bean ; Dicrolene intro- 
niger, Goode & Bean. The new species were first noticed in part in 
Forest and Stream of August 30, 1883, and again in a subsequent issue ; 
afterwards (November 27, 1883) a more extended paper based upon 
this material was published in Proc. Nat. Mus., volume vi, pages 253- 
273. 

Professor Gill also published in Nature a note upon the affinities of 
the Eurypharyngidw, contrasting them more especially with Sacco- 
pharynx. It is to be hoped that the new species will soon be fully 
described, for, without the typical specimens, it would be very diffi- 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 235 

cult if not impossible to recognize them in the future. The following 
species appear to have been erroneously considered as new : 

1. Chimcera abbreviata, Proe. Nat. Mus., 1883, 254, is the young of 

C. plumbed, Gill, which is identical with C. affinis, Capello, de- 
scribed in 18G8. 

2. Sigmops stigmaticus, Proc. Nat. Mus., 1883, 256, does not repre- 

sent a new genus and species, but is simply a badly preserved 
example of Gonostoma denudata, (Raf.) Bonap., of which we 
already had a drawing from a "Fish Hawk" specimen taken 
October, 1881. 

3. Halosaurus goodei, Proc. Nat. Mus., 1883, 257, is not sufficiently 

distinguished from H. macrochir, Gthr. to receive a new name. 
Mr. Goode and I observed more variation among the types 
of the latter species than will be found between the published 
descriptions of the contrasted forms. 

4. Stephanoberyx monce, Proc. Nat. Mus., 1883, 258, belongs to the 

same genus as Gill's proposed Acanthochcenus, and the fam- 
ily Acanthochcenidw is unnecessary, as both the species are 
Berycoids. 
The remark "closely allied to Melamphaes n was intended to follow 
and apply to Plectromus. 

5. Typhlopsaras shufeldtii, Gill, Forest and Stream, 1883, is not 

blind and is not a new genus and species, but is identical 
with Mancalias uranoscopus, (Murray), " The Atlantic," New 
York, 1878, n, p. G7, Fig. 20. 
Other species which are especially interesting are the following : 

33296, 33495, 33560. Argyropelecus olfersii, (Cuv.). We had 

previously obtained A. hemigymmis, so that we now possess 

two species of the genus from the Western Atlantic. These 

are the first specimens of olfersii that we have secured. 

33471, 33563. Sternoptyx diaphana, Hermann, not taken before 

except by the " Blake." 
33510. Bathylagus species. A specimen, No. 31861, of the same 
species was taken by the " Fish Hawk," October, 1882, haul 
1,155, in N. latitude 39° 52', W. longitude 70° 30', 554 fath- 
oms. The genus was described by Dr. Gunther (Ann. and 
Mag. Nat. Hist, September, 1878, p. 248) from examples ob- 
tained in the Antarctic and South Atlantic, at depths ranging 
from 1,950 to 2,040 fathoms. Our species resembles his B. 
Atlanticus very closely, but has a longer anal. 
U. S. Fish Commission steamer "Albatross? off mouth of Chesapeake Bay. 

Accession ; catalogue, 32049-32661, 32665-32682, 32684- 

32688. A valuable collection, especially for geographical distribu- 
tion, and because of numerous rare species. I name the following : 
Nemichthys scolopaceus, very fine examples; Coryphcenoides rtipestris ; 
Melanostigma gelatinosum ; Sternoptyx diaphana; Chaitliodus sloanii? 



23 G REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Lycodonus mirabilis; Cryptacanthodes maculatus; Centroscymnus sp., 
the last two being the first of their kind from so far south. 

U. S. Fish Commission steamer "Albatross," N. lat. 35° 37' 30" ; W. 
long. 74°. Accession 13134; catalogue, 32782-32798, 32804-32820. 
The collection was made during April and May. It contains many 
interesting species, and the following apparently new ones: Raia, 
32793 ; Ly codes, 32813. 

U. S. Fish Commission steamer u Albatross, v off Chesapeake and Delaware 
Bays,&c. Accession 13247; catalogue, 33006-33061. This collection 
is particularly rich in the following species: Haloporphyr us viola, 
Glyptocephalus cynoglossus, Scylliorhinus retifer, Alepoccphalus agassizii, 
Macrurus bairdii. 

Dr.H. C. Yarrow, Washington, B. C. Accession ; catalogue, 33076. 

A fine large specimen of Tylosurus caribbccus (52 inches in length). 

Work done upon the fishes during 1883. 

In arranging the collection of fishes for exhibition and study, as well 
as for the ordinary purposes of preservation, I have tried to transfer 
the contents of tanks as far as possible into glass jars. Powder tanks 
are so liable to become leaky and the tin lining wears off so quickly 
that we need to be continually overhauling them in order to save the 
contents from deterioration and destruction. It would be very hard to 
tell the number of such transfers made during the year, but some idea 
of the work may be gained from the fact that almost the entire stock of 
jars purchased for the year was used. 

Most of the fishes are now identified and labeled and collected in their 
proper families, though not yet in zoological sequence, for want of a hall 
sufficiently large to hold the entire collection. 

A card catalogue of the fishes in jars has been completed, filling at 
least 20,000 cards and representing more than three times that number 
of individuals. This does not include undetermined collections and tank 
specimens. 

A collection was prepared for exhibition at the International Fish- 
eries Exhibition in London. This included 450 species and represented 
pretty fully the following subjects : Alaska, Gulf of Mexico, and East 
Florida, Salmonoids of North America, exclusive of Greenland, and the 
genera of fresh- water fishes. Of the Alaskan species, 81 were exhib- 
ited ; of the Salmonoids, 38 species ; of the fishes of the Gulf of Mexico 
and East Florida, 173 species ; and of the fresh-water fishes, 183 species 
were shown. Section F of the London Fisheries Catalogue relates to the 
collections of fishes exhibited. In this section there is a general survey 
of the regions represented, and the common names, maximum size, food 
qualities, and spawning habits of the species are treated upon. This 
collection of fishes was made the basis in London of some exchanges 
with the British Museum, to which institution a large part of it was 
presented at the close of the exhibition. 

In the review of the important accessions during the year, it will be 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 237 

observed that the number of additions has been very large, and a con- 
siderable amount of time has beeu spent in the care of these accessions. 
The steamers of the United States Fish Commission have been especi- 
ally active in adding to the collections, securing to the Museum a vast 
amouut of material of great value. 

In conjunction with the assistant director, I was engaged for some 
time in studying and reporting upon the deep-sea fishes collected by the 
Coast Survey steamer "Blake," in the year 1880. This report was fin- 
ished and the fishes were returned before rny departure for London. 
Drawings of the new species were made by Mr. H. L. Todd and exam- 
ined before the return of the fishes to Mr. Alexander A.gassiz. 

My assistants were employed for several months in the preparation 
of the bibliography of works relating to the fishes of the Atlantic. A 
list of the bibliographies prepared is appended. Among other works 
consulted may be mentioned the Zoological Record, all of the volumes 
of which were searched for references to Atlantic fishes. 

Late in the month of June I left Washington to join the United States 
commissioner at the International Fisheries Exhibition in London. 
During my stay in the latter city I was engaged for a while in the selec- 
tion of duplicates for the National Museum from the collections of the 
British Museum. The greater portion of my time, however, was de- 
voted to the study of fishes in South Kensington and in the exhibits of 
Sweden, Norway, Russia, Canada, Newfoundland, and other countries 
exhibited in Loudon. A great mass of notes relating to species either 
similar to or identical with forms occurring in the Western Atlantic was 
collected and is now in process of elaboration for a final report. 

Through the courtesy of Dr. Murie, Mr. Goode and I were allowed to 
study a large number of Linne's types of American fishes. The infor- 
mation thus obtained will enable us to settle numerous doubtful ques- 
tions as to the nomenclature of some of our species. 

Among the exhibits studied which are of especial interest was a col- 
lection of the Yega fishes taken by Professor Nordenskiold. As a re- 
sult of the investigations thus carried on we will be enabled to solve 
many unsettled problems iu the relationships between the fishes of the 
two sides of the Atlantic basin. 

Through the means of a special mission to Vienna opportunity was 
found for studying numerous types of American species belonging to 
museums in Paris and Berlin, the especial objects of investigation in 
Paris being types of Cuvier and Valenciennes, and, in Berlin, Pallas's 
types. The material thus acquired will be utilized iu future reports. 

In Genoa an arrangement was made for an exchange of fishes with 
the Museo Civico, by which we hope to obtain numerous desiderata of 
Mediterranean species in return for duplicates from our own collec- 
tions. Arrangements were made, also, with Dr. Steindachner, in 
Vienna, for a similar exchange of fishes, Dr. Steindachner having nu- 
merous fishes from the Mediterranean and elsewhere, which he will give 



238 



REPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



to the National Museum in exchange for duplicates of our deep-sea 
species. 

During the year 1883 there were fifty-three papers received and cata- 
logued for the Proceedings of the United States National Museum. 

Proofs of Sections D and E of Bulletin 27 (London Fisheries Exhibi- 
tion Catalogue) were read, and Section F, relating to the fishes, was writ- 
ten and the proofs revised before leaving for London. 

Entries in the catalogue of fishes during 1883. 

The total number of entries in the catalogue was 1,576, the first 
number being 31,891, and the last 33,919. By subtraction we would 
have nearly 500 entries more than the number given, but these are 
partly blanks not yet filled up, or entries made in 1882. The actual 
number is 1,576, as stated above. This number was distributed through 
the different months, as shown in a table farther on. 

Table showing some of the work upon the collection of fishes during 1883. 



Months. 



,4 

a ® 



fiS 



£ S 

eS * . 

d m fi 

v? H 



January 

February 

March 

April : , 

May 

June 

July 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December , 

Totals 



7 

9 

12 

14 

y 

4 
8 
2 

11 

id 

10 
12 



108 



139 

61 

43 

169 

242 

76 

5 



79 

24 

361 

377 



1,576 



18 
19 
24 
12 
24 
12 
5 



119 



12 
10 

5 

4 
10 

5 
13 

7 



81 



Present state of the collection. 

The exact number of specimens has not yet been accurately deter- 
mined, but it cannot be less than 65,000, divided as follows : (1) In the 
reserve series 35,000 ; (2) on exhibition 20,000; (3) duplicates 10,000. 
Most of the collection is in good condition, the only exception being 
very old collections which have not been kept in sealed bottles, speci- 
mens received in bad condition, and collections kept in inferior tanks. 
I am convinced that powder tanks are unreliable for the preservation 
of fishes on account of the liability to become leaky and the rapidity 
with which the coating of tin wears off. We shall never be able to pre- 
serve fishes successfully until some good substitute for the copper tanks 
is provided, and at present nothing else seems to be available except 
glass vessels. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 239 

Recommendations and general remarks. 

I would recommend that the duplicates be disposed of as soon as pos- 
sible, in order to save time and expense in caring for them. I would 
also suggest that collectors in regions which have been reasonably well 
studied should be instructed not to send duplicates in large numbers. 
Should the Museum at any time need additional specimens of a partic- 
ular species which is known to be common at a given point it would be 
comparatively easy to obtain it from one of its collectors. It is to be 
hoped that a suitable place will soon be provided for the reception of 
the skeletons of fishes which are now in storage and consequently not 
available for study. It is essential to the welfare of the collection of 
fishes in alcohol that a separate fire-proof building be constructed to 
contain them ; until that is done the collection will never be system- 
atically arranged and secure against accident. 

In concluding this review of the work carried on in the department 
of fishes, I take pleasure in acknowledging my indebtedness to my as- 
sistants, without whose help it would have been impossible to have 
accomplished what has been done. Mr. Barton A. Bean has been en- 
gaged principally in labeling and arranging collections, recording 
accessions and distributions, preparing duplicates for distribution and 
outfits for collectors, and he has assisted in the correspondence. Ensign 
H. G. Dresel, United States Navy, has devoted his time mainly to pre- 
paring bibliography of Atlantic fishes, cataloguing the fishes in jars, and 
in the identification of recent collections from the Gulf of Mexico and the 
West Indies. Mr. Peter Parker, jr., has been occupied for the most 
part in the bibliography of Atlantic fishes, in field work at Wood's Holl, 
Mass., and in the preparation of the card catalogue. Mr. H. L. Todd 
has made a large number of excellent drawings and is now producing 
some of the finest illustrations of fishes extant. 



DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS. 

C. V. Riley, Honorary Curator. 

The work of the department has consisted in mounting and properly 
taking care of the material received so far as time would permit, but 
there is a large amount of material, principally alcoholic, which has 
accumulated for many years, besides that turned over by the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, which urgently needs working over and mounting. 
There is also a great deal of valuable exhibit material that needs prop- 
erly arranging and labelling. 

The lists given below virtually comprise two sets of accessions, those 
which are recent and belong properly to the year 1883, and some that 
were simply received during the year, but collected in previous years. 
Most of the single specimens reached me in poor condition, and were not 



240 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

worth preserving, especially as such single specimens are ordinarily 
common and well-known species. The most valuable collections are 
those received from Capt. K. W. Shufeldt, U. fS. A., while stationed at 
New Orleans, La.; those from Mr. C. L. McKay, collected in Alaska; 
and those left by the late Mr. George Shoemaker. 

A case of specially prepared insecis, chiefly from my own cabinet, 
was arranged for the London Fisheries Exhibition, illustrating the 
transformations of the principal insects affecting the fishery industries 
either beneficially or injuriously. 

For the rest, the work of the department has been confined to an- 
swering the letters of inquiry as indicated by the accessions and many 
others received without specimens. 

The samples of rice which were on exhibition at the Centennial Ex- 
position, and are now stored in the Museum, proved to be badly in- 
fested by various species of insects. A list of these has been published 
in the American Naturalist, 1883, p. 1071, the most interesting of them 
being a small Coleopteron (Murmidius ovalis) the life-history of which 
had previously remained unknown. 

During the past summer my attention was called to the depredations 
done by some insect to the wooden frames of the Japanese pictures of 
plants in the Museum. Upon investigation the author of the mischief 
proved to be a very interesting and undescribed species of the genus 
Hedobia (family Ptinidse, order Coleoptera), probably introduced from 
Japan, and which I will at some future time describe. 

I transmit herewith a list of the papers published by me during the 
year, chiefly in my capacity as entomologist to the Department of Agri- 
culture, but in some part also based upon material received at the 
Museum. 

On account of the accumulated material already indicated which is in 
pressing need of being properly mounted and worked over, and with a 
view of commencing the formation of an exhibit collection for which 
there is also a great deal of valuable material that needs to be trans- 
ferred into proper cases, disinfected, properly arranged and labeled, I 
would again urgently recommend and advise the appointment of a com- 
petent assistant, as I had no such assistance from the Museum during 
the past year. 

As heretofore, some valuable collections have been offered for sale and 
necessarily declined. I would mention that of the late G. W. Belfrage, of 
Clifton, Bosque County, Texas. Sample boxes sent on for examination 
•showed the collection to be in admirable condition, and as it contained 
many typical specimens in all orders its accession to the Museum would 
have been invaluable, and it could have been obtained at a very reasona- 
ble price. The famous collection of the late Prof. P. Zeller, of Stettin, 
Germany, was also offered; it was finally secured in England. It is 
much to be regretted that we do not have some provision for the pur- 



REPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 241 

chase of desirable collections, and rather than see them lost to Wash- 
ington, have in some instances purchased such individually. 

List of Accessions, 1883. 

No. 12236. Lucilia macellaria (screw-worm fly), sent by Mr. Jos6 C. 

Zeledou, San Jose, Costa Rica. 
No. 12501. Many insects for determination from New Orleans, sent by 

Capt. R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. A., Jackson Barracks, Louisiana. 
No. 12535. Dynastes tityus $ , from Mr. Fred. Vander Tower, Paris, Tex. 
No. 12598. Dynastes tityus $ , from W. H. Ogdin, Parkersburg, W. Va. 
No. 12651. Egg- sac of Cyrtarachne cornigera, from Mr. Leon Taylor, 

Chino, San Bernardino County, California. 
No. 12680. Tarentula carolinemis, sent by Mr. H. Tobias, Cuthbert, 

Randolph County, Georgia. 
No. 13080. Some Californian insects of various orders, sent by Mr. R. 

E. C. Stearns, Berkeley, Cal. 
No. 13098. Phileurus truncatus, Anisomorpha buprestoides, Microcentrus 

retinervis, from William J. Taylor, Allapaha, Ga. 
No. 13107. Belostoma americanum, sent by Mr. William Stine, Elmore, 

Ohio. 
No. 13114. Larvae of Eristalis sp., from Mr. James Bell, Gainesville, Fla. 
No. 13048. Collection of insects for names from Louisiana, sent by Capt. 

R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. A., Jackson Barracks, New Orleans, La. 
No. 13139. Spectrum femoratum, Midas clavatus, Tarentula carolinensis, 

from Mr. Robert Ridgway, U. S. National Museum. 
No. 13164. Small collection of insects from Alaska, collected by Charles 

L. McKay, U. S. S. C, Hushagak, Alaska. 
No. 13184. Telea polyphemus, sent by Miss Rosecrans, 304 Louisiana 

avenue, Washington, D. C. 
No. 13234. Four species of Coleoptera from Oregon, sent by Mr. Aure- 

lius Todd, Coquille, Coos County, Oregon. 
No. 13236. Collection of alcoholic specimens from Louisiana, sent by 

Capt. R. W. Shufeldt, TJ. S. A., Jackson Barracks, New Orleans, La. 
No. 13240. Calosoma laqueatum, sent by Mr. Aurelius Todd, Coquille, 

Coos County, Oregon. 
No. 13251. Pupa of Papilio asterias, from H. R. Bostwick, Atchison, 

Kans. 
No. 13257. ? Muscid from breast of a woman, sent by T. E. Peters, 

Abbyville, Ya. 
No. 13269. Dynastes tityus, sent by F. J. Packwood, New Smyrna, Fla. 
No. 13322. Julus marginatum, discharged by a colored man, sent by T. S. 

Jones, Tolersville, Louisa County, Virginia. 
No. 13330. Gantharis nuttalli, Epicauta maculata, sent by Prof. F. S. Will- 
iams, Northville, Dak. 
No. 13331. Telea polyphemus, sent by Mr. J. B. Wiggins, Waverly, N.Y. 
H. Mis. 69 16 



242 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

No. 13338. Dynastes tityus, Mygale hentzii, sent by Mr. George Stolley, 

Austin, Tex. 
No. 13343. Cicada septendeeim and a few other insects, from Mrs. Eliza- 
beth Freene, Mount Gilead, Loudoun County, Virginia. 
No. 13351. Lucanid larva affected with Torrubia sp. sent by Mr. Eobert 

L. Stede, Rockingham, N. C. 
No. 13360. Four species of Coleoptera from Japan, sent by P. L. Jouy, 

Yokohama, Japan. 
No. 13253. Some Coleoptera from Central America, addressed to G. W. 

Belfrage, deceased, of Clifton, Bosque County, Texas. 
No. 13364. Pupa of Danais archippus sent by Mr. J. Carter Walker, 

Woodberry Forest, Virginia. 
No. 13377. Strategus julianus $ , sent by Capt. Emmet Crawford, U. S. A., 

San Carlos, Ariz. 
No. 13380. Penthina sp., sent by Mr. W. G. Watts, Leicester, Mass. 
No. 13381. Zopherus sp., Metapodius sp., Acridium semirubrum, from Mr. 

Jos6 C. Zeledon, San Jose", Costa Bica. 
No. 13387. Larva of Philampelus achemon, from Mr. H. F. Moffat, Hamp- 

stead, Bockinghain County, New Hampshire. 
No. 13428. Dynastes tityus, sent by Dr. J. B. Godwin, Fincastle, Va. 
No. 13431. Thelyphonus gigantetts, sent by John B. Adams, Grafton, 

Socorro County, New Mexico. 
No. 13458. Limacodes scapha, Cynips sp., from Ellinwood Woodman, North 

Topeka, Kans. 
No. 13462. Manna produced by Lachnus strobi% from James O'Neill, 

Colville Indian Agency, Chewaha, Washington Territory. 
No. 13470. Larva of Phobetron pithecium, sent by Mr. J. Bishop, Colum- 
biana, Ohio. 
No. 13492. Microgaster on Sphinx gordius, Cecidomyia salicis-strobiloides, 

from Mr. C. M. Ferry, Oneida, N. Y. 
No. 13527. Many alcoholic specimens of various orders, collected in 

Alaska by the late Mr. C. L. McKay. 
No. 13543. Deformation of fruit of AJcebia quinata, from E. B. Beynold, 

Falls Church, Va, through Capt. J. E. Engle. 
No. 13616. Samia californiea (pupa), Synaphceta guexi, Galgulus variega- 

tus, from J. S. Arnheim, San Francisco, Cal. 
No. 13662. Various species of insects, pinned, from Mr. J. B. Adams, 

Grafton, N. Mex. 
No. 13692. Mygale sp., found on bananas in Washington, D. C, and evi- 
dently imported. Sent by Mr. T. J. Offutt, United States National 

Museum, Washington, D. C. 
No. 13727. Eggs of Diplodes luridus, sent by Dr. D. H. Young, Chicago 

Junction, Ohio. 
No. 13730. Dolomedes tenebrosus, sent by Mr. Willard Wye, jr., New 

Bedford, Mass. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 243 

No. 13755. Small collection of insects from Nicaragua, sent by Lieut. 
Jeff. F. Moser, U. S. N., Slatington, Pa. 

No. 13824. A number of pinned insects from Alaska, collected by the 
late Mr. 0. L. McKay. 

No. 13834. Web produced by larva of Ephestia zece, sent by Messrs. 
Hunt & Roberts, Cameron Mills, Fairfax County, Virginia. 

Without accession number : A large collection (17 alcoholic bottles) of 
insects from Washington, D. C, made by the late Mr. George Shoe- 
maker, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C. 

Old accessions, but only sent to Department in 1883. 

No. 8095. A box of silkworm cocoons. Source not indicated. 

No. 9140. One centipede (irrecognizable), sent by M. L. Wood, ensign, 
U. S. N.j Galveston, Tex. # 

No. 10217. Strachia histrionica from W. L. Love, Franklin, N. C. 

No. 10221. Collection of alocholic and pinned insects from Surinam, 
sent by C. S. Herring, Paramaribo, Surinam. 

No. 10661. Sphinx cingulata, AHacus polyphenws, from S. T. Walker, Mil- 
ton, Fla. 

No. 10273. Worms destroying meadow grass (irrecognizable), sent by S. 
W. Powell, Madison, N. Y. 

No. 10302. Egg-mass of Mantis Carolina, sent by Mr. W. A. Williamson, 
Fredericksburg, Tex. 

No. 10337. A few common insects, sent by Mr. J. R. Thoensson, Toronto, 
Canada. 

No. 10351. Large number of alcoholic specimens from California, sent 
by Mr. A. W. Crawford, Oakland, Cal. 

No 10472. Thelyphomts giganteus and a few Coleoptera, from the South- 
ern States, sent by Mr. John Yarrow, Washington, D. C. 

No. 10478. A few pinned insects collected at Fort Laramie, Wyo., sent 
by Capt. E. W. Shafeldt, U. S. A, Washington, D. C. 

No. 10488. Telea polyphemus sent by Henry Wagner, Washington, D. C. 

No. 10538. Large collection of unmounted insects from California, sent 
by Mr. Gustav Eisen, Fresno, Cal. 

No. 10595. Thyridopteryx sp., sent by Mr. J. G. Wells, Grenada, West 
Indies. 

No. 10661. A few common Coleoptera, sent by Mr. W. A. Williamson, 
Toronto, Canada. 

No. 10725. Large collection of alcoholic specimens from Florida, collected 
by William Wittfield, Georgiana, Brevard County, Florida. 

No. 10769. Three larvae of different insects, sent by Capt. Charles Ben- 
dire, U. S. A., Fort Walla Walla, Wash. Ter. 

No. 10756. Prionus imbricornis from Virginia, sent by Col. M. McDon- 
ald, United States Fish Commission. 

No. 10775. Scolopendrus heros from Texas, sent by Mr. L. A. Wright, 
Washington, U. C. 



244 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

No. 11064. Specimen of locust caught at sea on board ship Lighting, 
sent by James T. Eowell through Lieut. 0. D. Sigsbee, U. S. N. 

No. 11072. Two species of bird parasites, sent by James P. Melzer, Mil- 
ford, N. H. 

No. 11267. Specimens of "buffalo gnats" from Arkansas, sent by Mr. 
M. H. Thomson, Pecan Point, Ark. 

No. 11468. A few insects from Central America and cave crickets from 
Mammoth Cave, sent by Mr. Theodore Roosevelt, New York. 

No. 11543. Several species of insects from La Paz, Cal., sent by Mr. L. 
Belding, Stockton, Cal. 

No. 11771. Mygale hentzii, sent by Mr. D. W. Harris, Homer, Claiborne 
Parish, Louisiana. 

No. 12001. A few unmounted insects, sent by Mr. W. Hudson, Tehua- 
cana, Tex. 

No. 12052. Belostoma americanum, Cybister Jimbriolatus, Dytiscus fasci- 
ventris, sent by Hon. William McAdams, Jerseyville, 111. 



DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS. 
Wm. H. Dall, Honorary Curator. 

The removal of the collections from the lower part of the building in 
order to make room for clerks, &c, while the east end of the building 
was being remodeled, was hurriedly carried out. It was discovered in 
the course of the removal that parts of the collection which had not 
been inspected for several years had suffered much from the defects of 
the old and badly-made cases which admitted mice and dust. The col- 
lection of chitons offering much animal matter to these vermin, was 
almost entirely destroyed; many labels and paper trays were soiled or 
nibbled so as to require replacing. 

Lieut. Francis Winslow, TJ. S. N., undertook the preparation of the 
exhibit of economic mollusks of the United States which were sent to the 
International Fisheries Exhibition at London in pursuance of the act of 
Congress requiring an exhibit on the part of the Museum and Fish Com- 
mission. 

As will be seen from the list of accessions, a large amount of material 
was received from various sources for this purpose and part of the ex- 
hibit prepared by the writer for the Centennial Exposition at Philadel- 
phia, and afterwards taken to the Berlin Fisheries Exhibition, did duty 
on this occasion. The writer, at Lieutenant Winslow's request, aided 
him from time to time by such suggestions or advice as circumstances 
seemed to call for. A catalogue of the collection as exhibited was pre- 
pared by Mr. Winslow and has been published as one of the series of 
official catalogues of the collective exhibit of the United States. It 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 245 

was, of course, based entirely upon specimens in the national collection, 
many of which were obtained especially for the purpose. 

Mr. Safford, a graduate of the United States Naval Academy detailed 
for special study by the Navy Department, rendered assistance in label- 
ing and cataloguing a few species of shells at the National Museum, 
and subsequently was engaged in similar but more extended work in the 
field with the United States Fish Commission during the summer of 
1883. 

On July 1, Miss Agnes Nicholson was engaged to take charge uuder 
my direction of clerical and analogous work in the department, which 
she has carried on in a satisfactory and efficient manner. 

A number of collections sent for naming by various students through- 
out the country have been named and returDed by the Curator, who has 
devoted nearly all his available leisure from other official duties to the 
improvement of the arrangement of the collection. 

There can be no doubt, from the inquiries addressed to the Curator 
during the year, that when the conchological collection is once arranged 
for ready reference it will be resorted to very largely by students either 
in person or by letters addressed to the curator. With the existence of 
such facilities properly administered, the study of these animals will be 
promoted and the number of students largely increased. This how- 
ever cannot be expected to occur until the curator shall be able to de- 
vote his whole time exclusively to the collection and cognate matters. 

The accessions of the past year have been extremely important. 

The United States Fish Commission work has been carried on with 
new facilities and its usual vigor ; many mollusks new and known were 
dredged, and a rough catalogue of them made before they were sent for 
study to Professor Verrill at New Haven, where, with the exception of 
a few cephalopods, the entire Fish Commission collection of mollusca 
for the last twelve years remains. 

The collection prepared for the London Fisheries Exhibition will be 
available on its return for exhibition in the Museum. The oyster in- 
dustry is especially well illustrated by it. The models of gigantic cut- 
tlefish and octopus prepared by Mr. Emerton are especially valuable for 
the instruction of the public. 

The collection received from K. E.C.Stearns, Ph. D., of the University 
of California, and still unpacked, is general in its nature, but with re- 
gard to the western coast of both Americas is probably not only the 
most valuable collection in existence but more valuable than all other 
collections from the region put together. It has been made on scientific 
principles, and in this respect differs from most of the older collections, 
in which little more than the mere name of the shell was preserved. 
There are other collections containing more species, but few, if any, of 
greater beauty ; none are know r n which so well illustrate the fauna of 
our Pacific coasts and territories. 

Mr. W. G. Binney and Dr. Isaac Lea have furnished valuable types 



246 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

of land and freshwater species belonging to the fauna of the United 
States, mostly Helix, Limncea, and the like. 

The classical collection of Dr. John Gwyn Jeffreys, F. R. S., &c, has 
been secured for the National Museum. What the Stearns and Car- 
penter collections are for the California fauna, that of Dr. Jeffreys is for 
the fauna of the North Atlantic, the British Isles, and Northwest 
European coasts. Indeed, it is really more, for, in addition to a profu- 
sion of types described by himself and other authors in modern days, 
the collection contains selections of typical specimens from the cabinets 
of nearly all the older British naturalists, such as Montague, Turton, 
Humphrey, Alder, Brown, and a host of others. It also contains the 
types and in most cases the unique examples of the shells dredged by 
most of the deep-sea explorers of the North Atlantic except the Chal- 
lenger expedition, as for instance specimens from the "Lightning," 
"Porcupine," and "Valorous" expeditions; others from the "Jose- 
phine," "Knight Errant," "Triton," and "Voringen" parties. Now 
that the United States, through the Fish Commission, are doing more 
toward deep-sea investigation than any other nation, the possession 
of these types is invaluable for our students, who must otherwise 
have gone to Europe for determining the objects of their study. When 
to these are added the Stearns and Alaskan collections and those of the 
Fish Commission, it will be evident that for the study of the marine 
fauna of our shores we have a collection which can never be rivaled, 
and only awaits suitable administration. An extremely interesting 
collection from the south and west shores of Florida has been contrib- 
uted by Mr. Henry Hemphill to the National Museum. It contains 
about two hundred species, nearly all quite small, and many of them 
new to science or to our coasts ; Mr. Hemphill is at present further ex- 
ploring the same region. A list of this collection has appeared in the 
Proceedings U. S. National Museum for 1883. 

The less noteworthy accessions appear in the list hereto appended. 

Our registers show addition of about 3,000 entries during 1883, but 
this has no relation to the accessions, as it is impossible with the present 
force to administer upon a one-hundredth part of the accessions per 
annum, until the arrears of the past ten years are brought up. There 
are perhaps 20,000 miscellaneous mollusks awaiting entry, while the 
Stearns and Jeffreys collection will contain 50,000 more. 

At present, owing to the condition of the lower hall, no mollusks are 
on exhibition, but a large number are ready for exhibition whenever 
cases and facilities may be afforded. 

List of accessions. 

Austin G. Apgar, Trenton, N. J., October 19. Accession 13597. One box 
specimens of mollusks from New Jersey, Sphcerium and Pisidium, un- 
assorted, about 1,000 specimens. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 247 

J 8. Arnheim, San Francisco, Cal., October 26. Accession 13616. Two 
specimens of snail shells (Helix) from California. 

W. G. Binney, Burlington, N. J., October 31. Accession 13639. Twelve 
specimens of United States land shells. 

E. G. Blackford, 80 Fulton Market, New York, January 3. Accession 
12505. Four barrels oysters, assorted specimens, for use in the Lon- 
don Fisheries Exhibit. 

E. G. Blackford, 80 Fulton Market, New York, January 19. Accession 
12585. One oyster shell, peculiarly overgrown with Polyzoa. 

E. G. Blackford, 80 Fulton Market, Neic York, February 22. Accession 
12759. One box of clam and other shells. Useful mollusks for the 
London Fisheries Exhibit. 

L. A. Blochman, San Diego, Gal., April 20. Accession 13031. One 
small box, specimens of shells. 

A. Booth, Baltimore, Md., March 27. Accession 12911. Two boxes, 1 
barrel, and 2 bales of oysters for London Exhibit. 

W . M. Boicron, South Pittsburg, Tenn., May 4. Accession 13094. Speci- 
mens of Helicina orbiculata for name. 

W. M. Bowron, South Pittsburg, Tenn., June 2. Accession 13198. Two 
specimens of land shells, for name, from Tennessee. 

T. W. B. Clark, Boston, Mass., January 12. Accession 12512. One 
package small oysters, shells split and not split. Specimens of oys- 
ters bored by Diplothyra Smithii for London Exhibit. 

T. W. B. Clark, Boston, Mass., MarchW. Accession 12895. One box, and 
bottle alcohol with oysters, from Devil's Island, Chesapeake Bay, for 
London Exhibit. 

F. C. Dayton, Patchogue, Suffolk County, Neic York, February 2. Acces- 
sion 12651. One box oysters from Long Island for use in London 
Fisheries Exhibit. 

M. Deming, Providence, B. I., March 1. Accession 12798. One box 
oysters for use in London Fisheries Exhibit. 
lorace D. Dunn, San Francisco, Cal., November 1. Accession 13645. 
One package specimens of oyster shells from California. Transplanted 
east coast oysters (O. virginica) showing growth in Californian waters. 
*. D. Evans, Baltimore, Md., June 23. Accession 13265. Ten bottles 
specimens of coral, &c, taken from buoys in James, York, and Poto- 
mac Rivers, also specimens of shells, oysters, &c, for use in London 
Fisheries Exhibit. 

C. M. Ferry, Oneida, N. Y., September 15. Accession 13492. Specimens 
of shells from OueidaLake, New York. Two specimens of TJnio. 

Alexander Fish, Smith's Landing, N. J., January 5. Accession 12520. 
One box oysters. Assorted economic mollusks for use in Fisheries 
Exhibit at London. 

A.Foote & Co., New Haven, Conn., January 4. Accession 12516. One 
box of fresh clams from Connecticut for use in Fisheries Exhibit, 
London. 



248 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

A. Foote & Co., New Haven, Conn., January 29. Accession 12626. One 
box of clam shells; same use as the preceding. 

A. Foote & Co., New Haven, Conn., February 12. Accession 12692. One 
box clams ; same as preceding. 

A. Foote & Co., New Haven, Conn., February 14. Accession 12704. One 
box Mytilus edulis and Solen americanus for London Exhibit. 

George T. Garrison, Accomack C. H, Va., May 11. Accession 13119. 
One box specimens of borer, shells of oysters destroyed by borer, and 
three live oysters, one of which borer has just penetrated. For Lon- 
don Exhibit. 

J. W. Grey (through Barnet Phillips), Hartford, Conn., November 23. 
Accession 13711. Two specimens of shells, said to have fallen at 
Hartford, Conn., November 11, 1883, in a rain storm. These are Ci- 
onella lubrica Mull., and doubtless were under leaves, &c, before the 
rain fell. 

E. H. Hawley, U. 8. National Museum, September 11. Accession 13486. 
One bottle alcoholic specimens of shells, Niagara River, above Amer- 
ican Falls. 

Henry Hemphill, Cedar Keys, Fla., April 24. Accession 13044. One 
box marine shells, from coast of Florida. 

Henry Hemphill, Albert Lea, Minn., June 25. Accession 13268. One 
package specimens of shells, from Texas, Mississippi, and Louisiana. 
Supplementary to the preceding. 

Henry Hemphill, Cedar Keys, Fla., November 30. Accession 13733. 
One package specimens of shells from Florida. Supplementary to the 
preceding. . , 

Alfred W. Hinde, Anaheim, Cat, August 18. Accession 13429. One 
package, 18 specimens of shells for name, from California. They were 
named and returned to sender. 

G. 8. Hobbs, U. 8. National Museum, February 24. Accession 12765. One 
box oysters from Savannah, Ga. 

G. 8. Hobbs, U. 8. National Museum, February 24. Accession 12768. One 
box of oysters from Florida. 

J. Gwyn Jeffreys, England, April 30. Accession 13083, 13424, 13508, 
&c. Four boxes shells, being miscellaneous European and British 
acephala, land and fresh- water shells and brachiopods. 

John F. Kelly, Washington, D. C, April 7. Accession 12986. One bot- 
tle alcoholic specimens of snail (Limax flavus) which infests cellars. 

Isaac Lea, Philadelphia, Pa., April 2. ■ Accession 12965. One package 
miscellaneous land and fresh-water shells. 

C. G. Leslie, Charleston, 8. G, February 26. Accession 12780. One box 

oysters for use in London Fisheries Exhibit. 
W. B. Lighton, Ottumwa, Iowa, October 2. Accession 13537. One box 
specimens of unios from Ottumwa, Iowa. 

Thos. J. Love, Cedarville, N. J, January 25. Accession 12618. One box 
oysters assorted sizes and ages for use in London Exhibit. 



EEPOBT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 249 

G. L. McKay (deceased), September 27. Accession 13527. Specimens of 
marine shells from Alaska, 10 specimens, 4 species collected at Nush- 
agak. 

John J. McLean, Cape Mendocino, Gal., December 21. Accession 13805. 
Specimens of shell from California (Cryptochiton Stelleri Midd.). 

J. A. McNiel, Neic York City, September 6. Accession 13473. One box 
alcoholic specimens shells from mountain streams of Chiriqui. Neri- 
tina, Ampulla ri a, and Glandina, 1 species of each, and about 12 speci- 
mens. 

Allen Neil, Barnegat, N. J., January 9. Accessions 12530. One box 
oysters, &c, for use in London Exhibit. 

Henry E. Nichols, Lieutenant- Commander U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. 
S. "Hassler," December 5. Accession 13757. Miscellaneous collection 
marine shells, from Southeastern Alaska. 

Willard Nye, jr., New Bedford, Mass., February 27. Accession 12791- 
One package clam shells, for use in London Exhibit. 

Willard Nye, jr., New Bedford, Mass., November 30. Accession 13730. 
Alcoholic specimens of shells (Mactra sp. jun.) taken from a "white 
wing" bird, Trimble Island, Long Island Sound. 

Charles B. Orcutt, San Diego, Gal., September 21. Accession 13512. Spe- 
cimens of shells from Lower California. Rhinites giganteus Gray. 

Dr. Edward Palmer, U. S. National Museum, January 23. Accession 
12601. Small box of land shells from Eed Foot Lake, Tennessee. 

Jason S. Pearce & Co., Providence, R. L., January 5. Accession 12519. 
One basket oysters for use in London Exhibit. 

Robert Ridgway, Wheatland, Tnd., May 16. Accession 13139. One bot- 
tle alcoholic specimen of land shells from Indiana. 

F. A. Sampson, Sedalia, Mo., March 3. Accession 12815. One box land 
and freshwater shells. 

Ernest E. T. Seton, De Winton Farm (through Jas. W. Taylor, TJ. S. con- 
sul, Winnipeg), Carberry, Manitoba, August 2. Accession 13383. Two 
land shells, &c. 

R. W. Shufeldt, Jackson Barracks, New Orleans, La., April 24. Acces- 
sion 13048. Specimens of land and fresh-water mollusks in alcohol 
from Louisiana. 

Steamer iC Lookout, n U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, D. G. Acces- 
sion 12546. Two baskets oysters, Potomac Eiver. 

R. E. G. Stearns, Berkeley, Gal., April 30. Accession 13080. Specimen 
of shell, from 8 feet below surface in Tanaja Canon, Texas. Nineteen 
cases of mollusca and shells contained in the Stearns collection. 

John Southerland, 64 Liberty street, Neic York, May 18. Accession 
13148. One specimen of shell of Arcapexata Say. 

Samuel W. Very, Santa Cruz, Patagonia, June 6. Accession 13209. 
Specimen of shells of oysters, &c. 

Peter Watkins, Ocean View, N. J., January 4. Accession 12518. One 
box of oysters for use in London Exhibit. 



250 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Dr. 0. A. White, U. S. National Museum, January 16. Accession 12558. 

Two large oyster shells from Sheepscot River, Maine, subfossil, the 

bed being extinct. 
George White, U. 8. National Museum, September 3. Accession 13459. 

Four alcoholic specimens of snails (Limax flavus). 
A. A. Wilson, East Greenwich, B. L, January 3. Accession 12503. 

Specimen of quahogs or clams for use in London Exhibit. 
Lieut. F. Winslow, U. S. N., February 27. Accession 12789. One box 

oysters, cluster of natural growth from the sea-coast. 



DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 

Richard Rathbun, Curator. 

Accessions. 

The principal accessions to this department during 1883 were made 
by the U. S. Fish Commission, and consist of both determined and un- 
determined collections, the majority of which were obtained in the recent 
deep-sea explorations of the new Fish Commission steamer " Albatross," 
off the eastern coast ot the United States. During the spring, two lots 
of determined marine invertebrates, belonging to collections made 
in former years, were received from Prof. A. E. Verrill, of Yale College. 
Again, in October, at the close of the summer explorations of the Fish 
Commission, about forty cases of specimens were shipped directly from 
the Wood's Holl station to Washington. The latter shipment contained 
about 200 identified species, belonging mainly to the groups of Crusta- 
cea, echiuoderms, anthozoa, tunicates, and annelids, and a large quan- 
tity of material which had not yet been carefully examined. Many of 
the species, both determined and undetermined, were represented by 
several varieties, or by specimens from numerous localities and different 
depths, to illustrate geographical and bathy metrical distribution. The 
entire collection filled upwards of 1,500 tanks, jars, bottles, homoeopathic 
vials, and small boxes, and was mostly preserved in alcohol. In this 
enumeration no account has been taken of the collections sent to Pro- 
fessors Verrill and Smith, at Yale College, for examination and report, 
and which will soon be turned over to the Museum. 

Mr. Yinal N. Edwards, the permanent agent of the Fish Commission 
at Wood's Holl, bas sent in during the year several interesting collec- 
tions, made at seasons when that station is not visited by any of the 
scientific party. 

From the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College there 
have been received three collections, representing a portion of the scien- 
tific results of the explorations of the United States Coast Survey 
steamer " Blake," from 1877 to 1880, off the southern and eastern coasts 
of the United States and among the West Indies. Prof. Alexander 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 251 

Agassiz was in charge of the natural history work, and accompanied 
the steamer during nearly the entire time while dredging operations 
were being carried on. The valuable collections made were, under the 
supervision of Mr. Agassiz, placed in the hauds of competent special- 
ists in the several groups for study, and as rapidly as the reports upon 
each group were published, the National Museum has received a com- 
plete series of all the species obtained. The sponges and a portion of 
the crustaceans were received during 1882, and are referred to in the an- 
nual report for that year. The collections received this year are as fol- 
lows : Thirty-one species of deep-sea corals, consisting of dry prepara- 
tions entirely, and mainly obtained from the region of the West Indies, 
between 1877 and 1879 ; determined by the late Count L. F. de Pour- 
tales. One hundred species of Ophiurans (brittle-stars or serpent stars) 
and Astrophytons (basket-fish), entirely preserved in alcohol and deter- 
mined by the Hon. Theodore Lyman. Thirty-six species of Echini or sea 
urchins, mainly alcoholic preparations, determined by Prof. Alexander 
Agassiz. 

The Museum of Comparative Zoology has also contributed to the 
National Museum during the year a collection of 18 species of North 
American fresh- water cray-fishes (Astacidce), which nearly completes our 
list of desiderata in that interesting group, for the United States. 

From Prof. H. E. Webster, of Union College, a very valuable collec- 
tion of marine annelids in alcohol, containiug about 180 species, ob- 
tained from the eastern coast of the United States, between Eastport, 
Me., and Virginia. These specimens were mainly obtained from the 
shores and from the shallow waters just off shore, and represent the 
recenfc researches and publications of Professor Webster, one of the 
best known American authorities on this group of marine invertebrates. 
Mr. James E. Benedict, now naturalist of the U. S. Fish Commission 
steamer "Albatross," was associated with Professor Webster in much of 
his annelid work. 

From Dr. William B. Carpenter, London, England, through Mr. 
Boinyn Hitchcock, 47 microscopic slides, representing four species of 
the genus Orbitolites of rhizopods, collected by H. M. SS. " Challenger," 
" Porcupine," and " Valorous." This collection consists of both dry and 
moist preparations in fine condition, and is illustrative of a recent mono- 
graph by Dr. Carpenter, contained in the "Beports of the scientific 
results of the exploring voyage of H. M. S. 'Challenger,' 1873-'76." 

From Mr. Edward Potts, Philadelphia, Pa., 23 species of American 
fresh-water sponges, contained on 89 microscopic slides and in 16 bottles. 
Twenty species are from the States of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New 
York, and Massachusetts, and three species from South America. Nearly 
all the known North American species are represented. 

From Dr. Edward Palmer (by purchase), a fine collection of dried 
preparations of the non-commercial horny sponges of Florida and the 
Bahama Islands, identified by Pro%Alpheus Hyatt, of Boston. Twenty- 



252 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

two species, represented by 42 specimens, and covering several varie- 
ties, have been selected from this collection for the reserve series, 
and have been mounted by Mr. Hawley for exhibition. A sufficient 
number of duplicates remain to form two good sets for exchange. 
These specimens formed a part of the collection on which Profes- 
sor Hyatt based his monograph of the Poriferae, published in the 
Memoirs of the Boston Society of Natural History, for 1871-'78. 

From Messrs. McKesson & Bobbins, New York, over 200 specimens 
of Florida commercial sponges, representing nearly all the known com- 
mercial varieties. This collection is supplemental to collections re- 
ceived from the same firm in 1882, and derives a special value from the 
fact that the supposed age of each specimen is indicated, based upon 
recent experiments in sponge cultivation at Key West, Fla., by the agent 
of McKesson & Bobbins. The latest information received regarding 
these experiments indicates that the practical success of sponge cul- 
ture has been quite fully assured. 

From Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, a large collection of marine and fresh- 
water invertebrates from Bering Island, off the Pacific coast of Siberia, 
made during 1882 and 1883. From Dr. B. W. Shufeldt, U. S. A., a 
collection of crayfishes, containing several species and very many spec- 
imens from the Mississippi Biver, near New Orleans, and of fresh- 
water and marine shrimps from Southern Louisiana. 

From the United States Signal Service Bureau, a valuable collection 
of marine and fresh-water invertebrates, made in the vicinity of Point 
Barrow, Alaska, by the observing party under Lieutenant Bay, U. S. 
A., stationed there from 1881 to 1883, and of which Mr. John Murdoch 
and Mr. Middleton Smith acted as naturalists. This collection Is now 
being examined by Mr. Murdoch. Also a small but interesting lot 
of marine invertebrates from Bristol Bay, Alaska, collected by Signal 
Observer 0. S. McKay, deceased. 

From naval sources: A large and fine collection of marine inverte- 
brates, mainly echinoderms and crustaceans, from the coasts of British 
Columbia and Southern Alaska, made by Lieut. Commander Henry C. 
Nichols, U. S. N., in command of the United States Coast Survey steamer 
" Hassler." A collection of Crustacea from the west coast of Green- 
laud, made by Ensigns H. G. Dresel and A. A. Ackerman, attached to 
the United States steamer " Yantic," tender to the Greely relief steamer 
"Proteus." Miscellaneous collections containing immense numbers of 
small animals, obtained by dredging and by scraping buoys, &c, from 
Commander B. D. Evans, U. S. N., in charge of the fifth light-house 
district. These materials were mostly collected at the mouth of Chesa- 
peake Bay, and of the Potomac, James, and York Bivers, and contain 
a large number of small, uudescribed species. Two species of corals 
from an iron buoy and chain in the harbor of the Dry Tortugas, Florida, 
sent by Lieut. Commander J. K. Winn, U. S. N., in charge of the Key 
West, Fla., naval station. A very large and finely preserved specimen 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 253 

of star coral, Oculina varicosa Lesueur, growing about one end of a long 
iron crow-bar, obtained at Key West, Fla., and contributed by Mr. E. 
E. Peary, civil engineer, U. S. N. The history of this specimen, as given 
by Mr. Peary, is as follows: "It was found in some 6 feet of water, 
on the site of a former coal wharf, belonging to the naval station. This 
wharf, as I am informed, was built in 1865 and destroyed by a hurri- 
cane in 1873. The inference is that the crow-bar, to which the coral is 
attached, fell overboard from the wharf some time between those two 
dates." The coral mass, which consists of rather large and closely- 
growing branches, measures about 20 inches in height by 15 inches in 
diameter. 

The following accessions, although not of great extent, are worthy of 
special mention : Pine collection of the edible Crustacea of the vicinity 
of San Francisco, Cal., from Prof. P. E. C. Stearns. Collection of fresh- 
water shrimps and crabs, from mountain streams of Ohiriqui, United 
States of Colombia, at an elevation of about 4,000 feet above the level 
of the sea, presented by Mr. J. A. McNiel. Alcoholic marine inverte- 
brates from the Mauritius Islands, presented by Col. 1ST. Pike. Fresh- 
water invertebrates from Utah and Wyoming Territories, and marine 
invertebrates from Buzzard's Bay and Long Island Sound, collected by 
Willard Nye, jr. 

Outline of work accomplished during the year. 

During the first three months of this year, the curator was mainly 
occupied in preparing for the London Fisheries Exhibition the collec- 
tions illustrating the marine invertebrate industries of the United 
States, exclusive of the mollusca, and the scientific investigation of the 
sea and fresh waters by American explorers. In making up the former 
collection, the collections of the National Museum were largely drawn 
upon for specimens of the economic crustaceans, worms, echiuoderms, 
and sponges, of which every American species known to be of direct 
importance to mankind, either as food, as bait, or otherwise, was fully 
represented by carefully made preparations. In several instances, 
where the Museum collections were deficient in materials required, the 
deficiencies were supplied by donations to the Museum, resulting in 
permanent gain to that institution. In this manner were obtained for 
the Museum large numbers of Florida commercial sponges, many anne- 
lids from the eastern coast of the United States, and crustaceans from 
the coast of California, as noted above in the list of important dona- 
tions. The catalogue descriptive of this industrial collection, prepared 
by the curator, contains eighteen pages of introductory matter, briefly 
describing the present state of, and the methods of conducting, the 
marine invertebrate fisheries, and a list of seventy-four species of crus- 
taceans, worms, echinoderms, and sponges, useful or injurious to man. 
At the Fisheries Exhibition three awards were made in this section, as 
follows : A gold medal to the U. S. Fish Commission, for a model of a 



254 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

lobster-canning establishment ; and a bronze medal and a diploma to 
Messrs. McKesson & Bobbins of New York, for a collection of Florida 
sponges. 

The second collection regarding scientific investigations had a direct 
bearing upon this department only so far as concerns the results of in- 
vestigations, the methods coming more within the scope of the U. S. 
Fish Commission. The methods of research were represented by models 
and plans of American exploring steamers, and by all the modern ap- 
pliances used by American explorers in investigating the sea and fresh 
waters, more especially with reference to biological problems. This 
portion of the collection was mainly supplied by*the U. S. Fish Com- 
mission, the U. S. Coast Survey, and Commander Charles D. Sigsbee, 
U. S. N., and will probably be turned over, in large part, to the National 
Museum as a permanent exhibit. The results of reseach were repre- 
sented by oceanic charts and relief maps furnished by the U. S. Coast 
Survey, the Naval Hydrographic Bureau, and the U. S. Fish Commis- 
sion, and by collections of deep-sea invertebrates, fresh water cray-fishes 
and sponges, marine algae, &c, supplied by the National Museum. To 
accompany this collection a catalogue of 109 pages was also prepared by 
the curator, giving a historical sketch of American explorations, and 
describing in detail the various appliances of research exhibited, with 
lists of the specimens, and charts illustrating results of investigations. 

Nine awards were made in this section by the jurors of the Fisheries 
Exhibition, as follows: — Gold medals: To the U. S. Fish Commission, 
for collective exhibit of apparatus for deep-sea explorations ; to Prof. 
J. B. Hilgard, for optical densimeter ; to Commander Charles D. Sigs- 
bee, U. S. N., for deep-sea sounding apparatus ; to Passed- Assistant 
Engineer W. L. Bailie, IT. S. N., for deep-sea thermometer case. Silver 
medals: To the D. S. Fish Commission, for exhibit of dredges; to Lieu- 
tenant-Commander Z. L. Tanner, U. S. N., for deep-sea sounding appa- 
ratus ; to Prof. W. G. Farlow, for collection of marine algaB. Bronze 
medal to Mr. Edward Potts, for collection of fresh-water sponges. 
Diploma to Mr. James E. Benedict, for rake-dredge. 

From April to June, special attention was paid to identifying and 
classifying the higher Decapod crustaceans, and several other groups 
of crustaceans, of which the Museum possesses valuable collections from 
many parts of the world. During the two or three months devoted to 
this work, only comparatively slight progress could be made, owing 
to the lack of literature and of type collections for comparison, but it 
is proposed to continue again upon these and other groups at an early 
date, with the intention of preparing materials for publication. The 
following families and genera were examined and placed in complete 
order, nearly all the species having been identified and transferred to 
exhibition jars, which are now properly labeled and available for refer- 
ence: the families, Portunidce, Ocypodidw, Orapsidcc, Porcellanidce, Ra- 
ninidce, ffippidce, Panuliridce, Squillidce ; and the genera, Cancer, Hyas, 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 255 

Ej)ialtu8, Calappa, Hepatus, and Eandallia. The Crustacea remaining 
to the Museum from the Wilkes United States Exploring Expedition 
and the North Pacific Exploring Expedition were also gone over in the 
same manner. The former collection now contains only 51 species, and 
the latter 34 species, out of many hundreds destroyed by the Chicago 
fire of 1872. 

During June, the entire collection of alcoholics was overhauled and 
placed in safety for at least another year, and the collecting outfit, stored 
in the armory, was put in order and packed for shipment to Wood's Holl. 
Much time was also spent in correcting the proof sheets of a report on 
the natural history of economic marine invertebrates for the Fishery 
quarto report. 

From July 1 until about the middle of October, the Curator was at 
Wood's Holl, Mass., assisting in the explorations of the U. S. Fish Com- 
mission. This time was mainly occupied in collecting and studying the 
parasitic Copepoda of that region, a common group of crustacean para- 
sites, occurring principally upon the exterior surface and the gills of 
fishes. A number of new species were obtained and several figured. 
The collection of parasitic Copepoda in the Museum is now quite large 
and in a good state of preservation. An account of the summer's work 
of the Fish Commission would be out of place in this connection, and 
reference need only be made to some of the results by which the Museum 
has already been enriched, and the disposition made of the remainder 
of the materials collected. Deep-sea dredging was carried on mainly by 
the new steamer "Albatross," although a few short trips were also made 
by the steamer " Fish Hawk." The cruises of the " Albatross" covered 
a wide area, extending from the eastern slope of George's Bank west- 
ward to near New York, and southward at least one -third the distance 
to Bermuda. The deepest haul was made in nearly 3,000 fathoms of 
water with the common form of beam trawl, this being the greatest 
depth in which the trawl has been used by any explorers. The total 
number of casts made with the dredge and beam- trawl was 116. Mr. 
James E. Benedict was in charge of the collecting of marine inverte- 
brates on the "Albatross," and was assisted mainly by Mr. Sanderson 
Smith, although other members of the party made frequent trips. 
Prof. A. E. Verrill, of Yale College, had immediate charge of the explora- 
tions and laboratory work, and was aided by nearly the same party as 
in former years. Such specimens as it was possible to identify on the 
spot, and which needed no further examination, including many dupli- 
cates of deep-water species, were sent to the National Museum at the 
close of the season. The collections of sponges and of parasitic cope- 
pods were also sent to the same institution. The material belonging 
to the following groups, and requiring further elaboration, were shipped 
to New Haven : the Mollusca, Mulluscoida, Echinodermata, Anthozoa, 
and Hydroida, for report from Professor Verrill, and the Crustacea for 
report from Prof. S. I. Smith. The Foraminifera were referred to Prof. 



256 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

L. A. Lee, of Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Me., and the Annelida were 
retained on the steamer "Albatross" for examination by Mr. Benedict. 
About forty boxes of invertebrate materials were brought directly to the 
National Museum. Their character has already been discussed under 
accessions. 

Since the return from Wood's Holl, the Fish Commission collections 
have been unpacked, and a large collection brought to Washington by 
the steamer "Albatross," on her last trip from Wood's Holl, has been 
sorted, catalogued, and, in large part, sent to New Haven. In Decem- 
ber, the work of entirely revising the invertebrate collections of the 
department, and of arranging the catalogue cards in systematic order, 
was begun. This will occupy several months, and when completed will 
enable one to obtain any species or specimens in the department with- 
out loss of time. 

Assistants. 

In the routine work of the Museum I have been assisted during the 
year by Mr. B. S. Tarr and Mr. George Weld; Ensign W. E. Safford, U. 
S. N., also acted as an assistant in the department from January until 
July. All of these assistants were stationed at Wood's Holl, Mass., 
during the summer explorations of the U. S. Fish Commission, and since 
their close Mr. Safford has remained at New Haven, Conn., aiding Pro- 
fessor Verrill in the examination of the Fish Commission collections. 
Mr. Tarr has been mainly occupied in preparing the duplicate materials 
for distribution, in arranging the collection of star-fishes, and in gen- 
eral sorting and cataloguing. Mr. Weld has assisted him in this work. 
Mr. Safford's time, during the winter and spring, was devoted to sort- 
ing, cataloguing, and identifying collections of mollusca, and during the 
summer, to figuring small species of mollusca obtained by the Fish Com- 
mission, and in sorting. Mr. James E. Benedict, in the intervals in 
which the steamer "Albatross" has remained in port at Washington, 
has devoted much time to classifying and studying the annelid collec- 
tions of the National Museum. After the return of the "Albatross" to 
Washington, in November, Mr. Sanderson Smith remained at the Mu- 
seum about a month, completing his work upon the collection of mol- 
lusks, made on the last trip of that steamer. Ensign C. S. McClain, U. 
S. N., reported to this department in December for duty, and is now 
aiding me in the revision of the collections. Mr. E. H. Hawley has, 
during the year, mounted for exhibition a number of specimens of ma- 
rine invertebrates, principally crustaceans, corals, and sponges. But 
want of time has prevented the curator from selecting much material for 
that purpose. 

Work upon collections by specialists outside of the Museum. 

The Hon. Theodore Lyman, member of Congress from Massachusetts, 
the well-known authority on the group of Ophiuroidea, has kindly 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 257 

offered to spend as much of his leisure time as possible in identifying 
the species of that group contained in the Museum collections, and he 
has already examined considerable material. Last winter the Museum 
collection of fresh- water cray-fishes was sent to Prof. Walter Faxon, of 
Harvard College, who is preparing a monograph upon that group. 
During the past year much material on the same subject has beea re- 
ceived from many American sources and forwarded to Cambridge for 
his use. He proposes first to monograph the specimens belonging to 
the Museum for one of the Museum reports. The Labrador collections 
of Mr. W. A. Steams, made during the summer of 1882, were referred 
to Professors Verrill and Smith, of Yale College, for examination. Be- 
ports upon the crustaceans by Prof. S. I. Smith, and upon the echino- 
derms and mollusks by Miss Katherine J. Bush,' have been published 
during the year in the Proceedings of the Museum. It is proposed to 
offer the Museum collections of foraminifera to Prof. L. A. Lee, of Bow- 
doin College, for study. 

Distribution of duplicates and exchanges. 

The distribution of duplicate specimens selected from the large col- 
lections received from the U. S. Fish Commission has been continued 
through the year. Series III, or the educational series of duplicates, 
prepared in 1882, has been entirely expended. Of Series II, the prep- 
aration of which was completed in the spring of 1883, 31 sets have al- 
ready been sent out. Of the London series, prepared for the purpose 
of making exchanges in connection with the London Fisheries Exhibi- 
tion, 5 sets have been disposed of, with suitable returns promised to the 
Museum, and negotiations are now* pending regarding the remaining 
five sets of the series. 

The institutions supplied with duplicate sets during 1883 were the 
following : 

Series II, containing about 190 species each : Johns Hopkins Univer- 
sity, Baltimore, Md.; Williams College, Williamstown, Mass.; College 
of New Jersey, Princeton, N. J.; Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H.; 
Kentucky University, Lexington, Ky. ; College of New York, New York 
City; Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. ; Smith College, North- 
ampton, Mass. ; Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. ; Hanover Col- 
lege, Hanover, Ind. ; Tabor College, Tabor, Iowa ; Middlebury College, 
Middlebury, Vt. ; University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N. C. ; 
Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. ; Martha's Vineyard Summer Insti- 
tute, Cottage City, Mass . ; Knox College, Galesbury, 111. ; Ohio Wes- 
ley an University, Delaware, Ohio ; Wabash College, Crawfordsville, 
Ind. ; University of the State of Missouri, Columbia, Mo. ; Massachu- 
setts Agricultural College, Amherst, Mass.; Normal School, Cincin- 
nati, Ohio; Owen College, Manchester, England; McGill University, 
Montreal, Canada ; Queen's University, Kingston, Canada ; University 
H. Mis. 69 17 



258 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Laval, Quebec, Canada; University College, Toronto, Canada; Port- 
land Society of Natural History, Portland, Me. ; Buffalo Society of Nat- 
ural Sciences, Buffalo, N. Y. ; Polytechnic Society of Kentucky, Louis- 
ville, Ky. ; Professor Duges, Guanajuato, Mexico ; Mr. William Mac- 
loay, Elizabeth Bay, Sydney, Australia. 

Series III, or Educational Series, containing 102 species each : Gris- 
wold College, Davenport, Iowa ; Hampton Normal and Agricultural 
Institute, Hampton, Va. ; Bockford Seminary, Bockford, 111.; Avery 
Normal Institute, Charleston, S. C. ; Cedar Valley Seminary, Osage, 
Iowa ; Gates College, Neligh, Nebr. ; Woodstock College, Md. ; Theil 
College, Greenville, Pa. ; State College, Pa. ; Agricultural College, 
Fort Collins, Colo.; High School, Washington, D. C; Mehurry Medi 
cal College, Nashville, Tenn. ; King's College, Windsor, Nova Sco 
tia; Historical and Scientific Society, Winnipeg, Manitoba; Daven 
port Academy of Natural Science, Davenport, Iowa; Kansas Citj 
Academy of Science, Kansas City, Mo.; Long Island Historical So 
ciety, Brooklyn, N. Y. ; Agassiz Association, Saint Clair, Pa. ; Public 
Museum of the city of Milwaukee, Milwaukee, Wis. ; Professor C. T. 
Liudley, Davenport, Iowa. 

London series of duplicates, containing about 225 species each : Prof. 
George S. Brady, Sunderland, England ; Bev. A. M. Norman, Durham, 
England ; Oxford University, Oxford, England ; Cambridge University, 
Cambridge, England ; Boyal Academy, Stockholm, Sweden. 

In return for the London sets sent out, the following collections have 
been promised, and, in one or two instances, have already been shipped 
to us : From Professor Brady, a complete series, so far as practicable, of the 
British free-swimming Copepods, a low Order of Crustaceans, forming 
the chief food supply of many of our common surface-feeding fishes, 
such as the mackerel, menhaden, &c. ; from the Eev. Mr. Norman, a 
nearly complete collection of all the known British crabs, shrimps, and 
parasitic Copepods, with other species of marine invertebrates ; from 
the Boyal Academy of Sweden, portions of the Vega collections, made 
by the Baron Nordenskiold, in the Arctic regions ; and from the Uni- 
versities of Oxford and Cambridge, carefully-made preparations of 
marine invertebrates for Museum display and the use of students. 

Negotiations for four of the remaining sets are now in progress with 
the British Museum, the Imperial Museum of Austria, the Boyal In- 
stitute of Natural History of Florence, Italy, and Prof. A. H. Malm, of 
Gotlienborg, Sweden. The exchanges to be received for the London 
series of duplicates will form valuable accessions to the Museum, and 
amply repay the time and labor spent in preparing them. 

A fourth series of duplicates of Fish Commission specimens, called 
Series IV, or Educational Series No. 2, is now in course of preparation, 
and will consist of 200 sets, each containing about 120 species. This 
series will be ready for distribution about March or April, 1884. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



259 



Collecting outfits supplied. 

Collecting outfits for obtaining marine invertebrates were furnished 
during the year to the following parties: Ensigns H. G. Dresel and A. 
A. Ackerman, 0\ S. N., acting as naturalists on the U. S. S. " Yantic," of 
the Greely Belief Expedition ; Lieut. Commander E. D. Evans, U. S. N., 
in charge of the sixth light-house district, covering the coasts of Virginia 
and Maryland; Dr. N". M. Ferebee, U. S. K, of the U. S. S. "Trenton," 
now en route for Corea via Europe and the Suez Canal ; Dr. W. G. G. 
Willson, U. S. N., of the TJ. S. S. "Pinta," now en route for Alaska, from 
Norfolk, Va., via the Straits of Magellan; Mr. W. A. Stearns, of Am- 
herst, Mass., for the purpose of collecting on the coast of Southern 
Labrador; Capt. Alexander Gray, of the S. S. " Labrador," who, in July 
last, carried supplies to Mr. L. M. Turner, signal observer at Ungava 
Bay, Northern Labrador. The smallest of these outfits consisted of a 
small dredge and a liberal supply of bottles and alcohol. The most of 
them also included one or more towiug-nets, and that of the "Yantic" 
was quite complete, having a 6-foot beam trawl and a Baird seine in 
addition to several dredges, towing nets, &c. Collections have already 
been received from the " Yantic" party and from Lieutenant-Commander 
Evans. 

Records. 

The number of parcels catalogued during the year is shown in the 
following table, from which, however, no idea can be farmed of the num- 
ber of species or specimens included, as, while each parcel (bottle, vial, 
or box) is devoted to only a single species, it may contain a greater or 
less number of specimens, and the same species may be represented by 
several lots from as many different localities. 

Table of entries made in the record books. 



Groups. 


Number of 
entries made 

to Decem- 
ber 31, 1882. 


Number of 
entries made 
to Decem- 
ber 31, 1883. 


Number of 

entries made 

during the 

year. 


Crustacea . 


5 4,859 

I 5, 999 

916 

161 

160 

5,685 


5,719 
6,213 
1,114 
209 
729 
6,840 


} 1,074 

198 


Porifera and protozoa 


Bryozoa and tunicata 


48 


Annelida 


569 


Radiata 


1,155 






Totals 


11,781 


14,825 


3,044 





General Remarks. 

The Curator is unable at present to make any positive statement re- 
garding the number of specimens or determined species belonging to 
this department. The number of both is very great and will be calcu- 



260 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

lated during the coming year, in connection with the work of revision 
now in progress. Materials have been received so rapidly and in such 
large quantities that the work of sorting, properly preserving and cat- 
aloguing specimens has occupied nearly the entire time of the small 
force assigned to this department. This large amount of routine work 
has greatly interfered with scientific research and the preparation of 
such reports upon biological subjects as are naturally expected from a 
department of this character. It is expected, however, that in the course 
of a few months the arrangement of the collections will be so perfected 
that the sorting and cataloguing of new materials will occupy much less 
time comparatively than in the past. 

The lack of sufficient and suitably arranged space for handling and 
storing the alcoholic collections has been the main cause of much of 
our trouble and delay. At present, our only work room for alcoholics 
is a small laboratory in the west basement of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, and nearly all the collections have to be stored in a dark passage- 
way, where they are difficult of access and much crowded. For con- 
venience in revising the collections, the west exhibition hall of the 
Smithsonian Institution has been temporarily closed to the public, and 
is being used for that purpose. As soon as that work has been com- 
pleted, and the pottery removed from the cases on the west side of the 
hall, those cases will be refitted and devoted to dried collections of 
marine invertebrates, which have been already prepared for exhibition. 



DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL INVERTEBRATES (MESOZOIC AND CENOZOIC 

SECTIONS). 

C. A. White, Honorary Curator. 

The fact that myself and my assistants are regularly employed upon 
the United States Geological Survey has largely prevented the accom- 
plishment of much Museum work proper, but the necessary routine work 
of my division has been attended to. 

Important accessions. 

Early last summer Dr. Orville A. Derby presented to the Museum an 
important collection of invertebrate fossils from Brazil. Some of them 
are Carboniferous, a few are Devonian, but the most of them are dupli- 
cates of a considerable part of the Cretaceous species which I have 
prepared for publication under the auspices of the Brazilian National 
Museum. 

Mr. George Stolly, of Austin, Tex., has, during the year, sent fifty- 
nine boxes of fossils from Texas to the Museum, only a part of which 
have been opened. 

Of the collections that have been received through the United States 
Geological Survey, much the most important are those which have been 
sent from the Cretaceous and Tertiary rocks of the Gulf States by Mr. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 261 

Lawrence C. Johnson. He bas sent sixty-two boxes of fossils during the 
year 1883. 

Some interesting collections were made by my own party during last 
season, but they are not so important as they were last year. 

Routine work. 

Mr. John B. Marcou having been appointed my assistant upon the 
Geological Survey, I have placed him in charge of the Museum work 
of my division. 

The present demands of the Survey has almost entirely prevented 
work upon the installment of the collections ; but the ordinary routine 
work of receiving and recording accessions has been attended to. The 
accessions from miscellaneous sources during the year have been mainly 
unimportant. 

The register-numbers of entries for the year are from 11,886 to 12,230. 

Present state of the collections. 

The arrangement of the collections has not progressed far enough to 
allow of any detailed report. They are still in the unit trays of the 
table-cases, iu the west-south range, where they are in a safe condition. 

Recommendations. 

The work of the Survey and Museum is so rapidly increasing in my 
div^ion that certain wants are becoming urgent. Near a hundred boxes 
of fossils are yet unopened, and we are now in want of suitable facili- 
ties for arranging those which are now opened. We need more unit 
and pasteboard trays, as well as racks for the former. I respectfully 
request also that I be furnished with a competent person whose duty it 
shall be to record and mark specimens with their numbers as the same 
are turned over to the Museum from the survey and elsewhere. 



DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL INVERTEBRATES (PALEOZOIC SECTION). 
Chas. D. Walcott, Honorary Curator. 

Accessions. 

The most important addition to the collection of Paleozoic inverte- 
brate fossils during the year was that of the first series of duplicates 
from the James Hall collection of the American Museum of Natural His- 
tory, New York. This collection was received before my appointment 
as curator, but had not been unpacked or recorded. It is now arranged 
in drawer cases, and will serve as the nucleus for the systematic arrange- 
ment of the collections from the regions east of the Eocky Mountains, 



262 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



or the Mississippi Valley and Atlantic area, 
species, as follows : 



It embraces over 1,200 



Potsdam sandstone. . 

Ohazy limestone 

Quebec 

Trenton limestone. . . 

Utica slate 

Hudson River group , 
Medina sandstone . . . 
Clinton group 



Species. 
25 
13 
8 
86 
24 
76 
8 
46 



Niagara group 186 

5 

84 

37 

1 

33 



Onondaga salt group 

Lower Helderberg group . . 

Oriskany sandstone 

Caudagalli grit 

Schoharie grit 



Species. 

Upper Helderberg 89 

Marcellus shale 16 

Hamilton group 196 

3 

6 

5 

73 

2 

25 

128 

46 



Tully limestone 

Genesee slate . 

Portage group 

Chemung group 

Catskill group 

Waverly group 

Lower Carboniferous 
Coal-measures 



Total 1,221 



Another important addition is that of the collection of the Fortieth 
Parallel Exploring Expedition. This includes representations of up- 
wards of one hundred species, many of which are types. This collection 
has not been recorded. 

Mr. U. P. James presented the Museum with a series of typical speci- 
mens representing seventy-eight species, described by him, from the 
Hudson River group of Ohio. 

Owing to the pressure of work in connection with the preparation of 
a report on the Paleontology of the Eureka Mining District, Nevada, I 
have not been able to give much time to arranging and classifying the 
collections except as incidental to that work. 

The study of the collections of the U. S. Geological Survey is prepar- 
ing a large amount of valuable material that will only need to be re- 
corded in the records of the Museum, to form the nucleus of a large col- 
lection from the regions of the Rocky Mountains. In my next annual 
report I hope to give a list of the genera and species in this collection. 

During the year no publications were made upon material recorded. 
A short paper in Science (vol. xi, p. 808) notices the discovery of fresh- 
water shells from the Lower Carboniferous of Central Nevada, the types 
of which are now in my hands. 

The present state of the collections maybe briefly stated : Ten standard 
cases of drawers containing about 20,000 specimens, representing nearly 
1,800 species. These are arranged in stratigraphic order, and within 
that a zoologic arrangement is more or less clearly defined. This col- 
lection includes the Smithsonian collections and those of the various 
Government surveys, up to the time of the organization of the present 
Geological Survey. I found it without systematic arrangement, on 
taking charge in May, 1883, and have given most of the time T could 
spare from paleontologic work in connection with the Geological Survey, 
to arranging it, and also in getting the laboratory rooms fitted up. The 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 263 

latter are now in good order, and the facilities for work are such that 
little expenditure will be required the present year. 

In the laboratory rooms there are upwards of 15,000 specimens, rep- 
resenting over 1,000 species, that will be ultimately added to the col- 
lection. 



DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL PLANTS. 

Lester F. Ward, Honorary Curator. 
Accessions. 

The most important addition which was made to the department dur- 
ing the year was a large collection of fossil plants from the Green Eiver 
group of Elko Station, Nev., Bell's Fish Cliff, Alkali Stage Station, 
Wyoming, and Florissant, Colorado, but chiefly from the last named 
locality, consisting of more than 700 specimens belonging to nearly 100 
species. These have been numbered and catalogued and form part of 
the reserve series. 

The only other addition of numerical importance consists of 23G 
specimens from various localities in Europe and America, which were 
found in the north tower of the Smithsonian building, and which have 
also been duly installed. 

The present state of the collection is as follows : 

Number of specimens 4, 924 

Number of species 871 

Of which there are — 

Paleozoic. 236 

Cretaceous 142 

Tertiary 493 

At the close of the year, in order to make room for a large collection 
of fresh material for study, it was found necessary to remove some of 
the duplicates. These were taken entirely from the Paleozoic and Me- 
sozoic series, 896 specimen from the former and 195 from the latter, 
making 1,091 specimens. They were all carefully selected from the 
least perfect of the most abundantly represented species and have been 
placed in drawers, properly labeled, and are ready to be sent to the 
Armory building for storage. 



DEPARTMENT OF LITHOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 

George P. Merrill, Acting Curator. 
Accessions. 

The total number of entries upon the department catalogue during 
the year has been 2,311, comprising 2,738 specimens. Strictly speaking 
however these cannot all be considered as accessions of the year, since 
many of the specimens have been the property of the Museum for a 
much longer period, but never before catalogued. 



264 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Below is given a list of the more important accessions : 

(1) Ten specimens Vermont marble, showing methods of cutting and 
polishing. Gift of the Vermont Marble Company. 

(2) Eighty specimens Kansas building stones. Gift of A. A. Robin- 
son, agent for Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad. 

(3) Eighty-two specimens North Carolina building stones. Collected 
by Prof. W. C. Kerr. 

(4) One hundred and four specimens building stones from the United 
States and foreign countries. Gift of John S. F. Batchen. 

(5) A collection of thirteen varieties of grindstone. Gift of J. E. 
Mitchell, Philadelphia. 

(6) Forty-five specimens of Italian marble. Gift of W. W. Story, 
Florence, Italy. 

(7) One hundred and seventy -five specimens drift and eruptive rocks 
from Montana. Collected by Dr. C. A. White and J. B. Marcou, TJ. S. 
Geological Survey. 

(8) One hundred and ninety-four specimens rocks from Yellowstone 
National Park. Gift of W. H. Holmes. 

(9) Three hundred and eighty-five specimens typical rocks of New 
Hampshire, being the private collection of the late Dr. George W. Hawes. 

(10) Twenty specimens obsidian and tufa from Mono Lake, California. 
Collected by I. C. Russell and G. K. Gilbert, U. S. Geological Survey. 

(11) Four large concretions from near the mouth of Cannon Ball 
River, Dakota. Gift of Brig. Gen. M. C. Meigs. 

(12) Thirty specimens Japanese marble. Received from Centennial 
Exhibition, Philadelphia. 

(13) Three hundred and fifty-five specimen rocks of Victoria, Aus- 
tralia. Received from Centennial Exhibition, Philadelphia. 

(14) One hundred and fifty-four specimens building stones of Portu- 
gal. Received from Centennial Exhibition, Philadelphia. 

(15) A slab of Potomac breccia marble 2x3 feet, from Frederick 
County, Maryland. Gift of Col. Edward Clarke. 

In arranging and classifying collections, the accurate determination 
of the specimens is the first essential. For this purpose the microscope 
is usually employed and some two hundred and fifty thin sections of 
rocks have been prepared. For exhibition purposes the building stones 
are dressed into 4-inch cubes, this being the unit size, while specimens 
of purely lithologic or geologic importance are broken with a hammer 
into sizes of about 3 inches x 4 inches x 1 inch. 

Specimens illustrative of physical phenomena are prepared to suit indi- 
vidual cases. In the exhibition series the building stones are clas- 
sified by States, this method being deemed best calculated to meet the 
wants of the general public. Collections of lithologic and geologic in- 
terest, representing the formations of any definite area, or investiga- 
tions tending towards the solution of any particular problem, are pre- 
served intact. Miscellaneous collections are broken up and classified 
by kinds. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



265 



No work upon the collections has been done by parties not officially 
connected with the Museum since the close of the census investigation 
of the building-stone industry of the United States early in the year. 

The number of specimens in the entire collection is not far from 
12,500, of which 3,862 are building stones, while the remainder are 
mostly smaller specimens of more strictly scientific interest. Of the 
entire collection not less than 2,000 are duplicates. Of the 3,862 speci- 
mens of building stone 1,684 are dressed, and 1,332 already on exhibi- 
tion, though not yet fully labeled ; but 54 specimens were dressed during 
the past year. 

The following table gives the collection of building stone proper in de- 
tail, the majority of the specimens being of sufficient size to dress into 
4-inch cubes, or to give at least 16 square inches of finished surface : 



UNITED STATES. 



Alabama 

Arkansas 

Arizona 

California 

Colorado 

Connecticut 

Dakota 

Delaware 

District of Columbia . . 

Florida 

Georgia 

Idaho 

Illinois 

Indiana 

Iowa 

Kansas 

Kentucky 

Maine 

Massachusetts 

Maryland 

Michigan 

Minnesota 

Missouri 

Montana 

Nebraska 

New Hampshire 

New Jersey 

New Mexico . 

New York 

Nevada 

North Carolina 

Ohio 



10 

8 

4 

44 

31 

65 

5 

5 

3 

7 

7 

2 

110 

78 

195 

182 

6 

125 

226 

108 

29 

108 

152 

9 

8 

106 

133 

16 

272 

8 

120 

314 



Oregon 

Pennsylvania 

Rhode Island 

Tennessee 

Texas 

Utah 

Vermont 

Virginia 

West Virginia 

Washington Territory . . 

Wisconsin 

Wyoming 



FOREIGN COUNTRIES. 



Africa 

Bermuda 

Canada 

China 

Egypt 

France 

Germany - 

Greece 

Ireland 

Italy 

Japan 

New Brunswick . . 
New South Wales 

Portugal 

Russia 

Scotland 

Turkey 



6 

331 

42 

126 

41 

13 

220 

71 

16 

4 

89 

7 



2 

75 

16 

1 

6 

3 

1 

2 

1 

89 

50 

5 

8 

154 

21 

24 

2 



Total No. of specimens. 3,862 



266 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Much work yet remains to be done in the way of cataloguing and 
labeling. During the greater part of the year no one but myself has 
been engaged in this work, and the progress has necessarily been slow. 
Some of the older collections are in a most deplorable condition, owing 
to the fact that many of the labels are lost, or, if present, were written 
with a common pencil and have become almost illegible. Moreover, the 
data given are frequently so scanty that they are of no possible value. 
The collections of the various TJ. S. Geological Surveys are especially 
bad in this respect, and doubtless much of their material must ultimately 
be thrown away on this account alone. 

A swing saw, made on the same general plan as the saw ordinarily 
used by stone- workers for sawing marble, &c, but much smaller, has 
been added to the department, and promises to be very efficient in cut- 
ting all varieties of material not sufficiently hard to require diamond 
dust. Steam-power has been introduced into the work-room, and the 
preparation of microscopic sections is thereby greatly facilitated. 

The department of physical geology has been so recently assigned to 
my care that no report of progress can as yet be made. 



DEPARTMENT OF MINERALS. 
F. W. Clakke, Honorary Curator. 

The report of Mr. W. S. Yeates, who for the past year has had 
practically sole charge of the department of minerals, is here presented. 
Inasmuch as I only entered upon the duties as curator during the 
month of December, I have had as yet few opportunities of familiar- 
izing myself with the collections, and can add nothing of importance 
to what Mr. Yeates has said. I have already taken steps towards the 
organization of a system of exchanges, and have entered into corre- 
spondence with some collectors; but there has not yet been time enough 
to realize anything from my efforts. 

The department, in addition to the services of Mr. Yeates, now has 
the assistance of Naval Ensigns E. Wilkinson, H. S. Knapp, and O. G. 
Dodge. These gentlemen have been detailed for Museum services by 
the Secretary of the Navy, and are to be regarded as students rather 
than regular aids. Although they are called upon for work in the 
arrangement for cataloguing of specimens, it is clear that their chief 
efforts should be in the line of study ; and that with them mechanical 
labor should be reduced to a minimum. 



W. S. Yeates, Acting Curator. {Jan.-Nov.) 
Accessions. 

A large number of additions have been made to the collection during 
the year; and a large number of specimens, which had been tempo- 
rarily under the care of this department, have been turned over to the de- 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 267 

partments to which they properly belonged. Special mention may be 
made of the following contributions : From Mr. John W. Lee, of Balti- 
more, Md., a choice collection of twenty-six specimens, principally from 
Maryland and Pennsylvania, for exchange; from Mr. F. L. Moore, of 
Georgetown, D. C, a contribution of six hundred pounds of gypsum 
from Windsor, Nova Scotia, which furnished us several handsome speci- 
mens for the reserve series, and two hundred and fifty-one specimens 
for the duplicate series; from Prof. F. W. Clarke, as an officer of the 
TJ. S. Geological Survey, we received a collection of beryl crystals, 
hyalite, &c, from Ashe County, North Carolina, consisting of thirty- 
seven specimens; a collection of muscovite, tourmaline, &c, from New 
Hampshire, consisting of twenty-four specimens; and a collection of 
allanite, triphylite, lepidolite, &c, from Maine, consisting of one hun- 
dred and forty-three specimens. Besides these, from his private collec- 
tion we received a contribution of thirty-one specimens from various 
localities. In the collection from North Carolina there were three hand- 
some specimens of hyalite and an exceptionally interesting crystal of 
quartz. All these specimens were received from Professor Clarke, prior 
to his official connection with this department. From Mr. N. H. Perry, 
of South Paris, Me., we received a collection from Oxford County, Maine, 
consisting of eighty-six specimens. These specimens were obtained for 
the Museum by Mr. George P. Merrill, of the department of rocks and 
building stones. From Dr. Wm. H. Jones, U. S. N., a box of garnets, 
both detached and in mica schist, from Alaska, consisting of one hun- 
dred and ninety specimens. This contribution was one of the most de- 
sirable received during the year. From Mr. George P. Merrill, a collec- 
tion of minerals from Maine, consisting of one hundred and two speci- 
mens. Besides other good specimens in this lot, there was an inter- 
esting group of calcite crystals from Bockland, Me. From Mr. Joseph 
Willcox, of Delaware County, Pennsylvania, a collection of minerals 
from various localities, consisting of one hundred and nineteen speci- 
mens. Besides the gift of these, Mr. Willcox has been kind enough to 
lend to the department one thousand three hundred and thirty-four of 
the choicest specimens from his handsome collection of American min- 
erals, to assist in filling a deficiency in our exhibition series. This col- 
lection being a loan, its withdrawal would leave quite a gap in our exhi- 
bition series. From Dr. Theo. Schuchardt, of Gorlitz, Germany, was 
purchased a very good set of sixty specimens of minerals representing 
the Vesuvius Ideality. The private collection of Dr. George W. Hawes 
(late curator of this department), consisting of over five hundred spec- 
imens, has recently been turned over to me. The specimens are small, 
but some of them are very desirable. From the dump heap of the ex- 
cavation for the foundation of a large building on Connecticut avenue, 
in this city, I obtained one hundred and twenty specimens of vivianite 
in clay, a mineral new to this locility. 



268 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Administration. 

It may not be amiss to indicate the routine of this department. 
Specimens upon being received are carefully examined and named; 
they are then entered on the register, cleaned, trimmed, labelled, num- 
bered, and assigned to that series of the collection, which is deemed 
best. Classifying and arranging specimens for exhibition constitute a 
large part of the work. The preliminary classification has been based 
upon Dana's System of Mineralogy. Attending to correspondence and 
preparing card catalogues are other work of the department. 

In the reserve series of the department there are 7,150 specimens, 
of which 1,152 are on exhibition. In the duplicate series there are 
about 7,400 specimens, which, with the reserve series, make a total of 
about 14,550. 

DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY AND ECONOMIC GEOLOGY. 

Fred. P. Dewey, Curator. 

During the past year, as it will be for several years to come, by far 
the larger portion of the material administered upon in this department 
was from the Centennial collections. Aside from this material, among 
the most interesting additions the department has received may be 
mentioned an extensive series of cokes, for the most part kindly sent by 
the various manufacturers, upon solicitation, for the purposes of an ex- 
tended examination into its physical properties as affecting its employ- 
men^ as a metallurgical fuel (the series already represents most of the 
chief coking regions and is being increased from time to time ); an ex- 
tensive series of the iron ores and their associates and of apatite and its 
associates from Canada, collected by myself during my summer vacation; 
a small suite of Virginia gold ores from various parties, and especially 
Mr. W. G. Love, of Eichardsville ; a full suite of the recently discovered 
tin ore and its associates from Irish Creek, Virginia, collected by Mr. F. 
W. Taylor, U. S. N. M; a suite of specimens collected by Ensign E. Wil- 
kinson, U. S. N., in Colorado, which is especially interesting from its rich- 
ness in coal specimens, both bituminous and anthracite; and, finally, two 
very important suites of specimens representing the production of cast 
iron of extraordinary strength ; the first is from Mr. Edward Gridley, 
of the Wassaic Furnace, Dutchess County, New York, where on a short 
run, on a carbonate ore, No. 4 charcoal pig iron of 47,500 founds tensile 
strength per square inch was produced; and embraces the ore, both raw 
and roasted, the flux, the slag, and several pieces of the metal, includ- 
ing some of the test pieces ; the second suite is from the Hon. C. E. 
Coffin, of the Muirkirk Furnace, in Prince George's County, Maryland; 
at this furnace charcoal pig iron of unusual strength has been regularly 
made from a carbonate ore for a number of years, some recent tests of 
the No. 4 pig iron running up to the very extraordinary figures of 52,475 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 269 

pounds tensile strength per square inch. This suite includes a very full 
series of the different varieties of the ore and its associates from a pure 
siderite through its various stages of decomposition to a limonite, the 
flux (oyster shells), the charcoal, both kiln and meiler, the slag, and 
a very extensive and valuable collection of test pieces, with full records 
of the tests extending over a series of years. 

In cataloguing the collections, 1,257 entries have been made upon the 
Museum register, embracing 3 ,918 specimens ; of these, 535 entries were 
of the 83 accessions received during the year, embracing 882 specimens, 
and including 190 specimens received from Surveyor- General J. W. Bob- 
bins, of Arizona, through the General Land Office ; the remaining 722 
entries of 1,036 specimens were of material previously received, but of 
which no entry had been made, derived from four sources ; 81 entries 
of 109 specimens from the TJ. S. Geological Surveys ; 172 entries of 
206 specimens from the U. S. General Land Office; 86 entries of 100 
specimens from the old Smithsonian collection, and 383 entries of 621 
specimens from the Centennial collections. In the preparation of the 
card catalogue 3,321 entries, embracing 5,265 specimens, have been made ; 
these specimens have all been carefully examined by the curator in per- 
son and 7,314 determinations of mineral species made in the ore speci- 
mens. For the Smithsonian Institution 36 specimens have been examined 
and the necesssary reports prepared to accompany them, and two let- 
ters of information upon special topics have been written. Ensign A. 
A. Ackermau, U. S. N., rendered valuable aid in the work of the de- 
partment until the 1st of June, when he was detailed to accompany the 
Greely relief expedition. Ensign H. M. Witzel, U. S. N., was detailed to 
the department December 1, and has scarcely had time to become familiar 
with the operations of the department. The clerical work has been 
ably performed by Mr. F. J. Offutt. 

There have been two researches commenced during the year, neither 
of which, however, has been completed. The first is an extended exam- 
ination into the physical properties of coke with especial reference to 
its employment as a metallurgical fuel and the prerequisites of a good 
coking coal. There have already been examined 153 specimens from 12 
localities, and a synopsis of the results already obtained has been pub- 
lished by the American Institute of Mining Engineers, covering 15 
pages of their Transactions, under the title of "Porosity and Specific 
Gravity of Coke." 

The second investigation is upon the occurrence of free gold in galena, 
and will soon be ready for publication. 

Any statement of the total number of specimens in the collections 
must be largely of the nature of an estimate, as there are still a great 
many boxes and packages of Centennial remaining unpacked. With the 
additions received from the permanent exhibition at Philadelphia dur- 
ing the year, I would place the total number at 30,000 or more. 

As will be seen from what has gone before, the principal attention of 



270 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

the department has been devoted to the preparation of the card cata- 
logue of the ores; and although many specimens are visible, yet it was 
only towards the close of the year that any attempt was made at placing 
the specimens on exhibition, so that only 763 specimens can be said to 
belong to the exhibition series ; the large bulk of the material is there- 
fore considered as being for the present in the reserve series, although 
there have been 321 specimens definitely assigned to the reserve series 
proper and 465 specimens to the duplicate series. 

The general condition of the ore collection has been greatly improved 
by the care and attention devoted to it during the past year; the most 
part of it is now thoroughly identified, catalogued and provided for, at 
least temporarily, in cases ; it is no longer subject to the unfavorable 
influences which in the past have tended so much to impair its utility, 
so that its further deterioration is guarded against as securely as pos- 
sible. 

A beginning has been made upon the metal specimens, and while 
many of them are badly injured from the exposure and want of care to 
which they, in common with the ore specimens, have been subjected, 
others are not so far gone but that they can be made useful, while a few 
are in a tolerably good state of preservation. 

The ore collection, while large and in general quite complete, yet con- 
tains a few prominent deficiencies, for the filling of which some steps 
should be soon taken, and this is especially so in regard to the ore of a 
few regions, as Arizona, New Mexico, and the Menominee region, which 
have come into prominence since the close of the Centennial. 

Illustrations of the various steps in the extraction of the metals, to- 
gether with the incidental and by-products, are not as full and complete 
as could be desired. This being a subject of instruction in the science of 
metallurgy rather than a matter of the exhibition of showy and attract- 
ive specimens, it is not at all to be wondered at that the Centennial col- 
lection from which we derived so much should be deficient in this re- 
spect. A few complete series in this direction would very greatly en- 
hance the instructive value of the extensive collections of ores and 
finished products by providing the necessary connection between the 
two. An excellent illustration of what is desired in this direction is 
furnished by the collection already mentioned from the Muirkirk Fur- 
nace. This collection embraces 75 specimens, and shows everything con- 
nected with the production of No. 4 iron at that furnace. Besides this, 
Mr. Coffin has very kindly furnished the department with full analyses 
and with the record of the running of the furnace, the whole forming a 
complete and very instructive exhibit. In this connection it might be 
well to say that manufacturers are not always willing to give such full 
illustrations of their operations, and, when they are willing, they do 
not always take the necessary care in selecting illustrations, so that it 
will not be so easy to procure just what we need as it might at first ap- 
pear. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 271 

As indicated in my last annual report, the least satisfactory portion 
of the collections is that of the methods and mean s of metallurgical op- 
erations, the illustration by means of drawings, views, models, and, 
where practicable, the actual tools used, of the art of metallurgy. This 
is one of the most interesting and valuable portions of the subject, and 
at present is so poorly represented as to be scarcely illustrated at all. 
This deficiency of the collection could very readily be supplied, and it 
is so important, that a beginning should be made upon it as soon as pos- 
sible in the coming year. 

The construction of a special chemical laboratory for the use of this 
department, which has been approved and ordered, will facilitate 
greatly the work of the department in making chemical examinations 
and analyses. The present chemical laboratory, besides being crowded 
with other work, is inconvenient for this department. There are many 
subjects for chemical examination coming up almost daily in the work 
of cataloguing the collection, while the opportunities and demands 
for research upon the collections are almost unnumbered, so that the 
laboratory will be well occupied just as soon as it can be completed. 

This being the first complete year since the establishment of the de- 
partment, a great deal of care and attention has been absorbed in its 
proper inauguration, and, on account of the difficulties of handling so 
much bulky material as must necessarily constitute the exhibition se- 
ries, the department has not made as much progress in the exhibition of 
specimens as could be desired; but most of the difficulties of inaugura- 
tion are now passed, and, with a sufficient force of laborers to prepare 
and handle the specimens, there is no reason why the exhibition of this 
department should not begin to assume the prominent position in the 
Museum which it is entitled to hold from its interest and great value. 



THE MUSEUM LIBRARY. 
F. W. True, Librarian. 

The following report upon the operations of the library in 1883 is re- 
spectfully submitted. In the present condition of affairs it is perhaps 
impossible to furnish a report of a general character suitable for publi- 
cation. I have therefore confined myself entirely to the simple details 
of administrative work. 

The recommendations which I have already made relative to addi- 
tional assistance, the establishment of more definite relations between 
this library and that of the Smithsonian Institution, an increase of reg- 
ularity in the receipt of periodicals, it is unnecessary to repeat in this 
connection. 



272 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 
Accessions. 



The accessions for 1883 surpassed in number those of the precediug 
year. The following table shows the proportion of quarto and larger 
books, to the octavos and those of smaller size, and the total for the year: 

Table showing the number of accessions in 1883. 



Sizes. 



Volumes. 



Parts. 



Pam- 
phlets. 



Total. 



Quartos and larger . 
Octavos and smaller 

Total 



17 
147 



7 
44 



73 

389 



97 
580 



164 



51 



462 



677 



*Any -work of less than 100 pages is regarded as a pamphlet. 

The accessions of public documents, except those relating to the 
natural sciences, are not included in this table. The majority are not 
properly within the scope of the library, and if entered and put upon 
the shelves, would occupy space which should be devoted to works 
more directly of use. The works included in the table were received 
from 73 societies, museums, and other organizations, and from 74 indi- 
viduals. Only 14 were obtained by purchase. The following persons 
and institutions have contributed four or more works during the year : 



Contributors. 



Octavo 
volumes. 



Quarto 
volumes. 



Octavo 
pam- 
phlets. 



Quarto 
pam- 
phlets. 



Prof. S. F. Baird 

Geological Survey of Great Britain and 
Ireland 

Dr. Francis Day, London 

Prof. William H. Flower, London 

Dr. Charles A. White, U. S. Geolog. Survey. 

Portland Society of Natural History 

Mr. Walter Faxon, Cambridge, Mass 

Royal Society of New South Wales 



52 
49 



367 

61 
16 
7 
10 
9 
7 
4 



5 
14 
"5 



Late in the year, the United States Fish Commissioner deposited in 
thelibrary 140 volumes upon ichthyology and kindred subjects. A com- 
plete set of the reports upon the scientific results of the Challenger Ex- 
pedition and other equally important works are included in this series. 

Loan and return of books. — For the record of these most important 
transactions of the library, two large record-books are in use. In 
one of these the books borrowed are entered by the names of the 
authors, with cross-reference to the name of the person borrowing and 
the date of the loan. In the second record all the books borrowed by 
each person are recorded under his name. This system, which might 
be impracticable in a large library, is very useful and desirable in a 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



273 



smaller one in which the books are much handled. In addition, each 
person is required to sign a call-card for the books received and to de- 
mand the same when they are returned. 

The number of names now included in the list of those entitled to 
draw books is sixty-seven. 

The number of books issued and returned during the several months 
is as follows : 



Months. 



January . . . 
February . . 

March 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August 

September . 

October 

November . 
December.. 

Total 



2, 535 



Drawn. 


Returned. 


119 


92 


199 


57 


174 


138 


95 


65 


767 


412 


144 


238 


149 


185 


334 


176 


206 


68 


143 


276 


295 


477 



2,184 



During the period of active work in winter and until May, the num- 
ber of books drawn exceeds that of those returned, while the reverse is 
usually the case upon the approach of summer. The abnormal condi- 
tion in November and December is due to the fact that certain rearrange- 
ments in the Museum made it necessary that the whole of one sectional 
library should be returned. 

For the benefit of the clerks, messengers, and other employes who 
are debarred by the regulations from withdrawing books regularly from 
the library, it has been deemed advisable to set apart a certain num- 
ber of works of general interest. A list was prepared, including the 
principal books of travel, manuals of the natural sciences, and the like, 
contained in the library, and distributed to the employes, with a notice 
that the works could be withdrawn. This arrangement has met with 
much favor, the only regret being that there are not more books on the 
list. « 

Administrative work. 

Registers. — The regular registers have been constantly in use during 
the year. The record-book shows an addition of 677 entries. These are 
divided among; the months as follows : 



January 128 

February 102 

March •. 71 

April 54 

May 62 

June 57 

S. Mis. 69 18 



July..., 46 

August 

September 47 

October 40 

November 58 

December ..,..., 12 



274 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

In the periodical register, in which all journals are entered number 
by number, with the date of receipt, 2,639 entries have been made. 

Catalogues. — The card-catalogue by authors has been very consider- 
ably added to during the year. 

The number of books catalogued each month is as follows : 



January . . . . : 148 

February 132 

March 147 

April 62 

May 262 

June 126 

July 66 



August 

September 133 

October 97 

November 119 

December 43 



Total 1,335 



The catalogue includes, in addition to titles of the books in the Mu- 
seum library, and those of the books in the library of the U. S. Fish 
Commission. 

The number of cards in each case is as follows : 

Museum 9, 557 

U. S. Fish Commission library . . ... 634 



Total 10,191 

Sectional libraries. — Two new sectional libraries have been established, 
those in charge of the honorary assistant curator of invertebrate fossils 
and the acting curator of foods and textiles. There are, in all, 13 similar 
libraries. The number of volumes of monographic books and pamphlets 
in each is as follows: 

Section of building stones 110 

Department of mammals 122 

Department of invertebrate fossils : 

Mesozoic 96 

Paleozoic < 17 

Department of birds 92 

Section of materia medica 71 

Department of fishes 54 

Department of chemistry m. 64 

Department of archeology 25 

Department of metallurgy 26 

Department of reptiles 22 

Department of marine invertebrates 29 

Section of foods and textiles 6 

Total .'.734 

Number of books. — On page 3 of the report of the assistant director 
for 1882, the number of books in the library is estimated at 5,800, and 
of pamphlets, 5,500. By the additions of the past year the number of 
books now reached is about 6,015, and of pamphlets, 5,962, 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 275 



APPENDIX A.— OFFICERS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



SPENCER F. BAIRD, LL. D., Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Director of the 
Museum. 



G. BROWN GOODE, A. M., Assistant Director ; Curator, Dep't of Arts and Industries. 



TARLETON H. BEAN, M. S., M. D., Curator, Department of Fishes: Editor. 

CAPT. CHARLES BENDIRE, U. S. A., "Curator, Section of Oology. 

A. HOWARD CLARK, Assistant, Department of Arts and Industries. 

FRANK W. CLARKE, A. M. (U. S. Geol. Sur.), "Curator, Department of Minerals. 

JOSEPH W. COLLINS, Acting Curator, Section of Naval Architecture. 

WILLIAM H. DALL (U. S. Coast Survey), "Curator, Department of Mollusks. 

FRED. P. DEWEY, S. B., Curator, Department of Metallurgy. 

R. EDWARD EARLL, S. B., Acting Curator of the Fisheries Collection. 

JAMES M. FLINT, M. D., U. S. N., "Curator, Section of Materia Medica 

ROMYN HITCHCOCK, Acting Curator, of the Textile Collection. 

FREDERIC A. LUCAS, Assistant, Department of Comparative Anatomy. 

GEORGE P. MERRILL, M. S., Acting Curator, Depart. Lithologyand Physical Geology. 

RICHARD RATHBUN, M. S., Curator, Department of Marine Invertebrates. 

CHARLES RAU, Ph. D., Curator, Department of Archaeology. 

ROBERT RIDGWAY, Curator, Department of Birds. 

CHARLES V. RILEY, Ph. D. (Depart. Agr), "Curator, Depart, of Insects. 

ROBERT E. C. STEARNS, Adjunct Curator, Department of Mollusks. 

FREDERICK W. TRUE, M. S., Curator, Depart, of Mammals and Compar. Anatomy. 

CHARLES D. WALCOTT (U. S. Geological Survey), "Curator, Department of Fossil 

Invertebrates (Paleozoic). 
LESTER F. WARD, LL. B. (U. S. Geological Survey), "Curator of Department of 

Fossil Plants. 
CHARLES A. WHITE, M. D. (U. S. Geological Survey), "Curator, Department of 

Fossi Invertebrates (Mesozoxc and Cenozoic). 
HENRY C. YARROW, M.D., "Curator, Department of Reptiles and Batrachians. 
WILLIAM S. YEATES, Aid, Department of Minerals. 



STEPHEN C. BROWN, Registrar. 

HENRY HORAN, Superintendent of Buildings. 

• Honorary. 



276 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



APPENDIX B.— BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR 1883. 

Note. — The annotations, unless otherwise signed, will he understood to have heen 
made by the ourator of the department to which the paper relates. 



PART I. — PUBLICATIONS OF THE MUSEUM. 
PART II. — PAPERS BY OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM. 

PART III. — PAPERS BY INVESTIGATORS NOT OFFICERS OF THE MU- 
SEUM, BASED ON MUSEUM MATERIAL. 



PART I— PUBLICATIONS OF THE MUSEUM. 

Department of the Interior. U. S. National Museum. 34. Proceed- 
ings of the U. S. National Museum. Vol. v, 1882. Published un- 
der the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington: 
Government Printing Office. 1883. 8vo, pp. i-xii, 1-703. 

The first twenty-eight signatures, viz, pp. 1-448, were published in 1882. 
Sigs. 29, 30, Feb. 13, 1883 ; 31, 32, Feb. 28 ; 33-35, March 21 ; 36, March 23; 37, 
Apr. 19; 38, Apr. 25; 39, May 12; 40, May 22; 41, May 23; 42, June 26. 

This volume contains 91 papers relating to the work of the Museum, pre- 
pared by 35 authors. All published in 1883 are enumerated under the au- 
thor's name in this appendix. 

Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum. (Vol. vi.) Signatures 1-22 
inclusive were printed and distributed in 1883. 

Department of the Interior. U. S. National Museum. Bulletin of the 
U. S. National Museum. No. 1G. Synopsis of the Fishes of North 
America. By David S. Jordan and Charles S. Gilbert. Washing- 
ton : Government Printing Office. 1883. Svo. pp. i-lvi, 1-1018. 

Department of the Interior: U. S. National Museum. Bulletin of the 
U. S. National Museum. No. 20. Bibliographies of American Nat- 
uralists. I. The publishers writings of Spencer Fullerton Baird, 
1843-1882, by George Brown Goode, Assistant Director of the Na- 
tional Museum. Washington : Government Printing Office. 1883. 
Svo. pp. i-xvi, 1-377. 

Department of the Interior: U. S. National Museum. Bulletin of the 
U. S. National Museum. No. 24. Check List of North American 
Beptilias and Batrachia, with Catalogue of Specimens in U. S. Na- 
tional Museum. By H. C. Yarrow, M. D., Honorary Curator De 
partment of Reptiles. Washington : Government Printing Office. 
1883. Svo. pp. (6) 1-249, 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 27? 

Department of the Interior : U. S. National Museum. Bulletin of the 
U. S. National Museum. No. 26. • Avifauna Columbiana : Being a 
list of Birds ascertained to inhabit the District of Columbia, with 
the times of arrival and departure of such as are nonresidents, and 
brief notices of habits, &c. The second edition, revised to date, 
and entirely rewritten. By Elliott Coues, M. D., Ph. D., Professor 
of Anatomy in the National Medical College, &c, and D. Webster 
Prentiss, A. M., M. D., Professor of Materia Medica and Therapeu 
tics in the National Medical College, etc. Washington : Govern- 
ment Printing Office. 1883. 8vo. pp. 1-133. 4 maps. 

The following Museum circulars which were printed as " separates " dur- 
ing the year, were also published in the Appendix to volume vi, Pro- 
ceedings of the U. S. National Museum*, for 1883. 

No. 19. Classification of the Materia Medica collection of the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum, and Catalogue of Specimens. By James M. Flint, 
Surgeon U. S. Navy, Curator of Materia Medica. 8vo. 1-14 pp. 

No. 20. Request for Specimens of Drugs, and Information concerning 
them. 8 vo. 1 p. 

No. 21. Circular relative to contributions of Aboriginal Antiquities, to 
the U. S. National Museum. By Charles Rau. 8vo. 4 pp. 

No. 22. Brief directions for removing and preserving the skins of Mam 
mals. By William T. Hornaday, Chief Taxidermist. 8vo. 1-6 pp. 

No. 23. Instructions for taking paper moulds of inscriptions in stone, 
wood, bronze, &c. By Ensign A. P. Niblack, U. S. N. 8vo. pp. 
1-17. 

Parts A, B, C, D, E, F, G, Bulletin 27, U. S. N. M., were printed as " sep- 
arates" in 1883, and are mentioned in this bibliography under the names of 
the authors. See Goode, Rathbtjn, Ridgway, Winslow, Brown, Bean. 

PART II.— PAPERS BY OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM. 

Baird, Spencer F. — The instruction of naval midshipmen in taxi- 
dermy, ichthyology, etc., at the United States National Museum, 
and on board the steamers of the United States Fish Commission. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Commission, in, pp. 239-243. 1883.) 

Bean, Tarleton H. — Description of a species of whitefish, Coregonus 
hoyi, (Gill) Jordan, called " smelt" in some parts of New York. 
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v, pp. 658-660. 1883.) 

. List of the Fishes. (In Stearns' u Notes on the Natural His- 
tory of Labrador.") 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Aug 1, 1883,) vol. VI, pp. 123-125.. 

The names of seventeen species collected for the U. S. National Museum 
by Mr. W. A. Stearns in 1882. The common names and the remarks are 
by Mr. Stearns. One of the most interesting of the species is Scomber aconi' 
Wus, from Labrador. 



2? 8 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Bean, Tarleton H. — Directions for collecting and preserving fish. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com. Sept. 3, 1883, vol. m, pp. 197-200. Reprinted 
from Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. iv, pp. 235-238.) 

The first occurrence of Pseudotriacis microdon, Capello, on the 

coast of the United States. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Oct. 5, 1883, vol. VI, pp. 147-150.) 

This shark stranded, February 8, 1883, at the Amagansett life-saving sta- 
tion, on Long Island, and was forwarded to the Museum by Mr. J. B. Ed- 
wards. It is the first result of a request by Prof. S. F. Baird to the superin- 
tendent of life-saving stations, Mr. S. I. Kimball, for information from points 
along the entire coast concerniug the movements and the stranding of marine 
animals and for the sending of desirable specimens to the National Museum. 

Pseudotriacis microdon is a rare shark which was first observed on the coast 
of Portugal. 

The genus Pseudotriacis is redefined and the species fully described. 

Description of a new species of AlepidosaUrus (A. wsculapius) 

from Alaska. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. March 23, 1883, v, pp. 661-663.) 
Alepidosaurus cesculapius, n. «. (Iliuliuk, Unalaschka, p. 661.) 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition; London, 1883. United 

States of America. F. Catalogue of the Collections of Fishes ex- 
hibited by the United States National Museum, by Tarleton H. Bean, 
Curator of the Department of Fishes in the United States National 
Museum. Washington : Government Printing Office. 1883. 8vo, 
pp. 1-124. 

(Forms part of Bull. 27, U. S. Nat. Mus.) 

This catalogue relates to about 450 species of North American fishes, or 
nearly one-third of the known fauna. The principal common names are 
given, and the geographical distribution is stated as fully as possible. The 
maximum size of the species, their importance as food or bait, and their re- 
productive habits are briefly noticed. In the remarks upon the several groups 
of fishes exhibited will be found a sketch of the most recent information con- 
cerning the fish-fauna of the regions from which they were obtained. The 
survey of Alaskan fishes is the most detailed, and brings the list of known 
species up to the date of printing of this section of the catalogue. 

— — Notes on some fishes collected by James G. Swan in Washing- 
ton Territory, including a new species of JUacrurus. 

{Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, VI, pp. 362-364.) 

Macrurus acrolepis, n. s., besides information concerning Delolepis virgalus, 
Bramaraii, and 8 other species. 

Notes on fishes observed at the head of Chesapeake Bay in the 

spring of 1882, and upon other species of the same region. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, vi, pp. 362-364. ) 

Concerning 31 species for the most part taken in the seine by the U. S. Fish 
Commission, June 9 and 10, 1882. The common names in use at Havre de 
Grace are recorded, and brief notes are given about spawning habits and 
times of arrival and departure. 






REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 279 

Bean, Tarleton H. — Condition and methods of administration of the 
department of fishes in the U. S. National Museum in 1882. 

(Report Asst. Director U. S. Nat. Mus., n, 1882, pp. 19-21; 49-50; 87-96.) 

Brown, James Temple. — Great International Fisheries Exhibition; 
' London; 1883. United States of America. (E.) The Whale Fish- 
ery and its Appliances. Washington : Government Printing Office. 
1883. Svo. pp. 1-116. 

Contains (a) classification of apparatus used in American whale fishery ; 
(6) catalogue of whaling apparatus sent by United States to London, includ- 
ing : 1. Apparatus used by the white man ; 2. Apparatus used by the Cape 
Flattery Indians, with a brief account of these Indians, their manners, habits, 
and customs ; 3. Whaling and sealing apparatus used by Eskimo. 

Some notes on whales. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., vol. in, p. 411.) 

Clark, A. Howard. — Statistics of the whale fishery. 

(In United States Catalogue of Londoa Fisheries Exhibition (section E). 
"The whale fishery and its appliances," pp. 26-29, inclusive.) 

Reviews the past and present extent of the American whale fishery, gives 
the distribution of the fleet, the relative importance of the various whaling 
grounds during the years 1870 to 1880, and exhibits statistical tables showing 
(1) the number and tonnage of vessels engaged in the fishery for the years 
1870-1880, (2) the value of sperm-oil, whale-oil, and whalebone landed by the 
American fleet, the value of the consumption in the United States, and the 
value of the exportation annually from 1870 to 1880, and (3) the number of 
barrels of sperm and whale oil and pounds of whalebone landed by the Amer- 
ican fleet, the quantities consumed in the United States, and the quantities 
exported annually from 1870 to 1880. 

International angling tournament. 

(Forest and Stream, New York, June 28, 1883.) 

Letter from London, giving an account of an angling tournament at Welsh 
Harp, near London, June 11, 1883. 

London Fisheries Exhibition. 

(Chelsea Record, Chelsea, Mass., July 8, 1883.) 

Letter from London, descriptive of incidents connected with the Interna- 
tional Fisheries Exhibition. 

The United States display at the London Exhibition. 

(Boston Herald, September 9, 1883.) 

Communication concerning the exhibit of the United States at the Interna- 
tional Fisheries Exhibition. 

Methods of packing [mackerel] and inspection laws. 

(Materials for a history of the mackerel fishery, 1883, pp. 137-161 ; Rep. U. 
S. Fish Com., Part ix, for 1881, pp. 227-252.) 

Statistics of inspection of mackerel from 1804 to 1880. 

(Materials for a history of the mackerel fishery, 1883, pp. 162-213 ; Rep. U. 
8. Fish Com., Part ix, for 1881, pp. 252-307.) 



280 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Clark, A. Howard. — [The mackerel] inspection laws of the United 
States. 

(Materials for a history of the mackerel fishery, 1883, pp. 354-394 ; Rep. U« 
8. Fish Com., Part ix.for 1881, pp. 444-484.) 

[Statistical description] of the American whale fishery. 

(Goode's fishery industries of the United States, Loudon, 1883, pp. 37-39). 

Table. — Statistics of the menhaden industry in 1880. 

(Goode's fishery industries of the United States, London, 1883, opp., p. 41.) 

Collins, Joseph William.* — Notes on the movements, habits, and 
capture of mackerel for the season of 1882. 
(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., n, pp. 273-285.) 

Notes on the herring fishery of Massachusetts Bay in the au- 
tumn of 1882. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., n, pp. 237-290.) 

Notes on the halibut fisheries of 1881-'82. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., n, pp. 311-316.) 

Success of the gill-net cod-fishery on the New England coast, 



winter of 1882-'83. 

(Bull. U.S. Fish Com., in, pp. 441-443.) 

Chronological notes [on the mackerel fishery, 1621-1881]. 

(Materials for a history of the mackerel fishery, 1883, pp. 217-353 ; Rep. U. 
S. Fish Com., Part ix, for 1881, pp. 307-443.) 

.Dall, William Healey. — Oiree versus Gouldia. 

(Journal of Conchology, Leeds, April, 1883, pp. 60-63). 

Year book of the German Malakozoological Society. 

(Review in American Naturalist, May, 1883, xvn, pp. 521-523.) 

Pearls and pearl fisheries. 

(American Naturalist, vol. xvn, No. 6, June, 1683, pp. 579-587, and No. 7, 
July, 1883, pp. 731-745.) 

Norwegian North Atlantic expedition, 1876-'78. 

(American Naturalist, xvn, No. 6, pp. 628,629, June, 1883.) 

Notes on the Pacific coast trade in shells, shrimps, cod, and 

salmon (during the year 1882). 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., 1883, in, p. 425.) 

Note on cluster flies. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Museum, 1888, v, pp. 635-636.) 

More about the " stickfish n ( Verrillia blakei Stearns). 

(Forest and Stream, June 14, 1883, vol. xx, p. 384.) 

*See also under Goode and Collins. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 281 

Dall, William Healey. — The snail nuisance. 

(Evening Star, Washington, Juno 30, 1883. ) 

Note. — This is in regard to a plague of slugs which appeared to annoy house- 
keepers in an unusual way. 

The Department of Mollusks in the U. S. National Museum. 

(Rep. Asst. Director U. S. Nat. Museum for 1882, pp. 21-24, 50-57, 96 ; 
Smithsonian Report for 1882 (1884), pp. 139-142, 168, 169, 214.) 

On a collection of shells sent from Florida by Mr. Henry Hemp- 



hill. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Museum, Dec. 27, 1883, VI, pp. 318-342.) 

— History and distribution of the fresh- water mussels. 

(Science, vol. % No. 1, p. 22, Feb. 9, 1883.) 

— Studies of the Italian cretaceous fossils. 

(Science, vol. I, No. 1, p. 22.) 

— Tryon's conchology. 

(Uii, No. 2, p. 40.) 

— A remarkable molluscan type. 
(Ibid., p. 51.) 

— First use of wire in deep-sea sounding. 
(J&id., p. 65.) 

— Trade in California invertebrates. 

( Ibid., p. 78.) 

— Mollusks of the family Cocculinidae, 
(Ibid., p. 130.) 

— American paleozoic fossils. 
(Ibid., p. 173.) 

— Use of wire in sounding. 
(Ibid., p. 191.) 

— European land shells. 

(Ibid., p. 202.) 

— Shells from the Colorado region. 
(Ibid., p. 202.) 

— Variations of Pompholyx. 
(Ibid., p. 202.) 

— Keport of the Connecticut Shell-fish Commission, 1883. 
(Ibid., p. 223, 224.) 

— Soft parts of Ammonites. 
(Ibid., p. 230.) 

— Eeport on mollusks of the North Atlantic. 
(Ibid., p. 259.) 



282 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Dall, William Healey. — Disease in oysters. 

(Science, vol. I, p. 316.) 

Venus mercenaria in Britain. 

(ibid., p:316.) 

Large American pearls. 

(Ibid., p. 371.) 

Ottawa Unionidaj. 

(Ibid., p. 371.) 

Fossils of the Kizzolo clays. 

(Ibid., p. 371.) 

White's Fossil [non-marine] mollusks of Hbrth America. 

(Ibid., p. 425.) / 

The position of Ehodope. 

(Ibid., p. 443.) 

Fischer's Manuel de Conchyliologie. 

(Ibid., p. 443.) 

Anatomy of Parmacella. 

(Ibid., p. 443.) 
Curious slug from Madagascar. 

(Ibid., p. 443.) 

Italian limaces. 

(Ibid., p. 466.) 

Molluscan fauna of Sardinia. 

(Ibid., p. 466.) 

East Indian Pulmonata. 

(Ibid., p. 466.) 

Snails used for food in Spain. 

(Ibid., p. 492.) 

Extraordinary Eulima. 

(Ibid., p. 492.) 

Arctic mollusks. 

(Ibid., p. 492.) 

North German miocene. 

(Ibid., p. 492.) 

Variations in Unionidae. 

(Ibid., p. 523.) 

— — — Action of the heart [in Helix] during hibernation. 
(Ibid., p. 523.) 



HEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 283 

Dall, William Healey. — Malacological notes. 

(Science, vol. I, p. 524.) 

Land-snails from Bering Strait and Alaska. 

(Ibid., pp. 583,584.) 

A man-eating mollusk. 

(Ibid., p. 584.) 

Monograph of Onckidium. 

(Ibid., p. 584.) 

The coloring matter of the bile of invertebrates. 

(Ibid., p. 612.) 

First use of wire in sounding. 

(Science vol. II, pp. 12, 13.) 

Abyssal mollusks. 

(Ibid., pp. 22,23.) 

Mediterranean mollusca. 

(Ibid., p. 113.) 

Structure of the shell in brachiopods and chitons. 

(Ibid., p. 113.) 

Economic mollusks at the Fisheries Exhibition. 

(Ibid., v. 117.) 

Existence of a shell in Notarchus. 

(Ibid., p. 206.) 

New abyssal mollusks. 

(Ibid., p. 206.) 

Pleurotomidse of Senegambia. 

(J&«*.,p.381.) 

Mollusca of the Caucasus. 

(IWd.,p.382.) 

Monograph of Bingicula. 

(IWd,p.382). 

The Chesapeake oyster beds. 

(Ibid., pp. 440-443.) 

Astarte triquetra Conrad. 

(Ibid., p. 447.) 

Anatomy of Urocyclus. 

(Ibid.,?. 447.) 

« Tryon's conchology. 

(2Wd.,pp.658,659.) 



284 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Dall, William Healey. — Land shells of Gibraltar. 

(Science, vol. n, p. 663. ) 

Absorption of the shell in Auriculidae. 

(i&id., p. 663.) 

Organization of chitons. 

(/bid., p. 691.) 

Pulmonata of Central Asia. 

(Ibid., p. 721.) 

Mediterranean oysters. 

(IW<?.,p.721.) 

Mollnsks at the Fisheries Exhibition. 

(Bid., p. 721.) 

Abyssal mollusks. 

(i&i<f.,p.748.) 

Further researches on Nudibranchs. 

(2Wd.,p.748.) 

Extra marine mollusks of New Guinea. 

(Ibid., p. 773.) 

Structure of the oyster shell. 

(i7>id.,p.773.) 

. Spinning by Arion hortensis. 

(Ibid., p. 773.) 

Fossils of Pachino. 

(J&id., p. 803.) 

Spicula amoris of British Helices. 

(Ibid., p. 803.) 

Shell structure of Chonetes. 

(I6id.,p.803.) 

Dewey, Fred. P. — The condition and prospects of the department 
of metallurgy and economic geology in the U. S. National Mu- 
seum. 

(Rep. Asst. Director U. S. Nat. Mue. for 1882, 1883, pp. 34, 37, 105 ; Smitbson- 
ian Report for 1882, 1884, pp. 152-155, 223. ) 

Biographical sketch of the late Dr. George Wesson Hawes. 

(Smithsonian Report for 1882, pp. 35-38.) 

Some practical applications of combustion. 

(Journ. U. S. Assoc, of Charcoal Iron Workers, April, 1883, vol. rv, pp. 
105-115.) 
Gives a review of the applications of heat. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 285 

Dewey, Fred. P. — Connellsville v. New Biver Coke. 

("The Virginias," April, 1883, p. 51.) 

A critioism of some published results of determinations of physical proper- 
ties of coke. 

The porosity and specific gravity of coke. 

(Trans. Am. Inst. Mining Engineers, vol. xn, pp. 111-125.) 
Gives the results of a series of experiments made in the Museum upon the 
porosity and epecifio gravity of various American cokes. 

Some Canadian iron ores. 

(Trans. Am. Inst. Mining Engineers, vol. xn, pp. 192-204.) 

Gives the results of an examination of some of the Canadian iron-ore fields. 

Earll, R. Edward. — The present condition of fish culture. 

(Naturej vol. xxvrn,No. 23, October, 4, 1883, pp. 542-544.) 
Contains a comparison of the more important forms of apparatus employed 
for heavy semi-buoyant floating and adhesive eggs. The methods of collect- 
ing and transporting eggs, and of retarding their development by reduction 
of temperature. The possibility of retarding the spawning season by judi- 
cious feeding is also referred to, together with a brief summary of the results 
of fish culture in different countries. 

Statistics of the mackerel fishery in 1880. 

(Materials for a history of the mackerel fishery, 1883, pp. 124-131 ; Report 
U. S. Fish Commission, part ix, for 1881, pp. 214-221.) 

The mackerel canning industry. 

(Materials for a history of the mackerel fishery, 1883, pp. 131-137; Report 
U. S. Fish Commission, part ix, for 1881, pp. 221-227. ;> 

A brief history of fish culture in the United States. 

(Goode's Fishery Industry of the United States, London, 1883, pp. 14-18.) 

Statistics of the work of the U. S. Fish Commission. 

(Goode's Fishery Industry of the United States, London, 1883, pp. 68-73.) 

Remarks on fish culture in America. 

(Goode's Fishery Industry of the United States, London, 1883, pp. 75-79.) 

On possibilities for the development of Irish fishery. 

(Conference papers. International Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883, July 
30, pp. 26-30.) 

On the soft clam of the United States. 

(Conference papers. International Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883, June 
21, pp. 16-18.) 

Remarks on the Alaska seal fisheries. 

( Conference papers. International Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883, July 
6, pp. 20-21. ) 

Flint, James M. — Report upon the section of materia medica in the 
U. S. National Museum. 

(Report, Asst. Director U. S. Nat. Mus., for 1882(1883), pp. 107-112; Report 
Smithsonian Institution for 1882 (1884), pp. 225-230.) 



286 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Goode, G. Brown. — Notes on the Lampreys — Petromyzontid®. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., Apr. 25-May 4, 1883, vol. n, pp. 349-354.) 

The generic names Amitra and Thyris replaced. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., July 27, 1883, vol. VI, p. 109.) 
Amitra replaced by Monomitra and Thyris by Delothyris. 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. 

United States of America. A preliminary catalogue and synopsis 
of the collections exhibited by the U. S. Fish Commission and by 
special exhibitors, with a concordance to the official classification 
of the exhibition. Washington: Government Printing Office, 1883. 
8vo., pp. 1-107. 

(A. Howard Clark and J. W. Collins assisted in the preparation of this part 
of the London catalogues.) 

— Plan of inquiry into the history and present condition of the 

fisheries of the United Sates. 

(Report U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, for 1880, part viii, pp. 1-52.) 
A reprijg; of a circular printed by the Census Office in 1879, 8vo., pp. 54. 
Circular 29 in Appendix B was prepared by C. G. Atkins. 

The first decade of the U. S. Fish Commission; its plan of work 

and accomplished results, scientific and economical. Bead at the 
Boston meeting of the American Association for the Advancement 
of Science, August, 1880. 

(Report U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries for 1880, Part viii, pp. 
52-62. Bull. U. S. Fish Commission, n, pp. 169-178.) 

Reprint with slight modifications, from the Proceedings of the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science, 1881. 

Materials for a history of the sword-fishes. 

(Report U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries for 1880. Part viii, pp. 
287-394 (with plates i-xxiv and index.) 

Materials for a history of the sword-fishes by George Brown Goode. 
Washington : Government Printing Office. 1883. 8vo., pp. [1]-[106] 
plates i — xxiv. Extracted from the annual report of the Commissioner 
of Fish and Fisheries for 1880. 

Natural history of the mackerel. 

Materials for a history of the mackerel fishery. (Title in full below.) 
1883, pp. [3]-[481. 

Statistics of the fisheries of the United States in 1880. 

(Compendium of the Tenth Census, Part ii, Table cvi, pp. 1402-1403. ) (Bull. 
U. S. Fish Com., Hi, pp. 270-271 ; also in Fishery Industries of the United 
States, and in Part A of the Official Catalogue of the Fisheries Exhibition.) 

Outline of a scheme of museum classification. 

(Trans. Anthropological Society of Washington, ii, 1883, pp. 5-7.) 
Notice of reading with abstract and remarks of Prof. O. T. Mason, Dr. 

Miles Rock, Dr. Robert Fletcher, Mr. Hutcheson, and Mr. F. W. True, with 

replies of author. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 287 

Goode, G. Brown. — Report of the assistant director of the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum for the year 1881. 

(Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1881, pp. 81-159 ; also as sepa- 
rate with title, pp. (2) 1-79. 
The first of the series. Review in Science. Boston, n, pp. 63-66 ; 119-123. 

The fisheries of the United States. 

(Official Catalogue, Great International Fisheries Exhihition, London, 
1883, 1st ed., pp. 283-5 ; 2d ed., pp. 189-91.) 

A review of the fishery industries of the United States and the 

work of the U. S. Fish Commission by G. Brown Goode, M. A., 
assistant director of the U. S. National Museum, and commis- 
sioner to the International Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883. 
Bead at a conference of the International Fisheries Exhibition 
June 25, 1883, his excellency James Bussell Lowell in the chair. 
London, William Clowes & Sons, Limited, International Fisheries 
Exhibition, and 13 Charing Cross, S. W. 1883, 8vo, pp. 1-84, 

Full text with remarks of Professor Huxley, Mr. Earl^ the Marquis of 
Exeter, the Marquis of Hamilton, and Mr. James Russell Lowell. 

Salmon culture in the United States. 

Papers of the conferences, International Fisheries Exhibition, June 21, 1883, 
pp. 28-29. 

On the land-locked salmon. 

Papers of the conferences, International Fisheries Exhibition, London, June 
21, 1883, pp. 29-31. 

The uses of the round clam of the United States. 

Papers of the conferences, International Fisheries Exhibition, London, June 
21, 1883 (No. 2), pp. 19-20. 

The suitability of the black-bass for introduction into Eng- 
land. Letter to B. B. Marston, esq. 

Papers of the conferences, International Fisheries Exhibition, June 29, 
- pp. 1883, 18-19. 

Becent progress of the Canadian fisheries. 

(Conference papers, International Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883, July 
2. pp. 46-47.) 

American investigations upon the food of fishes. 

(Conference papers, International Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883, July 

12. pp. 29-33.) 

The development of the American mackerel fisheries. 

Conference papers, International Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883, July 

13. pp. 30-32.) 

The successes of fish culture in the United States and Canada. 

Conference papers, International Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883, July 
17. pp. 27-29). 



288 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Goode, G. Brown. — Motion of thanks to Sir Henry Thompson for 
papers on "Fish as food." 

(Conference papers, International Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883, July 
17,1883. No. 2, pp. 31-32.) 

The scientific results of the Fisheries Exhibition. 

(Conference papers, International Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883, July 
20. pp. 23-26.) 

Importance of forest protection to fish culture in the United 

States. 

(Conference papers, International Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883, July 
20. No. 2, pp. 13-14.) 

On methods of protection of fisheries. Motion of thanks to 

C. E. Fryer for paper on "A National Fishery Society." 

(Conference papers, International Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883, July 
27. pp. 36-38.) 

The International Fisheries Exhibition. 

(Science, 1883, vol. I, pp. 447-450 ; pp. 564-565, n, pp. 129-131 ; 612-615, 
with illustrations.) 

Report of the assistant director of the U. S. National Museum 

for the year 1882. From the Smithsonian report for 1882. Wash- 
ington: Government Printing Office. 1883. 8 vo., pp. 1-145. 

Obituary notice of Dr. G. W. Hawes. 

(In report assistant director U. S. N. M., 1882, pp. 40-48, with bibliography 
prepared by George P. Merrill. ) 

Bibliography of the published writings of Spencer Fullerton 



Baird. 

Goode, G. Brown, and Bean, Tarleton H. — Bulletin of the Museum 
of Comparative Zoology, at Harvard College. Vol. x, No. 5. Re- 
ports on the results of dredging, under the supervision of Alex- 
ander Agassiz, on the east coast of the United States, during the 
summer of 1880, by the TJ. S. Coast Survey steamer Blake, Com- 
mander J. R. Bartlett, U. S. N., commanding. Published by per- 
mission of Carlile P. Patterson and J. E. Hilgard, Superintendents 
of the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, xix. — Report on the 
fishes. 

(Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., Cambridge, vol. x, No. 5, pp. 183-226, April, 1883.) 
A list of 52 species collected at stations 302-346 of the Blake dredgings. 
Only the new genera and species are fully discussed; they are the following: 
Aphoristia nebulosa, n. s. ; Notosema dilecta, n. g. and n. s. ; Macrurus asper, n. 
s. ; Coryphcenoides carapinas, n. s. ; Chalinura Simula, n. g. and n. s. ; Barathro- 
denim manatinw, n. g. and n. s. ; JDicrolene introniger, n. g. and n. s. ; Lwmonema 
barbatula, n. s. ; Lycodes paxilloides, n. s. ; Lycodonua mirdbilis, n. g. and n. s. ; 
Prionotus ulutus, n. s. ; Cottunculus torvus, Goode, n. s. ; Poromitra capito, n. g. 
and n. s. ; Bathysaurus Agassizii, n. s. ; Alepocephalm Agassizii, n. s. ; Cycloihonp 
(,mca, n. g. and n. s. ; Nettastoma procerum, n. s. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 289 

Goode, G. Brown, and Joseph W. Collins. — The mackerel fishery 

of the United States. 

(Materials for a history of the mackerel fishery (full title below). 168:!. pp. 
(48)-(U8).) 

Goode, G. Brown, Joseph W. Collins, R. E. Earll, and A. How- 
ard Clark. — Materials for a history of the Mackerel Fishery. By 
George Brown Goode, Joseph W. Collins, B. E, Earll, and A. How- 
ard Clark. Washington : Government Printing Office. 18S3. 7017. 
8vo, pp. [1]-[441.J 

Extracted from the Annual Report of the Commissioner of Fish and Fish- 
eries for 1881. 

Goode, G. Brown, and Newton P. Scudder. — Bibliography of the 
writings of the alumni and faculty of Wesleyau University. 

(Alumni Record of Wesleyau University. Middletown, 1883. pp. 529- 
668.) 

Goodrich, J. King. — The Pacific coast fisheries viewed from a non- 
professional standpoint. 

(Americau Field, 1883, vol. xix, No. 11, pp. 185-186.) 

Fish and Fishing. The Beluga or White Whale. 

(American Field, 1883, vol. xix, No. 9, pp. 152-154.) 

Describes the methods employed in the capture of the white whale by ua- 
tivesin the Arctic regions, together with a complete and illustrated descrip- 
tion of the implements of a beluga hunter's outfit. 

Hitchcock, Romyn. — Water-bottles and thermometers for deep-sea 
research at the International Fisheries Exhibition [London). 

(Science, August 10, 1883 vol. n, p. 155.) 

In this article is described the apparatus exhibited by the United States, 
Swedish apparatnsdevised by Professor F.L. Ekman, Arfwidson's water-bottle, 
Captain Ruug's apparatus for temperature, the Negretti and Zambia ther- 
mometers, and Commander Magnaghi's device for inverting the same. 

Hornaday, William T. — Mental capacity of the elephant. 

(Popular Science Monthly, August, 1883, vol. xxm, No. 136, pp. 497-509. ) 
An array of facte drawn from the observations of the author on the Indian 
elephant to show the elephant's powers of observation, memory, and reason, 
and an argument to show the possibilities of education in elephants. 

Every boy his own taxidermist. 

(Mastery, vol. I, eight chapters, p. 131, July 5, 1883 ; p. 147, July 12 ; p. 167, 
July 19 ; p. 185, July 26 ; p. 337, October 4 ; p. 353, October 11 ; p. 369, October 
18 ; p. 385, October 25. Illustrated by sixteen figures. ) 

One series of four chapters, describing the methods employed in skinning, 
preserving, mounting, and finishing a small mammal, and another treating 
of the same processes with small birds. 

■--= A review of Maynard's Manual of Taxidermy. 

(Science, September 7, 1883, vol. n, No. 31, p. 312. ) 

Lucas, Frederic A. — Nature's Surgery. 

(Ward's Natural Science Bulletin, January, 1883, p. 9.) 
Noting instances in which the bones oi wild animals had been broken and 
healed. 
H. Mis. 6U 10 



200 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Lucas, Frederic A. — Our walruses. 

(Ward's Natural Science Bulletin, January, 1883, p. 9.) 

Note. — With cut of three Pacific walruses sent to Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., New 
York. Contains a criticism on Mr. H. W. Elliott's remarks on walruses. 

Our osteological department. 

(Ward's Natural Science Bulletin, January, 1883, pp. 11 and 12.) 
Description of the skeletal work at Ward's Natural Science Establishment, 
Rochester, N. Y. 

The London Fisheries Exhibition. 

(Ward's Natural Science Bulletin, April, 1883, p. 7. ) 

A brief description of the exhibit prepared by the U. S. Fish Commission. 

How to skin turtles; with diagrams. 

(Ward's Natural Science Bulletin, April, 1883, p. 8.) 

Dental abnormalities ; with cuts. 

(Ward's Natural Science Bulletin, April, 1883, p. 8.) 

Notes on malformed or aberrant teeth of woodchuck, hog, orang, narwhal, 
and gorilla. 

The American Museum of Natural History. 

(Ward's Natural Science Bulletin, April, 1883, pp. 10 and 11.) 
A. description of the origin, growth, contents, work, aud plans of the Am. 
Mus. Nat. Hist., New York City. 

The shark's attendants; with cat. 

(Mastery, July 19, 1883, p. 169.) 
Popular account of pilot-fish and remora. 

How to mount a bird. 

(Sport with Gun and Rod, pp. 833-853.) 

Pub. by Century Co., New York, 1883. With many irrelative illustrations 
from the Century Magazine. 

Merrill, George Perkins. — On the black nodules in the Maine 

granites. 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1883, vol. VI, p. 137.) 

On the collection of Maine building stones in the U. S. National 

Museum. > 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1883, vol. VI, p. 165.) 

Preliminary note on the crystalline schists of the District of 

Columbia. 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1883, vol. VI, p. 159.) 

— Bibliography of writings of Dr. George W. Hawes. 

(Report of assistant director U. S. National Museum for 1882, pp. 42-48.) 

Note on a Potsdam sandstone, or conglomerate, from Berks 



County, Pennsylvania. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, vol. v, p. 660.) 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 291 

Merrill, George Perkins. — The department of rocks and building 
stones, U. S. National Museum, 18S2. 

(Report assistant director U. S. Nat. Mus. for 1882 (1883), pp. 105-106, 112, 
113; Report Smithsonian Institution for 1882 (1884), pp. 223-227, 230-231. 

Eathbun, Eichard. — Great International Fisheries Exhibition. Loti- 
don,1883. United States of America. B. Collection of Economic 
Crustaceans, Worms, Echinoderms, and Sponges. By Eichard 
Eathbun, Curator of the Department of Marine Invertebrates in 
the United States National Museum. Washington: Government 
Printing Office. 1883. 8vo., pp. 31. 

Section of the catalogue of the American exhibit at the Loudon Fisheries 
Exhibition, published in advance of the full catalogue. Contains a resume 
of the industries afforded by the marine and fresh-water invertebrates (ex- 
clusive of the mollusca) of the United States, based upon the fishery census 
investigations of 1880 (pp. 3-20) ; a list of the species of economic crustaceans, 
worms, echinoderms, and sponges, and a list of the photographic views illus- 
trative of the lobster fishery, exhibited at Loudon (pp. 21-31). 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. 

United States of America. G. Descriptive catalogue of the col- 
lection, illustrating the scientific investigation of the sea and fresh 
waters. By Eichard Eathbun, Curator of the Department of Ma- 
rine Invertebrates in the United States National Museum. Wash- 
ington : Government Printing Office. 1883. 8vo., pp. 1-109. 

Section of the catalogue of the American exhibit at the London Fisheries 
Exhibition, published in advance of the full catalogue. Contains an intro- 
duction (pp. 3-29) discussing the extent and character of American explora- 
tions, with reference to the biology of the sea and fresh waters of the globe, 
and a descriptive catalogue (pp. 31-109) of the articles exhibited. Very full 
descriptions are given of the vessels and of all the apparatus now employed by 
Americans in deep-sea explorations. The descriptive catalogue is divided 
according to subjects, into the following sections : Vessels employed in deep- 
sea research ; apparatus for collecting zoological materials; accessory appa- 
ratus used in connection with deep-sea dredging and trawling ; appliances 
for the examination and storage of zoological materials ; appliances for deep- 
sea sounding; apparatus for physical observations, &c. ; marine zoological 
stations ; maps, models, and collections of natural history, illustrating results 
of explorations. 

The United States Fish Commission steamer Albatross. 

(Science, 1883, vol. n, pp. 6-10, 66-72, with 7 cuts.) 

A popular description of the steamer Albatross, and of her equipment for 
deep-sea research. 



— Sponge culture in Florida. 

(Science, 1883, vol. n, p. 213.) 

An account of recent experiments ingrowing the sheep's wool sponge from 
cuttings for commercial purposes, as exemplified by specimens received at 
the National Museum from Key West, Florida. 



292 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Kathbun, Richard, and Tarr, R. S. — List of duplicate marine in- 
vertebrates distributed by the United States National Museum, 
Series IV, Educational Series No. 2. Prepared by R. S. Tarr, un- 
der the direction of Richard Rathbnn. 

. # r% (Dfoc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, vol. vi, pp. 212-21G.) 

A list of 124 species of duplicate Crustacea, Annelida, Mollusca, Tunicata, 
Molluscoida, Ecbinodermata, Ccelenterata, and Porifera, selected from the 
collections made by the U. S. Fish Commission on the New England Coast, 
for distribution to institutions of learning. About 200 sets, in all, will be pre- 
pared. 

The Department of Marine Invertebrates in the U. S. National 

Museum. 

(Rep. Asst. Director U. S. Nat. Mus. for 1882, 1883, pp. 27-31 ; 52; 98-103; 
Report Smithsonian Institution for 1882 (1884), pp. 145-149 ; 170 ; 216-221.) 

Rau, Charles. — Indian stone graves, 

(American Naturalist, vol. xvn, 1883 (Feb.), pp. 130-134.) 
A short sketch of the so-called " Indian stone graves ", frequently found 
in some of the States of the Mississippi Valley, with interesting description 
of their construction. It is explaiued that, although the practice of burial 
in stone graves may belong to a reuiote period, there is good reason to believe 
that some of these graves are of more recent date, and tbat the practice of 
constructing them had not ceased in the present century. 

Accessions to the Department of Antiquities of the U. S. Na- 



tional Museum in 1882. 

(Rep. Asst. Director U. S. Nat. Mus. for 1882 (1883;, pp. 77-80; Report 
Smithsonian Institution, for 1882 (1884), pp. 195-198.) 

Rldgway, Robert. — Catalogue of a collection of birds made in the 
interior of Costa Rica, by Mr. C. C. Nutting. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. v, pp. 493-502.) 

An annotated list of 32 species from the Volcan de Irazii and 33 species 
from San Jose\ The notes on habits, color of eyes, etc., by Nutting. 

Description of a new Warbler from the Island of Santa Lucia, 

West Indies. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. v, pp. 525,526.) 

Dendrceca adelaidcB delkata ; type, No. 80,909, U. S. Nat. Mus. coll. 

Description of a supposed new Plover, from Chili. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. v, pp. 526, 527.) 
JEgialiics albidipectus ; type No. 26,997, S. U. Nat. Mus. 

On the genus Tantalus, Linn., and its allies. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. v, pp. 550, 551.) 

The genus Tantalus restricted to the American Wood Ibis, the name Pseu- 
dotantalw being proposed for the several Old World species. 

.. . - Description of a new Petrel from Alaska. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus,, vol. v, pp. 656-658.) 

(Estrelata fisheri, type No. 89431, U, S. Nat. Mus., from Kodiak, June 11, 
1882, William J. Fisher, collector. 






REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 293 

RiDGWAY, Robkrt. — Descriptions of some Birds, supposed to be unde- 
scribed, from the Commander Islands and Petropaulovski, collected 
by Dr. Leon hard Stejneger, U. S. Signal Service. 
(Proci U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. vi, pp. 90-96.) 

(1) Eal'utStus hypoleucus Stejneger, MS. ; (2) Acroccphalusdybowskii, Stejneger, 
MS.; (3) Anorthurapallescens, Stejneger, MS. ; (4) Hirundo saturate, Stejneger, 
MS. The type specimens of all in the National Museum collection. 

On the probable identity of Motacilla ocularis, Swinhoe, and 

M. amureusis, Seebohm, with remarks on a supposed species, M. 
blakistoni, Seebohm. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mns., vol VI, pp. 144-147.) 

Based principally upon specimens collected on Bering Island, Kamtscbatka, 
by Dr. L. Stejneger. 

Descriptions of some New Birds from Lower California, col- 
lected by Mr. L. Belding. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat, Mns., vol. VI, pp. 154-150. ) 

(1) Lophojjltanes inornatua cinerascens ; (2) Psaltriparus grinds, Belding,MS.; 
(3) Junco bairdi, Belding, MS. 

Anthus cervinus (Pallas) in Lower California. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat, Mns., vol. vi, pp. 156, 157. ) 

A specimen (No. 89,799, U. S. Nat, Mns.) sbot by Mr. L. Belding at San Jose" 
del Cabo, January 6, 1883. 

Note on Merula confinis (Baiid). 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mns., vol. vi, pp. 158, 159.) 

Two additional specimens collected by Mr. Belding at Laguna, Lower Cali- 
fornia, early in February, 1883, fully coufirm tbe validity of the species, the 
type specimen of which, collected at Todos Santos, in 1860, had remained 
unique for twenty-three years. 

On Leconte's Bunting {Cotumicuhis lecontei) and other Birds 

observed in Southeastern Illinois. 

(Bull. Nutt, Orn. Club, Jan., 1883, vol. via, p. 58.) 

The Scissor- tail (Milvulns forjicatus) at Norfolk, Va. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, Jan., 1883, vol. VIII, p. 59.) 
Based upon specimen No. 85,934, U. S. Nat. Mus. 

On some Remarkable Points of Relationship between the 

American Kingfishers. 

(Bull. Nutt. Oru. Club, Jan., 1883, vol. VIII, p. 59.) 

Based entirely upon specimens in the National Museum collection. 

Geographical variation in size among certain Anatidae and 

Gruidae. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, Jan., 1883, vol. VIII, p. 62.) 

Refers to the larger size of American specimens, as compared with Euro- 
pean examples of the same species, and to several exceptions to the supposed 
law of increase of size to the northward. 

Notes upon some Rare Species of Neotropical Birds. 

(The Ibis, fifth series, Oct., 1883, vol. iv, pp. 399-401.) 

These species noticed are (1) Harporhyrivlius ocellatus, Sol., (2) Pyranga ery- 
throcephala (Sw.), (3) Zonotrichia qiiinquestriata, Scl. & Salv., (4) Peuccea notos- 
licta, Scl. & Salv., (5) Contopus ochraceus, Scl. & Salv., and (6) PamjptUa cay~ 
ennensls (Gm). None of these are in the National Museum collection, the 
specimens being borrowed for study. 



294 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Ridgway, Robert. — (Letter to the editors of " The Ibis," concerning 
the National Museum exhibit of North American Fish-eating and 
Aquatic Birds at the Great International Fisheries Exhibition, 
Loudon.) 

(The Ibis, fifth series, October, 1883, vol. iv, pp. 578-580.) 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition; London, 1883. 

United States of America. (C.) Catalogue of the Aquatic and 
Fish-eating Birds exhibited by the United States National Museum. 
Washington : Government Printing Office, 1883. 8vo, pp. 1 -46. 
(The condition of the department of birds in the U. S. National 



Museum in 1882.) 

(Report Asst. Director U. S. Nat. Mus. for 1882 (1883), pp. 13-17; 53-56, 
83-86: Report Smithsonian Institution for 1882 (1884), pp. 132-135; 171-174; 
201-204.) 

(See also papers by L. Beldixg and C. C. Nutting.) 

Riley, Charles V.* Emulsions of petroleum as insecticides. 

(Scientific American, Jan. 6, 1883.) 

Hotice of experiments made, in 1882, in the use of emulsions of kerosene oil 
to kill insects injurious to orange trees; report of H. G. Hubbard upon ex- 
periments made by him; critical review of S. F. Chapiu's "scale-insects on 

deciduous and ornamental trees" (Pacific Rural Press, , 1882) ; effect of 

pure kerosene, of emulsions, and of lye upon trees. 

An internal Mite in Fowls. 

(Rural New-Yorker, Jan. 13, 1883.) (Amer. Naturalist, Apr., 1883, xvn, 
pp. 422,423.) 

Discovery, by T. Taylor, of mites determined as Cytoleichus sarcopioides, by 
Riley, lining the interior membranes of fowls ; habits and ravages of this mite 
in Europe. 

A new Enemy to Wax Beans. 

(Rural New-Yorker, Jan. 13, 1883.) * 

Reprint, entitled "JSpilachna corrupta as an injurious insect." (Amer. Nat- 
uralist, Feb., 1883, XVII, pp. 198-199.) 

Extract from letter of Prof. G. H. Stone, on the food-plants, habits, and 
ravages of Epilaclma corrupta; geographical distribution of this beetle. 

The Lignified snake of Brazil. An explanation of the phe- 
nomenon. 

(Evening Star [Washington, D. C], Jan. 20, 1883.) 

Reprint, entitled The Lignified Snake of Brazil. (Scientific American Sup- 
plement, Feb. 17, 1883.) 

Discussion of a specimen of problematical character supposed to be a ligni- 
fied snake, but believed by author to be the burrow of a larva under bark; 
notice of writings on the subject; frequency with which the true nature of 
natural objects is mistaken ; letter from J. H. Hutchins, accompanying a gall 
of Cecidomyia vitis-pomum mistaken for a hybrid fruit. 

Pyrethrum, an important insecticide. 

(Prairie Farmer, Jan. 27, 1883.) 

History of the general introduction of pyrethrum plants into cultivation; 
method of growing the plants and of preparing the pyrethrum for use as an 
insecticide; experience in the cultivation of the plants. 

* This bibliography was chierly prepared by Mr. B. Peckman Maun. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 295 

Riley, Charles V. — Utilization of ants in horticulture. 

(Scientific Amer., Jan. '27, 1883.) 

Abstract of C. J. Macgowan's "Utilization of Ants as Insect Destroyers in 
China" (North China Herald, April 4, 1882), and of H. C. McCook's "Ants as 
beneficial Insecticides" (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philad., 1882, pp. 203-271), 
with additional matter ; notices of published accounts of ants which con- 
struct nests on plants, especially of Azteca mirabilis on Ceeropia trees in South 
America; possibility that the introduction of ants into this country might 
involve objectionable consequences; probability that ants would not bo of 
service in protecting orange trees from the scale insects which mainly injure 
those trees in this country. 

New lists of North American Lepidoptera. 

(Amer. Naturalist, January, 1883, xxvil, pp. 80-82.) 

Reviews of the Brooklyn Entomological Society's "Check List of the 
Macro- lepidoptera of America, North of Mexico. Brooklyn, N. Y., January, 
1882;" C. H. Fernald's "ASynouymical Catalogue of the described Torlricidce 
of North America, North of Mexico" (Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, May-July, 
1882, x, pp. 1-64) ; and. A. R. Grote's " New Check List of North American 
Moths. [N. Y.], May [Aug.], 1882:" remarks upon the roles of nomenclature 
adopted in these works; faults found in Grote's work ; notice of B. Gerhard's 
" Systematisches Verzeichniss der Macro-lepidopteren von Nord-Amerika. 
Lpz., 1878." 

The " Cluster Fly." 

(Amer. Naturalist, January, 1883, xvn, pp. 82-83.) 

Abstract of communications by W. H. Dall and F. Baker to the Biological 
Society of Washington, D. C, on the habit of a fly, resembling the house-fly, 
of collecting in swarms or clusters in houses in wiuter ; determination of the 
species as Pollenia rudis, Fabr.; synonymy of this fly; little known of the 
larval habits and development of the species of Pollenia; accounts and at- 
tempted explanations of the swarming of other Diptera. 

Reprint (Prairie Farmer, December 23, 1882). 

Naphthaline cones. 

(Amer. Naturalist, January, 1883, xvn, pp. 83-84.) 

Remarks supplementary to author's " Naphthaline Cones for the protection 
of Insect Collections" (Amer. Naturalist, May, 1882, xvi, pp. 409-410), in 
reply to C. A. Blake's objections ; author's former criticism in the main main- 
tained; Blake's naphthaline cones stain the paper lining of boxes, and seem 
to destroy mites and Psoci very soon, but to have little effect on Dermeslidce. 

Spread of the 12-pnuctiired Asparagus Beetle. 

(Rural New-Yorker, Jan. 13, 1883, xvn.) (Amer. Naturalist, Feb., 1883, xvn, 
]>. 199.) 

Increasing destructiveness of Crioceris duodecimpunctata , recorded by O. 
Lugger to have been introduced near Baltimore, Md., from Europe; descrip- 
tion of the imago of this species as compared with that of ('. asparagi, 

Hibernation of the Cotton Worm. 

(Scientific Amer., Feb. 3, 1883.) 

Abstz - act of paper read before American Association for the Advancement 
of Science, at Montreal, Aug., 1882; proof of the hibernation of Aletia oftjlina 
as a moth, and of the perpetual existence of the species in bTorida. 

(Also, under title of " The hibernation of Aletia xylina (Say) in the United 
States a settled fact." Proc. Amer. Assoc. Advanc. Sci. for 1882, xxxi, pp. 
4G8-4(i9.) 



296 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Riley, Charles V.— Entomological Notes. Phylloxera laws. 

(Rural New-Yorker, Feb. 27, 1883.) 

Adoption by Belgium of the rules of the International Convention of Berne, 
relative to tbe prevention of phylloxera ravages ; abstract of those rules. 

— Trogoderma tarsale as a museum pest. 

(Amer. Naturalist, February, 1883, xvii, p. 199.) 

Notice of F. H. Snow's "A new Museum Pest, Trogoderma tarsale, Mels." 
(Psyche, June, 1882, iii, pp. 351-352), with remarks on the abundance and 
ravages of Trogoderma tarsale, and the habits of its larva " in the field." 

Natural sugaring. 

(Amer. Naturalist, February, 1883, xvii, pp. 197-198.) 

Excessive and wide-spread abundance, in 1882, on sycamore trees [Plata- 
ints'] of Lachnu8 platanicola n. sp.; description of this species; attraction of 
great numbers of insects to its saccharine exudations, and growth of Fumago 
salicwa upon these exudations; the conditions which permit the sudden and 
excessive increase of a given species of insect are often widely prevalent. 

Epilachna corrupta as an injurious insect. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Feb., 1863, XVII, pp. 198-199.) 

Extract from letter of G. H. Stone on the food-plants, habits and ravages 
of Epilaehna corrupta; geographical distribution of this beetle. 

Notice of an " Illustrated essay on the Noctuidce of North 

America." 

Bull. Brooklyn Entom. Soc, Feb., 1883, v, pp. 77-79.) 

Also separate. 4 p., O. 

Critical review of A. R. Grote's " Illustrated Essay on tbe Noctuidce of North 
America, ... 1883" ; the matter of Grote's work chiefly second-hand and much 
of it false ; citation and criticism of false and erroneous passages. 

Dipterous enemies of the Phylloxera vastatrix, 

^Canadian Entomologist, Feb., 1883, XV, p. 39.) 

Crit. rev. of T. W. Fyles' "Description of a Dipterous Parasite of Phyllox- 
era vastatrix" (Canadian Entomologist, Dec, 1882, xiv, pp. 237-239;) the char- 
acters given of Diplosls grassator are not sufficient to distinguish the species ; 
the galls of Phylloxera vastatrix are inhabited by another enemy, named Leu- 
copis phylloxera in author's MS. ; comparison of larva; and pupae of these t wo 
Diptera. 

Food habits of Megilla maculata. 

(American Naturalist, March, 1883, xvii, pp. 322-323.) 

Summary of S. A. Forbes's observations upon the food of Megilla maculata, 

with statement of the results of the author's and other observations ou this 

subject, showing that the species is vegetarian. 

Jumping seeds and galls. 

(Sci. Amer., Apr. 14, 1883.) 

A paper read before the Biological Society of Washington, D. C, Nov. 24, 
1882 (Reprint, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., May 12, 1883, pp. 632-635). 

Figures of larva, pnpas, and imago of Varpocapsa saltitaus, with lignre and 
description of seeds inhabited by the larva of this moth, and description of 
the plant bearing these seeds; vernacular names of the plant and insect; 
transformations of the insect ; movements imparted by this insect to the seeds 
containing it, and by Cynips saltatoriiis to the galls of the Cynips. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 297 

Riley, Charles V. — Mosquitoes vs. malaria, 

(Sci. Amer., Apr. 14, 1883.) 

Reprint (Am. Naturalist, May, 1883, XVII, p. 549). 

Statement and criticism of the views of Dr. A. P. A. King, in support of the 
thesis that malarial disease is the result of inoculation of the body with 
malarial poison by the bites of insects; citation of twenty correspondences 
in the conditions affecting the prevalence of mosquitoes [C'«/ex] aud malarial 
disease. 

Larval stages and habits of the Bee-tly Mirmoneura. 

(Science, April 27, 1883, i, pp. 332-334, 3 fig.) 

Summary of the life-history of Hirmoneura obscura, condensed from A. 
Haudlirsch's "Die Metamorphose und Lebensweise von Hirmoneura obscura 
Meig." . . . (Wiener Eutom. Zeit., Sep., 1832, i, pp. 224-228 [Jan., 1883, ii, pp. 
11-15, pi. 1]), aud Dr. F. Brauer's "Erganzende Bemerkungeu" . , . (op. cit., 
Feb., 1883, ii, pp. 25-26), with figures of the several stages of this fly; corre- 
spondence of the structure and early history of the larva with the author's 
predictions in reference to the larvae of Bombyludce. 

The food relations of the Carabidce and Coccinellidcv. 

(Amer. Naturalist, April, 1883, xvn, pp. 417-419.) 

Summary of the general conclusions arrived at in S. A. Forbes' ["The food 
relations of the Carabidce and Coccinellida" (Bull. No. 6 of 111. State Laboratory 
of Nat. Hist., Jan., 1883)], in regard to the proportionate amount of various 
animal and vegetal ingredients in the food of Carabidw and CocdneUidw; cor- 
respondence of the structure of the mandibles of Carabidw with the nature of 
their food. 

Possible Food-plants of the Cotton-worm. 

(Amer. Naturalist, April, 1883, xvn, pp. 421-422.) 

Notice of Dr. J. S. Bailey's "Aletia aryillacea Hiibn." (Papilio, Nov.-Dec, 
18H2, ii, p. 189) ; occurrence of newly issued iniagos of Aletia xylina at Earner, 
N. Y., 7th and 8th Oct., 1882, seeming to prove that the larva of this insect 
may feed upon some genus of plants other than G ossypium in the Northern 
States. t 

Agrolis messoria Harr. vs. Agrotis scandens Riley. 

(Amer. Naturalist, April, 1883, xvn, p. 422, 2 rig.) 

Orit. rev. of A. R. Grote's "Note on Agrolis repentia" (Papilio, September, 
1881, v. 1, pp. 126-128), and of his "New Check List of North American 
Moths, . . . 1882," in regard to the synonymy of Agrotis lycarum, A. re- 
pentis, and A. cochranii, all of which are the same as A. messoria; A. acandena 
is a distinct species; figures of larva- and imagos of the two species, and 
comparison of the imagos. 

Prevalence of the Screw- worm in Central America. 

(Amer. Naturalist, April, 1883, xvn, p. 423.) 

Extract from a letter of J. E. Zeledon on the abundance and ravages of /.«- 
cilia macellaria aud related flies in Costa Rica. 

Dried Leaves as Food for Lepidopterous Larvoe. 

(Amer. Naturalist, April, 1883, xvn, pp. 423-424.) 

Review of A. H. Mundt's '* New Method of Feeding Larvae "(Papilio, January, 

1883, iii, pp. 25-26); larva) of Papilio cresphontea and Apatura clyton success- 
fully fed on leaves dried when gathered and moistened when to be used ; di- 
rections for this process and suggestion of improvement upon it; larvae suc- 
cessfully fed upon fresh leaves transported from a distance under pressure. 



298 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Riley, Charles V. — Observations on tbe Fertilization of Yucca and on 
structural and anatomical Peculiarities in Pronuba and Prodoxus. 

(Proc. Amer. Asso. Ad vane. Sci. for 1882, 18*3, xxxi, pp. 467-468. (Gar- 
deners' Monthly, April, 1883, pp. 118-119.) 

Abstract of a paper read at tbe Montreal meeting of the American Associa- 
tion for the Advancement of Science, August, 1882; description of the 

manner in which Pronuba yuccasella gathers the pollen in flowers of Yucca; 
the work of this insect is necessary to the fertilization of the capsular species 
of Yucca, the irregularity of whose fruit is due to its punctures; description 
of the egg and of the manner of oviposition of this insect. 

Cluster-Flies. 

(Proc. U. S. National Museum, May 12, 1883, pp. 636-637.) 
Paper read before the Biological Society of Washington, D. C. Covering 
the same ground in detail as the abstract given in Amer. Naturalist, January, 
1883. Appears, by error, as a part of a " note on cluster-flies" by W. H. Dall, 
t he quotation marks being omitted. 

Elephantiasis, or Filaria disease. 

(Science, May 18, 1883, I, pp. 419-421, with fig.) 

Criticism of the views of Dr. A. F. A. King, set forth in [authors] " Mos- 
quitos vs. Malaria" (Amer. Naturalist, May, 1883, xvii, p. 549), and notice of 
Ihe writings of Dr. P. Manson and others on the connection of Culex mosquito 
with the life-history of Filaria sanguinis-hominis, and on the production of 
rlephautiasis aud related diseases by the Filaria. 

Number of Molts and Length of Larval Life as influenced by 

Food. 

(Amer. Naturalist, May, 1883, xvn, pp. 547-548.) 

Remarks on the variability in habits as in characters of insects; periods 
and number of molts observed in larva? of Tenebrio molitor, T. obscurus, and 
Trogoderma tarsale ; conclusion that insufficient nutrition retards development 
and occasions frequent molting. 

The new Classification of the Coleoptera of North America. 

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1883, xvn, pp. 660-661.) 

Notice of J. L. Le Conte and G. H. Horn's " Classification of the Coleoptera 

of North America. . . 1883." 

A pretty and unique gall-making - Tortricid. 

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1883, xvn, p. 661, fig. 1.) 

Description aud figure of imago of GraphoUlha ninana n. sp., reared from 
galls found on stems of Acacia filicina in Arizona. 

Synopsis of the N. A. Heliothince. 

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1883. xvn, pp. 662-663.) 

Review of J. B. Smith's " Synopsis of the N. A. Heliothime" (Trans. Amer. 
Kntom. Soc. for 1882, x, pp. 205-255, pi. vii, viii) ; nature of the generic char- 
acters of Noctuidai ; neglect of these characters by A. R. Grote. 

Protection of Insect Collections. 

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1883, xvn, pp. 663-664.) 

Statement of the power of Dermestid larva? to endure the effects of certain 
iusecticides, and of the requisites more important than the use of insecticides 
for the protection of collections from pests ; seasons in which collections are 
most endauyered. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 299 

Riley, Charles V.— The " Pine Moth of Nantucket." 

(Amer. Naturalist, Juue, 1883, xvn, pp. 665-666.) 

Notice and crit. rev. of S. H. Scudder's. " [Tbe Pine Moth of Nantucket. 
. . . A. Williams & Co., Boston, 1883] "; Iietinia J'rustrana considered to be 
widely distributed, wherefore the suggested means against it lose much of 
tbeir efficacy ; number of broods of this species ; principles on which popular 
uamesfor injurious larvaa should be chosen. 

Insect Plagues. Locusts, Saw-Worms, and Caterpillars in New 

England. Professor Riley's proposals to exterminate them. Prac- 
tical Advice to Farmers and Woodmen. 

(Boston Herald, July 22, 1883.) 

Newspaper interview, in which the autbor treats of the ravages of and 
means against Caloptenus atlantis, Nematiis erichsonii, and Orgyia leucostigma. 

A unique and beautiful Noctuid. 

(Amer. Naturalist, July, 1883, xvn, pp. 788-790, with tig.) 
Figure of imago of Cirrhophanus triangulifer ; description of its generic char- 
acters and discussion of its affinities : criticisms of A. R. Grote's writing ou tbe 
species; its probable habits; synonyms of this species, and statement of 
circumstances attending tbe original description of it ; inference from struct- 
ure as to larval habit. 

Insects affecting stored rice. 

(Amer. Naturalist, July, 1883, xvn, p. 790.) 

List of insects, mostly Coleoptera (Tevebrio molitor, T. obscurns, Murmidiua 
oralis, Trogosita mauritanica, Calandra oryzir, Silvanus sur'uiamensis, Attagenua 
megatoma, Lepisma saccharina), found in a lot of damaged rice from the Chi- 
nese centennial exhibit in the National Museum; two species of these aro 
carnivorous. 

Hyper-metamorphoses of the Meloidce. 

(Amer. Naturalist, July, 1883, xvn, pp. 790-791.') 

Proposal of simpler and more natural terms than heretofore used to desig- 
nate the successive stages of development of larva? in Meloida. ( Triungulin = 
1st larval stage ; Caraboid =2d larval stage; Scarabceoid == 3d and 4th larval 
stages; Coarctate = 5tb larval stage ; Scol y to id = 6th larval stage.) 

Hackberry Psyllid galls. 

(Canadian Entomologist, August, 1883, xv, pp. 157-159, figs. 6-7.) 
Critical review of T. W. Fyles' " The Parasite of Phylloxera raslatrix, and 
the Gall Insect of the Nettle Tree" (op. cit., May, 1883, xv, pp. 83-84) ; Phyl- 
loxera vastatnx has many parasites and Celtis is attacked by many species of 
gall-insects ; description of characters of Pachypsylla n. gen. ; figures of galls 
of Pachypsylla renusta and P. celtidis-mamma, to the latter of which species 
belongs tbe insect described in Fyles' "Notes ou a Gall Mite of the Nettle 
Tree, Celtis occidentalis" (op. cit., Oct. (872, xiv, pp. 198-199); Psylla celtidia- 
grundis = Pachypsylla renusta; derivation and orthography of the generic term 
Celtis. 

Some recent discoveries in reference to Phylloxera. 

(Science, September 7, 1883, II, p. 336. ) 

Abstract of paper road before American Association for the Advancement 
of Science, at Minneapolis, August, 1883; summary statement of the cycle of 
development in the genus Phylloxera ; variation of development in the same 
genus ; character of tbe gall of P. spmosa and place of deposit of the impreg- 
nated egg of this species. But two generations annually, the second giving 
the sexes and the impregnated egg passiug the summer, fall, aud winter. 



300 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Riley, Charles V.— The Psyllidcc of the United States. 

(Science, September 7, 1883, n, p. 337.) 

Abstract of paper read before American Association for the Advancement 
of Science, at Minneapolis, August, 1883 ; list of new genera species of Psytliddt 
described in tbe paper,, and of their respective food-plantSj with general state- 
ment of the character of the egg and larva in this family. 

— — Improved method of spraying trees for protection against in- 
sects. 

(Science, September 14, 1883, II, p. 378.) 

Abstract of paper read before American Association for the Advancement of 
Science, at Minneapolis, August, 1883; description of principles embodied iu 
apparatus devised at the U. S. Department of Agriculture for spraying trees 
with insecticides from the ground. 

The old, old question of species. 

(Amer. Naturalist, September, 1883, xvn, p. 975.) 

Comments upon a discussion between H. A. Hagen and W. H. Edwards as 
to the number of North American species of Papilio of the P. machaon group ; 
the views of both parties extreme; views of the author in regard to the true 
nature of species. 

Myrmeteophila. 

(Amer. Naturalist, September, 1883, xvn, pp. 985-976. ) 

Record of recent captures of Myrmecophila in Oregon and in District of Co- 
lumbia, and reference to records of former captures in United States ; the 
habits of the genus the same in this country as in Europe. 

Salt-water Insects used as food. 

(Amer. Naturalist, September, 1883, XVII, pp. 976-977.) 
Occurrence of a species of Ephydra, supposed to be E. Mans, in Lake Tet- 
scoco, in Mexico ; E. gracilis found in Great Salt Lake, Utah, and E. califor- 
nica in lakes in California ; account given by W. H. Brewer of the manner iu 
which the last-mentioned species is gathered and used for food by the Indians 
living near Mono Lake. 

Food-plants of Samia cynthia. 

(Amer. Naturalist, September, 1883, XVII, p. 977.) 

Review of H. H. Biruey's '' Samia cynthia feeding on the Sassafras and Tulip 
tree" (Amer. Naturalist, August, 1883, xvii, p. 879) ; list of plants on which 
Samia cynthia has hitherto been found feeding ; some of these are the favorite 
food-plants of Callosamia promethea. 

Steganoptycha claypoleana. 

(Amer. Naturalist, September, 1883, xvii, p. 978.) 

Description of the imago of Steganoptycha claypoleana Riley, in comparison 
with that of Proteoteras aesculana Riley ; notes on the habits of both species 
with larval differences they exhibit. 

A parasite of the Cabbage- worm. 

(Rural New Yorker, October 6, 1883. 

Letter from J. H. B , with answer ; parasitism of Pteromalus pupa- 
rum in larva? and pupae of Pieris [rapce~\. 
— The Handmaid moth. 

(Rural New Yorker, October 13; 1883.) 

Answer to inquiry of H. B. S ; description of larva, pupa and imago 

of Datana ministra, from hickory and walnut trees, and of a phytophagic va- 
riety of the larva from apple and other trees; habits of the larva?; the lar- 
va? unusually numerous in 1883. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 301 

Riley, Charles V. — The Potato-stalk Borer* 

(Rural New Yorker, October '20, 1883.) 

Letter from S. C. R , with answer; habits of and means against Gor- 

lyna niiela ; description of imago of this species; means against Paria ater- 
rima, Heteraspis jmbescens, and other Chrysomelid larvae injurious to the 
roots of strawberry plants. 

Recent advances in horticultural entomology. . . . 

(Rural New Yorker, October 20, 1883.) 

Stenographic report, by H. H , of an address delivered by C. V. Riley 

before the American Pomological Society, at Philadelphia, September (13), 
1883 ; discussion of measures recommended for adoption to prevent the ravages 
of insects injurious to horticulture, especially of Carp jcapsa pomonella and Con- 
otrachehi8 nenuphar ; correction of popular statements in regard to the ovipo- 
sition of Saperda bivitiata and Bembecia marginata ; advance in knowledge of 
the life-history of Aplridido? and in the development of machinery for the ap- 
plication of poison sprays to plants; relative value of the principal insecti- 
cides now in use. 

On a gall-making genus of Apionince. 

(Bull. Brooklyn Entom. Soc, October 1883, vi, pp. 61-62.) 
List of gall-making Coleoptera hitherto found in North America; descrip- 
tion of the new genus Podapion, and of the gall and imago of P. gallicola n. 
sp., found on twigs of Pinus inops ; probable life habits, inquilines, and para- 
site of this insect. 

\ United States] Department of Agriculture — Entomologist, 1883 

(C. Valentiue Riley). Report of the entomologist.. (Rept. [U. S.] 
Commiss. Agriculture for 1883.) 

Separate, author's ed., entitled " Report of the Entomologist, Charles V. Riley, 
M. A., Ph. D., for the year 1883." From the Annual Report of the Department of 
Agriculture for the year 1883. Issued October 31, 18H3. Wash., [Oct. 31], 1883. 
t. p. cover + t. p., 5 p. + p. 99 - 180 + 2 + 6 + pp., 13 pi., O. 

Consists of an " Introduction" (p. 99-101), giving a sketch of the report 
and of the work of the entomological division and its assistants and agents 
during the past year ; and of chapters to be cited, unless otherwise indicated, 

under the name of C. V. Riley as author, bearing the following titles: 

Silk-worm notes (pp. 101-107). — Cabbage worms (pp. 107-138 ; pi. 1, 10, 
11; pi. 12, lig. 1-2). — Packard, A. S.,jr. Report on the causes of destruc- 
tion of evergreen forests in Northern New England and New York (pp. 138- 
151 ; pi. 3, 13). — Hubbard, H. G. Report of progress in experiments on 
scale insects, with other practical suggestions (pp. 152-159V — The im- 
ported elm-leaf beetle. Galeruca xanthomelaena, Schrank (pp. 159-170; [pi. 
4-6]; pi. 12, fig. 3). — The lesser migratory locust, Caloptenus atlanis, Riley 
(pp. 170-180 ; pi. 2, 7-9). 

The chapter on " Cabbage worms" treats of the geographical distribution, 
ravages, characters, habits, food-plants, seasons, enemies, and parasites of 
and means against Pieris rapce, P. protodicc, P. oleracea, P. rnonusie, Plitsia bras- 
8icae, Mameslra chenopodii. Ceramica picta, Pionea rimosalis, Bolls repetitalis, and 
Plutella cruciferarum. Packard's chapter treats.of the characters, habits, and 
ravages of and means against, Nematus erichsonii and^Tortrix fumiferana, and 
the characters of Nematus integer and Geleohia abietisella n. sp. The subjects 
of the other chapters are indicated in their titles. 



302 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Riley, Charles V. — Entomology at Minneapolis. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Oct., 1883, xvil, pp. 1068-1070; Nov., 1883, xvii,pp. 1169- 
1174.) 

Minutes of the meetings of the entomologists in attendance at the meeting 
of the American Association for the Advancement oAScience, at Minneapolis, 
Minn., 15-17 August, 1883 ; list of persons present; reorganizalion of the En- 
tomological Ciuh of the A. A. A. S, ; election of officers and modification of 
constitution thereof; ahstracts of papers read at these meetings. 

Contents further analyzed under the following captions: Edwards, W. H. : 
Life histories of butterflies, pp. 1068-1069. — Riley, C. V. : Notes on Pce- 
disca scudderiana, pp. 1069-1070. — Riley, C. V. : A Myrmicophilous Lepi- 
dopteron, p. 1070. — Riley, C. V. : Remarks on Arzama obliquata, p. 1169. 
Forbes, S. A, : The use of contagious germs as insecticides, pp. 1169-1170. 
— Osborn, H: Bombus pennsylramcus in a deserted wren's nest, p. 1171. — 
Hoy, P. R. : Plusiodonta compressipalpis, p. 1171. — Herrick, C. L., et al. 
[Frost flies], pp. 1171-1172. — Osborn, H. : Food hahits of Gortyna nitela, 
p. 1172. — Forbes, S. A.: Gall-mites, p. 1172. — S/unders, W. : Black- 
knot, p. 1172. — Kellicott, D. S. : Notes on certain horing Lepidopterous 
larvae, p. 1172-1174. — Riley, C. V.: Cantharis nuttalU injuring wheat, p. 
1174. 

Notes on Pccdisca v.cudderiana. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Oct., 1883, xvn, pp. 1069-1070.) 

Remarks on the hahits of Pcedisca scudderiana, showing their variation, and 
that the published statements of Dr. D. S. Kellicctt about them are correct 
so far as they go ; difference between the gall of this insect and that of Ge- 
lechia gallassolidaginis. 

A Myrmicophilous Lepidopteron. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Oct., 1883, XVII, p. 1070.) 

Larva of Helia ameriealis found in nests of Formica rufa; this is the first 
Lepidopterous insect known to the author to develop in ants' nests in America. 

Enemies of the egg-plant. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Oct., 1883, xvn, p. 1070.) 

Extract from a letter from Dr. A. Oemler, proving that the occurrence of 
Cassida texana and Doryphora juucta ou Solanum melongena, as recorded in 
author's "Change of Habit; two new enemies of the Egg-plant" (op. cit., 
Aug., 1882, xvi., pp. 678-679), was not accidental or temporary. 

Habits of Murmidius. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Oct., 1883, XVII, p. 1071.) 

List of insects found in a lot of damaged rice from South America; occur- 
rence of Murmidius [oralis'] in vast numbers in this rice; its probable food 
habits ; description of its cocoon ; list of families of coleoptera some of whose 
larvae spin cocoons; habitat and abode of Mychocerus. 

Emulsions of petroleum and their value as insecticides. 

(Proc. Amer. Assoc. Advanc. Sci., for 1882, 1883, xxxi, pp. 469-470.) (Kan- 
sas City Review of Science and Industry, Nov. 1883, v. 7, pp. 447-448.) 

Abstract of paper read before American Association for the Advancement 
of Science at Montreal, Aug. 1882; description of modes of making emulsions 
of petroleum to use against insects. 






REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 303 

Riley, Charles V. — A satisfactory remedy for melon -bugs, flea- 
beetle's, &c. 

(Rural New-Yorker, Nov., 1883.) 

Probably the most satisfactory general preventive of the ravages of Dia- 
betica vUtata aa^tl of HaHicida'. on encurbitaceous plants is Mr. P. T. Qninn's 
method of sprinkling the vines with a mixture of tobacco water and soft 
soap, and then dusting them with lime ; description of J. M. NiekolsoD's siphon 
arrangement by which to keep the vines constantly moist with liquid. 

Remarks on Arzama obliquata. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Nov., 1883, XVII, p. 1169.) 

Description of the egg-mass of Arzama obliquata; colors and abode of the 
larva; variations of the imago ; number of annual broods of this species stated 
by author to be two, and by D. S. Kellicott to be one. 

- Hymenorus riijipes as a Myrinicophilons species. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Nov., 1883, xvn, p. 1176.) 

Corrol>oration of the statements in author's " Myrmecophilous Coleoptera," 
(op. cif., Sept., 1882, xvi), p. 748, regarding the habits of the larva of Hy- 
menorus rufiiies ; imagos reared from these larva; found in the nests of 
Formica fusca ; character of the nests of the Formica ; the food-habits of the 
Uymenorus still unknown. 

Some recent discoveries in reference to Phylloxera. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Dec, 1883, xvu, p. 1288.) 

Importance of a knowledge of the life-history of the species of Phylloxera; 
outline of the life-history ; the several successive stages of some species have 
now been traced ; character of the gall and place of deposit of the egg of Ph. 
xpinosa on Gary a alba. 

The growth of insect eggs. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Dec, 1883, xvn, p. 1289.) 

Notice of J. A. Osborne's "On Growth in the Eggs of Insects" (Hardwick's 
Science-Gossip, Oct. 1, 1883, xix, pp. 225-227), with an account of the swell- 
ing of the eggs of Phaneroptera curvicauda ; this swelling seems to be con- 
nected with embryological development. 

Protective device employed by a Glaucopid Caterpillar. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Dec, 1883, xvn, p. 1289.) 

Notice of a paper by Dr. Fritz Miiller (Kosmos, , vi, p. 449) ; general 

use of shed hairs by larva? of Arctiidw in the construction of their cocoons; 
description of method in which the larva of Eunomia eagrus arranges its shed 
hairs to form a protection for the pupa. 

The genus Colias. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Jan., 1884, xvm, pp. 74-76.) 

Review of H. A. Hageu's "Contributions from the Northern Transconti- 
nental Survey" (Proc Boston Soc Nat. Hist., , XXII, pp. 150-178); dis- 
cussion of the number of species of Colias in North America; plastic nature 
and classificational characters of the genus; the logic of Haven's reasoning 
combines all the commoner and well known forms under three well-marked 
ppecies. 



304 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Riley, Charles V.— Osage Orange vs. Mul )erry for the Silkworm. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Jan., 1884, xvm, pp. 78-79.) 

Comparative value of leaves of Madura auraniiaca and of Moras as food for 
Sti-icaria mori; critical review of the conclusions Ret forth by V. des Lauriers. 

The Chinch-bug iu New York State. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Jan., 1884, xvm, pp. 79-80.) 

Critical review of a circular issued from the office of the State Entomolo- 
gist, of New York, Oct. 18, 1883, aDd J. A. Lintner's "The Chinch-bug in 
New York" (Science, Oct. 19, 1883, ii, p. 540) ; the occurrence of Blissus leu- 
opterus in New York State, in unusual abundance, in 1882 and 1883, is not 
warrant for great alarm. 

Bacterial Disease of the imported Cabbage-worm. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Jan., 1884. xvm, p. 80.) 

Notice of observations by S. A Forbes on the death of larva) of Pterin rapes 
from infection by Bacterium; quotation of former mention of this disease by 
the author. 

The Department of Insects in the U. S. National Museum. 

Rep. Asst. Director U. S. Nat. Mus. for 1882 : Report Smithsonian Institution 
for 1882 (1884), pp. 174-183 ; 215-216). 

Shufeldt, Eobert W.— On the Ossicle of the Antibrachium as found 
in some of the North American Falconidcc. 

(Bull. Nutt. Ornithological Club, Cambridge, Mass., Oct., 1881, p. 197.) 
A description of the carpal sesamoid iu Circus hudsonicus. The author gave 
this sesamoid the name of the " os prominens." 

The Claw on the Index digit of the Cathartidw. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Nov., 1881, p. 906.) 

This is an account of the discovery of a claw upon the pollex phalanx of all 
our American Vultures. 

Remarks upon the Osteology of Opheosaurus ventralis. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 1881, p. 392.) 

A quite complete account of the Osteology of this apodal lizard. The dis- 
sections go to show that it possesses rudimentary femora, but the fore-limbs 
are entirely absent. Its skeleton is here compared with Gerrhonotus, Eumcces, 
and others. 

Note on Mimus polyglottus. 

(Bull. Nutt. Ornith. Club, Cambridge, Mass., July, 1882, No. 3, vol. vm, 
p. 180.;) 

Notice of the capture of a specimen of this bird at Fort Fetterman, Wyo., 
latitude 42° 23' 35" N., and longitude 105° 21' 4" W., where it was breeding. 
This extended its geographical range. 

Notes upon the Osteology of Cinclus mexicamis. 

(Bull. Nutt. Ornithological Club, Cambridge, Mass., vol. vn, Oct., 1882, 
No. 4, pp. 213-221.) 

An account of the skeleton is given, and notice taken of the structure of 
the tarsal joint in the young of Cinclus, which presents many points of in- 
terest. The results of the examination show the close relation of the Dipper 
to the genus Siurus. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. «305 

Shufeldt, Robert W. — The number of bones at present known in 
the pectoral and pelvic limbs of birds. 

(Amer. Naturalist, November, 1882, No. 2, vol. XVI, pp. 892-81)5.) 
A review of the present knowledge of the various bones to be found in tho 
appendicular skeleton of birds, both adult and young. A table is presented 
showing the number for the upper extremity, where they amount to twenty, 
and also one for the lower extremity, where twenty-nine bones have been 
described and attributed to this limb. In neither ease, however, do all these 
segments ever occur in the same subject. 

The bite of the Gila Monster (Heloderma suspectum). 

(Amer. Naturalist, Nov. 1882, pp. 907, 908. J 

An account of the personal experi nee of the author, who was bitten by 
a Heloderm, at the Smithsonian Institution. No bad results followed after 
the recovery from the origin; 1 1 wound, which was severe and caused serious 
symptoms at the time of its infliction. The saliva of the same specimen was 
subsequently examined by Dr. S. Weir Mitchell, of Philadelphia, then en- 
gaged, in experimenting upon poisonous reptiles. This eminent investigator 
pronounced the mixed buccal secretions of the Gila Monster to be poisonous 
in their effects when taken into the course of the human circulation. 

Contributions to the Anatomy of Birds. 

(Department of the Interior, United States Geological and Geographical 
Survey, F. V. Hayden, U. S. Geologist, ui charge. Author's edition, extracted 
from the Twelfth Annual Report of the Survey, pp. 593 to 806, inclusive. 
Twenty-four lith. plates and many cuts ; Washington, October 14, 1882.) 

A collection of the author's early papers, revised and rewritten. An account 
is given, for the first time, of the skeleton of Speotyto cunicvlaria hypogwa. 
The osseus system of Cremophila alpestri*, and Laniits Ivdovicianvs excubitoride8 
is also described. In the "North American Tetraonidse" full descriptions 
are presented, in systematic tables, of the geographical ranges and varia- 
tions of all the American partridges and grouse. These are followed by 
complete investigations of the osseous systems of the various species, and 
comparisons with a long list of kindred forms. A new bone, the " pentosteon," 
is described for the carpus of the young of Centrocireus, and the striking simi- 
larity between the skeletons of Citpidonia and Pediacetes is for the first time 
brought before the attention of anatomists. The most complete of these pa- 
pers is that on the osteology of the Cathartidae. The Calhartida'are shown to 
be entirely distinct from the Old World vultures and the Falconirfce, and many 
points in the skeletons go to support this conclusion. The genus Peeudogry- 
phus, made by Ridgway, is confirmed by these studies, and an account is 
given of many of the bones of this rare vulture. 

The habits of Murcenopsis tridactylus in captivity; with obser- 
vations on its anatomy. 

(Science, Cambridge, Mass., August 10, 1HS:>, No. 27, vol. n, pp. 159-103,4 
figs.) 

A quite full account of several individuals of the Three-fingered Siren, 
which the author kept in confinement while making collections in Louisiana. 
Attention is called to the prevailing superstition on the part of the people of 
all classes in that State in regard to the bite of this reptile, but from personal 
experience the author proves its hartnlessness. A very full description of the 
skeleton iagiveu,with illustrations of the most important parts of its anatomy. 

U. Mis, 69 ;JU 



306 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Shufeldt, Robert W: — Observations on the habits of the American 
Chameleon (Anolis principalis). 

(American Naturalist, September, 1683, vol. xvn, No. 9 pp. 919-92(5. One 
full -page cut.) 

Anolis is an exceedingly common lizard in all the gardens and parks in the 
suburbs of New Orleans, and the author availed himself of the opportunity 
during his collecting tours in that vicinity to make observations upon its 
habits, etc., which are fully set forth in this article. Attention is called to 
its breeding, method of capturing its food, and it chameleonic powers. 

This paper was reproduced by the American Field (January 14, 1884), but 
not properly accredited to the naturalist. A large series of specimens, col- 
lected at this time, is now in the Smithsonian Institution. 

Observations upon the osteology of Podasocys moritanus. 

(Journal of Anatomy and Physiology; London, Oct., 1883, No. v, vol. xvin, 

pt, i, pp. 86-102, 1 plate.) 

In this paper the skeleton of a typical American plover has been thoroughly 
described, aud its skull, with other parts compared with pluvialine forms. 

A lithographic plate accompanies the article, engraved by F. Huth, of 
Edinburgh, in which all the principal bones are shown from various points 
of view. 

Kern ark s upon the osteology of Phalacrocorax bioristatus. 

(Science, vol. n, No. 41, Nov. 16, 1883, pp. 640-642, 3 cuts.) 
At different times ornithotomists have been attracted by the many interest- 
ing points iu the skeleton of a cormorant. This bird has a peculiar bone ar- 
ticulating on a mid-point of the occipital ridge. This feature has been de- 
scribed and figured by Selenka and Eyton. Marsh called it the "nuchal 
boue" ia one of his papers on the osteology of cormorants. In this article it 
is again figured, being tipped up on its side, so that it may be fully seen. It 
does not belong to the skull, but is an ossification in mid-plane of the fascia 
between the beads of the liiventer cervicis muscle, or what may be compared 
to the ligameutum nuchas of birds. Other interesting features of the skeleton 
of this cormorant are reviewed. 

Romolea microptera. 

(Science, vol.-n, No. 47, Friday, December 28, 1883, pp. 811-814, 1 life-size 
lith. plate.) 

This paper is devoted to a study of the great black "lubber grasshopper" 
of the South. The observations are upon Louisiana specimens, and treat 
particularly upon its breeding habits and behavior during captivity. The 
eggs and method of laying them are fuHy described. The paper is illustrated 
by a full-page lithographic plate, giving the eggs and life-size figures of a 
male and female. The author collected large series of this insect, in all stages 
of development, and these now form a part oi the entomological collections 
of the U. S. National Museum. 

Stearns, Robert E. C— The edible clams of the Pacific coast and a 
proposed method of transplanting them to the Pacific coast. 
(Bull. U. S Fish Com., in, pp. 353-362.) 

Stejneger, Leonhard.— Remarks on the systematic arrangement of 
the American Turdidre. 

(Proc. U.S.Nat, Mns., vol. v, 1882, pp. 449-483.) 

This is by far the most important paper on the subject ever published. It 
is illustrated by numerous outline figures of the generic characters. (-R. 
Jiidgicay. ) 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 307 

Stejneger, Leonhard. — Contributions to the history of the Com- 
mander Islands. No. 1. — Notes on the natural history, including 
descriptions of new Cetaceaus. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., VI, 1883, pp. 58-89.) 

Contains descriptions of Zij)hius Grebnitzkii and Berurduts Bairdii and notes 
upon other species of mammals, also valnable contributions to ornithology. 

True, Frederick W. — On the bite of the North American coral snakes 
(genus Elaps). 

(Amer. Nat., xvii, 1883, pp. 26-31.) 

That the bite of the Floridan coral suakes, Elaps fulrius, is poisonous is 
proven by the symptoms which appeared in consequence of a wound in- 
flicted by one of these serpents. Febrile symptoms lasted for about three 
days and were followed by ulceration in the bitten finger. The pain also re- 
turned from time to time after the normal condition of health had been re- 
covered. From other apparently authentic cases cited it appears that the 
bite of the coral snake may prove fatal to children and possibly even to 
adults. 

Check list of the reserve and general series of North American 

tortoises. 

(Bull. U.S. Nat, Mus., No. 24, 1883. By H. C. Yarrow, M. D. Chelonian 
taxonomy and critical preface by F. W. True. pp. 26-38.) 

The folk-lore of flowers. 

(Notes and Queries, 6th ser., vn, 1883, p. 146.) 

The date of the advent of certain species of fishes on the New England 
coast is associated by some of the fishermen with the time of blooming of 
different flowers. The scuppaug, for example, comes when the dandelions 
begin to bloom, and the striped bass when the high blackberries are in blos- 
som. 

The antedating of books. 

(Nation, xxxvi, 1883, p. 12.) 

Calls attention to the growiug practice of giving books published near the 
close of the year the date of the succeeding year. 

On a cinnamon bear from Pennsylvania. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v, 1883, pp. 653-656.) 

Allusions to the existence of a distinct species of American bear of a cin- 
namon color are to be found in the literature of the past hundred years. The 
opinion, however, that specimens of that color are simply the result of albi- 
noism in the common black bear, Ursus americanus, seems now to be well 
established, except, perhaps, so far as concerns the so-called cinnamon boar 
of the northwestern region. In the bear obtained iu Pennsylvania is repre- 
sented a condition of semi-albinoism which extends to all parts of the body. 
The fur is of a clear, golden brown, while the naked portions of the body 
and the eyes are also brown, but duller. 

On a pair of abnormal antlers of the Virginia deer. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat, Mus., VI, 1883, p. 151, 1 fig.) 

The specimen in question represents a pair of antlers in Avhich the tynes of 
the left axis are normally developed, while ou the right side only a single, 
long brow-tyne is present. 

Movement of the arms in walking. 

(Science, i, 1883, p. 11.) 



308 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

TmrE, Frederick W. — Ziphivs on the New Jersey coast. 

(Science, H, 1883, p. 540.) 

In this note is recorded the first authenticated case of the occurrences of a 
species of Zlphius on the east coast of North America. 

A new sperm whale. 

(Science, 1, 1883, p. 470.) 

The Museum receivefl in May, 1883, from the New Jersey coast a specimen 
of a pygmy sperm whale (Kogia), the first recorded from the North Atlantic. 
It was named Kogia Goodei. [The author is at present of the opinion that 
but one species of this genus, K. breviceps, exists, and that the species referred 
to ahove is invalid.] 

The Atlantic right whales. 

(Sci. and Lit. Gossip, I, 1883, pp. 72-73.) 

Contains a brief review of Dr. Holder's paper upon Halama cisaretica. 

Anatomy of the iEluroidea. (Abstract.) 

(Science, I, 1683, p. 24. 

A monstrous orang. (Abstract.) 

(Scienoe, I, 1883, p. 24.) 

Direct communication between the median vaginal cul de-sac 

and uro-genital canal in marsupials after parturition. (Abstract.) 

(Science, i, 1883, p. 24.) 

Mammals of Northeastern New York. (Abstract.) 

(Science, I, 1883, p. 24.) 

Distribution of the genus Macroscelides. (Abstract.) 

(Science, I, 1883, p. 53.) 

Anatomical and external characters of Zalophus Gillespii. (Ab- 
stract.) 

(Science, I, 1883, p. 53.) 
Mammals of Essex County, England. (Abstract.) 

(Science, I, 1883, p. 53.) 

Asymmetry of the turbinated bones in man. (Abstract.) 

(Science, l, 1883, p. 53.) 

Muscles of the raccoon's limbs. (Abstract.) 

(Science, I, 1883, p. 82.) 
Myology of Proteles. (Abstract.) 

(Science, i, 1883, p. 82.) 
Singing mice. (Abstract.) 

(Science, I, 1883. p. 82.) 

The evolution of deer-antlers and atavism in the hog-deer. 

(Abstract.) 

(Science, 1, 1683, p. 184.) 

Behavior of the American flying-squirrel in confinement. (Ab- 



stract.) 

(Science,!, 1883, p. 181.) 






REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 309 

True, Frederick W.— Taxonomy of the hoofed quadrupeds. (Ab- 
stract.) 

(Science, i, 1883, p. 182.) 
On Balicharus grypus. (Abstract.) 

(Science, i, 1883, p. 204.) 
The arrangement of the turbinal bone in the fissiped carniv- 
ores. (Abstract.) 

(Science, 1, 1883, p. 289.) 

Harder's glands in rodents. (Abstract.) 

(Science, i, 1883, p. 289.) 

The color of horses. (Abstract.) 

(Science, 1, 1883, p. 289.) 
The baleen whales. (Abstract.) 

(Science, 1, 1883, p. 289.) 
The domestic animals of Camargue. (Abstract.) 

(Science, 1. 1883, p. 317.) 

The nature of elephants' milk. (Abstract.) 

(Science, i, 1883, p. 317.) 

American sirenians. (Abstract.) 

(Science, 1, 1883, p. 346.) 

Duration of fecundity in man. (Abstract.) 

(Science, i, 1883, p. 346.) 

The intermedius of the carpus in man and other mammals. 

(Abstract.) 

(Science, i, 1883, p. 346.) 

The bottle-nose whale. (Abstract.) 

(Science, 1, 1883, p. 565.) 

A hybrid between the gayal and zebu. (Abstract.) 

(Science, II, 1883, p. 89.) 

Homologues of the parts of the temporal bone. (Abstract.) 

(Science, n, 1883, p. 113.) 

Color-markings of mammals. (Abstract.) 

(Science, n, 1883, p. 144. Quar. Jonr. Royal Micros. Soc, III, 1883, p. 631.) 

Epiphyses on the centra of the vertebrae of the manatee. Ab- 
stract.) 

(Science, n, 1883, p. 207. ) 

The Os intermedium of the foot. (Abstract.) 

(Science, n, 1883, p. 448.) 

The species of hogs. (Abstract.) 

(Science, n, 1883, p. 548.) 

Sexual variation of Rhytiua. (Abstract.) 

(Science, u, 1883, p. 694.) 



310 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Waloott, Charles Doolittle. — Injury sustained by the eye of a 
Trilobite at the time of the moulting of the shell. 

(Amer. Jour. Sci., Oct., 1883, vol. xxvi, p. 302.) Description of the injury 
received by the eye of Illcenus crassicauda during the life of the animal.) 

New species of fossils from the Trenton group of New York. 

(Pamphlet in advance of 35th Rept. N. Y. State Museum, Nat. Hist., issued 
Oct. 15, 1883, 8 pp., 8 vo., 1 pi.) 

One new genus of crinoidea, Merocrinus, and the following species are de- 
scribed: Mcrocrinus typus, Merocrinus corroborates, Glyptocrinus argutus, Glyp- 
tocrinust subnodosus, Iocrinus Trentouensis, Dendrocrinua retractilis, Calceocrinus 
Barrandii, Metoptoma Billingsi, Bcyrichia bella, Lcperditia (I) armata. 

Cambrian System in the United States and Canada (abstract). 

(Bulletin Philosophical Soc, Washington. Read Nov. 24, 1883. Vol. VI, 
p. 97.) 

Defines the formations included within the Cambrian system on strati- 
graphic evidence. 

Pre-Carboniferous strata in the Grand Canon of the Colorado, 

Arizona. 

(Amer. Jour. Sci., Dec, 1883, vol. xxvi, pp. 437-442 and p. 484.) 
Describes the Potsdam and pre-Potsdam horizons of the Cambrian. 

Fresh-water shells from the Paleozoic rocks of Nevada. 



Notes and figures of. 

(Science, Dec. 21, 1883, vol. n, No. 46, p. 809.) 

One genus, Zaptychius, and the following species are mentioned and illus- 
trated by outline figures: Zaptychius Carbonaria, n. g., n. sp., Physa prisca, 
n. sp., Ampullaria Powelli, n. sp. 

Ward, Lester F. — Captain C. E. Dutton on the Hawaiians. 

(Science, February 9, 1883, I, pp. 9-10.) 

Report of an oral communication made by Captain Dutton before the Anthro- 
pological Society of Washington, January 2, 1883, on the above subject, from 
notes taken down and written out. 

Plant life, past and present. 

(Science, May 4, 1883, 1, pp. 358-359.) 

Abstract of a lecture delivered at the National Museum February 24, 1883. 
Gives the system of botanical classification proposed in the lecture, and a table 
showing the number of species of fossil plants belonging to each of the prin- 
cipal groups for the several geological horizons, as also the number of living 
plants of each group known or estimated. 

Dynamic sociology, or applied social science, as based upon 

statical sociology and the less complex scieuces. 

Two volumes, 12mo. Vol I, xx + 706 pp., vol. n, vii-f- 690 pp. New York, 
D. Appleton <fe Co., 1883 (published June 2). 

The principal aim of this work is to point out the superiority of the method 
of intelligent design over that of spontaneous self- adjustment in the attain- 
ment of the objects of desire and of social advancement. It is a plea for the 
legitimacy of intelligent action on the part of society in securing its own in- 
terests aud advantage as against the philosophy of inaction which, in recog- 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 3tt 

nizing the great secular effects of non-intellectualized activities, neglects the 
factor of mind which entered into the problem at a certain point, and which 
tends to discourage the exercise of the legitimate power that mind is capable 
of exerting for the general good. The work is an argument against the laUses 
/aire doctrine and in support of a general policy of regulation applied to so- 
cial operations according to the same principles as those on which physical 
phenomena are regulated by the iuveutive genius of man. 

Ward, Lester F. — Marsh and aquatic plants of the Northern United 
States, many of which are suitable for carp ponds. 

Bulletin U. S. Fish Com., HI, Sept. 6, 1883, pp. 257-265.) 
The geographical range of the species is given, and those specially desig- 
nated that are found in the District of Columbia and vicinity of Washing- 
ton. 

On the position of the Gamopetalse. 

(Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 
Montreal, 1882 [Salem, 1883], vol. xxxi, pp. 460-462). 

Abstract of a paper read before the biological section, designed to show 
that the Gatnopetalae are the most highly developed type of Dicotyledons, 
were latest developed, and should occupy the highest place in the systematic 
arrangement. 

The organic compounds in their relations to life. 

(Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 
Montreal, 1*82 [ Salem, 1883], vol. xxxi, pp. 493-494.) 

Abstract. This paper was published in full in the American Naturalist, 
Dec. 1882, xvi, pp. 968-979, and its title appears in the report of the assist- 
ant airector of the National Museum for 1882, pp. 67-68. 

Classification of organisms. 

(Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 
Montreal, 1882 [Salem, 1883], vol. xxxi, pp. 493-494.) 

Abstract of a paper read before tRe biological section. Organisms are 
classified according to their ability to appropriate nutriment from inorganic 
or only from other organic bodies. The paper was read from proof sheets of 
chapter iv of " Dynamic Sociology," (vol. i, pp. 347-355,) then passing through 
the press. 

Eeport to the Director of the United States Geological Survey 

on the operations of the division of paleobotany during the fiscal 
year 1882-'83. 

(Fourth Annual Report of the U. S. Geological Survey (Report of the Secre- 
tary of the Interior, vol. hi), pp. 50-51. Washington, Government Printing 
Office, 1883.) 

Scientific notes communicated to Science : 

1. On the preliminary study of a collection of fossil plants from 
the Lower Yellowstone. 

(Science, June 15, 18d3, I, p. 559.) 

2. On Gray and Trumbull's review of De Candolle's " Origine des 
plantes cultivees." 

(Science, June 29, 1«83, I, p. 616.) 



312 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Ward, Lester F. — Continued. 

3. On a collection of fossil plants from the Fort Union group 
made by the writer during the months ot July and August, 1883, 
in the Yellowstone and Missouri Valleys. 

(Science, October 12, 1883, n, p. 517.) 

4. On the descent of the Missouri River from Fort Benton, Mont., 
to Bismarck, Dak., in an open boat by a geological party of which 
the writer was a member, made in August and September, 1883. 

(Science, October 12, 1883, n, pp. 517-518.) 

Remarks before the Anthropological Society at its fifty-eighth 

meeting, held November 7, 1882, upon the address of Dr. J. C, Well- 
ing, vice-president of the Section of Sociology, on the " Turning- 
point of modern sociological science." 

(Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington, n, pp. 31-33, 
Washington, 1883.) 

Criticism of the views of Messrs. Herbert Spencer, W.R.Greg, and others 
who oppose all humanitarian enterprises, on the ground that they are con- 
trary to the law of the survival of the fittest, and that they tend to produce 
social degeneracy. It was held that all distinctively human activity is op- 
posed to the natural method of development, aud is far more effective. 

The department of fossil plants in the U. S. National Museum, 



1882. 

(Report of Assistant Director U.S. Nat. Mus. for 1882, (1883). Smithsonian 
Report for 1882 (1884) pp. 150-151, 183-186.) 

White, C. A. — Glacial drift in the Upper Missouri River region. 

(Americau Journal of Science, March, 1883, vol. xxv, p. 206.) 

On the Macrocheilus of Phillips, Plectostylus of Conrad, and 

Soleniscus of Meek and Worthen. 

(Proceedings U. S. National Museum, 1883, vol. vr, p. 184.) 

Progress of Invertebrate Palaeontology in the United States 

for the year 1882. 

(American Naturalist, June, 1883, vol. xvn, p. 598.) 

Burning of Lignite in situ, 

(American Journal of Science, July, 1883, vol. xxvi, No. 151, p. 24.) 

Commingling of Ancient Faunal and Modern Floral Types in 

the Laramie Group. 

(American Journal of Science, August, 1883, vol.xxvi, p. 120.) 

Existence of a deposit i u Northeastern Montana and Northwest- 
ern Dakota that is possibly equivalent with the Green Driver Groups. 

(American Journal of Science, June, 1883, vol. xxv, p. 411.) 

The Department of Fossil Invertebrates in the U. S. National 

Museum in 1882. 

(Report Asst. Director U. S. Nat. Museum for 1882. Report Smithsonian 
Institute for 1882 (1884), pp. 149-150, 186, 221-222.) 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 313 

Winslow, Francis. — Great International Fisheries Exhibition. Lon- 
don, 1883. (Section D.) Catalogue of the economic mollusca and 
the apparatus and appliances used in their capture and preparation 
for market exhibited by the United States Natioual Museum. 8vo. 
pamphlet, 86 pages. Washington: Government Printing Office. 
1883. 

Yarrow, H. C. — Bulletin of the United States National Museum, No. 
24. Check List of North American Reptilia and JBatrachia, with 
catalogue of specimens in U. S. National Museum, by H. C. Yar- 
row, M. D., Honorary Curator, Department of Reptiles. Wash- 
ington : Government Printing Office. 1883. 8vo. pp. i-v, 1-249. 

Accessions to the Department of Reptiles in the U. S. National 

Museum, 1882. 

(Report Asst. Director U. S. Nat. Mus. for 1882 (1883), pp. 86-87; Report, 
Smithsonian Institution for 1882 (1884), pp. 204-205.) 

Yeates, William S. — Accessions to the Department of Minerals, U. 

S. N. M., 1882. 

(Report Asst. Director U. S. Nat. Mas. for 1882 (1883), pp, 104-105; Rep. 
Smithsonian Institution for lb82 (1884), pp. 222-223.) 



III.— PAPERS BY INVESTIGATORS NOT OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM. 

[Anonymous]. — Microscopical objects at the Fisheries Exhibition. 

(Am. Monthly Micro. Journ., IV, No. 7, pp. 128, 129, July, 1883.) 

Describes briefly a collection of American fresh-water sponges, prepared by 

Mr. Edward Potts, of Philadelphia, and exhibited at the London Fisheries 

Exhibition by the National Museum. 

Belding, L. — Catalogue of a collection of Birds made at various points 
along the western coast of Lower California, north of Cape Saint 
Eugenia. (Edited by R. Ridgway.) 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. v, pp. 527-532.) 

Catalogue of a collection of Birds made near the southern ex- 
tremity of Lower California. (Edited by R. Ridgway.) 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. V, pp. 532-550.) 

List of Birds found at Guaymas, Sonora, in December, 1882, 

and April, 1883. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. VI, pp. 343-344.) 

Second catalogue of a collection of Birds made near the south- 



ern extremity of Lower California. (Edited by R. Ridgway.) 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. vi, pp. 344-352.) 

Brewster, William.— On a collection of Birds made by Mr. F. Ste- 
phens in Arizona. (Concluded from vol. VH, p. 212.) 
(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, vol. vm, Jan., 1883, pp. 21-36.) 
Based in part upon " material in the National Museum"; Bee under Calli- 
pepla aquamata castanogaatris, p. 34. 



314 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Brewster, William. — On an apparently New Gull from Eastern North 
America. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, vol. Vlii, Oct., 1883, pp. 214-219.) 
Lams kumlieni, Brewster, the type being No. 76225, U. 8. National Museum, 
from Cumberland Sound. 

Bush, Katharine J. — Catalogue of Mollusca and Echinodermata 
dredged on the coast of Labrador by the expedition under the 
direction of Mr. W. A. Stearns, in 1882. 

(Proc. U. S. National Museum, 1883, vol. VI, pp. 236-247, pi. 9.) 
Enumerates seventy-nine species of Mollusca and fifteen species of Echi- 
nodermata, and gives a list of the species previously obtained in the same re- 
gion by Prof. A. S. Packard, jr., and not found by Mr. Stearns. Of the Echi- 
nodermata, three species belong to the Holothuridce, two to the Echinmdea, five 
to the A8teroidea, and five to the Ophiuroidea. Brief notes are given on the 
localities of occurrence, depths, &c. The collections of Mr. Stearns now be- 
long to the National Museum. 

Cotjes, Elliott. — Note on " Passerculus caboti." 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, Jan., 1883, vol. vin, p. 58.) 

Based upon "specimen No. 62373; Mus. Smiths. Inst., from Nahant, Mass." 

Note on the Mississippi Kite. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, Jan., 1883, vol.vm, p. 61.) 

Referring to specimen No. 89570, U. S. Nat. Mus., from Bluffton, South Car- 
olina. 

Gill, Theodore. — On the family Centropomidae. 

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. vi, Feb. 28, 1883, pp. 484-485, plate xi.) 

Nomenclature of the Xiphiids. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., VI, Feb. 28, 1883, pp. 485-486.) 

On the family and subfamilies of Carangidae. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, Feb. 28, 1883, pp. 487-493.) 

Note on the Leptocardians. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, March 21, 1883, pp. 515-520.) 

Note on the Petromyzontids. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, March 21, 1883, pp. 521-525.) 

Supplementary note on the Pediculati. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., VI, March 21, 1883, pp. 557-558.) 

Note on the Pomatomidae. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, March 21, 1883. p. 557.) 
Note on the Affinities of the Ephippioids. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, March 23, 1883, pp. 557-560.) 

On the relations of the family Lobotidae. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. vi, March 23, 1882. pp. 560-561.) 

Note on the relationship of the Echeneidids. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., VI, March 23, 1883. pp. 561-566, pi. xii.) 

- Note on the genus Sparus. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, March 23, 1883, pp. 566-567.) 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 315 

Gill, Theodore. — On the proper naine of the Bluefish. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., March 23, 1883, vol. VI, pp. 567-570.) 

Diagnosis of new genera and species of deep-sea fish-like ver- 



tebrates. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Nov. 27, 1883, vol. vi, pp, 253-260.) 

Gill, Theodore, and John A. Ryder. — Diagnoses of new genera of 
Nemichtbyoid eels. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Nov. 27, 1883, vol. vr, pp. 260-262. ) 

On the anatomy and relations of the Eurypharyngidae. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Nov. 27, Dec. 13, 1883, vol. vi. pp. 262-273.) 

Harger, Oscar. — Reports on Results of Dredgings, under the super- 
vision of Alexander Agassiz, on the east coast of the United States, 
during the summer of 1880, by the U. S. Coast Survey steamer 
Blake, Commander J. R. Baitlett, U. S. N., commanding, (xxni.) 
Report on the Isopoda, by Oscar Harger. 

(Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. of Harvard College, xi, No. 4, September, 1883, pp. 
91-104, pi. i-iv.) 

Enumerates 9 species, of which uearly all are described at some length, as 
follows : 

Cirolana spinipes Bate & Westwood, pi. 1, figs. 2-2d ; pi. ii, figs. 1-lc, p. 91. 
Cirolana impressa, sp. uov., pi. 1, figs. 3-3d; pi. ii, figs. 3-3c, p. 93. 
JEga psora Kroyer (not descr.), p. 95. 
t JEga Webbii Schiodte & Meinert (not descr.), p. 95. 
JEga incisa Schiodte & Meinert, pi. 3, fig. 1, p. 96. 
Bocinela oculata, sp. nov.,pl. iii., figs. 2-2a ; pi. iv, fig. l,p. 97. 
Bocinela americana Schiodte & Meinert, pi. iii, figs. 3-3a, 4 ; pi. iv, figs. 

2-2a, p. 98. 
Bocinela, 6p. (not descr.), p. 99. 

Sycemi8 infelix Harger, pi. iii, figs. 5-5a ; pi. iv, figs. 3-3ft, p. 100. 
Three of these species are also recorded from the collections of the U. S. 
Fish Commission — Cirolana impressa, Bocinela Americana, and Sycenus infelix. 
The plates are photo-lithographs, from drawings by J. H. Emerton. 

Hubrecht, A. A. W. — En verwaarloosd Volksbelang. 

(De Geds, Utrecht No. 7, 1883.) 

Fish culture as seen at the London Exhibition, with special 

references to its history, apparatus, and the methods used in the 
United States. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Commission, in, pp. 337,348. 

A description of the American section of the Fishery Exhibition and its 
teachings. A translation of the above. 

Jordan, David S., and Charles H. Gilbert. — On certain neglected 
generic names of Lac6pede. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., March 23, 1883, v, pp. 570-573.) 

On the synonymy of the genus Bothus, Rafinesque. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., V, pp. 576-577.) 



316 REPORT OK NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Jordan, David S., and Chaeles H. Gilbert. — Description of a new 
species of Artedhts (Artedius fenestralis) from Puget Sound. 
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., April 19, 1883, V, pp. 577-579.) 

Description of a new species of Urolophus ( Urolophus asterias) 

from Mazatlan and Panama. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., April 19, 1883, V, pp. 579-580.) 

Notes on a collection of fishes from Charleston, S. Carol in a, 

with description of three new species. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., May 12, 1883, V, pp. 581-620, April 19.) 

123 species are enumerated, 20 uot before known north of Key West. Cobius 

encceomus, n. s. , p. 611 ; Gobiua tltalassinus, n. s. , p. 612 ; Prienotus sarritor, n. s., 

p. 615. 

List of fishes now in the museum of Yale College, collected by 

Prof. Prank H. Bradley, at Panama, with description of three new 
species. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., May 12, 1883, v, pp. 620-632.) 

96 species are mentioned, 18 new to Panama. A set of the duplicates is 
in the National Museum: Sidera Verrillii n. s. , p. 623; Emblemaria, n. g., p. 
627; Emblemaria nivipes, n. s.,p. 627; Dactyloscopus, n. s. (?), p. 628 ; Arolhron 
erethizon, n. s., p. 631. 

Description of two new species of fishes (Myrophis vafer and 

Chloroscombrus orqueta) from Panama. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., May 12, 1883, V, pp. 645-647.) 

Myrophis ra/er,n. s., Panama, p. 645; Chloroscombrus orqueta, u. s., Panama 
p. 646. 

Description of a new eel (Sidera castanea) from Mazatlan. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., May 12, 1883, v, pp. 647, 648.) 
Sidera castanea, n. s., Mazatlan, p. 647. 

On the nomenclature of the genus Ophichthys. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., May 12, 1883, v, pp. 648-651.) 
17 species are enumerated. 

Notes on the nomenclature of certain North American fishes. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. vi, pp. 110, 111. July 27, 1883.) 

Description of two new species of fishes (Aprion ariommus and 

Ophidium beani) from Pensacola, Florida. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Sept. 20, 1883, vol. vi, pp. 142-144.) 

A review of the American Caranginas. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Oct. 5, 1883, vol. vi, pp. 188-207.) 

Note on the genera of Petromyzontidce. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Oct. 5, 1883, vol. vi, p. 208.) 

Description of a new Murcenoid eel (Sidera chlevastes) from the 

Galapagos Islands. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Oc*., 5, 1883, vol. vi, pp. 208-210.) 






REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 317 

Jordan, David S., and Charles H. Gilbert. — Description of a new 
species of Rhinobatus {Rhinobatus glaucostigma) from Mazatlau, 
Mexico. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., Oct. 5, 1883, vol. vi, pp. 210-211.) 

Jordan, David S., and Joseph Swain. — List of fishes collected in the 
Clear Fork of the Cumberland, Whiteley County, Kentucky, with 
description of three new species. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Nov. 27, 1883, vol. VI. pp. 248-251.) 

Jouy, Pierre Louis. — Ornithological notes on collections made in 
Japan from June to December, 188-!. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. vi, pp. 273-318.) 

An important annotated list of 100 species, nearly all represented by nu- 
merous specimens now in the National Museum collection. 

Luce, Thomas B. — Occurrence of Balhtes cajmscus, Gmelin (Leather- 
jacket or File-fish), at New Bedford, Mass. 

(Bull. U.S. Fish. Com., vol. in, Dec. 7, 1883, p. 469.) 

Lawrence, George N. (New York City.) — Characters of a new spe- 
cies of pigeon of the genus Engyptila, from the island of Grenada, 
West Indies. The Auk, vol. i. April, 1884, pp. 180, 181. (K icellsi, 
Lawr., type in U. S. National Museum collection.) 

Lindenkohl, C. — Notes on the model of the Gulf of Maine, con- 
structed for the United States Fish Commission. 
(Bull. U.S. Fish Com., in, pp. 449-454.) 

Lowell, James Eussell. — Success of the United States Exhibit at 
the London International Fisheries Exhibition. (Dispatch No. 55 
to Hon. Frederick T. Frelinghuysen, Secretary of State.) 
(Bull. U. S.Fish Com., in, pp. 447-8.) 

Newberry, John S. — Brief descriptions of fossil plants, chiefly ter- 
tiary, from Western North America. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Feb. 28, 1883, V, pp. 502-574. ) 

58 new species are described, chiefly from tbe collection of Dr. F. V. Hay- 
den. 
NuttlnGt, C. C. — On a collection of birds from the Hacienda " La 
Palma," Gulf of Nicoya, Costa Eica. 

(Proc, U.S. Nat. Mus., 1883, v,pp. 382-395.) 

Contains also a few notes on the mammals of that regiou. 

Nye, Will ard, jr. — Eels (Anguilla rostrata) in New Bedford water- 
pipes. Mackerel abundant in Amherst River. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, vol. ii, 1882, Mar. 21, 1883,p. 272.) 

Eyder, John A. — On the thread-bearing eggs of the silversides [Men- 
idia). 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Coin., in, pp. 193-190.) 

Preliminary notice of the development and breeding habits of 

the Potomac Catfish, Amiurus albidus (Le Sueur) Gill, 
(Bull. U, S, Fish Com., m, pp. 225-230. ) 



318 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Ryder, John A. — Bearing oysters from artificially-fertilized eggs, 
together with notes on pond culture, &c. 
(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., in, pp. 281-294.) 

Report on the abnormal appearance of some shad eggs from a 

fish kept in confinement at Havre de Grace, Md. 
(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., m, p. 440.) 

Rearing oysters from artificially impregnated eggs. 

(Science, n, pp. 60-62.) 

The law of nuclear displacement and its significance in em- 
bryology. 

(Science, i, pp. 275-277, with cut.) 

Development of the membrane bones of the skull of the pike. 

(Science, I, p. 513.) 

The protozoan parasites of the oyster. 

(Science, i, p. 567.) 

Oyster culture in Holland. 

(Science, II, p. 79.) 

Rearing oysters from artificially fertilized eggs at Stockton, Md. 

Science, u, pp. 463-464.) 

Primitive visual organs. 

(Science, n, pp. 39-40.) 

(See, also, under Gill and Ryder, in Part n.) 

Saunders, Howard. — On the birds exhibited in the International 
Fisheries Exhibition. 

(The Ihis, fifth series, Oct., 1883, vol. IV, pp. 346-352.) 

Contains a very favorable notice of the U. S. National Museum exhibit of 
North American aquatic and fish-eating birds, on pp. 350, 351. 

Sclater, P. L. — Review of the species of the family Icteridae. Part 
i, Cassicimc. 

(The Ibis, fifth series, April, 1883, vol. iv, pp. 145-163, pis. vi.vii.) 
Frequent reference to National Museum specimens. 

A review of the species of the family Icteridae. Part ii, Icte- 

rinae. 

(The Ibis, fifth series, July, 1883, vol. IV, pp. 352-374, pi. xi.) 
Contains frequent mention of National Museum specimens, loaned for exam- 
ination. 

Smith, Rosa. — On the life coloration of the young of Pomacentrus 
rubicundus. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., May 23, 1883, v, pp. 652-653.) 
Specimen from La Jollas, near San Diego, Cal. 

The life colors of Cremnobates integripinnis. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Oct. 5, 1883, vol. VI, 1883, pp. 216-217.) 

Note on the occurrence of Gasterosteus icilliamsoni, Grd., in an 

artesian well at San Bernardino, Cal. 

(Proc. U. S, Nat, Mus., Oct. 5, 1883, vol. vi, 1883, p. 217.) 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 319 

Smith, Kosa. — Notes on tbe fishes ofTodos Santos Bay, Lower California. 
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Oct. 25, 1883, vol. VI, 1883, pp. 232-236.) 

Smith, Sidney I. — Preliminary report on the Brachyura and Anomura 
dredged in deep water off the south coast of New England by the 
U. S. Fish Commission in 18S0, 1881, and 1882. 

(Proc. U. S. National Museum, vol. VI, 1883, pp. 1-57, pll. i-vi.) 
This report includes " all the species of Brachyura and Anomura obtained 
otYMartba's Vineyard, at depths greater than 50 fathoms. * * * The last 
season's dredgirg off Martha's Vineyard reveals the total, or almost total, 
disappearance of several of the larger species of Crustacea, which were 
exceedingly abundant in the same region in 1880 and 1881." Thirty-ono 
species are included in the report, and of these seven are new. Three new 
genera are also described. Very full notes, with complete lists of the locali- 
ties, including depths, nature of the bottom, dates when collected, number 
of specimens obtained, &c, are given under each species. Tables of measure- 
ments of many species are also given. The new genera described are: Sym- 
pagurus (p. 37), Eumunida (p. 44), and AnojAotiotus (p. 50). The new species 
described are as follows : 

Brachyura. — Amathia Tanneri, p. 4 ; Collodes robustus^.b; Cymopolia gra- 
cilis, p. 20. 
Anomoura. — Sympagurus pictus (pi. 5, tigs. 2, 2a; pi. 6, Figs. 5-8), p. 37; 
Munida ralida (pi. 1), p. 42; Eumunida picta (pi. 2, fig. 2; pi 3, figs. 
6-10; pi. 4, figs. l-3a), p. 44 ; Anoplonotus politus (pi. 2, fig. 1 ; pi. 3, 
figs. l-5a), p. 50. 

List of tbe Crustacea dredged on the coast of Labrador by the 

expedition under the direction of W. A. Stearns, in 1882. 

(Proc. U.S. National Museum, 1883. vol. vi, pp. 218-222.) 
Enumerates 36 species distributed among the following groups: Brachyura, 
2 species; Anomura, 2 species; Macrura, 9 species; Scbizopoda, 1 species; 
Cumacea, 1 species; Amphipoda, 16 species; Isopoda, 2 species; Copepoda, 
1 species; Cirripedia, 1 species ; Rhizocephala, 1 species. Full notes are given 
on the localities of occurrence, depth, character of bottom, character of speci- 
mens, &c, and also, in some cases, on the sizes of specimens. This collection 
was made by W. A. Stearns, of Amherst, Mass., and a party of students from 
Yale College. The specimens belonging to Mr. Stearns were turned over to 
the National Museum, and those belonging to the remainder of the party to 
the Museum of Yale College. 

Keview of the marine Crustacea of Labrador 

(Proc. U.S. National Museum, 1863, vol- VI, pp. 223-232. ) 
Enumerates 65 species of Crustacea as follows: Brachyura, 4 species; Ano- 
mura, 2 species; Macrura, 13 species; Scbizopoda, 1 species; Cumacea, 1 
species; Phyllocarida, 1 species; Amphipoda, 29 species; Isopoda, 7 species; 
Ostracoda, 1 species; Copepoda, I species; Cirripedia, 4 species; Rhizoce- 
phala, 1 species. The localities in which each species was obtained are given, 
when known, and also occasional notes on abundance, &c. The material on 
which this review is based was principally obtained by Prof. A. S. Packard, jr., 
in 1860 and 1864, and by W. A. Stearns in 1882. Almost the only previous 
source of information in regard to the Crustacea of Labrador had been Pro- 
fessor Packard's "A list of the animals dredged near Caribou Island, Southern 
Labrador, during July and August, 18C0" (Canadian Naturalist and Geolo- 
gist, December, 1863), VIII, pp. 401-429 (1 -'.'9), and his "View of the recent 
invertebrate fauna of Labrador" (Memoirs, Boston Soc. Nat. History, 1867, 
I, pp. 262-303, pll.7, 8.) The collection of W. A. Stearns is now in the pos- 
session of the National Museuui. 



320 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Stewart, T. E., M. D., Ph. G.— The Relation of pharmacy to Therapeu- 
tics. A lecture delivered before the Alumni Association of the 
Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. 

(Druggists Journal, Dec, 1883; also separate, uu paged, 5 pages.) 
Suggests the plan of founding at Washington, in connection with the 
Smithsonian Institution, a laboratory of experimental pharmacology, with 
new apparatus and means for doing scientific work on drugs. After discuss- 
ing this paper it was voted by the meeting " that it is the sense of this meet- 
ing that this suggestion be adopted, and the founding of such a laboratory 
at Washington, in connection with the Smithsonian, bo recommended." 

Swain, Joseph. — Description of a new species of Bqdropterm (Ha- 
dropterus scierus) from Southern Indiana. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Nov. 27, 1883, vol. vi, p. 252. ) 
(See also under Jordan & Swain.) 

Swain, Joseph, and George B. Kalb.— A review of the genus Xo- 
turus, with a description of one new species. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., V, May 23, 1883, pp. 638-644). 

Seven species are mentioned, Xoturtis elassochir, u. s , Illinois R., 639. 

Swan, James G. — Report of investigations at ]N~eah Bay, Wash., re- 
specting the habits of fur seals of that vicinity, and to arrange 
for procuring specimens of skeletons of cetacea. 
(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., in, pp. 201-207.) 

Tarr, R. S. — Life at the bottom of the sea. 

(Forest and Stream, New York, Nov. 29, 1883, vol. xxi, pp. 344,345.) 
A popular account of the deep-sea explorations of the U. S. Fish Commis- 
sion. 

Thomas, Cyrus. — Note on certain Maya and Mexican manuscripts. 

(Science, vol. i, No. 20, pp. 585,586.) 
Verrill, A. E. — Reports on the results of dredging, under the super- 
vision of Alexander Agassiz, on the east coast of the United States. 
during the summer of 1880, by the U. S. Coast Survey steamer 
" Blake," Commander J. R.Bartlett,U. S. N., comma ndiug. (XXI.—) 
Report on the Anthozoa, and on some additional species dredged by 
the "Blake" in 1877-'79, and by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer 
"Fish Hawk," in 1880-'82. By A. E. Verrill. 

(Bull. Mus. Comp. Zoology, at Harvard College, No. 1, July, 1883, xi, pp. 
1-72, pi. i-viii.) 

Enumerates 59 species, of which 23 are new. One new family and 5 new 
genera are also defined. A large number of the old species are also described 
and figured, and the remainder are accompanied by more or less full notes 
and tables of synonymy. The plates are well-executed photo-lithographs 
from drawings by J. H. Emerton. 
The following are newly described : 

Families. — Ceratoisida' Gray (emended), p. 9; Chrynogorgidoc, nov., p. 21 

Prlmnoidce (emended), p. 28. 
Genera. — Acavclla Gray (emended), p. 13; Lepidisin, nov., p. 18; Irido- 
f/orgia, nov., p. 26; Stenogorgia, uov., p. 29; Aclinauge, nov., p. 5 
4ctinostola, nov., p. 56. 






REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 321 

New species. — Kophobelemnon scabrum, pi. l.figs. 5-5c, p. 7; Aeanella spicu- 
losa, p. 17; Aeanella simplex, p. 17; Lepidisis caryophyllia, pi. iv, figs. 
1-lc, p. 18; Lepidisis longiflora, pi. iv, figs. 4, 4a, p. 19; Lepidisis 
vitrea, p. 20; Dasygorgia Agassizii, pi. ii, figs, 4-45, p. 22; Dasygorgia 
elegans, p. 23; Dasygorgia spiculosa, pi. ii, fig. 5, p. 23; Dasygorgia 
8quamata, p. 24 ; Dasygorgia splendetis, p. 25 ; Chrysogorgia Fewkesii, 
p. 26 ; Iridogorgia Pourlalcsii, pi. ii, figs. 7 la, p. 27 ; Prtmnoa Pour- 
talesii, pi. ii, figs. 2-2e, p. 28 ; Stenogorgia casta, pi. ii, figs. 1-16, p. 30; 
Acanthogorgia muricata,ip. 34; Paramuricea grandis, pi. iii, figs. 3-36, 
p. 37 ; Paramuricea tenuis, p. 38 ; Eunicella modesta, pi. ii, fig. 3, p. 39; 
Gersemia longiflora, pi. iii, figs, 6, 66, p. 44 ; Sagartia, Acanellce, pi. vi, 
figs. 2, 2a, p. 46; Actinauge nodosa, Verrill, var. coronata, nov., pi. vi, 
figs. 8, 8a, p. 53; var. tuberculosa, nov., pi. vi, fig. 7, p. 53; Actinauge lon- 
gicorn is Verrill, var. Caribcea, nov., p. 55 ; Actinauge nexilis, pi. vi, figs.4, 
5, p. 55. 

Verrill, A. E. — Reports on the results of dredging, under the super- 
vision of Alexander Agassiz, in the Gulf of Mexico and in the Carib- 
bean Sea (1878-79), by the U. S. Coast Survey steamer " Blake," 
Lieut.-Commander C. D. Sigsbee, U. S. X., and Commander J. R. 
Bartlett, IT. S. N., commanding. XXIV. — Supplementary report 
on the " Blake" Cephalopods, by A. E. Verrill. 

(Bull. Mils. Comp. Zool., at Harvard College, No. 5, 1683, XI, pp. 105-115, 
pi. 1-3.) 

Two new genera — Xectoteuthis (p. 108) and Opisthoteuilns (p. 113) — are de- 
fined, and four new species are described as follows : 

Nectoteuth is Pourtalesii, pi. iii, figs. 1-1 b, p. 108; Possia brachyura, pi. iii, 
fig. 2, p. 110; Octopus pictus, pi. iii, fig. 3, p. 112; Opisihoteuthis Agassizii, pi. 
1, fig. 1, pi. ii, fig. 1, p. 113. 

Four additional species are described, whicb bave also been taken by the 
U. S. Fish Commission. They are Abralia megalops Verrill, Sthenoteuthis Bar- 
tramii (Les.) Verr.(?), Cheiroteuthis lacertosaYetT., and Heteroteuthis teneraYevT. 
The plates are pboto-lithographs from drawings by J. H. Emerton. 

Descriptions of two species of Octopus from California. 

(Bull. Mus. Comp. Zoology at Harvard College, No. 6, 1883, XI, pp. 117-124, 
pi. iv-vi.) 

The two species described are: Octopus punctatus Gabb, pi. iv, pi. v, fig. 2, 
p. 117 ; and Octopus bimaculalus Verrill, ep. nov., pi. v, figs. 1-la, pi. vi, p. 121. 

The descriptions were partly drawn up from specimens furnished by the 
National Museum. The plates are photo-lithographs, from drawings by J. H. 
Emerton. 

Recent explorations in the region of the Gulf Stream off the 

eastern coast of the United States by the U. S. Fish Commission. 

(Science, 1883, vol. I, pp. 443-447, 531-534 ; vol. n, pp. 153-155; eight wood- 
cuts, charts and diagrams.) 

Descriptive of the physical and other characteristics of the regions ex- 
plored, and of the various appliances used, with a brief account of tbe ani- 
mal life. The paper is divided into the following sections: 1. Introductory 
(historical); 2. Physical features of the region; 3. Influence of the Gulf 
Stream ; 4. Nature and origin of the deposits ; 5. Fossiliferous magnesian lime- 
stone nodules. 

Walker, S. T.— Fish mortality in the Gulf of Mexico. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., July 27, 1883, vol. VI, 1883, pp. 105-109.) 
H. Mis. 69 21 



322 KEPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

APPENDIX C.— LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS TO THE MUSEUM 

IN 1883. 

Abbe, W.A. Specimens of menhaden scraps from Massachusetts. Ac- 
cession 12552. 

Abcrt, J. T., U. S. Engineers. Large collection of choice minerals col. 
lected by Col. I. 1. Abert, contained in four double cabinets which 
have been stored for many years with the Smithsonian Institution. 
Accession 12689. 

Adams Brothers. Slab of slate; from Adams Brothers' quarry, Lynch- 
burg, Ya. Accession 13385. 

Adams, J. B. Box containing living toads, lizards, snakes, bird-skins, 
and insects ; from New Mexico. Accessions 13431, 13662. 

Adams, J. C. Modern Indian game (bone, wood, and strings); from 
Wisconsin. Accession 12672. 

Adams, Mayhew. Specimen of harpoon with semi-revolving head; 
from Massachusetts. Accession 13174. 

Adams, W. H. Three boxes, specimens of minerals and fossils ; from 
Illinois. Accession 12537. 

Adcox, J. E. Box of Indian relics ; from Arkansas. (Purchased.) Ac- 
cession 13541. 

Agassiz, Prof. Alexander, Mus. Comp. Zool., Cambridge, Mass. Thirty-six 
species of echini (of the Blake collection). Accession 13738. 

Alaska Commercial Company, San Francisco, Cal. One pair of walrus 
tusks (loaned) ; from Alaska. Accession 12703. 

Albemarle JSoapstone Company. Specimens of soapstone and talc; from 
Albemarle County, Virginia. Accession 13319. 

Aldrich, J. B. Specimen of Indian implement; dug from mound in 
Southeastern Colorado. Accession 13287. 

Alexander, Charles W. Specimens of bird-eggs; from Illinois. Acces- 
sion 13714. 

Allabach, P. H. . Specimen of wood thrush ; from District of Columbia. 
Accession 13093. 

Allen, Frederick S. Model of life raft (presented) ; three swordflsh 
irons (purchased). Accessions 12554, 12954. 

Allison, Hon. W. B. Package of minerals; from Iowa. Accession 
12851. 

Auburndale Watch Company, Boston, Mass. Sample of metallic ther- 
mometer. Accession 13043. 

American Ship Windlass Company, Providence, B. I. Model of steam 
windlass (loaned). Accession 12778. 

Ames, F. P. Fragments of bones from old Indian camp in Ohio. Ac- 
cession 13419. 

Anderson, Rev. D. Stuffed specimen of duck (Anas boschas) ; from Can- 
ada. Accession 13167. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 323 

Anderson, Miss L. Z. Specimens of sulphide aud carbonate of copper. 
Accession 13227. 

Andrews, Byron. Bird's nest and shin of pochet gopher (Geomys tal- 
poides bulbivorus)-, from Dakota. Accessions 13207, 13661. 

Ai dreics, E. F. Life-size oil painting and frame of the late Charles- 
Darwin. Accession 12563. 

Apgar, Austin G. About one thousand specimens of mollusks, pisidium,. 
and sphoerium ; from New Jersey. Accession 13597. 

Appleton, John If. M. Specimen of quartz, crystals, fossils, and lizard 
(Plethodon glutinosus) ; from West Virginia. Accessions 13272, 13699. 

Appleton, Nathan. Two photographs showing the American ambu- 
lance at Paris during the siege 1870 and 1871. Accession 13103*. 

Arendell, Dr. M. F. {through S. G. Worth). Samples of Yopon tea,. 
Accession 13015. 

Arnheim, J. S. Specimens of silk-worms, insects, and snail shells; from 
California. Accession 13616. 

Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railroad (through John S. F. Batchen). 
Specimens of building stones ; from Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas- 
Accession 13448. 

Atkins, A. L. Specimen of ore ; from Louisiana, Accession, 12902. 

Atkins, Charles G. Alcoholic specimens of salmon eggs and embryos , 
and photo-negatives ; from Maine. Accessions 12566, 12832, 12848. 

Atkins, Dr. H. A. Specimen of Towhee Bunting (Pipilo erythrophthal- 
mus), partial albino in flesh, and specimen of Hylocichla alicia; ; from? 
Michigan. Accessions 12866, 13005. 

Atwood Brothers. Model of center-board for small sailboats and skiffs ^ 
from New York. Accession 12589. 

Ativood, N. E. Oilcan taken from stomach of large cod near Bace 
Point, Massachusetts. Accession 12808. 

Babcock, O. F. Two living alligators, juv. Accession 13170. 

Bailey, Arthur H., & Go. One can each mackerel roe, fresh mackereL, 
and Nantucket sturgeon ; from Massachusetts. Accession 12844. 

Bailey, H. L. Skin of duck ; from Washington Territory. Accession! 
13348. 

Baker, George O., & Co. Samples cotton seed and its products, includ- 
ing the refined oil. Accession 12766. 

Baker, M. Specimens of minerals; from California. Accession, 12698.. 

Barber, Julia Langdon. Two living specimens of alligators, juv. Acces- 
sion 13487. 

Barbour, Hon. John S. Specimens of minerals and ores ; from Virginia- 
Accessions 12837, 12901, 13056, 13589. 

Barker, Henry L. Specimens of Siren lacertina, living water-snakes r 
and rattlesnake ( Caudisona miliaria) ; from South Carolina. Acces- 
sions 12888, 13045, 13102. 

Barker, S. C. Specimen of living siren; from Florida. Accession 12985. 



324 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Barnes, William M. Beak and fins of sail-fish ; from Ocean Island, Pacific 
Ocean. Accession 12G76. 

Barnett, Edward (through Felix R. McManus). Pieces of the wood from 
spring-house which was used by General Washington as headquarters 
when he surveyed the Shenandoah Valley. Accession 13704. 

Bartlett, I. E., & Son. One slab each of Arctic and humpback whale- 
bone. Accession 12822. 

Barton & Logan. Specimen of monkey ( Chlorocebus sabceus) ; from West 
Africa. Accession 13558. 

Batchen, John S. F. Twenty-seven packages building stones, granite 
and marble, from various States and Territories, also five photographs 
of old engines; from the Chicago Exhibition of 1883. Accessions 
12770, 12841, 12916, 12929, 12950, 12969, 12993, 13000, 13003, 13027, 
13011, 13088, 13117, 13163, 13186, 13199, 13224, 13299, 13327, 13368, 
13433, 13443, 13445, 13460, 13477, 13511, 13534, 13556, 13576, 13708. 

Beall, L. A. Specimen of iron ore; from Maryland. Accession 13796. 

Beall, O. B. Specimen of pig (Sus scrofa) with two perfectly formed 
mouths; from Maryland. Accession 12984. 

Bean, Barton A. Tank of alcoholic fishes, reptiles, and invertebrates; 
from Susquehanna JRiver, at Bainbridge, Pa. Accessions 12913, 
13467. 

Bean, Br. T. E. Specimens of the sbad, herrings, rock-fish, and pick- 
erel; from Washington Market. (Purchased.) Accession 12935. 

Beck, A. B. Carved stone pipe; from Pennsylvania. Accession 
13548. 

BecJcivith, Miss Lizzie. Large leaf-shaped stone implement; from Ala- 
bama. Accession 13607. 

Beetle, James. One model of whale-boat. (Purchased.) Accession 
12909. 

Belding, L. Collections of bird-skins, Indian relics, bones, reptiles, &c; 
from Lower California. Accessions 12828, 12911, 13115. 

Bel/rage, (r. W. (deceased). Specimens of natural history; from Texas. 
Accession 13253. 

Bell, James. Large collection of living snakes, bird-skins, eggs, in- 
sects, &c; from Florida. Accessions 12746, 12814, 13016, 13081, 
13114, 13270, 13533, 13778. 

Bell, Br. Robert. Alcoholic specimens of lizard (Amblystoma), fishes 
(Cliola storeriana=Rutilus storerianus), and lamprey eel; from Can- 
ada. Accession 13038. 

Bendire, Charles, U. S. A. Collection of 223 bird-skins and 18 nests ; 
from Oregon. Accession 12650. 

Benedict, J. E. Collection of worms, also bird-skins (Cymochorea leu- 
corrhoa, and Oceanites oceanicus) ; from Atlantic Ocean. Accessions 
12856, 13753. 

Bereman, T. A. One box of geodes, 43 specimens, also 33 specimens 
(Lithostrotion canadense); from Iowa. Accession 13438. 






REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 325 

Bertha Zinc Company. Specimens of pure spelter and zinc ore (silico- 
carbonate of zinc); from Virginia. Accession 13266. 

Bessels, Br. E. Specimen of bird-skin (Coccyzus americanus). Acces- 
sion 13166. 

Bhanmaugre, Somdet Choicfa (director- general of ptosts and telegraphs), 
Bangkok, Siam. Collection of postage-stamps; from Siam, Hong- 
Kong, and Singapore. Accession 13706. 

Bick ford, Rev. W.F. Specimens of orthoclase crystals; from Colorado. 
Accession 13751. 

Biddle, Miss Lydia S. Specimen of an embroidered quilt over one hun- 
dred years old ; from Carlisle, Pa. Accession 13288. 

Bille, Carl Steen Andersen de (minister resident and consul-general of Den- 
mark). Specimen of sonorous or singing sand ; from Bornholm, Den- 
mark. Accession 13770. 

Binney, W. G. Twelve species of land shells ; from New Jersey. Acces- 
sion 13639. 

Bishop, J. Specimen of insect (Phobetron pithecians); from Ohio. 
Accession 13470. 

Bishop, John. Model of " Grand Banker," full rigged, complete. Scale, 
h inch. (Purchased.) Accessions 12644, 12800. 

Black, Alexander C. One box of Indian implements and fossils; from 
Indiana. Accession 12897. 

Blackford, Eugene G. Living and fresh specimens of fishes, among 
which were Salmo gairdneri, Salvelinus malm a, Salvelimis fontinalis, 
Salmo salar, Brcvoortia tyr annus, Salmo pleuriticus, Seriola lalandii, 
Scomber scombrus ; also large collection of alcoholic specimens of West 
Indian and South American fishes, collected by J. C. Brevoort; 
large collection of oyster and clam shells, fresh specimen of lobster 
weighing 18 pounds, one box of corals, one large tortoise, and fresh 
specimen of manatee (Trichechus manatus), from Brazil, and box of 
salamander eggs (Siredonpisciformis). Accessions 12505, 12515, 1252 1 , 
12557, 12585, 12639, 12659, 12684, 12687, 12747, 12759, 12826, 12978, 
13065, 13138, 13146, 13157, 13178, 13196, 13539, 13620, 13626, 13737, 
13759, 13808. 

Bland, Thomas. Water-color drawing of hunting monkeys with blow- 
gun, made by native Indian artist at the gold mines of Marmato in 
Autioquia, New Granada. Accession 13040 

Blinn, A. S. Specimens of minerals; from Oregon. Accession 13785. 

Blochman, L. A. Small box of shells; from California. Accession 13031. 

Bloomer, William. Bones of whale (Balcenoptera rostrata) 16 feet long, 
taken off Monomoy Point light-house, Harwich Port, Mass. Acces- 
sion 13344. 

Blozier, H. Specimen of fish (Dorosoma heterurum)) from Ohio. Ac- 
cession 13784. 

Boardman, G. A. Specimen of fish (Coregonus nigripinnis) ; from Min- 
nesota; also stor.e relic; from Maine. Accessions 12906, 13702. 



•326 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Bogart, George A. Twenty specimens of Niagara fossils; from Indiana. 

Accession 13225. 
Bonnell, George TV. Specimen of stone ax ; from District of Columbia. 

Accession ]2920. 
Booth, A., & Co. One barrel, 2 boxes, 2 bales of canned fish and oysters; 

also, specimen of (steel-headed salmon) Salmo gairdneri; from Puget 

Sound. Accessions 12941, 1374G. 
Bosticlc & Anderson. Box Indian relics supposed to have been dug from 

Indian battle grounds iu Sumter County, Florida. Accession, 13164. 
.Bostwick, H. R. Specimen of insect (Papilio asterias); from Kansas. 

Accession 13251. 
JBoicles, William B. Flag of the "Geneva Cross" carried by the Amer- 
ican ambulance during the siege of Paris, 1870 and 1871. Accession 

13104. 
Bowron, William M. Specimens of shells; from Tennessee. Accession 

13198. 
JBrackin, A. H. Specimen of pyrite in hornblende rock; from North 

Carolina. Accession 13647. 
Bradstreet, E. C. Specimens of minerals; from Colorado. Accessions 

13069, 13605. 
Brand, James H. Specimen of No. 2 Brand whaling-gun, with Brand's 

darting-bomb and eight bomb-lances. Accessions 12531, 12548. 
Bransford, Dr. J. F. Two stone images; from "Pacuare Cut," Limou 

Railroad, Costa Pica. Accession 13513. 
Brazilian National Museum. Four boxes, 129 specimens of fossils and 

64 species fossil shells (cretaceous) ; from Brazil. Accessions 12699, 
12885. 
Brighhvell, Dr. 0. H. Two specimens of percoid fishes; from District 

of Columbia. Accession 13313. 
British Museum, London. Stuffed specimen and skeleton manatee, 

(Manatus senegalensis). Accessions 13030, 13091. 
Bromley, John, & Sons. One box containing an assorted lot of floor 

rugs. Accession 12816. 
Bronaugh, J. TV. Specimen of fish (Ambloplites rupestris) 14 inches in 

length; from Manchester, Va. Accession 13010. 
Broivn, A. G. Specimen of elephant seal (Macrorhinus angustirostris); 

from California. Accession 13245. 
JBrown, Ernest G. One box Indian relics and fragments of pottery; 

from Illinois. Accession 13667. 
Brown, E. L. Specimens of diatoms found in peat bogsiu Wisconsin. 

Accession 12854. 
Uroicn, J. Hare. Specimeus of pyrites in quartz ; from New Mexico. 

Accession 12567. 
jBroicn, James Temple. Sealskin suit made from skins of the hooded 

seal (Gystophora cristata) and harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) worn by 

<whalers during the winter season. Accession 13286. 






REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 327 

Brown, P. Stanley. Three specimens birds in flesh (Cupidonia cupido); 
from Kansas. Accessions 12536, 12636. 

Brown, W. C. Box, 117 specimens, of rude Indian implements and 
fossils; from Pennsylvania. Accession 13698. 

Brush Electric Company. One light machine No. 4 and one lamp No. 
7. Accession 13071. 

Bryan, E. C. Skeleton of bat (Yesperugo serotinus). Accession 13250. 

Burgoyne, Burbiges & Co., (London, England). Six jars of colors used 
in confectiouery, viz, super lemon-yellow, jetoline black, apricot yel- 
low, cherry-red, damson -blue, and apple-green. Accession 13829. 

Bureau of Arts (Paris, France), through John Burand. Two boxes of 
porcelain and Sevres wares. Also, card of yarns used in the manu- 
facture of tapestry. Accessions 13132, 13749. 

Burks, James L. Specimens of limonite iron ore ; from Eagle Eock Mine, 
Virginia. Accession 13280. 

Burns, Frank. Eight boxes of Indian and mound relics, pottery, fossils, 
shells, stone mortars, and trough supposed to be used for burying 
the dead by the Mound Builders ; from Alabama. Accessions 12840, 
13047, 13237, 13292, 13545, 13574, 13688. 

Burnham, O. Nine hogsheads, 1 box whalebones; from the coast of 
Florida, near Cape Canaveral; also two specimens of whale's teeth 
(Catodon macrocephalus). Accessions 12869, 13375. 

Burr, George. Specimen of clay shale; from New York. Accession 
13037. 

Butler, A. W. Eleven specimens of bird-skins ; from Indiana. Ac- 
cession 12761. 

Cadbury Brothers. Eighteen specimens illustrating the processes of 
manufacturing cocoa and chocolate; from Birmingham, England. 
Accession 13833. 

Caldwell, J. P. Specimen of fossil tooth (Equus cahallus) ; from South 
Carolina. Accession 13233. 

Caldicell, John W. Specimens of multiple mortar and soft stone ax; 
from Tennessee. (Loan.) Accession 13822. 

Calhoun, W. H. Specimen of compressed asphalt. Accession 12922. 

Calverley, William. Three specimens of mice (Mus musculus) caught in 
Brooklyn, N. Y., in 1851 ; specimen of crab (Libinia dubia), with oyster 
attached ; specimen of crab (Libinia emarginata), with worm tubes ; 
from New Jersey. Accessions 13570, 13666. 

Cameron, J. P. Specimens of minerals; from Texas. Accessions 12568, 
13617, 13663. 

Campbell, C. D. Specimen of fossil; from Texas. Accession 12966. 

Carlock, Mrs. B. D. Wedgewood ware box, said to be over 100 years 
old. (Deposited.) Accession 13440. 

Caro, Lewis. Specimen of clay ; from California. Accession 13665. 

Carpenter, Charles. Specimen " camel-back buoy" tin; from Ohio. 
Accession 12754. 



328 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Carpenter, Lieut. W. L. Two skins of snow bunting (Plectrophanes 
nivalis) ; from Nebraska. Accession 12774. 

Carruthers, Thomas JV r . Small quartz arrow-head; from Virginia. Ac- 
cession 13442. 

Carson, N. B. Specimens of minerals; from California. Accession 
13781. 

Castleman, T. W. Arrow-head; from Indian mound near Saint Joseph, 
La. Accession 13410. 

Centennial Committee. One block of black marble, 18 by 20 inches f 
from the quarry of Finch, Fruyn & Co., Glens Falls, N. Y. Acces- 
sion 13001. 

Central Museum, Madras, India. Cinchona bark, with illustrative bo- 
tanical specimens. Accession 13057. 

Century Company, New York. Package of sketches and proofs. Acces 
sion 12868. 

Chapin, Alvin. Specimen of Virginia fox squirrel (Sciurus niger, var. 
ludovicianus) ; from Virginia. Accession 13G21. 

Chapman, W. A. Specimens of fossils; from Arkansas. Accessions 
13447, 13483, 13596. 

Charlie (son of Duke of York), chief of Ghalam Indians (through James G. 
Swan). Specimen of club made by " Charlie " by tying a knot in a 
small fir sapling about three years ago ; from Washington Territory. 
Accession 13244. 

Chase, 0. M. Specimen of whitefish (Coregonus clupeiformis) ; from 
Lake Erie. Accession 12829. 

Chenworth, J. S. Specimen of mineral ; from Ohio. Accession, 13456- 

Cherry, Dr. E. D. Specimens of fossil shells; from Virginia. Acces- 
sion 13446. 

Cherry Valley Iron Works. Specimen of coke ; from Ohio. Accession 
13241. 

Clark, Edward (Architect of United States Capitol). Specimen of breccia 
marble, 2 by 3 by 1£ inches ; from near Point of Rocks, Md. Ac- 
cession 13642. 

Clark, Frank N. Two boxes alcoholic fishes and embryos ; from Lake 
Michigan; also model of the hatching station at North ville, Mich. 
Accessions 12556, 12587, 12712, 12737, 12838. 

Clarke, Prof. F. W. Collective exhibit of minerals ; from various locali- 
ties. Accessions 13355, 13388, 13523, 13567, 13568, 13719, 13818. 

Clark's (Thomas E.) Sons. Specimen of fish (Selene setipinnis); from New 
Bedford, Mass. Accession 13497. 

Clark, T. W. B. Collection of fresh and alcoholic oysters ; from Massa- 
chusetts and Chesapeake Bays. Accessions 12542, 12683, 12895. 

Clements, Hon. J. C. Specimen of mica schist ; from Georgia. Acces- 
sion 12616. 

Coale, B. K. Specimen of bird skin (Pipilo arcticus) ; from Kansas. 
Accession 12736. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 329 

Coffin, C. E. Specimens of iron ore, gypsum, clay, charcoal, iron slag, 

and pig iron ; from Maryland. Accession 13812. 
Coldenstroth, George W. Alcoholic specimen of chicken with one head 

and neck, four legs and wings ; from Maryland. Accession 13095. 
Cole, Daniel. Specimen of porpoise in flesh (Phocama lineata) ; from 

Wellfleet, Mass. Accession 12972. 
Cole, Luther. Specimen of whale harpoon. Accession 12513. 
Cole, Norman. Two specimens of stone relics. (Loaned.) Accession 

13788. 
Cole, 0. 0. Specimens of siliceous pebbles coated with iron ; from New 

York. Accession 13475. 
Coleman, David J. Specimen limestone concretion; from Wyoming. 

Accession 13017. 
Coleman, James E. Specimen of finback calf 30 inches long; from 

Massachusetts. Accession 131 GO. 
Collins, Joseph W. Specimen fished up with cod-net; from George's 

Bank. One box fishing apparatus; from Gloucester, Mass. Speci- 
men of Collius's patent fog alarm, with extra horns and reeds. Model 

of ideal schooner; from Massachusetts. Accessions 12590,12640, 

12705, 12785. 
Collins, P. E. Two oil paintings of fishing scenes. Accession, 12595. 
Collins, T. E. Alcoholic specimen of cat (Felis domesticus), with two 

bodies and one head. Specimen of dog (Canis familiar is), with seven 

legs ; from Washington, D. C. Accessions 13498, 13517. 
Colorado Coal and Iron Company. Specimen of coke; from Crested 

Butte and El Moro, Colo. Accession 13142. 
Colvard, J. B. Two specimens soapstone; from Jefferson, Ashe County,. 

North Carolina. Accession 13474. 
Conrad, Leonard. Specimens of hematite ; from Ohio. Accession 

12762. 
Conroy & Bissett. Collection of fishing tackle, camp equipments, &c. 

Accession 12525. 
Cooli, H. and S., & Co. Builder's model of schooner "Lizzie Mathews." 

(Loaned.) Accession 12818. 
Corbel, Malachi. Specimen of fish (Astroscopus anoplus) ; from North 

Carolina. Accession 13073. 
C or dery, Daniel C. Specimen of lumpfish (Cyclopterus lumpus); from 

New Jersey. Accession 12949. 
Cornell University (through Burt G. Wilder). Specimen of baby orang 

(Simla satyrus). Accession 13332. 
Cory, Charles B. Eight specimens of bird-skins; from Hayti; also 6 

specimens from the United States. Accessions 13660, 13841. 
Coues, Dr. Elliott, U. S. A. Specimens of bird-skins, nests, and eggs ; 

from Colorado ; also skin of Southern fox-squirrel ; from Virginia. Ac- 
cessions 13023, 13400, 13401. 



330 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Vox, L. A. Plaster cast of crinoid (Poteriocrinus coxanus) ; from Iowa. 
Accession 13815. 

Oraig, Dr. Thomas C. Specimen of bird-skin (Daption capensis). Acces- 
sion 12502. 

C random's, M. A., & Bro. Nine specimeus of ancient lamps: from Greece 
(Purchased.) Accession 13668. 

<Jrane & Porter. Specimen of Indian flute, captured by General Porter, 
commanding the constitutional forces of the Muskokee or Creek In- 
dians during a recent march in pursuit of Ispar, chief of the rebel 
faction ; Indian Territory. Accession 12989. 

Cranford, R. L. Specimen of granolithic pavement (Stuart's patent) ; 
from Princes street, Edinburgh, Scotland, showing four years' wear. 
Accession 13145. 

Crary, John S. Human skull {Homo sapiens) ; from 12 miles above Knox- 
ville, Tenn. Accession 12805. 

Craicford, Gapt. F., U. S. A. Package of wild potatoes ; from New 
Mexico; also specimen of insect (Strategus julianus); from Arizona. 
Accessions 13029, 13377. 

Qroohs, William. Two boxes of fossils, bones of mastodon, fragments of 
pottery, &c. ; from salt mines near New Iberia, La. Accessions 13140, 
13205, 13346. 

Crosbie, John G. Specimen of plant and fiber ( Yucca filamentosa) ; from 
Tennessee. Accession 13347. 

Cunningham, A. G. Specimen of schist with graphite; from Arkansas. 
Accession 13425. 

Curtis, J. F. Two alcoholic fishes (Coregonus williamsonii and Salmo 
virginalis) ; from Montana. Accession 13122. 

{Jutting Packing Company, San Francisco, Cal. Five boxes of canned 
goods (fishes, &c.) ; from California and Oregon. Accession 13011. 

Government of Ceylon. Eleven specimens of cultivated cinchona barks ; 
from India. Accession 13203. 

Dale, Dr. F. C. Specimens of Japanese cabbage seed. Accession 
13315. 

Dall, Rev. C. E. A. Specimens of the common food grains of India, 
also shells, one Hookah, with three bowls, paste, charcoal, balls, 
shoes, sandals, water brushes (Jehus hints), Ceylon grass mat, glass 
bangles, and lotah for water, &c. ; from India. Accession 13837. 

Day, Dr. Francis (tJirougliB. HitcJwocJc). Specimens of AmpJiioxus; from 
Ceylon. Accession 13830. 

Dayton, F. G. One box of oysters; from Long Island. Accession 
12651. 

Delaicder, G. W. Model of trout spawning box ; from Maryland. Ac- 
cession 12833. 

Deming, M. One box of oysters; from Ehode Island. Accession 
12798. 

De Motte, William. Specimen of mineral. Accession 13681. 



REPORT OX NATIONAL MUSEUM. 33 L 

Dewey, F. P. Specimens of minerals, iron, gold, copper, lead, tin ores, 
and rocks; from Maryland, Virginia, Ontario, and New York. Ac- 
cessions 12971, 13246, 13490, 13520, 13546, 13586, 13799. 

Deweese, H. G. Specimens of limestone; from Ohio. Accession 12921. 

Den-hurst, W. W. Three specimens of coqnina ; from Saint Augustine, 
Fla. Accession 13594. 

Dexter, Newton. Scales of horse-mackerel ; from Maine. Accession 
12727. 

Diemar, Miss Maude. Specimen of Angora cat (Felis domestica angori- 
ensis). Accession 12987. 

Boron, T. S. Specimen of fresh rockfish (Roccus saxatilis) ; from Ala- 
bama River. Accession 12988. 

Dorxey, Miss (through Rev. William Brayshaw). Skeletons of birds and 
specimens of stone relics; from Maryland. Accession 13454. 

Dowellj John. Specimens of herring (Clupea vernalis) ; from Potomac 
River. Accession 12914. 

Dresel, H. G., Ensign, U. S. N. Specimen of bird-skin (Larus glaucus); 
from Northumberland Island. Accession 13752. 

Dudley, Dr. G. B. Specimens of anthracite and bituminous coal and 
samples of coke; from Crested Butte, Colo. Accession 13144. 

Dunan, IV 'infield S. Samples of dry fish scraps and fish oils. Acces- 
sion 12541. 

Duncan, G. A., & Go. Specimen of fire clay ; from Colorado. Acces- 
sion 12671. 

Dungan, R. M. Specimens of ores; from California. Accession 13302. 

Dunn, Horace D. Specimen of oyster shell (Ostrea virginica). Acces- 
sion 13645. 

Dutcher, William. Specimen of bird-skin (Passerculus princeps); from 
Oyster Bay, Long Island. Accessiou 12605. 

Dicight, William B. Three hundred specimens of larvre of king-crab, 
horseshoe-crab (Limulus polyphcmus) ; from Martha's Vineyard, Mass. 
Accession 12725. 

Dyer, E. R. Package of sand ; from West Virginia. Accession 13018. 

Eckel, John G. Specimen of kerosene shale; from Australia. Acces- 
siou 13371. 

Edwards, J. B., Superintendent Life-Saving Station (through E. G. Black- 
ford). Specimen of shark 9 feet 3 inches long (Pseudotriakis micro- 
don); from near East Hampton, Long Island. Accession 12701. 

Ed}cards, Vinal V. Alcoholic specimens of Chsetoplerus, scaly worm, 
phosphates, fish scraps, samples of old rope, alcoholic invertebrates, 
specimens of stone relics, fresh fish (Ctenolabrus adspersus), alcoholic 
fishes (Boleosoma olmstedi), copepod and leech parasites of fishes, 
fresh fishes {Stenotomus chrysops, Osmerus mordax, Stomateus triacan- 
thus, Gentropristes nigricans, &c), bones of Phoca vilulina ; from 
Wood's Holl, Mass. Accessions 12512, 12536, 12586, 12786, 12835, 
13177, 13389, 13648, 13659, 13745, 13S50. 



332 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Eller, Charles. Specimen of crab (Callinectes hastatus); from Potomac 
River. Accession 13480. 

Ellis & Co. Specimens of mineral ; from Lauderdale County, Alabama. 
Accession 13510. 

Ellis, A. L., & Co. Specimens of horseshoe-crabs, glass icicles, and 
glass fish-eyes ; from Ehode Island. Accessions 12924, 12925. 

Eltonhead, Mrs. William B. Sample of raw silk raised in the United 
States and reeled in the rooms of the " Womans' Silk Culture Associa- 
tion of the United States," at Philadelphia, Pa. Accession 12887. 

Emerie, H. F. Specimen of gum (Larrea mexicana), alcoholic specimens 
of lizards and Indian relics; from Guaymas, Mexico. Accessions 
13035, 13165. 

Emmert, John W. Three specimens of bones ; from mound in North 
Carolina. Accession 13191. 

Emrick, 0. W. Specimens of stone relics ; from Pennsylvania. (Pur- 
chased.) Accession 13758. 

Endlich, Dr. F. M. Specimen of turquois (ornament) ; from the Pueblo 
Indians in New Mexico. Accession 12539. 

Engelmann, Dr. George J. One box, collection of musical instruments; 
from the Kankasas Mountains. Accession 13300. 

English, Earl, TJ. 8. A. Two specimens of gophers (Testudo polyphemus). 
Accession 13019. 

Engle, J. E. Specimen of deformed fruit; from Falls Church, Va. 
Accession 13543. 

Evans, G. L. Specimens of mound relics; from Iowa. Accession 
13417. 

Evans, R. D., TJ. 8. N~. Alcoholic specimens of snakes, invertebrates, 
coral, and fishes (Hypleurochilus germinatus, Gobiesox, Gobiosoma 
boscii) ; from Maryland, Virginia, and the James, York, and Potomac 
Eivers. Accessions 13151, 13265, 13455. 

Evans, 8. B. (through G. Mendoza). Cast of the Tesceoco calendar stone 
of Mexico. Accession 12865. 

Evans, W. W. Specimens of some of the bronze castings of the ancient 
Peruvians, small head of burnt clay, piece of woven paper, seven 
boxes of Peruvian pottery, and specimens of arrow- points, &c; from 
China, Peru, and Chili. Accessions 13028, 13687, 13838. 

Fairhurst,A. Specimens of stone implements; from Kentucky. Acces- 
sion 13248. 

Fair, H. D. M. Specimen of mineral; from New York. Accession 
13264. 

Fairup & Gorsird (through Almont Barnes). Specimens of mammal 
bones ; from Aves Islands, about 70 miles off the coast of Venezuela. 
Accession 13297. 

Farloic, W. G. Specimens of algse. Accession 12983. 

Faucher, G. L. Specimens of Indian relics. Accession 13162. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 333 

Fayette Coal and (Joke Company. Samples of coke ; from West Vir- 
ginia. Accessions 13053, 13127, and 13129. 

Fearon, R. N. Specimens of fossil fishes ; from Ohio. Accessions 12037, 
12771. 

Ferguson, T. B. Specimens of bird-skins; from Florida. Accession 
1295G. 

Ferry, C. M. Specimens of ores, shells, moths, cocoons of apple-tree 
worms, fossil shells, and one specimen of Indian relic (loaned) ; from 
New York. Accession 13492. 

FiUette, St. Julian. Skull (Homo sapiens) of chief of Marquesas Islands ; 
taken from native tomb (deposited), and specimens of minerals (Fseu- 
domalachite) ; from Napa Valley, California. Accessions 12878, 12928, 
13012. 

Fish, Alexander. Specimens of oysters ; from New Jersey. Accession 
12520. 

Fish, F. J. Specimens of minerals ; from near Chattanooga, Tenn. 
Accession 13750. 

Fitzhugh, D. H. Specimens of fishes (Fercopsis guttatus) ; from Michigan. 
Accession 12827. 

Fitzhugh, E. K. Specimens of copper and lead ores, and specimen of 
graphite; from Virginia. Accession 13797. 

Fitzgerald, L. Specimens of minerals. (Purchased.) Accession 12800. 

Fletcher, James. Alcoholic specimen of mouse-fish (Miamphocottus rich- 
ardsonii). Accession 13039. 

Flournoy, Jacob A. Specimen of ore; from Alabama. Accession 13197. 

Flynn, R. O. Basket containing thirty- six Peruvian weaving spindles, 
with samples of cloth and yarn; from Peru. Accession 13435. 

Foote, A. E., & Co. Specimens fresh clams, and clam shells ; from Con- 
necticut. Accessions 12510, 12020, 12092, 12704. 

Foote, J. Howard. Collection of musical instruments. Accession 
12809. 

Ford, Frank. Specimen of red-head duck in flesh (Athyia americana). 
Accession 12990. 

Fortune, W. H. Specimens of nuts; from Gallatin County, Illinois. 
Accession 13593. 

Foster, Al. Photograph of steamboat, with passengers fishing, off the 
Jersey coast. Accession 12940. 

Fox, W. H. Specimen of Dendrceca blachburnicc ; from New Hamp- 
shire. Accession 13550. 

Francis, George D. Three varieties of fishing tackle; from Massachu- 
setts. Accession 12859. 

Frazar, G. B. Specimens of pottery, shell implements, bears' teeth, 
prongs of deer antlers, shell-rock, and alligators' eggs. Accession 
13014. 

Frazee, John H. Specimens of stone relics. (Loaned.) Accession 
12825. 



334 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Frazier, Mrs. George W. Frame containing wreath of fish-sclae orna- 
ments, &e. ; from Florida. Accession 127G7. 
Freeman, Gideon E. Specimens of Indian arrow-beads, &c. (Loaned.) 

Accession 12581. 
Frcerc, Mrs. Elizabeth. Alcoholic specimens of insects (Passalus cornu- 

tus, Buprestis rufipes, Epeira insularis) ; from Virginia. Accession 

13313. 
Fuller, A. If. Specimens of birds' eggs; from Kansas. Accessions 

12543, 12602. 
Ferguson, Mr. Specimen of coke; from Freepoit, Pa. Accession 

13795. 
Galbraith, Frank G. Specimens of stone relics; from Pennsylvania. 

Accessions 13033, 13290, 13504. 
Galvin, C. E. Specimen of clay; from New York. Accession, 1310G. 
Gamner, George F. Specimens of bird skins (Flamingo), skin of a turkey 

(Meleagris ocellata); from Yucatan (purchased); and bats; from New 

Mexico. Accessions 12823, 1371G, 13721. 
Gant, James. Specimen of nest and eggs of the song sparrow ; from the 

grounds of the Smithsonian Institution. Accession, 13404. 
Gardner, Prof. James T. Specimens of Laramie fossils; from Mexico. 

Accession 12615. 
Gamier, Br. J. E. Alcoholic specimens of reptiles ( Ophthalmidion lon- 

gissimum, Bana circulosa, liana nigricans), and specimens of frogs 

(Bana septentrionalis, Eutcenia dorsalis, Bana catesbiana, Bana halecina y 

Bana clamitans), and tadpoles; from Canada. Accessions 13372, 

13636. 
Garrison, George T. Specimen of borer, and shells of oysters destroyed 

by the borer, &c. ; from Matompkin Bay, Virginia. Accession 

13119. 
Gary, E. Stanley. Specimen of stone relic; from Howard County, Mary- 
land. Accession 13643. 
Gatewood, Er. W. Emmet. Specimen of stone relic; from site of an old 

Indian camp. (Purchased.) Accession 12858. 
Geofroy, Antonie and George de. Specimen of live alligator. Accession 

13193. 
Gere, J. E. Specimens of fossils and Indian relics; from Wisconsin. 

Accession 13806. 
Gerhing, George If. Specimen of iron pyrites; from Illinois. Acces- 
sion 13223. 
Gernerd, J. M. M. Specimen of paint stones used by aborigines; found 

on bank of Susquehanna Eiver, on site of old Indian encampment. 

Accession 12603. 
Gesner, William. Specimen of iron ore ; from Alabama. Accession 

12549. 
Gibbons, Isaac W. Specimen of mineral ( Cassiterite) ; from Virginia. 

Accession 13542. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 335 

Gibson, A. M. (through Frank Bums). Specimens of Indian relics \ 
from Alabama. Accession 1329C. 

Gilbert, Charles H. Six boxes and one tank alcobolic specimens of 
fishes; from Panama. Accessions 12694,12957, 12999. 

Giles & Pearce. Specimens of chloride of silver and silver assay button ; 
from Grant County, New Mexico. Accession 13585. 

Gilliam, F. M. One hundred aud twelve specimens of arrow-points; 
from California. Accession 13262. 

Gilmore, C. B. Samples of muscovite with inclosed magnetite ; from 
Montgomery County, Maryland. Accession 13744. 

Glascock, Alfred E. Specimen of live snake; from Washington, D. C. 
Accession 13303. 

Gloucester Isinglass Company. Five boxes of exhibits of isinglass, 
glues, &c; from Massachusetts. Accession 12758. 

Godman, F. D. (through William Wesley). Specimens of bird skins ; 
from England. Accession 13509. 

Godicin, Dr. J. B. Specimen of beetle (Bynastes tityus Linn.); from 
Virginia. Accession 13428. 

Goss, N. S. Specimens of bird-skins (Bendrozca cestiva); from Kansas 
and Western Guatemala. Accessions 12904, 13021, 13235. 

Gray, Prof. Asa. Specimens of Indian materia medica, dye-stuffs, and 
tanning materials. Accession 13813. 

Green, Monroe A. Three dozen barbless fish hooks. Accession 12681. 

Greenfield, James M. Specimen of quartz ; from Michigan. Accession 
12873. 

Grey, J. W. (through Barnetl Phillips). Two specimens of shells; from 
Hartford, Conn. Accession 13711. 

Gridley, N~., & Son. Specimens of pig-iron and iron ores ; from Dutchess 
County, New York. Accessions 13311, 13761. 

Grigsby, C. S. Specimens of stone relics ; from Tennessee. (Purchased.) 
Accessions 12653, 12740, 13222, 13293, 13336, 13353, 13373, 13399. 

Guesde, L. Specimen of cactus plant (Melocactus). Accession 13415. 

Gurney, J. H. Specimens of bird-skins ; from Norwich, England. Ac- 
cession 12917. 

Haag, Mrs. Specimen of Mexican hairless dog (Caiiis familiar is). Ac- 
cession 12634. 

Hachenberg, Br. G. P. Specimen of air plant (Tillandsia recurvata)', 
from Texas. Accession 13747. 

Hague, Arnold. Package of chips for microscopic slides. Accession 
12726. 

Hague, T. O. Two samples of cotton (ginned and unginned); from Per- 
sia. Accession 12720. 

Haldennan, John A. Autograph letter in Siamese ; from the King of 
Siam. Accession 12599. 

Hall, C. D. Oyster dredge; from Connecticut. (Purchased.) Acces- 
sion 12529. 



336 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Hall & Pearsall. Three kits of assorted mullets (large, small, and me- 
dium) ; from North Carolina. (Purchased.) Accession 12955. 

Hammersley, W. H. Specimen of fresh sea catfish (JElurichthys mari- 
nus) ; from Quantico, Va. Accession 13472. 

Hampton, Hon. Wade. Part of skull and lower jaw of alligator gar 
(Litholepis spatula) ; from Mississippi Eiver ; and three live speci- 
mens of soft-shell turtles; from South Carolina. Accessions 12584, 
13226. 
Harrington, James (through F. Stussy). Two stone images; from Tam- 
pico, Mexico. Accession 13515. 

Harris, JV. H. Specimen of clay ; from Hinds County, Mississippi. 
Accession 13124. 

Harvey, F. L. Specimens of Indian relics. (Loaned.) Accession 12611. 

Hassett, Burdett. Specimen of owl, in flesh ( Asio wilsonianus) ; from 
Iowa. Accession 13622. 

Hawes, Dr. George W. (deceased), (through Mrs. Daniel Tainter). Collec- 
tion of minerals, rocks, and ores ; from various localities. Accession 
13843. 

Hawley, E. H. Specimens of shells, snails, newt (Diemyctylus miniatus 
miniatus), and Albino rat ; from Niagara River, Chautauqua County, 
New York, and Washington, D. C. Accessions 13486, 13608. 

Hayden, G. 8. Specimens of minerals and rocks ; from Maine. Acces- 
sions 12559, 12961. 

Hayden, William P. Specimens of minerals ; from Maine. Accession 
12775. 

Haydon, Walton. Eleven photographs of Indians; from H. B. T. Ac- 
cession 13686. 

Hays, jr., John W. Alcoholic specimens of snake, insects, crustaceans; 
from North Carolina. Accession 13316. 

Hay ward, F. W. Specimen of mud eel (Siren lacertina); and specimen 
of decomposed shell limestone, mainly carbonite of lime; from South 
Carolina. Accessions 13183, 13773. 

Hazen, W. B., U. 8. A. Specimen of Kyak (skin-covered) and ivory 
mounted with paddles; from Greenland. (Deposited.) Accession 
12561. 

Haines, Peter G., U. 8. Engineers. Samples of dredgings and specimen 
of rock ; from the Potomac Eiver. Accession 13731. 

Hemphill, Henry. Specimens of shells ; from Florida, Texas, Missis- 
sippi, and Louisiana. Accessions 13044, 13268, 13733. 

Hempstead, Elias (through G. W. Smiley). Specimen of fossil bone and 
portion of tooth and rib ; from Tampa Bay, Florida. Accession 
13514. 

Hereford, Frank. Specimen of chlorite schist; from West Virginia. 
Accession 13768. 

Herrick, G. L. Specimens of Indian relics and alcoholic specimens of 
crabs, shrimps, and cray-fish ; from Alabama. Accession 12509. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MtlSEtJM. 33? 

Hetton, B. A. Specimen of specular hematite; from Hazel Spring, 

Va. Accession 13494. 
Hlggins & Gifford. Three boat models and one seine-boat pump; from 

Gloucester, Mass. (Purchased.) Accessions 12526, 12590. 
Eilgard, J. E. Chart representing the model of Atlantic coast, to- 
gether with fifty copies of a reduced chart of depths and tempera- 
tures, also chart relating to the Long Island Sound shell fisheries. 
Accession 13110. 

Eillon, B. A. Specimen of pyrite and graphite in schist. Accession 
13020. 

Hill, L. 8., if- Co. Two frames spoon baits and two automatic baits. 
(Loaned.) Accession 12891. 

Hillman, Prof. Uno E. Fish albumen and two specimens haddock 
(Melanogrammus ceglefinus), preserved by new solution ; from Massa- 
chusetts. Accessions 12576, 12963. 

Hill yen, W. P. Specimen of fish (Fistularia tabaccaria) ; from Chesa- 
peake Bay. Accession 13599. 

Elnde, Alfred W. Specimens of shells; from California. Accession 
13429. 

Eirsclif elder, C. A. Photograph of Huron Indian skull, said to be over 
two hundred and thirty years old. Accession 12688. 

Eiscox, W. E. Specimens of fossils. Accession 13628. 

Eitchcock, George N. Specimen of sponge ; from San Diego, Cal. Ac- 
cession 13509. 

Hitchcock, Romyn. Collection of foods (purchased) and two bottles 
alcoholic specimens of eels. Accessions 13827, 13828, 13836. 

Eobbs, George 8. Specimens of oysters ; from Georgia and Florida : also 
fresh specimen of the embryo of cat (Fells domestica). Accessions 
12765, 12768, 13569. 

Hoffman, J. Specimen of porpoise (Tursiops subridens); from "Turkey 
Gut," near Cape May, N. J. Accession 13554. 

Hoffman, Pr. W. J. Specimen of mammal skin (Arctomys monax); from 
Michigan. Accession 13655. 

Hofmafl, Michael. Specimen of ore; from Missouri. Accession 12899. 

Hogg, George. Specimens of minerals; from Texas. Accession 13774. 

Eolberton, W. Specimen of pack basket, fly books, and fishing tackle. 
(Purchased.) Accession 12666, 12673. 

Holla day, Ben. Specimen of live owl. Accession 13059. 

Eoll, Dr. Specimen of child's shirt, made by the Cakchiguel India is 
of Guatemala. Accession 13260. 

Holmes, Frank. Folding canvas boat ; from Ohio. Accession 12580. 

Holmes, W. E. One hundred and ninety-four specimens of rocks; from 
the Yellowstone Park, Wyoming. • Accession 13024. 

Eopkinson, J. Specimen of a white oak, about 5 inches in diameter, 
with 12-iuch board driven 8 feet through it by the storm which passed 
through the town of Wesson, Miss., April 22, 1883. Accession 13282. 
II . Mis. 69 22 



o38 REPORT OX NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Hopson, W. B. Two volumes of the Sea World and Packer's Journal, 
and picture of W. B. Hopson. Accession 12934. 

Hor an, Joseph. Three specimens of live snakes; from Virginia. Acces 
sion 13171. 

Hornaday, W. T. Alcoholic specimen of bat; from Washington, D. C. 
Accession 13439. 

Hotchliss, Jed. Samples of coke ; from Pennsylvania and West Vir- 
ginia. Accessions 13054, 13070, 13 130. 

Howard, Ernest. Specimens of minerals, hematite and chalcopyrite 
hematite and asurite, chalcocite, and malachite, &c. ; from Loudoun 
County, Virginia. Accession 13025. 

Howard, E. L. Specimen of soapstone; from near Falls Church, Va. 
Accession 13502. 

Howarth, James W. Specimens of minerals, green feldspar, orthoclase, 
muscovite, limonite, garnet, &c. ; from Pennsylvania. Accession 
13525. 

Howe, H W. Medal or calendar, dug from an Indian burial ground in 
1842; from Ohio. (Loaned.) Accession 13370. 

Howes, R. A., & Go. Specimen of a human skeleton. (Purchased.) Ac- 
cession 13793. 

Howland, H. S. Porpoise (Kogia goodei) 9 feet long, found on beach at 
life saving station No. 8, fourth district, New Jersey. Accession 
13000. 

Hubbard Brothers. Specimen of porpoise ; from Fire Island, New York. 
Accession 12959. 

Hudson, Dr. 6. L. {through F. L. Donnelly). Stuffed specimen of alli- 
gator {Alligator mississippiensis), pelican {Pelecanus Juscus), muskrat 
(Fiber zibethicus), fox, and female opossum {Didelphys virginiana), with 
young attached (Sciurus niger var. niger). Accession 13739. 

Ilughlett, Thomas. Specimens of fresh fish (Mugil albida, Caranx Idppus, 
Ssmotilus bullaris, &c); from Maryland. Accessions 13032, 13003, 
13718. 

Humlong, William. Specimen of east of carved stone-head; from mound 
in Iowa. Accession 13471. 

Hunt, Charles V. (through John P. Rogan). Specimens of Indian relics; 
from Wilkes County, North Carolina. Accession 13217. 

Hunt d; Roberts. Specimen of weevil web, larva of Epliistia zece. Ac- 
cession 13834. 

Huntington, J>r. D. L. Specimen of fresh fish. Accession 13334. 

Huske, C. J. Alcoholic specimens of fishes {N~othonotv.s). Accession 
13432. 

Hutchinson, Mrs. H. M. .Specimen of live eagle. Accession 13540. 

Jackson, Charles A. Model of "Carry-away" boat: from Long Island. 
(Purchased.) Accession 12749. 

Jackson R. II. {through F. L. Donnelly). Specimens of Indian relics and 
bones (Homo sapiens) ; from Georgia. Accession 13740. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. Ou'J 

Jacob, Edwin, U. S. 2s". (through Mrs. Captain Jouett). Two leaves of 
silver-tree (Leucodendron argenteum) ; from Cape of Good Hope, South 
Africa, near Tabee Mountain. Acession 12574. 

Jamaica, Government of . Specimens of cinchona ; from the Government 
plantations ; J. Hart, superintendent. Accession 13384. 

James, Henry H. Specimen of whip-poor-will, in flesh, and shed skin of 
a snake (Tropidonotus sipedon); from District of Columbia. Acces- 
sions 13289, 13304. 

James, Isaac (through Frank Burns). Specimens of fossiliferous lime- 
stone; from Blount Spring, Ala. Accession 12937. 

James, U. P. Eighty-seven species of invertebrate fossils ; from Ohio. 
Accession 13216. 

Jardine, B. B. Specimens of iron ores; from Bethlehem Iron Com- 
pany's miue, Wilbur, Ontario, Canada. Accession 13734. 

Jeffreys, Dr. J. Gwyn. Large collection of shells ; from Europe. Pur- 
chased. Accessions 13083, 13424, 13508. 

Jewell, Willard. Sketches of Indians made by Duncan in 1853. Ac- 
cession 13050. 

Johnson, Samuel. Specimens of arrow-heads ; from Wood County, West 
Virginia. Accession 13488. 

Johnson & Young. Specimens of fresh lobsters; from the Boston Mar- 
ket. Accession 12661. 

Jones, George C. Cast of pierced-stone implement. Accession 12630. 

Jones, J. F. Specimen of live catfishes (Amiurus marmoratus); from 
Georgia. Accession 13807. 

Jones, T. S. Specimen of worm ; from Virginia. Accession 13322. 

Jouy, P. L. Large collection of general natural history and ethuolo- 
gica; from Japan. Accessions 13306, 13360. 

Kales, Br. J. W. Specimens of Indian arrow-heads; from New York. 
Accession 12967. 

Earns, T. C. Specimen of stone relic; from Knox County, Tennessee. 
Accession 13411. 

Earr, Anton. Specimen of pug dog (Canis familiaris), in flesh; from 
Washington, D. C. Accession 13651. 

Earr, W. W. Specimens of petrified moss and beach leaves; from 
Clarke County, Indiana. Accession 13601. 

Kaufman, Joseph F. Alcoholic specimen of snake; from Virginia. Ac- 
cession 12973. 

Keam, Thomas V. (through James Stevenson). Specimens of two live- 
rattlesnakes, used by the Moqui Indians in their snake dances. Ac- 
cession 13705. 

Keith, Minor G. (through Hoadly & Co.). Specimens of twelve stone im- 
ages, with pieces found at a point called Dos Novillos, on the line 
Costa Rica Railroad, some 49 miles from the coast, at from 2 to 5 feet 
below surface. Accession 13254. 



340 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Keith, Nathan. Alcoholic specimen of fishes; from Massachusetts. Ac- 
cession 13580. 

Kelly, jr., D.J). Model of " double-ender boat;" from Maine. (Pur- 
chased.) Accession 12594. 

Kelly, John F. Alcoholic specimens of snails; from Washington, D. C. 
Accessions 12986, 13062. 

Kemeys, E. Collection of clay models of American animals. Accession 
13111. 

Kengla, Jj. A. Collection of bones {Homo sapiens); from Indian graves 
in West Virginia. Accession 13726. 

Kent, A. S. (through John P. Bogan). Specimens of Indian relics ; from 
Caldwell County, North Carolina. Accession 13479. 

Kerr, W. G. Specimens of building stones and soapstones ; from North 
Carolina. Accessions 12646, 13826. 

Kettle, Mr. Specimens of vein gold; from Culpeper County, Virginia. 
Accessions 13312, 13326. 

King, Arche Oracle. Specimen of granite ; from New York. Accession 
13008. 

King, F. JJ. Specimens of eel (Petromyzon argenteus and Blarina tal- 
poides); from Wisconsin. Accessions 13485, 13720. 

King, F. M. Specimens of stone relics ; from San Jacinto Mountains, 
California. Accession 13623. 

King, J. B. Specimens of stone relics ; from Ohio. (Loaned.) Acces- 
sion 13256. 

King, Peyton B. Alcoholic specimens of fishes (Gyprinoids) and speci- 
mens of fossils ; from Alabama. Accessions 13318, 13420. 

Knott, W. T. Specimens of copper implements; from mound near 
Lebanon, Ky. Accession 12812. 

Knotvles, Herbert M. Specimens of fresh fish (Fistularia serrata, Cyclop- 
term lumpus) ; from life-saving station at Point Judith, Rhode Island. 
Accessions 13613, 13653. 

Itohn, A. H. Specimens of Indian arrow-heads and quartz ; from South 
Carolina. Accession 13179. 

Korts & Bean. Alcoholic specimen of crayfish ; from Potomac River. 
Accession 12943. 

Kortz, Charles. Alcoholic specimens of snake and cray-fish ; from Po- 
tomac River. Accession 13063. 

Kreager, John. Specimens of minerals; from Colorado. Accession 
13578. 

Kuehling, J. H. Specimen of living turkey buzzard, juv. ; from Virginia. 
Accession 13285. 

Kummerfeld, J. F. Specimen of stone relic ; from Pottawattamie County, 
Iowa. Accession 13676. 

Kurrachee Municipal Library and Museum. One box specimens of mam- 
mal skins and skulls and one box (277) specimens of drugs; from 
India. Accession 12523. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 341 

Lamson, John S., & Bro. Specimens of pottery, stone implements, gold 
and bronze images ; from the Chiriqui graves; also large collection 
of antiquities, arrows, chisels, and other implements of modern In- 
dians of Chiriqui ; collected by J. A. McNiel. Accessions 13654, 
13670. 

Lanphear, George 8. Photograph of the fishmongers' association. Ac- 
cession 13078. 

Lathrop, W. H. Specimen of coke; from Virginia. Accession 13798. 

Laicler, D. J. Specimens of boat models, menhaden steamer aud fish- 
market boat. Accession 12821. 

Leas, Henry G., Son & Co. Specimen of double-crested comoraut skin; 
from Howard County, Maryland. Accession 13792. 

Lee, Henry B. {through John B. Wiggins). Specimen of fossils; from 
New York. Accession 13559. 

Lee, John W. Specimens of minerals ; from Maryland. Accession 
13036. 

Leffel, James, & Go. Model of the Leffel double-turbine water-wheel ; 
from Springfield, Ohio. Accession 13105. 

Leonard, Henry. Specimen of canary bird, aged thirteen years and six 
months. Accession 13084. 

Leslie, C. C. Specimens of oysters ; from South Carolina. Accession 
12780. 

Lesquereux, Prof. L. Specimens of fossils ; from Ohio. Accession 
13321. 

Le Van, Mrs. M. J. Three specimens of old-style lamps. Accession 
12620. 

Lcicis, Buff Green. Alcoholic specimen of four-legged chick of domestic 
fowl ; from Jefferson County, West Virginia. Accession 12714. 

Lighton, W. JR. Specimens of fossils and unios ; from Iowa ; aud head 
of an idol ; from an Aztec tomb in Mexico. Accessions 12960, 13356, 
13537. 

Lilly, G. A. Specimens of ores; from Hall County, Georgia. Acces- 
sion 13538. 
Lincoln, Charles P. Specimen of a Siamese cat {Felis domestica) ; from 

Bangkok, Siam. Accession 12898. 
Lindley, C. T. Specimens of stone relics; from Illinois. (Loaned.) 

Accession 12658. 
Lloyd, G. H. Specimens of arrow-heads; from Virginia and Maryland. 

Accessions 12890, 13159. 
Lloyd, J. M. Specimen of jasper arrow-head ; from Charles County, 

Maryland. Accession 12547. 
Lochman, G. L. Photographs of plants. Accession 12550. 
Loekwood, Samuel. Specimen of stone relic ; from New Jersey. (Loaned.) 

Accession 12982. 
Logan, Hon. John A. Collection of copper and silver ores ; from Illinois, 

Accession 12286. 



342 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Logan, W. E. {through Hon. M. W. Ransom). Specimen of iron ore; 
from North Carolina. Accession 12734. 

Loomis, Plumb & Co. Two automatic reels (bronze and nickel plate); 
from New York. Accession 1l'784. 

Lojrp, John F. Specimen of black-oak root, with pine root grown 
through it; from Arkansas. Accession 13089. 

Lorillard, Pierre {through Desire Charnay, of Paris). Large collection 
of casts of many of the most notable inscriptions and bas reliefs east- 
ing in the ruined cities of Mexico and Central America. Accession 
13211. 

Love, Thomas J. Specimens of oysters ; from New Jersey. Accession 
12618. 

Love, William B. Four specimens of native gold in quartz; from Cul- 
peper County, Virginia. Accession 13092. 

Love, W. G. (through F. W. Taylor). Specimen of gold; from near 
Eichardsville, Culpeper County, Virginia. Accession 13803. 

Lou-ell, Stephen A. Specimen of mineral (Epidote with Grossularite in 
quartz) ; from Hebron, Me. Accession 13386. 

Ludicorth, George B. Alcoholic specimens of snakes ; from Michigan. 
(Loaned.) Accession 13426. 

Lugger, sr., 0. Specimens of bird-skins ; from Demerara, South Amer- 
ica. Accession 13552. 

Lummis, Charles. Copies of "Birch Bark Poems." Accession 13689. 

Lytle, William. Specimen of limonite dendrite on limestone ; from Illi- 
nois. Accession 12797. 

MacLean, J. P. Specimen of cane, made of cedar log, from 85 feet be- 
low surface, fragment of bone implement and prong of deer's antler; 
from an earthwork in Highland County, Ohio. Accessions 13604, 
13723. 

Macleay, William. Specimen of dugong skin (Halicore dugong); from 
Sydney, Australia. Accession 12813. 

Mais, E. C. (through W. W. Evans). Specimens of tus-Tks, teeth, and 
claws of extinct species of kangaroo (Biprotodon), found 18 inches be- 
low surface of swampy land near Millicent, in the southeast district of 
South Australia, Accession 12988. 

Mallet, jr., Edmond. Specimen of hen's egg; from Washington, D. C. 
Accession 13004. 

Mallory, H. P. Specimens of slides of diatoms ; from Pensacola Bay, 
Florida. Accession 13329. 

Mallet, Br. J. W. Specimens of minerals; from Texas. Accession 
13817. 

Mann Brothers. Samples of oyster tubs. Accession 12528. 

Mann, Charles L. Sample of piercing tool and fish-hook, made from 
hammered copper and rolled in shape. (Loan.) Accession 12621. 

Manning, P. C. Specimens of gneiss and collection of small stones ; 
from Maine ; also porphyry and quartz ; from Placer County, Cali- 
fornia. Accessions 12792, 13002, 13434. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 343 

MarnocJc, G. W. Alcoholic specimens of reptiles ; from Texas. Acces- 
sion 13720. 

Marshall, H. Specimen of duck in flesh. Accession 13635. 

Marshall, 8. N. Live specimen of duck, from Peck's Beach. New Jer- 
sey. Accession 13629. 

Martin, Horace. Specimen of stone ax and pipe; from Missouri. Ac- 
cession 12693. 

Martin, 8. I. Specimens of five playing- cards taken from pouch of 
codfish hauled up in 90 fathoms of water in latitude 42 south ou 
the 18th of September, 1882 ; also box of net formers ; from Massachu- 
setts. Accessions 12564, 12781. 

Mason, John {through George P. Merrill). Specimens of diabase, epidotic 
rock, &c. ; from Goose Creek, near Leesburg, Va. Accession 13407. 

Mather, Fred. Alcoholic fishes (Salvelinus fontinalis, Goregonus quadri- 
lateralis, Catostomus commersonii, Amiurus catus, Luxilus cornutus, 
&c.); from " Adirondacks." Accessions 13085, 13214, 13811. 

Matthews, John. Specimen of marble containing 90 per cent, carbonate 
of lime, and one bottle of powdered snow-flake marble ; from New 
York. Accession 13489. 

Mattes, M. R. Specimens of six metallo-plastic fishes (loan), and ten 
photographs of the West Indian fishes; from Surinam. Accessions 
13201, 13496. 

Mattson, Hans (through consul-general, Calcutta). Collection of roots 
and plants ; from India. Accession 13402. 

Maxey, Hon. 8. B. Pair of horns, with section of skull attached (Bos 
taurus). Accession 12905. 

May, William R. Specimen of supposed gold-bearing slate. Acces- 
sion 12656. 

McBride, R. 0. Specimen of stone ax; from Missouri. Accession 
12631. 

McOasMll, J. C. I. Samples of mineral water and small specimen of 
ore ; from Texas. Accession 12779. 

McCcney, E. P. Specimen of eocene mollusks; from marl bed in Prince 
George's County, Maryland. Accession 13717. 

McCormick, L. M. Skeleton of squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) ; from Falls 
Church, Va. ; specimen of cat (Felis domestica); from Smithsonian 
grounds ; and collection of birds, skeletons, and bones ; from District 
of Columbia. Accessions 13150, 13606, 13779. 

McElroy, 8. W. Box of crude material; fiom Kansas. Accession 
13099. 

McFarland, Prof. R. W. (through Hon. H. L. Morey). Specimens of 
cedar, from 85 feet below surface; from near Oxford, Ohio. Acces- 
sion 13821. 

McGlothlin, G. W. Specimens of minerals; from Texas. Accessions 
13090, 13357. 



344 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

McKay, C. L. (deceased). Collection of ivory, bone, and wood ornaments, 
alcoholic specimens of mammals, insects, fishes, invertebrates, frogs, 
and stone relics, minerals, pumice-stone, birds' nests and skins, shells, 
plants, dried insects, and fossil shells, &c. ; from Alaska. Accessions 
13527, 13824. 

McKcnzic, A. (through James G. Swan). Specimen of snowy owl ; from 
Massett, British Columbia. Accession 13844. 

McKesson & Bobbins (New York). Two hundred samples of oils, one 
hundred specimens of miscellaneous drags, one box of commercial 
sponges, and one box specimens of cuprea leaves, bark, and fruit. 
Accessions 12579, 12042, 13128, 13219, 133G9. 

McKlcroy, John M. Specimen of shed skin of snake. Accession 13229. 

McLachlcn, A. M. (through Hon. 8. E. Peters). Specimens of ores. Ac- 
cession 13819. 

McLain, M. Three boat models. (Purchased.) Accession 12545. 

McLean, John J. Specimens of stone relics and flint chippings, skele- 
ton of large seal (Emnetopias stclleri), two skins of seals (Zalophns 
californicus), specimen of shell, rocks, showing work of boriug mol- 
lusks, and pumice-stone; from California. Accession 13805. 

McManus, Felix It. Specimen of fossil shell. Accession 13713. 

McMcnamin & Co. ( Virginia). Eight boxes of canned oysters and crabs. 
Accession 12510. 

McNiel, J. A. (through J. 8. Lamson & Bro.). Alcoholic specimens of 
fishes, eels, shrimps, and crabs, shells, and frogs ; from Chiiiqui River 
and streams flowing from Mount Chiriqui; and alcoholic specimen of 
snake (Pclamis bicolcr) ; from Pacific Ocean, off the Island of Quibo. 
Accession 13473. 

Mead, B. F. Specimen of black sand (Mcnaccanite) ; from Kansas. Ac- 
cession 12055. 

Meadou-s, J. A. Specimens of silver and copper ores ; from New Mexico. 
Accession 12802. 

Meigs, M. C, U. 8. A. Specimens of sandstone; from quarries at Ma- 
nassas, Va. Accession 12992. 

Melville, George W., TJ. 8. ¥. Suit worn by him during the retreat from 
the Jeannette and search for De Long and comrades in Siberia. Ac- 
cession 12790. 

Mercer, B. W. Specimens of stone relics ; from Kentucky, Ohio, Georgia, 
and West Virginia; and two stone pipes; from Tennessee and Georgia. 
(Loaned.) Accessions 13449, 13084. 

Merchant, jr., George. Two boxes and six bundles of fishing apparatus. 
Accessions 12019, 12029. 

Merriam, Dr. G Hart. Three boxes and one keg specimens of seal skins 
and skulls (Phoca grccnlandica, Cystophora cristata), samples of seal oil ; 
from Newfoundland; and skins of seals with skulls and flippers at. 
tached (Phoca grwnlandica); from north shore of Gulf of Saint Law- 
rence. Accessions 13108, 13110, 13149, 13518, 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 345 

Merrill, George P. Alcoholic specimens of fishes, snail, bat, and rep- 
tiles; from Maine; also collections of rocks and minerals; from Mas- 
sachusetts, Virginia, Maryland, and District of Columbia. Accessions 
13305, 13405, 13501, 13502, 1350G, 1351G, 13510, 135G5, 13600, 13764, 
13801. 

Merrill, L. H. Specimens of rocks; from Maine. Accession 13584. 

Metcalfe, P. Herbert. Collection of dried and alcoholic insects; from 
New Zealand. Accession 13846. 

Meyer. A. B. Specimens of jadeite; from Ynnan and China; also speci- 
men of jade; from China, New Zealaud, New Caledonia, Turkestan, 
and Siberia. Accessions 13418, 13722. 

Michigan Carbon Works. One box samples of animal charcoal ; from 
Michigan. Accession 15188. 

Mlddleton, Carman & Co. Specimen of fish (Paralichthys dentatus) up- 
per eye on top of head. Accession 13610. 

Middleton, J.Y. (through Hon. J. W. Throckmorton). Sample of mineral 
water; from Texas. Accession 13786. 

Milam, B. C. Specimen of nickel-plate fishing-reel; from Kentucky. 
(Loaned.) Accession 12807. 

Miller, Benjamin. Alcoholic specimens of fishes, snakes and lizards. 
Accession 13461, 13683. 

Miller, David. Specimen of mole (Condylura cristata) ; from Pennsyl- 
vania. Accession 12877. 

Miller, H. H. Specimens of birds in flesh ; from Maryland. Accession 
12660. 

Milligan, J. D. (through P. L. Jony). Collection of clay figures; from 
Tientsin, China. Accession 13680. 

Mills, William, & Son. Two boxes fishing tackle. (Loaned.) Accessions 
12716, 12728. 

Minton & Co. (through L. Straus & Sons). One cask decorated china 
drinking vessels; from their works, England. Accession 13710. 

Mintzer, William A., U. S. N. Specimens of minerals ; from North 
Carolina. Accessions 13281, 13640. 

Mitchell, Lemuel. Specimen of live crab. Accession 13367. 

Mitchell, Lea-is G. Specimen of fresh fish (Pomacanthus arcuatus) ; from 
Barnegat, N. J. Accession 13671. 

Mitchell, J. E. Column of grind-stones composed of thirteen varieties. 
Accession 13324. 

Mitchell, Dr. S. W. Specimen of rattlesnake 6£ feet long ; from Florida. 
Accession 13064 

Moffat, H. F. Specimen of worm ; from New Hampshire. Accession 
13387. 

Monroe, Prof. Charles E. Specimen of orrellite on bituminous coal; 
from Newburgh, W. Va. Accession 13847. 

Monroe, M. Four bottles samples of boiled and steamed refined seal 
oils; from Saint John's, Newfoundland. Accession 13301. 



346 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Monumental Bronze Company {Connecticut). Bronze statue of soldier 
and specimen of ore, &c; product from ore, a head, hands, and 
pieces of the metal showing manner of putting together, &c. Acces- 
sion 12997. 

Afooers, L. M. Specimen of silicifled wood; from Virginia. Accession 
13413. 

Moore, F. L. Six hundred and thirty pounds of gypsum; from Windsor. 
Nova Scotia. Accession 13101. 

Moores, I. R. Box of fish eggs and alcoholic specimens of Rocky Mount- 
ain white-fish {Coregonus williamsonii) ; from Oregon. Accessions 
L2853, 13777. 

Moore, James A. K. Specimen of great-horned owl {Bubo virginianus) 
and box of owl eggs; from Virginia. Accessions 12742, 12980. 

Moorman, Charles R. Specimen of eagle-skin (bald). Accession 12524. 

Morris, Dr. Robert T. Phial containing parasite taken from brook-trout. 
Accession 13141. 

Moscr, Jejf. F., Lieutenant, TJ. 8. N. Collection of minerals, reptiles, 
insects, rocks, chrome iron, fossils, and fragments Indian skulls, 
shark-skin, and bird-skin ; from Central and South America. Ac- 
cession 13481, 13507, 13755. 

Murphy, William M. {through General M. La Rue Harrison). Speci- 
men of wood from 00 feet below surface; from Perry County, Illinois. 
Acctssion 13001. 

Museum of Comparative Zoology. Set of " Blake " corals, alcoholic 
specimens of crayfish; from Massachusetts. Accessions 12782, 12S42, 
13500. 

Musser, George. Specimen of strap-worm {Ligula digrama); taken from 
a Potomac shad. Accession 13230. 

Xation, William. Two specimens of bird-skins; from Peru. Acces- 
sions 13499, 13634. 

Neafie & Levy. Two full-rigged boat models. Accession 13328. , 

Neal, Dr. James C. Three boxes of mammal bones; from Florida; also 
alcoholic specimen of salmander {Amblystoma tigrinum). Accessions 
13544, 13591, 13632, 13701. 

Weill, Allen. One box of oysters in the shell ; from New Jersey. Ac- 
cession 12530. 

Nelson, C. Samples of canvas, rope, and netting. Accession 12874. 

Nelson, John. Box of clothing used by the Gloucester fishermen. (Pur- 
chased.) Accession 12607. 

Nelson, Dr. Wolf red. Bottle of alcoholic serpents ; from Central 
America. Accession 12951. 

New Bedford Cordage Company. One box of whaling lines. (Purchased). 
Accession 12606. 

Newton, W. A. One box of kaolin ; from Missouri. Accession 12976. 

Nichols, Edward. Living specimen of rattlesnake; from Georgia. Ac- 
cession 13249. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 317 

Nichols, Henry E., U. S. steamer u Hasslcr." A valuable collection of 
birds, mammals, reptiles, fishes, &c. ; from Alaska and Sonora. Ac- 
cessions 12570, 13757. 

Nickerson & Baxter. Two books sample fish-hooks. Accession 12700. 

Niclerson, George Y. Bone from whale. Accession 1305.8. 

Nixson, 'W. A. One box of minerals; from North Carolina. Accession 
13013. 

Nutting, G. G. Large and valuable collection of antiquities, stone-idol, 
birds, and mammal skins; from Central America. Accessions 12748, 
13208, 13252, 13258. 

Nye, jr., Willard. Valuable collections of fishes, invertebrates, Indian 
relics, shells, &c. ; from Massachusetts; bird and mammal skins, in- 
sects, fungus, &c. ; from Utah and Montana. Accessions 12791, 12933, 
13212, 13302, 13057, 13730. 

Gber, F. A. Specimen of pottery; from Chihuahua, Mexico. Acces- 
sion 13074. 

Offuft, T.J. Specimen of tarantula found in bunch of bananas; from 
West Indies. Accession 13092. 

Ogdin, W. H. Specimen of beetle (Dynastes tityus); from West "Vir- 
ginia. Accession 12598. 

Olmsted, Gharles F. Specimen of fossil ; from Ohio. (Loaned.) Acces- 
sion 13045. 

Orcutt, Charles R. Valuable collection of bird and mammal skins, living 
and alcoholic reptiles, samples of fibers and articles made by Indians 
of Lower California, Accessions 12.120, 13430, 13430, 13457, 13512, 
13000. 

Oregon PacMng Company. Six cans of salmon; from Columbia River. 
Accession 12830. 

Orton, Prof. Edward. Three samples of coke; from Ohio. Accession 
13135. 

Osgood, N. A. Two portable canvas boats. Accession 12930. 

Ostermoor, II. /)., <C; Son. Model of life-saving mattress. Accession 
12732. 

PaeJacood, F. J. Specimen of beetle (Dynastes tityus)-, from Florida. 
Accession 13209. 

Page, John It. Two albino robins; from Virginia. Accession 12904. 

Palmer, Dr. Edward. Collections of Indian relics, pottery, shells, min- 
erals, fibers, plants, &c, used as medicines and in cooking ; from North 
Carolina, Tennessee, Alabama, Arkansas, and Texas. Accessions 
12001, 12995, 13267, 13294, 13305, 13743, 13702. 

Palmer, William. Mold of large copper hoe, three skins of ground- 
squirrels, and bottle of alcoholic reptiles ; from Michigan. Accession 
13273. 

Parsons, William B. Old style of lantern used on shipboard prior to 
1840. Accession 12739, 



348 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Pearce, Jason &., & Co. Basket of shell oysters; from Rhode Island. 
Accession 12519. 

Peary, R. E., TJ. S. N. Fine specimen of coral attached to a crow-bar, 
found in 6 fathoms of water at Key West, Fla. Accession 13478. 

Pena, H. D. Specimen of common frying-pan covered with barnacles 
and large coral ; from Bay of La Paz, Lower California. 

Pengelty, William. Chest of fossil bones; from Kent's Cavern, near 
Lamonia Torquay. Accessions 13075. 

Perry, N. H. Collection of sixty-four specimens of minerals ; from 
Maine. Accession 13524. 

Peters, T. E. Specimen of insect; from Virginia. Accession 13257. 

Petroff, Ivan. Tobacco pouch and pair of buck mittens ; from Indians 
of Alaska. Accession 12802. 

Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain. Specimen of fruit of the double 
cocoanut. Accession 13831. 

Phillips, Bar net. Pair of Turkish slippers, game of thirty-one, fresh 
mackerel (Scomber scombrus), and specimens of the leaves and fruit of 
the Ogeechee lime ; from near Savannah, Ga. Accessions 12757, 
13066, 13350, 13711. 

Phillips, William, & Son, One slab each of Japan Sea, Northwest, and 
South Sea whalebone. (Purchased.) 12825. 

Picking, Henry T., TJ. S. N. A nickel-plated working model of the Cour- 
tenay automatic whistling buoy. 12836. 

Pierce, Eugene. Specimen of living water-snake ; from Virginia. Ac- 
cession 13232. 

Pike, Nicholas. Alcoholic collection of reptiles and worms ; from Mauri- 
tius. Accession 13444. 

Poey, Prof. Felipe, Valuable collection of alcoholic fishes, alligator, 
sharks' jaws, and stuffed specimen of seal ; from Cuba. Accessions 
134G3, 13561. 

Poole, George, Specimen of raccoon (Procyon lotor); irom Virginia. 
Accession 13725. 

Potts, Edward. Collection of fresh-water sponges in alcohol and micro- 
scopic slides. Accession 12752. 

Poicell, J. W. Collection of thirteen hundred and twenty-nine stone 
implements, specimens of tufa and obsidian, six packages of rocks, 
collected by the United States Geological Survey, two plaster casts 
of the Grand Canon of the Colorado, and two of the Henry Mount- 
tains, and sample of water; from Athbert Lake, Oregon. Acces 
sions 12667, 12697,12931,12962, 13121, 13283,13618,13652, 13760, 13701. 

Powers & Weightman (Philadelphia, Pa.). Ten boxes containing a large 
and collective exhibit of chemicals of their own manufacture. Ac- 
cession 12787. 

Prang, L., & Go. (Boston, Mass.) A complete exhibit showing the 
process and materials used in the art of lithography. Accessions 
13100, 13125, 13168, 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 3 49 

Prather, John G. Dried skin of alligator gar (Lepidosteus spatula); 
from Black River, Arkansas. Accession 12745. 

Price, Dr. Henry M. Specimen of iron sulphide; from Virginia. Ac- 
cession 13441. 

Priestley, Miss Frances D. Large collection of philosophical apparatus 
used by her father, the late Dr. Joseph Priestley. Accession 13305. 

Pringle, H. L. Box of minerals; from Vermont. Accession 13748. 

Proctor, G. W. Specimen of harpoon; from California. Accession 12819. 

Pumpelly, Prof. R. Thirteen boxes of minerals collected by the Tenth 
Census. Accession 12780. 

Pusey and Jones Company ( Wilmington, Del.). Model of U. S. Fish Com- 
mission steamer "Albatross." Accession 12883. 

Quinnipiac Fertilizer Company. One box of fish scrap and guano. Ac- 
cession 12075. 

Raley, John B. Specimen of quartz and pyrite ; from North Carolina. 
Accession 12927. 

Rathbun, Richard. Two specimens of deep-sea turtles ; from off the 
coast of Massachusetts. Accession 12923. 

Rau, Dr. Charles. Fragment of fishing-net ; from Aucon, Peru. Ac- 
cession 13592. 

Rayner, Eli. Collection of nineteen species of minerals and ores for ex- 
change. Accession 12907. 

Reilly & Bros. Two specimens of building stones; from Kentucky. 
Accession 13301. 

Renneberg, Edicard. Model of apparatus for steaming oysters. (Pur- 
chased.) Accession 12881. 

Reynolds, E. R. Pair of loons; from Swan's Point, Maryland. Acces- 
sion 131 12. 

Rhode Island Society of Domestic Industry. First spinning-frame of 
twenty-four spindles, and first carding-machiue to accompany it, the 
progenitor of all cotton machinery in the country. Set up in 1790, at 
Pawtucket, by Samuel Slater; also, complete set of the old apparatus 
for breaking, hatchelliug, and spinning flax. Accession 13137. 

Richards, S. J; J. H. Specimens of fossils, coral (Astrea sp.), and 
pharyngeal bone of the sheep's-head ; from near Fort Washington, 
Potomac River. Accessions 13123, 13400. 

Riddleberyer, Hon. H. H. Specimen of galena ; from Virginia. Acces 
sion 13587. 

Ridgway, D. Specimen of snake {Farancia abacura) and eggs; from 
Indiana. Accession 13370. 

Ridgivay, J. H. Fresh specimen of juv. whale (Ziphius curvirostris) ? ; 
from Barnegat City, N. J. Accession 13504. 

Ridgway, Robert. A valuable collection of birds' skins, nests, and eggs, 
mammals, reptile^, crawfishes, shells, insects, fishes, Indian and stone. 
relics, minerals, fossils, &c. ; from Indiana, Illinois, and Utah. Ac- 
cessions 12014, 13040, 13007, 13079, 13097, 13130, 13139, 13215, 13259, 
13274, 13277, 13314, 13741. 



350 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Ridgicay Patent Refrigerator Company {Philadelphia, Pa.). Model of 
Ridgway patent refrigerator. Accession 12880. 

Rivett-Carnac, J. H. Box of stone implements and chippings ; from the 
Banda district, Northwest India. Accession 12824. 

Roane Iron Company. Samples of coke; from Rockwood, Tenn. Acces- 
sion 13143. 

Robbins, J. W. (TJ. S. surveyor-general, Tucson, Ariz.). Cue hundred and 
ninety specimens of ores ; from Arizona. Accession 13790. 

Roberts, C. T. (agent). Specimen of iron ores; from Paint River and Mas- 
todon mines, Michigan. Accession 13358. 

Robeson, Mrs. George M. One pair deer horns. Accession 13754. 

Roberts, J. M. One box of Indian and stone relics ; from Louisiana. 
Accession 12773. 

Robinson, A. A. (chief engineer), A. T. & 8. F. R. R. Eighteen boxes of 
building stones; from various localities along their railroad. Acces- 
sion 12635. 

Robinson, George F. Box of fossils from Las Vegas, N. Mex. Acces- 
sion 13298. 

Robinson, H. Three specimens of minerals; from Kansas. Accession 
13649. 

Robinson, J. E. Stone pestle ; from Cambridge, Md. Accession 13814. 

Robinson, Hon. J. 8. Box of copper and stone implements and orna- 
ments; from mound in Hardin County, Ohio. Accession 12871. 

Robinson, jr., Norborne. Two specimens of living alligators, juv. ; from 
Florida. Accession 12721. 

Robinson, William 8., & Co. Samples of oyster tubs and pails. Acces- 
sion 12910. 

Rodgers, Mrs. John. Specimen of large palm-leaf fan ; from Samoan 
Islands. Accession 13414. 

Rosenstein Brothers. Two boxes of canned lobsters and fish; from 
Maine. Accessions 12665, 12764. 

Rosecrans, Miss. Specimen of moth (Telea polyphemus) ; from East 
Washington, D. C. Accession 13184. 

Rosecrans, Hon. W. 8. Three specimens of ores. Accession 13185. 

Roive, -ZV. Bound volume of " American Field." Accession 12896. 

Royal Museum of Natural History, Leiden, Netherlands. One tank con- 
taining sixty-three species of alcoholic fishes; from Indian Archipel- 
ago. Accession 13058. 

Ruby, Charles. Specimen of black-looted ferret (Putorius nigripes), bird- 
skin (Calamospiza bicolor), and two skulls of Cheyenne Indians; from 
Wyoming. Accessions 13096, 13742. 

Rusby, Henry H. Seven boxes of plants and two of geological speci- 
mens ; from Arizona. Accessions 12753, 13394, 13416, 13526, 13635, 
13809. , 

Russell, I). E. Box of specimens of ores ; from Texas. Accession 
13379. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 351 

Russell, I. C. Specimens of crystals of gay -lussite; from Nevada. Ac- 
cession 13624. 

Russell Mills Company. Twenty-one samples of sail duck. Accession 
12722. 

Rnssia Cement Company. Samples of liquid glue, mucilage, and vari- 
ous samples illustrating its use in tbe manufactures. Accessions 
12507, 13638, 13672. 

Rust, Horatio X. Specimen of basket mortar, with granite base, and 
pestle; from California. Accession 13823. 

Sally d: McGray. Box of pottery and stone relics; from mounds on 
banks of Ouachita River, Arkansas. Accession 13354. 

Sampson, F. A. Specimens of land and freshwater sbells ; from Mis- 
souri. Accession 12815. 

Sargent, C. S. Seventy-seven specimens of drawings of forest trees; 
from Massachusetts. Accession 12820. 

Scammon, C. M. Volume on marine mammals, together with an ac- 
count of the American whale-fishery, also specimen of horse-fish 
{Hippocampus) ; from Rio Grande, Texas. Accessions 12864. 12912. 

Seharf, Samuel. Box of fossils. Accession 12696. 

Schieffelin, W. H., & Co. Two boxes of specimens of materia raedica, 
also package of Chinese smoking opium. Accessions 12572, 13034, 
13086. 

Bchneck, I)r. J. Two living specimens of owls, specimens of terrapins, 
living specimen of milk-snake (0. doliatas), and skin of bird ; from 
Illinois. 

Sclater, P. L. Skin of Geothlypis spiciosa ; from British Museum, Lon- 
don, England. Accession 12977. 

Sellars, L. H. One bottle alcoholic specimens of astrophytons ; from 
about 100 miles south of Pensacola, Fla. Accession 13765. 

Sergeant, J. JD. Specimen of sea-weed found on coast of New Jersey. 
Accession, 13536. 

Server, Matt. T. Living specimen of alligator, juv. ; from Florida. 
Accession 12506. 

Seton, Ernest E. T. Specimens of birds' skins and eggs, plants, bone, 
Indian relics, &c. ; from Manitoba. Accessions 13206, 13383, 13503. 

Shafer, C. B. Six specimens of mineral waters. Accession 13120. 

Shaffer, I)r. J. M. Bottle of alcoholic parasites ; from stomach of peli- 
can. Accession 13776. 

Shannon, W. R. Specimen of mineral; from Texas. Accession 13598. 

Shaw, R. E. Specimen of fish ; from Alabama. Accession 12968. 

Sheldon, Prof. D. S. Six living specimens of soft shell turtles, one liv- 
ing snake, and alcoholic crustaceans ; from Iowa. Accessions 13153, 
13291, 13307, 13491. 

Shelton, Mr. Specimen of rutile; from Roseland, Ya. Accession 13S00. 

Shepard, J. H. Two specimens of parasites from the gills of blueiish ; 
from Sandy Hook Bay, New York. Accession 13531. 



352 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Sherman. W. T. Specimen of whetstone; from the quarries at Hot 
Springs, Ark. Accession 13207. 

Shipley, A.B.,& Son. Two packages of fishing tackle. Accessions 12755, 
12863. 

Shmedtie, August. Stone sinker ; from cave near Santo Domingo, Isth- 
mus of Tehuantepec, Mexico. Accession 12612. 

Shoemaker, C. W. Specimen of herring gull. Accession 12743. 

Shoemaker, Mrs. D. L. Specimen of alligator, juv. ; from Florida. Ac- 
cession 13051. 

Shoemaker, George. One box of bird-skins ; from Florida. Accessions 
12974, 13118. 

Shufeldt, R. W., U. S. A. Large collection of mammals, birds, eggs, 
nests, reptiles, fishes, crustaceans, insects, &c; from Louisiana. Ac- 
cessions 12504, 12738, 13048, 13087, 13236, 13279, 13309, 13333, 13335, 
13427, 13547. 

Shulze, Miss E. J. Three colored and three uncolored plates, as speci- 
mens of lithography. Accession 13072. 

Siam, King of {through John A. Halderman). Two boxes and one bun- 
dle of Siamese fishing apparatus for fresh and marine fishing. Ac- 
cession 13192. 

Siler, A. L. Two packages specimens of fossils and minerals; from 
Utah. Accession 13835. 

Silliman, Prof. B. J. Thirty-four specimens of rocks for microscopical 
sections. Accession 12817. 

Simms, James* Gang of fishing vessel rigging. Accession 12817. 

Slade, Elisha. Two young specimens of ducks from twelve to forty- 
one days old ; also specimen of Hippa talpoida ; from Massachusetts. 
Accessions 13345, 13349. 

Skinner, A. Specimen of rodent ; from Arlington, Va. Accession 
12562. 

Small, Albert. Specimens of diatomaceous earths ; from near Hagers- 
town, Md. Accessiou 12538. 

Smith, A. J. M. {through P. L. Jouy). Feather coat made from puffin 
skins; from Kn riles, Japan. Accession 13845. 

Smith, Edwin. Specimen of kee wee ( Apteryx) ; from New Zealand. Ac- 
cession 13696. 

Smith, J. A., M. D. Specimen of boat- shaped implement and small 
arrow-head ; from Arkansas. Accession 12623. 

Smith, Prof. James M. Three stone relics, two specimens of quartz, and 
one iron battle-ax; from North Carolina. Accession 13528. 

Smith, J. B. Specimen of mineral from West Virginia. Accession 
13595. 

Smith, Miss Rosa. Living specimens of lizard {(lerrhonotus grandis), 
snake {Pityophis sayi Bellona), and horned frogs {Phrynosoma corona- 
turn); from California. Accessions 13113, 13181, 13392, 13408. 



llEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 353 

Smith, Walter H. Bottle contaiuiug alcoholic specimens of brook 
shrimp; from California. Accession 134G9. 

Smithmeyer, J. L. Package of minerals; from Hot Springs, Ark. Ac- 
cession 13476. 

Spainhour, J. M. Collection of mound relics; from the Yadkin River, 
North Carolina. Accession 13775. 

Spencer, W. A. Specimens of marine invertebrates and parasites ; from 
France. Accessions 12715, 13173. 

Sperry, E. A. Specimen of asbestos; from Colorado. Accession 
13615. 

Spicer, William E. One fyke-net. (Purchased.) Accession 12799. 

Stabler, James P. Specimen of owl ; from Sandy Spring, Md. Acces- 
sion 13703. 

Stanley, Henry 0. Pencil sketch of Raugeley trout on birch bark ; from 
Maine. Accession 12643. 

Stavanger Museum, Stavanger, Norway {through Joseph Lorangc). One 
skin of moose ( Alces malchis). Accession 13077. 

Stearns, Robert E. C. Large and valuable collection ot general natural 
history, Indian relics and manufactures, pottery, ores, &c. ; from the 
Pacific coast of the United States. Accessions 12958, 13080, 13121, 
13707. 

Stearns, Silas. Large tank of alcoholic fishes ; from the coast of Florida, 
and rock covered with marine animals. Accessions 12991, 1373G. 

Steele, Robert L. Specimen of insect ; from North Carolina. Accession 
13351. 

Stejneger, Dr. Leonard. A large collection (thirty-nine packages) of 
general natural history; from Commander Islands and Kamtchatka. 
Accession 13728. 

Stephenson, Chauncy. Specimen of ore: from Massachusetts. Acces- 
sion 12813. 

Stephenson, J. A. T>. Box of Indian relics and specimen of lizard ( Opheo- 
saurus ventralis); from North Carolina. Accessions 13189, 13571. 

Sterling, Dr. E. Specimen of unfinished nest of wood-pewec; from 
Ohio. Accession 12633. 

Stevenson, Col. James. Three specimens of mammal skins; from Ari- 
zona. Accession 13820. 

Stihvell, G. M. Tin transportation can for fish, with sample pump for 
aereating water in same. Accessions 12G57, 12794. 

Stine, William. Specimen of insect (Belostoma americanvm) ; from Ohio. 
Accession 13107. 

Saint Louis Ore and Steel Company. Box witb samples of 72-hour coke; 
from Illinois. Accession 13175. 

State Board of Agriculture, Raleigh, A". C. Specimen of pine log illus- 
trating the turpentine industry. Accession 13700. 

Stoddard, Mrs. M. T. Specimen of living owl ; from the District of Co- 
lumbia. Accession 13549. 
H. Mis. G9 23 



o54 REPORT ON NATIONAL MtJSEtlti. 

Stolley, George. Foi ty-seten boxes of fossils and a collection of general 
natural history ; from Texas. Accessions 13109, 13220, 13231), 13255, 
13317, 13338, 13352, 13451, 13566. 

Stone, Livingston. Two boxes of living snakes, one box of birds' nests 
and eggs; froTn California. Also models of fish-culture apparatus 
and a large alcoholic collection of salmon embryos; from New Hamp- 
shire. Accessions 12709, 12892, 12915, 12946, 13464. 

Story, W. W. A collection of forty-live specimens of marble ; from 
Italy. Accession 13195. 

Strauss, L., & Sons. A large vase of Sevres ware, valued at $2,000; 
also a cask of decorated china drinking vessels; from Europe. Ac- 
cessions 12575, 13709. 

Stuart, H. G. Alcoholic specimen of hair-tailed scabbard fish (Trichiuriis 
Upturns) ; from Guatemala. Accession 13339. 

Stuckcy, Major. Four specimens of minerals; from West Virginia. Ac- 
cession 13588. 

Suhbacher Brothers. Alcoholic specimens of tish; from Tennessee. Ac- 
cession 12534 

Sutherland, John. Specimen of shell (Argina pexata) ; from New York. 
Accession 13148. 

Swan, James 67. A very large collection of whaling and fishing appa- 
ratus, alcoholic and dried fishes, Indian relics, implements, and man- 
ufactures, boat models, photographs, costumes, specimens of stones, 
fossils, libers, canned and salted fishes, skins of birds, specimens of 
coal, lichens, &c. ; from various points of the coast of the extreme 
Northwest United States and Alaska, Vancouver and Queen Char- 
lotte Islands. Accessions 12647, 12648, 12690, 12783, 12882, 13243, 
13261, 13094, 13780, 13804. 

Sweeney, Stephen. Two specimens of rock ; from Washington Territory. 
Accession 13363. 

Syenite Granite Company. Two 4-inch cubes of granite ; from Missouri. 
Accession 12776. 

Symmes, Francis M. Two small models of toy axes, made from soft 
hematite. Accession 12810. 

Talbot, D. II. Specimen of Salmo salar ; from Labrador; and two alco- 
holic specimens of bull-snake ; from Iowa. Accessions 13180. 13242. 

Tarr, B. S. Collection of one hundred crayfishes and lour crayfish 
nests; from the Potomac River. Specimen of danatite and upeeiiuen 
of bat; from Massachusetts. Accessions 13076, 13154, 13848. 

Taylor, Dr. F. W. Collection of minerals; from Pennsylvania and Vir- 
ginia. Accessions 13611, 13612, 13638, 13802, 13816. 

Taylor, Dr. G. II. Specimens of carved pipe, pottery, gar fish scales, 
diatoms, &c. ; from Alabama. Accessions 13271, 13310. 

Taylor, 67. S. Ten specimens of fossil insects from Wyoming. Acces- 
sion 13484. 



REPOBT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 3.05 

Taylor, Leon. Two cocoons of insect from cottonwood tree. Acces- 
sion 12054. 

Taylor, William. One box of Indian implements, two hundred and 
fifty-two specimens ; from Ohio. (Loan.) Accession 12645. 

Taylor, William (Portland, Me.). Specimen of harpoon. Accession 
12522. 

Taylor, William J. Collection of alcoholic mammals, reptiles, fishes, 
invertebrates, and insects; from Georgia. Accessions 12994, 13098. 

Terry, Alfred H., U. S. A. Four specimens of large, round stones; 
from Cannon Ball River. Accession 13308. 

Thaxter & Sons. Three packages of mariners' books and charts. Ac- 
cessions 12532, 12533. 

Thomas, Prof. Cyrus. Specimen of skull taken from stone grave in 
mound in Alexander County, Illinois. Accession 13055. 

Thompson, Franklin. Model of porgy factory and two boat models; 
from Maine. (Purchased.) Accessions 12750, 12839. 

Thompson, H. V. Two living specimens of carp ; from Virginia. Ac- 
cession 13691. 

Thompson, J. 8. B. Specimen of magnetic iron ore; from Virginia. 
Accession 13771. 

Thorpe, Rev. T. M. Specimen of terminal bud; from North Carolina. 
Accession 13789. 

Tobias, Herman. Specimen of tarantula ; from Georgia. Accession 
12080. 

Todd, Aurclius. One pair of showtl skins and five specimens of bee- 
tles; from Oregon. Accessions 13231. 13234, 13240. 

Power, A. J. Two boxes of fishermen's oiled clothing; from Massa- 
chusetts. Accessions 12551, 12704. 

Tower, Moses B. Specimen of king crab in process of casting shell. 
Accession 13078. 

Toicnr, F. H. Specimen of water snake; from Virginia. Accession 
13393. 

Toicnseiid, Charles H. A large collection of birds' skins, nests, eggs, 
and three living snakes; from California. Accessions 13301, 13107. 
1 1553, 13693. 

<;i!l, Charles. Collection of shrubs, seeds, &c. ; from New Zealand. 
Accession 13341. 

True, Frederick W. Specimens of water-snake, musk-rat, two specimens 
of bats; from the District of Columbia ; specimen of sandstone ; from 
Kentucky; and a specimen of limestone; from Essex County, New 
York. Accessions 13009, 13183, 13360, 13412, 13529, 13572,- 13573. 

Turner, Charles J. Three boxes of stone relics ; from Missouri. (Pur- 
chased.) Accession 13382. 
Turner, Liieien M. One tierce, one barrel, and two kegs of general 
natural history specimens; from Hudson Bay territory. Accession 
13724. 



35 G REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Turner, Mrs. Mary E. Nest of Bewick's wren, with eleven eggs ; from 
Mount Carmel, 111. Accession 13275. 

Tuttle, P. M. Two small specimens of mound pottery ; from Idaho. 
Accession 13187. 

Tillman, Samuel. Two cutting tools, twenty-nine arrow-heads; from 
Mississippi. Accession 13664. 

Union College, Schenectady, J\ r . Y. Two boxes containing a collection of 
worms. Accession 12893. 

I r nion Fish Company, Camden, Maine. Model of works and two boxes of 
sample cans of goods. Accession 12694. 

Van Ess, Ira. One box of Indian relics; from New York. Accession 
12719. 

Van Patten, Br. C. H. Collection of general natural history; from Costa 
Rica. Accession 13204. 

Van Viiet, Stewart, TJ. S. A. Specimen of potato growing through 
piece of bone ; from New Jersey. Accession 13540. / 

Van Wyck, Hon. Charles H. Head, skin, and antlers of deer [Cervus 
macrotis). Accession 13839. 

Velie, Dr. J. W. Specimen of Ardea occidentalism from Florida. Ac- 
cession 13551. 

Vernon, M. R. Specimen of ore ; from Arizona. Accession 13161. 

Yerrill, Prof. A. E. Large and valuable collection of alcoh lie marine 
invertebrates; from off the coast of New England. Accessions 12652, 
12674. 12678, 12945. 

Very, Samuel W., U. S. JV. A collection of general natural history ; 
from Santa Cruz, Patagonia. Accession 13209. 

Von Behr [through E. G. Blackford). Three living specimens of German 
carp ; from Germany. Accession 12578. 

Von Tagen, F. A. Specimen of asbestos ; from North Carolina. . Ac- 
cession 12682. 

Voss, Albert. Two boat winches; from Massachusetts. Accession 
12514. 

Wagner, Paul. Photograph of septarium ; from Texas. Accession 
13202. 

Walkc, E. H. Seven stone implements and specimen of leech, with 
young attached to stomach of mother; from North Carolina. Acces- 
sions 12926, 12936. 

Walker, J. Carter. Specimen of insect from Virginia. Accession 
13364. 

Walker, John G., U. S. N. Collection of Polaris relics found by Sir Allen 
Young in the yacht Pandora, on Littleton Island, and a Russian trunk, 
generally used for transportation of effects or materials in Northern 
Siberia on the backs of horses or reindeer. Accession 13026. 

Walker, S. T. Specimens of fossils ; from Tampa Bay, Florida. Acces- 
sion 12831. 

Wallace, John. One box of bird-skins. (Purchased.) Accession 13595. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 357 

Ward, C. W. Collection of bird skins and general natural history; from 

Florida. Accessions 13156, 13763, 13842. 
Ward, Prof. H.A. Specimen of Auduboniaoccidentalis. Accession 1 2849. 
Ward, William A. Specimen of living snake from Virginia. Accessiou 

13695. 
Warsaw Salt Company. Three bottles containing samples of salt ; from 

Warsaw, N. Y. Accession 13677. 
Washington, D. C. : 
Biological Society. Living specimen of turtle; from the District of 

Columbia. Accession 13074. 
Treasury Department : 

U. S. Life Saving Service. Thirty pieces of apparatus and four 
boxes of exhibits, loaned for the International Fisheries Exhibi- 
tion at London, England, 1883. Accessions 12947, 12948. (See 
also under name of Henry E.Nichols.) 
Light-House Board. Twenty models of light-houses, &c, loaned 
for the International Fisheries Exhibition at London, England, 
1883. 
War Department : 
Medical Department. (See under names of Drs. R. W. Sliufeldt, 

Henry C. Yarrow, and Hospital Steward Charles Ruby.) 
Quartermaster's Department. (See under name of M. C. Meigs.) 
Engineer Department (See under names of 0. E. Babcock, Peter C. 

Hains, and George M. Wheeler.) 
Signal Service, U. S. A. A collection of twenty-three boxes, three 
tanks, four kegs, and two bales of general natural history speci- 
mens; from the Point Barrow Expedition, Lieut. P. H. Pay, in 
charge, assisted by Profs. John Murdock and Middleton Smith. 
(See also under names of W. B. Hazen, John J. McLean, and 
Charles L. McKay (deceased). 
United States Army. (See under names of Alfred H. Terry, E. Crau- 
ford, Charles Bendire, W. L. Carpenter, and Stewart Van Vliet.) 
Navy Department : 
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery. (See under name of Dr. John F. 

Bransford.) 
Bureau of Navigation, John G. Walker, chief of bureau. Seven pack- 
ages of general natural history specimens ; from Greenland, taken 
by United States steamer Yantic, Commander Frank Wildes. 
(See also under names of H. F. Picking, John E. Winn, William 
M. Wood, Francis Winsloiv, Jefferson F. Moser, and!/. G. Dressel, 
A. A. Ackerman, and Ernest Wilkinson.) 
Bureau of Provisions and Clothing. (See under names of Samuel 

W. Very and Henry E. Nichols.) 
Bureau of Engineering. (See under names of George W. Melville, 
William A. Mintzer and Robert E. Peary.) 



358 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Washington, D. G. — Continued. 
Interior Department : 

Bureau of Ethnology (J. W. Powell, director). A very large col- 
lection of stoDe implements, amounting to nearly 2,700 specimens, 
collected from the mounds of the United States. (See also under 
names of James Stevenson, Prof. Cyrus Thomas, Dr. Edward 
Palmer, and W. H. Holmes.) 
Patent Office. The Lewis collection of Washington relics, with 
many others, which have been for years past exhibited in that 
building. 
Land Office. (See under name of James Bell.) 
United States Fish Commission (Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Commis- 
sioner). Packages of general marine and other collections, ob- 
tained by the steamers Albatross, Fish Hawk, Lookout, and as- 
sistants from along the Atlantic sea- board. (See also under names 
of Dr. Tarleton H. Bean, James E. Benedict, John E. Brown, 
Frank N. Clark, Joseph W. Collins, Vinal N~. Edwards, T. B. Fer- 
guson, Richard Rathbun, Silas Stearns, Livingston Stone, James 
G. Swan, and R. S. Tarr.) 
United States Geological Survey (J. W. Powell in charge). A large 
and valuable collection of geological specimens and set of census 
illustrations. (See also under names of Profs. F. W. Clarke, W. 
C. Kerr, R. Pumpelly, Dr. G. A. White, and Henry Gannett.) 
Watkins, L. Specimens of Indian relics; from Missouri. Accession 

13423. 
Watkins, Peter. Box of shell oysters ; from Hog Island and Egg Har- 
bor, New Jersey. Accession 12518. 
Watkins, Thomas. Specimen of skunk; from Wood's Holl, Mass. ; and 
fossils ; from the phosphate beds of South Carolina. Accessions 13555, 
13631. 
Watkins, W. D. Specimens of Indian pottery, bones, and bantam eggs; 

from Ohio. Accession 13221. 
Watts, W. G. Specimen of moth and larva ; from Massachusetts. Ac- 
cession 13380. 
Weakly, B. F. Specimen of Indian implement ; from West Virginia. 

(Purchased.) Accession 13340. 
Webster, Moses. Photographs of marble quarries at Vinal Haven, Me. 

Accession 13521. 
Weedon, W. G. Specimen of guinea-pig and white rat, domesticated. 

Accessions 12953, 12970. 
Weeks, Seth. Can containing living salmon fry ; from Corry, Pa. Ac- 
cession 12713. 
Werthner, William. Alcoholic specimens of snakes ; from Ohio. Ac- 
cession 13210. 
Wheeler, George M., U. S. A. Five boxes containing nearly three hun- 
dred specimens of minerals and ores from the surveys west of the 
100th meridian. Accessions 13641, 13715. 






REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 359 

Whitall, latum &• Co. Three boxes, three barrels, and one hogshead, 
containing part of their exhibit illustrative of the manufacture of 
glass. Accession 1270G. 

White, Dr. C. A. Two large specimens of oyster shells; from Sheep- 
scot Kiver, Maine. Accession 12558. 

Whiting, Frank H. Specimen of spider (Lycosa carolinensis) ; from Con- 
necticut. Accession 13669. 

White, George. Four specimens of snails (Limaxsp). Accession 13459. 

White, George D. Three specimens of ore ; from Oregon. Accession 
12870. 

White, John C. Specimens of sandstone and lignite ; from Texas'. Ac- 
cession 13022. 

Whitlock, R. B. Samples of ores ; from Virginia. Accession 13542. 

Wiggins, John B. Specimens of minerals and fossils; also an insect; 
from New York. Accessions 13228, 13331, 13644. 

Wilcox, Crittenden & Co. Model of latest pattern of seine-boat steering 
oar-lock, with Late's band socket ; also stem brace. Accession 12777. 

Wilcox, W.A. Specimen of crab (Lithodes maia) caught off Half Way 
Rock, between Boston and Gloucester, Mass. Accession 13175. 

Wilkinson, Ernest, U. 8. N. A collection of minerals, ores, rocks, and 
coal ; from Colorado. Accessions 13465, 13557. 

Williams, Pro/. F. 8. Collection of insects ; from Dakota. Accession 
13330. 

Williams, Jere. Specimen of ore ; from Virginia. Accession 13682. 

Wilcox, Joseph. A large and very valuable collection of ores, minerals, 
&c. (Deposited.) Accessions 13602, 13782. 

Williams, J. Frank. Specimen of quartz conglomerate; from Pennsyl- 
vania. Accession 13200. 

Williams, Miss Nellie. Alcoholic specimen of bat; from Georgetown, 
1). C. Accession 13422. 

Wilson, A. A. Boxofquahogs ; from Rhode Island. Accession 12503. 

Wilson, Capt. Joseph. Specimens of minerals ; from Canada. Acces- 
sion 13581. 

Wiltheiss, C. T. Cast of stone pipe, representing an animal ; found near 
Piqua, Ohio. Accession 13735. 

Winn, J. K., TJ. 8. N. Two boxes specimens of coral formation ; taken 
from bottom of an old iron buoy and from the chain, about 2 fathoms 
from the surface of the water in the harbor of Dry Tortugas, Fla. 
Accession 13005. 

Winslow, Francis M., U. 8. N. One box of sea-coast oysters ; from 
Virginia. Accession 12789. 

Wise, George Young. Specimen of tree gnawed off by beaver, with 
head, jaws, aud teeth of the beaver, and the trap that caught the 
beaver. Accessions 12879, 13390, 13679. 

Wittfeld, William. Box of alcoholic mammals and reptiles ; from Flo- 
rida, Accession 13810. 



3 GO REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Wolf, 8. Specimen of mineral ; from Tennessee. Accession 13155. 

Wolle, sr., A. Ten specimens of bird-skins ; from Demerara. Acces- 
sions 13453, 13590. 

Wolte, George. Model , of Potomac River shad-boat and specimen of 
white rabbit in flesh (Lepus cunicidus)-, from Virginia. Accession 
12754. 

Wo7iso>i, Everett P. Five specimens of stuffed fishes and cast of young 
codfish, caught in Gloucester Harbor, Massachusetts. Accessions 
12731, L3582. 

Woodman, Ellinwood. Two oak leaves and insect that infests the same ; 
from Kansas. Accession 13458. 

Wood, J. W. Specimen of shrew found in the timber lands of Wiscon- 
sin. Accession 12857. 

Wood, Reuben. Specimen of fishing tackle. Accession 12769. 

Wood, W. 31., V. 8. N. Box of fossil shells ; from Chesapeake Bay, 
and young specimen of fish-hawk. Accessions 13284, 13762. 

Wooster, A. F. Specimens of bird-eggs, bat and nest, and two minerals ; 
from Connecticut. Accessions 13276, 13398, 13569. 

Wooten, J. 31. Three small specimens of pottery and three stone rel 
ics ; from Alabama. Accession 13295. 

Worthen, C. K. Thirty-one specimens of bird-skins; from Illinois. 
Accessions 12735, 13263, 13750, 13772. 

Wright, Lyman E. Specimen of harlequin duck in flesh; from Maine. 
Accession 13627. 

Yarrow, Dr. H. C, U. 8. A. Clay vessel ; from child's grave in Cald- 
well County, North Carolina; and two specimens of snakes ; from Vir- 
ginia. Accessions 12772, 13397. 

Yarrow, John. Specimen of squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) ; from the 
Smithsonian Grounds, Washington, D. C. Accession 13172. 

Yeates, W. '8. Specimens of chlorite schist, soapstone, and clay ; from 
the District of Columbia. Accessions 13766, 13840. 

Young, Brigham. Specimens of plants ; from Arizona. Accession 13006. 

Younglove, John E. Specimens of blind crayfishes; from White's Cave, 
Kentucky; with specimens of Iudian and stone relics, fossil corals, 
pentremites, &c. ; from near Bowling Green, Ky. Accessions 13238, 
13325. 

Zeledon, Jose C. Three boxes of alcoholic reptiles, mammals, bird-skins, 
fourteen pieces of pottery, stone implements, skin and skull of sloth, 
insects, &c. ; from Coc ta Rica. Accessions 13068, 13381, 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1883. 



361 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



The object of the General Appendix is to furnish summaries of 
scientific discovery in particular directions; occasional reports of the 
investigations made by collaborators of the Institution; memoirs of a 
general character or on special topics, whether original and prepared 
expressly for the purpose, or selected from foreign journals and proceed- 
ings; and briefly to present (as fully as space will permit) such papers 
not published in the "Smithsonian Contributions" or in the "Miscella- 
neous Collections" as may be supposed to be of interest or value to the 
numerous correspondents of the Institution. 
362 



RECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS FOR 1883. 






INTRODUCTION. 



While it has beeu a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date in its history, to enrich 
the animal report, required of them by law, with scientific memoirs illus- 
trating the more remarkable and important developments in physical 
and biological discovery, as well as showing the general character of 
the operations of the Institution, this purpose was not carried out on 
any very systematic plan until the year 1880. Believing however that 
an annual report or summary of the recent advances made in the lead- 
ing departments of scientific inquiry would supply a want very gen- 
erally felt, and would be favorably received by all those interested in 
the diffusion of knowledge, the Secretary had prepared for the report 
of 1880, by competent collaborators, a series of abstracts showing con- 
cisely the prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, 
geology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and anthro- 
pology. 

The same general programme has been followed in the subsequent 
reports, with the inclusion of geography and meteorology in the list 
of subjects. The contributors to this record for the present year, and 
their several departments or topics, remain the same as in the last 
report. 

With every effort to secure prompt attention to all the more impor- 
tant details of such a work, various unexpected delays frequently render 
it impracticable to obtain all the desired reports in each department 
within the time prescribed. In such cases it is designed, if possible, to 
bring up deficiencies and supply them in subsequent reports. 

The value of this annual record of progress would be much enhanced by 
an eulargementof its scope, and the inclusion, not only of such branches 
as mathematics, physiology, pathology and medicine, microscopy, &c, 
but also of the more practical topics of agricultural and horticultural 
economy, engineering, mechanics, and technology in geueral ; but the 
space required for such larger digest seems scarcely available in the 
present chanuel. The scientific resume, which in 1880 occupied 260 
pages, in 1881 extended to 330 pages, in 1882 to -400 pages, and has this 
year reached 426 pages. An efficient condensation of this matter does 
not seem easily practicable. 

3153 



36 [ SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

It is hardly necessary to remark that in a summary of the annual pro- 
gress of scientific discovery so condensed as the present, the wants of 
the specialist in any branch can be but imperfectly supplied; and very 
many items and details of great value to him must be entirely omitted. 
While the student iu a special field of knowledge may occasionally re- 
ceive hints that will be found of interest, he will naturally be led to 
consult for fuller information the original journals and special periodi- 
cals from which these brief notices or abstracts have been compiled. 

The plan of devoting some 350 or 400 pages of the annual report to 
such a compilation is not designed to preclude the introduction into the 
"General Appendix," as heretofore, of special monographs or discus- 
sious that may prove interesting to the scientific student. 

Spencer F. Baird, 



ASTRONOMY. 



By Prof. Edward S. Holden, 

Director of the Washburn Obstrvatory. 



The following record of the progress of astronomy during the year 
J 883 is in continuation of those of previous years, and it is given in es- 
sentially the same form. Abstracts of some of the most important pa- 
pers of the year are arranged under their appropriate heads. To the 
professional astronomer the record may serve as a convenient collection 
of reviews and notes. It is, however, primarily intended for the large 
and increasing class of those who are interested in astronomy but whose 
acquaintance with it is more general than special. The writer has made 
free use of reviews and abstracts of astronomical papers which have ap- 
peared in the various scientific journals, more especially in Nature, The 
Observatory, Science, and the Sidereal Messenger. 

CONSTITUTION OF THE STELLAR SYSTEM. 

In a masterly review of Dreyer's recent work on the constant of pre- 
cession, Dr. Sehonfeld has sketched the form of a wider investigation 
into the question of the existence of a stellar system properly so called. 

"If we do not start with the assumption that the true motions of the 
stars completely neutralize each other for some reason or other, in which 
case they cannot influence the constant of precession, it is hardly pos- 
sible, in spite of the commonly-asserted irregularity of their lines of 
motion, to avoid the assumption that these motions bear some relation 
to that plane in which the greater part of the stars is accumulated. We 
may here call this plane the Milky Way, though it does not fully coin- 
cide with the central line of the visible Milky Way, especially when we 
take into consideration the accumulation of nebulae distant from the 
Milky Way, and perhaps also the possibly somewhat eccentric posi- 
tion of our solar system. 

" The relations which these motions bear to the plane may be conceived 
of in many ways ; the most evident, however, is that the motions of 
individual stars occur in planes whose inclination to the Milky Way is 
small aud in directions accordingly which among themselves are nearly 
parallel to the Milky Way. 

"Without this assumption of 'rotation in the plane of the Milky 

Way,' as J. Herschel culls it, it is hardly possible to explain the exist- 

3(J5 



366 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

ence of the visible Milky Way itself. It would necessarily disintegrate 
more and more with the lapse of time, and it would really be purely by 
accident that we live at a time when this disintegration has not yet 
been accomplished — an hypothesis which at least calls for many-sided 
proofs before it can be accepted as plausible. 

'• If we take now the galactic co-ordinates of a star, namely, radius- 
vector, galactic longitude, and latitude (r. I. &.), the simplest form we can 
give to the above assumption is contained in the equations dr = 0, db = 
0, dl = constant, which really are expressive of the conditions that all 
stars are firmly united or interdependent and rotate together, like the 
atoms of a planet, about an axis perpendicular to the Milky Way through 
its center of gravity. This to be sure is noticeably untrue for individ- 
ual stars (for example, our sun), but for an average of many stars the 
variations of b and r will vanish, which is the case also for small groups 
of stars, perhaps even if we take our normal numbers from spaces of 
100 to 200 square degrees. 

"If we take therefore the foregoing equations as expressing approx- 
imately the conditions of the problem, and use them as a basis for our 
investigations, it is easy to determine the relations which precession, 
proper motion, and the universal rotation of the fixed stars bear to each 
other. 

" Let all the co-ordinates be referred in the usual way to the equator 
and the vernal equinox, and let 

a, d, p represent the heliocentric (and geocentric), R. A., Decli- 
natiou, and distance of a fixed star; 

A. D. R. represent the corresponding galactic co-ordinates of the 

s»u; 
(T, r, c represent the co-ordinates of its apex and its angular 
velocity, the latter seen at a distance, one perpendicular to 
the line of sight ; 
da, dS represent the excess of the star's apparent changes of 
position over the precessions computed with an assumed 
constant of luni-solar precession ; 
dtp represent the required correction of the assumed precession, 

referred to the same unit of time as dl, c, da, dti ; 
go represent the corresponding inclination of the (fixed) ecliptic; 
Q, i represent the R. A. of the ascending node of the Milky Way 
on the equator, and the mutual inclination of the two 
planes. Neglecting the correction for the planetary con- 
stant of precession, which it may be necessary to make, we 
have 
d a = cos go d cp + cos i dl + other terms, 
d d = (sin go d if> -f cos Q> sin i, dl) cos a + other terms, 
and in the treatment of the equations only such stars will be used as 
have on an average the same distance p, that is, for instance, stars of 
the same magnitude ; similar to the attempt made at a previous time 



ASTRONOMY. 3G7 

in a somewhat different manner by Briinnow (Splicer. Aatr., 4 Anil. p. 
252). 

" If tliere are within the limits of the stellar system systematic differ- 
ences in dl, the latter is certainly not a function of p as well as of r; 
the error resulting from this in the foregoing equations grows smaller, 
however, as r and p grow larger in comparison with e, and therefore in 
this respect also it is an advantage to' determine the constant of pre- 
cession from faint stars. Moreover it is plain to see, if the supposed 
rotation of stars in the plane of the Milky Way actually takes place, that 
neither the precession nor the proper motion of the sun can be deter- 
mined independently of other assumptions or conditions from the fore- 
going equations. The equations permit three combinations only of the 
quantities d ^, di, Q, , and i, and instead of obtaining from them the three 
components of the sun's motion, c cos r cos <r, c cos r sin <7, c sin r, we 
obtain only the excess of these components over the similar ones ob- 
tained from the universal rotation.* 

•' If dl, then, is at all appreciable, we are possibly still far removed from 
a knowledge of the real apex of the solar motion (especially if, as is 
credible for many reasons, n is not small as compared with the average 
p.) What has been considered in the treatment of the problem thus far 
as the components of precession m and re, is in reality something else, 
namely, respectively, 

/= m + cos i dl and 

(j = n -f cos Q> sin i dl. 

and aside from this the third component of rotation h = sin Q> sin i dl 

can be determined. The general precession cannot then be kept pure, 

but is mixed with that component of dl which is parallel to the ecliptic. 

"As Nyr^n and Dreyer have restricted themselves to the determination 
of ?», they have from the first neglected the investigation of a possible 
appreciable value of dl. This possibility can only be substantiated by 
determining g aud h with /, which, in the equation for d a, cannot on 
account of the quantity tang. <3, be obtained from the right ascensions 
of equatorial stars, but on the other hand only from their declinations. 

" If dl is appreciable, a value of h must result which is not zero, unless 
sin Q, or sin i should equal zero. But if this is the case, the coefficients 
of dl in/ and g cannot, at the same time be zero, aud the influence of 
dl will be shown in this, that the constant of precession obtained from 
/ will not coincide with that which may be derived from g. It is only 
in case the plane of rotation of the fixed stars coincides with the eclip- 
tic, that the rotation would unite entirely and without contradiction 
with the precession, and would consequently not be recognized as a 

* The determination of motion in the line of sight by spectrum analysis gives no 
new combinations of the unknown quantities either. If we write the last three lines 
of the equation for d S — F cos a sin <5 + G sin u sin 8 — H cos S, we obtain the fol- 
lowing : — dp = F cos a cos 6 -(- G sin a cos S -\- H sin S. 



SGS SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

rotation. This case is entirely improbable, however, from the position 
of the visible Milky Way and it is much more to be feared that h will 
remain appreciable. For if we put accordingly Q — 286°i = G2£° wo 
have (<•/' = lunar-solar— and A = planetary precession): 
/= 0.92 if> + 0.4G dl - A = (>/; + h dl) cos go - A 
<j = 0.40 tf> + 0.15 dl . = (tf> + \ dl) sin co — 0.05 dl 
h = - 0.S7 dl 

and we obtain ; hereby from /and g, with only a very unimportant dif- 
ference, the precession with an error of £ dl merely. A value of h 
exceeding 4" or 5" a century is moreover exceedingly improbable for 
those stars used by Bessel and Struvein the determination of precession, 
and the limits could be yet more closely drawn if the separation of the 
unknown quantities had not been made much more difficult by those 
quantities depending on the motions of the sun, by the systematic 
errors of the catalogues, and by the unfavorable distribution of the 
stars (a lack of such having tolerably large negative tang.-<J and sin 8). 

"A secular rotation amounting to several seconds seems, aside from 
the smaller influence of the terms marked F, G, H, to be more readily 
derived from the fainter stars than iroin the brighter ones (if for no 
other reason than) because they are available in very large numbers. 

"The above equations, however, will not serve to completely separate 
the quantities //' and dl unless at least one of the quantities go and i is 
known from another source. For this purpose star-gauges, and in fact 
all more thorough and fundamental astronomical work would, in the 
present state of our knowledge, be of the greatest value. This method 
of determining both quantities affords us in the determination of ip and 
dl from/, g, aud h a check which is fully as valuable as the independent 
determination of g and h from both the co ordinates of stars." 

The reviewer does not attempt to carry out in detail all these inves- 
tigations. He is convinced, however, that the hypotheses which must 
necessarily be assumed in doing this are not of so indefinite and arbi- 
trary a character, but that the treatment of the precession problem in 
the manner herein sketched will result in a closer approach to the true 
method than do those which have been hereto employed. 

Even the possible proof that the component of rotation h does not 
exist even down to the 8 m and 9 m would be of great value. The prac- 
tical difficulties appear greater, perhaps, than they really are ; and will 
be substantially diminished after the completion of the zone work of 
the Astronomische Gesellschaft, as Dr. Dreyer has particularly pointed 
out. 

Untenmchiingen iiber die Priicessionsconstante auf Grund dcr Stern- 
cataloge von Lalande und Schjellerup. Inaugural-Dissertation von F. 
Bolte.* — In the preceding abstract the views of Professor Schonfeld 
as to the relations between the precession, the motion of the solar 

* Bonn, 1883 (28 pp. 8vo). 



ASTRONOMY. 3G9 

system, and a systematic rotation of the fixed stars supposed to take 
place in a direction parallel to the plane of the Milky Way are given. 
In the present paper the author endeavors by using Professor Schon- 
feld's formulae to determine the amount of the constant of precession, 
and to find whether this hypothetical rotation exists or not. He uses 
the declinations of the stars common to Lalande and Schjellerup, having 
first reduced Lalande's declinations anew by von Asten's tables. The 
comparison showed not only a number of deviations arising- from proper 
motion, but, in a number of cases, a reference to other star catalogues 
showed that Lalande had erred either 10".0 or 15".0. A complete list 
is given of all these errors, as also of the proper motion detected. The 
remainder of the investigation is carried on in three different ways, first, 
making use of all stars which showed large differences (Schj.-Lal.) 
which could not be clearly explained; next, excluding all these, 
and finally leaving out all stars possessing a proper motion of 0". 2 
or more in a great circle, while in the two first calculations only stars 
with a proper motion in declination larger than 0".33 were excluded. The 
stars were furthermore divided into three groups, the first containing 
stars fainter than 8.3 mag.; the second, stars from 7.5 to 8.2 mag.; 
the third, from 5.5 to 7.4 mag.; all the magnitudes being taken from 
Argelauder's and Schonfeld's Durchmustcrungen. For every hour the 
mean value of dd was taken for each group of magnitudes, and 24 equa- 
tions of condition were formed of the form x jeos a-\- y sin a -f z = d&, 
where <r, y, and z represent the coefficients in Schonfeld's formula for 
dS, the third and fourth term being = 0, on account of the stars being 
grouped round the Equator. The three groups did not show any sys- 
tematic difference in the values of x, y, z, depending on magnitude. 
They all give the same sign for the change of galactocentric longitude 
(d J) of the star, but the numerical values of this change are so small 
that the agreement of the signs probably only arises from some constant 
error. The three calculations give corrections to the lunisolar preces- 
sion (d if), and adopting Peters's values of the planetary precessiou, etc., 
the general precession for the year 1800 is found equal to 50".2197, 
50".21S3, and 50".2234. The author next makes use of the 24 values of 
A a given in Copernicus, vol. II, pp. 152-153, first having reduced 
rheni to Xewcomb's system. They furnish 24 equations of condition, 
a a = u -{- v sin a + w cos a, where u, v, and w likewise represent the 
coefficients in Schonfeld's formula for d a. The combination of u with 
x and y gives, however, values of (7 >/• equal to about + 0".G, while the 
declinations alone gave about — 0".8. This discrepancy may either 
arise from the general uncertainty of the problem, or from the supposi- 
tion that the plane of rotation of the fixed stars is parallel to that of 
the Milky "Way, but in the latter case we have not data enough to 
separate the precession from the rotation as long as not either the node 
or the inclination of the plane of rotation is known through other means. 
H. Mis. G9 24 



d7U SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Combining E. A. and Decl. the three calculations give for the general 
precession for 1880, 50".24O7, 50".2417, and 50".242G. 

Dr. Bolte's paper is chiefly interesting as a numerical application of 
Schonfeld's formulae, as the materials at present available are not 
extensive enough to enable us to prove clearly whether systematic 
motions in the plane of the Galaxy exist or not. As to the values pro- 
duced of the constant of precession, it is significant that the declina- 
tions when used by themselves give a value differing much more from 
the generally adopted value than the right ascensions do. Possibly 
this may to some extent be explained by errors in Piazzi's or Lalande's 
declinations. — (Copernicus, Nos. 29 and 30, 1883.) 

Star-gauges. — In the Philosophical Transactions for 1817 (p. 325), Sir 
William Ilerschel says, that, "beside the 6S3 star-gauges published in 
the Philosophical Transactions for 1785 (p. 221), above 400 more have 
been taken in various parts of the heavens." 

These 400 unpublished gauges have lately been extracted from the 
original observing-books preserved at the Herschel family residence at 
Collingwood, through the kindness of Sir William Herschel, the present 
baronet, and of his brother, Major John Herschel ; and tbe manuscript 
has been presented to the Washburn Observatory, and will be printed 
in its Publications, vol. n. 

The original records a^re in the handwriting of Miss Caroline Her- 
schel, and by her faithful care every detail necessary to their accurate 
reduction is preserved. It will be observed that only two-thirds of the 
star-gauges of Herschel have heretofore been known. The new acqui- 
sition will be welcomed by those interested in this class of observations. 
They are a new gift from an inexhaustible mine. In this connection it 
may be permitted to express the hope that the Bonn Observatory will 
print the MS. tables prepared by Argelander, which give the counts of 
stars in each square degree of the Durchmusterung. 

The systematic motion of the fixed stars. — Freyoid Eancken has pub- 
lished, in the Ast. Nach., No. 2482, a resum6 of an investigation on the 
proper motion of the fixed stars, which he has undertaken by the advice 
of Dr. G ylden. 

The stars employed were, 1st, Argelander's 250 proper motion stars, 
and 2d, 80 stars whose proper motions have been investigated by Dr. 
Leo de Ball. 

From the stars of these two classes (with the exception of o Ceti, and 
1830 Groombridge) the magnitude and direction of the solar motion have 
been determined by formulae which involve the parallax of each star. 
Tbe assumptions as to this parallax are derived from the hypothesis of 
Gykhm, given in V. J. 8. dcr Astr. Gescllsch., vol. xn. Argelander's 
proper motions in E. A. give the position of the solar apex in R. A. 
as A = 284° 58'.0. Argelander's stars in Dec. give A =284° 37'.8, 



ASTRONOMY. 371 

d = +37° 27'. 1, and p.= 10.85 radii of the earth's orbit, fi is the linear 
motion of the solar system. 

Dr. Ball's 80 southern proper motions give from the R. A., A = 273° 
4G'.G; and from the Declinations, A = 244° 4'.1, d = +170 27'.1 and 
i>. = 4.59 radii. These results differ so much from each other, that the 
data haveheen combined anew by introducing the parallax of each star 
in such a way a* to diminish the effect of proper motions much larger than 
the average. With the new equations the results are from Argelander 
in E. A., A = 275o 15'.2, in Dccl. A = 2SS° 31'.3, D = +41° 2'.4, and 
;j. = 10.61 radii. Ball's 80 stars give in E. A., A = 2S1° 2'.S, and in Decl. 
A = 240° 24'.5, d = +11° 54'.3, and fi = 7.83 radii. This transformation, 
then, has produced only a greater accordance in the values of the linear 
motion of the system. Both solutions show that the solar motion 
alone is not sufficient to account for the proper motions of the stars 
employed. 

The next step in the process is to see if there is not some further 
systematic motion of the stars which will account for their proper 
motions. 

The first trial is to see if a common motion of all the stars parallel to 
the plane of the Milky Way will suffice. 

The position and motion of each star have been referred to that great 
circle which best represents the Milky Way. Those stars between 
-f- 30° and — 30° galactic latitude whose proper motions are less than 
0".25 have been separately considered. They are 10G in number. From 
their proper motions in E. A. it follows A = 294° 2S / .7. From those in 
Decl. A =275o 47'.9, D = + 31° 52'.1, and ^=9.79 radii of the earth's 
orbit. 

If die is the systematic motion of the 10G stars paralled to the plane 
of the Milky Way, there results from the proper motions in E. A., div = 
+ 0.05G45 ± 0.01288, and from those in Decl., dw = + 0-02385 ± 0.01464. 
These last values of dw have a sufficient agreement to give a great in- 
terest to this research and to those which Dr. Eancken intends to carry 
out using a greater number of stars. 

FIXED STAES. 

The constant of aberration. — M. Magnus Nyren has published, in the 
Memoirs of the St. Petersburg Academy, a valuable paper on the deter- 
mination of this important astronomical constant. Various determina- 
tions of the value of the constant of aberration made by different observ- 
ers, with different instruments and by different methods, have gradually 
led astronomers to consider that there is a probobility, or, at all events, 
a possibility, that W. Struve's value, notwithstanding the small prob- 
able error found for it, and notwithstanding the great care and skill be- 
stowed on the observations and on their reduction, may be several 
hundredths of a second too small. M. Nyren points out two possible 



372 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

sources of error, viz, the assumed regularity of rate of the clock used for 
observing the transits and the assumed constancy of the azimuth of the 
hoizontal axis of the instrument in the interval between the transits of 
the same star east and west. Struve himself discussed these sources of 
error some years after the publication of his memoir, and was induced 
to alter his definitive value of the constant aberration to 20" AG'S with 
probable error of ± 0".017. (It is strange that Strut's first value, 
20". 445 ± 0".011, has universally been adopted, instead of this corrected 
value.) M. Nyren also discusses an objection to the methods which 
have been adopted at Pulkowa for finding the aberration, raised by M. 
Yvon Villarceau on the grounds that they take no account of the abso- 
lute motion of the translation of the solar system, pointing out that on 
any reasonable hypothesis as to the velocity of this motion of transla- 
tion the effect on the value of the constant of aberration would be prob- 
ably quite inappreciable in the present state of the art of astronomical 
observation. 

The observations which form the materials for the determination in 
the memoir under consideration were made by M. Nyren with the same 
instrument as that used by Struve, the transit in the i>rime vertical, 
and reduced and discussed generally in the same manner. The clock 
used is an excellent one by Dent, and from the attention which has been 
given to the matter, there is hardly a possibility of error creeping into 
the result from any error in its assumed rate. With regard to the azi- 
muth of the horizontal axis of the instrument, two azimuth marks have 
been set up and frequent determinations of this element made, and 
every care taken to insure accuracy, so that the present series of 
observations is probably free from any error arising from this source. 
The number of stars observed is 24 (comparing favorably with Struve's 
7), very advantageously situated, having regard to the object in view, 
and the observations extended from December, 1879, to' January, 1882, 
thus embracing two maxima and two minima of the aberration for each 
star. The final value found for the constant of aberration is 

20".517 + 0.20* ± 0".014 

where n is the mean parallax. This latter quantity comes out positive 
for 10 stars and negative for 14 ; its mean value is 

-f0".002 : ± 0.026 

so that its effect on the deduced constant is quite insignificant. M. 
Isyren next proceeds to discuss certain observations of arUrsse Minoris, 
S TJrsvd Minoris, and Oephei 51 Hev., made by M. Wagner during the 
years 1861-'72. These are observations of transits taken — some by 
the eye-and-ear method and some by registration on a chronograph — 
and their discussion gives 20".483 ± 0".012 for the value of the constant 
of aberration. 



ASTRONOMY. 373 

Bringing together, then, the different values of this constant which 
have been found at Pulkowa from time to time, we have : 

1. From declination observations of aUrsoB Minoris, 20' / .495:L0".013; 

2. From R. A. observations of polar stars, 20".491 ± 0".009 ; 

3. From observations in the prime vertical, 20".490 ± 0".011 ; 

and, giving the same weight to these three mean values, the definitive 
value of the constant of aberration is 20".492 ± 0".00G. This must be 
an extremely accurate value of this important constant, and will prob- 
ably have to be considered final until it can be corrected by an equally 
accurate and extensive series of determinations made in the southern 
hemisphere. Such a determination is at the present time a desideratum 
in astronomy. In combination with Cornu's determination of the ve- 
locity of light, the above gives 8".777 for the solar parallax, whilst, if 
Michelson's determination be adopted, it gives 8".791 ; a striking con- 
firmation of the value of the solar parallax found by Mr. Gill from his 
heliometer observation of Mars, made at Ascension, in 1877. — (A. M. 
Downing, in The Observatory, December, 1883.) 

Professor Peters, of Hamilton College, who is abroad investigating 
the star catalogue of Ptolemy with a view to an accurate edition, has 
been fortunate in finding, both at Venice and at Florence, several MSS. 
(Greek, Arabic, and Latin) of the "Almagest," hitherto not utilized by 
modern scholars. He is now engaged in a prolonged research in the 
Vatican library. 

Ihe Fundamental Catalogue of the Berliner Jahrhuch. — A very impor- 
tant comparison by Dr. Auwers, of the Fundamental Catalogue of the 
Berliner Jahrhuch with those of the Nautical Almanac, the Connaissance 
des Temps, and the American Epliemeris appears as a supplement to the 
Jahrhuch for 1884, and the following abstract of it is given. The year 
18S3 is the first in which such a comparison is possible. 

The Berliner Jahrhuch contains at present, and will contain for the 
future, 450 stars whose apparent places are given, and 172 stars for 
which only mean places are printed, i. e., 622 in all. The places of 
the^e stars, both in E. A. and Dec, depend strictly on the system of the 
Fundamental Catalogue of the Astronomuche Gesellsclmft (publ. xiv). 
They lie between the north polo and — 31°.3 declination. 

The American Epliemeris contains the mean places of 383 stars, for 
208 of which ephemerides are given ; 44 of these stars lie south of —31°. 
The Nautical Almanac has 197 stars (15 south of —32°), and ephemer- 
ides are given for all. The Connaissance des Temps has 310 stars between 
the north pole and —70°, and gives an ephemeris for each. 

Dr. Auwers^s account of the sources from which the star places of the 
various almanacs are taken, we omit. It shows how various these are. 
Four hundred and fifty stars have ephemerides in the Jahrhuch; 149 
stars (mostly southern) which have ephemerides in the three other 
almanacs are not contained in the Jahrhuch. 

A table is given in Dr. Auwers's paper, showing the comparison be- 
• 



374 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

t wet n each star of each almanac and the Jahrbuch. From this table 
the elements by which the catalogue of each almanac can be reduced to 
the system of the Jahrbuch are deduced. A subsequent table gives the 
two reductions which must be added to each almanac E. A., and the 
two reductions which must be added to each almanac Dec, in order to 
reduce to the system of the Jahrbuch. 

The catalogue of each almanac, after the application of the system- 
atic reductions from this table, is then compared with the Fundamental 
Catalogue. For the Nautical Almanac the mean difference in declina- 
tion is 0".395 ; in E. A. (from 134 stars), 8 .0332. Of the 168 stars com- 
mon to both almanacs, there are 27 whose E. A. differs more than0 8 .0G7, 
and 8 whose declinations differ by more than 1". These differences are, 
in the main, errors of the Nautical Almanac, and are largely due to the 
erroneous proper motions adopted in the Greenwich catalogues. 

For the Connaissance des Temps, the table shows large systematic 
errors. After these have been eliminated, the comparison gives for 229 
stars, common to the Connaissance des Temps and the Berliner Jahrbuch, 
a mean difference of 0".373 in declination, and a mean difference of 
8 .0282 (from 162 stars) in E. A. The errors here again are largely due 
to erroneous proper motions. The correspondence of the reduced 
positions of the American Ephemeris with those of the Jahrbuch varies 
according as one or another basis of comparison is chosen. A complete 
comparison can only be made for those stars for which ephemerides are 
given, siuce the newer stars have their positions derived from several 
sources, not comparable among themselves. 

The declinations of the American Ephemeris and those of the Jahrbuch 
agree excellently for those stars which have been investigated by Boss. 
The mean difference (162 stars) is 0".177. The other 111 stars do not 
agree so well, there being 12 differences between 0".5 and 1". The stars 
north of 64° depend upon Gould's E. A. ; and, of the 36 stars common 
to both almanacs, 15 differ by more than s .lo. Of the remaining 126 
stars whose ephemerides are given, 8 have differences as great as S .067. 
The mean difference for 100 stars between +40° and —20° is 8 .0127. 
For 111 stars without ephemerides, there are seven cases where the 
difference is more than 9 .067. 

For the stars south of —32° the Nautical Almanac will give the best 
positions, on account of its data being derived from the most recent 
catalogues. 

A comparison of the system of the Jahrbuch 1861-'82 with the new 
system, and a general table for the reduction of the data of any almanac 
to the Berliner Jahrbuch system, concludes this very important paper. 
It appears to be highly desirable, ill the interests of uniformity, that 
that the admirable star list of the Berliner Jahrbuch be adopted as the 
standard system, for all differential observations at least. The position 
of every star to the 9th magnitude, inclusive, from the pole to — 23°, 
will in a few years be determined on this system ; and, except for weighty 

• 



\ 

ASTRONOMY. 375 

and special reasons, it would seem unwise to choose another system for 
such observations. This system will also be adopted as fundamental 
by most of the observatories of Europe and by many elsewhere, and the 
perpetual revision of the system is provided for by the observatories at 
Bonn, Pulkova, and Strassburg, and by the discussion which these ob- 
servations and others will receive at the hands of a committee of the 
Astron. Gesellsckaft. For special purposes a selection may be made 
from the larger list. Professor Hall has suggested that this selection 
be made by authority, and separately printed. — {Science, November 2, 
1882.) 

Xew reduction of Lacaille's observations. — A paper by Dr. Powalky is 
printed as Appendix 21 to the Eeport of the United States Coast and 
Geodetic Survey for 1882 (printed 1883), " on a new reduction of La- 
caille's observations made at the Cape of Good Hope and at Paris be- 
tween 1749 and 1756, and given in his Astronomice Fundamenta, together 
with a comparison of the results with the Bradley-Bessel Fundamenta; 
and also a catalogue of the places of 150 stars south of declination 
—30° for the epochs 1750 and 1830." 

The principal result of Dr. Powalky 's careful reduction is the cata- 
logue of 150 stars south of —30°, which were repeatedly observed with 
the six-foot sector and the sextant. 

It appears that Lacaille's declinations are about of the same precision 
as Bradley's ; the right ascensions are somewhat less precise. This 
catalogue of Dr. Powalky's must serve as a basis for researches on 
proper motions of southern stars, and a simple reduction of Stone 1880 
to 1830, would determine quite a number with much accuracy. 

STAR CATALOGUES. 
1 

The Glasgow Catalogue. — Professor Grant, of Glasgow, speaks of the 
Glasgow Star Catalogue as if it were soon to be printed. It contains 
0,415 stars, of which some 5,000 were selected from Wcisse's Bessel I. 
It appears that it must cover part of the field of Schjellerup's 10,000 
stars. In the course of his reductions Professor Grant has discovered 
43 stars with proper motions. A list of these is given in Mon. Not. B. 
A. &, January, 1883. Seven of these are noted in Bonn Observations, 
vol. vii. None of the others seem to be noted in Schjellerup, of whose 
work Professor Grant, apparently, has made no use in the paper cited. 

The Paris General Catalogue of Stars. — In the last annual report issued 
by Admiral Mouchez we find particulars of the progress of formation of 
this extensive and important catalogue. It is intended to contain all 
the stars observed at Paris during the forty-five years, 1837 to 1881 inclu- 
sive, about 40,000, but it is mainly the result of the revision of Lalaude's 
stars in the Ristoire Celeste; indeed, for several years past, the merid- 
ian instruments have been almost wholly occupied upon this work, and 
upwards of 27,000 observations were made during 1882, the year to 



376 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18S3. 

which the report refers. The eDtire number of observations upon which 
the Taris General Catalogue will be founded is about 330,000. The po- 
sitions are referred to three principal epochs : 1845.0 for the years 1837- 
'53; 1800.0 for the years 1854-'G7, and 1875.0 for the years 18G8-82. A 
specimen of the form in which it is intended to print the catalogue is 
appended to the report. The right ascensions and declinations are given 
for each principal epoch, with the number and mean year of the obser- 
vations. The precessions are reckoned from the year 1875, with the 
term depending upon the square of the time. Tbe magnitudes and the 
differences from the positions of the Eistoire Celeste are annexed, and 
where a star has not been observed by Lalande a synonym in some other 
catalogue is given. In the first column we have the ordinal number, aud 
in the second the star's number in the reduced catalogue of the Eutoire 
Celeste. It is mentioned in the report that M. Bossert had undertaken 
a new determination of the places of the stars in that work, making use 
of the reduction tables of the late Dr. von Asten, which are more ex- 
act than the tables of Hansen and Nissen, employed for the catalogue 
published in 1847. M. Bossert has already effected the reduction of 2,300 
stars, a voluntary labor which has occupied his leisure hours. It would 
add to the value of the columns, showing the differences between the 
new Paris positions and those of Lalande, if the comparisons could be 
made with places resulting from the application of von Asten's tables, 
though it might be necessary to supplement M. Bossert's laudable ef- 
forts. In the last Greenwich Catalogue (1872) the precessions are given 
to four places of decimals in right ascension (time), and to three places 
in north polar distance ; the Paris Catalogue gives these quantities with 
a figure less, which we are inclined to regard as a retrograde step. 

This General Catalogue of the Observatory of Paris is to comprise two 
parts, which will be published simultaneously; the first part forming 
the catalogue proper, and the second containing details of the observa- 
tions upon which the mean positions are founded. Each part will be 
composed of four volumes; the first volume of each is intended to ap- 
pear during the year 1884. — (Nature, June 21, 1883.) 

Tiie revision of BesseFs Zones. — From a review by Dr. Schonfeld of 
vol. 37 (part I) of the Kbnigsberg Observations (published in 1882 by 
Dr. Luther), the following abstract is made : It appears that it was Bes- 
sel's intention to prepare a special volume on the Kbnigsberg Zone 
Observations ( — 15° to + 45°). This he was never able to carry out, 
but his introductions and remarks on the Berlin Star Charts, and the 
paper of Winnecke (Ast. N~ach., 11GS), having showed the importance of 
a new reduction, the Berlin Academy undertook the expense connected 
with the plan, and Dr. Luther and Dr. Ruppel of the Kbnigsberg Ob- 
servatory commenced the work, the first part of which is now printed. 

Pages 1-181 of the work contaiu a list of about 1,300 zone stars in 
which some correction has seemed to be needed. The positions depend 



ASTRONOMY. 377 

on an entirely new reduction quite independent of Bessel's. The cata- 
logue is in tLe zone form, and apparently the zero points of the zones 
are to be made to depend on new observations at Konigsberg. 

Catalogue of Stars occurring in the Astr. Nach. — Dr. N. M. Kam, at one 
time assistant at the Leyden Observatory, has formed a catalogue of all 
the comparison stars which are contained in the first CO volumes of the 
Astronom ische Nachrichtcn. 

It consists of three parts. Part I gives the mean places for 1855 of all 
stare for which complete observations are published (4,890 numbers). 
Part II gives places which depend on independent meridian observations 
combined with places from catalogues (240 numbers). Part III contains 
stars observed in one co-ordinate only. Accurate precessions, with sec- 
ular variations, epoch of observation, and observer, are also given. It 
appears from A. N~. No. 2548 that the ]\IS. is deposited at the Leyden 
Observatory. 

Resulmdos del Observatorio National Argentino en Cordoba, B. A. Gould. 
vol. ii, Observations del Aiio 1872 (Buenos Aires, 18S2, lxxviii, and 
296 pp. 4to). — The greater part of this splendid volume is taken up by 
the first installment of the zone observations which were commenced at 
Cordoba on September 9, 1872, and closed on August 9, 1875, during 
which time about 105,000 single observations were made. Of these the 
present volume contains about 13,00<). The zones comprise the part of 
the heavens between 23° and 80° south declination, and as a security 
against constant errors the plan inclnded the formation of a more accu- 
rate catalogue, containing a number of stars from each zone observed 
three or four times each with all possible care. The meridian circle was 
constructed by Kepsold ; it has a telescope of 122 mm , and a circle of 
71G mm diameter, graduated to 4'. All the constants of the instrument 
have been investigated, and the results are all given in the introduction. 
The right ascensions of all the stars observed at Cordoba depend upon 
those of the United Stares Coast Survey Catalogue of Fundamental 
Stars (2d ed., 18G6) 7 with a few slight modifications; the declinations 
are deduced from nadir observations, the latitude being assumed equal 
to — 31° 25' 15".0. The zones were 2° in width as far as 47° declination, 
thence increasing gradually with the declination ; they were generally 
one hundied minutes long. The transits were always observed by Dr. 
Gould, generally over three wires, and were registered on a chronograph, 
while an assistant read off one microscope, which was compared with 
the other three at the beginning and end of the zone. Four hundred 
and ten catalogue and time stars were observed in 1S72, and the sepa- 
rate and mean results for 1875.0 are given. To this epoch the zone stars 
are also reduced, and as there is an index to the zones observed in 1872 
at the end of the volume it is very simple to fiud any star required. — 
{Copernicus, February, 1883,) 

Uranometria Argentina. — The following alphabetical index to the con- 



378 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



stellations will, I am sure, be found convenient by all who use this 
uranoinetry frequently : 



Constellation. 



Antlia 

Apus 

Aquarius 

Aquila 

Ara 

J3ootes 

Caelum 

Cancer 

Cauis Major .. . 
Canis Minor . .. 

Capricorn us 

Carina 

Centaur us 

Cetus 

Chamaeleon 

Circinus 

Columba 

Corona Austrina 

Corvus 

Crater 

Crux 

Delphinus 

Dorado 



Page. 



187 
134 
205 
220 
147 
234 
174 
233 
196 
231 
202 
140 
150 
209 
134 
145 
183 
178 
213 
213 
155 
231 
14(5 



Constellation. 



Equuleus 

Eridauus 

Fornax 

Grus 

Hercules 

Horologium . . 

Hydra 

Hydrus 

Indus 

Leo 

Lepus 

Libra 

Lupus 

Mensa 

Microscopiurn 
Monoceros . . . 

Musca 

Norma 

Octans 

Ophiuchus . .. 

Orion 

Pavo 

Pegasus 



Page. 



232 
159 
186 
163 
233 
148 
191 
133 
137 
229 
204 
201 
168 
132 
182 
224 
144 
156 
131 
198 
222 
135 
232 



Constellation. 



Phoenix 

Pictor 

Pisces 

Piscis Austrinus 

i Puppis 

Pyxis 

Reticulum 

Sagittarius 

Scorpius 

Sculptor 

Scutum 

Serpens 

I Sextans 

Taurus 

Telescopium . _. . . 

Triangulum iPu s- 
trale 

Tucana 

Vela 

Virgo 

Volans 



Page. 



157 
149 
207 
189 
170 
ISO 
149 
178 
175 
184 
219 
217 
226 
230 
16« 

145 
138 
165 
214 
139 



Zone Observations at the Observatory of Santiago de Chile. — From 1855 
to 1860 Moesta observed zones between — 40° 30' and — 46°, making- 
10,200 observations. These were ready for printing in 1866. Other 
zone observations appear to have been made in 1861 and 1862. Both 
series were to be printed at the expense of the Government, according 
to a note in the V. J. S. der Ast. Gesell. 1866, p. 22, but it is believed 
these never were printed. The ground is now completely covered by 
the catalogue of Stone (1880) and the great catalogue and zones of 
Gould. 

Resultate aus den in Pullcowa angcstcllten Vergleichungen von Procyon 
mit benachbarten Sternen. Yon Ludwig Struve, St. Petersburg, 18S3, 48 
pp. 4to (Mem. de VAcad. Imp. des sciences, VII. Serie). — In 1873 An- 
wers showed that all the measures of Procyon from neighboring tele- 
scopic stars made up to that date agreed well with his circular elements 
deduced from meridian observations. Since then Procyon has been reg- 
ularly observed in Pulkowa, and M. L. Struve has now utilized the ob- 
servations for a new determination of the parallax and orbit. In 1852 
M. Wagner commenced with the large transit instrument to observe 
the differences of R. A. between Proycon and four stars fairly symmet- 
rically situated — 

d 8.7 mag. P— d=+ 1™ 54 3 .8 + 3' 26" 

b .9 mag. P— b=+ m 24\5 —1' 30" 

c .9 mag. P— c=— m 22 8 .2 — 0' 44" 

a 7.2 and 7.5 mag. P_«— — m 42 8 .6 + V 45" 



ASTRONOMY. 379 

The star a is the double star I 112G, the center being observed (the 
distance is 1".3). The observations were reduced to 1867.0, the mean 
proper motion of Procyon being' taken from Auwers' Fundamental 
Catalogue. 

The results were — 
From P— d: - = + 0".390 ± 0".055 <5a= 1".020 ± 0".140 

From P— b: - = + // .327 i 0".073 5a = I'M 01 =fc 0".250 

From P— c : - = + 0".307 ± 0".071 <5a = 1".007 ± 0".489 

From P— a ; - = + 0".3S3 ± 0".055 5a = 0".444 i 0."122 

where Sa is the correction to the adopted semi-diameter of the orbit, 
0".9805. These results were found by comparing each observation of 
Procyon with the single observations of all the comparison stars taken 
on the same day, so that the four results are not independent of each 
other. The author next treats the observations from 1863-G8, which 
had been specially intended for a determination of the parallax, by 
taking a mean of the comparison stars observed on one day and form- 
ing the Aa between this mean and Procyon. In this way the relative 
parallax of Procyon was found = + 0".299 ± 0".038. The star a is 
Bradley 1107 and has been very frequently observed on the merid- 
ian. From all available observations the proper motion was found = 
— S .00255± S .00030, aud when this was inserted in the equations for 
* aud da from P—a, - was found = + 0".398 ± 0".06t aud da = + 0".050 
+ OMOO, which results agree much better than with Auwers'. 

Since 1851 Otto Struve has observed the differences of E. A.»between 
Procyon and the stars b and c, but the observations turn out to be far 
less accurate than might be expected, so that the instrument cannot 
have been firmly fixed in K. A. The observations of difference of dec- 
lination from the same stars were specially intended to determine the 
irregularity of the proper motion. Those from 1851-73 were compared 
by Auwers with his circular elements and found to be very much bet- 
ter represented under the supposition of irregular than of uniform 
proper motion. The author shows that the entire series (1851-'82) 
neither agrees with a uniform proper motion nor with Auwers' orbit. 
The latter certainly gives smaller residuals, but they clearly indicate 
corrections to the elements. As Procyon has only described about 
three-fourths of a revolution since 1851, Auwers' period had to be 
adopted. The following orbit represents the observations well — 

a = + 0". 0980 ;fc 0". 0354 

T = 1794. 9GG ± OK 440 

n = 9°. 02993 ± 0° 08072 (Auwers). 

The epoch agrees well with that found by Auwers, but the semidi- 

ameter is much smaller than Auwers' value, the difference being seven 

times greater than the probable error of either result. One of the two 

series of observations employed must therefore be affected by systematic 



380 SCIENTIPIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

errors, and it is evident that this is far more likely to be the case with 
meridian observations than with the micrometer measures. The value 
of the semi-axis in the direction of the declination circle, found by M. 
Strove, satisfies all the observations used by Auwers within the limits 
of errors of observation, while on the other hand the Pulkowa microme- 
ter measures clearly indicate a correction to Auwers' value. As M. 
Wagner's observations do not prove the necessity of altering the adopted 
value of the semi-axis in the direction of the parallel, we are led to the 
conclusion that the apparent orbit of Procyon is an ellipse, the semi-axis 
major of which, parallel to the equator, is 0" 979, while the semi-axis 
minor is 0"G98, The real orbit must therefore be a circle, perpendicu- 
lar to the declination plane and forming an angle of 45J° with the line 
of sight. — (Copernicus, November 31, 1883.) 

Spectroscopic survey of the northern heavens. — Such a survey has been 
begun at the Astrophy sical Observatory at Potsdam, the first thoroughly 
systematic work of the kind since Secchi, and after him P/ Arrest, spec- 
troscopically examined a large number of fixed stars. Professor Vogel 
intends to prepare a complete spectroscopic star catalogue, and a good 
portion of the work has already been accomplished. To prepare such 
a catalogue, says Vogel, is a duty which the present generation owes to 
posterity. The changes taking place in the stars are of especial interest 
to us and are of importance to science ; and although it may be con- 
jectured that changes in the spectra will show themselves soonest in 
those stars which have proceeded farther in their development, that is, 
in the red stars, yet this cannot be posith*ely affirmed a priori. Equally 
with those wonderful spectra of the red stars, which so enchant the 
eye of the observer, will changes take place in the course of time in the 
simple spectra ol the white and yellow stars, so that investigations of 
as large a number of star-spectra as possible, without limiting them to 
particular classes of stars, are absolutely necessary for future researches. 

Dr. Dun6r, in Lund, has contemporaneously begun, on the same plan, 
the observation of stars round the North Pole, so that the work is begun 
on two sides. 

Professor Vogel has published part of his investigations — the zone 
between — 1° and 4-20° declination; the second part, from 4-20° to 
+40°, will quickly follow. The stars have been completely surveyed 
down to the magnitude 7£, and a large number of smaller ones were 
examined along with them ; altogether they number nearly 12,000, 
and on an average 3 stars were found in a field of view 19' in diameter, 
which were examined together. 

Vogel has, as is known, arranged all the stars spectroscopically in 
three chief divisions, of which the first is again subdivided into three 
and the others into two subdivisions. Of these, no stars belonging to 
Glass Ic (in which the hydrogen line and the line D appear bright) nor 
to 116 (in which, besides dark lines and bands, several bright lines also 
appear) are found in the published zone. 



ASTRONOMY. 381 

Of the 4051 stars particularized in the catalogue, there are 349 whose 
spectrum could not be surely made out. The remainder are divided 
among Vogel's classes as follows; Class la, 2155, Class 16, 10, Class 
II«, 1240, Class Illfl, 288, Class Illb, 9 stars. 

Among the brighter stars with very beautifully distinct spectra that 
therefore can be seen with weaker powers may be mentioned — 

In Class Ifl. y Geminorum, a Leonis, ft Leonis, a Ophiuchi, a Aquila?, 
a Pegasi. 

In Class Ila. a Tauri, a Bootis, a Serpentis, ft Ophiuchi, a Ophiuchi, 
y Aquilae, e Pegasi. 

In Class Illfl. a Ceti, a Orionis, 5 Virginis, a Herculis.— (The Observ- 
atory, November, 1883.) 

Photometry of stars. — At the meeting of the Royal Astronomical So- 
ciety, May 11, 1883, Prof. C. Pritchard, of Oxford, gave an account of 
his recent expedition to Cairo, and of the work on which he has for the 
last two years been engaged, viz, the measurement of the magnitude 
of the stars visible to the naked eye from the pole to the equator, in- 
cluding at present all those brighter than the fifth magnitude. This 
work is now complete. He found that at Oxford, Laplace's law of altera- 
tion of a star's light as measured in magnitude — according to the secant 
of the star's zenith distance — did not hold good for zenith distances ex- 
ceeding 05°, and that for stars at lower altitudes the alterations in ap- 
parent magnitude were conflicting and not satisfactory. For the pur- 
pose of accurately investigating the effect of atmospheric extinction of 
light under better circumstances, he chose the climate of Upper Egypt, 
where the atmosphere is uniform and stable, as the proper locality for 
repeating the Oxford observations, and rendering the research com- 
plete. A duplicate set of instruments was left at Oxford in charge of 
the senior assistant, who observed the same stars with Professor Prit- 
chard at Cairo. The results of both sets of observations are embodied 
in the formulae — 

Atmospheric absorption 

At Cairo = 0.187 x Sec. Z.D. in magnitude. 
At Oxford = 0.253 x Sec. Z.D. in magnitude. 
Thus the whole effect of the atmosphere at Cairo is to diminish the 
brightness of stars seen in the zenith by about two-tenths of a magni- 
tude, and at Oxford by about one-fourth of a magnitude. At an altitude 
of about 30°, the stars at Cairo will be brighter than in England by 
about one-fifth of a magnitude, and consequently many more faint stars 
are just visible at Cairo than can be seen at Oxford. — (Science.) 

Professor Pritchard has printed the photometric observations at Ox- 
ford, of which the Cairo observations form a part, in the memoirs of the 
Eoyal Astronomical Society, but the volume has not reached America 
at the time of writing. 



382 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

DOUBLE STARS. 

Sydney double star results.*— An important contribution to our knowl- 
edge of the southern heavens has been made by Mr. Russell's publication, 
in a very compact little volume, of the measures of double stars made- 
at the Sydney Observatory from 1871 to 1881. The catalogue comprises 
remeasures of about 746 of HerschePs stars and measures of 350 new 
doubles, the whole representing some 15,000 measures of angle and dis- 
tance. Of the new pairs, nine are separated by less than one second of 
arc, and sixty-six by less than five seconds. The search for new pairs 
has, however, been merely incidental to Mr. Russell's main object, the 
examination of Sir John Herschel's Cape list between 34° south and the 
Pole, a work the more important and valuable that no measures of any 
large numbers of these stars have been published since the appearance 
of that catalogue. Mr. Russell, however, remarks that though only an 
evening now and then was devoted to the search for new objects, the 
number recorded might easily have been doubled had he adopted the 
same limit of distance as Sir John Herschel. Only a few of the new 
stars have been repeatedly measured ; but of these several show signs 
of motion. 

Mr. Russell gives lists of objects in which his results differ from Sir 
John Herschel's. Thus in 46 eases he failed to find doubles where Her- 
schel has recorded them, owing, probably, in many cases, to errors in 
the Cape Catalogue, and in seventeen other instances finds easy doub- 
les in fields which Herschel examined without seeing any. Of these, 
one of the most striking is h 4900, a group of five stars which Herschel' 
described with great particularity, and which now shows a sixth within 
the pentagon formed by the others, and as bright as three of the ex- 
terior stars. Of stars which show real or supposed change since Her- 
schel's observations, p or 6 Eridani seems, from the later measures, not 
to be a binary, as these observations plot into a straight line as if the 
preceding star had a separate proper motion. The doubles y and n 
Lupi both seem to show motion ; for whilst Herschel found y easily 
separated and n excessively difficult, Mr. Russell has always failed to 
divide the former, whilst the latter is now an easy object. 

The observations up to 1874 were made with a fine 7|-inch refractor 
by Merz, the powers ordinarily used being 159 and 330. Since then an 
ll^inch refractor of 12£ feet focus by Schroder has been used, with 
powers from 100 to 1500, 800 being employed for all difficult objects. 

Mr. Russell indicates the date of the observations in an unusual man- 
ner, three columns being given with the " day of the month," " month 
of the year," and " year in the nineteenth century," a decidedly less 

* Results of double star measures, made at the Sydney Observatory, New South 
Wales, 1871 to 1881, under the direction of H. C. Russell, B. A., F. R. A. S., Govern- 
ment Astronomer for New South Wales. 



ASTRONOMY. 383 

convenient method than the usual one of giving the year and fraction 
of a year. — (E. W. Maunder in The Observatory, February, 1883.) 

Harvard College Observatory measures of double stars. — " Micrometrie 
measurements of double stars 1 ' in vol. xm, part i, of "Annals of the 
Astronomical Observatory of Harvard College." This is a catalogue 
of measures of about 350 stars in upwards of one thousand sets, made 
■with the 15-inch refractor at Harvard College, chiefly in the years 1SG6- 
1872, under the direction of Professor Winlock, but including a few 
obtained by the Bonds, and by Mr. Waldo, which have previously ap- 
peared in the Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sci- 
ences, aud in the Astronomische Naehrichten. The catalogue includes 
nearly all the more interesting binaries and many difficult objects. In 
addition, Professor Pickering publishes a list of 179 double stars dis- 
covered at Harvard College Observatory, some of which have been in- 
dependently detected by Mr. S. W. Burnham ; these were found to a 
considerable extent during an exploration of the southern heavens, 
occasionally instituted in the intervals of other observations. In the 
cases of some of the principal revolving doubles the measures extend 
to the year 1876. 

Milan Observatory measures of double stars. — -'Measures of the prin- 
cipal double stars in rapid orbital motion," made in the years 1875-1882, 
with the Merz refractor of the Observatory of Brera, Milan, by Pro- 
fessor Schiaparelli — an important series of results which will be most 
welcome to those who are engaged in the investigation of double star 
orbits, since, in most cases, there are measures later than any others 
available at the present moment. — (Nature.) 

A second very extensive and important series of measures of double 
stars made at Chicago has been published by Mr. Burnham in the 
memoirs of the Koyal Academy of Sciences. This is printed too late 
for detailed mention here, but it may be said that this and its preced- 
ing paper represent more and better work than has ever before been 
done in the same time and under like conditions. 

THE SUN. 

The eclipse of 1882. — At the present time, when interest is chiefly 
drawn toward the labors of the astronomers who observed the eclipse 
of the suu May, 188.'?, from the small islands in the Pacific Ocean, the 
results of the eclipse of May 17, 1882, obtained in Egypt, have especial 
significance. These were briefly stated by Dr. Schuster at a late meet- 
ing of the Royal Astronomical Society. During the progress of the 
eclipse three photographic instruments were at work; one took pho- 
tographs of tjie corona itself; a second was a photographic camera 
with a prism placed in front of it, that is, a spectroscope without a col- 
limator; and the third was a complete spectroscope. Photographs 
were obtained in all three instruments. The direct photographs of the 



384 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1833. 

corona indicate its variations from eclipse to eclipse, a matter of much 
importance in solar physics. 

If tbe photographs taken during eclipses in the past twenty years 
are compared with each other, it will be seen that the corona varies, in 
a regular way with the state of the sun's surface, although there are 
irregular minor charges. At the sun-spot minimum the corona is much 
more regular than at the maximum. At the minimum there is a large 
equatorial extension, and near the solar poles a series of curved rays. 
At the maximum there is practically no regularity at all; the long 
streamers go up sometimes in one direction and sometimes in another; 
and this last year near the sun-spot maximum there was absolutely no 
symmetry in the appearance of the corona. The transparency of the 
streamers was most striking. One streamer can sometimes be traced 
through another, showing that the matter, whatever it is, must be very 
thin. The rifts start from the solar surface in an entirely irregular 
way, with a tendency very often toward the tangential direction at the 
lower parts of the rifts. The photographs extend about a diameter 
and a half from the sun's limb, and a comet appears on the plates about 
a solar diameter and a half from the sun's center. It must have been 
very bright, as it appears clearly in the photographs. Measurements 
seem to indicate a small shift in its position during the interval be- 
tween the first photograph and the last. 

Turning now to the photographs taken with the camera and prism 
in front — an instrument which gives an image of the prominences as oft- 
repeated as there are rays in the prominence — the plates employed 
were sensible to the infrared as well as violet rays. One prominence 
gave a great number of lines in the ultra-violet. The fact was brought 
out in this eclipse, that the brightest lines in the prominences are due, 
not to hydrogen, but to calcium. Besides these and the hydrogen-lines, 
there is the line D 3 in the yellow, and the C line of hydrogen in the red, 
and also a photograph of two prominence-lines in the ultra-red. In ad- 
dition to the prominences, there are visible in the photographs certain 
short rings round the moon, which mean that at these places the light 
sent out by the gaseous part surrounding the moon is not confined to 
the prominences. It is, as would be expected, the green coronal line 
which chiefly corresponds to one of those rings. This green line, K 
1474, is a true coronal line, and is only very faintly traceable in one of 
the prominences. 

In considering the results obtained with the complete spectroscope, 
it is a striking fact that some of the lines cross the moon's disk, and 
especially the two lines H and K. This proves that the calcium-lines 
R and K were so strong in the prominences that the light was scattered 
in our atmosphere and reflected right in front of the moon. 

The prominence-lines are very numerous; thirty such lines appear in 
the photograph. The hydrogen-lines are there, including those in the 



ASTRONOMY. 385 

ultra-violet photographed by Dr. Huggins; also H and A', and other 
calcium-lines; and still others, chiefly unknown. 

Close to the sun's limb we can only trace a continuous spectrum, a 
very strong' one, going up to about a quarter of a solar diameter. The 
photographs bear out the distinction between the inner and the outer 
corona, the former being much stronger in light. The boundary at 
which this continuous spectrum ends corresponds to the extension of 
the inner corona. The continuous spectrum is stronger on the side 
where the prominences are weaker. In the corona we first of all see a 
very faint continuous spectrum, and in that continuous spectrum one 
can trace at G the reversal of the dark Frauenhofer lines. In addition, 
a series of faint true coronal lines can be traced in the outer regions of 
the corona. We have not traced any known substances in the solar 
corona. The greater number of the prominence-lines in the ultra-violet 
are also unknown, but they seem to be present in Dr. Huggins's photo- 
graph of the spectrum of a Acpiila?. — {Nature.) 

The total solar eclipse of May 0, 1883.— The U. S. S. " Hartford," which 
sailed from Callao, Peru, March 22, with the American and English 
astronomers on board, arrived at Caroline Island April 20, sixteen days 
before the date of the eclipse. The island is in reality a chain of small 
islands of coral formation, encircling a lagoon, the length of the in- 
closure being about seven miles and a half, and the breadth one mile 
and a half. The land is low, but supports an excellent growth of grass 
and other vegetation, including a number of cocoanut trees. There are 
no permanent inhabitants ; but the island is leased by an English firm 
which deals in guano, cocoanuts, and other products of this and similar 
Pacific islands. An agent of this firm visits the island occasionally 
and superintends the work of those employed. Seven persons were 
found living on the island for the time being, having been brought there 
from Tahiti two months before. These were four men, one woman, and 
two children. There were two large frame houses in excellent condition, 
besides several smaller houses which furnished comfortable accommo- 
dations for the party, and also for the French astronomers, who arrived 
two days later in the "Eclaireur." The latter party was composed of 
the following scientific men: M. Janssen, of Meudon; M. Tacchiui, of 
Rome; M. Palisa, of Vienna, formerly of Pola; M. Trouvelot, of Meu- 
don, formerly of Cambridge, Mass.; and M. Pasteur, photographer, also 
of Meudon. 

The landing of the heavy cases containing the instruments was ac- 
complished with difficulty, as even the ship's small boats could not come 
within several hundred feet of the shore, which was composed of rough 
coral rock. The cases were taken from the boats by men standing m 
about two feet of water, and carried to the shore, thence across several 
hundred feet of coral rock to the land, and about a quarter of a mile 
farther to the site selected for the observations. After the completion 
H. Mis. (i!) 2o 



386 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

of the landing, the men-of-war steamed away to Tahiti, leaving selected 
members of their companies to assist in the work. The American party 
was favored with the help of Messrs. Qualtrough, Dixon, Fletcher, and 
Doyle, officers of the "Hartford," and often seamen. 

The two weeks preceding the eclipse were occupied in mounting the 
iustruments and in other preparations. Pendulum observations during 
this time were made by Messrs. Preston and Brown, under instructions 
from the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. The weather was 
in general pleasant, though there was one severe rain-storm, and nearly 
every day there were flying clouds with slight showers, as is not unusual 
in the region of the trade-winds. The wind was usually strong, and blew 
steadily from a direction varying from north to east, but never south of 
east, though the island is in the heart of the southeast trade region. 
Eight inches of rain fell during the seventeen days which the party 
spent on the island, more than half of this in one storm on May 4. 

The weather on the morning of May 6 was cloudy and threatening, 
but after several showers the sky cleared shortly before the time of first 
contact, and remained clear the remainder of the day, with rapidly mov- 
ing clouds. One of these partially concealed the corona for about twenty 
seconds in the first minute of totality, and the sun was wholly in a cloud 
soon after the close of totality; but the observations were not interfered 
with, though there was at all times baze iD the atmosphere. 

The observations planned were carried out successfully, with results 
which will be given in full detail in the official report of the expedition. 
A summary of these results can, however, be given at the present time. 
Professor Holden swept for intra-mercurial planets, but none existed in 
the region examined. Spectroscopic observations were made by Dr. 
Hastings and Messrs. Eockwell, Brown, aud Upton, with interesting 
results. Dr. Hastings had devised a spectroscope by which the spectra 
©f two opposite sides of the sun were brought iuto juxtaposition, and 
could be examined simultaneously. This instrument, which was attached 
to a 6£-inch equatorial, was used especially to note the changes in the 
appearance of the 1474 line on the preceding and following limbs of the 
sun as the eclipse progressed. At the beginning of totality the 1474 line 
extended to a height of about 12' on the eastern limb of the sun, while on 
the western limb it was faint, and not more than 4' in height. As the 
eclipse progressed, the lines changed relatively, becoming sensibly equal 
at mid-eclipse, and the conditions at the close of totality being the reverse 
©f those at the beginning. This change was many times greater than any 
change due to the moon's motion, aud is regarded by Dr. Hastings as 
conclusive proof that the outer corona is mainly due to diffraction. The 
dark D lines were seen in the corona, and the bright hydrogen and mag- 
nesium lines by several observers. The relative height and brightness 
of the coronal rings seen in an integrating spectroscope were estimated. 

The duration of totality was five minutes twenty -five seconds. The 
corona was bright, aud characterized by five well-defined streamers, a 



ASTRONOMY. 387 

careful sketch of which was made by Dr. Dixon. The azimuths of the 
shadow-friuges at the beginning and end of totality were obtained, and 
their distances from each other estimated. The meteorological obser- 
vations made by Mr. Upton showed a slight but well-defined rise in 
barometric pressure, a rise in humidity, and a fall in temperature. The 
temperature reached the values given at night, while the radiation ther- 
mometers indicated that the receipt of heat by the earth was almost 
wholly checked. The direction and velocity of the wind were unchanged 
during the time of the eclipse. 

The photographs obtained by Messrs. Lawrence and Woods, the Eng- 
lish members of the party, who were assisted by Mr. Qualtrough, of the 
Hartford, include a series of negatives of the corona to its outer limits, 
and also of the coronal spectrum. The latter contains a few bright lines, 
but not as many as were obtained by the same observers in Egypt a year 
ago. The phenomenon of reversal of the Frauenhofer lines was also suc- 
cessfully photographed. 

The "Hartford" returned to Caroline Island on the 8th of May, and on 
the 9th sailed for Honolulu, which was reached on the 30th; a stop of 
four days having been made at Hilo, Hawaii, to allow a visit to the vol- 
cano of Kilauea. The party reached the United States June 11. 

Mr. J. Janssen, the leader of the French expedition which visited 
Caroline Island to observe the solar eclipse of May 6, has made a report 
to the French Academy of Sciences, which is published in full in the 
Bulletin hebdomadaire de V Association scientijique, No. 181. It contains, 
first, an interesting account of the voyage to Caroline Island, and a 
brief description of the island, with the difficulties encountered in land- 
ing the instruments ; then follows a statement of the instrumental outfit 
and the plan of observations. The search for intra-mercurial planets 
was assigned to Messrs. Palisa and Trouvelot. The former used an equa- 
torial of 0.16 m. aperture, having a short focus and a large field; the 
latter was provided with an equatorial of the same size, which had a 
finder of 0.08 m. aperture, thus giving the observer two telescopes. 
The finder had a field of 4°.5, and was used in examining the region in 
the vicinity of the sun, while the larger instrument was intended to 
give the position of any strange object that might be noted by means 
of its position-circles. In order to avoid the necessity of reading the 
circles, an attachment was made to both right ascension and declination 
circles, by which fine marks could be made upon the circles and verniers 
by the observer's assistants, and the corresponding readings determined 
at leisure. The finder was also furnished with a reticule containing 
cross-threads, and a position-circle for use in noting the appearance of 
the corona, to the drawing of which Mr. Trouvelot gave a portion of the 
time of the local phase. 

The search for intra-mercurial planets was also conducted by the aid 
of photographic apparatus, which Mr. Janssen thus describes: 

" At my order, Mr. Gauthier had prepared an equatorial mounting 



388 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

with an hour-axis two meters long, carrying a strong and large plat- 
form, upon which were fastened the following photographic apparatus : 
a large camera having a lens of eight inches (0.21 m.), made by Darlot, 
giving a field of 20° of 25° (plate of 0.40 m. by 0.50 in.), and designed 
for photographing the corona and the region about the sun with reference 
to the stars there found. A second camera, with a Darlot lens of six 
inches (0.16 m.) giving a field of 26° to 35° (plate of 0.30 m. by 0.40 in.), 
for the same purpose ; and a very fine apparatus by Steinheil for study- 
ing the corona. A second mounting carried several cameras with lenses 
of four inches (0.10 m.), giving a great amount of light, and designed to 
determine by very sensitive plates what are the limits of the corona — 
an apparatus of great light-power, the exposure lasting during the whole 
of totality." 

For spectrum analysis the following apparatus was employed : "A 
[reflecting] telescope of 0.50 m. aperture, having a very short focus 
(1.60m.), and supplied with a direct-vision spectroscope of ten prisms; 
the slit of the spectroscope could be placed at different position-angles, 
and rapidly opened or closed at the pleasure of the observer. An ex- 
cellent finder, supplied with a reticule, was placed near the spectroscope, 
and distant from it by such an amount that, when one eye had fixed 
upon some point of the corona in the finder, the other could obtain the 
spectroscopic analysis of this point." There were also attached to this 
telescope a bi-quartz polariscope by Prazmowski, and a spectroscope for 
showing Eespighi's rings. A spare mirror of 0.40 m. diameter was carried 
as a reserve, but was not brought into use, as by great care the first 
was kept uninjured, in spite of the frequent rains and the moist climate. 

Mr. Janssen gives the following condensed report of his own observa- 
tions, drawn up immediately after the observations, in accordance with 
the plan by which all the observers of the party were governed : 

" My observations were of two classes — optical and photographic. The 
optical observations were principally designed to determine whether the 
coronal spectrum consists of a continuous spectrum as a background 
with bright lines, or if the Frauenhofer lines exist there generally (an 
investigation made especially with regard to the question of ultra solar 
cosmic substances). In 1871 1 had announced that, besides the hydro- 
gen lines, I had established in the spectrum of the corona the presence 
of the D line and of several others. 

"In the present eclipse I proposed especially to solve this question. 
By means of the optical arrangements above described, I have been 
able to determine that the basis of the coronal spectrum is composed of 
the complete Frauenhofer spectrum. The principal lines of the solar 
spectrum, especially J), b, JB, etc., were detected so surely that there can 
be no possible doubt of this fact. I recognized, perhaps, a hundred 
lines. 

"I recognized this composition of the spectrum, particularly in the 
lower or most brilliant portious of the corona, but not to an equal degree 



ASTRONOMY. 389 

at the same distance from the moon's limb. The details of this will be 
given and discussed at a future time. 

"I studied also the rings of Respighi. The rings did not appear uni- 
form about the moon's linrb, but presented peculiarities of structure, 
which will be especially discussed in their relation to the question of 
' the Frauenhofer lines. 

"I studied also polarization, but devoted to it only a few moments, 
using the excellent biquartz polariscope of Prazmowski. The polariza- 
tion was very well defined, and possessed characteristics already rec- 
ognized. 

"Before the observations, I made a preliminary examination of the 
corona with the naked eye, and with an excellent telescope by Praz- 
mowski. This examination was for the purpose of guiding me in the 
subsequent observations. 

"'All these studies — stud}' of shape, spectrum analyses, Respighi's 
rings, polarization — were combined with a view of solving the question 
of extra-solar cosmic substances. We think that the discovery of the 
complete Frauenhofer spectrum in that of the corona considerably ad- 
vances this question. 

" Photography. — Two great instruments, containing eight cameras, had 
been prepared for studying the question of intra-mercurial planets, and 
that of the shape and extension of the corona. With regard to heavenly 
bodies in the vicinity of the sun, these photographs will require a minute 
examination ; but with respect to the corona, it can be said that the 
great power of several of the lenses used — that of eight inches (0.21 m.) 
and that of six inches (0.16 m.) — and also the length of exposure, per- 
mitted us to prove tbat the corona has an extension very much greater 
than that shown by optical examination, either with the naked eye or 
in my telescope. 

" Several of our large photographs of the corona have great distinct- 
ness. They show important details of structure which ought to be dis- 
cussed. The shape of the corona was absolutely constant during the 
whole duration of totality." 

The reports of Messrs. Tacchini, Palisa, and Trouvelot are not given, 
but are alluded to in the discussions of the results of the observations 
which next follow. Mr. Janssen regards it quite improbable that any 
intra-mercurial planets exist, on account of the negative testimony given 
by Mr. Palisa, combined with that of Professor Holden of the American 
party. Mr. Trouvelot's conclusion is less decisive, but the observer 
wished to re examine the region of the sky before coming to a final con- 
clusion.* 

*Mr. Trouvelot observed, near the close of totality, a star which he describes as 
" bright, and of a pronounced red color ; " but, by some misunderstanding, its true po- 
sition was not recorded by the special attachments to the circles above described. 
Its position, therefore, cannot be determined, nor the question of its identification be 
positively settled. The observer announces {Compte* revdus, September 17) that he has 
re-examined the region, and finds no star of the corresponding magnitude and color 



390 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

The author adds, " When we eonsider that the bodies discovered by 
Professor Watson in 1878 can be identified, within the limits of error to 
which the method employed by that astronomer is liable, with two stars 
in Cancer,* we arrive at the conclusion that it is to day extremely im- 
probable that there exists one or more planetary bodies of any impor- 
tance between Mercury and the sun. Our photographs, although not 
yet completely examined, seem to lead to the same conclusion." 

The duration of totality was found by Mr. Trouvelot to be 5 m 24A1, 
by Mr. Tacchini to be 5 m 23 B . 

On the subject of the corona, Mr. Janssen thus writes : 

" The corona. — Mr. Tacchini's report shows that this skillful astronomer 
made remarkable observations at Caroline Island, especially with regard 
to the analogy between the composition of the spectrum of certain parts 
of the corona and the spectrum of comets. It was part of my plan to 
examine this correspondence, as is shown by a note drawn up by me 
long before the eclipse, and which I read to my colleagues when we 
compared our respective reports. It is a matter which ought to be 
verified with the greatest care in future eclipses. However, I leave to 
Mr. Tacchini the task of developing his observations. 

"It will be seen from my report that the principal object of my obser- 
vations was to decide one point of the composition of the spectrum of 
the corona which has always seemed to me very important, viz, whether 
the light of the corona contains an important proportion of solar light. 
The result surpassed my expectation in this matter. The Frauenhofer 
spectrum, so complete as I witnessed it at Caroline Island, proves that, 
without denying that a certain part is due to diffraction, there exists in 
the corona, and especially in certain parts of the corona, an enormous 
quantity of refracted light ; and as we know, besides, that the coronal 
atmosphere is very thin, it must be that in these regions cosmic matter 
exists in the condition of solid corpuscles, in order to explain this abun- 
dance of reflected solar light. 

" The more we advance, the more we perceive the complex nature of 
the regions in the immediate vicinity of the sun ; and it is only by per- 
sistent and very varied observations and an exhaustive discussion of 
these observations that we can arrive at an exact knowledge of these 
regions. The great eclipse of 1883 has allowed us to take a step for- 
ward. 

" Photography of the corona. — The result of the studies of the photo- 

in the vicinity of the approximate position which he was ahle to assign to it; "al- 
though," he adds, "the absence of a red star as bright as that which I observed in 
the eclipse seems quite naturally to lead to the conclusion that the body in question 
is no other than an intra-mercurial planet ; yet, as the most necessary elements, such 
as the position and a disk or a sensible phase, are wanting in my observation, I 
think I ought to suspend, for the present, my conclusions upon the probable nature of 
the body." 

•First pointed out by Dr. C. H. F. Peters, A»t. Nach., 2253 and 2254. 



ASTRONOMY. . 391 

graphs will be given later; for they require a thorough examination 
since they record many most interesting phenomena. I will simply say, 
at present, that these photographs show a coroua more extended than 
that given by telescopic examination, and that the phenomena appeared 
well defined and steady during the duration of totality. 

"Luminous intensity of the corona. — I had prepared a photometric 
measure by photography of the luminous intensity of the corona. 
This experiment showed that at Caroline Island the illumination given 
by the corona was greater than that of the full moon. The exact num- 
bers will be given later. It should be noted that this is the first time 
that an exact measure of the luminous intensity of this phenomenon 
has been made." 

The remainder of the report gives an account of the return journey 
of the members of the expedition. They visited the volcano of Kila- 
nea, on the island of Hawaii, and passed a night in the crater on the 
edge of the lava lake. Mr. Jaussen made some experiments, which, 
he states, "shows some curious coir cidences between these volcanic 
phenomena and those of the solar surface. I was able, also, to obtain 
the spectrum of the flames which issue from the lava, and to establish 
in them the presence of sodium, hydrogen, and carbureted compounds." 
— (Professor W. Upton in Science, November 2.) 

The total solar eclipse of August 28, 29, 188G. — This great eclipse is a 
return of that of August 17, 18, 1868, which was extensively observed 
in the Bombay and Madras Presidencies and in other parts of its track 
from Aden to Torres Straits. In 1886 the track of the central line will 
be mainly over the Atlantic Ocean, and at that portion of it where the 
duration of totality is longest it will not be observable on land. It is 
therefore of interest to examine the possible conditions of observation. 
In deducing the results which follow, the places of the sun and moon 
have been taken from the Nautical Almanac, where Newcomb's correc- 
tions to Hansen's Lunar Tables are introduced. As will be seen from 
the Ephemeris, the central eclipse commences in longitude 79° 46' west 
of Greenwich, and latitude 9° 48' north, off Colon, in the Isthmus of 
Panama, thence running in the direction of the Windward Islands 
across the northern parts of New Granada and Venezuela; passing 
over the island of Granada, it traverses the Atlantic, and meets the 
coast of Africa in the Portuguese possessions, not far from St. Philip 
de Benguela, and crossing South Africa to Sofala, it ends on the east 
coast of Madagascar. At Cartagena the duration of totality is 3 m . 2 8 , 
with the sun at an altitude of 5° ; at Maracaibo the duration is 2 m . 57 8 , 
with the sun 9° above the horizon. The southern extremity of the 
island of Grenaada will have the most advantageous conditions for ob- 
servation, having regard to length of totality and accessibility. The 
total eclipse begins there at 7 b ll m , s A. m. on August 29, and con- 
tinues 3 ,B 42 s , the sun being at an altitude of 20°; at the northern 



392 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

■extremity of the island the length of total eclipse is about five seconds 
less. In Carriacou, the £)rincipal island in the Grenadines, the dura- 
tion of totality is 3 m 21 8 ; at the northern point of Tobago it is l m 51 8 . — 
^Nature.) 

Photographing the corona without an eclipse. — In a paper read before 
the British Association, Dr. Hugging gives an account of his more 
iiecent experiments iu coronal photography. The photographs referred 
to in his first paper read before the Koyal Society, 1882, December 21, 
were obtained with a Newtonian reflector by Short. Since then Miss 
Lassell has lent Dr. Hug-gins a seven-foot Newtonian telescope made by 
the late Mr. Lassell. No secondary reflector is used, nor is the mirror 
tilted, but the open end of the tube is fitted with a mahogany cover in 
which are two circular holes three and a quarter inches in diameter. 
Through one of these the light is admitted, and the framework for 
carrying the sensitive plates is fitted over the other. The performance 
of the apparatus is very satisfactory. The photographs show the sun's 
image sharply defined, but it is only when the sky becomes clear and 
blue in color that any coronal appearances present themselves. 

In Dr. Huggius's earlier work he employed absorbing media in order 
to limit the light used to the violet rays. But much difficulty was ex- 
perienced from the rapid manner in which the colored solutions (po- 
tassic permanganate, or iodine in carbon disulphide) decomposed under 
the influence of sunlight. Dr. Huggius therefore tried chloride-of-silver 
plates, which are strongly sensitive to light between H and h, but 
hardly at all beyond R, and has been able to secure photographs of the 
corona with them, without the use of any absorbing medium at all. The 
developer employed has been a solution of ferrous citro-oxalate, and 
all the plates have been backed with a solution of asphaltum in benzole. 
For the purpose of screening the sensitive surface from the intensely 
bright image of the sun, small circular disks of thin brass, slightly larger 
in diameter than the sun's image, were held close before the sensitive 
plate. Less advantage was, however, found from the use of the disk 
than had been anticipated. No photographs could be secured on May 
6, the day of the total solar eclipse. One of the English observers of 
the eclipse, however, having made a careful comparison of the short- 
exposure photographs taken at Caroline Island, with Dr. Huggins's 
photographs, expresses his opinion that Dr. Huggins's photographs 
of the corona are certainly genuine up to 8' from the sun's limb. — {The 
Observatory, November, 1883.) 

A private letter from Dr. Huggins, dated December 22, 1883, states 
that "the solar photographs are now strengthened by a new process 
which makes the fainter details more visible. A selection of plates has 
has been sent to Mr. Wesley to draw from, and his drawings have been 
compared with the negatives by Captain Abney. Of one of the plates 
taken May 31, 18S3 (about one solar rotation period after the eclipse of 
May 6), Mr. Wesley and Captain Abney independently made drawings. 



ASTRONOMY. 393 

These drawings agree, and both of them correspond unmistakably u ith 
the eclipse photograph. I think I may venture to say that there can no 
longer remain any doubt as to the true solar origin of the main details 
of the photographs taken of the eclipse up to 8' to 10' from the limb. 
Arrangements are in progress for experiments at a good elevation." 

On the conservation of solar energy : a collection of papers and discus- 
sions. By C. William Siemens. London, 1883. — This is a collection 
of the original paper read before the Eoyal Society by Siemens, and 
the criticisms from Fitzgerald, Faye, Hirn, Archibald, and others, to- 
gether with the replies of Siemens. 

The theory, well summed up on p. 22, supposes that space is filled 
with aqueous vapor and carbon compounds ; that these, at low press- 
ures, are dissociated by the radiant energy of the sun ; that the disso- 
ciated elements are drawn into the sun at its poles, unite, and generate 
heat sufficient to give a temperature of about 2,800° C. ; and that the 
aqueous vapor and carbon compounds formed are again thrown off by 
centrifugal force at the sun's equator. 

As evidence of the presence of carbon vapors in space, Siemens refers 
to the analyses of meteors, which in some cases have proved that hy- 
drocarbons were a component of the meteoric mass, and again to the 
work of Abney and Langley on the absorption of the radiant energy of 
the sun. 

The dissociation of vapors at low tensions is a point which seems to 
be well established. One of the earliest proofs is given in Prof. J. Wil- 
lard Gibbs's paper on the equilibrium of heterogeneous substances. 

Some two or three years ago Prof. Ogden Eood succeeded in getting 
experimental evidence of dissociation in rarefied gases at ordinary tem- 
peratures, but has never published his results. 

Dr. Siemens gives, on p. 13, what evidence he early obtained of dis- 
sociation of gases in vacuum tubes under the influence of sunlight. 
What he has done since may be found from an account of his recent 
lecture at the Eoyal Institution {Nature, May 3). Objections to the 
theory are well put by Fitzgerald when he asks (p. 41) " how the inter- 
planetary gases near the sun acquire a sufficient radial velocity to pre- 
vent their becoming a dense atmosphere round him ; why enormous at- 
mospheres have not long ago become attached to the planets, notably 
to the moon ; why the earth has not long ago been deluged when a con- 
stant stream of aqueous vapor, that would produce a rain of more than 
30 inches per annum all over the earth, must annually pass out past 
the earth in order to supply fuel to be dissociated by the heat that an- 
nually passes the earth ; and why we can see the stars, although most 
of the solar radiations are absorbed within some reasonable distance of 
the sun." 

Faye objects that the presence of such a resisting medium in space 
as the vapor is not to be accepted, with our present knowledge, and 
that the '•ontrifugal force at the sun's equator is far too small for the 
action required. 



394 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Hirn, starting with the supposition that the sun's temperature is 
20,000° C, writes, that, although the dissociated gases might unite in 
the chromosphere, they would, on passing down through the sun's at- 
mosphere, be again dissociated, and absorb as much heat as they had 
given out on combining. — (Science.) 

THE SOLAR PARALLAX. 

Transit of Venus, 17G9. — Professor Newcomb has lately taken advan- 
tage of a visit to the Imperial Observatory of Vienna to make, with the 
consent and support of its director, Prof. E. Weiss, an examination of 
Father Hell's manuscript record, with reference to deciding on the al- 
leged falsification of these observations by Hell himself. The result of 
his examination was so different from that generally accepted, that Pro- 
fessor Newcomb prepared and presented to the Royal Astronomical So- 
ciety a statement of the evidence and his conclusions. The story of 
Hell's supposed tampering with his observations of the transit, made at 
Wardhus in 1769, is, in substance, that he delayed publishing them so 
long as to give rise to the suspicion of intending to alter them ; that he 
showed them to no one until after he had received the observations 
made at other stations ; that a cloud was thus thrown over their genu- 
ineness ; that the suspicions thus excited were confirmed in 1835 through 
the discovery and publication by Littrow of Hell's original manuscript 
journal, which its author had neglected to destroy ; and that the exam- 
ination of this journal showed numerous cases of alteration and erasure 
of the original observed figures, including the seconds of first interior 
contact, which had been completely erased, and replaced by new num- 
bers inserted with different ink at some subsequent time. And the 
reason for all this was supposed to be, that Hell desired to publish, not 
his true observations, but results which should be in the best possible 
accordance with the observations of others. 

In his discussion, Professor Newcomb makes but slight allusion to 
the absence of many circumstances which might be expected to accom- 
pany manufactured observations ; but he has presented all the positive 
evidence within reach so fully as to enable every one to draw his own 
independent conclusions. His own conclusions are — 

First. The belief that there was any suspicious delay in the publica- 
tion of Hell's observations, or anything in his course to give reasonable 
ground for a suspicion that he intended to tamper with his observations, 
is a pure myth. 

Second. Excepting the time of formation of the thread of light at 
ingress j excepting, also, a discrepancy of one second in the time of 
internal contact, and a change of two seconds in one of Sajnovics's times 
— it is proved, not only negatively and presumptively, but by positive 
evidence and beyond serious doubt, that all the essential numbers of 
observation given by Hell, whether relating to the transit, time, or lon- 
gitude, are printed as concluded upon and written in his journal at 






ASTRONOMY. 395 

Wardhus, before there was any possibility of communication with other 
observers. 

Third. The addition of the time of the formation of the thread of 
light was suggested by the accounts of other observers ; but the time 
itself is Hell's own, obtained possibly from estimation and memory, but 
more probably from a memorandum made at the time of observation, 
which he neglected to insert in his journal. 

Fourth. The alteration in Sajuovics's time of second internal contact 
were probably made, because Sajnovics himself afterward concluded 
that his recorded time was too late ; but it may be assumed, that, in 
reaching this conclusion, he was influenced by Hell's observations. 

Professor Newcomb adds, respecting his own proceedings in investi- 
gating this subject, that, in commencingthe examination of Hell's journal, 
he had no hope of doing more than deciding whether it was or was not 
safe to use Hell's numbers as actual results of observations, and no 
thought of doubting the commonly received view of the case. He soon 
became perplexed to find himself differing entirely from the conclusions 
of Littrow. Before the latter had found the manuscript, suspicion had 
rested upon Hell's truthfulness ; so that when he looked into the manu- 
script, and saw such extensive alterations, the indictment seemed so 
clearly proven that Littrow's only duty was to make the facts which 
proved it known to the world. He thus unconsciously assumed the 
tone of a public prosecutor, and saw all the circumstances from an ac- 
cuser's point of view. — (Science.) 

Transits of Venus, 1874 and 1882.— The United States Transit of Venus 
Commission, under whose direction all the operations undertaken by our 
Government in connection with the transits of 1874 and 1882 were carried 
out, has lately communicated a statement with regard to the conduct 
of its affairs and the reduction of the observations. The number of 
parties organized for the observation of the transit of 1882 was eight, 
four of which were sent to the southern hemisphere, the other four re- 
maining in the United States. The foreign stations were, with their 
chief astronomers, as follows: Wellington, South Africa, Prof. Simon 
Newcomb ; Santa Cruz, Patagonia, Lieut. Samuel W. Very ; Santiago 
de Chile, Prof. Lewis Boss; Auckland, New Zealand, Mr. Edwin Smith. 
The home stations were Washington, D. C, Prof. William Harkness ; 
Cedar Keys, Florida, Prof. John E. Eastman ; San Antonio, Tex., Prof. 
Asaph Hall ; Cerro Eoblero, N. Mex., Prof. George Davidson. In ad- 
dition to these parties, there were two others, equipped wholly or in 
part at private expense, but whose operations were conducted in such 
a way as to insure the strict comparability of their work with that of 
the Government parties. One of these was stationed at Princeton, N. 
J , in charge of Prof. Charles A. Young, and the other at the Lick Obser- 
vatory, Mouat Hamilton, Cal., in charge of Prof. David P. Todd. The 
photographic results will be derived from the labors of these two par- 
ties in the same way as from the Government photographs, and the final 



396 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



report will contain the work of all ten parties on a uniform plan. The 
Commission's report states that, on the day of the last transit, the sky 
was perfectly clear at about half the stations, while at the remainder 
clouds impeded the work more or less, but nowhere to the extent of 
producing failure. The number of photographic plates obtained at all 
the stations, and which will be available for measurement, are in the 
aggregate nearly fourteen hundred, of which about eight hundred were 
obtained in the northern hemisphere and six hundred in the southern. 
They are distributed with a fair evenness among the ten stations, ex- 
cept that Auckland and Washington were unfortunate in obtaining very 
few. The reductions of all these photographic observations are now 
going on, four computers being employed in the work. The photo- 
graphs obtained at three of the stations have already been measured, 
and some progress has been made in the reductions based upon these 
measurements. It is believed that the sun's distance derivable from 
the transit of Venus in 1874 and 1882 must depend chiefly upon the 
photographs; and when it is remembered that the conditions of 
weather on the former occasion were so unfavorable as to allow only 
between two and three hundred available negatives to be made in both 
hemispheres, the remarkable success of the operations during the transit 
of December, 1882, will be apparent. If no unforeseen delay occurs, 
probably the definitive result from the photographs of both these tran- 
sits of Venus can be arrived at in about four years. 

Transit of Venus, 1882. — A list of the photographic plates of the Transit 
of Venus of 1882 in the hands of the Transit of Venus Commission for 
discussion is given below, together with a list of contact observations: 





Photographic plates. 


Contacts observed. 


Stations. 


Exposed. 


Can he 
measured. 


03 

5 


S 
o 

W 


2 


.a 
-*^ 

p 
o 




53 


49 












1 
1 
1 


1 
1 
1 
1 
1 










l 

l 


1 








1 








1 










1 


1 




176 


167 










1 


1 


1 




204 


121 






Prof. A. Hall.. 






1 


1 












1 
















216 


216 










l 
l 


1 

1 


1 


1 
















1 


1 




190 
123 


127 
115 








!iick Observatory, California 


















Total for northern hemisphere 


961 


795 


4 


7 


11 


9 



ASTRONOMY. 



397 





Photographic plates. 


Contacts observed. 


Stations. 


Exposed. 


Can he 
measured. 




T3 

a 
o 
o 
e 

CO 




■— 

5 


Wellington, South Africa...... 


H36 


200 










Prof. S. Newcomb 


1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 


1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 






LiSut. T. L. Casey - 










Ensign J. H. L. Holconibe 








































Santa Cruz, Patagonia 


224 


204 






Lieut. S. W. Very 


1 
1 


1 
1 


1 
1 


1 


Mr. 0. B. Wheeler 






1 


Santiago de Chile 


2*04 


152 




Prof. Lewis Boss 


1 
1 


1 
1 


1 
1 


1 


Mr. Miles Rock 






1 




74 


31 












1 


Prof. H. S. Pritchett 










1 
1 


1 


Mr. John J. Steveson 










1 














Total for southern hemisphere. 


738 


587 


10 


10 


6 


7 


Total for both hemispheres... 


1,700 


1,382 


14 


17 


17 


17 



From this it will appear that over a thousand plates are regarded as 
suitable for measurement. 

The Transit of Venus o/1882. — The Comptes Eendus of the Paris Acad- 
emy of Sciences for August, 1883, is almost wholly occupied by the 
preliminary reports from the various expeditions sent by the French 
commission for the observation of this phenomenon, and one or two 
expeditions acting in co-operation with the commission. The observa- 
tions of contacts, etc., appear in these reports. The stations included 
are Petionville, Hayti; Puebla, Mexico; Fort Tartenon, Martinique; 
Saint Augustine, Fla. ; Santa Cruz, Patagonia ; Cerro Negro, near San 
Bernardo, Chili; Chubut, Patagonia; Rio Negro (4 h 21 m 20 s W. of 
Paris and 40° 47' 51" S.); Hoste Island, Orange Bay, Terra del Fuego; 
and Bragado, Buenos Ayres. It is gratifying to note the general suc- 
cess which attended these expeditions, even at the most southern sta- 
tion in Orange Bay, the latitude of which was 55° 31' 28". 

VULCAN. (?) 



The editor of the Astronomische Nachrichten (Professor Kriiger) re- 
marks in No. 2547, with regard to the red star seen momentarily by M. 
Trouvelot near the sun during the total eclipse on the 6th of May, that, 
according to a communication he has had for some time in his hands 
from Professor Holden, there can be no doubt that the star in question 
was in fact a Aiietis. No intra-mercurial planet, therefore, was seen 
during the eclipse. — (Athenaum.) 



398 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

The conclusion above given receives additional confirmation from 
the report of M. Palisa, which has since been published. In fact the 
identification named is due to M. Palisa alone, and it was made in an 
ingenious manner. 

THE EARTH. 

The Geodetic Congress. — The most generally interesting part of the 
proceedings of the geodetic conference which met at Rome in 1883 is 
that connected with the selection of a common first meridian. « 

The report of the permanent committee of the International Geodetic 
Association recommends to the conference the general acceptance of the 
meridian of Greenwich ; it was referred to a special committee composed 
of one representative for each of the following : England, the United 
States, Germany, Italy, France, and Hamburg. The report concludes 
thus: 

"We terminate our report by proposing to the assembly the follow- 
ing resolutions: 

" The seventh general conference of the International Geodetic As- 
sociation, held at Eome, and in which representatives of Great Brit- 
ain, together with directors of the principal astronomical and nautical 
almanacs, and a delegate from the Coast and Geodetic Survey of the 
United States, have taken part, after having discussed the questions of 
unification of longitude by the adoption of an initial meridian, and the 
unification of time by the adoption of a universal hour, have come to 
the following conclusions: 

" Firstly, that the unification of longitudes and hours is equally de- 
sirable in the interests of science as in those of navigation, commerce, 
and international communication. The scientific and practical utility 
of this reform considerably outweighs the sacrifices and the trouble of 
arrangement to which it will put the minority of civilized nations. It 
should, therefore, be recommended to the governments of all the states 
interested, that it may be arranged and confirmed by an international 
convention, so that henceforth one and the same system of longitudes 
may be employed in all the astronomical and nautical almanacs in all 
the geodetic and topographical bureaus and institutes, and in all geo- 
graphical and hydrographical charts. 

" Secondly, that the conference propose to the Governments to choose 
for the initial meridian that of Greenwich, inasmuch as that meridian 
fulfills, as a point of departure of longitudes, all the conditions required 
by science ; and that being already actually and most extensively used 
of all, it presents the greater probability of being generally accepted. 

" Thirdly, that the longitudes should be reckoned from the meridian 
of Greenwich in the sole direction of from east to west and from zero 
to 360°, or from zero to 24 hours. The meridians on the charts and 
the longitudes iu the registers should be indicated everywhere in hours 
and minutes of time, with liberty of adding the indication of the cor- 
responding degrees. 



ASTRONOMY. 399 

"Fourthly, that the conference recognizes for certain scientific needs 
and for the service for the great administrations of the means of com- 
munication, such as railways, steamship lines, telegraphs, and posts, 
the utility of adopting a universal hour, side by side with the local 
or national hours, which will necessarily continue to be employed in 
civil life. 

"Fifthly, that the conference recommends, as the point of departure 
of the universal hour and of cosmopolitan dates, the mean noon of 
Greenwich, which coincides with the instant of midnight, or with the 
beginning of the civil day, situated at the twelfth hour or at 180° from 
Greenwich. It follows that the universal time will correspond every- 
where with the mean local time reckoned from midnight, less twelve 
hours and the longitude of the place, and that the dates change at the 
antipodes of Greenwich. 

" Sixthly, that it is desirable that those states which, in order to adhere 
to the unification of longitudes and of hours, will have to change their 
meridians, should adopt the new system of longitudes as quickly as pos- 
sible in their observations and official almanacs, in their geodetical, 
topographical, and hydrographical works, and in their new charts. As 
a means of transition it would be well that in new editions of old charts, 
on which it would be difficult to change the squares, the indications ac- 
cording to the new system should at least be inscribed alongside the 
enumeration of the old meridians. 

"Seventhly, that these resolutions should be laid before the Govern- 
ments and recommended to their friendly consideration, with the ex- 
pression of the hope that an international convention confirming the 
unification of longitudes and of hours may be concluded as quickly as 
possible by a special conference." 

The report of the special committee on the above resolutions was read 
on the 22d before the general meeting of the conference, and accepted 
after a very animated debate. 

Eeferring to the resolutions, it is only requisite to state briefly that, 
according to the Times's report, as sent back to the conference by the 
special committee, they now stand as follows : Numbers 1, 2, 4, 6, and 
7 were adopted by the committee without alteration ; the other two 
were modified, or rather abbreviated, and now read thus: 

'Thirdly, that the longitude should be reckoned from the meridian 
of Greenwich in the sole direction of from west to east." 

" Fifthly, that the conference recommends, as the point of departure 
of the universal hour and of cosmopolitan dates, the mean noon of 
Greenwich, which coincides with the instant of midnight, or with the 
beginning of the civil day, under the meridian situated at 12 hours or 
180° from Greenwich ; the universal hour to be counted from zero to 
24." 

To these seven resolutions the speeial committee have added two 
others. 



400 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

The first, inserted between numbers 1 and 2 of those referred to, reads 
thus : 

"That notwithstanding the great advantages which the general in- 
troduction of the decimal division of the quadrant for geographic and 
geodetic co- ordination and the corresponding expressions for time 
is destined to realize scientifically and practically, reasons eminently 
sound appear to justify the passing by the consideration thereof in the 
great measure of unification proposed in the first resolution. Mean- 
while, to satisfy at the same time important scientific considerations, the 
conference recommends on this occasion the extension, in multiplying 
and perfecting the necessary tables, of the application of the decimal 
divisions of the quadrant, at least for the great numerical calculations 
for which it presents incontestable advantages, even if it be desired to 
preserve the old sexagesimal division for observations, maps, naviga- 
tion, etc." 

The other, inserted between numbers 6 and 7, is as follows: 

" The conference hopes that if the whole world is agreed upon the 
unification of longitudes and hours in accepting the Greenwich merid- 
ian as the point of departure, Great Britain will find in this fact an 
additional motive to take on her side new steps in favor of the unifica- 
tion of weights and measures by joining the metrical convention of 
May 20, 1875." 

The resolution as to the choice of the initial meridian was carried by 
22 votes to 4; while Mr. Christie, supported by the French delegates, 
moved the substitution of Greenwich midnight for noon as the point 
of departure. This amendment was negatived by 20 votes to 8. — {Na- 
ture, October 25, 1883.) 

Telegraphic longitudes. — The Keport of the United States Coast and 
Geodetic Survey for 1882 contains a very interesting sketch-map, which 
gives graphically the index to 105 determinations of telegraphic longi- 
tudes by the officers of the Coast Survey between 1846 and 1882.. 

It would add to the interest of this map if the telegraphic longitudes 
determined by various observatories (as the Naval Observatory, Cam- 
bridge, Clinton, Princeton, Albany, &c), were to be separately indi- 
cated. 

Telegraphic determinations of longitude in Asia. — The work of Lieu- 
tenant-Commanders Green and Davis and Lieutenant Norris, U. S. K., 
in determining telegraphic longitude has been previously noticed here. 
In 1877, 1878, and 1879 a chain of longitudes (telegraphic) was carried 
from Key West through the Windward Islands and to Panama, as well 
as from England to Lisbon, Cape de Yerde, Rio, and Montevideo. 
The last station has been connected overland with Santiago de Chile, 
and Panama is now being connected with Santiago down the west 
coast. During 1881 and 1882 this important work was extended to the 
China seas, and the positions of Madras, Shanghai, Hong-Kong, Sin- 
gapore, Nagasaki, Vladivostok, etc., were fixed. The prime importance 






ASTRONOMY. 401 

of the work is for hydrograpliic purposes; but it is almost equally 
valuable astronomically. It is interesting to note that Captain Green's 
longitude of Vladivostok is 8 h 47 m 30 8 .92, while the direct (overland) 
longitude is 8 h 47 m 31 B .32. The small discrepancy of 8 .4 is a testimony 
to the accuracy of the work. 

Telegraphic longitudes in South America. — The following is an extract 
of a letter from Dr. Copeland, dated- Lima, January, 1883: "At Cho- 
rillos, near this, are staying M. Barnaud, lieutenant de vaisseau, and 
M. Favreau, ensigne de vaisseau, members of the French Venus Ex- 
pedition to Chili. Chorillos is the landing point of the cable from 
Valparaiso and Panama. The French astronomers, in conjunction with 
two colleagues now at Valparaiso, are determining the difference of 
longitude; they have 2-inch transit instruments, with chronographs 
and chronometers, and the cable is led directly into the observatory. 
The instruments are similar at both stations ; the observers do not in- 
terchange stations, but the personal equation has been determined for 
wire transits and signals transmitted by Thompson's galvanometer. 
The strength of current is adjusted by a rheostat to a constant strength. 
A triangulation will connect Chorillos, Callao, and Lima, distant some 
6 or 7 miles from each other. The connection of Valparaiso with Buenos 
Ayres on the one hand, and with Callao and Panama on the other, will 
complete the circuit of the greater part of South America, the chain 
from Greenwich to Buenos Ayres, through Lisbon, Madeira, St. Vincent, 
Pernambuco, Bahia, Rio Janeiro, and Montevideo, haviDg been fin- 
ished by Lieutenant Commander Green, U. S. N., in 1879. It is deeply 
to be regretted that a spirit of undue economy prevents the British 
Government from taking part in these important operations, which are 
so closely connected witli navigation and geography on a large scale." — 
(Copernicus, November 28, 1883.) 

Ghronometric longitudes. — The Gomptes Rendus for January 8, 1883, 
contains an interesting note by M. de Magnac upon the accuracy of lon- 
gitudes determined by chronometers. A comparison is made with the 
values determined in 1871-1873 of the longitudes of Bahia, Montevideo, 
and Bio de Janeiro with the telegraphic values more recently obtained 
by officers of the United States Navy. The differences are as follows : 

Chronometric — Telegraphic. 

Bahia, — 1 8 .3. 

Bahia, +1 8 .0 

Montevideo, — 8 .5 
Rio de Janeiro, — 1 8 .1 

This surprising accuracy, for expeditions of over forty days, is due 
to the methqd adopted, that of M. Villarceau, in which the rate ob- 
served on the land before departure and after the return are made the 
basis of a calculation giving the rate from day to day as a function of 
the time and temperature. 
H. Mis. 69 20 



402 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

The United States Lake Survey. — There has just been issued by the Chief 
of Engineers, in a quarto of 920 pages, with thirty plates, a detailed re- 
port of the operations in the j)rosecution of the survey of the Great Lakes. 
This important work is now finished, and the report presents in a com- 
prehensive manner the methods used and results obtained. The report 
starts with a historical account of the survey, from its inception in 1841 
to its completion; gives a synopsis of the work accomplished under the 
various officers who from time to time have had charge of the survey ; 
gives an account of the standards of length upon which the surveys 
depend, of the measuring-bars used and methods of using them, and of 
the results obtained both in*the measurement of the base lines and in 
the results of their connection by triangulation, and of the geodetic and 
astronomical work. The part devoted to the discussion of the base ap- 
paratus will be found of special interest to geodeticians. Full account 
is given of the determination of the constants of the apparatus used, 
and of the coefficients of expansion. Also, there is a discussion of the 
" set" of a zinc bar when heated. A portion of the book is devoted to the 
consideration of the mean levels of the Great Lakes, and the methods by 
which the results were obtained. The question of tides in the lakes had 
been previously considered (Report of Chief of Engineers, 1872). The 
tides are perceptible, but of scientific rather than practical importance, 
the maximum being less than 2 inches. — (Professional Papers, Corps of 
Engineers, No. 24.) — (Science.) 

General movements of the soil. — Dr. Hirsch, director of the Keuchatel 
Observatory, has published an accouut of the motions of the pillars whch 
support his transit instrument, during the years 18G0-1882. The whole 
series is analyzed and leads to the following conclusions : 

1st. The hill on which the observatory is situated oscillates each year 
about the vertical. On the average it moves 39".8 each summer from 
left to right, and 38". 2 each winter from right to left. Thus there is a 
progressive twist, beside the periodic ones. 

2d. The hill changes its level progressively 24" yearly, and always in 
the same direction. Thus since 1859 the change of level (towards the 
west) has been 550". Dr. Hirsch compares the changes with the num- 
ber of spots on the sun, and finds a connection between the two phe- 
nomena. 

Mr. Faye,in reviewing this paper of Dr. Hirsch's, points out that the 
phenomena can be explained by the geological structure of the strata 
below the Jura. They are calcareous and clay beds which can slip the 
one over the other. Water does not penetrate the layers of clay, but it 
lubricates their surfaces and facilitates the sliding of one layer relative 
to another. The layers of limestone are moreover filled with holes and 
fissures running in various directions, and therefore excellent reservoirs 
for subterranean water. Mr. Faye explains the phenomena in question 
by supposing a stratum of limestone which is turning periodically over 



ASTRONOMY. 403 

a lower layer of clay, under the influence of the change of seasons; 
while at the same time a progressive slipping of one layer on the other 
will account for the changes of level. In this connection, we may refer 
to diurnal movements of the soil derived from astronomical observations 
by Dr. Gould (U. S. Coast Survey Report, 18G2-'64, and Cordoba Obser- 
vations, vol. ii, p. lii), and by Mr. Fergola (Tt. Ac. Sci. Napoli, 1871), as 
well as to the special physical studies by D'Abbadie in France, G. Dar- 
win in England, and others. 

THE MOON. 

Semi-diameter of the moon.* — Prof. H. M. Paul, formerly assistant at 
the United States Naval Observatory, Washington, gives in Appendix 
II of the Washington Observations for 1879 the results of two occupa- 
tions of the Pleiades group by the moon, observed by himself to deter- 
mine the occultation semi-diameter of the moon, and also the corrections 
to the right ascension, declination, and parallax of the moon, these be- 
ing necessarily involved with the semi-diameter. The occultations oc- 
curred on July 6, 1877, and September 6, 1879, and were observed with 
the 9.6-inch equatorial of the Washington Observatory. The relative 
positions adopted for the stars were those of Wolf, with proper motions 
from comparison with Bessel, and the general proper motion of the group 
as given by Kewcomb. The observations of 1877 were poorly placed 
for a determination of the correction to the semi-diameter ; but those of 
1879 give a much more reliable result. From the later (fourteen in 
all) the resulting correction to Hansen's mean semi-diameter (15' 33".47) 
is — 1".69± 0".12; and the resulting value, is therefore, semi-diameter 
=15'31".78±0".12. He gives also the results of Airy's determination 
from 296 scattered observations from 1833 to 1860. From the immer- 
sions and emersions at the dark limb the resulting values are larger by 
0".9 and 0".5 than those given by Professor Paul, and from immersious 
and emersions at the bright limb Airy's results are larger by 2".3 and 
4".4. Professor Paul concludes that the best way to observe the actual 
occultation at the bright limb is to use as high a magnifying power as 
possible, so as to obtain a decided difference of color between the star 
and the moon's limb. Neither set of occultations observed by Professor 
Paul gives any evidence of deviation of the moon's limb from a perfect 
circle. — (The Observatory, October, 1883.) 

The moon's heat. — The Sidereal Messenger for August, 1883, contains 
an extract from a private letter of Professor Langley's giving some re- 
sults of unpublished observations on the lunar heat : 

"We are measuring the heat of the moon by the bolometer, and the 
light in its spectrum by other methods, in order to ascertain the tem- 
perature of the lunar surface. Our preliminary measures already war- 
rant us in announcing a different conclusion from that reached by Lord 
Eosse, who, from the fact that a certain specimen of glass absorbed more 

* Science, vol. I, No. 20. 



404 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR J 883. 

of lunar than of solar heat, drew (as is well known) the inference that 
the lunar surface in sunshine was nearly of the temperature of boiling 
water. We find no evidence whatever of this, but are led by other ex- 
periments to believe that the fact (which we do not question) that most 
kinds of glass absorb more lunar than solar heat has no such explana- 
tion as Lord Eosse assigned to it, but is due to selective absorption of 
the solar rays by the lunar surface. We find no evidence of any but 
reflected heat there, and so far as our experiments go, no indication that 
the absolute temperature of the lunar surface, under full sunshine, is 
high enough to give any indication whatever of its existence to the 
most sensitive apparatus we have." 

Virtual change of the astronomical unit of time. — Mr. E. J. Stone has 
recently communicated to the Eoyal Society a paper on a virtual change 
of the astronomical unit of time, which has taken place in consequence 
of the difference between Bessel's expression for the moon's mean longi- 
tude and the corresponding formulae of Hansen and Leverrier. The 
investigation was primarily undertaken for the purpose of finding an 
explanation of the rapidly increasing discordance between the moon's 
place and that indicated by Hansen's lunar tables; and, after a careful 
examination of a number of other hypotheses, Mr. Stone thinks he has 
found the cause as indicated above. 

Up to 1863, Hansen's lunar tables were satisfactory ; since then the 
error of the moon's longitude has increased from +0".121 to +10 // .265. 

Mr. Stone thinks this will also clear up some perplexing discrepancies 
in results as to the moon's secular acceleration. He points out that 
Hansen's tables " cannot safely be used in the discussion of ancient 
eclipses until the effects of this confusion of units of time have been 
cleared." 

This paper has been replied to by various astronomers, notably Pro- 
fessors Adams and Cayley, who have shown that Mr. Stone is here in 
error. 

MINOR PLANETS. 

The part of the Berliner Aatronomisches Jahrbuch for 1885 containing 
ephemerides of the minor planets for 1883 has been issued to the various 
observatories in advance of the publication of the annual volume. It 
contains approximate places for every twentieth day of 224 of these 
bodies, the latest being No. 225, with accurately calculated opposition 
ephemerides of 43, each extending over about five weeks. This division 
of the Jahrbuch occupies upwards of one hundred pages. 

There are six cases during the year where the planets, approach the 
earth about opposition, within her mean distance from the sun. On 
June 22 Phocea is at a distance of 0.93, declination +16°; on July 12 
the distance of Clio is 0.96, declination — 35£°; on August 1 that of Isis 
is 0.90, declination — 28°; on October 1 that of Polyhymnia is 0.98, de- 
clination +8£; on October 20 that of Virginia is 0.98, declination +13°, 



ASTRONOMY. 



405 



and on December 11 Flora in perigee is at a distance of 0.97, with de- 
clination + 18°. Galle's method of determining the solar parallax, so 
strongly advocated and ably applied by Mr. Gill, is not likely to fail for 
want of opportunities of applying it. As regards the magnitude near 
opposition we have in the case of Phocea 9.0 ; Clio, 10.2 ; Isis, 8.8 ; Poly- 
hymnia, 9.7; Virginia, 9.9; aud Flora, 8.2. 

Dui ing the year 1883 four of these planets descend below 14 m , from 
coming into opposition not far from aphelion. — (Nature.) 

Neic minor planets. — The following minor planets were discovered in 
the year 1883 : 



No. 



232 
233 
234 
235 



Name. 



Russia. . 

Barbara 
Carolina 



Discovered. 



January 31.. 

May 11 

August 12 . . . 
November 28 



Discoverer. 



Palisa. 
Borelly. 
Peters. 
Palisa. 



JUPITER. 

Mass of Jupiter. — Dr. Keiupf has reduced a number of observations of 
difference of B. A. between Jupiter and the satellites III aud IV, which 
were made by Dr. Vogel in 1868-1870. He has also re-reduced Airy's 
similar measures of IV (1832-36). 

The mass of the planet by various methods is thus summarized: 

I. — From .sate lUtc-observations. 

Heliometer observations: 

Bessel (Schur) 1,048.629 ± 0.134 

Schur 1,047.232 0.246 

Trausit observations: 

Airy (Kempf) 1,047.641 0.488 

Vogel (Kempf) 1,047.767 0.310 

II. — From perturbations. 

Hansen— Egeria 1,051.12 0.81 

Becker— Amphitrite 1,047.37 1.31 

Moller— Faye's comet 1,047.78S 1.185 

Krueger— Themis 1,047.538 0.192 

v. Asten— Encke's comet (1865-71). 1,047.611 0.171 

Dubiago— Diana 1,045.25 0.46 

The great red spot -upon Jupiter's disk. — Prof. A. Riccb, of the observ- 
atory at Palermo, in a communication to the Memorie della Societa degli 
Spettroscopisti Italiani, gives interesting details of his observations on 
the features of Jupiter's disk during the last opposition. The red spot 



406 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

had become very faint, indeed barely distinguishable, in April and May, 
and was invisible at the commencement of June, 1883. 

Professor Hough also continues his work upon this interesting phe- 
nomenon with the Chicago 18-inch refractor. 

SATURN. 

Mass of Saturn. — In the years 1875, 1876, and 1877 Professor Hall 
observed the difference of E. A. of Japetus and (both limbs of) Saturn 
by means of the chronograph, measuring the difference of declination 
also. From 128 sets of observations (20 to 25 transits in a set) the mean 
distance of the satellite is deduced from each year separately. The 
probable accidental error of a single year's determination of a is slightly 
over 0".05 or toooh part. 

The resulting mean is therefore probably nearly free from accidental 
error and is adopted by Professor Hall. It is 515".522 at Saturn's dis- 
tance 9.53885. 

The periodic time of Japetus has been deduced by a comparison with 
one of Sir W. Herschel's observations, those of Sir John and Washing- 
ton observations. It is sidereal revolution =79.3310152 days. Neglect- 
ing the action of the rings and satellites the mass of Saturn is i4 \ 2 .2- 

The Cassini division of Saturn 1 s ring. — At the January (1883) meet- 
ing of the Eoyal Astronomical Society, Prof. J. C. Adams made a very 
interesting communication on William Ball's observations of Saturn, 
upon which much confusion aud misapprehension have existed. Atten- 
tion has been directed to the subject lately by several astronomical con- 
temporaries, mainly with the view to show that William Ball was not, 
as he has been considered, the discoverer of the chief division of Saturn's 
ring. Professor Adams has carefully examined letters from Ball pre- 
served in the Archives of the Eoyal Society, Huyghen's Opera Varia, 
etc., and remarks : " I find no evidence that Ball, any more than Huy- 
ghens, had noticed any indication of a division in the ring." This state- 
ment may be accepted as conclusive that the impression of several 
English writers as to Ball's claim to the discovery of a double ring is a 
mistaken one, and the credit of the discovery rests with Cassini. The 
announcement of it made by the French astronomer of the Academy 
of Sciences is in the following terms : " Apres la sortie de Saturne hors 
des rayons du soleil l'an 1G75 dans le cr6puscule du matin, le globe de 
cette planete parait avec une bande obscure semblable a celle de Jupi- 
ter, 6"tendue selon la longueur de l'anneau d'orient en Occident, comme 
elle se voit presque toujours par la lunette de 34 pieds, et la largeur de 
l'anneau e'toit divis£e par une ligne obscure en deux parties e"gales, 
dont l'interieur et plus proche du globe etoit fort claire, et l'inteneur 
ud peu obscur. II y avoit entre les couleurs de ces deux parties, 
a-peu-pres la meme difference qui est entre l'argeut mat et l'argent bruni 
(ce qui n'avoit jamois 6t6 observe" auparavant), et ce qui s'est depuis vu 



ASTRONOMY. 407 

toujours par la meme lunette, niais plus clairement dans la erepuscuel 
et a la clarte - cle la lune que dans une nuit plus obscure. Cette appar- 
ency donna une idde comme d'un anneau double, dont l'inferieur plus 
lar: e et plus obscur fiit charge d'un plus etroit et plus clair." In two 
figures attached to this announcement the ring is shown with the outer 
half shaded and the inner half white, and there is a central band across 
the globe. — (Nature.) 

Rings of Saturn. — Mr. William B. Taylor recalls attention to the an- 
nouncement made by Otto Struve in 1851, that the observations of two 
hundred years showed the rings of Saturn to be widening, and the 
inner edge of the inner bright ring to be approaching the body of the 
planet. 

"Accepting the only tenable theory of the rings, that they are com- 
posed of discrete particles, each revolviug in its own orbit, we may, by 
Kepler's law, compute the period of rotation of any part of the riug. 
Assuming the period of the inner satellite (Mimas) to be 22h. 37£in., 
the computed period of the outer edge of the ring is 14h. 30m ; of the 
dividing stripe, llh. 20m. ; of the inner edge of the bright ring, 7h. 
12m. ; of the inner edge of the dusky ring, 5h. 45m. ; and of the ring- 
as a whole (supposed solid), about lOh. 50m. The period of the planet 
is lOh. 14m. 

" With the complex perturbations induced by the exterior satellites, it 
is evident that no particle of the ring can revolve in a circular orbit ; 
and it follows that, in a space so crowded with particles as to give a 
continuous light, there must be much interference. Whether the col- 
lisions at intercepting orbits result in heat or in disintegration, they 
necessarily tend to a degradation of motion, and hence to a shortening 
mean radius-vector and a diminishing period. 

"It thus appears that Struve's conclusions have a rational theoretic 
basis. The rings are falling toward the planet and will eventually be 
absorbed. Indeed, on the generally received meteoric theory of their 
constitution, it is impossible to regard their present condition other- 
wise than as an evanescent phase of a progressive evolution." 

Mr. Taylor points out that the relation between the rotation periods 
of the planet and the ring, and the relation between the rotation periods 
of Mars and its satellites, not only fail to impeach the nebular hypoth- 
esis, as some have supposed, but even fail to be anomalous. 

If the planet had a velocity of rotation equal t*o that of a satellite re- 
volving at its surface, it could not approach the spherical shape. And, 
the form having once been assumed, the rate of rotation must neces- 
sarily and continuously diminish through the influence of solar tides, 
until eventually the planetary day and year are identical. — (Phil. Soc. 
Washington ; meeting October 13, 1883.) 

The divisions in Saturn's rings.* — Professor Kirkwood showed some 



Astron. Nachr., No. 2527. 



408 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

twenty years ago that Jupiter exercised a peculiar influence over the 
minor planets, tending to produce well-marked gaps amongst them at 
certain well-defined distances. For if the period of any minor planet 
were commensurable with that of Jupiter, the latter would exercise a 
perturbing influence upon it which would eventually result in a com 
plete change of orbit. Later on, in 18G8, Professor Kb kwood employed 
the same principles to account for the great division (Cassini's) in Sat- 
urn's rings. Maxwell had shown that the rings must be formed of sep- 
arate particles moving round the planet to a certain extent as independ- 
ent satellites. But a body moving round Saturn at the distance of Cas- 
sini's division would have a period that was very closely commensur- 
able with those of each of the six inner satellites, and it would therefore 
be especially exposed to perturbation. Dr. W. Meyer, of Geneva, has 
carried the principle yet further and has investigated every possible com- 
bination of the commensurabilities of the revolution periods of the sat- 
ellites, and he finds that, including the division of Cassini, there are seven 
places where the satellites would unite to exercise a perturbing influence 
on the members of the ring system. The first position is where the period 
would be one-fourth of that of Mimas, and marks the inner boundary 
of the dark ring. Particles moving at almost precisely the same dis- 
tances would have their times commensurable with each of the other 
five inner satellites ; thus for a period of one-quarter of that of Mimas 
we have a distance of 10".56 from the center of Saturn, for one-sixth of 
that of Enceladus 10".43, and for one-eighth of that ofTethys 10".G6. 
Dr. Meyer sees a consequence of this close agreement in the well-defined 
character of the inner edge of the dark ring. Next comes Struve's 
division in the dark ring. One-fifth the period of Enceladus corre- 
sponds to a distance af ll". 79; one-seventh that of Tethys 11".6G; the 
three next satellites give a closely similar result. The position of 
Struve's division is not very exactly known, and Dr. Meyer adopts 
11". 79* as its distance, being the mean between the positions of the 
inner boundaries of rings C and B. One-third of the period of Mimas 
introduces a new series of commensurabilities in which all the six satel- 
lites take a part, but the agreement is by no means so close as in the 
first two cases, and Dr. Meyer regards the indistinct character of the 
inner boundary of the bright ring B, which would about correspond to 
the mean of the distances indicated, as connected with this less perfect 
coincidence. The period of Enceladus is four times, that of Tethys six 
times, that belonging to a particle at this distance. Cassini's division 
corresponds, as already stated, to a period commensurable with each 
of the six inner satellites, the period of Mimas being twice as long, En- 
celadus three times, Tethys four, Dione six, Rhea nine, Titan thirty- 
three. The commensurabilities in the case of the four nearest satellites 
are of the simplest possible character, and we find that the inner edge 

* There is a misprint here in Dr. Meyer's j>aper ; the observed and calculated dis- 
tances have been interchanged. 



ASTRONOMY. 



409 



of Cassini's division, which is situated at the distance thus indicated, 
is especially distinctly marked. The outer edge is very indistinct, the 
influence of Ehea and Titan being much feebler on account of their 
greater distance. 

One-fifth the period of Dione corresponds to about the distance of 
Eucke's division. One-eighth of .Rhea's period and one-half of Titan's 
approximate roughly to the same distance. The division is faint and 
ill-defined. One-third the period of Tethys, the simplest relation now 
remaining, indicates the outer boundary of the ring system, and one- 
seventh that of Ehea and one twenty-sixth that of Titan correspond to 
distances of nearly the same amount. 

The only simple relation omitted is that of one-fifth the period of 
Tethys, and thus closely corresponds to integral parts of the periods of 
the three next outer planets. There should, therefore, be another divi- 
sion at about 14".7. Dr. Meyer does not seem aware of the fact, but 
several observers of Saturn have noticed that ring B begins to shade off 
a little nearer Saturn than the center of the ring, which would correspond 
to a distance of about 14".7 or 14".8. Professor Holden speaks of the 
point where this shading-off begins as " a definite point." The corre- 
spondence between calculation and observation as to the divisions of 
Saturn's rings would therefore seem to be complete. — (The Observatory, 
September, 1833.) 

The satellites of Saturn. — Dr. W. Meyer has published (in the Astr. 
nachr.) corrected elements of the satellites Unceladus, Tethys, Dione, 
Ehea, Titan, and Japetus, chiefly founded upon his observations at the 
Observatory of Geneva in 1881, the mean motions, however, being 
determined from a comparison of the Geneva observations with the 
elements assigned by Jacob from measures of the satellites made at 
Madras during the years 1856-'58. The mean distances and periods 
resulting from Dr. Meyer's investigations are as follows : 



Mean 

distance. 



Period. 



Enceladus. 
Tethys.... 

Dione 

Ehea 

Titan 

Japetus. -. 



Radii of Sat. 

3. S661 
4.8116 
6. 1629 
8. 6082 
19.9111 
57. 9303 



d. h. m. 



1 8 53 6.92 

1 21 18 25.62 

2 17 41 9.29 
4 12 25 11.57 

15 22 41 23. 16 
79 7 49 24.84 



(Nature, Aug. 16, 1883, vol. xxvm, p. 377.) 



410 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

URANUS. 

Signor Schiaparelli, the director of the Eoyal Observatory at Milan, 
gives in AstronomischeNachrichten, No. 252G, the results of a series of ob- 
servations of the figure of the planet Uranus, which has been exception- 
ally favorably situated for that purpose. His results (as to the amount 

of oblatenets), by two separate methods, are 1(J 98 , Q g 3 and fo 94 ■ 67 

agreeing very well with that obtained in 1842 and 1843 (the last time 
when the planet's position was equally favorable) by the late Professor 
Madler from his observations at Dorpat, and indicating that Uranus is 
the most elliptical of all the planets excepting Saturn. A similar 
result has been reached by Professor Young with the Princeton re- 
fractor. 

Mass of a planet from observation of two satellites. — M. Struve recom- 
mends measurement of the position angle and distance of a satellite 
from another satellite, and not from the primary planet. A series of 
such measurements on satellites of Jupiter has been begun at Pulkova. 
The observations occupy one-third the time, and are considered to be two 
or three times as accurate as those by direct reference to the center of the 
planet. They are free, moreover, from the unknown constant errors 
inseparable from the latter — an advantage which Prof. A. Hall, in 
this paper, considers cheaply purchased at the price of greater difficul- 
ties in computation. He shows that while the solution of 6 normal 
equations requires 77 auxiliary quantities, that of 12 (the elements of 
both orbits being involved by the new method) requires 442, and there- 
fore nearly six times the labor. But these 12 equations give the period 
and mean distance of each satellite, and hence two values of the planet's 
mass. (Phil. Soc. Wash., math. sect. ; meeting April 26.) — (Science.) 

COMETS. 

The Comet of 1771. — The comet discovered by Messier at Paris on 
April 1, 1771, and last observed by St. Jacques de Silvabelle at Mar- 
seilles on July 17, has long been mentioned in our treatises on astron- 
omy as undoubtedly moving in a hyperbolic orbit. This inference was 
first drawn by Burckhardt, who considered that of all the comets cal- 
culated up to the time he wrote (M6moires pr^sentes par Savans etran- 
gers, 1805) that of 1771 was the only one of which it could be stated 
with some degree of certainty that the orbit was hyperbolic. Encke 
reduced anew the six observations employed by Burckbardt, and found 
that the most probable elements were hyperbolic with eccentricity = 
1.00937, which is almost identical with Burckhardt's value (1.00944). 
Nevertheless he did not regard the decided superiority of the hyper- 
bola in the representation of the six places as an indubitable proof of 
the necessity of admittiug motion in that curve; the positions used 
were not normal positions, but the results of single and isolated ob- 



ASTRONOMY. 411 

servations, and as such, the errors exhibited by a parabolic orbit had 
not so great a preponderance in his opinion as to enforce such necessity. 
He concluded that the subject still required examination by a combina- 
tion of all the observatious, and especially if the originals of those at 
Marseilles could be found 

Lately the orbit of the comet of 1771 has formed the subject of two 
memoirs, the first by Mr. W. Beebe, in the Transactions of the Connec- 
ticut Academy of Arts and Sciences, Vol. V; the second by Dr. H. 
Kreutz, published in the Proceedings of the Vienna Academy. Mr. 
Beebe gives also a hyperbolic orbit, accompanied by the most probable 
parabola for comparison. Dr. Kreutz is led to a parabolic orbit for the 
closest representation of the comet's path, and though the original ob- 
servations at Marseilles had again been sought for unsuccessfully he 
does not think their recovery would affect the conclusion at which he 
has arrived. The elements of the definitive parabola are as follows: 

Perihelion passage, 1771, April 19.14144 M. T. at Paris. 

O I II 

Longitude of perihelion 104 1 21.7 1 

Longitude of ascending node 27 53 11.7 > M. Eq. 1771.0. 

Inclination 11 15 53.1 ) 

Logarithm of perihelion distance, 9.955127. 

— (Nature.) 

Theory of Encke's Comet. — Nature, December 13, 1883, contains an 
abstract of the recent results of Dr. Backlund, whose paper has not yet 
reached this country. 

Dr. v. Asten, in August, 1878, showed that an acceleration of 0".104 
in the mean motion would satisfy all the successive revolutions of the 
comet between 1819 and 1858. The probable error of a normal posi- 
tion was 9" in each co-ordinate. The appearance of 1871 presented a 
striking exception to others, in that the acceleration had a quite differ- 
ent value, and Dr. v. Asten was led to the belief that some one of the 
asteroids had produced the retardation in question. In 1881 a similar 
retardation was indicated, and Dr. Backlund, employing v. Asten's 
methods, was able to fix on the time and place where the retardation 
occurred, which was again in the region of the small planets. 

A complete revision of the formula} by Dr. Backlund has led to the 
detection of a material error in the computations, which, being rectified, 
enables the whole of the observations of all the appearances, 1808-1881, 
to be well represented. The probable error of each co-ordinate of a nor- 
mal position, 18G8-1881, is now not above 4".l. By introducing Sclim's 
reduction of Bessel's mass of Jupiter, this error is finally reduced to 2 // .S. 
and the resulting acceleration for each revolution, 1868-1881, is // .054. 
The precision with which the normal places are satisfied is truly re- 
markable. 

The theory for the years 1819-1868 will next be examined, and the 



412 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

difference between the values of the acceleration for the two periods is 
to be examined. 

The great comet of 1882. — Mr. Winlock, of the Naval Observatory, 
has recently printed as an appendix to the Washington Astronomical 
Observations a valuable summary of the Washington observations of 
this comet. The paper includes interesting drawings of the comet at 
various dates, and also special diagrams of the head. 

The meridian observations of the comet are illustrated by a series of 
diagrams showing the particular part of the head which was observed ; 
and this will be found to be a valuable addition for the use of comput- 
ers, whose chief difficulty will be found in utilizing observations by dif- 
ferent observers whose data refer to different parts of the nucleus. 

Dr. Gould has communicated to ~$o. 2538 of the Astronomische Nach- 
ricliten a long series of observations of the great comet (b, 1882) made 
at Cordoba, where it was observed by Mr. Thome, assistant at the ob- 
observatory there, until the 1st of June, a later date by twenty-six days 
than that at which it was seen at any other observatory. 

The comets of 1883 have been, a, that discovered by Mr. Brooks on Feb- 
ruary 23, and the Pons comet of 1812, rediscovered by Mr. Brooks Sep- 
tember 1, 1883. The variations in light of the latter comet have been 
noteworthy. 

REPORTS OF OBSERVATORIES, ETC. 

Reports of observatories for 1882. — The Vierteljahrsschrift of the Ger- 
man Astronomical Society for 1883 (part 2) contains a series of re- 
ports from various observatories, mostly European, of which we give 
the following abstract: It should be especially noted that a very large 
number of the European observatories are now engaged in remodeling 
their buildings or their instruments or both, and we may judge from 
their experience about how long it will be before a similar work will 
have to be done in America. 

Athens: The personnel of the observatory consists of the director, 
Dr. Schmidt, and an assistant, Dr. Wurlisch. The Sun has been ob- 
served on 35G days for spots. The chart of the Moon published in 1875 
gave the results of observations for the years 1840-1874; the measures 
are still continued, and with even greater assiduity as may be judged 
from the fact that more measures have been made since the publication 
of the chart than were made for its construction. Three hundred and 
seventy drawings of Jupiter made in the years 1841-1879 have beeu 
deposited in Potsdam ; since 1880, 350 drawings have been made. The 
other planets are often examined but seldom drawn. Seventy-four 
variable stars have been observed, over 4G,000 comparisons having been 
made. The Zodiacal Light and the Twilight Arch are observed at favor- 
able opportunities. 

Basle : This observatory is devoted chiefly to meteorology and its 
results are published in the Swiss Reports of Meteorology, annually. 

Berlin: The 9-inch equatorial has been remounted by Bamberg, of 



ASTRONOMY. 413 

Berlin. The zone +20° to +25° is practically finished ; the reductions 
are now in progress. The equatorial has been used by Dr. Knorre, for 
observations of comets and asteroids. The Berliner Jahrbuch, with its 
two series of circulars, has been published as usual. 

Bonn : The zone -f 40° to +50° is still in progress, 1,020 observations 
of zone stars having been made; the observer, Dr. Deichmuller, took 
part in the Transit of Venus expedition to Hartford, Conn. The reduc- 
tions are well up to the observations. The Southern Durchmusterung 
now counts 357,400 star positions. The final positions of 78,317 stars 
are now prepared for printing. It should be noted that all the work of 
the Southern Durchmusterung is done by Dr. Sehonfeld. 

Breslau: The report for 1882 differs from that of 1881 in no important 
particular. 

Dresden (private observatory of Baron v. Engelhardt) : Thirty five ob- 
servations of 3 comets and 110 observations of 37 planets have been 
made and published, and some important changes have been made in 
the instruments.* 

Dusseldorff: In 1882 57 observations of 18 asteroids were made, and 
since 1847 1,102 observations of 141 planets. 

Hamburg: The zone +80° to +81° has been completed, and the ob- 
servatory has begun the zone between —15° and —16°. The divided 
circle of the meridian circle has been replaced by a new one, made by 
the Bepsolds. 

Hereny {Hungary) : In 1882 the spectra of 147 fixed stars and 2 comets 
were observed, besides miscellaneous observations. The stellar-spec- 
trum observations are classified in a table giving the types to which the 
stars belong. 

Kalocsa {Hungary) : Begular drawings of the Sun (22 centimeters in 
diameter) have been made during the year, and also a determination 
of the latitude and the (telegraphic) longitude from Vienna. 

Karlsruhe: The instruments have been removed from Mannheim to a 
provisional observatory in Karlsruhe. With the 6-inch equatorial a se- 
ries of measures of star clusters is kept up. The Reichenbach circle 
(made in 1811) has received thorough repairs and is employed in a de- 
termination of the places of stars south of the equator ; the objective is 
only 3 inches, and the stars selected are therefore 8 magnitude or 
brighter. Each star is to be observed six times, and Dr. Valentiner 
hopes to determine the places to 3 .01 and 0".15. 

Kiel: The equatorial has received a thorough repairing by the Bep- 
solds and has been used by Dr. Lamp in a series of Victoria and Sappho 
observations for Dr. Gill. Dr. Krueger gives in a paragraph some 
criticisms of the programme prepared by Dr. Gill, which deserve atten- 
tion. Dr. Pape's observations for the determination of the equinox, 
I860, are printed. The printing of the zone +55° to +65° has been be- 

*A very interesting illustrated account of Baron v. Engelhardt's observatory in 
given in Sirius for November, 18d3. 



414 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

gun. Kiel will be in the future the central office for international sci- 
entific telegrams. 

Leipzig : The buildings and instruments have received a thorough 
revision, in particular the meridian circle and the electric system. 
Small planets and comets have been observed on the equatorial, and 
since July, 1882, the sun-spot observations have been continued. The 
first part of the publications of the observatory is prepared for publi- 
cation. 

Leipzig (Dr. Engelmann's private observatory) : The principal instru- 
ment is an 8-inch refractor by Alvan Clark, which has been used for 
measures of difficult double stars. 

Milan : The 8-inch refractor has been used in observing double stars, 
of which 426 measures have been made. The topography of Saturn, 
Mars, and Mercury has been studied, and Professor Schiaparelli says 
that the spots on Mercury are not so difficult to recognize as is gener- 
ally supposed. The meridian circle has made 1,600 observations on the 
doubles discovered by Mr. Burnham ; this work will be soon completed. 
The observations of Derubowski are not yet ready for publication ; the 
18-iuch refractor is in the hands of the Bepsolds for mounting and will 
not be ready for work before the end of 1884. 

Moscow : The work of this observatory is given in vol. ix, part I, of. 
its Annals, which is just published. 

Munich : Besides smaller instruments the observatory has a Merz 
refractor of 10£ inches, and a meridian circle of 4£ inches aperture. 
The buildings are being rebuilt and these instruments will be remodeled. 
The meridian circle is in the hands of Ertel for this purpose ; the hourly 
magnetic and meteorological observations are discontinued, but will 
probably be resumed elsewhere. A series at longer intervals is kept up 
to connect the new series with the old ; the Munich zones are being re- 
duced ; Dr. Seeliger is now director of the observatory. 

Naples : A list of the publications of the observatory and of its ob- 
servers is given. 

O'Gyalla {Hungary) : Besides miscellaneous observations 618 micro- 
metric measures of 182 sun-spots on 151 days have been made. 

Padua : The longitudes Bome-Padua, Kome-Florence, Padua-Flor- 
ence were telegraphically determined. The 7-inch equatorial of Dem- 
bowski has been acquired by the observatory and will replace the 4-inch 
equatorial made by Stark. 

Palermo : The sun-spots were drawn (scale of 0.51 meter to the solar di- 
ameter) on 315 days ; the chromosphere and protuberances were drawn 
on 156 days. Observations of the reversal of the Frauenhofer lines, 
especially of 1474 K and b on 124 days. Drawings of Jupiter on 24 days. 
Observations of three comets on 78 days. Observations of 22 minor 
planets and of comets. A list of the publications of the observatory 
is given. 

Potsdam : A spectroscopic examination of the stars from —1° to -\- 20° 



ASTRONOMY. 415 

has been completed, and the results are nearly ready for printing ; it 
will contain 4,051 numbers. Two hundred and fifty groups of sun-spots 
have been observed. The observations of Secchi on the amounts of heat 
given out by differeDt parts of the Sun's limb from equator to pole, have 
been repeated by Dr. Spoerer, who, however, finds no such difference 
as was reported by Secchi. Photographs of the Sun have been made 
on 195 days. The photometric observations (Zollner's photometer) will 
shortly be published in three parts : Part I will contain a description 
of the instrument and an investigation of the extinction of light ; Part 
II will contain the observations of planets, and Part III the observa 
tions of variable stars. The comet Wells was photometrically observed 
on 21 nights ; the result of these observations showed the comet to shine 
partly by its own light. Variable stars have also been repeatedly ob- 
served. 

Prague : Professor Safarik gives an account of his observations of 
the Moon, Venus, Mars, and comets, and of 077 observations of vari- 
able stars, besides miscellaneous observations which cannot be sum- 
marized here. 

Stockholm : Dr. Gylclen has devoted his time to the continuation of 
his theoretical work on the motions of the major planets ; the numeri- 
cal computations require much time, and it is probable that the Reichs- 
tag will furnish computers to aid in the work. The observations on 
stellar parallax are not fully reduced, but appear to lead to the conclu- 
sion that the mean parallax of the first magnitude stars is rather less 
than 0".l. Victoria and Sappho were observed in conjunction with Dr. 
Gill. 

ZPpsala : Victoria and Sappho were observed with the refractor for 
the solar parallax. The observatory is undergoing repairs. 

Zurich : The results of the observations of sun spots are given in ~$o. 
59 of the Mittheilungen, and the contents of that publication are sum- 
marized. Besides this the miscellaneous observations of the observa- 
tory are given. 

The Greenicich Observatory. — Among the leading points referred to in 
the report of the astronomer royal, W. H. M. Christie, F. E. S., to the 
Board of Visitors of the Boyal Observatory, Greenwich, read at the an- 
nual visitation on June 2, 1883, are the following : 

Besides the regular subjects of observation with the transit circle, the 
sun f moon, planets, and fundamental stars, a new working list of 2,000 
stars, comprising all those down to the sixth magnitude inclusive, and 
not observed since I860, has been prepared, and was brought into use 
at the beginning of March. The entire number of transits observed with 
this instrument during the year was 4,488 ; determinations of collima- 
tion error, 354 ; determinations of level error, 323 ; number of circle ob- 
servations, 4,485; determinations of nadir point, 298; reflection obser- 
vations of stars, 484. 



416 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR ld83. 

Comet a 1882 was observed seven times on the meridian, and comet 
b 1882, three. The routine reductions of all the observations with this 
instrument are reported in an extraordinary state of forwardness. 
From the beginning of this year, a correction of — 0".39, has been applied 
to the results of the nadir observations to make them agree in the mean 
with the results of the reflection observations of stars. This discordance 
was insignificant in 1878, and is on the increase ; its source has not yet 
been traced. Three determinations of flexure have been made during 
the year. The correction for B — D, the error of assumed co-latitude, 
and the position of the ecliptic, have been investigated for 1882. The 
value for the co-latitude, from the observations of 1882, is 38° 31' 21".1)3. 
The correction to the tabular obliquity of the ecliptic is +0".44. The 
mean error of the tabular right ascension of the moon, from observa- 
tions with the transit circle, is +0 8 .82. 

The observations of the moon with the alt-azimuth have been re- 
stricted to the semi-lunation between last quarter and first quarter. 
The moon's diameter has been measured thirty-three times, counting 
measures in both co-ordinates with the transit circle and the alt-azimuth. 

A very valuable addition has been made to the instruments of the 
Royal Observatory by the gift of the Lassell 2-foot reflecting equatorial, 
generously presented by the Misses Lassell. This is the instrument 
with which the Saturnian satellite Hyperion was discovered in 1848. It 
was removed from Maidenhead early in March, and has been suitably 
mounted in the grounds of the Boyal Observatory. The telescope has 
two large mirrors available for use ; and the astronomer royal contem- 
plates attaching one of them to the tube of the •' southeast equatorial," 
which has a firm mounting and a perfect clock-work, and employing it 
for spectroscopic and photographic work. The Lassell telescope itself 
is well suited for the observation of faint satellites and comets which 
are beyond the present instrumental means of the observatory. 

Spectroscopic observations of motion of stars in the line of sight have 
been made as follows : A hundred and forty-two measures of the dis- 
placement of the F line in the spectra of twenty-three stars, and twenty- 
six measures of the line b x in nine stars. The observations of Sirius 
during the past winter tend, on the whole, to confirm the impression 
that the rate of recession of this star had diminished progressively since 
1877, and that its motion is now on the point of being converted into 
one of approach. 

The spectrum of comet a 1882 was examined on three nights; that of 
the great comet b 1882, also on three nights; and that of comet a 1883, 
on one night. The spectrum of the first-named object showed the yel- 
low sodium lines with great brilliancy just before perihelion passage. 
The spectrum of the aurora was also examined in 1882, November 17. 
The spectroscopic observations of all kinds are completely reduced to 
1883, May 20. 

During the year ending at this time, photographs of the sun were 



ASTRONOMY. 417 

taken on 200 days, and 339 plates have been selected for preservation. 
The sun's disk was free from spots on seven days; and, siDce the extra- 
ordinary outburst of last November, the sun has been comparatively 
quiescent. The astronomer royal proposes soon to employ a modi tied 
photo-heliograph for this work, so as to obtain photographs of the sun 
8 inches in diameter instead of 4. The measurement of a large number 
of Indian and other photographs of the sun, required to fill gaps in the 
Greenwich series, has been completed, these photographs having been 
received from the Solar physics committee. 

The course of the magnetic observations has remained the same as in 
former years. Improvements have been made in the methods of photo- 
graphic registration. There has been considerable magnetic activity 
during the year. The disturbances of November last are to be detailed 
graphically in the " Greenwich magnetic results for 1882." Particulars 
of magnetic disturbances are regularly commuuicated to the Colliery 
Guardians newspaper, for the information of mining surveyors. 

The mean temperature of 1882 was 49°.0 or 0°.l lower than the average. 
The highest air temperature was 81°.0, on August 6, and the lowest, 
22°.2, on December 11. The mean daily motion of the air was 306 miles, 
27 miles greater than the average. The greatest daily motion was 758 
miles, on November 4, and the least, 30 miles, on December 11. The 
greatest hourly velocity was 04 miles, October 24. The number of hours 
of bright sunshine, as recorded by Campbell's sunshine instrument, was 
1,245 ; that is, forty hours above the average of the five preceding years. 
The rain-fall of 1882 was 25.2 inches, slightly above the average. 

Examination of sextant glasses, &c., at Kew. — In the Proc. Boy. Hoc. for 
1867, Prof. Balfour Stewart described an apparatus designed and con- 
structed by Mr. T. Cooke for the determination of the errors of gradua- 
tion of sextants. This instrument has from that date been constantly 
in use at the Kew Observatory, and since the introduction of certain 
unimportant improvements has been found to work very well. 

No provision was made, however, for its employment in the determina- 
tion of the errors of the dark shades used to screen the observer's eyes 
when the sextant is directed to the sun or moon, and it has been found 
that errors may exist in the shape of want of parallelism in these glasses 
sufficiently large to seriously affect an observation accurate in other re- 
spects. 

It has also been found that sextant makers are desirous of having 
the shades examined before proceeding to fit them into their metal 
mountings, and also to have the surfaces of the mirrors tested for dis- 
tortion before making the instruments up. With a view to the accom- 
plishment of these ends, for some time past the Kew committee have 
undertaken to examine both dark glasses and mirrors, and to mark them 
with a hall-mark when they are found to answer the requirements nec- 
essary for exactitude. 
H. Mis. 69 27 



418 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

For these purposes the following apparatus has been devised and 
brought into use at the observatory: 

A telescope of 3£ inches aperture and 48 inches focal length, a pair of 
collimeters of 1^ inches aperture and 1 inches focal length, and a heliostat 
are firmly fixed to a stout plank, so that their axes may be in the same 
horizontal plane. The eye- piece of the telescope carries a parallel wire 
micrometer. 

In order to adjust the instrument the telescope is directed to the Sun, 
a shade being fitted to the eye-piece and then placed in its Y's focused 
for parallel rays. The collimators are then fixed on their table with their 
object-glasses opposed to that of the telescope, the eye-pieces and wires 
having first been removed and a metal plate with a sharply cut hole in 
its center fitted to their diaphragms. 

Light is next reflected down the collimator by the heliostat, and the 
aperture in the diaphragm being viewed through the telescope is care- 
fully focused by moving the object-glass of the collimator to and fro by 
moans of its rack and pinion. 

The diaphragm aperture is next collimated by rotating the collimator 
in its bearings. 

Both collimators being thus adjusted, they are placed side by side, 
so that their illuminated sight can be viewed simultaneously in the tel- 
escope, appearing as superimposed bright disks 12' in diameter. They 
are next separated so that the disks remain merely in contact at the ex- 
tremity of their horizontal diameters. 

The instrument is now ready for use and the examination of the shades 
is performed in the following manner: 

The glass to be tested is fixed in a rotating frame in front of the ob- 
ject-glass of one collimator, a corresponding shade being placed between 
the heliostat and diaphragm of the other collimator. The Suu is now 
directed on to the diaphragms. The colored disks are viewed through 
the telescope, when, if the sides of the shade placed between the colli- 
mator and the object-glass of the telescope are perfectly parallel, the 
relative position of the disks is unchanged ; if, however, the shade is 
not ground true, the disks will appear either separated or to overlap. 
In the first case the amount of separation is measured by the microme- 
ter, and serves to indicate the quality of the glass. In the case of over- 
lapping images the shade is rotated through 180°, and separation pro- 
duced which can be measured. A second examination is then made, 
the shade having been turned through 90°. 

If in no position a separation of images is found to exist to the extent 
of 20" the glass is etched K. O. 1 j if more than 20" but less than 40", 
the mark is K. O. 2 ; with greater distortion than this, the shade is re- 
jected and not marked. 

To examine the quality of the mirrors, a small table, on leveling 
screws, is put in front of the object-glass of the telescope. The mirror 
to be tested is placed on its edge on this table, and turned until a dis- 



ASTRONOMY. 419 

taut well-defined object is reflected down the tube of the telescope. 
The object-glass of the telescope having previously been stopped down 
to an aperture corresponding to the size of the mirror the reflected 
image is contrasted with that seen directly, and if the definition is un- 
changed the mirror is marked K. O. with a writing diamond and returned 
to the maker ; if the object appears distorted its unfitness for use is sim- 
ilarly notified. A small fee is charged for the examination. 

Royal Observatory, Gape of Good Hope. — In the report for 1882, Dr. 
Gill states that the observations for the difference of longitude between 
the observatory anfl Aden are completed. The great comet was observed 
on every clear night from September 7, and photographs were obtained 
on six nights. The heliometer measures for the parallax of certain 
southern stars are nearly concluded. In connection with observations 
in the northern hemisphere, Victoria and Sappho have been observed 
for determining the solar parallax by Galle's method. Time of contact 
at the Transit of Venus was noted by six observers, and heliometer 
measures were made during the transit. — {Monthly not., March, 1883.) 

The Observatory at Melbourne. — The seventeenth annual report of the 
board of visitors of this establishment, together with the report of the 
Government astronomer, Mr. Ellery, for the year ending June 30, 1882, 
has been received. The meridian work with the transit-circle was for 
the most part limited to observations of standard stars, for the ordinary 
purposes of an observatory, and the determination of places of stars 
used for positions of comets. The 8-incb equatorial had been arranged 
for the observation of the small planets Victoria and Sappho during 
the last autumn, according to a programme agreed upon with several 
European and American and other southern observatories, with the view 
to another determination of the solar parallax. The large reflector was 
employed on celestial photography, for sketching a number of Sir John 
Herschel's smaller nebulae, for drawings of comet 1881, IV, &c. The 
nebulas about r/ Argus was examined on three evenings, and was found 
to agree very closely with the drawing made in 1875. The majority 
of the smaller nebulas were found to accord well with Herschel's de- 
scriptions. Nos. 57 and 1423, however, were much fainter than Her- 
schel indicated, and Nos. 1655 aud 2181 differed considerably from his 
description. Two hundred and seventeen photographs of the Sun we?e 
taken. A new transit circle has been ordered from Troughton and 
Simms. — Nature. 

The Sydney Observatory. — An octavo pamphlet of 16 pages has been 
distributed by the Sydney Observatory which gives the history and 
progress of astronomy in New South Wales from 1786 to 1883. The 



420 SCIENTIFIC RECORD TOR 1881 

first permanent observatory was Sir Thomas Brisbane's, erected in 1821 
and dismantled in 1847. 

The Sydney Observatory dates from 1858, and though at first poorly 
supplied with instruments, it is now excellently equipped. A list of 
the publications of the various directors, Rev. W. Scott, G-. R. Smalley, 
and H. C. Russell, is annexed to the pamphlet. 

Paris Observatory. — Admiral Mouchez has issued his report on the 
work of the Paris Observatory during the year 1882-'83. He refers 
to the exceptionally bad state of the sky during the second half of 
18S2, and also to the derangements produced in tke regular course 
of proceedings by the preparations for the Transit of Venus, as well as 
by the temporary absence of no less than five members of the personnel 
of the observatory for the purpose of taking part in it. Nevertheless 
the year will rank, he thinks, as one of importance in the history of the 
observatory on account of the installation of the new " equatorial coude6," 
and the nearly completed arrangements for the more extended study of 
magnetism and terrestrial physics generally, with a view to which six 
subterranean chambers have been built under the best possible condi- 
tions of isolation and stability, so as to obtain observations in a constant 
temperature. With regard to astronomical work, the bodies of the 
solar system (including the small planets) appear to have been observed 
at Paris as regularly as heretofore, and steady progress has been made 
with the reobservation of the stars of Lalande's catalogue; during the 
last four years no less than 110,000 meridian observations have been 
made as part of the results to be incorporated in the new catalogue, 
the printing of which is now being commenced. The construction of 
the great refractor, of 16 meters focal length, is in an advanced state, 
the object-glass being finished ; a dome 20 meters in diameter (equal 
in size to that of the Pantheon, and the largest movable dome ever 
made) is to be built to contain it, for which the ground has now been 
prepared, and special arrangements will be made to secure the building 
from any ill effects arising from displacement of the soil, particularly 
necessary from the circumstance that the ground below the observa- 
tory was mined for the catacombs. Admiral Mouchez is giving his 
attention also to the establishment of an astronomical observatory at 
the summit of the Pic du Midi, 2,859 meters high, where a meteorolog- 
ical observatory already exists, founded by General Nausouty. The 
advantages of this position for astronomical purposes, owing to the 
great clearness and transparency of the air, have been sufficiently man- 
ifested, and the admiral remarks that a telescope of comparatively very 
moderate power, if established there, might have led to the discovery 
of the satellites of Mars long before they were actually discovered at 
Washington. The intention is that any astronomer wishing to engage 
in special researches may take advantage of the contemplated new 
observatory. 



ASTRONOMY. 421 

American observatories. — (Albany, Clinton. Rochester, Toronto, Montreal, 
Cambridge, New Haven, Princeton, Washington.) 

American astroniorners will be much interested in a very intelligent, 
account of a scientific journey made by Dr. Ralph Oopeland in 1883, 
which is printed in Copernicus No. 32. The observatories named 
above were seen, and their chief points of interest are briefly and pleas- 
antly mentioned. Dr. Copeland seems to have been most pleased with 
glass reticles, the American form of chronograph, Clark's present man- 
ner of separating the lenses of objectives and their color correction ; 
while the chief fault found is with the too light mountings of Clark's 
equatorials compared with Grubb's, for example, and to a less extent 
their too great simplicity, as compared with Repsold's. In regard to the 
first question it may be asked whether the steadiness of position of the 
Washington 26 inch isuotall sufficient; and as to the second it appears 
sufficient to mention that the mounting of the Milan refractor is to cost 
as much as the telescope itself, which seems extravagant to Americans. 

The United States Naval Observatory. — The report of Admiral Shu- 
feldt, under date of October 22, 1883, covers the work of the observa- 
tory for the past year. 

The personnel of the observatory is as follows : 

Rear- Admiral R. W. Shufeldt, superintendent ; Commander W. T. 
Sampson, assistant to superintendent; lieutenants, Pendleton, Moore, 
Bowman, Garvin, Wilson, Harris, Sewell ; ensigns, Brown,* Allen, Tay- 
lor, Hoogewerff ; professors, Hall, Harkness, Eastman, Frisby; assist- 
ant astronomers, Skinner, Winlock, Paul; clerk, Thomas Harrison; 
computer, W. M. Brown, jr.; computers (Transit of Venus), Woodward, 
Flint, Wiessner, A. Hall, jr.; instrument-maker, W. F. Gardner; 
also three watchmen and nine laborers. 

The report, which is not yet published, contains a brief account of the 
work accomplished with the principal instruments of the observatory — 
the 26-inch and 9.6-inch equatorials, the transit circle, prime vertical 
aud meridian transit — and the progress in the chronometer department, 
the department of nautical instruments, the library, and also in the re- 
ductions of Gilliss's Zones of 1850, 1851, 1852. 

The 26-inch equatorial. — This instrument has been in charge of Prof. 
A. Hall, with Prof. E. Frisby as assistant. Mr. George Anderson is 
employed as an assistant in the dome. This equatorial has been em- 
ployed, as in preceding years, for the observation of double stars, 
satellites, and comets. The satellites of Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune 
have been observed ; and we have now collected a large number of ob- 
servations of these satellites. The ring of Saturn has been observed, 
but no remarkable changes have been noticed. In fact, many of the 
strange phenomena frequently described in connection with this unique 

* Appointed professor of mathematics United States Navy October 13, 18t>3. 



422 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

ring, the observers here fail to see on the best nights. During the 
greatest opening of the ring, which is near at hand, it is intended to 
make a set of micrometric measures of the dimensions of the ring. Some 
observations for stellar parallax have been undertaken ; but as the ob- 
server resides at some distance from the observatory, such work is very 
laborious, and it seems better to defer it until more convenient arrange- 
ments are made. At the present time the pressing need on this instru- 
ment is, that the observations of satellites already made should be dis- 
cussed for the purpose of correcting the orbits of these satellites and 
of determining the masses of the planets. This discussion has been 
begun, and the numerical calculations are being made by Ensigns W. 
H. Allen and J. A. Hoogewerff. 

The transit circle. — This instrument, in charge of Prof. J. B. Eastman, 
was employed in the same class of work as in 1881-82. The observers 
were Professor Eastman and Assistant Astronomers A. K". Skinner, 
Miles Bock,* and W. 0. Winlock. The whole number of observations 
made with the transit circle from October 18, 1882, to October 18, 1883, 
is 3,880. 

The meteorological observations have been continued, as in former 
years, by the watchmen. 

The 9.6-inch equatorial. — This instrument has been in charge of Com- 
mander W. T. Sampson, assisted part of the time by Lieut. W. E. 
Sewell, and part of the time by Lieut. John Garvin. It has been used, 
as in former years, in observations of the phenomena of Jupiter's satel- 
lites, occultations by the moon, places of comets, and for obtaining cor- 
rections to the ephemeris places of minor planets. 

Prime vertical instrument. — This instrument is in charge of Lieut. 0. 
G. Bowman, assisted by Ensign H. Taylor. Observations with it were 
recommenced November 14, 1882. Continuous observations have been 
restricted to about forty stars, in no case exceeding 2° zenith distance 
when on the meridian ; and these, with one exception, have been closely 
confined to the time of the two maxima of aberration. The one excep- 
tion referred to was in the case of alpha Lyrae, which has been regu- 
larly observed throughout the twenty-four hours, having in view the 
possibility of a determination of its absolute parallax. Up to this time 
about 580 observations have been secured. In the reductions, Struve's 
formulae have been used, and the labor has been greatly lessened by 
the use of his auxiliary tables for the prime vertical transit. 

JHeridian transit instrument. — This instrument has been in charge of 
Lieut. U. B. Harris, and Lieut. E. 0. Pendleton has assisted. The 
meridian transit instrument has been used for the observations of stars 
of the American ephemeris for clock and azimuth corrections, and the de- 
terminations of the right ascensions of the sun, moon, and major planets. 
The total number of observations of the character mentioned is 1,408. 

* Succeeded November 1, 1883, by Prof. H. M. Paul. 



ASTRONOMY. 423 

Observations have been taken as often as practicable, to obtain each 
day the correction of the standard mean-time clock for setting to correct 
time the transmitting clock, which is used in sending out the time sig- 
nals from the chronometer room and in rating the chronometers. 

Harvard College Observatory. — The annual report of the director of 
Harvard College Observatory, for 18S3, was submitted on the occasion 
of the annual inspection by the visiting committee. It is a document 
of considerable length, and reviews in detail the doings of the year. 
The report begins with a statement that the annual donation or sub- 
scription of $5,000, which has continued for a term of five years, has 
now ceased. An attempt has been made to supply its place by a per- 
manent fund. For this $50,000 have been subscribed, and it is hoped 
that this will be increased to $100,000, so that the activity of the ob- 
servatory may be maintained. The working force of the institution now 
consists of the director and sixteen assistants of various grades, six of 
whom are womeu and ten men. The photometric determinations of the 
times of eclipse of Jupiter's satellites have been continued. The eclipses 
thus observed since October, 1882, have been 55, and from the begin- 
ning 210. . Experimental observations of occultations and transits of 
the satellites have also been made with a double-image micrometer. 
A part of the zone observations made under Professor Bond's directions 
has been revised for the purpose of detecting cases of proper motion 
among small stars, for which this early work of the observatory fur- 
nishes valuable data. The present revision also includes photometric 
determinations with a wedge of tinted glass. 

The construction of charts of small stars near certain selected bright 
stars, in accordance with a plan adopted some years ago by a committee 
of the Association for the Advancement of Science, has been begun. 
Similar charts of the neighborhood of variable stars have also been 
undertaken. Reference is made to successful distribution of early coin- 
etary intelligence through the observatory. By this arrangement, the 
first accurate observations of the two comets discovered this year were 
made at this observatory, and the positions obtained were extensively 
used in the computation of orbits. Experimental work has been done 
in anticipation of a systematic investigation of the spectra and color of 
the stars. Between February 8 and November 1 Professor Rogers made 
2,640 observations of fundamental stars with the meridian circle, in- 
cluding 136 of Polaris and 121 of the sun. Mention is made of the 
determination during the year through observations at Cambridge of the 
longitude of McGill Observatory, in Montreal. In order to complete 
the series of zone observations which formed an important part of the 
work of the meridian circle from 1870 to 1879, it became necessary to 
reobserve a large number of stars, and to observe others which were 
found to have escaped notice previously. The faintness of many of these 
required a different system of illumination, which was successfully ar- 



424 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

t 

ranged by Mr. George B. Clark, and at present the transit of stars of 
the tenth, and even of the eleventh, magnitude can be observed. 

The successful working of the meridian photometer is remarked upon, 
and it is stated that since November 1, 1882, there have been made 133 
series of observations of this kind, which required about 20,000 settings. 
The most important investigation made with the instrument relates to 
the magnitudes of the brighter telescopic stars in the northern hemis- 
phere. This will result in reducing to a single system the estimates of 
brightness made at thirteen observatories for ten or fifteen years, during 
the recent co-operative zone observations. It appears from the work of 
the meridian photometer that systematic errors in previous estimates of 
magnitude have occurred, owing to the presence of the Milky Way and 
of groups of bright stars, especially those in Orion. The equatorial of 
the west dome has been actively employed by Mr. Chandler especially 
in the study of the variable stars. About one hundred and forty vari- 
ables of long period are definitely known to exist, and each of these 
objects is observed twice a month, according to the present plan of 
work, and still more frequently during its brighter phases. About 
three hundred observations of the color of variable stars have also been 
made, and telescopic stars suspected of variability are likewise exam- 
ined. Important experiments in astronomical photography have been 
made. It is thought that photographic methods will furnish very deli- 
cate tests of the color of stars, and a photographic map of the whole 
heavens is to be formed. 

A congratulatory reference is made to the adoption of the new stand- 
ard time, in respect to which it is remarked that the policy of the ob- 
servatory has been to avoid forcing the matter in anticipation of the 
public wishes. The Boston time-ball was dropped during the year at 
noon by telegraph on 321 days, and by hand on 40 days. On 4 days it 
failed to fall at noon, but was dropped five minutes later. The transfer 
of the Smithsonian Institution to the observatory of the responsibility 
of collecting and distributing intelligence of new discoveries is noted as 
one of the important events of the year. Among other matters the 
successful observations of the transit of Venus last December are men- 
tioned. • The report closes as follows: 

u The director visited Europe during the summer, and, among other 
scientific results of his trip, obtained copies of valuable unpublished 
manuscripts of Sir William Herschel and of Argelander. The Herschel 
manuscripts complete the estimate of the light of all stars in Flam- 
steed's Catalogue, and are of great importance in connection with the 
work of the meridian photometer. Thirty-one publications relating to 
science have been made during the year by the observatory or its officers 
individually." (Boston Advertiser.) 

From the last annual report of Harvard College Observatory we learn 
that the search for new planetary nebula} (by the spectroscopic method) 



ASTRONOMY. 425 

Las resulted in the discovery of seven such objects. Most of them are 
so minute that they cannot be distinguished from stars by the ordinary 
eye-piece. Photometric work on the satellites of Mars confirms that of 
1877 and 1879, except that the brightness of Deimos, when preceding 
and when following Mars, does not seem to change, as formerly noticed. 
The determination of the brightness of various points on the Moon to 
aid the work of the Selenographical Society is now completed. From 
this investigation it appears that the scale of brightness, in use by 
common observers of the Moon, is closely expressed in terms of stellar 
magnitudes, each degree in the scale answering to the ratio of light 
equivalent to six-tenths of a magnitude. The wedge photometer has 
been used to measure the light of faint stars in zones. It is so placed 
in the instrument that the diurnal motion of the stars carries them 
from its thin to its thick portion, and the time of their disappearance 
is noted to determine their brightness. The careful study of Saw- 
yer's variable star, D. M. + 1°, No. 3408, proves it to be a very inter- 
esting object. Its period of variability is 20h. 7m. 4s., 1.6 being the 
shortest known belonging to the Algol class. Its variation is from 6.0 
to 6.8. 

The telegraphic system devised by those in charge of the Science 
Observer for the speedy transmission of comet news has been improved, 
extended, and will probably soon come into general use. Progress has 
been made in the reductions of the meridian circle work from 1870 to 
1879. These observations will make about 1,200 printed pages, and 
will fill three volumes of the Annals. Volume I will contain an intro- 
duction with discussion of instrumental constants, &c; n will contain 
all the zone observations in journal form, and in, observations of 
secondary polar stars made in lS72-'73, a list of stars for United States 
Coast Survey in 1878, and other similar work in 1879. This important 
work is already well advanced, under the direction of Prof. W. A. 
Rogers. The Coast Survey Catalogue is now ready for publication. 

The work of the meridian photometer has been considerable. Over 
ninety thousand measures were made last summer on about 4,000 stars, 
visible to the unaided eye. This work involves the discussion of sev- 
eral problems of general interest in connection with the light of the 
stars, among which may be mentioned atmospheric absorption. The 
discussion of about fifteen thousand observations shows this curious 
result: That we may assume the absorption at any altitude exceeding 
15° to be equal in stellar magnitude to one-quarter of the secant of the 
zenith distance, which agrees very closely with the empirical law de- 
duced by Seidel. 

Though some have claimed that the Pole Star is variable, its con- 
stancy is established by the photometer. 

Other valuable matter in this report pertains to variable star work, 
equatorial observations, scientific papers published, and plans for the 
future. (Sidereal Messenger.) 



426 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

It is desired to form, at the Harvard College Observatory, a collection 
of all photographs of the heavenly bodies and of their spectra which 
can be obtained for the purpose, and Professor Pickering requests that 
both European and American astronomers will contribute specimens to 
this collection. Original negatives would be particularly valuable. It 
may happen that some such negatives, having slight imperfections which 
would limit their value for purposes of engraving, could be spared for a 
collection, and would be as important (considered as astronomical ob- 
servations) as others photographically more perfect. In some cases 
astronomers may be willing to deposit negatives taken for a special pur- 
pose, and no longer required for study, in a collection where they would 
retain a permanent value as parts of a historical series. Where pho- 
tography is regularly employed in a continuous series of observations 
it is obvious that specimen negatives only can be spared for a collection. 
But in such cases it is hoped that some duplicates may be available, 
and that occasional negatives may hereafter be taken for the purpose 
of being added to the collection, to exhibit recent improvements or 
striking phenomena. 

When negatives cannot be furnished, glass positives, taken if possi- 
ble by direct printing, would be very useful. If these also are not pro- 
curable, photographic prints or engravings would be desirable. 

In connection with photographs themselves, copies of memoirs or 
communications relating to the specimens sent, or to the general subject 
of astronomical photography, would form an interesting supplement to 
the collection. 

Field Memorial Observatory of Williams College. — The following brief 
description of this new observatory is based on a photographic view by 
Pach Bros., 841 Broadway, New York. The building is situated some 
three-fourths of a mile from the Hopkins Observatory, on the college 
grounds. It consists of a large meridian room, a hall, a bed-room, and a 
large computing room. The building is of iron, on a stone foundation. 
The meridian instrument is a circle by Eepsolds of 4i French inches aper- 
ture. The room is designed so as to give the best field for this beautiful 
instrument. The slit is 40 inches wide, covered by three hinged shutters. 
Windows allow ventilation, and a novelty in such construction is a 
tower or ventilating shaft. The wall shutters are arranged ae doors. 
The whole aspect of the building is very pleasing to the eye and the 
situation is excellent. Professor Safford is engaged in a highly im- 
portant work on polar stars, the first part of which is about to be 
printed. 

Litchfield Observatory. — Dr. Peters, in his annual report, says : " The 
work in the observatory was continued upon the same plan and directed 
to the same objects as in the years preceding. The number of stars ob- 
served since my last report, in zones, is 12,069 — considerably more than 



ASTRONOMY. 427 

in any former year, since the mapping of the skies approaching the 
Milky Way requires a greater number of fundamental positions. A 
new glass scale, which we owe to the kindness of Prof. W. A. Rogers, 
of Cambridge, as it is ruled so that one scale division in the focus of 
our refractor exactly equals 10 seconds of arc, has saved much time in 
the reduction. In all, we have now 87,982 zone star observations, which 
should be arranged in a catalogue. Twenty of the celestial charts, for 
which the zone stars form the skeleton, have been published during the 
year (at my private expense), and distributed gratuitously from the 
Litchfield Observatory to other observatories, learned societies, and 
private individuals to reciprocate favors received by our institution. 

" At the request of Mr. Gill, royal astronomer at the Cape of Good 
Hope, a number of observatories in the northern and in the southern 
hemispheres united to make corresponding observations upon two of the 
minor planets, in order to determine by this method the solar parallax. 
The Litchfield Observatory was the only one co operating in the United 
States, and I. have been successful in obtaining some good sets of ob- 
servations upon Victoria, but none upon Sappho, the opposition of which 
fell into the later part of autumn, when the sky was unfavorable, as 
usual, while a complete set, as demanded by the programme, each time 
required an uninterrupted clear sky of about four hours. Of the re- 
markable naked eye comet that showed itself last September and in 
the following months some positions have been determined which have 
peculiar value, as I believe, because the real, very small nucleus was 
discovered, for which most of the observers measured by mistake what 
was only an agglomeration of light in the narrow and very long bright 
jet. The hope of observing the Transit of Venus of last 6th of Decem- 
ber from this place made me decline the offer to go with one of the ex- 
peditions sent out by the Navy Department. But inexorable clouds 
brought sad disappointment here at home. Positions of minor planets 
have been determined only in cases where either the orbit seemed to 
need considerable correction or where the apparent smallness of the 
planetoid might be an obstacle to its beiug observed elsewhere. The 
variables here detected have been followed up at intervals in order to 
ascertain their periods. Meridian transit of stars have been taken as 
often as it seemed necessary to keep the rates of clocks and chronome- 
ters under control. 

"The instruments, on the whole, are in good condition, but I must re- 
port what I have said in former years, that it is desirable to have the 
object-glass of the Spencer refractor repolished, and perhaps even re- 
figured. I have mentioned, also, before the deteriorated state of the 
filar micrometer which, as is natural after so many thousands of meas- 
urements, is sensibly wearing out, so that soon it will be almost im- 
possible to get creditable results by it. Meanwhile the filar micrometer 
is one of the most essential apparatus for utilizing the great refractor. 

" The observatory building has stood now about thirty yea is. An ex- 
amination in the basement has revealed the unpleasant fact that the 



428 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

sills and posts^f the trusses, especially at the corners of the central 
square, are rotten, so as not longer to sustain the overlying weight. I 
call the earnest attention of the trustees to this. The ruthless destruc- 
tion (in October last) of the plantation of young trees that, cultivated 
with love and labor for fifteen years, with time were to give shelter 
against the predominant rough western winds, will seriously impair the 
work of the observatory in the future, when my place will be filled by 
an astronomer of less iron constitutiou than mine. The destruction was 
unwarrantable and without the knowledge of the curators of the grounds. 
I recommend the immediate replanting of forest trees on the plot." 

The 30-inch Clark objective for the Pulkova Observatory. — This object- 
ive was finished early in 1883, and Director Otto v. Struve made a 
special visit to the United States to test it. Dr. Struve first visited 
Washington and observed various difficult or peculiar objects with the 
26-inch telescope. Among these were Jupiter, Siritis, Procyon, the Orion 
nebula, I 3121 (distance 0".4), 42 Coma, tj Geminorum, etc. The same 
objects were then viewed at Cambridge with the 30-inch objective in a 
temporary mounting, and Dr. Struve was entirely satisfied with the 
performance of the objective. This was then carefully packed and sent 
to Hamburg to be mounted by Messrs. Eepsold. 

The 36-inch objective of the Lick Observatory. — From articles in San 
Francisco papers it appears that M. Feil, of Paris, the glass founder, 
expects to send the crown disk in the rough to the makers, Alvan Clark & 
Sons, in December, 1883. The flint disk has been for a long time on hand. 

Private observatory of Mr. Robert McKim, Madison, Ind. — "Mr. Mo- 
Kim has built the first observatory iu Indiana at Madison. The 
building is situated on the grounds west of his residence in this city, 
and consists of a brick equatorial tower 12 feet square and 35 feet 
high. The tower is surmounted by a revolving hemispherical dome, 
which gives a clear view of the heavens in every direction. The in- 
instruments provided are a portable equatorial telescope mounted on a 
tripod stand ; aperture of objective 4 inches ; magnifying powers, 44 to 
400; also a fixed equatorial telescope mounted in the dome ; aperture 
of objective, 6 inches ; magnifying powers ranging from 35 to 500. Both 
of these telescopes were made by Messrs. Alvan Clark & Sons, of Cam- 
bridgeport, Mass. The mounting of the fixed equatorial was made by 
Messrs. Fauth & Co., of Washington, D. C, who have done first-class 
work, and furnished all the accessories required for a complete equa- 
torial. An improved position micrometer is also provided, an excel- 
lent piece of workmanship of Messrs. Fauth & Co. Other needed ap- 
paratus will be provided to make the observatory complete and to 
contribute something to science," 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Notes on some recent astronomical experiments at high elevations on the 
Andes, by Ralph Copeland. — These experiments were made during the 



Astronomy. 429 

first hal-f of the present year (1883) at the cost of the Earl of Crawford. 
At La Paz, in Bolivia, 12,000 feet, with the full Moon in the sky, ten 
stars were seen in the Pleiades with the naked eye, and also two stars in 
the head of the Bull that are not in Argelander's Uranometria Nova. 
The rainy season lasted roughly until the end of March, after which there 
was a large proportion of fine sky. At Puno, on Lake Titicaca, 12,G0O 
feet, with a 6-iuch telescope mounted on a lathe headstock, a number 
of small planetary nebulae and some stars with very remarkable spectra 
were found by sweeping the southern part of the Milky Way with a 
prism on Professor Pickering's plan. The most remarkable stars had 
spectra reduced almost to two Lines, one neari> aud the other beyond F, 
with a wave-length of 467 millimeters, aud apparently identical with a 
line in some only of the northern nebulae as observed by Mr. Lohse and 
Mr. (Jopeland. A few close double stars were also found, amongst them 
£ Muscse. 

At Vincocaya, 14,360 feet, the solar spectrum was examined with a 
somewhat damaged instrument. The chief fact noted was the relative 
brightness of the violet end of the spectrum. With a small spectroscope 
several lines were seen beyond H aud H 2 . The prominences were vis- 
ible with almost equal facility in C, D 3 , F, and H 8 . Attempts to see 
the corona proved futile, nor were the prominences seen otherwise 
than in the spectroscope, the only difference being that the slit could 
be opened far wider than down at the sea level. A most careful exam- 
ination of the zodiacal light failed to show even the slightest suspicion 
of a line in its spectrum, which was continuous, although short. Both 
at Puno and Vincocaya the air was very dry ; the relative humidity 
there and at Arequipa, 7,700 feet, being as low as 20 per cent. At 
Vincocaya the black bulb at one time stood above the local boiling 
point, while the wet bulb was coated with ice. The author was of opin- 
ion that an observatory might be maintained without discomfort up to 
12,000 feet, or even a little higher — the night temperature falling only 
slightly below the freezing point. At greater elevations the thermom- 
eter falls 1° for every 150 feet of height, the barometer sinking about 
0.1 iuch for the same change. At 15,000 feet it will thus be seen that 
arduous winter conditions are reached without any very material gain 
in the transparency of the atmosphere. From information received it 
seems possible to maintain a station for a short time in the early sum- 
mer as high as 18,500 feet ; later on the rains set in and render travel- 
ing very difficult. Bailway and steamboat communication enable in- 
struments of any size and weight to be carried as high as 14,660 feet, 
and as far as the Titicaca shore of Bolivia. {Nature, October 18, 1883.) 

The English Nautical Almanac. — The volume of this ephemeris for 
1887, was published in November, 1883, the contents being generally 
the same as in previous years. The track of the total solar eclipse of 
August 19 is given in detail for the greater part of the course, and the 



430 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188S. 

maximum duration of totality is found to be 3ra. 50s., the central eclipse 
with the sun on the meridian falling in longitude 102° 0' E. and latitude 
53° 47' N. The Greenwich list includes four occupations of Aldebaron 
during the year and one of Regulus. 

The average annual sale of the Nautical Almanac during the last five 
years has exceeded 15,500, though many maritime nations have now 
their nautical ephemeris. (Nature.) 

It is stated in Nature No. 741 that in the French budget the sum of 
$200,000 is annually given by the Department of Public Instruction as 
a subsidy to astronomy and meteorology. This is exclusive of subsi- 
dies voted by the municipalities of Marseilles, Toulouse, Bordeaux, and 
Lyons for their astronomical observatories, as well as of the grants (by 
cities) which partly support the meteorological observatories of Besau- 
con, Puy de Dome, Montsouris, and Pic du Midi. 

New standard railway time. — The convention which met at the 
Grand Pacific Hotel in Chicago, in the autumn of 1883, to fix upon a 
general standard of railway time, was presided over by P. P. Wright, 
general superintendent of the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Kail- 
road, and W. F. Allen, editor of The Official Railway Guide, New York, 
acted as secretary. About sixty representatives of the principal rail- 
ways of the United States were present. Secretary -Allen, who has 
taken the lead in this very important arrangement, announced to the 
convention that he had succeeded in getting companies representing 
78,000 miles of road to favor the adoption of a uniform standard time, 
and that the proposed system was already in use upon 10,000 miles of 
track in the Eastern States. The representatives of twenty-nine roads, 
representing 27,181 miles of road, voted in favor of the change, and the 
representatives of two roads, representing 1,714 miles of road, voted in 
the negative. I'he pi an is to divide the territory traversed by the railways 
into four sections, between which there will be exactly one hour's dif- 
ference in the time, and all the lines within each division are to be run 
upon ui.iform time. The division lines of these sections are to be the 
75th, the 90th, the 105th, and the 120th meridians, and the following, 
as adopted by the convention, will show the territory comprised in each 
section : 

" 1. That all roads now using Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Balti- 
more, Toronto, Hamilton, or Washington time as a standard, based upon 
meridians east of these points or adjacent thereto, shall be governed 
by the 75th meridian or Eastern time (four minutes slower than New 
York time). This includes roads run by Krtland, Providence, New 
London, Montreal, Albany, Richmond, and Charleston time, in addition 
to those specially named above. 

"2. That all roads now using Colu.ubus, Savannah, Atlanta, Cincin- 
nati, Louisville, Indianapolis, Chicag >, Jefferson City, Saint Paul, or 
Kansas City time, or standards based upon meridians adjacent thereto, 
shall be run by the 90th meridian time, to be called central time, one 
hour slower than Eastern time, and nine minutes slower than Chicago 



ASTRONOMY. 431 

time. This includes roads run by Macon, Home, Nashville, Salem, Mo- 
bile, Saint Louis, Vicksburg, Dubuque, Minneapolis, Saint Joseph, Gal- 
veston, Houston, and Omaha time, in addition to those named above; 
also, the Union Pacific to North Platte and Wallace, the Burlington 
;iii(l Missouri River to McCook, the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe" 
Railway to Coolidge, the Texas Pacific to Toyah, and the Galveston, 
Harrisburg and San Antonio to Sanderson. 

u 3. That west of the above-named section the roads shall be run by 
the 105th and 120th meridian times respectively, two and three hours 
slower than Eastern time. 

" 4. That all changes from one hour standard to another shall be made 
at the termini of roads or at the ends of divisions." 

No general arrangement of the running of railway trains has ever 
before been attempted of equal importance to the public with this new 
movement, and it can readily be seen that'it cannot but very greatly 
simplify and systematize the present complex and almost infinite variety 
of running schedules upon our railroad lines. The matter has been 
from the first in the hands of practical men who know their business, 
and the universal adoption of the system proposed on November 18, 
1883, was a remarkable witness to the widespread intelligence and to the 
common sense of our people. 

A subject-index to scientific papers. — One of the most important works 
for the student of science is the "Royal Society's Catalogue of Scientific 
Papers," a list of the articles on every branch of science published in 
periodicals and transactions of learned societies between 1800 and 1872. 
In these volumes the various articles are catalogued by authors, the 
arrangement being alphabetical. In answer to an inquiry, the secretary 
of the Royal Society recently informed Dr. H. Carrington Bolton that 
the society had abandoned the project of publishing a subject index to 
their " Catalogue of Scientific Papers." This is greatly to be regretted, 
for the utility of that monumental work is reduced one-half owing to 
the want of an index of topics. The chief reasons for this decision on 
the part of the Royal Society are the enormous expenses, and the diffi- 
culty of arranging the material in a systematic manner acceptable to 
all. The expense would be greater than mere clerical hire, for it is con- 
ceded that superior talent would be necessary to do this work in a satis- 
factory manner. 

Copernicus. — With the publication of volume in (1883), this valuable 
astronomical journal will come to an end. It has not had a sufficient 
number of subscribers to make it self-supporting. It is a matter of 
regret to astronomers that a journal which fills so excellent a place is 
to be discontinued, and for such a reason. It has been from the first 
admirably edited, and it contains so many excellent papers that a set 
of the three volumes of Copernicus is a necessary part of an astronomical 
library. At any rate, the editors may congratulate themselves that they 
and their friends have left nothing undone to found a first-class journal 
of astronomy in Great Britain. It appears from this failure that the 






432 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188! 

Astronomische Nachrichten (which covers a different field from Coper- 
nicus)* together with the proceedings and transactions of learned societies 
suffice for the present wants of the science. 

Astronomical telegrams.— The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 
notifies that arrangements have been completed with the director of the 
Harvard College Observatory for conducting the system of telegraphic 
announcements of astronomical discoveries which was established by 
the Institution in 1873, and that henceforward the American center of 
reception and distribution of telegrams will be "The Harvard College 
Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.," to which all astronomical telegrams 
should in future be sent. 

American Astronomical /Society. — A society with this title has been 
formed in New York and vicinity. It has as yet published no transac- 
tions, although it is intended to do this. 

ASTRONOMICAL BIBLIOGRAPHY, 1883. 

Following is given a list of the principal books of the year, includ- 
ing: those memoirs which have been reprinted from the publications of 
observatories, scientific societies, etc. It is largely compiled from the 
excellent Natures Novitates of E. Friedlander, of Berlin. The prices 
are added in German marks, 4 marks equal to $1 very nearly: 

Anales del Institnto y Observatorio de Marina de San Fernando. Sec- 
cion ii: Observaciones meteorologicas, a. 1879-'81. 2 vol. San 
Fernando, 1880-'82. fol. 

Anales del Institnto y Observatorio de Marina de San Fernando. Sec- 
cion II: Observaciones meteorologicas. Anol882. San Fernando, 
1883. fol. 

Annales du Bureau des Longitudes et de l'Observatoire astronomique 
de Montsouris. Tome 2. Paris, 1883. 4to. 18 

Les memes. Tome 3. Paris, 1883. 4to. 18 

Annales de l'Observatoire de Moscou. Publiees par Th. Bredichin. 
Vol. ix, livraisou 1. Moscou, 1883. 4to. 

Vol. ix, livraison 2. Moscou, 1883. 4to. 117 pg. av. 6 plchs. 8 

Cont.: Belopolsky, Observat. heliograph. — Bredichin et Belopol- 
sky, Observ. spectr. du'Soleil en 1881. — Bredichin, Bech. s. la gr. 
( 'omete de 1882, II. Observ. de Jupiter, 1881-'82. Observ. de qlqs. 
Cometes. — Ceraski, Photometr. Beobacht. 

Annales de l'Observatoire de Paris, publ. sous la dir. de Mouchez. Ob- 
servations, 1879 et 1880. Chaque vol. M. 36. M^moires, vol. xvn r 
M. 26. 3 vols. Paris, 1883. gr. 4to. 

Annales de l'Observatoire de Paris, publiees sous la direction de Mou- 
chez. Memoires. Tome xvi. Paris, 1883. 4to. 405 pg. 24 

Annuaire de l'Observatoire de Montsouris pour 1883. Met^orologie ap~ 
pliquee a l'agriculture et a l'hygieae. Ann6e 12. Paris, 1883, 
12mo. 450 pg., fig. 2 



ASTROMOMY. 433 

Annuaire clu bureau des longitudes p. Pan 1883. Paris, 1883. 12mo. 

864 pg., fig. 
Cout. : Faye, s. la figure d. cometes. — Janssen, les m6thodes en 

astronomic La prochaine Eclipse de Soleil. Mai, 1883, etc. 1.50 
Anton, F. Bestimmung der Bahndes Flaueteu (111) Cassandra. (Wien), 

1883. 8vo. 138 pg. 2 

Arbeiten, Astronomische, f. die europaische Gradmessung im Kouigr. 

Sachsen. Abth. 3. Die astronom. Arbeiten. Ausgefuhrt unter 

Leitung v. C. Bruhns, nach dessen Tode bearb. v. Th. Albrecht. 

Heft 1. Berlin, 1883. 4to. 10 

Astronomical papers prepared for the use of the American Ephemeris 

and Nautical Almanac, under the direction of S. Newcomb. Vol. 

I. Washington, 1882. 4to. bd. 16 

Cout. : Newcomb, Becurrence of solar eclipses. — Newcomb and 

Meier, Transformation of Hansen's lunar theory. — Michelson, Exper- 
iment, determiuat. of the velocity of light. — Newcomb, Catalogue 

of 1,098 standard clock and zodiacal stars. — Hill, On Gauss's method 

of computing secular perturbations, w. an. applicat. to the action 

of Venus on Mercury. — Xewcomb, Discussion of observed transits 

of Mercury 1677-1881. 
Astronomical, and Magnetical, and Meteorological Observations made 

at the Boyal Observatory, Greenwich, in 1881. London, 1883. 

roy. 4to. 
Astronomische Beobachtungen auf der k. Universitats- Stern warte zu 

Konigsberg. Herausg. v. E. Lutber. Abth. 37, Thl. I. Konigsb., 

1882. fol. 
Astronomische Nachrichten, begriindet v. H. C. Schumacher. TJnter 

Mitwirkung der astronoinischen Gesellscharft herausg. v. A. Krue- 

ger. Bd. 104, 105, 106. (24 Nrn. each.) 
Kiel. 1883. gr. 4to. 15 

Astronomischer Kaleuder fiir 1884. Nach dem Muster des k. v. Litt- 

row'schen Kalenders hersg. v. d. k. k. Sternwarte. Neue Folge. 

Jahrgang 3. Wien, 1883. 8vo. 150 pg. 1.20 

L'Astronomie. Revue mensuelle d'astronomie i>opulaire, de in6t6oro- 

logie et de physique du Globe, publi^e p. C. Flammarion. Paris. 

gr. 8vo. av. nombr. figures. Ann^e II, 1883. 12 nrs. 12 

Auwers, A. Neue Reduction d. Bradley'schen Beobachtungen aus d. 

Jahren 1750-1762. Bd. n. 
Petersburg, 1882. 4to. 
Backeljau, F. Le calcul par les logarithmes et nouvelles tables du 

logarithme 3 des nombres. 

Gaud, 1883. 12mo. 49 pg. 1.50 

Becker, E. Die Sonne und die Planeten. Leipzig, 1883. 8vo. 296 

pg., m. 68 Abbildgn. Lwd. 1 

Beckett, E. Astronomy without mathematics. 7 edit. London, 1883. 

8vo. 4.20 

H. Mis. 69 28 



434 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Beobachtungen angestellt am astrophysikalischen Observatorium k. 
O'Gyalla hersg. v. N. v. Konkoly. Bd. V, enthaltend Beobach- 
tungen v. Jahre 1882. Halle, 1883. gr. 4to. 96 pg., in. 1 Kpfrt. 10 

Bremiker, C. Logar.-trig. Tafelii mit 6 Decimalstelleu. 9. Aufl. 
Berlin, 1S83. gr. 8vo. 4.20 

Bremiker's Logar.-trigon. Tafelii mit G Decimalstelleu. Neu bearb. 
v. Th. Albrecht. 10. Stereotyp-Ausg. (Enth. aucb die Tafel der 
Logarithmen der Sinus und Tangenten der Winkel bis zu 5 Grad 
von Secunde zu Secunde.) Berlin, 1883. gr. 8vo. 18 u. 598 
pg. 4.20 

Bredicbin, Tb. Sur la coinete de 1825, IV. (Roma. Mem. d. Soc. d. 
spettroscop. ital.) 1882. gr. 4to. 10 pg. av. 1 plcbe. 2 

Sur la comete de 1882, 1 (Wells). (Moscou), 1883. 4to. 15 pg. 

av. 4 plcbs. 2.50 

Sur la grande comete de 1882, II. (Moscou), 1883. 8vo. 10 

Pg- 1 

Sur la grande comete de 1882, II. (Roma. Mem. d. Soc. 

d. spettroscop. it.) 1883. 6 pg. 1 

Recbercbes sur la comete de 1882, II. (Moscou), 1883. 4to. 



30 pg. av. 5 plcbs. 3 

Brugsch, H. Astronomiscbe u. astrologische Inscbriften der altagyp- 
tiscben Denkmaler. Leipzig, 1883. 4to. 50 

Bulletiu astronomique et m^tdorologique de l'Observatoire imp. de Rio- 
de- Janeiro. Annde 1883. (12 nrs.) Rio de Janeiro, 1883. 4to. 

Bulletin des sciences matbematiques et astronomiques, red. p. Darboux, 
Houel et Tannery. Paris, gr. 8vo. Annee 1883. (Se>ie II, 
tome vii.) 18 

Camerano e Lessoua. .Geografia tisica, astronomica e meteorologica. 
Milano, 1882. 8vo. 145 pg. c. 50 fig. 2 

Catalogus van de Boekeu aanwezig in de Bibliothek der Sterrenwacht 
te Leiden. Uitgegeven door H. G. v. d. Sande Bakbuijzen. Bij- 
voegsel bij de Aiinalen der Sterrenwacht. Suppl. 1 v., 1 Jan., 1877 
—1 Jan., 1879 en supl. 2 v., 1 Jan., 1879—1 Juli, 1882). 's Graven- 
bage, 1883. gr. 8vo. 74 en 98 pg. 2 

Cellerier, G. Refraction coin^taire. Geneve, 1883. 4to. 20 pg. 1.20 

Celoria, Lorenzoni e ISiobile. Operazioni eseguite nell' anno 1875 negli 
Osservatorii astronomici di Milano, iSTapoli e Padova in corrispon- 
denza coll' Uffizio Idrografico della R. Marina, per determine ve If 1 
differenze di longitudine tra Genova, Milano, Napoli e Padova. 
Milano, 1883. 4to. 128 pg. 6.40 

Chapel, F. Apereu sur le role des ast6roi'des int'^rieurs dans la physique 
du monde. Paris, 1883. 8vo. 158 pg. 2 

Ciel et Terre. Revue populaire d'Astron, et de m6teo;ologie. Brux. 
4to. Ann^e 1883. 8 

Clark, L. Transit tables for 1883, giving the Greenwich mean time of 
transit of the sun, and of about 20 stars for every day in the year. 
London, 1883. 8vo. cloth. 2.80 



ASTRONOMY. 435 

Coast Survey, U. S. Report of the superintendent of the U. S. Coast 
and Geodetic Survey, showing the progress of the work during 
1879. Washington, 1881. 4 

Connaissance des temps ou des mouvements celestes a Pusage des as - 
tronomes et des navigateurs, p. l'a. 1884, publi^e par le Bureau des 
Longitudes. Paris, 1883. gr. 8vo. 830 pg. av. 2 cartes. 3.50 

Coppernici, X. De bypothesibus motuum ccelestium a se constitutis 
commentariolus, ed. A. Lindhagen. (Holm), 1882. 8vo. 15 pg. c. 
tab. 2.50 

Die Fortschritt6 auf dem Gebiete der Astronomic ISTr. 8. Coin, 

1882. 8vo. 2 
Dreyer, J. L Mean places of 321 red stars, obs. w. the meridian circle 

at Dunsink. Dublin, 1882. 4to. 85 pg. 7 

Dubois, E. Eph6ine>ides astronomiques pour 1884. Paris, 1883. 12mo. 

1.50 

Faye, H. Cours d'Astronomie de l'Ecole Polytechnique. Vol. II. The- 
ories du soleil, des planetes, des cometes et de la lune. Applica- 
tion de l'astronomie a la navigation et aux vogages d'exploration 
terrestre. Paris, 1883. gr. 8vo. Vol. I. Astron. sph6r., instru- 
ments, erreurs, geod6sie. 1881. 11.50 

Fi6vez, Ch. fitude du Spectre solaire. Bruxelles, 1882. 4to. 8pg. av. 
7 plchs. 7 

Flammarion, C. Les Terres du Ciel. Description complete des pla- 
netes de notre systeme et de la condition actuelle de la vie a leur 
surface. Paris, 1883. gr. 8vo. illustr. de photogr., de vues teles- 
cop., cartes et fig. 1 

Fonvielle, W. de. Le passage de Venus. Num6ro de decembre 1882. 
Paris, gr. 8vo. ' 0.60 

Franz. Ueber die Venusexpedition in Aiken. (Konigsberg), 1883. 4to. 
10 pg., m. 1 Holzschn. 0.40 

Galle,' A. Zur Berechnung der Proximitaten v. Asteroiden-Bahnen. 
Breslau, 1883. 8vo. 1 

Garrod, A. E. The Nebulae : a Fragment of Astronomical History. 
London, 1883. 8vo. 44 pg. 1.70 

Gauss, G. Fiinfstellige vollstandige logarithmische u. trigonometrische 
Tafeln. 18. Aufl. Halle, 1883. 8vo. 2 

Gerst, J. Methode zur Bahnbestimmung aus 3 vollstandigen Beobach- 
tungen. (Wien), 1883. 8vo. 35 pg. 0.60 

Glaisher, J. Factor table for the 6. million : Cont. : The least factor of 
every number not divisible by 2, 3, or 5 between 5,000,000 and 
6,000,000. London, 1883. roy. 4to. cloth. 21. Factor table for the 
5. milliou. 1880. 21. Factor table for the the 4. million. 1879. 21 

Gylden, H. Undersokningar af theorien f. hirnlaksopparnes rorelser. 
(Du mouvement des corps celestes.) (Stockh.), 1882. 8vo. 64 pg. 3 

Undersokningar af himlaksopparnas rorelser, III. (Stockh.), 

1883. 8vo. 168 pg. 4.50 



436 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Haerdtl, E. v. Bahnbestimmung des Planeten " Adria." 

i. 1882. 0.30 

II. (Wieu), 1883. 8vo. 12 pg. 0.30 

Iloletscbek, J. Bahnbestinimung des 4. Kometen vom J. 1874 (Wieu), 

1883. Svo. 27 pg. 0.50 
. Handbucb der matbeinatiscben u. teebniscben Chronologic. 

2 Aufl. Liefg. 4 u. 5. Breslau, 1883. Svo. Jede Liefg. 5 

Ideler, O. L. Handbucb der matbeinatiscben u. teebniscben Cbronologie. 

2. Bde. 2 Aufl. (In 6 Liefgn.) Liefg. 6. (Scbluss.) Breslau, 

1883. Svo. Jede Liefg. 5 

Jabrbucb, Berliner astronomiscbes, f. d. J. 1885 ra. Epbemeriden d. 

Planeten 1-225 f. 1883. Hersg. v. d. Becben-Institute d. Kon. 

Sternwarte zu Berlin unt. Lietg. v. F. Tietjen. Berl., 1883. gr. 

Svo. 543 pg. 12 

Jabrbucb, Nautiscbes, oder Epbemeriden u. Tafeln f. d. J. 1886 zur 

Bestiinmung d. Zeit, Lange u. Breite zur See nach astronom. Beo- 

bacbtungen. Hrsg. v. Beicbsamt d. Innern unter Bed. v. Tietjen. 

Berlin, 1883. Svo. Cart. 1.50 

Journal Suisse d'Horlogerie. Bevue horlogere universelle. Publ. sous 

les auspices de la classe d'Industrie et de Commerce. Geneve. 8vo. 

Ann<§e S: 1883-84 (12 nrs.). 10.50 

Kaiser, F. De Sterrenbemel verklaard. 4. druk, bewerkt door J. A. 

C. Oudemans. (In 16 aflevergn.). Afl. 1 en 2. Deventer, 1883. gr. 

Svo. Jede Liefg. 1.60 

Kayser, H. Lebrbucb der Spektralanalyse. Berlin, 1883. gr. Svo. 370 

pg. mit 9 Tafeln u. 87 Holzscbn. 10 

Konkoly, N. Praktische Anleitung z. Anstellung astronomiscber Beo- 

bacbtungen mit besonderer Bucksicbt auf die Astrophysik. 

Braunscbweig, 1883. Svo. fig. 24 

Krecb. Pbotometriscbe Untersucbungen. Berlin, 1884. 4to. 1 

Kremser, Y. Die Bahn des 2. Cometen v. 1879. Breslau, 1883. 8vo. 1 
Kreutz, H. Ueber die Bahn des Kometen von 1771. ( Wien), 1883. 8vo. 

34 pg. 0.60 

Lalande, J. de. Tables de logaritbmes pour les nombres et pour les 

sinus. Bevues par Beynaud. Edition stereotype, augmented de 

formules pour la resolution des triangles p. Bailleul, et d'une 

nouvelle introduction. Paris, 1883. 16ino. 278 pg. 3 

Lefebvre, B. Les passages de V6nus sur le disque solaire. Etude 

bistorique suivie d'un appendice sur les observations du 6 decem- 

bre 1882 et du r£cit des expeditions beiges. Louvain, 1883. 8vo. 

70 pg. 1 

Lebmann, P. Die Erde und der Mond. Vom astronomiscben Stand- 

punkte aus betracbtet und fur das Verstiindniss weiterer Kreise 

dargestellt. Leijizig, 1883. Svo. 272 pg., mit 65 Abbildungen. 

Lwd. 1 
Tafeln z. Berechnung d. Mondpbasen u. d. Sonnen- u. Mond- 

finsternisse. Berlin, 1882, Svo, 3 



ASTRONOMY. 437 

Loewy, M. fiph^merides cles 6toiles de culmination Inn aire et de longi- 
tude pour 1883. Paris, 1882. 4to. 3 

Lohse, O. Abbildungen von Sonnenflecken, nebst Bemerkungen iiber 
astronomische Zeicbungen u. deren Vervielfaltigung. Leipzig, 
1883. 4to. 9 pg., mit 3 Tafeln. 4. 

Main, E. Eudimentary Astronomy. 3. edit. Eevised and corrected by 
W. Thynne Lynn. London, 1883. 12mo. 2.20 

Maurer, M. J. Die Extinction des Fixsternlicbtes in der Atmospbare 
in ibrer Beziehung zur astronomiscben Eefraction. Ziiricb, 1882. 
8vo. 58 pg. 

Memorie della Societa degli spettroscopisti italiani, raccolte e pubblicate 
p. cura di P. Tacchiui. Vol. xi. Eoma, 1883. 4to. gr. c. taw. 

Meyer, W. Etude sur la refraction cometaire. (Geneve), 1883. 4to. 1.20 

Micbel, A. Tables de division servant a remplacer cette operation par 
une simple multiplication. Alger, 1883. 8vo. 67 pg. 4 

Miller, W. Tbe Heavenly Bodies : tbeir nature and habitability. Lon- 
don, 1883. 8vo. 354 pg. 7.80 

Mommsen, A. Cbronologie. Untersucbungen iiber das Kalenderwesen 
der Griecben, insonderheit der Athener. Leipzig, 1883. gr. 8vo. 
571 pg., mit 1 Tabelle. 14 

Mouchez. Eapport annuel sur l'6tat de l'Observatoire de Paris, pour 
Vanned 1882. Paris, 1883. 4to. 40 pg. 

Miiller, G. Pbotometriscbe Untersucbungen angestellt am astrophysi- 
kaliscben Observatorium zu Potsdam. Leipzig, 1883. 4to. 66 pg., 
mit 2 Tafeln. 6 

Nasmyth, J., u. J. Carpenter. Der Mond, betrachtet als Planet, Welt u. 
Trabant. Deutsche Ausgabe mit Erlauterungen and Zusiitzen v. 
H. J. Klein. 3. Ausgabe. (In 5 Lieferungen.) Hamburg, 1883. 
gr. 4to., mit 21 Tafeln (1 color.) u. 48 Holzscbn. Liefg. 2. Jede 
Liefg. 2. 

Nautical Almanac (Tbe) and Astronomical Epherneris for the year 1885, 
for the meridian of the Eoyal Observatory at Greenwich. Londou, 
1881. roy. 8vo. 530 pg. 2.80 

Nell. Fimfstellige Logaritbmen der Zahleu, etc. 5 Aufl. Darmstadt, 
1883. 8. 1.50 

Newcomb, S. Astronomical papers prepared for tbe use of the Ameri- 
can Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac. Vol. I. Washington, 1883. 
4to. 501 pg. 16.50 

Popular Astronomy. 2 edit. London, 1883. 8vo. 596 pg., 

with 116 engravings and 5 maps of the stars. 18.50 

Niesten, L. Carte celeste avec horizon, comprenant les etoiles visibles a 
l'ceil nu et les principales curiosit6s du Ciel, dress6e pour la latitude 
de 50 degree Bruxelles, 1882. fol. 6 

Obver, J. O. W. Sunspottery, or what we owe to the sun. Popular 
account of the spots on the sun. London, 1883. 8vo. 56 pg. 1.25 



438 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Oppenheim, S. TJeber eine neue lnl egration der Difl'erentialgleichungen 
der PlanetenbeweguDg. (Wien), 1883. 8vo. 54 pg. 0.80 

Oppolzer, Th. v. Ermittlung der Storungswerthe in den Coordinaten 
durch die Variation entsprechend gewahlter Constanten. (Wien), 
1883. 4to. 31 pg. 2 

Ueber die Kriterien des Vorhandenseins dreier Losungen bei dem 

Konietenprobleme. (Wien), 1883. 8vo. 0.30 

Beitrag z. Ermittellnng d. Eeduction auf d. unendlich kleinen 

Sckwingungsborgen. (Wien), 1882. 8vo. 20 pg. 0.40 

Note uber eine v. Archilocbos erwabnte Sonnenfinsterniss. 



(Wien), 1882. 8vo. 4 pg. 0.25 

Osservazioni di Stelle Cadenti, fatte nelle stazioni italiane durante gli 
anni 1868, 1869, 1870. Milano, 1882. 4to. 99 pg. 

Pein, A. Aufgaben der spharisehen Astronomie gelost durch planime- 
trische Konstruktionen und mit Hiilfe der ebenen Trigonometric 
Leipzig, 1883. 4to. 56 pg. mit 3 Tafeln. 1.20 

Peters, C. F. W. Die Fixsterne. Leipzig, 1883. 8vo. 169 pg., m. 69 
Figuren in Holztich. Lwd. 1 

Peters, C. H. J. Celestial Charts for the Equinox, 1860, made at the 

Litchfield Observatory, at Clinton, New York. (Last comparison 

with the sky during 1882.) Series I. 20 charts. Clinton, 1883. 

Imp. fol. 40 

Each chart covers 20 min. in E. A. a. 5 degr. in Decl. 

Pinelli, G. V. Breve esposizione della teoria degli errori di osserva- 
zione. (Metodo dei minimi quadrati). Genova, 1883. 8vo. 54. pg. 

Powell, H. J. The principles of glass-making. Together w. treat, on 
crown and sheet glass by H. Chance, and plate glass by H. G. Har- 
ris. London, 1883. 8vo. 3.70 

Preston, S. Tolver. Eine dynamische Erklarung der Gravitation. 
(Wien), 1883. 8vo, 11 pg. 0.30. 

Ueber die Moglichkeit vergangene Wechsel im Universum 

durch die Wirkung der jetzt thatigen Naturgesetze — auch in Ueber- 
einstimmung mit der Existenz eines Wiirmegleichgewichtes in 
vergrossertem Massstabe zu erklaren. (Wien), 1883. 8vo. 18 
pg. 0.40 

Proctor, B, A. Light science for leisure hours. Series III. Familiar 
essays on scientific subjects, natural phenomena, etc. London, 
1883. 8vo. 310 pg. 7.80 

Mysteries of time and space. London, 1883. 8vo. 410 pg. with 

24 illustrations. 7.80 

Popular account of the past and coming transits of Venus from 

1639 to 2112. !New edit. New York, 1883. 8vo. Cloth. 10 

The Stars in their Seasons. An easy guide to a knowledge of 

the stars in 12 maps, showing the stars at all hours all the year 
round. London, 1882. Imp. 8vo; cloth. 5.50 



ASTRONOMY. 43 9 

Pucci, E. Fondainenti di geodesia. Vol. i. Milauo, 1883. 8vo. 424 
pg. c. 52 figg. 8 

Pnblicationen des astrophysikalischen Observatoriums zu Potsdam. 

Nr. 13. (Bd. in, Stiick 5.) Leipzig, 1883. 4to. pg. 293-301, mit 3 

Tafeln. 4 

Ent. : Lobse, O. Abbilduugen von Sonnenflecken, nebst Beinerkuu- 

gen uber astronomisclie Zeichuugen u. deren Vervielfaltigung. 

Publicatiouen des astrophysikalischen Observatoriums zu Potsdam. 
Nr. 12. (Bd. in, Stiick 4.) Leipzig, 1883. 4to. pg. 227-292, mit 2 
Tafeln. 6 

Entb..: Miiller, G. Photometrische Untersuchungen. 

Publicatiouen des astropbysikaliscbeu Observatoriums zu Potsdam. 

Nr. 11. (Bd. in, Stiick 3.) Leipzig, 1883. 4to. pg. 127-226. 6 

Entb.: Yogel, H. C, u. G. Miiller. Spectroskopiscbe Beobacbtungen 

der Sterne bis einscbliesslicb 7.5ter Grosse in der Zone von — 1° 

bis+20° Declination. 

Publication des konigl. preussiscben geodatischen Instituts. Regis- 
ter der Protokolle, Verbandlungen und Generalberiehte f. die 
europaische Gradmessung vom J. 1861 bis zum J. 1880. Bearb. 
v. M. Sadebeck. Berlin, 1883. 4to. 5 

Publication des konigl. preussiscben geodiitiscben Instituts. Grad- 
niessungs Nivelleinent zwischen Swinemiinde u. Amsterdam. 
Bearb. v. W. Seibt, Berlin, 1883. 4to. 5 

Publications of tbe Wasbburn Observatory of the University of Wis- 
consin. Vol.1. Madison, 1882. 8vo. 180 pg ; witb portr. of Wasb- 
burn and 10 plates ; cloth. 8vo. Cont. : Descr. of the Observatory. 
Catal. of 195 stars for 1880. List of 23 new Nebulae. List of 60 and 
88 new Double Stars. Measures of 150 Double Stars by Burnbam. 
Observ. of 84 Bed Stars, &c. 

Respigbi, L. Osservazioni del diametro orizzoutale del Sole. Roma, 
1882. 4to. gr. 32 pg. 2.50 

Renter's Wandkarte des nordlichen gestirnten Himmels. 4 Blatt. 5 
Aufl. Chromolithographie. Gotha, 1883. fob 5 

Revue Cbronometrique. Journal des Horlogers, seientifkpie et pratique, 
publ. p. G. Saumer. Paris. 8vo. Aunee 1883. (12 nis.) 12 

Rosse, Earl of, and O. Boeddicker. Notes on the plrys. appearance of 
the comets b and c 1881, obs. at Birr Castle. Dublin, 1883. 4to. 
with 1 plate. 1.50 

Riihlmann, M. u. R. Logarithmisch-trigonometriscbe u. andere fur 
Rechner niitzliche Tafeln. 9. Aufi. Leipzig, 1883. 8vo. ca. 300 
pg. 2 

Russell, H. C. Results of Double Star measures made at the Sydney 
Observatory, New South Wales, 1871-1881. Sydney, 1882. roy. 
8vo. 68 pg. with 4 plates, cloth. 5 

?^ng, E. New Table of 7-place Logarithms of all numbers continu- 
ously up to 200,000. 5. edit. London, 1883. roy. 8vo. 384 pg. 22 



440 SCIENTIFIC RECOKD FOR 18S3. 

Schellen, H. Die Spectralanalyse in ihrer Anwendung auf die Stoffe der 
Erdeu.dieNaturd. Himmelskorper. 3. Aufl. 2 Bde. Braunschweig, 
1883. gr. 8vo. 334 u. 468. pg., mit 8 farb. Tafeln u. 362 Holzschn., u. 
m. e. Atlas v. lOTfln. in gr. 4to., von denen 1 color. 32 

Schiaparelli, G. V. Misure di alcune principali stelle doppie di rapido 
uioviinento orbitato. Milano, 1882. 8vo. 

Schroeter, J. H. Areographische Beitriige zur geuaueren Kenntniss u. 
Beuribeilungd. Planeten Mars. Herausg. von H. G. van de Sande 
Bakhuyzen. Leiden, 1882. 8vo. 447 pg., mit Atlas v. 16Kpfrt. 

Scbwarz, B. Astronomische Untersucbung liber eine von Arcbilocbus 
und eine in einer assyriscben Inschrift erwahnte Sonnenfinsterniss. 
(Wien), 1883. 8vo. 14 pg., mit Tafeln. 0.70 

Seccbi, A. DieGrossederSchopfung. 2. Aufl. Leipzig, 1883. 8vo. 1.20 

Pohle, J., Angelo Seccbi. Ein Lebens- u. Culturbild. Coin, 

1883. 8vo. 2.50 

Siemens, C. W. On the conservation of the Solar Energy. Loudon, 
1883. 8vo. withillustr. 5 

Sirius. Zeitschrift f. populare Astronomie. Red. : H. J. Klein. Leip- 
zig. 8vo. — Bd. 16 (N. Folge, Bd. 11) : Jahrg. 1883 (12 Hefte). 10 

Smyth, C. Piazzi. Madeira spectroscopic. London, 1882. Imp. 4to. 
with illustrations. Cloth. 22 

Souchon, A. Traite* d'astronomie pratique comprenant l'exposition du 
calcul des 6phem6rides astronomiques et nautiques, avec une in- 
troduction historique et de nombreuses notes. Paris, 1883. gr. 
8vo. Fig. 13.50 

Traits d'astronomie pratique. Paris, 1883. 8vo. 95 et 396 pg. 21 

Spectrum Analysis. — Report of the committee (Dewar, Williamson, M. 
Watts, Abney, Stoney, Schuster, a. o.) appointed for the purpose 
of reporting upon the present state of our knowledge of Spectrum 
Analysis (London). 8vo. 

I. Spectra of Metalloids (by Schuster). Influence of Temperature 
and Pressure on the Spectra of Gases (by Schuster). Emission 
Spectra of the Rays of High Refrangibility (by Hartley). Absorp- 
tion Spectra of the" Rays of High Refrangibility (by Huntington). 
1881. 60 pg., w. 2 plates. 4 

II. General Methods of observing and mapping Spectra, by W. 
M. Watts. 1882. 107 pg., with 1 plate. 4.50 

III. The Genesis of Spectra, by A. Schuster. 1883. 8vo. 24 pg. 1.50 
Sternfreund, G. Astronomischer Fiihrer pro 1884. Jahrg. 6. Miin- 

chen, 1883. 12mo. 2.40 

Struve, H. Ueber d. Einfluss d. Diffraction an Fernrohren auf Licht- 

scheiben. Dorpat, 1883. gr. 4to. 104 pg. 
Struve, L., Resultate aus den in Pulkowa angestellten Vergleichungen 

von Procyon mit beuachbarten Sternen. Petersburg, 1883. gr. 

4to. 48 pg. 1.50 



ASTRONOMY. 441 

Tafelu, Nautische, der k. k. Kriegsmarine. Zusainmengestelltu. hersg. 
vom hydrographischen Amte der k. k. Kriegsmarine. Triest, 1883. 
8vo. geb. 6 

The Observatory. Monthly journal of practical astronomy. London. 
8vo. Year 1883. (12 nrs.). 14 

Thomson, W., and P. G. Tait. Treatise on natural philosophy. Vol. I, 

part 2. London, 1883. roy. 8vo. Cloth. 18.50 

Vol. I, pt, 1. 16.50 

Tischner, A. The sun changes its position in space, therefore it can- 
not be regarded as beiDg " in a condition of rest." Leipzig, 1883. 
12mo. 0.50 

Uhrmacher-Zeitung, Deutsche. Berlin. 4to. Jahrg. 1883. (24Nrn.). G 

Valentiner, W. Atlas des Sonnensy stems. 24 Abbildungen in Licht- 
druck mit erlauternden Texte, Jahr 1883. Folio Kart. 24 

Van Tricht, V. Le spectroscope et l'analyse spectrale. Namur, 1882. 
12mo. 52 pg. 0.70 

Vega's logarithmisch trigonometrisches Handbuch. 67. Aufl. Berlin, 
1883. gr. 8vo. 4.20 

Vierteljahrsschrift der astronomischen Gesellschaft. Hersg. v. E. Scho- 
enfeld und A. Winnecke. Jahrg. 18. Heft 2. Leipzig, 1883. Svo. 
pg. 73-152, mit I Lichtdruckbilde. 2 

Vierteljahrsschrift d. astronomischen Gesellschaft. Hersg. v. E. Schon- 
feld u. A. Wienecke. Jahrg. 18. Heft 3. Leipzig, 1883. Svo. 2 

Villicus, F. Die Geschichte der Bechenkunst mit besonderer Biicksicht 
auf Deutschland u. Oesterreich. Wien, 1883. gr. Svo. 100 pg., 
mit 25 lllustr. 2.40 

Vogel, H. C, u. G. Muller. Spectroskopische Beobachtungen der 
Sterne bis einschliesslich 7.5ter Grosse in der Zone von — 1° bis 
X 20° Declination. Leipzig, 1883. 4to. pp. 127-226. 6 

Wochenschrift f. Astronomie, Meteorologie u. Geographic Bed.: H. J. 
Klein. Halle. 8vo. Jahrg. 1883. (52 Nrn.) 9 

Young, C. A. Die Sonne. Leipzig, 1883. Svo. 318pg.,mit2Lichtdruck- 
tat'eln u. 82 Abbildungen. 6 

Young, C. A. 11 Sole. Milano,1882. 8vo. 336 pg.. c. numerose illustr. 5 

Young, J. B. Navigation and uaut. astronomy in theory and prac- 
tice. New edit, with additions, London, 1883. 12mo. 2.70 

Zeitschrift f. Instrumentenkunde. Organ f. Mittheilungen aus d. ge- 
samten Gebiete d. wissenschaftl. Technik. Bedig. v. G. Schwirk- 
us, Berl. 4to. m. Zahlreicheu Originalabbild. Jahrg. Ill : 1883. 
(12Hefte.) 18 

Zelbr, K. Ueber die Bahn der kometari schen Nebelmasse Schmidt 
1882. (Wien), 1883. 8vo. 0.25 

NECROLOGY OF ASTRONOMERS, 1883. 

Alex. Nic. Sawitsch, director of the Observatory at Cronstadt, 
d. — , 1883, at St. Petersburg, ait, 73. 



442 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Victor Puiseaux, member of the Paris Academy of Sciences, d. 

— , 1883, at Paris. 
Arthur Roche, professor of astronomy at Montpelier, d. April 18, 

3Bt, 63. 
Sir Edward Sabine, whose pendulum observations are so well 

known, d. June 26, 1883, at London. 
Professor Listing at Konigsberg, d. — , 1883. 

Prof. W. A. Norton, of Yale College, d. September 21, 1883, set, 73. 
Sir Charles W. Siemens, d. November 18, at London. 
Yvon Villaroeau, member of the Paris Academy of Sciences, d. 

December 23, 1883, set, 70. 



GEOLOGY. 



By T. Sterry Hunt, LL. D., F. R. S. 



EOZOIO ROCKS. 



The question of the Eozoic or Primary rocks, details regarding which 
were given in the report of last year, continues to occupy a prominent 
place in geological literature. Giekie, the director of the geological 
survey of Great Britain, has, in a late communication to the Geological 
Society of London, attempted to set aside the conclusions arrived at by 
the later British geologists, and to maintain that the great groups of 
crystalline rocks which these observers have recognized as more or less 
distinct pre-Cambrian series are either altered Cambrian strata or 
erupted rocks of still later date. This conclusion, and the facts alleged 
in support of his view are denied alike by Hicks, Hughes, Bonney, and 
others, and we are promised an extended discussion and re-examination 
of the subject, which, it may be predicted, will lead to the final refuta- 
tion of the ideas of the old school, now defended only by the official 
geologists, and the correlation of these crystalline rocks with those of 
North America and of the Alps, now shown to be of pre-Cambrian age. 

In this connection it may be mentioned that the familiar doctrine of 
the igneous and eruptive origin of the undoubtedly Eozoic, or pre-Cam- 
brian rocks has been of late resuscitated by C. W. Hitchcock and by 
Marr, among others. The latter, in an elaborate essay in the Geological 
Magazine (June, 1S83), insists upon the supposed permanence of ocean- 
basins, and the growth of continents from their borders, as now main- 
tained by some geologists. Such a view presents great difficulties to 
those who maintain the marine origin of Eozoic rocks, and Marr proposes 
to regard them as of igneous and terrestrial origin; or, in other words, 
as derived from materials ejected from volcanic vents, either in liquid 
or in solid form, which by subsequent changes have given rise to the 
granitoid gneisses and succeeding crystalline schists. This view, which 
is by no means new, fails to account for the intercalation with these 
stratified crystalline rocks of various special deposits, such as limestone, 
apatite, iron-oxyds, quartz, metallic sulphides, and silicates like olivine, 
serpentine, and pyroxene, all of which, in interstratified masses, form 
integral parts of the oldeK crystalline series. These it is sought to ex- 
plain as the result of local metasomatism. The hypothesis which sup- 
poses them to have originated in an alteration of sediments like those of 
later times is equally untenable without invoking metasomatism, and 

443 



444 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

we are led to look to a modified Neptunian view as a solution of the 
problem. 

The origin of continents and the supposed stability of sea-basins is 
ably discussed in the Geological Magazine for June, 1883, by W. O. 
Crosby, and reasons are there given for calling in question the doctrine 
lately maintained by Dana and others in opposition to the older and 
generally received view of the alternations of sea and land. The derived 
origin of vast continental areas made up of great thicknesses of Paleo- 
zoic and more recent sediments, in great part of mechanical origin, 
necessarily involves the destruction and the disintegration by chemical 
and mechanical processes of not less considerable masses constituting 
previous continents. 

In this connection Hunt has discussed the question of the sub-aerial 
decay of rocks. (Amer. Jour. Science, September, 1883.) This process 
consists in a more or less complete chemical decomposition of most of 
the silicates of the crystalline rocks, the feldspars being converted into 
clay by the loss of their protoxide-bases and a large part of their silica, 
all of which are removed in solution in water. The silicates of protoxide- 
bases, such as hornblende, are in like manner decomposed, with the so- 
lution of the lime and magnesia, and most of the silica, the iron remain- 
ing as peroxide; while certain silicates, such as garnet and tourmaline 
resist, like quartz and magnetite, the process of decay. These trans- 
formations being effected under the influence of the atmosphere, the 
bases are dissolved as carbonates. Thus the decay of crystalline rocks 
is " a necessary preliminary to glacial action and erosion, which removed 
previously softened materials." The points insisted upon by the author 
are thus resumed: 

1. The evidence afforded by recent geological studies in North Amer- 
ica and elsewhere shows the universality and the antiquity of the sub- 
aerial decay both of silicated crystalline rocks and of calcareous rocks, 
and its great extent in pre-Cambrian times. 

2. The fact that the materials resulting from this decay are preserved 
in situ in regions where they have been protected from denudation by 
overlying strata alike of Cambrian and more recent periods, or, in the 
absence of these coverings, by the position of the decayed materials 
with reference to denuding agents, as in drift! ess regions or in places 
sheltered from erosion, as in the Appalachian and St. Lawrence valleys. 

3. That this process of decay, though continuous through later geo- 
logical ages, has, under ordinary conditions, been insignificant in amount 
since the glacial period, for the reason that the time which has since 
elapsed is short, and also, perhaps, on account of changed atmospheric 
conditions in later ages. 

4. That this process of decay has furnished the materials, not only 
for the clays, sands, and iron oxides, from the beginning of Paleozoic 
time to the present, but also for many corresponding rocks of Eozoic 
time. The bases thus separated from crystalline silicated rocks have 
been the source, directly and indirectly, of all limestones and carbon- 



GEOLOGY. 445 

ated rocks, and have, moreover, caused profound secular changes in the 
constitution of the ocean's waters. The decay of sulphuretted ores in 
the Eozoic rocks has given rise to oxidized iron ores, and also to de- 
posits of rich copper ores at various geological horizons. 

5. That the rounded masses of crystalline rock left in the process of 
decay constitute not only the bowlders of the drift, but, judging from 
analogy, the similar masses in conglomerates of various ages, goiug 
back to Eozoic time, and that not only the form of these detached 
masses, but the outlines of eroded regions of crystalline rocks, were 
determined by the preceding process of subaerial decay of these rocks. 

As regards the rocks of the Scottish Highlands noticed in the report 
of last year, and especially of the so-called younger gneiss, Callaway has 
continued his studies iu that region, and has considered its relation to 
the Paleozoic series. This gneiss, the Grampian series of Hicks, is called 
Caledonian by Callaway, and, as we have previously said, is apparently 
identical with the series already named Montalban in North America, 
and includes in its lower part, in Scotland, the granulites of Nicoll. 
Some of its rocks have a certain resemblance to the older Hebridian 
(Lewisian or Laurentian) gneiss, which is often porphyritic and has 
been by some observers described as an igneous rock. 

The accompanying Paleozoic (Cambrian) strataare named by Callaway 
the Assynt group, and consist at the base of what has been called the 
Torridon sandstone, followed by a quartzite, sometimes with annelids, 
flagstones or grits with Salterella, and a mass of dolomite. The Caledo- 
nian gneiss appears in some cases to overlie directly this Assynt group, 
this relation according to Callaway being due to a dislocation of the 
strata, with a great thrust from the east which has squeezed together 
both series of strata into a succession of folds overturned to the west, 
giving to the whole series a general easterly dip. The Caledonian gneiss 
is seen in Glen Coul to overlie immediately the Hebridian gneiss, while 
elsewhere this same older gneiss is directly overlaid by the Cambrian 
quartzite, which again is seen resting in outliers upon the younger gneiss. 
This latter is penetrated by numerous granitic veins, which never pen- 
etrate the Assynt group. Callaway notes between the Hebridian or Lau- 
rentian gneisses on the west and the Caledonian on the east (the Assynt 
group occupying the interval), several nearly parallel north and south 
faults, which increase in upthrow from the west to the east. Thus the 
first of these brings up the basal sandstone through the quartzite, then 
faults more to the eastward bring up the sandstone through the over- 
lying dolomite, and finally the underlying Hebridian gneiss itself; the 
younger or Caledonian gneiss appearing in its proper place still farther 
to the east. This is very similar to the successive faults long since ob- 
served and described all along the western side of the Atlantic belt in 
North America, the general structure of which is repeated in the Scot- 
tish Highlands. Similar foldings have been pointed out by Brogger in 
Scandinavia, where lower Paleozoic rocks are closely folded in the Eozoic. 



446 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

ALTERED OB METAMORPHIC ROCKS. 

Brogger has also described the local changes of the Paleozoic strata 
near Christiania, where eruptive masses of granite and of syenite have 
caused the development of crystals of chiastolite in certain shales still 
retaining the marks of graptolites. Other beds are changed into a 
kind of hornstone, while in the limestones of the series the shells of 
Orthis are found associated with well-developed garnets. Similar facts to 
these are well known in other regions. These conditions are, however, 
very unlike those presented in disturbed regions where a process of 
folding and inversion having caused uncrystalline strata to pass below 
crystalline stratified rocks, these latter have been assumed, as in the 
Scottish Highlands, to have resulted from an alteration of still newer 
and originally superimposed uncrystalline sediments. 

Uncrystalline rocks thus enfolded seem occasionally to have suffered 
local changes, due apparently to the action of thermal waters coining 
up through fractures along the folds and giving rise to crystalline min- 
erals. E6nard has lately described an interesting example of the kind 
in a belt of graywacke and slates referred to the Devonian, and affected 
by a northeast and southwest plication. The change is very marked 
along the axis of this, but shades off on either side till the sediments 
are unaltered. Garnet, hornblende, mica, and titanite have here been 
developed in the schists, and are associated with anthracitic matter. 
These minerals are mixed with grains of clastic origin, and the whole 
of the phenomena would appear to be due to infiltrating waters. There 
is, however, a wide difference between these mixtures of clastic mate 
rials with crystalline silicates which have been formed and deposited in 
their midst, and the wholly crystalline feldspathic and kornblendic rocks 
of the Eozoic ages. 

In this connection Bonney has lately studied the so-called metamor- 
phic conglomerate of Valorsine in the Alps, and has submitted to care- 
ful microscopic examination the layers of so-called gneiss and mica- 
schist in this conglomerate of carboniferous age. He shows that the 
mica and other constituent silicates of these were derived from pre- 
existing crystalline rocks, and that the material has been subjected to 
immense pressure, by which the quartz has been broken and the feld- 
spar crushed. From the latter, and from interposed earthy dust, minute 
scales of micaceous minerals have been formed by such micro-minera- 
logical changes as are always at work in similar rocks, and chalcedonic 
quartz has been deposited. He adds, however, that " of metamorphism, 
in the technical sense of the word, there is no trace." 

Bonney further remarks that " a few years since it would have been 
heresy to assert that very clear proof would be necessary before we 
could accept a crystalline schist as the metamorphosed representative 
of a rock of Paleozoic age. Yet at the present time many who have 
made a special study of this branch of petrology would not hesitate to 
go this far, and some would even declare that we do not know of any 



GEOLOGY. 447 

completely metainorphic rock which is not of Archaean age. Certainly 
tbe stock instances of metaniorphism in Wales, and especially in Angle- 
sea, in Cornwall, in Leicestershire, and in Worcestershire, have utterly 
broken down on careful study. Outside the English geological survey 
probably no person who can use a microscope believes that the schists 
of Anglesea are altered Cambrian, or that the slates of this age were 
melted down into the quartz-porphyry of Llyn-Padaru." He adds : " No 
inferences with regard to metamorphism can be accepted until they 
have been fully confirmed by the evidence of the microscope." 

He concludes that his own and others' studies show that the crystal- 
line schists and gneisses of the Alps existed in their present condition 
long before the carboniferous period, and insists upon the fact that 
throughout the various regions of the Alps we everywhere pass from 
comparatively unmetamorphosed rocks of known age to a highly meta- 
morphosed rock, of which it can only be said that it is immensely older. 
In this latter series, moreover, he declares we " can trace a certain litho- 
logical and stratigraphical sequence leading upward through a series of 
groups - - - from the coarse granitoid gneisses and protogines to 
the topmost well-stratified but still truly metamorphic schists," and con- 
cludes that we have no evidence that any of these crystalline foliated 
roeks of the Alps are as youug as the Cambrian period. 

Bonney has also described further the Miocene conglomerates of the 
so-called Xagdflne of the Bigi, and refers to the frequent indenting and 
pitting of the included pebbles, a phenomenon often noted and described 
in this and other similar conglomerates, which he ascribes in part to 
direct pressure and in part to the action of water, localized and intensi- 
fied by the pressure of adjoining pebbles. He objects to the notion that 
such mechanical changes depend upon high temperature, as some have 
suggested. 

THE SCOTTISH HIGHLANDS. 

A further contribution to the geology of the crystalline rocks of Scot- 
land has been given by Lapworth in an extended memoir entitled '* The 
Secret of the Highlands," in which he discusses the vexed question of 
the relations of the crystalline and the uncrystalline rocks, arriving at 
results similar to those of Callaway, already set forth. In the coast re- 
gion of Durness and Eriboll, in Sutherlandshire, it has been asserted by 
previous observers that we have a distinct ascending succession from 
the basal Hebridian gneiss through fossiliferous Paleozoic limestones 
to the micaceous gneiss and schists of the central Highlands. Accord- 
ing to Lapworth, we have at the base a great mass of coarse-grained 
massive gneiss, composed of feldspar and quartz, with hornblende, and 
more rarely with mica, the strata being nearly vertical, with a north- 
west and southeast strike. The:«e rocks are the Hebridian, Lewisian or 
Laurentian - ueiss of different observers. Besting unconformably upon 
this ancient gneiss is a second body of strata, gently inclined, with a 
general northeast and southwest strike, and consisting of two divisions, 
lithologically very distinct. The lower is made up of a quartzite with 



448 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

annelid-markings, flags, and limestones, the latter holding Maclurea, 
3Iurchisonia, Orthoceras, and other Lower Paleozoic forms. These uncrys- 
talline rocks are described as the Durness or Eriboll series, and are sur- 
mounted, in apparent conformity, by the upper division. This consists 
of flaggy quartzose, micaceous and chloritic schists, with thick layers 
of hornblendic and micaceous flaggy gneiss, and includes bands of dio- 
ritic andsyenitic rock, described by some writers as igneous. There is 
no doubt that the older gneisses are more ancient rocks underlying un- 
conformably the fossiliferous group, the only question being as to the 
true relation of the latter to the younger schists and gneisses which, 
from their first appearance at their western outcrop, form an almost 
unbroken mass, extending south and east to the central Highlands, and 
covering an area of at least 15,000 square miles. This area includes the 
Caledonian and Grampian gneisses of other authors, and those who, fol- 
lowing Murchison, maintain the reality of the apparent supra-position, 
are forced to regard the crystalline rocks of this area as altered Paleo- 
zoic strata newer than the Durness limestone. Various hypotheses 
have been put forth to explain the relation of these without admitting 
such a conclusion ; while the British geological survey have accepted 
the visible sequence, as it stands, with all its consequences. Murchison 
noticed to the east of the fossiliferous limestone of Loch Eriboll what 
he regarded as an upper quartzite, but this, according to Mcoll, was 
but a repetition of that below the limestone, and was newer than the 
upper gneiss, which he believed to be a pre-Cambrian series brought 
up by a fault. Callaway, in like manner, maintained that there are 
two Eozoic gneissic series unconformable the one to the other, and that 
the fossiliferous group was laid down in discordance on both, and owes 
its apparent infra-position to the younger gneiss to dislocations. The 
unconformable supra-position of the fossiliferous strata to the lower 
gneiss is, according to Lapworth, very clear. The limestone of the Dur- 
ness series, though apparently of great thickness, and with gentle dips, 
he finds to be made up of afew distinct lithological zones, repeated many 
times by a series of faults or of sigmoid flexures, and to be visibly over- 
laid at a low angle by wrinkled micaceous schists and flags, including 
zones of gneissic and hornblendic schists. Even where faulted against 
the limestone, this upper series appears to correspond in dip and strike 
with the limestone series below, thus seemingly confirming Murchison's 
view. All this is seen in the Durness area, but on proceeding to Loch 
Eriboll, which lies in a narrow valley a few miles to the south, we find 
on its western side the older gneiss which separates this from the valley 
of Durness, wherein are seen only the quartzites and limestones resting 
on this older or Hebridian gneiss. In the more eastern valley of Loch 
Eriboll, however, while the fossiliferous rocks of the Durness group over- 
lie on its western side the older gneiss, they are seen on its eastern side 
clearly to overlie the newer gneiss of Murchison, upon which the quartz- 
ite rests uncou form ably, with a conglomerate at its base. The so-called 
upper quartzite is but a repetition of this. 



GEOLOGY. 449 

ROCKS OF THE BLUE RIDGE. 

As regards the crystalline rocks of the southern part of the Appala- 
chian belt, J. B. Elliott has described several sections from the great 
'alley along the border of Georgia, Tennessee, and the Carolinas. He 
adopts the notions advanced by Bradley and some others as to the 
°aleozoic age of these crystalline rocks. The Ocoee and theKnox groups 
,»f Safford, which include the Taconian and parts of the succeeding 
'Jambriau, are supposed by Elliott to form, in a inetamorphio condition, 
the great gneissic, micaceous, aud hornblendic belt of the Blue Bidge. 
Phe view here resuscitated is not sustained by any new facts. The rocks 
)f this region, as seen and described by the writer, in northwestern 
G-eorgia, are pre-Cambrian schists, chiefly of Montalban age, with over- 
ling Taconian quartzites, slates, and marbles, the age and relation of 
#hich were long ago correctly pointed out by Lieber in South Carolina. 
Che hypothesis of Bradley has no other argument in its support than 
:hat deduced from apparent stratigraphical succession, which is as value- 
less and misleading here as farther north along the same mountain-belt 
n the Alps, in Wales, or in the Scottish Highlands, in all of which 
"egious the fallacy of the metamorphic hypothesis and the pre-Cam- 
H'ian age of the crystalline schists is now established. 

The recent studies of Fontaine in Virginia are important in this con- 
aection as showing the relation of the crystalline rocks of the Blue Bidge 
to the base of the Paleozoic series. In the interval of about sixty miles 
between Turk's Gap and Balcony Falls he finds three groups of rocks. 
The oldest, referred by him to the Laurentiau, is described as consist- 
ing chiefly of coarse heavy-bedded granitoid gneisses, destitute of mica, 
and containing a small amount of hornblende, which is not well defined. 
Associated with and overlying these are massive bedded rocks, in which 
hornblende predominates, with a triclinic feldspar and some magnesian 
mica, doubtfully referred by him to the same series. The second group, 
called by him Huronian, includes chloritic, argillaceous, and hydro-mi- 
caceous schists, becoming epidotic, and passing into massive beds de- 
scribed as felsitic in character, often concretionary and amgydaloidal. 
This group abounds in copper, both native and in sulphuretted forms. 
The third group, recognized by Fontaine as the Primal series of Bogers, 
has here a thickness of about 2,400 feet, and consists essentially of shales, 
flags, sandstones, and conglomerates. In its upper fourth is found a great 
mass of quartzite, carrying the Scolithus typical of this series in Penn- 
sylvania and elsewhere. Beneath it are intercalated quartzite beds, 
sometimes conglomerate, and holding pebbles of the ancient gneiss. The 
basal conglomerate, of unequal thickness, varies in composition with 
that of the adjacent Eozoic rock, of which it is chiefly composed ; the peb- 
bles being in some cases derived from the Laurentian gneisses and in 
others from the Huronian schists. These basal beds are infiltrated with 
quartz and chlorite, and in some cases are only distinguished from the 
underlying Huronian schists, from which they were derived, by thepres- 
H. Mis. 69 29 



450 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18-3. 

euce of large included fragments of these. The slates and flags of the 
Primal series are described by Fontaine as sometimes talcose, pearly, or 
nacreous in character, and as changing to kaolin by decay. They in- 
clude large masses of limonite, and in some cases harder quartzose beds 
are charged with specular iron. The upper 500 feet of the series consists 
of shales, often kaolinized, containing both limonite and manganese- 
oxide, and graduating into the overlying magnesiau limestones of the 
Auroral division of Eogers, which with the underlying Primal makes 
up the Taconian series. The great Appalachian belt of pre Cambrian 
rocks, to which the Blue Ridge belongs, was overlaid in many other parts 
of its extent by strata of Paleozoic age, as is well known, and the rela- 
tions of these give evidence that important movements of the region 
occurred at intervals until after the close of the Paleozoic period, and in 
many cases involved in folds portions of Paleozoic strata, thus giving a 
deceptive appearance of infra-position. The fractures which often accom- 
pany these folds still afford passage in many cases to thermal waters, and 
such waters, in past times, by their action upon the strata along their 
course have produced local changes by the development of crystalline 
minerals; a phenomenon alluded to above, which has been adduced as an 
evidence of the Paleozoic age of the true crystalline schists. 

The organic forms from Bernardston, Mass., have lately been studied 
by Whitfield, who describes them as occurring in " metamorphic sandy 
shales," and also in an underlying bed of crystalline limestone. In the 
limestone he finds two species of Favosites not certainly identified, a form 
resembling Syringopora, and stems of criuoids of large size. The sandy 
shales called by Dana " laminated quartzites " have yielded to Whitfield 
species of Strophomena, Spirifera, and Rhynchonella, etc., besides a form 
of Petraia. From all these he concludes that the limestones are Silurian, 
probablj- of Niagara age, while the shales are of the age of the Chemung 
or Middle Devonian. It is remarkable that these two rocks, which at 
Bernardston immediately overlie each other, are separated by so wide an 
interval in time; a fact testifying to great strati graphical irregularities 
in the region. 

The fossiliferous limestones of Littleton, N. H., also intimately asso- 
ciated with crystalline schists, have in like manner been examined by 
Whitfield, who reaches the conclusion that these, including Halysites 
catenulata, Favosites Niagarensis, Astrocerium vennstum Hall, and Pen- 
tameras nysius are, like those of Bernardston, of Middle Silurian age, 
and probably belong to the Niagara. 

NORTH AMERICAN CAMBRIAN. 

In a late communication *to the Boston Society of Natural History, 
Hunt proposes to consider the Cambrian rocks of the great North 
American basin as represented in four typical areas : (1) the Appala- 
chian, (2) the Adirondack, (3) the Mississippi, and (4) the Cordillera 
area. To the first of these belongs the great thickness of much dis- 



GEOLOGY. 451 

turbed sediments aloog the whole eastern border of the basin, consti- 
tuting the First Graywacke and the Sparry Lime-rock of Eaton; being 
the Upper Taconic of Emmons, and the Potsdam and Quebec groups 
of Logan. The Hudson -River group, as originally defined, included 
the whole of the Cambrian Appalachian, besides some of the under- 
lying Taconian slates and portions of overlying Ordovician beds, of Lo- 
raine age, in consequence of which the name of Hudson-River group 
came to be regarded as the paleontological equivalent for the Loraine. 
The Adirondack area of the Cambrian includes the stable and little-dis- 
turbed area around the Adirondack Mountains, embracing the Chain- 
* 
plain and Ottawa Basins, in which the series is represented only by the 

Potsdam and Calciferous divisions, corresponding apparently to but a 
small portion of Cambrian time. The physical conditions of the Mis- 
sissippi area, as seen in the valley of the upper Mississippi, appear to 
have been similar to those of the Adirondack region. The region of 
the Cordilleras, in which great developments of Cambrian rocks are 
met with, presents conditions of deposition unlike the other. While in 
the Adirondack area there is a break, both paleontological and strati- 
graphical, between the Cambrian and the Ordovician, which begins in 
some places with the Chazy and in others with the Trenton, we have, 
according to the late studies of Walcott in Nevada, a gradual passage 
from the Cambrian to the Ordovician (Lower Silurian or second fauna of 
Barraude). "In this section," he remarks, " wehave an illustration of the 
gradual extinction of an older fauna as a new one is introduced, the 
sedimentation continuing, and no physical disturbance occurring to 
change the conditions of animal life." The break between the Calcifer- 
ous and the Chazy is here filled. It is to be remarked in this connec- 
tion that the fossils of the Levis limestone of Canada (the Sparry Lime- 
rock of Eaton) were long since declared by Billings to occupy an inter- 
mediate position, and constitute a passage from the Calciferous to the 
Chazy. From the incomplete data which we now possess with regard 
to the lower Paleozoic rocks of the northwest side of Newfoundland, 
there is little doubt that further studies there will add to our knowledge 
of the relations of the first and second faunas, and help to illustrate the 
conception of an unbroken succession. The notion that breaks, uncon- 
formities, and sudden transitions should form the basis of classification 
in stratified rocks, is growing obsolete. (See further, for details of the 
Paleozoic rocks of the Cordillera region, the account of the Geology of 
the Eureka district in Nevada.) 

In the Grand Canon of the Colorado there is found immediately below 
the Devonian a series of Cambrian strata, known as the Tonto group, 
containing an abundant fauna like that of Mie Potsdam of the Missis- 
sippi area. This group rests unconformably upon a vast series of uu- 
crystalline shales, sandstones, and limestones, measuring over 11,000 
feet, and including 1,000 feet of interbedded igneous rocks, constituting 
the Grand Canon and Chu-ar groups of Powell. These have afforded 



452 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

some few organic forms, as yet undescribed, which lead Walcott to 
regard this lower series, lying between the Tonto group and the crystal- 
line rocks below, as also of Cambrian age, though they had previously 
been regarded by Powell as pre-Cambrian. These rocks, judging from 
the collections seen by the writer, are wholly uncrystalliue sandstones and 
shales, unlike the Taconian in character, and it is suggested by Wal- 
cott that they may correspond to the Keweenian, which occupies a po 
sition between the Taconian and the Potsdam, being separated from thifc 
latter by a great unconformity and vast erosion. The Keweenian, more 
over, as the writer has shown, presents evidences of organic forms. 
Until, however, these rocks of the Grand Canon and of the Keweenian 
series shall have been found to include the representatives of the first 
fauna of Barrande it would be unphilosophical to include either of them 
in the Cambrian. Few thoughtful geologists now suppose this fauna to 
mark the dawn of organic- life, and we may hope to find beneath its 
horizon a long series of organic forms stretching far backward through 
what have been aptly termed the Transition rocks to those of the Primi- 
tive time. 

The great series of silicious and argillaceous rocks, with some in- 
cluded limestones and beds of crystalline iron ores, found to the north- 
west of Lake Superior, which were provisionally designated by the pres- 
ent writer as the Animikie series, have since been studied by N. H. 
Winchell, in Minnesota, and found to have a thickness of not less than 
10,000 feet. These rocks, which underlie the Keweenian, are, in the ab- 
sence of these, unconformably overlaid by the horizontal Cambrian 
sandstones of the Mississippi area, as is well seen on the Saint Louis 
Eiver, in Minnesota, and have been by the writer referred to the Taco- 
nian. They have lately yielded him the remains of an organism believed 
to be a sponge. The Keweenian series itself in places rests upon these 
rocks, as elsewhere upon the Huronian, the Laurentian, and at Duluth, 
upon rocks which have been referred by the writer to the Norian series. 
He has suggested that, as long since claimed by Emmons and Hough- 
ton, some of the iron-ore-bearing rocks of northern Michigan belong to 
the Animikie or Taconian series, although hitherto confounded with the 
Huronian rocks of the region, with which both here and in the Atlantic 
belt they have certain resemblances. 

The Cambrian rocks along the eastern side of the Atlantic belt, as 
seen in Newfoundland, New Brunswick, and Massachusetts, present 
an important field for comparative study. W. S. Dodge has lately re- 
examined these rocks, as seen in the latter region. The argillites and 
conglomerates of the Boston basin, as has long been known, afford at 
Braintree a Cambrian fauna, which has been referred to the Menevian 
horizon. It is there found abundantly in argillite beds, which dip with 
a high angle to the south, and have a maximum thickness of 500 feet. 
Their precise relation to the conglomerates of the region is left undeter- 
mined. These strata are traversed both by feldspathic and by pyrox- 



GEOLOGY. 453 

enic eruptive rocks. Mr. Dodge there distinguishes an older (the Brain- 
tree) and a younger (the Quincy) syenite, the latter holding numerous 
fragments of a fine-grained black diabase, as well as fragments of a 
tine-grained syenite, but it is not clear that any of these are derived 
from the older syenite. The younger of these overlies the slates, and 
the older would also appear to be more recent than these, but the 
point is not clearly brought out. The slates in the vicinity of the intru- 
sive masses are altered, and present large oval cavities partially filled 
withepidote, sometimes irregularly distributed and sometimes scattered 
along discolored bands parallel to the stratification. The writer has 
observed similar conditions elsewhere in the slates of the Boston basin 
in proximity to intrusive rocks. 

SILURIAN, CAMBRIAN, AND TACONIAN. 

I. C. White, of the second geological survey of Pennsylvania, has 
described the unconformable superposition of the Oneida sandstone, 
the base of the (true) Silurian, to the Hudson-Biver group, as well seen 
on the Erie railroad near Otisville, N. Y., the dip of the former being 
there 28° and that of the latter 43° to the north, while the lower series 
has an eroded surface, and has, moreover, furnished fragments to the 
overlying sandstone. Similar evidences are seen at the Lehigh Water- 
gap. This stratigraphical unconformity, though sometimes questioned, 
was long since pointed out by H. D. Rogers, and was confirmed by the 
present writer in 1878. In this connection, there arises an important 
question as to the geological position of the so-called Hudson-Biver 
slates. The evidence from the valleys of central Pennsylvania, as well 
as on the north shore of Lake Ontario, is that there is no unconformity 
nor stratigraphical break between the Oneida sandstone and the Lo- 
raine shales, which are often regarded as identical with the Hudson- 
Biver slates. As has, however, been pointed out by the present writer, 
the Hudson-Biver group, as at first proposed by Vanuxein, was by him 
made to include not less than three distinct groups of argillaceous 
strata, two of which he declared to be — in eastern Pennsylvania, at 
least — geographically distinct, namely, the fossiliferous Loraine shales 
of the central valleys, there lying conformably beneath the Oneida 
sandstones, and the non -fossiliferous argillites of the great Appalachian 
valley, which, as described above, are unconformably overlaid by this 
same Oneida sandstone. The Loraine shales, according to Hunt, are, 
so far as yet known, unrepresented in the great valley, where, however, 
besides the roofing-slates belonging to the Lower Tacouic — the Trans- 
ition Argillite of Eaton — there is in many places a great development 
of red sandstone, conglomerates, and argillites, the continuation in 
Pennsylvania of the First Graywacke of Eaton, which from southern 
New York is traced east of the Hudson, and thence to Quebec and 
beyond. This is the Cambrian of the Appalachian area, the Upper Ta- 
conic of Emmons, and the Potsdam and Quebec groups of Logan, which, 



454 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



from the valley of the Hudson to that of the Saint Lawrence, has been 
known as the Hudson-River group, with the inclusion, however, in parts 
of its distribution, as in Pennsylvania, of Lower Taconic slates, and 
elsewhere of overlying Loraine shales. 

The appended table representing the nomenclature of Eaton, as pro- 
posed by him fifty years since, with the modern names given to his divis- 
ions, will serve to show the relations of the great groups mentioned to the 
Silurian rocks above and the older crystalline strata beneath, and may 
be read in connection with the classification of Eozoic and Paleozoic 
rocks given in the report for 18S2. The Potsdam sandstone had not, in 
the time of Eaton, been recognized as distinct from the Calciferous sand- 
rocks. The student of American geology familiar with its history will 
note that the great stratigraphical error of Mather and his followers 
was in denying the distinctness of the First Gray wacke of Eaton, and 
in asserting its identity with the Second Gray wacke, or, in other words, 
in denying the existence of a Graywacke series beneath the horizon of 
the Trenton limestone. There are, in fact, two such lower series, for the 
great mass of sandstones and shales which make up the Primal of Rog- 
ers, and, as they occur in Virginia, have been described above by Fon- 
taine, occupy a position below the granular lime-rock of Eaton, and con- 
stitute a Taconian Graywacke, not indicated in the table. 



Eaton's Nomenclature (1832). 



Later Names. 



4 


o 



SCorniferous Lime-rock . 
Geodiferous Lime-rock 

2. Millstone-grit... ) gEC0ND 
1. Graywacke-slate. $ Graywacke 



! Metalliferous Lime-rock 
Sparry Lime-rock. Calciferous 
Sand-rock 

(Millstone-grit....) FlRgT 
'} Graywacke-slate .{Gbaywackb 

1. Argillite 

3. Granular Lime-rock 

2. Granular Quartz-rock 

1. Gneiss and other Crystalline 
Rocks 



> Silurian. 



Upper Helderberg- Devonian. 

Niagara 

Oneida — Medina 
Utica — Loraine . . . ^ 

? Ordovician. 
Chazy— Trenton . . J P bffan.) am 



} Upper Taconic. 

(Quebec Group.) 



^Cambrian. 

(Middle and 
Lower Cam- 
brian.) 



> Lower Taconic. > Taconian. 

(Itacolumitic Group.) 



huronian. montalban. 
Laurentian. Norian. Arvonian, 



GEOLOGY. 455 

The distinctness of the Taconian from the overlying Cambrian, at one 
time included with it under the name of Upper Taconic, being apparent, 
there is no longer any reason for calling the latter Taconic, or using 
this name as a synonym for Cambrian, as is done by Marcou : nor yet 
in arguing, from the Cambrian fauna found in the upper rocks, the 
Cambrian or Lower Silurian age of the Lower Taconic, as is done by 
Dana. 

In the last year's report reference was made to the recognition by 
Crosby of a great series of rocks in Trinidad, the Caribbean group of 
Guppy, which are unconformably overlaid by fossiliferous Cambrian 
strata, and have moreover the lithological characters of tbe North 
American Taconian, the Lower Taconic of Emmons, and the Itacolu- 
mitic group of Lieber. Crosby has since noticed a great development in 
the mountains of eastern Cuba of a similar series, where they form a belt 
six or eight miles wide, and are highly inclined, with an east and west 
strike. They include great masses of white crystalline limestone, often 
micaceous and associated with hydro-micaceous and chloritic schists. 
These, with the similar rocks of Trinidad and the Spanish Main, he com- 
pares with the Lower Taconic rocks of western New England, and des- 
ignates as Taconian. They are, according to him, entirely distinct from 
auother great series of uncrystalline limestones with sandstones and 
fissile slates, with which they have been confounded, which, though they 
have as yet yielded no fossils, are supposed to be equivalent to the Meso- 
zoic and Tertiary strata of San Domingo and Jamaica. 

GEOLOGY OF SPAIN. 

Barrois has lately published an important memoir on the ancient rocks 
of Galicia and the Asturias in Spain, some of the results of which throw 
light on American geology. The primitive rocks of the Cantabrian 
chain, granites, gneisses, and crystalline schists, are in these provinces 
overlaid by a great mass of strata including the whole Paleozoic suc- 
cession from the base of the Cambriau to the top of the coal meas- 
ures. In the province of Toledo the base of this series is a Scoli- 
thus sandstone, which, according to Cortazar, there rests directly upon 
the crystalline schists; but in the Asturias there are found beneath a 
similar sandstone a hundred meters or more of limestone and shales 
containing an abundant Cambrian fauna, including several species of 
Paradoxides, with Conocephalites^ Arionellus, and a cystidean. Between 
these fossiliferous strata and the crystalline schists there intervenes in 
the region under notice a volume of not less than 3,000 meters of strata 
described as argiliites and quartzites, with dolomites and limestones, 
sometimes saccharoidal and cipoliu marbles, with beds of specular iron. 
This great series of uufossiliferous strata is included with the overlying 
fossiliferous beds by Barrois, under the common name of Cambrian, which 
he defines as including the first fauna of Barrande. To these succeed 
immediately, and without a stratigraphical break, the Scolithua beds 



•456 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

that contain, besides, Bilobites and Critziana, and are described *> a iden- 
tical in character with the Arinoricau sandstone of Brittany. They are 
followed by a great concordant series, in which the forms of Barrande's 
second and third faunas are abundant. These strata, measuring in all 
about GOO meters, with the basal saudstone, have near the middle the 
roofing-slates of Luarca, which, like those of Angers in France, con- 
tain the forms of the second (or Ordovician) faunas, while higher in the 
series are slat* s and limestones with the third or true Silurian fauna. 
Barrois applies the name of Silurian to the rocks of both the second 
and third faunas, and includes therein, though not without hesitation, 
the Scolithus sandstone, which he admits should, in accordance with 
the views of British geologists, be included with the first fauna. The 
Scolithus of these sandstones would seem to be similar to that of the 
Potsdam of the Adirondack region (long since shown to be distinct 
from that of the Primal sandstone of Rogers), and is described by Bar- 
rois. as exhibiting an internal tube, and as resembling Yerticillopora, to 
which he compares it. The Scolithus found at Port Henry on Lake 
Champlain shows this internal tube. 

The American geologist is here reminded of the typical Potsdam 
which rests on the crystalline rocks in the Adirondack region, while 
near by, in Vermont and New York, are found the slates and lime- 
stones of a still lower Cambrian horizon, the so-called Lower Pots- 
dam, between which and the ancient crystalline rocks are interposed, 
along the Appalachians, several thousand feet of quartzites, slates, 
and limestones, constituting the Taconian, which may well be repre- 
sented by the 3,000 meters of strata found by Barrois in Galicia be- 
tween the primitive schists and the base of the fossiliferous Cambrian. 

The Devonian, which overlies conformably the Silurian in this part 
of Spain, has a thickness of not less than 1,000 meters, and includes a 
great amount of limestones and an abundant fauna. It is succeeded by 
the carboniferous, having at its base a great limestone member, and 
above, 2,000 or 3,000 meters of coal measures, with more than eighty coal 
seams, many of them of value. The carboniferous limestone is in part 
dolomitic, and is remarkable for its great deposits of ores of zinc, lead, 
manganese, cobalt, and mercury, which are found in veins and fissures 
in these rocks, and according to Sullivan and O'Reilly are post-Eocene 
in age. 

TRIAS OF EASTERN NORTH AMERICA. 

Prof. George H. Cook has discussed the history of the Mesozoic areas 
of eastern North America, constituting the new red sandstone, which 
probably include both Jurassic and Triassic beds, and have already 
been considered in the report of last year. Cook regards those from 
South Carolina to Massachusetts, and probably also those of the Brit- 
ish provinces, as having been at one time in some way connected, and 
supposes that a great extent of these sediments thus defined was after 



GEOLOGY. 457 

wards broken up into the present areas by a number of axes of eleva- 
tion, or else by great faults. 

Dana has since reviewed this subject at some length and takes a dif- 
ferent view. He remarks that Cook's supposed area, 1 ,000 miles or more 
in length, of Mesozoic sandstones, now covering regions that are 1,000 
feet or more above sea-level, must either have been marine or lacustrine, 
neither of which conclusions is in accordance with what we know of 
the rocks in question. Those of the Connecticut valley are appar- 
ently of fluvatile and estuary origin, and the same is probably true of 
other areas. The deposits of coarse and fine material, as long since 
pointed out by Edward Hitchcock, came from rocks bordering on the 
existing areas, and show that the basin could not have extended much 
beyond its present limits. The materials bear evidence, in the distri- 
bution of materials of varying coarseness, of alternate swift and slow 
currents. The coarser sediments are most common along the borders of 
the present areas, where, however, they occur interruptedly. 

In all these respects their distribution corresponds to that of the 
latter valley-deposits of the Connecticut River. The elements of the 
sandstones are the result of mechanical disintegration of the crystal- 
line rocks of the margin, including not only quartz but undecayed feld- 
spar, suggesting, as remarked by Dana, a disintegration of the adjacent 
crystalline rocks. He notes in this connection, that " disintegration 
by the rusting of the mica (biotite) is now making (to the east of New 
Haven), just such granitic sand as constitutes the coarse (Triassic) sand- 
stone of East Haven." Dana compares the material of the Trias of the 
Connecticut valley to the stratified drift of post-Pliocene age in the same 
valley, and conceives these Mesozoic sandstones and conglomerates to 
have accumulated in a great estuary in a glaciated region. The various 
Triassic areas are parallel to old lines of uplift, which in Pennsylvania 
correspond to the sigmoid form of the ancient topography. This great 
area was distinct from that of the Connecticut valley. 

SERPENTINES AND RELATED ROCKS. 

The question of the geological age and the origin of serpentines 
was discussed in the report for 1882. The present writer has since 
published an extended memoir on serpentines, repeating with detail 
many of the facts there noticed, and recalling the history of the ser- 
pentines as found at various geological horizons in the Laurentian, 
the Huronian, the Montalban, and the Taconian series, as well as the 
later development of it in the Silurian, in the remarkable bed of serpen- 
tine formerly exposed among the dolomitic strata of the Onondaga salt- 
group at Syracuse, K. Y. He has noticed the serpentine associated 
with limestone in the Laurentian series at New Eochelle, N. Y., where 
it occurs, both mingled with limestone, forming varieties of ophicalcite 
like those common elsewhere in the Laurentian, and also constituting 



458 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

great bedded masses, the whole interstratified with the gneisses of the 
series. 

He has further described the remarkable locality of serpentine on 
Staten Island. This, which forms a bold ridge of some miles in length, 
was formerly described as eruptive, and correlated with the intrusive 
diabase belt of the Mesozoic, which extends parallel with it, a little to 
the west, on the same island. While the Triassic sandstone lies along the 
western base of the serpentine ridge, its southern and eastern bases are 
covered by nearly horizontal Cretaceous beds. Britton, who redescribed 
and mapped this region in 1880, regarded it as a protruding mass, belong- 
ing to the Eozoic rocks below, a view confirmed by the present writer, 
according to whom its prominent position is due to the fact that it was 
left exposed by the subaerial decay of the inclosing gneiss rocks — which 
became kaoliuized, while the serpentine, though softer, resists to a 
greater extent chemical change — and was subsequently surrounded by 
Mesoaoic strata, from the midst of which it now rises. 

The similar occurrences of serpentine in New York City, at Hoboken, 
and again in Chester County, Pennsylvania, are also redescribed by the 
Avriter. The latter appear as protruding masses among gneisses and 
mica-schists referred to the younger or Montalban series; but it remains 
uncertain whether their stratigraphical place is in these or in the older 
Laurentian gneisses, which underlie them directly in these regions. The 
Laurentian of the high lands on Manhattan Island appears to be 
overlaid in parts by areas of younger gneisses and mica-schists, the 
remaining portions of a mantle of Montalban ; a circumstance which 
makes it doubtful whether the serpentine masses are to be referred to 
the one or to the other series, though they are regarded as probably 
Laurentian. 

The writer has also described in detail the mass of serpentine and 
euphotide which rises from the Tertiary rocks at Monteferrato, in Tus- 
cany, and shows that it is not intrusive, but a protruding portion of the 
underlying Eozoic series, identical with the greenstone group of the 
Alps, and probably Huroniau. He maintains the aqueous origin of ser- 
pentine, and its formation from sea- water through the intervention of 
solutions of silicate of lime or soda from subterranean sources. The 
relations of the serpentine to the limestones, with which they are ofteu 
associated, are compared to those of bedded or concretionary flint or 
chert. While many geologists have concluded, from the results of micro- 
scopic study and the frequent association of olivine and enstatite with 
serpentine, that the latter has been formed by the hydration of the two 
silicates before named, several recent Italian observers, among them 
Issel, Mazzuob, and Capacci, suppose the material of serpentine to have 
been ejected in a hydrated form from the earth's interior into the sea, 
as an aqueous magma, which consolidated into serpentine, and by de- 
hydration gave rise to the olivine and enstatite often found with it. 
This hydroplutonic hypothesis, confessedly gratuitous, is a concession 



GEOLOGY. 459 

to the evidence in favor of the apparently aqueous deposition of ser- 
pentine rocks. 

In this connection should be mentioned the recent conclusions with 
regard to the great deposits of olivine rock, once described as of igneous 
and eruptive origin, but, from recent observations in many parts of the 
globe, now coming to be regarded as a stratified indigenous rock. The 
recent studies of Tornebohm, Brogger, and others of the olivine rocks of 
Norway unite in showing it to be one of the stratified rocks of that re- 
gion, where it is intercalated with other crystalline schists. A similar 
conclusion was announced by the present writer, in 1879, with regard 
to the bedded olivine rocks of North Carolina; while the recent studies in 
Greece, by Diller, show that the olivine rock of Mount Ida. in the Troad, 
passes into olivine-beariug talcose schists, and is associated with crys- 
talline limestones and with other crystalline schists. Julieu has recently 
discussed the olivine rocks of North Carolina, of which he recognizes the 
sedimentary character and their interstratificatiou with hornblendic, tal- 
cose, and chalcedonic rocks, which he supposes to result from the alter- 
ation of the olivine ; but he* seeks for the origin of all this in beds of 
olivine sand, for which he imagines an igneous source. Varieties of 
olivine are known to be formed by igneous fusion, but its mode of oc- 
currence in these and other crystalline schists, and in crystalline lime- 
stones, is incompatible with such an origin, and only explicable on the 
theory of its aqueous origin. 

This question assumes a curious geological importance in connection 
with the hypothesis of the permanency of oceanic basins. The little 
reefs which mr.ke up the islands of St. Paul are situated nearly under 
the equator, in the mid-Atlantic, longitude 29° 2' west, and rise ab- 
ruptly from 400 or 500 fathoms of water, which are found within one 
and two miles of them. The rocks of which they consist have just 
been examined by K6nard and found to consist of a common variety of 
olivine rock, containing, besides this mineral, portions of actinolite, aud 
a variety of pyroxene, with grains of chromite or picotite; the whole ar- 
rangement of these elements resembling greatly the so-called gneissic 
structure which characterizes certain crystalline schists. In a word, 
the rock of St. Paul's has the characters of an Eozoic crystalline 
schist rather than those of an eruptive rock. It has been suggested 
that these little islands are the remaining summit of a submerged con- 
tinental area, a vanished Atlantis, the mountain peaks of which were 
of crystalline schists, a view to which Bernard inclines, and which co-in- 
cides with the conclusions now deduced from the study of similar rocks in 
Norway, in Greece, and in North America. The significance of the dis- 
covery in mid-ocean of stratiform crystalline rocks like those of our 
continental areas is obvious. 

SILICIOUS DEPOSITS. 

Sorby's microscopical observations in 1880 showed that in many sand- 
stones there has been a deposit of silica in the form of quartz upon the 



460 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

detrital grains of this mineral composing the rock, in such a manner 
that there is perfect optical and crystalline continuity between these 
and the deposited layer, each fragment serving as a nucleus and having 
been changed into a definite crystal. This process, by infiltration, has 
served to consolidate the grains in many cases into a hard quartzite. 
The careful microscopic studies of Irving have furnished many illustra- 
tions of this process in the Potsdam and Saint Peter's sandstones in Wis- 
consin. The crystalline nature of many sandstones was long ago pointed 
out by filie <le Beaumont, and later by Daubree. Brainard, of Ohio, in 
18G0, called attention to the crystalline character of certain sandstones 
in that State, which he then conceived to be due to chemical deposition 
from water. Young's later observations are to the same effect, and 
show that the deposited quartz is oriented with the inclosed grain. 
Irving notices that the tendency of silica to deposit itself upon a crys- 
talline nucleus has been exerted on the surface of weathered sand- 
stones, forming thereon a vitreous crust. A deposition of dissolved 
silica is also conspicuous in the Potsdam sandstone of Lake Cham- 
plain, as described by the writer, where certain beds are changed into 
hard quartzite and others are made up of grains agglutinated by a 
chalcedonic cement. From similar facts Hall long since concluded that 
the beds of Potsdam sandstone in Iowa had been in great part depos- 
ited from aqueous solution. It is probably in the absence of nuclei 
which determine the crystallization of dissolved silica that this sub- 
stance often separates in a hydrated uncrystalline form as hyalite, 
opal, or silicious sinter. 

THE ORIGIN OF IRON ORES. 

The great deposits of magnetite and specular iron are generally held 
to be of aqueous origin, though some have maintained them to be erup- 
tive. It is known that magnetite crystallizes out during the slow cool- 
ing from fusion of basic ferriferous silicates, and is common in many 
eruptive rocks. Julian has suggested that the separation of magnetite 
from these, and its concentration by the action of water, as seen in the 
washing of sands on a beach, may have given rise to the beds of mag- 
netic iron ore found in crystalline stratified rocks. This view has been 
criticised by Newberry, who maintains the accepted theory, that they 
have been deposited from solution. He points out that these beds are 
often of great thickness, and are frequently directly inclosed in crystal- 
line limestones, or in highly argillaceous schists, both of which rocks in- 
dicate a very different mode of deposition to that required for iron sands, 
which, as concentrated on our sea-shores, are also accompanied by 
layers of quartz sand. 

PALEOZOIC ROCKS OF NEVADA. 

Arnold Hague, in a preliminary report of the Geological Survey of 
the United States, has given us the results of a detailed study of the 



GEOLOGY. 461 

geology of the Eureka district in ^Nevada, with the help of Walcott in 
paleontology and Iddings in lithology. This district was selected both 
as a typical region for the study of tbe geology of the Great Basin, and 
also as one of economic importance from its mines of precious metals. 
From the great plateau, here about 0,000 feet above sea-level, the Eu- 
reka Mountains rise from 2,500 to 4,000 feet, and form an almost de- 
tached mass of Paleozoic strata, with eruptive rocks of Paleozoic and 
more recent dates. The Paleozoic sediments of the region have been 
broken up by an intricate system of faults, with flexures, into several 
great masses or blocks, from a comparative study of which it has been 
possible to reconstruct the geological succession, and with the aid of 
paleontology to give a more complete view than has yet been obtained 
of the Paleozoic series of the Great Basin. The strati graphical col- 
umn, from the lowest exposed beds of the Cambrian to the summit of 
the coal measures, has a thickness of not less than 30,000 feet, of which 
over 11,000 feet are limestones or dolomites, and 5,000 feet quartzite, 
and presents but a single break, which, marked by unconformity, ap- 
pear in the midst of the second fauna. The name of Silurian is 
given by the author to the rocks holding the second and third faunas 
of Barrande, that of Cambrian being reserved for the first, but in 
the great conformable sequence here displayed the transitions between 
these three faunas are marked by such gradations that the dividing 
lines adopted for these divisions are confessedly arbitrary. 

Of the 7,700 feet assigned to the Cambrian, the lowest member, the 
base of which is not displayed, is the Prospect Hill quartzite, 1,50 > feet 
in thickness, to which succeeds the great mass of more or less magnesian 
limestone of 3,000 feet, known by the same local name. Between these 
two occur the first fossiliferous beds, known as the Olenellus shales, 
which have afforded a fauna closely related to that of the slates of 
Georgia, in Vermont, a portion of the old Hudson-Biver group, subse- 
quently called Lower Potsdam by Billings. In the great mass of the 
Prospect Mountain limestone and its overlying Secret Canon shales, with 
more or less limestone (2,000 feet), followed by the Hamburg limestone 
(1,200 feet), and the Hamburg shales with chert nodules and layers (500 
feet), which is regarded as the summit of the Cambrian, we have at va- 
rious horizons an abundant fauna, which is closely related to that of 
the Potsdam of the Upper Mississippi. We have thus in conformable 
succession in this region the divisions hitherto called Lower and Upper 
Potsdam, the two ranging through more than 6,000 feet of strata. To 
the Hamburg shales succeed the Pogonip group, consisting of 2,700 feet 
of limestones, with some argillaceous and arenaceous beds, overlaid 
by the Eureka quartzite, compact, vitreous, and 500 feet thick, without 
fossils. 

The forms of the first fauna pass upwards from the Hamburg shales 
some distance into the Pogonip group, which higher up contains an 
abundant fauna, compared with that of the Chazy, with some forms 



462 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

characteristic of the Trenton. It is worthy of note that in this group 
but a single undetermined graptolite is as yet known. At the top of the 
Eureka quartzite is a marked stratigraphical break, above which occurs 
the Lone Mountain limestone 1,800 feet thick, containing Trenton fossils 
in its lower part, and corals, apparently of Niagara age, toward the top. 
Although this mass is assumed as the summit of the Silurian, it is said to 
graduate imperceptibly upward into the great Nevada limestone, which, 
with its interbedded shales and quartzites, has a thickness of 6,000 feet 
and is characterized throughout by a Devonian fauna, includiug rep- 
resentatives of Upper Helderberg, Hamilton, and Chemung. The 2,000 
feet of the White Pine shales, above the Nevada limestone, containing 
some remains of land-plants, include an invertebrate fauna indicating a 
passage to the Carboniferous. This has as its lowest member the Dia- 
mond Peak quartzite, shaly at the base, but for the most part hard and 
vitreous, again becoming slaty near the summit, and including, about 
500 feet from the base, a thin band of fossiliferous limestone. Above this 
comes the Lower Carboniferous limestone (3,800 feet), separated by the 
Weber conglomerate (2,000 feet) from the Upper Carboniferous, the sum- 
mit of the Paleozoic column. Both of these limestones are highly fossilifer- 
ous. The Silurian and Devonian strata of the Lone Mountain and Ne- 
vada limestones are seen in places in the district to rest unconformably 
upon the Eureka quartzite, while elsewhere these Carboniferous lime- 
stones repose directly upon the Pogonip limestones, the whole interme- 
diate series of 10,000 feet being absent. 

The ancient crystalline rocks of this district are very few. A single 
small outcrop of granitic rock appears, and porphyroid granites and 
quartziferous porphyries are described as breaking through and locally 
altering the Pogonip limestone. The later eruptive rocks, Tertiary and 
post-Tertiary in age, are described as hornblende-andesite, augite-an- 
desite, dacite, or quartziferous hornblende-andesite, and rhyolite or 
quartziferous trachyte, together with basalt. The dacite followed the 
hornblende-andesite, and the rhyolite the dacite, all of which in turn 
are cut by the basalts. The rocks described as basalt vary greatly in 
composition from the ordinary type of about 50 per cent, to over 60 
per cent, of silica. These more silicious basalts are descirbed as desti- 
tute of olivine. 

These igneous rocks do not appear to have come from central volcanic 
vents, but have been erupted along great meridional lines of faulting, and 
are often found bordering the uplifted blocks of Paleozoic sediments. 
The chief localities of these rocks are along the east and west sides of 
a great depressed block of Carboniferous strata, which is nearly sur- 
rounded by outflows of Tertiary lavas. Among these are noticed great 
numbers of local extrusions which are wholly independent at, the sur- 
face, from neighboring masses. The whole condition of things suggests 
forcibly that these great accumulations of Paleozoic strata are or were 
immediately underlaid by a floor of crystalline rocks in a state of plas- 
ticity. 



GEOLOGY. 463 

THE COMSTOCK LODE. 

G. F. Becker has given, in the reports of the United States Geological 
Survey, a preliminary account of a more extended study of the geology of 
the Washoe district and the Comstock lode, while for a detailed account 
of the lithology of the region we must await the final report. It is well 
known that this immense quartz lode, which has yielded over $315,000,000 
of bullion in the last twenty-five years, is in great part included in erupted 
rocks of Tertiary age. The study of these, and of their changes under 
the influence of the heated waters, which have doubtless brought in the 
materials of the lode, is full of interest, and shows the frequent produc- 
tion of epidote and of chlorite by the transformation of the original 
mineral species. The hypothesis which has been advanced, that the 
high temperature of the mine-waters and their inclosing rocks is due to 
the chemical changes in these, connected with kaolinization of the feld- 
spars, is discussed and rejected. The feldspars are not kaolinized, nor 
do the waters contaiu the large amount of dissolved silica and alkalies 
which would be derived from such a process. Furthermore, there is no 
reason for believing that such a transformation of the feldspars would 
generate heat. Analogy would suggest that heat should be rendered 
latent in such a process. It is suggested that the source of the abun- 
dant water of the mine is to be found in the precipitation on the high 
crests of the Sierras, to the west, and that it reaches the lode through 
deep-seated channels, in which it becomes heated. The mine-waters are 
charged with carbonic acid, and that encountered at a depth of 3,000 
feet, having a temperature of 1 70° F., was found to be charged with hy- 
drogen-sulphide. Such waters have probably been the efficient agents 
in filling the lode with quartz and precious metals. The well-known 
Steamboat Springs, at a lower level, a few miles distant, still discharge 
waters at a boiling heat, along a fissure parallel to the great lode, and 
near to the contact of ancient massive rocks and andesites. The waters 
of these springs, impregnated with hydrogen sulphide, still deposit silica 
and cinnabar on the walls of the fissures, all of which facts are recalled 
by Becker in this connection. It may here be mentioned that evidence 
collected by the present writer at the locality shows that the discharge 
of water and vapor at the Steamboat Springs has diminished consider- 
ably since the opening of the deep levels of the Comstock lode. 

The theory that the filling of mineral veins, in many cases at least, 
comes from lateral secretion, is considered by Becker, and it is shown 
that the unchanged diabase of the Comstock lode contains, chiefly in 
the augite, a noteworthy amount of both gold and silver; and, moreover, 
that the diabase which has been modified by water has lost one-half of 
this amount. It is also shown that the total exposure of diabase is suffi- 
cient to account for far more bullion than has been extracted from the 
mines. It is in connection with this rock that the richest ore- bodies have 
been found, while those in contact with the ancient diorite are compara- 



464 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1888. 

tively barren ; all of which facts would seem to favor the hypothesis 
that the supply of the precious metals in the lode has been dissolved 
from the diabase. The present writer, twenty- five years since, called at- 
tention to the dissemination of small quantities of ores of copper and 
of nickel in the greenstones of the Huronian series, and also to the fact 
that, while the quartz lodes carrying copper (and sometimes nickel ores) 
pass from the greenstones into the adjacent quartzites, they become bar- 
ren; a fact which was regarded as evidence that these veins were filled 
by lateral secretion. 



GEOGRAPHY. 



By Commander F. M. Green, U. S. N. 



While the area of unexplored regions of the earth's surface does not 
seem to have been materially decreased during 1883, a large amount of 
knowledge has been derived from the labors of travelers, explorers, 
and surveyors during that time. 

Among the problems affecting geography in general the one to which 
the most attention has been drawn during the last year is that of a 
common prime meridian or the selection of a point from which all nations 
shall agree to reckon longitude. Strange as it may appear, sentimental 
considerations seem to have had a large share in forming the opinions 
expressed on this subject, and no plan appears to have met with such 
general approval as that of drawing the prime meridian through some 
point in the ocean away from the capital of any country, so that no 
national susceptibilities need be offended. It would seem that a very 
few words should serve to dispel such an idea. As longitudes are now 
measured, the starting point must be either a portable or permanent 
observatory, connected with a telegraphic system of cables and shore 
lines, in order that the local times of various places may be telegraph- 
ically compared. These conditions would be impossible with a prime 
meridian in the middle of the Pacific or the Atlantic Ocean, while they 
are completely fulfilled at Greenwich, where by the tacit or expressed 
consent of nearly all nations the prime meridian is now placed. 

At the seventh general conference of the International Geodetic 
Association, held at Eome, October 23, 1883, it was formally resolved to 
propose to the Governments interested to select for the initial meridian 
that of Greenwich, defined by a point midway between the two pillars 
of the transit circle of the Royal Observatory. 

An international convention, called, at the instance of the United 
States Government, will meet at Washington in the autumn of 1884 to 
endeavor to agree upon this or some other prime meridian. 

Pendulum observations of the force of gravity as a factor in the in- 
vestigations of the figure of the earth have been continued by officers 
of the United States Coast Survey. In the United States the princi- 
pal stations at which pendulums have been oscillated are Albany, Ho- 
boken, Baltimore, Washington, Saint Augustine, and San Francisco. 
The three invariable pendulums previously swung at Greenwich, Kew, 
H. Mis. 69 30 465 



4G6 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

London, and Washington Laving been left in charge of the Coast Sur- 
rey, advantage was taken of the presence of observers skilled in pen- 
dulum work with the expeditions for the observation of the transit of 
Venus and of the total solar eclipse of May G, 1883, to obtain results 
for gravity at widely separated stations. Observations were accord- 
ingly made at Auckland, New Zealand 5 Sydney, New South Wales ; 
Singapore, Tokio, Caroline Island, Honolulu, (at a station in Maui occu- 
pied by De Freycinet in 1819,) and at San Francisco. 

As indicating the widely spread interest in geographical study, ref- 
erence may be made to a list of geographical societies and geographical 
magazines recently published iu the ninth volume of the Geographi- 
scher Jahrbuch, the former numbering seventy-nine and the latter one 
hundred and nineteen. 

HYDROGRAPHY. 

The only original survey of foreign coasts prosecuted under the di- 
rection of the United States Hydrographic Office during the year has 
been the continuation of the survey of the Pacific coast of Central 
America by the officers of the United States steamer Ranger. 

Lieut. Commander Z. L, Tanner, in the United States Fish Com- 
mission steamer Albatross, has performed a most valuable work in run- 
ning lines of soundings during the last winter in the Atlantic Ocean 
and Caribbean Sea, and disproving the existence of alleged shoals and 
dangers which have for years disfigured the charts. The details of the 
work will properly be included in the summary for 1884. 

The United States Coast Survey have continued the deep-sea explo- 
rations which have been prosecuted for several years past in the west- 
ern part of the North Atlantic Ocean. During the winter of 1882-S3 a 
systematic examination of the ocean bed between Bermuda and the 
Bahamas was made, extending to the eastward as far as St. Thomas. 
Numerous deep-sea soundings and dredgings were made, with observa- 
tions of surface, serial, and bottom temperature. One most noteworthy 
result of this cruise, which was performed by the steamer Blake, com- 
manded by Lieut. Commander W. H. Brownson, U. S. N., was the 
finding of the great depth of 4,561 fathoms, or 5.2 statute miles, nearly, 
about 75 miles to the northward of Porto Rico. The bottom temperature 
was found to be 364° F., and the specimen-cup brought up brown ooze. 
This is believed to be the greatest depth from which bottom has been 
brought up. The souudiDg was made with one of Commander Sigsbee's 
piano-wire sounding machines. 

The British Admiralty have employed nine vessels, with fifty-seven 
officers and four hundred and sixty-eight men, in surveying the shores 
of the United Kingdom, the China Sea, Korea, Borneo, islands in the 
Western Pacific Ocean, Australia, Newfoundland, the Bahama Islands, 
the Bio de la Plata, and the Straits of Magellan. A careful examina- 
tion of the Straits of Sunda was also made to ascertain and lay down 
the chauges caused by the Krakatoa volcanic eruption. 



GEOGRApny. 4G7 

In June an expedition, organized by the French ministry of marine 
and under the superintendence of A. Milne-Edwards, sailed from Eoche- 
fort on the French government steamer Talisman for the exploration of 
that portion of the Atlantic Ocean off the western coast of Africa in the 
vicinity of the Cape de Verde, Canary, and Azores islands and the 
Sargasso Sea. 

Very numerous souudiugs and dredgings were made, the latter result- 
ing in the finding of very many new and interesting species. The greatest 
depth found seems to have beeen 3,427 fathoms, between the Cape de 
Verde islands and the Azores, about the 25th parallel of latitude. As 
the depths found indicate a contour of the ocean bottom largely differ- 
ing from that shown in a recent German bathy metrical chart, it is 
evident that the locality needs further examination. The bed of the 
Sargasso Sea was found to consist of a thick layer of fine volcanic mud, 
with fragments of pumice and rock. A vast volcanic chain appears to 
stretch parallel with the African shore, the Cape de Verde islands, 
the Canary group, Madeira, and the Azores being the only parts of it 
not submerged. About the 1st of September the Talisman returned to 
Eochefort. 

The physical survey of the Mediterranean Sea under the direction of 
the Italian Government, has been continued by Captain Magnaghi, of 
the Italian navy, in the Government steamer Washington. This under- 
taking has now been in progress for three years, under the patronage 
of the Accademia dei Lincei. 

The official report of the Norwegian expedition for the exploration of 
the North Atlantic, in 1876-'77-'78, has been published. Volumes iv and 
V contain a historical account of the expedition, with the geographical, 
astronomical, magnetic, and natural history observations. The general 
objects of the expedition were the determination of the contour of the 
bottom by sounding, the investigation of the rate and direction of cur- 
rents, and of the physical condition and chemical constituents of sea- 
water, as well as zoological, botanical, meteorological, and magnetic 
work. The region examined lies, generally speaking, between the west 
coast of Norway and a line drawn from Iceland to Spitzbergen. The 
greatest sea depth found was rather more than 2,000 fathoms, between 
Jan Mayen and Spitzbergen. Aside from the deep-sea work, the most 
interesting geographical results of this excellently managed expedition 
are derived from Dr. Mohn's examination of the island of Jan Mayen, 
an extinct volcano 0,400 feet high, and from his remarks on Bear Island 
and Spitzbergen. The volumes of this report are most liberally cir- 
culated by the Norwegian Government. 

The preliminary report of the Superintendent of the United States 
Coast Survey states that the work of connecting points in the various 
States of the Union by triangulation has been carried on in Maine, New 
Hampshire, Vermont, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, 
Virginia, Maryland, District of Columbia, West Virginia, Ohio, Ken- 



4G8 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

tucky, Tennessee, Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Nebraska, Arkansas, Mis- 
souri, Colorado, and Nevada. A special work of triangulation was done 
in connecting the survey of the Atlantic coast with that of the great 
Lakes. In addition the work of the Coast Survey proper has been 
industriously carried on by surveys for mapping the exact coast line 
and determining the depth of water in the various sounds, bays, and 
harbors. The line of transcontinental levels has been pushed from 
Mitchell, Ind., to Kansas City, Mo. Very many astronomical deter- 
minations of latitude and longitude have also been completed, and 
tidal observations have been carried on in numerous places along the 
coast. For the details of the invaluable labors of this admirably con- 
ducted branch of the public service, reference should be made to the 
annual detailed report. 

The work of the Northern Transcontinental Survey, under the direc- 
tion of Prof. R. Pumpelly, has unfortunately been suspended, owing to 
the necessity of a retrenchment of expenses by the Northern Pacific 
Railroad Company. During the year 1883 an approximate topograph- 
ical survey was made of the country, roughly corresponding to the ter- 
ritory lying between the 46th and 48th parallels of latitude, and the 
110th and 112th meridians, and also of the Flathead Ba«iu in Western 
Montana, as well as the country lying between the Snake River and the 
.southern boundary of Washington Territory, while in the central part of 
Washington Territory a survey has been made of nearly all the country 
south of the 48th parallel and between the Cascades and the Columbia, 
in all amounting to about 20,000 square miles. Besides this geograph- 
ical work, careful geological sections were made of the Belt and Main 
ranges in Montana, and much work was done on the geology of the 
Cretaceous. 

The plans for the geographical work of the United States Geological 
Survey for the season of 1883 contemplated the prosecution of work in 
nearly all the areas under survey during the previous year, viz, in 
Northern California, in Southern Montana, Northeastern Arizona and 
Western New Mexico, and in the region of the Southern Appalachians. 
In addition to these areas, work was commenced in the State of Massa- 
chusetts; a detailed survey of the Yellowstone Park, and of the Elk 
Mountains of Colorado was commenced; and, in connection with the 
geological investigations of the ancientlake basins of Western Nevada, 
considerable scattered topographic work was done. 

The work in Northern California was, as during the previous year, in 
charge of Mr. Gilbert Thompson. His division, consisting of two par- 
ties, took the field early in July, and was continuously occupied until 
late in October. The work was greatly delayed by smoke and haze 
which prevailed during the greater ptirt of the season, owing to im- 
mense fires in the Cascade Mountains, so that the output of the season, 
amounting to about 4,000 square miles, was not as great as it would 
have been under more favorable circumstances. The area surveyed 



GEOGRAPHY. 4(50 

comprises Mount Shasta and its foothills, and a considerable portion 
of the tangled mass of the Coast Eange lying west of that peak. In 
the progress of his work Mr. Thompson succeeded in taking mules to 
the top of Mount Shasta, a feat never before accomplished. 

The work of the Wingate division lay, mainly, in Northeastern 
Arizona, the balance being in Western New Mexico. The country, as is 
well known, consists almost entirely of plateaus, presenting but little 
relief, but deeply scored by canons and almost devoid of water, making 
traveling very difficult. This division, which, under the charge of Prof. 
A. H. Thompson, was composed of one triangulation party and three 
topographic parties, was very successful. The season's work added in 
the neighborhood of 22,000 square miles to the mappt-d area of the 
country. This, with the work of the previous year, completed three 
atlas sheets, viz, the regions lying between longitudes 107° and 109° 
and latitudes 35° and 36° ; between longitudes 109° and 111° and lat- 
itudes 35° and 30°; and between longitudes 109° and 111° and lat- 
itudes 36° and 37°. 

Iu the progress of his work Mr. H. M. Wilson, in charge of one of the 
topographic parties, succeeded in penetrating into the hitherto un- 
known country in the neighborhood of the junction of the San Juau 
and the Colorado, and ascended Navajo Mountaiu, a peak rising at the 
junction of these two streams, and hitherto unvisited. This region is 
inhabited by a band of renegade Indians, who have heretofore made it 
extremely dangerous for white men to approach. Becently, however, 
the prevalence of a contagious disease among them, which has been 
attributed by them to their hostility to white men, has made them 
much more friendly, and they gave v.o trouble to this surveying party. 

At the close of the season's work Professor Thompson determined the 
position of Fort Wingate by astronomical observations. The field work 
of this division, as well as that of the California division, has beeu upon 
a scale of 2 miles to an inch. 

In connection with the study of the mining region of the Elk Mount- 
ains or "Gunnison country" a detailed survey, upon a scale of 2 
inches to a mile, was made of the area drained by the upper waters of 
Slate Eiver and Ohio and Anthracite Creeks, under the direction of 
Mr. Anton Karl. After completing about 1,000 square miles of this 
area, Mr. Karl was called away by the pressure of other duties, and 
work was suspended for the season. It was decided to make a resur- 
vey upon a much more detailed scale than ever before attempted of the 
area of the Yellowstone Park. This work was assigned to Mr. J. H. 
Eenshawe, who was, during the previous year, in charge of the work 
in Southern Montana. Commencing work in the northwestern part of 
the Park, he surveyed, on a scale of 2 inches to a mile, or about 
soooo) an area °f some 1 ? 500 square miles, mainly with the plane table. 
Near the close of the season, after having been driven from the high 
country of the Park by the snows, he remeasured the Bozeman base, 



470 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1333. 

which was laid out and measured originally by oue of the parties of 
Lieutenant Wheeler's Geographical Surveys West of the 100th Me- 
ridian. 

In addition to a number of small sketch-maps upon a large scale iu 
different parts of the basin region of Western Nevada, a considerable 
area, amounting to 1,500 square miles, was surveyed, upon a scale of 
1 mile to an inch, in the high Sierra of Eastern California. This re- 
gion is very interesting to the geologist on account of the glacial phe- 
nomena, both actual and recent, there exhibited. Besides containing 
the remains of enormous glaciers, there still remain iu this area a num- 
ber of small glaciers, which cover areas of from a fraction of a square 
mile to a number of square miles each. 

In the Southern Appalachian country work was prosecuted vigor- 
ously, no fewer than five topographic parties and two parties for trian- 
gulation being in the field. The area surveyed in this section during 
the season amounted to fully 22,000 square miles. It comprises the 
western part of Maryland with the northern portion of West Virginia, 
the southern portion of the latter State lying between the Kanawha and 
Big Sandy Rivers, the southwestern corner of Virginia, the northern 
half of the valley of East Tennessee, and nearly all the mountain region 
of North Carolina. Maps of this region have been prepared upon a 
scale of 2 miles to an inch in approximate contours 200 feet apart verti- 
cally. Work in this part of the country is necessarily slow, compared 
with that in the West, owing to the larger proportion of bad weather 
and to the fact that the country is densely covered with forests, neces- 
sitating the employment of topographic methods which are slower and 
more expensive than those which cm be used in the West. 

The work in the State of Massachusetts was placed in charge of Mr. 
H. T. Walling, and was commenced in Berkshire County, in the west- 
ern part of the State. Nearly all of the area of this county, with small 
adjacent portions of New York and Connecticut, was surveyed, amount- 
ing to 1,500 square miles. A map of this region has been prepared 
upon a scale of ^ooiro m contours having a vertical interval of 50 feet. 
In the more level portions of the State the contours have necessarily 
smaller intervals. 

The result of this season's work is to add between 50,000 and 55,000 
square miles to the maps of this country. 

Lieutenant Schwatka, of the United States Army, the celebrated 
Arctic explorer, has made a journey from the Pacific coast to the head- 
waters of the Yukon Biver and down that river to its mouth. Lieuten- 
ant Schwatka states, in a communication to Science, that the expedi- 
tion arose from a desire of the commander of the military Department 
of the Columbia to gain some military knowledge of the Indian tribes 
in that district, and of the territory inhabited by them. 

The part of the route from the coast to the Yukon River was almost 
unexplored, the maps and books relating to it being grossly incorrect 



GEOGRAPHY. 471 

and disagreeing in nearly every particular. Of the three or four passes 
kuowu to exist over the mountain ranges which separate the headwaters 
of the Yukon from the Pacific coast, the best one is the Chilcoot trail, 
and was the one used by Lieutenant Schwatka's party, which consisted 
of two officers and five other white men and a number of Indians, vary- 
ing from two to more than sixty. In order to monopolize the traffic with 
the Indians of the interior, the Chilcoot Indians, for whom this trail was 
named, formerly used every endeavor to prevent other tribes from using 
it, but lately Indians of several tribes have used it. 

Leaving Chilcat Inlet on the Alaskan coast, in latitude 59°, on June 
7, 1SS3, Lieutenant Schwatka's party proceeded by way of Day ay Inlet 
and the Dayay Eiver flowing into it to the head of canoe navigation, 
10 miles above the mouth of the Dayay Eiver. From this point a 
journey of 26 miles was made over Perrier Pass through the glacier-clad 
mountain ranges. The pass was traversed at an altitude of 4,100 feet, 
and on June 12 Lake Lindemann was reached just below the extreme 
headwaters of the Yukon Eiver. 

On Lake Lindemann, in about latitude 59° 50', the voyagers embarked 
on a raft, but had to make a portage round the rapids and cascades at 
the northern end of the lake, where they again embarked, passing 
through a chain of lakes, among which were two, named by Lieutenant 
Schwatka Lakes Bennett and Marsh, for J. G. Bennett, esq., and Pro- 
fessor Miirsh, of Yale College. Glaciers were constantly seen along the 
mountain sides. On the 1st of July, just north of Lake Marsh, the 
great rapids were reached. They were found to be nearly 5 miles long, 
the first part being through a canon lined with basaltic rocks which 
contract the river to about one-tenth of its width. After leaving the 
cahon there are about 4 miles of rapids 300 to 400 yards wide, broken 
by rocky bars and dams of timber, and ending in a cascade. 

On the 5th of July the last of the chain of lakes was reached. Lieu- 
tenant Schwatka thinks that these lakes are all gradually being tilled 
up with sediment deposited by the passing water, and found traces of 
many such lakes which have been filled up in the same way. At short 
distances to the northward of tiie chain of lakes the Yukon receives 
three important affluents from the east, called by Lieutenant Schwatka 
the Newberry, D'Abbadie, and Daly Eivers, and one from the west 
named the Nbrdenskiold. On the 12th of July, Miles Caiion and rapids 
were reached. This Lieutenant Schwatka considers the head of navi- 
gation for powerful and light-draught river steamboats, 1,866 miles from 
the Aphoon mouth of the Yukon. From here to old Fort Selkirk, of 
the Hudson's Bay Company, the journey was apparently uneventful. 
Lieutenant Schwatka settles definitely the heretofore doubtful point 
whether the Pelly or the Lewis Eiver of the old traders should be con- 
sidered the Yukon proper as being the larger confluent. He found the 
Lewis by far the larger in at least the proportions of five to three. 



472 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18S3. 

Lieutenant Schwatka states the length of the parts of his journey as 
follows: 

Miles. 

From Chilcat to Lake Lindemann 52 

Lake Lindeinaun to Fort Selkirk 48G. 8 

Lake Lindernann to Nuklakayet 1, 303.2 

Total length of Yukon River 2,043.5 

The map prepared by Lieutenant Sckwatka's assistant will be of great 
service in correcting the very erroneous maps now in existence. 

A new volcanic island has appeared in the Aleutian Archipelago very 
near the position of Bogosloff Island, which rose in the same way in 
May, 179i>. The old island seems to have disappeared, the new one oc- 
cupying a x>osition about half a mile north-northwest of the old one. 
This island is said to be about 1,000 feet high, and is in a state of erup- 
tion still. It will be closely examined and reported upon during the 
present year. 

SOUTH AMERICA. 

In South American travel the subject of most interest has been the 
search for the remains of the ill fated expedition, under Dr. Jules 
Orevaux, for the exploration of the Pilcomayo River. At a meeting of 
the French Geographical Society convened for the purpose, M. Fjrnile- 
Arthur Thouar gave an account of his journey to inquire into the causes 
of the massacre of M. Crevaux and his party, and to rescue the survivors 
who were supposed to be prisoners in the hands of the Tobas Indians. 
Starting from Tacna in Peru in May, 1883, he hastily traversed the 
plateau between La Paz and Oruro, and descending the Pilcomayo 
from its source reached the place where the disaster took place in Sep- 
tember, 1883. One survivor, a stupid boy, was found; but no relics 
could be recovered except a broken barometer, a letter of Crevaux, and 
a sketch map of the Pilcomayo. It was found that the attack by the 
Indians was made in revenge for some of their tribe having been killed 
by some white men from the garrison of Caiga, the Indians making no 
distinction between their assailants and the party of M. Crevaux. Two 
of the party escaped into the woods, but after four or five months of 
exposure and suffering they died. 

M. Thouar gave some interesting details of the manners and customs 
of the Tobas Indians, showing that they were especially savage. His 
account of the journey down the Pilcomayo and across the Gran Chaco 
indicates that the Pilcomayo is navigable for nearly all its course, but 
the lower part of the river is obstructed by morasses. The gold medal 
Of the French Geographical Society was awarded M. Thouar for his 
explorations, which it is thought may be the means of affording a much- 
needed outlet by way of the Pilcomayo and Paraguay Rivers for some 
of the products of Bolivia. 

In the Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society for June, 1883, 
is given a detailed account of the journey down the Beni River, by Dr. 



GEOGRAPHY. 473 

E. R. Heath, reference to which is made in last year's summary. To this 
most valuable account is added a map of the journey, by Dr. Heath, 
who was acting as medical officer of the party engaged in investigating 
the capacities of the country under the direction of Mr. G. E. Church, 
who has made a comprehensive report to the United States Department 
of State on the general condtion of Ecuador, including a detailed de- 
scription of its geography, with especial reference to its river systems 
and its productive resources (Senate Ex. Doc. No. G9, Forty-seventh 
Congress). Mr. Church states that no census has ever been accurately 
taken, but he estimates the population at about one million, of which 
one tenth are of the white race, three-tenths of mixed whites, Indians, 
and negroes, and six-tenths pure-blooded Indians. A very graphic ac- 
count is given of the topography and river systems. Mr. Church finds 
very little hope for the development of the country, in spite of its fine 
climate and great productiveness, on account of the indoleut and dis- 
honest character of the people generally and the oppressive and anarch- 
ical government. 

In the Journal of the Royal Geographical Society for May, 1883, Mr. 
Robert Blake White gives an account of the physical features of those 
portions of the central provinces of Colombia of which no detailed 
account exists. Great interest has been manifested during the last few 
years in those countries, which it is supposed would be benefited by the 
completion of the Panama Canal, and their possible development. Of 
these countries none would be more favorably affected than Colombia, 
and the account of its topography and resources, accompanied as it is 
by a map corrected from Mr. White's own surveys, is of great interest, 
especially when it is remembered that the last European traveler in this 
region whose works have been at all read was Alexauder von Humboldt, 
who only passed through the country from southeast to northwest, leav- 
ing on one side the large district described by Mr.White. 

Dr. Paul Giissfeldt has been, during the past year, making interesting 
trigonometrical surveys in the Andes, and has attempted to ascend 
Mount Aconcagua in the Chilian Cordillera (22,750 feet high), but failed, 
owing to the intense cold. 

The published account of the journeys of Lieutenant Bove, of the 
Italian navy, in and about Southern Patagouia, Tierra del Fuego, and 
the Falkland Islands, does not materially add to our knowledge of the 
physical features of those regions. 

Lieutenant Bove now proposes a new expedition in order to iavesti- 
gate the present physical and economic condition of the Argentine 
Republic, with a view to establishing closer commercial relations be- 
tween that country and Italy. 

Under the command of Lieut. Commander C. II. Davis,U. S. 28"., a party 
of United States naval officers have been engaged in determining tele- 
graphically differences of longitude on the west coast of South America. 
The cables recently laid between Panama and Valparaiso were utilized 



474 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

for this purpose, and the positions of Callao, Lima, Payta, Arica, and 
Valparaiso were carefully fixed, tbe latitude of each station being de- 
termined by the zenith telescope. Lieutenant-Commander Davis con- 
nected his chain of longitudes at the northern end with the station at 
Panama telegraphically determined in 1874 by Lieutenant-Commander 
Green, U. S. N., and at the southern end with the observatory at Cor- 
doba, fixed in the same manner by Dr. B. A. Gould. This great work, 
which has been admirably executed, completes an enormous polygon or 
telegraphic chain of longitudes from Greenwich by way of Washington, 
Havana, Panama, Valparaiso, Cordoba, Buenos Ayres, Rio de Janeiro, 
Madeira, and Lisbon, back to Greenwich. 

EUROPE. 

A comprehensive idea of the work in progress by the Government 
surveys of the different countries in Europe is derived from the reports 
of the meetings of the International Geodetic Association. The pro- 
ceedings at the annual meeting at The Hague in September, 1883, have 
recently been published, and are summarized by Mr. C. A. Schott in 
Science for November 1G, 1883. The countries represented and from 
which reports of progress were received were Baden, Bavaria, Denmark, 
France, Hesse, Holland, Italy, Austria, Portugal, Prussia, Eoumania, 
Russia, Saxony, Switzerland, Spain,Wurtemberg, Belgium, and Norway. 
Among the many interesting matters referred to in the reports of prog- 
ress the most striking is the demonstration that the average level of the 
Mediterranean is lower than the Atlantic by about two feet and one 
inch (0.64 meter). This conclusion had beeu stated by M. Bourdalou, 
in 1864, in his work Nivellements generate de la France, but was not gen- 
erally credited. 

In levelling across from the Atlantic to the Mediterranean the follow- 
ing differences in average level have been found : 

Meter. 

Between Santander and Alicante 0. 662 

Swinemunde and Marseilles by way of Switzerland 0. 664 

Swiueniunde to Marseilles by way of Amsterdam 0. 658 

Amsterdam and Trieste 0. 590 

ASIA. 

A very serious change has been effected in the eastern part of the 
island of Java and the neighboring islands by the volcanic upheaval 
of August, 1883. The small uninhabited island of Krakatoa, lying 
about the middle of the straits of Sunda, an important commercial 
passage between the islands of Java and Sumatra, was, at the time 
of the first obtainable accounts of it (A. D. 1681), in a state of erup- 
tion. The present eruption commenced on the 21st of May and con- 
tinued with great activity for eight or nine weeks, until the evening of 
August 26 and the morning of August 27, when tremendous explosions 
followed in rapid succession, tearing away and throwing into the sea a 



GEOGRAPHY. 475 

large portion of Krakatoa island, causing' immense waves, which, after 
retreating, rolled in on both sides of the straits, destroying towns and 
villages and drowning at least 100,000 people. Whole districts were 
covered with pumice and ashes, and the island of Krakatoa was reduced 
to a fraction of its original size — water a thousand feet deep being found 
where the greatest activity of the volcano was displayed. The chan- 
nels of navigation were very much changed, and surveys have been car- 
ried on since the outburst to lay down the changed depths in the differ- 
ent passages. At the time of the great explosion two enormous waves 
were set in motion, and the same afternoon were registered on the tide 
gauges at Mauritius, the Seychelles in South Africa, and at some of the 
Pacific islands, and there is evidence that, proceeding onward, these 
waves crossed each other on the antipodes of Krakatoa, thus returning 
to the place of their origin no less than four times before the equilibrium 
of the sea was restored. Atmospheric waves were also sent round the 
globe by this terrific disturbance at very nearly the same velocity as 
that of sound, while such masses of dust and ashes were driven into 
the upper regions of the air as to cause unusually lurid skies and other 
remarkable atmospheric phenomena for some months all over the world. 
A committee of the Royal Society has been appointed to fully investi- 
gate all the physical phenomena connected with the subject, and their 
report will present an accurate account and examination of the effects 
of volcanic eruptions. 

In the last report of the operations of the great Trigonometrical Sur- 
vey of India, General J. T. Walker, R. E., the superintendent, states 
that the principal triaugulatiou of all India on the lines originally 
marked out by Colonel Everest has now been completed. General 
Walker gives a brief review of the operations from 1800 to the present 
day. The details of the topographical surveys have been diligently 
carried on, and many maps have been published during the past year, 
but the chief geographical interest attaches to the trans Himalayan 
explorations by native travelers. The regions explored as far as is 
made known were the water-shed of the Upper Oxus, and its chief trib- 
utaries, a large area in Great Tibet explored by a traveler known as 

A K , who has recently returned to Calcutta after an absence of 

four years, and who has been able to settle a vexed question as to the 
affluents of the Irawadi and the Brahmapootra. In addition to the re- 
ports of these and other native officers, the narratives of English officers 
included in this report contain a very large amount of information, es- 
pecially regarding little known portions of British Burinah. 

In an address to the Geographical Section of the British Association at 
Southport, in September, 1883, Lieutenant-Colonel God win- Austen gave 
a description of the general structure of the mountain ranges popularly 
known as the Himalayas, especially dwelling on the indications of gla- 
cial action as compared with similar markings in the Alps. Colonel 
Godwin-Austen indorsed Sir H. Strachey's conception of the general 



470 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

structure as the soundest and most scientific of those propounded, de- 
scribing it as made up of a series of parallel ranges running in an oblique 
line to the general direction of the whole mass, the great peaks being 
on terminal butt-ends of the successive parallel ranges, the water-shed 
following the lowest parts of the ridges, and the drainage crossing the 
highest in deep gorges directly transverse to the main lines of elevation. 

By order of the Russian governor of Turkistan an expedition w r as 
titled out at Tashkend in the early part of 1883 for the thorough explo- 
rasion of the Pamir, or great central table laud of Asia, its members being 
Captaiu Putiata, of the staff of the Russian army, Mr. Ivanoff, geologist, 
and M. Bendersky, topographer. By their labors the eastern half of 
the Pamir has been traversed in eveiy direction, and on its southern 
border a connection has been made with the surveys and route maps of 
English travelers by careful astronomical observations at Tash-Kurgan 
and other points. Among the valuable results of this expedition are a 
five-verst inap of the whole region, numerous measurements of heights 
and astronomical determinations of latitude and longitude, and large 
geological collections throwing light on the formation of the region. 

Colonel Prjevalsky, the indefatigable Russian explorer, has com- 
menced another journey through Tibet. Starting from Kiachta, near 
the southern end of Lake Baikal, in Siberia, he crossed the Gobi desert 
late in 1883, and on January 20, 1881, was at Alashan on his way to 
Koku-nor. From here Colonel Prjevalsky will attempt the exploratiou 
of Eastern Tibet during the present year, then following up the Brah- 
mapootra to Ladak and Hast, and thence by way of Lob-nor and Aksu 
proceeding to Turkistan. This great expedition, fitted out at the ex- 
pense of the Russian Government, will thus attempt to bring within the 
knowledge of the civilized world such portions of Tibet as at present 
are only known from the desultory travels of a few pundits and mis- 
sionaries. 

A Russian Government expedition having been engaged in exploring 
the former channel of the river Oxus, or Amu-Daria, has reported, after 
running a line of levels between the Caspian Sea and Khiva, that the 
only way of restoring the river to its old course would be by the con- 
struction of an artificial canal 125 miles long. Under these circumstances 
there seems no probability of the task being attempted. 

A large amount of work is in progress by Russian geographers and 
surveyors; and at an exhibition in April, 1883, of geographical and as- 
tronomical works at St. Petersburg, many valuable maps of Russian ter. 
ritory in Asia were shown for the first time. A general description of 
these is contributed by M. Venukoff to the Bulletin of the French Geo- 
graphical Society. 

The military operations undertaken by the French in Cochin China 
will have the effect of adding much to our knowledge of the Indo-Chi- 
nese peninsula, which, indeed, has been the ground of French explora- 
tion from a very early day. The Societe Acaclemiqac Indo-Chinoisc have 



GEOGRAPHY. 477 

recently published an account of all the scientific expeditions sent to 
this country by the French Government, commencing - in 1680, and num- 
bering- seventy-seven up to 1881. These are in addition to the military 
expeditions and Government surveys. In spite of all this research there 
are large tracts of country and very manj r water-courses about which 
little or nothing is known. 

Mr. Carl Bock, in a paper in the Geographische Mittheilungen for May, 
1883, describes a journey undertaken by him from Bankok toward the 
Chinese frontier by way of the Menam River to Zimme and Kiangtsen 
on the borders of the Shan states. This account is chiefly important 
as indorsing and verifying Mr. Colquhoun's conclusions as to the prac- 
ticability of a railroad from the sea to the southwestern frontier of China- 
Mr. Bock was prevented from traveling through the Shan states by 
native hostility. 

The general census of Japan, taken on .lanuary 1, 1883, gives 36,700,1 10 
as the population of the country, made up of 18,598,998 males and 
18,101,112 females. The population of the larger towns is given as fol- 
lows : Osaka, 1,772,333 ; Hiogo, 1,418,521; Nagasaki, 1,201,629; Tokio, 
987.887; Kioto, 835,215. These figures do not represent the population 
of the towns named, but of the districts known asfu or ken bearing these 
names. 

In the Japan Gazette have appeared during the last year a series of 
valuable letters relating to the island of Yezo, its geography, geology, 
fauna and flora, its mineral productions and ethnology, as well as the 
records of numerous journeys over the island. The author is Captain 
Blakiston, who has been for many years a resident at Hakodate, and 
who has thus amassed an enormous quantity of valuable material. 

An admirable method of teaching physical geography has been de- 
vised and put in practice by the teachers at the school for the sons of 
Japanese nobles, at Tokio. A physical map of the country has been 
constructed between 300 and 400 feet long of turf and stone, showing 
every inlet, river, and mountain. The meridians and parallels are indi- 
cated by telegraph wire, and the positions of cities and towns are shown 
by tablets. 

In the hopes of securing a well-directed scientific exploration of the 
interior of ^New Guinea the British Association at their annual meeting 
at Southport appointed a committee to confer with the council of the 
Royal Geographical Society as to the best means of attaining that object. 
The result of their deliberations has been to recommend an expedition 
now preparing by Mr. Wilfred Powell, whose plan is to ascend the Am- 
bernoli River, which empties near Point d'Urville on the north coast, 
and when the river can be no farther ascended to cross the country to- 
ward the Finisterre Mountains, then, after renewing his provisions, to 
attempt to cross the island from Astrolabe bay to Port Moresby. The 
Melbourne Argus sent an expedition in July, 1883, under Captain Armit, 
with the intention of crossing the southeastern end of the island from 



478 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18G3. 

Port Moresby to Dyke Acland bay, a distance of 100 miles in a north- 
east direction ; but after the death of Professor Denton, the naturalist 
of the expedition, from fever, the party returned without having crossed 
the island, only having penetrated to a distance of 40 miles from the 
coast without making any discoveries of importance. Shortly after the 
return of this expedition, another one, dispatched by another newspaper 
concern, the Melbourne Age, under the command of Mr. G. E. Morrison, 
started from Port Moresby with a similar object, viz, to cross the island 
to the northeastern coast, but near the foot of the Central range the 
party was attacked by natives, and, Mr. Morrison being severely 
wounded, a hurried retreat was made to Port Moresby. Mr. Chalmers, 
an English missionary residing in Southeastern New Guinea, has been 
examining a part of the delta of the Fly River, and finds it more exten- 
sive than had been supposed. He determined the fact of the cannibal- 
ism of the natives as concerns their enemies, but found them generous 
and hospitable. The interest excited in the exploration of this practi- 
cally unknown island is so great that the labors of the present year will 
probably increase materially our knowledge regarding it, but its sickly 
climate and savage inhabitants make the task of exploration very diffi- 
cult. 

AFRICA. 

Many explorers and travelers for geographical and commercial ob- 
jects have, as for several years past, been engaged in journeys in Cen- 
tral Africa, but no specially striking discovery has been made, and the 
details of the numerous journeys are generally uninteresting and tedious, 
although, taking the aggregate of results, a large amount of detail has 
been added to the maps of Africa. English missionaries and consular 
officers have been prominent in furnishing valuable material of this 
kind. 

The expedition in charge of Mr. Joseph Thompson, and fitted out by 
the Royal Geographical Society, left England in December, 1882, and 
proceeded to Zanzibar; then proceeding inland from Mombasa, a port 
about 140 miles to the northward of Zanzibar, reached Taveta, at the 
the foot of Mount Kilimanjaro, on the 31st of March. On attempting 
to penetrate farther inlaud he met with determined hostility on the 
part of the Masai tribe, and was forced to return to Taveta. Starting 
again in July with a larger force, he has (March, 1884) been unheard of 
for several mouths. 

Among the numerous other travelers who have been exploring va- 
rious parts of Central Africa during the past year are M. Revoil, who 
has been traveling in the Somali country ; M. Giraud, who has under- 
taken to cross Africa from Zanzibar by way of Lake Bangweolo and 
the Congo, but who was turned back to Karema by the hostility of the 
natives ; and Mr. O'Neill, Her Britannic Majesty's consul at Mozambique, 
who has made a journey to Lake Shirwa and back to the coast. Mr. 
R. Flegel has, under the auspices of the German African Society, been 



GEOGRAPHY 479 

engaged iu examining the course of the Binue River, an affluent of the 
Lower Niger, and lias discovered its source, and also that of the Logue 
River, which discbarges into Lake Chad. Dr. Fischer, whose quarrels 
with the natives while attempting to reach Lake Bahringo from the 
east coast through the Masai country, were the cause of Mr. J. Thomp- 
son's delays, has been obliged to return without accomplishing his 
object. 

No region of Central Africa has been more thoroujahly and system- 
atically explored of late years than the banks and surroundings of the 
Congo River In a paper read before the Royal Geographical Society, 
and published in the Proceedings of that society for December, 1883, 
Mr. H. LT. Johnston gives a very graphic account of that great river 
from its month to Bolobo, with a description of the physical aspect of 
the surrounding country. Another good description was given in an 
address iu March last before the meeting of the German Geographical 
Society at Frankfort, by Herr Pechuel Loesche, who served as second 
in command with Mr. H. M. Stanley at Stanley Pool. 

ARCTIC REGIONS. 

The expeditions sent to occupy stations in the far north for the pur- 
pose of making meteorological observations under an international ar- 
rangement have all returned safely, with the exception of the party 
commanded by Lieut. A. W. Greely, U. S. A., which has occupied a 
station at Lady Franklin Bay since the spring of 1881. Two ineffec- 
tual attempts have been made to reach the party by relief ships, one 
ship being turned back in 1882 by heavy ice, and another, the Proteus, 
being suuk by the ice iu 1883. An expedition, consisting of three ships, 
under command of Commander Schley, U. S. N., is now fitting out, and 
no effort or expense is being spared to make a successful attempt to 
bring away the survivors of the party, if any. 

The Austrian party have returned from Jan Mayen, and the Swedish 
party from Spitzbergen, without casualty or illness. The Dutch expe- 
dition lost their ship, which was nipped by the ice in Waigatz Strait, 
but carried on all their observations successfully except those relating 
to magnetism, although they did not reach their intended station at 
Port Dickson. The other parties returned safely to their respective 
countries. 

Under the auspices of the Danish Geographical Society theDijinphna, 
commanded by Lieutenant Hovgaard, of the Danish navy, was dis- 
patched from Denmark in the summer of 1882. Lieutenant Hovgaard 
intended to proceed first to the mouth of the Yeuesei, then to Cape 
Chelyuskin, and then to penetrate northward along the east coast of 
Franz Josef Land. Leaving Vardo, in Norway, on August 3, 1882, the 
Dijmphua soon found the way blocked by heavy ice, and it took all of 
August to reach the Jugor Strait, between Waigatz Island and the 
mainland of Siberia. A short distance to the eastward, on September 



480 . SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

20, the Varna was met, beset in the ice, bound for Dickson Haven, with 
the Dutch meteorological party on board, and in two days more both 
vessels were frozen in. During October, November, and December 
both vessels drifted about with the ice, reaching nearly 71° north lati- 
tude. The Varna became uninhabitable, and all hands were taken on 
board the Dijmphna. No event of importance happened except the 
rapid erosion and disappearance of the ice during June and July, and 
on July 24 the Varna sunk, the Dijmphna drifting toward Karagate 
and being set free from ice on August 2. The crank-shaft breaking, 
the ship returned under sail to Vardo, arriving October 10. The great- 
est cold experienced seems to have been about February 1, when it 
reached 46°. 8 C. During the time the ship was drifting in the ice 
soundings were constantly taken, so that valuable materials for correct- 
ing the charts were secured. 

Captain Sorenson, of the Norwegian sloop William, reports having 
seen high land northeast of the northern promontory of Spitzbergen 
and about 100 miles from Eep Island. Dr. Karl Pettersen, of the 
Tromso Museum, points out that this land is probably the same as that 
seen by Captain Kjeldsen in 1S70, and called by him HvideOe, or White 
Island. 

A most valuable treatise on the Properties of Water and Ice, by Dr. 
Otto Pettersen, forms a volume of the publications of the Vega Expe- 
dition. The physical and chemical properties of both water aud ice are 
discussed at length, and the nature of various kinds of ice are ex- 
plained very clearly. 

In Nature, for August 30, 1883, Dr. Karl Pettersen proposes a new 
system of Arctic research. On the hypothesis that the condition of the 
ice in the Arctic basin is not always the same, but undergoes periodical 
changes, Dr. Pettersen proposes that, selecting the most proper locali- 
ties, an arrangement should be made between the various European 
nations to equip a certain number of expeditions which should be sent 
to the same locality every summer for a period of ten or eleven years. 
Dr. Pettersen thinks that during certain years of such a period oppor- 
tunities would certainly occur for penetrating very far into the Polar 
Basin. In 1881, for example', Norwegian hunters found the sea north of 
Spitzbergen so clear of ice that a steamer could have apparently pro- 
ceeded northward to a considerable distance, and there is reason to 
believe that the sea to the northeast of Franz Josef Land is also navi- 
gable at times. Dr. Pettersen is convinced, from observing the motions 
of the ice north of Spitzbergen and Novaya Zernlya, that there is a 
strong probability of a more or less open Polar sea. 

GREENLAND. 

Under the command of Baron Nordenskjold, a Swedish expedition 
has been engaged in an endeavor to explore the interior of Greenland 
from the east coast, one of the objects of the expedition being to fix the 



GEOGRAPHY. 481 

sites of the ancient Norse colonies. The expenses of the journey were 
defrayed by the munificence of Mr. Oscar Dickson. A large party of 
scientific experts accompanied Baron Nbrdenskjold, sailing from Goth 
enburg, on May 23, in a small steamer of 180 tons called the Sofia, and 
arriving at Iceland June 1. After coaling, the ship sailed for Southern 
Greenland, and on July 4 an ice party started inland from Auleitswik 
fiord, but were prevented from advancing with sledges nearer than about 
90 miles to the border of the glaciers by soft snow; but the Laplanders, 
who had been taken for the purpose, advanced 140 miles farther on 
snow-shoes over a snow desert at a height of 7,000 feet. Baron Nor- 
denskjold reports the whole inland covered with ice, with quantities of 
fine dust, which he considers as cosmical. The party landed twice on 
the east coast, but found it ice-bound almost everywhere. Some relics 
of the ancient colonists were said to be found. The predictions of Baron 
JSTordenskjold that the interior of Greenland would be found free of ice 
were therefore not verified. The expedition returned by way of Iceland, 
arriving at Thurso early in September. 

A Danish expedition, under command of Lieutenant Holm, has also 
been engaged in exploring the east coast of Greenland during the sum- 
mer of 1883. Several extensive fiords were discovered, and the charts 
as far north as latitude 61°, where the work terminated, will be seriously 
modified by the survey. After the summer's work was done winter 
quarters were prepared at Nanortalik, where meteorological and mag' 
netic observatories were established. The same party will continue 
their work of exploration and survey during 1884. 

H. Mis. 69 31 



METEOROLOGY. 



By Cleveland Abbe. 



I. — INSTITUTIONS AND INDIVIDUALS. 

The second meeting of the International Committee was held at Co- 
penhagen August 1 to 5, 1882. The principal resolutions related to the 
organization of an exhibit in London in connection with the Interna- 
tional Fisheries Exhibition, May, 1883; at which the proposed meteorolog- 
ical exhibit should specially include whatever relates to (1) weather pre- 
dictions and storm warnings ; (2) the publication of meteorological 
data, especially the time of rainfall, the monthly mean for the preceding 
month, and the publication in full of meteorological observations during 
the year of international polar observations; (3) the preparation of 
daily charts of the Atlantic Ocean by the co-oporation of Captain Hoff- 
meyer and Dr. Neumayer ; (4) the scientific and practical importance 
of the submarine cable connecting Iceland and the Faroe Islands; 
(5) the publication of international meteorological tables as prepared 
by Mascart and Wild ; (6) the preparation of individual catalogues of 
the meteorological literature of the respective nations. (Z. 0. G. M.,* 
xvii, p. 358.) 

Dr. Assmann states that means have been provided to re-establish on 
the Brocken (at the expense of the Magdeburg Brocken Club) the mete- 
orological station which has just been abandoned by the Prussian mete- 
orological office. He hopes before long to have a telegraph cable and 
continuous records. (Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 68.) 

Prof. Emil Plantamour was born at Geneva May 14, 1815, and died 
on September 6, 1882. His life and energies were equally given to 
astronomy and terrestrial physics. After several years' study under 
eminent astronomers in Europe he was settleii, in 1839, as professor and 
director of the observatory at Geneva, which place he continued to fill 
until his death, and whence he exerted a great influence both as an 
astronomer, geodesist, and meteorologist. (Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 1.) 

Johann Albert Arndt, born May 27, 1811, in Saxony; died August 21, 
1882. In 1847 Professor Arndt became one of the observers of the 

*Tke initials Z. 0. G. H. designate the Zeitschrift der Oesterreichischen Gescllschaft fiir 
Meteorologie. 

483 



484 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Royal Prussian Meteorological Institution at Torgau, where lie had 
been professor since 1840. In 1866 he was called to Berlin, and in 1874; 
became Dove's assistant at the institute, since which time, both as an 
assistant and during the past three years as temporary successor to 
Dove, he conducted most of the work of that office. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, 
p. 489.) 

II. — GENERAL TREATISES. 

In general climatology the publication of Hann's Handbuch der KU- 
matologie (Stuttgart, 1883, 8vo, pp. x + 764), marks an important epoch 
by reason of the precision of thought and the exteDt and freshness of 
the numerical data. Many of the author's views are worthy of wide 
attention and adoption, and are therefore here reproduced as follows: 

"By climate we understand the sum total of the meteorological phe. 
nomena that characterize the mean condition of the atmosphere at any 
one place on the earth's surface. That which we call the weather is only 
one phase, a single act, or part of the succession of phenomena whose 
complete course, more or less uniform, year after year constitutes the 
climate of any locality. The climate is the totality of the weather for 
a longer or shorter portion of time, as it ordinarily occurs on the 
average at this time of the year ; but we speak of the weather of a 
special day or month or season j e. g., the climate of England is mild 
and damp in December, although the weather of December, 1879, was 
very cold. We never speak of the rainy climate of the summer of 1882 
in Germany, but the rainy weather. The theory or philosophy of the 
weather and of climate will therefore respectively treat of the daily 
changes and the average condition of the atmosphere. 

"Meteorology includes both weather and climate, and shows the 
causal dependence of these upon the fundamental simple principles of 
physics. The principal climatic factors are temperature and moisture 
of the air, rain or snowfall, force and direction of the wind, &c. Of 
the^e the temperature is undoubtedly the most important, and not only 
the temperature of the air itself as given by thermometers protected 
from radiation, but equally so the temperature, or rather heat, due to 
direct radiation of sun, air, and earth. This latter radiation is an 
extremely variable quantity, even at one and the same locality, while 
the air temperature proper is comparatively uniform over a large extent 
of territory and time. 

"I. The elements of the air temperature that are most important for 
the correct presentation of any climate are the following: 

" 1. The monthly and annual mean temperatures of the air. 

" 2. The magnitudes for each month of the daily variation of tem- 
perature. 

" 3. The mean temperature for at least one early morning hour and 
afternoon hour about the time of the lowest and highest temperatures, 
and if possible also for a later hour in the evening. 

" 4. For long series of observations, the extreme limits between which 
lie the mean temperatures of the individual months. 



METEOROLOGY. 



485 



" 5. The mean of the monthly and annual extreme temperatures as 
well as the resulting non-periodic variation of temperature within each 
month and the whole year. 

"6. The absolute highest and lowest temperatures that occur within 
a given interval of time ; the length of this interval should also be given. 

" 7. The mean variability of the temperature, as expressed by the dif- 
ference of consecutive daily means and by the frequency of such changes 
in temperature arranged according to definite scale, e. g., from 2 to 2 
degrees. 

" 8. Mean limit or date of frosts in spring and fall, and the number of 
days free from frosts. 

" As m ost of the published long series of temperature observations 
refer to stations within cities, it is also necessary to have in mind the 
systematic differences between city and country temperatures, the for- 
mer being generally warmer. The above requisites for complete eliina- 
tological study are exemplified in the following table based on observa- 
tions within the city of Vienna: 

Table I. — Characteristics of the temperature of the air in the city of Vienna. 

{Temperatures by centigrade scale. Latitude, 48° 12' north.; longitude, 16° 22' east of Greenwich. 

Altitude, 194 meters J. 



Month. 



Monthly 
means. 



5gS 



s-2 



a>> 

OS 



3 S 



r; - 

c a 
2 a 



Means from ob- 
servations for 
20 years, at 
the respective 
hours — 



Daily vari- 
ation of I 
temperature 
from 
20 years of 
observation. 
I I 



9 & 

© <D 

as 



X I 



a: i 



December 
January . . 
February . 

March 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August . . . 
September 
October... 
November 

Tear. . 



-0.8, 
-1.3 
0.4 
4.2 
10.0 
15.1 
18.6 
20.3 
19.6 
16.1 
10.5 
3.7 



-0.3 
-1.7 

0.1 

4.3 

9.9, 

15.1] 

18.81 
20.5 
19.7 
13.9 
10.0 
3.9, 



2.3 
2. 5 
2.2 
1.8 
1.7 
1.5 
1.2 
1.3 
1.3 
1.2 
1.4 
1.4 



-1.5 

-2.3 

-1.2 

1.6 

6.2 

11.4 

15.5 

16.9 

16.0 

12.2 

7.7 

2.5 



0.6: 

0.3 
2.6 
7.4 
14.0 
19.3 
22.4 
24. 3 
23.7 
20.4 
14.3 
5.5 



-1.0 

-1.6 

0.1 

3.6 

9.0 

13.8 

17.1 

18.9 

18.2 

14.8 

9.5 

3.3 



2.1 

2.7 
3.8 
5.9 
7.8 
8. 2| 
7.6 
7.9 
7.9 
8.2 
6.6 
3.1 



4.7 
4.9 
6.11 
7.8' 
9.6 

10.2 
9.9 

10.1 
9.7 
9.6 
8.3 
4.9 



9.7 
11.4 
16. 7 
23.9 
28.5 
31.5 
32.6 
32.9 
28.3 
23.2 
14.9 



-11.2 
-12.1 
-10.0 

- 5.9 

- 1.0 
2.7 
9.1 

11.0 
9.8 
4.9 
0.6 

- 5.9 



20.8 
21.8 
21.4 
22.6 
24.9 
25.8 
22.4 
21.6 
23.1 
23.4 
22.6 
20.8 



19.1 -22.6 2.0 
18. 8 1 -25.5 2.1 
20.0, -20.0 



24. rr 
28.8 
36.0 
37.8 
38.8 
37.5 
33.5 
27.1 
21.3 



0. 74 7. 1 



12. 9 8. 



5.9 8.0 33.9,-15.1, 49.0 



38.8 



-13.3 

-7.0 

-1.6 

3.8 

8.0 

5.6 

-0.6 

-6.8 

-15.0 



2.0 
1.8 
1.9 
1.8 
1.9 
1.9 
1.8 
1.7 
1.5 
1.8 



-25.5*1.9 



" II. The elements of radiant heat that are important as climatologic 
factors cannot be stated so definitely as are those of air temperature. 
It would appear that we need to know the energy and the totality of 
the two radiations, i. e., that received from the sun and that given out 
by terrestrial objects, but unfortunately thus far satisfactory observa- 
tions of these phenomena are almost wholly wanting; even the appa- 
ratus proper for the measurements is as yet too crude to be available for 
accurate work. The solar radiations possess no such differences among 
themselves as to justify the terms ' heat rays,' ' light rays,' ' chemical' or 



486 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1833 

' actinic rays ; ' they have variations of wave length and intensity, i. e. T 
rapidity and extent of vibrations, and one and the same ray will produce 
either or all of the above three effects (heat, light, chemism), according 
to the nature of the surface or body on which it falls. The energy or 
vis viva of a ray of a given wave length and intensity is proportional 
to the quotient of the square of the amplitude divided by the square of 
the wave length; it is the total radiant energy that is desired in climatic 
researches. The most recent observations indicate that the central part 
of the solar spectrum is most energetic not only in producing light, but 
also in respect to heat and chemical effects." 

Meteorology still has to deplcre the absence of sufficient observations of 
the optical, thermal, and chemical effects of solar radiation. The im- 
portance of insolation (the amount of direct sunshine) has long been rec- 
ognized by physicians, and by agriculturists, by its effect on animal and 
vegetable life. Of the instruments with which regular observations have 
been made in the effort to obtain comparative data, Hann mentions the 
"black -bulb thermometer in vacuo," as used by the English as of the 
first importance, andputsin the secondranktheArago-Davy actinometer. 
[We may be allowed to add that this can only be allowable by reason of 
the fact that no satisfactory study of these instruments has yet been pub- 
lished, and our author's decision will perhaps be reversed after the pub- 
lication of an exhaustive memoir by Ferrel, now in print.] 

"A record of phaenological phenomena, such as times of blossoming, 
fruiting, &c, gives some interesting results bearing on the insolation. 
The amount of heat reflected from the soil and water into the atmos- 
phere has been approximately measured by Frankland, Dufour, &c, 
and may amount to as much as 70 per cent. 

" III. The nocturnal cooling of the free surface of bodies due to radi- 
ation of heat is another important subject that as yet eludes direct 
observation. An approximation is sought by observing minimum radia- 
tion thermometers fully exposed to the sky, and whose bulbs are respect- 
ively on the ground and directly above a close-cropped grass lawn. 

" IV. The temperatures of the ground at the surface, and to the depth 
of one or two meters, constitute a most desirable climatological element. 

" V. The measurement of atmospheric moisture, both vaporous and 
condensed, ranks next to temperature in importance. The following 
items are desirable : 

*" (1) Monthly means of the absolute, and 

" (2) Of the relative aqueous contents of the atmosphere. The absolute 
measures are usually given in millimeters of vapor tension, but pref- 
erably in weight of vapor per cubic meter. The relative humidity is 
given in x^er cent. The ordinary observations with hygrometric apparatus 
give the aqueous vapor in the immediate neighborhood of the observer, 
and tell nothing as to the amount or tension at any considerable distance ; 
the relative humidity, with the temperature of the air and the wind, gives 
the evaporating power of the atmosphere, which has so great an influence 
on plants and animals. 






METEOROLOGY. 487 

" (3) The precipitation of moisture, as rain, snow, bail, dew, frost*- 
Under this head the following are desirable : (a) The monthly and an- 
nual sums of total precipitations of rain and melted snow ; (b) the max- 
imum precipitation per day and per hour ; (c) the number of days having 
one-half millimeter or more of precipitation, including dew or frost ; (d) 
the percentage of rainy days in each month or the probability of a rainy 
day ; the number of rainy days is a better indication of a moist or dry 
climate than the total rainfall ; (e) the number of days with snow, the 
depth of the snow covering, the duration of the snow covering, the dates 
of frost, and last snowfall ; (/) similar data for the days with hail ; {g\ 
similar data for the days with thunder-storms. 

tl (4) The precipitation of moisture as clouds. Under this head are 
important, (a) the amount of cloudy sky expressed in tenths or hun- 
dredths of the whole celestial hemisphere (the number of clear, cloudy, 
and threatening days does not seem sufficiently precise) ; (b) the per- 
centage of cloudiness is an ordinary substitute for the direct measure" 
of the intensity of solar radiation, and as it varies very regularly in 
diurnal and annual periods, it is desirable to give monthly means for 
three or more separate hours of observation ; (c) the thickness of the 
cloud layer is recorded by Campbell's sunshine recorder by the effect 
of a burning lens in charring prepared paper — this apparatus gives us 
the amount of clear sunshine whence we deduce the ratio of observed 
amount of strong sunshine to the greatest amount possible at the re- 
spective seasons and stations; (d) the number of foggy days, or the 
total number of hours of fog, and the times of forming and dissipating; 
(e) the number of nights or the quantity of dew. 

"VI. The wind affects humanity and equally the fauna and flora in 
innumerable particulars, but the comparison of observations, especially 
of force or velocity, is greatly hindered by the irregularities of methods- 
of observing. It is, however, possible to draw some comparative con- 
clusions from the following data: 

"(1) The monthly means (or totals) of wind velocity or estimated 
wind force. 

" (2) The frequency of winds from different directions (to eight prin- 
cipal compass points) ; this is most conveniently expressed in percent- 
ages of the total number of observations, or else the number of obser- 
vations of each wind is divided by the number of observations made 
each day, so that we receive as quotient the number of days that each 
wind has blown. 

" (3) The frequency of the winds for each hour of observation thus 
showing the diurnal changes in wind direction, this may generally be 
given for the annual sums instead of the individual mouths. 

"(4) The meteorological peculiarities of each wind direction as to/ 
(«) temperature, (b) moisture, (e) cloudiness, (d) probability of rainfall, 
are shown by the respective wind-roses (thermic, atmic, nephic, aque- 
ous) ; one such series of wind roses suffices to show the climatic char- 
acteristics of a large section of country. 



488 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

" VII. The atmospheric pressure and its variations are cliniatologic 
factors of secondary importance in strong contrast to the important part 
that these elements play in meteorology. The mean annual pressure may 
be given to within a millimeter as an index to the density of the air and 
the facility of evaporation, but the variations that occur at any locality 
are too small to have any direct sensible effect on animal and vegetable 
life. It is only as a basis for the explanation of the distribution of other 
climatic factors that we may need accurate barometric observations at 
numerons stations. [The marked effect upon many persons of a gradual 
removal of residence from lowlands to regions higher by several thousand 
feet is daily exemplified by the experience of the numerous invalids who 
resort to the Eocky Mountain plateaus and the higher portions of the 
Appalachian Eange. The freedom from noxious dust floating in the 
air and settling by its own weight or washed down by falling rain and 
snow, is, in the absence of direct observations, approximately indicated 
by the height of stations above sea-level or the annual barometric press- 
ure, combined with the height above lowlands in the neighborhood; 
these heights may of course be deduced from accurate barometric obser- 
vations.] 

"VIII. The total effect of temperature, pressure, humidity, and wind 
upon free water surfaces respectively in the shade and in the sun is to 
produce an evaporation the measure of which should be of the highest 
importance in climatology. The apparatus hitherto devised for measure- 
ments of the amount of evaporation are, however, apparently very un- 
satisfactory. [Some adopt instead the depression of the wet bulb as 
indicative of the total effect of the preceding causes upon a moist sur- 
face that is very similar to that of leaves — the human skin, &c. It is 
perhaps proper to consider the depression of the dew-point temperature 
as indicating the need the air has of moisture, but the elevation of the 
wet bulb above dew-point, as showing the rate at which this need is 
being supplied, and the elevation of the air temperature above the wet 
bulb, as showing the rate of strain that every surface is under in its 
effort to give up its moisture to the absorbing atmosphere.] 

"IX. (1) The constitution of the air, so far as its dry gases are con- 
cerned, is too uniform throughout the world to allow of its entering as 
a factor in studying climatic differences ; it varies but a fraction of 1 
per cent, from 21 volumes of oxygen and 79 volumes of nitrogen, with 
0.03 of one volume of carbonic-acid gas. The most important variable 
in the air is the amount of aqueous vapor (see V (1), above). The per- 
centage of volume of vapor to dry gases is given by dividing the tension 
of vapor by the barometric pressure. The result is, in extremely moist 
climates, equivalent to a dilution of the air to an extent of perhaps 3 
per cent, of its volume. Thus for Batavia in one volume of the dry gases, 
we should have oxygen 21.0, nitrogen 79.0 per cent., but in one volume 
of the whole atmosphere, oxygen 20.4, nitrogen 76.8, aqueous vapor, 2.8 
per cent. The direct effect of the slight change in oxygen must be im- 
perceptible. 



METEOROLOGY. 489 

" (2) Local or artificial impurities — dust, gases, or smoke from fac- 
tories, burning forests, volcanic eruptions, the salts due to ocean spray, 
dust due to roads, sandy deserts, &c. — can hardly be considered as be- 
longing to general meteorology, but are important in local climatology. 

" (3) More general and more important are the minute particles of dust 
that almost elude microscopic vision, and which are in reality spores 
or germs of organic life; to these are due the various processes of fer- 
mentation and putrefaction, and especially the large class of diseases 
known as miasmatic, which were formerly attributed to noxious gases, 
and to which all animal life is very susceptible. The warm, moist cli- 
mates are in general most favorable to these germs; they are compar- 
atively rare in very dry climates and over desert places; they are also 
rare over the sea and during sea breezes on the sea coast, and also after 
a rain has washed the atmosphere pure and brought down fresh air 
from above. [The effect of rainfall in dragging down the air which 
then flows outward from under the rain was fully recognized by Espy 
and Henry in 1S1 0, and has frequently been dwelt upon by the present 
writer, so that it can hardly be called a new observation, as is done by 
Hann on page 50. Experiments for the determination of the amount 
of air brought down were verbally suggested to Professor Pickering in 
1871 as a subject for experimentation by his students in physics.] 

" (4) Either ozone or the hyper-oxide of hydrogen, or possibly nitric 
oxide, is apparently at times efficacious in increasing the oxidizing 
effect of the air, the result being that all organic matter is destroyed 
thereby. The methods of observing these gases are, however, too un- 
certain to allow of comparison between different localities, or even dif- 
ferent portions of the same series. 

"(5) The electrical condition of the atmosphere is not known to exert 
any considerable direct influence upon life, nor have we even observations 
that would allow of comparisons of various localities in respect to the 
electric potential. This subject is therefore to be omitted, at least at 
present, from climatology, notwithstanding many popular expressions 
of belief in its importance. The occurrence of thunder-storms has al- 
ready been considered — see V (3), (g) — but this is because of other feat- 
ures than the electric phenomena. 

"X. Phaenologic observations have frequently been introduced as a 
guide to comparative climatology, but the fact that plants can accom- 
modate themselves to climatic peculiarities renders this a study that must 
be pursued very cautiously. As yet it has not been possible to state 
the dependence of the development of plant life upon temperature so 
securely as to allow of inversely inferring the temperature from the ob- 
served stage of development. However, such studies are not to be 
wholly discarded ; they are especially useful as indications of the cli- 
matic differences at different elevations on the slope of a mountain; 
also when a large number of special plants are studied they show the 
retardation of vegetation in northern regions. Thus, for example, the 
blossoming of plants in early spring is at Trieste, Gorz, and Villa Carlotta 



490 



SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1883. 



twenty to twenty-five days earlier than at Vienna, and at Paris nine days- 
earlier, but at Lemsberg sixteen days later, and Zlozow twenty-one 
days later. On the plateau of the Harz Mountains the retardation is 
thirty-four days, and the same also at Moscow. In the Alps, at 40i° 
north latitude, 1700 meters altitude, the retardation is forty-five days, 
or the same as at St. Petersburg. It is, however, p roper to consider such 
phsenologie observations as illustrations of climatic characteristics rather 
than as defining them." 

The following table gives for Vienna some of the preceding additional 
climatic characteristics. For want of space Hann omits the details or 
wind direction : 

Table II. — Additional climatic elements for Vienna. 





Aqueous vapor, obser- 
vations for 20 years. 


Rain and 
snow. 


Oo 

O 

CD Vt 

•3° 

'•J o 

» te 

a « 

O h 
_CD 
of > 

■3°"£ 

5 


Sunshine, aver- 
age of 3 years. 


a=° 

at u 
..o 

? 9 

P o S 

3°" 


.2 t-> 
o.o 

& . 

®<B 

a « 


Ozone ; 

Schonbein 
papers, on 
to 10 scale, 
' 20 years of 
observation. 


Months. 


a 
t-.2 

is 

as 
* 


Relative humidity. 


2 © 
S e 
eS fcfi . 
c3 GO 
«S CO c8 

gfcK 


> $ 
^ CO u. 
O £^- 

. I'.CM 


£ 00 

S3 '~ 

5 3 

"S o 
a; g 

>°.2 


O xi a 

o o 2 

t£P,£ 

a o) s 






it 




® a 
s « 

r ® 

H 3 


cl" 

A 


5 


December .. 
January . . 
February . . . 

March 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August 

September.. 
October. . , . 
November.. 


mm. 
3.7 
3.6 
3.8 
4.4 
5.7 
8.2 
10.0 
10.9 
11.0 
9.3 
7.2 
4.8 


p. et 
86 
87 
84 
81 
76 
76 
75 
75 
79 
82 
85 
84 


p. ct 
-.7 
77 
70 
58 
48 
49 
50 
48 
50 
53 
61 
72 


p. ct 
86 
86 
83 
76 
68 
71 
71 
70 
73 
75 
81 
83 


p. ct. 
83 
84 
80 
71 
63 
64 
64 
63 
66 
69 
76 
80 


mm. 
40 
35 
36 
43 
42 
64 
66 
65 
72 
45 
44 
43 


rf. 
12.4 
12.8 
11.2 
13.1 
12.3 
13.0 
12.7 
13.3 
11.8 

8.3 
10.6 
12.6 


7.3 
7.2 
6.7 

II 

5.1 
4.9 
4.5 
4.5 
4.5 
5.4 
7.4 


A. 

51.4 

86.1 

100.8 

141.8 

140.3 

221.4 

234.7 

290. 1 

212.5 

156.9 

69.3 

65.9 


J9. Ct. 

20 
31 
35 
38 
34 
47 
49 
60 
48 
42 
21 
24 


meters 
per sec. 
2.4 
1.7 
2.6 
2.2 
2.4 
2.0 
2.4 
2.2 
2.1 
2.0 
2.0 
3.0 


)nm. 
18 
13 
27 
39 
71 
87 
93 
113 
94 
77 
47 
32 


3.1 
3.2 
4.2 
4.2 
4.6 
5.2 
5.2 
5.3 
5.1 
3.9 
3.0 
3.0 


5.5 
5.8 
6.0 
6.2 
5.7 
5.4 
5.6 
5.3 
5.4 
4.5 
4.3 
5.1 


Year 


6.9 


80 


59 


77 


72 


595 


144.1 


5.7 


1771. 2 


37 


2.2 


711 


4.2 


5.4 



Having, in his introduction, thus defined our general conception of 
the range of climatology, Hann devotes 175 pages to a consideration 
of the principal features of the earth's climate — first, as depending on 
the solar radiation ; and, next, as modified by physical conditions, i. e., 
moisture, altitude, distribution of land and water. This section of his 
work constitutes a popular treatise on meteorology that is fit to form 
a separate treatise, and is by far the best at present extant, the only 
ones comparable for accuracy and clearness being that of Blanford in 
The Indian Meteorologist's Vade-Mecum. 

The remaining 550 pages of Hann's treatise are devoted to the de- 
scription of the special climatology of the zones and districts of the 
earth, constituting a very complete climate-geography. Through the 
whole volume are distributed occasional notes and pages dealing with 
the causes of atmospheric phenomena, so that the work is an indis- 
pensable and admirable preliminary to the study of, or development of, 
a systematic treatise on philosophical, deductive, and mathematical 
meteorology. 



METEOROLOGY. 401 

It may not be presumptuous to add that if the idea of climate is- 
to cover every kuown relation of the weather to human affairs, then 
there are still many important features only lightly touched upon by 
Hann that must be more fully considered than they have been even 
in this introduction, which we have so fully analyzed in the preced- 
ing lines. Some of these have indeed been taken up by the author 
in his subsequent chapters on general or special climatology, and we 
enumerate them here in order to direct attention to them, and at least 
partially complete our enumeration of what data are called for in a 
treatise on "climate." They are as follows: 

(1) Exhilarating and depressing weather is the effect of or may be 
represented as a function of the simultaneous temperatures (t), wind(r), 
barometric pressure (})), and relative humidity (/t), and is not fully ex- 
pressed by the enumeration of the simply hot and moist days, but must 
be determined by a special observation of the days in which the human 
organism experiences such special feelings as are defined by the expres- 
sions "closeness," "oppression," "weakening," "harshness," "rawness," 
"penetrating," "chill," "mildness," "softness," "balmy," "soothing," 
<* invigorating," "exhilarating," "stimulating," "nervous," "restless- 
"ness," "gloominess," "cheerfulness," &c. In the absence of this per- 
sonal or subjective record one may seek an approximate method by 
calculating such an arbitrary function of /, v,p, h as will give numerical 
results on a scale of to 10. Personal records of this character were 
kept at Washington by J. W. Osborne and others as early as 1873. 

(2) The number of general storm-centers that pass over a locality, 
and their general geographical distributions. As such storms are pre- 
ceded by southeast to southwest winds, warmer, cloudy and rainy 
weather, and followed by westerly winds, colder, clearing, drier weather, 
their frequency is directly indicative of the changeableness of the cli- 
mate, and presents in one datum a very concise summary of the features 
that bear on health, business, domestic life, forestry, and commerce. 
A map of storm frequency explains at a glance the distribution of north- 
west and southwest winds in the United States, and the peculiarities 
of our climate as given by Hann on page 556. Such charts were at- 
tempted by Espy in 1836, but actually compiled first by the present 
writer for the statistical atlas of the United States Ninth Census, Wash- 
ington, 1874. A general review for Europe and America has recently 
been given by Koppen. 

(3) The frequency of severe local storms, such as the tornadoes of the 
United States. (A first attempt at collecting these data is given by 
Finley. Professional Papers Signal Service jSTo. 4.) 

(4) The frequency of calms as causing poor ventilation, and being 
accompanied by stagnant or unwholesome air. 

(5) The durations of twilight and the general color of the sky by day, 
and the special colors at sunrise and sunset, as indicative of the reflec- 
tion, transmission, and absorption of the solar radiation. In the tropics, 



492 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



the blue sky is replaced by a white or opaline tint, and the total amount 
of light and heat thus diffusely reflected to the observer is one-half as 
much as that directly coming from the sun. The bluest skies are in- 
dicative of the absence of moisture, the reddest skies are apparently due 
to vapors or exceedingly fine particles of moisture or of dust, the white 
sky to the larger aqueous particles that are apparently of the size of the 
finest cloud or fog particles. 

(6) The number and extent of the sudden changes from warm and 
moist to cold and dry, or, vice versa, cold and dry to warm and moist, as 
distinguished from the general variability of these elements (shown for 
example in the next paragraph, without regard to the direction in which 
the change occurs. A few words on this subject by the author will be 
found in the Sanitary Eecord for July, 1879.) 

(7) The frequency and extent of changes in the mean temperature of 
successive days ; this is held by Hann to be the best way of express- 
ing the effect upon mankind of variability of temperature, and on page 
504 he gives the following valuable comparative table : 

Variability of mean daily temperatures, as shown by the frequency per month of 30 days of 
the occurrence on successive days of mean temperatures that differ by definite amounts. 



Geographical dis- 
trict. 


Northwestern Eu- 
rope. 


o 

P. 
o 

3 
K 

u 

1 


North and East Eu- 
rope. 


.2 

33 


"S 

53 

co 

a 
H 


-3 
© 

.Si 

°s 

CO <D 
© +a 
t- 
O 

w 


.a . 
1| 

-ft 

co 2 

p-S 

GO 


CO 

c3 
<C . 

00 o 

11 

w ft. 

■8 6 

•a 


Nu tnber of stations . 


3 


5 


5 


4 


4 


8 


5 


5 


Mean latitude ..... 


52°. N. 


48°. 8 N. 


56°. 3 N. 


55°. 4 N. 


54°. 7 N. 


39°. 6 N. 


34°. 1 S. 


42°. 9^N. 


Differences of mean 
temperature (de- 
grees centigrade). 


FREQUENCY IN WINTER. 


to 2 


17.5 
8.4 
3.1 
0.9 
0.1 


17.0 
8.5 
3.1 
1.0 
0.3 
0.1 


11.1 
7.6 
5.0 
2.8 
1.7 
0.8 
0.5 
0.3 
0.1 
0.1 


9.0 
7.1 
4.9 
3.5 
2.2 
1.5 
0.9 
0.4 
0.2 
0.2 
0.1 
0.03 


11.6 
9.0 
4.9 

2.7 
1.1 
0.5 
0.1 
0.1 


23.3 
5.4 
1.0 
0.3 


20.2 
7.6 
1.8 
0.4 
0.04 


9.9 


2 to 4 


8.2 


4 to 6 


5.2 


6 to 8 


3.2 


8 to 10 


1.6 


10 to 12 




1.0 


12 to 14 








0.6 


14 to 16 . 










0.2 


16 to 18 










0.1 


18 to 20 














20 to 22 














22 to 24 


































FREQUENCY IN SUMMER. 


to 2 


20.3 
7.8 
1.6 
0.3 
0.04 


18.2 
9.0 
2.2 
0.5 
0.1 


17.1 
8.9 
2.7 
1.0 
0.2 
0.1 
0.03 


16.4 
8.9 
3.0 
1.3 
0.3 
0.1 
0.04 


18.1 
8.3 
2.7 
0.6 
0.2 
0.04 
0.03 


23.3 
5.6 
0.8 
0.3 


17.6 
8.3 
2.8 
0.9 
0.3 
0.1 


17.4 


2 to 4 


9.1 


4 to 6 


2.5 


6 to 8 


0.7 


8 to 10 


0.2 


10 to 12 




0.1 


12 to 14 























METEOROLOGY. 



493 



(8.) The frequency of sudden irruptions of very dry winds (gen- 
erally but not necessarily cold) which by their desiccating power de- 
stroy tender vegetation, a factor that can of course be well presented 
by the changes from small to great daily evaporation or from great to 
small elevations of wet-bulb above dew-point temperature. 

In numerous suggestive notes Hann leaves the dry field of descrip- 
tive climatology proper and wanders a little over into the fascinating 
border-land of dynamic meteorology. Usually he thus intensifies our 
interest in the subject by the clear and satisfactory explanations. But 
confining ourselves to the problems of the future, we quote the following. 

The annual mean distribution of atmospheric pressure reduced to 
standard gravity and at sea-level and for all meridians is given for each 
5° of latitude in the second column of the following table : 



Mean annual — 



Latitude. 



Temper | 

FeTei l Pre88Qre - 
and 
Hann. 



Degrees. 
North 90 
85 
80 
75 
70 
65 
60 
55 
50 
45 
40 
35 
30 
25 
20 
15 
10 
5 




°C. 

—17.0 



—15.8 


—10.2 


— 2.2 


+ 6.5 


+ 14.4 


20.4 


24.3. 



Ferrel. 4 



26.8 



760.5 
700.0 
758.8 
758.2 
758.7 
759.7 
750.7 
761.5 
762.0 
762.4 
761.7 
7C0.4 
759.2 
758.3 
757.9 



Ratio of land 

to water. 

Foster and 

Dove. 



Per cent. 



48.3 



56.8 



56.3 



43.4 



30.8 



23.4 



758. 21. 6 20. 



Latitude. 


Mean annual- 


Ratio of land 

to water. 

Foster and 

Dove. 


Temper- 
ature. 
Ferrel 
and 
Hann. 


Pressure. 

Ferrel. 


Degrees. 

South 5 
10 
15 
20 
25 
30 
35 
40 
45 
50 
55 
60 
65 
70 
75 
80 
85 
90 


°C. 
"25.93 


m. 
758.3 
759.1 
760.2 
761.7 
763.2 
763.5 
762.4 
760.5 
757.3 
753.2 
748.2 
743.4 
739.7 
738.0 
(34)i 
(36)i 


Per cent. 

22.6 

20. 4 22. 6 

22.6 

22. 5 22. 6 

22.6 

20. 5 2 20. 5 

9. 7 9. 7 

4. I 2 4. 1 

3. 1 3. 1 

1. 9 2 1. 9 

1. 8 1. 3 


23. 5 3 


19. 2 3 
15. 6 3 
12.9 3 
10. I 3 
6.7 3 
3. 8 3 
0.3 s 




- 4.8 3 






- 8.2 3 






- 9.3 3 











1 Hann, Klimatologie, pp. 92, 93, and 742. 

'Dove, Zeit. Eidkunde, 1862, xii, and Hann, p. 90. 



3 Hann, pp. 92, 93. 

* Ferrel, Met. Researches, part 1. 



u The pressures here given agree with the distribution of the atmos- 
phere required by the mechanical conditions for the general circulation 
of the atmosphere as published by Ferrel in 1858 and 1860. We see 
that the pressure diminishes from either circumtropic latitude towards 
the corresponding pole, especially in the southern hemisphere, where 
the whirl around the pole can develop with the least disturbance. The 
zone of highest barometric pressure lies further from the equator in 
the northern than in the southern hemisphere (it lies in the former 
somewhat north of the 35th degree north latitude, but in the latter be- 
tween the 25th and 30th degrees south latitude), and the accumulation 
of air is less there since the process of circulation is more restricted 
and therefore less energetic. 

" This circulation of the atmosphere (delineated in the previous par- 
agraph according to Ferrel's views as given by him in his Motions of 



494 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1833. 

Fluids, &c.) is subject to au annual period. It is most intense in the 
hemisphere in which winter prevails, for in this hemisphere the differ- 
ence of temperature between tbe tropics and the higher latitudes is 
greatest, and therefore also the temperature gradient in the upper 
strata, which sets the circulatory current in action, and which latter, 
in its turn, brings into play the centrifugal forces. In the hemisphere 
that is enjoying summer the upper temperature gradient is slightest 
and the interchange of air between the tropics and the higher latitudes 
is feeblest. In general an accumulation of air exists always over the 
hemisphere that is enjoying winter. Since the northern hemisphere in 
its winter cools much lower than the southern in its, therefore also the 
upper currents of air are much stronger in the winter of the northern 
hemisphere than in the winter of the southern. The difference between 
the warmest and coldest latitudes in the northern hemisphere during 
its winter is about 60° C, while on the other hand for the winter of 
the southern hemisphere it is only about 40° C. Since, also, during 
the winter of the northern hemisphere the local temperature differ- 
ences between the oceans and the land are very great, reaching, indeed, 
nearly the same amount as the general difference between the tropics 
and the pole, therefore the local circulation attains its greatest inten- 
sity and is able to materially modify the general circulation. There- 
fore there develop over the warmer northern oceans, the permanent 
cyclones of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans and the anti-cyclones over 
the continents of Asia and North America. Parallel with this there 
is a more frequent and intense occurrence of smaller whirls — the ordi- 
nary cyclones — which, in the temperate zones, advance with the gen- 
eral movement of the atmosphere from west to east. This is therefore 
in general the season of the development of greatest activity in the 
movements of the earth's atmosphere, the greatest differences of press- 
ure and greatest variations of pressure occur, and with these the great- 
est variability of temperature. In the winter of the southern hemi- 
sphere no similar increase in the motions of the atmosphere is to be 
expected, since its cooling is not, by far, so great as that of the north- 
ern hemisphere. Therefore, also, the upper temperature gradient is 
not so marked, and consequently the intensity of the upper air cur- 
rents toward the pole. At the same time also the temperature differ- 
ences of the meridians and the local currents fail because the conti- 
nents in high latitudes are missing. Consequently the currents of the 
general circulation can develop themselves much more regularly and 
intensely, as we have already seen is indeed the fact. The difference 
in the movements of the atmosphere between winter and summer is 
much slighter. Therefore, also, the change in the variations of baio- 
metric pressure from one season to the other and its consequences. 
Equally must the variability of the temperature be less. In short, the 
whole meteorological regime assumes a more constant type and shows a 
smaller annual periodicity. In the equatorial region of the Atlantic 



METEOROLOGY. 495 

Ocean it has in fact been observed that above the trade winds more air 
is flowing at high altitudes (toward the pole) in that hemisphere in 
which winter is prevailing. Toynbee says that during the northern 
winter and spring the upper clouds above the trade winds move north- 
ward more frequently than in summer and autumn. The reverse is 
true during the winter of the southern hemisphere. 

" If the temperature of the tropic zone is subject to periodic changes, 
as Koppen has shown is probable, since periods of greater intensity of 
solar radiation follow parallel with the periods of greater or less fre- 
quency of solar spots, then must similar changes also exist in the gen- 
eral atmospheric circulation. At the time when the temperature of 
the tropics attains a maximum the descent of air in the upper strata 
from the tropics towards the pole is greatest and the circulation most 
intense. The low pressure in the equatorial belt will experience a fur- 
ther diminution, while the high pressure in the middle latitudes will 
increase, and in the circum polar regions the atmospheric pressure, in 
consequence of the increase in the rotating ring (vortex ring), will fur- 
ther diminish. The whole energy of the atmospheric movements will 
increase, but what influence this may have upon the temperature 
and precipitation in the middle and higher latitudes cannot easily be 
deductively inferred. On this point only investigations based upon 
sufficient observations can give satisfactory conclusions. 

" Recently, Blanford has called attention to a relation of this char- 
acter between the distribution of pressure in the tropics and in higher 
latitudes, in that he shows that the periods of low pressure in Indo- 
Australian tropical regions coincide with periods of high pressure on 
the northern Asiatic continent. Especially is this the case in winter. 
The air that flows at high altitudes out of the tropics streams towards 
and accumulates where the descent in the higher strata (the thermic 
gradient) is greatest. Since high atmospheric pressure (a maximum 
barometer) is associated with greater and permanent clearness of the 
sky, therefore also with greater radiation of heat outwards and cool- 
ing of the lowest strata of air in winter (origin of a local pole of cold), 
whereby conversely the thermic gradient and the inflow of air from 
above is again increased — it is thus quite possible that periods of great 
warmth and low pressure in tropical regions should correspond with 
periods of great winter cold in high latitudes. 

"The discovery of such relations between the temperatures of the 
tropical zone and the general weather of the middle and higher latitudes 
is one of the most important present problems of meteorology and com- 
parative climatology. We have already seen that the influence of the 
tropics is actively opposed to that of the temperate zone of either hem- 
isphere in its winter season in the ratio of 10 to G.5. The mean condi- 
tion as to temperature in the tropical zone on which depends the energy 
of the upper currents of air which become the prevailing ones in the 
temperate zone must, therefore, have the greatest influence upon the 



496 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

general character of the weather in the latter zone. Therefore, by the 
observations in the temperate zone alone we can never completely trace 
its weather back to its fundamental causes." 

'In closing our summary of Hann's important work we may be par- 
doned for referring to the great stride made during the past twenty 
years in our knowledge of meteorology, and to the Americans, Henry, 
Espy, and Ferrel, who have correctly penetrated to the ultimate causes 
and laws of the principal phenomena. Their views have a most pro- 
found influence in the daily work of the Weather Bureau of the Army 
Signal Office, and are amply illustrated in its daily maps and monthly 
reviews, and are now become the foundation of such works as the 
present by Hann. Especially has the present writer never ceased to 
urge the necessity of studying the atmosphere of the whole globe in 
one comprehensive chart. To this end the Bulletin of International 
Simultaneous Observations was undertaken, and it already offers data 
for solving the difficult climatological problems that Hann has so 
clearly set forth. Great mathematical problems delay the progress of 
the work ; as with Faraday in electricity, and many other physicists, so 
here, doubtless, the observational and inductive methods must always 
prepare the way for analysis, but on the whole they go hand in hand, 
first one step forward and then the other, as the parent teaches the 
child to walk, until finally both run together. (Hann, Handbuch der 
Klimatologie, Stuttgart, 1883.) 

Climate and agriculture. 

Friesenhof remarks, on the utilization of meteorology for agricultural 
purposes, that this may be divided into the following sections: (I) Cli- 
matology of the plants; (II) climatology of the region; (III) local me- 
teorological knowledge ; (IV) weather predictions; (V) crop predictions. 
Each of the five sections demands a special study, and a practical active 
system of agrarian meteorology must carry them all on simultaneously. 
One central station will not suffice to solve all the problems, but it has 
its part to fulfill about as follows: 

I. The climatology of plants includes the sum of all climatological ele- 
ments that influence their prosperity. The influence of each element 
and of their most varied combinations must be studied; in other words, 
an investigation of the relation of the plant to the climate wherever it 
is cultivated throughout the world. This will require the following 
meteorological data: The quantity and distribution of precipitation; 
temperature, winds, cloudiness, insolation, and dew; these can be ob- 
tained with sufficient accuracy from the records of the present meteor- 
ological stations. 

II. The climatology of the region gives information as to the unequal 
distribution of the individual meteorological elements in localities that 
are comparatively near together. This is the special problem of agri- 
cultural stations, and cannot be demanded of the central meteorological 



METEOROLOGY. 497 

institute. The latter deals with general problems over very extended 
territories, and cannot possibly go into minute detail. Excepting bar- 
ometric pressure, these agricultural stations should observe all the 
atmospheric phenomena. As many as possible are needed in every 
land, reporting to the central agricultural station. The most important 
subjects of observation are (1) rainfall, i. e., the quantity, time, and 
accompanying cloud motion; (2) temperature by means of self-record- 
ing maximum and minimum thermometers; (3) accurate notes of time 
and direction of thunder-storms, as well as the directions at which 
electric discharges are seen; (4) estimate of the dew, as none, light, 
moderate, heavy, very heavy; (5) maximum temperature of the air in 
the sun. If all of these cannot be observed, then the first item at the 
very least must be obtained. 

III. The local meteorological data differ only in form, not in kind, from 
the preceding. They include all climatic elements of any importance 
in agriculture; viz, (1) the pressure and its changes; (2) atmospheric 
moisture; (3) the temperature, its changes and extremes, both in shade 
and sunshine, and in protected secluded spots ; also in the earth at va- 
rious depths, and at slight depths under various kinds of superficial 
soil; (4) wind force and direction; (5) cloudiness and its influence in 
diminishing insolation, to which latter end, in addition to the ordinary 
scale to 10 of area covered by clouds, there should be an additional 
record (i. c, clear, somewhat obscured, moderately obscured, greatly, 
almost entirely, and entirely obscured), according to the measure of the 
deprivation of sunlight, and that, too, not only for the moment of obser- 
vation, but also the general average for the interval elapsed since the 
last record — in this regard the Campbell sunshine recorder is to be 
recommended; (6) precipitation, amount, times, and rapidity of fall; 
(7)dewmeasured'instrumentally; (8) evaporation; (9) ozone, although 
its importance is not yet evident. 

All these current values, as observed, should be compared with the 
normal mean values, and the results, together with a similar compari- 
son of agricultural and phrenological phenomena be fully published. 
The normal values should proceed by decades of days, as a month is too 
long, and daily means are not yet available. — {Z. 0. G. M., xvn, pp. 8-11.) 

The Deutsche Seewarte has published an important atlas, embracing 
thirty-six charts of the Atlantic Ocean, showing its physical relations, 
its commercial routes, &c. ; especially interesting to the meteorologist 
are the charts of depth, temperature of water, and meteorological phe- 
nomena which occupy two-thirds of the volume, and are followed by 
magnetic and other charts. The work offers the most exact and ex- 
haustive collection of scientific data accessible for the student of the 
physics of the Atlantic Ocean. (Z. 0. G. M., xviii, pp. 44 and 70.) 

Angot has published for Paris the diurnal variations and the ex- 
tremes of temperature and pressure and vapor tension, based on 
H. Mis. 69 32 



498 SCIENTI1IC RECORD FOR 1883 

seven years of direct hourly observations by Eenou at the observatory 
in the park of St. Maur. In "regard to this important work, Hann re- 
marks that it is notable that we have never before received for any 
part of France any similarly thorough work on diurnal variations, nor 
have we as yet any systematic collection of climatic data for France, 
such as corresponds to the need of modern climatology, and is well 
illustrated in his own admirable text-book. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 290.) 

Buchan has published in the new edition of the Encyclopaedia Bri- 
tannica, vol. xvi, a general popular treatise on meteorology as distin- 
guished from climatology. There seems to have been a widespread 
expectation that this treatise would be substantially a new edition of 
his famous handy book of meteorology, for which many have been 
waiting these ten years past; but it may be doubted whether the 45 
quarto pages of the Encyclopaedia, excellent as they are, will be consid- 
ered to replace the hoped-for volume; in fact, no satisfactory philo- 
sophical treatise on meteorology can now be written without having as 
a basis the works of Espy, Ferrel, Guldberg, Mohn, Hann, and numer- 
ous other mathematical students of the mechanical and physical ques- 
tions involved, and such studies seem to be as yet entirely ignored in Great 
Britain (Haughton, Everett, and Archibald alone excepted). In fact, 
the hopeless confusion of ideas that there prevails cannot be better 
illustrated than by the fact that this same Encyclopaedia divides me- 
teorology into two grand divisions, and allows the first as written by 
Buchan to be followed by a memoir (of 25 pages) on terrestrial mag- 
netism by Balfour Stewart. This second memoir is apparently a strong 
plea for the parallelism and interdependence of meteorology and mag- 
netism, the reader being throughout disarmed of all unreasonable pre- 
judice against this innovation by the frequent use of the expression 
"magnetic weather," lately adopted by Stewart, and by which is strictly 
meant the fact that magnetic phenomena (declination, dip, force, and 
their variations) present many analogies with meteorological phenom- 
ena. The author, in his closing section (144), considers that terrestrial 
meteorology has somehow produced and maintained the magnetic state 
of the globe, and that, therefore, they ought to be studied together, as 
the phenomena of the one will explain those of the other. 

If this latter view is the proper one to take, then we have Meteor- 
ology the fundamental science, magnetism one of its many applications. 
The magnetist must understand meteorology, just as with the stu- 
dent of the tides, of navigation, of geographical distribution of plants, 
of hygiene, of climatology, or of geology and vulcanology, for all 
these and many other sciences have intimately to do with meteorology. 
But it would be folly to say that these constitute parts of the study of 
meteorology any more than of astronomy, or that the meteorologist 
must necessarily study these. Meteorology stands in a general way as 
the fundamental or parent science for the whole range of studies em- 



METEOROLOGY. 499 

braced under the title of " terrestrial physics." Therefore we regret, not 
to have found Balfour Stewart's excellent article published in its proper 
place under " terrestrial magnetism," in a succeeding volume of the 
Encyclopaedia. 

Buchan's treatise is too short to do much more than touch upon the 
salient points of meteorology, which he declares to be restricted to the 
description and explanation of the atmosphere as grouped under the 
terms u weather" and "climate." In a few words relative to the histori- 
cal development of this study the author glances at the progress due to 
Humboldt, Dove, Loomis, Le Verrier. Perhaps it was impossible in the 
space at his disposal to do justice to all, but as the whole work is evi- 
dently written for the American and English public, and is not free 
from national prejudice, it seems strange that the great series of daily 
weather maps 1838 to 1843, published by Espy, and the great daily map 
of the Smithsonian Institution, 1854 to I860, should have been passed 
by in the following very misleading sentence: "The method of practi- 
cally conducting this large inquiry (the paths of storms) in the most 
effective manner was devised by the genius of Le Verrier, and begun to 
be carried out in 1858 by the daily publication of the Bulletin Interna- 
tional, to which a weather map was added in September, 1863." This 
paragraph seems to well illustrate the great difficulty of acquainting 
one's self thoroughly with what is going on in divers countries, and em- 
phasizes the importance of such indexes to the Bibliography of Meteor- 
ology as those of Hellmann (Leipsic, 1883) and Symons (not yet pub- 
lished). 

The wnole of this essay is divided into two capital sections — 
i. e., "Diurnal phenomena" and "Monthly annual and irregularly re- 
curring phenomena." Under this head the respective phenomena are 
treated of in separate paragraphs apparently quite independent of or 
with a very slight thread of interdependence. In the former of these 
sections the illustrative examples are so frequently drawn from the re- 
sults of observations made on the Challenger, or from the publications 
that are due to Buchan, that we almost forget the numerous able co- 
workers in this field. Among the new data and results not heretofore 
published or but little known, the following are worthy of mention: The 
depth below the surface of the sea to which the influence of the sun's 
heat is felt has been shown by the observations of the Challenger to be 
about 500 feet. The rate at which this heat is distributed in perfectly 
clear water at different depths is a problem that has not yet been 
worked out. During 1859 to 1863 Captain Thomas frequently observed 
hourly the surface temperature of the sea off the northwest coast of 
Scotland with the following results: Total mean daily oscillation of 
temperature, 0°.3 Fahr.; minimum, 0.17, at 6 A. M.; mean, 0.0, 10 A 
M. and 2 A. M.; maximum, +0.13, between 3 and 4 p. m. From the 
records of the Challenger Buchan deduces the results of simultaneous 



500 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



observations of sea and air temperatures as given in the first three col- 
umns of the following table : 

Observations on board H. M. S. Challenger, 1873-1876. 



Hoar. 



Departures from daily means of observations taken every 
two hoars. 



2a.m... 

4 a. m . . . 

6a.m... 
8 a.m... 
10 a. m . . . 

Noon 

2 p. m... 

4 p.m... 

6p. m... 

8 p.m... 
10 p.m... 
Midnight 



Temperatures. 



126 days in mid- 
ocean. 



Air. 



Sea- 
water. 



O J\ 

—1.13 

1.40 

1.41 
—0.21 
+0.78 

1.45 

1.80 
1.56 
+0.73 
—0.30 
—0.80 
—1.02 



O J7>. 

—0.24 
.33 

.29 

— .12 
+ .06 

.24 

.47 

.47 

.26 

+ .02 

— .19 

— .35 



76 days 
near land 



Elastic force of 
vapor. 



Air. 



-SI 

g = o 

•SJi 



o ]?. 



C Min. \ 
\— 2.05J 



Inch. 
— 0. 015 

020 

016 

007 
+ .004 



{£&} + •<>" 



+ .020 
+ .017 
+ .007 
+ .002 
— .005 
+ .003 



^5 ts i © ."ti ^ oo 

" 9 «8 



Inch. 
-0. 003 



.010 
.003 
.014 



.007 
.015 
000 
.004 
.005 
.007 



11 r. I* , 

■HIS 

.a .oo 



Perff. 

+2 

+2 

+1 



—1 



—3 

—2 
— 1 

+ 1 
+2 



U C d; 



O CD' 



p P-w 






Inch. 
—0.012 

— .022 

+ .003 
+ .028 
+ .032 

f .006 

— .043 

— .055 

— .028 
+ .004 
+ .013 
+ .012 



Force of wind. 



Open sea, f™[ 
650 days. LJ"^ 



Beaufort. 


Beaufort. 

1 


2.98 


1.74 


2.89 


1.68 


2.82 


1.66 


2.82 


1.73 


2.86 


2.00 


2.92 


2.29 


2.92 


2.36 


2.87 


2.30 


2.87 


2.02 


2.89 


1.74 


2.93 


1.68 


2.90 


1.75 



Pr. ct. 
59 

50 

62 
62 

58 



Thus the amplitude of the daily fluctuations of the air is 3.21, or 
nearly four times greater than that of the surface of the sea below it. 

Near the land on 76 days the daily range of air temperature was 
still larger. Part but not all of the observed greater range of air over 
the sea surface is doubtless owing to the effect of heating the vessel's 
deck, but the general fact remains as one of considerable interest. The 
diurnal variations at sea of elastic force of vapor and of relative hu- 
midity are shown by the fifth and sixth columns of the table drawn 
from the Challenger observations. The disturbance induced by prox- 
imity to laud is very notable. The land breeze delays the minimum va- 
por tension two hours, i. e., from 4 to 6 A. m., and the sea breeze pro- 
duces a secondary minimum, -f 0.007 at 2 p.m.; similar minima occur 
at Batavia and at Bombay, apparently owing to the same cause, namely, 
the mixing of descending dry air with the moist sea breeze. The diur- 
nal variation at sea of relative humidity is given in the seventh column 
and that of barometric pressure in the 8th ; the latter evidently repre- 
sents only a small portion of the whole series of observations at his com- 
mand; these however are quoted by Buchan principally as illustrating 
his explanation of the origin of the diurnal period in pressure. On this 
interesting though comparatively unimportant subject, Buchan has made 
a most extensive study, parte of which have been published some years 
ago, both inthearticle " Atmosphere" and inhis memoir in theEdinburgh 



METEOROLOGY. 501 

Philosophical Transactions. In the present essay he gives his latest 
views, devoting to the subject four pages or rather more space than 
would have seemed appropriate had he not paid such special attention 
to this subject. In the main, his argument is that the warming and ex- 
pansion of the atmosphere by the sun causes a compression or tension that 
increases until it overcomes the resistances due to the inertia and vis- 
cosity of air, when the latter by its expansive movement experiences re- 
lief and the tension diminishes until the accession of heat from all 
sources ceases. Moist air absorbs heat and expands more than dry, there- 
fore the diurnal fluctuation is greater over moist than over dry land, 
and is largest within 10° of the equator ; the sea surface temperature 
varies so little during the day that the diurnal fluctuation of pressure 
over the ocean is not entirely due to that temperature but to direct 
heating by absorption by the molecules of air and vapor. These ex- 
pansions are followed by contractions at night, and as the air cannot 
mechanically flow to and fro fast enough to fill the vacua, a consequent 
diminution of tension is observed. On land the heated ground imparts 
to the air a much larger diurnal variation of temperature, and by so 
much increases the barometric fluctuation which, other things being 
equal, is found to be greatest when the sky is clearest, i. <?., where the 
most sunshine reaches the earth, and least when it is covered with 
dense clouds and sunshine is cut off, being thus the reverse of what is 
observed over the open sea. [Although nothing is said about the diur- 
nal period due to the vapor thrown into the air by evaporation during 
sunshine, and abstracted by nocturnal cooling, yet such would seem to 
be equally important. The defects of this and all other similar theories, 
of which there are many, have long since led the present writer to 
abandon them, and in general adopt a view that he has frequently com- 
municated to others and referred to in various publications, i. e., that 
this periodicity in pressure is principally a dynamic phenomenon deduc- 
ible from Ferrel's formula for general and special atmospheric move- 
ments, whenever they shall have been satisfactorily developed into sine 
and cosine series, with the time as the argument. A matter however 
that at present offers more difficulties to the analyst than even the most 
complex of astronomical theorems relative to the motions of the heavenly 
bodies.] 

The Challenger cruise has also afforded Buchan excellent results as 
to the diurnal variations in the force of the wind at sea. In columns 9 
and 10 we give the force in Beaufort's scale numbers as read from 
Buchan's illustrative wood-cut. The diurnal curve shows no distinct 
uniform or reliable maximum or minimum on the open sea, but a marked 
maximum at 1 or 2 p. M., when near land. The diurnal variation in 
in the wind force or velocity thus depends largely on heating of earth 
and water by direct solar radiation, and the explanation of Espy aud 
Koppen is practically adopted by Buchan in saying that the ascension of 
the air during the day thus brings down portions of the rapidly moving 



502 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883 

upper strata, and communicates at least a portion of their greater 
velocity to the lower strata, or, as Buchan says, the influence of the 
higher temperature of the earth's surface is "to tend to counteract to 
some extent the retardation of the wind's velocity resulting from friction 
and from the viscosity of the air." [This explanation loses much of its 
force in cloudy weather, especially during extended heavy storms, when 
the wind velocity still shows a marked diurnal periodicity, but this has 
always seemed to the present writer explicable in consideration of the 
fact that the solar heat is then all absorbed at the upper surface of the 
cloud layer or of closely adjoining cumulus clouds and is doing its great 
work there, i. e., expanding them and evaporating their vapor particles 
and in both ways rendering them still lighter than the surrounding air; 
their ascensive force is thus increased, the up-draft of air from the earth 
the horizontal supplj winds, and the rotatory indraft, are increased, 
and thus the diurnal period in our winds is maintained; similarly the 
diurnal period in rainfall is maintained with a second maximum in the 
early morning hours due to radiation from upper cloud surface and con- 
sequent condensation of cloud particles into rain. Similarly the whole 
development of an extended storm passes through its diurnal period, 
including a periodic rise and fall of the barometric pressure due to the 
varying force of the wind and resulting whirl; all which, as has often 
been said, lies concealed in Ferrel's dynamical formulae.] 

The diurnal variation in the direction of the wind is illustrated by 
the following figures, whence we see that even at sea the influence of 
the sun in heating up neighboring lands or air masses makes itself visi- 
bly felt in this item : 

Mean wind direction. 



Challenger, 1873. 



2 a. M. to 6 A. M 
10 A. M. to 2 P. M 



In northeast trade 
regions. 



E. 47° N. 
E. 56° N. 



Mauritius observa- 
tory. 



4 a. M. 
1 P. M. 



E. 22° S. 
E. 7° S. 



The percentage of sky covered with cloud is given in the last column 
of the table of results of observations in the Challenger; the slight vari- 
ations do not seem to the present writer to exceed the probable uncer- 
tainty of the observations. The diurnal and annual variations in the 
times of the occurrence of thunder-storms, i. e., the hours in which 
thunder is heard, and which is, therefore, equivalent to the hours in 
which lightning occurs, and is quite distiuct from the attending rain, 
hail, or wind, is beautifully illustrated in the following table based on 
fourteen years (1859 to 1872) of observations at Ekaterineburg, Ural 
Mountains, which is given by Buchan without quoting the source (prob- 



METEOROLOGY. 



503 



ably Woeikoff or Wesseloffski), to which we add the hourly distribution 
of 162 tornadoes in the United States as given by Finley (also quoted 
by Buchan, without mention of source) : 



Hour ending — 



1 a. m 

2 a. m 

3 a. m 

1 a. m 

5 a. m 

6 a.m 

7 a. m 

8 a. m 

9 a. ni 

10 a. in 

11 a.m 

Noon 

1 p.m 

2 p. m 

3 p.m 

4 p. m 

5 p. m 

6 p. m 

7 p. m 

8 p. m 

9 p. m 

10 p. m 

11 p.m 

12 miduight 



Sums. 



Frequency of thunder-Btorme at Ekaterine- 
burg, 1859-1872. 



April. 



27 



May. 



2 
4 
8 
10 
6 
5 
6 
7 
5 
6 
3 
1 
1 



64 



June. 



5 
1 

1 

1 

2 

3 

2 

5 

4 

6 

8 

14 

19 

21 

22 

26 

24 

25 

15 

16 

14 

8 

6 

7 



July. 



5 
5 
4 
2 
1 
3 
3 
2 
4 
7 

12 
30 
25 
29 
35 
45 
33 
30 
20 
20 
14 
10 
6 
6 



255 | 351 



Aug. 



2 

1 

5 

4 

5 

5 

12 

15 

20 

9 

11 

10 

9 

6 

5 

5 

8 



144 



Sept. Year. 



15 



15 

8 

6 

6 

4 

6 

5 

10 

10 

19 

25 

53 

60 

74 

89 

101 

73 

75 

54 

52 

42 

29 

18 

22 



856 



<*H CD 
."S 






Year. 



5 
3 

4 
1 

7 
13 

• 47 
52 
17 

7 
4 



162 



g « 



Six 
years. 





1 

2 

1 

3 

20 

15 

13 

3 

1 







59 



From these and other considerations Buchan concludes: "Given an 
initial difference of electric potential, it is easy to understand how the 
most violent thunder-storms are produced." 

"The formation of the electrical manifestations of the thunder-storms 
and tornadoes requires aqueous vapor and that there shall be masses of 
descending cold air along with the ascending current of warm moist air; 
thus at Mauritius there are no thunder-storms so long as during June, 
July, August, and September the island remains in the heart of the 
southeast trades where the conditions of descending cold currents of 
any considerable volume are not present." In our present almost utter 
ignorance of the actual electric potential of the air and vapor as dis. 



504 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

tinguished from that of the clouds, the earth, and the apparatus, it 
would seem best for the meteorologist to await the studies of the 
physicists and refrain from advancing crude explanations. Observa- 
tions and inductions are always in order; working hypotheses are very 
helpful as suggesting further observations and study, but they should 
not be put forward as satisfactory explanations. Perhaps the most 
important new contribution in this essay is Buchan's new charts, based 
on the eleven years, 1870 to 1880, and giving the January and July 
isotherms, isobars, and winds; these must immediately replace his older 
ones of 1868, and even those of Ferrel, Met. Kes., Part I, (1877,) after ap- 
plying the reduction of barometer to standard gravity, which has been 
omitted by Buchan. 

In his comments on these charts our author seems not to clearly 
state the mechanical problem of the connection between isobars and 
winds; he says, "Winds set in from where there is a surplus to where 
there is a depression of air, and observations teach that the isobars and 
the prevailing winds are in accordance with each other," and in his sub- 
sequent detailed exposition of these accordances the fact seems to be 
lost sight of that our winds are primarily due to differences of temper- 
ature and moisture as affecting density, and that from the winds and 
the rotation of the earth follows the distribution of pressure, as shown 
on his valuable maps, whose isobars are, therefore, the result, not the 
cause, of the winds. 

Thisdynamicphenomenon, so ably exposed by Ferrel, Babinet, Everett, 
Hann, Finger, Sprung, Thiesen, Both, Overbeck, Guldberg, and others, 
will, we hope, ere long be accepted by English meteorologists. In such 
sentences as, "differences of pressure and consequently all winds, origi- 
nate in changes of temperature, &c.,"or, "all winds may be regarded as 
caused directly by differences of pressure," Buchan alludes to differ- 
ences measurable by the barometer as is generally the case in storms, 
and known as barometric gradients, whereas these gradients are tbe 
result and not the cause of the wind, the true cause being the very slight 
gradients of pressure due to differences of density ; these fundamental 
gradients are very slight, and in the exact direction of the wind, while 
the resulting ordinary barometric gradient is measured perpendicular 
to the isobars, and therefore frequently at a considerable angle to the 
wind. 

It is impossible for one familiar with recent advances in dynamic mete- 
orology to accept the explanation that Buchan offers of the cause of the 
general low pressure over the sea in winter and the land in summer, 
and perpetually at the equator and poles, based on the simple principle 
that moist air is lighter and that the condensation of moisture leaves a 
perceptible vacuum. "Air charged with vapor is specifically lighter than 
when without the vapor ; the condensation of vapor in ascending air is 
the chief cause of the cooling effect, being somewhat less than that which 



METEOROLOGY. 505 

would be experienced by dry air. From these two principles, which 
were established, the former by Dalton and the latter by Joule and Sir 
William Thomson, it follows that the pressure of vapor in the air and 
its condensation exercise a powerful influence in diminishing the press- 
ure." In this sentence the two principles are correct, and due to the 
physicists named, but the conclusion is Buchan's, and, as stated, does 
not follow from these principles, but from others, about which he is 
silent. 

[If there were no vapor at all in the air, and were the seas replaced by 
polished silver and the continents by dry rock, we should still have 
a similar general distribution of pressure, due then, as now, not to vapor 
in and of itself, but to the winds that will themselves be produced by 
unequal distribution of temperature and density. That the condensa- 
tion of vapor to fog and rain does not directly produce a diminution 
of barometric pressure has been thoroughly demonstrated'. On the 
contrary, the latent heat evolved by condensation of vapor expands 
the air so much that a decided increase of pressure should result. The 
simple truth is that ascending currents must be followed by inflowing 
descending and horizontal currents to fill the vacancy. These soon 
set up a whirl, and the barometer falls as a result of the centrifugal 
forces developed by the two motions, i. e., about the earth's axis and 
about the center of low pressure. It is therefore very improper to say 
that the air flows inward because of the great observed barometric 
depression, or that the presence or the condensation of the aqueous 
vapor causes the depression.] 

[Buys Ballot's law of wind and pressure, as worded by Buchan, is the 
expression of the concordance of two results, and is not an expression 
of physical laws connecting cause and effect. It is a rule, not a law. 
The frequent mention of Buys Ballot's law by Buchan and others, 
especially English writers, long since led the present writer to look up 
the history and bibliography of this rule, and it will perhaps be a mat- 
ter of surprise to many to find that Buys Ballot himself never pub- 
lished or claimed it in anything like its present form. It would be 
much more proper to attribute the law as first enunciated by Buchan 
in 1866 to Buchan himself or to the cyclonologists Keid, Piddington, 
Bedfield, &c, and attach Buys Ballot's name merely to his own rule, 
namely: "In Holland, when on any day the barometric departures 
from normal values indicate a gradient between any two stations, then 
within the next twenty-four hours the wind will blow nearly at right 
angles to that gradient, and irom left to right if one's face be towards 
the lower barometric reading."] 

In his section on the connection between steepness of barometric 
gradient and velocity of attending windb, Buchan gives recent results 
for 8 A. M., deduced by Whipple from the continuous auemometric 
records at Kew Observatory for 1875 to 1879, inclusive, as compared 



506 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



with the gradients on the morning weather-maps of the London Meteor- 
ological Office, as shown in the following table : 



Gradient. 


Wind velocities at Kew. 


Barometric change in 
15 nautical miles. 


Barometric change in 
circle. 


1° of great 


Mean of the year. 


Inches. 






Milea per hour. 


0.002 


0.008 




5.0 


0.005 


.020 




7.0 


0.007 


.028 




7.5 


.010 


.040 




9.2 


.012 


.048 




11.6 


.015 


.060 




12.6 


.017 


.068 




15.0 


.020 


.080 




16.5 


.022 


.088 




19.1 


.025 


.100 




22.0 


.027 


.108 




22.0 


.030 


.120 




25.5 


Mean.. .016 


0.064 


14.4 



Relative velocities for the same gradient. 

October, November, December 12.5 miles per hour. 

January, February, March 14.8 miles per hour. 

April, May, June 17.2 miles per hour. 

July, August, September 12.6 miles per hour. 

The year 15.7 miles per hour. 

The increase of velocity in April, May, and June, Buchan explains as 
due to the fact that the wind blows over a surface warmer than itself. 
The variations are precisely parallel to the diurnal velocity of the wind 
where also the greatest velocity occurs when the air blows over sur- 
faces warmer than itself, "and the ascensional movement of the air 
tends to counteract the effect of friction and viscosity between the low- 
ermost stratum of the air and the ground. At night-time there is a 
deep descensional movement, and the friction between the wind and 
the surface of the earth is thereby increased." It would seem that Bu- 
chan has here joined together as cause and effect phenomena that are 
only very indirectly related to each other. We have little or nothing 
to substantiate the idea that gaseous friction and viscosity diminish 
sensibly with rising temperature. It would seem much simpler to 
adopt at once the rigorous demonstration and clear explanation of 
these two phenomena given by Ferrel and Koppen. 

J. A. Plumandon, adjoint meteorologist at the observatory of Puy- 
de-D6me, has published an excellent popular work on the prediction 



METEOROLOGY. 507 

of weather, especially for central France, from which we take the fol- 
lowing notes for observers at isolated stations : 

The prediction of weather depends upon the possibility of discover- 
ing the existence, the position, and the future progress of areas of low 
and high barometric pressure. The directiou of motion of the clouds 
is the direction of the true wind that has important meteorological in- 
fluence. The number of days that fine weather will last after the barom- 
eter has slowly risen is equal to the number of days that has elapsed 
between the preceding bad weather and the time of maximum pressure* 
The approach of very violent storms is indicated, (1) by a very sudden 
fall of barometer when the barometer is already quite low; (2) by the 
backing of winds and clouds towards the southwest and south;* (3) 
by the more or less complete but sudden disappearance and reappear- 
ance of clouds previously covering the sky ; (4) by the rapidity with 
which the lower clouds traverse the sky; (5) by the presence of special 
clouds of an opaline whiteness that form in the region of the sky from 
which the wind blows. 

Thunder-storms are not local phenomenon, as was long supposed. 
They are a consequence of the general state of the atmosphere; the 
storm that devastates a single county is the result of atmospheric con- 
ditions over the area of several states. " The study of general depres- 
sions furnishes one of the best means of predicting thunder-storms two 
or three days in advance. The forecast is infallible if the approach of 
one of these depressions combined with the general situation of the 
atmosphere gives rise in our section to a belt of almost uniform press- 
ure." It has been observed that at every season of the year the sky as- 
sumes a stormy appearance as soon as the pressure becomes uniform in 
central France. This uniformity of pressure may be considered as emi- 
nently proper for the production of thunder-storms in the zone where it 
manifests itself without the zone being subject to the direct action of a 
center of low pressure. Thunder-storms rarely occur when the barom- 
eter is high. 

The approach of a period of thunder-storms is announced by a fall of 
the barometer, by copious dews, and by very pronounced maxima and 
minima of temperature. Cumulus clouds do not always bring storms. 
Often, on tbe contrary, they accompany a long period of fine weather. 
Wlien this is the case they are less developed and traverse the sky iso- 
lated, like balls of cotton. They disappear after sunset to reappear on 
the morrow at 9 or 10 o'clock in the morning. If they appear in the 
evening after sundown it is a sure indication that the weather is about 
to be stormy. 

The torrential rainfalls accompany thunder-storms or secondary de- 
pressions that are but slightly developed. The general rains of long 
duration in France are produced principally when a depression of low 
gradient prevails or a series of small depressions succeed each other 

•These directions for France would become northeast and east on our Atlantic coast. 



508 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1893. 

rapidly. Rain may come with any wind, but principally with those be 
tween southwest and northwest; for France these are from the ocean, 
but for our Atlantic States the rain winds are from northeast to south. 

Fogs frequently arise when a warm current succeeds a cold current 
or the reverse. They last longer in the second case than in the first. 
They always accompany the zones of high pressure when these zones 
are narrow and elongated between two depressions. 

The heat increases or the cold is tempered every time the barometer 
undergoes a notable depression, for at such times southerly winds pre- 
vail; cold weather comes with high barometer and the attending north- 
erly winds. 

Two kinds of hail are to be distinguished: (1) The hails of winter; 
(2) the hails of autumn and spring. Disastrous frosts coincide with 
short periods of fine spring and autumn weather, and are frequently 
produced by terrestrial radiation alone. The frosts of autumn and spring 
are easily foreseen two and even several days in advance. They are to 
be feared, (1) after a depression has passed over England and France, 
and (2) when a depression exists in the Mediterranean Sea. 

A remarkable case of nocturnal radiation occurred on July 29, 1881, 
in the middle of a long period of oppressive heat; the temperature was 
38° centigrade in the sun, and fell daring the night to 2°.3 centigrade. 
This reduction during clear nights has led many to erroneously suppose 
that the moon is the cause of the frosts, an error that is now happily 
being rapidly dissipated. 

III. — APPARATUS AND METHODS. 

Hamberg describes a modification of Lamont's earth thermometer 
that he uses in Sweden, and which for moderate depths may be recom- 
mended elsewhere. The thermometer proper is enveloped in glass and 
wood and muslin pads, both to protect it from injury and to cut off 
rapid changes of temperature. It is let down through a copper tube 
into the mercury contained in an iron cylinder fastened at a proper 
depth, and is pulled out, read off, and returned whenever an observa- 
tion is made. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, 116.) 

Sprung having devised a simple form of self-recording balance ba- 
rometer, described already in 1876, has lately published results of 
actual records as a demonstration of the high degree of accuracy attained 
by it. The formula of reduction for instrumental corrections as given 
by Sprung is exceedingly simple. The accuracy claimed is expressed 
by the "probable error" (or the error whose size is such that it is equally 
easy to make a smaller or larger error, — or one whose probability is 
0.5), which is ± 0.11 mm , as determined by comparative readings of a 
standard barometer, but only ± 0.07 if determined by independent 
comparative readings of the barometer belonging to the barograph 
itself, a part of the difference being due to the sluggishness of the 
latter. A peculiarity of Spruug's barograph is that the special appa- 



METEOROLOGY. 509 

ratus for registration works with perfect correctness, and without injuri- 
ous reflex action upon the accuracy of the barometer proper; it is sur- 
prising that many pieces of self-registering apparatus are still used in 
which this i mportant condition is neglected. 

The probable error of the self- registering Hasler barometer (Wild's), 
at St. Petersburg, has only lately and after several years of experience 
been brought down from 0.23 in 1871 to 0.085 in 1878, and this by virtue 
of many laborious computations and reductions. The probable error of 
the Schreiber baro-thermograph is still about 0.21. In general the per- 
formance of Sprung's balance barograph — with sliding rod and sliding 
weight, and invariable position of barometer tube — has proved thoroughly 
satisfactory, and proves it to be an exception to the statement of Dr. 
Schreiber, in December, 1881 (Z. O. G. M., xvi, p. 500), that all other sys- 
tems of registration, except those depending on the motions of the 
barometer, are mere methods of interpolation. The insulation of the 
recording and the measuring portions of the apparatus as accomplished 
by Sprung has been applied by him to thermometers, rain-gauges, &c. 
[Was it not first applied to meteorological apparatus by G. W. Hough 
at Albany, in 1861, whose printing barograph and thermograph still 
serve as the typical apparatus, though by no means giving such accu- 
rate results as those of Wild, Schreiber, and Sprung.] (Z. O. G. M., 
xvn, p. 46.) 

Crova has described a modification of Eegnault's dew-point hygrom- 
eter, which promises to give highly accurate results. Crova draws the 
air to be examined into the interior of a highly-polished tube, whose 
outer surface is cooled by evaporating ether or other processes, and 
whose temperature can be determined by a thermometer immersed 
therein. The dew is deposited on the interior of the polished tube, 
and its appearance and disappearance can be accurately detected. 
(Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 374.) 

Mignon and Kenard describe a condensation hygrometer so arranged 
that all the vapor present in the air is precipitated and is collected in 
a special vessel for measuremeut. Fonvielle suggests that this instru- 
ment is especially adapted to collect for investigation the dust parti- 
cles swimming in the atmosphere, and that interesting results would 
be obtained by such apparatus on balloon voyages among and above 
the clouds. {Z. O. G. M., xvn, p. 375.) 

Stellung and Wild have devised a form of evaporimeter which floats 
in a river or basin of water, thereby preserving the evaporating water 
at the same temperature and as nearly as possible under the same con- 
ditions as the main body of water in the river itself. The quantity of 
water evaporated is accurately measured to one-twentieth of a millime- 
ter. When rain falls and fills the evaporating dish above a certain level 
the surplus is carried into the interior of the apparatus and can subse- 
quently be poured away ; if rainfall is too heavy, in consequence of 



5 lH SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

-which the whole apparatus would sink beneath the river, then it is sup- 
ported by two wires. (Z. 0. Q. M., xvn, p. 3G7.) 

Th. Langer publishes comparative observations with four Piche evap- 
orimeters exposed under various conditions : (1) in free sunshine and 
wind; (2) freely near a large mass of water; (3) shaded by tree or 
house ; (4) within a shelter. The relative quantities evaporated were : 
100, 98.3, 98.5, and 62.0, respectively. Langer concludes that for the 
sake of uniformity it will be advisab e to use only evaporimeters lo- 
cated within shelters, as thereby the variations due to temperature of 
the water in the tube are greatly diminished. [As the direct effect of 
sunlight or solar heat upon the water in Piche's tube can easily be obvi- 
ated by adapting a small shade, there seems no reason why the whole 
apparatus thus shaded should not be hung in a free exposure to the 
wind, whereby the above relative percentage of 62 would undoubtedly 
be increased.] (Z. 0. 0. 3L, xvn, p. 375.) 

Of all the recent contributions to hygrometry, the short memoir of 
April 8, 1883, by Pernter, "Psychrometer Studien" (Sitzungsberickt of 
the Vienna Academy, vol. lxxxvii, 2 Abtheilung), is so excellent a sum- 
mary of the present state of our knowedge of this subject that the fol- 
lowing historical and critical portions are worthy of being reproduced 
in this place : 

"In recent times the psychrometer has been again much studied, 
since we have endeavored, both theoretically and experimentally, to 
arrive at a more accurate formula for the computation of the atmos- 
pheric moisture from the psychrometric data.* By the assistance of the 
Eoyal Academy of Sciences of Vienna it was also made possible for me 
to institute comparisons of psychrometers on the Ober at an altitude of 
2048 meters above the sea-level. The apparatus that I applied to this 
purpose were: (1) a Wild's ventilation psychrometer; (2) a Regnault's 
dew-point hygrometer; and (3) a Schwackkofer's volume hygrometer." 

[As these observations extended only over a few weeks, and were con- 
fessedly unsatisfactory, I need give only the following abstract of this 
portion of Pernter's memoir : 

" Let t — dry -bulb temperature in Celsius degrees. 
V = wet-bulb temperature. 
t — observed dew point temperature. 
p = true atmospheric vapor tension corresponding to to. 
Pi = the vapor tension corresponding to t'. 
P = atmospheric pressure in m m." 

* Blanford, Journal Asiatic Society of Bengal, vol. xxv, part vi, 1876. 
Chistoni, Memorie e Notizie Meteorologiana Italiana, anno 1878, fasc. 1, 2, and 5. 
Chistoni, Annali della Meteorologi, Part I, 1880. 
Sworikin, Repertoriuni fur Meteorologi, vii, No. 8, 1881. 
Angot, Jonrnal de Physique, 2d series, 1882, No. 1, p. 119 

Maxwell and Stefan, Zeitschrift d. osterreichischen Gesell. Meteorologie, bd. xvi. 
(Maxwell's original study is published in the Article Diffusion, Encyclopedia Bri- 
tannica, 9th ed., vol. VU.) 



METEOROLOGY. 511 

Assuming t to be the true air temperature and the p to be correctly 
given by t , we have the ordinary psychrometer formula of August — 

Po=Pi — A (t — h)P, whence, A = — ,f°__ ^ p 

Thirty observations of the dew-point and psychrometer gave Pernter 
A = 0.0010415, or considerably larger than as deduced from observa- 
tions at low altitudes. Pernter further considered that a similar re- 
sult, A = 0.001284, deduced from eight observations with the Schwack- 
hofer hygrometer, justifies at least the general conclusion that the 
factor A increases with diminution of pressure.] 

" The object that such comparative observations always have is to 
construct empirically a formula whose application to psychrometric ob- 
servations will give the tension of atmospheric vapor with the greatest 
attainable accuracy. Eegnault, long ago, and since him others, have 
shown that the theoretical deduction of the psychrometer formula gives 
no satisfactory result, and thus it might appear that one would do best 
to renounce the theory and simply seek an empirical formula that shall 
correspond to the results of observations. I, however, believe that it is 
precisely the theory of the psychrometer that gives the best starting- 
points, in order, with help of comparative observations, to arrive at a 
satisfactory formula, and I must therefore introduce some theoretical 
views. 

"From theoretical considerations we possess two forms of the psychrom- 
eter formula — the one deduced from the convection, the other from the 
diffusion and conduction theory of this instrument. It was August who 
first deduced his familiar-formula from the theory of convection. Max- 
well repeats this concisely in the following manner [see the reference be- 
fore given ; but it should be noticed that the following is merely Max- 
well's exposition of Dr. Apjohn's reasoning. See Trans. Royal Irish 
Academy, 1834.] 

Let m = the mass of a quantity of atmosphere. 
t = temperature " " " 

p = true tension of the aqueous vapor. 
P = total barometric pressure. 
a = the density of aqueous vapor relative to air. 
A = the latent heat of evaporation. 
Then will 

-?? m (X = the mass of the vapor in this quantity of atmosphere. 

Let 

Pi = the vapor tension corresponding to the temperature If 
to which the wet thermometer sinks ; then will 

(Pi — po) -p- = the quantity of aqueous vapor evaporated from the wet 

bulb, and 

{pi —Po) -p- A = the quantity of heat necessary to such evaporation. 



512 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Iii the condition of equilibrium this amount of heat will be conveyed 
(to the wet bulb) from the quantity m of air with specific heat S that 
flows past the wet-bulb thermometer ; therefore, 

m (t-t>) S=(Pi-Po)^ A 

or — 

Po=Pi-~ ff (t-t') .... (A) 

In this reasoning a small quantity has been neglected, which, how- 
ever, as can be easily shown, is entirely negligible.* 

* In respect to the individual cases of deduction of this formula, as 
given by August himself, and by Belli (Gorso di Jisica esperimentale ; 
Chistoni, Formale psichrometrische, Zeitschrift /. Met., xvi, p. 81), I con- 
sider it important to demonstrate that with all the accuracy demanded 
by August and Belli, the above formula, as deduced by Maxwell, is 
equally accurate. 

August (Pogg. Ann., bd. v, p. 77) considers that aqueous vapor is also 
contained in the air that is flowing to the thermometer, and he intro- 
duces air and vapor according to their weights into the formula. If, 
then, p is the normal weight (at 0°C, and 760 mm ) of the unit volume of 
air, we have — 



Weight of the dry air = „ t * P 



7G0 ' I -{-at 

Weight of the original aqueous vapor = J!l p g - 

700 1 + at 

Weight of the evaporated aqueous vapor = ^~^- p g 



760 ' l + ati 

Therefore, if the specific heat of aqueous vapor under constant press- 
ure is fc, the above formula for the condition of equilibrium becomes — 

(P - Pl ) S (* -t') + Po( rJc(t-t') = ( Pl -po) A G 
or — 

Let us assume ^J- = ^, as is certainly allowable [in the first term], and 
we have — 

rlO-^-Tr.O*-*-*-* • • - (B) 

[We can estimate the accuracy of this approximation by the follow- 
ing considerations] : in the most unfavorable cases ^ may equal 0.02; 
Tcg 



( 1 — -^ ) is a constant, and equals — 0.26, and therefore in the most 
unfavorable case 

^(\-lc^\ = -0.0052 

or the entire bracket equals 1.0052, and can therefore be put at unity, 
and the formula remains as given in the above text. 

Belli really deduced his formula uader the same assumptions, it is 
therefore, a priori certain that it will lead to the same results ; since, 



METEOROLOGY. 513 

In this reasoning (of August, Apjohu, and Maxwell) no attention has 
been given to the iuflueuce of radiation ; if one had considered this, then, 

however, Cbistoni ascribes to it high importance, I will show that it also 
reduces to the formula given in the text : 

Belli starts with the masses of air and the vapor instead of with the 
weight, as did August. Let m be the total mass of both; the ratio of 
the masses of air and aqueous vapor is as P— p to p ff so that the mass 
of the air is 

m (P—p ) 
P — fo+i>off 
and the mass of the vapor is 

mp ff 

P — Po + Po <r 
and the sum of both is m. When the air has cooled to <', and becomes 
saturated with vapor, then the new vapor-mass p x is to the mass of air 
which has remained unchanged, and is still 

m (P —p ) 

¥—Po+PoG 
as Pi 6 is to P — p x : whence 

Pl ~ m & G P-ffo 

P — p +p off - P_ Pl 

and therefore the mass of the newly developed vapor is 



v-p + Poa ( K w=p-; Pl - p °J 



we have, therefore, as the equation for the permanent maintenance of 
this condition 

(p-^f^ 1 ~P^) Xff = t( p -Po) S + P»<? k] ( t - V) 
or 

Since, now, ^ — i- ft , is only a little larger than unity and is in the most 
P— j?i 
unfavorable case 1.01, and since the expression 

i-?(i-£) 

is also, as before shown, only a little greater than unity, we can, there- 
fore, certainly replace each by 1 considering that in the result for p the 
hundredth part can never be exact and is not even necessary, ami thus 
there remains again the expression given above in the text. 

I have not disdaiued this presentation, trivial as it may seem, because 
it frequently seems as though a psychrometer formula is considered as 
better the more complicated it is, and especially because Cbistoni only 
recently (see his treatise above cited) has claimed for the formula of 
Belli an advantage over that of August, and declared it as the best that 
at present exists. 

The formula of August, as well as that of Belli, are both based on the 
consideration of convection, and by omitting the radiation give abso- 
lutely the same result. Therefore, theoretical considerations will not 
prove the more complicated formula to be the more accurate. 
H. Mis. 69 33 



514 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1888. 

since the radiation (I) can be put = OK (t—f), where O = the surface 
and R = the coefficient of radiation, we should have had 

OR (*-/') + mS (*-*) = (Pi -Po) ^- 

or, 

PST OR-1 _ 

^=^->L 1 + H5j (*-*') < D) 

[This is, therefore, the Pernter-Maxwell formula, in which convection 
and radiation are both considered.] 

The deduction of psychrometer formulae under the assumption of 
perfectly calm air (i. e., neglecting convection and considering only 
radiation, conduction, and diffusion) has been completely given by 
Maxwell,* and Stefan ,t and they have arrived at the following expres- 
sions, respectively: 

Maxwell, . . . lh=Vl -™(* + ^ ( , -V) (E) 

Stefan, p. = i> 1 -^_(K+Er) (t-V) (F) 

which latter becomes the same as the former if we put K' = -^, i. e., 

Maxwell-Stefan, . . . #o=i>i-^(p4-^T) {t-V) (G) 

In these equations we have [assumed the thermometer bulbs to be 
spherical and of radius r, and] put 

p = the normal weight of the unit of volume of the air; 

K = the coefficient of conduction of the air : 

D = the coefficient of diffusion of aqueous vapor in the air. 

Since, now, K' = -g = 0.18, according to the experiments and com- 
putations of Stefan, and D is also = 0.18, according to the statement of 
Stefan, therefore the formula deduced for quiescent air acquires thf* 
same form, i. e., 

PS/- Rr\ , 
2>o = *i- 17^ + ^ (*-*') (H) 

as that deduced from the convection theory.! This must arouse sus- 

# See Encyclopaedia Britannica, 9th edition, Vol. vn, Art. Diffusion, London, 1878, and 
Zeit. Ost. Gesell. Met., xvi. 

tSee Zei schrift der Ont. Gesell. fiir Meteorologie, xvi, p. 177. 

! Since D, the coefficient of diffusion, may be an unfamiliar term, I 
will here, by its deduction from Stefan's diffusion theory, briefly show 
what meaning it has in our formula. Let A 12 be a constant depending 
only upon the nature of aqueous vapor and the air, then the piocess of 



METEOROLOGY. 515 

picions against the derivation from the convection theory, for the deriva- 
tion for quiescent air is certainly free from all objection.* In fact an 
hypothesis vas made in the assumption of the convection theory that 
certainly is not proper, namely, that the arriving air in the instant of 
its passiug by gives up the whole quantity of heat wiS {t — t') that is to 
say that it is cooled through the whole interval t—t'; with this also 

diffusion is represented (see Stefan, Sitzvngsbericht, Vienna Academy, 
vol. lxviii, page 385) by the formula : 



where 



' 5 P \ / X 

Pi ?1 = ~ -~ — A 12 (>i p 2 (Mi — U\ 2 ) 

O V 

Px = the density of molecules of aqueous vapor; 

it, = the velocity of molecules of aqueous vapor; 

Pi and « 2 , the same data for the air; 

? is the acceleration, which = under the present assumed 

state of equilibrium ; so also in this case is the evaporation, 

or u 2 =0. Therefore, we have 

d px 

j^- + A 12 fil p. i u v =0 

Since, now, p 2 : S 2 = p 2 T : p T, where S 2 is the normal density, for^ = 
TOO""", therefore, multiplying and dividing by S h we have 



<lpi_ _A 12 T 8 2 dj p 2 
S> '" Tp 3 t 



Pi Ui 



But i> 2 = P — pi) furthermore, p x u x is the quantity of evaporation for 
the unit of surface ; for the spherical bulb of the psychrometer, there- 
fore, this quantity is Q = 4* r 2 p } u. Therefore, if we put 



we have 



and after integration 



or 



1 Aj 2 T d 2 d x 


D Tp 


1 8p Q 
P— pidv 4^r 2 ^D 


log £=a--_9_ 


Q=^^r p -^-(p 1 -p ) 



n T T 

whence, evidently, D = ■ ° ^ -. Since p = 760 and -=- can be put 

-a-12 d l d 2-Lo lo 

= 1 for the temperatures occurring in psychrometer observations, there- 
fore D is nearly constant. 



•[Even this derivation, however, implies certain assumptions that need further in- 
vestigation. — C. A.] 






516 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

falls tbe further hypothesis that as much vapor is developed as is nec- 
essary to the saturation of the air at t' degrees. Both of these condi- 
tions are only approximately fulfilled. It is, therefore, certain that the 
convection theory affords only an approximate formula. 

Therefore, we abide by the hypothesis of perfectly quiescent air; for 
which case the Maxwell Stefan formula (F or Gr) holds good with per- 
fect exactness. If for this hypothesis we compute the factor. 

assuming spherical thermometer bulbs, we obtain for the first part 
J=- =0.000630: and if we put K=0.000097, according to Stefan, and 
take r=0.57 centimeters, whence 

Er=0.000055 
the second part becomes 

^^=0.000630 

whence A=0.001260. 

In fact, Eegnault found A =0.001280 from observation in perfectly 
quiet air in a small closed room (Pogg. Anwaten/Lxxxvin, p. 428), and 
Sworikin (Wild's Bepertorium, vn, No. 8, p. 17) finds from 0.001100 to 
0.001500 for quiet air, therefore again on the average 0.001300. 

But in fact we almost never have to do with perfectly quiet air, and 
even because of the cooling of the air close to the wet thermometer a 
convection is always present there. If one would obtain results to any 
extent consistent with themselves he must, since convection is unavoid- 
able, provide for one that will assure a permanently uniform movement 
of the air. This is attained by means of the ventilation-psychrometer. 

If, therefore, we begin with assuming a ventilated psychrometer, and 
therefore strong convection, we have no theoretical formula for this case. 
We can, however, attempt to adapt the formula for quiescent air to the 
case of ventilation. 

Stefan (Zeit. f. Met., xvi, p. 181) has remarked that in the formula 
[G] for quiescent air it can be assumed that the introduction of convec- 
tion simply causes K and D to increase uniformly; therefore, =- will re- 
main very nearly constant. This being assumed, it is plain that for 
increasing values of D the second part ~—- of the factowwill therefore 

Xjlpa 

become smaller. Herein we find a reason why the theoretical value of 
the whole factor A is not attained in the comparisons of the ventilation 
psychrometer. In fact the value empirically determined for a barometric 
pressure of 760 mm is almost exactly 0.000800 on the average of the various 



METEOROLOGY. 517 



trials.* Since now the factor A consists of the constant invariable 
part ^— — , and the variable part 

\jkp6 

formula thus (see the formula H) 



part TS --— , and the variable part S-— we can, since v - = 1 write the 
DApa DApa D 



psr 

p "= ih -j* L 1+ 



lir 
aDSp 



(t-f) (I) 



where a denotes a new constant that under the assumption of a uniform 
ventilation and constant barometric pressure should be invariable. 

From this we see that the term depending on radiation can indeed 
be diminished by ventilation, but certainly not so much that it can 
he wholly neglected. 

It will not be superfluous at this place to indicate how very erroneous 
it has been to neglect the influence of radiation in the deduction of the 
psychrometer formula. In fact it proves to be for still air quite as 
large as the theoretical factor in August's formula, if one assumes a 
spherical thermometer bulb of 0.57 centimeters radius, as is the case at 
the observing stations of the Vienna K. K. Central Institute for Meteor- 
ology and Terrestrial Magnetism. 

If we would possess a uniform formula for all the various ther- 
mometers, we mast seek a method of carrying out the suggestion of 
Kiimtz.t He remarks, "As a pendulum occupies only approximately 
equal times for a vibration over large and small arcs, equally so differ- 
ent thermometers give only approximately equal results. As with the 
pendulum the arcs must all be reduced to one of infinitely small ampli- 
tude, so with the thermometer we must undertake a reduction to an 
infinitely small one." 

We can, however, iu using the ventilation-psych rometer, consider 
this reduction as already partly made, since in that instrument the term 
that contains the influence of radiation is materially diminished. 

A further influence that has not at all been considered in the formula, 
is that of the muslin cover of the wet-bulb thermometer. In the de- 
duction of the formula no consideration was given to this. Now, Kamtz 
(being made observant by reason of the frequent cases that he had 
occasion to observe J where the wet thermometer stood sometimes as 
high, and sometimes higher than the dry, when a comparison with the 
hair hygrometer showed the air to be not saturated with vapor) has in- 
vestigated the cause of the phenomenon, and found it in the muslin 
covering of the wet thermometer. According to his experiments, at low 
temperature the wet thermometer stood too high by 0.40° C. 



* This is the value that Regnault gave as long ago as 1845. The form of the psy- 
chrometer formula, as it has since then beeu almost universally adopted, contains 
this value ; it reads 

Po = Pl - 0.480 6 4=^,P 

tKantz Rcpertorium fur Meleorologie, bd. n, p. 56. 
t Kantz llepertorium, bd. n, p. 54. 



518 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

If this is aii influence of radiation, as undoubtedly it is with dry mus- 
lin, the consequence would be that this influence would increase 
with increasing difference {t—t'). But the fact is that this influence 
disappears in psychrometer comparisons more and more in proportion 
as {t—t') increases at least with the air in motion. This behavior de- 
mands still more thorough investigation. I will, however, now mention 
that I consider this phenomenon as attributable to a "sluggishness" 
of the wet bulb in the neighborhood of the point of atmospheric satu- 
ration, so that with very damp air the evaporation does not proceed 
fast enough in proportion to the passing current of air. The experi- 
ments also confirm this view.* If one would in the formula take ac- 
count of this "sluggishness" of the psychrometer, then a correction to 
the psychrometer differences t—t' can be so applied that it shall be a 
maximum for t—t'=0 and be inversely proportional to this difference. 
If we call v the maximum value, then this correction will in general be 

v 
— — ; if, with Kamtz, we take v=0°.o centigrade, then will this 

correction have a sensible influence only up to a depression {t — t') of 0° 
C, in fact only up to those of 6° C. 

I have applied this correction to my observations and obtain, then, on 
the average A=0.000943 instead of 0.0010415. [Pernter here alludes to 
his thirty observations of dry and wet bulbs and dew-point on the sum- 
mit of the Obir, spoken of in the first part of this paper. In these obser- 
vations t—t' ranged from 3°.6 C. to 0°.5 C, and its values, corrected by 
this new formula for sluggishness, ranged from .'P.7 O. to 0°.8 C] 

There remains now only an investigation of the constant a in our 
psychrometer formula. The psychrometer factor is [see (E) and (I)J 



Aff 



— + 



If the air is motionless, then will a=l. For a definite velocity of venti- 
lation and equal air-pressures a increases to a value that is constant under 
these conditions. If however the rate of ventilation remains the same 
and the barometric pressure varies, then we must investigate whether or 
not a depends ou the pressure of the air. This we attain in the follow- 

K' 
ing way; for absolute calm at both high and low pressures is equal 

to unity. In the change from calm to constant rate of ventilation K' 
and D increase uniformly (at least very nearly so) whether the change 
goes on at high or low pressures; «K' will always remain equal to aD. 
Undoubtedly, however, aK' will not be so large at low as at high press- 
ure, since certainly iu the latter case the mass of the arriving air is 

*Wullner and Grotriau fouud that fluids iu the neighborhood of their points of 
saturation almost entirely cease to evaporate, and that even when quite far from it, 
between glass rods (c. g., drops of water), dissipate only very slowly and with diffi- 
culty, and. this certainly also applies to the meshes of muslin. (See Wiedemann, 
Annalen, xi, p. 553 to 555 ; also Macaluo, Grimaldi, Gazetta Chimica Italiana, vol. xn, 
1881.) 



METEOROLOGY. 519 

greater than in the former. Therefore, also, «D will be larger for high 
than for low pressures ; that is to say, a must be greater for high press- 
ures than for low. 

Br 

But from this it follows that — =^— ^ is -smaller for high and greater 

CI -LJ fJio 

for low pressures; that therefore A increases with altitude above the 
ocean surface. And this is precisely what my observations give for the 
summit of the Obir. 
According to the preceding, it is to be expected that a stands in a 

simple direct ratio to the air-pressure, so that if «i is its value for 

p 
760 mni , then for any other pressure a = „ - a-\. 

For the investigation of this dependence there are some experiments 
at my disposal. Chistoni, Angot, and Blanford (see the previous refer- 
ences) have submitted a largo quantity of material for high pressures.* 
I have taken the mean of their determinations, and find for A the fol- 
lowing values : 

Blanford 0.000827 
Angot .000851 

Chistoni .000851 

Mean 0.000843 
Since these comparisons, especially those of Blanford, were made 
with large differences (t—t'),I have not considered it necessary to apply 
the correction 

v 
t-t'+l 
Since now [the preceding formula and reasonings give] 

A=0.000630+°^ ) ^ 
a 

where I have assumed for Rr a mean value of 0.000055 [which, as before 

shown, is especially applicable to the thermometers ot the Austrian 

observers], it follows that for the above three series of observations 

^ =3.0. 

T * a = 0.000630 "I 

L' ' ai ~ 0.0008 13 -0.000030 J 
My own comparisons on the summit of the Obir, after applying the 

correction % — - give A=0.000943, whence a 2 =2.0. If a' is smaller 

t— V +1 fe ' 

in the ratio of the diminution of pressure, then should this latter have 

given 02=3.0^=2.3 and A would have been found 0.000901 instead 
(00 

of 0.000913. 

* Since Regnault's time the factor 0.000800 has been generally retained. Still, all 
later investigators have from their comparisons deduced even larger factors. Only 
Sworikin finds 0.0t072"> and Mac6 de Lepinay with a swing-thermometer (tnermo- 
metre & fronde) even 0.000G93. This latter determiuation seems to differ too far from 
t?he others, especially the long series of Chistoni and Angot, for me to consider it quite 
reliable. 



520 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Now it seems to me that, considering the difference of the ther- 
mometers and ventilators employed, this difference is easily to be ex- 
plained, and although still further experiments remain to be made in 
this direction, they can only in substance confirm this result. 

I will now briefly collect the results of the investigation : 

(1.) The derivation of the psychrometer formula under this assumption 
of the existence of convection leads to no result,* since the hypothesis 
that the air flowing past is cooled from t to V by contact with the ther- 
mometer bulb does not agree with the facts. 

(2.) The derivation of the psychrometer formula of Maxwell and Stefan 
for absolutely motionless air is perfectly exact for this condition. If 
we endeavor to introduce into the formula a modification, in order that it 
may also hold good for moving air, then it undoubtedly loses its precision 
but does give a very approximately correct expression, that when we 
consider the sluggishness of the psychrometer in the neighborhood of 
saturation, reads as follows : 

»-*-*£ ff+ifer] 0-*?+jf4i] 

or if we put v = 0°.5 C. and insert the other numerical values [as given 
above, assuming r = 0.57 centimeters], we have: 

*-*-pmo«bo|i + vj [<,_,, +p^ki] 

(3.) The term depending on radiation does not disappear even for 
rapidly-moving air. For absolutely calm air it is, indeed (for bulbs of 
the radius 0.57 cm ), quite as great as that depending on conduction. 

(4.) For equal wind velocities and barometric pressures the constant 

a is invariable. Assuming equal velocities, it is smaller with lower 

p 
pressures and most probably in the ratio „ p - . The maximum value of 

a for pressures of about 760 mm results from observations as ^ = 3.0; 
therefore, in general, 

_ P 

This value, introduced in the above formula, gives 



760 "I T , 0.5 "I 



3.0 PJ H ' ^ {t-t') + l_\ 



1 j =p 1 -¥ 0.000630 
or for stations at low levels 

i >o=i> l -OOOQ643 (* - n + ^ J^+i ] p 

This simple formula, as has been above shown, should not be made 
more complicated by giving the factor A some other form, since in no 
case will a greater accuracy be thereby attained. 

* If we abstain from considering as an important expression the second term within 
the brackets in the convection formula (D), and seek only to find for m a numerical 
value that corresponds to the observations, we find wi=78.0 for barometric pressure 
760 nim , to which (since m indicates the mass of air) it is difficult to attach any intelli- 
gible idea. • 



METEOROLOGY. * 521 

(5.) From .all this it results, however, that we have little or no pros- 
pect of attaining to au exact psychrometer formula, and therefore need 
not expect to obtain the vapor tension accurate to 0.1 uuu by meaus of 
the psychrometer. (Pernter, Psychrometer titudien.) 

Wild, in some remarks upon the establishment of anemometers, op- 
poses the statement of Dr. Schreiber that the self-recording Robinson 
anemometer is better adapted than Wild's tablet anemometer by the 
statement of his own convictions that the latter is not only much more 
convenient but also more accurate ; in this last particular his anemo- 
meter seems to have exceeded Wild's expectations, his original idea 
having been merely to devise an instrument that should be more con- 
venient and simple, and therefore adapted for the use of numerous 
stations. In simplicity and cheapness the tablet anemometer apparently 
cannot be excelled. Wild's experience in northern regions shows that 
the self-recording Kobiuson anemometer cannot be kept in continuous 
operation owing to the cold, the snow, and frost-work, and that it is only 
practicable to use it at second-class stations when the observers are 
thoroughly drilled as at the Army Signal Office. With regard to the 
Hagemann aspiration-anemometer, especially as made by Nyrop, in 
Copenhagen, he finds that it is simple, easy to use, convenient, and 
accurate to read, even at night time, since the dial can be placed within 
the building while the conical point is established above the roof; the 
price of this apparatus is twice that of the tablet anemometer, and this 
alone is an objection to its general introduction. (Z. 0. (x. j¥.,xvii, p. 211.) 

H. Louis F. Melsens presented to the Congress of Electricians a 
memoir on the lightning conductor and its history since the days of # 
Benjamin Franklin. The two principal forms of protection against light- 
ning are, first, that of Gay Lussac, who advocates a small number of 
conductors having large sections and raised to great altitudes; and, 
second, the system of Melsens, who advocates the employment of nu- 
merous conductors having small sections and numerous points not 
greatly elevated, the whole forming a sort of wire cage. He elaborates 
in full the scientific reasons that have led to these two forms of the 
original lightning conductor of Benjamin Franklin. (Z. 0. G. M., xvit, 
p. 49.) 

Dr. K. Weirauch contributes formulae and methods for the convenient* 
application of Bessel's sine and cosine formula to meteorological obser- 
vations in hopes that from numerous such applications one may derive 
values of the constants for many localities by the study of which latter 
further progress may be made in climatology. He gives four methods 
for the determination of these constants from equidistant phases, namely, 
interpolation by differences (two methods), parabolic interpolations, 
goniometric interpolations. The differences between the results of these 
four methods are slight but important; the last two are rigorous and 
preferable. (Z. 0. G. M., xvm, p. 20.) 



522 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

IV. — CONSTITUTION AND^ PROPERTIES OF THE ATMOSPHERE. 

Prof. 0. A. Vogler, of Bonn, reviews the question of the variations 
of the amount of oxygen in the atmosphere. His own views differ so 
radically from Morley, aud are so important iu connection with many 
climatological questions, especially the formula of barometric hypsome- 
try, that further investigations and observations are necessary; the 
question must still be considered as undecided as to whether the varia- 
tions of oxygen may not explain the formation of barometric maxima, 
the cooling of the lower strata, and the variations in the coefficient of the 
hypsometric formula, and it is too early as yet to hope for a decision. 
{Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 175.) 

Hill has used the observations of Hennessey, Cole, and Hodgkinson 
in India towards answering the question what gaseous constituent of 
the atmosphere it is that absorbs the solar heat. He concludes to at. 
tribute this to the aqueous vapor. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, 334.) 

Hill has attempted to deduce the relative absorption of heat by 
aqueous vapor and by dry air from observations in India; he concludes 
tlie former to be 764 times greater than the latter, but the observations 
appear to us scarcely sufficient to establish this result. (Z. 0. G. M., 
xvn, p. 48.) 

Hennessey has published in full the actinic observations of October 
and November, 1879, from which the above results are deduced by Hill. 
Tbe sky was generally covered with thin haze or dust, which must have 
greatly affected the results. (Z. 0. G M., xviii, p. 80.) 

H. Miintz and E. Aubin during a visit to the summit of the Pic du 
Midi have investigated the quantity of nitric acid contained iu the 
water and snow at that height. Both the methods of Boussingault aud 
Schlosiug were employed. These observations determine the location 
in the atmosphere where nitric acid is formed, and that, in accordance 
with the views of Boussingault, the nitrate of ammonia does not exist 
in the atmosphere in a gaseous condition, for if it did it would be dis- 
tributed uniformly in the atmosphere precisely as are its components, 
nitric acid and ammonia. {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 71.) 

V. — SOLAR RADIATION; TERRESTRIAL TEMPERATURE. 

Pernter gives an exhaustive summary of the record of the Campbell- 
Stokes sunshine records at Vienna for 1881. The total number of hours 
of full sunshine was 1G76.3, or 37 per cent, of the 4472 that was possible 
for absolutely clear weather. During the winter the greatest duration 
occurred at noon, but during the summer at 11 A. m. and 2 p. m., simi- 
larly as in 1880, owing to the cloudiness at 1 P. M. During the summer 
the total sunshine in the morning hours exceeds that of the afternoon, 
but during the winter the reverse takes place; this is contrary to the 
experience of 1880. Among the totals for each month July has the 
maximum, 290.5 hours, or 00 per cent, of all that was possible, and Oc- 






METEOROLOGY. 523 

tober the minimum, 34.4 hours, or 10 per cent, of the possible total. The 
mean cloudiness for three observations daily, at 7 a. m., 2 p. m., and 
9 P. M., gives figures closely following the reciprocals of the percentages 
of sunshine. (Z. 0. G. 31., xvn, p. 100.) 

Prof. J. Liznar has investigated the relation between the eleven-year 
sun-spot period and the daily and annual variations of terrestrial tem- 
perature. For the daily variation he studies observations at thirteen 
stations, and finds that a maximum of sun-spots corresponds to a min- 
imum of daily variations, but the latter occurs about two years earlier 
than the former, a result agreeing with the similar variation in mean 
annual temperatures discovered by Koppen. Liznar has also studied 
the annual temperature variations, by means of three long series of ob- 
servations extending from 1699 to 1873; he finds a close agreement 
between these and the maxima and minima of sun-spots from 1098 to 
1750; but for the succeeding 00 years, like all previous similar investi- 
gations, these relations are disturbed and even completely inverted, the 
maxima of sun-spots now corresponding to minima in place of maxima 
of temperature. The relation between sun-spots and temperature is 
therefore still entirely unknown. (Z. O. G. M., xvn, p. 495.) 

G. von Boguslawski gives a summary of Hanu's memoir on the tem- 
perature of the southern hemisphere. The latter has carefully combined 
a number of recent observations, and has deduced a general formula 
fo. the temperature of southern latitudes apparently somewhat more 
reliable than those of Dove (1852), Hopkins (1852), Forbes (1859), Sar- 
torius von Waltershausen (1865), and Ferrel (1871). He arrives at the 
f 1 lowing formula for the mean aunual temperature at any degree of 
southern latitude: 

T<p = 26.0° + 6.94<fcsin? — 45.28° sinV 

According to this formula the southern hemisphere is warmer than 
the northern for all latitudes higher than 45°, the differeuce amounting 
to 1£° at parallel 60 S. latitude. Forbes had arrived at exactly the 
same result, namely, 42£°. (Z. O. G. M., xvn, p. 410.) 

Bilwiller notes that the severest cold weather in Switzerland always 
occurs when snow covers the ground; and that all hough the descending 
currents of air in anticyclones are visibly warming the air, yet at the 
ground severe cold is observed. "The influence of the snow on the 
temperature of the lower air lies in the fact that as a poor conductor of 
heat it breaks the connection between the earth and the air. The tem- 
perature changes at slight depths below the earth are f r smaller and 
slower than on the surface. In December the earth is decrle<lly warmer 
than the air which is thus warmed from below. If snow lies on the 
ground it cuts oil' this supply of heat from the air. The surface of the 
snow cools very rapidly by radiation under a clear sky, and this loss of 
heat is communicated directly to the air, but only very slowly to the 
earth. If the snow covering is wanting, an exchauge of heat occurs 
between air and earth, preventing such a very low temperature in the 
lower-air stratum." (Z. O. G. M., xvn, p. 98.) 



524 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

[As this is a matter that in 1871 and 1872 became to the writer very- 
important in his daily weather predictions, it is allowable to remark 
that the amount of heat given up by the upper layer of the soil or rock 
to the air or snow seemed to him very small and hardly worth men- 
tioning in the above explanation; it rarely amounts to enough to 
cause the melting of an inch of snowfall into a tenth inch of water. 
The special low night temperature over snow and ice should be 
wholly attributed to the clear, dry air, free from slightest haze or 
dust, which allows freer radiation, and to the exceptionally large ra- 
diating power of snow and ice for the red and ultra red or heat rays. 
The low temperature during sunshine is due to the fact that solar heat 
is consumed in melting ice (latent heat of liquefaction 79.) instead of 
warming the air (specific heat 0.267). Similarly we should abstain from 
assuming, as is too frequently done, that warm air flowing up cold 
mountain sides is cooled by contact with the earth ; i. e., by conduction of 
its heat into the earth. This is wholly insignificant in comparison with 
the cooling due to expansion and to the evaporation of moisture. The 
heat given to the air by the earth surface at midday is not conducted 
upwards from any depth, but is a purely surface action, by which solar 
radi tiou is converted into heat, or the short waves of the upper end of 
the spectrum and beyond are degenerated to the red end and returned 
to the air mostly by contact, conduction, and convection — slightly by 
radiation and absorption.] 

Maquenue has investigated the absorption and dissipation of heat by 
foliage. The results were — 

(1.) All leaves dissipate a part of the heat vertically incident upon 
them; this dissipation amounts to 0.25 of the total heat when the radia- 
tion comes from a Bourbouze lamp,%ut only a few hundredths when it 
comes from a Leslie cube. 

(2.) The leaves dissipate different amounts of heat from their two sur- 
faces ; ordinarily the lower side dissipates more than the upper, but oc- 
casionally we observe the contrary. 

(3.) The leaves absorb a sensible proportion of the heat radiated from 
a Bourbouze lamp ; this absorption depends upon the presence of ab- 
sorbents in the texture, especially of chlorophyl and water, and upon 
the dissipation that takes place in the interior on the surface of each 
cell ; it is ordinarily greater on the upper than on the lower side. 

(4.) The thick leaves absorb more than the thin ones. 

(5.) The absorbing power for the heat of (bodies of the temperature 
of) boiling water is very nearly equal to that of lampblack. 

(6.) Leaves transmit heat better in proportion as they are thinner or 
younger. 

(7.) The radiating power of leaves is for great differences of tempera- 
tures nearly like that of lampblack ; it diminishes a little as the incli- 
nation increases. 

(8.) The absorbing power of chlorophyl is, on the average, like that 
of water for the radiation from the Bourbouze lamp, and increases in 



METEOROLOGY. 525 

proportion as one goes in one direction or the other from the heat maxi- 
mum. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 21.) 

VI. — EVAPORATION, CONDENSATION, ETC. 

Stefan has given a summary of his investigations, 1874-1881, into the 
laws of evaporation, from which we gather the following : 

(1.) The rate of evaporation is proportional to the logarithm of a frac- 
tion whose denominator is the barometric pressure and whose numer- 
ator is this pressure diminished by the vapor tension. 

(2.) The rate of evaporation out of a tube is inversely proportional to 
the distance of the surface of the fluid below the open end of the tube. 

(3.) The rate of evaporation is independent of the diameter of the 
tube. 

(4.) Within a closed tube the evaporation is observed by the bubbles 
that form and rise to the surface, and it is found that the successive 
intervals within which equal numbers of bubbles develop are to each 
other as the successive uneven numbers. 

(5.) In hydrogen, evaporation proceeds four times as fast as in air. 

(6.) The amount of evaporation in given intervals of time increases as 
the square root of the intervals. 

(7.) The amount of evaporation that ascends in a unit of time from a 
circular surface into the air (assumed perfectly quiet) is proportional to 
the circumference and not to the area of the circle, assuming that there 
are no banks or walls to protect the edges. This is also true, to within 
a tenth, of an elliptical surface of moderate eccentricity, i. e., whose ma- 
jor axis is not more than four times greater than its minor axis. 

(8.) If now the vapor, instead of collecting close above the water sur- 
face, rises and moves off to a distance by diffusion, then the stream lines 
for the evaporation are hyperbolas, and those that start from the periph- 
ery of the circular border of the basin constitute a hyperboloid of 
revolution. Like all stream surfaces, this has the property that no va- 
por penetrates through this hyperboloid so that it can be replaced by a 
solid wall. Such a hyperbolic border to an evaporating dish will there- 
fore not diminish the amount of evaporation in still air ; its proper con- 
struction must be determined by Stefan's formula. As the water sur- 
face sinks the evaporation diminishes in the ratio of r—h to h, where 
r is the radius of the dish and h the linear sinking. For large values 

of h or where -^- is nearly unity, the condition is nearly the same as 

in a deep tube. Small surfaces evaporate more than large in proportion 
to their area ; this latter is also true for the evaporation due to convec- 
tion as well as diffusion. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 65). 

Stelling has published the results of observations by Dohrandt at 
Nukuss on evaporation of water, and has discussed their connection 
with temperature and wind velocity. He shows, first, that the observa- 
tions are represented by Weilenmaun's formula somewhat better than 



526 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1683. 

by Dalton's, and quite as well as could be expected from the methods 
of observation. The formula requires the accurate determination of the 
temperature of the evaporating water and the velocity of the wind Jit 
its surface, and applies, therefore, strictly to a freely exposed surface. 
Evaporimeters established in protected places show great departures 
from the computed values. In a second memoir Stelling shows that this 
formula represents with sufficient accuracy the observations made upon 
a free large surface of water, as in the case of his floating evapori meter, 
elsewhere described. (See chapter on apparatus.) In this evapoi imeter 
the temperature of the water in the surrounding river often differs by 
one degree from that in the apparatus, and the latter is that required in 
the formula, which reads as follows : 

»=A2(S-8) + B2(S-*)w. 
Where w is the velocity of wind, S is the tension of vapor corresponding 
to the temperature of water, s is the tension of vapor in the atmosphere, 
ii is the amount of evaporation, A and B are constants, 2 is the sign of 
summation. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 372.) 

Chistoni discusses the relative merits of two views as to the origin 
and cause of dew that have sometimes been held to be antagonistic to 
each other, viz, whether it is the moisture condensed out of the air that 
comes in contact with surfaces cooled by radiation, as maintained by 
Wells, 1819, or the moisture freshly evaporated from the earth and 
plants during the night-time, and which, being too much for the air to 
absorb, is carried in minute particles to neighboring surfaces that are 
cooled by radiation and evaporation; a view apparently maintained by 
Fusinieri, Zantedeschi, and Cantoni. 

By an extensive experimental investigation Chistoni demonstrates the 
following points : 

(1.) Bodies that stand free in the air and have unrestricted radiation 
into celestial space cool [as to their surfaces 1 ?] decidedly below the sur- 
rounding air. [Chistoni's experiments seem to have been conducted as 
a wholly independent repetition and continuation by newer instruments 
and methods of those of Wells, Glaisher, Melloni, &c] 

(2.) Thermometers under, on, and above the surface of the ground 
show that when dew is being deposited, the lowest stratum of air is 
always colder than the ground below and colder than the air above. The 
temperature of the air increases upwards [a confirmation of Fnsiuieri's 
results]. 

(3.) The quantity of moisture evaporated from the earth and the lower 
plants, and slowly ascending to be condensed as dew on the leaves of 
higher plants, is very abundant. 

(4.) The influence of electricity claimed by Zantedeschi is not per- 
ceptible. 

(5.) If we define dew as the aqueous precipitation that takes place 
during the interval from sunset to sunrise, and is not rain or fog, then 
its two chief causes are: (1) The cooling of bodies by radiation to tem- 
peratures below that of the surrounding air. (2) The larger evapora- 



METEOROLOGY. 527 

Hon from tbe earth and the plants, frequently the latter aud occasion- 
ally the former, is the only cause of the dew, but generally both act 
together. Even in cloudy nights, radiation causes a precipitation at 
the base of blades of grass, and in connection with the existence of the 
coldest stratum of air near the earth, is the chief cause of dew. (Z. 0. 
G. M., xvii, p. 113.) 

Prof. J. M. Pernter has given an exhaustive mathematical analysis of 
the thermo dynamic laws of the cooling and condensation of vapor that 
may occur when cold and warm air are mixed together according to 
Hutton's theory of rain. Wettsteiu has contended that not the slight- 
est ra : nfall can thus be produced. Hann had already shown by an 
approximate computation of a special case that slight precipitation can 
possibly occur. Pernter's formula and method are perfectly general, 
although the computations are necessarily very tedious. He concludes 
that only for large differences of temperature can any sensible precipi- 
tation occur even sufficient to form cirrus clouds, and that the quantity 
of precipitatiou computed bj< his formula is so small that it is impos- 
sible to explain any heavy rainfall by Hutton's theory. (Z. 0. G. M., 
xvii, p. 421.) 

Woeikoff has published a memoir on the cloudiness of the skies at 
Russian stations based on the ten years 1870-'79, of which Koppen gives 
a short summary. Dividing the Eussian domain into thirteen portions, 
from the Baltic to the Pacific, it would appear that the maximum per- 
centage of cloudiness generally occurs in November and amounts to 85 
per cent, for the White Sea, but only 65 per cent, for central Siberia. 
The annual means of cloudiness show the highest percentage (72) also 
for the White Sea, and the lowest (31) for the Aral Sea, the next lowest 
being 34 percent, for the trans-Baikal stations. In general the stations 
may be divided into three groups: 1st, European Kussia and the Aral, 
where the minimum is in summer and the maximum in winter ; 2d, from 
Lake Baikal north aud west, where the maximum is in October or No- 
vember and the minimum in March : 3d, the trans-Baikal and the eastern 
coast of Asia, where the maximum is in summer and the minimum in 
January. (Z. 0. G. M., xvii, p. 358.) 

Dr. F. Vettin, as the result of three years' continuous observations at 
Berlin of the heights and velocities of clouds, publishes a very complete 
analysis of cloud movements. He measured the angular velocity by a 
fixed camera-obscura, on whose glass back the image of the cloud is 
seen to pass over a system of graduation lines. The actual velocity 
was measured by observations of the shadows of the clouds, as pro- 
jected upon the earth. From these two data is deduced the actual alti- 
tude. For other cases he observed the time at^hich the cloud was 
first illuminated by the rising sun or last illumined by the setting sun, 
whence he computed the actual altitude. He concludes that with in- 
creasing altitude the cloud forms alter according to a very definite rule, 
namely: (1) tbattbelowestcloud has indefinite boundaries similarto loose 



528 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



masses of fog; 174 clouds of this description were distributed iu alti- 
tude as sbowu in the following table: (2) As these clouds rise their 
boundaries become more definite, they assume rounded forms, appear 
much brighter, and throw deeper shadows; 246 cases of this kind arc 
given in the accompanying table: (3) Above these latter is a third and 
very different class ; these are smaller with more delicate illumination and 
shadows, and are generally arranged in platoons regularly grouped in 
many ways, sometimes giving the heavens a marbled appearance : (4) Far 
above these little clouds is a group lying as high up as condensed aqueous 
vapor is any way visible, and showing the well-known forms of cirrus 
known as " mare's-tails," "mackerel-sky"; 139 of this class are divided 
into two groups, the first (4) extending between 9,000 and 18,000, and 
having a maximum at 13,000 ; the second group (5) extending from 18,000 
to 33,000 feet, and having a possible maximum of 22,000 feet. These five 
forms of clouds, and the corresponding altitudes of maximum fre- 
quency have an interesting relation to the corresponding atmospheric 
pressures. These latter he has computed by various hypsometric for- 
mulae with results as given in this table. 

The seventh column in this table gives the average "projected ve- 
locity" of the movement of the clouds in feet per second deduced by pro- 
jecting all apparent angular velocities upon a plane surface, separat- 
ing the middle of each layer. A total of about 900 such observations 
were available during the first two years. 

Table I. — Fettin's observations of clouds at Berlin. 



Altitude in feet. 



500-1000.. 

1-2,000.. 

2-3,000.. 

3-4,000.. 

4-5,000.. 

5-6,000.. 

6-7,000.. 

7-8,000.. 

8-9, 000 . . 

9-10,000. 
10-11,000. 
11,000.... 
12,000.... 
13,000.... 
14,000.... 
15,000.... 
16,000.... 
17,000.... 
18,000.... 
19,000.... 
20,000.... 
21,000.... 



Frequency by classes. 



27 

107 

35 

5 



II. 





9 

< ; 4 

72 

53 

37 

8 

2 

1 



III. 



(i 
1 

9 

36 
34 
26 



IV. 



9 
13 

Ki 
33 
L3 
13 

10 
7 
3 



Average. 



803 
1, 455 
2, 440 
3, 140 
4,470 
5,380 
6, 500 
7, 380 
8,400 
9, 360 
10, 200 
11,500 

12, 300 

13, 300 

14, 300 
15, 200 
16, 150 
17, 800 
18, 000 
19, 300 
20, 000 
21,300 









920 

585 

335 

228 

185 

143 

144 

115 

112 
95. 7 
81.5 
91.3 
95. 9 
84.4 
92.9 
51.5 
60.8 
44.5 
61.2 
91.8 
27 
46.3, 



METEOROLOGY. 

Table I. — Vettiv's observations of clouds at Berlin — Continued. 



529 







Frequency by classes. 




Average. 


Altitude in feet. 


I. 


II. 


III. 


IV. 


V. 


» 

2 
-*> 

< 


£ ® 


22,000 








4 

2 
2 


22, 200 
23, 000 
24, 000 


42.1 


23, 000 








28 


24, 000 








50 


25,000 








26,000 










27, COO 












28,000 








1 
1 


27, 000 
28,000 


80 


29, 000 








89 


30, 000 










31,000 














32-33. 00O 








1 


32,666 


70 












Total number 


»* 


246 


128 


Ill 


28 




Mean altitude in 
feet 


1,560 
0.941 

600 
10 


3,780 
0. 862 

216 
3.5 


7,200 
0.752 

123 

2 


12, 800 
0.600 

83 
1.5 


23,000 
0.395 

57 
1 




Pressure in atmospheres 
Average projected ve- 
locities in feet from 
two years' observa- 
tions 




Relative velocity 





The study of the cirrus daring all three years gave the same result 
as for the first two, viz, that the upper cirri move with one-third less 
velocity than the lower. It follows that wheu various cirri are seen 
together on any day, aud are moving with the same velocity, they be- 
long to the same layer, either upper (23,000 feet) or lower (12,800 feet). 

The variations with season in the altitude and velocity of motion of 
these five classes of clouds are given in the following table, based on two 
years' observations, where the projected velocities of the five strata are 
referred to that of the upper cirrus (57 feet per second) as unity. The 
absolute altitudes are given in hundreds of feet and the relative alti- 
tudes in terms of that of the lower clouds : 





I. 


ii. 


III. 


IV. 




V. 




Veloc- 


Alti- 


Veloc- A1U- 


Veloc- Alti- 


Veloc- 


Alti- 


Veloc- 


Altitude. 


Sea«on. 


ity. 


tude. 


ity. tude. 


ity. tude. 


ity. 


tude. 


ity. 




s 


6 


C 


6 


a 


<0 


-' 


»' 


C 


d 


6 


6 


9 




6 


* 


o 


i 


V 


o 




fl 








3 




3 


> 






3 








3 


> 


3 






> 




o 


2 


1 


^ 


*o 


3 


O 


a 


o 


a 


O 


"3 


O 




O 


a 


C 


a 


o 


a 




p= 


s 


•o 


'■~ 


-= 


■~ 


.= 




— 




-o 




.2 




■a 




£> 




,o 


1 




< 


« 


< 


* 


< 


M < 


« 


< 


M 


•4 


W 


< 


M 


« 


M 


<5 


« 


< 


Summer . 


492 


X. 5 17 


i 


151 


2.5 42 


2.4 


98 


1.6 76 


4.4 


90 


1.5 


144 


8.3 


59 




(251) 


(14. 5) 


Autumn . 


850 


12.0 16 


i 


231 


4.3 37 


2.3 


128 2.4 70 


4.4 


91 


1.7 


133 8.3 


54 




(230) 


(14. 3) 


Winter .. 


770 


10.3 11 


i 


'J77 


3.7 32 


2.3 


14!) 2.0 63 


4.5 


119 


1.6 


117 8.3 


7.". 




(201) 


(14.3) 


Spring ... 
Year 


590 


8.4 10 


i 


182 


2.6 38 


2.3 


110 1.6 74 4.55 


101 


1.4 


124 7.6 


70 




(231) 


(14.2) 


62610.0 16 


i 


108 


3.2 38 


2.4 


116 1.9 72 4.5 

1 1 


97 


1.5 


129 8. 2 

I 


63 


1 


230 


14.4 



H. Mis. 09 34 



530 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR IS 



By studying the relative velocities and durations of the cloud motion 
and the winds for each direction, Vettiu determines approximately the 
motions of the masses and volumes of the atmosphere, as shown in the 
following, Table III, where the figures represent the product of the per- 
centage of duration of each movement by the total movement, but for 
economy of space only the nearest hundreds are given: 

Table III. — Relative volume of air transported by each wind or cloud-direction. 



? i 

- o . 




© 


Direction of movement from — 


Resultants. 


Press 
iu at 
pher 


Class observed. 


3 
3 


sw. 


W. 


Nff. 


N. 


NE. 


E. 


SE. 


S. 


3 

o 


2"* 


a 






Feet. 
























0.0 


Computed . .. 




20 


20 


15 


6 


1 


1 


1 


9 


74.4 


30.5 


22.6 


0.2 


Computed 


41, 000 


16 


18 


14 


7 


2 


1 


2 


8 


67.0 


25.3 


22.8 


0.4 


Upper cirrus . 


2H, 000 


12 


15 


13 


7 


2 


1 


2 


6 


59.6 


20.6 


22.2 


0.0 


Lower cirrus . 


12, 800 


9 


13 


12 


7 


2 


1 


2 


5 


51.8 


16.4 


21.2 


0.75 


Mackerel sky. 


7, 200 


7 


10 


9 


4 


1 


1 


1 


3 


35.0 


10.8 


13.1 


0. 8G 


Cumuli 


3,800 


5 


9 


8 


3 


1 


1 


1 


2 


30.4 


9.2 


11.8 


0.94 


Lowest clouds. 


1,600 


6 


11 


10 


4 


2 


2 


1 


1 


37.4 


8.3 


15.8 


1.00 


Surface wind 




4 


4 


3 


2 


2 


1 


N 2 


3 


19.8 


8.7 


6 3 












11.3 


14.0 


11.8 


5.6 


1.7 


1.2 


1.5 


5.3 


52.5 


18.1 


19 1 











For the whole atmosphere the greatest average movement is from 
the west; the least is from the east. In general as much air flows from 
the north (the polar current) as from the south, the ratio being 19.1 to 
18.1, and an exact equalization must therefore occur for a direction 
about 2° east of north. This direction is subject to annual variation on 
either side of the mean. (Z. O. O. M., xvn, pp. 267-351.) 

O. Jesse criticises Dr. Vettin's method of computing clond heights, 
but apparently does not impugn the general accuracy of the conclusion. 
{Z. O. G. M., p. 430, xvn.) 

In reply to some criticisms by Prof. O. Jesse, Dr. Vettin gives further 
details as to the method of measurement, and shows that in the case of 
the cirrus clouds his results are all confirmed by the separate consid- 
eration of the cases in which he has determined the altitude by either 
of the three methods, viz, the trigonometric, the sunset illumination, or 
the projected velocity. Vettin also describes in detail the camera-ob- 
scura and the formulae used iu the observation and computation of 
cloud altitudes. The great need and general dearth of accurate cloud 
observations should attract observers to the use of some equivalent 
apparatus; that used by Vettin consisted of a camera box or tube 
mounted with altitude and azimuth motion. The observer looking 
upon the lower end sees the cloud image thrown upon a ground-glass 
plate by the lens at the upper end of the camera; on this ground-glass 
plate a divided circle is etched. The observation consists iu noting the 
sides of this plate towards which the cloud-image moves, and also the 
inclination to the vertical of the axis of the camera. The observation 
is thus made as simple and speedy as possible, while the formulae and 



METEOROLOGY. 531 

tables give the true direction and velocity of cloud movement with equal 
ease. (Z. 0. G. M., xvm, pp. 90-92.) 

Prof. O. Jesse describes three methods of determining the altitude 
of the clouds, as follows : First, a beam of brilliant light is thrown upon 
some spot on a cloud which being thus illuminated is observed as to 

r altitude and azimuth from two stations, and a trigonometric calculation 
gives the altitude. Second, an observer is furnished with a simple plane 
table divided into small squares of l mm each; at an observed moment 
the-location of the cloud is observed on this plate; the same is doue a 
second time without change of instrument, whence results the apparent 
movement of the cloud. Let the observer now change his location by 
a known distance perpendicular to the direction of movement of the 
cloud and make a third and fourth observation of the cloud's location 
on his plane table and he has at once all the material necessary for de- 
termining height and motion of the cloud. Third method: this is sim- 
ilar to the preceding, except that a camera- obscura replaces the plane 
table. [It may be worth while to note that in 1872 and 1874 the writer 
presented for the consideration of General Myer a sketch of numerous 
methods for determining the altitude and motions of clouds, some of 
which at that time had already been published, while others seemed 
new. Among these latter were the following : First, by means of two 
cameras mounted on alt-azimuth circles, successive photographs of 
clouds are to be taken, whence their altitudes and internal changes 
could be determined. Second, by a vertical beam of light and the 
observation of the illuminated spot overhead calculate the height of the 
lower surface of clouds at night. Third, by a mirror movable about 
horizontal and vertical axes observe the apparent altitude and van- 
ishing point of the horizontal movement of a cloud in any portion of 
the sky. Fourth, by two small houses a few hundred feet apart, fitted 
up as camera-obscuras, with lenses overhead and horizontal tables 
below, record on sheets of graduated paper the locations at successive 
moments of the image of clouds, whence altitudes and motions can be 
calculated. While this note can at present have but slight historical 
interest, yet the subject continues to be one of growing importance, 
and will, it is hoped, commend itself to the attention of the reader.J 
(Z. 0. G. M., xxxi, p. 181.) 

Dr. W. W. Linss publishes an essay on the origin of streaky forms of 
cirri ordinarily known as "mare's tails," polar bands, and other varie- 
ties. The principal stria} are either homogeneous massesor they show the 
beautiful incipient formation known as mackerel sky. The axes of the 
principal striae are almost always straight lines, and ofteu of great length ; 
the secondary striae are either perpendicular or parallel to the original, 
forming a system of equidistant wave-marks. Linss maintains that the 
formation of these striae is ultimately due to the relative movement of 
the air and the clouds under the influence of gravity and the laws of 
hydro-dynamics; he rejects any influence of terrestrial magnetism or 



532 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

atmospheric electricity; he allows the condensation of vapor by three 
methods, namely, thermo dynamic cooling, by mixture of cold and warm 
air, and by radiation, to be of equal importance considering the various 
circumstances under which these thin clouds are formed. His views 
are elaborated with skill and corroborated by reference to actual obser- 
vations. (Z. 0. G. M., xvm, pp. 57-81.) 

Hann has collected the records of diurnal periodicity of rainfall at 
several European stations. Confining ourselves especially to the rain- 
fall, but giving a little weight to the snowfall, the records of which are 
so much more difficult and uncertain, Hann finds in general an after- 
noon maximum between 2 and 4 p. m., and a night maximum between 
2 and 4 a. m. At some stations a third maximum between 10 p. m. and 
midnight, and at one, Vienna, the third maximum between 8 and 10 a. 
m. At one station, Bern, the afternoon (2 to 4 p. m.) maximum does 
not occur, but in its place a decided evening maximum between 10 jud 
11 p. m. (Z. 0. G. M., xvil, p. 53.) 

Sprung recommends the more detailed study of rainfall in connection 
with the movement of barometric depressions as theoretical conMdera- 
tions indicate the great relative importance of these two subjects. To 
this end continuous records must be made of rain, the same as tempera- 
ture and pressure; he recommends that Nipher's rain-gauge be estab 
lished upon the roof, the snow caught therein being warmed by the hot 
air ascending through a surrounding pipe, and the rain or melted snow 
conducted into the measuring apparatus in the room below. The ar- 
rangements for measuring and recording may be devised to suit the. 
observer's ingenuity, but Sprung recommends a method of weighing and 
recording similar to that adopted by him for the pressure, temperature, 
and moisture, which methods have proven remarkably satisfactory. 
(Z. 0. G. M., xvii, p. 140.) 

Dr. A. Augustin contributes to the study of th e daily periodicity of 
raiufall some items additional to those collected by Hann. He finds 
for Castelton Moor aud Greenwich three maxima and three minima of 
quantity but only two of frequency. For New York three maxima and 
minima exist both in respect to quantity and frequency. In all three 
stations during the colder portions of the year the morning and after- 
noon maxima occur closer together than during the warmer portion 
of the year. (Z. 0. G. M., xvii, p. 235.) 

Dr. F. Augustin has investigated the daily period in raiufall at Prague 
based ou twenty years' observation ; he finds as above three maxima 
aud three minima for both frequency and quantity. The intensity of 
rain, namely, the quantity per minute aud the probability of rain at any 
minute, has the same periods as the quantity and frequencj^. (Z. 0. 
G. ilf., XVII, p. 243.) 

Billwiller, from a study of the raiufall in Switzerland iu the autumu of 
1881, concluded that this season, as also that of August, 1880, studied 
by Hann, and other cases, shows " that in fact the advance of a baroine- 



METEOROLOGY. 



533 



trie maximum into the region of a dry stationary depression or the pre- 
cursor of such (especially when the latter lies between the zones of high 
atmospheric pressure or when the air, blowing out from the maximum, 
strikes a rising surface of ground) gives occasion for heavy protracted 
rainfalls. The practical art of weather predictions can sometimes take 
notice of this correction, even if we are still far from being able to sat- 
isfactorily explain theoretically the process that goes on." (Z. 0. G. M.i 
xvii, p. 5.) 

G. Mantel, of Zurich, has studied the distribution of simultaneous rain- 
falls throughout Switzerland. If over an interval of a days among which 
there are r days on which more than half of the Swiss stations report 
rainfall and s days on which more than half the stations show dry weather, 
then the law of probabilities give us a formula from which to compute 
how many stations have experienced a simultaneous rainfall. The per- 
centage of such stations varies from 80 for the winter and spring months 
to 84.7 for the summer and fall, the average being 82 per cent, for the 
whole six years ; that is to say, on any day of the year 82 per cent, of 
the area of Switzerland simultaneously enjoys the same weather, namely, 
either dry or rainy. Similar computation was made some years ago by 
Winkelman for Southern Germany, from which seemed to follow that a 
prediction of uniform weather over either of these portions of Europe is 
not likely to be verified over more than 85 per cent, of the area. Per- 
centages greater than 85 are more frequent during dry weather than 
during rain. (Z. 0. G. M., xvii, p. 377.) 

J. B. Lawes, J. H. Gilbert, and R. Warriugtou have communicated 
to the Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society of England the results 
of their observations since 1870 on the amount and composition of rain 
and drainage waters collected at Rothamsted. These experiments were 
conducted on a magnificent scale. The drainage is measured by collect- 
ing-vessels placed 20, 40, and 60 inches below the surface. The general 
average is shown in the following table : 





Interval. 


Rainfall. 


Drainage at depths of— 




20 inches. 


40 inches. 


60 inches. 


1871-'74 


27.34 
34.19 
31. 45 


9.68 
16.94 


9.48 
1R.S4 


7.75 


1875-'80 


16.90 


1871-'80 


14.04 


13.24 











It is not clear why the 40-inch drain should, during 1875-'80, have 
collected more than the 20 or 60 inch drains. The greatest drainage 
occurs in autumn and winter when the evaporation is a minimum. (Z. 
O. G. M., xvn, 446.) 

Symons quotes the following as the best results of the studies of 
Phillips, Bach, Jevons, Dines, Field, and others, into the diminution of 



534 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

rainfall with altitude: [The physical question is indeed thus far almost 
entirely resolved into an instrumental one, i. e., what are the sources 
of error, or how much are the rain-gauge records affected by local pe- 
culiarities.] 

Jevons and Dines have shown that the wind eddies, due to the very 
presence of the raiu-gauge and its support, largely affect the result. 
The following points, however, may now be considered demonstrated : 

(1.) The ratio of the rainfall on a tower and on the earth depends 
upon the direction of the wind. 

(2.) In a calm the rainfalls on a tower and on the earth are equal. 

(3.) For a given prevailing wind the rainfaH on the tower on the 
windward side is smaller than on the earth, whilst on the leeward side 
the rainfall is equal to or greater than that on the ground. 

(4.) The excess on the leeward side compensates the deficiency on the 
windward side. 

(5.) On a very large roof the rainfall at the center is the same as on 
the ground. (Z. 0. G. 31., xvn, p. 114.) 

Whipple lias published a discussion according to a simple method of 
the question whether five or thirteen year periods are any ways ap- 
parent in the long series of rainfall records at Paris, London, Milan, 
&c. He concludes that no periods, and especially none so short as these, 
are deducible. (Z. 0. G. 31., xviii, p. 47.) 

VII. — WINDS AND CURRENTS. 

Prof. A. Overbeck, of Halle, has published a highly important memoir 
on the movement of the atmosphere on the surface of the earth. As- 
suming the surface to be level and smooth and the frictional resistance 
proportional to the velocity of the wind, he finds from the differential 
equations of motion of an incompressible fluid conclusions relative to 
the inclination of wind to the gradients, some of which had already been 
given by Guldberg and Sprung. Overbeck gives detailed formulae and 
computations for the inner and outer portions of a cyclone and anti- 
cyclone, presenting conclusions not veiy different from those of Ferrel 
(Met. Res., Part 2), but of course strictly applicable only to the ideal 
earth and atmosphere. (Z. 0. G. 31., xviii, p. 106.) 

Helmholtz' scientific memoirs having been reprinted, Hann calls re- 
newed attention to a memoir of 1873 " on a theorem relative to geomet- 
rically similar motions of fluid bodies, &c." Starting with the statement 
that we have long known the correct differential equations of fluid mo- 
tion, but cannot generally obtain the integrals therefrom, Helmholtz 
shows that for a large class of motions, where the compressibility of gas 
or liquid underpressure does not affect the phenomena, the laws of mo- 
tion in gases are similar to those in far more incompressible fluids, and 
the motions on a large scale of a very compressible gas or liquid are 
similar to those on a small scale and with small velocities of a correspond 
ingly less compressible fluid. Similarly with the friction, its effect is also 
less important in motion on a large scale; in fact, in experiments on large 



METEOROLOGY. 535 

fluid masses, the principal resistances are those that arise from the ac- 
celeration of the fluid and especially in consequence of the formation 
of dividing surfaces (on either side of which independent movements 
simultaneously take place). These resistances increase with the square 
of the velocity until that due to friction only is proportional to the first 
power of the velocity and is specially apparent only in experiments with 
quite small tubes and inclosures. (Z. 0. G. M., xvm, p. 100.) 

Sprung gives a critical review of the three important memoirs by Fer- 
rel on the mechanics of motions in the atmosphere; he deduces Ferrel's 
fundamental equations in a more general manner, but as his equation 
cannot be conveniently reproduced here it suffices to state that by an 
almost entirely independent course of reasoning he is led to a general 
system of atmospheric circulation and to special systems of cyclonic 
circulation entirely similar to that which was published by Ferrel. As 
to the origin of areas of high and low pressure, the inclination of the so- 
called axis of the cyclone and the causes of the progressive movements 
of the storms he also adopts Ferrel's views. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 
161.) 

Sprung makes the following remarks in respect to Hadley's principle 
i. e., that a body that is relatively at rest on the earth's surface at the 
latitude q) , and revolviug about the earth's axis with the absolute 
velocity proper to this latitude, R co cos cp , has the same absolute ve- 
locity at any other latitude to which it may attain by virtue of some 
impulse, ■», in a meridional direction. 

(1.) On arriving at the latitude cp, the body is found to have a rela- 
tive east and west velocity of E = R go (cos <p» — cos q>). If we con- 
sider this to be the result of a steady deflecting force, continuously act- 
ing like the force of gravity, then E is the integral of the differential 

expression -^5- = R iS-co sin cp: where R -£-= v is the above uni- 
1 dt dt ri dt 

form meridional velocity due to the initial impulse. 

(2.) If we consider the earth and meridians as stationary, then, at 

the end of the time t two bodies starting from <p A , one moving east 

and the other polewards as well as east, will have respectively arrived 

at the two points (cp and A), and (cp and A x ) where 

A] = R oo cos cp t and A = R go cos (p 1 

The difference of longitude will be 

y = R go (cos cp — cos cp) 

The difference of latitude 

vt = R {cp — cp ) 

whence 



whence 



T>2 co 

y = (cp — (p ) x (cos cp — cos <p ) 



rfE = d?y = qi sin 
dt dt ^ 



This second value is twice the preceding, and is that also deduced 



536 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

from the principle of the preservation of areas, which shows that the 
radius rector projected upon the plane of the equator will describe 
equal areas in equal times. (Z. O. G. M., xvn, p. 7C.) 

Dr. P. Andries describes some pretty experiments in producing steady 
and progressive whirling movements in the atmosphere and in the 
water. He infers that a strong, horizontal current at some distance 
above the earth is sufficient to produce in a mechanical way horizontal 
and vertical whirlwinds in a lower quiet stratum of air. The low ba- 
rometer within a hurricane or tornado is, he concludes, the consequence, 
not the cause, of the whirlwind motion. There is a continual inflow of 
fresh air taking up the whirling motion while other air is pushed out to 
make room for it ; an anti-cyclone lies above each cyclonic movement. 
The progressive movement is due to upper currents of air. His theory 
requires that every tornado should be accompanied by another simul- 
taneously pursuing a parallel track and having its rotation in an oppo- 
site direction. [Both these conditions are utterly opposed to the facts 
collected in Fiuley's memoirs on American tornadoes.] (Z. 0. G. M., 
XVII, pp. 307 and 385.) 

Richter gives the results of some observations for four years, 1877 to 
1880, of the directiou of the cloud movements at Ebersdorf in Silesia. 
He distinguishes the direction of the motion of lower clouds in the morn- 
ing hours C to 10 A. m., and the afternoon hours to 4 p. m. The per- 
centages of movemeuts from the north and northwest were apprecia- 
bly less in the afternoon than in the morning. Those from the southwest 
and west were greater in the afternoon. Any group of three or four 
months showed the same phenomenon; the southwest and west move- 
ments being on the whole about 8 per cent, more frequent, while the 
northwest and north were 9 per cent, less frequent than the average, 
so that during the day there was a general shift in the lower cloud 
directions towards the south or backward. On the other hand, the 
comparison of the afternoon observations with those taken between 
5 and 10 P. M., shows nearly equal tendency of cloud direction to shift 
back toward the north. A part of this shift may possibly be due to the 
high mountains east and west of the station. The observation of the 
upper clouds show no such daily period, as they retain nearly the same 
direction throughout the day. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 245.) 

Colding, in an elaborate study of the storm of November, 1872, and 
its effects in Denmark, deduces the effect of the wind on the waters of 
the North Sea. He shows the piling or accumulation of water pressed 
forward by winds to be represented by the formula 

V=-2579 % /f H ,or A =^( 2 J 7 y 
where V equals wind velocity in meters per second, H the depth of 
the sea in Danish feet, h the piling up for a distance, I or = the accumu- 
lations per unit of length. The rise of water on the southern coast of 



METEOROLOGY. 537 

the Baltic amounted to from 4 to 10 feet above the mean sea level, and 
as there was a corresponding depression at the north end of the sea the 
elevation above the simultaneous level of water on the coast of Finland 
amounted to from 6 to 14 Dauish feet ; almost the same difference re- 
sults from comparison with the sea level at stations on the Skagerrack. 
(Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 78.) 

Dr. Hann has revived the discussion of the origin of the Fohn wind 
by an analysis of seventeen years at Bludenz, where the Fohn comes 
from the southeast, from the valley of the Upper 111. This valley at its 
southeast end is bounded by the mountains covered by heavy glaciers, 
the lowest part beiug 2,000 m. above Bludenz. On examining the cases 
when the relative humidity is under 35 per cent., Hann finds the tempera- 
tures are invariably far above the normal and the pressure somewhat 
below the average; two thirds of these days occur in autumn and winter. 
A special detailed examination was made of thirty-seven Fohn days on 
which relative humidity was as low as from G to 20 per cent. On these 
days the temperature was much higher and the humidity much lower at 
Bludenz than at neighboring stations in open country to the north and 
south, as, for instance, at Stuttgart and Milan. The barometric gradient, 
as deduced from the general observations of the Swiss stations, show that 
the stormy upper winds blowing over and down the mountain side are not 
always necessary in order to produce Fohn winds in the valley; in fact, 
the latter comes not from a distance, but is due to the air lying above 
the summits gradually settling in valleys beneath, without having at 
any time risen up the opposite mountain ridge. Its temperature is due 
both to the normal warmth of the upper strata of air and the rapid 
increase of temperature due to the compression of the sinking air. 
(Z. O. G. M., xvn, p. 461.) 

Dr. W. Koppen presents some views concerning the rapid fluctuations 
of temperature observed at elevated stations during anti-cyclones, 
suggested by observations in Switzerland and Bavaria. The most 
remarkable illustration of this variability is shown by observations 
by Trogne, December 5-7, 1869, when from hour to hour the tempera- 
ture and relative humidity went through rapid variations from — 7.0 
O, and 100 per cent, to -f 10.2 C. and 30 per cent. In explanation ot 
these Koppen allows that the insolation and the dynamic warming due 
to compression play a part, but that the more important feature is the 
existence of temporary horizontal gradients, producing currents and 
mixtures of warm air with the cold air from the low-lying plains, where 
nocturnal radiation has its greatest effect. (Z. O. G. M., xvn, p. 468.) 

VIII. — BAROMETRIC PRESSURE. 

Prof. H. Wild, in a memoir on the relation between monthly and 
annual isobars and isabnormals of temperature, finds that these lines 
run parallel to each other, the latter lying to the south and east of the 
former, so that southeast of a low barometer there is always a maxi- 



,038 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



mum of positive temperature departures ; southeast of a high barome- 
ter is a local maximum of negative temperature — isabnormals. This 
relation corresponds closely to a similar relation shown by the daily 
simultaneous weather chart. Following this generalization, Wild ex- 
tends his isobars into regions where but few barometeric observations 
are available. By reading off the barometric pressure at every five 
degrees of latitude and longitude, he compiles a table showing the 
mean pressure of the northern hemisphere, which we have directly 
compared with the one given by Ferrel in 1877, in Meteorological Be- 
searches, Part I, p. 37, as follows: 

Mean barometric jircssnre reduced to standard gravity. 



Latitude. 


Ferrel. 




Wild. 




Year. 


January. 


July. 


Year. 


January. 


July. 


Degrees. 
-f- 20 


700 mm. 

+ 
59. 2 
60.4 
61.7 
62.4 
62.0 
61.5 
60.7 
59.7 
58.7 
58.2 
58.6 


700 mm. 

+ 
60.6 
62.0 
63. 4 
64.1 
63. 6 
(53. 
62.1 
61.0 
59.7 
58.8 
59.0 


700 mm. 

+ 
57.8 
58.8 
60.0 
60.7 
60.4 
60.0 
59.3 
58.4 
57.7 
57.6 
58.2 


700 mm. 

+ 
59.7 
60.8 
61.7 
62.2 
62.3 
62.0 
61.3 
60.4 
59.7 
59.4 
59.3 


700 mm. 

+ 
62.0 
63.2 
64.1 
64.4 
64.4 
64.1 
63 2 
61.8 
fj0.7 
60.5 
61.3 


700 mm. 

+ 
57.5 


25. 


58.1 


30 


58.5 


35 


58.7 


40 


58.7 


45 


58.5 


50 

55 


58. 3 
58.0 


60... 


57.6 


65 _ 

70 


57.2 
56.8 







(Z. O. G. M., xvn, p. 328.) 

F. Singg, as the result of some studies on the influence of the Alps 
on the phenomena that occur during an area of high barometric press- 
ure, arrives at the following conclusions: 

1. The surfaces of equal atmospheric pressure will be raised in pro- 
portion to the horizontal extent of the mountainous region and the 
height of the mountains. This effect of the mountains extends upward 
to a neutral surface. 

2. The atmosphere sinking down upon the mountains comes under a 
given pressure, and by compression experiences a higher temperature/ 
sooner than at the same level over a country destitute of mountains. 

3. The inclination of the surfaces of equal pressure is therefore from 
the center of the mountains outward in all directions; wherefore the 
descending atmosphere acquires an outward flow with increasing 
velocity. 

4. This latter movement hinders the cooling influence of the snow- 
covered surface of the mountains upon the air that is flowing into the 
valleys around, so that it brings to these a temperature more nearly 
corresponding to that due to the compression of the air. 



METEOROLOGY. 539 

5. This atmospheric current finding no outflow in the closed valleys, 
must fill up the latter to the level of the surrounding ridges, flowing 
from one valley to the next until it reaches the limit of the mountainous 
area. 

6. The bottom of such an outward flow of air is therefore at the level 
of the ridges of the mountains. Below this there prevails in the valleys 
calm and fog and low temperatures. 

7. Above this limit prevail cloudless skies, and the air sinks from 
regions of slight pressure down to levels of higher, and notwithstand- 
ing the steady rise in its temperature it falls lower, step by step, to 
the foot of the mountains and thence outward, distributing a compara- 
tive warmth throughout the low lands. 

8 and 9. When the descending and outflowing masses of air are 
hindered by outlying mountain ridges they pile up to a level sufficient to 
give them impulse to further outflow. This level forms then a dividing- 
surface like that over the valleys within the mountains ; whence fol- 
low also similar temperature anomalies, but inequalities in the surface 
of equal pressure are wanting, as also the gradients that give rise to 
increase in movements. 

10. The progressive rise of the equal pressure surfaces over the 
mountains up to the neutral surface forms a hindrance in the upper 
depression, in consequence of which the center of maximum pressure 
must move from the mountain system towards the latter. (Z. 0. Q. 
,1/., xvn, p. 214.) 

Dr. Hann, in some remarks on the study of movements of barometric 
maxima and minima, proposes to call these the chief centers of ac- 
tion of the atmosphere, and the regions of the earth covered by such cen- 
ters the chief centers of action of the earth's surface. The importance of 
considering these centers seem to have been fully appreciated by Taste 
in a memoir read before the Paris Academy of Sciences in September, 
1871 ; but the importance of the movements of these centers can only be 
appreciated by the study of the daily weather charts, whence it results 
that besides the movements of centers of depression there are also 
changes in the location of the principal belts of maxima, such as those 
of the tropics, which, of course, affect the weather over large portions 
of the continent. Hann regrets that the rapid progress recently made 
in the study of the daily weather charts for small portions of the earth's 
surface has lessened the esteem in which students at present hold the 
study of monthly and annual means over large portions of the earth's 
surface. He maintains that most important insight into the causes of 
long-enduring abnormal departures of temperature, pressure, and wind 
are to be obtained by mean charts for each month over large portions 
of the earth, and that to this there should be an international co-opera- 
tion for the increase of stations in lower latitudes ; that, in fact, the key 
to the weather of the temperate zones lies in the tropics and subtropics, 



540 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

and not in the polar regions, since the former has an area of 79 and the 
latter 8 per cent, of the whole hemisphere. A further extension of the 
simultaneous observations initiated by General Myer [probably the first 
were by the present writer in 1869], although very advantageous for a 
single continent, has, he thinks, no value for a whole hemisphere, and 
may even lead to error, since the high temperatures during day-time are 
much more important than the cooling of the earth at night-time, and 
these on the simultaneous system are not given for at least one-half 
of the hemisphere. Neither hydrometry, nor dynamic or climatic prob- 
lems can be studied by means of one simultaneous observation. {Z. 0. 
G. M., xvn, p. 200.) 

Januschke exposes the advantage of the study of the so called level 
surface or surfaces of equal barometric pressure in the interior of whirl- 
winds corresponding to the similar study by Hann, Ferrel, and others, 
on the general circulation of the atmosphere over the earth. The influ- 
ence of the temperature and moisture as affecting density of the air is 
easily taken into account, but the influence of the rotation of the earth, 
which becomes more perceptible in the higher latitudes, requires more 
complicated considerations, but by considering the propositions deduced 
by the mathematicians and utilizing the graphic presentation he attains 
to a fairly clear view of the atmospheric relations. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 
136.) 

Dr. F. Augustin has studied a relation between diurnal periodicity of 
atmospheric pressures and temperatures, as shown by observations for 
twenty years at Prague. He finds, in general, that pressure rises when 
the temperature changes are greater and falls when they are less, and 
that the changes in pressure are greater in proportion to the rapidity 
and duration of the changes in temperature. The oscillations of the 
barometer by day are greater than by night because the temperature 
rises from maximum to minimum much more rapidly than it falls. (Z. 
0. G. M., xvn, p. 330.) 

Hann has collected together what little is known of the diurnal 
periodicity of meteorological phenomena on the Rocky Mountain pla- 
teau. He finds the diurnal barometer curve in summer quite analogous 
to that of the interior of the Asiatic continent and directly opposed 
to that upon the mountains of corresponding altitude. It is therefore not 
the absolute altitude, but the local position on the flanks or the summit 
of a mountain that materially influences the daily barometer curve. 
This curve is on high plateaus and in high valleys the same as on the 
low lands, and the magnitude of the diurnal amplitude is remarkably 
independent of the altitude. The same is true of the diurnal tempera- 
ture curve. The stations of great diurnal temperature oscillations are 
not those of greatest barometric oscillations. According to Hann, with 
the morning increase of temperature there flows from the air above a 
valley a certain proportion towards the flank of the mountain, to which 



METEOROLOGY. 541 

is due the earlier occurrence of the niorniug maximum aucl the un- 
usual depression of the afternoon minimum. At night time the aii 
flows back again, whence results the diminution of the morning mini- 
mum in the valley, but its increase on the flank and summit. An 
analogous process occurs between land and sea; during the day the 
air at an altitude above the land flows towards the sea and causes there 
a rise of pressure that shows itself even on the coast by the delay iu 
the morning maximum and the afternoon minimum. The reverse pro- 
cess occurs at night. This is illustrated in the California barometer 
curves and those deduced by F. Chambers for the seven English self- 
recording stations. The elucidation of a general theory of the diurnal 
barometric oscillation is much facilitated by having clear views of the 
modifications that this oscillation experiences by reason of the periodi- 
cal diurnal transfer of air from the land to the sea, and from the valley 
to the hills. The daily barometric oscillations attain an extraordinary 
extent in the excessive summer heat and dryness of Arizona ranging 
from 1.8 mm. above to 2.2 mm. below the daily mean, or an oscillation 
of 4.0 mm. {Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 35.) 

Koppen, in a study upon the vertical (and horizontal) distribution of 
the pressure in the atmosphere, discusses the allowable simplification 
of Euhlmann's formula for approximate reductions of observations to sea 
level or other altitudes. He states that since August, 1880, when his 
formulae, viz — 

B_ h h 



b ~ 18460 + 72 (t + jL (45°-<p)) ~ 72 (256 + t + T \ (66Q.5- cp)) 

were presented to the meteorological committee at Berne, he has used it 
iu the form of a manuscript table for all cases occurring at the Deutsche 
iSeewarte, where greater accuracy was required, although for the daily 
weather reports the reductions are as before, made without reference to 
the prevailing air temperature. 

He then proceeds to discuss the important question of isobars and 
gradients for higher levels as revealed by reducing barometric readings 
upward to an assumed level (say 5,000 or 10,000 feet), the need of which 
has been felt these many years before by the present writer and of late 
by others. We desire, namely, to know at what elevation within an 
area of low pressure the gradient ceases to be inward and above winch, 
therefore, the air must be flowing outward, or at what altitude' the 
pressure above a low area becomes equal to that of the same altitude 
above a neighboring high area, or again at what altitude and distance 
from the center of a depression the pressure above any station in the 
quadrant of cold northerly winds becomes equal to the pressure above 
another station in the quadrant of warm southerly winds. 

Let the lower temperatures and pressures be t and f 1? B and B, ; the 



542 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



height at which pressures are the same over both localities will be given 
approximately by . 



h=(\ogB— logB,) 



72 T T, 



T, — T 

where T = 250 + t + S2 (60-5 — <p) and similarly for T^ ; or if we neg- 
lect the effect of difference of latitude we get approximately 
, /jo k B — Bi T Ti 

* = w - 5 tt=t • B+1T, 

or assuming the lower pressure to be not far from 750 mm. we have 

where C varies from 2,000 at — G°C. to 3,000 at + 12QC. 

For convenience iu acquiring a permanent remembrance of the dis- 
tribution of the atmosphere and the relative importance of the masses 
of successive strata, Koppen gives the following table showing the air 
temperature, vapor tension, and barometric pressure at successive alti- 
tudes, so chosen that between each there is contained one-sixth of the 
weight of the atmosphere. 

The temperatures are determined by the admirable formula of Men- 
delieff, which applies especially to the free air and great altitudes, aud 
in whicli, however, Koppen adopts the constant 40° from Hann, instead 
of the 30° given by Mendel ieff, whence it becomes 

t b + 40° __ bh 
U + 40o - B 

The vapor tension is given on the assumption that the air is satu- 
rated at the temperature given for each altitude. 



Pressure. 


Temperature. 


Vapor teusiou. 




Relative 




Altitude. 


b 


Absolute 








B 












linn. 


° Cent. 


mm. 


Ml. 


1 


750 


+ 20 


17.4 





£ 625 


+ 10 


9.2 


1519 


* 


500 





4.G 


3:i77 


g 


325 


— 10 


2.1 


5t65 


1 


250 


— 20 


0. 9 


8X08 




125 


— 30 


0.4 


14084 



Koppen enforces careful attention to the fact that sensible horizontal 
and vertical gradients of pressure have each their respective import- 
ance iu the atmospheric motions, lie attributes both to differences of 
density, due mostly to temperature; differences in a horizontal direc- 
tion give rise to the general atmospheric circulation and the extensive 
storms; differences in a vertical direction (i. c, departures from a 
condition of stable equilibrium) give rise to local motions, such as form 



METEOKOLOGY. 543 

cumulus clouds, water spouts, tornadoes, &c. " Iu respect to the rate 
of diminution of temperature with ascent there is a notable difference 
between the front and back of a normal depression moving eastward. 
In the front part the south winds bring warm air, and even more in the 
middle than in the lowest atmospheric strata, because the currents 
move faster at an altitude, and because their direction is different, for 
they flow both from the south and from tbe minimum, bringing with 
them the latent beat of the condensation of the precipitation going on 
within the inner portion of the degression, while the cooler air on the 
earth's surface is drawn in from the regions that have not yet been 
reached by the minimum. Therefore, here the temperature diminution, 
with altitude at least in the lower half of the strata, is slow; but the 
general excess of heat over the region causes a general gradient directed 
outwards and a slow ascent of the air, the result of which is cloudy 
sky and continuous precipitation. In the rear of the depression it is 
otherwise. Here the wind in the middle strata of the atmosphere has, 
indeed, in general, the same direction, but the swifter motion of the 
upper layers and the contact of the lower layers with the surface of 
the earth still warm from the preceding mild weather [and the rapid 
evaporation of freshly fallen rainj cause even here an important dif- 
ference in the relations of the upper and lower portions of the stream 
of air, and especially a decidedly more rapid cooling of the upper re- 
gion ; a very rapid fall of temperature witn ascent for the lower half of 
the atmosphere,, is the consequence. Hence the air in the rear of a 
minimum acquires the characteristic interchange of shower and sun- 
shine, due to the many local upbursts of the warm lower strata over 
the whole region where cold air is in the neighborhood of warmer, 
moister air to the eastward." 

A third type of gradient is that presented by the high or anti cyclonic 
areas, within which the temperature gradient and atmospheric motions 
are, in general, directed downwards, but the lowest stratum, or sixth, 
the part of the atmosphere which, of course, has been stopped in its 
descent, its warming and its drying is found moving slowly outwards. 
Iu such anti-cyclones the perfect freedom from clouds favors the radia- 
tion of heat from the earth's surface (in winter and at nights), produc- 
ing such great cooling as to lead to complete inversion of the normal 
vertical distribution of temperature and to the formation of fog in the 
lowest part of the stratum. Koppen concludes as follows: "The cold 
over the continents directly causes the increased density of the air and 
the initiation of barometric maxima and their descending air currents. 
For even although the temperature does not suffice to explain the aver- 
age distribution of pressure with latitude, and mechanical influences 
have to be. added thereto, still for the annual variations in the pressure 
over continents and ocean, the temperature is the deciding factor." (Z. 
0. G. M., xvn, p. 92.) 

Dr- W. Koppen, in discussing the question of the monthly range of 



544 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



the barometer, states that Kamtz had already, in 1834, in his Lehrbuch, 
graphically presented the lines of equal barometric ranges, a method 
that has been neglected until in most recent times, when Felberg (1878) 
and Koppen (1882) have published contributions to this subject not- 
withstanding the difficulty of obtaining uniform or homogeneous results 
for many countries. Koppen has been able to make a very extensive 
collection, fairly representing the whole northern hemisphere, and with 
numerous points of comparison in the southern hemisphere, from which 
we extract the following table of mean monthly barometric variability: 



Latitude N. 


Summer. 


Winter. 


Ocean. 


Continent. 


Ocean. 


Continent. 


0° 


5 (3) 

6 (6) 
8 

16 
29 
38 
45 
40 
34 


6.5 (4) 
8 (6) 

11 

13 

18 

25 

31 

33 


5 (3) 

5 (4) 

6 

9 
16 
25 
28 
25 
18 


6 (4) 
6 (5) 
8 (7) 

11 (10) 

12 


10 


20 


30 


40 


50 


14 


60 


19 


70 


18 


SO 











By comparing the figures in this table with values based on dynam- 
ical formuhe due to Ferrel and Guldberg, Koppen concludes that the 
great difference between the mean variability over the land and sea is 
to be referred to the variable influence of the earth's rotation in differ- 
ent latitudes and the resistances offered by the surface of the earth to 
the movement of the air. He finds that in winter the quantity of air 
passing over any latitude in a unit of time is the same in all latitudes, 
but in summer the quantity is sensibly diminished north of latitude 10°, 
perhaps because of the greater quantity of vapor and latent heat in the 
tropics. The hypothesis that the friction increases the barometric 
variation especially explains the relative variations, which are greater 
on sea than on land in latitudes between 30° and 70° north, but at the 
equator are smaller on sea than on land. Finally, the inflow of air at 
the earth's surface, or the outflow in the outer strata is approximately 
equal in all latitudes during the winter, but in summer diminishes, first 
rapidly then slowly for increase in latitudes. The general proportionality 
of the barometer variations to the mean barometric gradient gives us 
further corresponding variations with the mean velocity of the wind, &c. 
(Z. O. G. M., xviii, p. 7.) 

IX. — GENERAL, AND LOCAL STORMS. 

Koppen has published a chart showing the frequency of and princi- 
pal paths pursued by centers of barometric minima for the region be- 
tween the Rocky Mountains and the Ural. His charts are based on the 



METEOROLOGY. 545 

publications of the Army Signal Office, Hoffrneyer, Looinis, and the 
Deutsche Seewarte. He seems not to have access to the similar charts 
prepared by the present writer for the statistical atlas of the United 
States Census Bureau and published in 1875. Koppen's charts show 
seven principal centers through which storm tracks are most likely to 
pass. Of these, two are in America on the parallel of 45°, and the cen- 
tral over Lake Superior and New Brunswick, respectively. Three be- 
long to the North Atlantic, near the parallel of 65°, and central, respect- 
ively^ in Davis's Straits, southwest of Iceland and northwest of Norway. 
The principal European center is central over Denmark and Southern 
Sweden. For all these six centers thirty or more barometric minima 
occur on the daily morning charts in the course of the year for each 
square of 5° in latitude and 10° in longitude. [This statistical presenta- 
tion of the frequency of storm centers seems imperfect in that it takes no 
account of the movement of the storm center from one morning until 
the next; it is simply a summation of what appears on the daily morn- 
ing maps. The charts of the United States statistical atlas, on the con- 
trary, were based upon actual storm tracks whose paths could be confi- 
dently laid down by means of the three or more tri daily maps of the 
Army Signal Service ; this atlas therefore presents the total frequency 
for the whole year and the whole day. A new edition of these charts, 
embodying all the work of inany years, has been prepared by Finley 
and is now in press.] In some remarks on his charts Dr. Koppen states 
that the minima which pass from America to the English Channel re- 
quire about six days to travel from the 70th to the 10th meridian of 
longitude, whereas the transatlantic storms require nine or ten days, 
but the irregularity in the rate of storm movement is very great, both 
by the ocean and the land. The greater part of the storms of America 
pass over Greenland and Iceland, and daily weather telegrams from 
islands and borders of the North Atlantic Ocean would afford to Euro- 
pean meteorologists a practically useful synopsis of the condition of the 
weather for the guidance of the navigators. Koppen also remarks that 
the decided excess in the number of storms passing to the north of 
Europe over those passing to the south not only affects the climate by 
the characteristic warm and damp south and west winds, but is also 
the foundation of the so-called Dove's law of the rotation of the winds 
according to which, in Europe, they change most frequently in the order 
east, south, west, north, or, as frequently expressed, shift with the sun, 
namely, in the direct and not the backward order of rotation. In Green- 
land, on the other hand, where the observer is located on the left-hand 
side of the storm-path the change of wind is in the opposite direction, or 
they are said to back against the sun or from the west through the south 
and east. (Z. 0. G. 3L, xvn, p. 257.) 

J. Spindle* has published a collection of paths of typhoons in Chinese 
and Japanese waters, compiled for the years 1858 to 1878. He finds 
the turning-point in their parabolic paths about 30° north latitude. 
H. Mis. 69 35 



546 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



August and September are the months of greatest frequency for Japan- 
ese typhoons, but September and October for Chinese. The velocity 
of movement is slowest near the apex, and is rather slower in the China 
than in the sea of Japan. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 336.) 

Dr. Assman, director of the local meteorological station at Magde- 
burg, whence special weather predictions are daily issued, has paid 
special attention to the phenomena of local thunder storms, and urges 
the establishment of more numerous stations whence data may be de- 
rived for plotting the phenomena of the storm as a whole at short in- 
tervals of time. His continuous records of temperature and wind show 
sudden oscillations of temperature that seem to him to indicate local 
cyclonic movements. (Z. 0. G. M. xvn, p. 337.) 

A. Eichter has analyzed the observation of thunder-storms during 
four years, 1877 to 1880, at seven stations in the department of Glatz. 
A thunder-storm is considered to have passed over any locality when 
the interval between the thunder and lightning is not greater than sixty 
seconds. The annual and daily periodicity is shown in the following 
table of frequency : 



Ii. 



III. 



Month. 


Average i 
frequency. 


December 


0.1 


January . . 


0.0 


February ■ 


0.0 


March 


0.5 


April 

May 


1.7 

4.7 


June 


8.6 


Jaly 


6.4 


August .. . 


5.6 


September 


2.5 


October. . . 


0.6 


November 


0.1 




30.4 



Hours. 



12 - 3a.m 

3 a. m.- 6a. m 

6 a. m.- 9 a. m 

9 a. m.-12noon 

12 -3p.m 

3 p.m.- 6 p. m 

6 p. m.- 9p. m 

9 p. m. -12 midnight 

Total 




Uniform high pressure 3.7 

Central region of maximum 2.1 

Near a maximum 11.1 

Zone between maximum and minimum . 43. 

Near a minknuin 18.5 

Central region of minimum 4.7 

Uniform low pressure 2. 8 



The distribution according to the location of the centers of maximum 
and minimum pressure is shown by the third table. When the tem- 
perature is above or below the normal, the storms occur as follows : 

0-2° below normal 17.9 

0-2° above normal 27.3 

2-4° above normal 26. 9 

4-6° above normal - 12.5 

(Z. 0. G. M., xvii, p. 329.) 
Dr. W. Holtz describes ingenious experiments to prove that tornadoes 
and waterspouts, &c, are caused by electricity, and are not the me- 
chanical effect of rotation of a portion of the atmosphere. He however 
quotes equally beautiful experiments of Xavier de Maistre (Bibl. Uni- 
vers, 1832, vol.Li ; Silliman's Amer. Jowr., 1834, XXV), that fully support 
the mechanical theory. (Z. O. G. M., xvn, p. 370.) 



METEOROLOGY. 547 

X. — ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AURORAS, LIGHTNING. 

Freeman has investigated the electrical state of a plate or dish trom 
which water or other fluids is being evaporated. He finds no trace of 
electrification, and concludes that atmospheric electricity cannot be due 
to evaporation. 

L. J. Blake has investigated the electrified condition of the particles 
of vapor, both condensed and uncondeused, after they ascend from the 
evaporating dish, and finds that these also give no sign of electrifica- 
tion, whence also it follows that atmospheric electricity cannot be due 
to aqueous vapor. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 482.) 

Dr. Spring has attempted a more satisfactory hypothesis as to the 
origin of atmospheric electricity, replacing the widely-prevalent view 
according to which the atmosphere communicates its own electricity to 
the cloud particles at the moment of their formation by condensation, so 
that a cloud contains the total quantity of electricity that was pre- 
viously in the corresponding atmosphere, but in a higher degree of 
tension because of the change in condition of the aqueous vapor ; this 
electricity now collects itself on the surface of the cloud which dis- 
charges itself toward a similar cloud or the earth's surface like any 
electrified conductor. Spring shows that this explanation is both un- 
satisfactory and contradictory to well-known physical facts. Starting 
with certain observations in the Swiss Alps, where Spring had some- 
times found himself in the center of a thunder-storm, and had per- 
suaded himself that a cloud does not act as a single conductor, but 
that the individual drops or hail-stones retain the electric charge, he 
concludes that possibly the electricity may arise partly from the ascent 
of the moist air, partly from the friction of the falling drops, and the 
atmosphere. The intensity of the development of electricity increases 
with lower temperatures. Dr. Spring quotes in support of his views 
similar observations by Osborne Keynolds in 1878 and the observations 
made by H. Spring in 1875, which confirmed the view that the combina- 
tion of numerous small crystals into one larger is accompanied by enor- 
mous increase in the intensity. 

Dr. Spring made special experiments as to the possibility of elec- 
trifying a solid body by atmospheric friction. He found a decided 
electrification of a brass sphere produced by blowing against it a warm 
dry current of air, the effect being somewhat proportioned to the ve- 
locity of the current and the atmospheric pressure; he further observed 
that rapid variations took place in the electrification of the sphere while 
the current remained constant, as if a process of charging and dis- 
charging were alternately going on between the current and the sphere. 
(Z. 0. 0. if., xvii, p. 486.) 

Prof. H. von Bezold describes an electric phenomenon occurring on 
February 19, 1882, which consisted essentially in a peculiar cloud reach- 



513 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18S3. 

ing from an altitude of 45° down to the south and southwest horizon, 
from which an intense mild light beamed in streaks resembling auroras, 
while the mass of the cloud exhibited a glow so intense that it was illu- 
minated as brightly as a whitewashed wall illuminated by a street 
lamp. This appearance continued until 8p.m., shifting to various parts 
of the horizon, and demonstrably was not due either to the moon or the 
reflected lights of the city. Bezold concludes that this was a case of 
self-illuminated clouds similar to that described once by Sabine. At the 
same time in the distant Bavarian forest occurred a few peals of thun- 
der with lightning flashes. [Similar phenomena have been observed in 
Washington, generally at the end of a period of warm southerly winds 
when cold westerly winds with light flurries of snow occur. Another 
form of lightning without thunder has been twice observed by the writer, 
namely, in Chicago, July 4, 1859, and again in Washington in July, 1874, 
on both of which occasions the heavens from the zenith to the horizon 
were for an hour or more brilliant with innumerable simultaneous 
flashes, stealing with comparative slowness in all directions, apparently 
on the under surface of a layer of thin, high clouds. No thunder was 
iieard, nor did any rain fall.] (Z. 0. 0. M., xvir, p. 146.) 

Prof. Adams has studied the magnetic storms of March, 1879, by 
means of photographic traces at Lisbon, Coimbra, Stonyhurst, Vienna, 
St. Petersburg, and Bombay, in the northern hemisphere, and Mel- 
bourne and Mauritius, in the southern. He finds that a diminution of 
the horizontal intensity occurs with an eastern departure of declination 
greater at St. Petersburg than at Kew, and vice versa, an increase of 
horizontal intensity occurs with a west departure greater in St. Peters- 
burg than in Kew. 

Adams also investigated the much stronger perturbations of August 
11-14, 1880, by means of the curves from Lisbon, Kew, Vienna, St. Peters- 
burg, and Toronto. Vienna and Toronto show for hours together strong 
similarity in their curves and then change to great diversity. The to- 
tal magnetic intensity at St. Petersburg was changed by nearly one- 
eighth of its whole value. Any cause that is insufficient to explain the 
origin of the whole terrestial magnetism could scarcely be considered 
as sufficient to explain such enormous perturbations. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, 
pp. 15, 16.) 

Wild has also expressed his views as to the origin of terrestial mag- 
netism and magnetic storms in connection with a study of magnetic 
storms of 1880, August 11-14. From autographic records of Pavlosk, 
Kew, Zikawei, and Melbourne he concludes: (1) The disturbance of all 
three elements, declination, horizonal and vertical intensity, began and 
ended simultaneously. They originated, therefore, from either one single 
force or from forces that simultaneously began and ended. (2) The 
individual curves of disturbance at neighboring points, as Kew and 
Pavlosk, show some similarity, but those of Zikawei and Melbourne 



METEOROLOGY. 54SJ 

are entirely discordant. (3) The characteristic features of this storm are 
as follows : 

Character of disturbances. 



Stations. 


Declination. 


Inclination. 


Total intensity. 


Kew. 


Strong. 


None. 


Slight. 


Pavlosk. 


Moderate. 


None. 


Very strong. 


Zikawei. 


Slight. 


Strong. 


None. 



(4) The magnitude of the perturbation for each element, especially the 
intensity, and for each day, shows a diurnal period closely coinciding 
with normal daily variations. (5) It is probable that the sun is to be 
considered as the principal agent of the periodic and non-periodic vari- 
ations of the elements of terrestrial magnetism. However, it must be 
conceded that this conclusion would require that we assign to the sun 
a magnetization per unit of mass about 13,000 times that of a unit of the 
earth's mass, and that at times of great perturbations this varies to and 
fro by thirty times its own amount ; but our present knowledge only 
justifies our attributing to a unit of mass in the sun a magnetic power 
2,000 times that of a unit of the earth, even supposing the sun to be a 
fully saturated steel magnet. Therefore, it appears not likely that the 
sun alone is the cause of the normal and abnormal variations. It will be 
more intelligible to adopt with De La Rive the view that the earth is a 
Le^ den jar, whose inner covering is the surface of the ground, and whose 
outer surface is the highly attenuated upper strata of air, and that dis- 
charges from pole to equator in the atmosphere and also from pole 
to pole within the eartn continually take place. The ordinary charges 
cause the normal deviations of the magnet, the abnormal cause the per- 
turbations. We have, then, only to assume that the daily position of 
the sun has an influence upon the direction and force of this discharge, 
and that the abnormal stronger discharge is caused by special occur- 
rences on the sun. In this way the cause is made present on the earth, 
and the sun comes in only as the medium releasing it and setting it into 
activity. Observations on, earth currents have been instituted in Pav- 
losk that will perhaps be further explanatory of this matter. (Z. 0» 
G. M., xvii, p. 14.) 

Prof. H. Wild has investigated the so-called magnetic weather of Jan- 
uary 30-February 1, 1881, by means of the records of magnetographs, 
at eleven places in America, Europe, India, China, and Australia. He 
finds that the perturbations began everywhere simultaneously, so far 
as the time scales enabled the moments to be determined. A perfect 
similarity in the declination curves existed throughout Southern Eu- 
rope, but the curves for Pavlosk, Zikawei, Bombay, show no similarity, 
while for Melbourne and Toronto, the declination curves generally show 
almost opposite variations. A very similar statement as to the opposite 
character of the variations in Europe and America would hold good for 
the curves of horizontal and vertical intensity and the dip of the needle. 



550 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

The times of occurrence of maxima and minima, and the amplitudes, 
especially of the variations in declination, correspond very closely to the 
distance of the stations from the auroral circle surrounding the mag- 
netic north pole, as late'y defined by Baron Nordcnskiold ; hence it 
would seem to follow that in this circle originate both the aurora and 
the magnetic declinations. Wild concludes that the source of the per- 
turbing forces is so far distant that these are essentially parallel for 
all stations, and that possibly, in magnetic perturbations, the total mag- 
netic force of the earth is not changed, but the increase at some stations 
is compensated by diminution at others ; so that the perturbing forces, 
as it were, merely push over or disarrange the geographical distribu- 
tion of terrestrial magnetism. He finds evidences of the existence of 
several independent points in the auroral circle, whence originate the 
magnetic disturbances that were felt in Europe. (Z. 0. G. M., xvm, 
p. 97.) 

Lemstrom having observed that in Spitzbergen the galvanometer 
needles had distinctive motions during au aurora when he held it aloft 
in his hands, took occasion, on his subsequent expedition to Lapland, to 
establish a staff with metallic point upright on a hill 150 meters high, and 
connected the point by insulated wire with his galvanometer 4 kilometers 
distant, and thence to the ground plate of platinum buried a half meter 
in the earth. Beams of light (the elementary light-needles of the aurora) 
appeared at night over the hill, and the motion of the galvanometer 
needle, whenever the circuit was closed, showed the presence of a gal- 
vanic current. Lemstrom proposes further investigation of the phe- 
nomena in northern regions, but also deems it proper to recommend 
this to the attention of observers in temperate latitudes, where auroras 
are frequent. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn,p. 115.) 

Prof. R. Robinson has published his long-promised second part of his 
catalogue of auroras observed from 1700 to 1877 in Sweden, concerning 
which Professor H. Fritz remarks, that it is the conclusion of a labor of 
the highest importance in this department, especially in that it gives 
the fullest possible details as to time, place, details and authorities 
for each aurora. The total number of aurora days is 7,780: the epochs 
of maxima follow the sun-spot maxima at an average interval of 14 years. 
The annual periodicity shows the dependence on latitude already devel- 
oped by Weyprecht and Tromholt and others, viz, the most northern 
stations show a decided maximum in the winter months, whereas at tem- 
perate latitudes this subsides iuto two maxima at the respective equi- 
noxes. (Z. O. G. M., xvn, p. 441.) 

Prof. H. Fritz presents an interesting analysis of the chronological 
list of auroras compiled by Lieut. A. W. Greely, of the Army Signal 
Office, which he recognizes as a valuable contribution of data especially 
towards the determination of the daily and secular periodicity. He 
finds sufficient confirmation from the long series of observations at To- 
ronto, Gardiner, Cambridge, and Willets Point, &c, of the agreement 
between the periodic variations of the "aurora with the variation of the 






METEOROLOGY. 551 

sun-spots. For the annual period lie finds the following numbers, which, 
however, give but slight indications of the ordinary maxima at the 
equinoxes : 

January 84 July 91 

February 77 August 72 

March 88 September 95 

April .... 92 October 85 

May 87 November 82 

June 90 December 74 

As regards the daily period, he finds a confirmation of the law an- 
nounced by him in 1881, namely, that there is an annual variation in the 
time of daily maximum by reason of which the hour of maximum in 
the winter half of the year is decidedly earlier than the summer half 
and the mean duration is greatest at the time of the equinoxes. (Z. 0. 
G. M., xvn, p. 417.) 

H. J. Groneman, of Groniugen, combats the statement of Sophus 
Tromholt, that in many cases the aurora is au apparently local phe- 
nomenon, and that it often occurs at slight altitudes above the earth's 
surface. He examines in detail the observations quoted by Tromholt, &c, 
and maintains, after minute analysis, that they give no ground for such 
conclusions. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 187.) [The present writer announced 
precisely the same conclusions in the Eeport of the Chief Signal Officer, 
1S7G, p. 311, as based on the study of many auroras, especially that of 
April 7, 1874, and is still inclined to sustain the views of Tromholt.] 

Sophus Tromholt replies to Groneman's criticisms in an equally posi- 
tive manner and with fullest possible details. He concludes that with one 
exception all of Groneman's thirty-two objections rested upon observa- 
tions made carefully by Tromholt himself, and that, conscious of the 
favorable location whence he observed, of his many years' experience, 
and of the special care given to the examination of the whole heavens, 
he must still remain convinced that in many cases the location of the 
auroral light is very near to the earth's surface, frequently underneath 
the clouds and sometimes at the surface. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn. pp. 342-351.) 

S. Fritz has published in Danish a memoir entitled Recent Investiga- 
tion on Winch in the Atmosphere, &c, in which he gives the results of 
years of personal experience in reference to the auroral phenomena at 
Ivigtut, Greenland, 61° 20' north latitude. Within the belt of gieatest 
frequency the aurora is an almost daily phenomenon that fails only 
when fog or clouds obscure it. North of 80° north latitude it is rarely 
seen. Between this and the zone of maximum frequency, it is seen to 
the south of the observer's zenith, and usually as a freely moving wavy 
baud of great horizontal extent. This, "the Arctic form," consists of a 
series of bars of light arrayed side by side perpendicular to the general 
axis of the band, while the whole band is always in a wavy, often in a 



552 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1833. 

nearly circulating, movement j the individual perpendicular bars that 
form it have simultaneously a forward and backward movement ; the 
whole band changes its place continuously in the sky, and ordinarily one 
sees many such bands expanded over the sky. The auroral arches seen 
by observers stationed at northern latitudes have a more regular inva- 
riable form than these bands, and both these forms are seen by observ- 
ers in the southern part of the zone of maximum frequency. Accord- 
ing to Edlund the aurora depends on atmospheric electricity, but a mu- 
tual dependence on terrestrial magnetism and sun spots is also acknowl. 
edged, and the parallelism of these with the annual daily variations of 
atmospheric temperature and pressure force us to trace all back to the 
same source, the sun. 

Arsuk Fiord is in 61° 15' north latitude. This fiord is 2 miles wide 
by 25 long, and its shores are steep, rocky cliffs from one to four thou- 
sand feet high. Midway of its length, on the south side, lies Ivigtut. 
At this station the aurora light begins with a development in the west 
over the north of the fiord, and as it progresses eastward follows the 
direction of the fiord, sometimes covering its entire length, and having 
outliers over the smaller arms of the fiord; but ordinarily the western 
part of this auroral band disappears before the development has ex- 
tended to the eastern end and new bands of light come again from the 
western end eastward. The phenomenon is best developed at two 
hours after sunset, and appears then to be near the earth's surface, 
occasionally only 1,000 feet above sea-level. As a rule, the aurora is 
fully developed only in calm, clear weather. It most frequently appears 
during the east wind (the well-known Fohn wind), but is then very un- 
quiet and dismembered. The author then gives his theory that the au- 
rora is due to local currents of warm and cold air. (Z. 0. 0. If., xvn, 
p. 320.) 

Nordenskiold,in his report on the auroras observed in the Bering Sea 
during the voyage of the Vega in 1878 and 1879, states that in tliose 
regions the aurora presented an entirely different appearance from what 
is ordinarily seen in Europe. It consisted regularly of an arch of light 
five or twelve degrees above the horizon, perfectly quiet, without mo- 
tion or rays. The inside of this arch was sharply defined, and the so- 
called dark segment wholly free from light, and generally free from 
clouds or fog. The upper limit of the arch was not sharply defined, and 
above it the sky was somewhat illuminated ; occasionally rays issued 
from this side, especially when several such arches were arianged above 
each other, which latter appearance was not rare. The brilliant dra- 
pery and beams reaching the zenith, so common in Europe, were very 
seldom seen. 

Nordenskiold proposes the following explanation, namely, that the 
ordinary auroral arches are due to a luminous ring that remains per- 
manently around the magnetic pole as a central axis, its center being 
about 2,000 kilometers above the earth's surface, its radius 0.32 of the 



METEOROLOGY. 553 

earth's radius, and the plane of the ring perpendicular to that ter- 
restrial radius that passes through its center. A second ring in the 
same plane, but of greater diameter, concentrically surrounds the first. 
There are, therefore, five zones to be distinguished in the study of auro- 
ras : (1) A circle with the radius of 8 degrees, whose center lies in or near 
Smith's Sound, within which the aurora is seldom seen, and then only 
as a light cloud m the horizon ; (2) A concentric ring 8 degrees out- 
side of the preceding, where the single aurora arch is the ordinary 
phenomenon ; (3) The ring between circles of 16 or 20 degrees radius^ 
where the ordinary arch appears near the zenith, and as a faint light, 
or else it appears as an arch to the north, while in the south another 
aurora appears ; (4) The ring between circles of 20 and 28 degrees ra- 
dius where auroral rays ordinarily attend the arch and perhaps even 
extend to a second luminous ring ; (5) Between the circles of 2S and 
33 degrees radius, the inner or lower arch is no longer seen, but the mag- 
nificent drapery, with brilliant and moving rays, is the ordinary phe- 
nomenon. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 232.) 

XI. — OPTICAL PHENOMENA. 

Kerber has studied certain optical phenomena by which to gain some 
idea of the altitude of the earth's atmosphere. From the value of the 
constant of refraction, i. e., 57".3, be deduces the limiting altitude 192.6 
kilometers. But from a more critical study of the formula he deduces 
189.0 kilometers. Al-Hazen's method of determining this height from 
observations of the height of the twilight arc that rises in the east after 
the sun sinks in the west, or vice versa in the morning, gives a much 
lower altitude, but this is apparently due to the fact that the light of the 
twilight arc comes from those lower strata that contain moisture or dust 
enough to reflect a sensible amount of light to the eye. Nothing can be 
determined from this as to how much higher up the attenuated air ex- 
tends. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 72.) [It is to be hoped that photometric 
methods may yet become applicable to this interesting problem. The 
remarkable colors of the twilight and dawn during the latter half of the 
year 1883 and over the whole world show that at very great heights our 
atmosphere is subject to changes that only affect the vision, although 
they may sensibly affect temperatures and weather at the surface and 
are in some cases believed to have connection with terrestrial and cosmic 
phenomena.] 

Exner gives some of the results of critical study upon the scintilla- 
tion of stars, especially with the Arago scintillometer. After explaining 
the various special phenomena observed by Arago, Marius, Nicholson, 
Montigny, and Respighi, he proves that Arago's theory of interference 
is not sustained, and we must abide by the views of Hooke, Newton, 
Young, Montigny, namely, that the cause of scintillation is to be found 
in the variable refractions experienced by the rays in passing through 
the irregularities of the atmosphere, and- that the colored rays result 



554 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

from this irregular refraction combined with the regular atmospheric 
spectral dispersion. {Z. 0. 0. M., xvn, p. 296.) 

XII. — MISCELLANEOUS APPLICATION. 

Koppen gives an abstract of Hann's paper on barometric hypsome- 
try that was published in 1876, but seems as yet little known, although 
the main novelty, i. e.. Hann's formula for decrease of vapor tension with 
altitude, has been utilized in Upton's and other hypsometric formulae. 
Koppen indorses heartily Hann's method of approximating when the 
observations of humidity have not been made at either statiou, namely, 
to assume a probable value of the relative humidity at the time as being 
better than Banernfeiud and Schrieber's suggestion to adopt a normal 
monthly value for the locality, since the absolute humidity varies much 
more than the relative. By assuming the vapor tension, /(e) as ap- 
proximately dependent principally upon the air temperature, t, Hann 
finds from winter and summer observations in the Alps and Himalaya 
f (e) = 0.00154 + 0.000341 1, and introducing this into his formula obtains 
as a modified factor for the temperature correction 0.00400, exactly agree- 
ing with La Place. 

Possibly a still better method is the following : By means of annual 

and monthly means of pressure (B and b) and temperature (f and t") at 

two stations determine the temperature constant; for St. Bernard and 

Geneva from 6 years of observation Hann finds 

B /" t ' 4- t" \ 
h = 18540 log j( 1 + 0.0032 -^ J 

and similarly for other parts of the world. From this data determine 
the effect of geographical location on these constants and deduce a gen- 
eralized formula for application anywhere. (Z. O. O. M., xvn, p. 70.) 

Angot replies to a review of his hypsometric formula and tables by 
maintaining that the diurnal and annual periodicity in altitudes as com- 
puted ordinarily is a physical necessity that ought not to be diminished 
or suppressed by any method of computation, but rather brought out 
in its rational proportions until the rational physical formula for its cor- 
rection can be deduced. He seems to consider that since the warming 
of the atmosphere causes a part of what was below the upper station to 
rise by expansion until it is above, there is therefore less air between 
the two stations, and the barometric difference, as well as the computed 
hypsometric difference, should be less during day and summer than 
during night and winter. 

Hann replies to this insidious error that the temperature term in the 
Laplace, Angot, Buhlmann, and other formulae would wholly correct 
this diurnal and annual periodicity if only the true air temperature 
were known and used; the trouble is neither in the local peculiarities nor 
in the barometer nor the formula : the periodicity in barometric hyp- 
sometry is not a physical necessity nor a fact in nature ; it is a result of 
computations based on man's ignorance of the air temperature and of 



METEOROLOGY. 



555 



the effect of the motion of the air, which latter has therefore generally 
been quite left out of consideration. {Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 56.) 

Hoffman, in continuation of his long series of studies into vegetable 
physiology, states that in the determination of the thermal constants 
of vegetation the summation of the daily maximum positive readings 
of a thermometer in sunshine gives far better results than the use of 
the ordinary air temperature, since the plant itself is mostly exposed to 
the full sunshine. The error of the air temperature method is often 10 
per cent, of the total temperature sum, while that of the sun thermome- 
ter but 1 per cent. The errors of the former method are least in low 
and shady places, but become very large when applied to high and 
mountain regions, where the shaded thermometer always reads much 
lower than the sunshine thermometer. By using sunshine or insolation 
thermometers of perfectly uniform size and spherical bulbs, Hoffman 
hopes to make the observation at neighboring stations more perfectly 
comparable, and refers with satisfaction to the progress made in this 
respect by Dr. J. Ziegler, of Frankfort. [It would seem that the ther- 
mometers used are ordinary bright bulb with a brass scale and not in 
vacuo, and which always agree within 2° centigrade. Whatever objec- 
tion there may have been to the bright and black bulb in vacuo, or the 
Arago-Davy actinometer, as a means of obtaining the relative intensity 
of sunshine, have, I think, been mostly removed by recent researches 
of Prof. Ferrel, now in press, audit would seem that this instrument 
should be substituted for the thermometer in air.] 

The comparative observations made by Hoffman at low and at ele- 
vated points show clearly the effect of superincumbent air, mist, haze, 
smoke, &c. ; thus the differences between the reading of the same ther- 
mometer exposed ten or twenty minutes in the sunshine and then in 
the shade in calm and under very clear skies, gave for Giesen, altitude 
402 feet, 4°.0 centigrade, while observations on mountains 5,000 to 8,000 
feet high, give 1G°.4 centigrade. Selecting only observations made on 
the same day as given by Hoffman, I have compiled the following 
nearly comparable results : 





Station. 


Alti- 
tude. 


Hour. 


Readings. 


At Giesaen. \ Sun — shade. 


Date. 


Sun. 


Shade. 


Hour. 


Read Inge. 


o o 
P.+3 
Pi 


t. a 




Sun. 


Shade. 


G> O 

o 

►J. 


1880. 

vn, 18 

VII, 28 
VIII, 2 
VIII, 3 


do 

Bernina Hospico. . 


Feet. 
5,553 
5,553 
8,113 
8,113 
8,113 
8,113 
8,113 
5,593 
5,593 


10. 00 a. m. 
5. 15 p. m. 
2.45 p. m. 
3. 15 p. m. 
2. 30 p. in. 
2. 00 p. m. 
3. 00 p. in. 
3. 30 p. m. 
9. 30 p. m. 


o 
26 — 

26 — 
26 — 
29 — 
33 — 
29 — 

26 — 

27 — 


o 
13 
9 
11 
12 

11.5 
12 


12.30 
11.25 
11.54 
11.16 
10.00 


o 
27.5 
19.3 
23.3 
22.3 
22.6 
24. 
24.4 
17.0 
16.0 


o 
23.6 
13.3 
19.0 
18.4 
17.5 
18.0 
18.2 
12.0 
11.5 


o 
13 
16 
15 
14 
17.5 
21 
17 
18 
23 


o 

3.9 

6.0 

4.3 

3.9 

5.1 

6.0 

5.8 

5.0 

4.5 


VIII, 5 

VIII, 7 


....do 

... do 


VIIT, 8 
VIII, 19 

VIII, 29 


. do 

Silver Plana 

...do 


12 | 12.15 
78 i 8. 35 
4 9.30 


17.2 


4 9 











556 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

These differences are apparently largely due to mechanical impurities 
in the atmosphere, such as are washed away by every rain or snow-fall, 
and their importance can be seen from the fact that from observations 
on the Brocken it is proved that only one-third of the sunrises and sun- 
sets can be clearly seen and these are pretty uniformly distributed 
through the year. 

The ordinary observation of amount of cloudiness gives little or no 
idea of this obscuration of the solar rays ; thus during the interval cov- 
ered by the above observations the average cloudiness for all the above 
high stations was almost exactly the same as for the low station G les- 
sen. 

The thermal constant of vegetation must, of course, begin at some 
epoch uniform for all plants. Hoffmann confines himself to plants with 
closed winter buds and takes the time of first swelling of the buds as 
the date for which to begin the summation of temperature. 

In order to ascertain this movement he paints in black a broad line 
on one side of the trees and daily observes with a lens until he discerns 
white lines breaking open in the blackened portion ; he finds that the 
dates can be thus ascertained to within one day when the temperature 
rapidly increases, but to only within a week when the temperature in- 
creases slowly and regularly. (Z. 0. G. M., xvn, p. 30.) 

METEOROLOGICAL BIBLIOGRAPHY, 1882 AND 1883. 

Abbe, Cleveland. Account of progress in meteorology and allied 
subjects, 1879-1881. W., 1883. 8vo, pp. 101. (From Smithsonian 
report, 1881.) 

Adelaide Observatory. Meteorological observations, under direction of 
Oh. Todd, 1880. Adelaide, 1882. 4to, pp. xxv + 305, ch. 36. 

Algiers. Service me^orologique. Bulletin inel^orologique (daily, with 
chart), 1882-1883. 1. 8vo. 

Resume climatologique (monthly), 1882, January-September. 

fol. sheets. 

Anderson, B. The lightning rod. On the necessity for a regular in- 
spection of lightning conductors. L., 1882. 8vo. 

Associazione meteorologies* italiana. 1 assemble* generale nella cittadi 
Napoli, 25 sett, al 1 ott., 1882. Napoli, 1882. 8vo, pp. 25. 

Bolletino decadico, pubblicato per cura dell' Osservatorio cen- 

trale del collegio Carlo Alberto in Moncalieri (monthly), xi, xn, 
1882-1883. Torino, 1882-1883. 2 vols. 1. 8vo. 

Bolletino mensuale. Serie 2, n, in, 1882-1883. Torino, 18S2- 



1883. 2 vols. 1. 8vo. 
Attlmayr, T. Handbuch der Oceanographie und maritimen Meteoro- 

logie. Wien, 1883. 2 vols. 8vo. 
Atjgustin, F. Ueber den taglichen Gang des Regenfalles. Prag, 

1882. 8vo, pp. 30, pi. 2. (From Sitzb. k. bokin. Ges. Wissensch.) 



METEOROLOGY. 557 

Avignon. Commission metdorologique du d6partenient de Yaucluse. 

Compte-Eendu, 1880. [Avignon, 1882.J 4to, pp. 30, charts. 
Bassler, S. S. The weather ; a practical guide to its changes. Cin 

ciunati, 1883. 8vo, pp. 54. Illus. 
Batavia. Magnetic aud Meteorological Observatory. Observatioas, 

January 1, 1879-December 31, 1880, and results from January 1, 

1866-December 31, 1880, under direction of P. A. Bergsma. Bata- 
via, 1882. 1. 4to, pp. 27 + 379. 
Begenwaarneiningen in Nederlaudsch-Indie, in, 1881, door P. 

A. Bergsma ; IV, 18S2, door J. P. Van der Stok. Batavia, 1882-1883. 

2 vols. Svo, pp. xvi + 305 ; x + 341, 
Berlin. Hydrographisches Amt. Anualen der Hydrographie und mari- 

timen Meteorologie (monthly), x, xi. 1882-1S83. Berlin, 1882- 

1883. 1. Svo. 
Berlin. K. preussisches meteorologisches Institut. Ergebnisse der 

meteorologischen Beobachtungen, 1881-1882. Berlin, 1882-1883. 

2 vols. 4to, pp. vi + 100; vi + 120. (Preussische Statistik, 64, 71.) 
Bombay. Meteorological Office. Brief sketch of the meteorology of the 

Bombay Presidency, 1882-18S3. [Bombay, 1883.] 4to, pp. 7, pi. 1. 
Brussels. Observatoire royale. Bulletin m^teorologique (daily, with 

chart), 1882-1883. fol. 
Btjlard, . Meteorologie. Secheresseetinondations. Avantde 

reboiser protegeons nos forets contre les incendies. Alger, 1882, 

Svo, pp. 27. 
Canada. Meteorological Service. Monthly weather review, 1882-1883. 

[Toronto, 1882-1883.] Svo. 
Eeport, by C. Carpmael, 1880-1881. Ottawa, 1882-1883. 2 vols. 

8vo, pp. xxiii +211 ; xxii + 221. 
Cape Colony. Meteorological Commission. Eeport, 1881-1882. Cape 

Town, 1882-1883. 2 vols. 4to, pp. 85; viii + 93. 
Carlier, H. Observations mdteorologiques a Saint-Martin de Hinx, 

France, xvn, December, ISSO-November, 1881. Bayonne, 1882. 

4to, pp. 17, pi. 26. 
Carlsruhe. Grossh.-badische Central- Station. Jahresbericht, xin, xiv. 

1881-1882. Karlsruhe, 1882-1883. 2 vols. 12mo, pp. 96; 134. 
Casella, L. List of standard meteorological and other instruments. 

L., 1883. 8vo, pp. 72 + iv. 
Chemnitz. K. sacbsisches meteorologisches Institut. Wetterbericht 

von Dr. Paul Schreiber (daily, with cbarts). 1882-1883. 12mo. 

Jahrbuch, 1883. Lieferung 1. Leipzig, 1883. 4to, pp. 136 + 40. 

Christiania. ISTorwegisches meteorologisches Institut. Jahrbuch, hsg. 

von Dr. H. Mohn, 1881-18S2. Christiania, 1882-1883. 2 vols. 4to, 

pp. iv+99+; vi4-99+. 
Ciel et terre. Eevue populaire d'astronomie, de meteorologie et de phy- 
sique du globe (semi-monthly), n, in, 1881-1882, 1882-1883. Brux- 

elles, 1882-1883. 2 vols. 8vo. 



558 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Coimbra. Observatorio magnetico e meieorologico. Observagoes mcte- 

orologicas, 1882. Coimbra, 1883. 4to, pp. ix+136. 
Commission me^e^rologiquedud^partemeutdeVaucluse. See Avignon. 
Copenhagen. Dansk meteorologisk Institut. Bulletin m6"t6orologique 

du Nord (semi-monthly). 1882-1883. obi., 8vo. 
Meteorologisk Aarbog, 1881. Kj^beuhavn, 1882. 4to, pp. xi+ 

130+vi+84+vii+45. (In Danish and French.) 
Cordoba. Officina meteorologica argentina. Auales, por B. A. Gould. 

in. Buenos Aires, 1882. 4to, pp. xiv+507. 
Danckelmann, A. von. Die Ergebuisse der Niederschlags-Beobach- 

tungen in Leipzig und an einigen anderen sachsischen Stationen. 

1864-1881. Leipzig, 1882. 4to, pp. 16. 
Denza, Francesco. La meteorologia e la fisica terestre al in. con- 

gresso geograflco internazionale di Venezia. Boma, 1882. 8vo, 

pp. 31. 
La meteorologia e la sue piu recenti applicazioni. Torino, 1883. 

8vo, pp. 364. 
Edelmann, Th. Die erdmagnetischen Apparate der Polar-Expedi- 

tionen im Jahre 1883. Braunschweig, 1882. 8vo, pp. 34, ch. 6. 
Ekatherinebourg. Observatoire. L'observatoire magu^tique et m6- 

t^orologique d'Ekatherinebourg en 1876. Ekatherinebourg, 1882. 

4to, pp. 103, ch. 2. (In Russian and French.) 
Falb, Rudolf. Wetterbriefe; meteorologische Betrachtungen auf die 

periodischen Ueberschwemmungen in 1882. Wien, 1883. sm. 8vo, 

pp. vi4-152. 
Fineman, C. G. Sur la trombe du 7 juin 1882, dans la valine de Saby. 

Upsal, 1883. 4to, pp. 36, pi. 7. 
Fish, S. A. Analysis of Signal Service statistics, with reference to 

Colorado climate. [Denver, 1883.] 8vo, pp. 13. (From Trans. Colo. 

State Medical Soc, 1883.) 
Friend, Charles W. Meteorological observations made at the Car- 
son observatory, Carson City, Nevada, 1880-1882. Carson City, 

1883. 8vo, pp. 20. 
Friesenhof, G. Wetterlehre, oder praktische Meteorologie. 2 Aufl. 

Wien, 1883. 8vo, pp. viii + 680 + xx. 
Geneva. Observatoire. Resume" m6t6orologique pour Geneve et le 

Grand Saint-Bernard, par A. Kammermann, 1881-1882. Geneve, 

1882-1883. 2 vols. 8vo. 
Gether, A. Vortrage iiber Witterung und Wetterprognose. Stutt- 
gart, 1883. 
Gilbert, G- K. New method of measuring heights by means of the 

barometer. W., 1882. 1. 8vo., pp. 160. (From U. S. Geological 

Survey. Report 1880-'81.) 

Same, 2d ed. W., 1883. 

Great Britain. Committee on solar physics. Report. L., 1882. 8vo, 

pp. iii+241. 



METEOROLOGY. 55$ 

Greenwich Observatory. Results of maguetical and meteorological 

observations, 1880-1881. L., 1882-1883. 2 vols. 4to, pp. lxvii+ 

(lxxxii); xliv-f-(lxxvii). 
Hamberg, H. E. Resume af meteorologiska Observationer i Gyda 

Viken. n. p., n. d. 8vo, pp. 4. 
Variation diurne de la force du vent. Stockholm, 1883. 12wo, 

pp. 50. 
Hamburg. Deutsche Seewarte. Wetterbericht (daily, with charts), 

1882-1883. 4to. 
Monatlicbe Uebersicht der Witterung, vii, viii, 1882-1883. 

Hamburg, 1882-1883. 2 vols. 8vo. 
Meteorologische Beobachtungeu iu Deutscbland fur 1880-1 88 1. 

Jahrg iii-iv. 2 vols. 4to, 304; 239. 
Resulate meteorologischer Beobachtungen von deutschen und 

hollandischeu Schiffen fur Eingradfelder des Nordatlantischen 

Ozeans. Quadrat, 110; No. iv. Quadrat, 75; No. v. Hamburg, 

1882-1883. 2 vols. 4to, pp. xxvi+193. 

AtlantischerOcean. Ein Atlas von 36 Karten, die physikaliscben 



Verhaltnisse und die Verkehrs-Strassen darstellend. Hamburg, 

1882. 8vo, pp. 11, ch. 3Q. 

Hann, Julius. Handbuch der Klimatologie. Stuttgart, 1883. 8vo, 
pp. x+764. 

Hebert, F. F. Etudes sur les lois des grands mouvements de l'atmos- 
phere et sur la formation et la translation des tourbillons a^riens. 
Versailles, 1882. 8vo, pp. 88, pi. 6. 

Hellmann, Gustav. Repertorium der deutschen Meteorologie. Leis- 
tungen der Deutschen in Schriften, Erfindungen und Beobach- 
tungen auf dein Gebiete der Meteorologie und des Erdmagnetismus 
von den iiltesten Zeiten bis zum Schlusse des Jahres 1881. Leipzig, 

1883. 8vo, pp. xxii+995. 

Helsingfors. Sociele" des sciences de Finlande. Observations me^teo- 
rologiques, vn, vni, 1879-1880. Helsingfors, 1882-1883. 2 vols. 
8vo, pp.208; 212. 

Hildebrandsson, H. H. Samling af bemarkelsesdagar, tecken, 
miirken, ordsprak och skrock rorande vaderleken. [Stockholm, 
1883.] 8vo, pp. 118. (From Antiq. Tidsk. for Sverige, vn, No. 2.) 

Sur la distribution des elements me'te'orologiques autour des 

minima et des maxima barom6"triques. Upsala, 1883. 4to, pp. 31. 
Observations m6t£orologiques par l'expe'dition de la V6ga du 



Cap Nord a Yokohama. [Stockholm, 1882.] 8vo, pp. 100, pi. 4. 
Hirn, G. A. R6"sum6 des observations m6t6orologiques faites pendant 

Panned 1883, en quatre points du Haut-Rhin et des Vosges. P., 

1883. 12mo. (Also in Paris, Compt. Rend., xcvin, 1884, pp. 276- 

280.) 
Hoffmann, H. Phanologische Beobachtungen aus Mitteleuropa. Gies- 

sen, 1883. 8vo. 



560 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883 

Hogbom, A. G. Marclie des isothermes en automne dans le nord de 

l'Europe. Upsal, 1883. 1. Svo, pp. 8, ch. 5. 
Hong Kong Observatory. Instructions for making meteorological 

observations in China, by W. Doberck. Hong-Kong, 1883. 8vo, 

pp.34. 
Houzeau, J. C. and Lancaster, A. Trait6 el^mentaire de in6t6o- 

rologie. 2e 6&. Mons, 1883. 24mo, pp. 324. 
Hurion, A. Notions de m6t£orologie. Grenoble, 1883. 8vo, pp. 

4+88. 
India. Meteorological Reporter. Daily bulletin, 1882-1883. Large 

sheets. 
Kegisters of original observations (monthly), 1882-July, 1883. 

4to. 
Report on the administration of the meteorological department. 

1881-1882, 1882-1883. [Calcutta, 1882-1883.] 2 vols. 4to, pp. 

104; 107. 
.Report on the meteorology of India, by H. F. Blanford, VI, Vii, 

1880-1881. Calcutta, 1882-1883. 2 vols. 4to, ii+286; 294. 
Indian meteorological memoirs, under direction of H. F. Blan- 



ford. II, parts 1 and 2. Calcutta, 1882. 4to, pp. 147, pi. 18. 

CONTENTS. 

I. Account of the southwest uionsoon storm of the 18-24 of September, 1878, 

in the north of the Bay of Bengal, by J. Eliot. 

II. List of cyclones on the west coast of India, and in the Arabian sea, up 
to the end of the year 1881, by F. Chambers. 

III. Note on Mr. Chambers' list of cyclones and on the Gujarat land-cyclone 
of July 11-13, 1881, by H. F. Blanford. 

IV. On the temperature of northwestern India, by S. A. Hill. 

Jarriant, B. Etude sur les paratonnerres. P., 1882. 8vo. 

Kew Committee. Report for year ending October 31, 1882, 1883. [L., 

1882-1883. J 2 papers. 8vo. 
Kiel. Kommission zur wissenschaftlichen Untersuchung der deutschen 

Meere. Ergebnisse der Beobachtungsstation an den deutschen 

Kiisten iiber die physikalischen Bigenschaften der Ostsee mid 

Nordsee und der Fischerei. Jahrg. ix. Berlin, 1882. Obi. folio. 
Klein, Hermann J. Allgemeine Witterungskunde nach dem gegen- 

wartigeu Stand pun kte der meteorologischen Wissenschaft. Leipzig 

und Prag, 1883. 12mo, pp. 260. 
Landolt, E. Bericht iiber das Hochgewitter am Bhein und an der 

Thur am 21. Juli 1881. Zurich, 1882. 8vo, pp. 22, map. 
Leipzig. Kon. sachsisches meteorologisches Institut. See Chemnitz. 
Lemstrom, S. Experiences sur l'aurore boreale en Laponie. [St. 

Petersburg, 1883.] 1. Svo, pp. 20. 
Lightning-rod conference. Report of the delegates, with rules for the 

erection of lightning conductors, &c, ed. by G. J. Symons. L., 

1882. Svo, pp. x + 19 + 261. 



METEOROLOGY. 5G1 

Lisbon. Observatorio do Infante D. Luiz. Aunaes xviti, xix; 1880 ? 

1881. Lisboa, 1883. 2 vols. 4to, pp. 145+24; 145. 
Liznar, J. Anleitung zur Messungund Berechnung der Elemente des 

Erdmagnetisnius. Wien, 1883. 8vo, pp. 77. 
Loanda. Observatorio rneteorologico. Observacoes ineteorologicas e 

magneticas. I, 1879-1881. Lisboa, 1882. 1. 4to, pp. iv + 164. 
London Meteorological Council: 

Official No. 42. Report for year ending March 31, 1831. L., 1882. 8vo, pp. 

131. 
No. 43. Charts of meteorological data for the ocean district adjacent to the 

Cape of Good Hope, with remarks. L., 1882. 2 vols. 4to, fol. 
No. 44. Report on the gales experienced in the ocean district adjacent to the 

Cape of Good Hope, between latitude 30° and 50° south, and longitude 

10° and 40° east, by Capt, H. Toynbee. L., 1882. 4to, pp. Ill, pi. 20. 
No. 45. Meteorological observations at stations of the second order, 1879. 

L., 1882. 4to, pp. 191. 
No. 46. Report on the storm of October 13-14, 1881. L., 1882. 8vo, pp. 23, 

ch. 9. 
No. 47. Rainfall tables of the British Isles for 18G6-1880, by G. J. Symons. 

L., 1883. 8vo, pp. 199, map 2. 
No. 48. Report for year ending March 31, 1882. L., 1882. 8vo, pp. 146. 
No. 49. Quarterly weather report for 1880. Appendices and plates. L., 1883. 

4to, pp. 18, pi. 73. 
No. 51. Hourly readings, 1881. L., 1883. 4to, pp. 507. 
No. 52. Quarterly weather report for 1877. Appendices and plates. L., 1883. 

4to, pp. 12, pi. 73. 
No. 53. Meteorological atlas of the British Isles. L., 1883. 4to, pp. 10, pi. 39. 
No. 54. Hourly readiugs, 1882. Part 1, January to March. L., 1883. 4to, pp. 

129. 
No. 56. Sunshine records for the United Kingdom, 1881. L., 1883. 8vo, pp. 

vii + 61. 
Non-official No. 15. Report of the second meeting of the international me- 
teorological committee held at Copenhagen, 1882. L., 1883. 8vo, pp. 

119. 
Instructions for the observation of periodical phenomena. 2d 



ed. L., 1883. Svo, pp. 10. 
London. Meteorological Office. Daily weather report (with chart), 

1882-1883. 4to. 

Weekly weather report, 1882-1883. London, 1882-1883. 8vo. 

London. Eoyal Meteorological Society. Quarterly journal, n. s., viii, 

ix, 1882-1883. L., 1882-1883. Svo. 
Meteorological record. Monthly results of observations, with 

remarks on the weather, by W. Marriott (quarterly). Nos. 5 to 10. 

1882-June 30, 1883. 8vo. 
Loomis, Elias. Contributions to meteorology. Papers 16, 17, 18, 19. 

[New Haven, 1882-1883.] 4 papers. Svo. (From Amer. Journ. 

Sci., xxiii, 1882, January; xxiv, 1882, July; xxv, 1883, January; 

xxvi, 1883, December). 

16. Mean annual rainfall for the globe, pp. 24, map. 

17. Relation of rain areas to areas of low-pressure, pp. 22, pi. 3. 

18. Mean annual rainfall for the globe, pp. 18, map. 

19. Barometric gradient in great storms, pp. 20, pi. 3. 

H. Mis. 69 36 



662 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Magdeburgische Zeitung. Jalirbucb der meteorologiscbeu Beobach- 
tungen, bsg. vou Dr. Vi. Assmaun, i. 1881-1882. Magdeburg, 1883. 
4to, pp. xvi + 102. 

Manila. Observatorio meteorologico del ateneo muuicipal. Observa- 
tions verificadas, xvi-xviii, 1880-1882. Binondo, 1883; (1881- 
1882), Manila, 1883. 3 vols. 4to. 

Mawley, Edward. Weatber of 1882, in tbe neighborhood of London. 
L., [1883]. 8vo, pp. viii + 75. 

Melbourne Observatory. Eesults of observations, by R. L. J. Ellery 
(monthly), 1882-1883. Melbourne, 1882-1883. Svo. 

Annual report of the board of visitors, 17th, 18th, 1882-1883. 

Melbourne, [1882-1S83J. 2 papers. 1. Svo, pp. 10. 

Meucci, F. Rrvista agraria meteorologica, 1882. [Firenze, 1882.] 
Svo, pp. 13. 

Mexico. Central Observatory. Boletin (bi-daily), 1882-1883. fol. 

Revista mensual cliniatologica, 1881-1882. 4to. 

Milan. R. Osservatorio di Brera. Osservazioui meteorologiche orarie, 
1880-1881. Milano, 1882-1883. 4to. (Pubblicazioni, No. 20, 23.) 

Mill, Hugh Robert. The rainband ; how to observe it and what to 
expect from it. L., 1883. lGrno, pp. 38. 

Miller-Hauenfels, A. R. von. Theoretische Meteorologie ; eiu Ver- 
such die Erscheinungen des Luftkreises auf Grundgesetze zuriick- 
zufiibren. Mit eiuem Begleitschreibeu von Dr. J. Haun. Wien, 
1883. Svo, pp. 129. 

Moderne (die) Meteorologie : 6 Vorlesungen auf Veranlassung der me- 
teorologiscbeu Gesellschaft zu London. (Translation.) Braun- 
schweig, 1882. Svo. 

Mohn, H. Den Norske Nordhavs-Expedition, 1S76-1878. X. Mete- 
orologi. Christiania, 1883. 1. 4to, pp. 150, pi. 3, map. (In Danish 
and English.) 

Grundziige der Meteorologie. 3. Aufl. Berlin, 1883. Svo, pp. 

xii + 359, ch. 23. 

Montpellier. Commission meteorologique. Bulletin meteorolgique du 
departement de l'Herault, 1881-1882. Montpellier, 1882-1883. 2 
vols. 1. Svo, pp. 105, pi. 6; 05, pi. 1. 

Montsouris. Observatoire. Annuaire, 1882-1883. P., 1882-18S3. 2 
vols. 24mo, pp. 551 ; 449. 

Munich. Meteorologische Central-Station. Beobachtimgen der meteo- 
rologiscbeu Stationen im Konigreich Bayeru, bsg. durch W. von 
Bezold u. C. Lang, m, iv, 1881-1882. Miinchen, 1882-1883. 2 
vols. 4to, pp. 1+170; lxx+201. 

Munich. Kou. Sternwarte. Meteorologische und magnetische Beo- 
bachtuugen, 1881. Miinchen, 1882. Svo, pp. 90. 

Muttrioh, Dr. A. Jahresbericht liber die Beobacbtuugs-Ergebnisse 
der forstlich meteorologiscbeu Stationen, vi-vin, 1880-1882. Berlin, 
1882-1884 [1883]. 



METEOROLOGY. 563 

Naples. R Osservatorio astronomico. Bullettino meteorologieo, per F. 

Brioschi. 2. s., xvi, xvn, 1881-1882. Napoli, 1882-1883. 2 v. 4to. 
Osservazioni della declinazione magnetica, sett. 1 1881, a mag- 

gio 18S2, dal F. Brioschi. Napoli, [1882]. 4to, pp. 11. 
New South Wales. Government Astronomer. Results of raiu and 

river observations, 1881-1882, by H. C. Russell. Sydney, 1882- 

1883. 2 vols. 8vo, pp. 18, map, eh. ; and pp. 22, map, ch. 
Ohio Meteorological Bureau. Report, October, 1882-December, 1883. 

Columbus, 1882-1883. Svo. 
Oliver. J. A. W. Sunspottery ; or what do we owe to the sun? 

Loudon, 1883. Svo, pp. 54. 
Oviedo. Bstacion meteorologica. Resumenes generales de las observa- 

ciones realizadas desde al aho de 1851. Oviedo, 1882. Svo, pp. 51. 
Paris. Bureau central meteorologique. Bulletin meteorologique 

(daily, with charts), 1882-1883. 4to. 
Annales, publiees par E. Mascart. 

1880. I. Etude ties orates eu France etiuenioires divers. P., 1882. 4to, pp. 
xi + 35 + 136, ch. 12, pi. 31. 
II. Bulletin des observations franchises ot revue climatologiqne. P., 

1882. 4to, pp. 265 + 50, ch. 40. 

III. Pluies en France, 1880. P., 1882. 4to, pp. 304, pi. 7. 

IV. Me'te'orologie g6u6rale. Etude sur la m6t6orologie des vents dans 

l'Atlantique Nord, L. Brault. P., 1881. fol., pp. 120, pi. 14. 
1831. I. Etude des orages eu France et rn<$moires divers. P., 1883. 4to,pp, 
xvi + 204, ch. 40. 

III. Pluies en France. P., 1883. 4to, pp. 22 + 306, pi. 5. 

IV. M6te"orologie gene'rale. Nouvelles cartes d'isothermes et d'isobares 
raoyennes a la surface du globe. L. Teisserenc de Bort. P., 

1883. 4to, pp. 62, ch. 224. 

Rapport du comit6 meteorologique iuternational. Reunion 

de Berne, 1880. Paris, 1882. Svo, pp. 88. 

— Service hydrometrique du bassin de la Seine. Resume des ob- 
servations centralis6es, 1880-1SS1. Versailles, 1882-1883. 2 vols. 
Svo, pp. 50; 29. 

Observations sur les cours d'eau et la pluie, 1880-1881. 



[Versailles, 1882-1 8S3. J 2 vols. fol. Lith. charts. 
Societe meteorologique de France. Aunuaire (monthly), xxx, 

xxxi, 1882-1883. P., 1882-1883. 2 vols. 1. Svo. 
Parnell, Arthur. Action of lightning and means of defending life 

and property from its effects. L., 1882. lGmo, pp. 13 + 303. 
Perpiguan. Observatoire. Bulletin meteorologiquedudepartementdes 

Pyrenees-Orien tales, par Dr. Fines, x-xi, 1881-1882. 2 vols. 1. Svo. 

pp. 73 ; 79. 
Plumandon, J. R. Le barometre applique a la prevision du temps en 

France. 2e ed. P., 1883. 12mo, pp. 01, pi. 10. 
Poey, Andre\ Les courants atmospheriques d'apres les nuages an 

point de vue de la prevision du temps. P., 1882. sm. Svo, pp. 

vii + 80. 



564 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Pola. K. k. hydrographisches Amt. Beschreibung der meteorolo- 

gischen Instruments Pola, 1882. 8vo, pp. 24, pi. 6. 
Resultate aus den ineteorologiseheii Beobachtungen zu Pola, 

August 1864-December 1881. Pola, 1882. 8vo, pp. 51. 
Prague. K. k. Sternwarte. Astronomische, magnetische und meteoro- 

logische Beobachtungen. Jahrg. 42, 43, 1881-1882. Prag [1882- 

1883]. 2 vols. 4to, pp. xviii+57; xviii+62. 
Puebla. Collegio catolico del Sagrado Corazon. Observaciones ineteo- 

rol6gicas, 1881-1882. Puebla, [1882-1883]. 2 vols. 4to,x>p.29. 
Radatj, R. Les vetements et les habitations dans leur rapports avee 

l'atmosphere. P., 1883. 12mo. 
La m6teorologie nouvelle et la prevision du temps. P., 1883. 

12ino, pp. 119. 
Radcliffe Observatory. Results of meteorological observations, by E. 

J. Stone, 1880. Oxford, 1882. 8vo, pp. xii+115. 
Ragona, D. Sulle ore delle massime e minime velocita assolute del 

vento in Modena. Roma, 1882. 4to, pp. 5. 

Le brinate da 7 a 13 aprile 1882. Modena, 1882. 12mo, pp. 14. 

L' inverno 1881, 1882. Modena, 1882. 4to, pp. 47, ch. 1. 

L' estate del 1881. Modena, 1882. 4to, pp. 43. 

Pioggia a differenti altezze. Roma, 1883. 4to, pp. 12. 

Andamento annuale della pressione atmosferica. Modena, 1883. 

4to, pp. 127, ch. 4. 
Redford, F. Weekly results of meteorological observations at Silloth 

Rectory, Cumberland, 1881-1883. Carlisle, 1882-1883. 3 vols. 18mo. 
Repertorium fiir Meteorologie, red. von H. Wild. viii. St. P., 1883. 4to. 

CONTENTS. 

1. Die Stiirine des weissen Meeres. M. Rykatschew. pp. 48. 

2. Ueber die geographische Vertheilung und saculare Aenderung der Decli- 

nation und Inclination im europaischen Russland. A. von Tillo. pp. 82, 
ch. 4. 

3. Ueber die Abhiingigkeit der Verdunstung des Wasaers von der Temperatur 

desselbon und von der Feucbtigkeit und Bewegung der Luft. E. Stell- 
ing. pp. 49. 

4. Ueber Flutb und Ebbe in St. Petersburg. J. Amelung. pp. 14, cb. 1. 

5. Le flux et reflux de l'atmosphere d'apres les observations an^mom6triques 

faites a l'Observatoire physique central de St.-P6tersbourg. M. Rykats- 
chew. pp. 8, pi. 1. 

6. Vertheilung der Nebel iiber der Ostsee nach Jahreszeiten. N. Paro- 

menskij. pp. 17, ch. 1. 

7. Bestiuiruungen der Horizontal-Intensitiit des Erdruagnetismus. pp. 81. 

8. Ueber die Flutb und Ebbe in der Atmosphiire nach den Anemographen- 

Aufzeichnungen des physikalischen Central-Observatoriums in St. Peters- 
burg. A. Belikow. pp. 6, ch. 1. 

9. Die Cyclonenbahnen in Russland, 1878-1880. E. Leyst. pp. 28, ch. 12. 
10. Jahresbericht des physikalischen Central-Observatoriums fiir 1881 u. 1882. 

H. Wild. pp. 102. 



METEOROLOGY. 565 

KLEINERE MITTHEIiUNGEN. 

1. Die niedrige Temperatur des Octobers, 1881. E. Leyst. p. 1. 

2. Ueber die Bestimmung der absoluten Grosse der Verdunstnng von einer 

freien Wasserfliicbe nach den Beobacbtungen im Observatorium zu Pow- 
lowsk. E. Stelling. pp. 10. 

3. Regen im Juli 1882. E. Leyst. pp. 20. 

4. Ueber die mittlere Windriebtuug am nntern Lauf des Ob und Jenissei. 

E. Stelling. pp. 25. 

Eiggenbach, Albert. Was man aus den tiiglicben Wetterkarten er- 

sieht. Basel, 1882. 12mo, pp. 16. 
Witterungsiibersicht des Jahres 1882. Basel, 1883. 12mo, pp. 

19. (From Basel, Verhandl. Nat. Ges., 1883.) 
Bio de Janeiro. Observatoire imperial. Bulletin astrouomique et md- 

teorologique (monthly), 1882-1883. Eio de Janeiro, 1882-1883. 2 

vols. 4to. 
An Dales. I. Description de l'observatoire. Bio de Jaueiro, 1882. 

4to, pp. x+264, pi. 19. 
Borne. Ufficio centrale di nieteorologia. Bollettino meteorico (daily, 

with charts), 1882-1883. 4to. 

[Bollettino decadico], 1882-1883. 8vo. 

Bollettino internazionale mensile, 1882, January-July+. 

Annali. Ser. 2, vol. n 3 in, parte 1-2, 1880-1881. Boma, 1882. 

2 vols, in 3. 4to, pp. xxx+521+63-f-118+chs.; 256+chs.; 747. 
Borne. Pontificia Universita Gregoriana. Bollettino nieteorologico del 

Collegio Bomano (monthly), xxi, 1882. Boma, 1882. 4to, pp. 98. 
Bubenson, B. Catalogue des aurores bortiales observers en Suede 

depuis le xvi 6 siecle jusqu'a 1877. 2 e partie (1800-1877). Stock- 
holm, 1882. 4to, pp. 300. (Part 1 (1536-1799) published in 1877.) 
St. Petersburg. Physikalisches Central-Observatorium. Meteorolo- 

gisches Bulletin (daily), 1882-1883. sheets, 4to. 
Anualen, 1881-1882. St. P., 1882-1883. 2 vols. 4to. (Text in 

Bussiau and German.) 
Meteorologische Beobacbtungen auf Schiffen der russischen 



Plotte. I. St. P., 1883. 4to, pp. xv+215, ch. 1. 
Jahresbericht ; see Wild, H. 



San Fernando. Instituto y observatorio de marina. Anales, por Don 

Cecilio Pujazon. Seccion 2. Observaciones meteorologicas, 1881- 

1882. San Fernando, 1882-1883. 2 vols. 4to, pp. iv+134. 
Schoder, H. Ergebnisse der meteorologischen Beobacbtungen in 

Stuttgart [1826-1875]. Stuttgart, 1882. 4to, pp. 128. 
Schroder, Georg. Der tagbche und jahrliche Gang der Lufttem- 

peratur. Bericht der Eeal-Schule zu Basel. Basel, 1882. 8vo, 

pp. 30. 
Schuster, M. Observations mdtdorologiques a Metz, 1879. Metz, 

1882. 8vo, pp. 35. 
Scott, Eobert H. Elementary meteorology. L., 1883. 8vo, pp. 

xii+408. 



566 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Scott, Eobert H. Elementare Meteorologie, iibersetzt von W. von 
Freeden. Leipzig, 1883. Svo, pp. xvii+392. 

Storm warnings. International fisheries exhibition, 1883. L., 

1883. 12mo, pp. 21. 

Smyth, C. Piazzi. Madeira meteorologie. Edinb., 1882. 8vo, pp. 83. 

Snell, H. S. An account of experiments to test the accurracy of reg- 
istering anemometers. [London], privately printed, 1883. 

Solander, E. Om isforhallandena i Sveriges rinnende vatten. [Stock- 
holm, 1882.] Svo, pp. 12. 

Stockholm. Meteorologiska Centralanstalten. Meteorologiska jaktta- 
gelser i Sverige, xx, xxi, 1878-1879. Stockholm, 1882-1883. 2 vols. 
4to, pp. vii+151; vii+153. (Text iu Swedish and French.) 

Manadsofversigt (with chart), 1882-1883. fol. sheets. 

Stoiryhurst College Observatory. Eesults of observations, 1881-1882. 
Eoehampton, 1882-1883. 2 vols. lGmo, pp. 64 ; 78. 

Straits Settlements. Medical Officer. Meteorological returns, 1881- 
1882. [Singapore, 1882-1883. J Svo, pp. [30+ J. 

Symons, G. J. British rainfall, 1881-1882. L., 1882-1883. Svo, pp. 
68+188, charts. 

Rainfall tables of the British Isles, 1866-1880. L., 1883. 8vo, 

pp. 199, map 2. , (Met. Council, Official No. 47.) 

Monthly meteorological magazine, xvn, xviii, 1882-1S83. L., 



1882-1883. 12mo. 
Taber, C. A. M. How the great prevailing winds and ocean currents 

are produced, and how they affect the temperature and dimensity 

of lands and seas. Boston, 1882. 12mo. 
Tasmania. Meteorological Observer. Eeport, April-December, 1882. 
Tiflis. Physikalisches Observatorium. Meteorologische Beobachtun- 

gen, hsg. von J. Mielberg, 1881, 1882. Tiflis, 1882, 1883. 2 vols. 

Svo, pp. 162; and vi+162. 
Magnetische Beobachtungen, hsg. von J. Mielberg, 1881-1882. 

Tiflis, 1883. Svo, pp. cxvii+80. 
Tissaxdier, Gaston. L'ocean aerien. Etudes meteorologiques. P., 

1883. Svo, pp. viii+312. pi. 4. 
Tokio. Imperial Meteorological Observatory. Tri-daily weather map, 

1883, March-December. 4to. 
Toulouse. Observatoire astronomique, magnetique et meteorologique. 

Annales. I. Les travaux executes de 1873 a la fin de 1878. Paris, 

1880. 4to, pp. 71+90+255, pi. 
Tromholt, Sothus. Om Nordlysets Perioder. Copenhague, 1882. 

4to, pp. 60, pi. 2. (In Danish and French.) (From Copenhagen, 

Dansk Met. Inst., Ann., 1880.) 
Tsohaplo wttz, T. Untersuchungen fiber die Einwirkung der Warine 

und der anderen Formen der Naturkrafte auf die Vegetations- 

Erscheinuugen. Leipzig, 1882. sm. Svo, pp. iv+58, ch. 5. 
Turin. Osservatorio astronomico. Bollettino, xvi, xvn, 1881, 1882, 

Torino, 1882, 1883. 2 vols. 4to. 



METEOROLOGY. , r )fi7 

United States Coast aiid Geodetic Survey. Distribution of the mag- 
netic declination in the United States. January, 1885. (Report, 
1882, App. 13.) W.,1883. 4to, pp. 52, ch. 3. 

Terrestrial magnetism ; results for declination, dip. and intensity, 

1833-July, 1882. (Report, 1881, App. 9.) W., 1882. 4to, pp. 68. 

United States. Hydrographic Office. Nautical monographs, No. 4. 
North Atlantic cyclones of August, 1883, by Lt. W. H. H. Souther- 
land. W., 1883. 4to, pp. 22, ch. 2. 

United States. Naval Observatory. Astronomical and meteorological 
observations 1878, 1879. W., 1882, 1883. 2 vols. 4to, pp. lxx+ 
159+18+230+50; and lxx+224+64+38. 

United States. Signal Service. War Department weather map (daily, 
7 a. in.). 1882, 1883. Sheet, 1. folio. 

Bulletin of international meteorological observations taken sim- 
ultaneously 7 a. m., Washington time. (Daily with monthly sum- 
mary.) 1881, 1882. 1. Svo. 

Monthly weather review, 1882, 1883. W., 1882, 1883. 2 vols. 

4to. 

Annual report of the Chief Signal Officer, 1881, 1882. W., 1883. 

2 vols. 8vo., pp. 974, ch. 52; 403, ch. 65. (Volume 2 is monthly 
weather review, July, 1881-June, 1882.) 

Professional papers of the Signal Service : 

VI. Reduction of air-pressure to sea-level at elevated stations west of the 
Mississippi River, by Henry A. Hazen. W., 1882. 4to, pp. 42, ch. 20. 

VIII. Motions of fluids and solids ou the earth's surface, by William Ferrel. 
Reprinted, with uotes by Frank Waldo. W., 1882. 4to, pp. 51. 

IX. Charts aud tables showing geographical distribution of raiufall in the 
Uuited States, by H. H. C. Dunwoody. W., 1883. 4to, pp. 51, ch. 13. 

X. Signal Service tables of raiufall aud temperature compared with crop 

production, by H. H. C. Duuwoody. W., 1882. 4to, pp. 15. 

XI. Meteorological and physical observations on the east coast of British 
North America, by O. T. Sherman. W., 1883. 4to, pp. 202, ch. 

XII. Popular essays on the movements of the atmosphere, by William Fer- 
rel. W., 1882. 4to, pp. 59. 

Signal Service notes : 

I. Report on the Michigan forest fires of 1881, by W. O. Bailey. W., 1882. 
8vo, pp. 16, ch. 1. 

III. To foretell frost, by James Allen. W., 1882. 8vo, pp. 11. 

IV. The use of the spectroscope in meteorological observations, by Wiuslow 
Upton. W., 1883. 8vo, pp. 7, ch. 3. 

V. Work of the Signal Service in the Arctic regions. W., 1883. 8vo, pp. 

40, ch. 1. 

VI. Report on wiud velocities at the lake crib and at Chicago, by H. A. Hazen. 
W., 1883. 8vo, pp. 20, pi. 2. 

VII. Variation of rainfall west of the Mississippi River, by H. A. Hazen. 
W., 1883. 8vo, pp. 8. 

VIII. The study of meteorology in the higher schools of Germany, Switzer- 
land, and Austria, by Frank Waldo. W., 1883. 8vo, pp. 9. 

IX. Weather proverbs, by H. H. C. Dunwoody. W., 1883. 8vo, pp. 148. 

X. Report ou Lady Franklin Bay expedition of 1883, by Ernest A. Garling- 

tou. W., 18S3. 8vo, pp. 52, ch. 



568 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Instructions for voluntary observers of the Signal Service, 1882. 

W., 1882. 8vo, pp. 108, pi. 12. 

Tornado studies for 1882, with inquiries concerning observa- 
tions, by John P. Finley. Kansas City, 1882. Svo, pp. 15. 

Tornadoes. Their special characteristics and dangers, with 

practical directions for protection of life and property, by John P. 
Finley. Kansas City, 1882. Svo, pp. 29. 

Tornado circular [by John P. Finley], i-xxiii. [Kansas City 

and Washington, 1882,1883.] Svo, pp. 4 +. (No. xvi. Instruc- 
tions to tornado reporters. W., 1883. Svo, pp. 19.) 

Memoranda on international scientific co-operation in meteor- 
ology, magnetism, etc. W., 1882. Svo, pp. 7. 

Memoranda of useful information for ship masters. W., 1883. 



Svo, pp. 33, ch. 3. 
Upsala. Observatoire de l'uni versite. Bulletin meteorologique mensuel, 

par H. H. Hildebrandsson. xni, xiv, 1881, 1882. Upsal, 1882, 1883. 

2 vols. 4to, pp. 73. 
Utrecht. K. Nederlandsch meteorologisch Instituut. Nederlandsch 

meteorologisch jaarboek, 1881, 1882. Utrecht, 18S2, 1883. obi. 

Svo. 
Beredeneerd register op de werken 1882, door C. H. D. Buys 

Ballot. Utrecht, 18S2. 4to, pp. 27+xxix. 
Van Tricht, V. Les euregistreurs en meteorologie; description d'uu 

nouveau meteorographe electrique. Bruxelles, 1883. Svo, pp. 75. 
VaulabellE, A. de. Physique du globe et meteorologie populaire; 

preface par Marie-Davy. P., 1883. 1. Svo, pp. viii+360. Illus. 
Venice. Osservatorio di Venezia. Bollettino meteorologico, comp. dal 

Prof.. M. Tono, 1881. Venezia, 18S2. Svo, pp. — 
Anuuario astro-meteorologico, I, n, 1883, 1884. Venezia, 1882, 

18S3. 2 mols. 16mo, pp. 150+ . 
Vienna. Oesterreichische Gesellschaft fur Meteorologie. See Zeit- 

schrift. 
Vienna. K. k. Central- Anstalt fur Meteorologie und Erdmagnetismus. 

Interuationaler telegraphischer Wetterbericht (daily, with chart), 

1882-1883. 1. Svo. 
Jahrbucher, xvi-xviii. Theil 1, 1879-1881. Wien, 1880, 1883, 

1882. 3 vols. 4to, pp. xii+312; xiv+314; 112. 
Weber, Leonhard. Berichte iiber Blitzschlage in der Provinz Schles- 

wig-Holstein. Dritte Folge. Kiel, 1882. Svo. 
Western Australia. Meteorological Becorder. Meteorological report, 

1881. Perth, 1882. 4to, pp. 12, ch. 12. 
Whitney, J. D. Climatic changes in later geological times. Cam- 
bridge, 1882. 4to, pp. 394. (Harvard Mus. Comp. Zool., Mem., 

vii, 2.) 
Wijkander, August. Observations magn6tiques pendant l'exp^di- 

tion de la V6ga, 1878-1880. [Stockholm, 1883.] 8vo, pp. 73. (From 

Vega Exped. Vetensk. Jaktt., ii.) 



METEOROLOGY. 569 

Wild, H. Jahresbericht des physikaliscken Central Observatorinins, 

1881 u. 1882. St. P., 1883. 4to, pp. 102. (Also in Repert. 

Meteorol., viii.) 
Ueber die Genauigkeit absoluter Bestiminungeu tier Horizontal- 

Iutensitiit des Erdmagnetismns. St. P., 1883. Ito, pp. 81. (Also 

in Eepert. Meteorol., viii.) 

Die Beobachtung der electrischen Stroine der Erde in kiirzen 



Liuien. St. P., 1883. 4to, pp. 24, pi. 2. (Also in St. Petersb. 

Acad., Mem., xxxi.) 
Wilhelm, G. Die atmospharischen Niederschlage in Steierraark ini 

Jakre 1882. Graz, 1883. 
Wocbenschrift fiir Astrononiie, Meteorologie nnd Geographie. Von 

Dr. H. J. Klein. Neue Folge, xxv, xxvi, 18S2, 1883. 2 vols. 12mo. 
Zeitscbrift der osterreichischen Gesellscbaft fiir Meteorologie, red. von 

Dr. J. Hann (monthly), xvn, xvin, 1882, 1883. Wien, 1SS2, 1883. 

8vo. 
Zi-Ka-Wei. Observatoire. Bulletin meusuel, 1882, 1883. Zi-Ka-Wei, 

1882, 1883. 2 vols. 1. 8vo. 
Typhoons of the Chinese seas in 1881, by M. Dechevrens. Zi- 
Ka-Wei, 1882. 4to, pp. 171, ch. 8. 

Variations de l'aiguille ainiautee pendant les Eclipses de lune. 



Kegime des vents a Zi-Ka-Wei, 1877-1882, par M. Dechevrens. 

Zi-Ka-Wei, 1883. 4to, pp. 31. 
Zurich. Meteorologische Central- Anstalt. Wetterbericht (daily, with 

chart), 1882-1883. 8vo. 
Annalen, 1881-1882. Zurich, [1883J. 2 vols. 1. 8vo, pp. 286+ ; 

and 289+. 



PHYSICS. 



By George F. Barker, 

Professor of Physics in the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. 



GENERAL. 



The progress of physical science for the year 1883 has been very con- 
siderable, especially in the department of electricity. This advance, 
however, has been made chiefly in the applications of known electrical 
principles, rather than in the discover}' of new ones. 

In a lecture before the Royal Institution, Sir William Thomson has 
discussed the " size of atoms," using the terms atom and molecule 
synonymously. He takes the broad view that matter, though we may 
conceive it to be infinitely divisible, is not infinitely divisible without 
decomposition; and hence that the question whether we can divide a 
piece of glass into pieces smaller than the 1-100,000 of a centimeter in 
diameter, and so on, without breaking it up and making it cease to have 
the properties of glass, just as a brick has not the properties of a brick 
wall, is a very practical one. As the result of four independent lines of 
argument, the molecules of ordinary matter would seem to be from the 
1-10,000,000 to the 1-100,000,000 of a centimeter in diameter. These 
four lines of reasoning are founded respectively on the undulatory 
theory of light, on the phenomena of contact electricity, on capillary at- 
traction, and on the kinetic theory of gases, the lecture being devoted 
to their development. (Nature, June, July, 1883, xxvin, 203, 250, 274.) 

Reinold and Biicker have communicated to the Royal Society the 
results of their investigation of liquid films, measuring the thickness 
of such fi'ms when so thin as to exhibit the black of the first order of 
Newton's rings. They used two methods for this purpose; one, based 
on a determination of the electrical resistance of a cylindrical black 
soap-film, the thickness being calculated by means of Ohm's law; and 
the other an optical method, depending upon the displacement of inter- 
ference fringes when one of the interfering beams traversed several 
films which were afterward broken. The mean of the electrical measure- 
ments gave a thickness of 11.8 xl0~ 6 millimeters; that of the optical 
method, one of 11.4xlO _G millimeters. These results are of interest 

571 



572 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

in connection with Sir William Thomson's lecture noted above. If, as 
he states, the size of the molecules of this liquid is between 2X10 -8 
and lx LO -8 millimeters, it follows that the thinnest film measured by 
the authors, 7.2x10"" millimeters, must contain not less than 3 nor 
more than 720 molecules in its thickness. As to the surface tension 
in Plateau's glyceric liquid, the authors give it as about 57 dynes per 
linear centimeter. Assuming - that the thinnest film measured had for 
its thickness twice the radius of molecular attraction, the average stress 
parallel to the surface must be 1.(5x10* dynes per square centimeter, or 
eight times greater than is required to tear brick asunder. If this 
radius is the same for all substances, the stress in the surface of mer- 
cury in contact with air must be nearly ten times greater than in the 
glyceric liquid, or one-fifth of the tension required to rupture steel bars. 
[Nature, June, August, 1883, xxvni, 142, 389.) 

The Adams prize essay of the University of Cambridge for the year 
1S82, on the subject of the motion of vortex rings, written by J. J. 
Thomson, has been published. It continues the work already done in 
this direction by von Helmholtz and Sir William Thomson, and carries 
the theory of vortex atoms to such a stage that in certain general respects 
it may be applied to the theory of gases. Indeed, the author concludes 
that the accurate observation of the phenomena of thermal effusion will 
enable a decision to be reached between the vortex atom theory and 
the ordinary kinetic theory of gases. (Nature, December, 1883, xxix, 
103.) 

The meaning of the word "force" continues to be the subject of dis- 
cussion. Lamb suggests that the true and proper basis of statics is to 
be sought for in the principles of linear and angular momentum. Two 
forces are equivalent only when they produce the same rate of change 
of momentum in any assigned direction, and the same rate of change of 
moment of momentum about any assigned axis. Two sets of forces are 
in equilibrium when they produce no effect on either the linear or the 
angular momentum of any system. Close points out the necessity of a 
more careful distinction between force proper — the timerate of change 
of momentum or the space-rate of change of energy — and what he calls 
impulsion; the former being represented by P and the latter by fF di ; 
or, assuming F constant, by Ft. Tait, in a paper on the laws of mo- 
tion presented to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, maintains that force, 
being simply the time-rate of change of momentum, has no real or ob- 
jective existence whatever, matter and energy alone being the only 
objective realities. (Phil. Mag., March, April, November, December, 
1883, V, XV, 187, 248; XVI, 387, 439.) 

Smith has suggested a modification of the ordinary ergometer (dyna- 
mometer). It consists of a hollow shaft carrying three pulleys; one of 
these is loose, one is fast to the shaft, aud the third is geared to the 
second by three miter-wheels. The two of these whose axes are perpen- 



physics. L73 

dicular to the shaft, carry pulleys, on each of which winds a cord attached 
to a cross-bar, fastened at its middle point to a spiral spring within 
the shaft. If the second and third main pulleys do not move together, 
the cross-head is moved forward, stretching' the spring and moving an 
index attached to a rod running through the shaft. To this rod any 
suitable integrator may be attached. Subsequently, Smith Las pro- 
posed to show by inspection the rate at which energy is being trans- 
mitted, by means of two cross-wires perpendicular to each other, one 
of which, moving horizontally, indicates the tension on the belt in 
pounds, while the other, moving vertically, shows the velocity at any 
instant, in feet per second. The point of intersection of these wires 
would represeut, on a suitable scale, the number of foot-pounds which 
is being transmitted per second. (Phil. Mag., February, June, 1883, 
XV, 87, 431.) 

Paquet has devised a simple apparatus for illustrating the laws of 
free fall under the action of gravity. Two weights are allowed to fall 
freely between vertical wires. One of these, being started first, falls 
for a time t and then reaches and releases the second. A stage, as 
much below the second weight as -this is below the starting point of the 
first, arrests this second weight after a second time /. If now a second 
stage be so adjusted as to stop the first weight at the same instant, it 
will be found that this weight has fallen exactly 4 times as far in 2 sec- 
onds as the first has in 1. If the stage be placed below the second 
weight at one-quarter of the distance which this weight is below the first, 
and this experiment is repeated, it will be seen that in thrice the time 
the first weight has fallen over 9 times the distance. {Jour. Phys., May, 
1883, II, II, 226.) 

B^quie" has suggested placing a metallic point on the axis of the pulley 
of the Atwood machine, so that at each revolution it should touch a 
mercury surface and close the circuit of a Morse register, thus record- 
pig the velocities. (Jour. Phys., July, 1883 ; II, n, 323.) 

Gilbert has described a modification of Foucault's gyroscope for show- 
ing the earth's rotation. It consists, like the gyroscope, of a heavy 
revolving disk mounted in a frame. But the frame is supported on 
delicate knife-edges, the axis of rotation being vertical, and the whole 
is adjusted so that the center of gravity is on the axis of suspension. 
By means of a small weight, movable in the prolongation of the axis of 
the disk, the center of gravity could be lowered slightly so as to oscil- 
late like a pendulum about the knife edges. If now the disk be revolved 
150 to 200 times a second, and the frame be placed on the knife edges, 
the line joining them being in the plane of the meridian, the axis of 
rotation is displaced from the vertical to one side or the other according 
to the direction of rotation. The results agree with theory. ( Jour. Phys., 
March, 1883, II, II, 101.) 

Bosanquet has proposed a simple mode of dividing inch and meter 



574 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

scales. To the screw of bis slide rest, the pitch of which was one-eighth 
of an inch, a micrometer head was attached having two rows of holes, 
one of 25 and the other of 127. On the former row, 20 holes correspond 
obviously to one-tenth of an inch, 4 to one fiftieth, aud 2 to one hun- 
dredth. On the latter, 40 holes give one millimeter, 4 holes one-tenth 
of a millimeter, &c. (Phil. Mag., March, 1883, V, xv, 217.) 

Extended descriptions have beeu published of the buildings and ap- 
paratus of the International Bureau of Weights and Measures, now 
located in the Park of St. Cloud, near Paris. This bureau was origi- 
nated in 1875, and had for its object the securing of an accurate interna- 
tional metric system. Sixteen countries are represented in it and con- 
tributed a million francs toward its expenses. The apparatus employed 
is the most perfect attainable, and the measurements are made with the 
greatest possible accuracy. (Nature, September, 1883, xxvin, 464, 592.) 

The foot-measure in China varies largely with different trades and in 
different parts of the country. The carpenter's rule at Ningpo has a 
foot of less than 10 inches, while that of the junk-builders at Shang- 
hai has a foot of nearly 16 inches. The standard foot of the Pekin Im- 
perial Board of Works is 12£ inches. A copper foot-measure of the year 
A. D. 81 is 9£ inches. (Nature, June, 1883, xxvin, 207.) 

Tresca has communicated to the French Academy the results of his 
examination of two platinum meters which originally belonged to Prony 
and were used by him in the early part of the century, in connection 
with the labors of the first metric commission. Both are end meters, 
but one of them is also a line meter. One of the end meters is 13.98 
microns shorter than the meter of the archives ; the other end meter 
is 7.94 microns shorter, while the line meter upon the latter is 30.55 mi- 
crons shorter. (C. E., March, 1883, xcvi, 667.) 

Terquem has described an improved cathetometer constructed for 
him by Dumoulin-Froment. Among other modifications, this instru- 
ment has only a single slide, the telescope being carried on a plate mov- 
ing on the face of this slide by means of a micrometer screw. This very 
considerable improvement was used in cathetometers constructed by 
William Gruuow, of New York, ten or twelve years ago. The reading- 
is to 0.01 millimeter. (J. Phys., November, 1883, II, n, 496.) 

Rayleigh has suggested the use of an electro-magnetic damping appa- 
ratus to control the oscillations of a balance. Two magnets of steel 
wire 3 or 4 inches long are attached vertically to the scale-pans and 
underneath one of them is fixed a coil of insulated wire of, perhaps, 
fifty or one hundred turns and 4 or 5 inches in diameter, placed imme- 
diately under the balance case. On completing the circuit of a Le- 
c'anche cell through the coil by means of a key, at suitable intervals, 
the beam may be brought to rest very promptly. He has also sug- 
gested quicker vibrating beams, the delicacy being restored by magni- 
fying the displacement by means of a lens, the scale being illuminated 
if necessary. (Nature, November, 1883, xxix, 91.) 



PHYSICS. L) < 5 

MECHANICS. 
1. Of Solids. 

Kalischer has studied the molecular structure of metals by removing 
the surface by means of a suitable liquid. The crystalline structure 
is generally developed in this way; though sometimes an electrolytic 
current is necessary, the metal being made the positive electrode. It 
appears from these experiments that nearly all the metals have a crys- 
talline structure, but that mechanical treatment in general causes this 
structure to disappear. Heat, however, causes a return to the crystal- 
line condition. Hence the explanation of the increase of conducting 
power in metals by the process of annealing. (J. Phys., June, 1883, II, 
II, 285.) 

The publications of the Vega expedition contain a memoir by Petter- 
son on the properties of water and ice, in which the discovery is an- 
nounced that in the vicinity of the melting point the volume of ice de- 
creases as the temperature rises. With the purest distilled water, the 
ice did not begin to contract till the temperature rose to — 0.03° C. With 
ice made from water from the laboratory stone jar, the contraction be- 
gan at —0.3° C. With sea-water of specific gravity of 1.0003, contain- 
ing — 0.014 per cent, of chlorine, the ice began to contract at — 4° 
C. ; with that of 1.00534 gravity and 0.373 per cent, chlorine, the con- 
traction began at — 14° C. ; and with that of 1.0094 and 0.049 of chlo- 
rine, it began to contract at —19° O. Moreover, the author finds 
that sea-water ice contains more sulphates, the brine more chlorides, 
than the sea-water itself. (Nature, August, 1883, xxviii, 417.) 

2. Of Liquids. 

The experiments upon the compressibility of liquids thus far made 
go to show that water is an exception to the general law that the coeffi- 
cient of compressibility increases with the temperature. The most ac- 
curate of these experiments, however, those of Grassi, were made at 
temperatures below 53°.3 C. Pagliani and Vicentiui have repeated 
these experiments, using distilled and recently boiled water, and ex- 
tending the temperature to 100°. They have reached the interesting 
result that between 0° and 55° the coefficient decreases as the tempera- 
ture rises, as Grassi had observed; but that between 55° and 100°, it 
increases with the temperature, like that of other liquids. Hence a tem- 
perature exists for which the compressibility has a maximum value. 
(J. Phys., October, 1883, II, n, 401.) 

Volkmann draws the following conclusions from his experiments on the 
cohesion of saline solutions : (1) The cohesion, or the superficial tension, 
is modified only very slightly by traces of impurities; (2) the specific 
cohesion of a saline solution diminishes generally as the amount of the 
salt present increases, the capillary constant proportionally increasing; 



576 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

(3) if the salts be grouped according to their formulas, the cohesion for 
any group increases as the molecular weight diminishes ; and (4) when 
the cohesion of saline solutions is known, that of water being also known, 
and the adhesion of water and the anhydrous salt, the cohesion of the 
anhydrous salt may be calculated. When the adhesion between the 
anhydrous salt and water is less than half the sum of the cohesions of 
the water and the anhydrous salt respectively, the solid body cannot 
be mixed with water in all proportions. ( Wied. Ann., xvn, 353; J. Phys., 
April, 1883, II, II, 188.) 

Krouchkoll, finding that insulating liquids, such as carbon disulphide, 
ether, turpentine, not miscible with water, acquire by contact with this 
liquid very decided conducting power, was led to examine the question 
whether the capillary constant at the surface of such a liquid and water 
did not vary under the action of an electro-motive force. The results 
show that the constant does vary, and in the same direction as that of 
the water-mercury surface. Tbe higher the resistance of the liquid, 
the greater the electro-motive force required to obtain the result. (C. 
R., June, 1883, XCVi, 1725.) 

Pribram and Handl have reached the following conclusions with ref- 
erence to the specific viscosity of liquids in relation to their chemical 
constitution : (1) Of two isomeric ethers, whose isomerism consists in a 
simple exchange of acid and alcoholic radical, that possesses the high- 
est viscosity whose alcohol radical is highest in the series ; (2) the dif- 
ferences in the viscosity for equal volumes vary as the difference of the 
molecular weights of the radicals which the ethers contain; (3) when the 
isomerism consists in the arrangement of the atoms within the radical, 
then that ether which contains the normal arrangement has always the 
greatest viscosity, whether the normal radical be oxygeuated or not: 

(4) in aldehydes, propylic alcohols, nitropropanes, butyric acids, and 
butyl iodides, those having the normal grouping show the maximum 
viscosity, while for the halogen ethers of propyl, butyl alcohol, and 
nitrobutane the reverse is the case ; (5) the halogen compounds of 
propyl and allyl, as well as the acetates, show nearly equal viscosities ; 
while in the alcohols which differ by two atoms of hydrogen only^ the 
viscosity of allylic alcohol is considerably less than that of propylic ; 
(0) aldehyde, which #ias two atoms of hydrogen less than alcohol, shows 
a marked diminution of viscosity; and (7) the increase of viscosity is 
in general proportional to the increase of molecular weight ; the coeffi- 
cient of increase, however, depending on the structure of the molecule, 
is constant only when the terms of the homologous series, considered 
as binary compounds, contain a constant compound and a single varia- 
ble. (J. Phys., March, 1883, II, n, 141.) 

Warburg and Babo have sought to determine the relation between 
viscosity and density in fluids. According to the law of Maxwell the 
viscosity of a gas measured by the coefficient of friction is independent 
of the density. Experiments were made with carbon dioxide both in 



physics. 577 

the liquid and the gaseous condition under pressures Up to 120 atmos- 
pheres, the viscosity being measured by the velocity of flow through 
capillary tubes. The gas above the critical temperature showed no 
minimum of viscosity at the maximum of compressibility, but, on the 
contrary, the viscosity increased with the density. When the density, 
however, reached 500 times its normal value, the coefficient of friction 
exceeded its normal value only 9 per cent. With a coustant density 
the influence of temperature is feebde, though the viscosity appears to 
increase slowly with the temperature. The liquid has the smallest vis- 
cosity hitherto observed, its coefficient at 15° being 14.G times less than 
that of water, and increasing with the density. For densities near 0.8, 
the viscosity has a minimum value for the temperature of 20° to 32°.0. 
(J. Phys., March, 1883, II, n, 142.) 

Stables and Wilson have tested experimentally the supposition of 
Plateau that the surface viscosity in some liquids is greater than the 
interior viscoscity. They used for the purpose a solution of saponin, 
in which this property is marked, determining the viscosity by the tor- 
sional oscillation of a nickel-plated brass disk. The results obtained 
show that whereas the resistance offered to an oscillating disk 2 mm thick 
in the surface of water is only about half what it is in the interior, at 
the surface of a 2 per cent, saponin solution it is at least GOO times 
greater than in the interior. The ratio of resistances in the case of the 
saponin solution and water is at the surface, 1261.; at mm .l below the 
surface, 33; while in the interior it is 1.2. (Phil Mag., June, 1883, V, 
xv, 406.) 

Wiedemann has examined the question of the condensation of liquids 
upon solid surfaces, and comes to the conclusion that it is an entirely 
inappreciable quantity. (Wied. Ann., xvn, 988; J. Phys., II, ir, 232; 
Phil. Mag. June, 1S83, V, xv, 440.) 

Solution is ordinarily explained by supposing that the salt combines 
first with a portion of water to form a hydrate more or less stable, and 
then that this hydrate diffuses through the mass forming a homogeneous 
mixture. Nicol has suggested the hypothesis that " the solution of a 
salt in water is a consequence of the attraction of the molecules of water 
for a molecule of salt exceeding the attraction of the molecules of salt 
for one auother." As the number of dissolved salt molecules increases, 
the attraction of the dissimilar molecules is more and more balanced 
by the attraction of the similar molecules ; and when these two forces 
are in equilibrium saturation takes place. The author gives experimental 
proof of the correctness of this hypothesis. (Phil Mag., February, 1883, 
V, xv, 91.J 

Gernez has measured the duration of solidification in the case of sur- 
fused bodies. Using phosphorus, for example, in a glass tube not exceed- 
ing 2 um, .7 in diameter, bent in a U form, the column being or 7 deci- 
meters long, the whole was placed in a water bath at a temperature 
above the fusing point. It was then transferred to a water bath main- 
H. Mis. 09 37 



578 SCIENTIFIC RECOUD POfc 1883. 

tained at a constant temperature below the fusing point After an hour 
solidification was induced by contact with a fragment of solid phos- 
phorus, the time being chronographically recorded. The progress of the 
solidification is readily observed, the colorless and transparent liquid 
becoming opaque. At the instant the opacity reaches the end of the 
column another chronographic record is made. Where the solidification 
is very rapid a tuning-fork chronograph is necessary. The author finds, 
(I) that the duration of solidification is uniform for equal lengths of 
column ; (2) that the velocity of solidification is independent of the tem- 
perature at which the phosphorus has been melted; and (3) that this 
velocity increases from l mm .G per second at 43°.8, to 353 mm .35. per sec- 
ond at 36°, and 1030 mm .7 at 24°.9. (Jour. Phys., April, 1883, II, n, 159.) 

Wiedemann has modified the ordinary pyknometer by attaching to 
it by a ground joint a tube with a lateral funnel for attaching it to a 
mercury pump. After weighing the bottle and the stopper separately 
they are put together, connected with the exhaust tube, exhausted, 
filled with water from the funnel, freshly boiled, and weighed. The 
powder is then introduced and the operation is repeated. The results 
agree to the third decimal place. (Wied. Ann., xvn, 983; Phil. Mag., 
May, 1883, V, xv, 369.) 

Decharme has continued his hydrodynamic experiments, and has suc- 
ceeded in imitating by means of liquid or gaseous currents various 
physical effects produced by electricity or magnetism ; such, for example, 
as Nobili's rings, magnetic spectra, stratification of the electric discharge, 
projection of a metallic wire volatilized by an electric discharge, Lich- 
tenberg's figures, &c. He observes that aspiration corresponds to posi- 
tive electrification in its effects, and a blast to negative. (Ann. Ghim. 
Phys., February, July, 1883, V, xxvm, 198; xxix, 404.) 

Pfaundler has observed the explosion of a glass tube filled with liquid 
carbon dioxide, the lower portion of which was immersed in a mixture 
of solid C0 2 aud echer, and contained crystallized C0 2 . The tube had 
frequently been exposed to a temperature of 31°. It is supposed 
that the tube had been made brittle by the low temperature, though 
Daguenet thinks it more probable that the expansion of the solid crys- 
talline mass fractured the tube. Pfaundler has called attention also 
to the explosion of a zinc gasometer which had contained oxygen for 
six months, when a lighted taper was used to test the gas. It is sup 
posed that the water in the tank had absorbed acid vapor from the 
laboratory, and that these acted on the zinc, generating hydrogen within 
the gasometer. ( Wied. Ann., xvn, 170, 175; J. Phys., April, 1883, II, 
II, 191.) 

3. Of Gases. 

Terquem demonstrates the law of Archimedes for gases by suspending 
a glass balloon in a bell jar by means of a silk filament passing through 
the neck, the balloon being supported on one arm of a hydrostatic bal- 






PHYSIC8. 570 

ance. Oil parsing into the bell jar a current of dry air, aiid adjusting 
to zero by a suitable tare, the apparatus is ready for experiment. On 
introducing a current of dry hydrogen the balloon rises and the weights 
are adjusted nearly to equilibrium. The current of gas is then arrested 
and the exact balance obtained. The hydrogen is then replaced by 
illuminating gas and the experiment repeated. A third experiment is 
made with dry carbon dioxide. From the data thus obtained the den- 
sity of the coal gas is calculated. (Jour. Phys., January, 1883, II, II, 29.) 

Cooke has proposed a simple method of calculating the correction 
required for the buoyancy of the atmosphere when the volume of the 
body weighed is unknown. If 30 inches be assumed as the barometric 
standard, a variation of 0.1 inch will affect the buoyancy by one three- 
hundredth. Again, assuming 27° C. as the temperature standard, 
which is 300° on the absolute scale, a variation of one degree will also 
affect the buoyancy by one three-hundredth ; i. e., one degree variation 
in temperature produces the same effect on the buoyancy as a change 
of 0.1 inch in the pressure. The correction for temperature, which is 
the more important of the two, is effected by simply adding to the 
observed height of the barometer, u'iven in tenths of an inch, the differ- 
ence between 27° C. and the observed temperature. By means of a few 
weighings, taken under as great a variation of temperature and press 
ore as possible, the quotient of the difference in weight by the cor- 
rected barometer difference gives the difference in weight corresponding 
to one tenth of an inch difference in pressure. By multiplying now the 
difference between 3U0 and the corrected barometric heights by the con- 
stant thus obtained, and adding or subtracting this product, as the case 
may be, to or from the observed weights, the weighings are all reduced 
to the standard of 30 inches. (Am. J. Sei. } July, 1883, III, xxvi, 38.) 

Edelmann proposes to determine the relative density of two gases by 
causing two columns of these gases of the same height to act on an 
elastic membrane, the displacement of which is very accurately meas- 
ured. The membrane employed is like that used in an aneroid barom- 
eter, mounted on a metallic box 30 centimeters in diameter, the two 
sides of the box communicating with vertical tubes about 2 meters long, 
containing the gases. The movement of the membrane operates a lever 
carrying a mirror, by the aid of which, with a telescope and scale, very 
slight displacements may be read. In the author's apparatus one-tenth 
of a millimeter on the scale corresponds to less than one millionth of an 
atmosphere in the box. (Carl. Rep., xvn; J. Phys., June, 1883, II, ii, 
285.) 

Amagat has published four memoirs upon the compressibility of gases. 
In the first he considers certain objections raised against his apparatus 
or method ; in the second he treats of the compressibility of air and 
of carbon dioxide from one to eight atmospheres pressure and from 20° 
to 300° 0.; in the third the compressibility of rarefied air, hydrogen, 
and carbon dioxide is considered; and the fourth is on a new form of 



680 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1868. 

the relation/ (1)pi)=Q in gases, and on the law of expansion of gases 
at constant volume. (Ann. Chim. Phys., April, 1883, V, xxvm, 456, 
464, 480, 500.) 

Vernon Harcourt has devised an instrument for giving by simple in- 
spection the volume of a mass of air which, saturated with humidity, is 
capable of occupying unit volume under normal conditions. By divid- 
ing the volume of a gas by the indications of the instrument it is re- 
duced to the normal standard. The author has given to the apparatus 
the name of aerorthometer. (Proc. Boy. Soc, xxxiv, 166 ; J. Phys., 
August, 1883, II, ii, 374.) 

Waitz has studied the law of the diffusion of gases by means of opti- 
cal methods of great delicacy. Carbon dioxide and air were used in the 
experiments, the progress of the diffusion being shown by a continuous 
displacement of the interference fringes. From this displacement 
the composition of the mixture could be deduced at each instant, and 
hence the coefficient of diffusion. The author concludes (1) that this 
coefficient at the same depth depends upon the partial pressure of the 
carbon dioxide, and (2) that it may be considered a linear function of 
the depth ; consequently the theory of Maxwell cannot be exact, since 
it leads to a constant value of this coefficient. The same is true of 
Stephan's formula. Meyer's formula, in which this coefficient decreases 
indefinitely with the partial pressure of the carbon dioxide, is also inex- 
act. ( Wied. Ann., xvn, 201 ; J. Phys., April, 1883, II, n, 190.) 

Mascart has completed the details of construction of his gravity 
barometer. It now consists of a modified siphon barometer, the lower 
reservoir being closed, and containing nitrogen under a pressure which 
sustains a column of mercury a meter high in the tube. To make an 
observation the barometer is placed in a tin cylinder filled with water 
and the temperature carefully noted. The upper end of the tube pro- 
jects above ttiie liquid and the level of the mercury is then read off. 
Experiments have been made with the new instrument at Hamburg, 
Stockholm, Drontheim, and Tromso, as well as at Paris. (Jour. Phys., 
August, 1883, II, ii, 341.) 

Dufour and Amstein have described a new registering barometer in- 
stalled in the Meteorological Observatory of Lausanne. It consists of 
a glass tube 6 mm. in interior diameter, bent four times at right angles in 
the same plane, twice at each end, so that the ends project vertically. 
This tube is suspended by its middle point. As the pressure varies, the 
center of gravity also varies, and the tube rotates about the point of 
suspension. A style attached to the lower part of the tube is thus dis- 
placed horizontally and records its motions upon a strip of moving 
paper. It has performed satisfactorily for two years. (Jour. Phys., 
August, 1883, II, ii, 375.) 

Teissier has suggested the use of the air-pump for filling vessels 
terminating in capillary tubes, such as specific-gravity flasks, thermome- 






PHYSICS. 581 

ters, and the like, and lias given a description of the apparatus used. 
{Jour. Phys., October, 1883, II, n, 4G3.) 

Various modifications in the mercury air-pump have been suggested. 
Among these is that of Karavodine, who modifies Topler's form of pump 
by causing the upper reservoir to open into the discharge pipe by a 
straight instead of a recurved tube. He has also added a valve iu the 
exhaust tube to preveut the mercury from passing into the desiccator or 
into the vessel to be exhausted. A double-acting mercury pump has 
been devised by Serravalle. Two similar vessels, containing mercury 
and connected by a long caoutchouc tube, are raised and lowered alter- 
nately with each other on opposite sides of a vertical support. Each 
vessel has a three-way cock at its top; one opening in a certain position 
conducts off the excess of mercury, while a second communicates through 
a rubber tube with a spherical piece fixed laterally near the middle of 
the vertical support. This spherical piece has three communicating 
ports, two of them opposite leading into the mercury vessels; the third 
is connected to the vessel to be exhausted. The three-way cocks at the 
tops of the vessels are mechanically turned at the upper and lower ends 
of their course by means of a toothed sector and rack iu the one case 
and a pin and projecting piece iu the other. (Jour. Phys., December, 
1883, II, II, 558; Nature, February, 1883, xxvn, 324.) 

ACOUSTICS. 

Auerbach has experimented to determine the influence exerted by 
liquids upon the pitch of the sound given by the cylindrical glass ves- 
sels in winch they are contained. The number of vibrations was deter- 
mined on a mouochord. In the first experiments, which were made with 
water, there was always a lowering of the sound produced. ' He calls 
geometric fall the ratio of the number of vibrations given by the empty 
vase to the number given when it is full, and arithmetric fall the ratio 
of the difference of these two numbers of vibrations to that of the 
empty vase. He finds that the former of these values, in the case of a 
vessel filled with liquid, is as much smaller as the sound is more acute, 
is sensibly independent of the height of the vessel, and is inversely as 
the diameter of the vessel. The latter varies inversely as the square 
root of the number of vibrations given by the empty vessel and as the 
square root of the diameter of the vessel. Relative to the wave-length 
of the sound given by the empty vessel, the arithmetric fall depends 
only on the number of wave-lengths contained in the radius of the cyl- 
inder, and is inversely proportional to the square root of this number. 
The fall of pitch depends also on the height of the liquid when the ves- 
sel is not full, but is not proportional to it. To produce a pitch one-half 
less than that given by the full vessel the column of liquid must be from 
two-thirds to three-fourths of the total height. For other liquids than 
water Auerbach finds that the specific fall of pitch increases with the 



58'2 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

density, though less rapidly, and varies inversely as the compressi- 
bility. (Wied. Ann., xvn, 964; J. Phys., September, 1883, II, n, 422.) 

Wead, in a valuable memoir on the energy and coefficient of damp- 
ing of a tuning-fork, intended as the first part of a research on the 
intensity of sound viewed from the standpoint of energy, has discussed 
the theory of the subject and compared the results with those obtained 
from direct experiment. The forks used were Koenig's, and the energy 
in both prongs, when z is the amplitude, expressed in divisions of a 
micrometer, 220 of which were equal to 1 centimeter, was found to be as 
follows : For the Ut 2 fork, z x450 ergs ; Ut 3 , zx 1,235 ergs; Mi 3 , 1,820; 
Sol 3 , 2,250; Ut 4 , 3,860; Sol 4 , 7,500; Ut 8 , 12,670 ergs. From the time 
required by the fork to decrease the amplitude of its vibration by 
a known quantity, the coefficient of damping was calculated. The 
forks were then taken on : of doors and the amplitude observed at the 
instant a distant listener indicated that the sound ceased, the object 
being to determine how much energy was needed to cause sensation; 
i. e., how much energy passed through one square centimeter at the limit 
of hearing. For the Ut 3 fork this was found to be, at 200 feet, 280 x 10~ 8 , 
and at 300 feet, 310 x 10" 8 ; for the Sol 3 fork at 200 feet, 260 x 10- 8 ; for the 
Ut 4 fork, 110 x 10- 8 ; and for the Ut 5 fork, 710 x 10~ 8 . The energy of a 
fork is dissipated (1) in heating itself and the resonance box (2) in 
causing its support to vibrate and (3) in producing a sound wave. 
Some experiments to determine the relative energy so distributed 
showed that only about one-fifteenth of the total energy is used for the 
sound wave. (Am. J. Sci., September, 1883, III, xxvi, 177.) 

Dvorak has continued his investigations upon the attractions and 
repulsions produced in the vicinity of vibrating bodies. He shows 
from theory that the mean pressure in the vicinity of the nodes is supe- 
rior to that at the loops, a result which he has confirmed by experi- 
ment. By this excess of pressure on the base of the resonnators the 
author explains the repulsion of these by sonorous bodies. He has de- 
scribed some new rotation apparatus, more perfect than that used 
hitherto. For obtaining the best result it is necessary that the vibra- 
tions should be energetic, and to secure this the walls of the resonance 
box should vibrate in unison with the fork mounted upon it. A form 
of torsion balance, with bifilar suspension, by which, on this principle, 
the intensity of the air vibrations may be measured, is described in the 
paper. (.7. Phys., October, 1883, II, 11, 465.) 

Neyreneuf, by means of a special apparatus, has studied the capa- 
bility of various gases for transmitting sound. A tube of iron, 2 meters 
long and 5 centimeters diameter, the ends closed by suitable mem- 
branes, is passed through the wall separating two rooms. In one of 
these is the sonorous body and in the other the sensitive flame. The 
gas is introduced by lateral tubulures. The sensitive flame remains 
fixed in position and the tube is moved until the effect on the flame is 
zero. The results show that air and carbon monoxide have appreciably 



physics. 583 

the same power of transmitting sound. With coal gas tbe results were 
quite variable. With carbon dioxide the experiments show that it pos- 
sesses a much more considerable transmitting power for sound than air, 
the ratio of distances of the flame being in the two cases 1.32 : 1. The 

mean of the intensities is 1.7459, which is (1.529) ;i . (Comptes Rendu.s, 
April, 1883, xevi, 1314.) 

Blaikley has presented a paper to the London Physical Society on 
the velocity of sound in air, using for his measurements a modification 
of Dnlong's method by means of the wave-length in a lengthened 
organ pipe. The author -allows for the harmonics of the pipe, which 
are an important factor. With four tubes lie obtained the following 
mean results: 1st, diameter 54.1 mm., velocity 329.73 meters per second; 
2d, diameter 32.5mm., velocity 328.78 meters; 3d, 19.5 mm., 326.9 me- 
ters; and 4th, 11.7 mm., 324. 5G meters. The mean velocity for all his 
experiments was about 320 meters. (Nature, November, 1883, xxix, 71.) 

Griveaux has contrived a differential apparatus for determining the 
relative velocity of sound in solids and in gases. It consists of a tube of 
glass and a rod of wood of the same length, whose ends, by means of 
lightly balanced levers, are adjusted to keep closed the two circuits of a 
differential galvanometer, the currents in which are equal and the 
needle, therefore, at zero. If, now, a drum be struck opposite the free 
ends of this rod and tube, the sound will be unequally transmitted, 
and the galvanometer needle will be displaced in the same direction as 
when the circuit is opened at the end of the wooden rod. By using the 
Wheatstone bridge arrangement a galvanometer with a single wire 
may be used in this experiment. (J. Phys., May, 1883, II, n, 228.) 

Boltzmann has succeeded in photographing sonorous vibrations di- 
rectly. A thin plate of iron, covering a capsule containing air, is the 
vibrating body. To its center is attached a very thin strip of platinum, 
perpendicular to its plane and vibrating with it. This strip is strongly 
illuminated by sunlight, and its image may be formed on the screen by 
a microscopic objective. The linear image falling on a cylindrical lens 
is transformed into a point, which is allowed to fall on a revolving 
cylinder covered with sensitive photographic paper. On speaking 
before the vibrating plate the shadow is displaced and a sinuous line is 
produced on the paper. The vowels give either a simple sinusoid or a 
combination of two sinusoids. The consonant curves resemble some- 
what Koenig's figures, given by the letter r. (Ber. AJc. Wien, 1882, 242 ; 
J. Phys., April, 1883, II, n, 195.) 

An improved apparatus for projecting acoustic vibrations has been 
described by Eigollot and Chavanon, under the name of a palmoptic 
capsule. It consists of a hollow paraboloid, over the mouth of which a 
collodion membrane is stretched. In front of this membrane is a plati- 
num wire, serving as an axis, on which is a mirror, its plane parallel to 
that of the membrane. This mirror rests on the end of a small rubber 
prism attached to the membrane, so that when the latter vibrates the 



584 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

mirror oscillates about the wire as a diameter. By means of a rubber 
tube the interior of the paraboloid is put in communication with any 
sounding mass of air, and the vibration of the mirror causes a beam of 
sunlight reflected from it to describe a line on the screen, which may 
be drawn out into curves by a second mirror vibrating* perpendicularly. 
(J. Phys., December, 1883, II, n, 553.) 

Michelson has described a method of ascertaining with any desired 
accuracy the late of a tuning-fork. The method consists, first, in de- 
termining the rate in terms of an electrically vibrated fork, aud, second, 
in fixing the absolute rate of this second fork. The electric fork carries 
a mirror on one prong, in which the reflection of a Geissler tube is seen 
when illuminated once a second by means of a pendulum. If the fork 
makes an exact number of vibrations per second the illumination of the 
tube, finding the fork always in the same place, will appear always in 
the same position. But if the fork makes more or less than this by any 
fraction, the position of the flash will successively change, passing 
through all its phases in one complete period. If a flashes take place 

in oue period in the case of an Ut 2 fork, it makes obviously 128 ± — 

vibrations per second. By using the fork to be rated with a microscope, 
with cross-hairs focused on one edge of the fork, the Geissler tube being 
behind it, the use of an electrical fork may be dispensed with. (Am. J. 
Sci., January, 1883, III, xxv, 61 ; PHI. Mag., February, 1883, V, xv, 84.) 

The attention of the Berlin Physical Society has been called by 
Christiani to certain peculiarities observed with Koenig tuning-forks 
injured by the fire in the Physiological Institute. When the rust had 
been removed, and new resonance boxes provided, one of the Mi 3 forks 
showed, after tuning and sounding, a maximum of tone when one side 
of it was turned toward the closed end of the case. Another Mi 3 
fork, though in unison with the first, did not present the phenomenon, 
though when the cases were exchanged it appeared, showing that the 
new case produced the effect. Another experiment was made to show 
total absorption of tone. A singing flame tuned approximately to Mi 3 
was unaffected when the resonance case bearing the Mi 3 fork was held 
near it with its open end horizontal. When, however, the same case 
without its fork was brought to the same position the sound immediately 
ceased. (Nature, January, 1883, xxvn, 236.) 

Francis Galton has improved the whistles which he contrived in 1876 
for testing the upper limits of the power of hearing very shrill notes 
by different men and animals, by using hydrogen in place of air to pro 
duce the sound. Since this gas is about thirteen times as light as air, 
the number of vibrations per second would thus be increased nearly 
four times. The whistles were made with a movable piston, by which 
the pitch could be varied; but since to give its proper note the depth of 
the cylinder should be 1.5 times its diameter, it follows that the diameter 
of a whistle giving 24,000 vibrations, and whose depth is only 0.14 inch, 



physics. 585 

must be very small. The first experiments were made with coal gas. A 
whistle whose bore was 0.04 inch in diameter was attached to a gas-jet by 
a rubber tube, and the piston adjusted. When its length was 0.13 inch 
no sound could be perceived. On suddenly squeezing the tube filled with 
air at 0.14, a faint musical note could be heard, which became purely 
musical at 0.25 inch. When the gas was allowed to fill the tube, and 
it was again squeezed, it gave the same barely perceptible sound as 
with air at 0.14. By the use of hydrogen this little whistle would give 
at 0.14 about 83,000 vibrations per second. (Nature, March, 1883, 
xxvn, 491.) 

Pauchon has experimented to determine whether the upper limit of 
the perceptibility of sounds varies for the same ear with the intensity 
of the sound. A powerful Caignard-Latour siren, driven by steam, 
was used to produce the sound. He finds that when the pressure varies 
from 0.5 to 1.5 atmospheres the limit of perceptibility varies from 48.000 
to 60,000 simple vibrations. With a pressure of 2.5 atmospheres the 
disk rotates 600 times a second, giving 72,000 vibrations, the maximum 
limit reached. These experiments were repeated, using metal rods 
made to vibrate longitudinally by friction with a resined cloth ; but the 
minute variations of length could not be measured with sufficient accu- 
racy. When the sound ceases to the ear it still acts on a sensitive flame. 
[C. P.. April, 1883, xcvi, 1041 ; Phil. Mag., May, 1883, V, xv, 371.) 

Krebs has studied the laws of the reciprocal excitation of elastic 
bodies tuned to nearly the same pitch. When the pitch of two forks 
or of two wires is exactly the same, one of these, as is well known, can 
excite the other. The author finds that if the pitch is not exactly the 
same in the two cases, the one having the lower tone can excite the 
other, but not the reverse, provided the difference is at least two or three 
vibrations, at most three or four. This result is well shown on a sonom- 
eter. In the case of tuning-forks the deeper-toned one can excite the 
other only if the difference in the number of vibrations does not exceed 
one. The experiment, however, is easily repeated. ( Wied. Ann., xix, 
935 ; Phil. Mag., October, 1883, V, xvi, 318.) 

Clarke has replied to the assertion of Chappell that those who propose 
to divide the octave into twelve equal semitones instead of equally 
tempered semitones, are deficient in musical ear, by showing that the 
term equally tempered semitone is inaccurate, since no one of the equal 
semitones on a piano thus tuned can be altered without making them 
unequal ; that the moving of the note E ever so little from the value 2& 
introduces a greater error somewhere else; that unequal tempering is 
in use because all keys are not used equally often, the keys C, G, A, 
aud F being fair, E, B flat, E flat tolerable, and the others very much 
worse than on an equal semitone piano. He concludes that the best 
plan of tuning a piano for vulgar music and vulgar players is that now 
in ordinary use by timers and recommended by Chappell, but if the 
piano is to be used equally in all keys (or even frequently in four or 



586 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



five flats, five or six sharps) the best plaii is to tune it in twelve mathe- 
matically equal semitones. (Nature, Jauuary, 1883, xxvn, 240.) 

Huggins has communicated to the Royal Society a paper on the 
function of the sound-post of the violin, iu which he comes to the con- 
clusion that this sound-post is more than a prop, and that besides its 
other functions it does transmit vibrations to the back in addition to 
those which are conveyed through the sides. He has also investigated 
the proportional thickness of the strings in use as compared with that 
required by theory. (Nature, July, 1883, xxvm, 259.) 

HEAT. 



1. Production of Heat; Thermometry. 

Ancelin has patented the use of sodium acetate as a heating agent, 
the object being to use its latent heat of fusion, which is very high, for 
the purpose of giving out heat in the interior of railway carriages, etc. 
He finds that the heat given out by sodium acetate is four times greater 
than that given out by water. A railway warming pan, containing 
eleven liters of water, in passing from 80° C. to 40° evolves 440 calories, 
while the same pan, containing about 50 kilograms of sodium acetate, 
evolves in passing from 80° to 40° 1,731 calories. Moreover, the ex- 
penditure of heat required to reverse the operation is much less in the 
case of the acetate. To heat the pan of water, containing 11 liters, 
from 10° to 90° four times, 3,520 calories are required ; while for the 
same volume of acetate only 1,987 calories are needed, a saving of 1,500 
calories. Again, in the case of water at 90°, four healings return only 
1,760 calories, or 50 per cent., while iu the case of the acetate the un- 
utilized heat amounts only to 256 calories, or 12 per cent, of the quantity 
stored. The water cools much more rapidly. (Nature, February, 1883, 
xxvn, 344.) 

Fischer has given the following values for the amounts of heat (calo- 
ries) of water vapor (kilograms) and of carbon dioxide (cubic meters) 
given off in the various illuminating processes in ordinary use. These 
amounts are all calculated for a light of one hundred candles burning 
for one hour. 



Illuminating processes. 



Electric lamp (arc) 

Electric lamp (incandescent) 

Gas ( Argancl burner) 

Lamp, petroleum (flat flame) 

Lamp, colza oil 

Candle (paraffine) 

Candle (tallow) 



Water 


Carbon 


vapor. 


dioxide. 














0.86 


0.46 


0.80 


0.95 


0.85 


1.00 


0.99 


1.22 


1.05 


1.45 



Heat. 



57-158 

290-536 

4860 

7200 

6800 
9200 
9700 



The hygienic superiority of the electric light is clearly shown by these 
figures. (J. Soc. Tel. Eng., xn, 625-, Nature, July, 1883, xxvm, 281.) 



physics. 587 

Laurie has shown that if the atomic weights of the elements are taken 
as abscissas and their atomic heats of combination with chlorine as ordi- 
nates of a curve, the heats of combination will be seen to be a periodic 
function of the atomic weights. (Phil. Mag., January, 18.S3, V, xv, 42.) 

Crafts has made use of hydrogen in his thermometers, because of the 
facility of flowing most rapidly through capillary tubes. The volume 
of the reservoir is small, only from one to ten cubic centimeters. The 
instrument is used at constant volume, an electric contact between the 
mercury of the manometer and a platinum point being established when 
the gas reaches the fixed volume, thus exciting an electro-magnet aud 
closing the manometer cock. (J. Phijs., September, 1883, II, n, 435.) 

Dufour has contrived an ingenious form of differential thermometer, 
which is especially useful for purposes of demonstration. Two bulbs of 
15 or 20 millimeters in diameter close the ends of a glass tube forming 
the segment of a circle. The tube contains a drop of mercury, and the 
whole is supported upon a knife edge, slightly above its center of gravity, 
the position of which may be altered by a counter- weight. An index 
passes vertically upward and moves over a graduated arc. When the 
two bulbs are of the same temperature, the system is horizontal and 
the index vertical. But if the temperature of one of the bulbs rises, the 
expansion of the air drives the mercury to one side and the tube inclines 
to one side. If one of the bulbs is blackened and the other gilded, the 
apparatus serves well for experiments on radiant heat, especially if a 
cone be employed to concentrate the heat upon the blackened bulb 
(Jovr. Phys., July, 1883, II, n, 321.) 

Negretta and Zambra have adapted their inverting thermometer for 
lecording variations of atmospheric temperature at any desired interval 
of time. Twelve such thermometers are arranged on a suitable frame, 
in connection with a clock, a galvanic battery, and a series of small 
electro-magnets, in such a way that at every hour the circuit is com- 
pleted by the clock, thus releasing a detent and allowing one of the 
thermometers to reverse and record the temperature at that moment. 
In the present form of the apparatus, the twelve thermometers have 
been mounted to record hourly temperatures; but the period can ob- 
A T iously be lengthened or shortened indefinitely. The advantages 
claimed for the system are: 1st, the thermometers contain only mercury, 
without any alcohol or other liquid ; 2d, they have neither indices nor 
springs, the column of mercury itself effecting the registrations; 3d, 
they may be carried in any position, and cannot be disarranged except 
by actual breakage; and, 4th, they will record exact temperature at 
any hour of the day or night. (Nature, July, 1883, xxviii, 306.) 

Nicol has described a form of constant- temperature bath, in which 
the extreme variation of temperature does not exceed 0.05°. The water 
in the bath is heated by the circulation of other water in a copper tube, 
which passes through the flame of a Bunsen burner, the supply of gas 
being controlled by a suitable thermometer placed in the liquid, being 



.588 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

shut off by the rise of the mercury as the temperature rises. (Phil. 
Mag., May, 1883, V, XV, 339.) 

2. Expansion and Change of State. 

Kapoustine Las devised a simple method of showing the expansion 
of a solid bar. It is supported at its two ends, one end resting against 
a fixed point, and the other upon a sewing needle placed upon a hori- 
zontal plate of ground glass. When the bar expands by heat the 
needle rolls upon the glass, and a light wooden index fixed upon its 
point renders this rotation visible. Greater precision can be given by 
the use of a mirror. (J. Soc. Phys. Ghent. Russe, XIV, 64; J. Phys , 
December, 1883, II, n, 57C.) 

In order to throw some light on the question whether a given bar 
can have differing lengths at the same temperature, Woodward, 
Wheeler, Flint, and Voigt have made a series of experiments with bars 
of various metals, measuring them at the temperature of melting ice. 
Seven bars were used — two meter bars of steel, two of glass, one of 
zinc, one of copper, and one of brass. The comparisons w r ere made by 
means of micrometer-microscopes, magnifying about thirty diameters 
and reading to 92.1 and 95.3 microns, respectively, for each turn of the 
screw. They were mounted on an oak beam one meter apart, the 
whole being supported on stone piers. The bar to be compared is 
placed in a wooden box 1.1 by 0.1 by 0.1 meter, supported at one-fourth 
and three-fourths the length of the bar from either end. The box is 
filled with finely pounded ice, spaces being left near the graduations. 
Taking one of the steel bars as standard, several sets of comparisons 
are made with another bar. This latter is placed in water, which is 
gradually raised to boiling. It is then cooled gradually to the melting 
point of ice and a second set of comparisons made. The same bar is 
then cooled to —6° or —8° F., returned to the melting point of ice, and 
again compared. The zinc bar, raised to 208° F. and then cooled to 
the temperature of melting ice, was found to be 139 microns longer 
than before. Kept in melting ice for four days, it shortened 39 microns, 
leaving the final length still 90 microns shorter than the initial length. 
It was then cooled to —8° F. iu the open air and again brought to the 
temperature of melting ice. Its length had now diminished by 30 mi- 
crons below that originally given. Kept in melting ice for a day and a 
half produced no change ; but exposure to the temperature of the com- 
paring room for one day increased its length permanently by 15 mi- 
crons, leaving it still 15 microns too short at the temperature of melt- 
ing ice. Exposed to an air temperature of 70° F. for four hours in- 
creased its length when cooled to the temperature of melting ice 26 
microns, leaving its final length 11 microns greater than the initial. 
The zinc bar then having been subjected to a total range of 216° F. 
varied in its length at the temperature of melting ice 169 microns. No 
similar set was observed in the copper bar as compared with the steel, 



PHYSICS, 



589 



although the brass bar showed a difference of 3.8 microtis and the glass 
ones 3.G and 2.8 microns, respectively. The authors conclude, first, 
that zinc is not a reliable metal for one of the components of a metal- 
lic thermometer, much less for a standard of length ; and, second, that 
bars of steel, copper, and brass are not likely to vary in length appre- 
ciably at any temperature within the range to which standards are 
ordinarily subjected. (Am. J. ScL, June, 1883, III, xxv, 448.) 

Wiedemann has measured the changes of volume which hydrated 
salts undergo by the action of heat, using for this purpose a dilatom- 
eter consisting of a bulb, in which is placed a known weight of the salt, 
terminated by a capillary tube. The bulb is exhausted of air and is 
then filled either with oil or with mercury, by the oscillations of which 
in the capillary tube the changes of volume are measured. The alums 
melt about 90°, remain surfused down to 00°, then undergo a modifica- 
tion, accompanied, in the case of potassium-aluminum and ammonium- 
iron alums, with a change of volume. Magnesium sulphate deposits 
at 93° crystals of Mg S0 4 (H 2 0) 3 ; zinc sulphate at G9° deposits Zn S0 4 
(H 2 0) 3 ; iron sulphate gives at 65° Fe S<_> 4 (H 2 0) 3 — all accompanied by 
a change in volume. ( Wied. Ann., xvn, 561 ; J. Phys., August, 1883, 
II, II, 374.) 

Mallard has made an elaborate study on the action of heat on crys- 
tals of boracite and of potassium sulphate. He has observed that the 
former, which are doubly refractive at ordinary temperatures and even 
when heated to 260°, becomes suddenly singly refractive at or about 
201°, remaining so at higher temperatures. Crystals of potassium sul- 
phate which are biaxial below 380° pass through intermediate stages 
and become uniaxial negative at 600° and above. Boracite crystallizes 
in rhombic dodecahedrons rigorous^ cubic; its double refraction is 
therefore anomalous. The author distinguishes between the crystalline 
form which is due to the symmetry of the molecules themselves and 
that which results from their arrangement in space, the reticular sys- 
tem. Hence he maintains that, while the reticular system of boracite 
is cubic, the molecular symmetry is orthorhombic. The results given 
above he regards as proof of his position. The reticular system of 
boracite is unaltered by the heat, being cubic at all temperatures. But 
the molecular symmetry changes from the orthorhombic at ordinary 
temperatures to the cubic at 261° ; a change accompanied by an ab- 
sorption of 5.74 calories for each unit of weight. So potassium sulphate, 
which is orthorhombic at the ordinary temperature, is hexagonal at 
G00° and above. The dimorphism here noted has a parallel in the well- 
known cases of niter and of sulphur. The former is orthorhombic and 
hexagonal, biaxial in the former, uniaxial in the latter, the former be- 
ing the stable form below 339°, the latter above this point. Sulphur is 
orthorhombic and monoclinic. Toward 110° the former variety passes 
into the latter. The author concludes as follows: 1st, a perfectly cubic 
reticular system may be accompanied by an energetic double refraction; 



590 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1888. 

consequently the double refraction depends, certainly in soine 1 eases and 
perhaps in all, on the modifications which the light undergoes in trav- 
ersing the molecule. 2d, the action of heat on crystals may produce 
three distinct classes of phenomena: (1) the axis of the ellipsoid of 
elasticity may vary considerably in magnitude, these variations being 
due, as in the case of boracite, to a change in the form of the molecule; 
(2) the orientation of the molecules may vary suddenly, they being able 
to turn about their centers of gravity so as to take various positions 
compatible with their crystalline arrangement, which remains sensibly 
constant, or is altered only by the very secondary phenomena of expan- 
sion ; (3) the action of heat may change suddenly either the symmetry 
of the molecule alone (boracite, potassium sulphate) or both this and 
the reticular system. In case (1) one form passes into the other sud- 
denly at the same temperature, the two not coexisting together. In 
case (2) the change takes place at a fixed temperature only when the 
temperature is rising ; when it falls a sort of crystalline surfusion takes 
place, the form belonging to the higher temperature existing at a lower 
but in an unstable condition. (J. Phys., May, 1883, II, n, 201.) 

Vieille has investigated the influence of cooling on the value of the 
maximum pressures developed in a closed vessel by exploding gases. 

S 
If the results are plotted in a curve, using v , or the ratio of the surface 

of cooling to the volume of the gaseous mass, as abscissas and the cor- 
responding pressures as ordinates, this curve will be independent of 
the nature of the walls of the vessel and of its capacity, and the point 
of intersection of this curve with the axis of ordinates will give the 
value of the pressure which the exploding gas would develop in an in- 
closure impermeable to heat. The curves obtained are divisible into 
two classes. The first, obtained with dissociable mixtures (CO and O, 
H and O), are concave toward the axis of abscissas and tend to cut the 
axis of ordinates at right angles. Extrapolation gives, then, a small 
correction and the limiting pressure is accurately determinable. The 
second, obtained by burning cyanogen and oxygen mixed with an inert 
gas, are convex toward the axis of abscissas, and rise sensibly toward 
the axis of ordinates. Hence the influence exerted by the unit of cool- 
ing surface upon the diminution of pressure increases with rise of 
temperature. The point at which the curve cuts the axis of ordinates 
is less well defined in this case. {Comptes Rendus, January, 1883, xcvi, 
11G.) 

Guthrie has described to the London Physical Society an experiment 
which he had made on the theory of regelation. He modified Bot- 
tomley's well-known experiment of cutting through a block of ice with 
a metallic wire weighted at the ends, without separation of the frag- 
ments, by using a cord of silk of the same size as the wire and equally 
weighted. While the wire cut through the block the cord did not. 



fhe explanation is that the ice in the former ease was melted by the 
heat conducted from the air. {Nature, May, 1883, xxviii, 47.) 

Forel bas sought to explain the granulation of glaciers by the alter- 
nate action of heat and cold to which they are annually subjected, 
without the intervention of any exterior pressure whatever. Hagen- 
bach, on the contrary, suggests that if it is legitimate to suppose that 
the pressure required to lower the temperature of fusion by a definite 
amount, say 0.01°, is a function of its direction relative to the crystal- 
line axis, i. e., that it is less perpendicular to the optic axis than parallel 
to it, then it follows that two crystals of ice with their axes perpen- 
dicular would undergo fusion by pressure in different degrees, the water 
from the fusion of the one serving to increase the volume of the other. 
Hence he believes that pressure exerts the preponderating influence on 
the phenomenon, the variations of temperature playing only a second- 
ary part. (Arch. Gendve, vn, 329 ; vm, 343 ; J. Phys., August, 1883, 
II, II, 377.) 

Crova has devised an improved form of condensation hygrometer, 
consisting of a thin brass tube, nickel-plated and carefully polished in 
its interior, closed at one end by a plate of ground glass and at the 
other by a lens of long focus. This tube is fixed in a closed rectangular 
metal box, furnished with two stopcocks. This box is two-thirds filled 
with carbon disulphide and air is blown through it, producing cold by 
its evaporation. A gentle current of the air to be tested is drawn 
through the tube, and when dew appears on the polished surface the 
temperature is noted on a thermometer in contact with the tube. The 
cooling current is then stopped and the temperature again noted at the 
instant when the dew disappears. The author claims tlftit the dew 
point may be determined to 0°.l. (J. Phys., April, 1883, II, II, 166.) 

In a subsequent paper, Crova gives the results of his experiments 
made to compare the accuracy of the above interior condensing hy- 
grometer with the ordinary exterior coudensing instrument and with 
the psychrometer. The maximum differences between the two former 
instruments were obtained when the relative humidity was low and 
the wind from north to northwest. The minimum differences were 
observed when the relative humidity was high and the wind from the 
south and slight. The psychrometer differed notably and in most cases 
arbitrarily from the other instruments. (J. Phys., October, 1883, II, n, 
450.) 

According to Hutton's theory, rain is produced by the mixture of 
two masses of saturated air at different temperatures. Pernter has 
sought to test the theory by calculating the quantity of rain produced by 
mixing two given masses of air at given temperatures. He finds that 
to produce upon one square meter a rainfall of 1 millimeter it is neces- 
sary to mix in a very short time 685 cubic meters of saturated air, one- 
half of which is at 0° and the other at 25°, the pressure being 760 mm 
throughout the mass. If, therefore, any rain can be produced on Hut- 



592 SCIENTIFIC tiECORb FOR 

ton's theory, such rainfall is very small. {Jour. Phys., December. 1883, 
II, II, 561.) 

Schwarz lias improved Meyer's vapor density method by nsing an or- 
dinary combustion furnace in place of the special furnace of tbe former. 
The substance is introduced into tbe heated combustion tube, which is 
slightly inclined backward for tins purpose, and which has been previ- 
ously tilled with nitrogen. The vapor expels the nitrogen, which is 
collected over water and measured. As in Meyer's method, it is not 
necessary to know the temperature of the furnace. (Ber. Berl. Chem. 
Oes., xvi, 1051; Am. J. 8ci., September, 1883, III, xxvi, 234.) 

Pacinnotti has constructed a barometer containing water thoroughly 
deprived of air above the mercury. This water retains the liquid state 
even under a negative pressure. The mercury column stands at 903 
millimeters above that in the reservoir, although the Fortiu barometer 
shows a pressure of 700 millimeters only. The author gives several 
experiments which show the necessity of a free surface in order lor 
evaporation to take place. (J. Phys., November, 1883, II, n, 524.) 

Wroblewski and Olzewski have succeeded in liquefying oxygen, nitro- 
gen, and carbon monoxide gases, by using a modified Cailletet's appa- 
ratus, and employing the evaporation of liquefied ethylene to cool the 
gas to be condensed, by which a temperature of — 13G° C. was obtained. 
At this temperature a pressure of 20 atmospheres suffices to com- 
pletely liquefy oxygen. It forms a colorless, transparent, very mobile 
liquid, with a well defined meniscus. Nitrogen and carbon monoxide 
arc more difficult to liquefy. At the temperature of —130° and under 
a pressure of 150 atmospheres, the capillary tube shows no trace of 
liquid. If, however, the pressure be rapidly though progressively di- 
minished, not allowing it to fall below 50 atmospheres, both gases 
liquefy, the meniscus being sharp and the liquids colorless and trans- 
parent. They evaporate readily at this pressure and temperature, so 
that to preserve them permanently a lower temperature is necessary. 
The temperatures were observed with a hydrogen thermometer, as this 
gas showed at —136° and under a pressure of 150 atmospheres no mist 
on sudden expansion. Carbon disulphide became solid at —110°, and 
liquefied again at —110°. Alcohol was viscous at —129°, and solidi- 
fied at -130.5. (Wicd. Ann., xx, 243; C. K., xevi, 1140, 1225; Phil. 
Mag., V, xvi, 75; J. Phys., November, 1883, II, n, 485.) 

Jamin has published some criticisms upon the ordinarily received 
interpretation of the " critical point" of gaseous liquefaction. The facts 
he concedes; but they have been inaccurately interpreted. He main- 
tains that gases are liquefiable at any temperature whatever when the 
pressure is sufficient, but a circumstance hitherto overlooked has pre- 
vented the liquefaction from being seen. In Cagniard-Latour's experi- 
ment, where a thick glass tube is one-half or two-thirds tilled with 
water, sealed, and heated to 300° or 400°, the vapor increases indefi- 
nitely in density and the liquid undergoes an increasing expansion, until 



physics. 593 

a limiting temperature is finally reached, at which both the liquid and 
the vapor have the same weight in the same volume. At this moment 
they cannot be separated; the vapor cannot escape to the top, the liquid 
cannot sink to the bottom. The meniscus first disappears, the surface 
of separation ceases to be distinct, then the entire mass is mingled 
together, showing undulating and moving streaks, evidence of a mix- 
ture of different densities, and finally the whole assumes a homogeneous 
state which is supposed to be gaseous. The "critical point" is reached 
and it may be defined as the temperature at which a liquid and its sat- 
urated vapor have the same density. In a subsequent paper Jamin 
discusses the laws of compressibility and condensibility of gases as 
illustrating this view. (C. B., xcvi, 1448; J. Phys., II, h, 389, 393; 
Phil. Mag., July, 1883, V, xvr, 71.) 

Gerard- Ansdell has studied the critical point of mixed gases, using for 
the purpose a mixture of carbon dioxide and hydrogen chloride. The ex- 
periments were made in a graduated Cailletet tube 50 cubic centimeters 
in capacity, the capillary portion having a diameter of 2 millimeters. 
After determining the critical point, the maximum tensions of the vapor 
at different temperatures, and the volumes of the liquid and gaseous 
portions, the apparatus was opened in distilled water, and the hydrogen 
chloride, which dissolved, was determined by analysis. The critical 
point of the carbon dioxide was 31°, and of the hydrogen chloride, 51.25°. 
But the critical point of the various mixtures was not found to vary pro- 
portionally to the percentage, but departed therefrom by as much as 
3.6°. (Proc. Boy. Soc, xxxiv, 113 ; J. Phys., January, 1883, II, n, 45.) 

3. Conduction and Badiation. 

To demonstrate to an audience the relative conductibility of copper 
and iron, Petrouchewski uses two air-thermoscopes of identical dimen- 
sions, the reservoir of the one being a vertical tube of copper and of the 
other a similar tube of iron. The heat from a gas flame is conducted to 
the thermoscopes by means of large wires of copper and of iron, respec- 
tively. A few minutes after the lamp has been lighted the level of the 
liquid in the copper thermoscope has fallen 25 to 35 centimeters, while 
that in the other has fallen only 7 or 8. A similar apparatus for show- 
ing the low conductibility of water in comparison with mercury has 
been devised by the same experimenter. (J. Soc. Phys. Ghim. Busse, 
xiy, 154 ; J. Phys., December, 1883, II, n, 576.) 

Violle has measured the radiation from silver at its melting point, as 
preliminary to measuring that of platinum, proposed by him as a photo 
metric standard. A bath of melted silver was placed below a thermo- 
electric battery connected with a mirror galvanometer, so that the radia- 
tion from the metal fell normally on the face of the battery through an 
opening one square centimeter in area made in the double wails of a suit- 
able screen and closed with a plate of quartz. The screen was cooled by a 
current of water. As the metal cooled the radiation at first decreased; 
H. Mis. C9 38 



594 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

but as soon as solidification began at the edges of the mass, the radia- 
tion from the liquid portion at the center remained constant until the 
solidification was complete. The author recommends this constant 
radiation of silver as a spectro-photometric standard. (-7. Phys., August, 
1883, II, ii, 3GG ; G. R., xcvi, 1033.) 

Baur has investigated by means of the bolometer the radiation of rock 
salt at different temperatures. He concludes that rock salt absorbs its 
own radiations more strongly than it does those of other bodies; and 
that the absorption increases as the difference of temperature between 
the radiating and absorbing rock-salt plates diminishes ; reaching its 
full value when this difference is zero. He does not believe that the 
radiations emitted by rock-salt are homogeneous; but concludes that 
long waves are accompanied by more or less longer and shorter waves, 
just as a yellow glowing solid emits beside the yellow radiations of a 
greater wave-length in addition. (Wied. Ann., xxiii, 17; Am. J. Sci., 
June, 1883, III, xxv, 469.) 

Lecher has calculated the absolute emissive and absorbing powers 
of a body as a function of the diffuse reflecting power and of the emissive 
power of surrounding bodies. Conceding the former to be constant at 
all temperatures, he concludes : (1) That a body emits radiations of all 
refrangibilities whatever the temperature ; and (2) that the distribution 
in the spectrum of the emitted radiations, is independent of the tempera- 
ture. Placing, for example, between two thermo-batteries differentially 
arranged an incandescent plate of platinum, he finds that certain bodies 
interposed between the platinum and either battery maintain nearly the 
same absorbing power however the temperature of the plate be varied. 
Incandescent electric lamps give spectra of the same quality, whatever 
may be the temperature of the carbon filament. He maintains therefore 
that the emissive power of any body whatever is for any temperature 
the same fraction of the function which expresses the emissive power of 
a black body. (Ber. Al: Wien, 1882, 57; J. Phys., April, 1883, II, n, 195.) 

Abney and Festing have published an investigation into the relations 
between radiation, energy, and temperature, using for the purpose the 
incandescent lamps of Edison, Lane Fox, British Electric Company, 
and Maxim. They express their results as follows: (1) the current can 
be expressed as a function of the potential ; (2) the radiation, after a 
certain temperature of the filament has been reached, bears a simple 
proportion to the energy expended in the lamp ; (3) the resistance can 
be formulated as a function of the energy and therefore of the radia- 
tion ; and (4) the temperature appears to be nearly a simple function of 
the resistance. These results are given also in the form of curves. 
(Phil. Mag., September, 1883, V, xvr, 224.) 

Van Assche has proposed a thin plate of selenium as a medium of 
isolating heat radiation from other radiations. Tbe light which it trans- 
mits is monochromatic, of a reddish tint, its spectrum being comprised 
between A and C. All radiations are interrupted by the selenium when 



physics. 595 

the source has a temperature between 720° and 2000° ; those radiations 
at comparatively low temperatures, 525° to 720°, alone penetrating the 
selenium. A thin plate of selenium heated to 250° converts all radia- 
tions into obscure oues. (C. B., xcv, 838; Am. J. Sci., December, 1883, 
III, xxvi, 476.) 

Pringsheira has made a careful study of the radiometer, considering 
particularly the influence of the glass-containing vessel, of the inclosed 
gas and of the constitution of the vane. His apparatus consisted of a 
single vane hung by a long bifilar suspension, and carrying a mirror 
which reflected a beam of light on a scale. He concludes that a pressure 
emanates from the heated side of the vessel, and that it increases with 
the temperature and is independent of the nature of the material of 
which the vessel is made. He finds that the absorption by the rarefied 
medium is extremely small, and may be neglected. The action of the 
vane is due to the rate of absorption and conduction on its two sides. 
The theory of currents in the rarefied medium he considers untenable, 
and believes that the kinetic theory of the radiometer is the most 
reasonable one. The form of the vanes is without influence per se, 
affecting the result only indirectly by their proximity to the sides of the 
vessel. Hence his use of a single vane bifilarly suspended. ( Wied. 
Ann., xxviii, 1 ; Phil. Mag., February, 1883, V, xv, 101 ; Am. J. Sci., 
March, 1883, III, xxv, 229.) 

Eovelli has suggested various lecture experiments with the radiom- 
eter. He places the instrument in the focus of a parabolic mirror, while 
a mass of snow is put in the focus of a like mirror at a little distance, 
facing the first. He puts the instrument under a bell jar containing 
ether, on an air pump. On exhausting, the motion is reversed on ad- 
mitting the air. He exposes the radiometer in the focus of a parabolic 
mirror turned toward the weak light reflected from snow on a cloudy 
day, and then turns the mirror away from the snow. He finds that 
eight degrees of dark heat neutralizes the effect of the light emitted by 
an ordinary candle at a distance of 45 centimeters. (Nature, March, 
1883, xxvn, 144.) • 

4. Specific Heat. 

Cantoni and Gerosa have undertaken to determine the value of the 
calory by measuring the rise of temperature in a mass of mercury 
allowed to fall from a known height. The height selected was 2.225 
meters, and the extreme values obtained in fifty-six experiments was 
0.1 40° and 0.172°. The mean of the first series (twenty-two experiments) 
was 0.1537°, of the second (twenty-two experiments), 0.1540°, and of 
the third (twelve experiments), 0.1687°, the general mean being 0.1573°. 
The authors found for the specific heat of mercury, 0.033375 as the mean 
;f three experiments; whence the mechanical equivalent of the calory 
is 2.225 -h- (0.033375x0.1573°) = 423.82 kilogrammeters. The probable 
error, however, is in the second significant number, the determinations 



596 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188S. 

differing from each other by 20 per cent. (J. Phys., December, 1883 
II, II, 562.) 

In Kopp's specific heat method, the solid is introduced into a tube, 
together with a liquid of known specific heat, and this tube is heated 
to a known temperature in a bath of mercury, and then immersed to a 
fixed level in the calorimeter. Pagliani has modified this method by 
using for heating the tube, in place of the mercury bath, the vapor of 
any suitable liquid. The results, obtained with various solid organic 
salts, agree well with those calculated from their solutions. (J. Phys., 
December, 1883, II, n, 565.) 

Liebig has studied in the laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University 
the variation in the specific heat of water, using the same method as 
that which Eowlaud employed in his research on the mechanical equiv- 
alent of heat and the same apparatus. The result which he has ob- 
tained agree entirely with the statement of Eowlaud that the specific 
heat of water decreases regularly from 0°, but differ as to the point of 
minimum, that of Rowland being about 30°, while that of Liebig being 
near 23°. No obvious explanation of the discrepancy appears. (Am. 
J. Sei., July, 1883, III, xxvi, 57.) 

Vieille has investigated the specific heat of certain gases at elevated 
temperatures. Assuming the constancy of the coefficient of expansion 
at constant volume and the correctness of Marriotte's law for high tem- 
peratures, he finds that the mean specific heat at constant volume of the 
gases CO, N, H, and O, does not vary at most by more than two thirds 
its value between 0° and 4400°. (C. B., April, May, 1883, xcvi, 1218, 
1358.), 

Strecker has continued his determination of specific heats by Kundt's 
acoustic method. Eepresenting the energy of the translatory move- 
ment of the molecules by ~k and the total energy by H, the author finds 
that the ratio of h to H divides the diatomic gases into two groups, in 
the first of which this ratio has the value 0.6, and in the second from 
0.44 to 0.50. In the first group are the gases O, N, H, C0 2 , N 2 2 , HC1, 
HBr, HI. In the seconded, Br, I, IOl, IBr, 01(1). ( Wied. Ann., xvn, 
85; J. Phys., January, 1883, II, II, 46.) 

Berthelot and Ogier have determined the specific heat of nitrogen 
tetroxide at various temperatures. Calling the molecular weight 46, 
corresponding to the formula NO* (0=8), the molecular specific heat is 
found to decrease rapidly as the temperature rises, being 74.7 calories 
from 27° to 67°, 51.3 from 27° to 150°, and 29.8 from 27° to 280°. 
These authors have also determined, by the same method, the specific 
heat of the vapor of acetic acid, and have found it to diminish as 
the temperature rises, like nitrogen tetroxide. The molecular specific 
heat (the molecular weight being 60) is 90.1 calories at 129°, 76.2 at 
160°, 57 at 200°, 38.2 at 240°, and 28.5 at 280°. Berthelot and Ogier 
have also determined the heat of vaporation of bromine, and find it to 



physics. 597 

be 6991 calories referred to Br 2 , molecular weight, 160. (Ann. Chim. 
Phys., November, 1883, V, xxx, 382, 400, 410.) 

Frankland has contrived an instrument for registering the relative 
thermal intensity of the sun. It consists of two bulbs at the ends of a 
tube bent twice at right angles, resembling the differential thermometer 
of Leslie. These bulbs have the same diameter, and one of them is 
blackened and surrounded by a glass envelope, which is exhausted. 
The other bulb is placed beneath a zinc roof painted with zinc-white on 
both faces. The apparatus contains air, and the tube is partially filled 
with mercury. The blackened bulb receives the solar radiation, the 
other preserves the temperature of the surrounding air. The reading 
of the two mercury columns on a suitable scale gives the difference of 
the temperatures. (Proc. Roy. Soc, xxxni, 331; J. Phys., February, 
1883, II, ii, 93.) 

LIGHT. 

1. Production and Velocity. 

Lodge has given an interesting lecture at the London Institution on 
the ether and its functions. Light vibrations, he says, can be trans- 
mitted only by a body possessing rigidity; and rigidity is active resist- 
ance to shearing stress, to alteration of form. Elasticity of figure is 
possessed by solids alone; the elasticity of fluids is volume elasticity 
only. Hence, fluids can transmit longitudinal vibrations only, while 
solids alone can transmit transverse vibrations like those of light. 
Water and air, therefore, cannot transmit light vibrations; it is the 
ether in them which conveys the motion. At 4,000 miles above the 
earth's surface the density of the air is represented by a number with 
127 ciphers before it and after the decimal point. But according to 
Sir William Thomson's calculation the density of the ether is repre- 
sented by a number with only 17 ciphers between it and the decimal 
point. The rigidity being the product of the square of the velocity by 
the density, is therefore 900, while that of steel is 8 x 10 11 . Glass itself 
can transmit vibrations with a velocity of only half a million centimeters 
per second, but the ether in the glass transmits them 40,000 times as 
quick, or 20,000,000,000 centimeters per second. Outside the glass they 
are transmitted 30,000,000,000 centimeters per second. Fresnel assumed 
the ether to be really denser within ordinary matter, being condensed 
around the molecules, while the rigidity is unchanged. Hence it fol- 
lows that in water, for example, seven-sixteenths of the ether within it 
is bound to the molecules and moves with it, while the remaining nine- 
sixteenths is free aud blows freely through the mass. The electric rela- 
tions of the ether are discussed and the suggestion made that, since a 
given electromotive force produces a greater electric displacement in 
some kinds of matter than in others, i. e., that the electricity is denser 
in some kinds of matter, the ether is sheared by electromotive forces 
into positive and negative electrification. The density of electricity in 



598 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

space being 1, that inside matter is called K, the specific inductive 
capacity, while in optics it was measured by the square of the refractive 
index. These appear to be the same values. The vortex atom theory 
of Thomson is discussed, and the lecture closes as follows: "One con- 
tinuous substance filling all space, which can vibrate as light, which can 
be sheared into positive and negative electricity, which in whirls con- 
stitutes matter, and which transmits by continuity and not by impact 
every action and reaction of which matter is capable. This is the 
modern view of the ether and its functions." {Nature, January arid 
February, 1883, xxvn, 304, 328.) 

Preece has proposed to the Royal Society the use as a reference photo- 
metric standard a small surface illuminated to a given intensity. In 
practice the light given by a small incandescent lamp, which can be 
varied by varying the current, is used for the comparison. The amount 
of illumination is proportional to the current flowing, and is read in 
amperes. The standard surface is that illuminated by a British candle 
at 12.7 inches, the same as is given by the French carcel at 1 meter 
distance. The theory of the method is simple. {Nature, June, 1883, 
xxvm, 206.) 

Sabine has described a wedge and diaphragm photometer which 
consists of a horizontal brass tube on a stand having an eye-piece at 
one end and a paraffin lamp at the other. A disk of opal glass near 
the middle of the tube is constantly illuminated by the flame. The 
tube itself is cut away laterally near its center, the opening being cov- 
ered by a collar carrying a slit containing a strip of opal glass, before 
which slides a frame carrying a wedge of neutral-tint glass, the thicker 
end of which absorbs eight times as much light as the thin end. The 
light to be measured is placed on the right side of the photometer, and 
its rays pass through the wedge and slit, falling on a narrow mirror at 
45°, which reflects them to the eye. When the light from the paraffin 
lamp and that from the source under examination are balanced the 
mirror becomes invisible. Diaphragms, with various openings, placed 
at the lamp end of the tube, permit the range to be varied. {Phil. May., 
January, 1883, V, xv, 22.) 

Conroy has suggested a modification of Eitchie's photometer in which 
two surfaces of white paper are so placed that the light is incident 
upon them at 30°, and the line of sight makes an angle of 00° with the 
normal, one of the papers being made to overlap the other slightly. 
{Phil Mag., June, 1883, V, xv, 423.) 

Sir William Thomson has made some approximate photometric meas- 
urements of natural as compared with artificial lights. From Pouillet's 
data he estimates the solar radiation to be 7,000 horse-powers per square 
foot of the sun's surface, or 50 horsepowers to the square inch. The 
radiation from a Swan incandescent lamp he finds to be three-fourths 
of a horse-power per square inch of surface, and hence the sun's radia- 
tion is 07 times that of the lamp. From measurements taken at York 



physics. 599 

in 1881 he estimates moonlight to be equal to the light of a candle 230 
centimeters distant. The light of a cloudy sky through an aperture 
one square inch in area was found to be equal to oue candle, and the 
intensity of the light from the sun's disk was equal to 5,300 candles. 
(Lond.Elec. Rev., xi, 490; Am. J. Sci., February, 1883, III, xxv, 149.) 

Crova has introduced a correction into the value of the solar luminous 
intensity, previously given by him, and now concludes that the sun's 
illuminating power in a clear sky is very near 8,500 carcels. Allowing 
9.5 candles to a carcel, this gives over 80,090 candles as the value of 
the sun's light, a number considerably greater than Sir William Thom- 
son's estimate. (G. R., xcv, V212- xcvi, 1L'4, January, 1883.) 

McLeod has made a series of experiments to test the action of light 
on india-rubber. He comes to the conclusion that caoutchouc alters 
under the combined iutlucnce of light and oxygen, but either alone 
produces no effect. (Nature, February, xxvn, 312; July, xxvni, 226.) 

Huggins has succeeded in reproducing the solar corona by photogra- 
phy, using a solution of potassium permanganate to absorb all rays 
different from those emitted by the corona itself. Compared with the 
photographs obtained during the eclipse of the 17th of May, Abney 
considers their essential identity established. (J. Phys., April, 1883, 
II, n, 173.) 

Cros and Vergeraud have succeeded in producing direet positives by 
the following process : Any suitable paper is covered with a solution 
of 2 grams ammonium bichromate, 15 grams glucose, and 100 of water, 
and dried. It is then exposed to the light under a positive. When 
the uncovered parts of the paper have become gray it is placed in a 
bath containing 1 gram of silver nitrate, 10 grams of acetic acid, and 
100 grams of water. The image appears at once in red, drying to a 
dark brown. By treatment with a sulphide it becomes black. (J. Phys., 
March, 1883, II, n, 123.) 

Hare and Dale have constructed a multiplex camera back by which 
thirteen plates in two tiers may be exposed, in any order without open- 
ing the box. (Nature, September, 1883, xxvni, 470.) 

2. Reflection and Refraction. 

Lermantoff proposes to select thin disks of microscopic cover glass 
to serve as light mirrors, by means of Newton's rings. Using a lens of 
long focus, placed successively on the disks illuminated with sodium 
light, those are selected which show regular rings not altered in size 
when the disk is turned over. (Jour. Soc. Phys. Chim. Russe, xiv, 
480; Jour. Phys., December, 1883, II, n, 5S3.) 

Laurent has communicated to the French Academy a description of 
some new pieces of apparatus devised for the purpose of testing optical 
surfaces. Among these are, (1) an apparatus for verifying the flatness 
of a , plane surface; (2) one for controlling parallel surfaces; (3) one 
for fixing the construction of prisms of any determined angle; and (4) 



600 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

one for controlling perpendicular surfaces. Most of these devices may- 
be used during the working of the surfaces. ( C. B., xcvi, 1035 ; J. Phys.j 
September, 1883, II, n, 411.) 

Soret has modified the total reflection refractometer of Kohlrausch 
so that it may be used with white light. The new apparatus is illu- 
minated with a strictly parallel beam of solar light, which, after reflec- 
tion at the contact-surface of the given substance and carbon disul- 
phide, is received on the slit of a spectroscope. For any convenient 
incident angle a dark well-defined shadow moves from the red to the 
violet with an increasing incidence, limiting the totally reflected rays. 
The index of the given substance for the part of the spectrum with 
which the edge of the shadow coincides is obtained by multiplying the 
index of carbon disulphide by the sine of the incident angle. (J. Pliys., 
March, 1883, II, n, 138.) 

Wiedemann has determined the density and refractive index at 19° 
for the three lines of lithium, sodium, and thallium of ethyl-carbonic 
ether and the five corresponding ethyl sulphocarbonates. From these 
values he calculates, by Lorenz's formula, the atomic refraction of sul- 
phur, and finds it to be 7.94 in the case where only one atom of sulphur 
is united to the same atom of carbon, and 9.28 where two atoms are 
thus united. ( Wied. Ann., xvii, 577; J. Phys., March, 1883, II, n, 139.) 

Dufet has investigated the influence of temperature on the index of 
refraction of water and quartz. When a parallel beam passes through 
a rectangular trough filled with water and containing a quartz plate 
with parallel sides, one-half of the beam passing above this plate, Tal- 
bot's bands are perceived on passing the light through a prism. By the 
displacement of these bands the temperature may be determined to 
within 0°.02. The variation of the ordinary index of quartz for D and 
one degree is —0.0000050. (G. B., xcvi, 1221, April, 1883.) 

Quincke has studied the changes which the volume and the refractive 
index of liquids undergo under hydrostatic pressure. The compressi- 
bility was measured in glass vessels provided with capillary tubes, 
while the indices were measured by observing with an interferential re- 
fractometer the number of bands in homogeneous light. The ratio of 
these changes exhibits a definite relation, and the results go to confirm 
Dale and Gladstone's formula for the constant of refraction, i. e., the 
index, less unity, divided by the density. Or, in other words, the ex- 
cess of the index above one increases proportionally to the density. 
(Ber. A7c. Berl, April, 1883 ; Nature, xxvni, 308 ; J. Phys., June, 1883, 
II, II, 279.) 

Ohappuis and Eiviere have measured the refractive indices of gases 
at high pressures, employing the interference method of Jamin. The 
gas was compressed in a prismatic cavity in a block of steel 20 centim- 
eters long, closed at the ends by glass plates a centimeter thick. One 
of the interfering rays traverses this cavity, the other passes outside of 
it and one centimeter distant. They are united by the second mirror, 



PHYSICS. 601 

and the fringes are observed, with a telescope. The results obtained 
between 24 and 36 atmospheres are now given. For the number of the 
fringes which would pass under the reticule for a variation of pressure 
of 1 millimeter in a tube 1 meter long, the author obtained 0.550, 0.510, 
and 0.555 in three experiments, the number calculated on adopting the 
index for air at 22° the value 0.000271, being 556. (G. B., March, 1883, 
XCVT, 699; PHI. Mag., April, 1883, Y, XV, 299.) 

Sarazin has determined with great care the ordinary and extraordinary 
indices of Iceland spar for the leading Fraunhofer lines as well as for 
twenty-six of the leading lines of cadmium. He used two prisms, one 
by Hofmann, the other by Laurent. (J. Phys., August, 1883, II, ii, 369.) 

Loewy has given a detailed description of the novel telescopic mount- 
ing devised by him for the new equatorial of the Paris Observatory, and 
constructed by Eichens and Gautier. (J. Phys., August, 1883, II, n, 
349.) 

Thollon has constructed a modified form of collimating telescope for 
use with his liquid prisms, which must be kept in a horizontal position. 
If atotal reflection prism be placed behind the slit of a collimator, so that 
its hypotenuse is at the same time parallel to the axis of the telescope and 
to the slit, an image of the slit will be formed inverted, as in Zollner's 
reversion prism. If the slit be turned through any angle, and the prism 
through half this angle, an image of the slit will be given which will 
coincide in direction with the first image. This device works well in 
practice. (G. R., March, 1883, xovi, 642.) 

Tait has discussed that state of the atmosphere which produces the 
forms of mirage observed by Vince and by Scoresby. From theoretical 
considerations he concludes that the conditions requisite for the pro- 
duction of Vince's phenomenon, at least in the way conjectured by him, 
are a stratum in which the refractive index diminishes upward to a 
nearly stationary state, and below it a stratum, in which the upward 
diminution is either less or vanishes all together. The former condition 
secures the upper erect image, the latter the inverted image and the 
lower direct image. In proof of the correctness of this theory, the au- 
thor constructed a tank with parallel glass ends, about 4 feet long, and 
filled it one-half with a weak brine carefully filtered. Pure water was 
then cautiously introduced above it till the tank was nearly full. After 
a few hours the whole had settled down into a state of slow and steady 
diffusion, and Yince's phenomenon was beautifully shown. (Nature, 
May, 1883, xxvin, 84.) 

3. Dispersion and Color. 

Zenger has produced a direct vision prism of great dispersive power 
by joining to a dispersion parallelopiped a prism of light crown. He 
claims that by this combination he gets a dispersion of 150° between 
the A and the H lines. Since ordinary direct vision prisms give a sep- 
aration of these lines of only 20°, this result is remarkable and ex- 



602 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

ceeded only by the Thollon spectroscope. But in this instrument the 
loss of light from the absorptions and reflections is far less. (G. R., 
April, 18S3, xcvi, 1039.) 

Crova has described an improved form of spectrophotometer which 
consists essentially of a direct vision spectroscope having an adjustable 
slit in the eye-piece and a double rectangular prism covering one-half 
the ordinary slit. One beam passes to the prism directly; the other 
enters from a perpendicular direction passing into the collimator through 
the total reflection prisms. In the path of this rectangular beam two 
nicols are placed with a graduated circle by the position of which the 
movable one may be read off. The two lights to be compared are placed 
at equal distances, the brighter in front of the nicols, dud the analyzer is 
turned until the intensity is the same in any given portion of the two 
superposed spectra. (Ann. Chim. Phys., August, 1883, V, xxix, 556.) 

It is often desirable to place the slit of a spectroscope at an angle 
with the axis of the prism. Garbe has shown that this may be done 
by placing, immediately behind the slit an ordinary reversing prism, with 
its axis in that of the collimator. Under these circumstances the vir- 
tual image of the slit will not be displaced by its rotation. The device 
is similar to that used by Thollon. (J. Phys., July, 1883, II, u, 318; 
C. R., March, 1883, xcvi, 836.) 

Cornu has suggested a new form of spectroscope, which gives a high 
dispersion. A right-angled prism throws the light from the slit along 
the axis of the collimating lens, whence it passes through the prism and 
is incident upon a reflecting surface at 45°, by which it is thrown ver- 
tically upward upon a second mirror at 45°, which returns it to the 
prism. After traversing this a second time it is incident normally upon 
a mirror, which returns it over its course to the eye-piece of the col- 
limator. The ray thus passes four times through the prism; and since 
this is of carbon disulphide the dispersion obtained is very consider- 
able. (J. Phys., February, 1883, II, n, 53.) 

Eohrbach has produced a liquid possessing extraordinary high refract- 
ive and dispersive power. One hundred parts of barium iodide and 130 
parts of mercuric iodide are heated in a test-tube with 20 cc of dis- 
tilled water, the whole placed in an oil bath at 150° to 200° C, and well 
stirred. A liquid double iodide of mercury and barium is formed, 
which is poured into a shallow porcelain dish and evaporated down 
until its density is so great that an epidote crystal no longer sinks in it. 
Even topaz will float in it when cold. It is then filtered through glass 
wool. It has a density of 3.575-3.588, boils at about 145°, and is yellow 
in color. Its refractive index is 1.7755 for the C line and 1.8265 for the 
E line of the spectrum. For the two D lines of sodium are 1.7931 and 
1.7933, respectively. When a hollow prism of 60° filled with this liquid 
is used in the spectroscope the separation of the D lines is almost ex- 
actly 2'. (Nature, November, 1883, xxix, 63; Wied. Ann., xvn, 169; 
Am. J. Sci., November, 1883, III, xxvi, 406.) 



PHYSICS 603 

La garde has measured, by means of the spectrophotometer of Crova, 
the intensity of the hydrogen spectrum lines under various conditions 
of temperature and pressure. Using the carcel lamp as a standard, 
and calling the intensity of the corresponding regions of the spectrum 
1,000. the intensity of the red line was 3.G under a pressure of 6 mm .5, 
8.8 under a pressure of mm .542, and 12.6 under a pressure of mm .010, 
the current intensity being the same. The blue line had an intensity 
of 5.5, 25.8, and MO. 3 under these conditions, and the violet line 17.2, 
05.8, and 110.0. For a pressure of 6 mm .5 the curve of the red line 
becomes a straight line. (G. R.. December, 1882, xov, 1350; Phil. 
Mag., March, 1883, V, xv, 220.) 

Liveiug and Dewar have presented to the Eoyal Society a paper on 
the origin of the hydrocarbon flame spectrum. (Nature, January, 1883, 
xxvn, 257.) 

Thaleu has measured the wave-lengths of the brilliant spectra of 
samarium and didymium. (J. Phys., October, 1883, II, n, 446.) 

The same physicist has mapped the emission spectra of scandium, 
ytterbium, and thulium, as well as the absorption spectrum of thulium. 
(J. Phys., January, 1883, II, n, 35.) 

Cornu has compared together the telluric lines of the spectrum and 
the liues of the metals as a means of determining the absorbing power 
of the atmosphere. (J. Phys., February, 1883, II, n, 58.) 

Liveing and Dewar have studied the conditions under which the 
spectrum lines of the metals are reversed. (J. Phys., September, 1883, 
II, ii, 434.) 

Hartley has submitted to the British Association the report of the 
committee on the comparison of the spark spectra of the elements with 
spectra of solutions of their compounds. (Nature, November, 1883, 
xxix, 89.) 

Abney has communicated to the Eoyal Society the results of his 
measurements of the wavelengths of A, of a, and of some prominent 
lines in the infra-red of the visible spectrum. (Nature, December, 1883, 
xxix, 190.) 

Pringsheim has measured the ultra-red wave-lengths of the solar 
spectrum, using a Chapman grating and silvered mirrors, the rays being 
received on an extra sensitive radiometer. The visible spectrum of the 
second order was absorbed by a solution of iodine or a plate of ebonite. 
He concludes that rays exist in the spectrum of wave-length 0.00152, 
or double the length of the extreme red. He finds a cold band between 
the limits /l=0.00139 and ;>=0.001366. This band has also been observed 
by Langley. ( Wied. Ann., xvm, 32 ; J. Phys., September, 1883, II, n, 
424.) 

H. Becquerel has published three papers on the infra-red region of 
the spectrum. The first is on a phosphorograph of the infra-red region 
of the solar spectrum and the wave-length of the piincipal lines. The 
second is on the study of the infra-red radiation by means of the phe- 



604 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883 

noinena of fluorescence. And the third is on the maxima and minima 
of extinction of phosphorescence under the influence of the ultra-red 
rays. (0. B., January, April, June, 1883, XCVI, 121, 1215, 1853; Ann. 
Ghim. Phys., V, xxx, 5; Phil. Mag., March, 1883, V, xv, 223; Am. J. 
ScL, March, 1883, III, xxv, 230.) 

Egoroff has shown that the A and B lines of the solar spectrum are 
due to the oxygen in the earth's atmosphere. He used a tube 20 meters 
long, closed by glass plates, filled with dry oxygen under a pressure of 
15 atmospheres, and observed the calcium light through it. The lines 
of absorption produced by the oxygen were identical with the A and B 
of the solar spectrum. (G. B., August, 1883, xcvn, 555; Am. J. Sci., 
December, 1883, III, xxvi, 477.) 

Langley has published in extenso his valuable memoir on the selective 
absorption of solar energy, giving the results of his measurements at 
Allegheny and on Mount Whitney. He has explored the ultra-red 
region to a wave length of 2.8 microns, the extreme value obtained 
hitherto being only 1.2. The charts accompanying this memoir are of 
great interest. (Am, J. iSci., March, 1883, III, xxv, 169 ; Ann. Ghim. 
Phys., V, xxix, 497 ; J. Phys., II, n, 371.) 

Bayleigh has pointed out the fact that the curve of energy of the dif- 
fraction spectrum has no special claim to the title of ''normal." A 
curve plotted with wave-frequencies, or reciprocals of wave-length, as 
abscissas would have quite as much claim to be considered normal and 
would give an energy curve more like that obtained with the prismatic 
spectrum. If the logarithm of the wave-length or the wave-frequency 
be used as abscissa, a curve will be obtained in which every octave oc- 
cupies the same space. (Nature, April, 1883, xxvii, 559.) 

4. Interference and Polarization. 

Egoroff, in experimenting with a Chapman grating of 17290 lines to 
the inch, finds that for every grating and every wave-length there is an 
angle of incidence such that the reflected diffracted ray coincides with 
the incident ray. In this case the focus of the grating is infinitely dis- 
tant. Considering the image of the source of light formed by the re- 
flecting surface of the grating as the source of light for a transparent 
grating, it will be seen that the case of the coincidence of the diffracted 
ray with the incident ray corresponds to the case of minimum devia- 
tion for this transparent imaginary grating, the angles of incidence and 
emergence being equal. (J. Soc. Phys. Ghenv. Busse, xrv, 253; J. Phys., 
December, 1883, II, n, 580.) 

Bowland has published a complete investigation of the theory of the 
concave grating and has compared the results with those obtained by 
experiment. He finds that since the radius of curvature of concave 
gratings is usually great, the distance through which the spectrum re- 
mains practically normal is also very great. In his instrument this ra- 
dius is about 21 feet 4 inches, the width of the ruling being about 5.5 






PHYSICS. 605 

inches ; hence the spectrum thrown by it on a flat plate is normal within 
about 1 part in 1.000,000 for 6 inches, and less than 1 part in 35,000 for 
18 inches. In photographing the spectrum on a flat plate the definition 
is excellent for 12 inches, and by the use of a plate bent to 11 feet ra- 
dius a plate of 20 inches in length is in perfect focus, the spectrum 
being so nearly normal that for most purposes its error may be neglected. 
Another important property of the concave grating is that all the sup- 
erimposed spectra are in focus at the same point; so that the relative 
wave-lengths are readily determined by micrometric measurement. 
Knowing, therefore, the absolute wave-length of one line, the entire 
spectrum can be measured. This method is the most accurate known, 
as by simple inspection the relative wave-length can be judged of to 1 
part in 20,000, and with a micrometer to 1 part in 1,000,000. This 
method 'is especially valuable in obtaining the focus in the invisible 
parts of the spectrum. Examining the question whether the ruling ac- 
tually performed, in which equal spaces are ruled along the chord, could 
be replaced to advantage by any other kind of ruling, the author finds 
that the departure of the ruling from theoretical perfection is of little 
consequence until lines twenty times as fine as the 1474 line can be 
divided ; the components of this line being one forty -thousandth of the 
wave-length apart. Considering, finally, the question of the limit of the 
resolving power of the spectroscope, he shows that all lines have some 
physical width and that we are limited by that width in the resolving 
power of the spectroscope. All the methods of determining the limits 
seem to point to about the 150,000th of the wave-length as the smallest 
distance at which the two lines can be separated in the solar spectrum 
by a spectroscope of even an infinite power. Practically he has been 
able to photograph bines which do not differ in wave-length more than 
one part in 80,000, and he believes he can resolve lines whose compo- 
nents are only one 100,000th of the wave-length apart. So that the 
idea of a limit has not yet been proved. (Am. J. Sci., August, 1883, 
m, xxvi, 87.) 

Similar investigations on the theory of concave gratings have been 
made by Mascart (J. Phys., January, 1883, II, II, 5), by Baily (Phil. 
Mag., March, 1883, V, xv, 183), and by Glazebrook (Phil. Mag., June, 
1883, V, xv, 414). In a note, subsequent to bis last paper, Eowland 
has called attention to certain errors in the latter paper, intimating 
that some of the methods suggested were identical with those he had 
himself presented to the London Physical Society six months before. 
Indeed, in a foot-note to his previous paper, he had expressed his sur- 
prise at this invasion of his field by others, saying that he had expected 
to be allowed a little time to work up the subject himself. (Am. J. Sci., 
September, 1883, III, xxvi, 214.) 

Glazebrook has suggested a new form of polarizing prism, free from 
the defect of the Nicol, of displacing laterally the object seen through it. 
It is made by cutting a rectangular parallelopiped from a piece of spar 



GOG SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188S. 

so that two of its faces are at right angles to the optic axis, while the 
other four are parallel to it, its length being three times its width. Cut 
it by a plane inclined 20° to its length, polish, and re-cement these faces 
with Canada balsam. Such a prism has the following advantages: 
(1) An object seen through it is not displaced laterally; (2) a conical 
pencil whose axis passes directly through it is more nearly jdane polar- 
ized than in other prisms, and (3) if the direction of the wave normal 
within the prism does not quite coincide with the axis of rotation, the 
average error in the position of the plane of polarization isless than 
for any other method of cutting. The angular aperture of the field 
is 10°. (Phil. Mag., May, 1833, V, xv, 352.) 

Gouy has devised an apparatus for the synthetic production of cir- 
cular double refraction. It is formed of a collection of parallel plates 
cut from a uniaxial crystal parallel to the axis. These all have the 
same thickness, which corresponds to a difference of path of either one 
semi-undulation or of an uneven number of semi undulations between 
the ordinary and extraordinary rays for sodium light at a normal inci- 
dence. These plates are cut into equal rectangular bands, long and 
narrow, and then these are placed side by side, like the boards in a 
floor, and cemented together between two parallel glass plates with 
Canada balsam. In the first strip the principal section of the crystal 
has an arbitrary direction ; in the following ones the principal section 
of each strip makes with that which precedes a constant angle in mag- 
nitude and direction, upon which depends the properties of the appa- 
ratus. Upon the whole is superposed a half- wave plate without regard 
to direction. (J. Phys., August, 1883, II, n, 360.) 

Some time ago Kighi demonstrated that if two rays were made to in- 
terfere when their vibration numbers were slightly different, there ap- 
peared on the screen, instead of the ordinary fringes, fringes which had 
a uniform movement in a direction perpendicular to their length, with 
a velocity such that there would pass a given point in one second a 
number of lumiuous fringes equal to the difference of the vibration 
numbers. The phenomenon was identical with that of beats produced 
by sonorous air vibrations. He has now succeeded in realizing the con- 
dition experimentally, and has described the apparatus necessary as 
well as the conditions of success. (J. Phys., October, 1883, II, n, 437.) 

Gouy has examined the condition of diffracted light as regards its 
polarization. He finds that if the incident light is natural, the diffracted 
light is polarized, very strongly if the diffraction angle exceeds 50°, 
and always in a plane parallel to the edge of the screen or perpendicular 
to the diffraction plane. If the incident light is plane polarized, the dif- 
fracted light is also plane polarized, but in a plane making a greater 
angle with the plane of diffraction. With reference to the light dif- 
fracted away from the shadow, the polarization phenomena are contrary. 
With ordinary light the diffracted beam is now polarized in the plane 
of diffraction; the polarization being almost complete if the diffraction 



PHYSICS. 607 

angle is small. The same edge produces complementary polarizations. 
(C. B., March, 1883, xcvi, 697.) 

ELECTRICITY. 

1. Magnetism. 

Hughes has presented to the Eoyal Society a theory of magnetism 
based on new experimental researches. He maintains (1) that each 
molecule of a piece of iron, steel or other magnetic metal is a separate 
and independent magnet, having its two poles and distribution of mag- 
netic polarity exactly the same as its total evident magnetism when 
noticed upon a steel bar magnet ; (2) that each molecule or its polarity 
can be rotated in either direction upon its axis by torsion, stress, or by 
physical forces such as magnetism and electricity; (3) that the inherent 
polarity or magnetism of each molecule is a constant quantity like 
gravity, and can neither be increased or destroyed; (4) that when we 
have external neutrality or no apparent magnetism, the molecules or 
their polarities arrange themselves so as to satisfy their mutual attrac- 
tion by the shortest path, and thus form a complete closed circuit of 
attraction ; (5) that when magnetism becomes evident, the molecules 
or their polarities have all rotated symmetrically in a given direction, 
producing a north pole in the piece of steel if rotated in one direc- 
tion, and a south pole if rotated in the other. The arrangement here 
is still symmetrical, but the circles of attraction are completed only 
through an external armature joining both poles. (Nature, February, 
1883, xxvn, 354.) 

Wassmuth has shown that the moment of a milligram of iron sub- 
mitted to a magnetic force, depends upon its temperature and the press- 
ure to which it is exposed. A diminution of pressure, a rise of tem- 
perature affect the moment oppositely. Compression evolves nearly the 
same amount of heat whether the iron be magnetized or not. Iron, 
therefore, subjected in a vacuum to a feeble magnetic force should be 
cooled. It would heat, on the contrary, under the atmospheric pressure 
and the action of a more powerful magnetization. (J. Phys., April, 
1883, II, II, 194.) 

Bosanquet has proposed the term "magnetomotive force" as the ana- 
logue of electromotive force; a difference of magnetic potential. He 
concludes that the magnetic induction of a permanent magnet may be 
supposed to be produced by a magnet' motive force derived from per- 
manent amperian currents acting through the resistance of the steel. 
(Phil. Mag., March, 1883, T, xv, 205.) 

Stefan has observed that if a magnet oscillating under the action of 
the earth be inclosed within a hollow cylinder of iron, and the diminu- 
tion which the horizontal component undergoes under these circum- 
stances be measured, it will be found to equal nine-tenths of the whole 
value. If a solenoid be placed in a magnetic field, currents may be 



608 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

induced in it by covering it with a tube of iron. (J. Phys., .April, 1883, 
II, n, 192.) 

Meyer has given his results upon the magnetic permeability of the 
magnetic metals obtained with weak magnetizing forces. A cylinder 
of the metal was made the core of an earth inductor, the earth's field 
being used. He concludes, (1) the magnetizing function has a positive 
value for a diminishing magnetizing force; (2) it increases at first with 
the magnetizing force; and (3) it increases for weak magnetizing forces 
with the temperature. The value 2.24 for pure nickel, with a magne- 
tizing force 3.096 was obtained. (Am. J. ScL, April, 1833, III, xxv, 
309.) 

In a paper read at the meeting of the British Association, Ewing has 
given the results of an extended investigation of magnetic suscepti- 
bility and retentiveness in iron and steel. He finds that soft iron 
retains 90, and even 93 per cent, of the induced magnetism, after the 
magnetizing force is removed. Pieces of soft iron held an amount of 
magnetism per unit of volume greatly exceeding that retained by the 
best-tempered steel. But the condition is highly unstable, the slightest 
mechanical disturbance, such as gentle tapping, removed the residual 
magnetism completely. (Nature, October, 1883, xxvrn, 625.) 

Borgman has succeeded in establishing the fact that iron is heated 
by being rapidly magnetized and demagnetized. Similar tubes of iron 
and of copper were placed in reservoirs of glass which served as the 
bulbs of air thermometers. The magnetizing currents surrounded these 
reservoirs and were reversed from five to twenty times a second. No 
heating of the copper was observed. (Soc. Phys. Chim. Busse, xrv, 67 ; 
J. Phys., December, 1883, II, n, 574.) 

Wassmuth has calculated, from the fact observed by Stefan in 1874, 
that the specific heat of iron is greater when it is magnetized than in 
its natural state, what the temperature should be in order that the 
magnetic moment may be zero. He finds, for the difference of the two 
specific heats, 2.7 xl0~*, and for the temperature, 1,346°. (Ber. Ale. 
Wien, 1882, 112 ; J. Phys., April, 1883, II, n, 194.) 

Himstedt has studied the damping effect exerted by a plate of iron 
upon a magnetic needle vibrating above it. Comparing the results with 
those given by copper plates of the same dimensions, he finds that 
while for copper plates the logarithmic decrement of the oscillations 
is proportional to the duration of the oscillation, for iron plates the log- 
arithmic decrement is independent of this duration. From this it fol- 
lows that the damping effect due to ordinary induction currents is only 
a very small fraction of the total damping effect which was observed. 
(J. Phys., March, 1883, II, n, 135.) 

Barrett has described some experiments made under the direction of 
a committee of the Society for Psychical Research, to test the accuracy 
of Reichenbach's assertion that the magnetic field is luminous to cer- 
tain persons. Two persons were subjected to the most careful tests, 



PHYSICS. 609 

and the author regards the result as a remarkable verification of the fact 
that to certain eyes a faint luminosity accompanies the creation of a 
powerful magnetic field. (Phil. Mag., April, 1883, V, xv, 270.) 

2. Electromotors. 

Bichat and Blondlot have made a series of experiments to determine 
the influence of pressure on the contact-potential between a metal and 
the liquid in which it is immersed. Two electrodes of different metals 
were used, immersed in a solution of a salt of one of them. The results 
obtained put beyond question the influence of pressure on the electrical 
difference between a liquid and a metal, amounting to as much as a 
thousandth of a volt for one hundred atmospheres. (J. Phys., Novem- 
ber, 1883, II, II, 503.) 

The same authors have extended their investigations and have sub- 
sequently measured the difference of potential between two liquids hi 
contact. This difference was measured by means of a Thomson-Mascart 
electrometer, an apparatus similar to Thomson's water-dropping col- 
lector being employed to equalize the potentials of the layers of air 
which covered the liquids in the two vessels. Between water acidulated 
with ten per cent, sulphuric acid and uitric acid, the difference was 
0.48 Daniell. (J. Phys., December, 1883, II, II, 533.) 

Blake has experimentally examined, in Helmholtz's laboratory, the 
two evaporation hypotheses for the production of atmospheric electri- 
city. The first of these supposes the electricity to be produced simply 
by the evaporation of the liquid ; the second that a convection of the 
electricity occurs by means of the vapor arising from the surface wben 
the liquid is electrified. The results of his experiments are conclusive 
apparently in showing that no electrification whatever is produced, 
directly or indirectly, from the evaporation of liquids. (Phil.. Mag., 
September, 1883, V, xvi, 211.) 

The phenomenon of Hall, discovered in 1880, has been the subject of 
numerous investigations. He observed that if a thin leaf of metal 
conveying a current be placed on the pole of a powerful electro-magnet 
perpendicular to the lines of force, a new electromotive force is de- 
veloped normal to the lines of force and to the direction of the current 
through the metal, tending to produce a transverse current, which, for 
most of the metals, is in a contrary direction to the displacement which 
a movable conductor would experience under the same conditions, but 
for the strongly magnetic metals, as iron, cobalt, and zinc, is in the 
same direction. He gives the name "rotational coefficient" to the quo- 
tient of E by V, in which E is the difference of potential per centimeter 
of width, produced in the film, and V the current intensity per unit 
section traversed. Bighi has modified the form of the film, using three 
electrodes instead of four. He lias also found that the effect is more 
marked with bismuth than with any other metal, so much so that he 
believes he can show the phenomenon with the earth's maguetism. 
H. Mis. G9 39 



610 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1683. 

Eoiti has not succeeded in reproducing these phenomena in solutions, 
either of zinc sulphate or ferric chloride, or even in a thin layer of 
mercury. He suggests that the results may be due to the fact that the 
conductor under the action of the magnet ceases to be electrically iso- 
tropic, and has a different resistance in different directions. (Phil. Mag., 
V, xn, 157; xv, 341; Atti Accad. Lincei, III, xn, 397 ; J. Phys., No- 
vember, 1883, II, ii, 509, 512, 513.) 

Hamautoff has measured the electromotive force developed by the 
contact of silver, silver nitrate, and the various developing agents. 
Ferrous sulphate gives 0.01 Daniell, pyrogallic acid, 0.08 ; while the 
rapid developers suggested by Boissonas for instantaneous plates give 
0.12 to 0.16. This supports Lermantoff's view that development is a 
galvanoplastic process, each molecule of metallic silver set free by the 
light on the sensitive surface forming a voltaic couple with the silver 
nitrate molecule and the ferrous sulphate molecule, resulting in a de- 
posit of metallic silver. In order to demonstrate the currents produced 
by the action of light on a silver plate coated with silver iodide, Borg- 
mann has combined seven cells together and obtained, even with dif- 
fused light, a notable deflection on Wiedemann's mirror galvanometer. 
(J. Phys., December, 1883, II, n, 580, 581.) 

Preece has studied the effect of temperature on the electromotive 
force and resistance of batteries, and concludes (1) that the electromotive 
force is not materially affected by changes of temperature, (2) that the 
internal resistance is affected materially according to a law special for 
each form of cell, and (3) that the resistance of a liquid is greater on 
a cooling than on a rising temperature. (Proc. Roy. 8oc, xxxv, 48; 
J. Phys., October, 1883, II, n, 475 ; Nature, March, 1883, xxvn, 42G.) 

Trowbridge and Stevens have measured the electromotive force of 
alloys, using mixtures of lead and tin and of copper and zinc. The 
composition was determined by analysis and the electromotive force in 
dilute sulphuric acid with a platinum plate for the positive pole. (Proc. 
Am. Acad., xviii ; Phil. Mag., December, 1883, V, xvi, 435.) 

Hagahas concluded from his experiments that the currents produced 
in amalgamation of metajs are thermoelectric currents due only to the 
heat of combination. (Wied. Ann., XVII, 897; J. Phys., May, 1883, II, 
II, 232.) 

If two electrodes of the same metal be plunged in a liquid, the move- 
ment of either within the liquid produces a current. Krouchkoll has 
investigated this phenomenon and has shown that currents are also 
produced at the instant of immersion and of emersion, and that the 
former is opposite to, and the latter in the same direction as, the current 
which movement in the liquid produces. (J. Phys., November, 1883, II, 
II, 505.) 

Bartoli and Papasogli have constructed a battery consisting of gold 
or platinum for one plate and gas carbon for the other, immersed iu an 
alkaline solution. The carbon is here negative and the electromotive 



PHYSICS. Gil 

force, with a saturated solution of potassium or sodium carbonate, on 
open circuit, is 0.10 to 0.17 Daniell. With saturated solution sodium 
hypochlorite, it rises to 0.4 to 0.5 Daniell. With graphite or wood char- 
coal, the electromotive force is less. The circuit being closed, the carbon 
disintegrates and produces oxidation compounds, the formation of which 
is attended with an evolution of heat. (II Nuovo Cimento, III, xn, 141; 
J. Phys., December, 1883, II, n, 570.) 

Two new forms of iufluence-machines have been produced, the one 
by Voss, the other by Wimshurst. In the former there is a fixed disk 
with quadrantal armatures, and a revolving disk with six or eight equi- 
distant metallic buttons on the face, to act as carriers. In the latter 
there are two revolving disks moving oppositely, each armed with 12: 
radial sectors. Both machines are self-charging. (Nature, May, 1883, 
xxvni, 12.) 

Elster and Geitel have proposed to string the disks of a dry pile upon 
a silk thread in place of putting them in a glass tube. They find that 
these dry piles may act as accumulators, and on charging a pile of 11,000 
pairs of plates of a square centimeter surface with a Holtz machine it 
gave sparks a millimeter long. A form of pile was made consisting of 
7,000 plates of thin lead coated on both sides with tissue paper made to 
adhere by water-glass to which a little lead peroxide was added. After 
charging, this pile gave sparks one millimeter long for ten minutes, 
and after twenty-four hours it still showed electrification. ( Wied. Ann., 
xvn, 489 ; Phil. Mag., V, xvi, 159; Nature, July, 1883, xxvni, 234.) 

Eeynier has published some figures concerning the work done by a 
Leclanche battery when used on a telephone exchange. Two batteries 
of three cells each were used for thirty days of seven hours' duration. 
The loss of weight of zinc during that time was 64.5 grams, which rep- 
resents 63,235 coulombs. This is equal to a current of 0.084 amperes 
during the month. Taking the electromotive force of a Leclanche' cell 
as one volt, the total work done is 189,705 watts, which is equivalent to 
a horse-power every fifty-two minutes. (Nature, July, 1883, xxvni, 
309.) 

Wright and Thompson have investigated the Clark standard cell, 
determining its electromotive force, the influence exerted upon this by 
dissolved air, by contamination of the mercurous with mercuric sul- 
phate, by time and by temperature changes. They conclude that Clark's 
valuation for the electromotive force is exact, viz, 1.457 volts at 15°.5C. 
These authors have also determined experimentally the work done in 
the electrolysis of various solutions. (Phil. Mag., July, 1883, V, xvi, 
25.) 

Trouve' has experimented on the use of the bichromate battery for 
incandescent lighting, and finds that 12 of his cells in two series of six 
each maintained ten 10-volt lamps at 10 candles for two hours, the 
electromotive force being 12.6 volts and the current 65 amperes. After 
3 hours the current fell to 31.50 amperes, only 8 lamps being in circuit. 



612 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

In 4 hours- only G and in 4£ hours only 4 lamps were maintained. The 
12 cells consumed 0.912 kilogram of zinc or 0.076 per cell for the five 
hours. (C. B., March, April, 1883, xcvi, 787, 1048; J. Soc. Tel. JEng., 
KII, 016.) 

Hallock has investigated the conditions of variation in the electro- 
motive force of the Smee battery, especially that due to polarization. 
He concludes, first, the accepted view that the variations in E. M. F. of 
the Smee battery are due to variations of hydrogen polarization on the 
platinum plate is correct; second, the electromotive force of polariza- 
tion is by no means independent of the substance of the electrodes; 
third, we cannot calculate the polarization from the thermo-chemical 
equivalents; and, fourth, the electromotive force of polarization can be 
raised considerably above that necessary to produce a visible evolution 
of gas. (Am, J. ScL, April, 1883, III, xxv, 268.) 

Kittler has given the name " normal element" to a cell composed of 
amalgamated pure" zinc in dilute sulphuric acid of specific gravity 1.075 
at 18° C, and of pure copper in concentrated copper sulphate solution of 
specific gravity 1.190 to 1.200. (Nature, February, 1883, xxvn, 325.) 

Barker has devised a new form of Daniell cell to be used as a stand- 
ard. It consists of two bottles having tubulures at the side near the 
bottom, closed by rubber corks through which the ends of a glass stop- 
eock pass. One of these bottles contains the zinc rod passing through 
a cork in the neck and immersed in a saturated solution of zinc sul- 
phate. The other bottle contains the copper rod immersed in saturated 
•copper-sulphate solution. The advantages claimed for the cell are its 
uniformity, no evaporation taking place, and no change in the liquids 
by the action of the battery or by diffusion. When not in use the cock 
.communicating between the bottles is kept closed. (Proc. Am, Phil 
JSoc, January, 1883, XX, 649.) 

Von Waltenhofen has claimed for Pfaundler, of Innsbruck, priority 
in producing continuous-current machines. In 1867 Kravogl showed at 
the Paris Exposition his electric motor. This consisted of a series of 
coils forming a hollow ring which rotated about a horizontal axis. 
Within it is inclosed a curved cylindrical rod, which, by its weight, 
tends to take the lowest position, but is kept suspended in a raised 
position by currents in the coils. The reaction of the attraction rotates 
the ring. Pfaundler the same year proposed to apply Siemens' prin- 
ciple to it and get electric currents from mechanical work. This he 
tried and successfully effected three years later, as he states in a letter 
dated February 11, 1870. (Nature, March, 1883, xxvn, 517.) 

3. Electrical Measurements. 

Mercadier and Vaschy have published a paper on the dimensions of 
electric and magnetic magnitudes, in which, among other questions, 
they consider the influence of the surrounding medium upon electro- 
dynamic induction, and conclude from their own experimental investi- 



PHYSICS. G13 

gatious that this influence is non-existent, at least so far as the media 
studied by them are concerned. Hence they consider that Ampere's 
coefficient lc' in his electrodynamic formulae is probably independent of 
the surrounding medium. Borgmann has called attention to the fact 
that he had investigated this question six or seven years ago, using 
Poggendorff s compensation method to determine the induced electro- 
motive force. He concluded that the dielectric medium had no influence, 
but that the magnetic medium had an appreciable influence, the electro- 
motive force of induction being proportional to the coefficient of mag- 
netic permeability. Hence Ampere's coefficients depend on the same 
quantity. (J. Phys., June, December, 1883, II, n, 245, 551.) 

Dorn, using a modification of Weber's second method, the same that 
Kohlrausch employed, has obtained for the value in absolute meas- 
ure of one Siemens unit 0.9482 xlO 10 millimeter-seconds. (Wied. Ann., 
xvii, 773; Am. J. ScL, February, 1883, III, xxv, 148.) 

Pending the decision of the International Electric Congress, called 
to meet in Paris in April, 1884, many methods have been suggested for 
the determination of the value of the ohm. Carey Foster has called 
the attention of the London Physical Society to the results, recently 
obtained, of a method suggested by him in 1874. The method consists 
in balancing the electromotive force set up in a coil spinning in the 
earth's magnetic field, by means of an opposing electromotive force 
from a given battery. The two opposing circuits through the same 
wire, R, are composed, the first of the spinning coil and a zero galvano- 
scope and the second of a battery and an absolute galvanometer, these 
two circuits meeting at the end of the wire R. In two preliminary 
trials the values 1.003 and 0.999 were obtained, warranting further ex- 
periments. Glazebrook has obtained the value 0.9866 for the ohm, or 
the exact mean of Lord Rayleigh's results, 0.9893, 0.9865, and 0.9868. 
Lippmann has suggested an electrodynamic method, resembling that 
of Lorenz. A coil is spun inside a long coil, through which a known 
current is passing. The resistance to be determined is placed in the 
circuit of the latter coil. The electromotive force produced by the 
rotation of the inner coil is balanced along the given resistance by the 
electromotive force in the outer coil. Gray has proposed a method 
nearly the converse of that of Weber. It is to hang a coil, the constants 
of which are known, in a sufficiently intense and uniform magnetic field 
and find the decrement of the oscillatory motion produced by the induc- 
tion. Roiti has described a method analogous to that employed by 
Rowland in 1878. He uses a closed solenoid, in which a primary cur- 
rent flows, and a galvanoscope so arranged that into it can be thrown 
at will either a branch of the primary current or induced currents re- 
sulting from a certain number of interruptions of the^principal circuit. 
The resistances are so chosen that the deflection of the galvanoscope 
is the same in both cases. Frolich has discussed the question whether 
electrodynamic actions alone can serve to measure the ohm. Two cir- 



614 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

cuits, the one inducing, containing a constant battery, and the other 
induced, are placed near each other. Whenever the former circuit is 
opened or closed, or is shunted, an instantaneous current is produced 
in the second which is measured by an electro-dynamometer. If the 
battery be constant and no other variation occurs, the theory is easily 
confirmed. This distinguishes these methods from the corresponding 
galvanometric method, the electrodynamic actions depending on the 
law of variation of the inducing current, while the magnetic action of 
the induced circuit depends only on the final state of the inductor. 
The two bobbins may be placed both on the inductor or both on the 
induced coil, or one on each. Theory shows that the last is the only 
arrangement which permits the coefficients of self-induction to be elim- 
inated. The experimental methods of doing this are described. Bril- 
louin has described two methods based on the fact that in the electro- 
magnetic system the ratio of a coefficient of induction to a resistance 
is a time. !To determine absolutely a resistance, therefore, the essential 
measurements are (1) the measures of length necessary to calculate the 
absolute value of a mutual coefficient of induction, and (2) the measure 
of a time. {Nature, xxvn, 354; Am. J. Sci., III, xxv, 309, 321; Phil. 
Mag., V, XV, 149; XVI, 144; C. E., XCV, 1348; J. Phys., April, II, II, 
149 ; July 325; December, 566; Wied, Ann., xix, 106.) 

Bidwell has modified the proportions of the Wheatstone bridge so as 
to insure the constancy of the current used for measuring resistances 
by its means. This is important in those cases where the resistance 
measured is a function of the strength of current. (Phil. Mag., V, XV, 
316, May, 1883.) 

Chevet has devised a modification of the capillary electrometer of 
Lippmaun, w r hich is easily constructed and which will show a difference 
of potential of 0.001 to 0.0001 volt. Through lateral orifices two bottles 
are connected by means of a piece of thermometer tube. One of these 
bottles contains mercury, the other dilute sulphuric acid with a little 
mercury at the bottom, the mercury in each having an insulated plat- 
inum wire leading to it. These wires being connected together, the 
level of the mercury and water in the bottles is adjusted so that the 
surface of separation in the tube is near the end which is in the mer- 
cury. (C. B., xxvn, 669; Am. J. Sci., December, 1883, III, xxvi, 477.) 

Claverie has also described a capillary electrometer with a horizontal 
tube, and has given a theoretical discussion of the conditions of sensi- 
bility in it. It has a displacement of fifteen centimeters for an electro- 
motive force of one volt, and the zero is fixed. (J. Phys., September, 
1883, II, II, 420.) 

Debrun has devised a capillary relay, in which the capillary tube 
being horizontal the motion of the mercury to and fro causes a beam 
to which it is attached to oscillate on its knife-edges, and so to open or 
close a secondary local circuit. Since the oscillations are very slow, 
only about forty-eight a minute, it cannot be used in telegraphy, but 



PHYSICS. 615 

the author thinks it useful in automatically registering- instruments, 
such as barometers, thermometers, and galvanometers. (J. Phys., April, 
1883, II, ii, 169.) 

Ducretet has constructed a universal galvanometer which is capable 
of measuring from 0.1 to 100 amperes when used as an ammeter, and 
from 0.1 to 700 volts wheu used as a voltmeter. The needle is immersed 
in liquid to damp its vibrations and is con' tolled by a steel magnet 
beneath it. It is placed at one end of a graduated rule on which slides 
the coil, movable by a rack and pinion. The coil is wound in a groove 
in a metal ring, and has a resistance of 5,490 ohms. For measuring cur- 
rent the metal ring itself is used. The instrument is empirically cali- 
brated. (J. Phys., December, 1883, II, n, 556.) 

Siemens and Halske have brought out a torsion galvanometer for 
strong currents. It consists of a magnet suspended between two coils, 
suspended by a torsion spring so arranged that the amount of torsion 
required to return it to zero after deflection can be read off directly. 
Two forms are made, the vertical and the horizontal. In the former 
the needle is suspended by a silk fiber, the reading being taken from 
above. In the latter the needle is balanced on a knife-edge and carries 
a pointer at one end, moving over a scale. The amount of torsion neces- 
sary to return the needle to zero is indicated by a second pointer, which 
is attached to a handle, and which also moves in front of the scale. 
These instruments may be used either in the main circuit or in a shunt 
circuit. (Nature, October, 1883, xxvin, 571.) 

Obach has improved his movable coil tangent galvanometer by mak- 
ing the coil compound, the ring itself being used for current, and the 
coil, which is of high resistance, for electromotive force. The coil 
revolves about a horizontal axis, and can be fixed at any angle. The 
needle is suspended and can be rendered dead heat. The coils are so 
balanced that the same deflection is produced by one volt with the high 
resistance coil which is produced by one ampere with the low one. (Phil. 
May., August, 1883, V, xvi, 77 ; Nature, July, 1883, xxvin, 257.) 

Gray has examined the influence of temperature, density, and chem- 
ical composition upon the electric conductivity of glass. He finds that 
with the varieties of glass having lime as their basis the poorest con- 
ductors are those which have a composition most nearly approaching a 
triplicate, either of potassium and calcium or sodium and calcium. He 
finds also that among various specimens of lead glass the poorest con- 
ductors have a composition nearest to a trisilicate of potassium and 
lead. These latter insulate better, as they are more dense. (Proc. Boy. 
Soc, xxxin, 256 ; J. Phys., February, 1883, II, II, 95.) 

Foussereau has experimented to determine the effect of hardening 
upon the electric resistance of glass. He concludes 1st, thaf harden- 
ing diminishes considerably the electric resistance of many kinds of 
glass; a specimen of lime glass hardened, and then annealed for six 
hours at 500°, and observed between 35° and 80° showed 2.30 times 



616 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18S3. 

the original resistance; with flint-glass the difference is still more 
striking; 2d, moderate annealing, causing the elasticity due to harden- 
ing to partially disappear, destroys only in part the action of this 
hardening on the resistance; and 3d, the resistance of a glass recently 
annealed continues to increase slowly for some time. (C. R., March) 
1883, xcvi, 785.) 

The rapidity with which light modifies the resistance of selenium is 
well shown by an experiment of Bellati and Romanese. A Breguet 
photophonic receiver received the light of a petroleum lamp after pass- 
ing a solution of alum. This receiver and a rheostat, in the circuit of 
ten Bnnsen cells, were placed on the two circuits of a differential gal- 
vanometer. Between the light and the receiver a disk, pierced with 
holes, rotated. Though the speed of rotation was widely varied no 
appreciable change was observed in the mean resistance of the selenium, 
which could hardly have been the case unless the effect of the light on 
the selenium was instantaneous. {TINuovo Cimento, III, xi, 5; J. Phys., 
November, 1883, II, n, 518.) 

Bidwell has submitted selenium cells to direct examination in order 
to test the truth of Moser's hypothesis that their change of resistance 
was an effect of heat. He finds the very reverse to be the fact; that 
with a single exception all the cells in his possession rise in their 
resistance as their temperature rises; reaching a maximum and then 
decreasing. Exposed to sunlight a selenium cell does not become per- 
ceptibly warm to the touch; but the amount of dark heat required to 
effect the same reduction in its resistance would certainly render it too 
hot to handle. {Phil. Mag., January, 18S3, V, xv, 31.) 

' Fritts has described a new form of selenium cell in which he has suc- 
ceeded in diminishing materially the resistance, and in which the light 
is made to strike the cell in the same direction as that in which the 
current passes. These cells are far more sensitive to light than any 
before made, falling in resistance from twenty to forty-four times when 
placed in sunlight. He has also observed a change in resistance on re- 
versing the current, and on varying the strength of the battery. To 
make these sensitive cells it is necessary to use selenium which has been 
very carefully purified. {Am. J. Sci., December, 1883, III, xxvi, 4G5.) 

Gray has published a valuable paper on the size of conductors re- 
quired for the distribution of electric energy, considering the questions 
of economy, safety, and regulation. {Phil. Mag., September, 1883, V, 
XVI, 187.) 

Thompson has given an ingenious method for representing graphi- 
cally the law of efficiency of an electric motor. {Phil. Mag., February, 
1883, V, XV, 124; J. Phys., March, 1883, II, II, 131.) 

The complete report upon the experiments made at the Paris Elec- 
trical Exhibition by the special committee appointed for the purpose, 
consisting of Allard, Le Blanc, Joubert, Potier, and Tresca, has been 



PHYSICS. 617 

published. An abstract of it has been made by Potier. (Ann. Ghim. 
Phys., May, 1883, V, xxix, 5; J. Phys., January, 1883, II, n, 11.) 

Spr;?gue has published the results of his tests made upon the new 
form of Edison-Hopkinson dynamo, the peculiarity of which is its short- 
ened field magnets. The resistance of the armature cold was 0.026, 
and hot 0.0325 ohm. The mean of three experiments gave a total effi- 
ciency of 94.8 per cent., and a commercial efficiency of 86 per cent. 
(Nature, August, 1883, xxvin, 405.) 

4. Electric Spark and Electric Light. 

Villari has experimented upon the sparks from a condenser, and upon 
the modifications which they undergo when various resistances are 
inserted in the circuit. When a condenser is discharged so as to produce 
at first a single spark, and then two in series, it is observed that the 
former is not equal to the sum of the latter in length, nor is it constant 
in value. The author finds that with his apparatus (which he calls a 
spintherometer) if one of the sparks is zero the other has its miuimum 
value, 26 mm . When it becomes 2 mm or less, the sum becomes 40 mm , 
a maximum. Between 3 and 30 mm the sum is constant at about 32 mm . 
Hence it appears that a very small spark produced in the circuit of a 
condenser has the singular property of lengthening a second spark 
produced simultaneously in the same circuit. The effect of introducing 
various kinds of resistance in the path of the short spark is given. 
(J. Phys., June, 1883, II, n, 272.) 

VYackter has discovered that the electric spark is produced always by 
only one of the two electricities, and hence that the carrying of solid par- 
ticles, which constitutes this spark, is effected sometimes by positive, 
sometimes by negative, electricity, and therefore always in one definite 
direction. He finds that positive electricity can give a spark ouly when 
the pressure of the air is above 10 mm of mercury. Negative electricity 
can give a spark under pressures included between 63 and 5 mm , accord- 
ing to the distance of the electrode from the wall of the tube. As the 
air becomes more rarefied, the matter transported decreases from the 
positive and increases from the negative electrode. Positive electricity 
transports the particles much farther than negative. Under a pressure 
of 63 mm , the positive spark can cross a space of 2,040 mm ; the negative 
one only of 0.6 mm , or 3,400 times less. The positive particles follow the 
line of least resistance, and hence may describe a curvilinear trajectory ; 
the negative particles are thrown off normally, and move in straight 
lines. A powerful magnet acts on the former as on diamagnetic bodies; 
on the latter as on paramagnetic substances. The positive particles 
sometimes become incandescent, and are measurable under the micro- 
scope; the negative particles are never iucandescent, and are too tenu- 
ous to measure. ( Wied. Ann., xvn, 903; J. Phys., June, 1883, II, n, 283.) 

Edlund has given the results of his experiments in favor of the 
hypothesis advanced by him, that a vacuum opposes a very feeble re- 



618 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

sistance to the passage of electricity, maintaining that the resistance 
experienced is due to a counter electromotive force, increasing with the 
rarefaction and connected with the electrodes, In exhausted tubes, 
without electrodes, simple friction produces an electrical glow. (Phil. 
Mag., January, 1883, V, xv, 1.) 

Naccari has examined the heating produced in the electrodes by the 
induction spark. (J. Phys., II, II, 521.) Hertz has communicated to the 
Berlin Physical Society some curious results observed by him in the 
case of electric discharges in air and other gases under a pressure of 
from 20 to 30 mm of mercury. (Nature, xxvn, 403.) Goldstein has stud- 
ied the electric discharge in rarefied gases, especially the so-called re- 
flection of electric rays. (J. Phys., II, II, 179.) Worthington has suc- 
ceeded in showing that the phenomena of induction take place across 
a discharge-resisting vacuum. Hence this vacuum cannot be a con- 
ductor, at least in the ordinary sense. (Nature, March, 1883, xxvn, 
434.) De la Eue and Miiller have communicated to the Royal Society a 
paper on the electric discharge produced with the chloride of silver 
battery of 11,000 cells. (Nature, August, 1883, xxvm, 381.) 

Dewar has made a series of manometric observations upon the elec- 
tric arc. The two carbons used were hollow, and had an interior diam- 
eter of 3 mm . Their porosity had been destroyed by heating them to 
a white heat in a porcelain tube, through which benzene vapor was 
passed, thus depositing compact carbon on their surfaces. The car- 
bons were connected to the interior of two closed flasks, at the bot- 
tom of which was ether or other mobile liquid, into which also passed 
the recurved end of a long horizontal tube serving as a manometer, 
and showing a variation of 0.004 mm pressure. When the arc is well 
formed, being sharply limited by an almost spherical surface, envelop- 
ing the extremity of the positive carbon and just touching the end of 
the negative, an increase of pressure of one to two millimeters of water 
is seen at the positive electrode, and a slight decrease at the negative. 
When the arc hisses, the positive pressure diminishes. When the 
negative pole throws off incandescent particles, the pressure increases. 
(Proc. Roy. Soc, xxxin, 262; J. Phys., January, 1883, II, n, 42.) 

Siemens and Huntington have described the modified form of electric 
furnace lately employed by them. Its novelty consists in the fact that 
the negative electrode, which passes through the cover of the crucible, 
is suspended to one end of a lever, to the other end of which is a hol- 
low cylinder of iron moving within a coil, and adjustable by a counter- 
weight. Since the coil, which is placed in shunt circuit, has a high 
resistance, its attractive force on the cylinder is proportional to the 
electromotive force between the carbon points, i. e., to the resistance of 
the arc, the length of which is thus automatically regulated. The ad- 
vantages of this furnace are, 1st, the temperature is limited only by 
the refractory resistance of the crucible; and, 2d, the heat is applied 



PHYSICS. 619 

directly to the substance to be melted. (Ann. Chem. Phys., December, 
' 1883, V, xxx, 4G5; J. Phys., Marcli, 1883, II, n, 124.) 

Dobrohoff-Maikoff has devised a form of arc-lamp, in which a coil of 
coarse wire surrounds an iron tube, within which is a rod of iron. 
When the current passes the two are similarly magnetized, and the rod 
is repelled from the tube. By means of articulated levers this motion 
is made to regulate the distance of the carbons. (J. Phys., December, 
1883, II, ii, 571.) 

Lever has invented a simplified form of clutch arc-lamp, in which the 
upper carbon is clamped in a brass holder sliding freely vertically. A 
brass washer or collar fits accurately but loosely to it, supported on one 
side by an adjustable screw, and on the other by a metal piece attached 
to the framework. This framework is supported by a spiral spring, 
which keeps the washer tilted against the carbon-holder. This spring 
is antagonized by an electromagnet in shunt circuit, so that when the 
current is turned ou, the carbon is allowed to fall until contact takes 
place. Then the shunt magnet loses its force and the spring separates 
the carbons to form the arc. (Nature, January, 1883, xxvn, 274.) 

Williams has claimed for an American, Starr, the invention of the in- 
candescent lamp, which was patented after his death by King, in 1845. 
It consisted of " a short stick of gas retort carbon" in a barometric 
vacuum. " The light was far more brilliant and the carbon stick more 
durable than the flimsy threads of the incandescent lainps now in use." 
It was abandoned solely on account of the cost of suppljing the power. 
(Nature, January, 1883, xxvn, 241.) 

Fleming has called attention to a jhenomenon of molecular radiation 
in the Edison lainp. When a loose contact occurs so that an arc is 
formed and the copper projected on the walls of the glass, there is a 
shadow of one side of the loop on the glass where this side of the fila- 
ment has protected the glass from the copper bombardment. (Phil. 
Mag., July, 1883, V, xvi, 48.) 

Hopkinson has delivered a lecture at the Institution of Civil Engi- 
neers on " some points in electric lighting." The building was lighted 
by about 230 Edison lamps, each of 10 candles, and each requiring 75 
watts of power. To produce the same lG-candles light in ordinary good 
flat flame gas-burners would require between 7 and 8 cubic feet of gas 
per hour, contributing heat to the atmosphere at the rate of 3,400.000 
foot-pounds per hour, equivalent to 1,250 watts, or nearly seventeen 
times as much heat as the incandescent lamp of equal power. The di- 
rection of progress was in the improvement of the lamp. (Nature, 
April, 1883, xxvn, 592.) 

Geraldy has published some valuable statistics comparing the cost of 
the electric arc-light with gas, both as to its actual cost and its cost per 
candle power. (Nature, October, 1883, xxviii, 025.) 

Tommasi has contrived an electric-light regulator in which the vary- 
ing resistance which selenium has when exposed to light is made use of. 



G20 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1833. 

Thus far it lias been applied only to the Jablochkoff candle. (Nature, 
July, 1883, xxvin, 309.) 

Incandescent lighting is steadily working its way into public favor. 
The Savoy theater, in London, has been lighted with 1,194 Swan lamps 
for a year and a half with entire success. At the coronation in Moscow, 
the tower of Ivan the Great, and its side galleries, were lighted with 
3,500 Edison lamps. The Edison station in the first district of New 
York City has run uninterruptedly since September, 1882, constantly 
increasing the amount of light furnished. In December, 1883, 10,297 
lamps were in use in that district, the bills rendered during Novem- 
ber exceeding $10,000 for the month's lighting. The capacity of the 
station has proved totally insufficient for the light required, and is 
to be largely increased. Hence no electricity has yet been available 
for power, notwithstanding the demand. At the Vienna Exhibition 
various forms of incandescent lamps were exhibited, but none showing 
marked improvement in durability. {Nature, March, 1883, xxvn, 418; 
June, xxvin, 207 ; September, xxvin, 466 ; November, xxix, 42.) 

5. Electromagnetism. 

Wassmuth has experimented on the portative force of electromagnets, 
using semicircular magnets in contact at their polar surfaces. He ob- 
served that if a very thin sheet of mica be placed between the magnet 
and its contact, provided the magnetization is not too strong, the por- 
tative force increased from 4.7 to 9 kilograms. (J. Phys., April, 1883, 
II, II, 193.) 

Ayrton and Perry have experimented to determine the effect of differ- 
ent methods of winding upon the strength of electromagnets, the cur- 
rent strength being constant. In the first case the wire was wound 
uniformly over the entire length ; in the second it was " coned " toward 
each end ; in the third it was wound uniformly over one half the bar 
only; and in the fourth it was "coned" on one-half only. They con- 
clude that with a definite iron core, a definite length of wire to be coiled 
on it, and a definite current, the mode of coiling to produce the maxi- 
mum field depends entirely on the distance from the end of the electro- 
magnet at which this field is to be produced. With the magnet used, 
they found that at distances very small compared with the length of 
the core, the fourth method is best. When the field is to be produced 
at a distance of one-third the length of the magnet, the third method 
is preferable. While for distances equal to or greater than £ of the 
length of the core the first method gives the best results. (Phil. Mag., 
June, 1883, V, XV, 397.) 

At the Montreal meeting of the American Association Graham Bell 
read a paper upon the electrical experiments made to determine the loca- 
tion of the bullet in the body of the late President Garfield, and upon 
a successful J'orm of inductiou balance for the painless detection of 
metallic masses in the human body. (Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Scl, xxxi, 
151 ; Am. J. ScL, January, 1883, III, xxv, 22.) 



PHYSICS. G21 

Da Moncel, in a paper presented to the French Academy, has shown 
that if one of the poles of a permanent magnet be passed longitudinally 
along a straight electromagnet, the coil of which is connected to a 
galvanometer, three induced currents are successively developed ; a 
first, which results from the approach of the inducing pole, and which 
is an inverse current; a second, which results from the motion of the 
magnet from one end of the coil to the other, and which is direct ; and 
a third, produced by withdrawing the inducing magnet, which is also 
direct, though the current flows in the same direction as the first, since 
the magnet acts on the opposite end of the coil. A conclusion drawn 
from his experiments is that the induced currents due to an approach 
of the inductor to the polarized core are the same in direction as the 
currents which produce the magnetization of the latter when the opposed 
poles at the instant of approach are of the same name. (C. R., Janu- 
ary, 1883, xcvi, 214.) 

Munro has experimented upon the action of a metal microphone in 
vacuo, using two square pieces of fine iron-wire gauze — one fixed, the 
other suspended so as to swing against the other, the whole inclosed 
in glass. The pressure of the gauze could be regulated by means of an 
external magnet. The sensitiveness of the instrument was found to be 
greatly increased when exhausted. (Phil. 2Lag , July, 1883, V, xvi, 23.) 

Several contributions to the theory of the microphone have appeared 
Bid well thinks the heat at the point of contact plays an important part 
in the action ; Heaviside finds that the apparent resistance of a con- 
tact varies inversely as the square root of the current strength, and 
hence argues against the use of multiple contacts; but their advan- 
tages in practice have been found very considerable. Munro and War- 
wick regard the action of the microphone as due to the existence of a 
silent discharge of electricity through the thin stratum of air at the 
point of contact ; a view which is sustained by Mr. Stroll's observation 
that an actual separation of the contact points may be observed in the 
microscope while the current continues to flow and the instrument to 
act. Moreover, he has observed that when in action there is a minute 
repulsion observable between the two carbons, their motion being 
O.OOOo 1 ™. (Nature, April, 1883, xxvn, 588.) 

On the history of the telephone Thompson has translated some re- 
markable passages from Philipp Eeis's papers, published in 1860-'t>l. 
He proposed at that time the name telephone, and sajs the instrument 
can reproduce to a certain degree the human voice, the consonants be- 
ing, for the most part tolerably distinct, but the vowels not equally so. 
One of the forms of his telephone was in the form of the human ear, 
carved in oak wood, the tympanic membrane and apparatus of trans- 
mission being made so as to resemble closely the similar parts in the 
natural organ. (Nature, June, 1883, xxviii, 130.) 

Carhart has observed that an iron plate with a hole in it held in front 
of the pole of a magnet acts magnetically as a screen just as it would 



622 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1883. 

act optically, the shadow being sharply defined. By rotating a per- 
forated iron disk between a magnet and a coil with an iron core, a sound 
was heard in a telephone in circuit corresponding in pitch to the num- 
ber of perforations which passed per second. When the disk had two 
rows of holes, one of thirty-two, the other of sixty-four, the interval, 
heard was the octave. He calls the instrument the magnetophone. 
(Nature, October, xxviii, G26.) 

Bosanquet has given a valuable discussion of the theory of the com- 
pound dynamo-machine, i. e., one that has its field wound with two coils, 
one in the main and the other in the shunt circuit. His Gramme 
dynamo, with field coils in main circuit, failed whenever more than ten 
ohms was put in the external circuit. Consequently, he wound 2,000 
turns of a small wire on pasteboard cylinders, fitting over the main coils, 
the resistance of these auxiliary coils being about 27 ohms. The ends 
of this coil are attached to the armature brushes, and even when the 
main circuit is open an electromotive force of 70 to 80 volts is produced 
by the machine. The advantages of this alteration are obvious. (Phil. 
Mag., April, 1883, V, xv, 275.) 

The question of the transmission of power electrically has absorbed 
a large share of attention. On March 15, Siemens gave a lecture on 
this subject at the Institution of Civil Engineers, giving an interesting 
resume" of the progress of scientific thought on the subject and a his- 
torical sketch of the development of electric railways. (Nature, March, 
1883, xxvn, 518.) Tresca has made a report to the French Academy 
upon the transmission of power from Paris to Bourget by the system 
of Deprez. The distance from one station tQ the other and back was 
17 kilometers. The electric energy was transmitted over an ordinary 
telegraph wire 4 mm . in diameter, having a resistance of 1G0 ohms. 
The motive power absorbed by the generator was G.21 horsepower; 
that yielded to the brake by the motor was 2.03 horse-power, or 32.7 
per cent. The generator made 588 revolutions a minute, and gave an 
electromotive force of 1,290.5 volts. (C. B.. February, 1883, xevi, 457.) 
In a second set of experiments the generator made 814 revolutions ; the 
electromotive force developed was about 2,000 volts, the power con- 
sumed 10.395 horse-power, and recovered 3.304 ; giving an efficiency for 
the system of 31.7 per cent. (C. P., xevi, 530.) The Academy then ap- 
pointed a commission, with Cornu as secretary, to repeat the experi- 
ments. With a speed of 850 turns, 9.514 horse-power was absorbed 
by the generator, and 3.582 returned by the motor ; a yield of 37.5 per 
cent. The electromotive force was 1,937 volts. (Ann. Ghim. Phys., Oc- 
tober, 1883, V, xxx, 214.) 

The production of power from accumulators has also made some prog- 
ress. An electrical tram-car was tried at Kew in March. The battery 
is placed under the seats, and consists of fifty Faure-Sellon- Volckmar 
cells, each 13 by 11 by 7 inches, and weighing 80 pounds. It is capable of 
driving the full car for seven hours. (Nature, March, 1883, xxvn, 470.) 



physics. 623 

physical bibliography, 1883. 

Teorias modernas de la fisica, unidad de las fuerzas materiales. J. 
Echegaray. 2d ser. 8vo. pp. 23S. Madrid, 1S83. (Gaspar.) 

Moderne Instruuienteukunde. E. Nebst. 8vo. pp. xxii, 912. Braun- 
schweig, 1883. (Vieweg.) 

Comite" international des poids et mesnres. Sixierue rapport aux gou- 
vernements siguataires de la convention du metre sur l'exercice de 

1882. 4to. pp. 52. Paris, 1883. 

A Treatise on Natural Philosophy. Sir TV. Thomson and P. G. Tait. 

Vol. i, part 2, new edition. 8vo. pp. xxv, 527. Cambridge, 1883. 

(University Press.) 
La Physique moderne. E. Naville. Svo. Paris, 1883. 
Cours de Physique. J. H. Fabre 18ino. pp. 304. Paris, 1883. (Dela- 

grave.) 
L'Ecole pratique de physique, cours de manipulations de physique pre- 

paratoire a la licence. A. Witz. Svo. pp. xiv, 506. Paris, 1883. 

(Gauthier-Villars.) 
Cours de Physique. Tome I. Physique Moleculaire. Partie i. J. 

Violle. Svo. pp. 511. Paris, 1883. 
Wissenschaftliche Abhandlungen. 2 vols. H. von Helmholtz. Svo. 

Vol. i, pp. viii, 938 j Vol. n, pp. vii, 1021. Leipzig, 18S3. (Barth.) 
Einleitung in die theoretische Physik. F. Neumann. Svo. pp. 301. 

Leipzig, 1SS3. 
Die Physik im Dienste der Wissenscbaft, der Kunst, und des prakti- 

schen Lebens. G. Krebs. Unter Mitwirkung von J. van Bebber, C. 

Grahwinkel, E. Hartwig. Lief. 1. Svo. pp. 112. Stuttgart, 1883. 

(Enke.) 
Mathematical and Physical Papers. G. G. Stokes. Vol. II. Svo. pp. 

viii, 36G. Cambridge, 1883. (University Press.) 
The Life of James Clerk Maxwell, with a selection from his correspond- 
ence and occasional writings and a sketch of his contributions to 

science. Lewis Campbell and Win. Garnett. Svo. pp. xvi, GG2. 

London, 1882. (Macmillan.) 
Text-book of Physics. J. D. Everett. Glasgow, 1SS3. (Blackie & 

Son.) 
Elementi di Fisica. Vol. iv. Elettricitaemaguetism©. Antonio Roiti. 

Florence, 1883. 
Applied Mechanics. H. T. Bovey. In 2 parts. 8vo. Montreal, 1883. 
A Practical Treatise on the Strength of Materials, including their elas- 
ticity and resistance to impact. T. Box. Svo. pp. 530. London, 

1883. (Spons.) 

La teoria delle funzione potenziale di Green applicata alio studio del 
fenomeni della gravitazione universale. C. Eovelli. Svo. pp. 96. 
Como, 1883. (Franchi.) 

Grundziige der Elementar-Mechanik. A. Wernicke. Svo. pp. 448. 
Braunschweig, 1883. 



624 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Traits d'hydraulique prdcede d'une introduction sur les principes gen6- 

raux de la rn^chanique. 3 vols. Tome I. Partie th6orique, pp. viii, 

333. Tome n. Partie pratique, pp. 541. Tome in. Tables num6- 

riques, notes, errata, planches, pp. 52. A. Graeff. 4to. Paris, 1883. 

(Nat. Impr.) 
Hydraulic tables for the calculation of the discharge through sewers, 

pipes, and conduits ; based on Kutter's formula. P. J. Flynn. 32mo. 

pp. 135. New York, 1883. (Van Nostrand.) 
Die Bewegung einer Starren gleichinassig mit Masse belegten geraden 

auf Cylinder-Flacken, speciell auf einem parabolischeu Cylinder, unter 

dem Einfluss der Sckwere und von Anfangsstossen. E. Liittig. 

8vo. pp. 39. Jena, 1883. (Inaug. Diss.) 
Die Mechanik in ihrer Entwickelung. E. Mach. 8vo. pp. 493. 

Leipzig, 1883. 
Turbine and Water Pressure Engine and Pump. Poncelet. 4to. Lon- 
don, 1883. 
Die pkysikaliscken Grundlagen der Mechanik. H. Streintz. 8vo. pp. 

xii, 142. Leipzig, 1883. (Teubner.) 
CoursdeMecaniqueappliquee. Division I. H. Tresca. 4to. pp.327. 

Paris, 1883. 
Eecherches theoriques et experimentales sur les oscillations de l'eau et 

les machines hydrauliques a colonnes liquides oscillantes. A. de 

Caligny. 2 vols. 8vo. pp. iv, 388, 580. Paris, 1883. (Baudry.) 
A Treatise on the Motion of Vortex Kings ; an essay to which the Adams 

Prize was adjudged in 1882, in the University of Cambridge. J. J. 

Thomson. 8vo. pp. 128. London, 1883. (Macmillan.) 
Determination des variations que la tension superficielle eprouve avec 

la temperature, a l'aide de la methode de l'ecoulement par gouttes. 

M. P. de Heen. 8vo. pp. 21. Louvain, 1883. (Peeters-Buelens.) 
Uniplanar Kinematics of Solids and Fluids ; with Applications to the 

Distribution and Flow of Electricity. G-. M. Minchin. 8vo. pp. viii, 

266. Oxford, 1882. (Clarendon Press.) 
The Student's Mechanics. W. E. Browne. London, 1883. (C. Griffin 

&Co.) 
Elementary Applied Mechanics. Part n. Thos. Alexander and A. W. 

Thomson. London, 1883. (Macmillan.) 
Akustik. Funda'lnentalerscheinungen u. Gesetze einfach tonender Kor- 

per. F. Melde. 8vo. pp. 364. Leipzig, 1883. 
Sound and Music. Sedley Taylor. 2d edition. London, 1883. (Mac- 
millan.) 
Thermochemische Untersuchuugen. J. Thomsen. Bd. II. Metalloide. 

8vo. pp. xiv, 50G. Leipzig, 1882. (Earth.) 
The Theory of the Gas Engine. D. Gierke. 12mo. pp. 160. New 

York, 1883. 
Eecherches experimentales et analytiques sur les machines a vapeur. 

Determination de l'eau entrainee par une m6thode thermom^trique. 

G. Lelontre. 8vo. pp. 63. Nancy, 1883. (Berger-Levrault.) 



physics. G25 

fitude sur la thermo-dynamique appliquee a la production de la force 

inotrice et du froid. C. Tellier. Fasc. i. Svo. pp. vii, 97. Paris, 

1883. (Monillot.) 
Light ; a course of experimental optics, chiefly with the lantern. Lewis 

Wright. Svo. pp. xxiv, 307. Loudon, 1882. (Macmillan & Co.) 
Physical Optics. R. T. Glazebrook. 8vo. pp. 448. Loudou, 1883. 

(Longmans.) 
Etude de l'influence de la coloration sur la visibility des points lumineux. 

A. Charpentier. Svo. pp. 7. Paris, 1883. (Davy.) 
Note complementaire relative a l'influence de la surface sur la sensibi- 

lite luinineuse. A. Charpentier. Svo. pp.7. Paris, 1883. (Davy.) 
Ausfiihrliches Handbuch der Photographic Mit GOO Holzschnitten and 

GTafeln. Joseph Maria Eder. FiinfHeften. Svo. pp.542. Halle 

a. S., 1SS2-3. (Knapp.) 
Licht u. Warme. E. Gerland. Svo. pp. 320. Leipzig, 1S83. 
Die Farbenwelt. Ein neuer Versuch zur Erklarung der Entstehung der 

Farben sowie ihrer Beziehuugen zu einauder. Abth. 1. Die Farbeu 

in ihrer Beziehung zu einauder u. zum Auge. Schasler. Svo. Berlin, 

1883. 
Lehi buch der Spectralanalyse. H. Kayser. Svo. pp. xi, 358. Berlin, 

1SS3. (Springer.) 
Photometry and Gas Analysis. T. T. Brown. Svo. London, 1883. 
Die Gesetze der Lichtbewegung in doppelt brechenden Medien nach der 

Lommerschen Reibungstheorie. K. Hollefreund. 4to. Halle, 1883. 
Traite" elementaire du microscope. Eugene Trutat. pp. 322. Paris, 

1S83. (Gauthier-Villars.) 
Das optische Drehungsvermogen isomorpher Mischungen aus den 

Dithionaten des Bleisund des Strontiums. G. Bodlander. Svo. pp. 

34. Bieslau, 1SS3. (Kohler.) Inaug. Diss. 
Die elektromagnetische Theorie des Lichtes. O. Turnlirz. Svo. pp. 

viii, 15S. Leipzig, 1883. (Teubuer.) 
Electric Lighting by Water Power. J. B. Grierson. Svo. London. 

1S83. (Spons.) 
Electro magnets ; the determination of the elements of their construc- 
tion. Theodore Du Moucel. Transl. from 2d ed. 24mo. pp. 122, 

New York, 1883. (Van Nostraud.) London, 1SS3. (Spons.) 
Applications modernes de l'electricite ; nouvelles machines magn6to- 

electriques et dynamo -e4eetriques ; eclairage <51ectrique; telephone, 

etc. J. Langlebert. 12mo. pp. 10G. Paris, 1SS3. 
Vier Wandtafeln zur Erklarung der electrodynamischen Maschinen. 

Imp. folio with Svo text. pp. 10. Miinchen, 1S83. (Buchholz.) 
Des applications du telephone et du microphone a la physiologie et a la 

clinique. M. Boudet de Paris. Svo. pp. xi, 171. Paris, 1S80. 

(Henry.) 
Grundsatze der Electrodynamik, synthetisch hergeleitet u. experimental 

gepriil't. J. G. Munker. Svo. pp. iv, 27. Niirnberg, 1S83. (von 

Ebner.) 

H. Mis. 69 40 



62G SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1833. 

Gli elettromagneii. Giuseppe Yicentiui. Svo. pp. 45. Borne, 18S2. 

(Cechini.) 
Znr Orientirung lib. die Frage der elektr. Beleuchtung. Brann und Hel- 

der. Svo. Wien, 1883. 
L'electricit6,ses applications pratiques. Camille Grollet. 12rao. Paris, 

1882. (Degoree-Cadot.) 
Die elektrisehe Kraftiibertragung u. ihre Anwendung in der Praxis. Mit 

besonderer Riicksicbt auf die Fortleitung u. Vertheilnng d. elektr. 

Strom es. E. Japing. Svo. pp. 25G. Wien, 18S3. (Hartleben.) 
Die galvanischen Batterien, Aeeumulatoren nod Tbermosaulen ; mit 

besonderer Riicksicbt auf ihre Construction u. ihre mannigtaltigen 

Anwendung in der Praxis. W. Ph. Hauck. IGmo. pp. xvi, 320. 

Wien, 1883. (Hartleben.) 
Das electrische Licht und die hierzu angeweudteten Lanipen, Kohlen u. 

Beleuchtungskorper. A. v.Urbanitzsky. Svo. pp.240. Wien, 1883. 
Notes sur la magnetisme et sur la compensation des compas. E. Mala- 
pert. Svo. pp. 70. Nancy, 1883. (Berger-Levrault.) 
Equilibrio interno delle pile metalliche secundo le leggi della deforma- 

zione elastica. L. Allieri. 4to. pp. 119, 7 tables. Eome, 1SS2. 

(Loescher.) 
L'electricite comme force motrice. Th. du Moncel etP. Geraldy. 18mo 

pp. 308. Paris, 1883. (Hachette.) 
Die magnetelektrischen und dyuamoelektrischen Maschinen und die 

sogenannten Secundarbatterien ; mit besonderer Eiicksicht auf ihre 

Construction. Mit 54 Abbildungen. GustavGlaser DeCew. lGmo. 

pp. xvi, 263. Wien, 1883. (Hartleben.) 
Die Electricitiit im Dienste v. Gewerbe u. Industrie. M. Lindner. 4to. 

Leipzig, 18S3. 
Telephon, Mikrophon u. Eadiophon. Th. Schwartze. Svo. pp. 240. 

Wien, 1883. 
Annuaire de l'electricitd pour 1883. A. Eeverend. Svo. pp.210. Paris, 

18S3. (Gauthier-Villars.) 
Die Elektricitixt und ihre Anwendungen zur Belenchtung, Kraftiiber- 
tragung, Metallurgie, Telephonie und Telegraphic. L. Graetz. Svo. 

Stuttgart, 1883. 
Formulaire pratique de l'electricien. E. Hospitalier. Anne"e I. Svo. 

pp. 280. Paris, 1883. (G. Masson.) 
Tout par l'electricite. G.Davy. Svo. pp.475. Tours, 1883. (Mame.) 
Practical Electric Lighting. A. Bromley Holmes. Svo. pp.154. New 

York, 1883. (Spons.) 
A Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism. E. Mascart and J. Joubert. 

(Translated by E. Atkinson.) Vol. I. Svo. pp.002. London, 1S83. 

(De la Eue.) 
DieElektrolyse und ihreBedeutuug fur dietheoretische und angewandte 

Chemie. H. Jahu. Svo. pp. ix, 20G. Wien, 1883. (Holder.) 



PHYSICS. 027 

Dynamo-electric machinery ; lectures reprinted from the Journal of the 

Society of Arts; with an introduction by Frank L. Pope. S. P. 

Thompson. 24mo. pp. 218. Xew York, 1SS3. (Yan Xostrand.) 
Electricidad estatica. 0. Llanos Alvarez. Svo. pp. 238. Madrid, 1883* 

(Lihr. militar.) 
Kritische Vergleichung der elektrischen Kraftubertragung mit den ge- 

briiuehlichsten mechanischen Kraftiibertraguugssystemeu. A. Ber- 

inger. Svo. Berlin, 1883. 
Die elektrischen Einrichtungender Eisenbahnen und das Signalweseu. 

L. Kohlfurst Svo. pp. 288. Wien, 18S3. 
Philipp Reis, inventor of the telephone. S. P. Thompson. lGmo. pp. 

ix, 1S2. Loudon, 18S3. (Spons.) 
Ueber die Messung elektrischer Kriifte mittelst des elektrischen Flu- 

grads. D. Kaempfer. Svo. pp. 36. Berlin, 18S3. (Friedlander.) 

Iuaug. Diss. 
Offizieller Bericht iiber die im kouiglichen Glaspalaste zu Miiuchen 1SS2 

stattgehabte internatiouale Elektricitats-Ausstellung, verbinden mit 

elektrotechnischen Yersuchen. Edited by W. v. Beetz, O. v. Miller, 

E. Pfeiffer. 4to. pp. 244 and 154. Leipzig, 1S83. 
Schematische Darstellung elektrodynamischer Maschinen. 2 chro- 

molithog. Wandtafeln. Biehringer. Nurnberg, 1883. 
Die Gvundlehreu der Elektricitiit mit besonderer Biicksicht auf ihre 

Anwendungen in der Praxis. W. Ph. Hauck. Svo. pp. 293. Wien, 

]883. 
Hydrodynamische Untersuchungen, nebst einem Anhang iiber die Pro- 

bleme der Elektrostatik und der magnetischen Induction. C. Neu- 
mann. Svo. pp. xl, 320. Leipzig, 1883. (Teubner.) 
Die Anwendung der Elektricitiit fur inilitarische Zwecke. F. Waechter. 

Svo. pp. 256. Wien, 1883. 
Ueber den Einfluss der galvauischen Polarization auf die Aenderung 

der Eeibuug. K. Waitz. Svo. pp. 39. Tubingen, 1SS3. (Fues.) 
II telefouo; con prefazione del Pietro Blaserna. E. Bottero & C. 

Magistrelli. Svo. pp. 82. Torino, 1883. (Loescher.) 
Exposition d'electrici te, Paris. Experiences mites par Allard, Le Blanc, 

Potier, et Tresca. Methodes d'observation ; machines et lampes a. 

couraut continu, a courants alternatifs ; lampe a incandescence ; accu- 

mulateur ; transport electrique du travail ; machines diverses. 12mo. 

Paris, 1883. 
Die Elektro-Technik in der praktischen Heilkunde. R. Lewaudowski. 

8vo. pp. 400. Wien, 1883. 
Electricity in Theory and Practice ; or the elements of electrical engi- 
neering. B. A. Fiske. Svo. pp. 270. Kew York, 1S83. (Van Nos- 

trand.) 
Des progres recents realises dans la construction des lignes telegra- 

phiques et telephoniques. LI. Yivarez. Svo. pp. 71. Paris, 1883. 

(Chaix.) 



628 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1&S3. 

Conference sur la transmission dn travail m^canique par les courants 

electriques, faite a la Societe d'encouragement pour l'industrie na- 

tionale. H. Tresca. 4to. pp. 28. Paris, 1883. (Tremblay.) 
Manuel d'electroinelrie industrielle. B. V. Picon. Paris, 1882. (G. 

Masson.) 
Electricity. E. M. Ferguson. New edition, revised and extended by 

James Blytli. London and Edinburgh, 1882. (Chambers.) 
Electric Illumination. Conrad Cook, James Dredge, M. F. O'Eeilly, 

S. P. Thompson, and H. Vivarez. Edited by Jas. Dredge. Vol. I. 

London, 1882. (Engineering Office.) 
II potentiale elettrico nell' insegnamento eleoientare della elettrosta- 

tica. A. Serpieri. Milan, 1882. 
Electric Lighting Act, 1882. London, 1883. (W. Clowes & Sons.) 
Die Lehre von der Electricitat. Gustav Wiedemann. Vol. i, pp. xi, 

795; Vol. ii, pp. vii, 1002. Braunschweig, 1882-3. (Vieweg.) 

NECROLOGY OF PHYSICISTS, 1883. 

Carl Winter, electrician, Vienna. Died December 7, 1S82. 

J. B. Listing, professor of physiology, Konigsberg. Died December, 

1882. 
C. V. Walker, president Society Telegraph Engineers. Died at Tun- 
bridge Wells, December 24, 1882, aged 70 years. 
General Sir Edward Sabine, ex-president Royal Society. Died at 

Eichmond, Eng., June 26, 1883, aged 94 years. 
William Spottiswoode, president Royal Society. Died in London, 

June 27, 1883, aged 58 years. 
C. F. Varley, telegraphic engineer. Died at Bexley Heatu, Kent, 

September 2, 1883, aged 55 years. 
J. A. F. Plateau, professor emeritus in the University of Ghent. Died 

September 15, 1883, aged 81 years. 
William. A. Norton, professor of civil engineering in Yale College. 

Died September 21, 1883, aged 72 years. 
Eichard Werdermann, electrician. Died in London, September, 1883. 
Louis Breguet, electrician, member of the Institute. Died in Paris, 

October 27, 1883. 
P. T. Eiess, professor University Berlin. Died in Berlin, November, 

1883. 
Sir C. W. Siemens, electrical engineer. Died in London, November 19, 

1883, aged GO years. 



CHEMISTRY. 



By H. Carrington Bolton, 

Professor of Chemistry, Trinity College, Hartford. 



GENERAL AND PHYSICAL. 

Possible Variability of the Laic of Definite Proportions. — One of the 
most interesting subjects discussed during the year (1883) concerns the 
fundamental conceptions of chemical philosophy. The whole super- 
structure of modern chemistry rests upon the atomic theory and on the 
absolute character of that function of an element which we call atomic 
weight; hence, any proposition to throw discredit on these conceptions 
may well be regarded as revolutionary. The discussion was introduced 
by Prof. Adolphe Wurtz, who presented to the Society chimique de Paris 
a summary of the views of Boutlerow; these were emphatically in- 
dorsed by Schiitzenberger, and have since elicited a communication from 
Prof. Josiah P. Cooke, jr., of Harvard College. 

Schiitzenberger announced in 1880 or 1881 that in analyzing some hy- 
drocarbons the sum of the carbon and hydrogen was 101 for 100 parts 
of material, the result under other conditions being normal. Boutlerow 
has called attention to this anomaly as illustrating views he has held 
for three years. He expresses the opinion that the chemical value of 
a constant weight (or rather mass) of a substance may vary, and that 
the so-called atomic weight of an element may be simply the carrier of 
a certain amount of chemical energy which is variable within narrow 
limits. He further asks the question whether Prout's hypothesis may 
not be a true law which, like that of Mariotte, admits of a limited varia- 
tion. Numerous facts are cited, chiefly the results of quantitative anal- 
yses, which seem to confirm these views. If such views prevail, chemi- 
cal combination can no longer be regarded as the juxtaposition of the 
definite invariable masses we call atoms, but must be considered as the 
reciprocal saturation or interpenetration of masses which may vary with 
the relative strength of their chemical energy acting at the time. 
Schiitzenberger, who took part in the discussion, enumerated many 
facts which led him to the conclusion that the law of definite proportions 
is not so absolute as generally supposed. We have space but for a 
single example : When water is synthesized by reduction of a known 
weight of CuO, by weighing the reduced copper and the water formed, 

629 



630 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

it is found that the ratio of O to H is not constant, but varies with the 
state of division and of saturation of the oxide, the duration of contact 
of the water formed with the oxide and with the temperature, from 7.95 
to 8.15. The latter value is obtained with a saturated and divided oxide 
filling the tube ; the former, with oxide in lumps filling the tube for a 
space of 25 centimeters. With a larger empty space the ratio has fal- 
len to 7.90. 

Prof. Josiah P. Cooke, jr., calls attention to the fact that he expressed 
similar views and fully worked them out more than twenty-five years 
ago. He quotes from his paper on " Two new crystalline compounds 
of zinc and antimony, and on the cause of the variation of composition 
observed in their crystals," published in the Memoirs of the American 
Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1S55 (new series, vol. v., p. 337). 
He also refers to a paper published in the American Journal of Science 
(second series, xx, 1855) entitled "On an apparent perturbation of the 
law of definite proportions observed in the compounds of zinc and anti- 
mony." In these papers the opinions now under discussion were 
brought forward, not simply as speculations, but as a legitimate theory 
advanced to explain the facts observed in his investigations. Professor 
Cooke shows that as long since as 1855 he questioned the absolute 
character of the law of definite proportions ; he then suggested that the 
variation is due to the very weak affinity between elements manifesting 
a fluctuating composition; and he wrote at that time, " To what extent 
this perturbation of the law of definite proportions prevails among 
chemical compounds future investigation must determine. There are, 
however, a number of facts which tend to prove that it is very general 
whenever chemical affinity is weak." Professor Cooke fully substanti- 
ates his claim to priority, and then proceeds to consider whether the 
progress of chemistry since 1855 has tended to confirm or to invalidate 
these views. He says, in conclusion, that he " feels that the weight of 
evidence is at present in favor of the atomic theory, and of that abso- 
lute definiteness of combiuing proportions which this theory involves ; " 
yet at the same time he " is very glad that the whole question " is 
again open to discussion. "But, although it must be admitted that the 
atomic theory is the only basis on which a consistent philosophy of 
chemistry can at present be built," Professor Cooke confesses that 
"he is rather drawn to that view of nature which refers all differences 
between substances to dynamical causes, and which regards the atomic 
theory as only a temporary expedient for representing the facts of 
chemistry to the mind." (Am. J. Sci. (3), xxvr, 63 and 310.) 

Atomic Weight Determinations. 

Didymium. — Owing to the discrepancies in the existing figures for 
the atomic weight of didymium, B. Brauner has re-examined the mh 
ject. Cleve had previously assigned the figures 117.2, and Brauner 
himself had found 116.58. The latter undertook experiments to decide 



CHEMISTRY. 631 

which of the numbers represents, or more nearly approaches, the true 
atomic weight, and to ascertain whether pure didymium is a homoge- 
neous body, or whether it can be split up into heterogeneous constit- 
uents, as has been proved to be the case with several metals of the 
rare earths. Brauner found by his new experiments Di = 145.42. This 
number differs much from that previously obtained by Brauner, who 
believes the discrepancy due to the elimination of an element of a 
higher atomic weight and of a less basic nature than didymium. This 
proved to be samarium, q. v. (J. Ghem. Soc, 1883, 278.) 

P. T. Cleve has also examined this question, and having eliminated 
foreign bodies by fractional precipitation he obtained the value Di = 
142.33, when O = 16. He had previously obtained (in 1874) Di = 147.2, 
but he attributes the discrepancy to the presence of the then unknown 
element samarium. (Bull. soc. chem., xxxix, 289.) 

/Samarium. — Brauner, in the course of his researches into the atomic 
weight of didymium, investigated the atomic weight of samarium, and 
assigns to it the value 150.7. (J. Ghem. Soc, 1883, 278.) 

P. T. Cleve has also determined the atomic weight of samarium by 
converting the pure oxide Sm 2 3 into the sulphate, and obtained from 
six closely agreeing experiments the value 150.021, or, in round numbers, 
150. Cleve thinks samarium entitled to fill the eighth line, eighth 
group of MendelejefPs Periodic System. (J. Ghem. Soc, 1883, 362.) 

Lanthanum. — In 1874 P. T. Cleve found the atomic weight of La=139., 
figures which agreed well with determinations by Marignac and Brau- 
ner. More recent investigations by Brauner led to the value 138.28, and 
his researches seemed to denote the existence of a foreign oxide accom- 
panying the lanthanum. Cleve himself was at one time inclined to ad- 
mit the existence of such a substance by the observation of a blue ray 
(X = 4333.5) in the spectrum of the fractions intermediate between lan- 
thanum and didymium; but this ray proved to belong to lanthanum. 
To decide the question of the existence of this hypothetical body between 
La and Dd, Cleve submitted mixtures to several series of partial precipi- 
tations by dilute ammonia. His results give for La 138.019 (O = 15.9633). 
They also show that La is not split up, but is a homogeneous body. 
(Bull, soc chem., xxxix, 151.) 

Yttrium has again been examined by P. T. Cleve, who effected a more 
complete separation from terbium by precipitating the acid solution of 
the nitrate by means of oxalic acid. In the successive fractions thus 
obtained Cleve determined the atomic weight, which he places at 89.02 
for Y IU , when 0=16. Determinations by the same author in 1872 gave 
him 89.485. (Comptcs rendus, December 11, 1882.) 

" Thorium has been re-examined by L. F. Nilson, who determined its 
specific heat, and thence estimates the atomic weight at 232.4 for Th lv . 
(Comptes rendus, xcvi, p. 346.) 



632 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1383. 

Dithium. — D. Toramasi, on purely theoretical grounds, thinks the ato- 
mic weight of Lithium in its compounds is double that which it possesses 
in a free state. He proposes for lithium chloride the formula LiCl 2 , 
bringing the metal into the family group Ba, Sr, and Ca, with wbich, 
in its compounds, it certainly bears many analogies. (Cosmos, les mon- 
de^ No. 2, 1883.) 

Ghtcimim. — By determining anew the specific heat of metallic gluci- 
nutn, Dr. T. S. Huinpidge obtained the figures 0.4455, and this gives 
an atomic weight =13.G5 instead of 0.1, as usually assigned. (Chcm. 
News, xlvii, 181.) 

Humpidge's results have been questioned by Dr. J. Emerson Keynolds, 
who shows that the material used by Humpidge was less pure than that 
uaed by Messrs. Nilson and Petterson. He thinks that the weight of evi- 
dence is in favor of the value 0.2 for the atomic weight, the metal being 
a dyad. To this criticism, however, Dr. Humpidge replies in a third 
article, maintaining the purity of the material used and rejecting Rey- 
nolds' views as to the valence of the element. ( Chem. News, xlvii, p. 207.) 

Titanium,. — The atomic weight of titanium has been carefully revised 
by Prof. T. E. Thorpe, who obtained as a mean of nineteen determina- 
tions Ti=48.00. (Chem. Neics, xlviii, 251.) 

Manganese. — Professors James Dewar and Alexander Scott, of Cam- 
bridge, England, have redetermined the atomic weight of manganese, 
and obtain as a mean of eight experiments the value 55.038 when O = 
16 and Ag = 107.03. The methods employed were the reduction of sil- 
ver permanganate by hydrogen (which, however, was unsatisfactory), 
and the reduction of the same salt by sulphurous acid, sodium formate, 
or potassium nitrite, and subsequent titration of the silver with dilute 
potassium bromide. (Chem. J¥eics, xlvii, 08.) 

Marignac has also redetermined this constant, obtaining Mn = 55.07. 
(Archives des sci. phys. nat. (3), X, 5.) 

Antimony. — Bongartz has recently estimated anew the atomic weight 
of antimony by the method proposed by Classen. The average of twelve 
experiments was 120.103, which very closely approximates the results of 
Schneider and of Cooke. (Ber. d. chem. Ges., xvi, 1042.) 

Additional Redeterminations of Atomic Weights. 

Nickel : Ni=5s.75 by Baubigny. (Comptes rendus, xcvii, 051.) 
Copper: Cu=G3.46, by Baubigny. (Comptes rendus, xcvii, 006.) 
Tellurium: Te=125.0 by Brauner. (Ber. d. chem. Ges., xvi, 3055.) 
Bismuth : Bi=208.16 by Marignac. (Archives des sci. phys. nat. (3), x, 

5.) Also by Lowe, who obtained Bi =207.33. (Zeitschr. anal. Chem., 

xxu, 480.) 
Zinc : Zn=05.29 by Marignac. (Archives des sci. phys. nat. (3), x, 5.) 
Magnesium : Mg=24.37 by Marignac. (Archives des sci. phys. nat. 

(3), x, 5.) 



CHEMISTRY. 



633 



Atomic Weights of the Elements. 

Lochar Meyer and K. Seubert have published a recalculation of the 
atomic weights of the elements from the original numbers. The values 
obtained differ but little from those previously published by F. W. Clarke 
(Constants of Nature, Part V), though they are not all identical. The 
following table may be usefully reprinted here, since it contains most 
reliable figures. All values whose possible error lies between 0.01 and 
0.5 H are denoted by (a). 



Name. 



Symbol, 



Atomic 
w eight. 



Aluminium . 

Antimony . . 

Arsenic 

Barinm 

Beryllium . . 

Bismuth 

Boron 

Bromine 

Cadmium.. . 

Caesium 

Calcium 

Carbon 

Cerium 

Chlorine.. ^. 

Chromium.. 

Cobalt 

Copper 

Decipium... 

Didymium. . 

firbium 

^Fluorine 

Gallium .... 
TGold 

Hydrogen ... 

Indium 

Iodine 

Iridium 

Iron 

Lanthanum 

Lead 

Lithium.. ... 

Magnesium . 

Manganese .. 

Mercury 

Molybdenum 

Mosandrium 

Nickel 



Al 

Sb 

As 

Ba 

Be 

Bi 

B 

Br 

Cd 

Cs 

Ca 

C 

Ce 

CI 

Cr 

Co 

Cu 

Dp 

Di 

E 

F 

Ga 

Au 

II 

In 

I 

lr 

Fe 

La 

Pb 

Li 

Mg 

Mn 

Hg 

Mo 

Ms 

Ni 



(a) 27.04 
119.6 
(a) 74.9 
(a) 136. 86 
(a) 9. 08 
207. 5 
(a) 10.9 
(a) 79.76 
(a)lll:7 
(a) 132. 7 
(a) 39.91 
(a) 11.97 

141.2 
(a) 35.37 
52. 4.') 
58. 6 
(a) 63.18 
• 

146.0 
166 

(a) 19.06 
69. 9 
196. 2 
(a) 1.00 
(a) 113. 4 
(a) 126. 54 
(a) 192. 5 
(a) 55.88 

138.5 
(a) 206. 39 
(a) 7.01 
23. 94 
54.8 
(a) 199. 8 
(a) 95.9 

f 
(a) 58.6 



Name. 



iSymbol. 



Niobium or Coluin 

binm 

Nitrogen 

Norwegium 

Osmium 

Oxygen 

Palladium , 

Phosphorus 

Platiuum 

Potassium 

Rhodium 

Rubidium 

Ruthenium 

Samarium 

Scandium 

Selenium 

Silicon 

Silver 

Sodium 

Strontium 

Sulphur 

Tantalum 

Tellurium 

Terbi um 

Thallium 

Thorium 

Thulium 

Tiu 

Titanium 

Uranium 

Vauadium 

Wolfram (Tungsten) 

Ya and Y/2 

Ytterbium 

Yttrium 

Zinc 

Zirconium 



Atomic 
weight. 



Nb 

N 

Ng 

Os 

O 

Pd 

P 

Pt 

K 

Rh 

Rb 

Ru 

6a 

Sc 

Se 

Si 

Ag 

Na 

Sr 

S 

Ta 

Te 

Tb 

Tl 

Th 

Tn 

Su 

Ti 

U 

V 

w 

Yb 
Y 
Zn 
Zr 



93.7 
(a) 14.01 
? 
195 
(a) 15.96 

106. 2 
(a) 30.96 
(a) 194. 3 
(a) 39.03 

104. 1 
(a) H5.2 
103.5 
*1 
(a) 43.97 
78.87 
26.0 
(a) 107. 66 
(a) 22.995 
(a) 87.3 
(«) 31.98 
18* 
tl27.7 

203. 7 
231.96 

117.35 
50.25 
239. 8 
(a) 51.1 
(a) 183. 6 
? 
172.6 
89.6 
64.88 
90.4 



See determination in preceding pages. 



t Perhaps Te = 126.3. 



Experiments at remarkably low Temperatures ; Solidification of Alco- 
hol and of Nitrogen. — The long-recognized distinction between oondensi- 
ble vapors and permanent gases was forever abolished in December, 
1877, by the memorable experiments of Messrs. Cailletet and Raoul Pic* 
tet. These gentlemen, working independently and with different ap- 
pliances, succeeded, it will be remembered, in liquefying oxygen, nitro- 
gen, and even hydrogen, in glass tubes. Since that date S. Wroblewaki 



G34 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

and K. Olszewski have taken up tbe study of the liquefaction of gases 
with great success. Iu 1S82 Cailletet had recommended liquefied ethy- 
lene as a means of producing intense cold ; this liquid at the normal 
pressure boils at — 105° C. Having compressed oxygen in a tube, and 
cooled it by means of liquid ethylene to — 105°, Cailletet observed, when 
some of the gas was allowed to escape, "a tumultuous ebullition which 
lasted for an appreciable time and resembled the projection of a liquid 
into the cooled portion of the tube," but the liquid and gas could not be 
separated. By means of a new apparatus, the Austrian chemists sub- 
jected comparatively large amounts of gas to a pressure of several hun- 
dred atmospheres, and thereby obtained some remarkably low tempera- 
tures ; carbon disulphide and alcohol were solidified, and oxygen was 
easily and completely liquefied. By allowing the liquefied ethylene to 
boil in a vacuum a temperature of — 136° was obtained, as determined 
by the hydrogen thermometer. Oxygen begins to liquefy at a pressure 
of 26.5 atmospheres and a temperature of — 131. G°, and forms a colorless 
transparent liquid, very mobile, and yielding a sharp meniscus. Carbon 
disulphide freezes at about — 110° ; alcohol becomes viscous like oil at 
about — 129°, and solidifies to a white mass at — 130.5°. 

These results were communicated to the French Academy of Sciences 
early in the year 188 3, and on the last day of the same year Wroblewski 
announced the following additional results. 

Having succeeded in obtaining liquefied oxygen in large quantity he 
employed it as a refrigerating agent. "When liquid oxygen is suddenly 
allowed to evaporate by release of the pressure it does not solidify like 
carbon dioxide, but it leaves a crystalline residue on the bottom of the 
apparatus. Whether this is crystallized oxygen or not, Wroblewski' 
was unable to determine. In attempting to measure the temperature of. 
oxygen in a state of ebullition he made use of a thermo-electric method 
which admits of the registration of all the sudden changes of tempera- 
ture of the medium and is also very sensitive. Wroblewski gives the 
temperature of —186° C. " as the first approximation to tbe temperature 
produced by the sudden release from pressure of liquefied oxygen." By 
submitting nitrogen to this low temperature, the compressed gas allowed 
to expand a little solidifies and '* falls like snow in crystals of remarka- 
ble size." 

Experiments of this character demand great resources and are not 
devoid of danger. Wroblewski states that since the apparatus is partly 
constructed of glass great inconvenience is caused by the constant dan- 
ger of serious explosions, and having experienced several accidents he 
and his assistants always work with masks before their faces. (Comptes 
rendus, xcvi, 1140 et seq. Also, abstracts in Am. Ghent. Joum., y, 
14G, and Chem. News, xlix, 13.) 

Radiant Matter Spectroscopy, a new Method of Spectrum Analysis. — 
William Crookes gave the Bakerian Lecture before the Koyal Society 






CHEMISTRY. 635 

on May 31, 1SS3, under the above title, and presented a novel and re- 
markable extension of investigations into the phenomena of radiant 
matter with which his name is identified. 

Many substances when struck by the molecular discharge from the 
negative pole in a highly exhausted tube emit phosphorescent light, 
some faintly and others with great intensity. On examining tho emitted 
light in the spectroscope most bodies gave a faint continuous spectrum, 
and more rarely the spectrum of the phosphorescent light is discon- 
tinuous. Especial attention has been directed to the latter phenomenon. 
After a long and laborious search for an unknown substance which gave 
under the above conditions a bright citron-colored band or line, Crookes 
found it belonged to yttrium. In the course of his investigations he 
worked up 10 pounds of North Carolina zircons, 2 pounds of oraugite 
and thorite and about 15 pounds of Xorth Carolina samarskite, review* 
ing the characteristics of all the rare earths known to exist in these min- 
erals and those awaiting confirmation. Crookes finally narrowed the 
elusive substance down to yttrium, the spectrum of which in a radiant 
matter tube is very beautiful, consisting of an intensely brilliant citron 
band and two bright green bands together with fainter lines not charac- 
teristic. The best results are obtained with the sulphate ; pure yttria 
precipitated by ammonia does not phosphoresce in the slightest degree. 

The extraordinary delicacy of this new test for yttrium is such that 
the element was detected when present in one-millionth part. Crookes 
found in pink coral 1 part of yttrium in 200 parts; strontianite contains 
1 in 500 ; calcite 1 in 10,000 ; ox bone 1 in 10,000 ; an earthy meteorite 
1 in 100,000 ; and tobacco ash 1 part in 1,000,000. The wide distribution 
of yttrium is notable. (Chem. Neics, xlvii, 2G1.) 

Relation between the Composition and Absorption Spectra of Organic 
Bodies. — Gerhard Kriiss and S. CEcouomides have examined the ab- 
sorption spectra of indigo and its methyl, ethyl, nitro-and amitlo-de- 
rivatives, with a view to determining the relation between chemical 
composition and absorption spectra. They conclude that the introduc- 
tion of methyl, oxymethyl, ethyl, and bromine in the place of an atom 
of hydrogen moves the absorption bands to tho less refrangible end of 
the spectrum, and the introduction of the nitro and amido groups has 
an opposite effect. The apparatus employed was the universal spec- 
troscope, by A. Kriiss of Hanover, having fine adjustments. (Ber. d. 
chem. Ges., xvi, 2051.) 

INORGANIC. 

Boron. — The substances obtained by the action of aluminium on boric 
acid at a very high temperature have been variously described by 
chemists; Deville and Wohler obtained yellowish or reddish regular 
octahedra, containing variable proportions of carbon and of alumin- 
ium, together with lustrous black scales or plates containing 2.4 per 
cent, carbon. On the other hand, Hampe assigned to the black crystal- 



636 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18?3. 

line plates the formula Al B 6 and to the yellow octahedra the formula 
C 2 AljB 24 . These discrepancies hare led to an examination of the sub- 
ject by A. Joly, who states that at the elevated temperature used by 
Deville and Wohler only very small quantities of the large black plates 
wore obtained, but at a lower temperature, with small quantities of 
material, smaller black crystals united to the yellow ones are formed. 
It is this substance that Deville and Wohler probably analyzed, while 
Hampe reduced boric acid in clay crucibles at a much lower temper- 
ature and obtained large black crystals containing but little carbon. 
Joly also finds that the yellow crystals A1B 6 dissolve readily in boiling 
nitric acid without a residue, but the brown or black crystals obtained 
at a high temperature leave a carbonaceous residue when treated with 
the same oxidizing agent. The products of the reduction of boric acid 
by aluminium therefore embrace : 

(1) A1B, yellow hexagonal plates. 

(2) A1B 6 , large black crystalline scales. 

(3) Yellow cubical crystals containing Al and C. 

(4) Several compounds of carbon and boron not further character- 
ized. (Comptes rendus, icvii, 45G.) 

Hydrated Carbon Disulphide. — All who have worked with carbon 
disulphide are familiar with the peculiar cauliflower like growth of a 
snow-white substance which forms when the volatile liquid is filtered 
or otherwise exposed to rapid evaporation. Berthelot, Wartha, Ballo, 
and others, have studied this substance, and the latter has recorded 
some experiments to prove that the white excrescence is a hydrate and 
not solid carbon disulphide. Prof. F. P. Venable, of the University of 
Xorth Carolina, has studied anew this body and obtained evidence 
that the amount of moisture in the air has a decided effect upon the 
ease and rapidity of its production. Uo fixed law, however, could be 
deduced. The following experiment is conclusive and confirms Bailors 
results : An open-necked bell-jar, ground, greased, and tightly fitting 
to a ground-glass plate was provided with a large rubber stopper 
pieiced with two holes. Through one of these openings a calcium 
chloride tube 250 mm. long was inserted, and through the othera glass 
tube with a glass rod working tightly in it and rendered air tight by 
rubber tubing. Inside the bell jar was placed a watch glass contain- 
ing purified carbon disulphide supported above a vessel of fresh con- 
centrated sulphuric acid. A small strip of previously dried filter paper 
was attached to the end of the glass rod within the bell-jar, and when 
this was lowered it dipped into the volatile liquid; the liquid rose rap- 
idly in the pores of the paper, but even after some miDutes no sign of 
a solid incrustation was visible. When, however, the sulphuric acid 
was replaced by water the solid began to form immediately after the 
lowering of the paper. By drawing air through the jar until it was 
filled with aqueous vapor the solid hydrate suddenly and completely 
melted away. Daring the evaporation of the carbon disulphide in an 






CHEMISTRY. C37 

open shallow dish the liquid reached a temperature of — G° C. By for- 
cing air over it the thermometer fell to — 19.5° C. {Am. Chcm. Journ., 

V, 15.) 

Blue Chloride of Sodium. — This ruineralogical curiosity occurs in small 
quantity in the salt mines of Stassfurt and the cause of the hlue colora- 
tion has been studied by B. Wittjen and H. Precht. As already no- 
ticed by F. Bischof, the blue salt imparts no color to its aqueous solu- 
tion; and the authors of this paper hud that no coloring matter can be 
extracted by ether or by carbon disulphide. S. W. Johnson has sug- 
gested that the blue color is due to sodium subchloride, but these au- 
thors find that the color is not at all affected by heating the salt at 100° 
C. in chlorine gas. They therefore conclude that the blue color is an 
optical phenomenon. Pulverization aud heating to 280° C. destroys 
the color, probably owing to the liberation of confined gases. (Ber. (L 
client. Ges., xvi, 1454.) 

The Fluorine compounds of Uranium were made the subject of inves- 
tigation in 1866 by H. Carrington Bolton. Ditte (Comptes rendus, 91) 
afterwards prepared the same bodies and gave analytical data differ- 
ing widely from those of Bolton. Arthur Smithells has now gone over 
the same ground aud confirms the results previously obtained by Bol- 
ton, and shows that the compounds claimed by Ditte have no existence. 
(J.Ghem. Soc, March, 1883.) 

Xiirogen Selenide has been prepared by M. Verneuil, by acting on a 
mixture of selenium perchloride and carbon dichloride with dry am- 
monia gas. Its composition is Se 2 X, aud it forms a light orange amor- 
phous powder, insoluble in water, ether, and alcohol, slightly soluble iu 
benzene and carbon disulphide. When dry it detonates if struck with 
a hard body, and explodes if heated to 230° C. (Bull. soc. chirn., 
xxxvin, 548.) 

Occurrence of Thallium in Sylvite and Carnallite. — Julian Schramm 
gives the following analysis of sylvite from Kalusz: 

Potassium chloride 99. 250 

Sodium chloride 0. 594 

Calcium chloride 0. 012 

Calcium sulphate 0. 143 

Thallium chloride traces. 

99. 999 

The author found thallium in carnallite and in kainite; in the former 
it is associated with rubidium, but the latter contains neither rubidium 
nor caesium. He thinks this association gives additional grounds for 
classifying thallium with the alkali-metals: sodium, lithium and caesium 
occur together on one hand, and potassium, rubidium, and thallium on 
the other. (Liebig's Annalen, ccxix, 374.) 



G38 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Researches on the Compounds of Gold. — P. Schottliinder has published 
an extended research on gold and its salts, in which he describes sev- 
eral new bodies and examines with care reactions already known. Au- 
ro-potassium bromide forms a very Btable salt, neither deliquescent nor 
efflorescent and obtained in large crystals. The action of manganous 
acetate on neutral gold chloride yields a mixture of metallic gold and 
hydrated oxide of manganese of varied composition. Hydrated gold 
monoxide Au u 3 2 (OH) 2 forms a light crystalline powder of a pure black 
color. Hydrochloric acid decomposes it with formation of the metal, 
trioxide and water, titrate of goldtrioxinitrate, auryluitrate, acid 
anrylsulphate and its potassium compouud and gold monoxysulphate 
Au n S0 4 are further described in this paper. Schottlander regards gold 
as divalent. (Liebig's Annalen, ccxviii, 312.) 

Manufacture of Aluminium. — Secular papers and scientific journals 
contain notices of improved methods in the industrial preparation of 
aluminium, some of which were patented in the year 1882, and great 
claims are advanced as respects the economy of the processes. Alumin- 
ium, it will be remembered, was first obtained in its metallic state by 
Friedrich Wdhler in 1826, who decomposed the chloride by sodium, and 
although (with one exception) aluminium is the most abundant metal 
known, thirty years elapsed before its industrial preparation was suc- 
cessfully accomplished. This was done by Henri Sainte Claire Deville, 
who improved greatly the preparation of sodium, the most expensive 
ingredient used. Still the metal has sold at the relatively high price 
of $20 per pound, and its physical properties are such that its produc- 
tion at cheaper rates is most desirable. James Webster, an English 
chemist and metallurgist, has devised the following method for the 
preparation of alumina for the purpose of manufacturing the metal: 
Three parts of alum are mixed with one part of coal pitch, and the 
mixture heated to 200° to 200° for about three hours. The mass is 
cooled, broken into pieces, and hydrochloric acid of 20 to 25 per cent, is 
poured over them, giving rise to the evolution of sulphuretted hydrogen. 
When this gas ceases to come off about 5 per cent, of charcoal powder 
or lamp-black is added and enough water to make a thick mass. This 
mass is thoroughly broken up and mixed in a mill, and then worked 
into balls weighing about one-half kilogram each. These balls are per- 
forated to facilitate drying, and dried first in a chamber heated to 40° 
and then in a furnace at 95° to 150°. The balls are then placed in re- 
torts and heated to low redness for about three hours, while a mixture 
of two parts of water vapor and one of air is passed through, so that sul- 
phur and charcoal are converted into sulphur dioxide and carbon diox- 
ide and thus escape. The dry residue, consisting of aluminium, oxide 
and potassium sulphate, is removed from the retorts, cooled, ground to 
powder in a mill, and treated with about seven times its weight of water, 
and after boiling by means of steam, the solution containing potassium 
sulphate is run off and evaporated to dryness. The residue, consisting 



CHEMISTRY. Go 9 

of aluminium oxide, is washed and dried. At the Aluminium Crown 
Metal Works, in Hollywood, under the direction of Mr. Webster, another 
method is said to be employed. The mineral beauxite, an aluminium- 
ferric hydrate, is ignited with sodium carbonate, and the sodium alumin- 
ate formed is decomposed with carbonic anhydride, yielding pure alu- 
mina ; this is then heated with charcoal in a current of chlorine, forming 
a double chloride of sodium and aluminium, which is finally decomposed 
by sodium, furnishing aluminium. It is said that a ton of the metal 
costs by this process only $500, whereas it formerly cost $5,000. At 
Webster's works, it is said that the output of metal amounts to 20(!) 
tons per week, a manifest exaggeration. 

J. Morris, of Uddiugton, near Glasgow, has obtained a patent for man- 
ufacturing aluminium by treating an intimate mixture of alumina and 
charcoal with carbonic anhydride at a low red heat, a reaction which is 
regarded as doubtful by many chemists. Morris claims that the car- 
bonic anhydride is reduced to carbon monoxide by the charcoal, and that 
in turn reduces the alumina. The metal is obtained by this process as a 
porous, spongy mass which is melted and poured into molds. 

At Salindres, France, about 2,400 kilogrammes of aluminium are man- 
ufactured annually. The process is the old one of decomposing the 
double chloride of aluminium and sodium by metallic sodium, some cry- 
olite being added as a flux. 

The chief value of aluminium at present is in tempering or giving 
strength and a surface or body to alloys, bronzes, or metals so they will 
not corrode. In the bronze yyoix P ai> t of aluminium tends to soften the 
brittle and hard nature of the baser metal. The tensile strength of alu- 
minium bronze is great ; it bears a strain of 42 tons to the square inch, 
or 12 tons more than the best Bessemer steel. It is said to be une- 
qualed for pianos and telegraph wires. Dr. Gegring, of Land street, is 
reported to have invented an inexpensive process for coating ordinary 
iron with aluminium, and the coating can be given any color desired. 
(Dingler's polytechnisches Journal, and other sources.) 

Present Condition of the Soda Industry in Europe. — Mr. Walter Weldon 
read an important paper on the above subject before the London section 
of the Society of Chemical Industry, on January 8, 18S3. He stated that 
in recent years manufacturers of soda by the Leblanc process had failed 
to reap satisfactory profits and in some cases had met with financial ruiu. 
Of twenty-five alkali works which were in operation in the neighbor- 
hood of Xewcastle-on-Tyne a very few years ago only thirteen are in 
operation now, and of the other twelve, not fewer than eight have been 
actually dismantled, in utter despair of its ever again being possible to 
manufacture soda in them by the Leblanc process except at an absolute 
loss. In Belgium the industry has entirely ceased ; inFrance, Germany, 
and Austria the industry still exists, being protected by impost duties. 
Aided by manufacturers in all parts of the world Mr. Weldon has 



C40 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



compiled the following table of the present soda production in various 
countries : 

Present soda production of the world. 



Countries. 


Leblanc 
soda. 


Ammonia 
soda. 


Totals. 


Ammonia soda 
per cent, of 
total soda. 


Great Britain .. 


3b0, 000 
70. 000 
56, 500 
39, 000 


52, 000 

57, 125 

44, 000 

1,000 

8,000 

1,100 


432, 000 
127, 125 

100, non 

40, 000 
8,000 
1.100 


12.0 




44.9 


Germany 


43.8 


Austria 


2.5 




100.0 


United States 


100.0 








Tons 


545, 500 


163, 225 


708, 725 


23.0 







From this it is evident that the total quantity of soda now being man- 
ufactured annually is nearly 709,000 tons, of which more than 163,000 
tons are made by the ammonia process. 

Although the ammonia process was first proposed by Dyer & Hem- 
ming more than forty-seven years ago, it is less than seventeen years 
since it has been carried on industrially. Iu 1866 Ernest Solvay, of 
Brussels, began to produce soda by the ammonia process at his works 
near Charleroi; in 1866-'07 he manufactured 179 tons; this increased 
to 11,580 tons in 1876-'77, and 53,400 tons in 1881-'82. Mr. Weldon 
estimates that about 40 per cent, of the total soda now made on the con- 
tinent is produced by the ammonia process. In England, also, the com- 
petition of the ammonia process has attained a magnitude which is 
alarming the makers of Leblanc soda. 

Another circumstance is injuriously affecting the Leblanc system, 
viz, the loss of profits on the by-products. Originally, soda was the 
only commercial product of the process, the hydrochloric acid being 
turned to'no account. In time a demand grew up for chlorine, and the 
hydrochloric acid began to be utilized profitably ; then the soda ceased 
to be profitable, and became a by-product in the manufacture of chlo- 
rine ; next, this source of profit failed and recourse was had to the " burnt 
ore" or "pyrites cinders" obtained as a secondary product by roasting 
pyrites for sulphuric acid, and which is treated for copper, silver, and 
to some extent for gold. The Eio Tinto Company, of Spain, owning 
enormous deposits of pyrites, intend establishing in France and else- 
where works for manufacturing Leblanc soda, and expect to derive their 
profits neither from the soda nor from the chlorine, but from the copper 
and the residual oxide of iron. 

The extension of the ammouia process of manufacturing soda has led 
to devising plans for obtaining ammonia itself more cheaply, and it is 
now collected from coke ovens in France and in England, and from 
blast furnaces in Scotland. From the latter source alone Mr. Weldon 






CHEMISTRY. GAl 

estimates the amount of ammonium sulphate produced at 20,000 tons 
per annum. 

To maintain the Leblane industry in England, Mr. Weldon thinks the 
manufacturers must have cheaper pyrites, and must perfect methods for 
the recovery of sulphur from the alkali waste. He regards favorably 
the Schaffner and Helbig process for sulphur recovery, which consists 
of two operations indicated by the following equations: 

First operation. 

Ca S + Mg Cl 2 + 2H 2 == H 2 S + Ca Cl 2 + Mg H 2 2 . 

Second operation. 

Ca Cl 2 + Mg H 2 2 + C0 2 = Mg Cl 2 + Ca C0 3 + H 2 0. 

In closing his interesting paper, of which we have given but a brief 
summary, Mr. Weldon states that the immediate future of the English 
Leblane soda industry is somewhat gloomy, but suggests the motto nil 
desperandum. (Ghem. News, xlvii, 67 et seq.) 

Plwsphides of Platinum. — Prof. F. W. Clarke and Mr. O. T. Joslin have 
examined the bodies resulting from the fusion of platinum and phos- 
phorus, a process suggested by the discovery of Mr. Holland, recorded 
in our previous report. Professor Clarke finds proof of the existence of 
three simple phosphides, PtP 2 ,PtP, and Pt 2 P, and of a double phosphide, 
Pt 3 P 5 . The monophosphide by virtue of its insolubility in aqua regia, 
is the most noteworthy. The compound Pt^P is malleable and is anal- 
ogous to Pt-jP previously described, and called in the patent of Mr. 
Holland " fused iridium." The compound PtP 2 is probably identical 
with the phosphide described by Schrotter and obtained by heating the 
finely divided metal in phosphorus vapor. (Am. Ghem. Jour., v, 231.) 

Researches on the Complex Inorganic Acids. — Dr. WolcottGibbs, in two 
additional papers, continues his investigations in the remarkable field 
mentioned in our report for 1882. He describes the preparation and 
properties, and discusses the structural formula of hypophospho-molyb- 
dates, hypophospho-tungstates, phosphoroso-molybdates, vanadio-mol- 
ybdates, vanadio-tungstates, phospho-vanadio-molybdates, vanadio-va- 
nadico-molybdates, vanadio-vanadico-tungstates, phospho-vanadio-va- 
nadico-tungstates. 

It is impossible in the brief space at our command to give an adequate 
idea of these remarkable researches. The evident beauty of many of the 
well crystallizing complex salts, the exceedingly difficult problems in 
analytical chemistry which are involved, and the admirable theoretical 
discussions conjoined, make these papers masterpieces in the science. 
(Am. Ghem. J., v, 361 and 391.) 

Manufacture of Potash Alum from Feldspar. — In 1882 Mr. John Spiller 
published an article proposing to manufacture potash alum by treating 
H. Mis. 69 41 



642 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1883. 

feldspar with sulphuric acid and a fluoride, the latter being either fluor- 
spar or cryolite. Both these minerals can be had very cheaply, but Mr. 
Henry Pemberton, jr., undertakes to show that the difficulties of the 
process are such as to leave little or no margin for profit. The weak 
point in the process is the quantity of acid required, and in the produc- 
tion of three tons of bulky, insoluble, comparatively useless calcium sul- 
phate for every ton of alum made. Cryolite is shown to be too expen- 
sive, and moreover yields the wrong alkali, soda in place of potash. 
And if the necessary potash were added, enormous quantities of Glau- 
ber's-salt would be left upon the manufacturer's hands. (Journ. Frankl. 
Inst, 1883.) 

Analyses of the Geyser Waters and Deposits of the Yellowstone National 

Parle. 

Dr. Henry Leffmann has published analyses of the waters of several 
of the Yellowstone Geysers and of the incrustations forming in their 
vicinity. From these we select the following : 

I. — Pearl Geyser. 

Grains in imp. gallon. 

Calcium sulphate 1. 40 

• Sodium sulphate 1. 89 

Sodium chloride 61. 39 

SiUca 7. 84 



72.52 



At the bottom of the bottle containing this water impure gelatinous 
silica was found yielding after drying over strong sulphuric acid : 

Per cent. 

Water 4. 9 

Silica 79. 1 

Alumina traces 

Ferric oxide traces 

Calcium oxide traces 

II. — Opal Spring. 

The water of this spring is opalescent and on evaporation gelatinizes 
before becoming dry : 

Grains in imp. gallon. 

Sodium chloride 72. 18 

Calcium sulphate 3. 22 

Calcium chloride 4. 06 

Silica 53. 76 

143. 22 



CHEMISTRY. 643 

III. — Water of Mammoth Hot Springs. 

Grains in imp. gallon. 

Sodium sulphate 34. 44 

Sodium chloride 18. 90 

Calcium carbouate 17. 92 

Magnesium carbouate 8. 68 

Silica : 3. 36 



83.30 



IV. — Deposit from Mammoth Hot Springs. 

Calcium carbouate 96. 80 

Magnesium carbonate 1. 36 

Alumina and iron 0. 45 

Silica 0. 25 

Water 0. 50 



99.36 
( Am. J. Sci.j cxxv, 104 and 351.) 

Decomposition of Minerals by Citric Acid. 

H. Carrington Bolton has continued his investigations as to the action 
of organic acids on minerals, and publishes the following results. The 
acid employed was citric acid, which, as the author has shown, has a 
power of decomposing minerals little less than that of hydrochloric 
acid ; the effect of prolonged action at ordinary temperatures was espe- 
cially considered. Of the sulphides, chalcocite showed signs of decom- 
position at the end of ten days, and after several months a partial solu- 
tion of a green color was obtained; pyrite was attacked in eight days, 
and a month later a solution of a reddish yellow color was obtained ; 
chalcopyrite acted similarly ; one gram lost 11 per cent, after fourteen 
months' contact with the citric acid solutiou. Of the oxides magnetite 
and limonite were strongly attacked iu eight days, hematite yielding 
more slowly. Of the silicates datolite was the most quickly decomposed, 
yielding gelatinous silica after twenty-four hours; hornblende, pyrox- 
ene, almandite, epidote, and serpentine were decidedly decomposed in 
eight days, and after fourteen months the last named yielded a dry, ge- 
latinous mass. The feldspars are unequally attacked under like condi- 
tions ; labradorite yielded most easily. Muscovite and biotite yielded 
very slowly, the latter showing signs of decomposition the sooner, mi- 
nute scales and slimy silica separating after two years' subjection to the 
acid solution. 



644 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Dr. Bolton gives the following : 

Table showing approximate relative disintegration of rocJc forming [and . 
associated) minerals by citric acid in solution. 



Quickly decomposed. 


Slowly decomposed. 


Very slowly decom- 
posed. 


Not decomposed. 


Carbonates. 


Serpentine. 


Orthoclase. 


Quartz. 


Phosphates. 


Pyroxene. 


Oligoclase. 


Corundum. 


Prochlorite. 


Hornblende. 


Albite. (?) 


Spinel. 


Cbr^ solite. 


Labradorite. 


Biotite. 


Beryl. 


Nepbelite. 


Garnet. 


Muscovite. 


Barite. 




Epidote. 


Tourmaline. 


Talc. (?) 




Vesuvianite. 


Staurolite. 


Kyanite. 




Pyrite. 


Hematite. 






Limonite. 








Magnetite. 








Gypsum. (?) 







(Proceedings Am. Assoc. Adv. Science, xxxi, 271.) 

New Explosives. — Pyronome is the name given by M. Sandoy to a new 
explosive mixture consisting of 69 parts saltpeter, 9 of sulphur, 10 of 
charcoal, 8 of metallic antimony, 5 of potassium chlorate, 4 of rye flour, 
and a few centigrams of potassium chromate. These are to be mixed 
in an equal volume of boiling water, and the mass evaporated down to 
a paste, dried and powdered as wanted. This mixture is said to be 
cheaper than dynamite, but its manufacture and use must be attended 
w r ith considerable danger. 

S. H. Hinde proposes a new explosive mixture composed of 64 parts 
of nitroglycerine, 12 of ammonium citrate, 0.25 of ethyl palniitate, 0.25 
of calcium carbonate, 23 of coal, and 0.50 of sodium carbonate. The 
special advantages of this complex mixture do not appear. 

A new explosive has just been pateuted in England by Dr. C. W. 
Siemens. The compound is a mixture of saltpeter, chlorate of potash, 
and a solid hydrocarbon, and is suitable both for mining purposes and 
fire arms, while, if ignited in the open air, the combustion takes place 
slowly and imperfectly, and, therefore, without danger. The new com- 
pound, which has about the same density as ordinary gunpowder, and 
is very hard, possesses with equal volume more than double the ex- 
plosive force of the latter. The intensity of explosion can be regulated 
at will by varying the proportions of the ingredients and the size of the 
granules. (Munroe's Notes on the Literature of Explosives.) 

Use of Limed Goal in Gas-making. — Prof. J. Alfred Wanklyn read a 
paper on the above subject before the British Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science at the Southport meeting in August, 1883. 

As the gas manufacture is usually carried on, only a small part of 
the nitrogen contained in the coal is recovered in the form of ammonia; 



CHEMISTRY. 645 

whereas the coal might furnish 25 to 50 pounds of ammonia per ton of 
coal, only 5 or C pounds are actually obtained. By mixing a little lime 
with the coal before introducing it into the retort, the yield of ammonia 
is greatly increased, and at the same time the gas formed loses its fetid 
odor. The invention is patented, and is known as Cooper's liming 
process. 

At the Beckton gasworks, where a series of experiments were carried 
on, the addition of lime produced a gain of 36 per cent, of ammonia. 
Besides this, there is a gain in tar and a diminution in the sulphuretted 
hydrogen and carbon disulphide. So marked is the latter feature that 
the lime purifier proves to be superfluous where the process is used, and 
gas-works, being no longer offensive, cease to be a public nuisance. 
(Ghent. News, xlviii, 174.) 

ORGANIC. 

New Substances from Plants. — Jamaica dogwood (Piscidia erythrina) 
has been examined by Prof. Edward Hart, of Lafayette College, who 
obtained therefrom the active principle, piseidia, C29H24O8. This body 
is insoluble in water, but crystallizes from alcohol in small colorless four 
or six sided prisms, which have a melting point of 192° C. It is easily 
soluble in benzene and in chloroform. Its physiological effects are that 
of a direct sedative, narcotic but refreshing. (Am. Chem. Jonrn., v, 39.) 

Algin is the name given by Edward C. C. Stanford to a new substance 
obtained from some of the commoner species of marine algse, and which 
possess valuable properties as a gelatizer. It has characteristic reac- 
tions distinguishing it from gelatin, from starch, from dextrin, pectin, 
gum arabic, and other gummy bodies. Dilute mineral acids generally 
coagulate it when in solution. Mr. Stanford thinks it can be used in 
the soluble form as a stiffener of fabrics ; although not so rigid as starch, 
it is tougher, more elastic, and more transparent. It may also have 
some value as a food on account of its nitrogenous character. Its ag- 
glutinating power enables one to convert non-coherent bodies, such as 
silica, lime, magnesia, alumina, chalk, graphite, and charcoal, into solid 
hard blocks. A new "carbon cement" for covering steam-boilers con- 
sists of 97 per cent, charcoal and 3 per cent, algin. In its insoluble form 
algin resembles horn, and may be used as a substitute for it. Algin is 
an excellent non-conductor of electricity, and can be used also in emul- 
sifying oils and fining wines and spirits. (Chem. News, xlvii, 254.) 

A new acid has been obtained by Von Lippmann from the juice of 
the beet root. The incrustations formed on the pans in which beet juice 
is evaporated contains, besides citric, aconitic, tricarballylic, and malonic 
acids, a new acid which appears to be identical with the oxycitric de- 
scribed by Pawolleck. The new acid forms needle shaped crystals, 
soluble in water, alcohol, and ether, having the formula C 6 H 8 8 . It is 
tribasic, its barium salt having the formula (C 6 H 5 8 )2 Ba 3 5 H 2 0. (Ber. 
d. chem. Ges., xvi, 1078.) 



646 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Saponin was discovered in 1809 by Schrader in the root of Saponaria 
rubra. Stiitz prepares it from the bark of Quillaja saponaria as follows: 
10 kilograms are extracted with water, the evaporated liquid is dried, 
pulverized and extracted with hot alcohol, which on cooling yields flocks 
of saponin; these are purilied byre-solution in hot alcohol. In this 
way 10 kilograms of bark yielded 200 grams of saponin. It is a white, 
amorphous powder, neutral and tasteless. It is soluble in water in all 
proportions, and even when dilute the solutions froth like a soap solu- 
tion. It has the composition expressed in the formula C19H30O10, but con- 
tains also 2.4 per cent, ash, consisting of the carbonates of magnesium, 
calcium, and potassium. Experiments lead the author to conclude that 
the constitution is expressed in the formula C 19 H 25 (OH) 5 2 3 . (Liebig's 
Annalen, ccxviii, 231.) 

A New Source of Mannite. — L. Lindet has found this sugar quite 
abundant in the pineapple of Brazil, amounting, he claims, to 1 per cent, 
of the fresh fruit. The mannite is extracted from the fermented pulp by 
neutralization with sodium carbonate and evapoatjon to the consist- 
ence of molasses. On cooling small needle-shaped crystals, having a 
slightly sweet taste, are obtained ; purified by solution in boiling al- 
cohol they give the true characters of mannite. He intends to pros- 
ecute the study with a view to ascertaining whether the mannite was 
formed during the fermentation or whether it exists already formed in 
the fruit itself. (Bull. soc. chem., XL, 65.) 

Saccharone and Saccharine. — By the action of calcium hydrate on dex- 
trose and on levulose P61igot obtained in 1880 a body having great sta- 
bility and crystallizing with facility, which he called saccharine. Hein- 
rich Kiliani, by acting on this body with concentrated nitric acid, has 
obtained a new substance, which he names saccharone, and which is 
both a lactone and a monobasic acid. Consequently both saccharone 
potassium C 6 H 7 OK and saccharonate of potassium C 6 H 8 7 K2 are obtained 
when saccharone is treated with potassium, the latter at a boiling tem- 
perature. By the action of hydriodic acid on saccharone, saccharinic 
acid, a dibasic acid is obtained, having the formula C 6 Hi 2 6 . (Liebig's 
Annalen, ccxviii, 361.) 

Borneol from Camphor. — Professors C. Loring Jackson and A. E. 
Menke recommend the following process for preparing borneol from 
camphor on account of its simplicity, rapidity, and economy. The cam- 
phor is dissolved in about ten times its weight of common alcohol, and 
an excess of sodium is added in pieces of somewhat lessthau a gram at 
a time. By working with quantities not over ten grams the action can 
be carried on in an open flask without cooling. As soon as all the 
sodium has disappeared, part of the alcohol is distilled off and water 
added, which precipitates crude borneol. This is freed from sodium 
hydroxide by washing with water, and crystallized from hota lcohol. 






CHEMISTRY. 647 

Borneol melts at 197° ; 10 grams of camphor yield 9.5 grams of borneol 
being 94 per ceut. of the theory. (Am. Chem. Journ., v, 270.) 

Researches on Atropine. — In 1863, Kraut decomposed atropine by a 
boiliug barium hydrate solution into atropic acid C 9 H 8 2 , and tropine 
C 8 H 17 ]SX} 2 ; the formula for the latter base was corrected by Lossen, who 
found C 3 H 15 NO, and showed that atropic acid was only a secondary pro- 
duct of the decomposition, the primary being tropic acid C 9 H 10 O 3 . 
Ladenburg in late researches has affected the synthesis of atropine by 
the dehydration of tropate of tropine. The best results were obtained 
by the action of dilute hydrochloric acid. The identity of the artifi- 
cial atropine with that extracted from atropa belladonna was fully estab- 
lished by chemical and physiological experiments. Tropate of tropine 
exerts no action whatever on the eye, even in a 10 per cent, solution. 
iLiebig's Annalen, ccxvii, 74.) 

The Oxidation of Substitution Products of the Aromatic Hydrocarbons. — 
Dr. Ira Remsen is pursuing his investigations grouped under the above 
title, and publishes two additional contributions on the oxidation of 
betacymenesulphamide and of paradipropylbenzenesulphamide in which 
he has been assisted by Mr. W. C. Day and Dr. E. H. Keiser, respect- 
ively. 

By treating betacymenesulphamide with potassium pyrochromate and 
sulphuric acid a body was obtained which proved to be sulphamine- 
parapropylbenzoic acid having the formula — 

C 6 H 3 \ S0 2 NH 2 (o) 
( CU 2 H (p) 

Uuder similar treatment paradipropylbenzenesulphamide yielded as 
a principal product alphasulpharninepropyllbenzoic acid, the formation 
of which under the conditions given proves that the sulphamide group 
exerts a partial protective action upon one of the propyl groups. The 
protection, however, is not perfect, because sulpho-terephthalic acid is 
formed at the same time. These results are in perfect harmony with 
the views advanced some time ago by Dr. Bemsen as to the law of pro- 
tection. (Am. Chem. Journ., v, p. 149.) 

Synthesis of Salicin. — Prof. Arthur Michael, of Tufts College, has the 
honor of accomplishing the first synthesis of a glucoside occurring in 
nature. Having obtained helicin synthetically by the action of sodium 
salicylaldehyde on acetochlorhydrose, he submitted the helicin to the 
action of sodium amalgam, as suggested by Lisenko, and obtained a 
body the properties and composition of which agree perfectly with 
natural salicin. (Am. Chem. Journ., v, p. 171.) 

A new Synthesis of Anthracene. — With the expectation of obtaining an 
isomeric tetraphenylethane, Anchutz and Eltzbacker examined the ac- 
tion of aluminium chloride upon a benzene solution of acetylene tetra- 



64.8 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1883. 

* 

bromide. The resulting hydrocarbon was easily isolated and proved to 
be anthracene. This synthesis establishes the fact that the middle 
carbon atoms in anthracene are directly united, a supposition generally 
held but not previously determined by experiment. The formula of 
anthracene is accordingly represented thus : 

C 6 H 4 <f | >C 6 H 4 . 

\ CH s^ 

(Ber. d. chem. Ges., xvi, 623.) 

Pyridine and Quinoline Bases. — The close connection which has been 
established between several important alkaloids and the derivatives of 
pyridine and quinoline is being confirmed by numerous researches. AIL 
the evidence accumulated thus far is in harmony with the view that 
many of the important alkaloids are derivatives of pyridine, a constitu- 
ent of bone-oil and of coal-tar, which, moreover, has been obtained by 
the dry distillation of nicotine. The relation between these alkaloids 
and pyridine is somewhat analogous to that between the aromatic com- 
pounds and benzene. According to Korner pyridine is benzene in 
which one of the six CH groups is replaced by N, and this view has 
recently found additional support. 

The investigations of Konigs, Skraup, and others go to establish a 
close connection between quinoline (and its homologues lepidine, dispo- 
line, and tetrabiroline) and such alkaloids as quinine, cinchonine, and 
their isomers. (E. H. K. in Am. Chem. Journ., v, 60.) 

Constituents of the Petroleum of Galicia. — According to Lachowicz, the 
petroleum of Galicia contains a large number of hydrocarbons of the 
marsh-gas series, isopentane, normal peutane, hexane, both normal and 
secondary, and heptane, together with several of the aromatic series, 
benzene (benzol) toluol, isoxylol mesitylene, and the so-called Vreden's 
hydrocarbons. Members of the ethylene series are entirely wanting. 
(Liebig's Annalen, ccxx, 168.) 

Products of the Dry Distillation of Wood at low Temperatures. — Prof. 
C. F. Mabery has examined the more volatile products of the dry dis- 
tillation of wood in the manufacture of acetic acid. The greater part of 
the product consists of methyl alcohol and methyl acetate; besides 
these are found acetic aldehyde, acetic acid, acetone, acetal, dimethyl- 
acetal, methylethylketone, and allyl alcohol, together with traces of the 
higher ketones. A new constituent is methyl formiate. The higher 
boiling oils contained furfurol, and by the action of alkalies upon it a 
small quantity of pyroxanthin. The proportion of acetone was small. 
(Am. Chem. Journ., V, 256.) 

The Constituents of Ozocerite. — Ozokerite from the island Tscheleken, 
in the Caspian Sea, has been examined by F. Beilstein and E. Wiegand. 



CHEMISTRY. 649 

The raw material formed a brownish- black, sticky mass, almost wholly 
soluble in boiling benzine. On adding alcohol to the filtered solution 
most of the paraffine precipitates and the oils remain in solution. By 
treating the powdered ozokerite with ether nearly all the oily matters 
and coloring matters are removed from the paraffine, and this may be 
further purified by solution in benzine, boiliug with animal charcoal 
and precipitation by alcohol. By repeating this process, shining white 
crystals, having a definite melting point, were obtained, which the 
authors name Lekene, from the island above referred to. Lekene has the 
following properties : Melting point, 79°; sp. gr., 0.93917. Soluble in 
124.3 parts of benzine at 15°, 1334.8 parts of chloroform at 16°, 9534 
parts of alcohol at 16°, and 15257 parts of absolute acetic ether at 16° 
C. It distills unaltered in vacuo, and hence may be obtained by this 
process on a commercial scale. Nitric acid diluted with two volumes 
of water scarcely attacks lekene at all ; fuming sulphuric acid converts 
it quickly into a black, pulverulent mass. The analysis made gave fol- 
lowing figures : C=85.23 per cent., H=14.72 per cent. It does not ap- 
pear whether lekene belongs to the series C n H 2n , or C n H 2n+2 . The oil 
extracted by ether from the ozokerite was purified by distillation in 
vacuo and gave 86.13 per cent. 0. and 13.70 per cent. H. Its sp. gr.= 
0.8450 at 18.5°. (Ber. d. chem. Gcs., xvi, 1547). 

Researches into the Nature of Resins. — Prof. Arthur Michael has in- 
stituted an investigation into the action of aldehydes on phenols, 
and arrives at the following conclusions: (1) Mixtures of aromatic 
aldehydes and phenols are converted by mere traces of acids, more or 
less rapidly, according to the acids used, into white resins; (2) the re- 
sorcin-benzaldehyde resin is converted by the further action of dilute 
acids into two crystalline compounds, one of which is isomeric with the 
resin when the latter is dried at 100° C. ; (3) fixed alkalies and potas- 
sium carbonate convert a mixture of resorcin and benzoic aldehyde into 
a resin ; (4) the properties of the crystalline compound C 2 6H 2 o0 4 resem- 
ble those of the so-called crystallizable resins. From its alkaline solu- 
tion it is precipitated by acids in the form of a resin, which separates 
in form of the original crystals from the alcoholic solution ; (5) the 
above results make it extremely probable that the formation of at least 
some of the resins in the vegetable world is due to aldehydes and phe- 
nols coming in contact with the contents of the cells, as both of these 
classes of compounds are undoubtedly among the products formed in 
plant-life. (Am. Chem. Journ., v, 338.) 

Coniferin, the source of vanillin, has been found by Edmund O. von 
Lippmann to exist in the woody fiber of the sugar-beet. It is believed 
that the coniferin does not exist to any great amount ready formed in 
the woody fiber, but that it is produced by the decomposition of lignin 
in the process of extraction. Whether or not the sugar-beet will ever 
become a commercial source of vanillin has not been determined. (Ber. 
d. chem. Ges., xvi, 44.) 



650 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

NOTES. 

A simple and convenient apparatus for rapid gas analysis has been 
devised and described by Arthur H. Elliott. By its aid a complete gas 
analysis can be made in less than one hour. For details and figure of 
the apparatus we refer to Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 
Vol. II, No. 12, 1883. 

Carbon monoxide is conveniently prepared, according to E. Noack, by 
passing carbon dioxide over zinc dust heated in a glass tube below a red 
heat. In one hour 13 liters of C0 2 yielded 11 liters of CO. 

Dr. W. Spring continues his researches on the formation of chemical 
compounds by great pressure. He has prepared, under pressure of 6,500 
atmospheres, compounds of arsenic with zinc, lead, copper, tin, and sil- 
ver direct from mixtures of the constituents. Also many metallic sul- 
phides in like manner. 

The composition of bleaching-powder has again been investigated by 
Lunge and Naef, who find that calcium chloride is decomposed at ordi- 
nary temperatures by hypochlorous acid, with the production of CaOCl 2 
and Cl 2 . These chemists hold to the formula CI — Ca — OC1, first pro- 
posed by Odling, as the most correct. (Ber. d. ehem. Ges., xvi, 840.) 

Water is decomposed by both sulphur and arsenic, according to C. Z. 
Cross and A. F. Higgin, yielding both the oxygen and hydrogen com- 
pounds of the elements. 

Dr. J. Lawrence Smith gives in the American Chemical Journal., v, p. 
44, details of his method of decomposing and analyzing samarskite. The 
powdered and dried mineral is decomposed by fluorhydric acid and the 
insoluble portion treated with concentrated sulphuric acid and the con- 
tained earths converted into oxalates, which are then submitted to 
careful analysis. 

Samarium, discovered in 1878 in samarskite by Lecoq de Boisbaudran, 
has been carefully studied by P. T. Cleve, of Upsala. He obtained the 
pure oxide, Sm 2 3 and several salts, including the chloride, Sm Cl 3 . 6 H 2 0, 
chloroplatinate, nitrate, Sm (N0 3 ) 3 . 6 H 2 0, acetate, oxalate, and sulphate, 
Sm 2 (S0 4 ) 3 . 8 H 2 G. The salts in general agree closely in composition with 
the didymium salts, but are distinguished by a peculiar spectrum com- 
posed of several bands, four in the blue part being characteristic. (J. 
Chem. Soc, 1883, 362.) 

The emission spectra of scandium, ytterbium, and erbium have been 
examined by Th. Thalen. Scandium presents a notable spectrum, hav- 
ing many lines of medium intensity in the orange and the indigo, and 
very fine brilliant lines, forming several groups, iu the yellow, green, and 
blue portions. 

Pure nickel, capable of beiug wrought, rolled, and hammered, is now 
made by Mr. Joseph Wharton at Camden. A small quantity of magne- 
sium added to metal greatly aidsin the refiniug and improves its quality. 
Mermet recommends the use of nickel crucibles in place of silver in 
chemical manipulations, being much cheaper and less easily fused. 



CHEMISTRY. G51 

Notes on the Literature of Explosives. — Under this title Prof. Charles E. 
Munroe, of the United States Naval Academy, is publishing a series of 
papers giving a compendium of discoveries in the field mentioned. The 
articles appear in the Proceedings United States Naval Institute, Nos. 
20, 21, 22, 24, and 27 et seq. 

A white modification of phosphorus has been described by Drs. Ira 
Eemsen and E. H. Reiser. It is obtained by distilling ordinary phos- 
phorus in hydrogen and collecting the element in ice-cold water. This 
white phosphorus is light and plastic, is soluble in carbon disulphide, 
and melts at the same point as ordinary phosphorus. It bears the same 
relation to ordinary phosphorus as " flowers of sulphur" to " roll brim- 
stone." 

The conduct of moist phosphorus and air towards carbon monoxide 
has been again most carefully examined by Ira Kemsen, assisted by 
E. H. Keiser, and, contrary to the views of Leeds, negative results are 
reported. The small amount of carbon dioxide obtained by Leeds is 
ascribed to oxidation of the carbon in the phosphorus, the presence of 
which was not, however, demonstrated by the author. (Am. Chem. J., v, 
424.) 

According to the latest returns published by the Italian Government, 
the average annual production of sulphur in Sicily and Italy during 
the five years 1875-1879, inclusive, was 282,000 tons, of which 216,000 
tons were exported. Delivered at Marseilles the sulphur sells at about 
$25 per ton. (Chem. News, xlvii, 88.) 

Cadmium iodide has been studied by Prof. F. W. Clarke, who obtained 
evidence of the existence of two allotropic varieties, differing in specific 
gravity by about a unit. The higher or normal salt is white, and un- 
dergoes no perceptible change when heated below 250° ; the lower salt 
is brownish, and loses weight at 40°. 

The use of mercury thermometers, and especially the determination 
of melting point and boiling point, is the subject of an exhaustive re- 
search by Prof. J. M. Crafts, who points out that the defects in the pro- 
cesses of graduating these instruments, as usually conducted, can be 
remedied by means easily within the reach of a careful mechanic. 

Thiophene is a new substance, C 4 H 4 S, discovered by Victor Meyer in 
benzene (benzol) from coal tar, and which is marked by its containing 
sulphur in its composition. It forms a light, limpid, mobile oil, boiling 
at about 84°, and remaining liquid when subjected to the cold of a 
mixture of ice and salt. Pure coal-tar benzene contains about 0.5 per 
cent, of thiophene. (Ber. d. chem. Ges., xvi, 1465.) 

The Ethyl Derivatives of Anhydro-benzdiamido-benzine have been 
treated in a paper by Prof. James Lewis Howe, of the Central Univer- 
sity, Kichmond, Ky., and published in the Am. Chem. J., V, 418. 

Arabic acid has been prepared in a pure state and carefully studied 
by C. O'Snllivau, who assigns to it the formula C Sa B. U2 1A . 

Cryptidin has been synthetically made by Dr. Albert R. Leeds. It has 



652 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

the formula CnH n N. The same chemist describes cenantholaniliu, 
cenantholxylidin, and cenantholnaphtylamin, bodies having agreeable 
etherial odors, and yield amorphous sublimates with partial -decompo- 
sition. — (Ber. d. c'hem. Ges., xvi, 287 and 289.) 

Silicon-ethers of phenol, according to A. Martini and A. Weber, are 
easily prepared by heating the phenols with silicium tetrachloride. 
Tetraphenyl silicate and tetraparakresylsilicate are described by them. 
(Ber. d. chem. Ges., xvi, 1252.) 

The Liebig memorial was unveiled at Munich, August 6, 1883. 
Prof. A. W. Hofmann made the principal address on the occasion, re- 
viewing the influence of Liebig's discoveries in chemistry. A few 
months after the ceremony, the white marble statue of Liebig was 
wantonly injured by some black liquid which was thrown over the head 
and left shoulder. It was feared that the statue was permanently in- 
jured, for the black substance had penetrated the pores of the marble. 
Later advices show that the liquid used was nitrate of silver. One 
thousand marks reward were offered for the perpetrator. In December 
the stains were successfully removed. 

Frederick Wohler is fitly honored in the Berichte der deutschen chemi- 
schen Gesellschaft by a long biography and bibliography prepared by 
Prof. A. W. Hofmann. Wohler's contributions to chemical literature 
number 280. The paper is accompanied by a portrait and a fac-simile 
letter. 

Honors to an American chemist' — The German Chemical Society of 
Berlin has on its rolls the following sixteen honorary members, repre- 
senting, as will be seen, a variety of nationalities : E. Bunsen of Hei- 
delberg, J. Dumas of Paris, H. Kopp of Heidelberg, S. Cannizzaro of 
Pome, E. Frankland of England, E. Fresenius of Wiesbaden, J. S. Stas 
of Brussels, A. Williamson of London, A. Wurtz of Paris, G. Kirchhoff 
of Berlin, H. E. Eoscoe of Manchester, C. von Marignac of Geneva, F. 
Abel of Woolwich, A. Butlerow of St. Petersburg, Warren de la Eue 
of London, and Q. Sella of Borne. The society in 1883 honored itself 
and recognized the claims of the United States by adding to this dis- 
tinguished company Dr. Wolcott Gibbs, professor of chemistry in Har- 
vard University, who confessedly stands in the foremost rank of scien- 
tific investigators. 

CHEMICAL BIBLIOGRAPHY, 1883. 

Arnold, C. Kurze Anleitung zur qualitativen chemischen Analyse. 

Hannover, 1883. 8vo. 
Attfleld, John. Chemistry; general, medical, and pharmaceutical, 

including the chemistry of the United States Pharmacopoeia. 

Tenth edition. Philadelphia, 1883. 12mo. 
Avery's complete chemistry. Edited by E. W. Avery. New York, 

1883. 12mo. 
Barnes, Joseph. Tables for the qualitative analysis of " simple salts" 

and "easy mixtures." Manchester and London, 1883. 



CHEMISTRY. 653 

Bayley, T. A pocket-book for chemists and chemical manufacturers. 
3d edition. London, 1883. Oblong 32mo. 

BELLSTErN, F. Handbucb der organiscben Chemie. Hamburg und 
Leipzig, 1883. Large 8vo. xxxiii, + 2185 pp. 

Benedikt, E. Die kiinstlichen Farbstoffe (Tbeerfarben); ibre Dar- 
stellung, Eigenscbaften, Priifung, Erkennung und Auwendung. 
Cassel, 1883. 8vo. 

Blas, C. M6tbode de l'analyse qualitative min^rale par la voie bumide. 
2 e edition. Louvain, 1882. 

Blyth, Alex. W. Poisons; their effects and detection. A manual 
for tbe use of analytical chemists and experts. London, 1883. 

Bockmann, Fr. Chemisch-techniscbe Untersuchungsmetboden der 
Gross-Industrie, der Versuchsstationen und Handelslaboratorien. 
2 vols. Berlin, 1883. 8vo. 

Bolley, P. A., und K. Birnbatjm. Handbucb der chemischen Tech- 
nologic Vol. v. Lfg. 5. Braunschweig, 1883. 8vo. 

Brezlna, A. Krystallographische Untersuchungen an homologen und 
isomeren Keihen. [Also under the title: Methodik der Krystall- 
Bestimmung.] 1. part. Wien, 1883. 8vo. 

Brown, J. Campbell. Practical chemistry. Analytical tables and 
exercises for students. 2d edition. London and Liverpool, 1883. 

Browne, G. Latham, and 0. G. Stewart. Eeports of trials for mur- 
der by poisoning by prussic acid, strychnia, antimony, arsenic, and 
aconite, including the trials of Tawell, Palmer, Dove, Madeline 
Smith, Dr. Pritchard, Smethurst, and Lamson. London, 1883. 

Debray, H., et A. Joly. Cours de chimie. Paris, 1882-'83. 8vo. 

Eder, J. M. The chemical effect of the spectrum. Translated and 
edited by W. de W. Abney. London, 1883. 

Elsner, F. Grundriss der pharmaceutischen Chemie. 3. edit. Berlin, 
1883. 8vo. 

Encyclopedic chimique publi6 sous la direction de Fr6my. Vols, n, 
section 2; v, section 1, part lj v, section 2, parts 1 and 2; vni, 
section 2, part 3; rx, section 2, part 1. Paris, 1883. 8vo. 

Engel, R. Nouveaux elements de chimie medicate et de chimie biolo- 
gique, avec les applications a l'hygiene, a la medecine legale et a 
la pharmacie. 2 e Edition. Paris, 1883. J2mo. 

Erlenmeyer, E. Lehrbuch der organiscben Chemie. Leipzig, 1867- 
'83. 8vo. 

Fenton, H. J. H. Notes ou qualitative analysis, concise and explana- 
tory. Cambridge, 1883. 4to. 

Fleck, H. Ueber die Chemie in ihrer Bedeutung fur die Gesundheits- 
pflege. Berbn, 1883. 8vo. 

Foye, J. C. Chemical problems. New and enlarged edition. New 
York, 1883. 16mo. 

Fremy. Histob'e de la chimie; d^veloppements et progres rdcents. 
Paris. 1883. 8vo. 



654 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Gabba, L. Trattato elemeutare di chimica inorganica ed organica. 

Milano, 1883. 16mo. 
Girardin, J. Levins de chimie elementaire appliqn^e aux arts indus- 

triels. 6 e edition. Vol. hi. Paris, 1883. 8vo. 
Gladstone, J. H., and Tribe, Alfred. The chemistry of the second- 
ary batteries of Plante" and Faure. London, 1883. 12mo. 
Graham-Otto's ausflihrliches Lehrbuch der anorganischen Chemie. 

Neu bearbeitet von A. Michaelis. 5. edit. Abtheilung in, part 1. 

Braunschweig, 1883. 8vo. 
Grandeau, L. Traits d'analyse des matieres agricoles. 2 edition. 

Nancy, 1883. 12mo. 
Grlmaud, M. Notations et theories chimiques. Paris, 1883. 8vo. 
Hampe, W. Ueber die Analyse der Sprengstoffe. Berlin, 1883. 4to. 
Handworterbuch (Neues) der Chemie. Herausgegeben von H. von 

Fehling. Lieferung 44. Braunschweig, 1883. 
Hardwich, T. F. Manual of photographic chemistry, theoretical and 

practical. Edited by J. Traill Taylor. 9th edition. London, 1883. 

12mo. 
Haussknecht, O. Lehrbuch der Chemie und chemischen Techuologie. 

Hamburg, 1883. 8vo. 
Heppe, G. Hauswirthschaftliche Chemie. Hamburg, 1883. 8vo. 
Hofmann, A. W. Zur Erinnerung an Friedrich Wohler. Berlin, 1883. 

8vo. 
Hoffmann, Fred'k and Power, Fred'k: B. A manual of chemical 

analysis as applied to the examination of medicinal chemicals. 3d 

edition, greatly enlarged. Philadelphia, 1883. roy. 8vo. 
Horsln-Deon, P. Chimie industrielle. La fecule, l'amidon et leurs 

derives. Fabrication des glucoses. Paris, 1883. 8vo. 
James, J. William. Notes on the detection of the acids (inorganic 

and organic) usually met with in analysis for the use of labora- 
tory students. London, 1883. 
Johnston, J. F. W., and C. A. Cameron. Elements of agricultural 

chemistry and geology. 13th edition. London, 1883. 12mo. 
Knuth, P. Lehrbuch der Chemie fur Maschinisten und Torpeder. 

Kiel, 1883. 8vo. 
Koenio, J. Chemie der menschlichen Nahrungs- und Genussmittel. 

Berlin, 1883. 2 parts. 8vo. 
Kolbe, H. Kurzes Lehrbuch der organischen Chemie. Braunschweig, 

1883. 8vo. 
Koppeschaar, W. F. Leerboek der chemie en van eenige barer 

toepassingen. Leiden, 1883. roy. 8vo. 
Ladenbtjrg. Handworterbuch der Chemie. Breslau, 1883. 8vo. 
Lanohoff, F. Lehrbuch der Chemie. 4. edit. Leipzig, 1883. 8vo. 
Latschenberger, J. Kurze Auleitung zur qualitativen chemischen 

Mineral-Analyse fur Mediciner. Freiburg I. B., 1883. 



CHEMISTRY. 655 

Laubenheimer, A. Grundziige der organischen Chemie. Heidelberg, 
1883. Svo. 

Leplay, H. Chirnie theorique et pratique des industries du suere. 
Paris, 1883. Svo. 

Le Docte, A. Controle chimique de la fabrication du sucre. Ta- 
bleaux numeriques, etc. Bruxelles, 1883. 4to. 

Loew, Oscar, und Thomas Bokorny. Die chemischen Kraftquelle 
im lebenden Protoplasma. Miinchen, 1883. 

Mann, L. Die Atomgestalt der chemischen Grundstoffe. Berlin, 1883. 
Svo. 

Maly, R,, und B. Andreasch. Studien iiber Caffein und Theobromin. 
Wien, 1883. Svo. 

Meyer, Lothar. Die modernen Theorien der Chemie und ihre Be- 
deutung fiir die cbemische Mechanik. Buch 3. Dynamik der 
Atome. Breslau, 1883. Svo. 

Meyer, L., und K. Seubert. Die Atomgewichte der Elemente, aus 
den Originalzahlen neu berechnet. Leipzig, 1883. 8vo. 

Mills, E. J. Destructive distillation ; a manualette of the paraffin, 
coal-tar, resin, oil, petroleum, and kindred industries. London, 1883. 
Svo. 

Mitteregger, J. Lehrbuch der Chemie. Wien, 1883. Svo. 

Moller, J. Ueber den Alcohol. Berlin, 1883. 8vo. 

O'Brine, David. The practical laboratory guide in chemistry. Co- 
lumbus, Ohio, 1S83. 

Pattison, M. M. Chemists ; heroes of science. London, 1883. Svo. 

Pellet, H.,etG. Sencier. La fabrication du sucre. Paris, 1883. 8vo. 

Petermann, A. Eecherches de chimie et de physiologie appliquees 
a l'agriculture, 1872-'82. Bruxelles, 1883. 8vo. 

Pinner, Adolph. Repetitorium der anorganischen Chemie. 5. edit. 
Berlin, 1883. 8vo. 

. An introduction to the study of organic chemistry. Trans- 
lated by Peter T. Austen. New York, 1883. 8vo. 

Pisani, F., et P. Dirvell. La chimie du laboratoire. Paris, 1883. 

Precht, . Die Salz-Industrie von Stassfurt und Umgegend. 

Stassfurt, 1883. 8vo. 

Quinquaud, E. Trait6 technique de chimie biologique avec applica- 
tions a la physiologie, a la pathologie, a la clinique et a la th^rapeu- 
tique. Paris, 1883. Svo. 

Remsen, Ira. Principles of theoretical chemistry ; with special refer- 
ence to the constitution of chemical compounds. Philadelphia, 1883. 
Svo. [2d edition.] 

Benard, A. Traits des matieres colorantes du blanchiment et de la 
teinture du coton. Paris, 1883. 8vo. Avec un album de 83 echan- 

tillons. 
Richter, M. M. Tabellen der Kohlenstoffverbindungen nach deren 
empirischer Zusammensetzung geordnet. BerUn, 1883. roy. Svo. 



656 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1883. 

Richter, Victor von. A text-book of inorganic chemistry. 'Trans- 
lated by Edgar F. Smith. Philadelphia, 1883. 8vo. 

Ridsdale, 0. H. Chemical percentage tables and laboratory calcula- 
tions. Manchester, 1883. 

Rigg, A., and W. T. Goolden. Easy introduction to chemistry. Lon- 
don, 1883. roy. 8vo. 

Ripper, W. Practical chemistry ; with notes and questions on theoret- 
ical chemistry. London, 1883. 8vo. 

Romegialli, A. Oontribuzione alia teoria della fermentazione acetica 
e alia tecnologia dell' acetificazione. Roma, 1883. 8vo. 

Roth, E. Die Chemie der Rothweine. Heidelberg, 1883. 8vo. 

Roux, J. P. La fabrication de Palcool, la rectification, etc. Paris, 1883. 
8vo. 

Saunier, E. Tableaux synthe^tiques de chimie atomique, thdorique et 
pratique, avec les propri6t6s physiologiques et toxicologiques, les 
r^actifs, contre-poisons, usage, details de manipulations, etc. 3 edit. 
Bruxelles, 1883. 12mo. 

Sbriziolo, M. Trattato di chimica generale inorganica ed organica 
esposto sotto il punto di vista della dottrina moderna. Napoli, 
1883. 8vo. 

Schaedler, O. Die Technologie der Eette und Oele des Thier- und 
Pflanzenreichs. Berlin, 1883. 8vo. 

Schmelck, L. Chemistry of the Norwegian North Atlantic expedi- 
tion. Christiania, 1882. roy. 4to. 

Schultz, G. Die Chemie des Steinkoklentheers, mit besonderer Be- 
riicksichtigung der kunstlichen organischen Farbstoffe. Braun- 
schweig, 1883. 8vo. 

Schutzenberger, P. Traite" de chimie g6n£rale comprenant les prin- 
cipalis applications de la chimie aux sciences biologiques et aux 
arts industriels. Vol. m. Paris, 1883. 8vo. 

Schwackhofer, F. Lehrbuch der landwirthschaftlich-chemischen 
Technologie. Wien, 1883. Vol. I. 8vo. 

Schwanert, H. Lehrbuch der pharmaceutischen Chemie. Vol. n. 
Braunschweig, 1883. 

Smith, R. Angus. A centenary of science in Manchester. For the 
hundredth year of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Man- 
chester (1881). London, 1883. 8vo. 

Spencer, J. Elementary practical chemistry and laboratory practice. 
London, 1883. 12mo. 

Stoddard, John T. An outline of qualitative analysis for beginners. 
Northampton, Mass., 1883. 12mo. 

Sutton, F. Manuel systdmatique d'analyse chimique volum6trique. 
Traduit par C. M6hu. Paris, 1883. 8vo. 

Tesseer, P. Chimie pyrotechnique, ou traite pratique des feux colored. 
Paris, 1883. 8vo. 



CHEMISTRY. 657 

Thomsen, .Julius. Thermocbeiiiisclie Untersuchungen. 3 vols. Leip- 
zig, 1882-'83. 

Tkoost, L. Precis de chimie. 16 edit. Paris, 1883. 

Yolta, A. Nozioni di cbimica. Milano, 1882. 

Ward, G. M. Compend of chemistry. Philadelphia, 1883. 12mo. 

Watts, Henry. A manual of chemistry. Vol. i. Physical and inor- 
ganic. London, 1883. 

Webster, N". B. Outlines of chemistry for agricultural colleges, pub- 
lic and private schools, and individual learners. New York, 1883. 
32mo. 

Wehner. Leitfaden der Chemie, iiit besonderer Beriicksichtigung der 
landwirthschaftlichen Gewerbe. Berlin, 1883. 8vo. 

Wenghoffer, L. Lehrbuch der anorgauischen, reinen und techui- 
schen Chemie auf Grundlage der ueuesten Forschungen und der 
Fortschritte der Technik. I part. Stuttgart, 1883. 8vo. 

Weselsky. P., und li. Benedikt. Dreissig Uebuugsaufgaben als 
erste Anleitung zur quantitativen Analyse. Wien, 1883. 8vo. 

Will, H. Anleitung zur chemischen Analyse. 12 edit. Leipzig, 1883. 
8vo. 

. Tafelu zur qualitativen chemischen Analyse. 12 edit. Leip- 
zig, 1883. 

Wisser, John P. Chemical manipulations. Course of sciences ap- 
plied to military art. Printed at the United States Artillery School, 
Fort Monroe, Va, 1883. roy. Svo. 

Witthaus, R. A. The Medical Student's Manual of Chemistry. 1883. 

Woodward, C. J. Arithmetical chemistry, or arithmetical exercises 
for chemical students. London, 1883. Svo. 

Wroblewski, S. von, und Olszewski. Ueber die Verfliissigung des 
Sauerstoffes und die Erstarrung des Schwefelkohlenstoffes und Al- 
cohols. Wien, 1683. 

Wurtz, Adolphe. Diction n aire de chimie pure et appliquee. Sup- 
plement. Fasc. 3. Paris, 1883. roy. Svo. 

Wurtz, Adolphe. Lecons elementaires de chimie moderne. 5 edition. 
Paris, 1883. 

Zaengerle, M. Grundriss der Chemie und Miueralogie. Nach den 
ueuesten Ansichten der Wissenschaft fur den Unterricht an Mit- 
telschulen, besonders Gewerbe-, Handels- und Realschulen bear- 
beitet. 1 part. Braunschweig, 1883. Svo. 

NECROLOGY OF CHEMISTS, 1883. 

Dr. J. Lawrence Smith, of Louisville, Ky., died October 12, 1883. 
Dr. Smith was born near Charleston, S. C, December 16, 1818; was 
graduated from the University of Virginia, and from the medical de- 
partment of the University of South Carolina. In early life he followed 
the profession of civil engineer, but afterward turned his attention to 
H. Mis. 69 42 



658 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

chemistry and mineralogy, making also a specialty of meteorites, lie 
was the inventor of the inverted microscope, so useful in the study of 
chemical reactions. Iu 1851 he was elected professor of chemistry in 
the University of Virginia, and later to the same chair in the Medical 
College at Louisville, Ky. During his later years he was the chemist 
and superintendent of the Louisville Gas Works. 

Dr. Smith's original contributions to chemistry and mineralogy are 
numerous and important ; with the smaller papers they aggregate 
nearly one hundred. He published his collected researches in 1873 in 
an 8vo volume of 400 pages. These embrace several papers on emery, 
of both Chester, Mass., and of Asia Minor ; several memoirs on meteor- 
ites, describing more than twenty-five different specimens, and valu- 
able papers on analytical methods with which his name will always 
be associated. Dr. Smith was a member of many learned societies, and 
received high honors from several European Governments. 

Dr. Leonard D. Gale died in Washington, D. C, October 22, in 
his eighty-fourth year. Dr. Gale was a chemist and physicist and 
aided Prof. S. F. B. Morse in his early experiments in telegraphy. 
' Charles Herbert Hutchinson, a pharmaceutical chemist, died 
in London in April, aged 24. He published several original researches, 
and at the time of his death was assistant to Professor Armstrong at 
the London Institution. 

Peter Spence, born at Brechin, Scotland, in 1806, died at Old 
Trafford July 5, 1883. He founded the Pendleton Alum Works, near 
Manchester, which were the largest in the world, being capable of 
producing 200 tons of alum per week. Mr. Spence took out fifty to 
sixty patents, nearly all for improvements iu chemical processes. He 
was accounted one of the best practical chemists of the day, obtaining 
this distinction by hard work in the laboratory. 

Dr. James Young, the distinguished industrial ehemist of Scotland, 
died near Glasgow, May 14, 1883, in his seventy-first year. His name 
has long been identified with the paraffin industry, in which he amassed 
great wealth. 

John Elliott Howard, a well-known chemist of London, died iu 
November, aged seventy-six years. 

Dr. Arthur F. Taylor, professor of chemistry in the Case School 
of Applied Science, Cleveland, Ohio, died suddenly in New York City, 
June 28, aged thirty-two years. Dr. Taylor was born in Andover, 
Mass., December 10, 1853, was graduated at Dartmouth in 1874, and 
at th } University of Gottengen two years later. He took an active 
part in the organization of the Case School of Applied Sciences, and 
his early death removed therefrom a man of bright promise. 

Dr. Karl Ludwig Beimer, an industrial chemist of Prussia, died 
January 15, 1883. Beimer was born December 25, 1845, in Leipzig. 
In 1875 he made the neat discovery that salicylaldehyde results from 
the action of chloroform on phenol in the presence of alkalies. 



CHEMISTRY. 6.59 

Prof. Wilhelm Weith, of Zurich, who died November 20, 1881, is 
honored with a full obituary and portrait in the Berichte der deutechen 
vhemischen Gesellschaft for 1882. Weith was born at Honiburg May 9, 
1846. 

Prof. Vinzenz Kletzinsky died March 18, 1882. He was born July 
16, 1826, in Gutenbrunn, Lower Austria. A full notice of his life and 
labors is published in the Berichte der deutschen chemischen Gesellschaft 
for 1882. 



minp:ralogy. 



By Prof. Edward S. Dana, 

Yale College, New Haven, Conn. 



GENERAL WORKS ON MINERALOGY. 

The most important contribution of the year 1883 to mineralogical bib- 
liography is the work of Prof. Antonio D'Achiardi, of Pisa, upon the 
metals, their ores and ore-deposits. This work differs from the earlier 
publication of the same author (on the Mineralogy of Tuscany, 1872 
-73), in that its object is mainly technical, and yet the amount of mate- 
rial brought together is so large and the maimer of handling the subject 
so masterly that it is of no less value to the mineralogical student 
than to the mining engineer. The work is coutaiued in two volumes 
aggregating more than a thousand pages. The author takes up the im- 
portant metals, as gold, silver, copper, and so on, in detail, but includes 
in the discussion nearly all the elements, even the rarest of them, as 
gallium, samarium, &c. Under each head a description is given of the 
important minerals furnishing the element in question, then of their 
ore-deposits, and with this is coupled a valuable discussion of the 
methods of deposition, the formation of mineral veins, and similar mat- 
ters. In regard to the latter subject, it may be noted that the author 
is in general inclined to look for the source of the metals to the 
depths from which the eruptive rocks, which so often occur with the ore- 
deposits, have been derived ; he favors the view, further, that in the 
majority of cases the ores have reached the vein by hydroplutonic pro- 
cesses in connection with eruptions, and as compounds with sulphur, 
antimony, or arsenic. 

The Lehrbucli der Mineralogie, by Tschermak, has been completed dur- 
ing the past year, and forms, perhaps, the best general text-book in the 
German language. The physical portion of the subject is presented 
with much clearness, but the description of many of the most important 
species is meager and unsatisfactory, even for the class of students for 
which the book was especially prepared. A valuable general work 
on mineralogy by A. de Lapparent has also appeared. It is divided 
into three parts, of which the first is devoted to Geometrical Crystallo- 
graphy, the second to Physical Crystallography, and the third to the 

661 



662 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Description of Species. The method of classification of species is novel, 
the part which each species plays in the formation of the earth's crust 
being the determining point. Thus four classes are recoguized: (1) 
Silicates or elements of the fundamental rocks ; (2) Elements of min- 
eral veins; (3) Metallic minerals: (4) Combustible minerals. The 
book is intended particularly for the use of geologists, as will be in- 
ferred from the system of arrangement of species adopted. 

Professor Heddle, of St. Andrew's, Scotland, has published in the 16th 
volume of the Encyclopedia Britannica a chapter on mineralogy, which 
covers nearly one hundred quarto pages, and which deserves to be rec- 
cognized as an addition to the list of general treatises upon the science. 
The author covers more or less completely all the departments of his 
subject, giving a large number of illustrations. The description of 
species is, on the whole, more complete than could have beeu expected, 
considering the obvious limitations to which the author was subjected. 

A new and enlarged edition of Dana's Text-book of Mineralogy has 
been published. This includes several new chapters upon improved 
instruments for crystallographic and optical study, upon new methods 
employed in determining the physical characters of minerals, as, for 
example, the specific gravity and so on, and also a chapter containing 
brief descriptions of new species, and new points in regard to old 
species. A second appendix has been issued to the third edition of the 
Mineralogy of Chili, by I. Domeyko, which contains some new matter, 
chiefly of local interest. Of local character, also, is the second edition 
of the Minerals of New South Wales, by Liversidge. 

Under the auspices of the United States Geological Survey, Mr. 
Albert Williams, jr., has prepared a volume of much importance, enti- 
tled Mineral Resources of the United States. The design of the work is 
chiefly technical. It is divided into two parts: the first contains state- 
ments and statistics in regard to the occurrence and production of the 
more important mineral products, such as iron, copper, lead, zinc, &c, 
also coal and petroleum ; still farther, building-stones, bricks, clays, 
fertilizers, salt, borax, sulphur, &c. Chapters of considerable length 
are devoted to the more important of these, which have been prepared 
in most cases by specialists, whose past experience has given them un- 
usual facilities for acquiring the kind of information called for. The sec- 
ond part of the volume contains statistics arranged in tabular form 
for each State, giving the scientific and popular names of the various 
ores, minerals, &c, which are now mined, and, in a second table, those 
which are known to occur, but which are not mined at present, with, 
in each case, a general statement of the localities. These tables have 
been prepared very rapidly, and hence are professedly incomplete; but 
the design is to revise and enlarge them as additional material is col- 
lected. 

Although not strictly devoted to mineralogy, a new work undertaken 
by Tschermak deserves to be mentioned. It is to be devoted to the 






MINERALOGY. 663 

description of the microscopic constitution of meteorites, and will consist 
largely of photographic illustrations, together with such descriptions 
and explanations in the text as the subject calls for. The preparation of 
the illustrated plates has been intrusted to J. Grimm, of Offenburg, 
who has carried through in so admirable a manner the work of Cohen 
devoted to the illustration of the microscopic structure of minerals. 
One part of this work on meteorites has appeared, and the remainder 
will be looked for with iuterest. It promises to supply a long-felt need, 
that of a general work which shall present, in systematic form, for 
the benefit of the many interested in the subject, the large amount of in- 
formation which the microscopic study of meteorites has led to. 

CRYSTALLOGRAPHY AND PHYSICAL MINERALOGY. 

A very large uumber of articles have been published devoted to a de- 
scription of the crystalline form of minerals, but most of them are of 
too limited iuterest to require notice here. Attention will be called only 
to a few of more general character. The species of the feldspar group 
have been the objects of much study both with reference to their crys- 
talline form and their optical properties. Klockmaun, for example 
(Zeitsch. Kryst., vi, 493), has studied the various kinds of twin-crystals 
of orthoclase which occur in the granitite of the Eiesengebirge, with the 
result of adding materially to our knowledge of this already complex 
subject. Forstuer (Zeitsch. Kryst., vin, 125, also, I, 547) has devoted 
himself to the feldspars which occur in the volcanic rocks of the island 
Pantelleria. He has proved, in the first place, the existence there of a 
sorfa-orthoclase, monocliuic in crystallization and near albite in angle. 
The composition corresponds to one molecule of orthoclase, or potassium 
aluminum silicate, and two molecules of an analogous sodium-aluminum 
silicate. Other eases of a sodium-bearing orthoclase have long been 
known, but the sodium plays here a more prominent part, and the 
crystallographic and optical data given by Forstuer are of great value 
in showing the relation of this monocliuic member of the feldspar 
family to the potassium-bearing varieties of the triclinic feldspars or 
plagioclase. Forstuer's investigation of the plagioclase feldspars of the 
same locality is most complete, and yields many interesting points which 
can be only hinted at here. The interest connected with this group of 
feldspars has been much increased since the general acceptance of 
Tschermak's well-understood theory as to their relation in composition, 
and since the optical investigations of Schuster have shown that in 
optical characters there is a transition analogous to that in composition 
from the one extreme (anorthite) to the other (albite). The feldspars 
examined by Forstuer form a series with little calcium and rich in so- 
dium, and hence approximating to albite; but at the same time the un- 
usual large percentage amount of potassium separates fhem from the 
ordinary plagioclase. The author shows, however, that they can be con- 
sidered, in the sense of the Tschermak theory, as isomorphous mixtures 



664 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

of the three known species of plagioclase, containing respectively cal- 
cium, sodium, and potassium. He shows, also, that there is the same 
sort of correspondence in optical characters as that proved by Schuster 
for the varieties of plagioclase containing no potassium. 

A number of other important memoirs on the feldspars can only bo 
alluded to here, as those of Wiik on the feldspars of St. Gotthard and 
of Filmland (Zeitsch. Kryst., vn, 76; viu, 203), and of Bentell (Zeitsch. 
Kryst., viu, 351^, on some Silesian feldspars of the potassium -sodium 
type. More important than these is a new memoir by Des Cloizeaux 
(Bull. Soc. Min. France, vi, 89), who has contributed more to our knowl- 
edge of the optical characters of the members of the group than any one 
else. He has made a new determination of the angle of the optic axes, 
the orientation of their plane, and of their bisectrices, and of the dif- 
ferent kinds of dispersion in a large number of varieties of albite and 
oligoclase. As the result of these, he admits that the relations shown 
by Schuster exist in many cases, but he finds numerous exceptions, 
and concludes that these relations are not generally true as claimed by 
Schuster. The same author has also described a soda-orthoclase from 
the island of Quatre Eibeiras (Ibid., vi, 107), which is interesting be- 
cause it corresponds so closely to the varieties found by Forstner in 
Pantelleria as described above. 

The discussion in regard to the cause of the so-called optical anoma- 
lies observed in many crystals — alluded to at some length in the last 
volume of this Report — has been actively carried on during the past 
year. The most important contribution to the subject is that of Buck- 
ing (Zeitsch. Kryst, vn, 555), who has investigated the effect of a known 
pressure upon doubly refracting minerals, following out a line of inves- 
tigation already entered into by himself, Klocke, and others. Experi- 
ments were made with sections cut transverse to the optic axis of apatite, 
beryl, and tourmaline, and one of sanidine transverse to the acute bisec- 
trix. With apatite the pressure changed the uniaxial figure, seen in 
converging polarized light, into a biaxial figure, the axial angle appear- 
ing in the plane perpendicular to the pressure, lu the case of beryl, the 
section employed showed already a biaxial figure with the angle in the 
direction of the pressure; pressure diminished this, and as it was in- 
creased an axial angle perpendicular to the direction of pressure arose. 
Besults similar to the above were obtained with tourmaline, though the 
axial angle was smaller than in the other cases, and even a pressure of 
100 pounds produced no change that was permanent. It need hardly 
be added that experiments such as the above are most conclusive in 
showing that pressure, as produced by internal tension, must in many 
cases be the true explanation of the optical anomalies. 

Brauns (Jahrb. Min., 1883, n. 102) has made another valuable contri- 
bution to the-snbject. He has followed Klocke in investigating alum, 
lead nitrate, and some other salts. His conclusions are that chemically 
pure crystals (of alum, &c.,) are completely isotropic, while the anoma- 



MINERALOGY. GG5 

lous double refraction arises with the admixture of an isomorphous salt. 
For example, pure crystals of potash alum were isotropic, while crystals 
formed of isomorphous mixtures of potash-alum and ammonia-alum 
showed a more or less distinct double refraction. From this it is argued 
that the mixtures of unlike molecules must exert an influence upon each 
other, causing in some way not clearly made out a sort of internal ten- 
sion. Further investigations in the same field and on a wider range of 
isomorphous compounds are much to be desired. 

The species boracite is one about which much interest has centered 
in connection with this subject, and the thorough investigations of Klein, 
alluded to in the Eeport for 18S2, had seemed to prove pretty clearly 
that it was to be referred back to the isometric system, and its optical 
characters designated as true " anomalies" due to molecular tension. 
The subject has been further investigated by Mallard (Bull. Soc. Min. 
France, vi, 122, 129), chiefly with reference to the effect of heat upon 
its optical properties. His results, as interpreted by Klein, go to prove 
that boracite is dimorphous, since only at a temperature of about 300° 
do the sections become isotropic. At the elevated temperature, then 
the molecules satisfy the demands of isotropism corresponding to au 
isometric form, while at ordinary temperatures the condition of the 
molecules is abnormal and corresponds to their arrangement, or their 
own symmetry corresponds to an optically biaxial crystal. 

Some additional observations have been made by Ben-Saude (Bull. 
Soc. Min. France, vi, 200), whose investigations of analeite and perofs- 
kite are well known. These relate to rock salt and sylvite; he finds 
the probable cause of their doubly refracting character, as observed by 
him, in part by irregularities produced by rapidity of crystallization and 
in part by a cause like that suggested by Brauns, as stated above. 

Klein has published (Jahrb. Aim., 1883, 1, 87) results of an exhaustive 
study of garnet, with reference to its anomalous optical character. 
These are of especial interest, because garnet is often taken by the 
French school (Mallard, Bertrand) as a typical example of "pseudo- 
symmetry," they explaining the optical character as really belonging to 
the molecular structure and the outward form a complex twin. Kleiu's 
observations are most conclusive in showing that the latter explana- 
tion is not the correct one; on the contrary, that garnet is to be still 
considered as a true isometric species, and that the anomalous optical 
characters are due to secondary causes. This memoir of Klein is one 
of the most important that has been devoted to this subject. 

The memoir of Groth (Zeitsch. Kryst., vn, 375, 457) upon the members 
of the cryolite group has been concluded (the first part was alluded to 
in the report for 1882). The same subject has been written upon by 
Des Cloizeaux (Bull. Soc. Min. France, V, 310, vi, 254) and by Krcnner 
(Berichte aus Ungarn, i). Further, Cross and Hillebrand (Amer. Journ. 
Sc, xxvi, 271) have published an exhaustive account of the minerals 
of this group from the Pike's Peak region, Colorado. The crystallo- 



66G SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

graphic, optical, and chemical relations of these minerals are too intri- 
cate to allow of their being developed here, but it may be said in 
general that the result of the large amount of work done upon this dif- 
ficult group has been to establish definitely the form and composition 
of most of the members, so that, though the conclusions reached are to 
some extent contradictory, we are much nearer to a full understanding 
of the subject than was the case a few years since. 

It has been shown by H. 0. Lewis that the magnetite present in den- 
dritic forms in many specimens of mica accords in the direction of its 
markings with the directions of the lines of the " strike-figures" pro- 
duced by a blow on the mica surface with a blunt point. It is, then, a 
case of parallelism between the crystalline directions of the two species, 
analogous to many similar examples, like rutile on hematite, albite on 
orthoclase, tetrahedrite on chalcopyrite, and so ou. The same author 
(Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philacl., February, 1883) has described what he 
regards as a crystallized serpentine from Way's quarry, Delaware. A 
very much detailed article on the structural peculiarities of the danburite 
crystals from the Skopi, Switzerland, has been published by Schuster. 
(Tscliermalc, Min. Petr. Mitth., V, 397.) 

Some progress has been made in the investigation of the relations of 
crystals with respect to cohesion. Gleitflache is the German name for a 
slipping surface, or the direction in a crystal in which a slipping of the 
molecules may be made to take place by pressure or a blow. This sub- 
ject was first developed by Eeusch, but others have since followed in 
the same line. The well-known artificial twins of calcite (as shown by 
Baumhauer) are a good example of this molecular slipping. Recently 
the subject has been further investigated by Miigge (Jahrb. Mm., 1883, 
I, 32 ; ii, 13) with respect to gypsum, stibnite, and some other species. 
More important than his special observations are the conclusions which 
he reaches that these "Gleitfiaehen" appear to be limited to minerals 
showing great differences of cohesion in different directions — that is, 
those Avith perfect cleavage — and they exist most distinctly at right 
angles to this cleavage direction, or where the cohesion is a maximum. 
This molecular slipping then takes place because the cohesion being- 
greatest a separation of the molecules can be effected with most diffi- 
culty, while the slipping takes place with no more difficulty than in 
other directions. Planes of cleavage and of molecular slipping are theu 
diametrically opposed to each other. 

The methods of determining the specific gravity of minerals and of 
separating mechanically mineral mixtures have been reviewed by 
Gisevius in an inaugural dissertation published in Bonn. The author 
concludes that the methods usually employed, involving the rise of the 
hydrostatic balance, the pyenometer, and the spiral balance of Jolly, 
are all liable to considerable error. He then goes on to the discussion 
of a method suggested by Brugelmann, namely, to determine the abso- 
lute weight of the fragment by a balance, and then its volume by the 



MINERALOGY. 6G7 

increase in volume which it causes when introduced into a liquid con- 
tained in a calibrated cylinder. The author suggests an improvement 
in the latter part of the process, and gives the results of numerous 
determinations of the specific gravity of quartz fragments. The numbers 
obtained vary rather widely in the second decimal place, which the 
author concludes is due to impurities and inclosures in the specimens 
taken; which, however, would hardly seem possible if the material was 
selected with any care. For the mechanical separation of mineral mixt- 
ures the author regards the solution of D. Klein (see report for 1882), 
the borotungstate of cadmium, as being the best means, preferable to the 
Sonstadt solution — that is, potassium-mercury iodide. 

Kohrbach ( Wiedemami's Annalen, xx, 169) has suggested as a substi- 
tute for the Sonstadt solution a solution of barium-mercury iodide. 
It is obtained by mixing together thoroughly in a flask 100 parts barium 
iodide and 130 parts of mercury iodide, then adding 20 cc. of distilled 
water, and heating to 150° or 200° over an oil-bath. The solution is 
agitated constantly, and when complete it is evaporated down in a 
water-bath, and then on cooling a solution in which topaz floats is 
obtained. The specific gravity of the solution is from 3.575 to 3.588. 
It is less easy to use than the Sonstadt solution, being very hygroscopic, 
and besides it is decomposed on the addition of water, crystals of red 
mercury iodide separating out. It can only be diluted consequently by 
the addition of a dilute solution specially prepared. Biittgeubach has 
proposed a method by which different minerals may be separated from 
their mixtures on a large scale by taking advantage of their different 
degrees of cohesion. If, for example, two minerals of different brittle- 
ness are thrown against a solid surface, one is broken up into smaller 
fragments than the other. Thus when sphalerite and pyrite were thrown 
several times against a cylinder and then sifted, it was found that the 
larger sieves collected the fragments of pyrite, while the particles of 
sphalerite, being finer, passed through and were collected on others. 
This is only useful as a metallurgical process. 

In the subject of heat a memoir by Fletcher (Phil. Mag., October, 
November, December, 1S83) must be mentioned, which discusses from 
a mathematical standpoint the expansion of crystals upon change of tem- 
perature. This memoir forms a continuation of an early discussion of 
the subject by the same author, in which a series of propositions are 
established by mathematical reasoning, which result from the assumption 
that the geometrical and physical character of a crystal are the same 
along all lines having the same direction. Since the publication of the 
first paper an extensive series of measurements has been made by Beck- 
enkamp with a view to determining the degree of permanency of the 
thermic axes (as defined by Neumann), and this second paper is largely 
devoted to a discussion of the bearing of Beckenkamp's measurements 
and their mathematical explanation. M. Dufet (Bull. *S'oc. Min. France, 
VI, 75) has given a discussion of the variation in the indices of refrac- 



668 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

tion of quartz under the influence of change of temperature, a subject 
on which much work has already been done, especially by French 
physicists. 

In the department of electricity attention may be called to a memoir 
of Hankel (Abhandl. Sachs. Ges. Wissenschaften, xn, 552), which forms a 
continuation of a line of experiments which he has been following out 
for a series of years. In this, the sixteenth paper, he gives the thermo- 
electrical properties of a number of minerals, as helvite, pyromorphite, 
phenacite, and so on ; his experiments go to show the distribution of the 
positive and negative electricity on the crystalline surfaces of the min- 
erals under examination. Routgen has published ( Oberhess. Ges. Natur.- 
und IleUlcunde, xxn, 40, 97, 181) several memoirs dealing with the elec- 
trical properties of quartz, and with its optical properties as influenced 
by electricity. Thus he explains the development of free electricity 
in quartz by pressure, or by piezoelectricity (as defined by Hankel). 
This subject has already been treated by J. and P. Curie, but Rontgen 
carries it further than these authors, making use of a sphere of quartz 
which could be subjected to pressure in any desired direction. He also 
explains the development of electricity by change of temperature 
(thermo-electricity) and by radiation (called actino-electricity). Still 
further, he shows what changes in the double-refraction of quartz are 
caused by electrical forces. Kundt ( Wiedemann's Annalen, xviii, 228) 
has followed a somewhat similar line of investigation, developing the 
optical behavior of quartz when placed in an electrical field. Thus a 
prism of quartz, cut parallel to the vertical axis, and with a square sec- 
tion, was electrified on the opposite pair of prismatic faces with positive 
and negative electricity. This had the effect of changing the circles 
of the interference figures, as seen in polarized light, into ellipses whose 
axes varied in position according to which pair of faces was then elec- 
trified — the change corresponding to an expansiou or contraction of the 
crystal. Another memoir by Kundt (Ber. AJc. Berlin, April 5, 1883) 
is devoted to the explanation of a simple method by which the pyro- 
electricity and piezo-electricity can be investigated by means of the use 
of the so-called "Lichteuberg figures." 

The pyro-electricity of sphalerite and boracite forms the subject of an 
important paper by Friedel and Curie (Bull. Soc. Min. France, vi, 191). 
The observations on boracite are especially interesting in connection 
with the results obtained by Mallard, as stated above, that boracite is 
truly isometric above 205° C. ; they show that boracite becomes pyro- 
electric only when it ceases, on the fall of temperature, to be isometric. 

The use of the new contact-lever goniometer (Fukl-Hebel Goniometer) 
of Fuess is discussed by Schmidt (Zeitsch. Kryst., vin, 1). He shows that 
under favorable circumstances the degree of accuracy is very great. It 
need hardly be recalled here that the object of this goniometer is to 
measure the angles between two crystalline faces, which are not capable 
of affording reflections, so that the reflecting goniometer can be em- 



MINERALOGY. 669 

ployed. It consists, briefly, of a Wollaston goniometer and a lever ar- 
rangement attached to the stand, which brings a tine point down to the 
plane to be measured. By use of the lever each of the planes can be 
adjusted so that its surface is perpendicular to their index, and then the 
angle between the planes is given in the usual way ; in a word the touch 
of the index takes the place of the reflection to the eye in fixing the 
position of the two planes in succession. 

The stauroscope, the degree of accuracy it admits of, and the kind of 
errors it involves, is the subject of a somewhat diffuse paper by Las- 
peyres (Zeitsch. Eryst., yiii, 97). He claims for the instrument a high 
degree of accuracy, but shows that there are certain unavoidable errors 
which limit its use as the instruments are now constructed. 

CHEMICAL MINERALOGY. 

The subject of the artificial production of minerals continues to be 
one to which many contributions are being made, particularly by the 
French chemists. Bourgeois (Bull. Soc. Min. France, vi, 64) describes 
the production of crystallized rhodonite by fusing together silica and 
manganese dioxide. Gorgeu has obtained (lb., p. 13G) hausmannite in 
brilliant octahedral crystals by the aid of manganese chloride kept 
fused at a red heat in an oxidizing atmosphere charged with water 
vapor. The same author (1 b., p. 2S3) has succeeded in forming, by the 
synthetic method, the manganese garnet, spessartite. Lacroix (lb., 
173, 175) describes artificial crystals of gypsum, and also crystals of 
cerussite, which had formed in bronze coins of Boinau origin found iu 
Algeria. 

Two important pa]>ers bearing upon the paragenesis of certain me- 
tallic minerals have been presented by Le Conte (Amer. Jour. Sc, xxv, 
424; xxvi, 1). In one of them he describes the mineral vein formation — 
chief in interest the cinnabar deposits — which is now in progress at 
Steamboat Springs, in Nevada, thus following up an earlier paper on 
the phenomena observed at Sulphur Bank. The locality at Steamboat 
Springs has already been the object of extended papers by Laur iu the 
Annates des Mines, 1803, and by Phillips in the Quarterly Journal of the 
Geological Society of London, 1879. The phenomena at Sulphur Bank 
and Steamboat Springs are in some respects very similar, though iu 
others they are quite different. At Steamboat Springs the deposit of 
silica is much more extended, as explained by the fact that the hot 
waters contain mainly alkaline carbonates which carry silica in solution, 
while at Sulphur Bank they contain also largely alkaline sulphides and 
carry metallic sulphides in solution. In the second paper Le Conte dis- 
cusses iu general the genesis of metalliferous veins, arriving at various 
interesting conclusions in regard to them ; they are in part a confirma- 
tion of earlier results reached by others. 

Of the many papers dealing with chemical composition of the differ- 
ent mineral species, the most important is that of Tscherinak (Sitzber. Ak, 



670 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Wien, November, 1883) upon the scapolite group, which may be taken 
as a companion to Ihe earlier memoirs by the same author upon the 
feldspars and upon the mica group. The subject of the scapolites is a 
peculiarly difficult one, since there is the wide variation of composition 
but without a corresponding variation in crystallographic or optical 
properties such as characterizes the members of the feldspar group. 
Tschermak's work is based largely upon new analyses made with 
especial care to insure the highest possible degree of accuracy. His 
method is essentially that which has served to throw so much light 
upon the feldspars, namely, to explain all the varying compounds as 
isomorphous mixtures of two end silicates. In the case of the feldspars 
the two extremes of the series have a real existence, and hence the 
theory rests upon fact, in the case of the scapolite hypothesis plays a 
more prominent part, and hence the system is to some extent artificial. 
The two fundamental silicates assumed as fundamental among the 
scapolites are the meionite silicate Si 12 Al 12 Ca 8 O 50 and marialite silicate 
Si 18 Al 6 Na 8 48 Cl 2 , and all the others are regarded as intermediate 
isomorphous mixtures of these two extremes in different proportions. 

Among the many more papers which might be referred to, can be 
mentioned a few by title only, as the dissertation by McCay upon the 
arsenides of iron and cobalt (Freiberg) ; a paper by Heddle ( Trans. Boy. 
iSoc. Edinburgh, xxx) upon the ores of iron, manganese, titanium, &c, 
in Scotland ; the papers on the cryolite group alluded to on an earlier 
page; a paper by Penfield (Amer. Jour. Sc, xxvi, 361) on a peculiar 
massive variety of descloizite (near tritochorite of Frenzel) from Mexico; 
a paper containing analyses of zeolites from Zritz, Pennsylvania, by 
Sadtler (Amer. Chem. Journ., iv, 356), and another by E. F. Smith (lb., 
V, 272), on minerals from Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, and by D. B. 
Brunner (lb., v, 279) and E. F. Smith, on the composition of some min- 
erals from Berks County, Pennsylvania. 

OCCURRENCE OF MINERALS, ESPECIALLY IN THE UNITED STATES. 

The State of Maine, always remarkable for the fine and rare minerals 
it has afforded, has had several interesting localities added to its already 
long list. At Stoneham, in Oxford County, Mr. Nathan W. Perry dis- 
covered a fine topaz locality. Subsequent work there by himself and 
by Mr. George F. Kuuz has brought to light some very remarkable 
specimens. The finest topaz crystal, in beauty of appearance and com- 
plexity of form, is worthy of being ranked with the fine topaz crystals 
from Siberia. The locality at Stoneham (briefly alluded to in the Be- 
port for 1882) was described by Mr. Kuuz at the Minneapolis meeting 
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. The 
topaz crystals occur in pockets in the albite. They vary in size from 
the smaller ones, which are nearly transparent and of a white or faint 
green or blue color, to very large, coarse crystals, or fragments of 
crystals, weighing more than 40 pounds. An analysis by Mr. C. M. 



MINERALOGY. 671 

Bradbury, made at the laboratory of Prof. J. W. Mallet, seems to show 
that the composition of this topaz is unusual in having three-fourths 
of the oxygen replaced by fluorine, instead of one-half, as usual. Asso- 
ciated with the topaz are a number of minerals, the most interesting 
being triplite, triphylite, columbite, and beryl. Stoueham also afforded 
some very hue aquamarines. One crystal that was found loose in the 
soil had a length of 5 inches, and was perfectly transparent and of a 
rich sea-green color. Auburn, Me., has recently afforded some beauti- 
ful tourmalines, mostly of smaller size, though one had a length of 4 
inches; they have delicate shades of pink, blue, and green. A paper 
on this locality was also read by Mr. Kunz at the Minneapolis meeting 
of the Association, as were others describing the occurrence of large 
crystals of andalusite at Gorham, Me., and of transparent white garnets 
near Hull, township of Wakefield, in Canada. 

Mr. W. E. Hidden (Amer.Jour. Sci., xxv, 393) describes the occurrence 
of some remarkable fluid-bearing quartz crystals in Alexander County, 
North Carolina. From a single large pocket 400 pounds of fine quartz 
crystals were obtained, and many fragments. Some of the crystals con- 
tained enormous cavities (the largest 2^ inches) filled with a fluid, and 
smaller cavities similarly filled were very common. The liquid was 
water with some carbon dioxide. Unfortunately the collection of crys- 
tals was left exposed on a cold night, and the result was the freezing of 
the inclosed water and consequent shattering of the crystals, a coherent 
mass of fragments and cementing ice being obtained. 

The occurrence of rare minerals in Amelia Countj 7 , Virginia (alluded 
to in theEeport for 1882), has been the subject of a paper by W. F. Fon- 
taine (Amer. Jour. ScL, xxv, 330). Earlier accounts of some of the 
minerals have been published by other writers, but the complete de- 
scription of the locality is now given for the first time. The minerals 
were found near Amelia Court-House, in excavations in coarse granite 
veins made for the purpose of obtaining mica. The relations are much 
the same as at other localities in granite veins, so that the locality 
furnishes no very new points of general interest except the individual 
minerals it affords. The most noteworthy of these are allanite, found 
in thin-bladed crystals, sometimes 15 inches long; microlite,in modified 
octahedral crystals of, for this species, very remarkable size (one mass 
weighed 4 pounds); mouazite, in rough crystals, in one case weighing 8 
pounds; helvite, in granular particles and indistinct crystals; colum- 
bite, in masses of 6 to 8 pounds. There are also beryl, fiuorite, garnet, 
and rarely a few other species. 

The very remarkable occurrence of cryolite and other fluorides in Col- 
orado, described by W. Cross and W. F. Hillebrand, has been mentioned 
on an earlier page. A new topaz locality in Colorado has been described 
by the Rev. R. T. Cross (Amer. Jour. ScL, xxvi, 334). It was discovered 
by Walter B. Smith near Platte Mountain, 25 miles north of Pike's Peak. 
A pocket in decomposed albite yielded upwards of 100 crystals and 



672 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

cleavage fragments, and associated with them feldspar, quartz, gothite, 

and fluorite. The largest topaz fragment weighed 1 1 h ounces ; the largest 
crystal weighed. 4 ounces, and was of a light straw color, perfectly trans- 
parent, and free from flaws. The crystals are highly modified. 

A new locality for cassiterite has been described by W. P. Blake 
(Amer. Jour. Sci., xxvi, 235) near Harney, in the Black Hills, Dakota. 
It occurs in a coarsely crystalline granite, together with spodumene, in 
gigantic crystals 2 to G feet in length. The tin ore is also found in 
stream deposits in the same region. Cassiterite is also reported from 
Rockbridge County, Virginia, King's Mountain, North Carolina, and near 
Ashland, Clay County, Alabama. Professor Blake also describes a new 
locality of green turquoise or chalchuite (from the Mexican chalchihuitl) in 
Cochise County, Arizona. This locality is about 20 miles from Tomb- 
stone, on a spur of the Dragoon Mountains, in what is called Turquoise 
district. It is interesting to note that, like the Los Cerillos locality, 
there are ancient excavations which were worked a long time since. 
The color of the mineral is a light apple-green or pea-green, and it is 
less abundant than at the New Mexico locality. 

Professor Harrington, of Montreal, has given (Trans. Roy. *SV>c. Can- 
ada, May 2, 18S3) a description of the occurrence, with analyses, of some 
interesting minerals new to Cauada, viz, meneghinite, from near Marble 
Lake, township of Barrie, Ontario; tennantite, from the Crown mine, 
Capelton, Quebec; strontianite, from Saint Helen's Island, near Mon- 
treal, and acmite, as a constituent of the nepheline syenites of Montreal 
and Belceil. 

Of new foreign localities little need be said here. The magnificent 
stibnites recently brought from Japan, however, must be mentioned 
(see Amer. Jour. #ci, xxvi, 214). The locality is on the island of Shik- 
oku, in Southern Japan. The antimony mines at this place have been 
long worked, and the Japanese have long prized as ornaments the fine 
group of crystals they have yielded. It is stated that they mount them 
in flowerpots to adorn their dwellings. The crystals which have come 
to this country are not only by far the finest known specimens of the 
species, but they outrank in size and beauty the crystals, of all other 
metallic minerals. The crystals are of splendid luster, often very highly 
modified crystallographically, and of remarkable size. Crystals in the 
Yale Museum, for example, have been described which have a slender, 
spear-like form and are nearly 2 feet long. There are also large groups 
with diverging crystals 3 or 6 inches in length. 

NEW MINERALS. 

Bertrandite. — This mineral was briefly announced by M. Bertrand 
several years since (Bull. Soc. Min., in, 9G); and now its characters 
having been fully made out, it has been named after him by his col- 
league, M. Dainour. It occurs in minute crystals attaining a maximum 
length of three or four millimeters. These crystals belong to the ortlio- 






MINERALOGY. G73 

rhombic system, and are sometimes tabular in habit through the ex- 
tension of the brachypinacoid, but more frequently the basal plane pre- 
dominates and the outline is hexagonal. The prismatic angle is 121° 
20* , and twins with axe-entrant angle of about (50° have been observed. 
The plane of the optic axes is parallel to the brachypinacoid, and the 
acute negative bisectrix is normal to the macropinacoid. The crystals 
are generally perfectly transparent, and either colorless or with a slight 
tinge of 3*ellow. The luster is biilliant and vitreous. The hardness • . 
nearly that of feldspar, and the specific gravity is 2.59. The chemical 
composition of the mineral has been established by M. Damour. He 
shows it to be a hydrous silicate of beryllium (glucinum), conforming 
to the formula 2 Be 3 Si 4 + H 2 O; the water goes off only when the 
mineral is subjected to a red heat. In composition, then, it is near the 
rare mineral pheuacite, from which it differs in that it contains water 
as well as in its physical aspects. Bertrandite has been found at the 
quarries at Petit-Port and at Barbiu, in the neighborhood of Nantes. 
It occurs implanted upon quartz and feldspar in cavities in pegmatite. 
(Bull. Soc. Min., vi, 248, 252.) 

Dumreicherite. — In a memoir on the volcanic rocks and minerals of 
the Cape Verde Islands, Doelter describes a new mineral of the alum 
group to which he gives the name Dumreicherite, in honor of Baron von 
Dumreicher, of Lisbon. It is a mineral of secondary origin, occurring 
in crusts lining crevices in the lava. Under the microscope these 
crusts are seen to be made up of an aggregate of fibrous crystals, whose 
optical characters correspond with the mouoclinic system. Crystals 
were obtained from a solution of the mineral, but they did not afford 
the means of definitely fixing the form. The mineral has an astringent 
taste, dissolves readily in water, aud melts in its water of crystalliza- 
tion. Au analysis by F. Kertscher showed that in composition it con- 
sists of four molecules of magnesium sulphate, one of aluminum sul- 
phate, and thirty-six of water. 

Eichwaldite. — See below under Jeremejeffite. 

Empholite. — A new mineral from the remarkable locality of Horrsjd- 
berg in Wermland, Sweden. It is described by Igelstrom, and named 
from the Greek word signifying to hide, in allusion to the difficulty of 
recognizing it in consequence of its minuteness and of its being cou- 
founded with the inclosing gaugue. It occurs in very minute, white, 
transparent prismatic crystals, with brilliant luster. According to au 
examination by Mr. Bertrand, the crystals belong to the orthorhombio 
system, with a prismatic angle of 128° to 130°; the cleavage is perfect, 
parallel to the brachypinacoid, and yields brilliaut surfaces. The plane 
of the optic axes corresponds to the direction of cleavage, and the acute 
positive bisectrix is parallel to the brachydiagoual axis. The hardness 
of the mineral is about six. Before the blow-pipe it is infusible, and 
with cobalt solution it gives a deep blue. According to several analy- 
ses it is essentially a hydrous silicate of aluminum, containing also a 
H. Mis. GO- — 4o 



674 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

little magnesia, lime, and iron protoxide. The results obtained are not 
very satisfactory because the material analyzed contained about six- 
teen per cent, of gangue. The composition brings empholite near the 
davreuxite of M. de Koninck, which, however, differs in containing less 
water. The gangue in which the crystals of empholite are imbedded 
consists essentially of damourite and pyrophyllite ; it forms a white 
finely micaceous mass with greasy feel; some other associated minerals 
are rutile, menaccanite, svanbergite, black tourmaline. (Bull. Soo. Min., 
VI, 40.) 

Groddeclcite. — Described by Arzruni (Zeitsch. Kryst., viii, 343), as 
a new zeolite belonging to the chabazite group, more properly to be 
regarded as a variety of gmelinite. It occurs in small transparent crys- 
tals similar to ordinary gmelinite in habit and angles. In composition 
it corresponds with gmelinite in general, but contains nearly 8 per cent, 
of iron sesquioxide and 3 per cent, of magnesia. The mineral is known 
from a single specimen only, which was obtained in 18G7 from Andreas- 
berg iu the Harz. 

Igelstromite. — This is properly a variety of the mineral knebelite. It 
is described by Mats Weibull as occurring with other manganese min- 
erals at Vester-Silfberg, Norrbarke parish, Sweden. It forms grayish- 
black crystalline masses with irregular texture, sometimes almost homo- 
geneous and again mixed with magnetite and carbonate of calcium and 
manganese. The crystalline form was not determined, but two cleav- 
ages were observed making an angle of 131° with each other, and also 
a third indistinct cleavage at right angles to the others. It is trans- 
lucent with a yellowish color and vitreous to greasy luster. The specific 
gravity is 4.17. An analysis showed that it was a silicate containing 47 
per cent, of iron protoxide, and 19 per cent, of manganese protoxide, 
with 3 per cent, of magnesia. This makes it a member of the chrysolite 
group intermediate between the iron chrysolite called fayalite, and the 
iron-manganese chrysolite called knebelite. It should be added that 
Heddle has earlier used this name as a synonym of pyroaurite. (Geol. 
For. Fork., Stockholm, vi, 500.) 

Jeremejeffite. — A remarkable mineral both from its physical and chem- 
ical characters. It was brought by the Russian engineer, M. Jeremejew, 
from the Soktoui, southeast of Adun-Tschilon, in Western Siberia. It 
was first examined chemically by M. Damonr (Bull. Soc. Min., vi, 20), 
who gave it its new name. He described it as occurring in hexagonal 
prisms resembling apatite and beryl in habit. Its hardness is 6.5, and 
its specific gravity 3.28. It is transparent and almost colorless, with 
vitreous luster on the fracture space. In composition Damour showed 
it to be essentially a borate of aluminum containing also a little iron 
protoxide. The crystalline form of the mineral has been exhaustively 
studied by Websky (Jahrb.f. Min., 1884, 1, p. 1). He shows that while 
in form the crystals are hexagonal, in fact only the outer shell is opti- 
cally uniaxial, while the interior portion is made up of six segments all 



MINERALOGY. 675 

alike biaxial. Between these two parts of the crystal there is a narrow 
nearly opaque ring. The boundary lines of the six interior segments are 
perpendicular to the prismatic planes. The optical characters of all the 
segments correspond, the bisectrix in each being parallel to the vertical 
axis, and the axial plane making an angle of 30° with the sides of the 
exterior hexagon. Websky proposes to limit Damour's name to the 
uniaxial portion, while to the rest he gives the name Eichwaldite after 
the director of the mines of Nertschinsk who collected the crystals; it 
seems probable, however, that both may have the same composition. 
The crystalline form, according to Websky, is complex; in his view there 
are present, besides the prismatic and pyramidal planes belonging to the 
hexagonal part of the crystals, also some terminal planes belonging to 
the interior eichwaldite which he refers to a drilling of the orthorhombic 
system. It cannot, however, be regarded that the relations of the two 
parts of the crystals have been fully made out. 

Manganhedenbergite. — This is another manganese mineral from the 
same locality as igelstromite, described above. It is a grayish-green 
pyroxenic mineral very near the variety of pyroxene, called heden- 
bergite, and differing only in that it contains between G and 7 per cent, 
of manganese protoxide. Its hardness is 5 and its specific gravity is 
3.55. (Geol. For. Fork., Stockholm, VI, 499.) 

Picroepidote. — According to the examination of MM. Dainour and 
Des Cloizeaux this is a magnesian member of the epidote group, differ- 
ing from ordinary epidote in that the calcium is replaced by mag- 
nesium ; this result, however, is based only upon some qualitative tests 
by M. Dainour, and hence needs confirmation. It occurs in small 
transparent to translucent crystals, which are white or slightly yellow- 
ish in tint. They scratch glass, and are infusible before the blow-pipe. 
They were too imperfect for exact determination, but according to M. 
Des Cloizeaux correspond with ordinary epidote in form and optical 
characters. The specimens examined were from Lake Baikal, in Siberia, 
where they occur with diopside, calcite, dolomite, lapis lazuli, and 
pyrite. (Bull. Soc. Min., VI, 23.) 

Eichellite. — MM. G. Cesaro and G. Despret have given the name 
riehellite to a supposed new mineral from Eichelle, in the neighbor- 
hood of Vise, Belgium. It occurs in compact masses of a cream -yellow 
color, becoming ochre-yellow by alteration. The hardness is between 
2 and 3, the specific gravity is 2. The luster is greasy or resinous to 
earthy. An analysis yielded some doubtful results, but led the authors 
to regard it as a hydrous fluo-phosphate of iron and calcium, with, as 
they believe, the fluorine in combination with the iron. A more com- 
plete examination is needed to prove that it is a new and definite 
mineral. (Ann. ISoc. Belg. Mem., x.) 

Scovillite. — This is a hydrous phosphate of didymiuin, yttrium, and 
other rare earths, described by Brush and Penfield (Am. J. #c, xxv, 
459), from Salisbury, Conn. It occurs sparingly in incrustations in 



676 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1683. 

limouite and pyrolusite. It is botryoidal or stalactitie iu form and 
has a fibrous radiated structure. Tlie hardness is 3.5, the specific 
gravity about 4. The color is pinkish or brownish to yellowish white. 
The authors have since called attention to the fact that it is essentially 
identical with the miueral rhabdophane, which was first announced in 
1878 by Lettsom, and afterwards examined by Bertraud, and more fully 
by Hartley. The analysis of the latter shows it to be a hydrous phos- 
phate of the cerium and yttrium earths. The American mineral con- 
tains no cerium oxide aud a larger percentage of the yttrium earths, 
but the two conform to the same formula and are essentially the same 
species. Rhabdophane is known only iu a few specimens, which were 
obtained many years ago iu Cornwall, England, and which have since 
been called blende. 

Silfbergite. — A mineral near authophyllite, and probably a variety 
only peculiar in containing 8 per cent, of manganese protoxide. It 
occurs iu bladed crystals aud crystalline aggregates with prismatic 
cleavage like amphibole. It has a honey-yellow color aud vitreous 
luster. It is described by Mats Weibull as occurring with other man- 
ga uese minerals at Vester-Silfberg, Norrbiiike parish, Sweden. (Geol. 
For. Fork., Stockholm, vt, 499.) 

Viandite. — A name given by Goldsmith (Peale's Report on Thermal 
Springs) to an unusually hydrous variety of opaline silica or geyserite 
from the Yellowstone Park. It forms a leathery incrustation, drying 
to a soft, crumbling mass; it probably does uot represeut a definite 
stable compound. 

MINERALOGICAL BIBLIOGRAPHY, 1883. 

I. — Mineralogical works. 

D'Achiardi, A. I metalli, loro miuerali e miniere. Vol: I, 402 pp., 

8vo. Vol. ii, C35 pp. Milan. 
Dana, E. S. A text-book of mineralogy, with an extended treatise on 

crystallography and physical mineralogy. New edition, revised and 

enlarged. 521 pp., 8vo. New York. 
Lapparent, A. de. Cours de iniueralogie. Paris. 
Liversidge, A. The minerals of New South Wales. 2d edition. 137 

pp., 4to. Sydney. 
Roth, Justus. Allgemeiue und chemische Geologit. 
TsciiERMAK, G. Lehrbuch de miueralogie. 589 pp., 8v®. Vienna. 
. Die mikroskopische Bescbaffenheit der Meteoriten erlautert 

durch photographische Abbildungen. Die Aufuahmen von J. 

Grimm in Offeuburg. Lief. 1. 

II. — Minera logical memoirs.* 

Becke, Fr. Aetzversuche an der Zinkblende. Tsimerinak, Miu. Petr. 
Mitth., V, 457. 

# This list includes only tlie more important miueralogieal memoirs; a complete list 
of papers would cover many pages, aud would be out of place here. 



MINERALOGY. 677 

Beutell, A. Beitriige zur Kenntniss der schlesischen Kalinatron- 

feldspiithe. Zeitsch. Kryst., viii, 351. 
Bombicci, L. Nnovi studi Bulla poligenesi dei minerali. Parts 1, 2, 3. 

Bologna. 
Brauns, R. Ueber die Ursache der anomalen Doppelbrechung einiger 

regular krvstallisirender Salze. Jabrb. Min., 1883, II, 102. 
Bucking, H. Ueber den Eintiuss eines messbaren Druckes aufdop- 

])eltbrecbender Mineralieu. Zeitsch. Kryst., vn, r>r>5. 
Cross and Hilleiirand. Minerals of the cryolite group recently 

found in Colorado. Ainer. Journ. Sc., xxvi, 271. 
Curie and Friedel. Sur la pyro-electricite dans la blende, etc. Bull. 

Soc. Min. France, vi, 101. 
Des Cloizeaux. Nouvelles reclierches sur recartement des axesop- 

tiques, l'orientation de lenr plan et de leurs bissectrices, et leurs 

divers genres de dispersion dans l'albite et l'oligsclase. Bull. Soc. 

Min. France, vi, 80. 
Doelter, C Zur Kenntniss der vulcanischen Gesteine und Mineralieu 

der Capverd'scben Inseln. Graz. 
Dufet, H. Sur la variation des indices de refraction du quartz sous 

l'inflnence de la temperature. Bull. Soc. Min. France, vi, 75. 
Fletcher, L. The dilatation of crystals on change of temperature. 

Phil. Mag., Oct., Xov., Dec, 1883. 
Forstner, H. Ueber die Feldspathe von Pantelleria. Zeitsch. Kryst., 

viii, 125. 
Groth, P. Beitriige zur Kenntniss der natiirlichen Fluorverbiudungen. 

Zeitsch. Kryst., vn, 375, 457. 
Hankel, W. G. Elektrische Untersuchungen. xvi. Abbandlung. 

Abhandl. k. siichs. Ges. Wissenschaften, xn, 552. 

Heddle, — . Ores of manganese, iron, chromium, and titanium. Trans. 
Boy. Soc. Edinburgh, xxx. 

Klein, 0. Optische Studien am Grauat. Jabrb. Min., 1883, I, 87. 

Krexner, J. A. Die gronlandischen Mineralien der Kryolithgruppe. 
Berichte aus Ungarn, i. 

Kundt, A. Ueber das optische Verhalten des Quarzes im electrischen 
Felde. Wiedemann's Annalen, xvm, 228. Ueber eine einfache 
Methode zur Untersuchung der Thermo-Electricitiitund Piezo-Elec- 
tricitat der Krystalle. Ber. Akad. Berlin, April 5, 1883. 

Laspeyres, H. Stauroskopiscbe Untersuchungen. Zeitsch. Krysr.,, 

Viii, 07. 
Lb Coxte, Joseph. Mineral vein formation in progress at Steamboat 

Springs and Sulphur Bank. Amer. Journ. Sc, xxv. 424. Genesis 

of metalliferous veins. lb., xxvi, 1. 
Liebisch, T. Ueber eine Methode zur Bestimmung der Hauptbrecb- 

ungsindices rhombischer Krystalle. Zeitsch. Kryst., vn, 433. 



678 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

McCay, LEROY W. Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Kobalt-, Nickel-, mid 
Eisenkiese. Inaugural-Dissertation. Freiberg. 

Mallard, E. Sur le polychroisme des cristaux. Bull. Soe. Min. 
France, VI, 45. Sur la chaleur latente correspondant au change- 
meut d'6"tat cristallin de la boracite. lb., p. 122. Sur la determin- 
ation des indices principaux de la boracite. lb., p. 129. 

MtJGGE, O. Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Structurflachen des Kalk- 
spatbes, etc. Jabrb. Min., 1883, I, 32. Ueber Gleitfliichen an 
Gyps, Antimonglanz, etc. Jabrb. Min., 1883, it, 13. 

Rontgen, W. C. Ueber die durcb electriscbe Krafte erzeugte Aende- 
ruug der Doppelbrecbuug des Quarzes. Oberbess. Ges. Nat.- and 
Heilkunde, xxn, 49, 97. Ueber de tbermo-, aktino-, und piezo-elec- 
triscben Eigenscbaften des Quarzes. lb., xxii, 181. 

Schmidt, A. Ueber das Fuess'scbe Fiiblhebelgoniometer. Zeitsck. 
Kryst., viii, 1. 

Schuster, Max. Studien iiber die Flachenbeschaffenheit und die 
Bauweise der Danburitkrystalle vom Scopi in Graubiindten. 
Tscbermak., Min. Petr. Mittb., V, 397. 

Sjogren, Hj. Om de norska apatit forekouisterna ocb om sannolikke- 
ten att antraffa apatit i Sverige. Geol. For. Forh. Stockbolm, vi, 
447. 

Soret, Ch. Ueber ein Refractometer zur Messung der Brecbungsex- 
ponenten und der Dispersion fester Korper. Zeitscb. Kryst., vn, 
529. 

Thoulet, J. Mesure par la reflexion totale des indices refraction des 
min^raux niicroscopiques. Bull. Soc. Min. France, VI, 184. 

Tschermak, G. Die Skapolithreibe. Sitz.-Ber. Akad. Wiss. Wien. 
Nov., 1883. 

NECROLOGY OF MINERALOGISTS, 1883. 

J. Reinhard Blum.— Born October 28, 1802; died August 21, 1883. 
For many years professor of mineralogy at Heidelberg ; bis principal 
work was bis treatise on pseudomorpbs, publisbed in 1843, witb four sup- 
plements publisbed in 1847, 1852, 1863, 1879; be was also tbe author of 
a general work on mineralogy and anotber on litbology. 

Franz von Kobell.— Born July 19, 1803; died November 11, 1882. 
Professor of mineralogy at Munich, author of a general work on min- 
eralogy, a volume of tables for the determination of minerals (in 11 edi- 
tions), of a work on the history of mineralogy, and of many separate 
memoirs. 

J. Lawrence Smith, of Louisville, Ky. Born December 16, 1818; 
died October 12, 1883. He was the author of many memoirs devoted to 
the chemical composition of American minerals, and also to the descrip- 






MINERALOGY. 679 

tion of meteorites. He was for some years professor of chemistry at 
the University of Virginia, and later at Louisviile. 

Friederich Wohler. — Born July 31, 1800 ; died September 23, 1883. 
From 1830 to bis deatb professor of chemistry at Gottingen. His chief 
contributions to science were in the department of chemistry, but he was 
also a mineralogist and published numerous memoirs on mineralogical 
chemistry. 



BOTANY. 



By Prof. William (I. Fallow. 



The year 1883 has not been marked by any especially striking' discov 
ery in regard to the physiology or morphology of plants, although the 
mass of botanical literature is perhaps greater than in previous years. 
In this country, in particular, an unusually large number of notes and 
papers on pluenogams have appeared, and the same is true of papers 
relating to fungi, while there has been a comparative dearth of writings 
on mosses and alga*. The works on physiology, although numerous and 
in many respects important, have not been so elaborate in character as 
in some years. The countless papers on bacteria can no longer be con- 
sidered under the head of botany, for by far the greater part of them 
have a purely medical bearing. 

VEGETABLE ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 

Schimper, in Bot.^Zeitnng, gives the results of observations on the 
development of chlorophyll-grains and other pigment bodies, and, fol- 
lowing Fr. Schmitz, who found that in algaB these bodies were not 
formed from the protoplasm directly but arose from the division of 
previously existing pigment-grains, Schimper has examined the young 
parts of plants, as well as seeds, and finds that either chlorophyll-grains 
or starch-builders are always present, and by their division are formed 
the pigment-grains found in older parts of the plant'. Th. W. Engel- 
niann, in Bot. Zeitung, has a paper on color and assimilation in which he 
considers the question whether the chlorophyll-grains are the only seat 
of assimilation in green cells, and by using the bacteria-method of detect- 
ing an evolution of oxygen, he finds that no oxygen is given off unless 
living chlorophyll-grains are present. Tschirch , in two papers in Bericht. 
Beutsch. Bot. Gesell. on chlorophyll and the morphology of chlorophyll- 
grains, regards chlorophyllan, which is identical with Priugsheim's 
hypochlorin, as the primary oxidation product of chlorophyll, and dif- 
fers with Meyer in believing that chlorophyll and aleuron-grains are 
surrounded by a protoplasmic, membrane, and that the coloring matter 
proper is in the form of an etherial oil rather than of granules. Boehin, 
in Bot. Zeitung, expresses the opinion that the presence of starch in 
chlorophyll-grains is not sufficient proof that it is the first product 

681 



G82 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

of assimilation, and cites the fact that when a solntion of sugar is ap- 
plied to the cut surfaces of herbaceous plants starch appears at once in 
the chlorophyll-grains. Arthur Meyer has a paper in the Bot. Zeitung 
on crystalloids of trophoplasts and on chromoplasts of angiosperms. 
Pringsheim, in Bericht. Deutsch. Bot. Gesell. gives the name of cellulin- 
grains to bodies found in hyphse and oogonia of Sa/prolegniece, which he 
says have been mistaken by Zoff for amreboid bodies. They resemble 
in their chemical nature cellulose, but do not give the same colors with 
the ordinary tests. They do not appear to be capable of assimilation, 
but are rather excretory products. Errara reports that true glycogen, 
identical with the glycogen of animals is found in fungi, especially in 
some Ascomycetes where it at first pervades the whole plant but after- 
wards accumulates in the asci. 

The coloring matters of plants, more particularly the non-green colors, 
are elaborately treated in two papers ; one by Fritzsch, in Priugsheim's 
Jakrbiicher, and the other by Pick in the Bot. Gentralblatt. Borodin, 
in Bull. Acad. Imp. St. Petersburg, has a paper showing the wide distri- 
bution iu plants of some crystalline pigments, related to chlorophyll. 
Lemaire, in Ann. Sci. Nat., states that besides cutiuization the epidermis 
of plants is capable of lignification. Zacharias, in Bot. Zeitung, in an 
article on albumen, nuclein, and plastin, states that a great part of the 
starch- builders is composed of albumen, which is also found in smaller 
amounts in chlorophyll-grains. 

The subject of the direct connection of the protoplasm of adjoining- 
cells through openings in the cell walls, which has long been known to 
be the case in Floridece, and which has recently been shown by Gardiner 
to be true also in the sensitive organs of some plants as Mimosa pudica, 
has given rise during the present year to several papers. W. Hillhouse, 
in Bot. Gentralblatt, shows that a connection of the protoplasm of adja- 
cent cells is not limited to Mimosa, but is much more general than had 
been suspected. Gardiner, in Proc. Roy. Soc. London, confirms this 
fact, and Russow goes so far as to say that " in every plant during its 
whole life the mass of protoplasm is continuous." 

De Vries, in Bot. Zeitung, in an article on the part which vegetable 
acids play in the tnrgescence of growing organs, thinks that in great 
part they act merely by assisting the roots to absorb salts of potash. 
The Ann. Sci. Nat. contains the results of Vesque's experiments on the 
direct observation of the movement of the water in the vessels of plants. 
He says that there is a movement of water when the vessels are full of 
water or when long columns of water are separated by air-bubbles. 
But when small amounts of water and air-bubbles are alternately 
arranged there is no motion. 

Volkens, in Jalirb. Bot. Gart. Berlin, has shown the relation of water- 
pores to underlying tissues in a large number of species belonging to 
3G families. A very full treatise by Famintzin an metastasis and met- 
amorphosis of energy in plants has appeared in Schrift. Akad, St. 



BOTANY. 683 

Petersbvrg, and has been issued as a separate edition. It is in Russian, 
and is a detailed account of assimilation and related topics. Leclerc, 
in Ann. Sci. Nat., has a paper on transpiration, where he gives a history 
of modern theories and discoveries. 

Reinke, in Bot. Zeitung, has a paper on autoxidation in living vege- 
table cells. He states that in every cell are found autoxidators or sub- 
stances which, at a low temperature, and by the action of molecular 
oxygen, can be oxidized in the presence of water, producing peroxide 
of hydrogen. Wortmann, also in Bot. Zeitung, shows that radiant heat 
falling on a growing organ causes it to curve to or from the source of 
heat, and that the phenomena resemble those caused by light. Wieler 
states that plants grow more rapidly under diminished atmospheric 
pressure, although beyond a certain point the converse is true. Stahl, 
in a paper on the influence of light on the growth of plants, Gcs. Med. 
& Naturwiss. Jena, says that in plants exposed to the light the palisade 
cells are specially developed, and that in plants growing in dry, sunny 
places, the leaves tend to assume a vertical position, owing either to a 
lengthening of the upper side of the leaf-stalk, or more frequently to its 
upward bending. The difference in aspect of the leaves of the same 
species when growing in the shade or exposed to the sun arises from 
the fact that, in the former case, the parts of a leaf lie more nearly in a 
single plane, while, in the latter case, they are curved and bent in different 
planes. The action of electric light on the growth of plants has been 
noticed in several journals during the year, but the results arrived at 
are unsatisfactory and, at least as far as any practical application of 
the electric light is concerned, it seems as if little was to be expected. 
Wiesner, in Bot. Zeitung, maintains that there are two maxima of growth 
in the epicotyl of Phaseolns multiflorus, and a repetition of his earlier 
experiments on this point confirms their accuracy. 

The first series of Investigations of the Laws of Grotcfh of Plant Organs, 
by Wiesner and Wettstein, is devoted to a study of the nutation of in- 
ternodes. Baranetzki, in Mem. Acdd. Sci. St. Petersburg, has a paper 
on the nutation and winding of stems. Bengt Joensson, in Bericht. 
Dcutscli. Bot. Gesell., considers the effect of currents of water on growing 
plants, or, as he calls it, Rheotroplsmus. He finds that in the Plasmodia 
of Myxomycetes the growth is against the current, i. e., positively rheo- 
tropic, while in some mucors it is with the current, or negatively rheo- 
tropic. Pfeffer has an important communication in the same journal, 
Locomotorisclie Richtungsbeicegungen dvrch chemiscJie Reize. He states 
that the antherozoids of ferns are attracted by the malic acid given off 
by the open archegonia, while in mosses the antherozoids are attracted 
by cane sugar. Capillary tubes filled with a weak solution of malic 
acid or its salts can be used for attracting the antherozoids of ferns, 
which will enter the mouth of the tubes. Zoospores of Saprolegnia are 
attracted by the denser parts of solutions in which any good nourishing 
material is unequally distributed. 



C84 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

The structure and function of the epidermal system of plants is 
treated in detail by Westermaier in Pringsheim's Jakrbuecher. Am- 
bronn, in the same journal, shows that the presence of pores in the 
outer walls of epidermal cells is not opposed to the theory that the 
pores in internal cells are for the purpose of assisting diasmotic 
changes. Wilhelm, in Bericht. Deutsch Bot. GeselL, reports that in a 
considerable number of Goniferce he found the outer opening of the 
stomata filled with a fine-grained, waxy substance, evidently intended 
to diminish transpiration. In the same journal are papers by Schwen- 
dener on the protective sheath in stems and the way in which it is 
strengthened ; a preliminary communication by A. Fischer on the sieve- 
cell system of Gucurbita; and Wilhelm gives the results of some exper- 
iments with young oaks, which had been stripped of their leaves in 
June, and on examination in the autumn were found to have a double 
annual ring, confirming the observations of Kiny. The Bot. Ccntrablatt 
has a paper by Eussow, Zur Kenntniss des Holzes, insonderheit des Gon- 
ifrren Holzes, which is summed up as follows by the author: The ves- 
sels and tracheids are merely pumps, by which the water is transferred 
from the roots to the leaves by the action of two forces, a suction act- 
ing through the "zweiseitigen Hoftuepfel" and a direct pressure acting 
through the "einseitigen Hoftuepfel." The microscopic anatomy of the 
principal Japanese Goniferce is illustrated by Nakamura in Hartig's 
Unter such, for stbot. Instit. Munich. Klebahn has a paper on the struct- 
ure and function of Lenticells and their substitutes in plants destitute 
of lenticells in Bericht. Deutsch. Bot. GeselL In the last-named journal 
is a short paper by Korschelt, in which he states that not only in Gym- 
nosperms, as had been shown by Dingier, but in certaiu Phoenogams 
he found that the terminal growth took place by means of a three-sided 
scheitel-cell. Also in the same journal is a paper by Urban on the 
morphological significance of the thorns of Aurantiacece. He thinks 
that they are not transformed axillary branches, as is generally sup- 
posed, but the two lower leaves of an axillary branch. The Torrey 
Bulletin has a paper by Shrenk on the hausstoria of Gommandra. 

Van Tieghem and Guignard give some observations on the mechan- 
ism of the fall of leaves, and the species specially exaurined by them 
was Gymnocladus canadensis. In the case of the leaves proper a layer 
of cork is formed at the insertion of the leaf, and the layer of sep- 
aration forms above the cork layer. The leaflets have a meristem 
formed around the vascular bundle of their petioles, and by the forcible 
growth of the meristem the bundle is finally ruptured. In the Proc. 
Akad. Wiss. Berlin, Schwendener, in a paper entitled Zur Theorie der 
Blattstellungen, replies to the criticisms of his opponents, especially 0. 
De Candolle. Goebel's paper in Pringsheim's Jahrbuecher on the de- 
velopment of certain inflorescenses confines itself to the Gramincce 
and Urticacece. In the Bot. Zeitung Goroschankin describes and figures 
sieve-plates in the membranes of the corpuscula of Cycads and Coni- 



BOTANY. 6*85 

fers, and Prohaska states that in Daphne the nuclei of the embryo-sack 
neither unite with one another nor subsequently divide to form the 
nuclei of the endosperm. Celakovsky, in Pringsheim's Jahrbneeher, 
1ms a paper on Homologien der generativen Produkte der Fruchtblatter in 
Phsenogams and higher Cryptogams. 

To settle the question whether Drosera was really nourished by the 
insects caught and dissolved by the leaves, Btisgen started with seedling 
plants and kept them under pontrol, feeding some with insects while 
others were kept free from insects. Llis results, given in Bot. Zeitung, 
confirm the accuracy of Darwin's views, for the Proserce fed on insects 
were better developed than those which were not. Marcus A.Jones 
finds that insects are caught by Mentzelia Icevicaulis. The hairs on the 
leaves are furnished with barbs, so that insects which insert their heads 
between the barbs cannot withdraw them. There was no evidence, 
however, that the insects were digested by the plants. In the American 
Naturalist J. F. James, in an article entitled Pitcher Plants, describes the 
contrivances of Sarraceuiw for catching insects. 

Of the numerous papers treating of the mode of fertilization of differ- 
ent flowers we can refer only to a few of the more important. Kosinos 
has several papers by Fritz and Hermann Mueller. In Pie Blumen des 
Melonenba times Fr. Mueller remarks that Garica papaya, the pawpaw, is 
an exception to Sprengel's rule, that, in entomophilous plants with im- 
perfect flowers the males are more conspicious than the female, and Her- 
mann Mueller follows with remarks on fertilization of monoecious spe- 
cies. The last-named botanist has two other papers in Kosmos : one ou 
the significance of the change in color of Pulmonaria officinalis ; the 
other, Arbeitstheilung bei Staubgefcessen, in which he discusses the defer- 
ent functions of the stamens with loug filaments and pale pollen and 
those with short filaments and showy pollen both in the same flower, as 
in the crape myrtle, Lagerstrcemia. The showy pollen is to attract in- 
sects and serves them as food, while the pale pollen is for fertilization of 
the flowers. Facts on this subject have also been given by Fr. Mueller 
in Nature. In some biological observations on flowers from South Brazil, 
in Berieht. Peutsch. Bot. GeselL, Fr. Mueller describes the peculiar fertil- 
ization of two species of Cypella. 

The pollination of Aracece has been studied by Areaugeli, who gives 
a number of interesting details in Nouv. Giorn. Bot. The peculiarities 
of the anther of Rosccea purpurea are described by Lynch in Jour. 
Linn. Soc, in which are also papers by A. YV. Bennett on the constancy 
of insects in their visits to flowers, butterflies being very irregular and 
bees very constant, and by Christy on the habits of insects when visit- 
ing flowers, in which he shows that insects prefer a number of succes- 
sive visits to the same species of flowers. Meehan announces the dis- 
covery of sensitive stamens in Echinocactus Whipplei, and he gives in 
Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia some remarks on the fertilization of 
Cactaceie. Meehan reports in Torrey Bulletin that he has found cleistq- 



686 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

genous flowers in Nemophila maculata. Lnpatiem pallida, Opuntia lepti- 
caulis, and Viola sarmentosa. Urban describes the fertilization of Rulin- 
(jia in Bericht. Deutsch. Bot. Gesell., and a large number of facts with re- 
gard to the fertilization of Butacece in a paper on that order in Jahrb. 
Bot. Gart. Berlin. 

BACTERIA AND FERMENTS. 

We can in this connection mention merely some of the more impor- 
tant papers on bacteria which are of interest from a botanical point 
of view. By far the greater part of the very numerous papers on these 
organisms have treated the subject from a medical or sanitary stand- 
point. Zopf's Die Spaltpilzc, originally published in the EncyMopcedie 
der Naturwissemchoften, is a clear and well-illustrated treatise which 
gives the botanical characters and what is known of the development 
of the principal Schizomycetes which produce chemical or pathogenic 
changes. Miller describes and figures in the Bericht. Deutsch. Gesell. 
a large form, Leptothrix gigantea, found on the teeth, and in the same 
journal Kurth describes a new Bacterium Zopfii with coccus and bacte- 
rium forms. The Am. Naturalist gives a description of some pathogenic 
Micrococci by Burrill, reprinted from the Beport Illinois Museum. 

The report of the Carlsberg Laboratory has an article by E. Hansen on 
the Physiology and Morphology of Alcoholic Ferments. He studied espe- 
cially the endospores of different ISaccharomycetes which, although they 
cannot be distinguished from one another by morphological characters, 
yet differ in the time required for germination when exposed to differ- 
ent temperatures. He gives tables showing by curves the maxima 
and minima at different temperatures. The forms called by Pasteur 
lorulce resemble species of tiaceharomyecs, but as they do not produce 
ascospores they are considered by Hansen to be distinct from that genus. 
Hansen's paper concludes with an account of some secondary injurious 
changes which take place in beer from the growth of certain ferments. 

THALLOPHYTES. 

Fungi. — The fifth part of Brefeld's Botanische Untersnehungen treats 
of Ustilaginece, and he has carefully studied the mode and conditions of 
germination of the spores of several genera. The form of germination 
depends largely ou the nature of the medium in which the spores may 
be at the time. Under certain circumstances .veastlike cells are pro- 
duced and these may be propagated indefinitely. Even in other orders, 
as shown in Fxoascus, yenstlike germinations occur, and Brefeld is not 
willing to accept the view that species of Saccharomyces are distinct, but 
he regards them as derived from other fungi. The development iff some 
anomalous Ustilaginece has been studied by Cornu who, in the Ann. 
Sci. Nat. describes and figures some new genera distinguished by the 
mode of germination and anatomical peculiarities. The development of 
the anomalous genus Graphiola has been studied by Ed. Fischer, whose 



BOTANY. 687 

results have been published in the Bot. Zeitung. An examination of liv- 
ing material and of dried specimens including those in Ravenel's Fungi 
Caroliniani shows that tbe genus is not related to JEcidium as some have 
supposed, although it is not easy to say in what order of fungi Graphiola 
should be placed. The Proc. Royal Society contain two papers by Flow- 
right ; in one Mahonia aquifolia is stated to be a propagator of the wheat 
mildew, the aecidium, of which appears abundantly on Mahonia in some 
places in England where the more common secidium on barberry is scanty 
or quite wanting ; the second paper is on the Life History of the Bock 
JEcidium, which he asserts is connected with Puccinia arundinacea D. C. 
The discussion between Pringsheim and De Bary in regard to the de- 
tails of the fertilization in Saprolegniecs has been continued this year. 
The first named botanist has twice referred to the subject. In the Bot. 
Gentralblalt he replies sharply to the criticisms of Zopf concerning the 
supposed amoebae in the tubes and oogonia of Saprolegnice. The other 
paper appeared in Pringsheirn's Jahrbuecher, where he reaffirms his 
views in opposition to the apogamic nature of the spores in some species 
of Achlya. In the Bot. Zeitung of January, De Bary reiterates his be- 
lief in the apogamic character of the reproduction and denies the validity 
of Pringsheirn's views. The Centralbiatt has a paper by Zalewski on 
the reproduction in Cystopus followed by a description of the species of 
the genus ; Baiunier in the Ann. Sci. Nat. has two papers on Mucorini in 
one of which he gives a detailed account of the conditions which affect 
the production of zygospores, while the other is an abridgment of the 
author's larger work on the subject. In his Apercu systcmatiquc des chy- 
tridiacecs in the Arch. Bot. du Nord, Sorokiu gives an account of the 
species of the order known to him more especially, however, those ex- 
amined by him in Russia and the East. Hermann Hesse in an inaugural 
thesis discusses the systematic value of the anatomical structure of the 
gills in Agaricini without, however, arriving at any very satisfactory 
results. A contribution to our knowledge of the lower forms of Myxo 
mycetes is found in a paper by Fayoel in Bot, Zeitung where he gives 
the development of Guttulino protea, The mechanism of the discharge 
of the spores in ascomycetts has been studied by Zopf who, in Zeitschrift 
naturwissenschaft Halle, describes and figures in full the process which 
takes place in several Sordarke where by an expansion of the proto- 
plasm behind the spore at the tip of the ascus, the spore is violently 
ejected and the ascus closed afterwards. Eidam in (John's Beitrage 
zur Biologie has a paper ou the development of ascomycetes, as shown 
by species of Sterigmatocystis, of which some new and curious forms are 
described. In one instance an ascus is formed by the union of two 
similar spiral hyphre. At the end of the paper is a reply to some of Bre- 
feld's views on reproduction in this group. 

The papers treating of American species of fungi have been unusually 
numerous. The 33d and 34th Reports of the New York State Museum 
include descriptions and figures of a large number of fungi new to the 



G88 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Shite by the State botanist Mr. C. H. Peck, together with an account 
of certain common injurious fungi. Peck has also several papers on 
new fungi in the Torrey Bulletin, including a new fern rust, Cceoma 
Cheilanthis, and a new genus, Neopeckia Sacc, founded on the older 
Sphceria Coulteri Pk. A considerable number of new species of the 
United States have been described in the Torrey Bulletin by Ellis and 
Kellennann and in the Am. Naturalist by Ellis and Martin. Hedwigia 
lias notes and descriptions of several United States fungi by Winter, 
some of the descriptions being also given in Torrey Bulletin. Farlow 
in Broc. Am. Acad. Boston gives critical notes and descriptions of some 
of the species contained in the 3d and 11th centuries of Ellis's North 
American Fungi. The Beronosporecc of the United States is the title of 
a paper presented by Farlow at the meeting of the Soc. Promotion of 
Agriculture at Minneapolis, and printed with a supplement in the Bot. 
Gazette. The same writer has also a paper on Some Ustilaginece of the 
United Statts, also in the Bot. Gazette. A description and figure of a 
Phallus collected in Pennsylvania by Rau, B. togatus Kalch., are given 
in the Gazette, and in a later number is a note by Farlow who regards 
the species as identical with P. duplicatus Bosc. The Broc. Cincinnati 
Soc. Nat. Hist, has a paper by A. P. Morgan, Mycologic Flora of the 
Miami Valley, with full descriptions of the Agaricini known to occur in 
that region, illustrated by 9 colored plates. Morgan has also notes on 
some Kentucky fungi in the Gazette. The species of Vromyces found in 
Iowa are fully described by J. C. Arthur in the Bull. Minnesota Acad. 
Sci. A new species of Entomophthora infesting Caloptenus dijferentialis 
is described by Bessey in Am. Naturalist. New American fungi have 
also been described by Cooke in Grevillea, where among other things he 
reports the appearance of a new Cycloderma in Ohio, and states that 
Milleria herbatica Pk. is the long-lost Testicularia Gyperi Klotzsch. 

In Bot. Gazette A. B. Seymour has a note on the synonymy of Buccinia 
heterospora B. & C. A partial List of the Fungi of Wisconsin is given 
by W. F. Buudy in the Geology of Wisconsin, Vol. i. 

The most extensive systematic work on fungi which has appeared 
<luriug the year is the second volume of Saccardo's Syllogc Fungorum 
including the remainder of the Byrenomycetes. Saccardo has also issued 
a series of plates illustrating the fruit of the genera included in the first 
two volumes of the Sylloge under the title Genera Byrenomycetum Schema- 
tise Delineata, and the Fungi Italici Delineati have been continued to 
No. 1440. The classification of Saccardo is not accepted by Cooke in 
many points, and in Grevillea the latter has given a revision of some of 
the genera already treated by Saccardo, viz, Xylaria, Hypoxylon, Xum- 
mularia, Anthostoma and their allies, and in the Journal of Botany a 
revision of Splucrella. The first volume of Cooke's Illustrations of British 
Fungi, including the Leucospori in 292 plates, lias been completed, and 
the beginning of the second volume lias a number of the Hyporhodii. 
Qrevillea has also a notice of new British Funt/i by Cooke, a classifica- 



BOTANY. 689 

tion of the British TJred'mece on the continental method by Plowright, 
and a paper on the general classification and nomenclature of the order 
by Cooke. The fungi of the Netherlands are treated by Oudemans in 
his revision of the Perisporiacece of that country, and by Calkoens in bis 
synopsis of the Uredinece and Ustilaginece of Holland. French species 
have been described in several articles in the Revue Mycologique, and 
by Fabre in the Ann. Sci. Nat. in a continuation of his Sphceriacece of 
Vaucluse, and illustrations of French species are given in the continua- 
tion of Gillet's Hym&nomycetes de France and Patouillard's Tabulcc-Ana- 
lyticce. Australian fungi have been enumerated and described by Cooke 
in Grevillea. The fungi of Rabenhorst's Kryptogamen Flora have been 
continued this year through the Basidiomycetes, and two centuries of 
Winters Fungi Europcci have appeared. Erikssen's Fungi Scandina- 
vici has been continued by a second century, and a new series of fungi 
exsiceati, Ungarns Pilze or Hungarian fungi, has been started by Liu- 
bart. 

Numerous papers have appeared on fungi which produce diseases of 
plants, more especially those of the grapevine. The Untersuchungen 
aus demforstbotanischen Institut of Munich, edited by Prof. Robert Har- 
tig, has several important papers. Dr. Heiurich Mayr gives an account 
of the disease caused by Nectria cinnaoarina in maple, linden, and horse- 
chestnut. Hartig describes the diseases of the white pine (Pinus 
strobus) which appears to be much more susceptible to fungous dis- 
eases in Germauy than with us. Hartig also gives a very full account 
with illustrations, of what he calls Rhizomorpha necatrix, which pro- 
duces the rot of the root and lower part of the stem of grapes, a dis- 
ease which had been previously attributed to a number of different 
fungi by French and Italian writers. No perithecia were found by 
Hartig, who asserts that tbe Rhizomorpha is quite different from tbat 
which has been connected with Agaricus melleus. 

Tbe elaborate memoir of Cornu, Le Peronospora des vignes, which 
forms one of the series of papers on tbe diseases of the vine, published 
by order of the French Academy, although printed in 1882, was not 
widely distributed until the present year. The writer gives a very full 
account of the literature of the subject and details of the microscopic 
structure with numerous excellent plates. Pnllieux, in the Bull. Bot. 
Soc, reports that the oospores of Peronospora viticola have been made to 
germinate. In germination the oospores give out a tube instead of 
zoospores, which is contrary to what take place in the case of tbe con- 
idia. The Bericht. Deutsch Bot. Gesell. contains a paper by Frank, on 
some new and little-known diseases of plants, in which he describes a 
fungus, Fusicladium tremulce, which attacks Populus tremula, and he re- 
fers also to Gloeosporium Lindemuthianum, which produces discolored 
spots on the pods of cultivated beans, and has prevailed not only in 
Europe but also in this country during the year. The Gardener's Chron- 
icle has several notices of fungous diseases, a considerable space being 
H. Mis. G9 44 



690 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

devoted to the discussion by Plowrigbt and others of Jensen's experi- 
ments on the protection against the potato rot afforded by a deep layei 
of soil over the potatoes. The cause of the yellows in peaches has been 
studied by Penhallow in the reports of Haughton Farm, and the con 
ditions of the soil and the alterations in the peach trees are given in de- 
tail, but no special fungus is assigned as the cause of the disease. 

We should in this connection mention a few works which treat of 
fungi which cause disease in man and animals, although they are of 
medical rather thau of botanical interest. The structure and develop- 
ment of the Soorpilz, Oidium albicans are treated by Dr. F. A. Kehrer iu 
a paper published at Heidelberg. The writer states that the spore cap- 
sules mentioned by Burckhardt are merely conidia, surrounded by epi- 
thelial cells, but he agrees with Gramitz as to the existence of resting 
spores. The relations of Aspergillus Jlavus, A. niger, A. fumigatus, and 
A. glaucus, to Otomycosis aspergillina are discussed iu a paper by Dr. F. 
Siebenmann, of Brugg. The species are described and figured in three 
plates of poor quality, and a considerable part of the paper is taken up 
with an account of the effects of certain reagents on the growth of the 
species studied. Dr. L. Lichtheim has discovered two new species of 
Mucor, named by (John M. rhizopodiformis and M. corymbifer, which 
produce disease when introduced into the blood of rabbits. The writer 
gives the results of his inoculations, and a differential diagnosis of the 
Mucormykoses and Aspergillomykos^s. Zopf, in Biol, Centralblatt, de- 
scribes a new species of Myxomycetes, Haplococcus reticulatus, which is 
found in the hog. Dr. J. Schrceter gives some statistics of cases of 
poisoning by eating fungi, which have occurred in Silesia up to 18S0. 
The number is, however, small, and the determination of the species 
eaten was only possible iu a few instances. 

Algce. — Relating to species of the United States may be mentioned 
Notes on New England Algce, No. 2, by F. S. Collins, in the Torrey Bulle- 
tin, where he reports the discovery of Codiolum longipes Fosbe, Calli- 
thamnium membranaceum Magnus, and other species not before known 
our coast. In the same journal Mr. G. W. Perry has a note on large 
specimens of Arthrocladia villosa, found at Falmouth, Mass. No. 7 of 
Wolle's Fresh- Water Algce, also in the Bulletin, describes and enumerates 
a considerable number of species new to the United States, principally 
Desmids. The Bull, Minnesota Acad. Sci. has a paper by J. C. Arthur 
on some algae of Minnesota supposed to be poisonous. There is also a 
Note on Fresh-Water Algce, by Farlow, iu Bot. Gazette, where he records 
the finding of Nostochopsis lobata in Vermont by Mr. Faxon, and of 
Sphairoploea annulina in California collected by Mrs, Austin. 

The sixth part of Agardh's Till Alger nes Systematic is a monograph of 
Ulvacece, in which Agardh includes the Porphyrew of other writers. 
The work is iu Latin and is illustrated by colored plates. The fourth 
part of Areschoug's Observationes Phycologicw is devoted to notes on 



BOTANY. 691 

Laminariea, in which, among other things, are descriptions of several 
iorms from the Pacific coast of the United States. The memoirs of the 
zoological station of Naples include an illustrated monograph of the 
Cystoseirce of the Bay of Naples by Valiante, who, in addition to the 
descriptive part, gives an account of the development of the conceptacle 
in the genus. He differs from Bowers in thinking that the conceptacles 
are not developed from the depressions which bear the hairs, as was 
said by Bowers to be the case in Fucus. The fructification of the 
Floridece has been studied by Fr. Schmitz, who, in a paper in the Bericht. 
konigl. ATcad. Wissenschaft. Berlin, gives the results of his special studies 
of the formation of the cystocarp in different representatives of the 
order, together with general remarks on the significance of the repro- 
ductive process in this group of plants. The development of Cutleria 
adspersa has been studied by Janczewski, who has an illustrated paper 
on the subject in the Ann. Sci. JS r at., where he also considers the rela- 
tive position of the Gutleriece to other algae, and describes a new genus, 
Godleirslia, belonging to the Phycochromacecc. Dr. Max Franke, in 
Cohn's Beitraege zur Biologie, gives the development of a curious alga, 
Endoclonium polymorphum, a parasite of Lemna gibba. 

The first part of Borzi's Studi Algologici, which is illustrated with nine 
quarto plates, is a minute study of several Chlorophycece, five of which 
are made the types of new genera. Flahault, who has studied the varia- 
tions of Nostocs, has a paper in the Bull. Soc. Bot. France, with a plate 
of some of the forms examined by him. He maintains that Nostoe fa- 
gelliforme, supposed to be peculiar to Texas, is only a form to the old N. 
commune, and he has found the same form in France. Under the title 
Zur Morphologic der Cyanophyceen, Ed. Tangl describes a new genus, 
which he calls Plaxonema, related to Oscillaria, and gives an account of 
some stages of its development. In the Bot. Zeitung Hansgirg explains 
the motions of Oscillaria! by a difference in the turgescence of the cells 
at the two extremities of the filaments, and does not accept the state- 
ment of Englemann tflat the motion is caused by a protoplasmic exu- 
dation. Wille, in a paper in Bericht. Beutsch. Bot. Gesell., states that he 
has seen a nucleus in Tolypothrix lanata, which undoubtedly belongs to 
the Phycochromacece, an order in which it was very doubtful whether a 
nucleus existed. In the Bericht. Beutsch. Bot. Gesell. Zopf has a paper 
on the development of Tolypothrix amphibica, which he claims supports 
his view of the variability of the Phycochromacea!. 

The most extensive work which has appeared during the year relat- 
ing to local floras is Ardissoue's Phycologia Mediterranea, in the memoirs 
of the Soc. Critt. Ital. It is a large octavo of five hundred pages, with 
very full synonymy and notes of the Italian Floridew. Thepartof Rabeu- 
horst's Kryptogamenjlora edited by Hauck has been continued through 
the remainder of the Florideai and the Fhwosporece. Cooke's British 
Fresh- Water Algce has been continued through part 0, comprising Chloro- 
sporece, Vaucheria, and (Fdogonium. New British alg» have also been 



C92 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188S. 

described by E. M. Holmes iu Grevillea. Piccone has published an ac- 
count of the algse collected in the cruise of the " Volante" in the Mediter- 
ranean. In an interesting paper on the flora of snow and ice, especially 
in Arctic regions, Wittrock gives an account of the forms known to 
occur in such regions, with notes and figures of the development of 
Sphcerella (Protococeus) nivalis. Lagerheim read a paper on the snow 
flora of Lapland before the Botanical Society of Stockholm. Lundell 
states that he has found Desmids in a living condition in blocks of ice. 
In Pringsheim's Jahrbiicher A. Fischer bas a paper on the occurrence 
of gypsum crystals in Closteria, and in the Bot. Zeitung a detailed ac- 
count of the cell division iu Closteria. Additions to British Desmidiem 
are given by Joshua in Journal of Botany. Parts 11 and 12 of Wit- 
trock and Nordstedt's Algce Scandinavicm appeared this year. Two new 
series of alga} exsiccatas have made their appearance — a British series 
of marine species by E. M. Holmes, and a French series of fresh-water 
species by Mougeot, Manoury, and Koumeguere. 

Diatomacece. — Two very elaborate papers by Otto Mueller have ap- 
peared. The first is on the Law of the Successive Cell Divisions ofMclosira 
arenaria, and appeared in the Bericht. Deutsch. Bot. Gesell. The second, 
in Pringsheim's Jahrbiicher, has a similar title, and is in fact an extension 
of the last-named paper, with ample illustrations. He gives diagrams 
of the divisions of tbe cells by two's and three's, showing how provision 
is made for retarding the diminution in size of the cells to such a de- 
gree that further increase cau only take place by the formation of 
auxospores. The cell divisions of Synedra ulna have been studied by 
Schaarschmidt. Numerous papers have been written on the cause of 
locomotion in diatoms, but the writers differ widely on this point. A 
paper by Eugler on pelagic diatoms of the Baltic was read at the an- 
nual meeting of German naturalists. Lanzi has given a short account 
of the diatoms of Lago di Bracciano, paying particular attention to the 
floating forms. Prinz and Ermenghem have been able to make out 
some obscure points in the structure of the valves of diatoms by means 
of sections of what is known as the Cementstein of Jutland. The 
Synopsis des Diatomees de Belgique of Van Heurck has been continued, 
and series 1 and 2 of Grunow's notes and determinations of this 
work have been published. The diatoms collected during Nares's Arctic 
expedition have been described by Oleve in the Jour. Linn. Soc, and 
those collected on the Vega expedition have been published in the re- 
ports of the expedition, also by Cleve. 

Characece. — Dr. T. F. Allen's Notes on the American Species of Tolypella, 
in the Torrey Bulletin, has full descriptions of six species, with numerous 
illustrations. Henry and James Groves have notes on British Characecv 
in the Journal of Botany ; a description of a new species, Chara soco- 
trensis, is giveu by Nordstedt in the Bericht. Deutsch. Bot. Gesell. ; and 
Spegazzini describes a considerable number of Characece from the Ar- 
gentine Kepublic, several of which are new, in Characece Platenses. 



BOTANY. 693 

Lichens. — Tbe Bericht Deutsch. Bot. Gesell. has a paper by Krabbe ou 
the morphology and development of tbe Gladoniece, in which be states 
that the podetia do not belong to the thallus, but lepresent a part of tbe 
reproductive system, and, together with the spermogonia and apothecia, 
which they bear, form the fructification of the lichen. The thallus 
proper of the Cladoniece consists of what is called the protothallus, from 
wbich the prodetia spring. The development of the thallus of tbe Cali- 
eiece is treated by Neubner in Flora. He describes the changes which 
protococcoid gonidia undergo when growing with hyphae, and states 
that the protococcus form may change into a stichococcus form. O. J. 
Richards has an article in the Act. Soc. Linn, of Bordeaux on the sub- 
stratum of lichens, enumerating 44 species which grow on glass, 43 on 
leather, besides others on iron and bones, and maintains that on sub- 
stances like glass the development can be clearly seen and does not 
support the algo-fungal theory of Schwendener. In his Stuuies on Geph- 
alodia, in the Proc. Roy. Swedish Acad., Forssell describes different forms 
of cephalodia, or formations containing one or more alga? of a different 
type from that of the lichen proper, and considers their bearing on the 
Schwendener theory. 

New American species of lichens have been described in two papers 
in the Torrey Bulletin by Prof. Edward Tuckermau. The papers are 
entitled, A new Ramalina, B. crinita, from San Diego ; and New Western 
Lichens, in which three new species are described, Lecidea Brandegei 
from Colorado, L. Pringlei and Acolium S.ti Jacohi from California, to- 
gether with a new genus, Pyrenothamnia, represented by P. Spragtiei 
from Washington Territory. A new genus has been made by J. Mueller 
from Staurothele diffractella Tuck., which he calls Willya. 

Grevillea contains two papers by Crombie on British lichens, Enu- 
meration of the British Gladoniei, and On the Lichens in Dr. Witherincfs 
Herbarium. The second part of Wainio's Adjumenta ad Lichenographiam 
Laponice Fennicce is a catalogue with critical notes describing a consid- 
erable number of new species. Stizenberger has issued a secoud part 
of his stations and distribution of Swiss lichens, and Zwackh-Holzhau- 
seu has published an account of the lichens of Heidelberg with deter- 
minations by Nylander. The lichens of Franche-Comte' have been con- 
tinued in a third fasciculus by Flagey, and Olivier's Herbitr de VOrne 
et du Galvados has reached its seventh fasciculus. The Bull. Soc. Bot. 
France has a paper by Lamy de la Chapelle on the Lichens of Cauteret 
and Lourdes. Part 17 of J. Mueller's Lichenologische Beitraege in Flora 
is devoted to species from Australia, and part 18 includes for the greater 
part species from Brazil. The same botanist has also described the 
lichens collected by Dr. Naumann on the Gazelle expedition in Engler's 
Jahrbiicher, and given a revision of extra European lichens published 
by Meyen and Flotow in 1843. Additions to European lichens have 
been given by Nylander in Flora. The Journ* Linn. Soc. has papers by 
Nylander and Crombie on lichens collected in Eastern Asia by A. C. 



694 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1881 

Main gay and by Crombie on lichens of the Challenger expedition. The 
Trans. Bot. Soc. Edinburgh has descriptions of new lichens from New- 
foundland, New Zealand, and Scotland by Stirton. 

ARCHEGONIATA. 

Mosses and Hepaticcc — Very little has appeared during the year in this 
department, and that includes principally accounts of the mosses of 
limited districts. Haberlandt has a paper on the function of the axial 
bundle in moss stems in the Bericht. Deutsch. Bot. Gesell., and W. W. 
Bailey has an article on the general structure of mosses in Am. Natu- 
ralist, an Enumeratio. The list of plants from Southwestern Texas and 
Northern Mexico, collected by E. Palmer, to which reference is given 
under Phaenogams, includes mosses and hepaticse determined by T. P. 
James, an Enumeratio. 

Muscorum Europceorum, by Gravet in Revue Bryologique, is intended to 
be an exchange list for European species. The seventh part of Braith- 
waite's British Moss-Flora includes Dicranacece. For French species 
we may mention Husnot's Flore analytique et descriptive des mousses du 
nord-ouest, of which a second edition has been published with a gen- 
eral introduction to the study of mosses, and the first part of Delogne's 
Cryptogamic Flora of Belgium includes the mosses of that country, in 
Germany there has appeared a description of new mosses by Limprieht 
in the Bericht. Schles. Gesell., and a paper on the Sphagna of Flotow's 
herbarium by Warnstorf ill Flora. For Italy we should note two pa- 
pers, one by Saccardo and Bizzozera on the mosses of tl») Venetian 
district, and by Bozzi on the mosses of the province of Pa via. The 
Atti Soc. Critt. Ital. have a first installment of a paper on the bryologie 
flora of Catalina by Bottini, Arcangeli, and Macchiati. The Central- 
blatt has an original paper by Karl Miiller, entitled Musci Tschuctschici, 
in which he describes a number of new species from a little known region 
of Northeastern Asia. Stephani has described six new Sepaticw in 
Hedivigia, one of the species Frullania Pennsylvanica collected by Rau 
being also described in the Torrey Bulletin. Massalongo and Carestia 
have a paper of Hepaticce of the Apennines in the Revue Bryologique. 

Ferns and Higher Cryptogams. — Of general works we may mention 
JS'omenclator der Gefasskryptogamen, by Carl Salomon, which gives the 
synonym and distribution of the vascular cryptogams in a condensed 
form, Van Tieghem's Quelques points de Vanatomie des cryptogames vas- 
culaires in the Bull. Soc. Bot. France, which treats of certain fossil as 
well as living types, and Potonie's Structure of the icoody bundle in the 
vascular cryptogams in the Report of the Botanic Garden of Berlin. The 
last-named journal has also a paper by Prantl entitled Systematische 
Ucbersicht der Ophioglosseen. The same writer has a paper in Bericht. 
Deutsch. Bot. Gesell. on Helminthostachys zeylanica, and its relations to 
Ophioglossum and Botrychium. The Torrey Bulletin includes the greater 



BOTANY. G95 

part of the contributions to North American pteridology for 1883. The 
thirteenth and fourteenth parts of Eaton's New or Little Known Ferns of 
the United States, include a number of new forms, principally Western 
species. In Watson's List of Plants from Southwestern Texas and North- 
em Mexico there is an enumeration of ferns by Eaton, with two new 
species, Cheilanthes meifolia and Ch. cinnamomea. In Fern Notes, No. 6, 
G. E. Davenport records the occurrence of some interesting forms, and 
the Bulletin also contains a description of a new species from Arizona, 
Cheilanthes Pringlei, Davenport. The same writer has a paper on the 
distribution of ferns in the United States in the Proc. Am. Phil. Soc. A 
new variety of Gamptosorus rhizophyllus, var. inter medus, is described by 
J. C. Arthur in the Bot. Gazette. The Development of the Male Prothal- 
Hum of the field horse-tail is the subject of an illustrated paper in the 
Am. Naturalist. 

Comparatively little has been written this year on exotic forms. The 
most extensive work is Beddome's Handbook to the Ferns of British India, 
Ceylon, and the Malay Archipelago. The Journal of Botany has a Synop- 
sis of the genus Selaginella, by J. G. Baker, continued through several 
numbers. Kuhn, in Bericht. Deutsch. Bot. Gesell., has an account of the 
ferns of Socotra, and in Engler's Jahrbuecher Luerssen refers to species 
from Japan and the Loo-Choo Islands. The first part of Adolph 
Oborny's Flora of Moravia and Austrian Silesia contains the vascular 
cryptogams of that region. In the Journal of Botany Hauce describes 
seven new ferns from China and Formosa, and Baker gives a list of 
ferns from east tropical Africa, including two new species collected by 
Bev. J. Hanningtou. 

PH^ENOGAMS. 

Additions to our knowledge of North American Phamogams have 
been very numerous, although most of them have been rather brief and 
in the form of notes in the different botanical journals published in this 
country. The most important paper is that of Professor Gray in Proc. 
Am. Acad. Boston on Characters of new Compositce with revision of certain 
genera and critical notes. This is followed by Miscellaneous Genera and 
Species in which a considerable number of new forms are described and 
synopses of American species of Valerianella, Buchnera, and Orthoearpu* 
are given in foot-notes. The eleventh part of Sereno Watson's contri- 
butions to American botany iu the Proc. Am. Acad, is devoted to a con- 
tinuation of the I/ist of Plants from Southwest Texas and Northern Mex- 
ico, principally collected by E. Palmer in 1879-'80. This portion in- 
cludes all from Gamopetalce to Acotyledons. The determinations of the 
species of Compositce included in the list are by Professor Gray. The 
ferns and mosses were determined by D. C. Eaton aud T. P. James. 
In the same journal is a Description of some new Western Species by 
Watson. A Supplement to Chapman's Southern Flora has been issued, 
including a large number of species particularly from Florida, which 



696 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

were not discovered at the time the Flora was published. Dr. Engel- 
maun has a note on Vitis palmata Vahl in the Bot. Gaz. Dr. Parry has 
two papers in Proo. Davenport Acad Set.; one on Arctostaphylos in which 
he gives an account of the species of the genus found on our Pacific 
coast; the other on New Plants from Southern and Lower California in- 
cluding species of Phacelia, Ptelea, Polygala, and Gilia; Parry also de- 
scribes a new Oxytheea luteola from the Mohave desert, and has a note 
on Cucurbita Calif ornica in Torrey Bulletin. In the same journal E. L. 
Greene describes New Western Compositor and a number of other new 
Western species, and in the Bot. Gazette he has an article on Califor- 
niau species entitled Notulw Californiccc. M. E. Jones has Notes from 
Nevada and Utah in Torr. Bull., Notes from California in Bot. Gaz., and 
New Plants from California and Nevada in Am. Nat. Jos. F. James 
gives a revision of the genus Clemattis of the United States in Journ. Soc. 
Nat. Hist. Cincinnati. The Torrey Bulletin has a paper on Potamogetons 
in Western New York, by E. J. Hill; a description of a new Eleocharis 
diandra, by C. Wright; Notes on the Adirondack^, by Professor Pren- 
tiss ; an account of some leafy berries of Mitchella repens, by Professor 
Dudley, and an account of some Hybrid Oaks near Washington, by Dr. 
Vasey. 

A number of papers on the grasses of the United States have ap- 
peared, of which we may specify the following : The Grasses of the United 
States, by Dr. Vasey, special report No. 63 of the Agricultural Depart- 
ment, in which the genera are described and a list of the species is 
given ; new species of grasses, and descriptions of two new species from 
Oregon and Arizona, by Vasey, in Torrey Bull.; Notes on Spartina; 
List of Grasses from Washington Territory, and List of Grasses collected, 
by C. G. Pringle in Arizona, by F. L. Scribner, in Torrey Bull. Frank 
Tweedy has notes on the Coniferce of Washington Territory in Torr. 
Bull., and Eobert Kidgway gives additions and corrections to the list of 
Native Trees of the Lower Wabash in Bot. Gaz. The Gazette also has 
Notes on Edible Plants, by Dr. E. L. Sturtevant; Notes on the Virginia 
Creeper, by Meehan; Notes from Franconia, by W. W. Bailey, and on 
Eriodictyon glutinosum as illustrating evolution by Eothrock. The Am. 
Nat. has Prof. J. M. Coulter's Development of a Dandelion Flower, a 
paper originally read at the meeting, of the Am. Ass., and an abstract, 
by Professor Bessey, of Lojacono's Revision of the North American Tri- 
folii in Nuovo Giorn. Bot. The Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. has a paper by 
Lester F. Ward on Marsh and Aquatic Plants of the Northern United 
States, and Notes on the Natural History of Labrador, including the 
plants, by W. A. Stearns. Several catalogues have appeared during the 
year, of which we may mention Macoun's Catalogue of Canadian Plants, 
including Polypetalw, Catalogue of Native and Naturalized Plants of the 
City of Buffalo and Vicinity by David F. Day, including cryptogams, 
as well as phsenogams ; Flora of Worcester County, Massachusetts, by 
Joseph Jackson ; Flora of Floyd County, Iowa, by J. G. Arthur, and 
Flora of Oak Lsland, Massachusetts, by H. A. Young. 



BOTANY. 697 

The great work of Hooker and Benthain, Genera Plantarum, was com- 
pleted this year with the end of the third volume. The Monographice 
Phanerogamarum of De Candolle has been continued in several parts, 
including Burseraeece and Anacardiacew by Engler, Panted eriacew by 
Solnis-Laubach, and Gyrstandrea' by 0. B. Clarke, the last-named article 
being illustrated with 32 plates. Engler's Botanische Jahrbuecher has a 
number of papers on phaenerogams, among which may be enumerated 
the editor's Beit rage zur Kenntniss der Araceiv, in which some new gen- 
era are described ; a continuation of Koehue's monograph of Lythfacece; 
Warming's studies of the family of Podostemacea? and Tropische Frag- 
mented including the development of Rhizophora with illustrations. The 
Jahrb. Bot. Gart. Berlin has a monograph of Turneraeea? and a paper on 
Rutaceo) by Urban. 

The Journal of Botany has a paper by Masters on New Passiflorte, 
several papers by Hance on Chinese and Formosan plants, particularly 
important to American botanists on account of the discovery of ad- 
ditional species belonging to characteristic genera of the Eastern United 
States; descriptions of new Bermuda plants by Hemsley, not to men- 
tion other articles. The Jour. Linn. Soc. has an article by Masters on 
Passiflorte collected by E. Andr6 in Ecuador and New Granada, and 
descriptions of a large number of Madagascar plants by Baker. In In- 
crementa Flora? Rossicce Trautvetter gives additions to the flora of Rus- 
sia, and Kjellmann has published two valuable papers on the Phseno- 
gams of the Vega expedition from Northern Siberia, Nova Zembla, and 
Waigatsch, giving the general aspect and conditions of vegetation of 
those regions, together with a detailed account of the phaenogauis col- 
lected. Some new plants from the Argentine Republic have been de- 
scribed by Spegazzini in Plantw Nova? Austri- Americana}. 

A. De Candolle in Nouvelles Remarques sur la Nomenclature Botanique, 
a pamphlet of 80 pages, considers some questions which have arisen iu 
connection with his " Lois de la Nomenclature Botauique." An English 
translation of Poulsen's Botanische Microchemie with notes by Trelease 
has been published by Cassino. Grant Allen's Flowers and their Pedi- 
grees is a work in the usual vein of this author, who has during the year 
written a number of papers on plants iu connection with evolution in 
different popular journals. The Torrey Bulletin has a continuation of 
Gerard and Britton's List of State and Local Floras of the United States 
aud a series of biographies of some North American botanists was 
begun in the Bot. Gazette. 

Necrology of botanists, 1883. 

Anzi, D. M. Died at Como, April 19. 

Bianco, Giuseppe. Died at Avola, Italy, November 12, set. 82. 
Breindl, Alfred. Died at Nabresina, November 24. 
Cesati, Baron Vincenzo. Born at Milan May 24, 1806. Died at 
Naples, February 13. 



698 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Corry, Thomas Hughes. Drowned on August 4, in Lough Gill, 
Ireland, while botanizing with Charles Dickson. 

Crewe, Rev. Henry Harpur. Died September 7. 

Dickson, Charles. Died August 4, at Laugh Gill. 

Duval- JouvE, J. Died at Montpellier, France, August 25. 

Fendler, Augustus. Died at Trinidad, W. I., November 27, ret. 71. 

Gibson, George Stacey. Born at Saffron Walden, England, July 
20, 1818. Died at London, April 5, 1883. 

Heer, Oswald. Born in Glarus, Switzerland, August 31, 1809. 
Died at Lausanne, September 27. 

Kolb, E. Died at Kissleg, Wurtemberg, May 14. 

Lauche, Wilhelm. Died at Wildpark near Potsdam, Prussia, 
September 12, set. 57. 

Mueller, Hermann. Born at Miihlberg September 28, 1829. 
Died at Prad, Tyrol, August 26. 

Nitschke, Theodor. Died at Minister, Westphalia, August 30, 
set. 50. 

Parker, Charles F. Died at Camden, N. J., September 7. 

Pedicino, Nicola Antonio. Born in 1839. Died at Naples, Au- 
gust 2. 

Poselger, H. Died at Berlin, Prussia, October 4. 

Ruhmer, Gustav. Died at Schmalkalden near Berlin, Prussia, 
August 23. 

Spreitzenhoper, G. C. Died at Kierling near Vienna, July 28. 

Steele, William Edward. Died May 6, set. 66. 

Wood, Bev. Robert. Born at Tallentire December 18, 1796. Died 
•at Wigton, England, March 15. 

Young, Alfred Robson. Born at York, England, January 14, 
1829. Died at Brooklyn, N. Y., April 12. 






ZOOLOGY. 



By Prof. Theodore Gill. 



INTRODUCTION. 

The progress of Zoology during- 1883 has been unattended by any 
startling- discoveries, but, nevertheless, has not been less real than 
during the past. Not the least unimportant of the events that has at 
least given a new impulse to scientific investigation, and caused a kind 
of census and review of past acquisitions to be made, was what has been 
justly called "The Great International Fisheries Exhibition " held in 
London during the summer and autumn of the year. The exhibit was 
very large, the numbers of visitors were unexpectedly great (and expec- 
tations were high), and a large surplus in money gains was the result. 
The greatest gain, however, was in the knowledge acquired, the numer- 
ous publications which were the direct outcome of the exhibition, 
and, above all, the impulse to new investigations. As one of the re- 
sults, is a movement to organize and equip a well-provided laboratory 
at some central point on the English coast where facilities may be had, 
such as have given the Naples zoological station a world wide renown. 
One of the most important zoological publications, at least as far as 
American zoologists are concerned, is a u Synopsis of the Eishes of 
North America," published by Messrs. Jordan and Gilbert. It supplies, 
as well as could be expected iu the present condition of Ichthyology, a 
great want, and one that has long been felt. A quite extended notice 
of the work will be found in the subsequent pages of this report. 

As in the previous reports, the language of the original from which 
the abstract is compiled is generally followed as closely as the case 
will permit It has, however, been found necessary to limit the ab- 
stract to the illustration of the prominent idea underlying the origi- 
nal memoir, and pass by the proofs and collateral arguments. At tlie 
same time it has been often attempted to bring the new discovery into 
relation with the previous status of information respecting the group 
under consideration. As to the special discoveries recorded, they have 
been generally selected (1) on account of the modifications the forms 
considered force on the system ; or (2) for the reason that they are or 
have been deemed to be of high taxonomic importance; or (3) because 

699 



700 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



the animals per se are of general interest ; or, finally, (4^ because they are 
of special interest to the American naturalist. Of course zoologists 
cultivating limited fields of research will find in omissions cause for 
censure, and may urge that discoveries of inferior importance have 
been noticed to the exclusion of those better entitled to it. It is freely 
admitted that this charge may even be justly made; but the limits 
assigned to the record have been much exceeded, and the recorder 
has studied the needs of the many rather than of the few. The sum- 
mary is intended, not for the advanced scientific student, but for those 
who entertain a general interest in zoology or some of the better known 
classes. 

A very partial bibliography of noteworthy memoirs and works relat- 
ing to different class of animals is supplied, and will, it is hoped, prove 
to be of use to those to whom the voluminous bibliographies and rec- 
ords of progress in science are inaccessible. Instead of being inserted 
at the head of each class to which the respective memoirs relate, as in 
the last report, the whole is brought together at the end. 

It has been a difficult matter to select the titles which might be 
most advantageously introduced in a limited report like the present. 
Articles of a general interest or of special importance as contributing 
to throw light on the affinities of certain groups have been given the 
tirst place. Necessarily many very important papers have not been 
referred to, and very few descriptive of species have been admitted, and 
only when unusual interest attaches to the new species or the groups 
which they enlarge. 

The compiler desires to make special acknowledgment for most mate- 
rial assistance to the Zoologucher Anzeiger of Professor Carus and to the 
Journal of the Royal Microscopical Society. 

SYNOPSIS OF ARRANGEMENT. 

I. GENERAL ZOOLOGY. 
II. PROTOZOANS. 

Sporozoans; Khizopods; Infusorians. 

IIT. PORIFERS. 

Sponges. 

IV. C03LENTERATES. 

Polyps; Acaleps. 

V. ECH1NODERMS. 

Crinoids; Asteroids; Echinoids; Holothuriaus. 

*VI. WORMS. 

Platyhelminths ; Nematelminths; Annelids. 

VII. ARTHROPODS. 

Merostomes; Crustaceans; Arachnids; Insects. 

VIII. MOLLUSCOIDS. 

Brachiopods. 






ZOOLOGY. 701 

IX. MOLLUSKS. 

Acephals; Gastropods; Cephalopods. 
x. Vertebrates. 

Fish-like Vertebrates; Leptocatdians; Myzonts; Fishes; Am- 
phibians; Eeptiles; Birds; Mammals. 

I. GENERAL ZOOLOGY. 

The deep-sea fauna. — Prof. T. Fuchs has sought to ascertain "what 
is to be understood by the term 'deep-sea fauua,' and by what phys- 
ical conditions is its occurrence governed." He recalls that (1) the limit 
to which sea- weeds desceud is about 30 fathoms, that (2) the reef-build- 
iug corals decrease perceptibly below 8 fathoms, "and a depth of 20 
fathoms is generally regarded as their extreme limit," and that (3) " a 
third important element of the littoral fauna consists of the beds of 
large bivalves" which appear "no longer to occur below 20 fathoms." 
It is claimed " that fully two-thirds of the whole of the littoral marine 
auimals are more or less intimately connected with one or other of these 
three assemblages," and that "it follows directly that the great ma- 
jority of the littoral animals cannot desceud much below 30 fathoms in 
the sea." It is then claimed that " the great mass of littoral animals do 
not descend in the sea much beyond 30 fathoms, and, on the other hand, 
that at a depth of 90 fathoms the fauna already everywhere shows the 
marked type of the deep- sea fauna." As to the relations between the lit- 
toral and deep-sea fauna?, Professor Fuchs thinks "we are in a position to 
lay down a more exact boundary," and comes to the conclusion that the 
"long series of facts from different seas indicate very accordantly a 
depth of about 50 fathoms as that critical zone in which is situated the 
great turning point that separates the littoral from the deep-sea fauna ; 
and we are therefore justified in regarding the line of 50 fathoms as an 
ideal boundary between the littoral and the deep-sea fauna." It is added 
that " it is very interesting to observe that this depth is pretty nearly the 
same in all seas," but that between the tropics the separation of the lit- 
toral and deep-sea fauna? is " to a certain degree real." Moreover, in 
those regions "below a depth of 30 fathoms there follows an extremely 
sterile region, with few animals." Within the tropics, in fact, the littoral 
fauna would be separated from the deep-sea fauna by " a comparatively 
sterile region extending about from 30 to 90 fathoms." Such au inter- 
mediate region is said to be unknown in temperate and cold seas. 

As to the cause of the limitation of the faunae, it is claimed that " light 
is the most powerful factor amongst all the agents which influence 
life upon the earth." It is urged that " the difference which is produced 
in the fauna of the sea by its conditions of light is no other than that 
which we distinguish as littoral fauna and deep-sea fauna; in other 
words, that the littoral fauna is nothing but the fauna of light, aud the 



702 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

deep-sea fauna the fauna of darkness." Professor Fuchs goes so far as 
to contend that " the occurrence of the deep-sea fauna is in no way con- 
nected with the temperature of water." 

The views thus enumerated by Professor Fuchs will not go unchal- 
lenged, and indeed all his propositions appear to be too much general- 
ized at least, and are more or less contradicted by facts within our 
knowledge. 

The origin of sexual differences. — The search for the cause which de- 
termines that the offspring should be of the male or female sex has been 
long carried on by various persons, and every now and then the discov- 
ery of the cause is announced. Hitherto the results of investigation 
have been illusive and unsatisfactory. Prof. E. Pfluger has recently 
renewed inquiries into the fascinating subject, and published the re- 
sults in the Archiv fur Physiologie (vol. xxix). His researches were 
made on frogs, of which many hundreds were experimented upon. 

Dr. Pfluger especially investigated the question whether the concen- 
tration of the spermatic fluid influences the sex of the offspring. Tak- 
ing all due precautions (for the eggs are very delicate), he secured in a 
watch-glass the spermatic fluid of the male, taken in the act of sexual 
congress, and subjected it to various degrees of dilution in water in 
various glasses. Eggs taken from the right uterus of the female were 
allowed to glide into these mixtures. The experiments established two 
facts : (1) the fertilizing power of the spermatic fluid was not diminished 
by dilution, and " all the ova were fertilized in each observation"; (2) 
u dilution of the male fluid had no effect on the sex of the frogs which 
came to maturity after the artificial fertilization." 

There are three categories as to sex manifested in young frogs : (1) 
male, (2) female, and (3) hermaphrodite. " The hermaphrodites become 
finally either male or female, but in their earlier stages they have the 
sexual organs of the female only ; in those which are finally to become 
males the testicles gradually develop around the ovaries and the latter 
are resorbed." The apparent numerical preponderance of the female 
believed to exist in the earlier life history of the frog is illusive, and has 
led some investigators astray, it is urged. The fertilizing power of 
the male spermatic fluid diminishes rapidly after the end of the sexual 
season. 

Dr. Pfluger has to think that it is " impossible" to produce offspring by 
the union of the sexes of different species of Batrachians. Segmenta- 
tion may commence, but this segmentation was frequently of an ab- 
normal type. (Am. Naturalist, vol. xvn, pp. 441, 442.) 

Sense of direction in animals. — That wonderful faculty developed in 
so many animals of being able to find their way to a long-distant spot 
has been the subject of much speculation aud some serious investiga- 
tions. Some of the hypotheses respecting the " sense of direction " thus 
manifested are more ingenious than probable. A French searcher for 



ZOOLOGY. 703 

knowledge, M. Vignier, has recently discussed the subject in the Revue 
Philosophique, and published a memoir on the subject of the sense of 
orientation and its organs, and he co-ordinates the faculty with a per- 
ception or perceptibility of magnetic currents. (Jour. Franklin Inst., 
vol. xv.) 

Influence of canals in extension of geographical range of species. — As was 
naturally supposable, the Suez Canal has been the means of dispersing 
various animals of the respective seas which it connects and effecting 
a limited interchange of the two faunae. On the one hand, the JJmbrina 
cirrlwsa (related to the king-fish 'of the United States) and the Labrax 
lupus (a relation of the striped bass) have made their way through into 
the Red Sea ; and, on the other, the Pristipoma stridens and Grenidens 
ForskaM have passed from the Red Sea into the Mediterranean. With 
these fishes invertebrates of various kinds have also passed and crossed 
each other's way iuto the opposite seas. The many facts bearing on this 
case have been recorded by Professor Keller, of Zurich. 

II. PROTOZOANS. 

Sporozoans. 

A peculiar Gregarinid. — A number of new forms of Gregariuidse have 
been discovered aud examined by A. Schneider, and among them is one 
of special interest. It was found in the digestive tube ot Glomeris, one 
of the diplopod myriopods, and has been named Cnemidospora lutea. 
" It is remarkable for the characters of its protomerite, the contents of 
which are formed by two masses, distinguishable by various characters. 
The lower has finely granular, the upper highly refractive, and appar- 
ently fatty contents, and is of greenish aud not, as the others, of a yel- 
low or brown color." (Arch. Zool. Exper. et Gen., vol. x, pp. 423, 450; 
J. B. M. 8. (2), vol. in, p. 075). 

Rlvizopods. 

Endoparasitic Amoeba:. — Some interesting observations have been made 
by Grassi on Aincebae parasitic in the Chastognathous worms. Six kinds 
of Ohsetognaths are found in the straits of Messina, where that natural- 
ist pursued his investigations, and in all of them Amoeba? of one kind 
or another were found ; they were of two species — A. sagittoe (or chceto- 
gnathi) and A. pigmentifera, a new species, aud chiefly harbored in the 
caudal chamber and vasa deferentia (rarely in the coelom) of the adult 
or adolescent sagittids, but not in the young. (The A. pigmentifera was 
found in two species of Spadella.) The eudoplasm in both species of 
Amoeba contains a number of granules which are considered to be of a 
fatty nature, and these are supposed to constitute a reserve of nourish- 
ment. Reproduction is effected by modification of the internal struct- 
ure of the body, resulting in its breaking up in a number of corpuscules 



704 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

containing granules, but still united by the body-wall of the parent; 
when they separate they are flattened bodies 7-1000ths millimeters long 
and 3-1000ths thick, and of an oval contour ; from one pole there issues 
a flagellum twice as long as the body. It is thought by Grassi that 
their development tends to approximate the Amcebce to the Monerce, and 
the forms studied by him are supposed to have many connections with 
Protomyxomyces ciprinarius of Cunningham. (Arch. Ital. de Biologic, 
vol. II, pp. 402, 444; J. B. M. 8.(2), vol. Ill, 3, p. 674.) 

Infusorium. 

Neic parasitic Flagellates. — Dr. Grassi has investigated the endopar- 
asitic " Protista " and recognizes five families of Flagellata. He sat- 
isfied himself that the number of flagella is of but little taxonomic im- 
portance, and bases his families on the condition of the extremities and 
especially of the posterior. One of the families recognized was based 
on a newly discovered type, the Trichomonas melolonthce, found in the 
beetle indicated. The family — called Trichoinonadidae— is distinguished 
by the tapering of the posterior extremity and the development of sev- 
eral flagella as well as trichocyst-like bodies at the anterior extremity. 
Megastomidea and Lophomonadidea are two families proposed for pre- 
viously known forms. (Arch. Ital. de Biol., vol. II, pp. 402, 444; J. B. 
M. 8. (2), vol. in, pp. 673, 674). 

III. PORIFERS. 

Sponges. 

The mode of boring of Clione. — The means by which the celebrated 
boring-sponge Clione finds its way into shells and other hard sub- 
stances has long been a matter of doubt and dispute. Eecent obser- 
vations have been made by H. Nassonow, and he has attempted to 
answer especially two questions — (1) how the sponge excavates hard 
calcareous structures and completes its destructive work, and (2) the 
effect of its parasitic habit j on the sponge itself. 

For the solution of the first question young sponges were cultivated 
on thin transparent calcareous lamellae. "The larvae, after a free stage, 
settled on the plates, and soon a rosette-shaped mark appeared ; the 
sponge gave off thin processes, which passed into the substance of the 
plate and followed the contour lines of the rosette; about a day after 
the sponge settled a rosette-shaped particle was taken out of the plate; 
the body of the sponge entered the depiessiou thus formed, took the 
particles into and then cast them out of its body. Toward the evening 
of the day of observation the rosette-shaped marking had totally dis- 
appeared, and its place was taken by a small pit; into this the sponge 
contracted the greater part of its body. Chemical as well as mechani- 
cal agencies appeared to be at work, but the demonstration of the pres- 
ence of the acid was prevented by the strong alkaline reaction of the 



ZOOLOGY. 705 

sea-water. Oouirary to the view of Hancock, Nassouow thinks that the 
spicules of the sponge take no part in the boring operation ; indeed, 
the young sponge began before it had developed any skeletal struct- 
ures, not to say before it had completely taken on the other characters 
of the adult." 

With reference to the second question, it is contended that one ol* 
the results of the parasitism of Clione is the peculiar mode of ovulation, 
in that the sponge appears to pass its eggs into the water, where they 
become fertilized, whereas in other sponges the eggs pass into the body 
of the animal and are there fertilized. (Zeitschrift fur wissench. Zool., 
vol. xxxix, pp. 295-308, 2 pi.; J. £. M. 8. (2), vol. IV., pp. 65-66.) 

A supposed new animal type. — A peculiar and unknown organism was 
found by Prof. F. E. Schulze in the salt-water aquarium of the Zoologi- 
cal Institute of Graz. It was a thin, lamelliform object, a few millime- 
ters in diameter and 0.02 mm . thick, translucent, but of a grayish-white 
color, and of a variable, constantly changing form. When at rest i t 
had usually a rounded contour, but it could elongate itself into a long 
and variously curling thread-like form. Its movements, however, were 
very slow and scarcely observable, as the animal crept along upon 
its under surface. The entire surface was ciliated. "Close under the 
upper surface is a layer of highly refractile balls from 5* 1 to 8^ in diam- 
eter and distributed pretty evenly; besides these there are other balls 
nearer the under surface, which seem to be essentially different from 
those first mentioned. There is no indication of internal organs, nor 
of only bilateral or radiate symmetry; the organism is uniaxial." Bur 
what is of more importance from a systematic point of view than any 
of these details is the intimate structure. There are two different epi- 
thelial layers of cells, which form respectively its upper and lower sur- 
faces, and between them is a fully developed layer of connective tissue. 
There are, in fact, three layers, which are comparable with the ecto 
derm, mesoderm, and entoderm of Metazoans generally. Whether, how- 
ever, the several layers of the unknown organism are really homolo- 
gous with them may be regarded as uncertain till the development of 
the animal is known. What the affinities of the animal are is also quite 
doubtful. It was under observation by Professor Schulze for about a 
year, but showed no sign of metamorphosis or reproduction. Its struct- 
ure, exhibited in the development of the several layers, removes it from 
the Protozoans, but this is merely negative evidence. Mr. 0. S. Minot 
has suggested that it was the larva of a sponge, but there are objections 
to this view. The name conferred on the organism is Triclwplax ad- 
hwrens, the generic name containing an allusion to the plate-like form 
and its ciliated surface, and the specific recalling the manner in which 
it clings to the substance on which it moves. (Zool. Anzeiger, vol. vi, pp. 
92-97; Journ. Royal Mic. Soc. (2), vol. in, pp. 350-351; Science, vol. I, p. 
305.) 

H. Mis. 69 45 



706 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

IV. CCELENTERATES. 

Polyps. 

A new type of Pcnnatuloid Polyps. — A remarkable form of Peuuatuloid 
polyps has been recently discovered by Messrs. Koren and Danielssen 
in a special work on New Alcyonids, Gorgonids, and Peunatulids of the 
Norwegian fauna; it has been named Gonilul viirabilis, and specimens 
were obtained in the fjord of Throndbeim at a depth of 180 fathoms, 
attached to Oculina prolifera. This form represents a peculiar " sec- 
tion " of Pennatulida, called " Gondulese," distinguished by the fixed 
rachis with developed bilateral lobes, furnished with long calcareous spi- 
cules. The Gondulidae were defined as Pennatulida Gondulese, having 
" a polypidom without a stalk, fixed, furnished with bilateral pinnules in 
which are calcareous spicules, having along its center a canal divided 
by four valves into as many longitudinal canals." In other words, they 
are Pennatulida Gondulese with a fixed, stalkless, bilateral polypidom, 
having a rachis with a hollow canal divided by four converging longi- 
tudinal septiform valves, and on each side with subspiral polypigerous 
ridges, fortified by calcareous spicules. 

A deep-sea cancrisocial Actinian. — Several cases of association of 
polyps with decapod crustaceans have been recorded (e. g., Cancrisocia 
expansa with a Dorippe, Sagartia parasitica with an Eupagurus bernhar- 
dus), but an instance recently discovered seems to be worthy of notice 
in this place on account of the habitat of the associates and the extent 
to which the association has been verified. The polyp has been de- 
scribed as a new species by Professor Verrill under the name Epizoan- 
thus pagurophilus, and about 400 specimens were obtained at one station 
(947, 89 miles S. by S. £ W. from Gay Head, Mass.), at a depth of 312 
fathoms, but all associated with a hermit crab, the Parapagurus pilo- 
simanus. The polyp is evidently "a true commensal, forming out of its 
own tissues the habitation of the crab; and hitherto it has not been 
found elsewhere than upon the back of this particular species of crab, 
which likewise has not been found without its polyp." The associates 
were previously obtained "by the Gloucester halibut fishermen in 
deep water, off Nova Scotia," and by Professor Verrill in 1880. (Am. 
J. Sc. (3), vol. xxiii, p. 137.) 

Acalephs. 

Reappearance of Limnocodium. — It is noteworthy that the fresh- water 
medusa, named Limnocodium Sowerbii, which appeared iu numbers in 
June, 1880 and 1881, in the Victoria regia tank in London, did not de- 
velop at all iu 1882. It made its reappearance, however, in 1883 in 
the tank, but earlier than in the previous years, being discovered April 
28. The tank had remained empty during the preceding winter, and 
was filled with water on March 8. (-Nature, vol. xxym, p. 7.) 






ZOOLOGY 70? 

V. — ECHINODERMS. 

Crinoids. 

Basal plates of Crinoids. — It has been asserted that some Crinoids- • 
for example, those of the family Engeniacrinidae — were destitute of basal 
plates. Mr. P. H. Carpenter investigated representatives of the family 
named, and was convinced that "the supposed absence of basals in cer- 
tain Crinoids mostly rests upon empirical reasoning alone; and that 
when we come to inquire into the matter rationally, i. e., from the point 
of view of morphology, we not only find good reason to believe in the 
existence of those plates, but also that their supposed absence involves 
considerable morphological difficulties." {Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), 
vol. xi, pp. 327-334.) 

New orders of Crinoids. — Mr. S. A. Miller, in the second edition of his 
American Palaeozoic Fossils, has proposed to isolate several of the family 
types of Crinoids as distinct orders. The Agelacriuidae have further the 
name Agelacrinoidea, the Liehenocrinidae constitute the order Licheno- 
crinoidea, aud the ordinal name Myelodactyloidea is intended for a group 
of two families — the Myelodactylidae and Cycloeystoidae. The charac- 
ters given to these groups appear to be scarcely those requiring recogni- 
tion as orders. 

Asteroids. 

Number of Ophinroids. — In connection with a "Report on the scientific 
results of the voyage of H. M. S. Challenger " (Zoology, vol. V, part 14), 
the Hon. Theodore Lyman has attempted to enumerate all the species 
of the order described up to the time of publication. Not less than 167 
new species and 20 new genera were found in the collections made by 
the famous expedition. 

Echinoids. 

Physiology of the Echinoids. — If a sea-urchin or Echinus is turned 
mouth upwards it will commence to right itself, and does so by usiug 
two or more adjacent rows of pedicels. Whether the consequent en- 
deavor was due to the co-ordinating influence of a nerve center, or 
whether it was the result merely of the serial action of the pedicels, was 
uncertain, although various experiments tended to show that the action 
must be due in part at least to the co-ordinating influence of a nerve 
center. Mr. Romanes considers that he has now settled the question 
by a device suggested by Mr. F. Darwin. 

A sea-urchin was placed back downward in a bottle filled to the brim 
with water and then corked up. The whole was then placed on the 
rotating apparatus used by the Darwins in their experiments on the 
geometrism of plants, aud the sea-urchin was continuously rotated in a 
vertical plane. While rotation was continued the sea-urchin made no 



708 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

attempt to turn itself, but when within two or thr, e minutes of its ces- 
sation it commenced to do so. Moreover, if allowed to do so until it 
had raised itself into the equatorial, or any other intermediate position, 
if rotation was resumed, the sea-urchin remained in the position it had 
then gained as long as it lasted. " Therefore no doubt could be enter- 
tained that the effect of the rotation was that of confusing, as it were, 
the co-ordinating influence of a nerve center, the stimulus to the opera- 
tioB of which, in the absence of rotation, is gravity." (Journ. Linn. 800. 
London, Zool, vol. xvn, pp. 131-137; J. R. M. S. (2), v. in, pp. 660-661.) 

Holothurians. 

The feeding of Holothurians. — The celebrated Darwin, in his work on 
Coral Eeefs (p. 14), stated, on the authority of another, that the Holo- 
thuriaus subsisted on living coral. The question has been lately 
investigated, and an advance made in a knowledge of the economy of 
those animals. Surgeon-Major H. B. Guppy, of the British navy, un- 
dertook experiments at St. Christoval, one of the Solomon Islands, 
which satisfied him that it was dead and not living coral that the Holo- 
thurians ingested. They selected, however, "those -feeding grounds 
where the attachment of molluscs, zoophytes, and stony algae had to 
some degree loosened the surface of the rock." One of the Holothuriau 
species which the surgeon studied was 12 to 15 inches long. From 
three independent observations on this species it was found that the 
amount of coral sand voided by each individual daily was not less than 
two-fifths of a pound avoirdupois. "At this rate some fifteen or sixteen 
of these animals would discharge a ton of sand from their intestinal 
canals in the course of a year, which represents almost 18 cubic feet of 
the coral rock forming the flat on which these creatures live." 

The raison d'etre and mode of ingestion of the Holothurians have been 
explained by Mr. W. Saville Kent. That the Holothurians are not de- 
vonrers of living corals is shown in connection with different facts, but 
especially from the circumstance that several were kept in a tank con- 
taining sea-anemones and corals without interfering with them in any 
way. All they require is derived from the coral or shell debris with 
which they are constantly associated. At first sight this material would 
appear to be in the last degree adapted for the sustenance of such 
highly organized animals, but, as may be confirmed at any time by in- 
vestigation, "shell-sand, gravel, and other dSbris forming the super- 
ficial layer at the bottom of the water, when exposed to the light, is 
more or less completely invested with a thin pellicle of Infusoria, Dia- 
toms, and other microscopic animal and vegetable growths." It is upon 
these minute organisms that the Holothuriau feed, swallowing both them 
and the shelly or other matter upon which they grow, much in the same 
way as we might subsist on cherries, swallowing stones and all. 

It is by means of the tentacles which surround the anterior extremity 
that the Holothurians seize their food. Cucuinariae of two kinds — C. com- 



ZOOLOGY. 709 

munis and G. pentactes — were the special subjects of Mr. Kent's obser- 
vations thus recorded, the former sometimes attaining a length of a 
foot and the other about half the size of the larger. The tentacles are 
ten in number and developed as "extensively ramifying pedunculate 
plumous or dendriform tufts stationed at equal distances arouud the 
oral opening." These, when the animals are "on the full feed," are in 
constant motion, "each separate dendritic plume in turn, after a brief 
extension, being distally inverted and thrust bodily nearly to its base 
into the cavity of the pharynx, bearing along with it such fragments 
of sand and shelly matter as it had succeeded in laying hold of." As 
soon as a tentacle obtains a supply, it is thrust into the mouth, and one 
or another is always moving toward or in the mouth. 

The supply thus taken in is probably ground down by "the charac- 
teristic teeth that arm the pharynx," and the sand-reduced remains, 
divested of their living contents, are in time discharged by the anal 
cavity. 

Another gentleman, from certain observations in Bermuda and 
Jamaica, "fancied that they were catching swimming creatures," and 
thought that his observations were supported by "a fine specimen from 
the zoological station at Naples, which has a half-swallowed fish pro- 
truding from its mouth." The fish in question was, however, probably 
a Fierasfer, which is a parasite of the Holothurian, and enters and 
departs from its cavity voluntarily. {Nature, vol. xxvii, pp. 7-8, 433, 
508,) 

VI. WORMS. 

Nematelminths. 

A nematoid worm parasitic on the onion. — The common onion, it seems, 
is sometimes infested with a parasite in the shape of a nematoid or 
thread-worm. The animal has been discovered and described by J. 
Ghatin as a new species of the genus Tylenchus. It has considerable 
resemblance to the Anguillula of wheat. In its larval state it pene- 
trates into the bulb and disorganizes the central tissue, converting the 
fibro-vascular bundles into a brownish-pultaceous mass. In the course 
of ensuing growth the sexual organs become developed and offspring 
appear as claviform larvae. These may escape through the destruction 
of the bulb and fall to the ground. If the earth is sufficiently damp 
they wander about, but if it is dry they are quiescent until moisture 
ensues. They then seek the bulbs of the onion, and those that succeed 
complete the normal cycle of life. If the worm finds entrance into an 
animal it is passed out with the faeces, neither becoming encysted nor 
undergoing any further development. It is urged that the best remedy 
against the spread of the pest is, to burn all affected onions. (Gomptes 
Rendus Acad. 8c, Paris, vol. xcvn, pp. 1503-1505; J. B. M. S. (2), vol. 
TV, p.' 232.) 



710 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

The homologies of the Kemertean proboscis. — Several uuexpected types 
of the animal kingdom have been brought forward, from time to time, 
as exemplifying in some form or other the notochord of the primitive 
vertebrates. One of the most unexpected to furnish such a structure 
is the Nemertcan, and yet Dr. Hnbrecht has claimed that the Neniertean 
worms actually have the homologue of the notochord developed in a pro- 
boscis. In his opinion "the proboscis of the Nemerteans, which arises 
not as an imaginable structure (entirely derived, both phylogenetically 
aud ontogenetically, from the epiblast) and which passes through a part 
of the cerebral ganglion, is homologous with the rudimentary organ, 
which is found in the whole series of vertebrates without exception — the 
l^popbysis cerebri. The proboscidean sheath is comparable in situation 
(aud development?) with the chorda dorsaiis of vertebrates." The chief 
reason urged for this homology is that the proboscis and hypophysis 
are both ectodermal invaginations. There are, on the other hand, rea- 
sons which seem to strongly militate against this view. (Quart. Jour. 
Micr. Sci., vol. xxiii, p. 349; Science, vol. II, p. G31.) 

Annelids. 

The /'unction of the Morrenian glands of the Earthworm. — The character 
aud physiology of the glands observed by and named after the French 
naturalist Morren have been investigated by C. Robinet. The secre- 
tion of those glands, on drying, proves to be a mineral body, formed of 
carbonate of calcium, whose tuuctions appear to be to adapt the ingesta 
for nutrition ; this is supposed to be effected by four stages: 

(1.) The acids of the humus aie neutralized and converted into a 
nutrient medium, a condition which is indispensable for the digestion 
of the quaternary substances of the humus by the digestive fluid of the 
hepatic glands. 

(2.) Part of the carbonates are transformed into soluble bicarbonate. 

(3.) The soluble bicarbonate acts on the humus, aud forms soluble 
salts from the insoluble acids of the humus. The ulm ate of calcium, 
which is formed by the action of the ulinie acid on the carbonate of cal- 
cium, becomes soluble in the presence of an excess of carbonic acid. 

(4.) The soluble ulmate thus obtained is more easily absorbed in the 
intestine. — (Comptes Rendus Acad. 8c. Paris, vol. xovn, pp. 192-194; 
J. E. M. 8. (2), vol. in, p. 657.) 

VI r. ARTHROPODS. 

Merostomes. 

Sexual characteristics of the Horseshoe-crab. — The sexes of the Horse- 
shoe-crab, when adult, are readily distinguishable by modifications of 
the "claws" of the second pair of thoracic appendages, the female hav- 
ing the penultimate joint prolonged in the axis of its body so as to be 
parallel with and apposable to the last joint, while the male has the pe- 
nultimate joint truncated at its distal extremity and the last joint ab- 



ZOOLOGY. 711 

ruptly decurved. The sexes are further distinguishable by the genital 
openings on the under side of the first pair of abdominal appendages, 
the exits of the oviducts in the female being transverse slits, while the 
external genital apparatus of the male consists of two papillae with cir- 
cular openings at the ends. The claws of the young male are essen- 
tially like those of the female. Prof. B. F. Koons examined "at least 
one thousand specimens of exuviae or cast-off" shells along the shores of 
Long Island Sound, about ISew Haven and Vineyard Sound," and 
"among all of these not a single specimen with the modified claw was 
found." A closer examination of the cast shells, however, revealed the 
other sexual characters and indicated that the males and females were 
nearly equally numerous. The conclusion, therefore, was that the male 
assumed the peculiar claws in the last stage of development, and that 
"it is possible that he never sheds his shell after the modified claw is 
acquired, because, as stated above, of over one thousand specimens 
examined, not a single specimen possessing this character was found. 
Further, we are led to believe that large Limuli rarely, possibly never, 
shed, because among all those examined there were no large exuviae." 
{Am. Nat., vol. xvn, pp. 1297-1299.) 

These observations are mainly reiterations of some made many years 
before by Dr. S. Lockwood (Am. Nat., 1871, p. 257), but that gentleman 
recorded the finding of large cast shells. 

Number of Cirripeds. — The cirripeds collected by the Challenger 
Expedition have been studied and reported on by Dr. P. P. C. Hoek, 
and in connection with the report an interesting historical sketch of 
the group is given. One hundred and forty-seven species of the sub- 
class were described by Darwin in his celebrated monographs, and only 
18 were known to Dr. Hoek by have been added up to the time of his 
studies. Sixty species previously unknown apparently were discovered 
among the collections of the Challenger. The number of living spe- 
cies, exclusive of the suctorial forms, has been thus raised to 225, repre- 
senting 34 genera. The most noticeable feature of the new additions is 
the great increase of the genus Scalpellum. Six species were known to 
Darwin, and 5 were subsequently made known, but Dr. Hoek has recog- 
nized 43 new species in the Challenger collections, thus enlarging the 
number to 54. The genus Verruca received the next greatest acces- 
sions. The number known to Darwin was 4, and 6 new ones were dis- 
covered by Dr. Hoek, thus increasing the number to 10. According 
to Dr. Hoek, " the occurrence of Scalpellum and Verruca hi the great 
depths of the ocean coincides in a striking manner with the paleonto- 
logical history of these genera." It is noteworthy, however, that " the 
fossil species of Verruca resemble much more those of the same genus 
which at present inhabit shallow water than those occurring at a con- 
siderable depth ; the latter form together a very characteristic division 
of the genus. With regard to the genus Scalpellum, the fossil tonus 



712 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

and those found in the deep sea have no doubt some features in com- 
mon, but none were con-specific. 

Crustaceans. 

Extinction of Crustaceans in old habitats. — On several occasions in 
these reports reference has been made to the practical extinction or 
excessive reduction of various animals, but especially of the tile-fish 
{Lopholatilus chamceleonticeps) from deep-sea plateaus, where they were 
formerly found in exuberant abundance. The chief mortality occurred, 
as Professor Smith remarks, in a narrow belt of comparatively warm 
water (approximately 50° F.), in from 60 to 160 fathoms, which has a 
more southern fauna than the colder waters either side. Professor 
Verrill has suggested (Anier. Jour. Sci., Ill, xxiv., p. 366, 1882) that 
the great destruction of life in this belt was caused by a severe storm 
in the winter of 1881-82, which agitated the bottom-water and forced 
outward the cold water that even in summer occupies the great area of 
shallow sea along the coast, thus causing a sudden lowering of the tem- 
perature along the warmer belt inhabited by the tile-fish and Crustacea 
referred to by Professor Smith in the communication now to be noticed. 

Prof. Sidney I. Smith, in a " preliminary report on the Brachyura and 
Anomura dredged in deep water off the south coast of New England 
by the Uuited States Fish Commission in 1880, 1881, and 1882," has 
given some details of the disappearance or extinction, for the time being 
at least, of certain crustaceans. 

According to Professor Smi'h the last season's dredging off Martha's 
Vineyard revealed the total, or almost total, disappearance of several 
of the larger species of crustaceans which were exceedingly abundant 
in the same region in 1880 and 1881. The most remarkable cases are 
those of Euprognaiha rastelligera, Collodrs robustus, Catapagurus Shar- 
reri, Munida Caribcea ? Smith, and Pontophilus brevirostris, all of which 
were found in great numbers in both of these years. Of the first two 
not a specimen was taken in 1882, of the Munida oidy a single one, and 
of the other species very few specimens. Lambrus Verrillii, Acantho- 
carpus Alexandria Latreillia elegans, Homola barbata, and Anoplonotus 
politus, which were each taken several times in 1880 and 1881, were none 
of them taken in 1882 ; they were, however, far less abundant than the 
other species, and the non-occurrence of some of them was very likely 
accidental; but the disappearance of part of them at least was un- 
doubtedly due to the same causes which occasioned the disappearance 
of the more abundant species. The disappearance of these species, con- 
tinues Professor Smith, was undoubtedly connected directly with the 
similar disappearance of the tile fish (Lopholatilus) from the same region, 
and on this account specially he gave in detail, for many of the species 
enumerated by him, tables of specimens examined from the region ex- 
plored by the Fish Commission. All the species mentioned above as 
having disappeared in 1882 were specially characteristic of the region 
above indicated. (Proc. TJ. 8. Nat. Mus., vol. VI, pp. 1-57.) 



ZOOLOGY. 713 

Arachnids. 

The hearing of Spiders. — No specialized organs that have beeii recog- 
nized as having auditory functions have been certainly recognized in the 
spiders. Some experiments lately conducted by F. Dald, however, con- 
vinced him that the sense of hearing was not denied to those animals, 
and he located it in certain hairs of the legs and palps. When sounds 
were produced within reasonable distances of various spiders, their 
actions, such as suddenly pausing when the sounds were made, although 
the cause was not visible, rendered it evident that they took cognizance 
of them. The only parts to which the evident faculty of hearing could 
be attributed were two kinds of hairs arising from the legs and palps. 
(1) One is of hairs of equal thickness throughout, fringed with a short, 
fine pile toward the apex, implanted in cup-shaped depressions, and ex- 
tremely mobile; a nerve is connected with the base of each one ; (2) the 
other is of hairs set in rows and projecting outwards more than the or- 
dinary protecting hairs. Objections may be urged to this theory, and 
it may be thought that the hairs receive sensations of vibrations of the 
web or of the motions of the air, but under a high magnifying power 
they were found to be responsive to waves of sound, the hairs vibrating 
when a note was sounding and resuming quiescence when it ceased. The 
graduations in length of the hairs are supposed to indicate adaptation 
to different notes, especially as their regularity in certain spiders of the 
Epeirid family, which are claimed to be decidedly fond of music, is very 
decided. Further, the author suggests that the arrangement of the 
hairs is co-ordinal e with structural characters, and may, therefore, be 
used in classification. His observations of German spiders furnished 
two primary groupings : 

(1.) In the Epeirids and Theridiids the tibiae have two rows of audi- 
tory hairs, the metatarsi single hairs and the tarsi "depressive, but no 
projecting hairs." 

(2.) In the Saltids, Thomisids, and Lycosids the tibiae, metatarsi, and 
tarsi have all two rows of hairs. 

The Tubitelarians exhibit intermediate conditions. (Zool. Anz., vol. 
VI, pp. 267-270; J. E. M. 8. (2), vol. in, p. 652.) 

Insects. , 

Classification of Insects. — In connection with studies "on the classifi- 
cation of the Linnaeau orders of Orthoptera and Neuroptera," Professor 
Packard has reviewed the classification of all the Hexapods or the typical 
insects and proposed a new arrangement for the subclass. He has es- 
pecially "examined the fundamental characters of the head, thorax, 
and abdomen, points neglected by most systematic writers." The out- 
come has been to lead Professor Packard to separate the Neuroptera 
from the Pseudoneuroptera, aud "to regard these two groups, with the 
Orthoptera and Dermatoptera, as four orders of a category which may 



714 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

be regarded as a superorder, for which the name Phyloptera is pro 
posed, as these four orders are closely allied to, if not in some cases 
identical with, the stem or ancestral groups from which probably all 
the higher orders " have originated. 

The head of Insects. — Prof. A. S. Packard, jr., in consequence of an 
investigation into "the number of segments in the head of winged in- 
sects," reached the following conclusions: "The epicranium, or that 
piece (sclerite) bearing the eyes, ocelli, and antennae and in front the 
clypeus and labrtim, is formed from the original procephalic lobes, 
and represents the first or antennal segment, and is pleural, the clypeus 
and labrum bearing the terminal portion of the segment ; while the re- 
mainder of the original or primitive segments, are obsolete, except in 
those insects which retain traces of an occiput or fourth cephalic ter- 
gite. All of the gular region of the head probably represents the base 
of the primitive second maxillae." (Am. Nat., vol. xvn, pp. 1134-1138.) 

Vitality of Insects. — It is tolerably well known to most persons that 
insects will live for some time after mutilation, but the knowledge is 
vague. Mr. R. Cauestrini undertook a number of experiments to deter- 
mine how long various species could survive mutilation. The head was 
cut off generally by thin-bladed forceps, and when spontaneous move- 
ments ceased he employed sundry irritating devices, such as pricking, 
squeezing, and blowing tobacco smoke over the insect. As a result of 
these experiments he ascertained that beetles (Coleoptera) at once 
showed signs of suffering from the amputation, while the more active 
Hymenoptera (ants, bees, &c.) remained as if unaffected ; others seemed 
to recover their senses only after a long interval from the operation. 
Butterflies (Lepidoptera) seemed but little discomposed after decapita- 
tion, and flies (Diptera) appeared to mind it still less ; flies, indeed, 
were observed in copulation some time after being beheaded. Flies, 
however, only lived about a day and a half (36 hours) after being 
operated upon, while the bodies of butterflies survived eighteen days, 
the head nevertheless showing no sign of life after a few hours of de- 
capitation. The last signs of life were manifested by either the middle 
pair of legs (most frequently) or the last (not quite so often). Similar 
experiments were made on Myriopods, and they, too, showed great 
tenacity of life and indifference to the loss of the head. (Bull. Hoc. 
Venet.- Trent. Sci. Fat, vol. n, pp. 119-125; J. R. M. S. (2), vol. in, pp. 
645, 646.) 

How Insects can adhere to smooth vertical surfaces. — The mode by 
which insects adhere to vertical walls has been investigated by H. 
Dewitz, who reaches essentially the same conclusions as did the Eng- 
lish arachnologist Ulackwell. The insects secrete a glutinous liquid 
in their feet, which exudes, in insects which have hairy feet, from 
the tips of the hairs which surround the lobes of the feet, and in those 



ZOOLOGY. 715 

which had no hairs the liquid was extruded from pores in the feet. It 
is conjectured that about half of the insects, including most Dipters 
and Hemipters, many Hymenopters and Coleopters, and apparently such 
Orthopters as do not either fly or leap. If the feet are drawn away, 
drops of the fluid in question may be detected. 

American Palceozoic Insects. — Within the last few years our knowl- 
edge of the insects of the Paleozoic period has been greatly increased, 
chiefly through the labors of Mr. S. H. Scudder. A catalogue of these 
has recently been published by Mr. R. D. Lacoe in the Journal of the 
Wyoming Historical and Geological Society, from which it appears that 
72 species, representing 40 genera, are now known. Of these, 48 spe- 
cies, of 26 genera, belonged to the true insects or Hexapods; 10 species, 
of genera, to the Myriapods; and 5 species, representing as many 
genera, to the Arachnids. 

The lightning organs of the Glow-worms. — The light-producing organs 
of the principal European Lampyrids, or glow-worms (Lampgris sphti- 
didula and L. noctiluca) have been examined by Heinrich Bitter von 
Wiclowiejski and the results published in an elaborate memoir con- 
tributed to the Zeitschrift fur wissenschaftliche Zoologie. The tracheal 
system was especially investigated in relation to the luminiferous 
organs, and the entire memoir will well repay perusal. Here it can only 
be said that the luminiferous organs are shown to be the morphological 
equivalents or homologues of the fatty bodies, and that the light-giving 
function is peculiar to the parenchyma cells of the organs in question. 
The luminosity is the result of slow oxidation of a substance formed 
by them under the control of the nervous system. 

Genital armature of Butterflies. — The genitalia of the Lepidopters, as 
well as other insects, are surrounded by various elements at the end of 
the abdomen, and those of the true butterflies have been recently ex- 
maiued by Mr. P. H. Gosse. A new nomenclature has been proposed lor 
the several pieces. Some interesting facts are brought forward in con- 
nection with the relations of families and the distinction of genera. 
( Trans. Linn. Soc. London, Zool., vol. II, p. 205; tieience, vol. I, pp. 22, 23.) 

A viviparous Moth. — A noteworthy fact has been verifled by Dr. 
Fritz Mailer, of Brazil, and communicated to the Entomological So- 
ciety of London. A small Brazilian moth was found to be viviparous, 
and living larva* or caterpillars were seen to be deposited or born of the 
female. 

The sucker of the Butterflies.— -In 18S0 and 1881 Mr. E. Burgess pub- 
lished a couple of well considered memoirs on the anatomy of two but- 
terflies. During the past year Mr. P. Kirbach made known the structure 
of the mouth parts and pharynx of the Lepidopters in general, and came 
to essentially the same conclusions as to the morphology of the parts as 



716 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

the American naturalist, although apparently unacquainted with his 
articles, and his terminology for the parts, especially the suspensory 
muscles of the pharynx, is mostly the same. Kirbach, however, contends 
that the proboscis is extended by muscular contraction and rolled up 
by elasticity — a view opposite to that suggested by Burgess and not 
fortified by proofs. The special new feature brought out by Kirbach is 
the syringe-like mechanism of the salivary duct, by means of which 
saliva is injected into the proboscis. (Zoologischer Anzeiger, vol. vi, p. 
553; Science, voJ jt, p. 833.) 

VIII. MOLLUSCOIDS. 

Brachiopods. 

The relations of the Brachiopods. — The much-mooted question as to 
whether the Brachiopods are closely related to the Chastopod worms, 
and, it may be, simply modified worms, or not has been again discussed. 
Mr. A. E. Shipley, in studies on the genus Argiope at Naples, gives his 
views resulting from a recent survey of the fields. They are antagonistic 
to those of Morse and Kowalevsky. It is contended that " the segments 
of the larva do not seem to have the value of true metameres, but to 
be due simply to the formatiou of the shell from the central region of 
the body. There is no trace of any segmentatioa of the mesoderm', and 
no organ exhibits serial repetition. The Brachiopod differs from the 
Ohaetopod larva in having an alimentary canal which is not curved nor 
divided into three regions nor provided with mouth or anus. The body 
cavity is but feebly developed, and there is no provisional renal organ. ' 
On the other hand, Mr. Shipley declines to adopt the more generally 
current view that the Brachiopods are closely related to the Polyzoans, 
and that the two constitute a natural phylum. He recalls that (1) the 
homologies of the lophophore have been considered to be very doubtful ; 

(2) that the characteristic position of the nerve-ganglia of the Brachio 
pods, which remain in the ectoderm, is not shared with the Polyzoans; 

(3) that the larvae of the two classes do not really resemble each other, 
and (4) that the Polyzoans became fixed by the preoral aud the Brachio- 
pods by the aboral extremity. 

In fine, Mr. Shipley has been led to consider with Gegenbauer the 
Brachiopods to be a " primary class," most closely related to the Vermes, 
but also allied to the Mollusca. (Mitth. Zool. Stat. Neapel, vol. iv, pp. 
494-520, 2 pi.; J. B. M. S. (2), vol. IV, pp. 215-217.) 

IX. MOLLTJSKS. 

Acephals. 

The alleged water-pores of Lamellibranchiates. — It has been claimed, 
especially by H. Griesbach, that there are aquiferous pores developed 
IP the feet of certain Acephals. The alleged discovery provoked re- 



ZOOLOGY. 717 

examination of the subject, and J. Carriere, J. T. Oattie, and T. Bar- 
rois have all expressed their opposition to the hypothesis in question, 
basing their antagonism on the examination of many species, including 
most of those species to which pores have been attributed. The con- 
clusions are summed up by Barrois : " No pores exist for the introduc- 
tion of water into the circulation; the only pores of the foot are those 
connected with the byssus organ, which never communicates with the 
interior of the foot. The blood may have water introduced into it, but 
this may be effected by osmosis, or iu some manner not discussed." 
(Science, vol. in, pp. 130-131; J. B. 21. 8. (2), vol. iv, pp. 212-213.) 

The European Oyster. — An elaborate series of reports on the oyster 
and its culture in the Netherlands is being prepared under the auspices 
of the Zoological Society of that country, and the first, by P. P. C. Hoek, 
ffie secretary of the society, appeared in 1883. It enters fully into the 
anatomy and physiology of the species, but only that portion relative to 
its generation need be noticed here. The ova are fertilized by sperm 
from other individuals, with which the circumambient water must be 
charged, and which enters into the mantle cavity and genital ducts. 
Th^ ova are matured and cast together at about the same time, but the 
sperin appears to be more gradually matured and spent. The bivalves 
are about two years old before they have broods, and they are most 
prolific at the age of some four or five years. The males are more 
numerous than the females. The ova, when discharged, having been 
fertilized in the ovary, have already undergone the first stage of seg- 
mentation in their development. After propagation the exhausted par- 
ents rest, and a period follows in which no sperm is reproduced. It is 
claimed that a large proportion of the spat of the Eastern Schelde (where 
the observations were chiefly made) was probably derived from others 
than the oysters of the cultivated beds. As a corollary it is contended 
that culture seems to injuriously influence and impair the reproductive 
powers of the oyster. There is a somewhat inverse relation between 
the development of the liver and the generative organs, shown by the 
fact that the former is much more developed in the old after the repro- 
ductive faculty has decreased. 

Gastropods. 

Deep-sea Solenoconchs. — The order of Solenoconchs, represented by 
the tooth-shells (Dentalium) are much more numerous in the deep seas 
than in the littoral faunas, and form indeed quite a characteristic feature 
of the Bassalian realm. Professor Fischer considers that they are espe- 
cially adapted for life on the bottom in the midst of the ooze which covers 
it. There they prey upon the Foraminifera which abound around them 
and which they secure by means of their filaments. According to Profes- 
sor Fischer's experience, the best represented species is the Dentalium 
agile, originally described by Sars from individuals dredged in the 



718 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Norwegian sea. A new species, named Dentalium ergaticum, was ob- 
tained by the Travailleur Expedition, which, when living, was 9 cen- 
timeters (about 3£ inches) long, and another even larger was found 
which could not be specifically distinguished from an Italian Pliocene 
fossil. (Gomptes Rendus Acad. Sc., t. xcvi, pp. 797-799.) 

The gastrula-mouth of Vivipara. — Dr. Carl Kabl has investigated souk 1 
questions respecting the development of certain organs and structures 
in the pectinibranchiate Gastropods, and among others the history of 
the mouth of the gastrula-stage of the common Vivipara or Paludina of 
Europe. His conclusions are at variance with those of his predecessors, 
and, on account of the interest of the subject, a notice will be in place 
here. Dr. Eabl's observations convinced him that the gastrula mouth 
gradually but completely closes in the median line of the ventral sur- 
face. About the place where this obliteration occurred the anus soon 
afterwards appears, but is in no way connected with the gastrula mouth ; 
finally the permanent mouth becomes developed at the spot where the 
last residue of the gastrula mouth had closed up. (Anzeiger Akad. 
Wiss. Wien, 1883, p. 13; J. R. M. S. (2), vol. in, pp. 192, 193.) 

The Doridoid Nudibranchiales. — Prof. Rudolph Bergh,in a summary of 
his views on the classification of the Dorididae proposes to divide 
them into primary groups called by him subfamilies, (1) the I), crypto- 
branchiata, or Dorididae proper, distinguished by the combination of the 
branchiae into a single large retractile crown, and (2) the D. phanero- 
branchiata, in which the branchiae are numerous and severally retractile. 
The " subfamily" of the D. phanerobranchiata are in their turn divisible 
into groups named Polyceradae and Goniodorididae. The Polyceradae 
(or Polyceridae) have a simple pharyngeal bulbus and are represented 
by 16 generic types. The Goniodorididae have sessile or petiolate 
tympaniform and suctorial pharyngeal bulbus, and are exemplified 
under 10 generic types. The essential characters mentioned here are 
co-ordinated with a number of others. A phylogenetic table gives Dr: 
Bergh's ideas as to the relations and divergence of the Polyceridae and 
Goniodorididae. These are connected with the typical Dorididae through 
Staurodoris. The genus Heterodoris of Verrill and Emerton is believed 
to belong to a peculiar family of the Ichnopoda. ( Verhand. 1c. k. zool.- 
bot. Gess. Wien, vol. xxxin, pp. 152-175.) 

Gephalopods. 

Digestion in the Gephalopods. — The physiology of various organs of 
Cephalopods concerned in digestion has been investigated by E. Bour- 
quelot. The secretion of the salivary glands exhibits no influence on 
raw or hydrated starch ; the hepatic secretion converts the latter into 
sugar, and the pancreatic juices exercises a similar function; "in 
other words, we may say that the ferment produced by the liver and 
pancreas is identical with the salivary ferments of higher animals." It 



ZOOLOGY. 719 

is supposed that the action of the ferment ought to be considered sep- 
arately from that of hydration. " If in any animal raw starch becomes 
saccharified, we must suppose that it has been previously hydrated 
under conditions which are as yet unknown to us." 

The so-called liver of the Cephalopods has furnished no evidence as 
yet that it forms glycogen, and, from a physiological point of view, it is 
rather a pancreas, inasmuch as it contains a peptic aud a diastatic fer- 
ment. The development of the last ferment in carnivorous animals it 
is difficult to account for. {Arch. Zool. Exper. et Gen,, vol. x, pp. 385- 
423; J. E. M. 8., (2), vol. Hi, p. 63G.) 

X. VERTEBRATES. 

Families of Vertebrates. — From a recent census taken by the present 
writer, it appears that there are nearly 800 families of vertebrate ani- 
mals, extant or extinct, now known. This estimate is on the basis of 
the groups admitted as such in the "Arrangement of the families of 
fishes" by Gill, the "Checklist of North American Batrachia aud Eep- 
tilia, with a systematic list of the higher groups" by Cope, and the 
"Arrangement of the families of mammals" by Gill, for the classes 
therein considered, and various later contributions to our knowledge, 
affecting the number of the existing but still more of the extinct groups. 

The families of the several classes of vertebrates thus recognized 
seem to be reduced to a common standard of value almost as much as 
can be done in the present state of our knowledge for quite unlike types, 
and of course it must be a matter of opinion as to the degree to which 
the ideal has been realized. Most of the families, at any rate, rest upon 
a tolerably sound morphological basis; but among the passerine birds 
many groups designated as families are fouuded upon the most super- 
ficial external characters, such as the extent of atrophy or development 
of a wing-feather (the first primary), the existence or want of a notch 
in the sheath of the upper jaw, the degrees of extension of one or oth- 
ers of the wing-feathers, &c. It is manifest that such characters have 
not of themselves the significance of the modifications which differen- 
tiate families in other classes. It is indeed possible that in some cases 
differences of that kind may be coincident with true morphological va- 
riations, and if such proves to be the case, the trivial features in ques- 
tion may be employed for diagnosis and as the indices of the morpho- 
logical characteristics with which they happen to be concomitant. It 
is scarcely probable, however, that such will be found to have been 
often the case, and at any rate the present use of the features referred 
to for family distinction is an illegitimate anticipation of what may be 
hereafter discovered. The progress of discovery may reveal that there 
has been much sagacity and prophetic insight exhibited in the appreci- 
ation of the true relations and grouping of families, but past discoveries, 
and especially within the last few years, do not hold out the anticipa- 
tion or hope that such sagacity and intuitive genius have been often 
displayed. But whatever may be the eventual outcome, the following 



720 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 



are presented as approximately the numbers of families at present rec- 
ognizable : 



Families. 



Leptocardians 
Myzonts 
Selachians . . . 

Fishes 

Amphibians . 

Reptiles 

Birds 

Mammals 



Extant. 


Extinct. 


1 





3 





26 


10 


240 


51 


35 


10 


61 


42 


115 


6 


106 


58 


587 


177 



Total. 



1 
3 

36 
291 

45 
103 
121 
164 



764 



Mortality from wild, beasts in India. — The two hundred and fifty odd 
millions of inhabitants of British India have by no means crowded out 
the wild animals of the country, and a small percentage even annually 
contribute to furnish a dainty meal or otherwise fall victims to beast or 
serpent. Sir Joseph Fayrer has recently published, in Nature (v. 27, 
pp. 208-270) some interesting statistics of the loss of life by sucb means. 
The average of recorded cases is about 2,800 persons a year ; in 1880 
2,840, and in 1881 2,757 persons were killed ; of cattle, in 1880 55,850 
and in 1881 41,640 head were lost. Such a mortality naturally provokes 
retaliation, and bounties are given for the destruction of a number of 
destructive animals. In 1880 14,886 were killed and rewards therefor 
paid to the extent of over 88,327 rupees, and in 1881 15,279 were killed 
and the bounties given amounted to 91,850 rupees. The " wild animals 
destructive to life in India" specifically enumerated by Sir Joseph 
Fayrer are twenty in number, viz, fifteen mammals, four crocodilians, 
and one shark. Besides these, fifteen genera of poisonous snakes are 
specified ; of these, five belong to the family of Elapids, two to the 
Viperids, four to the Crotalids, and four to the Hydrophids, or sea- 
snakes. The animals most destructive to human life are the tigers and 
wolves, which are nearly equally malignant, as will be seen from the 
following summary of somewhat old figures : 



Animals. 



Killed in 1875. 



Persons. Cattle 



Killed in 1876. 



Persons. Cattle 



Elephants . . . 

Tigers 

Leopards 

Bears 

Wolves 

Hyaenas 

Other animals 



01 

828 

187 

84 

1,061 

68 

1,446 



6 

12, 423 

16, 157 

522 

9,407 

2,116 

3,011 



52 
917 
156 
123 
887 

49 
143 



3 

13,116 

15, 373 

410 

12, 448 

2,039 

4,573 



ZOOLOGY, 



721 



Fish-like Vertebrates. 

North American fresh-water fishes. — In the account of progress in 
zoology in the year 1882, the character of the fresh- water fish-fauna of 
Australia was referred to and its few genera enumerated. It was shown 
that only five true fresh-water families existed, and that but one had 
more than one or two species, and that only seventeen. • The revision 
of the North American fishes, by Jordan and Gilbert, enables us to con- 
trast the rich fresh-water fauna of temperate and northern America 
with the poor Australian one. Not less than 617 species have been 
recognized, and these represent 143 genera and thirty-four families. 
The families and sub-families only can be mentioned here, but their 
enumeration will suffice to give a good idea of the characteristics of the 
fauna. 



Families and sub-families. 



PetromyzontidaB 

Poly odont idse 

Acipenseridae: 

AcipenserinsB 

Scapkirhynchopinaa 

Lepidosteidae 

Ainiidae 

Siluridae : 

IctalurinaB 

Catostoruidae: 

IchthyobinaB 

Cycleptinae 

Catastominae 

Cyprinidae: 

Canipostoniinae 

Chondrostominae.. . 

Exoglossinae 

Leuciscinae 

PlagopterinaB 

CyprininaB 

CharacinidaB 

Hyodontidae 

Clupeidse 

Dorosomidse 

Argentinidse 

Salnionidas : 

Coregoninae 

Salmoninae 

Thymallidae 



O 



Families and sub-families. 



10 Percopsidae 

1 Amblyopsidae 

Cyprinodontidae . .. 

1 Umbridae 

1 Dalliidae 

3 Esocidae 

1 AnguillidaB 

Gasterosteidae 

26 Atberinidae 

Apbredoderidae . .. 

9 Elassornidae 

1 Centrarchidae: 
49 Centrarchinae . . 
Lepominae 

4 Micropterinae.. , 
24 Percidae : 

1 Etbeoetominae.. 
234 Percinse 

4 Labracidae 

2 Sciaenidae: 

1 Haplodinotinae . 

3 EmbiotocidaB: 

6 Hysterocarpinae 

1 Cicblidae 

1 i Cottidae: 

Uranideinae 

12 Gadidte 
18 Lotinae 

1 



1 
5 

20 
1 
1 
5 
1 
8 

21 
1 
1 

3 

33 

2 

67 
3 
4 



22 
1 



The only families of this list which have also true marine species are 
fifteen — the Petromyzontids, Silurids, Clupeids, Dorosomids, Argenti- 
nids, Salmonids, Cyprinodontids, Anguillids, Gasterosteids, Atherinids, 
Labracids, Scisenids, Embiotocids. Cottids, and Gadids. The fresh- 
water species and even genera of most of these families are, however, 
to a large extent, peculiar to the interior waters ; of the others, (1) some 
are anadromous, like certain of the Salmonids, Clupeids, and Labracids J 
(2) others inhabit fresh and salt water almost indifferently, as the Do- 
ll. Mis. 69 46 



722 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883 

rosouiids, many Cyprinodontids, and most Gasterosteids ; and (3) one 
(the eel) perhaps should be considered as a salt rather than a fresh water 
species, inasmuch as it is catadromous, and appears to breed only in the 
sea. Conversely, those fishes which resort to fresh water to spawn and 
speud their early days therein may be considered to be fresh- water forms. 
If all species which to some extent run up into fresh water were in- 
cluded, the list might be very greatly increased. 

Number of North American fishes. — A much needed work was com. 
pleted and published during 1883 (although dated 1882), under the title 
" Synopsis of the Fishes of North America," by David S. Jordan and 
Charles H. Gilbert : it is the sixteenth " Bulletin of the United States 
National Museum." Bearing the same title as a work published in 3846 
by Dr. D. H.Storer, it not only contrasts with the latter in fullness of 
details and as an epitome of all tbat has been done in North American 
ichthyology, but is greatly superior in the mode of treatment of its sub- 
ject, and is truly a work of eminent scientific merit. It embraces within 
its scope all the species which visit any part of our extended coast, as well 
as those ranging to the farthest north, and the inhabitants of our inland 
rivers and lakes ; it does not, however, include any of the West Indian 
fishes, except those which touch on our coast, and thus has a more re- 
stricted aim than Dr. Storer's work. The classification adopted by the 
authors "is essentially based on the views of Professors Gill and Cope, 
who have," it seemed to our authors, "been more fortunate in reflecting 
nature in their groupings of the fishes than have any of the European 
systematists." They commence with the lowest or most generalized 
forms, and successively take up the more specialized. The four classes of 
Leptocardians, Marsipobranchs, Elasmobranchs, and Fishes proper are 
adopted. The true fishes, so far as the North American species are con- 
cerned at least, are subdivided into the "series Ganoidei," with the 
"subclasses" Chondrostei and Holostei, and the "series Teleostei" with 
the "subclasses" Physostomi and Physoclisti. The last two "sub- 
classes" seem to be unnecessary, or, rather, not entitled to such rank, 
for they not only intergrade, but the presence or absence of the duct 
may be of minor importance. For example, the duct is not obliterated, 
it has been urged, in such forms as Holoeenlrum, Priacanthus, Gcesio, &c, 
and inasmuch as the bladder is developed as a diverticulum from the 
intestinal canal, it is ever liable to resume the evidence of such origin 
in the persistence of the duct. Twenty-three orders are recognized for 
all the North American fish-like types, from the " Cirrostomi" upwards. 

Reduced to their several elements, there are along our east coast 
about 436 species ; from the Gulf coast about 307 have been obtained ; 
but it must be remembered that the latter region is comparatively but 
little known ichthyologically. From the west coast 310 species have 
already been secured, which contrast remarkably with the few that were 
alone known to Dr. Storer in 1846. As many as 617 species have 
been attributed to fresh-water, and of exclusively fresh-water types 



ZOOLOGY. 723 

mere are 577. These numbers of course include duplications of species 
which are common to two or more regions, chiefly the east coast and 
Gulf of Mexico. Such duplicated species are about 170 in number, and 
the aggregate with these subtracted amounts to about 1,460 species for 
the whole of North America north of Mexico. In the number of east 
coast species are, however, included a number of deep sea forms — about 
forty — which do not properly belong to the true American fauna. These 
figures have been communicated to the writer by Professor Jordan. 

Myzonts. 

Fertilization of the Lamprey's eggs. — M. L. Ferry has been led to believe 
that the eggs of the Petromyzon marinus are fecundated by intromission 
of sperm within the body of the female. A female lamprey, caught 
early in June, was opened and the eggs taken from it and consigned to 
a pan filled with water ; in about twenty days thereafter the eggs were 
hatched. It is consequently thought that the females are fecundated 
" while they and the males are adhering side by side to the same rock or 
the same tree," or rather, probably, while in mutual embrace. 

Fishes. 

The functions of the pyloric cceca of fishes. — About the pyloric ex- 
tremity of most fishes are certain diverticula or processes called the 
pyloric cceca. The functions of these appendages have been investi- 
gated by Dr. Blanchard, at Havre, in the case of ten species common 
there — the shad, dory, scad, three gurnards, weever, hake, pout, and 
whiting. It was found that in all instances the fluids secreted by the 
cceca transform starch into glucose and albuminoids into peptones, but 
do not act at all upon fats. It thus appears that the cceca are, to some 
extent, representatives of a pancreas, as was early supposed, but only 
partially. {Am. Nat., vol. xvn, p. 1302.) 

A neic order of fishes. — In the last mouth of 1882 a communication 
was made by M. Leon Vaillant, the French ichthyologist, to the French 
Academy of Sciences, in which he announced the discovery of a remark- 
able type of fishes. The newly discovered form was obtained by the 
French exploring vessel Travailleur off the coast of Morocco, at a depth 
of 2,300 meters, or about 1,100 fathoms. It was some eighteen inches 
long, and was especially notable for an excessively deep-cleft mouth 
and correspondingly elongated jaws, which were at least several times 
longer than the cranium. The new type was named Eurypharynx pele- 
canoides. 

In August, 1883, several specimens of a kindred fish were obtained 
by the United States Fish Commission steamer Albatross in deep water 
off the coast of the United States, at depths varying between 380 and 
1,467 fathoms. The jaws in this form were excessively elongated and 
about six or seven times larger than the cranium. The species was 



724 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

named Gastrostomus Bairdii. It was at once evident that these fishes 
represented a new or undifferentiated group of fishes, and which was 
probably of ordinal value. A study of the anatomy was undertaken by 
Messrs. Gill and Ryder, and some very remarkable structural peculiar- 
ities were discovered. The branchial system was found to be extraordi- 
narily reduced, and, in fact, to be less developed than in any other fish, 
and even than in the Marsipobranchs. All the four usual branchifer- 
ous arches, however, were present and one of those whose function is 
diverted in ordinary fishes had resumed its branchiferous function, 
so that five were actually present. Nevertheless the brain and heart 
were those of Teleost fishes. Many were the other peculiarities found 
in the new type, and those that contrasted most with the characteris- 
tics of normal fishes or appeared to be of the highest morphological 
value were embodied in the ordinal diagnosis, the two genera Eurypha- 
rynx and Gastrostomus being segregated not only as a family (Eury- 
pharyngidse) but as a distinct order, named Lyomeri. The characters 
of these categories are as follows : 

The order Lyomeri is framed for fishes with five branchial arches (none 
modified as branchiostegal or pharyngeal) far behind the skull; an im- 
perfectly ossified cranium, articulating with the first vertebra by a basi- 
occipital condyle alone; only two cephalic arches, both freely movable, 
(1) an anterior dentigerous one, the supramaxillary,and (2) the suspen- 
sorial, consisting of the hyomandibular and quadrate bones; without 
palatine bones; with an imperfect scapular arch represented by a sim- 
ple cartilaginous plate on each side, remote from the skull ; with pec- 
toral rays spiniform and articulated directly with the scapular plates, 
and with the dorsal and anal rays simple and not articulated. 

The family Eurypharyngids is then limited to Lyomeres, with the 
head flat above and with a transverse rostral margin, at the outer 
angles of which the eyes are exposed, with the jaws excessively elon- 
gated backwards and the upper parallel and closing against each other 
as far as the articulation of the two suspensorial bones, with minute 
teeth on both jaws, with a short abdomen and long attenuated tail, 
branchial apertures narrow and very far behind, dorsal and anal fins 
continued nearly to the end of the tail, and minute pectoral fins. 

The mandibular rami are exceedingly narrow and slender, but the 
jaws are extremely expansible and the skin is correspondingly dilatable; 
consequently an enormous pouch may be developed. Inasmuch as the 
slenderness and fragility of the jaws and the absence of raptorial teeth 
(at least in Gastrostomus) preclude the idea of the species being true 
fish of prey, it is probable that they may derive their food from the 
water which is received into the pouch, by a process of selection of the 
small or 1 minute organisms therein contained. 

The peculiar closure of the anterior half of the upper jaws upon each 
other, and the coordinate joint between the hyomandibular and quad- 
rate elements of the suspensorium are doubtless correlated with the 



ZOOLOGY. 725 

mode of ingestion or selection of food. The skin constituting the pouch 
it may be added, has a peculiar velvety appearance, and also reminds 
one of the patagium or wing membrane of a bat. For a more detailed 
summary of the salient characteristics of the type the memoir in the 
Proceedings of the United States National Museum must be referred to. 

Variation in number of rays. — The numbers of rays in the various fins 
generally afford a sure as well as easy means of diagnosing the species 
and genera of fishes, and the variation is usually but slight, although 
there is considerable difference in this respect. The number, however, 
is the same in the young as adult. A most remarkable variation in the 
number of rays co-ordinate with difference in size has, however, been 
found in a fish of a very peculiar type, popularly known as the " king of 
the herrings," and belonging to the family liegalecidae. This species — 
the Regalecus glesne, or Banksii — is a deep sea fish which occasionally is 
found as an estiay on the coasts of Northern Europe, chiefly after a storm, 
and reaches a length of at least twenty-four feet. It has a loug, com- 
pressed body, somewhat like a board, and on this account has been also 
called deal-fish. Dr. Lutken and Professor Collett have lately- and in- 
dependently studied this species, and the latter found that in compara- 
tively small specimens {eg., 3,180 millimeters long) there are only about 
218 dorsal rays, whde in a large one (5,647 millimeters long) as many as 
406 dorsal rays were developed ; the tail, also, apparently becomes dis- 
proportionately longer with increase of size. The ratio is by no means 
exact between the development of the rays and increase of size of the 
fish, but nevertheless it appears to be true that the tendency does exist 
and becomes manifest on contrasting extremes in size and interposing 
many of intermediate size. Such a development would be so anoma- 
lous, however, that further investigations are necessary before the truth 
can be considered established. (Christiania VidenskabsselsJcabs vorhand- 
linger, 1883, No. 16.) 

The Orfe, or Golden Ide. — Four species of Cyprinids have been the ob- 
ject of more or less cultivation in Europe : (1) the common carp (Cypri- 
nus carpio), (2) the gold-fish or carp (Carassius auratus), (3) the ide 
(Idtis melanotus), and (4) the tench (Tinea vulgaris). All have varieties 
due to selection and cultivation, and of the last three reddish yellow or 
golden colored varieties have been especially propagated. The golden 
variety of the ide is known as the orfe, and has been introduced into 
the United States as well as England. It is recommended as an orna- 
mental fish superior to the gold-fish on account of " its larger size, live- 
lier habits, and rapid reproduction," and " will thrive in all inclosed 
waters suitable to roach and gold-fish"; it is also edible. (Nature, vol. 
xxviii, p. 304.) 

The u Ahyu" or u Ai n of the Japanese. — In the ichthyological portion of 
the Fauna Japonica, completed in 1850, Temmiuck and Schlegel de- 



72G SCIENTIFIC RECOKD FOR 1683. 

scribed a very peculiar and remarkable fish found in Japan as Salmo 
(Plecoglossus) altivelis. In I860 Giinther recorded specimens from For- 
mosa as well as Japan. Nothing, however, seems to have been known 
to Europeans respecting the habits of the species till 1883. It now 
appears that the form is of unusual interest. Mr. K. Nabeshima, in a 
communication to Mr. Narinori Okoshi, of the Japanese consulate at 
London, the author of "A Sketch of the Fisheries of Japan", (p. 35), 
gives some interesting details. The fish has the elegant appearance of 
a young salmon or smolt, but the teeth of the sides of the upper jaw 
(supramaxillaries) are of a broad lamelliform shape, and the rami or 
branches of the lower jaw are not joined at the symphysis, but each juts 
out into a small knob. According to Mr. Nabeshima, it varies in size 
from about 6 to 12 inches, and inhabits fresh and rapid streams, except 
in the breeding season. On the approach of the period of reproduction, 
which is autumn, it descends the stream to the estuaries for the purpose 
of spawning. After this labor is performed the old die out and the 
species is represented only by the young, which ascend the streams, 
grow to full size, and in their turn descend the next season to repeat 
the cycle of life. The species igfconsequently known as the u one -year fish." 
The special interest connected with the species results from the fewness 
of those which have analogous habits. Certain gobies of the genera 
Aphya and Crystallogobius have been shown by Professor Collett to be 
annual fishes, while the common eel, the Retropinna* of New Zealand, 
and some species of Galaxias, are the only certain known catadromous 
fishes or visitors to the sea for reproduction. Although doubtless there 
are others, the ahyu is especially worthy of record as the only fish 
known to combine the habits of the two classes indicated. Like the 
smelt, the ahyu has a "smell remarkably resembling that of the cucum- 
ber." ^It is very sensitive, and the slightest handling is immediately 
fatal to it; further, its flesh rapidly deteriorates in flavor, and it there- 
fore cannot be conveyed to distant markets. When fresh, however, it 
is " considered the most delicately flavored of all river fish " in Japan. 
The combination of proueuess to Speedy decay and delicacy of flesh 
naturally causes it to be " somewhat expensive." It rises to the fly, and 
this habit is taken advantage of as a preliminary to a peculiar mode of 
capture which has been described by William Pierre Jouy (Proc. U. S. 
Nat. Mm., vol. vi, p. 275, December 13, 1883). "After whipping the stream 
with flies, as for trout, and securing a fish, a fine gut line is passed 
through tile nostrils and fastened to a line held in the hand ; trailing 
behind the fish thus fastened, which is simply a decoy, are several bright 
hooks, which flash in the sunlight and attract other fish. The decoy is 
now gently led up stream, and the fish, in darting after it, get snagged 
on the hooks." Horse-hoof parings, used as lures, are also said to be 

* Possibly the Retropinna and Galaxias are also "annual" fishes. 



ZOOLOGY. 727 

successful with ahyv. Other methods of capture are detailed by Mr. 
Nabeshima. 

An important Arctic fish. — In 1879 Dr. Beau described, in the Pro- 
ceedings of the U. S. National Museum (vol. n, pp. 358, 359), a new ge- 
neric type of fishes from Alaska, under the name Dallia pectoralis. Al- 
though au interest iug addition to the Arctic fauna, it was not regarded 
as of sufficient importance to be especially referred to in an article for 
popular use. It turns out, however, that the species is not only of 
more than ordinary scientific interest, and that it raises a question of 
taxonomy, but that it is an extensively distributed species, and of very 
considerable economic value. Dr. Bean's specimens were obtained at 
Saint Michael's, Alaska, but the fish has since been found in Siberia, and 
some interesting data have been published respecting it. Professor Nor- 
denskiold, in his "Voyage of the Vega," records it as having been ob- 
tained at Yinretlen, in Northeastern Siberia (the Chukche Peninsula), 
and at Port Clarence, in Alaska, on Bering Sea (pp. 442-444, 582). Pro- 
fessor Kordenskiold first heard of it at Yinretlen, his winter quarters, in 
1878-1879 ; the natives (Chukches) told him that " an exceedingly 
delicious black fish was to be found in the fresh- water lagoon at Yinret- 
len, which is wholly shut off from the sea, and in winter freezes to the 
bottom." On the 8th of July, 1879, a fishing party set out for the 
place, taking a net 9 meters long and 1 wide. A lively account is given 
by Nordenskiold of the fishery. Suffice it to say that " hundreds " of the 
Dallia were obtained. " The fish were transported in a dog-sledge to the 
vessel, where part of them was placed in spirits for the zoologists, 
and the rest fried, not without a protest from our old cook," says Nor- 
denskiold, "who thought that the black, slimy fish looked remarkably 
nasty and ugly. But the Chukches were right; it was a veritable deli- 
cacy, in taste somewhat resembling eel, but finer and more fleshy. 
These fish were besides as tough to kill as eels, for after lying an hour 
and a half in the air, they swam, if replaced in the water, about as fast 
as before. How this fish passes the winter is still more enigmatical 
than the winter life of the insects, for tb.e lagoon has no outlet, and ap- 
pears to freeze completely to the bottom. The mass of water which was 
found in autumn in the lagoon, therefore, still lay there as an unmelted 
layer of ice not yet broken up, which was covered with a stratum of 
flood water several feet deep, by which the neighboring grassy plains 
were inundated. It was in this flood water that the fishing took place." 
It is stated by Professor Nordeuskiold that Professor Smitt, of Stock- 
holm, regarded the Yinretlen fish as a distinct species, and has named 
it Dallia delicatissima; but it has been since ascertained by Dr. Bean 
that it is conspecific with the Dallia pectoralis. What manner of fish the 
Dallia is remains to be shown. It has some resemblance externally to the 
salt-water minnows or mummichogs, but more to the species of Umbra, 
which are sometimes called in the United States mudfishes, and in Hun- 
gary by a name equivalent to dogfish ; it is consequently figured in Nor- 



728 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

denskiold's work as the " Dog-fish from the Ohukche Peninsula" (p. 444). 
The resemblance, however, is only superficial, and the animal is found 
to have many peculiar characters. The pectorals have very numerous 
rays (33-35), and are set on convex skin-covered bases, and when the 
skin is taken up it is found that there is a simple cartilage, and no 
bones, as in most fishes. Further, the bones of the upper jaw are 
grown together, and not separate, as is usual. In fact, the Dallia is the 
only known representative of a very remarkable family (Dalliidae), and 
even of a peculiar suborder (Xenomi) of fishes. The fish rarely grows 
much beyond six inches long. 

Banger from Garfish. — The fishes variously known along the United 
States coast as garfish, bill-fish, and needle-fish are remarkable for their 
elongated, bill-like jaws, and are very agile, and may occasionally be 
seen to leap out of the water. It seems that this propensity may be 
not without some inconvenience, or even danger, especially in the case 
of the large, stout-billed species. Mr. S. Archer " was being pulled 
off from the shore to H. M. S. Himalaya in the harbor of Aden, when a 
fish jumped out of the water over the boat, and in doing so struck the 
hat of another officer and knocked it into the water. When the hat was 
recovered" there was found "in the hard felt a slit about four inches 
in length" (Nature, vol. xivin, p. 226). The fish was doubtless a gar. 
Professor Moseley, in comments upon this incident, asserts that "it is 
the constant habit of large belones," some of which attain a length of 
five feet, " when startled, to move along the surface of the water with 
astonishing rapidity." Professor Moseley had "seen them thus spring 
out of the water when scared by a boat," and had been told "that in some 
of the Pacific islands these fish not uncommonly cause the death of the 
natives, who, when wading in the water, have their naked abdomens 
speared by the sharp snouts of the fish, with the result of causing peri- 
tonitis. The fish appear to bound blindly away from danger, and strike 
any object in their way haphazard." (Nature, vol. xxviii, p. 436.) 

Amphibians. 

Spermatozoa of Newt. — In view of the great uniformity of the sperma- 
tozoa, an observation by Mr. G. J. Dowdeswell is of some interest. The 
spermatozoa of the common newt of Europe (Triton cristatus) were found 
to have a structure not found in any others. The head of each sperma- 
tozoon was found to be surmounted by a minute barb about 2 y. long 
and 1.5 p. broad. It is thought that this barb may have as a function 
an enhanced power for the spermatozoon to attach itself to and pene- 
trate into the ovum in the early stages of fertilization, as has been shown 
to occur by Fol and others. (Quart. Journ. Royal Mic. Soc, vol. n, pp. 
336-339.) 

Reptiles. 

A new reptile-house. — A special reptile-house, or " reptilium," was 
built in 18S2 and 1883 by the Zoological Society of London, which will 



ZOOLOGY. 729 

doubtless afford the means for the more thorough study of the animals 
for which it is destined. The structure is 120 feet long and 60 feet wide. 
Fixed cages for the pythons and other large reptiles occupy three sides, 
and the south front is reserved for small movable cases. A large oval 
tank for crocodiles, and two smaller ones for tortoises, are in the center 
of the building. (Nature, vol. xxvm, p. 17.) 

New researches on the Dinosaurians. — Several important contributions 
to our knowledge of the Dinosaurians have been published during 
1883, among them, Notes, by Mr. L. Dollo, on the Belgian Iguanodon- 
tidae of the now celebrated Bernissart " find " ; one by Prof. J. M. 
Hulke, in which an " attempt " (and doubtless approximately successful 
one) is made to illustrate the complete osteology of Hypsilophodon 
Foxii of the English Vealden ; and an article by Prof. E. D. Cope on 
"The Structure and Appearance of a Laramie Dinosaurian" — the Dio- 
clonius mirabilis, one of the Hadrosauridae. 

A peculiar family of Gecko-like lizards. — The Gecconidae, or Geckos, 
are exceptional among the Lacertilian reptiles by the possession of 
of biconcave vertebrae, and have a peculiar physiognomy by which they 
can, as a rule, be at once recognized. It has recently been discovered, 
however, that several generic types of lizards, which superficially re- 
semble the Geckos, are distinguished from them by concavo-convex or 
procoelous vertebrae, and other differential characters are associated 
with this divergence. The genera now known to be thus distinguished 
are the Indian JEublepharis, the West African Psilodactylm, and the 
American Coleonyx. Mr. Boulenger has recently proposed for the re- 
ception of these forms a peculiar family, which he has named Euble- 
pharidce. The new family is definable as Lacertilia with procoelous 
vertebrae, united parietal bones, incomplete orbital ring, and without a 
parietal bar; the Gecconidae remain still as Lacertilians with biconcave 
vertebrae, distinct parietal bones, incomplete orbital ring, and deficient 
parietal bar. It is urged by Mr. Boulenger that, in view of the facts, 
the suborder Nyctisaura should be abandoned, and it is recalled that the 
Varanidae have the orbit incompletely surrounded, and the Heloder- 
midae are destitute of a parietal bar. 

The poison of Heloderma. — "A partial study of the poison of ffelo- 
derma suspectum (Cope), the Gila monster," has been made by Drs. S. 
Weir Mitchell and E. T. Reichert, of Philadelphia. The poisonous 
character of the lizard has been fully confirmed, and the physiological 
and pathological characteristics of the poison have been made known. 
It is a "virulent heart poison," which "contrasts" strongly with the 
venoms of serpents, since they give rise to local hemorrhages, and cause 
death chiefly through failure of the respiration, and not by the heart, 
unless given in overwhelming doses. They lower muscle and nerve 
reactions, especially those of the respiratory apparatus, but do not, as 



730 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

a rule, cause extreme and abrupt loss of spinal power. Finally, they 
give rise to a wide range of secondary pathological appearances which 
are absent from Heloderma poisoning." The poison of the lizard leaves 
no trace of any local effect, but the heart is arrested in complete diastole, 
and becomes full of firm black clots. The muscles (except the cardiac) 
and nerves respond readily to irritants, "but the spinal cord has its 
power annihilated abruptly and refuses to respond to the most powerful 
electrical currents." 

Composition of snake-poisons.— The poison of snakes, especially of the 
family of Crotalids, has been chemically and physiologically investi- 
gated by Drs. S. Weir Mitchell and Reichert, of Philadelphia. They 
succeeded in separating, from poison obtained from rattlesnakes and 
moccasons, three different proteids, which they have proposed to dis- 
tinguish severally as venom peptone, venom-globuline, and venom- 
albumen. The details of these investigations are given in the Medical 
News, of Philadelphia, for April 28, 1883. 

Birds. 

American Ornithologists' Union. — In response to a call of several of 
America's most eminent ornithologists, Messrs. J. A. Allen, of Cam- 
bridge, Elliott Coues, of Washington, and William Brewster, of Boston, 
"sent to a little less than fifty of the more prominent ornithologists of 
the United States and Canada," a meeting for organizing "the Ameri- 
can Ornithologists' Union" was held at New York, on the 26th of Sep- 
tember, 1883, and following days. The Union took as its exemplar 
the "British Ornithologists' Union." Four classes of members were 
recognized: (1) active, limited to fifty; (2) foreign, limited to twenty- 
five; (3) corresponding, limited to one hundred; and (4) associate, to be 
unlimited in number. Mr. J. A. Allen was elected president, Dr. E. 
Coues and Mr. R. Ridgway vice-presidents, and Dr. C. Hart Merriam 
secretary and treasurer. 

The Nuttall Ornithological Club transferred to the new Union its Bul- 
letin, and this will therefore be discontinued as such. It is succeeded 
by "The Auk" of the American Ornithologists' Union. The Union was 
organized under happy and harmonious conditions, and much good to 
ornithology may be expected from its activity. Its most important 
promised work will be "a revision of the classification and nomen- 
clature of North American Birds," for which a special committee was 
appointed of five, viz, Messrs. Coues, Allen, Ridgway, Brewster, and 
Henshaw. 

Cholera and Birds. — It has been claimed that there is a marked de- 
crease in the number of birds in regions where cholera is for the time 
raging, and this belief has been indorsed by a number of correspond- 
ents in the columns of Nature. Exodus of birds from sundry places 
afflicted with cholera has been recorded. Before the disease had fairly 






ZOOLOGY. 731 

developed, or at latest in its incipiency, birds of various kinds almost 
or quite deserted, apparently, the towns of Zagazig in Egypt (p. 329), 
Salisbury in England (342), the island of Mauritius (p. 366), and West 
Barbary (p. 389). Other instances have been recorded, but in a rather 
skeptical spirit, by Pfarrer niickel, of Windsheim, in the "Zoologi- 
sche Garten" of Frankfurt-am Main (vol. xiv, p. 328). At Zagazig, so 
long as the birds remained flying about as usual, it was considered that 
the inhabitants were quite secure from any attack, but when they left 
somecitizens would leave also from fear of impending pestilence. " The 
birds had been observed by old hands to depart before the approach of 
cholera during the last four epidemics" (p. 3l!9). At Salisbury, a man, 
"whose duty it was to oil the vane upon the spire, had made his usual 
ascent (of 404 feet), and had perceived a foul scent, which it seems had 
not been noticed below. The inhabitants connected this with the ap- 
pearance of the epidemic shortly afterwards. Birds might, no doubt, 
be affected by such a circumstance" (p. 342). These observations seem 
to be to the point, but mure, scientifically conducted, are requisite be- 
fore full credence can be put in the alleged coincidence of cholera and 
absence or paucity of birds. 

Relations of the Penguins. — The Penguins or Spheniscids have bceu 
anatomically examined by Professor Watson, of Manchester, and some 
interesting conclusions adduced. These have been embodied in a " Re- 
port on the anatomy of the Spheniscids collected during the voyage of 
H. M. S. Challenger." Among the most important peculiarities of the 
group are the skeletal characteristics of the limbs. The anterior are 
distinguished by the peculiar form and mode of articulation of the carpal 
bones ; by the union of the first or radial, which, although independent 
in the embryo, becomes inseparably anchylosed with the second meta- 
carpal bone in the adult; and by the absence of a free pollex. The 
posterior have a tarso-metatarsus which "presents features which serve 
at once to uistinguish that bone from the corresponding skeletal element 
of any other group of birds, being altogether shorter and broader than 
in these, with the single exception of the genus Fregatta. From Fre- 
gatia, however, as grow all other birds, the Penguin is distinguished by 
the clearly defined separation of the metatarsal elements, the shafts of 
which are differentiated from one another, while in other birds these 
bones are indistinguishably fused together." Further, the position of 
the tarso-metatarsus seems to be peculiar among birds. " In all other 
birds, during terrestrial locomotion, the tarso-metatarsus is elevated so 
that only its distal extremity comes into relation with the ground, the 
4 heel ' of the foot, physiologically considered, in the case of other birds 
being situated at the distal extremity of the tarso-metatarsus, while in 
the Spheniscidse it is formed by the proximal end of that bone. In 
accordance with this arrangement we find that while in the majority of 
birds the metatarsophalangeal articulations admit of great mobility 



732 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1893. 

in the Spheniscidae, on the other hand, these joints are relatively stiff, 
and greater freedom of movement is permitted at the intertarsal articu- 
lation or ankle joint. May we not regard this plantigrade condition of 
the foot of the Penguin as a survival of a similar feature in the anatomy 
of the ornithoscelidan ancestors of the Spheniscidse." 

The characteristics of the Spheniscids, as shown by Professor Watson 
and others, are, in fact, so salient and co-ordinated in such number that 
we can now scarcely doubt that they are the most aberrant of all liv- 
ing birds, and even more remote from the general stock than are the 
Ratitse or Ostrich and the like. If the living birds admit of subdivision 
into orders, the Penguins appear to be best entitled to such segrega- 
tion, and at least they should be isolated as an independent suborder. 
The family of Spheniscids, in the opinion of Professor Watson, is divisi- 
ble into three genera — (1) Spheniscus, with three species and a variety; 
(2) Uudyptes, with two species, and of which the forms Eudyptes chrys- 
ome from Tristan, the Falklands, and Kerguelen Islaud are distin- 
guishable as so many varieties; and (3) Aptenodytes, with two species. 

A new species of Ostrich. — More than once it has been thought that 
a second species of ostrich should be distinguished, but there was 
always some uncertainty as to differential .characters. During the past 
year, however, Dr. Richenow, of Berlin, has urged the specific distinct- 
ness from the common African (Struthio camelus) of specimens sent 
from the Somali country and given to them a characteristic name (Stru- 
1hio molybdophanes). The naked parts are colored quite differently in 
the two forms. The S. camelus has the exposed surfaces of the head, 
neck, thighs, and legs of a flesh-red, while the corresponding parts of 
8. molybdophanes are of a delicate slate-gray. The bill and gape of the 
newly-discovered type is of a delicate pink hue, except at the tip, where 
it is brownish. 

Incubation of the Ostrich. — A discussion respecting the incubation of 
the eggs of the ostrich ensued in the Spectator and Nature in con- 
sequence of a denial, by a critic of Mr. Romanes's "Animal Intelli- 
gence," that the task of incubation is shared by both the sexes. It was 
maintained by the critic, in accordance with the statements current in 
books of natural history, that "female ostriches take no part in the 
duty of incubation." Several respectable and eminent authorities, 
however, adduced positive testimony to the concurrence of the females, 
on some occasions at least. It appears to be well established that in 
the Cape colony both sexes assist on the nest. In the words of Mr. E. 
B. Biggar, who has reported on the ostrich-farms of the Cape colony, 
"some will sit throughout with the most solicitous maternal instinct, 
others manifest such anxiety that, when the hen has been a little late 
in taking her morning turn upon the nest, he has gone out, and, hunt- 
ing her up, has kicked her to the nest in the most unmanly manner. 



ZOOLOGY. 733 

Some are very affectionate over their young, others the reverse ; thus do 
individuals differ even among ostriches. As a rule, the cock bird forms 
the nest, sits the longest, and takes the burden of the work of hatching 
and rearing." 

Testimony is divided as to whether the cock sits invariably at night 
to the exclusion of the hen. 

On the one side, Dr. W. G. Atherstone, in a work oh ostrich-farming, 
has said that the sexes "sit alternately, the male at night grazing and 
guarding the females. During the daytime, the time of the male bird 
going on the nest varies during the period of incubation, as also does 
the time between the female leaving the nest and the male taking her 
place, the exposure and cooliug being probably regulated by the tem- 
perature of the incubation fever at different stages." 

On the other side, Mr. Biggar maintained that, " contrary to what has 
been currently understood, and what is still stated even in recent colo- 
nial accounts, the cock bird sits at night, not the hen.'''' He even urged 
that " in this peculiarity the hand of Providence may be seen, for the 
worst enemies of the nest appear at night, and the cock, being stronger 
and braver, is better able to resist them ; moreover, the feathers of the 
cock being black, night sitting would not expose him to that exhaustion 
from the sun's rays which would ensue if he sat during the day ; while 
at the same time the gray feathers of the female are less conspicuous 
while she sits during the day." 

Mr. Romanes claimed that the experience at Florence coincided with 
that at other places, viz, "that the cock bird undertook the whole duty 
of sitting during the night." 

There is a general tendency — and a natural one — to concentrate at- 
tention on facts individually observed and to generalize from those, 
but nature is often very elastic and her impositions are not always with 
rigid fetters. Truth may pervade opposite statements and the same 
shield may be quite different on different sides. Professor Moseley has 
recognized this truth, and suggested that " an interesting subject of 
inquiry seems to be still open in the matter. It is, how far do the 
habits of nidification of the ostrich vary in the different climates through 
which it ranges ? The nest of the ostrich is commonly described as a 
heap of sand, and so no doubt it is in warm desert regions," but a 
nest which he saw "at the Cape was carefully built of grass and other 
warm materials, so as to aid in retaining heat. The birds kept the nest 
almost constantly covered between them. In warmer regions, how- 
ever, the hen appears often to leave the nest in the daytime, and it is 
just possible that when the temperature is very high the hen may not 
incubate at all, and the cock alone may do so at uight." (Nature, vol. 
xxvii, pp. 480, 530.) 

The Thrush family. — The thrushes have been re-examined by Dr. 
Leonhard Stejneger, the learned Norwegian ornithologist, now resident 



73 1 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

at Washington, with quite satisfactory results. His conclusions have 
been embodied in an article published in the Proceedings of the TJ. S. 
National Museum (vol. V, pp. 449-4S.°>), entitled "Remarks on the Sys- 
tematic Arrangement of the American Turdidse." 

The most essential characters of the group are given as the booted 
tarsi, coincident with the spotted plumage of the young. The most 
prominent featurfe of the new arrangement, contrasted with that most 
current in the United States, is that the Mimince have been removed 
altogether from the family, the genus Cichlherminia, formerly regarded 
as a connecting link between the two subfamilies, being broken up into 
Cichlherminia proper, and Margarops, the former belonging to the true 
Turdince, the latter to the Mimince, which are referred to the neigh- 
borhood of the TroglodytinoB. Furthermore, the Saxicolidce (including 
JSialia), and the Lusciniidce have also been included among the Turdidce, 
while the Myadestince have been given rank as a subfamily under the 
same head after having been removed from the PtilogonaUdce, among 
which, however, Myadestes leucotis is left under the new generic term 
Entomodcstes. The groups have been made more natural by removing 
heterogeneous elements and putting them in their proper place. Thus 
Turdus pinicola was made the type' of the new genus Ridgwayia and 
placed among the Sialece, while Turdus fiavipes and allies were trans- 
ferred to the Myadestine genus Platycichla, which the author shows to 
have been fouuded upon a female of the species in question or a very 
nearly related one. 

Mammals. 

Extinct Rodents of America. — The extinct rodents, whose remains have 
been resurrected from the Tertiary deposits of the United States, have 
been examined by Professor Cope, and interesting details have been 
supplied. No evidence has been furnished as yet of the existence of 
any representative in the lowest beds (Puerco-Eocene epoch), but spe- 
cies have been found in the next succeeding (Wasatch-Eocene epoch), 
and have continued to the present in gradually increasing numbers. 
Representatives of apparently nine families have been found in pre-pli- 
ocene strata, of which three are extinct and the rest still existing. The 
older extinct families were related to the squirrel-like types, and are (L) 
Ischyromyidas, with thirteen species, twelve of the Eocene and one of 
the Oligocene, representing three genera ; (2) Mylagaulidw, known only 
through one species found in the Upper Miocene ; and (3) a form named 
Heliscomys, either of an undifferentiated or doubtful family, described 
from the jaws of a species found in the Oligocene. No remains of any 
of the existing families have been found earlier than the Oligocene ; 
during that epoch the beavers, squirrels, mice, and hares were repre- 
sented by extinct genera, and in the Miocene the porcupines and gophers 
((jeomyidae) left remains. " The ancient genera all differ from their 
modern representatives in the same way; that is, in the greater con- 
striction of the skull just posterior to the orbits and accompanying ab- 



ZOOLOGY. 735 

sence of postorbital processes." Contrary to what prevails among many 
other types, " none of the species of this fauna are of larger size thau 
their modern representatives. In the cases of the beavers, squirrels, 
and rabbits, the ancient representatives are the smaller." This general- 
ization, however, can only be regarded as true for Miocene and earlier 
Tertiary species. Certainly two of the rodent types (without living 
species) at least were larger than any of their modern relations. These 
were described by Professor Cope among "the Pliocene and Post-plio- 
cene rodentia," under the names Castoroides Ohioensis and Amblyrhiza ; 
the former was the type of an extinct family, the Castoroididre, and the 
latter related to the chinchillids. The Cantoroides attained to about 
the size of a black bear, and one of the Amblyrhiza? — the A. latidens — 
must have been larger than the male Virginia deer. (Am. Nat., Janu- 
ary, February, April, 1883, vol. xvn.) 

A third kind of Gorpuscule in Blood. — Besides the red and white blood 
corpuscules, there are indications of a third kind in the blood of mam- 
mals, but the exact nature of the element has remained obscure. In 
1883, Bizzozero solved the difficulties of examination, and practically 
made known for the first time the third kind of corpuscules. They are 
colorless lens-shaped disks of comparatively small size, having a diam- 
eter only a quarter to a half that of the red corpuscules and destitute of 
haemoglobin. • They are especially interesting on account of their sup- 
posed physiological relations. It is claimed that they are the chief 
factors in the coagulation of the blood, and that the fibrin is derived 
from their disintegration. This view is entirely different from those 
previously enunciated, which referred the fibrin chiefly to the breaking 
down of the white corpuscules. Investigation of the blood of birds and 
amphibians revealed an homologous element with the newly differen- 
tiated corpuscule — pale, nucleated blood-plates, whose functions were 
similar to those of the mammals. (Am. Nat., vol. xvn, pp. 1303-1305.) 

In a reclamation made to the French Academy of Sciences (Gompte 
Bendus, vol. 96, pp. 1801-1806) G. Hayem insists that the elements of 
the blood, to which he gave the name of hematoblasts, are identical 
with the "plaquettes," or corpuscules, described by Bizzozero. He 
further contends that Norris's third corpuscular element is a red corp- 
uscule decolorized as the result of the manipulation to the blood was 
subjected. [J. B. M. S. (2), vol. in, p. 631.] 

The function of the cochlea of the mammalian Ear. — Years ago Professor 
Helmholtz, recalling that the membrana basilaris of the cochlea, in which 
the terminal filaments of the auditory nerve are distributed, increases in 
width from the bottom towards the upper part, broached a hypothesis 
to explain the differentiating perception of certain higher tones; it was 
suggested that " the sound waves that penetrate into the cochlea occasion 
asynchronous vibration, either in the broader upper half or in the narrow- 
er lower half of the membrana basilaris, so that the higher tones would 



736 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

excite the fibers of the auditory nerve distributed in the lower part, and 
the deeper notes of the fibers distributed in the upper part. In animals 
which are low in the scale of development there is a similar arrangement, 
which consists of auditory cilia of different lengths, which have the same 
function, as the shorter ones are intended for the higher notes, and the 
longer ones for the deeper notes and noises, and are set into synchronous 
vibration by them. This hypothesis has been experimentally confirmed 
in the case of the auditory cilia of the lower animals, and it had actually 
turned out true that deep notes produced vibrations in the long hairs 
and high notes in the short ones." 

During the past year Dr. B. Baginsky, of Berlin, experimented on dogs, 
with a view of ascertaining to what extent the Helmholtzian hypothesis 
was applicable to the cochlea of the mammals. The difficulties to be 
encountered were, of course, great, but they were partly overcome. " He 
wounded the top of the cochlea of the healthy ear in dogs which had 
been made absolutely deaf of their other ear, and then observed their 
hearing powers by means of the different notes of organ pipes between 
c and c'"". On the third day after the immediate consequences of the 
operative interference had disappeared, it was found that the d v ogs 
responded perfectly to the notes c"'", c"", c'", c", but were deaf to the 
deeper notes. This condition remained unaltered for weeks, and when 
the animal that had been the subject of experiment was killed, post-mor- 
tem examination showed that the top only of the cochlea had been 
wounded, and that the filaments of the auditory nerve that were dis- 
tributed to that portion were destroyed. Less precise were the results 
of the experiments in which the lower part of the cochlea was destroyed." 
The result on the whole, however, supported the hypothesis of Helm- 
holtz. (Am. Nat, vol. xvn, pp. 1195-1196.) 

Milk-giving Males. — A number of cases have been recorded in which the 
male had developed functional mammary glands, and even man has given 
sometimes quite copiously milk therefrom. Such cases, however, are 
always of interest. The observations of Dr. 0. Hart Merriam, made in 
1872, on the milk-giving faculty of males of the so-called Baird's Hare 
have been recalled recently in Nature (vol. xxvii, p. 241), and a corre- 
spondent in a subsequent number (vol. xxvn, p. 207) revived an old 
account of a he-goat which gave milk. In the island of Amboyna, in 
1546, the famed Saint Francis Xavier found "a he-goat giving suck to 
his young kids with his own milk; he had one breast which gave every 
day as much milk as would fill a basin"; this, the saintly Jesuit wrote, 
he saw with "his own eyes." 

South American extinct Mammals. — While the paleontologists of the 
United States have been rewarded by the rich discoveries of extinct 
mammals whose fame has already been widely bruited, a corps of investi- 
gators has sprung up in the southern continent who are being almost 
equally recompensed for their labor by strange new types. Perhaps the 






ZOOLOGY. 737 

most active of these new laborers is Mr. Florentino Anieghino, who has 
contributed several important memoirs ou fossil mammals to the "Bole- 
tin de la Academia National de Cientias" of the Argentine city Cordoba 
(vol. V, pp. 1-34; 101-116; 257-300; 1883). In one of these memoirs 
( Sobre una coleccion de mamiferos fosiles, recogidos por el profesor Sca- 
labrini en las barrancas del Parana, in vol. V, pp. 257-306,) he has de- 
scribed a number of new animals from a formation antecedent to that 
which has furnished so many well-known pampean types, and has ex- 
pressed his belief that they were the legitimate predecessors of the latter. 
For example, the Chlamydotherium typus was preceded by the Chlamy- 
dotherium 2)aranensis, Hoploplorus by Palcehoplophorus, Mylodon by Pro- 
mylodon, Megatherium by Promegatherium, Toxodon by Toxodontotherium, 
and Macrauchenia by Scolibrinitherium. Both series of these animals — 
the later as well as the earlier — are not only themselves extinct, but 
have left no successors of the same families even. They belong to four 
extinct families. But in addition to these, forms still living were repre- 
sented by relatives of the same family and even by closely allied genera 
in the Parana period. The deer were then exemplified by a certain 
generic type called Proterotherium. Of that giant of existing rodents, 
the Hydrochcerus or Capybara, a still larger predecessor named Cardia- 
therium existed, and the genus Lago.stomus had . then already been 
developed under the form L. paranensis, and the genealogy through L. 
angustideiis and L. fossilis is traceable directly or indirectly into the 
L. trichodactylus now living (op. tit, p. 305). 

Maternal intelligence in Deer. — An interesting instance of maternal 
solicitude and intelligence has been noticed by Mr. W. H. Bavenscroft in 
the spotted deer (Cervus axis) of Ceylon. A newly made mother was 
noticed without her young in the afternoons of several successive days, 
and a man set to watch to detect what she had done with it. It ap- 
peared the doe went to certain bushes and "put the fawn to bed every 
afternoon, for about eight or ten days, at about 4.30 P. M., and hid it so 
successfully that, though "the observer "knew within a few feet the 
place in which it was" concealed, he "never succeeded in finding it." 
(P. Z. S., London, 1883, p. 465.) 

Extinct Dogs of North America. — The family Canidae, including the 
dogs, wolves, foxes, and kindred animals, are of quite an ancient lineage, 
and, according to Professor Cope, "probably first appeared in the Upper 
Eocene epoch," but in the United States " no undoubted species of 
Canidse has been found in beds older than Oligocene or oldest Miocene." 
Their remains have been obtained in the greatest abundance in the 
Middle Miocene, are not rare in the Upper Miocene, and " species ac- 
company the Pliocene fauna everywhere." Twenty-five species of the 
family, representing nine genera, have been recognized by Professor 
Cope. It is possible however that several of these species are referable 
elsewhere than to this family. (Am. Nat, vol. xvii, pp. 235-249.) 
II . Mis. 61) 47 



73$ SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188a. 

ZOOLOGICAL BIBLIOGRAPHY, 1883. 

Dictionaries. 

Encyclopadie der Naturwissenschaften. Herausgegeben von W. Fors- 
ter, A. Kenngott, etc. 

1. Abth. 31. Lief. Handworterbuch der Zoologie, Anthropologic, 
etc., von G. Jager. 8 Lief. (2. Bd., pp. 401-544.) 

2. Abth. 10, 12. Lief. Handworterbuch der Mineralogie, Geologie 
und Palaontologie, von A. Kenngott. 3. u. 4. Lief. (1. Bd,,pp. 289- 
551.) Breslau, E. Trewendt, 1883. (8vo. M. 3 each.) 

Encyklopadie der Naturwissenschaften. Herausgegeben von W. Fors- 
ter, A. Kenngott, etc. 1. Abth. 34. Lief. Handworteb. d. Zoologie, 
Anthropologic und Ethnologic 9. Lief. Breslau, E. Trewendt, 1883. 
(8vo. M. 3.) 

Griffith (J. W.) and A. Henfrey. The Micrographic Dictionary. 
4. ed., by S. W. Griffith. London, Van Voorst, 1883. (8vo.) 

Historical Zoology. 

Archiv fur Naturgeschichte. Gegriindet von A. F. A. Wiegmann. 
Fortgesetzt von W. F. Erichson. In Verbindung mit Prof. Dr. E. 
Leuckart in Leipzig herausgegeben von Dr. F. H. Troschel, Profes- 
sor in der Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universitat zu Bonn. 49. Jahrgang. 
Berlin, Nicolaische Verlags-Buchhandlung, 1883. (8vo.) 

Bibliotheca historico-uaturalis, physico-chemica et niathematica, oder 
systematisch geordnete TJebersicht der in Deutschland und dem 
Auslande auf dem Gebiete der gesaminten Naturwissenchaften, etc., 
erschienenen Biicher. Herausgegebeu vou F. Frenkel. 32. Jahrg. 
Gottingen, Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 1883. (8vo. M. 1.20.) 

Zoological (The) Record for 1882 ; being vol. 19 of the Record of Zoo- 
logical Literature. Edited by Edward Caldwell Rye. London, Van 
Voorst, 1883. (8vo.) 

Zoologischer Anzeiger. Herausgegeben von Prof. J. Victor Cams. 6. 
Jahrgang, 1883. Leipzig, W. Engelmann, 1883. (8vo.) 

Zoologischer Jahresbericht fiir 1882. Herausgegeben von der zoologi- 
schen Station zu Neapel. I. Abth. Allgemeines bis Vermes. II. 
Abth. Arthropoda. III. Abth. Tunicata, Mollusca, Brachiopoda. 
IV. Abth. Vertebrata. Leipzig, W. Engelmann, 1883, '84. (8vo.) 

Systematic Zoology. 

Altum (B.) and H. Landois. Lehrbuch der Zoologie. Mit £38 in 
den Text gedruckten Abbild. 5. verbess. Aufl. Freiburg i. Br., 
Herder'sche Buchhdlg., 1883. (8vo. xix, 401 pp. M. 4.) 

Brehm's Thierleben. 170 Chromotafeln dazu, unter Leitung der Zoo- 
logen Dr. Girtanuer, Klunzinger, O. Schmidt uud Taschenberg nach 
dem Leben ausgefiihrt vom Maler Olof Winkler. 1. Collection. 17 
Taf. zum 1. Bd. d. Vogel. Leipzig, Bibliogr. Instit., 1883. (4to. In 
Mappe. M. 5.) 



ZOOLOGY. 739 

Bronn's (H. G.) Klassen and Ordnungen des Thierreichs. 

2. Bd. Porifera. Neu bearbeitet von G. C. J. Vosinaer. 2. Lief. 

5. Bd. 2. Abth. Gliederf ussier, von A. Gerstaecker. 9. u. 10. Lief. 

6. Bd. S.Abth. Beptilia. Xeu bearbeitet von C.K.Hoffman. 36-40. 
Lief., 6. Bd. 

6. Bd. 5. Abtb. Mammalia. Neu bearbeitet von C. G. Giebel. 26. 

Lief. Leipzig und Heidelberg, C. F. Winter'sche Verlagsbandlnng, 

1883. (8vo. Each Lfg. M. 1.50.) 
Claus (Carl). Lebrbuch der Zoologie. 2. Autl. Marburg, Elwert, 

1883. (8vo. xi, 857 pp., with 706 wood-cuts. M. 18.) 
Edwards (Alphonse Milne). Zoologie methodique et descriptive. 

Avec 487 fig. (Classe de cinquieme.) Paris, G. Masson, 1883. (18mo. 

viii, 391 pp.) 
Gerardin (Leon). Les Betes, element de Zoologie theorique et ap- 

pliquee. Paris, G. Masson, 1883. (lSino. ii, 418 pp., with 356 fig.) 
Gervais (Henri). Kouvelles planches murales d'histoire naturelle. 3. 

edit, de la collection d'Achille Comte. Zoologie. Avec 34 pi. Paris, 

G. Masson, 1883. (18rao. 159 pp. M. 1.50.) 
Gervais (Paul). Cours e46rnentaire de Zoologie pour la classe de 

cinquieme. 3. edit., revue par Henri Paul Gervais. Paris, Hachette 

et Cie., 1883. (12 mo. iv, 455 pp.) 
Greenwood (Major). Aids to Zoology and Comparative Anatomy. 

Loudon, Bailliere, 1883. (12mo. 120 pp. 2sh.) 
Hayek (Gustav von). Handbuch der Zoologie. 15 Lief. (3. Bd., 2. 

Lief.) Wien, C. Gerold's Sohn, 1883. (8vo. M. 3.60.) 
Orton (James). Comparative Zoology, structural and systematic; for 

use in schools and colleges. Bevised edition. Illustrated. New York, 

Harper & Bros., 1883. (12mo.) 
Perrier (Edmond). Elements de Zoologie (classe de cinquieme). 

Avec 435 fig. Paris, Hachette et Cie., 1883. (12mo. xii, 497 pp. 

Frcs. 3.) 
Sicard (Henri). Elements de Zoologie. Avec 758 fig. Paris, J. B. 

Bailliere et fils, 1883. (Svo. xvi, 842 pp. Frcs. 20.) 
Wood (J. G.). New Illustrated Natural History; with designs by 

Wolf, Zwecker, Weir, and others, London, Boutledge, 1883. (Svo. 

796 pp. lash.) 

Anatomy, Histology, and Physiology. 

Bruhl (C. Bernhard). Zootomie aller Thierklassen fur Lernende, 
nach Autopsien skizzirt. Atlas in 50 Lfg. Lief. 28-30. Wien, A. 
Holder, 1883. (4to. Each M. 4.) 

Carnoy (J. B.). Biologie cellulaire. Etude compared de la cellule dans 
les deux regnes, au triple point de vue anatomique, chimique et 
physiologique. Avec plus de 400 grav. origin. Lierre, 1883. (Svo. 
M. 21.) 



740 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Edwards (Alphonse Milne). Anatomie et physiologie animates. 

Avec 311 fig. Paris, Masson, 1883. (18mo. iv, 406 pp.) 
Klein (E.). Elements of Histology. Illustr.with 181engrav. London, 

Oassell, 1883. (12mo. 364 pp. 6sh.) 
Leydig (Franz). Untersuchungen zur Anatomie und Histologic der 

Thiere. Mit 8 Taf. Bonn, Em. Strauss, 1883. (8vo. p. 1., 174 pp. 

M. 20.) 
Meunier, St. Anatomie et physiologie. Zoologie. Paris, 1883. 

(12mo. 397 pp. M. 3.50.) 
Vogt (Carl) and E. Yung. Traits d'anatomie compare pratique. 

1. livr. Paris, Reinwald, 1883. (8vo. 88 pp.) 

Embryology. 

Poster (Michael) and F. M. Balfour. The Elements of Embry- 
ology. 2d edit., revised. Edited by Adam Sedgwick and Walter 
Heape. London, Macmillan, 1883. (8vo. 496 pp. 10sh. Qd.) 

Jacques (Victor), filaments d'Embryologie. Le9ons recueillies a 
FUniversite" de Bruxelles. Bruxelles, H. Manceaux, 1883. (8vo. 108 
pp., 37 gravures. Frcs. 4.) 

Selenka (Emilj. Studien iiber Entwicklungsgeschichte der Thiere. 1. 
Hft. Keimblatter und Primitivorgane der Maus. Mit 4 Taf. Wies- 
baden, Kreidel, 1883. (4to. 23 pp. M. 12.) 

Schneider (Anton). Das Ei und seine Befruchtung. Mit 3 Holz- 

schn. u. 10 Taf. Breslau, J. U. Kern's Verlag, 1883. (4to. iv, 88 pp. 

M. 14.) 

Miscellanea. 

Fol (H.). Sur l'origine de l'individualit^ chez les animaux superieurs. 
Comp. rend. Acad. d. Sc. Paris, T. 97, pp. 497-499 ; Journ. de Micro- 
graph, 7. Ann., pp. 473-474. 

Forbes (S. A.). Studies of the Food of Birds, Insects and Fishes, made 
at the Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History, at Normal, Illi- 
nois. Illinois St. Lab., Bull. No. 6. 

Harting (J. Edmund). Essays on Sport and Natural History, with 
illustrations. London, The Field Office, 1882. (8vo. 485 pp. 16sh.) 

Haswell (W. A.). Note on a curious instance of Symbiosis. Proc. 
Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, Vol. 7, pp. 608-610. 

Hertwig (Oscar). Die Symbiose im Thierreich. Vortrag. Tageblatt 
d. 56. Versamml. deutsch. Naturf. u. Aerzte, Freiburg i. B., 1883. 
(4to. pp. 1-10.) 

Huxley (Thomas Henry). Rede Lecture. (On the origin of animal 
forms.) Abstract in Nature, Vol. 28, pp. 187-189. 

Lanessan (J. L. de). Le Trausformisme, Evolution de la matiere et 
des §tres vivants. Paris, Doin, 1883. (18mo. vii, 595 pp.) 

Lubbock (Sir John). Chapters in Natural Popular History, arranged 
as an advanced reading book. London, National Soc, 1883. (12mo. 
226 pp. lsh. 6d.) 



ZOOLOGY. 741 

Marten (Henry Newell) et al. Lectures delivered to the employe's 
of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, by Prof. H. Newell 
Martin, Henry Sewall, Win. T. Sedgwick and Win. K. Brooks, Balti- 
more, 1882. (8vo. 98 p.) 

Owen (Richard). Cerebral Homologies in Vertebrates and Inverte- 
brates. With 1 wood-cut. Journ. Linn. Soc, Zool., Vol. 17, pp. 1-13. 

Rengade (J.). La Creation naturelle et les Etres vivants. Histoire 
g^nerale du monde terrestre, des v£g6taux,des animaux et de l'homme, 
avec la description des espeees les plus remarquables au point de vue 
de leur developpeinent, de leur organisation, de leurs mceurs et de 
leur utility dans la nature. Avec 100 pi. (100 Livr.) Paris, libr. 
illustre'e, Dreyfus, 1883. (8vo. xi, 808 pp. Frcs. 15.) 

Romanes (George). Animal intelligence. New York, D. Appleton 
& Co., 1883. (International scientific series. 8vo. 520 pp.) 

Starkweather (G. B.). The law of sex; being au exposition of the 
natural law by which the sex of offspring is controlled in man and the 
lower animals, and giving the solution of various social problems. 
London, Churchill, 1883. (8vo. 282 pp. 16sh.) 

Vogt (Carl). Lecons sur les Animaux utiles et nuisibles, les betes 
calomniees et mal juge'es, traduites de l'allemand par M. G. Bavyet. 
Revues par l'auteur et accompagnees de gravures sur bois. 3. 6dit. 
Paris, Reinwald, 1883. (8vo. xi, 287 pp.) 

Wood (J. G.). Homes without hands; being a description of the hab- 
itations of animals, classed according to their principle of construc- 
tion. New edit. London, Longmans, 1883. (8vo. 646 pp. lOsh. 6d.) 

Palceontology . 

Briart (A.). Paleontologie, principes e46mentaires. Paris, 1883. 
(12mo. M. 6.) 

Gaudry (A.). Les Enchainements du mode animal dans les temps 
g^ologiques, Fossiles primaires. Avec 285 fig. Paris, Savy, 1883. 
(8vo. 323 pp. Frcs. 10.) 

Lethaea geognostica oder Beschreibung und Abbildung der die Ge- 
birgs-Formationen bezeichnendtsten Versteinerungen. Hrsg. yon 
einer Vereinigung von Palaeontologen. 1. Th. Lethaea palaeozoica 
von Ferd. Roemer. Textbd. 2. Lief, mit 65 Holzschn. Stuttgart, 
Schweizerbart (E. Koch), 1883. (8vo. M. 12.) 

Miller (S. A.). The American Palaeozoic Fossils. A catalogue of the 
genera and species, with names of authors, dates, places of publica- 
tion, groups of rocks in which found, and the etymology and signifi- 
cance of the words. Cincinnati, Ohio, 1883. (8vo. 334 pp.) 

Palseontologia Indica. Series XI. Indian Tertiary and Post-tertiary 
Vertebrata. Vol. II, p. 2, 3. Series XIV. Tertiary and upper Creta- 
ceous Fauna of Western India. Vol. I. Calcutta, 1882. (4to.) 

Quenstedt (Fr. Aug.). Haudbuch der Petrefactenkunde. 3. Aufl., 
8, 9. Lief, mit Taf. 31-38. Tubingen, Laupp'sche Buchhandl. (8vo.) 



742 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1683. 



Scott (W. B.) and W. F. Magie. Preliminary report upon the Prince- 
ton Scientific Expedition of 1882. Princeton, N. J., 1882. (Svo. 8 pp.) 



Expeditions and Faunas. 

Schmarda (L. K.). Bericlit fiber die Fortschritte unserer Kenntnisse 
von der geograpbisclien Verbreitung der Thiere. Behn's geograph. 
Jabrb., 9. Bd., pp. 207-278. 

Thomson (Ch. Wyville). Report of the scientific results of the voy- 
age of H. M. S. Challenger during the years 1873-'76, prepared under 
the superintendence of the late Sir C. Wyville Thomson and now of 
John Murray. Zoology. Vols. 5-7. London, Longmans, 1882. (4to.) 

North America. 

Edavards (Henri Milne). Mission scientifiqne an Mexique et dans 
PAnierique centrale. Recherches zoologiques, publiees sous la direc- 
tion de M. Henri Milne Edwards. 3. Partie (2. Section) : Etudes sur 
les Batraciens par M. Brocchi. Avec 24 pi. Paris, impr. nation., 
1883. (4to. 143 pp.) 

Asia. 

Blanford (W. T.). A numerical estimate of the species of animals, 
chiefly land and freshwater, hitherto recorded from British India, and 
its dependencies. Journ. Asiat. Soc. Bengal, Vol. 50; pp. 263-272. 

Mohnicke (O.). Blicke auf das Pflanzeu- und Thierleben in den nie- 
derlandischen Malaienlandern. Mit 18 (Holzschn.) Taf. Munster, 
Aschendorff, 1883. (Svo. iv, 694 pp. M. 10.) 

South America. 

Kennel (J. Von). Biologische und fauuistische Notizen aus Trinidad. 
Arb. zool.-zoot. Instit. Wurzburg, Vol. 6, pp. 259-286. 

Parasites. 

Braun (Max). Die thierischen Parasiten des Menschen nebst einer 
Anleitung zur praktischen Beschaftigung mit der Helminthologie fur 
Studirende und Aerzte. Mit. 72 Holzschn. Wurzburg, Adalb. Stu- 
der, 1883. (Svo. viii, 233 pp. M. 6.) 

Protozoans. 

Balbiani (E. G.). Les Organismes unicellulaires. Les Protozoaires. 

Lecons. (Suite.) Jour, de Microgr., T. 7, pp. 291-299; pp. 352-362. 
Gruber (A.). Leber Kerntheilnngsvorgange bei einigen Protozoen. 

Mit 1 Taf. Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., Vol. 38, pp. 372-391. 
Haeckel (Ernst). Neue Gastra?aden der Tiefsee mit Caeinent-Skelet. 

Sitzgeber. Jena. Ges. f. Med. u. Nat., Vol. 25. 



ZOOLOGY. 743 

Sporozoans. 

Balbiani (E. G.). Les Sporozoaires. Seconde Partie du cours d'Em- 
bryogenie coniparee. (Suite.) Journ. de Microgr., Vol. 7, pp. 317-323; 
pp. 404-411. (Fin.) 

Balbiani (E. G.). Lecons sur lez Sporozoaires. Eecueillies par le Dr. 
J. Pelletan. Eevues par le Professeur. Avec 52 fig. intercal. dans 
le texte et 5 pi. lith. Paris, O. Doin, 1881. (1883. 8vo. viii,184pp. 
Frcs. 12.) 

Rhizopods. 

Carpenter (W. B.). Keport on the specimens of the genus Orbit- 
olites collected by H. M. S. Challenger during the years 1873-76. 
With 8 pi. Bep. Scientif. Eesults Challenger, Zoo!., Vol. 7. (47 pp.) 

Haeckel (Ernst). Ueber die Orduungen der Badiolarien. Sitzgsber. 
Jena. Ges. f. Med. u. Naturw., Vol. 16. 

Ccelenterates. 

Lendenfeld (R. v.). Ueber Colenteraten der Sudsee. III. Mittheil. 
Ueber Wehrpolypen und Nesselzellen. Mit 1 Taf. Zeitschr. Wiss. 
Zool. 38. Bd., pp. 355-371. IV. Mittheil. Eucopella campanularia n. g. 
Ibid., pp. 497-583. 

Acalephs. 

Allman (G. J.) Beport on the Hydroida dredged by H. M. S. Chal- 
lenger during the years 1873-76. P. 1. Plumularida). With 20 pi. 
Bep. Scient. Results Challenger. Zool., Vol. 7. (55 pp.) 

Clatjs (Carl). Untersuchungen fiber die Organisation und Entwick- 
lung der Medusen. Mit. 9 Holzstichen und 20 Taf. Prag, Tempsky, 
u. Leipzig, Freytag, 1883. (4to. Tit., pp. 1., 96 pp. M. 20.) 

Weismann (August). Die Entstehung der Sexualzelleu bei den Hy- 
dromedusen. Zugleich als Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Baues und 
der Lebenserscheinungen dieser Gruppe. Text u. Atlas. Jena, G. 
Fischer, 1883. (4to. Text, xiii, 295 pp. ; atlas ; 24 pi., 24 1. expl. M. 
66.) 

Worms. 

VoGKEL (Julius). Die Trichinenkrankkeit und die zu ihrerFerhtitung 
anzuwendenden Mittel. Nach dem Stande der neuesten Forschungen 
bearbeitet von O. Reyher. 2. Aufl. Mit Gratisbeilage des Trichi- 
nenspiegels. Leipzig, Denicke's Verlag, 1883. (8vo. 54 pp. M. 0.60.) 

Grassi (B.). I Chetognati. Anatomia e sistematica con aggiunte eui- 
briologiche. Con 13 tav. Atti R. Accad. Line, (3,) Mem. CI. fis. mat., 
Vol. 13, pp. 565-701. 

Gerstaecker (A.). Arthropoda. II. Abth., 9., 10. Lief. Leipzig u. 
Heidelberg, 1883. (8vo. M. 1.50.) (Bronn's Klassen und Ordnun- 
gen Theirreichs.) 



744 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Insects. 

Girard (Maurice). Les Insectes. Trait6 elementaire d'Entomologie. 

Hymenopteres terebrants ; Macrolepidopteres. Texte, T. 3, avec 

23 pi., Fasc. 1, pp. 1-640. Paris, J. B. Bailliere et fils, 1883. (8vo. 

Fig. noires, frcs. 20 ; fig. color., frcs. 40 le Fasc.) 
Biley (Ch. V.). Beport of the entomologist for the fiscal year ending 

June 30, 1882. Washington, 1882. 8vo. From Ann. Beport Deptmt. 

Agricult. for 1881. p. 61-214. (viii, 167 pp., 20 pi.) 
United States Department of Agriculture: Division of Entomology. 

Bulletins No. 1, No. 2. Washington, 1883. (8vo.) 
Matthews (A). Catalogue of British Coleoptera. London, 1883. 

(Svo.) 
Begtmbart (Maurice). Essai monographique de la famille des 

Gyrinides. 1. P. (fin). Avec 3 pi. Ann. Soc. Entomol. France, (6), T. 

2, pp. 401-458. 
Sharp (D.). Catalogue of British Coleoptera. 2. edit., revised, corr., 

and augm. London, 1883. (Svo. M. 1.20.) 
. On the classification of the Adephaga or carnivorous series of 

Coleoptera. Trans. Entomol. Soc. London, 1882. (Pp. 61-71.) 

Mottusks. 

Fischer (Paul). Manuel de Conchyliologie. Fasc. V. Paris, 1883. 

(8vo. Pp. 417-512.) 
Lankester (Edwin Bay). Mollusca. Encyclopaedia Brittanica. Vol. 

16, pp. 632-695, 1883. 
Martens (Edouard von). Die Weich-und Schalthiere. Mit 205 

Abbildungen. Leipzig, G. Freytag, 1883. (Svo. 327 pp. M. 5.) 
. Conchologische Mittheilungen, als Fortsetzung der Novitates 

conchologicoe. (Bd. II, Heft 3.) Kassel, Th. Fischer. 
Martini und Chemnitz (Systeinatisches Conchylien-Cabinet von) ; 

neue reich vermehrte Ausgabe [etc.], fortgesetzt von Dr. W. Kobelt 

und H. C. Weiukauff. 315. Lief, [etc.] Niirnberg, Bauer u. Baspe. 
Tryon (George W., jr). Manual of Conchology, structural and sys- 
tematic. With illustrations of the species. Vol. V. Philadelphia, 

Author, 1883. (Svo. Col., $20; plain, $12.) 
. Structural and systematic Conchology. An Introduction to 

the study of the Mollusca. Vol. III. Philadelphia, Author. (8vo. 

430 pp., pi. 23-91.) 

Journals. 

Journal de Conchyliologie [etc.], public sous la direction de H. Cross et 
P. Fischer. [T. 31, or] 3. se>., t. 23. Paris, H. Crosse. (8vo.) 

Journal (The) of Conchology. Vol. 5. London, D. Bogue. (8vo.) 

Malakozoologische Blatter. Fortgesetzt von S. Clessin. 6. Bd. Kassel, 
Th. Fischer. 

Proces-verbaux des stances de la Sociele^ Boyale Malacologique de Bel- 
gique. T. 12. Anneel883. Bruxelles. (8vo.) 



ZOOLOGY. 745 

Faunas. 

Kobelt (W.). Iconographie der schalentragenden europaischen Meer- 

escouchylien. 1. Heft. Mit 4 Taf. Cassel, Th. Fischer, 1883. (4to. 

16 pp. Schwarz M. 4 ; color. M. 6.) 
Pelseneer (P.). Tableau dichotomique des Mollusques ruarins de la 

Belgique. Bruxelles, 1882. (8vo. 35 pp., 1 pi. M. 2.50.) 
Bellardi (L.). I Molluschi dei terreui terziarii del Pienionte e della 

Liguria. P. III. Gasteropoda (BuccinidaB, Cyclopsidae, PurpuridaB, 

Coralliophyllidae, Olividae). Torino, 1883. (4to. 253 pp., con 12 tav. 

M. 30.) 
Hoek (P. P. 0.)- Overzicht van de Literatuur op de Oester en de Oes- 

tercultuur betrekking hebbende. Eevue bibliographique sur l'huitre, 

etc. Tijdschr. d. Nederland. Zool. Vereen, Suppl., D. 1, Afl. 1, pp. 1- 

112. 
De Voortplantingsorganen van de Oester. Les Organes de la 

gyration de l'huitre. Med 6 pi. (l a I-V) ; ibid., pp. 113-253. 
Ashford (Charles). On the action of the heart in the Helicidse dur- 
ing Hibernation. Journ. of Conchol., Vol. 3, p. 321-326. 
Barfurth (Dietrich), tiber den Bau und die Thatigkeit der Gaste- 

ropodeuleber. Mit 1 Taf. Arch. f. mikrosk. Anat., Vol. 22, pp. 473- 

524. 
Haller (Bela). Die Organisation der Chitonen der Adria. II. Theil. 

Mit 3 Taf. Arbeit, Zool. Inst. Wien, Vol. 5, pp. 29-60. 
Simroth (Heinrich). Anatomie der Parmacella Olivieri Guv. Mit 1 

Taf. Jahrb. deutsch. Malakozool. Ges., 10. Jahrg., pp. 1-47. 
Blake (J. F.). A monograph of the British Fossil Cephalopoda. Part 

I. Introduction and Silurian species. (With 31 pi.) London, 1882. 

(4to. 248 pp.) 
Mo.tsisovics (E. von). Die Cephalopoden der Mediterranean Triaspro- 

viuz. Mit 94 Taf. Abhandl. k. k. Geol. Eeichsanst., Vol. 10. (317 

Protochor dates. 

Herdman (Will. A.). Keport on the Tunicata collected during the 
voyage of H. M. S. Challenger during the years 1873-'76. I. As- 
cidia3 simplices. With 36 pi. Report Scientif. Results Challenger, 
Zool., Vol. 6. (xvii, 296 pp.) 

Vertebrates. 

Franck (Ludwig). Handbuch der Anatomie der Hausthiere. Mit 
besonderer Berucksichtigung des Pferdes. 2. Aufl. 2. Abth. Stutt- 
gart, Schickhardt & Ebner, 1883. (8vo. Tit,, viii, 481-1118 pp.) 

Hirschberg. Zur Dioptrik und Ophthalmoskopie der Fisch- und Am- 
phibienaugen. Arch. f. Anat. und Physiol., Physiol. Abtheil., pp. 
493. 



746 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Lortet (L.). Poissons et Reptiles du Lac Tiber iade et quelques autres 
parties de la Syrie. (Avec 14 pi.) Archives Museum d'Hist. Nat. 
de Lyon, Vol. 3. 

Fishes. 

Vinciguerra (D.). Risultati ittiologici delle Crociere del Violante 
comand. dal Capit. -Arm. Enr. D'Albertis. Con 3 tav. Ann. Mus. 
Civ. Stor. Nat. Geneva, Vol. 18, pp. 465-590. 

Jordan, (David Starr) and Charles H. Gilbert. Synopsis of the 
fishes of North America. Washington, Govt. Prntg. Office, 1882. 
(Bulletin of the U. S. National Museum, No. 1G. Svo. lvi, 1018 pp.) 

Day (Franois). The Fishes of Great Britain and Ireland. Parts 6, 7. 
London, Williams & Norgate, 1883. Svo. Vol. 2. Parts 2, 3. 

Faber (G. L.) The Fisheries of the Adriatic, and the Fish thereof; a 
report of the Austro-Hungarian Sea Fisheries; with a detailed de- 
scription of the Marine Fauna of the Adriatic Gulf. With illustra- 
tions. London, Quariteh. (4to.) 

Eochebrune (A. T. de). Faune de la Senegambie. Les Poissons. 
Paris. (8vo, with 6 pi. col. M. 10.) 

Steindachner (Franz). Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Flussfische Sud- 
amerika's. IV. Mit 7 Taf. Denkschr. Akad. d. Wiss. Wien Math. Nat. 
01., Vol. 46, 1. Abth. 

Macleay (William). Contributions to a knowledge of the Fishes of 
New Guinea. II. Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, Vol. 7, pp. 357-366. 

Myzonts. 

Dohrn (Anton). Studien zur Urgeschichte des Wirbelthierkorpers. 
III. Die Entstehung der Hypophysis bei Petromyzon Plaueri. Mit 1 
Taf. Mittheil. Zoolog. Station Neapel, Vol. 4, pp. 172-189. 

Ferry (L.). Sur la lamproie marine. Compt. rend. Acad. Sc, Paris, T. 
96, pp. 721-723; Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), Vol. II, p. 388. 

Parker (W. K.). On the skeleton of the Marsipobranch fishes. Part 1. 
The Myxinoids. Nature, Vol. 27, pp. 330-331. Part II. The Lam- 
prey. Nature, Vol. 27, pp. 331 (Roy. Soc). 

Selachians. 

Du Bois-Reymond (Emil). On a new principle affecting the system- 
atic distribution of the Torpedinida?, and in the probable occurrence 
of T. occidentalis Storer on the British coast. Report 52. Meet. Brit. 
Assoc. Adv. Sc, pp. 592-595. 

Herrmann (G.). Recherches sur la spermatogenese chez les Selaciens. 
Avec 3 pi. Journ. de lAnat. et de la Physiol., T. 18, pp. 373-432. 

Schneider (Anton). Leber die Begattung der Knorpelfische. Zool. 
Beitr. Schneider, Vol. 1, Biolog. Centralbl., Vol. 3. 

Stassano (H.). Nouvelles recherches pliysiologoques sur la Torpillc, 
Compt. rend. Acad. Sc, Paris,, T s 96, pp. 1436-1439. 



ZOOLOGY. 747 

Teleostomes. 

Balfour (F. M.) and W. 1ST. Parker. On the structure and develop- 
ment of Lepidosteus. With 9 pi. Philos. Transact. Eoyal Soc. Lon- 
don, 1882, pp. 359-442, 1883. 

Dogiel (Alexander). Die Retina derGanoiden. Mit 3 Taf. Arch, 
f. mikrosk. Anat., Vol. 22, pp. 419-472. 

Stock (Thomas). On the structure and affinities of the genus Tristy- 
chius, Agass. Ann & Mag Nat. Hist., (5,) Vol. 12, pp. 177-190, pi. 7, 
Sept., 1883. 

Hildendorf. Larveuformen von Knochenlisehen. Sitzgsber.Ges.Nat. 
Fr. Berlin, 1883, pp. 43-45. 

Rabl-Ruckhard. Das Grosshirn der Kuochenlische und seine An- 
hangsgebilde. Arch f. Anat. u. Eutwickelungsgesch., pp. 279-322, 2 
pi., 1883. 

Ryder (John A.). Observations on the absorption of the yelk, the 
food, feeding, and development of Embryo Fishes, comprising some 
investigations conducted at the Central Hatchery, Armory Building, 
Washington, D. C, in 1882. Bull. U. S. Fish Coinrniss., 1882, Vol. 2, 
pp. 179-205. 

Fusbaum (Joseph). Ueber das anatoraische Verhaltniss zwischen dein 
Gehbrorgau und der Schwimmblase bei den Cyprinoiden. Polnisch : 
Kosmos, Zeitschr. d. poln. Naturf. Ges. Kopernicus, Lemberg, 1882, 
pp. 404-429, 439-449, 4 pi. 

Facciola (Luigm). Di alcuue disposizioni organiche dell' Uranosco- 
pus scaber L. in rapporto al suo istiuto insidiatore. Atti Soc. Natur. 
Modena, (3,) T. 1, pp. 17-28. 

Smitt (F. A.) Schematisk framstiillning af de i Riksmuseum befint- 
liga laxartade flskarues slagtskapsforhallandandeu. Ofvers. K. Vet. 
Akad. Forhdlg. Stockholm, 39. Arg., pp. 31-40. 

Trois (Enrico). Osservazioni soil' iutima struttura delle Branchie del 
Xiphias gladius. Con 1 tav. Atti R. Istit. Veneto, (6,) Vol. 1. 

Amphibians. 

Brocchi. Etudes sur les Batracieus. Mission scieutif. ad Mex. Rech. 
Zool., 3. P., 2. Sect. (143 pp., 24 pi.) 

Camerano (Lor.). Monogratia degli Anfibi Anuri Italiani. Con 2 
tav. Mem. R. Accad. Sc. Torino, (2,) Vol. 35. 

Pfluger (E.). Das Uberwiutern der Kaulquappen der Knoblauch- 
krote (Pelobates fuscus). (Ein Beitrag zur Lehre von der Anpas- 
sung der Organismen an die iiusseren *Lebeusbedingungen und zur 
Diagnose der Batrachieiiarven.) Pfliiger's Arch. f. d. ges. Physiol., 
Vol. 31, pp. 134-145. 

Reptiles. 

Hoffman (C. K.). Reptilien (Bronn'sKlassen und Ordnungen). 36., 
37. Lief. Leipzig u. Heidelberg, 1883. 



748 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Portis (A.). Les Cheloniens de la molasse vaudoise conserves dans le 

musee g^ologique de Lausanne. Abbandl. Scliweiz. Palaontol. Ges., 

Vol. 9. 
Ficalbi (Eug.). Osteologia del Platidattilo mauritianico. Con 2 tav. 

Atti Soc. Toscan. Sc. Nat. Pisa, Mem., Vol. 5, p. 287-330. 
Jan (J.). Iconographie des Ophidiens. CoutiuueeparF. Sordelli. 51. 

(dern.) Livr. (Titres, tables, &c). Paris, 1882. 
Stradling (Arthur). On tbe treatment of snakes in captivity. 

Contin. Zoologist (3), vol. 7, pp. 18-24; 61-68; 103-114; 205-213; 

242-251. 

Birds. 

Bulletin of tbe Nuttall Ornithological Club. Vol. 8. Cambridge, Mass., 

1883. (8vo.) 
Ibis (Tbe), a Quarterly Journal of Ornitbology. Edited by O. Salvin 

and Pb. L. Sclater. 4 series, vol. 7. Loudon, J. Van Voorst, 1883. 

(Svo.) 
Journal fiir Ornitbologie. Deutscbes Centralorgan fur die gesammten 

Ornitbologie. Herausgegeben von J. Cabanis. 31. Jabrg. (4 Folge, 

11. Bd.) Leipzig, Kittler, 1883. (8vo.) 
Stearns (Winfred A.). New England Bird-Life, being a manual of 

New England Ornitbology. Revised and edited from tbe manuscript 

of Winfred A. Stearns by Elliot Coues. Part II. Boston, Lee & 

Shepard, 1883. (12mo. 409 pp.) 
Seebohm (Henry). A History of British Birds, with colored illustra- 
tions of their eggs. Part 2-3. London, Porter. 1883. (8vo.) 
Gould (John). The Birds of Asia. Part 35. London, 1883. 

This part concludes the great work commenced by Mr. Gould in 

1850 and is from the pen of Mr. R. B. Sharpe. 
Oates (Eugene W.). A Handbook to the Birds of British Burmah, 

including those found in the adjoining state of Karennee. Vol. II 

(last). London, R. H. Porter, &c. 1883. 
Watson (Morrison). Report on the anatomy of the Spheniscidae. 

Report Sc. Results Voyage Challenger, Vol. 7. 
La Perre de Roo (V.). Monographic des races de poules. Avec fig. 

Paris, Journal l'Acclimation, 1883. (Svo. vii, 454 pp.) 
Schomann-Rgstock (Paul). Die Brieftaube. Hire Geschichte, Zucht, 

Pflege und Dressur, etc. In freier Uebertragung des Werkes von La 

Perre de Roo. Rostock, W. Werther, 1883. (Svo. 224 pp., 4 pi., 23 

fig. M. 3.G0.) 
La Perre de Roo (V.). M«nographie des Pigeons domestiques. Avec 

fig. Paris, Journal l'Acclimatation, 1883. (Svo. iv, 390 pp.) 
Gadow (Hans). Catalogue of the Passeriformes, or Perching Birds, in 

the collection of the British Museum. Cichloniorphae : Part V [Pari- 

dae, Laniidse], and Cichlomorphse (creepers and nuthatches). London, 

trustees, 1S83. (Catalogue of the Birds in the British Museum, Vol. 

8. (8vo. xiii, 386 pp., 9 pi.) 



ZOOLOGY 740 

Sharpe (B. Bowdler). Catalogue of the Passeriformes, or Perching 
Birds, in the collection of the British Museum. CichloinorphaB : Part 
IV. [Timeliidae concl.] Loudon, trustees, 1883. (Catalogue of the 
Birds in the British Museum, Vol. 7. (8vo. xvi, 698 pp., 1.1., 15 pi.) 

Mammals. 

Deleport-Bayard. Notes sur une invasion de souris, mulots et 

cauipagnols dans les campagnes du nord de la France. Lille. Soc. 

Indust. du nord de la France. 
Flower (William Henry). Mammalia. Encyclopaedia Britannica, 

Vol. 15, pp. 347-446, 1883. 
The sections on the Insectivora, Chiroptera and Bodentia are by 

Dr. G. E. Dobson. 
Lemoine. Elude sur le Neoplagiaulax de la Faune Eocene inferieure 

des environs de Beims. Avec 2 pi. Bull. Soc. G^olog. France, 

(3,) Vol. 11, pp. 249-271. 
Owen (Bichard). On the Annuities of Thylacoleo. Nature, Vol. 27, 

p. 354. 
Poulton (Edward B.). The Tongue of Perameles nasuta, with some 

Suggestions as to the Origin of Taste Bulbs. With 1 pi. Quart. 

Journ Mic. Sc, Vol. 23, pp. 69-86. 
Dobson (G. E.). On the natural position of the Dipodidse. Proc. Zool. 

Soc. London, 1882, pp. 640-641, 1883. 

Monograph of the Insectivora. 

King (F. H.). Instinct and Memory exhibited by the flying Squirrel in 

confinement, with a thought on the Origin of Wings in Bats. Amer. 

Naturalist, Vol. 17, p. 36-42. 
Cope (E. D.). On a newextiuct genus of Sirenia (Dioplotherium) from 

South Carolina. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philad., 1883, pp. 52-54. 
Gray (David). Notes on the Characters and Habits of the Bottlenose- 

Whale(Hyperoodon rostratus). With figg. Proc. Zool. Soc. Loudon, 

1882, pp. "726-731. 
Sigel (W. L.). Das Nilpferd des zoologischeu Gartens in Hamburg. 

Zoolog. Garten, 24. Jahrg., pp. 10-21. 
Lydekker (B.). SiwalikandNarbadaEquidae. (Palaeontologialndica, 

Ser. X, Vol. 2, Calcutta.) 

Siwalik Bhinocerotidae. Supplement to Siwalik and Narbada 

Proboscidia. (Palaeoutologia Indica, Ser. X, Vol. 2. Calcutta.) 

Brewer (William H.). Evolution of the American Trotting Horse. 

Amer. Journ. Sc, (3,) Vol. 25, pp. 299-304. Nature, Vol. 27, pp. 

609-611. 
Galton (Francis). The American Trotting Horse. Natura, Vol. 28, 

pp. 29. 
Pietrememt (C. A.). Les chevaux dans les temps preliistoriques et 

historiques. Paris, Germer-Bailliere et Cie., 1883. (8vo. xx*, 776 pp. 

Frcs. 15.) 



750 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Schwarznecker (G.) und W. Zipperlen. Beschreibung der vorziig- 
lichsteu Pferde-Rassen. Gesainmelte Aufsatze. Zugleich Textband 
zu Volkers, Abbildungen vorziiglicken Pferde-Rassen. 2. verm. Aufl. 
Stuttgart, Schickhart & Ebner, 1883. (8vo. 44 pp., 1 pi.) 

Espeut (W. Bancroft). On the Acclimatization of the Indian Mun- 
goos. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1882, pp. 712-714. 

Fischer (Johann von). Das Frettchen (Fcetorius furo). Eine An- 
leituug zu dessen Zucht, Pflege, und Abrichtung. Mit 1 Taf. und 
6 Abbild. Frankfurt a. M., Mahlau und Waldschmidt, 1883. (8vo. 
viii, 96 pp. M. 4.) 

Thomas (Oldfleld). On Mustela albinucha Gray. Ann. & Mag. Nat. 
Hist., (5), Vol. 11, pp. 370-371. 

necrology of zoologists, 1883. 

Barrande (Joachim), an eminent paleontologist, noted especially for 
his investigations of the paleozoic fossils of Bohemia, at Prague, in 
his eighty-fourth year. 

Bertillon (Adolphe), naturalist and statistician, died March 3, aged 
sixty-one years. 

Carbonnier (Pierre), pisciculturist. 

Chadbourne (Paul A.), president of Massachusetts Agricultural Col- 
lege, died February 16. 

Forbes (William Alexander), prosector to the Zoological Society 
of London, a learned zootomist and ornithologist. Died of dysentery 
at Shongo, on the Niger Eiver, January 14, aged 28. 

Heer (Oswald), of Zurich, a noted paleontologist, born in 1809 at 
Lausanne. Died September 27. 

Kowalevsky (Wilhelm), professor of paleontology in the Univer- 
sity of Moscow, a most acute paleontologist and systematic zoologist. 

Knorlein (Josef), entomologist. Died at Linz, February 12, in the 
seventy-eighth year of his age. 

Leconte (John Lawrence) , an eminent zoologist, especially noted 
for his writings on the Coleoptera of the U. S., born in New York 
May 13, 1825. Died at Philadelphia November 15. 

Muller (Hermann), of Lippstadt, celebrated for his studies on the re- 
lations between flowers and insects. Died of inflammation of the 
lungs at Prad, in Tyrol, August 25. 

Nilsson (Sven), a distinguished Swedish zoologist, died at Lund, No- 
vember 30, at the age of 97 years. 

Pacini (Filippo), professor of anatomy in the University of Florence, 
well known in connection with his studies on Asiatic cholera and 
artificial respiration. 

Parker (Charles F.), curator of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 
Philadelphia. Died September 7. 






ZOOLOGY. 751 

Peters (Wilhelm Carl Hartwig), director of the Zoological Museum 
of Berlin, and a voluminous and esteemed author ; born at Colden- 
biittel, Schleswig, April 22, 1815. Died at Berlin, May ! 

Sabine (Sir Edward), president of the Royal Society of London, and 
who contributed in his early life to the literature of zoology. Died 
at London, June, 1883. 

Scott (H. G.), Major-General B. A., the Superintendent of the con- 
struction of the Great International Fisheries Exhibition at Syden- 
ham. Died April 10, aged 61. 

Sumichrast (Adrian Luis Jean Francisco), a Mexican naturalist 
and collector, born October 15, 1828, at Ivorne, Switzerland. Died 
September 26, 1882, at Tonala (Chiapas), Mexico. 

Tolles (Robert B.), a distinguished maker of microscopes, at Boston. 
Died November 18. 

Valentin (Gabriel Gustav), a physiologist of great erudition, at 
Berne. Died June ? 

Zeller (Philipp Christoph), a very eminent entomologist, died of 
heart disease at Griinhof, near Stettin, March 27, in the seventy-sixth 
year of his age. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



By Otis T. Mason. 



INTRODUCTION. 

There are times in the history of every science when its advocates 
may pause and look around them to see what progress has beeu made. 
The labors prosecuted in a science so complex as the natural history of 
man must necessarily be of two kinds, those which explore to its lowest 
depth each particular part of the field, and those which reach far and 
wide to gather in the results of investigation in each area. Of this last 
class attention may be directed to a few works of importance. 

In February of 1883 Dr. E. B. Tylor delivered two lectures at Oxford 
on the general subject of anthropology. The vice-presidential address 
before the American Association at Minneapolis was upon the same 
comprehensive theme. 

Dr. Daniel Brinton, of Philadelphia, has taken in hand to publish 
a series of works on American anthropology. His address before the 
Congres International des Americauistes at Copenhagen; his article 
on archaeology in the American Supplement of the Encyclopaedia Bri- 
tannica; a paper before the Numismatic and Antiquarian Society of 
Philadelphia on European contributions to the study of American ar- 
chaeology; two volumes in Brinton's Library of American Literature; 
and several shorter papers on archaeological subjects, all attest his energy 
and the obligation of anthropologists to his generosity. 

Parts 25-27 of von Hellwald's classical work on the natural history 
of our species were published during the year. In Breslau appeared 
Encyclopaedia der Naturwissenschaften ; Handworterbuch der Zoologie, 
Anthropologic, und Ethnologie ; in Paris, Diction naire Usuel des Sciences 
Medicales; but the highest claim of anthropology to rank as a real sci- 
ence is presented by the apearance in Paris of Dictionnaire des Sciences 
Anthropologiques, including anatomy, craniology, prehistoric archaeol- 
ogy, ethnography, manners and customs, laws, arts, industries, demog- 
raphy, languages, and religions. The editor-in-chief is M. Bertillon. 

The importance of the study of anthropology to physicians, legislators, 
and sociologists is urged by several publications of great value. 

In the following chapters the usual order is followed. Frequent refer - 

H. Mis. 69 48 



754 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

ences are made to authors, whose works will be fully noticed in the 
bibliography at the end of this paper. In the list of authorities the 
titles are given under one alphabetical list. 

I. — ANTHROPOGENY. 

J. W. Powell's annual address before the Washington Anthropolog- 
ical Society was upon human evolution. The greater part of the argu- 
ment is taken up with the evolution of human culture. The speaker 
followed -more elaborately the thought of Arthur Mitchell, that the 
course of human progress has been a war with the lower law of the sur 
vival of the fittest, waged by men in society, with especial emphasis 
upon the notion that without well-organized society man would have 
gone down in the struggle. 

Anthropogeny is still vigorously studied through the insane, defect- 
ive, and criminal portions of populations, in order to discover evidences 
of the reappearance of ancestral characteristics by atavism. These in- 
vestigations are conducted in two widely divergent lines. In one direc- 
tion they are prosecuted by anatomists especially with reference to 
protohuman cranial and cerebral characteristics; in the other, by com- 
parative psychologists for the purpose of determining the pristine con- 
dition of mind, tbe phases of mental evolution, and the causes, social 
and otherwise, that produce those pitiable conditions. 

Pre-eminent among the students in this particular field are Lacassagne, 
Lombroso, CorrC", and Ferri. On the other hand, the brains and crania 
of distinguished men are called upon the witness stand, to testify as to 
the relation between brain size and weight with the quality and amount 
of intelligence. 

Although the ancestry of man is at present looked for in some zoo- 
logical group far back in Tertiary times, the older theory of man's direct 
descent from the apes finds its advocates. Among them is M. Borghese, 
who maintains that man could have descended from the apes. Hart- 
mann is the author of a treatise upon the manlike apes in comparison 
with man. 

Not only is the attempt made to find our immediate ancestor of our 
race in existing fauna, but also the analogues of all human arts and 
associations. This leads to some curious investigations, for instance 
that of G. Delaunay on animal doctors. 

Not much is written nowadays about the location of man's origin. 
W. S. Duncan is the author of a paper on the subject in the Journal of 
the Anthropological Institute, but the most systematic and thorough 
discussion is by Count G. de Saporta on the peopling of the earth. 

II. — ARCHEOLOGY. 

The Marquis de Nadaillac has produced a very learned work on pre- 
historic America, and, for one so far removed from the opportunities of 
personal examination, he has written a very remarkable book. The 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 755 

sympathies of the author are somewhat with the romantic school of 
interpretation, but the tone is far in advance of that which pervades 
the majority of archaeological works by European Americanists. 

Professor Putnam, in the administration of the Peabody fund, has 
shown the greatest activity in exploring the mounds. His method has 
been to take the structure entirely down, on the theory that the tumuli 
are not concentric series of conical shells with a core, but a series of 
horizontal layers. The finds at Madisonville, Ohio, were rich and 
unique, and their description and illustration form the chief feature of 
the annual report. 

The Bureau of Ethnology has prosecuted archaeological inquiries 
in two directions, in the mounds and in the pueblos. Dr. Cyrus Thomas, 
in charge of the former, made a wide exploration, with a view to com- 
pleting the Smithsonian mound-map. His studies lead him to hold 
that the mound-builders cannot be separated ethnically from the mod- 
ern Indians. Colonel Stevenson, exploring the pueblos, has not only 
gathered a rich harvest of ancient pottery and implements, but he has 
succeeded in finding a new variety of cliff-houses. Instead of an open 
shelter walled up, there is an excavation of every part — the windows, 
doors, and the entire interior — very similar to the ancient ruins of 
Arabia Petra. Dr. Thomas has also studied the manuscript Troano 
and other Maya inscriptions. 

The Archaeological Institute of America has divided its resources be- 
tween two fields — Greece and New Mexico. The second annual report 
on the American School of Classical Studies at Athens announces that 
the course was opened by the director, Prof. W. W. Goodwin, October 
2, 1882, in a roomy and convenient house on the Odbq 'ApaAi'ai;. The 
Bulletin published in January, 1883, describes the work at Assos in 
1882, and also presents the report of A. F. Bandelier on his investiga- 
tions in New Mexico in the spring and summer of 1882. The result of 
the last-named study is that " there appear to be but two types of 
aboriginal architecture in New Mexico, the many-storied communal hoiise, 
and the one-story building of stone. The latter is found either in vil- 
lages on the level ground and on gradual slopes, or clustering on the 
rocky shelves and scattered in recesses, like the so-called cliff houses. 
The cave-dwellings appear as an incidental form, resulting from the 
ease with which the rock was hollowed out or from the existence of 
natural cavities, which, from their size and the security of their posi- 
tion, afforded advantages superior to those of independent buildings. 
The majority of cave dwellings seem to be many-storied pueblos, scooped 
out of friable rock or built inside of caverns for protection. But there 
are also instances where the small-house type is reproduced in the shape 
of a little cavity or an isolated nook walled up in front." 

Dr. C. C. Abbott announced the discovery of a human molar in the 
Trenton gravels, associated with the palaeolithic implements previously 
reported. At the Minneapolis meeting of the American Association, 



756 SCIENTIFIC RECOKD FOR 1883. 

Frances E. Babbitt exhibited quartzite specimens resembling the rndely 
wrought drift implements of the Delaware Valley. 

The greatest interest has been felt repectingthe sources of the jadoid 
implements and images met with in collections of American antiqui- 
ties. Dr. A. B. Meyer, of Dresden, has given much attention to the 
subject, and his folio monograph is a work of great importance. Pro- 
fessor Baird has written a circular letter to explorers to be on the look- 
out for the natural source of supply. Mr. E. W. Nelson collected some 
beautiful objects in jade, while in Alaska. 

Lucien Can's chapter in the Kentucky Geological Survey on the 
mounds of the Mississippi Valley, historically considered, takes the 
ground that the identity of these people with the modern Indians is 
proved, that they are by no means ancient, but that the particular tribe 
which is the most direct descendant is not made out. 

In the American Philosophical Society's Proceedings, Henry Phillips, 
jr., gives an account of the more important public collections of Ameri- 
can archaeology in the United States. The American Antiquarian, ed- 
ited at Clinton, Wis., by S. D. Peet, is devoted solely to archaeology, 
and much attention is paid by the editor to the animal mounds of the 
State. 

It is impossible to follow the works of the English and continental 
Europeans in their archaeological surveys. Fortunately their special 
journals are accessible. The vice-presidential address of W. Pengelly 
before the British Association is a resume^ of cave exploration well worth 
reading. The archaeology of the Caucasus has been studied and illus- 
trated by Chantre, Bayern, and Virchow; and their astonishing results 
will quicken investigations in one of the early homes of the Aryan race. 

III. — BIOLOGY. 

The most interesting and important inquiry in human biology is he- 
redity. The forces at work, the effects of consanguineous marriages, 
the transmission of genius and other traits, the co-operation of its laws 
with heat, light, actinism, pressure, moisture, atmospheric contamina- 
tion, drink, food, resources, scenery, and natural security to produce, 
perfect, and fix racial and family characteristics — all of these and many 
other questions quite as important conspire to make heredity the focus 
of all biologic investigations. 

Max Bartels, with German assiduity, has brought together in a mon- 
ograph of nearly one hundred pages the literature and notices of men 
with tails. The paper is illustrated with modern examples. The same 
author has carefully studied Krao, the child ape. 

The anomalies of the teeth, the anthropological significance of the 
wormian bones, and right-handedness will be found in the bibliography 
of this paper to have received careful study. 

George Peckha,nx, of Milwaukee, has prosecuted a series of observa 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 757 

tions ou the growth of children, which are set forth in the annual report 
of the Wisconsin board of health. 

Uniform craniometry. — In September, 1877, a cranioinetric conference 
was held in Munich (Correspondenzblatt, 1878, No. 7), and a second con- 
ference in August, 1880, in Berlin (Correspondenzblatt, Bericht iiber die 
xi, Allg. Versainml., pp. 104-10G). At the thirteenth general meeting, 
at Frankfort, August, 1882, a perfected scheme was proposed. This is 
published in Archiv fur Anthropologic, xv, pp. 1-8, 1884, and signed by 
sixty-seven of the most eminent anthropologists in Germany, Switzer- 
land, Austria, Italy, and Russia. 

The horizontal. — The line selected for the horizontal of the skull is 
that extending from the lower edge of the orbital cavity to the middle 
of the ear-cavity or the upper edge of the internal meatus. 

The linear measures of the cranium are 1G; of the face, 15. The ca- 
pacity of the skull is taken with shot, if possible. The cranial indices 
are as follows: 

Dolichocephaly 75 and under. 

Mesocephaly 751-799. 

Brachycephaly 80-.85. 

Hyperbrachycephaly 851 and over. 

Chamyecephaly 70 and under. 

Orthocephaly 701-75. 

Hypsicephaly 751 andover. 

Prognathy , to 82°. 

Mosognathy or orthognathy . 83°-90°. 

Hyperorthognathy 91° and over. 

Other indices are based on the height of the face, orbital cavity, nasal 
cavity, and palate. 

The following table is drawn up for the purpose of indicating the 
manner of reporting measurements : 





Indices. 




Indices. 








GB 






Zygomatic width 

Height of nasal cavity 

Width of nasal cavity 

Width of orbit 


j 


Sex 




\JT 


Age 




NB 


Cranium : 


C 

L 

B 

B' 

H 
OH 
LB 

N 

S 

Q 

GH 

G*H 


Oi 




Height of orbit. .. 


0- 






G, 


Width 


Width of palate 


Go 






PL 


Height 


Indices: 

Length and height 

Length and height index . 
Breadth and height index. 

Face 

Upper face 




Height of ear 


L:B 

L:H 

B:H 

GH : GB 

G l H:GB 


Length of skull ba«e 

Horizontal circumference . . 

Sagittal circvimference 

Lateral circumference 


Fate : 


Nose 


NH-NB 






Oi • O z 


Height of upper face 


Palate 


Gi : G2 







758 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

IV. — PSYCHOLOGY. 

The last part of the human economy to yield to scientific treatment 
is the mind, or spiritual nature. Indeed it may fairly be said that no 
scientific society has yet taken up the study of mind as it has the study 
of objective phenomena. It was a long time before anthropology was 
divorced from mere biography of individuals and historic annals, which 
are mostly only biographies of peoples. Those who study the animals 
in order to spell out the hieroglyphics of human evolution are wont to 
take the extraordinary, spasmodic, and inexplicable actions of pets and 
trained animals as their illustrations. The same method would not 
hold in natural history. G. J. Romanes is almost alone in giving to the 
subject a careful consideration, though it may be from the point of 
view of a special pleader. 

The relation of brain weight, texture, convolutions, and, we might 
add, the circulation of blood therein, to thinking as to its quality and 
amount — that is the field of true psychologic study, which may be prose- 
cuted by profound examination of single individuals or by the com- 
bined exertion of thousands of observers. To this topic already much 
attention has been paid. 

M. Alix has paid some attention to dreams, a subject of the greatest 
promise if rightly considered. 

Cranio-cerebral topography is still a living question with many anat- 
omists, and quite a showing of papers appears in the accompanying 
bibliography. 

The question of the nature of consciousness and personality must al- 
ways be one of tbe highest interest. Baussiere, Cleland, and others 
have bestowed much attention upon it. 

Several journals have sprung into existence devoted to a comparative 
study of mind. The American Naturalist has added a department of 
psychology. The Society of Psychical Research was organized in London 
during the year, and publishes a quarterly journal, entitled " Proceed- 
ings." Prof. Henry Sidgwick was the first president. The subjects con- 
sidered were thought-reading, thought-transference, haunted houses, 
clairvoyance, mesmerism, muscle reading, insanity, dreaming, and the 
divining rod. The Archivio di Psichiatria, &c, has reached its fourth 
volume. 

V. — ETHNOGRAPHY. 

Among the ethnologic works of a comprehensive character that of A. 
H. Keane, of Oxford, stands pre-eminent. Taking advantage of von Hell- 
wald and the older ethnographers, his purpose is to arrive at an accu- 
rate analysis of the races of men by a careful scrutiny of the tribes. 
Richard Andree is the author of an illustrated monograph on ethno- 
graphic comparisons and parallels. 

In special ethnography much good work is done. F. Boas is the 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 759 

author of a special study on the former distribution of the Esquimaux in 
the Arctic regions. It will be remembered that Boyd Dawkius hints 
an ancient southward residence of this people, as well as their uninter- 
rupted circuit of the North Polar Sea. The National Museum at Wash- 
ington has been able to secure the co-operation of the signal officers and 
other Government officials in Alaska especially, and the result has been 
an enormous addition to the number and variety of culture objects. 
Mr. J. G. Swan continued his investigations among the Haidas and 
other stocks of the northwest coast. The results of Bastian's researches 
in the same region form a beautiful addition to our literature. 

Major Powell and the Bureau of Ethnology devoted much attention 
to the subject of unraveling the linguistic stocks of our western area, 
and it is believed that every tribe in the United States is sufficiently 
enown to be properly relegated. 

The colossal work of H. H. Bancroft steadily goes on toward com- 
pletion. During 1883 the following volumes appeared in the new se- 
ries : Vols, i, II, Central America ; Vols. IV, V, VI, Mexico, 151G-1521 ; 
Vol. xv, North American States; and Vol. xviii, California. The 
series when completed will contain the following works : 

Vols. I-V. — The Native Races of the Pacific States. 

Vols. VI-VIII. — History of Central America. 

Vols. IX-XIV.— History of Mexico. 

Vols. XV-XVI.— History of the North Mexican States. 

Vol. XVII. — History of New Mexico and Arizona. 

Vols. XVIII, XXIV. — History of California. 

Vol. XXV. — History of Nevada. 

Vol. XXVI.— History of Utah. 

Vols XXVII, XXVIII. — History of the Northwest Coast. 

Vols. XXIX, XXX. — History of Oregon. 

Vol. XXXI.— History of Washington, Idaho, and Montana. 

Vol. XXXII. — History of British Columbia. 

Vol. XXXIII.— History of Alaska. 

Vol. XXXIV.— California Pastoral. 

Vol. XXXV.— California Inter Pocula. 

Vols. XXXVI, XXXVIL— Popular Tribunals. 

Vol. XXXVIII. — Essays and Miscellany. 

Vol. XXXIX. — Literary Industries. 

The history of the Pacific States is the central figure of this lit- 
erary undertaking, the native races being preliminary, and the works 
following the history supplementary thereto. The territory covered is 
the western half of North America, from Panama to Alaska, including 
all of Central America and Mexico, and is equivalent in area to one- 
twelfth of the earth's surface. 

South America, so long neglected, received some marked attentions 
in 1883. E. R. Heath publishes in the Kansas City Review an article 
on the dialects of the Bolivian Indians, which has received much praise. 
The best publication on South America, and one that will be read with 
great pleasure, is im Thurn's " Indians of British Guiana." The names 



7 GO SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

of all the tribes are given, and excellent descriptions of the people 
and their arts. Bonney is the author of a treatise on the inhabitants of 
Colombia, and Bove" on those of Tierra del Fuego. 

The study of the elements in the present populations of Europe may 
be said to begin with Quatrefages's researches concerning fossil men. 
fl. H. Howorth continued his ethnologic investigation into the proto- 
historic tribes of Germany and France. 

The Kevue d'Ethnographie, established by M. Hamy, passed through 
its second volume successfully. 

No ethnographic field w receiving more thorough attention than 
Australia. The publication of the results of these investigations in 
the Journal of the Anthropological Institute has lifted that journal to 
the very first rank among our special journals. Mr. Sanger also con- 
tributes a paper on the aborigines of Cooper's Creek. Bastian's re- 
searches in Polynesia are noticed in Archiv. M. de Quatrefages is the 
author of a pamphlet in which he seeks to identify the Negritos with 
the Pygmies of the classic authors. 

VI. — GLOSSOLOGY. 

Since Mr. Darwin published his work on the expression of emotion 
in the animal creation and in man, much attention has been paid to the 
methods of speech that are not vocal. A paper by Bruce in the Amer- 
ican Naturalist discusses this subject. 

The question of a universal language is not yet within the purview 
of anthropology, but a universal alphabet is, and it would seem to be 
the next duty of philologists to come to some understanding in the 
matter. The study of deaf-mutes and of the phonetic revelations of 
the telephone by A. Melville Bell and his son, A. Graham Bell, are in 
the line of this study. Isaac Taylor has written a work on the origin 
and development of letters, and Gustav Oppert has attempted a classi- 
fication of languages on the basis of ethnology. 

Since Lazarus Geiger broached the theory that the absence of certain 
color names in ancient writers proves that the special color senses were 
not yet developed, many philologists have taken up the subject. The 
Societe dAnthropoiogie published a memoir by J. Geofl'roy upon the 
knowledge and the names for color among the ancients. In the Amer- 
ican Journal of Philology Thomas E. Price publishes a paper on the 
color system of Virgil, in which, discarding the wild speculations of 
Geiger, the author tries to give a rational definition of the color names 
used and to account for certain omissions about which much ado has 
been made. 

Dr. W. J. Hoffman, after having studied the sign languages of the 
world pretty thoroughly, conceived the idea that the Eskimo and Indian 
pictographs were related iu many instances to the sign language. A 
paper published by the Washington Anthropological Society is devoted 
to this comparison. The same author wrote about the Carson footprints, 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 7G1 

poisoned weapons, and tattooing. Horatio Hale is the author of two 
important works published during the year — Indian Migrations as Evi- 
denced by Language, and the Iroquois Book of Rites. A. S. Gatschet 
published the following linguistic papers: The second part of his classi- 
tication of the Yuma stock, a specimen of the Chumeto language, the 
Shetimasha Indians of Saint Mary's Parish, Louisiana, and the linguistic 
notes of the American Antiquarian. 

The sketch of Robert Cust on the modern languages of Africa fills a 
very wide and disagreeable gap in our ethnographic knowledge. The 
author forestalls his critics by justly acknowledging that first efforts 
always come very short of perfection. 

VII. — TECHNOLOGY. 

Every phase of civilization has its technique ; every motive at the 
foundation of human activities has its arts. There are arts of food, 
clothing, shelter; of beauty, science, and worship; there are arts of 
these arts; finally there are arts of destruction or consumption. In the 
new National Museum at Washington the anthropological objects are 
being arranged to illustrate these facts. Waterhouse Hawkins is the 
author of a treatise on comparative anatomy as applied to the purposes 
of the artist. Dr. Fletcher delivered a Saturday lecture in Washington 
on human proportion in art and anthropometry. Dr. Clevenger read a 
paper on anatomy and the sciences useful to the artist. William H. 
Holmes read a paper before the Washington Anthropological Society 
upon art in shell. 

Several attempts have been made in our country and abroad to deduce 
the systems of metrology among various ancient and barbarous peoples 
by comparing the parts of their monuments and one structure with 
another. Such investigations are involved in so inany'disturbing ele- 
ments that the results have been considered unsatisfactory. W. M. F. 
Petrie describes in the Anthropological Institute Journal the mechan- 
ical methods of the ancient Egyptians. 

The second volume of J. Konig's great work on the chemical constit- 
uents^" human foods and drinks has been published in Berlin. In 
the United States Consular Reports will be found a complete list of all 
the beverages used in Mexico. Many of these, of course, are importa- 
tions or Spanish inventions ; but quite a number are older than the con- 
quest. Fruit of the agave, pulque, corn, and certain berries furnish the 
material for the staple native drinks. C. Beni, of Florence, gives the 
analysis of pulque. 

One of the South Kensington Art Hand Books is by Hans Hilde- 
brand upon the industrial arts in Scandinavia in Pagan times. F. A. 
Seely, examiner in the United States Patent Office, has commenced a 
series of investigations into aboriginal art by the processes employed 
in the Patent Office for tracing back inventions. 



762 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1833. 

VIII. — SOCIOLOGY. 

Two large volumes on dynamic sociology were published by Lester 
F. Ward, in which he seeks to group all industries and to classify the 
elements of society by means of the fundamental human wants and 
their supply. The principles of natural selection co-operating with the 
well-known laws of nature are deemed sufficient to account for all hu- 
man phenomena. There is a high moral tone prevading the work and 
an earnest protest against the notion that materialism is necessarily a 
doctrine of laissez /aire. 

In the series of descriptive sociologies published by Herbert Spencer, 
the eighth part, relating to the social history of France, appeared dur- 
ing the year. 

An interesting social problem is the life history and training of chil- 
dren among savages. M. Kulischer is the author of a carefully pre- 
pared treatise upon the treatment of children and youth on the low 7 er 
levels of civilization. The bibliography in his paper is of great value. 

J. Owen Dorsey published during the year two papers in his series of 
gentile systems, the gentile system of the Omahas and the gentile sys- 
tem of the Iowas. The same author has also discussed myths and le- 
gends of the Dakotan stock. 

A.W. Howitt continues to publish learned papers on the Australian class 
system. It may be truly said that the systems of relationship among the 
aborigines of Australia and of North America are the best known hi the 
world, thanks to the stimulus given to such studies by Mr. Morgan. The 
discovery of a minute division of the clans for the purposes of marriage 
and inheritance very much complicates the system as formerly understood. 

By reference to the bibliography it will be seen that sociological stud- 
ies have assumed a most varied character touching births, deformations, 
child growth, marriage, divorce, medicine, law, jurisprudence, and re- 
ligion. 

IX.— DAIMONOLOGY. 

Foremost among the cultivators of this branch of anthropology in 
America are Major Powell, Dr. Brinton, and H. H. Bancroft. In the 
second volume of the Bureau of Ethnology Keport are the foltowing 
papers on Mythology : 

Zuhi fetiches, by F. H. Cushing. 

Myths of the Iroquois, by E. A. Smitb. 

Animal Carvings from the Mounds, by H. W. Henshaw. 

In the last-named paper the relation of the subject to mythology is 
discussed. J. O. Dorsey, of the same Bureau, has added largely to our 
knowledge of the mythologies of the Dakotan stock. Mr. Bancroft's 
volumes are filled with references to the older authorities on the my- 
thologies of the West Coast, Mexico, and Central America. 

The Iroquois Book of Rites, published by Dr. Brinton and edited by 
Horatio Hale, is a good deed to science in that it saves one of those pro- 
ductions so likely to pass soon beyond recovery. 



ANTHROPOLOGY, 763 

The increase of interest in folk-lore has made it necessary for the Folk- 
Lore Society to issue a monthly periodical. 

X. — HEXIOLOGY. 

The relations of mankind to the earth and its living forms are so varied 
that a correct apprehension of them would involve some information 
concerning- the whole circle of sciences. For instance, Boulaert treats 
of the animals useful to industry, arts, and medicine ; Braun, of the 
parasites of man; Buchan, of climate and race, &c. But far the most 
important and interesting work on the relation of our race to environ- 
ment published during the year isDe Candolle's " Origine des plantes 
cultivees." The work is reviewed in Nature, March 8, and in Silliman's 
Journal, by Asa Gray and J. Hammond Trumbull. The last-named re- 
view adds very much to the value of the volume, Dr. Gray correcting 
and adding to it some references to American plants, and Mr. Trumbull 
giving a charming chapter on Indian plant names. 

XI. — INSTRUMENTALITIES. 

One of the highest duties of the men in any craft or science is to bring 
to their work the best instruments and methods. All anthropologists 
recognize this, and many have brought to the problem their greatest iu- 
genuity. We might divide these helps into those which aid the senses, 
those which facilitate operations, and those which aid the memory. A 
work of the greatest importance is the report of the British Association 
Committee on Anthropometry. The same committee published a few 
years since " Notes and Queries," a little volume which did much to give 
rational form to the studies of English travelers in various parts of the 
world. C. Koberts and Sir Bawson Bawson, on the committee, are 
names well known to us. 

Mr. Francis Galton continued his researches into graphic methods of 
recording sociological problems. He devised a new scheme of rapidly 
and briefly noting any consanguineal or marital relation whatever, an 
apparatus for testing the delicacy of the muscular and the other senses 
in person, and tabular forms and directions for entering data concern- 
ing families. He also discusses the problem of the development of 
human faculty. 

The publication in Archiv fur Anthropologie of the contents of the 
great anthropological museums of Germany is another one of those 
pieces of thorough work which keep the Germans in the forefront of 
science. The name of Schaaffhausen is pre-eminent among those foster- 
ing this enterprise. Dr. J. S. Billings read a paper before the medical 
and surgical faculty of Baltimore on medical bibliography. The Index- 
Catalogue of the Surgeon-General's office, under the charge of Dr. Bil- 
lings, has reached its fifth volume. 

An anthropological society has been formed at Bordeaux; Dr. Azam, 
president; Dr. Testut, vice-president. 



7G4 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

ANTHROPOLOGICAL BIBLIOGRAPHY, 1883. 

Abbott, C. C. — A recent find in the Trenton gravels. Beport from 

Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., xxn, Oct., 1882. 
The intelligence of birds. Science, Sept. 7 ; Occurrence of amber 

near Trenton, N. J. Id., June 29, p. 594. 

Mound-builder pipe in New Jersey. Science, Aug. 31. 



Acaufora, E. — La psicofisica e la mesura della sensazione. Palermo. 

8vo. 
Adam, Lucien. — Du genre dans les diverges langues. Paris: Maison- 

neuve. 36 pp. 8vo. 
Albrecht, J. F. — Der Mensch und sein Geschlecht, etc. Quedlin- 

burg. 8vo. 
Albrecht, P. — L'intermaxillaire ou os incisif. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. 

de Bruxelles, I, 73-95. 
Sur le crane remarquable d'une idiote de 21 ans. Bruxelles, 

58 pp., 2 pi. 8vo. [Reprint from Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Bru- 
xelles.] [Further account of his publications, Verhandl. Anthrop. 

Gesellsch. Berlin, 46.] 
Alix. — Les reves. Bev. scient., Paris, xxxn, 554-561. 
Allen, G. — Idiosyncrasy. '[Mind.] Pop. Sc. Month., N. Y., xxiv, 387- 

403. 
Allen, N. — Changes in New England population. Pop. Sc. Month., 

XXIII, 433-444. 
Algeri, G. — Contribute alio studio delle localizazioni cerebrali, etc. 

Biv. sper. di freniat., Beggio-Emilia, ix, 320-330. 
Amadei, G. — Anomalien der Zahl der Zahne, etc. Arch. f. path. Anat., 

etc., Berlin, xcrv, 364-368. 
Cranii d' assassini, etc. Torino. 8vo. Beport from Arch, di 

psichiat., iv, 98-109. 
La capacita del cranio in rapporto alia statura. Arch. p. 

l'antrop., Firenze, xiii, 291-315. 

Studii sopra alcuni cranii d' assassini Arch, per l'antrop., 



Firenze, xiii, 25-35. 

America, northwest of. — Published by the directors of the ethnologi- 
cal department of the Eoyal Museum of Berlin. Transl. London. 
8 phototypes, 5 in colors. Portfolio. 

American Antiquarian and Oriental Journal, vol. V. Chicago, 111. 

American Antiquarian Society Proceedings. New series, vol. n, part 2. 
Worcester, Mass. 

American Association. — 

[The American Association for the Advancement of Science met 
in Minneapolis August 15, 1883. Prof. Otis T. Mason was the vice- 
president of the section of anthropology, and delivered an address 
on the scope and value of anthropological studies, printed in the 
annual volume of Proceedings, in Science, and in La Revue Scien- 
tijique. The papers read were as follows:] 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 765 

1. Archaeological explorations in the Ohio Valley. Altar mounds 
and their contents. By Prof. F. W. Putnam. 

2. Indoor games of the Japanese. By Prof. E. S. Morse. 

3. The great mound of Cahokia. By Win. McAdams. 

4. Life among the Mohawks in the Catholic missions of Quebec 
province. By Mrs. Erminnie A. Smith. 

5. Metrical standard of the mound-builders — by the method of 
even divisors. By Charles Whittlesey. 

G. The mound-builders identified. By Prof. John Campbell. 

7. An abnormal human skull from a stone grave in Tennessee. 
By Prof. F. W. Putnam. 

8. Typical shapes among the emblematical mounds. The differ- 
ent attitudes exhibited by the same animal. By S. D. Peet. 

9. Personal observations of the Missouri River mounds from 
Omaha to Saint Loins; considered from a geological standpoint. 
Their invariable association with the Loess and Terrace formation. 
By E. P. West. 

10. Osage war customs. By J. O. Dorsey. 

11. Some observations on the laws and privileges of the gens in 
Indian society. By Miss A. C. Fletcher. 

12. An ancient village of the emblematic mound-builders. Caches 
guarded by effigies. Effigies guarding the village and sacrificial 
places not far away. By S. D. Peet. 

13. A new stand for mounting skulls. By E. E. Chick. 

14. Symbolic earth formation. By Miss A. C. Fletcher. 

15. The correspondence between the prehistoric map of North 
America and the system of social development. By S. D. Peet. 

16. The Charnay collection at Washington. By O. T. Mason. 

17. Kitchens of the East. By E. S. Morse. 

18. Methods of arrow release. By E. S. Morse. 

19. Game drives among the emblematic mounds. By S. D. Peet. 

20. Vestiges of glacial man in Central Minnesota. By Miss F. E. 
Babbitt. 

21. High places connected with ancient villages; the religious 
structures common to villages in prehistoric time. By S. D. Peet. 

22. A classification of the sciences. By J. W. Powell, 
Science, Sept. 14; Am. Naturalist, Nov. 

American Journal of Philology, vol. in, no. 4; vol. iv, Nos. 1, 2, 3. 
Baltimore, Md. 

American Naturalist, The. Monthly, vol. xvn. Philadelphia: Mc- 
Calla & Stavely. 

Analcs del Museo Nacional de Mexico, vol. in, pts. 2-5. Mexico. 

Anderson, John.— Catalogue and hand-book of the archaeological col- 
lections in the Indian Museum, Calcutta. Part I. Asoka in Indo- 
Scytbian galleries. 



766 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Anderson, R. J. — Observations on the diameters of human vertebrae 
in different regions. J. Anat. and Physiol., London, xvn, 341-344. 

Scotland in pagan times: the iron age. Edinburgh: Douglas, 

322 pp. 8vo. 

Andros, F. — The medicine and surgery of the Winnebago and Dakota 
Indians. J. Am. Med. Ass., Chicago, I, 116-118. 

Anthropological Society of Washington. Transactions, vol. ii. Feb. 
7, 1882-May 15, 1883. Washington. 

Antiqua. Unterhaltungsblatt fiir Freunde der Alterthums-Kunde. Zu- 
rich. Nr. 2-6. 

Anthropologia moderna, La.— Re vista general de ciencias, literatura 
y artes. Organo de la Academia Espanola de Ciencias Anthropo- 
logicas. Madrid. Ano I, 1883-'84. 12 numbers. 

Anzeiger fiir Kunde der deutschen Vorzeit. Nr. 8, 9, 10. 

Archaeological Institute of America. — Fourth Annual Report and Sec- 
ond Annual Report of the Committee on the American School of 
Classical Studies at Athens; also, Bulletin, No. 1 ; also, regulations, 
officers, and list of members. Boston. 

Archiv fiir Anthropologic vol. xv. Braunschweig. [Bibliography and 
reviews of anthropological literature are of the greatest value.] 

Archiv f. d. gesammte Physiologie des Menschen und der Thiere. Bonn, 
vol. xxxin. In 12 parts. 

Archivio di psichiatria. Sc. pen. e antrop. crimin., vol. iv. 

Archivio per l'antropologia e la etnologia. vol. xiii. 

Arzuni, A. — Neue Beobachtungen am Nephrit und Jadeit. Ztschr. f. 
Ethnol., xv, 163-190. 

Atlee, W. F. — Prehistoric trephining. Med. News, Phila., xlii, 426. 

Ausland, Das. — Stuttgart, vol. lv. 52 numbers. 

Avery, John. — The hill tribes of India. Am. Antiquarian, v, 99-108. 

Azam. — Double conscience; 6tat actuel de Felida X — . Paris. 8vo. 
[Repr. Ass. fr. av. sc. La Rochelle.] 

Les alterations de la personnalitC. Rev. scient., Paris, xxxn, 

610-618. 

Baader, A. — Ueber Yererbung. Cor-Bl. f. Schweiz. Aerzte, Basel, 
xiii, 517-525. 

Baily, L. W. — Indian relics from New Brunswick. Science, i, 245. 

Baels, Dr. — Physical characteristics of the Japanese. Mitth. deutsch. 
Gesellsch. Natur, etc. Ostasiens, No. 28. 

Ball, Le cretin des Batignolles. — Encephale, Paris, in, 85-90, 1 pi. 

Ball, B., et E. R£gis. — Les families des alie'ne's an point de vue biolo- 
gique; contribution a l'etude de Phereilite' dans les maladies men- 
tales. Encephale, II, 712; in, 401, 529. 

Bamps, Anatole. — L'exposition d'antiquit^s am£ricaines ouvertes a 
Madrid, a l'occasion 4 session du Congres international des ameri- 
canistes. Bruxelles. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 767 

Bancroft, H. .H. — The early American chroniclers. San Francisco. 
45 p. 

In his Series of Histories has published vols, vi, Vii, on Central 

America, and ix, x, xi, on Mexico. 

Baebee, Edwin A. — Catlinite: its antiquity as a material for tobacco 
pipes. Am. Naturalist, xvn, 745-764. 

Indian music. Am. Naturalist, xvn, 267-274. 

The pipe of peace. The Continent, m, 418-422. 

Baedeleben, K. — Ueber sogenannte Yerbreckergehirne. Deutsche 

Eev., Berlin, vm, 209-221; Breslau Aertzl. Ztschr., v, 60-62. 

Baeney, S. A. — Native races of Colombia. Am. Antiquarian, v, 29-38, 
295-303, 124-131. 

Baeeett, W. C. — An examination of the condition of the teeth of cer- 
tain prehistoric American races. Independent Tract., N. Y., iv, 
513-521. 

Bartels, Max. — Die geschwanzten Menschen. Arch. f. Anth., xv, 45- 
131, 2 tables. 

Krao, ein narriges Miidchen von Laos. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., p. 118. 

Basset, Bene. — Notes de lexicographie berbexe. Paris: Leroux. From 

Journ. Asiatique. 
Bastian, A. — Ethnologische Beitriige aus Oceauien. Arch. f. An- 
throp., xv, 9-21. 

Zur naturwissenschaftlichen Behandlungsweise der Psychologie 

durch und fiir die Yolkerkunde. Berlin: Weidemann. 28-231 pp., 
8vo. 

Notes on Iroquois and California Indians. IV, 150 p. 

Goldfund von Vettersfelde bei Guben. Verhandl. Berl. Gesellsch. 



f. Anthrop., 129-141. 
Baume, E. — Die kieferfragmente von La Naulette und aus der Schip- 

kahohle as Merkmale fiir die Existenz inferiorer Menschenrassen in 

der Diluvialzeit. Leipz., 8vo. 
Bayern, F. — Contribution a l'arche'ologie du Caucase. Precedee d'une 

introduction biographique par M. Ernest Chautre. Lyon, 8vo. 
Beauchamp, W. M. — Contributions to Aboriginal History in Ske- 

neateles, Syracuse, and Baldwinsville, N. Y. Papers. 
Beaussire, Smile. — La personnalitti humaine. Eev. de d. mondes, xv, 

316-351. Paris: Hachette. 
Bell, A. Mellville. — A universal language and its vehicle, a uni- 
versal alphabet. Science, Sept. 14. 
Belouino, P. — Des passions dans leurs rapports avec religion, etc. 5th 

ed. 2 vol. Paris, 8vo. 
Benedikt, M. — Demonstration eines Yerbrechergehirues. Mitth. d. 

Wieu. Med. Doct.-Coll., ix, 153-157. 

Zur Frage der Verbrechergehirnes. Wien. Med. Presse, xxiv, 

119, 153, 183. 

Zur Lehre von der Localisation der Gehirnfuuktioueu. Wien. 

Klinik, ix, 101-159. 



768 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Beni, C. — II pnlque (Xeutli) dei Messicani. Arch, per 1' antrop. 

Fireuze, xin, 13-23. 
Bennett, G. — An account of Elau, a Malayan Papuan child. Austral. 

M. Gaz., Sydney, n, 255-258. 
Berenger-F:eraud. — Le mariage chez les negres se*ne"gainbiens. Bev. 

d'anthrop. Paris, vi, 284-298. 
Berkley, H. J. — A contribution to cerebral localization, etc. Mary- 
land Med. J., ix, 611-G13. 
Bernard. — Sur un cas prehistorique d'h£t£rototopie dentaire. Bull. 

Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 3 s., vi, 316-319. # 

Bertherand, E. L. — Contribution des Arabes au progres des sciences 

medicates. Paris m6d., vm, 193; 205 5 217. 
Berthold, A. A. — Descripcion y estudio de un craneo extraido de las 

tumbas de uno de los palacios de Mitla. An. Mus. nac. de Mex., 

in,, 116-121. 
Bertillon, A. — Ethnographie moderne. Paris. 320 pp.; 8 pi., 115 ill. 

Svo. 
Bertillon, Jacques. — Etudes demographiques du divorce et de la 

separation de corps dans les diff^rents pays de l'Europe. Paris: 

G. Masson. 2 vols. 116, 287 pp. Svo. 
Bertrand, Alex. — Les troglodytes. Bev. d'ethnog., 11, 35-64. 

^introduction des metaux en Occident. Id., 231. 

Les premieres migrations, etc. Id., 402-425. 

Bezier, P. — Inventaire des monuments megalithiques du departement 

d'llle-et-Vilaine. Bennes. Svo. 
Biaivchi, M. — Contributo alia fisiologia del cervello. Gior. internaz. 

d. sc. med., Napoli, v, 605-609, 683-691. 
Billings, J. S. — Medical bibliography. Tr. M. and Chir. Faculty. 

Maryland, Baltimore, 58-80. » 

Bird, Isabella. — The Golden Chersonese. London: John Murray. 
Blaxchard, B. — Sur le tablier et la st£atopygie des femmes boschi- 

manes. Bull. Soc^ d'anthrop. de Paris, vi, 348-359: also Progres 

med., Paris, xi, 526, 548. 
Boas, F. — Former distribution of the Eskimo in the ArcticAmerican 

Archipelago. Ztschr. f. Erdkunde, Berlin. 
Bock, C. — Sur la population du Laos occidental. (Bev. de Mad. Mon- 

dieres.) Bull. Soc. dAnthrop. de Paris, 3 s., vi, 360-366. 
Boehm, Georg. — Verzeichniss der anthropologischen Literntur. iv, 

Zoologie in Beziehung zur Anthropologic mit Einschluss der fos- 

silen Landsaiigtbiere. Archiv. f. Anthrop. xv, appendix, 138-161. 
Bonney, F. — Some customs of the aborigines of Darling Biver, N. S.TV. 

J. Anthrop. Inst,, Lond., xin, 122-137. 
Borghese, G. — L'uomo puo discendere dalle scimmie. Taranto: Pa- 

rodi. lOmo. 
Botticher, E. — Analogien der Funde von Hissarlik. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., 

Berl., xv, 157-162, 1 pi. 



, ANTHROPOLOGY. 769 

Boulart, E. — Les animaux utiles a l'industrie, aux arts et a la mode- 
cine. 186 ill., Paris. 8vo. 

Bourneville et Wuillamie. — Notes, etc., sur la microcephalia. 
Arch, de neurol., Paris, VI, 72-79, 2 pi. 

Boussenard, L. — Le "medecin" chez les Peaux Rouges de la Guyane 
frau5aise. Rev. Scient., Paris, vi, G56-658. 

B«ve, Lieut. — The inhabitants of Terra del Fuego. Guido Cora's Cos- 
mos, May. [Nature, Aug. 9, p. 344. 
Brain: a Journal of Neurology. Vol. vi. 

Brain-weight as indicative of intellectual force. Boston Med. & Surg. 
J., cvni, 184. 

B., M. Extreme hypospadias. Man passing for 20 years as a married 
woman. Canada Lancet, Toronto, xvi, 134. 

Beaun, M. — Diethier. Parasiten der Menschen. Wiirzburg. 72 cuts. 
8vo. 

Bray, Charles. — The science of man, a manual of anthropology. 2 ed. 
London, Longmans, etc. 343 pp. Svo. 

Brechin, W. P. — Some facts regarding large infants. Med. Rec, N. 
Y., xxiv, 707. 

Brennsohn, Isidor. — Zur Anthropologic der Litauer. Dorpat: H. 
Laakinann. 61 pp., 3 tab. 8vo. 

Brinton, Daniel G. 
Aboriginal American authors and their productions, especially those 
in the native languages. Phila. 1 vol., 63 p. Svo. 
An address before the Congres international des Ame"ricanistes, 1883. Enlarged 
and revised. 
American archeology. An essay in the American supplement to 

the Encyclopaedia Britannica. Phila. 
American hero myths. A study in the native religions of the West- 
ern Continent. Phila. 1 vol., 251 p. Svo. 
A monograph on the myth of a white and bearded cnlture-hero among the Ameri- 
can Indians. 

European contributions to the study of American archaeology. 3 p. 
8vo. 1883. 
Read before the Numismatic and Antiquarian Society of Philadelphia. 

Library of aboriginal American literature. General editor and pub- 
lisher, D. G. Brinton, Philadelphia. 
I. The Maya chronicles. Edited by D. G. Brinton. Phila. 1 
vol., 279 p. Svo. 1882. 
n. The Iroquois book of rites. Edited by Horatio Hale. Phila. 
1 vol., 222 p. Svo. 
ra. The comedy ballet of Giieguence in the Nahuatl- Spanish of 
Nicaragua. Edited by D. G. Brinton. Phila. 1 vol., lii, 
+ 94 p. Svo. 111. 
"The aim of this series is to put within the reach of scholars authentic mate- 
rials for the study of the languages, history, and culture of the native races of 
North and South America." 
H. Mis. 69 49 



170 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR lg§3 

Brinton, Daniel G.-^-Continued. 
Recent American bibliography. 1 p. 8vo. 

Read before the Numismatic and Antiquarian Society of Philadelphia. 

The folk lore of Yucatan. Reprint from the Folk Lore Journal. 
Vol. I, 13 p. August. 

Derived almost wholly from Unpublished materials. 
The graphic system and ancient records of the Mayas. Washington. 
1882. 

An introdiiction to "A Study of the Manuscript Troano," by Cyrus Thomas, 
PH. D., in "Contributions to American Ethnology," vol. v, and separately. 

The journey of the soul. A comparative study from Aztec, Aryan, 
and Egyptian mythology. Phila. 9 p. 8vo. 
The annual address before the Numismatic and Antiquarian Society of Phila 
delphia. 

British Association for the Advancement of Science. Southport. Re- 
port of the committee appointed for the purpose of defining the 

facial characteristics of the races and principal crosses in the 

British Isles. Nature. Oct. 4, and separate. 
Broca, P. — M6"moires d'anthropologie. Vol. iv, Abbeville. Paris: 

Reinwald. 800 p. 
Brooks, W. T. — The brachial plexus of the Macaque monkey and its 

analogy with that of man. Jour. Anat. and Physiol., Lond., xvn, 

329-332. 
Brown, Arthur Erwin.— The kindred of man. Am. Naturalist, 

xvn, 119-130. 
Bruce, A. T. — Emotional expression. Am. Naturalist, xvn, 013-617. 
Buch, M. — Die Wotjaken. Stuttgart. 
Buchan, J. M. — Complexion, climate, and race. Proc. Can. Inst., n, 

5-25. 
BiJCHNER, M. — African psychology [fr. Auslaud]. Pop. Sc. Month., 

N. Y., xiii, 399-404. 
Bulletin de la Societe d'Anthropologie de Lyon, vol. ii. 
Bulletin de la Societe imperiale des naturalistes de Moscou. Table 

geue'rale et systematique des matieres contenues dans les premiers 

56 volumes (1829-1881). Dressee par E. Ballion. Moscou. S. 

Archipoff & Co. 110 ap., 1882. 8vo. 
Bulletin trimestriel des antiquites africaines, publiee par la Soc. geog. 

et d'archeol. d'Oran. 1 fasc. July, 1882. Mayeune. 8vo. 
Burgess, J. — Archaeological survey of Western India, iv, v. Report 

on the Buddhist and Elema cave-temples. London: Trubner. 4to. 
Burnet, Mrs. — The genesis of ideas in the blind deaf mute. Jour. 

Psych. Med., Lond., vin, 222-239. 
Byrd, H. L. — The importance of a knowledge of the radical diversities 

in the human race to the physician and surgeon. Med.Rec, N.Y., 

xxin, 178. 
Cahall, W. C. — Why are we right-handed? Pop. Sc. M., xxn, 86. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 771 

CalderWooD, H. — The relations of mind and brain. Lond., 1879. 

Rev. Ediub. Med. Jour., xxviii, 1008-1023. 
Cameron, C. A. — Consanguineous marriages in relation to deaf-mutism. 

Med. Press and Cire., Loud., xxxv, 422. 
Campbell, John. — A translation of the principal Hittite inscriptions. 

Montreal. 16 j). 
Candolle, Alphonse de. — Origine des plautes cultive^es. Paris: 

Germer, &c. [See Nature, March S ; Am. Jour. Sci., xxv, 241, 370.] 
Canouicus memorial. Services of dedication. Provideuce, R. I. Hist. 

Soc, p. 31. 
Capello, H. and R. Ivens.— From Benguilla to the territory of 

Yacca. (Tr. by Alfred Elwes.) London: Sampson, Low & Co., 

1882. Reviewed in Nature, Feb. 22, p. 391. 
Carillo Ancona, D. Crescentio. — Historia antiqna de Yucatan. 

Merida de Yucatan. Gamboa, Guzman y hermano. 670 p. 12mo. 
Carlter, A. A. — Auatomie philosophique: Les cinq vertebres cCphali- 

ques, la 3 C paire de membres, chez l'homme et les autres vertebres. 

Paris. 368 p. 4to. 
Caro, M. E. — Essais de psychologie sociale. IT. Les consequences 

de l'h6redite. Rev. d. deux mondes. Paris, lvii, 524-560. 
Genius and heredity. Trans, fr. Rev. deux mondes. Pop. Sc. 

Month., N. Y., xxiv, 191-195. 
Carpenter, W. B. — Lectures on human automatism. N. York Med. 

Jour., xxxvn, 1; 29; 85; 113-309; 365; 477-505. 
Carr, Ltjcien, and N. S. Shaler. — Ou the prehistoric remains of 

Kentucky. Cincin. : R. Clarke & Co. 4to. 
The mounds of the Mississippi Valley historically considered. 

Kentucky Geological Survey. No date. 106 p. sm. 4to. Cincin. 
Caseneuve, P. — Alimentation among savage and civilized peoples. 

[Bull. Soc. d'anthrop de Lyon.] Translated in Cincin. Lancet & 

Clinic, x, 550-559. 
Chadbourne, P. A. — Instinct in animals ana man. N. York. 323 p. 

New ed. 8vo. 
Chambellan, Victor. — Etude anatomique et anthropologique sur les 

os wormiens. Paris: Delahaye & Co. 74 p., fig. 8vo. 
Charencey, H. de. — Melanges de philologie et de paleographes am6ri- 

caiues. Paris: Leroux. 197 p. 8vo. 
Charnav, D. — Exploration des mines d'Ake Yucatan. Rev. d'Ethnog. 

ii, 65. 

La ville Lorillard. Id., 481. 

Chavero, Alfredo. — La piedra del sol. An. Mus. nac. Mex., vol. 

hi, chap, xxviii-xxix, p. 37-56, 4 pi.; ch. xxx, 110-114; xxxi, 124- 

126, plate. 
Choroschin u. v. Stein. — Die russischen Kosakeuheere. 39 p., chart. 

Gotha. 4to. 
Cleland, J. — On the seat of consciousness. J. Meut. Sc, Lond., xxix, 

147, 148. 



772 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Clevenger, S. V. — Artistic anatomy and the sciences useful to the 
artist. Chicago Med. J. & Exam., xlvi, 113-130. 

Codex Cortesianus; Manuscrit Hieratique des anciens Iudiens de l'Ain6- 
rique Centrale, conserve an Mus6e archeologique de Madrid, pho- 
tographi6 et publie pour la premiere fois, avec un vocabulaire, par 
Leon de Rosny. 4to. 49 pp. of introduction, 42 pp. of the photo- 
graphic facsimile, and 20 pp. of vocabulary. In portfolio. Paris. 

Colini. — Collezione etnografica degli indigeni dell' Alto Amazoni 
Roma: 

Collignon, R. — fitude anthropoinetrique eU6mentaire des priucipales 
races de France. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. de Paris, 3 s., vi, 403-520. 
Also reprint. 

Colquhoun, Archibald R. — Across ChrysS, being the narrative of a 
journey of exploration through the South China border lands, from 
Canton to Mandalay. 2 vols. London: Sampson & Low. 

Congres international des americauistes, at Copenhagen, August 21-24. 
President, Dr. J. J. A. Worsaae. 

Congress of German anthropologists at Treves, 9-11 August, 1883. M. 
Virchow, president. 

Contes et chansons populaires. Paris: Leroux. xi, Indien. lOmo. 

Coombs, Edwin. — The complete phonetic alphabet. New York: A. J. 
Graham. 30 pp. 

Cope, E. D. — The developmental significance of human physiognomy. 
Am. Naturalist, xxn, 018-027. 

The evolutionary significance of human character. Am. Natu- 
ralist, xxn, 907-919. 

The Nevada biped tracks. Am. Naturalist, xvii, 09. 



Corning, J. S.— Can insanity be philosophically defined'? Med. Rec, 
N. Y., xxiv, 593. 

Corre et Roussel. — Etude d'une s6rie de tetes de criminels conser- 
ves au Mus6e d'anatomie de l'^cole de Brest. Rev. d'anthrop. de 
Paris, 20, vi, 70-89. 

Corre, A. — Les Sereres de Joal et de Portudal, cdte occidentale 
d'Afrique. Rev. d'ethnog., ii, 1-20. 

Cortese, F., e G. P. Vlacovich.— Dei alcuni cranii di scienzati dis- 
tinti che si conservano nel Museo anatomico dell' Universita di 
Padova e che appartennero alia sua scuola. Mem. r. 1st. Veneto 
de sc, xxi, 547-575. 

Couvade, discussion sur la, chez les Basques. Bull. Soc. d'authrop. de 
Paris, 3 s., vi, 300-372. 

Crawford, S. P. — Subjective sensations. Nashville J. of Med. & 
Surg., xxxii, 327-331. 

Creed, J. M. — Curious result of cannibalism in New Caledonia. Aus- 
tral. Med. Gaz., Sydney, n, 142. 

Cresson, H. T.— Aztec music. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc, Philad., 80-94, 
2 pi. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 773 

Crevaux, J. — M6moire sur les n&gres Bosh on uegres Marrous des 
Guyaues. Mem. Soc. d'anthrop de Paris, 1875-1882, 2 s., II, 259-280. 

Sur lea Indiens Roucouyennes. Ibid., 250-258. 

Ckos, A. — IVorganographie plessimetrique. Paris. 4to. 

Crozals, J. — Les Peulhs; etude d'ethnologie africaine. Paris. Svo. 

Cruel, P. — Die Sprachen und Volker Europa's vor der Arisclieu Ein- 
wanderung. Detmold. Svo. 

Cuoq, J. A. — Additamenta to Lexique de la laugue iroquoise. Mon- 
treal : Chapteau et Fils, 1882. pp. 218-238. 

GUSHING, F. II.— Zufii feticlies. 2nd An. Pep. Bur. Ethnol., pp. 9-4G. 3 
fig., 11 pi. 

Cust, P. — A sketch of the modern languages of Africa. Vols. I and 
II. London, 1S83. 

Daffxec, Franz. — Vergleichende Untersuchungen iiber die Entwicke- 
lnng der Korpergrosse und des Kopfumfauges. Arch. f. Anthrop., 
xv, 37-11. 

Dalton, John C. — The topographical anatomy of the brain. Phila- 
delphia : Henry C. Lea's Sou & Co. 

Dana, A. LT.— Ethical and physiological enquiries. 2 ser. 2 ed. K. Y. 
12mo. 

Danillo, S. F. — Quelques considerations sur les sillons arteriels de 
l'endocrane chez l'homme. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, vi, 
9-19. 

Davis, C. H. — The training and education of the feeble minded, imbe- 
cile, and idiotic. Virginia Med. Month., Richmond, x, 301; 367; 
417. 

Debrerre. — Les conditions oil les lois que semblent presider a Torigine 
et an rapport des sexes. Rev. internal, d. sc. biol,, Paris. XI, 289- 
338. 

DELAUNAY, G. — Animal doctors. Am. Naturalist, 115, 140. 

Delbceuf, L. — Geauts et nains. Rev. internal, d. sc. biol., Paris, xi, 
210-257 ; Rev. scicnt., Paris, xxxi, 97-101; Pop. Sc. Month., xxn, 
707-771. 

Deltsle. — Ethnography of the upper Ogowe\ Bull. Soc. d'anthrop., 
vi. 557. 

Note sur quelques pieces ethuographiques du haut Ogowe. Bull. 

Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 35, vi, 557-571. 

Deniker, J. — Les Ghiliaks d'apr&s les derniers renseignements. Rev. 
d'ethnog., par. 2, 289-310. 

Les Papons de la Xouvelle-Guinee et les voyages de M. Mikluko- 

Maklay. Rev. d'Anthrop., Tails, 2 s., vi, 481-501. 

Denis, II. — Sur la matrimonialite en Belgique. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. 

do Bruxelles, i, p. 34-53. 
Depelchin, R. P. H.— Expedition chez les Barotse\s de Zambese. J. 

de Voyage. Bruxelles, Mars-Juin. 
Derby, )rville A. — The human remains in the bone caves of Brazil. 

Science, I, 541. 



774 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Deshayes, H. — Contribution a 1'histoire de la castration de la taille, 
etc. M6in. Soc. d'agric, xxm, 282-312. 

Deutsche anthroj>ologische Gesellschaft. 14th general meeting at 
Treves. President, Virchow; general secretary, Dr. Johannes 
Eanke. 8, 9, 10 Aug. [See Verhandl. Berl. anthrop. Gesellsch., xv, 
490; Correspondenz Blatt., pp. 69-182.] 

Dictionnaire des sciences anthropologiques; anatotnie, craniologie, ar- 
cheologie prtihistorique, ethnographie (inceurs, lois, arts, iudustrie), 
d^mographie, langues, religions. Public sous la direction de MM. 
A. Bertillon, Couderau et al., Tome I A- G, Paris. 4to. 

Dictionary of Zoology, Anthropology, and Ethnology; by Jager, v. Hell- 
wald, Klunzinger, etc. Vols, i, n. Breslau, ill., 1880-'83. [See 
Encyclopadie der Naturwisserschaften, below.] 

Dictionnaire usuel des sciences medicales, par A. Dechambre, etc., l er 
fasc, A-Chlorures. Paris. 8vo. 

Dorset, J. Owen. — The religion of the Omahas and Ponkas. Am. An- 
tiquarian, v, p. 271. 

Dakotan legends and myths. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, 

ii, 124. 

On the Gentile system of the Omahas. Am. Antiquarian, v, 

312-318. 

On the Gentile system of the Iowas. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash- 
ington, ii, 10. 

Marriage laws of the Omahas and cognate tribes. Science, 



Nov. 2. 
Dulotjp, G. — Huit jours chez les M' Bengas. Rev. d'ethnog., Paris, 

II, 213-230. 
Duncan, W. S. — On the probable region of man's evolution. J. An- 
throp. Inst., XII, 513-525. 
Evidence as to the scene of man's evolution, etc. Brit. Ass. Adv. 

Sc, 1882. London, 1883, lii, 605. 
Dymock. — On some superstitions connected with the vegetable king- 
dom. Tr. Med. & Phys. Soc. Bombay, 1882, n. s., 89-95. 
Eels, M. — The potlatches of Puget Sound. Am. Antiquarian, v, 135- 

147. 
Encyclopadie der Naturwissenschaften. Handworterbuch der Zoologie, 

Anthropologic, u. Ethnologie. Breslau, 8vo. 
Engelmann, G. J. — Labor [parturition] among primitive peoples. St. 

Louis, 227 p., 8vo. 
Ercolani, G. B. — Delia polidactylia e della polimelia nell' uomo e nei 

vertebrati. Bologna. 4to. [From Mem. Accad. d. sc. d. 1st. di 

Bologna, ill] 
Esposizione Generale Italiana in Torino, 1884. Programma speciale 

della Sezione di Antropologia. (Div. iv. Previdenza ed Assistenza 

publica.) Torino : Para via, 1883. 
Farge. — One tete de criminel. Bull. Soc. de med. d' Angers, x, 209- 

214. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 775 

Fatjre, S. — De l'origine des peuples do nord de l'Afrique. Gaz. med. 

de l'Alg^rie. Alger, xxvin, 84 ; 109; 124; 131. 
Fayrer, J. — Destruction of life in India by wild animals. Nature, 

Loud., xxvin, 268-270. 
Fernandez, CArlos. — Antigiiedades mexicanas. Au. Mus. nac. de 

Mex., in, 68-71. 
Ferri, E. — Etudes d'authropometrie sur les criminels, les fous et les 

homines normaux. Arch. d. psichiat., iv, & Arch. ital. de biol., 

Turin, in, 368-380. 

Socialismo e criminalita. Roma : Bocca. 224 p. 

Studii di antbropometria su criminal i, pazzi sani. Arch, per 

l'antrop. Firenze, xin, 37-47. 
Fielden, H. W. — Notes on stone implements from South Africa. J. 

Antbrop. Inst., Loud., xin, 162-174. 
Finsch, O. — TTeber weisse Papuas. Ztscbr. f. Ethnol., Berlin, xv, 205- 

208. 
Fisher, William J. — Collections from the Ugashagmut Eskimo, 

Alaska. Proc. U. S. Nat, Museum, vi, 161-176. 
Flechsig, P. — Plan des menschlichen Gehirns auf Grand eigener 

Untersuchungen entworfen. Leipzig. 8vo. 
Flesch. — Ueber Mikrocephalie. Cor.-Bl. deutsch. Gesellsch. Antbrop., 

Braunschweig, xin, 152-154. 
Fletcher, E. — Human proportion in art and anthropometry. Sat- 
urday Lecture at the National Museum, Washington, D. C. Cam- 
bridge: M. King. 37 p., 4 pi. 
Tattooing among civilized people. From Tr. Antbrop. Soc. 

Washington, vol. I, 27 p. 

A study of some recent experiments on Serpent venom. From 



Am. J. of Med. Sc, July, 1883. 
Eligier. — Die Pfahlbautenwohner. Kosmos, Stuttgart, vi, 449. 
Folk Lore Society. In 1883 published " Folk Medicine," and Folk Lore 

Journal, issued monthly. Volume i commenced with the current 

year, replacing the Folk Lore Record, five volumes of which had 

been published. 
Forbes, H. O. — On the ethnology of Timor-laut. J. Anthrop. Inst., 

xin, 8-31. 
Fort, G. F. — Medical economy during the middle ages. N. York : J. 

W. Bouton, 500 p. 8vo. 
FouillIse, A. — La vie consciente et la vie inconsciente d'apres la 

nouvelle psychologie scientifique. Rev. d. deux mondes, 3. s., lix, 

878. 
Friedel, — . — Pferdeschiidel als Schlitten. Ztscbr. f. Ethnol., p. 54. 
Fritsch. — Die Portracharactere der altagyptischen Denkmaler. Zeit 

schr. Ethnol., p. 183. 
Fuchs, S. — Zur Histogenese der menschlichen Grosshirnrinde. Wien, 

8vo. 



776 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Fuentes y Guzman, F. A.— Historia <le Guatemala o recordaci6u 

florida escrita en le Siglo xvn, vol. n. Madrid. 4to. 440 pp. 
Gaddy, N. D.— Heredity. Med. Herald, Louisville, v, 241-249. 
Gaillard. — Crane trepane" de Quiberon. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 

3 s., VI, 258. 
Galton, Francis. — Arithmetic notation of kinship. Nature, xxviii, 

p. 435, 588. 
Inquiry into human faculty and its development. N. Y.: Mac- 

millan & Co. 399 p., 5 pi. 8vo. [Nature, May 31 ; Science, July 20.] 
On apparatus for testing the delicacy of the muscular and other 

senses in different persons. J. Anthrop. Inst., Lond., xn, 469-477. 
Kecord of family faculties, consisting of tabular forms and direc 



tious for entering data, &c. London, McMillan & Co. 
Garson, J. G. — Photographs illustrating cases of hyper trichosis. J. 

Anthrop. Inst., Loudon, xiii, 6. 
Osteology of the ancient inhabitants of the Orkney Islands. J. 

Anthrop. Inst, xiii, 54-86, 1 pi., 1 tab. 
Gatschett, A. S. — Der Yuma-Sprachstamm. Article ii. Ztechr. f. 

Etbnol., Berlin, xv, 123-147. 
Linguistic and ethnographic notes in the American Antiquarian. 

Volume v. 
Specimen of the Chumeto language. Am. Antiquarian, v, 71-79; 

173-180. 

The Shetimasha Indians of St. Mary's Parish, La. Tr. Anthrop. 



Soc. Wash., ii, 148-159. 
Geelmuyden. — Om Islaendernes gamle kalendere. Naturen, No. 4. 

[On the old calenders of the Icelanders. Nature, July 26, pp. 303, 

304.] 
Gegenbatjer, C. — Lehrbuch der Anatomie des Menschen. Leipzig. 
Geoffroy, J. — De la connaissance et de la denomination des couleurs 

dans l'antiquite\ Mtiin. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 1875-1882, 2 s., ii, 

281-313. 
Gerlaud, G. — Die Zeichensprache der Indianer. Deutsche Rundschau, 

Berlin, ix, 258-272. 
Giacomini, C. — Annotazioni sopra 1' anatomia del negro. Arch. ital. 

de biol., Turin, in, 331-361. Also separate in 8vo. 
Giglioli, E. H. — Alcuni cenni intorno ai Dajak, &c. Arch, per l'an- 

trop., Firenze, 1883. 
Gilmour, James. — Among the Mongols. London : Rel. Tract Society. 
Gizycki, Georg von. Grundziige des Moral. Leipzig. 140 p. 12mo. 
Globus. — Illustrirte Zeitschrift fiir Lander und Volkerkunde. Braun- 
schweig, xliii-xliv. 52 numbers. 
Gobineau, de. — Essai sur Pinegalite" des races humaines. Paris. 2 ed., 

2 vols. 8vo. 
Goldstein, E. — Des applications du calcul des probability a l'anthro- 

pologie. Rev. d'Anthrop., vi, 704-728. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 777 

Gomme, G. L.— Folk-lore relics of early village life. Loudon : Stock. S 

and 24G p. 
Gore, J. Howard — Tuckahoe, or Indian bread. Sinithson. An. Rep., 

1881, pp. 687-701. 
Gratacap, L. P. — Mexican antiquities. Am. Antiquarian, v, 303-312. 
Grimm, J. — Teutonic Mythology. London : Bell & Sons. 8vo. 3 vols. 
Gross, Victor. Les protohel votes, ou les premiers colons sur les bords 

des lacs de Bienne et Neuchatel. Berlin: Asher. 127 p., 33 pi. 

4to. 
Guppt, H. B. — Anthropological notes on the Solomon Is. Mature, 

London, xxvn, 007, 608. 
Guss, A. L. — Early Indian history of the Susquehanna. Historical 

Register, Harrisburg, Penn. Nos. 1-4, with Smith's map of Vir- 
ginia. 
Haeckel, E. — Darwin, Gcethe, and Lamarck. Arch. med. ital., Torino, 

ii, 615-647. 
The pedigree of man and other essays. Transl. by E. A. Avelly. 

London: Freetbought Pub. Co. 15 and 352 p., ill. 16mo. 
Hale, Horatio. — Indian migrations, as evidenced by Language. 

From Proc. Am. Association, Montreal ;' [also Am. Antiquarian. 

Jan. & Ap., 1883.] 

A Huron historical legend. Mag. of Am. Hist., Dec. 

The Iroquois book of rites. [Brinton's Library of Aboriginal 

American Literature.] Phila. 8vo. See Science, Oct. 12. 
Hamard. — L'age de la pierre et l'homme primitif. Lyon: Waltener 

& Cie. 13 + 503 pp., ill. 8vo. 
Hamy, E. T. — Les Indiens Omahas an Jardin d'acclimatation. Rev. 

d'ethnog., n, 526. 
Les mutilatious deutaires au Mexique et dans le Yucatan. Par. 

[Reprint from Bull. Soc. d'anthrop.] 

Note sur une inscription azteque. Rev. d'ethnog., n, 193. 

Un bas-relief azteque de la collection Uhde. Id., 438. 

Trousse anthropom6trique pour les voyageurs. Bull. Soc. d'an- 
throp. de Paris, vi, 49-53. 
Handekson, H. E. — The school of Salernum. An historical sketch of 

medisevol medicine. N. Y. 60 p. 
Harmand, J. — Les races indochinoises. M<§m. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris,. 

1875-1882, ii, 314^308. 
Hartman, R. — Die menscheniihnlichen Affen und ihre Organisation im 

vergleich zur Menschlichen. Leipzig: Brockhaus. 303 pp., ill. 

8vo. 
Hawkins, B. W. — Comparative anatomy as applied to the purposes of 

the artist. Ed, by G. Wallis. Lond. 12mo. 
Hayden & Selwyn. — Stanford's Compendium of Geography and 

Travel. ET. America. London : Edward Stanford. 
Heath, E. R.— Dialects of the Bolivian Indians. Kansas City Rev., 

p. 679. 



778 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1833. 

Heger. — Les caracteres physiques ties criuriuels. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. 
de Bruxelles I, 113-132. 

Heger, Franz. — Das Urnenfeld bei Libochowan in Bohmen. Mitth. 
Autb. Ges. in Wieu, xm, 180-210. 

Hellwald, F. v. — Naturgeschiehte des Menscben. P'ts 25-27. Stutt- 
gart, ill. 8vo. 

Henle, J. — Grundriss der Anatoinie des Menschen. Braunschweig. 
Atlas. 8vo. 

Antbropologische Vortrage. Hefte 1, 2. 

Henshaw, H. W. — Animal carvings from mounds of the Mississippi 
Valley. An. Rep. Bur. Ethnol., p. 117-186, 32 fig. 

Hettner, Prof. — Address of welcome at the opening of the xivth gen- 
eral meeting of the German Antbrop. Soc. Corr.-Bl. Anthrop., 
xvi, 85-91. 

Hildebrand, Hans. — Bidrag till Finlauds historia. Kongl. Vitterbets 
Historie, etc., Stockholm, xn, 23-37. 

The industrial arts of Scandinavia in the Pagan times. London, 

150 p. South Kensington Museum Art Handbooks. 

Teckningar ur Svenska Statens Historiska Museum. Tredje 



haftet, Serieu v, pl.*l-5. 

Hoffman, W. J. — Comparison of Eskimo pictograpbs with those of 
other American aborigines. From Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, 
ii, pp. 120-146, 12 ill. 

■ D6couverte d'empreintes de pas supposes humains a Carson (Ne- 
vada). Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, VI, 26-31. 

Note sur les Heches empoisonn^es des Iudiens de l'Ainerique du 

Nord. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, vi, 205, 274. 

■ The Carson footprints. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, n, 34- 

38 ; Das Ausland, No. 2, p. 37-39, 2 ill. 

Tattooing and property marks among some Pacific coast tribes. 



Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, n, 66-67. 
Hoffmann, R. B. — Die Getranke der Griecben und Bonier vom hygieni- 

schen Standpunkte. Deutsches Arch. f. Gesch. f. Med., &c, Leipz., 

vi, 269-288. 
Holmes, Mary E. — Teaching brutes the use of letters. Am. Natural- 
ist, xvn, 100-103. 
Holmes, W. H. — Art in shell. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, n, 94- 

120 ; also n An. Eep. Bur. Ethnol., p. 170-306, pi. xxi-lxxvii. 
The use of the cross symbol by the ancient Americans. Ibid., 

161-172. 
Hooper, D. — Some curious physical and moral results of a marriage of 

first cousins. Lancet, London, ii, 1107. 
Houze, E. — Sur la presence du troisieme trochanter cbez l'homme. 

Bui. Soc. d'anthrop. de Brux., n, 21-58, plates. 

. Sur l'indice cepkalique des Flamands et des Wallons. Bull. Soc. 

• d'anthrop. de Bruxelles, i, p. 20-26. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 779 

Ho witt, A. W. — Notes ou the Australian class system. J. Anthrop. 

Inst., Lond., xn, 496-512, 1 pi. 
On some Australian beliefs. J. Anthrop. Inst., Lond., xiii, 185- 

198. 
Howorth, H. H. — The ethnology of Germany. Part vi. The Varini, 

Varangians, and Franks. J. Anthrop. Inst., xn, 525 ; xiii, 213. 
Hyades. — Observations sur les Fu6giaus. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de 

Paris, vi, 617-621. 
Ikow, C. — Sur la classification de la couleur des yeux et des cheveux. 

Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, VI, 440-453. 
Indian Affairs, Annual Report of the Commissioner of. Washington : 

Government Printing Office, lxxi, 466 p. 8vo. 
Indian Journals. — The following papers are published by Indians, or in 

their interest : 

Eadle Keatah Toh, The Morning Star. The organ of the Car- 
lisle Indian School, Pa. 
Yapi Oaye and Anpoa, published in Dakota language, at Yank- 
ton, Dak. 
Cherokee Advocate, Tahlequah, Ind. Ter., partly in English and 

partly in Cherokee. (Sequoyah's Alphabet.) 
Indian Journal, organ of the Creeks, published at Muskogee, I. 
T., partly in English. 
Index-Catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon -General's Office, 

United States Army. Authors and subjects. Vol. iv, E — Fizes. 

Washington : Government Printing Office. [12]-1033 p. 4to. 
Index-Medicus. — A monthly classified record of the current medical 

literature of the world. Compiled under the supervision of Dr. 

Johu S. Billings, surgeon, U. S. A., and Dr. Robert Fletcher, 

M. R. C. S. Eng. Vol. v, Jan.-Dec, 1883. New York : Leypoldt. 

8vo. 
Indian Commissioners. — Fifteenth annual report. Washington: Gov- 
ernment Printing Office. 
Ingersoll, Ernest. — Wampum and its history. Am. Naturalist, xvii, 

467. 
Jaeger, G. — Entdeckung der Seele. Leipzig: E. Gunther. 1 vol. 

8vo. 
Jagor, F., and Portmann. — Neuer Bericht fiber die Andamanesen. 

Verhandl. Berl. Gesellsch. Anthrop., pp. 69-72. 
Jahrbuch fur schweizerische Geschichte. vni. 

James, F. L. — The wild tribes of the Soudan. London, 286 p. 8 vo. 
Jansen. — Etude d'anthropom^trie in6dicale au point de vue de l'apti- 
m tude au service inilitaire. Rev. interuat. d. Sc. biol., Paris, xi, 

168-182. 
Jewett, Llwellyn. — On the mace. The antiquary. 
Joest, W. — Das Holontalo, Glossar und grammatische Skizze. Ein 

Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Spracheu von Celebes. Berlin, 



780 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Johnson, Eli as. — Legends, traditions, and laws of the Iroquois, &c 

Lockport, N. Y., 1881. 234 p. 8vo. 
Joly, N. — Man before metals. The International Scientific Series. 

New York : D. Appleton & Co. 148 ill., 385 p. 12nio. 
Jones, Charles C. — History of Georgia [vol. i, chap. 1, relates to the 

aborigines]. Boston : Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 
Silver crosses from an Indian grave-mound at Coosawattee. 

Old Town, Murray County, Ga. Smithson. An. Eep., 1881, 619-627 ■ 
Journal of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain. Vol. xn, 

3 & 4; vol. xin, 1 & 2. 
Kansas (The) City Eeview (Mo.) Edited by Theo. S. Case, Vol. vn 

commeuced May. Every number contains valuable anthropolog- 
ical information. 
Keane, A. H.— The Botocudos. J. Anthrop. Inst., xiii, 199-213. For 

numerous reviews of ethnographic works, by Prof. Keane, consult 

index to Nature, under his name. 
Kengla, Louis A. — Contributions to the archaeology of the District 

of Columbia. Washington : Waters & Son. p. 42. 
King, F. C. — Instinct and memory exhibited by the flying squirrel in 

confinement. Am. Naturalist, xvn, 36-42. 
Kingston, W. H. G. Stories of the sagacity of animals. Cats and 

dogs. London : Nelsons. 162 p. ill. 8vo. 
Kneeland, Samuel. The wild tribes of Luzon. Science, Oct. 19, ill., 

May 18. 
Kolliker, A. Zur Entwickelung des Auges uud Geruchsorganes 

menschlicher Embryoueu. Verhandl. d. phys.-med. Gesellsch. zu 

Wiirzb., xvn, No. 8, 1-29, 4 pi. 
Kollmann, J. — Die Autochthonen Amerika's. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., xv, 

p. 1-47. [Also separate. Exhaustive discussion of 1,500 crania, 

with charts.] 
Der Tastapparat der Hand der menschlichen Rassen uud der 

Affen. Hamburg. 77 p., 48 fig. 8vo. 

And 66 others. Verstandigung fiber ein gemeinsames cranio- 



metrisches Verfahren. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv, 1-8. 
Kongl. Vitterherts Historie och Antiquitets Akademiens Manadsb 'Lad. 

Tolfte Argangen. Stockholm, 1872-1883. 
Kraus, Alessandro. — Illustrazione degli strumenti musicali portati 

dal Prof. Mantegazza dal suo viaggio nell' India. Archivio per 

l'antrop., xiii, 532-543. 
Krause, Aurel. — Die Bevolkerungsverhaltnisse der Tschuktschen 

Halbinsel. Verhandl. Berl. Gesellsch. f. Anthrop., p. 224, xv. 
Krause, E. — AberglaubischeKurenundsonstiger Aberglaube in Berlin 

und nachster Umgegend. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., p. 78. 
Kuhn, Ernst. — Ueber Herkunft u. Sprache der transgangetischen 

Volker. Munchen : Franz. 22 p. 4to. 
Kulischer, M. — Die Behandlung der Kinder und der Jugend auf der 

primitiven Kulturstufen. Ztschr. f. Efchnol., Berlin, xx, 191-203. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. ?81 

Lacassagne.— Rapporto fra la statura e la graudo apertura della brac- 

cia su 800 delinquent!. Tr. Arch, di psichiat., Torino, 1883, iv, 

208-214. 
Lacerta, de. — Documents pour servir a l'histoire de l'homme fossile 

du Bresil. Mem. Soc. d'antbrop. de Paris, 1875-1882, 2 s., II, 517- 

542. 
Lagneau, G. — La decroissance de la population. Bull. Soc. d'antbrop. 

de Par., vi, 571-578. 
Lang, Andrew. — Anthropology and the Veddas. London : Eliot 

Stock. 
Lassalle, C. — Origin of the western nations and languages, etc. Lon- 
don : Hey wood. 420 p. 8vo. 
Lauth, Prof. — Die figurativen Hieroglyphen in ihrer Bedeutung fur 

die Prahistorie-. Corr.-Bl. Anthrop., &c, xiv, 49-55. 
Lawes, Sir J. B., and J. H. Gtlbert. — Composition of some of the 

animals fed and slaughtered for human food. Phil. Trans. Boy. 

Soc, pt. in, 1883. 
Legrand du Saulle. — Le delire des persecutions. Union me"d., 

Paris, 3 s., xxxvi, 1 j 49 ; 97 j Gaz. d. h6p., lvi, 929-931. 
Left-handedness among the ancient Hebrews. Brit. M. J., Lond., i, 1161. 
Leiner, Ludwig. — Stein als Geld. Corr.-Blatt Anthrop., &c, xiv, 34. 
Leipzig Museum fur Volkerkunde. Tenth annual report. 
Lewis, H. Carvill. — Supposed human implement from the gravel at 

Philadelphia, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc, Phil., Feb. 6, p. 40-44. 
L'Homme. — Journal illustre des sciences an£hropologiques. Directeur: 

Gabriel de Mortillet. R^dacteurs: Bordier, Matbias Duval, Girard 

deRialle, Georges Herve, Abel Hovelacque, Andr6 Lefevre, Letour- 

neau, Manouvrier, P. Salmon, Paul S6billot, Thulie. A fortnightly 

publication. Jan. 1, 1884. 
Lindenschmidt, L. — Haudbuch der deutschen Alterthumskunde. 

Braunschweig. 
Littlefield, George E. — Catalogue of books and pamphlets relating 

to the American Indians. Boston, Nov. 
Littre, E. — Dictionnaire de m^decine, de chirurgie, de pharmacie, etc. 

15 e 6"d., fasc. i, Paris, 1883. 
Livi, R. — Sulla statura degli Italiani. Arch, per l'antrop., Firenze, 

xm, 243-290, 2 diag. 
Llanos, Adolfo. — Sahagun y su historia de Mexico. An. Mus. nac. de 

Mex., hi, 71-76. 
Lockington, W. 1ST. — Man's place in nature. Am. Naturalist, xvn 

1003-1007. 
Loher, Friderich v. — Gab es bei den Germanen Menschenopfer. 

Arch. f. Anthrop., XV, 23-35. 
Lombroso, C. — Capacita cranica di 121 criminali. Arch, di psichiat., 

etc., Torino, rv, 215-219. 
Longo, A. — Anatomia e fisiologia dell' organo vocale. Piazza Arme- 

rina : 16mo. 



782 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Longperier, A. de. — Oeuvres, Paris. Leronx. 31 + 527 pp. 11. pi. 
Luccock, John. A grammar and vocabulary of the Tupi language. 

Rio Janeiro : E. & H. Laemmert, 1881, 1882. 
Luco. — James Miln etles trois sepultures eirculaires explorers par lui 

dans la commune de Carnac (Morbihan), Tours. 8vo. Repr. C. R. 

du Cong, a Vannes, Soc. fr. d'archeol. 
Lydston, G. F. — A contribution to the hereditary and pathological as- 
pect of vice. Chicago Med. J. & Exam., xlvi, 131-148. 
MacAdams. — Antiquities of Cahokia, or Monks' Mound, in Madison 

County, 111. 13 p., plates. 
McElroy. — The economic function of vice. Pop. Sc. Month., xxn, 

732-739. 
McGuire, J. D. — Aboriginal quarries. Soapstoue bowls, etc. Am. 

Naturalist, xvn, 587-595. 
— ; Soapstone quarries and aboriginal tools for working soapstone. 

Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, n, 39. 
McLeod, R. — Phrenology. Indian Med. Gaz., Calcutta, xviii, 1-7. 
Macpherson, Peter. — The religion of the aborigines of Australia. 

Sydney. 
Maine, Sir H. S. — Dissertations on early law and custom. London: 

Murray. 402 p. 8vo. 
Mair. — Zur socialen Krankenpflege. Aerztl. Int.-Bl., Mtinchen, xxx, 

177-179. 
Maler, T. — Notes sur la basse Misteque. Rev. d'ethnog., Paris, ii, 

154-161, 1 pi. 
Malfatti, B. — Etnografia. Milano. 16mo. 
Malherbe. — Observations relatives aux localisations cerebrales. In 

Ms: Etudes clin., Nantes, fasc. 2, pp. 59-70. 8vo. 
Manouvrier, L. — Etude craniometrique sur la plagiocephalie. Bull. 

Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, vi, 526-553. 
Sur l'etude authropologique des cranes d'assassins. Bull. Soc. 

d'anthrop. de Paris, VI, 93-136. 
Mantegazza, P. — Istruzioni etnologiche per il viaggio dalla Lapponia 

al Caucaso dei soci Loria e Michela. Arch, per l'antrop., Firenze, 

xni, 109-114. 
Studii sull' etuologia dell' India. Arch, per l'antrop., Firenze, 

XIII, 177-241 ; 379-504. 
Marcy. — De la locomotion humaine. Bull. Acad, de med., Paris, 2 s., 

xii, 1117-1136; see also Compt. rend. Acad. d. sc, Paris, xcvii, 782, 

820 ; also, France med., Paris, II, 532-535. 
Marro. — Distribuzione del tatuaggio secondo il reato e secondo la re- 

cidiva. Arch, di psichiat., Torino, IV, 383. 
Marro e Lombroso. — Album di criminali tedeschi. Arch, di psi- 
chiat., etc., Torino, IV, 127-130, 2 pi. 

Riflessi tendinei nei criminali. Arch, di psichiat., Torino, IV, 382. 

Marshall, O. H. — Mound Joliet. Am. Antiquarian, v, 73-77. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 783 

Marshall, W. J. — On the influence of language upon medical thought 

and practice. Glasgow M. J., xx, 101-170. 
Martin, Em. — Les deformations craniennes en Chine. Kev. d'ethnog., 

II, 504. 
Massimino e Lombkcso.— Sui caratteri fisionomico-criminali di 818 

uomini viventi in liberta. Arch, per Pantrop., Firenze, xiii, 109-114. 
Mason, Otis T. — Anthropological notes in the American Naturalist. 

Jan. -Dec. 
L'anthropologie, son domain, son but. Kev. scieut., Paris, xxxn, 

pp. 676-631. 

The scope and value of anthropological studies. Science, Cam- 



bridge ; Minneapolis volume A, A, A, S, and separate. 

Massey, Gerald. — The natural genesis, etc. Williams & Norgate, 
London. 

Materiaux pour l'histoire primitive et naturelle de l'homme. Vol. xvn. 
[Founded by G. de Mortillet, 1865.] The third series will commence 
with 1884. 

Ma-Tovan-Lin. — Ethnography of foreign peoples. Composed in the 
xiii century. Part n. South Geneva. 622 p. 4to. 

Matthews, Washington. — Navajo silversmiths, n An. Rep. Bur. 
Ethnol., p. 167-180 ; 5 pi. 

Mandel, E. — HackePs Anthropogenic A criticism. Regensburg. Svo. 

Maudsley, H. — Body and will ; being an essay concerning will, etc. 
London : Paul. 330 p. Svo. 

Maurel. — Etude sur deux tribus dTndiens vivant sur les rives du 
Maroni ; les Aracouyeunes et les Galibis. Mem. Soc. d'anthrop. de 
Paris, 1875-1882, 2 s., n, 300-395. 

Medical (The) and surgical history of the war of the rebellion. Part 
3. Volume n. Surgical History. Prepared under the direction 
of Joseph K. Barnes, Surg. Gen. U. S. A. By George A. Otis, 
Surgeon U. S. A., and D. L. Huntington, Surgeon U. S. A. Wash- 
ington: Govt. Print. Office, xii-1 — 986 — xxix p. 4to. Chromolith. 
and photo, plates, 510 tigs. 

Mehlis, C. — Der Stand der Pfalbaufrage. Deutsche Rev. Aug. 

Studien zur iiltesteu Geschichte der Rheinlande. 7 Abth. Leip- 
zig. 

Melendez, L. — Monomania religiosa ; ideas impulsivas ; suicidio. 
Rev. med.-quir., Buenos Aires, xx, 173-175. 

Menaut, J. — Les pierres gravees de la Haute Asie. Pt. 1. Cylindres 
de la Chaldee. Rouen. Svo. 

Mercier, C. — The basis of consciousness. J. Ment. Sc, Loud., xxix, 
498-507. 

De Merejkowsky, C. — Recherches sur le developpement du squelette 
humain. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, VI, 152-157. 

Meye, Heinrich. — Die Steinbilder von Coban und Quirigua. 20 tables. 
111. Berlin: Asher. fol.. 



784 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Meter, A. B. — Das Jadeitbeil von Gurina, im Gailthal (KSiruten). 

Wien. 4 p. 8vo. 
Konigl. ethnographisehes Museum zu Dresden, n und in. 

Jadeit- und Nephritobjecte. A, Amerika und Europa. B, Asien, 

Oceanien und Afrika. 2 tables. Leipzig : A. Naumanu u. Schro- 

der. fol. See Verhandl. Berl. Gesellsch. f. Antbrop., XT, 478. 
Meyer, E. H. — Indogermanische My tben. Beriin : Dttmmler. n, 243 

p. 8vo. 
Meyer, Hans. — Die Igorrotes von Luzon (Pbilippines). Verhandl. 

Berl. Gesellsch. f. Antbrop., 377-400. 
Milchhofer, A. — Die Anfange der Kunst in Griechenland. Leipzig: 

F. A. Brockhaus. 111. 
Mittheilungen der deutschen Gesellschaft zur Erforschung vaterlandi- 

scher Sprache und AlterthUmer in Leipzig, vin. 
Mondiere. — Mariage et accouchement chez les Annamites. Praticien, 

Paris, vi, 181 ; 193 ; 205. 
Monographic de la femme annamite. Mem. Soc. d'anthrop. de 

Paris, 2 s., II, 437-51G. 
Moore, George H. — History of witchcraft in Massachusetts. 34 p. 

Proc. Am. Antiq. Soc. 
Mortillet, Gabriel. — Le pr^historiqne antiquity de l'homme. (Bib- 

liotheque des sciences con tern poraines.) Paris: Reinvrald. 642 

p. 8vo. 
Mougeolle, P.— La linguistique et le sens des couleurs. Rev. scient., 

xxxii, 715-718. 
von Muller, F. — Drei SchSdel von westaustralischen Eingebornen. 

Verb. Berl. Ges. f. Antbrop., 342. 
Muller, Fred. — Grundriss der Sprachwissenschaft. Vol. in. Die 

Sprachen der lockenhaarigen Rassen. 1 Abth. Die Sprachen der 

Nuba- u. Dravida Rasse. Wien: Holder, ix, 246 p. 8vo. 
Muller, F. Max. — India : What it can teach us. Lond. : Longmans. 

11 + 402 p. 8vo. 
Muller, J. H., et ah — Verzeichniss der anthropologischen Literatur. 

Arch. f. Antbrop., Brnschwg., xiv., Append., 161 p. 
Muimmery, J. R. — On the relation of dental caries to food and social 

condition. [From Tr. Odont. Soc. Gr. Brit., Lond.] Dental Reg., 

Cincin., xxxvn, 51-83. 
Nachtigall, Gustav. — Sahara and the Sudan. Part 2. Berlin, 1881. 

Reviewed in Nature, March 1, by Prof. A. H. Keane. 
Nadalllac, Marquis de. — L'Ainerique pr^historique. 596 p., 219 fig. 

8vo. 
Nathan, J. — Sur la localisation des fonctions c6r£brales dans les he- 
mispheres c£r6braux chez l'animal et chez l'homme. Rev. internat. 

d. sc. biol., Paris, xi, 1-31. 
Nephrit. Discussion at German Anthrop. Soc. Corr.-Blatt Anthrop.^ 

&c, xiv, 17, 25, 35-36. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. . 785 

Newcomb, Slmon.— The psychological mechanism of direction. Sci- 
ence, Oct. 26. 
Nicaise, A. — Decouverte d'ossements hnmains dans les alluvions qua- 

ternaires de la vallee de la Maine. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 

3 s., vi, 393-400. 
Nicolucci, G. — II cervello dell' uouio considerato sotto V aspetto antro- 

pologico. Psichiatria, Napoli, I, 139; 216. 
Nillson, Sven. — Born 8th March, 1787 ; died at Lund 30th November, 

1883. 
Oppert, Gustav. — On the classification of languages in conformity 

with ethnology. J. Anthrop. Inst., London, xiii, 32-52, 1 tab. 
Oregon, The Stone Age in. Oregon and Washington Farmer; also 

Kansas City Rev., vi, 531. 
Pagliani, L. — Etude sur le developpement de la famille. Ann. de 

demog. iuternat., 18S2, vi, 197-204. 
Paine, Nathaniel. — Publications of the American Antiquarian So- 
ciety. Worcester : Hamilton. 
Pal]vtee, A. S. — Folk etymology ; a dictionary of verbal corruptions, 

etc. N.York: Holt. 22+664 p. 8vo. 
Park, B. — A record of the principal anomalies in 100 subjects. Ann. 

Anat. Sc. Surg., Brooklyn, vin, 207-270. 
Parker, G. W. — La population et la langue de Madagascar. Rev. 

internat. d. sc. biol., Paris, xn, 344-351 (continued). 
On the people and language of Madagascar. J. Anthrop. Inst., 

xn, 478-495. 
Pattison, S. R., and Frederick Pfaff. — The age and origin of man 

geologically considered. London : E. Knight. 53 p. Svo. 
Paulus, A. — La Cochinchiue contemporaine. Rev. scient., xxxn, 742- 

749. [See also the work of Bouinais et Paulus. Paris : Challamel. 

11+490 pp. and chart.] 
PeckhajVI, George. — Various observations on growth. XVIIth An. 

Rep. St. Bd. of Health Wis. Madison, Wis. p. 185-189. 
Peet, S. D. — Ancient village architecture in America. Am. Antiqua- 
rian, V, 39-65. 

Village habitations. Id. 150-172 

Exploration of mounds. Am. Antiquarian, v, 332-340. 

The medicine man. iv, 344-350. 

Peney. — Ethnographie du Soudan egyptien. Rev. d'ethnog., Paris, 

II, 513-524. 
Pengelly, W. — Vice-president's address, British Association, on the 

Devonshire caverns and their contents. Nature : London, xxviii, 

524-529. [A resume' of cave-exploration.] 
Peron et Lesueur. — Sur le tablier des femmes hottentotes. Progres 

m6d., Paris, xi, 525. 
Petersen, Henry. — Die verschiedenen Formen der Steinaltgraber 

in Danemark und deren Zeitverhaltnisse zu einandcr. Arch. f. 

Anthrop., xv, 133-160, 2 tables. 
H. Mis. 69 50 



786 • SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Petrie, W. M. F. — On the mechanical methods of the ancient Egyp- 
tians. J. Anthrop. Inst., London, xni, 88-109, 1 pi. 

The earliest known plotting scale. Nature, Aug. 9, p. 341. 

Phillips, Henry, Jr. — Account of more important public collections 

of American Archaeology in the United States. Am. Phil. Soc. 

Proc, May 4. 
Phipson, E. — The animal lore of Shakespeare's time. London. 492 p. 

8vo. 
Physiology. List of titles to works and papers on. J. of Physiol., 

suppl. to vol. IV. Cambridge : Clay & Son. 61 p. 8vo. 
Pierret, Paul. — Le livre des morts des anciens Egyptiens. Paris : 

Leroux. 9+665, pp. 8 vo. 
Pietrement, C. A. — Less chevaux dans les temps pr^historiques et 

historiques. Paris : Bailliere. 

Origin of the donkey. Pop. Sc. Month., xxn, 783. 

Pigorini, Luigl — Terrain ara dell' eta del brouzo situata in castioni 

de Marchesi. E. Acad. Lincei, cclxxx. Eoma : Salvinci. 
Platyknemie (discussion). Cor.-Bl. deutsch. Gesellsch. Anthrop., 

Brnschwg., xni, 167-171. 
Poly. — L'homme quaternaire: age pal6olithique, deuxieme 6poque, 

periode monsterienne. Vesoul. 8vo. Eepr. fr. Bull. Soc. d'agric, 

&c, de la Haute-Saone. 
Polyandrie en Asie, Kachmir, et Tibet. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 

VI, 213-237. 
Poncet, A. — Souvenirs d'un voyage dans l'Amerique du nord. Lyon 

med., XLII, 354 : 426 ; 462 ; XLin, 29 ; 62 ; XLIV, 100 ; 132 ; 169 ; 301. 
Pope, G. N. — The Tamil language. Part 2. London: W. H. Allen. 

8vo. 
Powell, J. W. — Human evolution. Annual address before the An- 
thropological Society of Washington. Printed in Transactions, n, 

176-208. 
Second annual report of the Bureau of Ethnology to the Secre- 
tary of the Smithsonian Institution. 1880-1881. Washington: 

Government Printing Office. 
Prat, — . — L'instinct social. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, vi, 19-26. 
Price, Thomas E. — The color-system of Vergil. Eepr. from Am. J. of 

Philol., iv, No. 13. 20 p. 
Priselkov, V. I. — Anthropological and medico-statistical problem in 

the solution of the question of finding types of recruits for the 

army. Vrach. Vaidom., St. Petersburg, vin, 4335; 4351 [in Eus- 

sianj. 
Proceedings of the Eoyal Geographical Society and monthly record of 

Geography. London : Stantford. Vol. v. 
Protap Chundra Eoy. The Mahabarata of Krishna D waipayana Vyasa, 

tr. by. Nos. 1-5. Calcutta, Bharata Press. 8vo. 
Psychology. The American Naturalist contains each month notes on 

comparative psychology of great value. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 787 

Pugklia, A. — St. Bonaventura e 1' antropologia criminali. Arch, di psi- 

chiat., rv, 125. 
Putnam, F. W. — Archaeological excursion in Wisconsin and Ohio. 

From Proc. Am. Antiq. Soc, m. 16 p. 

Indian burial mound. Science, i, 168. 

Archaeological frauds. Science, 1, 99. 

Copper implements from Mexico. Beprint from Proc. Am. 

Antiq. Soc, II, pt. 2, p. 235. 

■ Exploration of altar mounds in Ohio. Kansas City Eev., 

vii, 32. 
Iron from Ohio mounds. From Proc. Am. Antiq. Soc, n, 

349-361. 
Ancient soapstone quarries. Id., 3G4-365. 

The Kitchen-Middings of Maine. Lecture at Cambridge. Kan- 



sas City Eev., vi, 523. From Boston Transcript. 
— The stone graves at Brentwood, Tenn. Lecture ii. 

The ancient cemetery at Madisonville, Ohio. Lecture iii. 



Qtjatrefages, A. de. — Hommes fossiles et hommes sauvages. Paris, 

Bailliere. 656 pp., 1884. 
, Notes sur les caracteres de la tete des Todas. Bull. Soc. d'an- 

throp. de Paris, vi, 180-184. 

Nouvelles Etudes sur la distribution g^ographique des n6gritos 



et sur leur identification avec les pyginees asiatiques de Ct6sias et 

de Pline. Angers. 8vo. (From Eev. d'ethnog.) 
Eace and epileptic insanity. Asylum J., Berbice, 65-68. 
Eadloff, W. — Ethnographische Uebersicht der Tiirkstamme. 
Eanke. H. — Ueber einen Fall von abuormer Behaarung bei einem 

Kinde. Arch. f. Anthrop., Brnschwg., xiv, 339-342. PL 
Eanke, Johannes. — Beitrage zur physischen Anthropologic der Ba- 

yern. Mtinchen: Theodor Eiedel. 490 p., 16 tables, 2 col'd charts. 
Bericht liber die xin allgemeine, Versammlung der deutschen 

anthrop. Gesellsch. zu Frankfurt a. M., 14-17 Aug., 1882. Corr.-Bl. 

deutsch. Gesellsch. Anthrop., xiii, 65-234, 5 pi. 
Nene authropologisch-archaologische Hauptwerke. Corr.-Blatt 



Anthrop., &c, xiv, 93. 

Eau, Charles. — Indian stone graves. Am. Naturalist, xxn, 130-135. 

Bead, Wi. H. A. — An ancient Aztec town in New Mexico. Am. An- 
tiquarian, v, 65-70. 

Eeclus, E. — Les Khonds et autres Kolariens du Bengale. Eev. inter- 
nal d. sc biol., Paris, xi, 121-146. 

Les sacrifices humaius chez les Khonds de l'Inde. Praticien, 

Paris, VI, 337 ; 349 ; 361 ; 385 ; 397 ; 409 ; 539. 

Bei, G. — Sur l'origine des negres, 1741. Eev. d'anthrop., 2 s., vr, 566- 
572. 

Eemy, C. — Notes m^dicales sur le Japon. Arch. gen. de m^d., Paris, I, 
513 ; ii, 157. 



788 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Report of the committee on anthropometry. Brit. Ass. Adv. Sc, lii, 

278-280. 
Eevoil, B. H. — A trovers les prairies; les peaux-rouges de PAin^rique 

du Nord. Limoges: Ardant. 304 pp. 8vo. 
Eevue d'anthropologie. 2 e s^rie. Vol. VI. 
Eevue de»l'histoire des religions. (Annales du Mus6e Guimet.) Paris: 

E. Leroux. 4th year. Vol. vm. 
Eey, P. — Cerveau d'aliene. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, VI, 196-202. 
Beyer, E. — Die Kupferlegirungen bei den Volkern des Alterthums. 

Arch. f. Anthrop., xiv, 357-372. 
Eiccardi, Dr. — Saggio di un catologo bibliografico antropologico ita- 

liano. Modena: Vincenzi. 
EiGGS, S. R. — Mythology of the Dakotas. Am. Antiquarian, v, 147- 

150. 
Eivers, Pitt. — On the Egyptian boomerang and its affinities. J. An- 
throp. Inst., Lond., xn, 454-463, 1 pi. 
Eoberts, C, and E. Eawson. — The final report of the Anthropomet- 
ric committee of the British Association for the Advancement of 

Science, London. Eev. in Lancet, li, 653 ; 705. 
Eobertson, Mrs. A. E. W. — The epistle of Paul to the Corinthians. 

Tr. into Creek. N. Y.: Am. Bible Soc. 67 p. sm. 8vo. 
Eochas, A. de. — La treinpe du bronze. Eev. scient., Par., xxxii, 375. 
Eochebrttne, A. T. de. — De Pemploi des mollusques chez les peuples 

anciens et modernes. 2 mem. Eev. d'ethnog., Paris, n, 311-320; 

also Book i. Angers. 8vo. 
Eomanes, G. J. — Mental evolution in animals, etc. N. Y.: D. Appleton 

& Co. 341 p. 8vo. London: C. Kyan Paul. 
Eosny, Leon de. — Codex cortes6anus, manuscrit hi Pratique des anciens 

Indiens de FAraerique centrale. Paris: Maisonneuve. 42 plates. 

4to. 

. La civilisation Japonaise. Paris. Leroux. 7 + 400 pp. 18mo. 

Eoftledge, E. — Discoveries and inventions of the xixth cent. Lon- 
don. 8vo. 
Euckard, H. Eabl. — Das anthropologische Material des anatomischen 

Museums der koniglichen Universitat. Pt. ii. Arch. f. Anthrop., 

xv. Appendix v, 19 p. 
Sabatier, C. — Etude sur la femme Kabyle. Eev. d'anthrop., Paris, 

2 s.j vi, 56-69. 
Salmon, P.— DictionnairepahSoethnologique du d^partement del'Aube. 

Troyes. 8vo. [From M6m. Soc. Acad, de l'Aube.] 
Sanchez, Jesus. — Glosario de voces castellanas derivadas del idioma 

Nahuatl 6 Mexicano. An. Mus. nac. de M6x., in, 57-67. 
Notas arqueologicas. 1. El Cuauhxicalli de Tizoc. An. Mus. 

nac. de Mex., in, 127-136. 
Sanger, Edward B. — Net- on the aborigines of Cooper's Creek, 

Australia. Am. Naturalist, xvn, 1220-1225. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 789 

Saporta, G. de. — How the earth was peopled. [From Rev. d. deux 

. moudes.] Pop. Sc. Month., N. Y., xxm, 673-682. 
Un essai de syn these pal^oethnique. Rev. d. deux mondes, 

lvii, 81-119. 
Sasse, A. — Rapport van de gecominitteerde voor de ethnologie van 

Nederland. Nederl. Tijdscbr. v. Geneesk., Amst., xix, 612-617. 
Schaaffhatjsen, H. — Der Schadel Raphaels. Bonn. 4to. 
Darmstadt: die anthrop. Samml. d. grossherzoglichen Natura- 

lien-Cabinets im alten Schlosse, etc. Arch. f. Anthrop., xiv, Ap- 
pend., 26 p. 
Frankfurt am Main. [Catalogue, &c, as above. Ibid., Append., 

36 p. 
Schadenburg, A. — Deformirter Schiidel aus einer Hohle von Siid- 

Mindanao. Verhandl.Berl. Gesellsch. f. Anthrop., 1883, 265. 
Scherzer, K. v. — Die Anfange menschlicher Industrie. Berlin. 8vo. 
ScheubE, B.— «-Die Ainos. Leipzig, fol. 
Schiff, M. — Ueber die Funktionen des Kleinkirns. Arch. f. ges. 

Physiol., Bonn, xxxn, 427-452. 
Schlelden, M. J. — The sciences among the Jews before and during 

the middle ages. Fr. 4th German ed., Bait. 24mo. 
Schliemann, Henry. — Troja. London : Murray. 458 p., 150 cuts, 4 

maps. Svo. 
Untersuchung der Termopylen. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., Berlin, xv, 

148-150. 
Schmidt, M. — Die Hausthiere der alten Aegypter. Kosmos, Stuttg., 

VI, 349 ; 422 ; vn, 17. 
Schmtjcker, Isaac. — Mound-builders' works near Newark, Ohio. 20 

p. 16mo. Newark. 
Schneider, Oscar. — Naturwissenschaftliche Beitrage zur Geographie 

und Culturgeschichte. Dresden. 
von Schulenburg, TV. — Schlange und Aal im deutschen Volksglau- 

ben. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., Berlin, xv, 95-109. 
Schwarts, Dr. — Montenegro; the land and people. Verhandl. 

Gesellsch. Erdkunde, Berlin, pts. 3 and 4. 
Schwartz, W. — Der Zauber des riickwarts Singens und Spielens. 

Ztschr. f. Ethnol., Berlin, xv, 114-122. 
Schweinfurth, G. — Memoir on the discovery at Deir-el-Bahari in 

relation to the ancient flora of Egypt. Nature, May, vol. xxvm, 

p. 109-114. 
Seely, Franklin A. — An inquiry into the origin of inventions. From 

Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, n. 23 p. 
Seggel, — .—Ueber die Augen der Feuerlander und das Sehen der 

Naturvolker im Verhaltuiss zu dem der Kulturvolker. Arch. f. 

Anthrop., xiv, 349. 
Smithsonian Annual Report for 1881, printed in 1883, contains — 
Anthropology. By Otis T. Mason. 499-525. 



790 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Smithsonian Annual Report for 1881, printed in 1883, contains — 

Aboriginal works at the mouth of Klikitat River, Wash. T. By 
T. M. Whitcomb. 

Mounds near Edwardsville, Kans. By E. F. Serviss. 

Antiquities of Mills County, Iowa. By Seth Dean. 

Mounds near Salem, Henry County, Iowa. By MM. Banta & 
Garretson. 

Mounds in Ralls County, Missouri. By MM. Hardy and Scheitz. 

Mounds in Pike County, Missouri. By J. C. Watkins. 

Rock inscriptions in Johnson County, Arkansas. By Edward 
Green. 
' Mounds in Independence County, Arkansas. By A. Jones. 

Mounds in Milwaukee County, Wisconsin. By George W. Barber. 

Mounds in Whitesides and La Salle Counties, Illinois. By J. D. 
Moody. 

Antiquities of Fox River Valley, Illinois. By W. Hector Gale. 

Mounds in Henry and Stark Counties, Illinois. By T. M. Shal- 
lenberger. 

Antiquities of Knox County, Illinois. By M. A. McClelland. 

Mounds in Bureau County, Illinois. By A. S. Tiffany. 

Mounds in Spoon River Valley, Illinois. By W. H. Adams. 

Buried flints in Cass County, Illinois. By J. F. Snyder. 

Indian remains in Cass County, Illinois. By J. F. Snyder. 

Antiquities of Jackson County, Illinois. By G. H. French. 

A stone mound near Makanda, 111. By G. H. French. 

Ancient remaius near Cobden, 111. By F. M. Farrell. 

Antiquities of Wayne County, Illinois. By H. F. Sibley. 

Mounds and works in Vandenburg County, Illinois. By Floyd 
Stinson. 

Mound near Braceville, Ohio. By S. N. Luther. 

Mounds in Ashland County, Ohio. By H. B. Case. 

Earthworks in Butler County, Ohio. By J. P. MacLean. 

Mounds in Boyle and Mercer Counties, Kentucky. By. W. M. 
Lenney. 

Mounds in Barren and Allen Counties, Kentucky. By R. B. 
Evans. 

Mounds in Jackson County, Tennessee. By Joshua Haite. 

Antiquities and aborigines of Texas. By A. R. Roessler. 

Mounds, &c, in Jefferson County, Alabama. By Wm. Gesner. 

Soapstone quarry and shell-heaps in Alabama. By Charles Mohr. 

Silver crosses from a mound in Murray County, Georgia. By 
C. C. Jones. 

The great mound on Etowah River, Georgia. By Charles Whit- 
tlesey. 

New River mounds, Berrien County, Georgia. By Wm. J. Taylor. 

Ancient canals in Florida. By Charles J. Kenworthy. 

Mounds in Alachua County, Florida. By James Bell. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 791 

Smithsonian Annual Eeport for 1881, printed in 1883, contains — 

Shell deposits on Short Creek, West Virginia. By E. B. Hubbard* 

Antiquities of Southwest Pennsylvania. By Horace Hayden. 

Rock carvings on Susquehanna River. By F. G. Galbraith. 

Chatauqua County, New York. By James Sheward. 

Antiquities of Onondaga and adjoining counties, New York. By 
W. M. Beauchamp. 

Perforated stone tablet from New York. By W. W. Tooker. 

Antiquities of East Windsor, Conn. By E. W. Ellsworth. 

Shell-heaps in Barnstable County, Massachusetts. By Daniel 
Wing. 

A sculptured stone from New Brunswick. By J. A. Jack. 

A supposed specimen of aboriginal art. By G. F. Matthew. 

Antiquities of Nova Scotia. By George Patterson. 

The aborigines of Florida. By S. T. Walker. 

Abstracts of anthropological correspondence. 

Tuckahoe, or Indian bread. By J. H. Gore. 

The annual report of the Secretary contains a statement of the 
work done by the Bureau of Ethnology, p. 38-40; by Dr. Charles 
Rau, in Archaeology, p. 101, and list of contributions, p. 131-159. 
Seitz, J. — Ueber die Feuerlander. Arch. f. path. Anat., Berlin, xci, 

154-189. 
Sergi, G. — L'antropologia modernft. Milano-Torino. 8vo. [Repr.from. 
Riv. di filos. scient.] 

Liguri e Celti nella valle del Po. Arch, per l'antrop., Firenze, 

xni, 117-176, 1 diag. 

Sharkey, S.J. — Asymmetry of the brain * * * the optic nerves and 
certain definite areas of the cerebral cortex. Med.-Chir. Tr., Lon- 
don, lxvi, 293-304, 2 pi. 

Shufeldt, R. W. — Exploration of a shell-mound near New Orleans, La. 
Archivio per l'antrop., xiii, 505-513. 

Sibree, J. — Notes on the sign and gesture language among the Mala- 
gasy. J. Anthrop. Inst., London, xiii, 174-183. 

Smith, Erminnie. — Myths of the Iroquois, n An. Rep. Bur. Ethnol., 
p. 47-116, 4 pi. 

Smith, Worthington G. — Palaeolithic implements of Northeast Lon- 
don. ' Nature, Jan., 270, vol. xxvn. 

Numerous notices of palaeolithic implements in England. Na- 
ture, vol. xxviii, index. 

Snow, F. H. — The hominivorous habits of Lucllia macellaria, "the 

screw worm." Psyche, March-April. 
Soci6te d'anthropologie de Bruxelles. Vol. i, 1882-1883. Bruxelles: 

F. Hayez. Volume ii, 1 & 2 fascicules, 1883-1884. 
Society for Psychical Research, organized in London, 1883. Publish 

proceedings. 
Souche. — Le Vieillard des Lisieres; trepanation posthume. Paris. 

8vo. [Repr. French A. A. Sc, Cong, de La Rochelle.J 



792 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Sotjla, Hyacinthe. — Essai sur l'influence de lamusique et son histoire 

en ni&lecine. Paris. 68 p. 4to. 
Soury, J. — Des doctrines psychologiques contemporaines. Encephale, 

Paris, in, 61-85. 
Spencer, Herbert. — Descriptive sociology; the social history of 

France, pt. 8 of "Descriptive Sociology." folio. 
Spitzka, E. C. — Contribution to encephalic anatomy. Am. J. Neu- 
rol. & Psychiat., N. Y., n, 249-274. 
Starkweather, George B. — The law of sex, etc. London : Churchill. 

292 p., 10 pi. 8vo. 
Steffen, Max. — Die Landwirtschaft bei den altamerikanischen Kul- 

turvolkern. Leipzig : Duncker u. Humblot. 139 pages. 8vo. 
Stirling.— On heredity in health and disease. Med. Press & Circ, 

London, xxxvi, 413-416. 
Stevenson, James. — Illustrated catalogue of the collections obtained 

from the Indians of New Mexico and Arizona in 1879. n An. Rep. 

Bur. Ethnol., p. 307-465, fig. 347-697. 
Strobel, P. — Etude comparative sur le crane du pore des terremares. 

Arch. ital. de biol., Turin, in, 228-240. 
Szohner, J. — Spirometer; its value in measuring the lungs. Gy6- 

gyaszat, Budapest, xxm, 33 ; 49. 
T. F. P. — Bibliografia-Codice indiano del Sr. Sanchez Solis. An. Mus. 

nac. de M6x., ni, 121-123. 
Dos antiguos monumentos de arquitectura mexicana. (Trans. 

from Italian.) An. Mus. nac. de Me"x., in, 76-86. 

Estudios sobre la historia de la medicina en Mexico. 1. Botany 



among the Nahuas. 2. Botanic Gardens of Anahuac. 3. Synonymy, 
etc. An. Mus. nac. de Mex., in, 137-192. 

Talbot de Malahide, Lord. — On the longevity of the Bomans in N. 
Africa. J. Anthrop. Inst., xn, 441-448. 

Talma, A. S. E. — De anthropologie van Calvijn. Utrecht. 8vo. 

Tamassia, A. — La chirurgia dell' uomo preistorico. Gaz. d. osp., Milano, 
IV, 377; 425; 433; 441. 

Tamburini, A., and V. Marchi. — Studio delle localizzazioni e de i gliomi 
cerebrali, etc. Riv. sper. di freniat., Reggio-Emilia, ix, 274-296, 1 pi. 

Tappeiner, F. — Studien zur Anthropologie Tirols und der Sette com- 
muni. Innsbruck. 8vo. 

Taylor, Isaac. — The alphabet, an account of the origin and develop- 
ment of letters. London : Paul & Co. 16 + 358, 398 p. 8vo. [Sci- 
ence, Sept. 28.] 

Ten Kate, H. — Quelques observations ethnographiques recueillies dans 
la presqu'ile californienne et en Sonora. Rev. d'ethnog., Par., n, 
321-326. 

Quelques observations sur les Indiens Iroquois. Rev. d'anthrop., 

Paris, VI, 279-283. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 793 

Tenth Census of the United States. Vol. I, Population; 11, Manufac- 
tures; in, Agriculture; IV, Transportation. Compendium, vols. I, 
ii. Washington. Government Printing- Office. 

Testut, L. — Signification anatomique du chef humeral du muscle biceps. 
Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, XI, 238-245. 

Surla reproduction chez l'hommed'un muscle simien. Bull. Soc. 

d'anthrop., vj, 05. 

Texier. — Reeherches sur la longevite a l'hospice de Dociera. Alger 
med., xl, 10; 41. 

Theosophist (The). A monthly journal devoted to Oriental Philosophy, 
etc. Vols, i-iv, 1879-'83. Bombay. 

Thomas, Cyrus. — A study of the manuscript Troano. With an intro- 
duction by Dr. Daniel G. Brinton. From Cont. to N. A. Ethnology. 
[See Mag. Am. Hist., x, p. 303; Am. Antiquarian, p. 203; Bev. 
d'ethnog., p. 539-542.] 

Grave mounds in North Carolina and East Tennessee. From 

Am. Naturalist, March, 232-240, 1 pi. 

Mound distribution, in the United States. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. 

Washington, ii, 150, 160. 

Note on certaiu Maya and Mexican manuscripts. Science, I, p. 



585. Signed J. W. P. 

Quivira, a suggestion. Mag. Am. Hist., X, 490-496. 



Thurn, E. F., im. — Among the Indians of Goiana„ London: C. Kegan 
Paul & Co. 53 ill., map, 445 p. Svo. 

Titeca. — Levees de milice de 1881 et 1882 ; uouvelles reeherches rela- 
tives a la faille, etc. Arch. med. beiges, Brux., xxiii, 73-89, 24 tab. 

Topinard, P. — Buffon, anthropologiste. Rev. d'anthrop., Paris, 2 s., 
VI, 35-55. 

L'hoinme prehistorique du Nevada. Rev. d'anthrop., Paris, vr, 

309-320. 

Poids du cerveau de Rustan. Rev. d'anthrop., Paris, 2 s., VI, 576. 



Townshend, Smith. — Annual report of the health officer of the District 
of Columbia. Washington : Government Printing Office. 

Treichel. — Westpreussische Spiele. Verhandl. d. Berl. Gesellsch. f. 
Anthrop., 77-84. 

Tremlett, F. S. — Notes on stone circles in Britanny. J. Anthrop. Inst., 
Loud., xni, 143-151, 1 pi. 

Tuke, D. H. — Influence of the mind upon the body in health and dis- 
ease, etc. London. 2d ed. 2 vols. Svo. 

Turner, W. — Cervical ribs and the so-called bicipital ribs in man in 
relation to corresponding structures in the cetacea. J. Anat. & 
Physiol., Lond., xvn, 293-307, 1 pi. 

Tylor, E. B. — Two lectures on anthropology at Oxford, Feb. 15 and 
21. Nature, May 3, 17. 

Ujfalvy, C. E. de — Les Aryens au nord et au sud de l'Hindou-Kouch. 
Rev. d'ethnog., Paris, n, 137-153. 



794 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883. 

Ujfalvy, C. E. de. — Les traces des religions anciennes en Asie cen- 

trale et au sud de PHindou-Kouch. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Par., 

VI, 278-291. 
Valentini, Philipp J. J. — The Olinecas and the Tultecas. 42 p. Pr. 

Am. Autiq. Soc. 
Vanderkindere, L. — Sur la coloration des yeux et des cheveux. 

Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Bruxelles, I, p. 12-17. 
Vaux, L. de. — Les Canaques de la Nouvelle-Cal£donie. Bev. d'eth- 

nog., II, 327-354. 
Verneull, H. — Le cerveau ; les maladies du cerveau dans leur rapport 

avec l'organisme. Vichy. 2 ed. 4to. 
Vice as an eliminative element. J. Sc, Loud., 3 s., v, 273-279. 
Virchow, Rudolf. — Address at the opening of the 14th general meet- 
ing of tbe German Anthrop. Society in Trier. Corr.-Bl. Anthrop., 

&c, xiv, 75-85. 

Australier. Verhandl. Berl. Gesellsch. Anthrop., 190-193. 

Commissionsbericht liber die Statistik der Farbe der Augen, der 

Haare, und der Haut der deutschen Schulkinder. Cor.-Bl. deutsch. 

Gesellsch. Anthrop., Brnscbwg., xiii, 125. 

Ueber Darwin und die Anthropologic. Ibid., 80-89. 

Zur kaukasischen Anthropologic Ibid., 164. 

Das Graberfeld von Koban im Lande der Osseten, im Kaukasus. 

Berlin : A. Asher & Co. Atlas of 11 plates, fol. See also Zeitschr. 

f. Ethnol., 170, 471 ; also 1882, 215, 326, 503. 
Die 'Basse von La Tene. Verh. Berl. Ges. f. Anthrop., Berlin, 

306-317. 
Eiue Fibula aus der Tschetschua und zwei Schadel von Koban. 

Ibid., 331-340. 
Wagner, E. — Die grossherzoglich-badische Alterthiimersammlung in 

Karlsruhe. Antiken Bronzen. Heft I. foho. 10 plates. 
Wake, O. S. — The nature and origin of group marriage. J. Anthrop. 

Inst., xiii, 151-161. 
Ward, Lester F. — Dynamic sociology, or applied social science, as 

based upon statical sociology and the less complex sciences. 2 vols. 

N. York : D. Appleton & Co. 736, 697 p. 8vo. [Reviewed in Sci- 
ence, ii, 45, 105, 171, 222.] 
Welling, James C. — Race education. N. Am. Rev., No. 317, p. 353- 

363. 
The turning point of modern sociological science. Tr. Anthrop. 

Soc. Washington, n, 15-33. 
Whitney, W. N. — Employment of the blind in Japan. Phila. Med. 

Times, xiii, 469. 
Whittlesey, Charles. — Metrical Standard of the Mound-Builders. 

Cleveland. 8 pp. 
Wilder, B. G. — The removal and preservation of the human brain. J. 

Nerv. and Ment. Dis., N. Y., x, 529-533. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 795 

Williams, Herbert U.— Indian relics from the vicinity of Buffalo. 

Bui. Buffalo Nat. Field Club, I, p. 97-120. 
Willeston, S. W. — Dipterous larvae from the western alkaline lakes, 

and their use as human food. From Trans. Conn. Acad., vi, July. 
Wilson, Charles B. — Indian relics and encampments in Maine. Am. 

Antiquarian, v, 181-183. 
Wilson, D. — Some physical characteristics of native tribes of Canada. 

Proc. A. A. A. S., 1882, Salem, xxxi, 531-558. 
Winslow, B. — A study of the malformations, etc., of the circulatory 

apparatus of man, etc. Ann. Anat. & Surg. Soc, Brooklyn, N. Y., 

1882, vi, 206, 255; 1883, vn, 13, 91. 
Woldrich, J. N. — Beitrage zur Urgeschichte Bohmens. Mitth. An- 

throp. Gesellsch. in Wien, in, 1-40, 8 pi. 
Wood, J. G. — Nature's teaching. Human invention anticipated by 

nature. London. 538 pp. 8vo. 
Wright, Harrison. — A memorandum description of the finer speci- 
mens of Indian earthenware pots in the collection of the Wyoming 

Hist, and Geol. Soc, Wilkesbarre, Pa. No. 4. 8 p. 8 photolith. 

8vo. 
Zawerthal, W. — La voce nell' uomo e negli animali. Arch. ital. di 

laringol., Napoli, in, 1-14. 
Zeitschrift fur Ethnologic Vols, i-xv, 1869-1882, with 4 supplements. 
Zerda Llborio. — El Dorado, Estudio Historico, Ethnografico, y Ar- 

queologico, de los Chibchas, etc. Silvestre y Ca. Bogata, U. S. 

Colombia. 100 pp. 4to. 
Zona, Temistocle. — II diluvio e 1' antichita dell' uomo civile. Palermo: 

S. Pedone. Lauriel edit. 16mo. 
Zuck^erkandl, E. — Beitrage zur Craniologie der Deutschen in Oester- 
reich. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, xin, 89-118, 4 pi. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

AUSTRALIAN GROUP RELATIONS.* 



By A. W. Howitt, F. L. S., F. O. S. 



I — INTRODUCTION. 

There is probably no student of the development of civilized society 
who will be prepared to maintain that the social unit, during the long 
period over which history extends into the obscurity of the past, has 
been, as it is now, the individual. On the contrary, it will I think be 
readily admitted that the farther we go back the clearer it becomes 
that it was the group, and not the individual, which formed the basis of 
human society. 

It seems strange that, although this principle of group relationship 
as the basis of social organization has been readily admitted as to peoples 
of the past, it should have been violently denied as existing among 
savages of the present day. The reason of this may be that the civil- 
ized man and the savage contemplate their social relations from two 
entirely different standpoints, though it might not be as difficult for 
the former to think after the manner of the latter as it is for the latter 
to fit himself mentally into the surroundings of the former. Train- 
ing from childhood, with, perhaps, all hereditary tendency of thought, 
renders this next to impossible to the savage ; but the civilized man has 
this advantage, that with largely developed mental powers he is able, 
where opportunity offers, and he cares to avail himself of it, to place 
himself on the standpoint of the uncivilized, and thus with more or less 
success to see the surroundings as the savage sees them, and to think 
of them with his thoughts. 

This difficulty in projecting themselves, as it were, into the mind of 
the savage, has proved a stumbling block in the path of many anthro- 
pologists, who have studied the habits and beliefs of the lower races by 
means of the too often hasty and superficial statements of travellers, 
without having themselves any practical knowledge as to the modes of 
thought of the tribes in question ; and thus they have not been in a 

* Read before the Anthropological Society of Washington. 



798 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

position to question the accuracy of the statements made as to fact, or 
to draw the true inferences which the facts justified.* 

One of the strongest illustrations of the difficulty to which I have re- 
ferred is shown by the determined refusal on the part of some English 
anthropologists to accept the classificatory system of relationship. The 
late lamented Dr. Morgan, who had practical acquaintance with the 
North American tribes, came to see that their peculiar system of rela- 
tionship terms was founded on the idea of a group where civilized people 
have that of a single individual. He was thus led to institute inquiries 
which proved that this idea is common over the whole world in savage 
life, and he drew the general inference which might be drawn from the 
facts by persons accustomed to the mode of thought among the lower 
races. This, however, is so different from that of civilized man that 
most of the English anthropologists refused to accept his inferences and 
it is only now, when accumulated evidence continues to support his 
views, that the truth of the main generalizations which he made is be- 
ginning to be recognized. 

In Australia observations may be made similar to those made by Dr. 
Morgan in America, but with this difference, that in the former country 
the native tribes are in a much lower ethnical stage, and are therefore 
so much nearer to the conditions under which the group system of re- 

* The danger to which such inaccurate statements of custom lead when received as 
established facts justifying generalization is strikingly shown by the well-known 
and often quoted passage as to Australian marriage in Collins's English Colony in New 
South Wales, p. 362 : 

" These unfortunate victims (the wives) of lust and cruelty * * * are, it is be- 
lieved, always selected from the women of a diiferent tribe from that of the males (for 
they ought not to be dignified with the title of men), and with whom they are at en- 
mity. * * ■* The poor wretch is stolen upon in the absence of her protectors. 
Being first stupefied with blows, inflicted with clubs or wooden swords, on the head 
back, and shoulders, every one of which is followed by a stream of blood, she is then 
dragged away through the woods by one arm, with a perseverance and violence that 
it might be supposed would displace it from its sockets." In this manner the woman 
is said to be dragged to the man's camp, where " a scene ensues too shocking to re- 
late." 

Isolated cases of brutal violence such as this doubtless occur as acts of war, but no 
such practice is known to me as a custom in any Australian tribe. On the contrary, 
Mr. C. Naseby, of Maitland, New South Wales, who lived for fifty years in the Ka- 
milaroi country, states as follows : 

"When a young man has passed a certain number of Boras (initiations) he has a 
right to choose a wife from among the unmarried and otherwise unappropriated women 
of the tribe who are of the class permitted to him by the native laws. He claims the 
girl in the presence of her parents by saying " I will come and take you by and by," 
and they cannot refuse her to him unless he be specially disqualified — as for instance 
if "his hands are stained with the blood of any of her kin." And even in that case he 
may carry her off by force if he can in spite of their refusal. For this purpose he 
generally comes by stealth and alone. But if he be a very bold warrior, he some- 
times goes openly to the girls' camp and carries her off, defying the bravest of her 
friends to meet him in single combat if they dare to stay him." 

This places the practice stated by Collins in a very different light. 



AUSTRALIAN GROUP RELATIONS. 799 

lationship may be assumed to have arisen. In Australia, moreover, 
aboriginal society has bad a continental development, free from disturb- 
ing influences from without. It affords therefore an unrivaled field for 
inquiry ; and here, if anywhere in the wide world, it should be now pos- 
sible to trace out some of the causes which have been at the root of the 
classificatory system of relationship. 

In this memoir I propose to draw attention to the connection which 
I find to exist between certain group relations of the Australian abo- 
rigines. In the term "group relations" I include not ouly those which 
are indicated b;> the terms of relationship, but also those shown by the 
groups formed in the aboriginal communities by the action of those 
social laws which have divided them into what, for the sake of con- 
venience, have been termed u class divisions." For the purposes of this 
memoir I shall rely for my evidence mainly upon the custom of certain 
tribes of Central Australia, whose condition is socially * the lowest of 
any with which I have acquaintance. 

II. — THE TRIBAL STRUCTURE. 

An Australian tribe may be defined as a larger or smaller aggregate 
of people, who occupy a certain tract of hunting and food ground in 
common, who speak the same language with dialectical differences, t 
who acknowledge a common relatedness to one another, and who deny 
this relatedness to all other surrounding tribes. This tribal aggregate 
may be so small as to cover a tract of country less than fifty square 
miles, with under a hundred individuals, or it may extend over hun- 
dreds of miles of country and number thousands of souls. 

Such a tribe, as a whole, occupies a certain tract of hunting and 
food grounds, but it is invariably divided into well defined local groups, 
each having its own portion of the common country. These are again 
divided into smaller groups, until the smallest unit consists of a few 
people of the same blood, under the- direction and guidance of the 
oldest or most able of the elder men. $ Thus a tribe is composed of a 

* " Socially " — I use this term in a certain special sense — referring only to what I 
call the socially social organization. When I say that an Australian tribe is socially 
more advanced than others I do not mean that they have a better knowledge of the * 
arts of life, but that their social orgauizatiou is of a comparatively advanced type. 
And I take it that the line of advance is from group marriage to individual marriage, 
and from uterine descent to agnation. 

I may note here that " individual marriage " does not necessarily imply monogamy. 
It is consistent with that form of polygamy under which a man may have more wives 
than one, he having .an exclusive right to them, as against all the rest of his tribesmen. 

t There are certain exceptions where, for instance, the husbands and wives are 
found to speak different languages, that is, different languages of the Australian 
stock, but this arises through the connubium between two tribes. 

t In most tribes, if not in all, the old men constitute what may be called the Groat 
Council of the tribe. For instance, in the Dieri, this council is composed of the 
heads of totems and of men of mark, such as warriors, counselors, orators, &c. 
The council has, among other functions, jurisdiction over breaches of tribal morality 
and offenses against the tribe. In short, it is the governing power. 



800 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

number of local groups, and these are perpetuated in the same tracts 
by the sons, who hunt over the hunting grounds of their fathers. This 
has been termed by Mr. Fison and myself the "Local Organization."* 
But it is not the only organization of the tribe, for there is also what 
we have termed the " Social Organization," in which the tribe, as a 
community, is divided into two parts, which are quite distinct from the 
local groups just described, t Each of these two social divisions is, in 
many tribes, divided into two subgroups, and in all, except the most 
abnormal cases, there is a group of subdivisions to each class, or sub- 
class, to which the convenient and well understood name of Totems 
may be applied.! These groups, subgroups, and totem groups have 
each a name, which is borne by every individual belonging to them. 
All the members of such a group are held to be parents and children, 
or brothers and sisters, as the relative ages of the individuals may 
determine. Thus we may distinguish between "own" and "tribal" 
parents, children, and brethren. 

I use the term " primary classes " for the two principal social divis- 
ions ; but it is certain that, in many cases, their designations are " ani- 
mal names," and therefore the term " major totems" might be applicable 
to them. The tribe, therefore, is organized in two ways. On the one 
hand, it is divided geographically, either into what may be termed hordes 
with uterine descent, or into clans with agnatic descent ; and, on the 
other hand, it is divided socially into classes with their subdivisions as 
above described. The two organizations are coexistent, and they are 
coextensive in their entirety, but the divisions of the one do not corre- 
spond with those of the other. For, while all the people who belong to 
any given local group are found in one locality alone, those who belong 
to any given social group are to be found distributed among many, if not 
among all, of the local groups. In order that we may clearly perceive the 
bearing of the facts as to marriage, descent, and relationship, which I 
shall place on record in this paper, it is very necessary to bear in mind 
this distinction between the local and the social organization of a tribe.§ 



* In order to avoid going over this ground, which would take up too much space, 
I may be permitted to refer to a memoir on this subject entitled, " From Mother-right 
to Father-right." Journal Anthropological Institute, August, 1882. 

t Exceptions to this rule may be found in rare cases, where in certain advanced 
tribes the two organizations have come to be coincident ; for instance, the Woiworung 
tribe of the Yarra River, in which the two totems of the community live in a num- 
ber of local groups apart from each other. All the people in one locality are Eagle- 
hawk, and in another they are Crow. It may be noted here once for all that the 
present tense is used in some cases where the past would be more appropriate, the 
tribes being all but extinct. 

t Of course the word "totem" is, strictly speaking, the badge of a certain group. 
For the sake of convenience I use it also to denote the group which is distinguished 
by the badge. 

§ This is a concise statement of what has been detailed more at length by Mr. Fison 
and mysrw in a paper entitled "The Deme and the Horde," communicated by us to 
the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain. 



AUSTRALIAN GROUP RELATIONS. 801 

III. — THE CLASS ORGANIZATION. 

In some communities there are only the two primary class-divisions, 
each with its group of totems. In others there are the two primary 
classes, each divided into a pair of subclasses, and each of these pairs 
has a group of totems. In some cases this totem group is common to 
both of the two sub-classes to which it belongs ; iu other cases each sub- 
class has its own peculiar totems. Iu some exceptional cases the 
primary classes are wanting. Iu others the usual totem sub-groups are 
abseut, but the primary classes, or their sub-classes, are themselves 
totems. Other exceptions are where the totems alone, or the classes 
alone, have survived. All these abnormal instances I have found to be 
conuected with changes in the line of descent. The primitive and com- 
plete forms have uterine descent; and it is in cases where descent is 
counted through the male line that I find the most abnormal forms to 
occur. There are also intermediate cases. The changes in the class 
system, their variations, and their decay are therefore connected with 
the principle of agnation. To this subject I shall again refer. The 
decay in the class system of a tribe is, in fact, a symptom of profound 
changes in its social organization ; and these changes, so far as I know, 
are invariably connected with the more pronounced influence of the 
local groups. The local organization becomes stronger as the social 
organization grows weaker. 

The entire subject of the class organization, and the development of 
the class divisions and totems, is too large to be entered upon here; and 
for some further particulars concerning them I must refer to a brief 
memoir of mine, entitled Xotes on the Australian Class Systems, which 
may be found in the Journal of the Anthropological Institute of Great 
Britain, for May, 1883. In order, however, to bring the class organiza- 
tion clearly into view, I subjoin that of the Dieri tribe of Central 
Australia, which will serve as the type of the less developed systems, 
and also as an illustration of the remarks I am about to make in this 
paper on the connection existing between the class groups and those 
indicated by the terms of relationship now in use. 

Much of the evidence I am about to use will be taken from the cus- 
toms of the Dieri and other kindred tribes, which, collectively, form 
a great allied group or "nation.' 7 * The letters and numerals, which 
are prefixed to the class divisions and totems in the following table, 
will serve for convenient reference. 

'Independently of my own acquaintance with the Dieri and the allied tribes more 
than twenty years ago in their wild state, I am indebted to Mr. S. Gason for very 
full particulars as to the Dieri, in whose country he resided for six years as an officer 
of the South Australian mounted police, and of whose community he became an 
initiated member. As to the Kuna"ndaburi tribe, to which I refer, I have unfortu- 
nately much less information. For what I have, I am indebted to Mr. J. W. O'Donuell, 
formerly of Mount Howitt station, in that country. 
H. Mis. 69 51 



8Q2 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 
Table I. — Dieri class system. 



Primary divisions. 


Totems. 


A. MattSri 


1. Karaura = eaglehawk. 

2. Warugati = emu. 

3. KiutaTa= native dog and thirteen other totems. 
1. Tchukum = kangaroo. 

•2. Kaualka = crow. 

3. Tidnamara = frog and sixteen other totems. 







Every member of the community is either Matteri or Kararu. Each 
individual also bears one of the totemic names of the primary division 
^ o which he or she belongs. 

This class system represents that of the Dieri, the Kunandaburi, and 
^ther kindred tribes, between whom there exists connubium. It also 
represents the systems which are found under various dialectic differ- 
ences of nomenclature among tribes spread over a very large area in 
Central Australia. The members of one tribe know well which of their 
own divisions are the equivalents of those in neighboring tribes, even 
when the totemic names are not the same. 

Before explaining the laws of these classes it will be well to say a few 
words about the Dieri and the kindred tribes making up the "nation" 
of which it is the most important member. 

As shown upon the annexed sketch-map, the Barcoo River, in its nu- 
merous sources, the Alice, the Thomson, and many other streams, rises 
on the western fall of the Queensland Great Dividing "Range, and thence 
has a general southwesterly course into the depressed region of Central 
Australia. Soon after passing from Queensland into the colony of South 
Australia it begins to form a large delta, or a series of deltas, and its 
numerous branches water, and often partly submerge, a tract of country 
at least 20,000 square miles in extent. The various streams of this delta 
terminate in lakes, of which Lake Eyre is the largest. This delta coun- 
try of the Barcoo — or, as it is called locally, Cooper's Creek— is one of 
the hottest and driest districts in all Australia — a country of sand-hills, 
of mud-plains subject to floods, of stony tracts, and of salt lakes. It is 
subject to great vicissitudes of climate, being in its extreme conditions 
a perfect garden of verdure after seasons of flood, while during long- 
continued droughts it is little better than " a howling wilderness." This 
delta country on the eastern side of Lake Eyre is inhabited by the Dieri 
tribe. To the north, east, and south, and to the west also beyond the 
great lake — are other tribes allied to the Dieri by language, by custom, 
and by class system, all more or less intermarrying. Of these the Ku- 
nanduburi tribe is one of the farthest outlying to the eastward within 
the Queensland boundary on the main Barcoo River above the point at 
which the delta commences. Of all these tribes, as I have already said, 
the Dieri is the central and most important. Not only do its members 



AUSTRALIAN GROUP RELATIONS. 



803 



consider themselves as being u tlie fathers of all the tribes,"* but these 
on their part regard the Dieri with mingled feelings of respect and fear. 




SKctcK Map of Australia' 



\ Dieri Tribe. 'VmMernai and Murring Tribes. 



The Dieri tribe may represent all the others. It is divided geograph- 
ically into three sections, each of which takes the name of its principal 
locality, and these sections arc- again locally divided. Its social organiza- 
tion is based upon the division of the community into two classes, each 
with its group of totems.f Each totem is under the direction of a head- 
man, who is the oldest of the name. Each man is what I may term the 
" totemic brother" of every other man and woman of his totem on the 
same level with him in his generation. An illustration will show how 
this works. When, for instance, a stranger arrives at a Dieri encamp- 
ment from some neighboring tribe, the first question put to him is, 

* Quoted from information supplied to rne by Mr. S. Gason. 

t The Dieri word for totem is Murdu. This word has two meanings, one signifying 
" taste," the other "totem"; that is to say, one of those names of animals, birds, 
reptiles, fish, insects, or plants, which, according to the Dieri legend, the Great Spirit 
Muramura oi'dercd the ancestors to assume when he instituted their class divisions. 



804 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

" What is your totem ?"* This being ascertained, his totemic brethren 
take charge of him, protect him, and treat him with hospitality, even to 
the extent of providing him with 'a temporary wife of that totem with 
which his own intermarries. 

These totems are strictly exogamous under the severe penalty of 
death. Thus, a man being A 1 (that is, Matteri and Eaglehawk; see 
Table I), may marry, according to the Dieri rule, a B woman of any of 
the B totemic divisions, and so on with A 2, A 3, &c, and vice versa, 
always provided that tbe parties do not stand to one another within 
certain close degrees to be hereinafter specified. Even casual amours 
between persons who are forbidden to each other, either by this near- 
ness of actual kinship or by identity of class and totem, are regarded 
with the utmost abhorrence and are punished by death. Yet this rule 
differs somewhat in different tribes, for, among the Kunandaburi, the 
prohibition is relaxed upon a woman's marriage, when the jus primce 
noctis includes all the men present at the camp without regard to class or 
kin.t Among the Dieri the rule is never relaxed on any occasion, and 
this tribe is, as I shall show, in some respects slightly in advance of 
the Kunandaburi, while both stand at the commencement of the long 
progressive series formed by all the Australian tribes concerning which 
I have hitherto collected data. At the other end of this series stand 
tribes such astheKurnai, of Gippsland, whose class system has become 
almost extinguished, and whose local divisions have become agnatic 
clans. 

IV. — THE RELATIONSHIP TERMS. — MARITAL GROUPS. 

The terms denoting relationship which are used by the Australian 
tribes belong to the classificatory system of Dr. Morgan. After collect- 
ing and studying a great number from all parts of Australia, I have 
found that there are several types under which the relationship terms 
of different tribes may be arranged; and that they show a progressive 
change from a system of extreme simplicity to one, whicb, although still 
classificatory, has developed far more individual distinctions than our 
own descriptive system. 

Looked at as a whole, these types show a progressive development, 
which is certainly connected with a progressive social change, indicated 
in most cases by the change in the line of descent. What I now pro- 
pose is, not to enter upon a general discussion of the Australian rela- 
tionship terms, but to point out the connection between them and the 

* This question, "Minna murdu?" can be put by means of gesture language, to 
■which in the same way a suitable reply can be made. Thus it is possible to learn, at 
a safe distance, whether a stranger is friend or enemy, even more certainly than by 
using the well understood sign for " peace." 

t This extreme and exceptional extension of the jus primee noctis is given on the sole 
authority of Mr. J. W. O'Donnell, who resided for some years in the Kunandaburi 
country. I have not been able to obtain any further information on the matter. 



AUSTRALIAN GROUP RELATIONS. 



805 



class systems which I have described in the preceding pages. It will 
suffice for my purpose to show that the terms of relationship arise nat- 
urally out of the relations of the class divisions to each other, and that 
these relations are those of group to group. 

I find that the relationship terms of the Australian tribes fall into cer- 
tain natural groups, of which I select three of the principal for illustra- 
tion. These are the marital, the parental and filial, and the fraternal; 
and I take those of the Kunandaburi and the Dieri tribes for illustration. 

Table II. 



English. 


Knnandaburi. 


Dieri. 
































f\ Individual wife 




Noa. 


8. Brother's wife (M) 













(M) means male speaking; (F), female speaking. 

The first terms in these lists challenge attention. In all these tribes 
there are two hinds of connections, which we may term marriage. One 
where two individuals are allotted to each other permanently, often in 
extreme youth, by their parents. The other where a man and a woman 
are allotted to each other as "accessory spouses," each of whom may 
stand in the same relation to other individuals of the opposite sex. 

The exact nature of this second kind of marriage I shall now consider; 
and I take the Dieri instance for illustration. The relation is called 
Pirauru,* and the various Piraurus are allotted to each other by the 
great council of the tribe in secret session, after which their names are 
formally announced to the assembled people on the evening of the cere- 
mony of circumcision, during which there is for a time a general license 
permitted between all those who have beeu thus allotted to each other. 

The following precis of Mr. Gason's valuable information shows the 
precise nature of this Pirauru relation : 

1. Each Dieri man, or woman, is the Pirauru of some other Dieri 
woman, or man. 

2. The relation of Pirauru may exist between men and women of dif- 
ferent local groups, or of different tribes. 

3. The relation of Pirauru may not exist between a person and those 
who stand to him or her in any one of the following j^lations : Father, 



rela 
iym( 



father's brother, father's sister, mother, mother's sisterpnother's brother, 

* The only derivation I can give for this word is from Pira=moon — also used for the 
round wooden bowls made by the Dieri — and uru=circular. The great councils of 
the tribe are always held at full moon, and Pirauru may possibly be taken as having 
relation to the time when these couples are allotted to one another. I however offer 
this explanation with some diffidence. 



806 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

brother's child, sister's child, brother, sister, or any of those whom 
we ourselves call " cousins," either on the father's or on the mother's 
side. 

4. Nor may it exist between persons of the same totem, for these are 
regarded as brother and sister, or (the Dieri having uterine descent) 
mother and son, as the case may be. 

5. A Dieri man, having passed through the Mindrai (peace) ceremony, 
may have a Pirauru allotted to him.* 

6. The Piraurus being allotted to one another at each great council 
previous to the ceremony of circumcision, a man, or a woman, being 
already Pirauru, may thus acquire a new Pirauru relation in addition 
to those previously acquired. Hence in time any individual may come 
to have several Pirauru. 

7. Seniority in the man regulates the temporary right to any given 
Pirauru. Thus, supposing an older man and a younger to be, in camp 
together, and that the latter had with him a Pirauru, the former, being 
alone, the older man could lawfully claim the woman, if she were Pir- 
auru to him also. 

As the Piraurus cannot be of the same class name we have here a 
number of men belonging to one class married collectively to a number 
of women of the other class. Thus a number of A men (see Table I) 
are the Piraurus of a number of B women and vice versa ; and this is 
clearly a form of group marriage, which, when the two classes meet at 
the tribal ceremonies, becomes what may be called regulated communal 
intercourse between the sexes. At other times, when the community 
is scattered over the tribal country, a man may be found having with 
him at one time one or more Pirauru, and at another time other women 
who stand in this relation to him ; or a woman may be found living 
with several men who are Pirauru to her. To those unacquainted with 
the custom this presents the aspect of lawless license, or of polygamy, 
or of polyandry, but it is in fact group marriage.t 

The terms Dilpa malij and Pirauru signify the same relation, the one 
among the Kunandaburi and the other among the Dieri. They are the 
terms of relation between two groups, and these two groups in the 
widest sense are the class divisions A and B (Table I). Here, then, in a 

"Before being fully admitted into membership in the community a youth must pass 
through the following ceremonies : 1 . Chirinchiri— knocking out two front teeth. 2. 
Kurawali wonkana — circumcision of boys. 3. Wilyaru — anointing with the blood of 
an old man. 4. Mindari — the peace ceremony, when the entire community assem- 
bles. _ 

There is also an traditional rite to which only certain individuals, selected by the 
old men, are subjected. This is Eulpi, the slitting of the urethra. 

tThe Pirauru custom clearly accounts for the so-called polyandry of the Nairs. 
(See Mr. J. F. McLennan's Studies in Ancient History, p. 148.) 

t The term Dilpa mali I cannot explain. I am told that the word kodimali means 
"nothing," in the sense of negation of somethiug of which Nubaia is the expression. 



AUSTRALIAN GROUP RELATIONS. 807 

modified form, and in actual existence, is what I have elsewhere called 
the Divided Commune.* 

Besides this form of group marriage there is also individual marriage 
in the tribes. This is the Noa relation, the features of which can be 
thus summarized. 

1. The relation of Noa can only exist between a man and a woman of 
different class names and totems, who, moreover, are not within certain 
prohibited degrees of relationship to each other. 

2. A woman becomes the Noa of a man most frequently by being be- 
trothed to him wheu she is a mere infant, he being perhaps a young 
man. In certain cases she is given by direction of the great council as 
a reward for some meritorious acton his part. 

3. A man may bo Noa to two or more women, but a woman cannot be 
Noa to more than one man. 

4. But a woman who is Noa to one man may also be Pirauru to 
several other men. 

5. The right of the Noa overrides that of the Pirauru. Thus a man 
cannot claim a woman who is Pirauru to him when her Noa is present 
in the camp, excepting by his consent. It is not often, however, that the 
male Noa refuses to accommodate the Pirauru temporarily, for he is 
liable to have a refusal retorted upon himself. But he will more freely 
lend his Pirauru than his Noa. Such cases, however, are the frequent 
causes of jealousies and fights. 

(i. When a man is sent on a mission to another tribe he never takes 
his Noa with him. It is understood that, on such occasions the female 
companions of these " ambassadors " are to be perfectly complaisant to 
all the men of the visited tribe who do not stand to them within the 
prohibited degrees ; and it is held that for this purpose a man's Pirauru 
is better fitted than his Noa. Yet this Pirauru is of course the Noa of 
some man who remains at home. 

7. The relationship of Noa may exist between individuals of any of the 
allied tribes, always provided that there is no obstacle of class or other 
prohibition. Such arrangements between individuals of different tribes 
are often, perhaps most frequently, brought about by the great council, 
as tribal alliances, and are the subject of much diplomatic negotiation. 

The Noa of the Dieri is the same as the Nubaia of the Kunandaburi, 
But the marital group of the latter has a most archaic simplicity, show- 
ing a group relationship even more extended in theory than that which 

*See Kainilaroi and Kurnai, passim. I may take this opportunity of saying that 1 
doubt whether, even under an "Undivided Commune " there could have been anything 
more than a limited promiscuity, excepting when the whole community occasionally 
reunited. The general conditions of savage life on the Australian continent would not 
permit an entire undivided commune to remain united for any length of time in the 
same locality. The Dieri practice may show us, in a modified form, what might take 
place. The common Pirauru right exists, but it cannot bo fully exercised excepting 
when the whole tribe assembles. Then, and then only, does the Pirauru group of A 
men (or the Pirauru group of B men); with its female Pirauru, temporarily resemble 
what one might suppose an undivided commune to be. 



808 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

the Pirauru of the Dieri gives in actual practice. This, however, is in 
accord with the general customs of the Kunandaburi, who are the least 
advanced of all the tribes known to me. While, with the Dieri, the 
sexual intercourse of persons who, according to their notions, are too 
nearly related is forbidden under all circumstances by a death penalty ; 
with the Kunandaburi, there is, according to Mr. O'Donnell, no such 
restriction on the occasion of the marriage of a betrothed girl. This 
gentleman also says that, though it is considered improper that there 
should be intercourse between women and their husbands' own brothers, 
or between men and their wives' actual sisters, such intercourse con- 
stantly takes place with little more than a mere pretense of concealment.* 
The Dieri would regard this as abominable — at least, if the ISToa were 
present in the camp — and yet the third, fourth, seventh, and eighth re- 
lationship terms (Table II) show that, in all probability, it was once 
their practice, as it still is, in at least one of the tribes composing the 
group to which they belong. 

In tribes such as those with which I have been dealing, the terms of 
relationship fit in more or less completely with the actual group relations 
of the class divisions and their members. The inference to be drawn 
theoretically from an inspection of the terms is that a group of tribal 
brothers have their wives in common, and that a group of tribal sisters 
have their husbands in common. When this is compared with the actual 
custom now prevalent among the tribes inhabiting the Barcoo delta, 
it is found, as I have already stated, that the contemporarv generation t 
of each class division is composed of "brothers and sisters"; that the 
men of one class, who are thus " brothers " to one another, marry the 
women of the other class, who are thus "sisters" to one another; that 
at all times there is between the intermarrying groups a modified com- 
munal right, which becomes general among those who have been allotted 
to each other as Pirauru ; and that the marital rights, which are in- 
herited in common under the laws of the social organization, are con- 
trolled and restricted by the local organization through the great coun- 
cil of the tribe. 

It now remains to be seen how far these conclusions are borne out by 
an examination of tribes in other parts of the Australian continent. 

Of all the tribes which I have hitherto met with the least advanced 
socially (that is, as to their social organization) are those of Central 

*Mr. Fison tells rue that this was the case in some, at least, of the Fijian tribes. 
And, after this memoir was completed, information reached mo from Mr. S. Gason 
that "the Jaw allows intercourse" between these parties, but only in the absence of 
theNoa. 

tThe word "generation" is of uncertain meaning, and its use may be misleading. 
I do not use it as implying a line of ascendants and descendants. Nor do I use it in 
the common acceptation as "the present generation," which includes all those now 
living, as distinguished from those who are gone, and from those who are yet to come. 
Perhaps the best among several unsatisfactory definitions which suggest themselves 
is that I mean by it " all those on the same level in a generation." Thus, all the 
young people who are marriageable would be oh the same level iu the generation to 
which t he v belong. 



AUSTRALIAN GROUP RELATIONS. 809 

Australia; the most advanced are tbose which are found along the 
southeastern coastline. These can be taken as the two extremes of a 
series in which all the tribes I have examined can be arranged accord- 
ing to tbeir social status. I am not prepared to show all the causes 
which have advanced the coast tribes far beyond those in the center of 
the continent, but this much may be ventured upon, that the social 
advance appears to be connected with a more favored climate, and the 
greater abundance and regularity of food-supply consequent thereupon. 

The tribes which I have already described have a marked social organi- 
zation with uterine descent. In the tribes with which I am about to 
deal the social organization has been profoundly modified, and in some 
cases even extinguished all but the faintest traces; while, in an equal 
degree, the local organization has gained strength, and taken to itself 
all the powers which the social organization formerly possessed. For 
comparison, I take the Kurnai and the Coast Marring tribes, which 
stand near the end of the series, at whose other extremity are the Died 
and Kunaudaburi. 

The Karnia tribe inhabit Gippslaud and the Coast Murring the coun- 
try extending from the confines of Gippsland along the southeastern 
coast towards Sydney. For the purposes of this memoir the Shoalhaven 
Elver may be taken as their approximate limit in that direction. The 
two tribes touch at Mallagoota Inlet, where their extreme local sections 
intermarry.* 

The Kurnai tribe is divided into five large clans,t which again are 
divided into local subdivisions, until the smallest group consists of only 
a few members. Of class divisions the Kurnai have none, and the ouiy 
remaining traces of totems are two birds, the name of one of which is 
borne by all the males and that of the other by all the females of the 
tribe. Traces of the two great class divisions of the stock from which 
the Kurnai are probably derived — the classes Eaglehawk (Bunjil) and 
Crow (Waa, or Ngarugal) — are found in the application of Bunjil to all 
the old men of the tribe, and in the extreme reverence felt for the 
crow. The Kurnai believe that it can talk their language, and that it 
is in the habit of warning them of approaching danger. In this tribe 
the class organization, so far as it affects marriage, is extinct. The 
local organization, however, has stepped into the place thus left vacant. 
It has assumed authority over marriage, and it regards all those who 
were born in the same locality as necessarily so near in blood as to be 
forbidden to each other in marriage. A man therefore is compelled by 
this rule to seek a wife in some more distant part of the tribal territory, 
and from certain local groups, to the exclusion of others. Moreover, 
in this tribe the remarkable custom of marriage by elopement has be- 
come developed to such an extent that only under exceptional circum- 
stances can a man obtain a wife in anv other manner. 



*For further details as to the remarkable organization and customs of this tribe, 
see "Kamilaroi and Kurnai," Robertson, Melbourne. 

tl use the word "clan" advisedly here, because this tribe has agnatic descent. The 
term ''horde" I use tor local divisions of tribes having uterine descent. 



810 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

In this tribe marriage is individual, as in the Noa practice of the 
Dieri ; but men are never known to lend their wives to others,* nor 
does anything like the Pirauru custom obtain. Nevertheless, there are 
certain occasions when a practice arises similar to that of the Dieri, but 
under the restrictions placed on the union of the sexes by locality and 
not by class. In the case of marriage by elopement, the woman be- 
comes for one day, under the jus primce noctis,\ the common property 
of the bridegroom's "comrades." The faithless wife also becomes tbe 
common property of the men who pursue her, until she is taken from 
them by her husband or her brothers. On occasions such as the ap- 
pearance of the Aurora Australis, the supposed impending danger to 
the tribe is believed to be averted by a temporary exchange of wives 
by order of the old men. 

The coast Murring consists of several tribes, or rather, large clans, 
which have local names, but to which collectively the name of Murring 
( = men) is applied. These clans are again divided and subdivided down 
to the smallest groups of a few individuals, each under the direction of 
its oldest man. The large groups are governed by old men, who com- 
bine the attributes of age and of powerful "magic," and the oldest and 
most powerful wizard is the master (Biamban) of them all.J 

In the Murring tribes the class system is not completely extinct. 
There are not the two primary classes, but there are numerous totems. 
These descend, not from mother to child, as in tribes having uterine 
descent, but from father to child, and in some localities they are borne 
in duplicate. They are scarcely regarded as names, but still they have 
a power over marriage, for no man may marry a woman of his own 
budjan (totem). The principal control over marriage is, however, in 
the local organization; for the rule is very strict that no man may 
marry in his own locality. He must obtain a wife from certain fixed 
localities at a distance from his own. In these tribes wives are ob- 
tained by the exchange' of sisters — own or tribal — uuder the arrange- 
ment of the respective fathers. The only occurrence of any of the 
primitive forms of license with which I am acquainted, is when a 
visitor from a distance is provided with a temporary wife by the hosts. 
Also, in cases of elopement, when the woman is captured, she becomes 
for a time the common property of her pursuers. With these excep- 
tions, marriage seems to be strictly individual. 

I now give, in a tabulated form, the terms applicable to the marital 
group as used by the two tribes under consideration, for comparison 
with the Dieri and Kunandaburi terms given in Table II. 

* This applies, of course, to purely native custom as it prevailed before the incom- 
ing of the white men. The mere immorality resulting from the contact of the two 
races is not taken into account. 

t" Comrades" (Brogan.) See a paper on the Kurnai Jeraeil, communicated by me 
to the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain. 

t This "master" must not be taken as the equivalent of the " hereditary chief," 
found in more advanced tribe9, such as the Fijians, &c. 



AUSTRALIAN GROUP RELATIONS. 



811 



Table III. 



English. 



1. Accessory husband . . 

2. Husband 

3. Husband's brother... 

4. Sister's hnsband (F). 

5. Accessory wife 

6. Wife .... 

7. Wife's sister 

8. Brothers wife (M)... 



Kurnai. 



Bra. 
Bra. 
Bra. 



Tanama. 

Xa.janduri. 

Najanduri. 



Maian ... Tanama. 

Maian , j Xajanduri. 

Maiau ; Xajanduri. 



Murring. 



(F) means female speaking; (M) male speaking. 

* The Kurnai terms are one of the two dialects spoken by that tribe. It is called Miikthang. 
Muk = true, superior, eminent ; Thang = speech. Mukthang therefore is the language par excellence. 
The Murring terms are in the language called Thai awnl, which is spoken by the coast Murring tribes 
adjoining the Kurnai. It is aointelligible to the Kurnai, as their speech also is to tho Murring ; and 
yet the bonier clans of the one tribe intermarry with those of the other. Here we find an easy ex- 
planation of the fact that among savages husband and wife sometimes speak different languages. 

An examination of these terms shows, in those of the Krnai, an ar- 
chaic simplicity which 1 can only account for on the supposition that 
they owe their preservation to the extreme isolation of the tribe, arising 
from the geographical features of their country, which render it extremely 
difficult of access. No distinction is drawn between the husband, his 
brother, and the wife's sisters husband. These terms do not fit the ex- 
isting relations as marked by individual marriage, the exclusive right 
of the husband to his wife, the absence of the Piaruru practice, and. the 
male line of descent. But they more clearly accord with the relations 
which arise on exceptional occasions such as those I have mentioned. 
The custom on these occasions is analagous to that of the Pirauru, and 
to this practice the relationship terms of the Kurnai apply, and indicate 
a possibility of its former prevalence as a custom. 

In the Murring terms a distinction appears between the second and 
the third and fourth, as well as between the sixth and the seventh and 
eighth, indicative of individual marriage. 

V. — THE PARENTAL AND FILIAL GROUPS. 

I now return to the Dieri and Kunandaburi, tribes for illustrations of 
these groups, which I take together as follows : 

Table IV. 



English. 



Mother's Tiraurn 

Father 

Father's brother 

Mother's lister's husband. .. 

Father's Pirauru 

Mother 

Mother's sister 

Father's brother's wife 

Son of Piraurn (M) 

Son of Xoa (M) 

Brother's son (M) 

Wife's sister's son (M) 

Son of Pirauru (F) 

Son (F) 

Sister's son (F; 

Husband's brother's son (F) . 



Kunandaburi. 



urninu. 
kauali . 



amundi 



karaga. 



worua 
worua 



Dieri. 



apiri waka.* 

apiri, or apini.t 

apii i waka. 

apiri waka. 

andri waka. 

andri wandrini. 

andri waka. 

andri waka. 

atamura waka. 

atamura, or atamurini. 

atamura waka. 

atamura waka. 

atani waka. 

atani. 

atani waka. 

adada. 



(M) means male speaking; (F) female speaking. 

* Waka = little. 

1 Apini, according to Mr. Gason, means " my father " as " signifying a relation without doubt." It 
is evidently an abbreviation of apiri = father, and ani = 1. A little difference exists between Mr. 
Gason's method of spelling the native words and my own. I have followed as nearly as possible the pro- 
nunciation which I remember to have heard from the natives themselves when I was, in their country. 



812 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

1 regret that the Kunandaburi list is so meager, but unfortunately my 
source of information ran dry before my inquiries could be completed. 
There are, however, enough taken together with the previously given 
marital relations, to suggest a similarity to those of the Dieri. The 
third term, if further inquiry shows it to be correct, is a deviation. 

The custom of Pirauru must necessarily produce doubt as to the pa- 
ternity of children. A Dieri woman rarely admits that any particular 
man is the father of her child.* I have shown that it is the group of A 
men who cohabit with the group of B women (Table I) and vic& versa, 
and that the whole group of women to which the mother of any given 
child belongs are also regarded as its mothers. But a distinction is 
drawn between the mother's Pirauru and herNoa. With the latter she 
habitually cohabits. • She was specially given to him by her father, or 
by order of the great council. Hence he claims the right to dispose of 
her daughter in marriage, and her children call him Apiri=father, or 
Apini=father-to rue, while they call her Pirauru Apiri waka, that is to 
say, " little father." Here we can see the commencement of individual 
marriage, and of the more precise notions of descent which follow it. 

The man's Piraurus are called the mothers of all the children of his 
Noa; that is, of all the children of the woman with whom he habitually 
cohabits. But they are the andri waka, that is to say, the " little 
mother" of those children, while each child's own mother is its andri= 
mother, or andrini=my mother. 

Hence a man is the " own" father of all the children of his Noa, but 
the "little father" of the children of his Piraurus. It follows that if 
every woman is Noa, every child must have some Apini, i. e., some " par- 
ticular father," and patria potestas can begin. 

Given the cohabitation of a group of A men with a group of B women, 
as I have shown it to exist, the men being " own " or " tribal brothers," 
it follows naturally that each one is the father in common of all the children. 
This we see expressed in the classificatory terms tabulated by me (Table 
IV). The "father's sister's husband" is not included in this group of 
fathers. He is kaka, not apiri. The reason of this will appear from the 
following diagram.t 

(M) A' (M) A (F) A 

(F) B' (F) B (M) B 



B child 



The diagram shows why the father, father's brother, and mother's 

* Informant, Mr. S. Gason. 

t Explanation of diagram. — A and B are the two intermarrying groups. (M) A and 
(M) A' are brothers, (F) A is their sister. (F) B and (F) B' are the wives of (M) A 
and (M) A'. (M) B it the husband of (F) A. B is the child of (M) A and (F) B. 
(M) = male ; (F) = female. 



AUSTRALIAN Gj.OUP RELATIONS. 



813 



sister's husband are all " apiri," for they arc of the same group, (M) A, 
which is Pirauru to group (M) B. The mother's brother and the father's 
sister's husband — who are the same group individual — are both Kaka, 
and form part of another marital group, (M) B. 

I have said that in spite of the Pirauru system, and the consequent 
uncertainty as to actual paternity, there is, nevertheless, a tendency to 
attribute the paternity to the man who habitually cohabits with the 
mother of the child ; that is to say, who is to her in the relation of Noa, 
which, indeed, is inchoate individual marriage. He is the " father" of 
the child, while the mother's accessory husband is only the " little father." 
Morever, he claims the right to dispose of the daughter of his Koa in 
marriage, though she may be dv facto the child of any one of her mother's 
Piryurus. 

This rests upon a belief which is not peculiar to the Dieri. I have 
found it in every Australian tribe, without exception, with which I have 
acquaintance. This belief is that the child is derived from the male 
parent only, and that the mother is no more than its nurse. As a black 
fellow once put it to me, " The man gives the child to a woman to take 
care of for him, and he can do whatever he likes with his own child." 
This is so wonderfully like Apollo's well-known dictum in the Euuieni- 
des as to be positively startling when heard from the lips of an Austral- 
ian black ; but the foregoing is not the only instance within my knowl- 
edge in which the belief has been expressed by the aborigines. The 
subject well merits full discussion, but, as it involves the important ques- 
tion of the change of descent from the female line to that through males, 
I defer its further consideration to the penultimate section of this 
memoir. 

I now offer for comparison with the parental and filial terms of re- 
lationship among the Dieri and Kunandaburi, those of tribes who are 
socially more advanced. 

Table V. 



English. 



Kumai. 



Murring. 



Father 

Father's hrother 

Mother's sister's husband 

Mm her 

Mother's sister 

Father's brother's wife... 

Son (M) 

Brother's son (M) 

Will's sister's son 

Son (F) 

Sister's son (F) 

Husband's brother's son . 



mungan 
mungan 
mungan 
yukan .. 
yukan . . 
yukan . . 

lit 

lit 

lit 

lit 

lit 

lit 



banga 

nadjnng 

kauang 

minga 

minting 

minting 

wurun 

wurun 

wurun 

wurun 

wurun 

wurun 



(M) means male speaking ; (F) means female speaking. 

I have found the study of the development of the terms of relation- 
ship used by the Australian aborigines to be one of extreme difficulty. 
When arranged in groups, as I have arranged them, the terms of one 



814 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

group do not logically follow out those of tbe antecedent group, as do 
the terms used by savage and barbaric tribes in other parts of the 
world collected and arranged by Dr. Morgan in his magnificent work 
on systems of consanguinity and affinity. For instance, it is rare to 
find that the terms of the filial group follow logically those of the pa- 
rental group. As a general rule, the latter has departed farthest from 
simplicity. The Murring list is a case in point. (See table.) Nor have 
I found that the actual social status of any Australian tribe in the 
present day can be inferred from an examination of the terms of rela- 
tionship alone, hi all cases it is evident that the actual status of the 
tribe is in advance of the status theoretically deducible from the terms 
of relationship. This is significant and points to social development. 
The most extreme case within my knowledge is that of the Kurnai j 
and I have selected it partly for this reason, and partly because I am 
better acquainted with the customs of this tribe than with those of any 
other. It is a good example of the preservation of an archaic type 
under changed conditions. 

In the Kurnai terms we have precisely the analogues of the Dieri; 
but, as I have already pointed out, the Kurnai have no Pirauru prac- 
tice, and indeed would look upon such a custom with horror. Never- 
theless, as I have said, they did on occasions permit a license which to 
my mind strongly points to its former existence with them as a custom. 
Moreover, the terms given for the parental group point to such a form 
of group marriage, and those for the filial group strengthen this infer- 
ence. 

The Murring, in their tribal organization, their individual marriage 
with a strong obligation of fidelity on the part of the wife, and their 
agnatic descent, much resemble the Kurnai ; in fact, both these tribes 
may be said to stand nearly upon the same social level, but the for- 
mer has relationship terms considerably more differentiated than those 
of the latter. Yet in these the filial group still retains the extreme 
simplicity found in the relations of tribes who have group marriage 
still actually existing, the only difference being that the Murring terms 
for "father's brother" and "mother's sister's husband" are differen- 
tiated from that for " father," as also are the terms for " mother's sister" 
and "father's brother's wife" from that for "mother." 

In both the Kurnai and the. Murring tribes, however, there is a dis- 
tinction made between the terms of the parental group which is worth 
noting as indicating severally two processes of differentiation. While 
the Murring have separate terms to distinguish the father, the father's 
brother, and the mother's sister's husband, who, under the Pirauru prac- 
tice of the Dieri, may ail be married in the group to the same woman, 
the Kurnai make no distinction between these terms excepting by add- 
ing the word "brebba" to the term implying paternity. The "own 
father" is Mungan, while the father's brother and the mother's sister's 



AUSTRALIAN GROUP RELATIONS. 815 

husband are Brebba inungan ; that is to say, "the other father." This 
distinction, however, is rarely used iu ordinary parlance, though it 
conies out when particular inquiry is made as to the relationship. 

VI. — THE FRATERNAL RELATIONS. 

The class divisions, viewed in their Pirauru relation, produce two 
marital groups, and, as a necessary consequence, they also produce pa- 
rental and filial groups. The Pirauru relation also creates, as a matter 
of course, a group relation between the children of the Piraurus. It 
ought to be found, and it is found, that the children of the Pirauru 
group recognize one another as brothers and sisters. Moreover, all the 
children of any given ISToa are brothers and sisters of the Pirauru group 
to which that Noa belongs. But when, in any particular part of that 
group, a man habitually cohabits with his Xoa and with a Pirauru, and 
the children of the two women are brought up together, Mr. Gason tells 
me that there is a recognition in this family of a superiority in the chil- 
dren of the former over those of the latter. This fact is of the very 
greatest importance, for it brings us to the dawning of birthright. 

The fraternal group, as shown in the class divisions, embraces all 
those on the same level in a generation who are of the same class name, 
but more especially all those who are of the same totem, which is 
nearer to the individual than is the class. The "totems-men" succor 
one another as a matter of course in all tribes in which, as in the Dieri, 
the social organization is vigorous. Where, however, it has been super- 
seded by the social organization, as among the Kuruai, it is the mem- 
bers of the local group who aid each other, and this boud is strength- 
ened by the far-reaching relationships in this tribe, such, for instance, 
as that of "brother" In all these cases the individual recognizes and 
carries out the obligation laid upon him by the group of which he is a 
member. 

As it seems to me, the division of the community into two primary 
classes and lesser divisions has evidently been brought about with in- 
tention* to prevent those connections between brother and sister, and 
other near relations, which are looked upon by the blacks with the ut- 
most abhorrence. The prohibition extends beyond the children of the 
same parents, and prevents the union of those who are of the same 
class name or totem. The group relations which, as I have shown, 
spring naturally out of the class divisions and their laws, also forbid 
the marriage of all who are within the fraternal relations. But in the 
less advanced tribes I have met with an instance where the prohibition 
is not a perpetual injunction never, under any circumstances, to be 
broken. In the Kunandaburi tribe the prohibition is relaxed on the 

* This is opposed to the commonly-received notion that the lower savages are men- 
tally incapahle of perceiving and dealing with such qnestious. But the fact is be- 
yond dispute that they do perceive them, and discuss them freely among themselves, 
the women taking an active part in the discussion. 



816 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

occasion of a girl's marriage, when, according to Mr. O'Dounell, her 
favors may be shared "by all the males present in the camp without re- 
gard to relationship." In the Dieri tribe, however, the prohibition, as 
regards intercourse between those who are within the fraternal rela- 
tions, is never relaxed. No greater offense can be offered to a Dieri 
man or woman than to call him or her "Bftyulu parchaua," which means, 
according to Mr. Gason, " nearest relatives," or, in its understood sense, 
'•incestuous intercourse between near relatives." Among such are all 
those who stand in the fraternal group relation to one another.* That 
this group relation is a real one to the Dieri is proved by the fact that 
such an offense is punished by the great council of the tribe with death. 

In the more advanced tribes, where the social organization has given 
way and is more or less approaching extinction, if not utterly extinct, 
the fraternal group survives as long as a single totem remains in ex- 
istence, as in the coast Murring. And, where the totems are gone, 
it becomes transferred in a modified form to the local group, whose 
members are then thought to be so " near to each other " in blood as to 
be forbidden in marriage. It is well to remember that this local group 
has, in all cases, even where uterine descent is strongest, been perpetu- 
ated in the same place from father to son by occupation, I may almost 
say by inheritance, of the hunting grounds. 

The relationship terms of different Australian tribes, which I have 
collected and tabulated, show three types of the fraternal group. 

First. All the descendants of several brothers or of several sisters are 
still brothers and sisters mutually ; and this relationship descends in an 
ever-expanding fraternal group. Such an instance is that of the Kurnai 
tribe. 

Second. The descendants of several brothers are differentiated from 
the descendants of several sisters ; so that two fraternal groups come 
into existence, each of which is still fraternal within its own limits, but 
is not so towards the other group. Nevertheless, the prohibition as to 
marriage between the members of the two groups still obtains. The 
new relation thus arising, finds expression in a reciprocal term such as 
the " Kami " of the Dieri (Table VI). Taken in the widest sense, the 
contemporary generation "on the same level" in the intermarrying di- 
visions A and B (Table I) may be said to be " potential spouses" to one 
another ; but the marital privilege is restricted by what we may call an 
"inner regulation" when two "Kami," male and female, are the chil- 
dren of own brother and sister respectively. 

Third. The fraternal relations tend to become restricted to the chil- 
dren of one pair. There is also a tendency to a multiplication of distinct- 

*Thi8 prohibition includes not only "brother" and " sister," but also the "cousins" 
who are indicated by the term " kami." (See Table VI.) Although the kami belong, 
respectively, to the two intermarrying class divisions, the nearness of blood stops the 
marital right. We have here a prohibition counted through the male line in a tribe 
which has uterine descent. 



AUSTRALIAN GROUP RELATIONS. 



817 



ive terms, thus more or less differentiating from each other, the Kami 
numbered 9, 10, 11, 12, in Table VI. Such an instance is that of the 
Gournditch Mara tribe of Western Victoria,* It is instructive to note 
that the old fraternal terms still linger, attached to the children on the 
maternal side in accord with the uterine liue of descent. The change 
has taken place on that side which leans towards agnation. 

Although I have not found it possible to determine with any degree 
of certainty the social status of any tribe from an inspection of its re- 
lationship terms, yet on the whole I may venture to say that in gen- 
eral the type of system, according to which the terms are arranged, is 
correlated in some degree with the social position of the tribe using 
them. 

These discrepancies between ancient custom on the one hand, as the- 
oretically inferred from the terms of relationship, and present usage on 
the other, as ascertained by careful observation, render it most difficult 
to bring the facts briefly into order, and so to marshal the evidence as 
to show clearly to others that which an acquaintance with a large col- 
lection of relationship terms from many tribes enables me to perceive. 
To bring this out with the necessary clearness would require a detailed 
statement of all the evidence in my possession, and, this of course, is 
impossible within the limits of this paper. The subjoined table, how- 
ever, will serve in some degree to illustrate the preceding remarks. 

Tablk VI. — Fraternal relations. 



English. 



1. Elder brother 

2. Younger brother 

3. Elder sister - 

4. Younger sister 

5. Father's brother's son 

6. Father's brother's daughter. . 

7. Mother's Bister's son 

8. Mother's sister's daughter . . . 

9. Father's sister's son 

10. Father's sister's daughter 

11 . Mother's brother's son 

12. Mother's brother's daughter . 



Kurnai. 



Tundung 

Bramung 

Bau-ung 

Lunduk 

Tundung or Bramung. 
Bau-ung or Lunduk . . . 
Tundung or Bramung. 
Bau-ung or Lundnk . . . 
Tundung or Bramung. 
Bau-ung or Lunduk . . . 
Tundung or Bramnng. 
Bau-ung or Lunduk . . . 



Dieri. 



Negi 

Ngattata 

K auku 

Ngattata 

Negi or Ngattata . . . 
Kauku or Ngattata. 
Negi or Ngattata. .. 
Kauku or Ngattata. 

Kami 

Kami 

Kami 

Kami 



(Toumditch Mara. 



Warti. 

Kokqng. 

Kaki. 

Kokoyar. 

Wawurt. 

Wangya. 

Wurti or Kokong. 

Kaki or Kokoyar. 

Benangar. 

Kamutch. 

Benang. 

Kamutch. 



The speaker may be either male or female. 
VII. — RESTRICTIONS UPON MARRIAGE. 

In the far-reaching fraternal relations explained in the previous sec- 
tion there is an equally extended prohibition of marriage. The rela- 
tionship, which is recognized between the persons constituting this 
large group of contemporaries, not only prevents there being any inter- 
marriage between them, but even a casual amour is regarded with ab- 
horrence ; and, as I have already noted, it may be punished capitally 
under the moral law of the aborigines. But this restriction is not con- 

* See Kamilaroi and Kurnai, p. 274. Since the publication of that work I am in- 
debted to the most obliging inquiries of Mrs. Stiihle for further information concern- 
ing the Gournditch Mara. I now learn that it has a class system almost identical 
with that of the Wotjoballuk noted in this memoir. 
II . Mis. 69 52 



818 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



fined to the fraternal groups, for it necessarily also affects the parental 
and filial groups with which they are connected. These restrictions 
arise out of the relationships resulting from the action of the laws which 
regulate the class divisions of the community. Other equally stringent 
restrictions are connected with the local divisions of the people. I shall 
now briefly note what they are, and show how all these restrictions 
affect the choice of a wife, not only within the tribe, but even beyond it 
in neighboring tribes with which there is connubium. 

1. Prohibition arising out of the class and totem restrictions. — The pro- 
hibition as to class divides the whole community into two halves, coin- 
ciding with those divisions, which, for convenience of reference, I have 
called A and B* (Table I). By this arrangement a man is restricted 
in his choice of a wife to one-half of the community. The women of this 
half are his potential wives, and he obtains either one or more of them 
according to certain circumstances which limit his inherited right. In 
some tribes the totemic regulations still further restrict his choice to 
one totem out of as many as perhaps a dozen which compose the class. 
As an illustration of the simpler case, I take the Wotjoballuk tribe of 
Northwestern Victoria.t 

The social organization of this tribe is somewhat peculiar, and may 

be thus tabulated. 

Table VII. 



Primary class 
divisions. 


Totem divisions. 


Subtotems. 


A. Krokitch 


1. Hot wind * 

2. White crestless cockatoo . . 

3. Belonging-to-the-sun 


1 Each totem has subordinate to it a number of ob- 
> jects, animal or vegetable, e. </., kangaroo, red 
) gum-tree, &c. 






Do. 


• 













* I have omitted the original words as useless for my purpose. 

Descent in this class system is uterine. A and B are the two great 
primary divisions, which, under different names, extend across the Aus- 
tralian continent.^ The peculiarity in this Wotjoballuk system is that 
the primary classes divide into six subclasses which are totems, and 
that each totem class has associated with it a larger or smaller group 
of what I have called subtotems, but which might be appropriately 
termed pseudo-totems. They appear to me to be totems in a state of 
development. Hot wind has at least five of them White cockatoo has 
seventeen, and so on for the others. That these subtotems are now in 
process of gaining a sort of independence may be shown by the folio w- 

* In many tribes, as I have already noted, A and B again divide into four subclasses, 
e. g., the well-known Karuilaroi Ipai-Kumba (A) and Murri-Kubi (B). But since this 
arrangement, though it extends over a vast area, is not found among the tribes spe- 
cially dealt with in this paper, I do not take it into consideration here. 

t Wotjo=men, balluk=people. 

1 1 have now identified with each other the primary classes in their various forms 
from Mount Gambier to near the Gulf of Carpentaria; that is to say, practically 
across the whole north and south extent of Eastern Australia. 



AUSTRALIAN GROUP RELATIONS. 819 

ing instance; a man who is Krokitck-Wartwut (Hot wind) claimed to 
own all the five snbtotems of Hot wind (three snakes and two birds), 
yet of these there was oue which he specially claimed as " belonging'" 
to him, namely, Moiwnk (carpet-snake). Tims his totem Hot wind seems 
to have been in process of subdivision into minor totems, and this man's 
division might have become Hot wind carpet-snake had not civilization 
rudely stopped the process by almost extinguishing the tribe. 

Marriage in this tribe might take place between a totem of one class 
and any totem of the other class. Thus a man of A 1 might marry a 
woman of B 4, or B 5, or B G, and so with the other totems. The sub- 
totems have no influence on marriage. In this tribe, therefore, the class 
law prohibits a man from marrying one-half of the women in the com- 
munity.* 

2. Prohibition arising out of blood relationship. — By the action of the 
primary divisions a man is restricted in his choice of a wife to one half 
of the women. Of these again a certain number are ineligible by reason 
of their standing in some of the forbidden degrees of relationship to him. 
In the Wotjoballuk tribe with uterine descent, all the womeu standing 
to an aspirant in the relation of "father's sister" are forbidden to him, 
as also are all the daughters of these women. Nor would he be per- 
mitted to take the daughter of his mother's own brother, although, being 
of the class intermarrying with his own, she belongs to the group of 
women, who, according to the general class law, are his "potential 
wives." Further than this, by the class law itself, all the daughters of 
his father's brothers, as well as those of his mother's sister's, are held to 
be too near in blood to admit of a lawful union with them. It must be 
remembered that in this tribe marriages were settled by the elders, the 
girls being betrothed often in early childhood, so that those who made 
the marriages were not liable to be swayed by passion, but could calmly 
consider how far any proposed alliance was or was not admissible. It 
must also be remembered that the relatives which I have spoken of as 
individuals are in fact groups, and that individuals counted in these 
groups came into them through others — in other words, that they are 
"very far away" group relations. The prohibition as to some of these 
might be disregarded where all else was desirable ; but otherwise they 
would certainly be insisted upon, and probably by the old women of the 
tribe more strenuously than by any one else. 

3. Prohibition arising out of locality. — A further prohibition arises out 
of locality. Local proximity by birth is quite an insuperable obstacle 
to marriage in many tribes, in which a man is absolutely forbidden to 

* The four classes into which A and B divide in the Kamilaroi and many other 
tribes restrict matrimonial choice to one- fourth of the women. And, after the com- 
pletion of this memoir, I received from Mr. Allan M. Giles, of Tennant's Creek, North- 
ern Territory, an extremely interesting and valuable communication on the Wara- 
muuga tribe, which is divided into eight classes, demonstrably subdivisions of the 
four classes above mentioned. The Waramunga classes limit the choice of a wife to 
one-eighth of the women. 



820 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

marry a woman of the same subhorde or sub clan. However eligible 
she may be in other respects, the fact that both parties belong to the 
same locality is held by certain tribes, the Kurnai for example, to make 
them "too near each other," that is, too near in blood. Even in some 
of the tribes which have uterine descent and a vigorous class system I 
find this to be the case ; and bearing in mind what the Pirauru prac 
tice really is, one can easily understand how all the people of any given 
horde may come to consider themselves, and with good reason, toe 
nearly related to admit of marriage without mixing the same "blood" 01 
" flesh." 

In tribes where the classes and totems have been weakened, or almost 
extinguished the local organization in hordes, or in clans, has assumed 
an overwhelming preponderance, and the local restraints upon marriage 
are strictly enforced. The Kurnai tribe is a good instance. In it, as I 
have already said, the totems have become practically extinct ; and the 
local groups have become so strictly exogamous that sexual intercourse 
between members of the same division of a clan is looked upon with the 
utmost abhorrence. In olden times — that is, before Gippsland was 
settled by the whites — these local groups must have been bound to- 
gether in a most extraordinary network of relationships. For, as I have 
already pointed out, the Kurnai terms of relationship exhibit a most 
primitive type, and the parental and filial groups are of very wide ex- 
tent and may be traced into surprising ramifications.* Moreover the 
filial relations were inherited, carrying with them fraternal relations in 
ever widening lines. Again, the children of brothers and the children 
of sisters' own or tribal, were brothers and sisters to each other as far 
as descents could be counted. It is not surprising that in such a tribe 
the difficulties in the way of any young man finding a girl among those 
locally eligible, who did not staud in some forbidden degree of relation- 
ship, should have been next to insurmountable. 

Restrictions such as those I have now briefly noted are found in all 
Australian tribes, but in some more than in others. "When one reflects 
upon the wide prohibition of class and totem of relationships, and of 
locality, and adds to these disabilities alb the further restriction of blood 
feuds, one cannot feel surprise that the question of marriage between 
any given couple should be the subject of deep and careful considera- 
tion by the elders of the community, and that it should often prove an 
insoluble problem to those who seek to bring it about.t No wonder 
that under such conditions the young people of Australian tribes, being 
still further hindered by the practice of betrothal of infant girls, so often 

* I have often noticed that the whole Kurnai community appeared to be related. 
Every one seemed to be the father, mother, son, daughter, brother, or sister of every 
one else, but when special inquiry was made, the ''tribal" relationship was distin- 
guished from the " own" by more precise statement, as the "other (brebba) father," 
" other mother," &c. 

t The " nation," consisting of the Aldolinga and at least three other tribes of Cen- 
tral Australia, affords a good instance of the extensive marriage prohibitions arising 



AUSTRALIAN GROUP RELATIONS. 821 

take their own course, and cut the gordian knot of restriction by elope- 
ment. In Gippsland, where these restrictions were of exceptional ex- 
tent, so as to form a net in whose meshes every individual Kurnai was 
almost certainly entangled, the solution of the difficulties raised by the 
nearly absolute impossibility of obtaining the consent of parents was 
found in the practice of elopement, which was the most prevalent form 
of marriage. 

VIII. — THE CHANGE IN THE LINE OF DESCENT. 

In a late memoir* dealing with the change of descent in Australian 
tribes, the practice of infant betrothal was assigned as probably the 
chief cause of the change. But I have come to see at the root of be- 
trothal the belief which I have noted in a previous section of this mem- 
oir, "that the child is derived from the male parent only, and that the 
mother is no more than its nurse." This belief has been active in other 
directions. It has aided the local organization, whose perpetuation from 
father to son is its direct expression, to over-ride the social organization ; 
and, together with betrothal, which produces the sense of separate own- 
ership, it has tended to bring about ultimately individual marriage, 
with a change of descent from the "group of female Piraoru " to the 
individual male " Noa." 

This belief in the renewal of a man in his son is not, nor has it been, 
confined to the Australian aborigines. It is probably as old as the time 
when men first began to speculate upon the phenomena within and with- 
out themselves. Dr. Hearn, in his valuable work, the Aryan House- 
hold^ shows that the " worship of the house-father" is founded on the 
very belief which I find among the Australian savages. It is found 
distinctly enunciated in passages of the classical writers, and it forms 
the central idea on which iEschylus has caused the third part of his 
majestic Orestean trilogy to turn. Often as the case of Orestes has been 
quoted, it seems to me that, as examined by the side-lights of Australian 
custom, there may be even yet some views of it whose significance has 
not been clearly seen. I may be excused for briefly considering it here, 
because it seems to me to raise some curious questions as to the exist- 
ence of uterine descent among the Hellenic ancestors. 

out of the combined influence of class divisions and of locality. These tribes are 
divided socially into four classes, which cover at least sixty-four local groups. Ac- 
cording to my present information (which is not yet complete) the matrimonial 
restriction arising put of the four classes is as usual, but in addition a man's choice 
is in every case confined to « few of the local groups. (Informant, Rev. H. Kempe.) 

I have endeavored to show in the Dieri the prohibitions arising out of class and 
close relationship, and in the Kurnai those arising out of close relationship and local- 
ity. In the Aldolinga all these restricting forces combine, and result in the narrow- 
ing down of the matrimonial choice to an incredibly small fraction of the whole 
uuuiber of women. 

• " From Mother-right to Father-right," by A.W. Howitt and Lorimer Fison. Jour- 
nal of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. August 1882. 

t The Aryan Household. W. E. Hearn, LL. D. G. Robertson, Melbourne, 1878. See 
also De Coulanges, La Cite" Antique, p. 37, Paris, 1876. 



822 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

In the Orestean trilogy, of which the Eumenides forms the final and 
most striking part, iEschylus had apparently several objects in view. 
He glorified the institutions of the Athenian people by assigning a 
divine origin to their great council, the Areiopagos, doubtless as op- 
posed to the "modernizing institutions;" he showed the perfect action 
of an ancestral curse, together with divine vengeance upon a doomed 
race, the impious house of Pelops, and those who had become engrafted 
upon it ; and I venture to think that in the Euimenides he also gave a 
dramatic version of the change effected in past ages in the line of des- 
cent. The whole gravamen of the charge against Orestes is that he has 
shed the blood of his mother " being kindred." In reply for the defense 
Apollo delivers a dictum, which, he takes care to state, is derived 
directly from Zeus himself, and this dictum is confirmed by Athene, 
.he embodimenc of Divine wisdom. The words placed in the mouth of 
Apollo are those I desire to note. In the course of the prosecution of 
Orestes, the Erinyes declare their ancient jurisdiction to be over those 
who have shed the blood of kindred, and they claim the right to " hale 
below "* the accused, he having " poured out upon the ground the kin- 
dred blood of his mother." t In reply to this, Apollo, as counsel for 
the defense, raises a nice point, on which, as the mouth-piece of Zeus, 
he declares the law. He denies the authorship of the child to the 
woman, declaring that she receives the germ merely " as a bailee," so 
to speak. The sire, he says, is the author, for whom she preserves and 
nourishes the young plant, as for one to whom she is united by ties, 
which, though sacred, are expressly denied to be those of kinship.! 

(Uivr fry-) 

Here we have precisely the sentiment already quoted by me from my 
aboriginal informant, that " the man gives the child to a woman to take 
care of for him" ; and this I recognize as being at the root of changes 
which have occurred in the social organization of the Australian tribes. 
iEschylus shows the uterine line of descent as being the foundation oh 
which rested the jurisdiction of the Erinyes, "assigned to them at their 
birth," § and therefore of venerable antiquity. By the equally divided 
vote of the judges he shows men's minds halting half-way between the 
old views and the new, and he assigns the cause and the reason justi- 
fying the momentous change which was effected under a direct divine 
mandate through the mouth of the prophetic Apollo. It seems to me 
that these conclusions may be drawn from the language used by the 
dramatis persona?, and moreover that iEschylus may possibly have had 
such conclusions in his mind when composing the Orestean trilogy. 

It has been a feature of the past history of mankind that great and 
momentous changes have been made under an alleged divine direction. 
Of old the lawgiver was the priest, and the priest declared himself to 

* Eumenides, 257, Camb. Texts. t Eum., 627 k.t.A. 

t lb., 623. §J6.,320, 329. 



AUSTRALIAN GROUP RELATIONS. 823 

be the diviue mouthpiece. In the course of time the office of lawgiver 
became sepvwnted from that of the priesthood, but at the time pictured 
by iEschylus the two offices were still united. In savage tribes, such 
as those of Australia, it cannot be said that there are either priesthood 
or lawgivers, in the modern sense of the words ; but it is possible to 
see what I may call the germ of these offices, prepared under favoring 
conditions to develop into active existence. 

As I have said, there is no priesthood in the Australian tribes ; but 
in their wizards I can recognize those who, if I may use the expression, 
already stand at the threshhold of the temple, prepared to advance and 
take their place at the altar when the edifice shall be completed. 

These men profess to be in communication with the ancestral spirits 
and with the great Supreme Being, the founder of their race, whose 
sacred ceremonies of initiation they conduct and of whose laws — the 
ancestral customs — they are, the depositaries. Were I to find an explan- 
ation given by an Australian tribe to account for the change in descent 
in their class system, I doubt not I should find it attributed to a com- 
mand from their Great Spirit, through the mouth of the tribal wizard. 
This, indeed, is almost implied by the statements which I have heard 
made by old men at initiation ceremonies, that all the institutions of 
the tribe were in the first instance established by him whom thej- 
speak of and reverence as the All-father of the tribe.* 

It seems to me that the important bearing of this primitive belief is 
only now beginning to be appreciated. When its influence upon the 
development of early society, and upon the beliefs of the early world, 
is fully recognized, it will be found that its effects have not been con- 
fined to the development of the ancestral worship of our Aryan fore- 
fathers. 

IX. — CONCLUSION. 

The subject which I have dealt with in, I fear, but an imperfect 
manner, is one of the most difficult of those which are met with in 
studying savage society in Australia. In the Australian terms of re- 

* I find that the great Supreme Being, who, as the Australians believe, lives in a 
land beyond the vaulted sky, is known under many different names in the various 
tribes, perhaps under as many names as there are tribes. These names, being con- 
nected with the initiation ceremonies, are often too sacred to be uttered by the tribes- 
men save during the celebration of those "mysteries" from which the uninitiated 
are excluded. For instance, the Woiworuug tribe of the Yarra River district called 
the "Great Spirit" Bunjil; the Wiradjeri tribe of the Lower Murrumbidgee call him 
Baiame, and the Murring of the mountains and of the coast call him Daramiilun. 
But these names are not for common utterance. They are generally reserved for the 
secret ceremonies of initiation, and all these tribes usually and in preference speak 
of the Great Being by words meaning in their several languages " our father." The 
Kurnai of Gippslaud know him only by this name (Mungan ngaura) and utter it, 
when compelled to do so, with reverential awe. I have seen Australian blacks, when 
referring to their Supreme Being, do so by gesture, thus avoiding the utterance of 
his name. 



824 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

lationship there are many anomalies which cannot be explained with- 
out a competent knowledge of the dialects in which they occur, and of 
the customs of the tribes using them. Such a knowledge is not to be 
looked for in any one investigator. The present memoir must, there- 
fore, be looked upon as no more than an attempt to " prospect" the rich 
field which has so long awaited examination. How far I may have suc- 
ceeded in the attempt I will not venture to surmise, but will leave it for 
the consideration of anthropologists. 

I think, however, I may venture to say that I have shown good 
grounds for accepting the following conclusions: 

1. The class divisions and totems are groups held together by common 
descent. 

2. The class divisions and the totems form in the aggregate two ex- 
ogamous intermarrying divisions of the community. 

3. The marriage relation between these two exogamous divisions was 
probably at one period the common co-habitation, as occasion, food, sup- 
ply, and other conditions allowed, of a group of males belonging to one 
division with a group of females belonging to the other division ; and that 
even now this communal marriage exists in a somewhat limited form. 

4. The marital relations, being those of group to group, the terms of 
relationship which arose and were used, necessarily expressed this rela- 
tion of group to group, as well as of the individual to the group, and of 
the individual to the individual. 

5. The filial relations of one generation to the preceding generation 
are those of group to group, and are clearly brought into view by the 
Pirauru practice, under which the children are necessarily the children 
of a male group, and not of an individual. 

6. The conditions of 3 and 5 necessarily require those terms which I 
have tabulated as the "fraternal." 

The evidence, which I have endeavored to state with clearness, is, I 
I feel, very incomplete, and therefore wanting in that entire unity 
which I should have liked to give it. But, looking at the facts which 
have been ascertained, I venture to submit that the systems in use 
among the Australian tribes indicate relationships which have been, and 
are, fully as real to them as ours are to us ; that the terms have arisen 
under social conditions whose survival we may now distinctly recog- 
nize as still existing in the least advanced tribes, and that they have 
been developed and modified under the influence of changing social 
conditions, just as language, laws, religions, and even society itself 
have been developed and modified. 

The Australian evidence, as far as it has been systematically collected 
and examined, supports in the main the views enunciated by the late 
Dr. Lewis H. Morgan. He was subjected to violent attacks by certain 
critics, who held views to which his own, if accepted, were fatal. This 
confirmation of his conclusions will be gratifying to all who, like myself, 
admire his single hearted search after truth, and who feel a sincere re- 
spect for his memory. 



MOUNDS OF SANGAMON COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 825 

MOUNDS OF SANGAMON COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 

By James Wickersham, of Hew Tacoma, Wash. Terr. 



If depth in the earth is a standard by which to judge the age of the 
relics of a race, there have been some found in Sangamon County, Illi- 
nois, which may with safety be referred to a very great antiquity. 

At many places along the Sagamon Eiver are what are called " sand 
bluffs." They are stratified, the strata being composed of sand, gravel, 
or clay, and varying in thickness from an inch to 3 or 4 feet. These 
bluffs are of more recent origin than the clay and stone bluffs along the 
stream. They have, however, the same forest covering. About 4 miles 
northwest of the city of Springfield are some of these bluffs, from which 
great quantities of building sand are obtained. The pit to which at- 
tention is particularly directed is situated on the west side of the Car- 
penter's Mill wagon-road, and about 100 yards southwest of the Sand 
Hill school-house. In this pit, at a depth of about 15 feet, is a stratum 
of clay from 12 to 20 inches in thickness. A workman engaged in 
loading his wagon with sand from immediately underneath this layer 
of clay came upon some bones of a reddish color, and two pieces of stone 
of a peculiar shape. He recognized in the bones the skeleton of a hu- 
man being. In being removed from its sandy bed the skull was crushed 
to pieces, but some of the larger bones of the body were carefully placed 
under an overhanging bank out of the way. With the bones were found 
two stones, one an ax of common pattern and of good workmanship, 
now in possession of the writer, and the other is described as triangular 
in shape, and " with some funny marks cut on it." A boy who was as- 
sisting the workman brought the stone ax home, and the writer received 
it from his hand ; the other stone was placed with the bones, and they 
have unfortunately been lost by a u slide " in the pit. Inquiry among 
other workmen brought to light the fact that several of them had found 
arrowheads or spear-heads in the pit. Of so little importance did they 
deem them, however, that but one could be recovered, which was given 
to the writer, and is now is his collection. This is a spear head about 
5 inches in length. The barbs and a small part of the base were broken 
off when struck by the spade ; otherwise the head is in good shape and 
shows superior workmanship. It was found on a layer of clay, some 2 
or 3»feet lower in the pit than the skeleton, but not immediately under 
the skeleton, nor by the same workman. Three different theories have 
been advanced to accountfor the presence of these objects at so great a 
depth : (1) That they were carried from the surface by a " slide " in 
the banks of the pit ; (2) that they were buried from the surface by a pre- 
historic race ; and (3) that they were deposited in the bluff during the 
period of its formation. 

There are many Indian cemeteries along Sangamon River, and at first 



826 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



it was believed that a " slide " of the banks of the pit bad carried from 
near the surface the skeleton and weapons of one of these ancient in- 
habitants of our country. The workman who made the discovery said 
that he first removed the layer of clay, and then found the skeleton in 
the sand under it; and the boy who was assisting him, ami who was* 
present, corroborated his statement. Workmen who found arrowheads 
or spear-heads were positive that they had not been carried by a slide 
to where they were discovered. They were lying in the sand just above 
a layer of clay, and, in one instance, in the clay. Being under level 
ground, and quite a distance from a bank or hill of any kind, it is im- 
possible that they could have been deposited by a slide of the earth 
prior to the opening of the sand pit. It is not likely that they were 
buried from the present surface. If nothing but the skeleton and ac- 
companying stones bad been seen, this might have served as an expla- 
nation ; but at different places in the pit, and at different levels, other 
objects were found. It is not probable that they were buried singly at 
such a depth. After a careful examination the writer is firmly con- 
vinced that the third theory is correct, viz, that the objects were de- 
posited in the bluff during the period of its erection, or growth. 

ROSS MOUNDS. 



On the north bank of the Sangamon River, in Cooper Township, on 
the SE. ^ of the SE. J Sec. 5, is a group of mounds of more than ordi- 
nary interest, from the fact that an attempt was made by the builders 
to protect a tract of land by mounds on all its sides easily assailed by 
an eneinv. 




Fig. 1. — Ross Mounds, Sangamon Co., 111. 
The south face of the bluff along the river is almost perpendicular, 
and it would be difficult for an enemy to make a successful attack from 
this direction. Consequently no mounds are found here. At the west- 



MOUNDS OF SANGAMON COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 



827 



era point, however, an ascent might be more readily made, and here we 
find a mound. The northwestern face, along- the spring branch, is also 
very steep and easily defended. At the east end the bluff would be 
easily ascended, and here were built three mounds. But the point most 
liable to attack, and the hardest to defend, the point at which an enemy 
might rush across level ground into the encampment, lies between the 
heads of the two little spring branches, and was defended by four 
mounds. At all other points, except where the mounds are placed, the 
bluff' is so steep and hard to climb that a few resolute men on top could 
repulse a host. Opposite the mounds an entrance to the high level 
ground would be easy. Mounds 1 to 6 are oblong, 1, 5, and 6 having 
the greatest length north and south, and 2 to 4 the greatest length east 
and west. These long mounds are about 20 feet in width, 50 feet in 
length, and 18 inches height. Mound 7 and 8 are round, 7 having a di- 
ameter of about 30 feet by a height of 18 inches, while 8 has a 
diameter of 50 feet by a height of 2 feet. The bluff is covered with 
heavy timber. The immediate neighborhood was known to the Indians 
and early settlers as good hunting grounds. No exploration was made. 

OLCOTT MOUNDS. 

About a quarter of a mile above the junction of Horse Creek and 
South Fork, on the east bank of the latter, in Rochester Township, on 
the SE. ^ of the NW, £ Sec. 20, is a group of mounds. The following is 
a sketch of the location and surrounding natural features: 



fsrtssy 



A* 1 

vHn^'''" \_ ■ " — 



5C± 










Fig. 2. — Olcott Mounds, Sangamon Co., 111. 



828 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Mounds 1 to 3 are longest north and south (30 by 50 feet), and from 
16 to 18 inches in height. Mounds 4 and 5 are round, 4 having a 
diameter of 50 feet and a height of 4 feet, while 5 does not exceed 40 
feet in diameter nor 3 feet in height. The bluff on which the group is 
located has been cleared of heavy timber for several years, and is now 
used as pasture land. The writer assisted in exploring mounds 1, 2, and 
5 ; but no archaeological objects were found. Upon a former excava- 
tion, in mound 4, Mr. Olcott discovered, at the level of the bottom of 
the mound, a skeleton in such a decayed state that only parts of it could 
be removed. The skull was broken into small pieces. The body had 
been buried at full length, with the head to the west, in the center of 
the mound. Nothing was found but the skeleton. It was impossible 
to determine where the material was procured for the erection of these 
mounds. Usually depressions near by indicate the spot, but no such 
depressions appear in the neighborhood of this group. No particular 
arrangement of the material was observed. The location of this group 
placed the builders between a good spring and a river of clear water. 
A quarter of a mile to the northeast was tbe open prairie; and a like' 
distance to the southeast was a peculiar spring, now known as the " Old 
Lick Spring," where the buffalo congregated to lick the ground, leaving 
a hole 6 or 7 feet deep by 50 feet in diameter. The "early settlers" 
were in the habit of repairing to this spring, and salting a log and then 
lying in wait for deer. It is not improbable that the mound builder 
may have supplied the family larder in a similar way centuries before. 
The center of the "lick" is a quagmire several feet deep, covered with 
a tough growth of moss. 

DAWSON MOUNDS. 

On the east bank of the South Fork, 2 miles south of its juncture 
with Sangamon River, in Eochester Township, on the SE. ^ of the NE. 
^ Sec. 4, are two groups of mounds. The following plan shows the 
number and relative position : 

Mounds 1 to 4 are on the bluff, 30 or 40 feet above South Fork, while 
mounds 5 to 10 are on a similar bluff above Rochester Creek. These 
bluffs are almost perpendicular on the faces next to the streams, while 
in the center they slope smoothly down to a spring branch. The ax 
of the "pale-face" has not yet invaded the woods on these bluffs, ex- 
cept to clear the roadway passing between mounds 2 and 3. A pecu- 
liarity of the mounds in these groups is that they are not round, but 
have, generally, the greatest length from north to south, although 
mounds 6 and 7 have their greatest length east and west. They will 
average 40 feet in length by 20 feet in breadth, and from 18 to 20 inches 
in height. No excavation was made by the writer, but in mound 10 
was a large hole, showing quite plainly that some person had explored 
therein at a recent date. Some years ago, while the road leading 



MOUNDS OF SANGAMON COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 



829 



through 1 to 4 was being worked, human bones were thrown from one of 
the mounds, but from which one it could not be ascertained. The 




Fig. 3. — Dawson Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois. 

builders of these structures were in the neighborhood of everything 
necessary to savage life, good hunting, fishing, tillable laud, drinking- 
water, and fuel. 

m'clernard mounds. 

A mile and a quarter south of the junction of South Fork and the 
Sangamon Eiver, on the east bluffs of South Fork, on the SE. ^ of the 



"^ 






aP 






^ 



A 






5fo 



f! w0m^m 






4? 



Fig. 4. — McClernard Mounds, Sangamon. County, Illinois. 



830 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



SE. J Sec. 33, in Clear Lake Township, is a group of five mounds. It 
lies on a hillside sloping toward the stream, and a quarter of a mile to 
tlie east of South Fork. The following plan shows grouping location : 
Mounds 1 to 3 are round, 50 or 60 feet in diameter, and 18 or 20 inches 
high. Mounds 4 and 5 are about 50 feet long, by 30 wide, and 18 inches 
high. Lines drawn through the center of 4 and 5, from end to end, 
would meet in the center of 1. These mounds are 100 feet apart. No 
exploration was attempted. The ground is in cultivation as grass 
land, but the mounds are still quite distinct. Back on the bluff, to the 
east a short distance, was the prairie ; to the west a quarter of a mile, 
South Fork ; on the north and south small spring branches. 

WATSON MOUNDS. 

A quarter of a mile south of the bridge, where the Clear Lake wagon- 
road crosses Sangamon River, in Clear Lake Township, on the SE. ^ of 
the SE. ^ Sec. 21, is a group of four mounds. The following sketch will 
show the location of the mounds with regard to each other, as well as 
to the surrounding natural features: 




FlG. 5. — Watson Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois. 

Mounds 1 to 3 are round, 1 and 3 being probably 30 feet in diameter 
by 18 inches in height, while mound 2 is about 40 feet in diameter by 
18 or 20 inches in height. Mound 4 is about 40 feet long, east and west, 
by 20 feet in breadth, and 18 inches in height. Mounds 1 and 2 are 
probably 50 feet apart ; 2 and 3 are 150 yards apart ; 3 and 4 about 100 
feet. No excavation was made. The mounds follow the line of the bluff 
north and south. The ground at the south end of the bluff has been 



MOUNDS OF SANGAMON COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 



831 



in cultivation for several years, but the mounds are still quite distinct. 
The eastern face of the bluff is almost perpendicular. Between the 
bluff and river is low, marshy ground, but the river bends in to the 
bluff a little farther up. Mound 4 is in the timber, but tillable land, 
springs, and the river are near. 

LYON MOUNDS. 

Up Sugar Creek, about a mile from its junction with the Sangamon 
River, are two mounds. They are situated on the east bank of Sugar 
Creek, on a bluff 30 or 40 feet high, on the SE. £ of the WW. £ Sec. 28, 
in Clear Lake Township. The following sketch will give some idea of 
their situation: 




Fig. 6. — Lyon Mounds, Sanyainon County, Illinois. 

Mound 1 is 50 feet long, north and south, and 30 feet wide ; mound 
2 is 70 feet long, east and west, and 50 feet wide ; they are each 16 or 
18 inches high, and are 180 feet apart. No exploration was made. 
The timber has been removed from the laud, but the ground has not 
yet been explored. The builders of these mounds found in their vicin- 
ity an abundance of good water, hunting, fishiug, and tillable land. 



FARR MOUNDS. 

On the north bluff of Sugar Creek, about 2 miles above its junction 
with Sangamon River, on the NE. ^ of the NE. \ Sec. 29, in Clear 
Lake Township, is a group of nineteen mounds. The following plan 
(Fig. 7) shows the manner of grouping : 

Mound 1 is 80 feet, and mound 2 is 100 feet long ; they are each 40 feet 
wide and 2 feet high. Mound 5 differs from other mounds in that a pro- 
jecting arm from the northwest side connects it with a smaller mound. 
All the other members of the group are round, and range in diameter 
from 20 to 50 feet, and in height from 10 inches to 2 feet. Mounds 1 



S32 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY, 



and 2 are on the southern hillside and in the woods. The others are on 
land that has been in cultivation for twenty years, and stand on the top 
of the bluff. The writer made an excavation in 1, but found nothing. 



fM§^^ll0%M 



«#€P^ 



40ffr* 



,*« 



JO 



11 



23 



32 



^9 



^5 





Ji|Jfc#PI 



Fig. 7. — Farr Mounds, Sangamon County, Illinois. 

No particular arrangement of material was noticed. On mound 2 is a 
white-oak stump, 3 feet in diameter, and a standing white-oak tree 

18 inches in diameter. On the end of the bluff where mounds 14 to 

19 stand have been found some very large stone axes, weighing 9 or 10 
pounds. To the north of this group, a quarter of a mile or less, was the 
prairie; on the north side of the bluff, springs ; on the east, a spring 
branch ; on the south, Sugar Creek. 

MUD LAKE MOUND. 



At the south end of Mud Lake, in Clear Lake Township, on the NE. 
^ of the NE. £ Sec. 17, is a mound that may with some propriety be 
called a " connecting link" between the mound builders and the modern 
Indians. It is situated on the bluff 40 or 50 feet above the water, and 



MOUNDS OF SANGAMON COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 833 

about the same distance to the westward of the lake. Originally the 
bluff was covered by a heavy growth of timber, but it has now been 
cleared, and will no doubt soon be in cultivation. Only one mound was 
found, the diameter of which is about 30 feet, aud the height 18 inches. 
The material used in its erection seems to have been camp rubbish, 
broken pottery, bones, shells, &c. Near the mound are several depres- 
sions in the earth from 4 to 8 inches in depth and about 30 feet in di- 
ameter. In the memory of the "oldest inhabitant," Indian wigwams 
have stood over similar depressions. It is not unreasonable to conclude, 
then, that this mound once stood in the center of an encampment of In- 
dians, by whom it was erected through the daily accumulation of rub- 
bish, bones, shells, &c. 

RICARD'S LAKE MOUND. 

Between Spring Creek and a small lake known as Ricard's Lake, in 
Gardner Township, on the SW. ^ of the NW. I Sec. 25, is a mound sit- 
uated on a ridge. The lake is about 200 yards south of the stream, 
and the mound is midway between the two. The diameter of the mound 
is 50 feet and the height 5 feet. The material with which it was built 
was taken from the surface of the earth immediately around the mound. 
If any particular arrangement of the material was attempted it was not 
apparent in the hasty and very imperfect excavation made. At a depth 
of 3 feet, at the center of the mound, two bowls of rude pottery were 
found. They were side by side, and though the settling of the dirt, 
after the completion of the mound, had broken the bottom and sides 
somewhat, it had not overturned them. What they may have contained 
when first buried could not be ascertained from the inspection given 
after exhumation. The excavation was not carried deeper, and no other 
relics were discovered. The ridge on which this mound is located has 
never been cleared, although some of the larger trees have been cut for 
lumber. 

CONVERSE MOUNDS. 

On the west side of Spring Creek, and about a quarter of a mile from 
its junction with the Sangamon River, in Springfield Township, on the 
SE. £ of the NE. ^ Sec. 10, was, at one time, a group of mounds. They 
were situated probably 100 yards back from the stream, on a broad hill- 
side sloping toward the south -and east. The ground has been cleared 
of the forest, and under cultivation so long that almost all traces of the 
mounds have been lost. A' resident of the vicinity, however, assured 
the writer that before the laud was cultivated, and even for some years 
afterward, they were quite prominent. No plan of the group could be 
made. 

EEISCH MOUND. 

On the bluff west of Sangamon River, and a half a mile down the 
stream from the month of Spring Creek, in Springfield Township, on 
the NW. £ of the SE. £ Sec. 3, is a small mound. It is quite probable 
H. Mis. 69 53 



834 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY 

that there was a group of mounds here, but the land lias been under 
cultivation for a number of years, aud all traces of other members of 
the group have disappeared. The one mentioned escaped destruction 
by being too far out on the point to be easily plowed over. This point 
has, however, been prepared for cultivation, and this solitary mound 
will soon "join the innumerable caravan " of mounds that disappears 
through plowing. The diameter of this structure is about 30 feet and 
the height 2 feet. An excavation to the bottom was made, but noth- 
ing except a few pieces of charcoal was found. The material of which 
it was constructed was scraped up from the surface near, and no ar- 
rangement, apparently, was followed in its construction. It was built in 
the woods near the prairie, spring water, and good tillable land. A 
fine flint hoe was found by the writer near it, besides several arrow- 
heads. Many stones may be picked up on the bluff, having one smooth 
surface, and showing the action of fire. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

It is believed that not more than one-third of the mounds of this 
county have been described in the foregoing papers. All have been 
given, however, that have been visited by the writer. He has been in- 
formed that there are many more along the streams in the county, and 
particularly along South Fork, and Horse, Sugar, and Lick Creeks. 
On the farm of Benjamin F. Caldwell, in Chatham Township, on Lick 
Creek, is a group of twenty-five or more. On Cautrall and Richland 
Creeks, in the north part of the county, there are groups ; also on the 
east shore of Clear Lake, in Clear Lake Township. In fact, wherever 
high land is found near good running water a search will, in most in- 
stances, reveal earthworks of the Mound Builders. From the writer's 
knowledge of the county he is of the opinion that there are probably 
one hundred and fifty mounds along the lakes and water-courses within 
its borders. They are singularly barren of relics of the builders, and, 
as compared with the prodigious works of this race found near the large 
streams of the Mississippi Valley, they are small indeed ; still they are 
interesting as part of a great system which could only be incompletely 
studied without some knowledge of its poorer and smaller numbers. 
From the absence of any description it might be supposed that there 
were no work-shops, ancient camping places, or cemeteries in this county, 
but, on the contrary, there are many of each. On every spot of high 
ground, near good water, may be found greater or smaller quantities of 
flint chips, sometimes in such quantities that bushels of them may be 
collected. One field is known near the Sangamon River, where wagon- 
loads of chips may be easily picked up. They are from the peculiar 
dark stone out of which all the axes of this country were made, aud a 
spring branch on one side of the field reveals the fact that the stones 
were taken from its beds and banks. Thousands of pretty smooth ones 
yet remain there. Most of the work-shops, however, were at ancient 



MOUNDS IN SPOON RIVER VALLEY, ILLINOIS 835 

camping places, and white flint was used for arrows, as the flakes show. 
On these spots will also be found blackened stones, arrows, pestles, mor- 
tars, axes, &c, showing that here once stood an aboriginal eucampinent. 
Each plowing of the ground reveals relics, most of which are carried to 
the house and " given to the children to play with." 

Of relics found in this county may be enumerated: Axes, stone and 
copper, arrows, spears, pestles, mortars, pottery, pipes, hoes, spades, 
knives, whetstones, "picks," stone pendants, and flat oval stones with 
holes at each end. While the mounds of this county are very poor in 
relics, the ancient camping places are rich. In the writer's collection is 
an ax found on the field .mentioned that weighs 9£ pounds, and is of 
perfect form. A few miles farther up the river one was found that 
weighs lOi pounds ; it is now in the Illinois State Museum. Near a 
spring on the South Fork of the Sangamon a gentleman dug up a hand- 
some little copper ax, which is in the writer's collection. It is the only 
piece of copper that has so far been found in the county. Axes occur 
of all sizes known to collectors. Arrow and spear heads range from 
three-quarters of an inch to 6 inches in length. The writer has one 
pestle, one mortar, two hoes, and a fine spade. The latter was found 
by a Mr. Dawson, about 100 yards south of the "Dawson Mounds," and 
is 13£ inches in length by 5 J in breadth. It is quite smooth at each end, 
showing that it was used a great deal. . A stone pick was found about 
a mile north of Springfield. It is about inches in length, shaped like 
the common pick without a hole, however, and was probably fastened 
in the usual way by a withe. Only one end of it was ever used. In the 
writer's collection is also a plummet of Missouri iron ore, but it was found 
on Lily Lake, in Fayette County, Illinois. 



MOUNDS IN SPOON RIVER VALLEY, ILLINOIS. 

By W. H. Adams, of Elmore, HI. 

On the north side of Spoon River, 75 yards distant, 80 rods west of 
the east line, and 20 rods south of the north line of Sec. 12, T. 11 N., R. 
43 E., of the fourth principal meridian, is a round mound about 30 feet 
in diameter, called by those in the neighborhood a " hog-back." On the 
highest point of the hog-back, at the surface, is some evidence of fire. 
The evidence of a former fire increases very rapidly. At a depth of 12 
to 16 inches I found five skeletons, nearly all the bones of which were 
calcined by fire, and many of them entirely consumed. One of the 
skulls lay to the north, one to the northwest, one to the southwest, 
one to the south, and one to the northeast. With the bones were frag- 
ments of sandstone burnt red. At or near each skull, and nearly on a 
line between the point of the shoulder and ear, was a water-worn peb- 



830 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ble, except in one instance, and that was an angular piece of flint. 
The pebbles had not been acted upon by the fire, so that they must evi- 
dently have been placed there after the intense heat of the fire had sub- 
sided. From the appearance of the earth, one would be strongly inclined 
to believe that the fire in this instance had been one of unusual intensity. 
Prom the position of the skulls to each other the feet of one body would 
reach to his neighbor's head, if laid at full length. One of the skulls 
was rather thinner than those we usually find in other mounds. Some 
of the teeth evidently belonged to a person of great age. Other of the 
teeth were very small, but I cannot say that they belonged to an in- 
fant. The skulls were in fragments, the largest piece obtained being 
about 2 inches square. 

On another " hog-back," east of the one described, commencing on 
Sec. 12, T. 11, E. 4, E., extending across the NW. corner of Sec. 7, T. 11, 
E. 5, and also some distance on *>ec. 6, T. 11, are thirteen common round 
mounds, varying in height from 18 inches to 5 feet. As far as examined 
these are burial mounds, and in one mound I found nineteen skeletons. 
This mound was 45 feet in diameter, and 5 feet in height. The bones 
in it were in a fair state of preservation. I opened four or five of this 
group, and in each were found pieces of trap-rock from 1£ to 2 inches 
square, pieces of burnt sand-rock, small water- worn pebbles, which I 
supposed to be jasper or something of that character, and in the largest 
mound a very small fragment of red pottery. 

Ou the high bluff between Spoon Eiver and Walnut Creek, on the 
south line of the SE. £ of Sec. 6, T. 11 K, E. 5 E., are three mounds of 
some importance. The first is a common round mound, 3£ feet high, 
with a base diameter of 40 feet. This mound is 3 rods north of the sec- 
tional line between Sec. 6 and 7, and 60 rods west of the east line of Sec. 
6. The land is owned by Mr. Henry Jacques. I opened this mound at 
the apex, and at a depth of 2 feet found quite au amount of ashes ; also 
one piece of trap-rock of irregular shape, about the size of a small 
boy's head, and a hornstone arrow-point of the leaf-shape pattern. 
Eight feet east of this is a mound 62 feet long and 19 feet wide, with 
the greatest length from southwest to northeast. I made a cross-cut 
of this mound at the middle, and in the center found a bed of char- 
coal, 10 inches deep, intermingled with ashes. I also made au opening 
near the east end, and found nothing. Twenty rods east of this, on 
the sectional line, is an oblong mound, measuring 64 feet from west to 
east and 47 feet from north to south, with an apparent height above 
the surrounding level of 3 feet. I made an opening in the center of 
this mound, 4^ feet in diameter, and at a depth of 2 feet I found some 
ashes and fragments of stone, which had been polished, and 3 inches of 
yellow clay. This clay has the appearance of its having been rammed 
or packed while in a plastic state. Below the packed clay is a thin 
stratum of red paint, and below the paint, ashes and paint inter- 
mingled. In this material we found fourteen arrow-points made of 



MOUNDS IN SPOON RIVER VALLEY, ILLINOIS. 837 

hornstone, ail of the leaf pattern except one, and this was 3£ inches in 
length, with notches at the heel, and had the appearance of having been 
used; also a small piece of galena. Six of the arrow-points lay with 
their points to the west, one to the southwest, one to the east, aud one 
to the north. 

There was a slight depression on the surface above the deposit. I 
made an opening 9 feet east of the center, in which we obtained a cop- 
per awl or needle, 3£ inches in length and three-sixteenths of an inch 
square, thick in the middle and sharp-pointed at each end. This cop- 
per implement was inclosed by some material, which, under a micro- 
scope of low magnifying power, hns the appearance of being the bark 
of a tree. This tool lay with' the points southwest and northeast. I 
also found a white flint spear-point or lance-head 4 inches in length and 
1.1 inches wide, without notches at the heel. We found the flint imple- 
ment some 10 inches southwest of the copper, which was surrounded 
by the same red material as the first. 

I made an opening 14 feet west of the center of this mound, and at 
a depth of 3 feet 8 inches I found a copper needle or awl, rounded and 
pointed ; three copper beads one-fourth of an inch in diameter and three- 
sixteenths of an inch in length ; one piece of copper tubing or bead 1 
inch in length, and one-fourth of an inch in diameter; one piece of tub- 
ing or bead three-sixteenths of an inch in diameter and 1 inch in length; 
one piece 1| inches in length aud one-fourth of an inch in diameter ; and 
five other pieces very like those described; also a small fragment of a 
tooth, but I was not able to determine positively the animal to which it 
belonged, but think it belongs to a human being ; also several small flint 
pebbles. 

There are traces of a breastwork or fort commencing at the south- 
western part of this mound, about G to 12 inches in height. Commenc- 
ing at the mound it extends 120 feet to the southwest, thence 07 feet 
south, thence south-southeast 106 feet, thence to bluff of Spoon Eiver 
(bluff 40 feet high), 130 feet from bluff to mound in a straight line SE. 186 
feet. All the arrow-points were finely finished, and far superior to those 
found on the surface of the ground. This mound is 42 rods west of 
Spoon. Eiver. The bluffs here are composed of the usual yellow clay, 
and contaiu very little sand. On the northeast corner of the WW. £ of 
the SE. £ Sec. 5 are three common round mounds, standing in a triangu- 
lar position to each other, with the largest to the north, the next in size 
directly south of it, and the smallest to the east. 

On or near the southwest corner of Sec. 4, T. 11 N. of the base line 
5, east of the fourth principal meridian, are a series of common round 
and long mounds of more importance than any yet discovered in this 
part of Illinois. Commencing at a point near the foot of a long bluff 
and sloping to the south 40 rods north of the south line of Sec. 4, and 
10 rods east of the west line, are three common round mounds. For 
convenience we have numbered these mounds commencing with the 



838 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

most westerly. (The distance is from center to center of round mounds, 
and from end to end of long mounds.) 

From 1 to 2 is 39 feet from center to center; from 2 to 3 is 30 feet 
from center to center; from 3 to 4 is 50 feet from center to center. 

This mound, 80 feet long, with a cross at the end of 33 feet in length, 
is 2 feet high. The cross is 10 feet wide. The main or principal mound 
is 15 feet wide. From No. 4 to No. 5 is 123 feet. No. 5 is a common 
round mound 3 feet high, with a base diameter of 40 feet. From No. 5 
to No. 6 is 53 feet. No. 6 is 98 feet long, 2 feet high, 18 feet wide, with 
the greatest length from southwest to northeast. From No. 6 to No. 7 
is 75 feet, w T est-northwest of No. 6. No. 7, is 104 feet long, 2£ feet high, 
and 18 feet wide, with the greatest length from southwest to northeast. 
From No. 7 to No. 8 is 100 feet. No. 8 is 140 feet long, 3 feet high, and 
20 feet wide. Fifty feet from the south end of this mound is a black- 
oak tree 3 feet in diameter, and standing in the middle of the mound. 
This mound is 100 feet west of the bluff of Spoon Eiver. The bluff is 
40 feet in height at this place and very precipitous. 

In company with Mr. W. J. Morris, I made a crosscut in this mound 
to the original soil. At every spadeful we would bring up flint chips, 
and we found several pieces of trap-rock, some of them polished on one 
side. In accordance with the usual rule here, of computing sixteen 
growths to the inch, I measured on one side of the center of the tree. 
(This is the rule here for black oak.) Around the mound when the 
leaves are off are great quantities of flint chips. 

We made a slight examination of Nos. 6 and 7, and found nothing 
excepting traces of ashes and charcoal. On opening No. 3, at a depth of 

2 feet I found ashes, at 2h feet, 6 to 8 inches of charcoal and ashes, at 

3 feet hard-packed earth. At 3 feet 3 inches 1 found two skeletons 
with all the bones very much decayed excepting the teetb, and these 
were not worn by the owner for probably thirty years. I opened 2 and 
1 and found nothing. All the mounds have the appearance of having 
been built at the same time and by the same people. Spoon Eiver at 
this point is 100 feet wide. I found no depressions from whence the 
material of which these mounds are built was taken. 



ANCIENT RELICS AT DAYTON, OHIO. 

By Aug. A. Foerste, of Dayton Ohio. 

The country west of Dayton is subject to inundation on the part of 
the Miami Eiver during the spring freshets. The city recently con- 
structed levees to protect the land within its corporation, which includes 
some corn-fields extending for a mile along the west bank of the river. 
For this entire distance, the construction of the levee necessitated the 



ANCIENT RELICS AT DAYTON, OHIO. 839 

removal of about 2 feet of the surface earth for quite a distance on either 
side of the embankment. Fragments of pottery were here found by 
Mr. Chester Kiehl, and were readily identified as being Indian work. 
This gentleman invited a few acquaintances to assist him in his excava- 
tion, which led to some interesting results. 

The pottery was found at an almost uniform distance of 3 feet be- 
neath the original surface of the earth, associated with the bones of the 
buffalo, the deer, and the elk, known to have been common in this valley. 
Several human skeletons have also been found, which, at first, led to 
the belief that a burial-ground had been discovered, but the following 
facts induce an opposite opinion : The heaps of ashes were found at a 
uniform depth, and usually contained the pottery, which was mostly in 
fragments. The skeletons were found at the same depth, but were ex- 
tremely few in number when compared with the number of ash-piles 
and pottery and implements found in their vicinity, since the latter 
would necessarily fall under the head of articles buried with the dead 
to be of use in the other world ; however, there were too many relics, 
too scattered, to appear to have been buried there. This was probably 
an ancient village, the tribe of which perished or left, and the place was 
afterwards covered by the heavy sediment of the river during inunda- 
tion. The skeletons are probably those of a later race buried here, or 
those of the old inhabitants whose bodies remained on the ground after 
some great warfare. 

The removal of earth for the levee considerably lightened the labor 
of excavation, and resulted in the finding of more relics than would 
otherwise have been attainable. Some idea of their antiquity may be 
gaiued by learning that they were found 2 feet beneath the surface 
and that more than 2 feet must be added to this depth to make allow- 
ance far the removal of earth for the neighboring levees. 

A large number of mussel shells, belonging to the species of Unio verru- 
cosus, Barnes, were found with holes cut into shell, large enough for 
the introduction of a finger. The valves in this condition were prob- 
ably used as earth and sand scrapers, taking the place of shovels, prob- 
ably also as skin scrapers, for which they are adapted. Placing the finger 
through the hole, and the back of the valve against the palm of the 
hand, it can be held with ease and firmness. Some of the scrapers had 
become calcined by exposure to tire, and were found in an imperfect 
condition throughout the ash layer. 

The carapax of the lady turtle, Chryscmys marginata, was found in 
several instances, the plastron having been removed. In this condition 
it could be used as a drinking (Hip, the handsome green color variegated 
with yellow and red making it a pretty object. Near Cincinnati, the 
shell of this turtle has been found pierced by two holes, which undoubt- 
edly enabled the Indian to use it as a pretty, although cumbersome, or- 
nament. 

A few arrow-heads made of chert were either triangular in shape or 



840 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

of an elongated form arising from a square base. They are made 
of a chert common at Flint Ridge, in the southeastern part of Licking 
County. This station, belonging to the lower coal-measures of the Car- 
boniferous period, consists of a layer of limestone containing many 
quartz crystals and nodules of chert. Tbe latter were sought by the 
Indians far and wide, who came to this station and mined for the chert, 
employing it for their arrow and spear heads. Holes and excavations 
still exist, pointing back to a time when this was the common center, 
for hundreds of miles, of the Indians hordes, intent on the material so 
useful in gaining their sustenance and asserting their sway among the 
native tribes. It was therefore not an unexpected discovery to find 
that the arrow heads above mentioned belonged to the same class of 
cherts as those found at Flint Ridge. 

A few of the bone implements commonly in use by the Indian tribes 
were found. One of the heavy implements made from elk antlers, usu- 
ally called awls, had the larger extremity hollowed out for a distance 
of about 2 inches, and four holes were drilled into this end from oppo- 
site sides, so that the instruments could be conveniently fastened, by 
means of a thong, to a belt or to the wrist. If this instrument, 10 
inches long, with a coarse point, was indeed used as an awl, another 
implement of bone, of the same length, but long, narrow, and quite flat, 
showing at one end that it had once been longer as well as pierced, may 
have formed the needle by means of which the hide was sewed together 
after the awl had done its work. This needle was evidently made from 
the rib of some animal. Another piece of bone, pointed at one end, may 
be called an awl or an eyeless needle. It was only 2 inches long. A 
fractured bone, pointed at one end and about 4J inches long, could 
scarcely have been anything but an awl. Quite a singular implement, 
made of an antler point, rounded and smoothed as well as hollowed out 
at the larger extremity, is without doubt an arrow-point, and the points 
are found in Ohio of any size between 1 and 4 inches. This suggested 
the idea that although the pointed instruments made from elk antlers 
are ordinarily to be considered as awls, the peculiar specimen above 
described may have been used as a spear-head, the holes being useful 
in fastening it to the spear-shaft. 

Marginella apicina, a marine shell, found only in the Gulf of Mexico 
and the neighboring Atlantic, was found about the neck of one of the 
skeletons. About thirty of these handsome little shells were picked 
up which had once formed a necklace in connection with some shell 
beads immediately to be described. The marginellas had been pierced 
by rubbing the apex of the shell obliquely on some stone until the 
chambers of the shell were exposed, after which they could be readily 
threaded. 

The rest of the shell beads show more artistic skill. They are small, 
round, and made from some larger shells, probably the common unios 
of the river. The largest were only one-eighth of an inch large, and the 



ANCIENT EELICS AT DAYTON, OHIO. 841 

smallest about one-tenth of an inch. Of these beads about one hundred 
and seventy five were found. They were generally flat at the ends, the 
plates of shell structure extending lengthwise, the sides were either im- 
perfectly cylindrical or a slight attempt was made toward rounding 
hem off as in modern glass beads. The interesting feature is the man- 
ner in which the holes are drilled. They consist of two concave open- 
ings, one from each end, having the opening towards the center of each 
bead, the narrowest diameter showing that the holes were drilled from 
both sides, the openings meeting in the center. If the hole had been 
drilled from one side alone the form of the opening would have been 
that of a hole large at one end and smaller at the other. 

The only Indian skull which was at all well preserved presented the 
ordinary features of an Indian head. It had a flattening of the occiput 
on the left side of the head, in which it differs from ordinary cases of 
compression where the flattening is regular and exactly on the back of 
the head, not towards either side. Skull flattening is now known to 
be a common practice among the lower types of men ; it is even prac- 
ticed at present near Marseilles, in France,* where it is probably a relic 
of barbarism dating back to the Huns, who themselves obtained it from 
an Asiatic source. The practice is said to be of Mongolian origin, and 
is mentioned by early Greek and Koraan authors. The flattening in 
the present instance was caused by the cradle-board, to which the In- 
dian in his infancy, while his skull was still soft, had been tied. The 
pressure of the hard board upon the soft head caused the flattening. 
The cradle-board is a well-known factor in the Indian's life, and is 
frequent in illustration of the Indian squaw with her dusky pappoose. 

The pottery fragments were quite abundant, especially so in the ashes 
and in their immediate vicinity. The pieces seemed rarely to belong 
together, and no entire pots were found, which would lead to the infer- 
ence that the fragments were the remains of pots accidentally broken, 
the larger pieces being thrown away, the smaller ones remaining in the 
ashes, so that the broken pieces can*rarely be restored. The pottery of 
Indians is well known to have been the work of their women. Its 
quality varied considerably, but in general it may be said to have be- 
come ruder in proportion to the distance of the tribes from Central 
America, the great aboriginal art center. Ohio art is of quite a low 
character, ornamentation being usually restricted to simple geometrical 
figures consisting of parallel lines, either straight or curved, which meet 
each other at various angles. The vast majority received no ornamenta- 
tion whatever, and attempts at figures, human or of animals, are exceed- 
ingly rare. No attempts at glazing were made; in a few specimens a 
gloss is found, due to vitrifaction of the silicious element contained in 
the clay used. No attempt at coloring is apparent, the variation of 
color being due to the soil and materials used, and accidental rather 

* Smithsonian Report, 1859. 



842 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

than intentional. The colors are confined to red, caused by oxides of 
iron j grayish-white, due to the use of "blue clay"; and a very dark 
brown, the clay not being pure, but mingled with vegetable materials. 

The custom of burial in vases seems not to have been practiced by 
the Ohio savage, so that the pottery all belongs to the akeek type. 
The akeek is a vessel rounded at the base and destined for use as a 
sand bath, being placed in the heated sand and ashes, over which a tire 
had previously been kindled. The akeek had, therefore, no use for legs, 
and did not receive any. The edge of the pots generally flared out a 
little, but, to aid the Indian in removing his akeek, he thickened the 
lips at various parts of the circumference and allowed it to project a 
little; this served as a handle. The large and coarser pottery, des- 
tined to be hung over a continued fire, was pierced by holes not far 
from the edge, generally two holes a few inches apart, accompanied by 
a similar set on the opposite side. In some cases little handles are at- 
tached near the lip of the pot, through which cords might be passed. 
Usually these are four in number and are placed at equal distances on 
the edge of the akeek. In this manner the akeeks were readily sus- 
pended from the apex of a tripod formed by branches of trees. In 
vessels not intended for suspension these handles are reduced to one or 
two, which allow a passage of the finger through the ring formed by 
the handle. In those destined for suspension, the handles as well as 
the holes usually do not readily admit the passage of a finger, these 
having evidently been designed only for cords. The necks of all these 
pots are contracted ; many necks end with this contraction, but most 
of them flare out again into something of a lip. A very unique pot, or 
drinking cup, of the former type was found with a depth of about 3£ 
inches, which contracted at the mouth to only 2J inches. Its average 
thickness was about five-sixteenths of an inch, but in order to form the 
lip the edge had been thinned out by pressure between the edge of the 
fingers until it was only two-sixteenths of an inch in thickness. The 
finger marks are still visible. In some cases no attempt at a distinct 
lip was made, the edge of the pot being merely smoothed and rounded 
off. The height in civilization reached by the Indians here concerned, 
however, seemed to require at least a rim to his pot, even if all other 
ornamentations failed. This was formed by doubling back the edge of 
the pot for a short distance so that it formed a somewhat broad ring 
about the upper edge of the pot. This was either left plain or orna- 
mented with the rest of the vessel. 

Ornamentations are usually plain, and even the most elaborate works 
show but little knowledge of proportion in drawing. It may be divided 
into incidental and intentional. The incidental art, although not evinc- 
ing any skill on the part of the Indian as far as artistic matters are con- 
cerned, was none the less effective, and led to a principle in their art 
which showed considerable taste. I refer to the matter of relief. The 
Indian without the aid of a potter's wheel, and relying mainly upon his 



ANCIENT RELICS AT DAYTON, OHIO. 843 

hauds as a potter, took recourse to many a device to form his clay. 
Common in the south was the molding of his work over a gourd and 
then burning out the gourd by means of tire. In the north the clay was 
often molded in a bag made from the coarse fibers of some plant, proba- 
bly from the fibrous bark of some tree. On burning the vessels impres- 
sions were left of the bag, sometimes even of the nature of its woof. In 
a fine specimen found at our diggings even the individual fibers have 
left their impress ; on the other hand apiece found about 7 miles away, 
in a southeasterly directiou, along the same river, shows very plainly a 
seiies of parallel threads a short distance apart, crossed vertically by 
an abundance of threads which are placed side by side. This is the 
plan of some " mound builder's " cloth fouud in the same neighborhood, 
and illustrates the manner of work. Baskets of willow and of wood 
splinters are said to have been used. Some few pieces of pottery found 
with the rest may have been molded in this manner, but the impres- 
sious left are not plain enough to determine this with certainty. On 
the other hand bark impressions are very common, someof which might 
possibly belong to bark-basket work, but a careful study makes me be- 
lieve that most of the bark impressions were made in order to make the 
pot look more beautiful than it would with a plain surface. Basket 
work would require that the impressions should occasionally cross each 
other, which they rarely do. Again, these impressions commonly ap- 
pear about the necks of pots, a place which derives its shape from the 
hand, as may be seen from the delicate curves there necessary, at least 
in the finer pots, and it would be too much to assign this delicateness 
to the forming baskets, especially as the neck is generally smooth, 
owing, no doubt, to contact with the fingers while the neck was being 
molded. Again, the bark marks appear on the rim of the vessels, a 
place usually formed, not in contact with the basket, if there be any, but 
by the fingers. 

The edge of the vessel, according to modern notions of pottery, is 
fashioned last, and after the neck has been contracted. After the edge 
is turned over to form the rim, the inside surface thus exposed forming 
the rim on the outside, should manifestly have no back markings, but 
the contrary is the case. Again, the handle, fashioned by hand and 
afterward stuck on, often has bark markings on the outside of the curve, 
sometimes within. I have been thus explicit in order to show that much 
of this bark-marking is a matter of art, not of accident, and that the 
object was the beautifying of the pot. At any rate, a specimen was 
found in which an attempt of bark imitation was made by means of 
some sharp-pointed instrument, which made the surface look more hand- 
some than a mere bark impression would have done. The lines of this 
instrument intersect each other at angles impossible in bark impres- 
sions of the character here represented. 

The idea of relief having once been gained, it could readily be ap- 
plied in other ways, the most successful being the work on the pots 



844 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

found at La Porte, Iud., in which a relief is produced by the punches of 
a square-pointed stick; against this the lines, curved and of various 
pattern, stand out more beautiful by far than if cut on a plain surface. 
The idea of bark impressions which led to their use as a matter of re- 
lief, did not forbid the drawing of figures on a plain surface when taste 
seemed to require it. 

The geometrical figures on pots are mostly confined to the neck and 
its border or rim. In many cases a mere stick may have been used to 
cut in the lines, but in the best work the clay seems to have been gouged 
out by some pointed instrument, probably by a pointed bone which 
had first been fractured so as to expose the hollow interior, and then 
smoothed down so as to leave a groove at the end. A hollow stick was 
also effectively used to make small circular dots by way of ornament; 
these often left a little elevation in the hole, owing to the softness of 
the pith. The figures themselves may readily be reduced to a few sim- 
ple plans as far as pots discovered near Dayton were concerned. A 
common form is to have various oblique lines met by other oblique 
lines at an angle usually not far from 90 degrees. Another figure was 
to have a series of parallel wavy lines crossed by others of the same 
character. The use of a single wavy line is very rare, and in the case 
discovered was accompanied by a series of dots. The ornaments of 
the border are somewhat similar, allowing also a very effective one, 
made by pressing a stick obliquely against the edge of the rim, as many 
ladies ornament their pies. The dots made as described above were 
placed wherever they were thought to be effective, and often without 
any particular arrangement. Little more can be said of this pottery, 
excepting that the clay was mingled with fine gravel-sand, pounded 
quartz rocks, pounded gneiss, containing abundance of mica, more rarely 
with pounded shells. This practice is well known to have been done 
with a desire to prevent cracking and fracturage during the baking 
process. The finest and thinnest pottery is about one-eighth of an inch 
thick, and contains only fine particles; the coarsest and thickest pot- 
tery is often one-half of an inch thick, and contains coarse pieces of 
quartz, sometimes an eighth of an inch to three-sixteenths in diameter. 



MOUNDS IN BUTLER COUNTY, OHIO. 

By J. P. MacLean, of Hamilton, Ohio. 

Butler County, Ohio, is situated in the southwestern part of the State, 
and joins the State of Indiana. Through it passes the Great Miami 
River in a southerly direction. It contains numerous remains of that 
people known as the "Mound Builders," among which are not less than 
two hundred mounds, varying in height from 18 inches to 43 feet. 



MOUNDS IN BUTLER COUNTY, OHIO. 845 

These mounds and the general surface of the country have afforded not 
less than two hundred thousand implements belonging to prehistoric 
times, and every succeeding year adds to the number. When it is con- 
sidered that the county contains but 291,000 acres, including waste 
land caused by streams and wood-land, the yield of implements must 
be regarded as remarkable. The plow turns up a vast number every 
year, as though the supply was undiminished. 

The tumuli, located on the second and third river terraces, have never 
been systematically explored. The plow has been instrumental in turn- 
ing out many relics from the mounds, and curiosity-seekers have obtained 
many specimens by digging into them, but without taking note of the 
layers forming the tumuli. Most of the relics have been taken near the 
surface of the mound, and consistofarrowand spearheads, axes, pestles, 
mortars, pottery, &c. A mound* situated in Fairfield Township was 
partially taken down ; and in removing the earth there was found a thin 
copper breast plate,t 5^ inches long, and 3| inches wide at one end, and 
4£ inches at the other. Near the center are two perforations an inch 
apart, broader on one side than on the other. The implement was ham- 
mered out cold. One side is partially covered with verdigris. From 
one of the three mounds on the commanding hill in section 9, Saint- Clair 
Township, there was plowed up, in 1855, four copper hatchets, G to 9 
inches long, and 4 to 2 inches wide. From a mound (location not now 
known) James McBride procured the representation of the head of a 
bird,f somewhat resembling the toucan. It was made out of clay, and 
seemed originally to have been attached to some vessel. 

A few of the mounds have been entirely removed and the contents 
noted. In grading for the Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton Eailroad, 
it was found necessary to cut through the large mound in section 11, 
Madison Township. This mound was not only cut in two through the 
center, but the grade of the road-bed went below the original surface 
of the ground. At the bottom of this tumulus and under the apex were 
found human bones and chert implements. With the bones was found 
cloth. The cloth had the appearance of having enveloped the skeleton. 
The fabric was composed of some material allied to hemp, and the sep- 
aration between the fiber and the wood was as thorough as at this day 
by the process of rotting and hackling. During the year 1881 I exam- 
ined some of this cloth, then in the possession of Thomas Doner, a drug- 
gist, of Dayton, Ohio. I found the thread to be coarse, uniform in size, 
and regularly spun. In grading for a roadway in Wayne Township, it 
was found necessary to cut away the greater portion of a mound in section 
24. At the base of the mound occurred a human skeleton in an extended 
position. Lying upon the chest of the skeleton was a spear-head, com- 
posed of blue chert, nearly 6 inches in length and 2 inches in width 

* Ancient monuments of the Mississippi Valley, Plate xxx, No. 1. 
t Figured in "Mound Builders," page 164. 
t Ancient monuments, page 194. 



846 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

just below the barbs, the whole being symmetrical. Mr. Richard Brown 
removed a mound in Ross Township, and beneath the mound and under 
the original surface of the ground he found a badge of authority* com- 
posed of cannel-coal. It is perfectly symmetrical and finely finished. 
The two wings are divided into halves by a ridge extending the whole 
length of the implement. At the corners of the wings are knobs. At 
the center it is narrow, thick, and arched, but broad at the wings; the 
extreme length being 8| inches and the greatest width 3| inches. Near 
the center are two perforations 1£ inches apart, the greater diameter of 
the perforations being on the under side. 

Many skeletons have been taken from the mounds. In some cases 
several have been found together, forming a circle, the crania being 
at the center. Tbe cranium taken from an ash-pit in a mound in 
Liberty Township fell into my possession, and in due time I presented 
it to the Smithsonian Institution. It was in a perfect state of preser- 
vation, and exhibited all the characteristics constituting Indian crania. 

Under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, I undertook the 
examination of some of the tumuli during the summer of 1883. The 
first to examine was the group located on Sec. 21, Ross Township. This 
group is figured in "Ancient Monuments," page 170. Although I had 
visited this group on a previous occasion, I had yet never examined 
them carefully until July 25, 1883, when, in company with Hon. W. H. 
Harr, judge of probate, I commenced an exploration. The mounds as 
represented in " Ancient Monuments " are not as we found them. We 
noticed that/, e, and d (see Fig. 1), are still to be seen, although/ has 
been plowed down ; but as the composition of the mound is different 
from the surrounding surface it is plainly visible. As to b and c there 
is no trace whatever. The soil gives not the least indication that there 
had ever been there two mounds. If composed of either clay or ashes 
or both, it would seem that some trace would be left. Years of cul- 
tivation would as easily have obliterated / as b and c. There is no 
just reason why g and h should have been left out of the plan, for 
evidently they constitute a part of the group. When surveyed origin- 
ally the five small mounds surrounding the large one ranged from 4 to 
10 feet in height ; the largest of the five would now hardly reach 4 feet. 
The mound g is 449 feet easterly south of the largest of the group, and 
has an altitude of 7 feet, by 65 feet diameter at the base. At a distance 
of 220 feet southeast of g is the mound h, 6 feet high by 50 feet diameter 
at the base. 

This group is located 6 miles southwest of Hamilton, on an irregular 
tract of land, constituting the highest point in the township. Declivi- 
ties present themselves on every side. The largest mound of the group 
is 26 feet high, and from its summit a fine view, extending many miles 
in every direction of the surrounding country can be obtained. About 

* Figured in "Mound Builders," page 167. 



MOUNDS IN BUTLER COUNTY, OHIO. 847 

the year 1S20 a shaft was sunk into this mound by treasure-seekers, in 
hopes to find a chest of money. The tunnel was started on the north 
side about half way up the slope, and ran downwards at an angle of 
thirty-five degrees for a distance of 30 feet, when the center was reached, 
from which point it was carried eastwardly several feet. It was related 
at the time of the excavation that the center gave the appearance of 
having once been a hut formed of leaning timbers. Within this vault 
were found a stone back-wall, coals, ashes, and human bones. The 
mound is now being removed in order to make fills in the field. The 
material is being taken from the east side. At this point is a perpen- 
dicular side of 10 feet. The explored earth shows a large percentage 
of ashes, the face having a whitish color. 

After taking a complete survey of the mounds we concluded to open 
mound c. Into it we dug a trench 32 teet long and 3 feet wide, and sink- 
ing it to the original surface or undisturbed earth. We commenced at 
the east side and ran the drift west, bearing a little to the south. Six 
inches below the surface of the mound we struck a bed of fine ashes. 
At the southwest side we came upon a circular bed of ashes 41 inches 
in depth. Within this bed and irregularly distributed were small 
pieces of charcoal and occasional small burned limestone pebbles. Near 
the bottom of the bed, or 50 inches below the apex of the mound, were 
two separate pieces of fire-baked clay, both of which appeared to be 
regular in shape but were destroyed by the pick. One of them had 
been regularly bored, the aperture not extending through, and point- 




• 9 



Fig. 1. — Group of Mounds, Ross Towuship, Ohio. 

ing at the bottom as though bored by some large gimlet. Near by was 
a burnt limestone inches wide, 7 long, and one-half thick. No other 
stones, save pebbles, were seen. That this mound had never been 
opened before was witnessed by the innumerable traces of roots which 
we saw everywhere in the trench. 

The mounds (j and h presented evidence that they had been recently 
opened. Upon inquiry we learned that they had been excavated dur- 
ing the fall of 1882. No relics were taken from either mound. Below 
the apex, and upon the original surface of the ground, occurred in each 
an altar, composed of stone, 3 feet in diameter and circular in form, 
with a depression in the center. In the center of the altar of g was a 



848 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



large broken bowlder, covered by a layer of fine ashes. Within this 
bed of ashes was a large charred piece of wood. 

A ditch,/ /, is easily traced, which seems to have escaped all pre- 
vious observers. Whether it was the intention to carry this ditch around 
the cluster of mounds, or was simply a depression left after excavating 
for the earth in order to construct the mounds, it would be difficult to 
tell. Between the mounds e and g there is quite a depression extending 
from the northeast to the southwest, as though it had been purposely 
hollowed out. The ditch does hot seem to be accidental, for it is not 
only placed a little above the deepest part of the depression but its 
curve is regular. It might be fair to conclude that the ditch was an 
afterthought, and it was the final intention to carry a circular wall 
around the group, excluding g and h. 

In Ancient Monumeuts of the Mississippi Valley, Plate xi, Fig. 3, is a 
representation of an earthwork washed by the Great Miami, a descrip- 
tion of which occurs ou page 30. In the diagram is a mound marked 
" 10 feet high." On the 7th and 8th days of August, 1883, with suffi- 
cient help, I opened this mound. A general survey of the inclosure 
shows it to be rolling, with prominent knolls here and there. The 
whole field was matted with a very heavy growth of clover. The land 
is exceedingly fertile. From the productions of this one field, a large 
family of children was brought to the years of maturity. The soil is 
black loam mixed with sand. At almost any point fragments of pottery 
may be picked up. This pottery is composed of burnt clay intermingled 
with crushed fragments of the shell of the unio. 

The mound does not lie in the place it is put in Ancient Monuments, 
but is farther removed from the river. The excavation was commenced 
from the north side at the point y (Fig. 2), and carried to the bottom of 




9 e 

Fig. 2. — Mound iu Fort, Ross Township, Ohio. 

the mound d. The treuch is 35 feet long, 4 wide, and at the center 
of the structure 9 feet deep. Before commencing the mound proper, 
the builders scooped away the earth, forming it in the manner of a 
basin. Immediately upon this basin was placed a layer of sand con- 
taining charcoal. Over this was placed a layer of charred bark 1 inch 
in thickness. The fiber of the bark was very coarse, and in places 



MOUNDS IN BUTLER COUNTY, OHIO. 849 

gave evidence that large sheets had been peeled from the tree, then 
charred, and, unfolded, spread upon the previous layer. The charred 
bark was continuous, though not extending out as far as d. This 
charred bark was found to be rotten. The first measurements were 
taken at/e, the depth of the trench at this point being 8 feet, the point 
being removed from the place of beginning 17J feet. Upon the layer 
of charred bark was one composed of fine charcoal and sand 6 inches 
thick, c. Over that was placed a layer of charcoal 1 inch thick. Over- 
laying that was a deposit of fine-grained sand 4 inches thick, which 
in turn wag covered by a layer of sand and ashes, o, 7 inches deep. 
Thence a deposit of sand 16 inches thick, p, over which was a layer 
of ashes 2 inches deep, s. Upon this was a formation of ashes inter- 
mingled with sand 30 inches deep. Over all was a layer of made soil 
more or less mixed with sand. 

From h to /as we descended careful observations were taken. Upon 
the top of the mound and extending through the layer of made soil 
were loose limestone, some of which were as large as one man would 
wish to handle. All showed evidences of fire. The next course was 
composed of ashes containing both soil and sand, u. Within this for- 
mation was the altar i, composed of burnt limestone 3 feet in diameter 
and circular in form. Upon this altar were charred fragments of the 
horn of a deer. Other bones of the deer also occurred, none of which 
had been split open. With these remains were a fragment of pottery 
and an implement made of bone and one of horn, the last being charred. 
Some of the stone had been so thoroughly burned as to break in pieces 
on being lifted from the bed. Immediately below the altar was a layer, 
j, of red and matted ashes. From this point and extending to the bot- 
tom, and resting upon a layer, s, of ashes was a bed of ashes mixed 
with charcoal and sand. At various points in the excavation occurred 
fragments of bowlder, which had been broken after being polished. 
More of these fragments occurred near the center and bottom than at 
the surface. Similar fragments may be picked up in the adjoining field. 
No bones occurred elsewhere than on the altar, save in one instance. 
About eight years ago a relic hunter took out a human skull at x. What 
was done with it, or what were its characteristics I was unable to learn. 

The walls of the inclosure, within which is the above mound, removes 
a natural elevation, which has been taken for a tumulus. It is a gravel 
mound, and belongs to the drift period. From the apex of this eleva- 
tion some twenty years ago, were taken five human skeletons. The 
skeletons radiated from a center, the heads forming the inner circle. 
The remains were in a good state of preservation. No one took pains 
to secure them. 

It might be well to notice, in order to be of service to investigators 
in other departments, that we saw clover roots extending into the 
mound perpendicularly a distance of three feet. Also 7 feet below the 
apex of the mound we saw a nest containing the common brown ant. 
H. Mis. 09 54 



850 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



The next objective point was a mound close to a fort* on section 
12, lloss Township, marked a in Fig. 3. This mound was examined on 




Fig. 3.— Fortified hill, Butler County, Ohio. 

August 14, 1883. It is'located 400 feet south of the gateway B, and is 
semi-circular in form, the concave part facing east. It is 70 feet long 
and 32 feet wide at the base. Its summit is 30 feet long and 12 feet 
wide. Until quite recently it was covered with forest trees, but not of 
large growth. At the northern extremity I sunk a trench at c d (Fig. 
4), and ran it into the mound in a southerly direction a distance of 16 









Fig. 4. — Mound ou fortified hill, Ross Township, Ohio. 

feet. At h n the depth was 5 feet. In the work we were constantly 
impeded by roots and masses of rootlets that everywhere occurred. 
The mound was covered by clay and compact soil to a depth of 2 feet. 
Under this was a layer of burnt limestone irregularly placed together. 
Under the limestone we came upon at a a portion of a human skel- 
eton, imbedded in the layer or bed of ashes marked A*. The skeleton 
was in an extended position, the feet pointing toward the northwest. 
It appeared to be lying partially on the right side, with the left arm 
thrown over the body. I worked with great care in order to ob- 
tain these bones whole, using my pen-knife entirely in lifting them 
from the bed, but succeeded only in obtaining the right humerus en- 
tire. The left femur had been broken off near the lower extremity. 

* Ancient Monuments, Plate vii. 



EARTH-WORK IN HIGHLAND COUNTY, OHIO. &51 

The bones secured were the femora humeri, the left radius, pelvis, and 
fragments of ribs. No cranium or backbone could be found. None of 
the bones would admit of scientific investigation, save the right hume- 
rus and left radius. The former is 12$ inches in extreme length. 

Under the ash-bed were three layers of partially burned limestone, 
the three layers being 15 inches thick. The stone was regularly put 
together having the edges to fit so that no break appeared. Nothing 
occurred between the three layers. The bottom layer was placed upon 
the original surface of the ground. The stone was of good quality and 
still could be used for buildiug purposes. 

OTHER EXPLORATIONS. 

I personally opened three mounds in Franklin Township, Warren 
County, Ohio. One of these occurred on section 23, northwest quarter, 
on the land of James McLane. The mound is removed 2£ njiles from the 
Great Miami and located on the side of the rise of ground from the sec- 
ond to the third river terrace. It has a commanding view of the coun- 
try to the northwest, and from which a light on the great mound at 
Miamisburg could be seen. The mound, to my certain knowledge, has 
been plowed over for the last twenty-nine years. It is low, and covered 
with a clayey soil mixed with sand. The apex is not over 2 feet above 
the general surface. Under the made land I struck an ash-bed 3 feet 
thick, considerably mixed with charcoal. In this bed I found a barbed 
spear-head, 3 inches long, made out of a bluish-gray chert. 

On the southwest quarter, section 22, on the land of George McLean, 
between the Franklin and Red River turnpike and the township line, 
are two mounds, one 6 feet and the other 4 feet in height. Both of 
these I opened, but in each was only an unstratified ash-bed, mixed 
with charcoal. 

The three mounds above described are isolated. There is no evidence 
that they were used either for signal or sepulchral mounds. From the 
two latter a good view of the country in any direction could be ob- 
tained, althoughrlocated upon the third river terrace. Had they been 
placed one-sixteenth of a mile farther north, a commanding view of the 
Great Miami River would have been obtained. 



AN EARTH-WORK IN HIGHLAND COUNTY, OHIO. 

By J. P. MacLean, of Hamilton, Ohio. 

In company with Lafayette Ferris, on the 21st of July, 1883, I made 
a survey of an inclosure in Salem Township, Highland County, Ohio, 
located 1£ miles southwest of the village of Pricetown. It is covered 
with forest trees of the same variety and growth as those found in the 
immediate vicinity. On top of the embankment, at the point n in the 



852 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



figure, is a beech tree, measuring 10 feet in circumference at 3 feet 
above the ground. On the larger mound, I, is a decayed stump of what 
was once a large tree. From a to b, in a straight line, is a distance of 
447 feet. Along this side of the inclosure is no artificial elevation. 




Sketch of earth-work iu Highland County, Ohio. 

The small stream o once washed against this side and formed an irregu- 
lar embankment 12 feet high, with a steep declivity. From b to c the 
artificial embankment skirts along the brow of the hill, has no accom- 
panying ditch, and extends a distance of 19U feet. On the exterior of 



MOUNDS IK BERRlEtt COUNTY, GEORGIA. 853 

the embankment, from e to d, is a ditch 312 feet long. At d is a wash 
which has taken place since the work was abandoned. From d to e is 
a distance of 192 feet. The wall /-# is removed inwards, owing to the 
irregularity of the land* It is 48 feet long and has no accompanying 
ditch. The gateway e-fis 25 feet wide, and that at </^/t, 04 feet. At 
the latter gateway the land rapidly descends, and there is a small 
stream passing through it. That this is not a washout is proved by 
the fact that the wall h-i with its accompanying ditch, extends down 
the declivity a distance of 14 feet. This would also show that the de- 
pression, for the most part, was there at the time when the wall was con- 
structed. From h toj, is a distance of 424 feet. At i the stream p has 
encroached upon the wall, carrying a portion of it for a distance of 15 
feet. The stream at this point is 32 feet below the embankment, pre- 
senting a perpendicular face, and is still encroaching upon the inclosure. 
Atj-k is another washout. From Jc to a is a distance of 480 feet. The 
entire embankment has an average height of 3 feet and a base 24 feet 
in width. The accompanying ditch is 10 feet wide, with an average 
depth of 14 inches. At a distance of 288 feet from * is the large mound 
I, feet in height and 00 feet in diameter at the base. It is encroached 
upon by the small mound m, 4 feet high and 42 feet in diameter at the 
base. The former has been partially opened, but no relics have been 
discovered. 



MOUNDS IN BERRIEN COUNTY, GEORGIA. 

By William J. Taylor, of Alapaha, Ga. 

The Alapaha mound is situated 5 miles northeast of the town of 
Alapaba, on Alapaha River, on lot of laud No. 328, fifth district of 
Berrien County, Georgia. It is 38 feet across, feet above the level, 
and somewhat oval in shape. In the center of the mound was a burial 
vault feet deep, 3 feet wide, and feet long, north and south. Two 
bodies were deposited in this vault with the heads pointing south. 
From the appearance at the time of exploration the bodies had been 
deposited in the vault and then covered up with a large quantity of 
ashes and pine coals. The bones were very much decayed, and no im- 
plements were found with them. 

The Withlacoochee mound is situated 5 miles south of Nashville, on 
lot of land 278, in the tenth district of Berrien County. The dimensions 
are 18 feet base diameter and 3 feet in depth. No relics were found in 
this mouud, and even the bones were so far decayed that it was impos- 
sible to tell the mode of burial. 

Reedy Creek mound is situated 10 miles northeast of the town of 
Alapaha, on Reedy Creek, on lot of land No. 24, in the fifth district of 



854 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Berrien County. There was a vault, or dug hole, 5 feet long, 3 feet wide, 
and li feet deep in the center of the mound, in which the bodies were 
burnt and afterwards covered. On this covering was a burnt mass 3 
feet deep and 20 feet in diameter. This had been covered up and the 
burning process repeated. The dimensions of the mound were 48 feet 
base diameter, and 6 feet in depth. No relics were found. 

The French Ferry mound is situated on lot of land No. 415, in the 
tenth district of Berrien County, 10 miles south of Nashville, 7 miles 
southeast of Adell post-office. These two mounds are 1 mile down the 
river from the ferry, in a red-oak thicket, on a hillside facing south. 
The earth for the structure was obtained 30 yards diagonally up the 
hill. The work was built around a pine stump. No. 1 is of yellow sand 
mixed with gravel and rock. In the middle was a mass of charcoal 
mixed with the earth. No relics were found. 



MOUNDS AND SHELL HEAPS ON THE WEST COAST OF 

FLORIDA. 

By S. T. Walker, of Milton Fla. 

During the past two years the explorations of the mounds and shell 
heaps on the western coast of Florida have been continued, and many 
of the principal remains left by the aborigines between Hillsborough 
County on the south and Pensacola Bay on the west have been located, 
thus connecting the work with that done in 1879, a full report of which 
may be found in the Smithsonian Report for that year. These explora- 
tions were necessarily confined to the coast lines, or to such points as 
could be reached by the rivers. In no case, however, were they pushed 
very far above the influence of the tide. 

On the accompanying map of Pensacola Bay and vicinity (Map 1) 
all the principal mounds and shell heaps may be seen at a glance. The 
mounds are generally quite small and were nearly all erected for domi- 
ciliary purposes. The shell heaps are also small in comparison with ' 
those of Tampa Bay. The long residence of white men in this portion 
of the State has tended to obliterate all traces of aboriginal occupancy 
except the larger mounds and shell heaps, and, besides these, but little 
remains of their works excepting an occasional arrow-head or a frag- 
ment of broken pottery. This is especially the case in the immediate 
neighborhood of Warrington and Pensacola. 

It is probable that there was a large Indian population around the 
northern end of Escambia Bay and about the mouth of Escambia River, 
as many relics have been obtained in that region. 

At the former site of the old village of Florida Town, in the vicinity of 
Ferry Pass, a large stone mortar was found weighing 157 pounds. This 
singular utensil is formed out of a coarse sandstone which is still quite 



MOUNDS IN WEST FLORIDA. 855 

S. T. Walker. Florida. Smithsonian Report; 1883. 




Map 1. — Pensacola Bay and vicinity, Florida. 



856 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



abundant at Acadia, about 4 miles east of the place where the mortar 
was found. The marks of an iron or steel tool are plainly visible on this 
mortar, and seem to point to the agency of the white man in its manu- 
facture, while its peculiar shape is characteristic of the savage artisan. 
Mr. Silas Jernagin, from whom this interesting relic was obtained, first 
.saw it in the year 1828, at the house of a person who stated that it was 
found in a neighboring hammock many years previous to that time. As 
the latter person is dead, the precise facts in relation to its discovery 
cannot be obtained. The mortar is now in the Smithsonian Institution, 
and competent archaeologists may be able to decide the matter. It was 
probably fashioned by an Indian, who had obtained an irou tool from 
the Spaniards, and who had gotten some idea of stone-cutting from 
communication with them. 

At the head of Escambia Bay there are numerous small shell heaps, 
but no large mounds are encountered until a place is reached 1 mile north 
of Garcon Point, the southern extremity of the peninsula dividing Es- 
cambia and Blackwater Bays. Here are three large shell heaps situated 



BLACKWATER BAY. 



Johnl}rown!s . 



JUscriban o Po in tA 




Map 2. — Escribano Point, Florida. 

in a small held about 200 or 300 yards from the water. They are quite 
regular in shape, and were probably used for domiciliary purposes. No 
relics were obtained here except a few fragments of broken pottery. A 
short distance from these mounds is a burial place, but as the evidences 



MOUNDS IN WEST FLORIDA. 



857 



of its Indian origin were wanting, it was not disturbed, on the suppo- 
sition that it was formerly a Spanish burial place made by early set- 
tlers. 

No other Indian remains are on this peninsula excepting a small 
mound in Gilotown, which is of doubtful origin, as extensive digging 
brought to light no evidences of Indian occupation. At Escribano 
Point, however, on the eastern shore of the bay and about 7 miles be- 
low Milton, tbere is abundant evidences of 'a large Indian population. 
This point was in every way suitable for aboriginal settlement, as the 
numerous oyster beds in the vicinity afforded an inexhaustible supply 
of that favorite food, while the existence of shoal water along the shore 
for several miles was peculiarly favorable for shooting and spearing 
fish. It is quite probable that there was a large town or village at this 
place, and that large numbers of people resorted to it for the pur- 
pose of obtaining fish and oysters. Immense quantities of broken pot- 
tery are strewn over the ground, and all the usual evidences of Indian 
occupation are present; but the most important circumstance in connec- 
tion with Escribano Point is the discovery of a new and singular mode 
of burial, which was practiced by the former inhabitants of this region. 
Fig. 1 gives a pretty good representation of this peculiar mode of bur- 




Fig. 1. — Mode of interment at Escribano Point, Florida. 

ial in section. It seems that the body was first deposited in a grave four 
or five feet in depth and covered with earth. Upon this, oyster shells 
and pine wood were piled in large quantities ; the heap was then set on 
fire, and the lime resulting from the burning of the oyster shells mixing 



858 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

with the sand, formed, when melted, a strong slab of cement over the 
grave. The rosin from tbe wood also assisted in the formation and the 
penetration of the loose sand to a depth of two or three feet below the 
lime formed a very effective covering for the grave. 

Tbese slabs are of all sizes, from 6 to 12 feet in diameter, and are 
from 2 to 4 feet in thickness. Evidences of intense and long-continued 
beat are plain in every case. The slabs are from 6 inches to 1 foot 
below the present surface of the soil, and were accidentally discovered 
in plowing the field. Ten or twelve were located by sounding with an 
iron rod, all in the area of 2 or 3 acres. Some time previous to the 
exploration above mentioned a complete skeleton had been washed out 
of the bluffs on the northern shore; but portions of the indurated sand 
slab are still in sight in the bank, and many fragments lay in tbe water 
at the base of the bluff. One of these pieces had some rude carvings 
of arrow or spear-heads cut into the surface. The fragment having 
these marks upon it seemed to be formed by the union of pine tar or 
pitch with sand, and was quite soft. 

The field in which these graves are located was in cultivation at the 
time, and it was almost impossible to dig witbout disturbing the grow- 
ing crop. Fortunately a grave was found at the intersection of two 
walks, and the penetration of the cement discovered portions of a hu- 
man skeleton, very much decayed, and quantities of broken pottery. 
Tbe work, however, was extremely laborious, owing to the hardness of 
the cement and its great thickness. The tenant on the place stated 
that he started a well near his door, and that on penetrating a slab he 
came upon a human skeleton, whereupon he filled up the well and dug 
in another place. About half a mile north of Escribano Point there is 
a small sand mound, but it contains no relics. 

From this point the waters of East Bay continue very shallow for a 
considerable distance from the shore: oyster banks are numerous, and 
the beach is covered with shells and broken pottery. At the mouth of 
East Eiver the shell heaps increase in size, and there are several quite 
large and of irregular shape. On the north bank of the East Eiver, 
and about 1 mile from its mouth, there is a small earth mound 4 or 5 
feet high and about 75 feet in diameter. The mound is situated within 
a short distance of the Mormon church, and as religious services were 
in progress at the time no examinations were made. On the opposite 
bank of the river, beginning in the field of Mr. Axelson, there are hun- 
dreds of shell heaps of various sizes, which extend along" the shores for 
nearly a mile. No doubt this is the site of an ancient village. Imme- 
diately in the rear of Mr. Axelson's residence, on the slope of a hill, at 
the foot of which is an excellent spring, is a large quadrangle formed 
by shell banks, which evidently marks the site of an Indian village. 
Numerous arrow heads and other relics have been obtained here, and 
no doubt many more will be brought to light as the lands are cultivated. 



MOUNDS IN WEST FLORIDA. 859 

Westward, along the shores of East Eiver, are found great numbers of 
small sbell heaps of all sizes in the hammock. 

West of the mouth of the river, near the residence of Colonel Hooper, 
is the site of another village. This was situated on the banks of a small 
bayou, and numerous small mounds mark the position of many houses 
or wigwams. Excavations in these mounds revealed the situations of 
their fires and fragments of pottery and the usual refuse of culinary 
operations. Some years ago several skeletons were unearthed here by 
the plow. Altogether there is conclusive evidence of there having 
been a large population at the mouth of East River, and that there 
were probably two, or perhaps three, permanent villages located there. 

Proceeding still westward along the peninsula between Pensacola Bay 
and Santa Eosa Sound, the next mounds are about 4 miles east of Eed- 
fish Point. Upon the bluffs here are two mounds, each about 12 feet 
high, constructed entirely of sand. Two days spent in digging revealed 
no objects of interest. Between these large mounds and Eedfish Point 
many low circular mounds are scattered along the center of the penin- 
sula. These mounds are mere elevations from 2 to 4 feet high, with 
bases from 50 to 200 feet in diameter, and, judging from the nature of 
the country, which is low and marshy, they were intended for residences. 

About 1£ miles east of Eedfish Point, at a place called Forty-nine 
Pines, are two earth mounds, one of which is 5 feet high and 80 feet in 
diameter ; the other has every appearance of having been left in an 
unfinished condition. The larger mound was trenched carefully, but no 
objects of interest were found. There are many small shell heaps in the 
vicinity, and several objects were obtained from persons living near. 
From this place to Town Point, the western extremity of the peninsula, 
there are but few traces of Indian occupation. 

Santa Eosa Sound is a stretch of water 35 miles in length, connecting 
Pensacola Bay and Choctawhatcbee Bay. The sound is very narrow, 
and does not exceed 2 miles in width at the widest part. The traces of 
aboriginal residence along this body of water are nearly all confined to 
the mainland side. If Santa Eosa Island ever contained any mounds, 
the shifting sands have long since covered every trace of them. In 
proceeding east the first shell heaps are met with at Dr. Botherford's 
place, about 2 miles east of the old Government Live Oak Plantation. 
Immense beds of shell and the usual indications mark this as the former 
residence of a large population. The slopes of the hills are covered 
with irregular beds of shell from 2 to G feet in thickness, which occupy 
an area of several acres. The beds contain large quantities of broken 
pottery and numerous implements made of shell. At this place was 
secured the first specimen of a clay image found in this section, a frag- 
ment of a rude imitation of a bird's head. 

Shell heaps occur at various points between this place and Wheeler's 
Spring, G miles west of Mary Esther post-office. At Wheeler's Spring 



8G0 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

two earth mounds of small size are found, neither of which is of special 
interest. 

Having thus briefly described the principal remains around Pensacola 
Bay and vicinity, let us turn to Choctawhatchee Bay, a map of which 
is presented. It is almost certain that the aborigines lived around 
these waters in vast numbers. Every cove and headland that is hab- 
itable was occupied; all points possessing unusual advantages for hunt- 
ing and fishing were densely peopled, and at several points towns of 
considerable size existed. There is hardly an acre of ground on the 
entire coast line of this bay that does not contain some evidence of 
aborigiual existence or occupation. These people seem also to have 
advanced somewhat beyond their brethren of less favored regions in 
the arts, for it is here that we find the first attempt to model images or 
figures in clay. Some of these figures are extremely rude, but others 
are no mean representations of the objects they are intended to imitate. 
The object of these images or the uses to which they were put is not 
evident. Most people who have expressed an opinion of them regard 
them as idols or objects of worship, but it would better accord with 
Indian customs to regard them as family totems. 

The southern shores of Choctawhatchee Bay and the region about 
the Narrows where Santa Bosa Sound leaves that bay were peculiarly 
suited for the support of a large population. From these points the 
Gulf shores are easy of access, and the shoal waters of the bay and 
sound furnished inexhaustible quantities of fish and oysters. Several 
large fresh-water lakes inland were swarming with fish, and game is 
still plentiful throughout the entire region. Two points seem to have 
been selected by the aborigines as sites for large towns, and both were 
located on points or peninsulas surrounded by shoal water, a condition 
necessary for this peculiar mode of fishing. 

The first and larger of these two towns was situated on the northern 
shores of Santa Rosa Sound, where it enters Choctawhatchee Bay. The 
sound here is only about one-fourth of a mile in width, and navigation 
is obstructed by numerous bars and shoals, which were once covered 
by oyster beds, though at present the oyster is entirely extinct in both 
bay and sound. On the east is Choctawhatchee Bay, and northwest 
lies a large branch of Garnier's Bayou. Several bold springs of excellent 
water break out of the bluffs, and a small fresh-water stream empties 
into the sound here and once passed through the center of the town. 
The largest mound and shell heaps are situated near this stream and in 
the neighborhood of the finest of the springs. The position of the 
largest domiciliary mound in this portion of the State is marked by a 
large shell heap on the bluffs above the largest spring. This shell 
heap, which was converted into a fort by the Southern army during the 
civil war, is about 12 feet high, with a base about 200 feet in diameter. 
About 400 yards nearly due north of this heap, situated in a dense 
thicket of bushes and small trees, is the mound in question. It is cov- 



MOUNDS IN WEST FLORIDA. 8G1 

S. T. Walker. Florida. Smithsonian Report ; 1883. 




MAP 3.— Choctawhachee Bay, Florida. 



862 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ered with a growth similar to that around it, and so dense and tangled 
is the growth of vines, briers, and bushes upon it that it is difficult 
either to measure or explore it. Its estimated height is 25 feet, its 
length 250 feet, and its width 135 feet. The measurements were taken 
along the top, which is nearly level ; of course, the base is much greater. 
The sides are very steep, and on the south side is a sloping roadvfay 
leading to the top. 

Many excavations have been made from time to time by curiosity- 
seekers, and during the civil war Dr. Sandrum, of Milton, Fla., who 
belonged to the company which was stationed at the shell fort, made ex- 
plorations through a period of eleven months. I cannot learn that any- 
thing of importance has been found excepting human bones in the shell 
stratum beneath the sand. Dr. S. S. Forbes, of Milton, also visited this 
mound in company with some gentlemen from the North, and made sev- 
eral large excavations in it. He reports the finding of human bones in 
the shell stratum, but the skulls were so decayed that preservation was 
not possible. Dr. Forbes also obtained several clay figures representing 
human and animal heads, some of which he kindly gave to the National 
Museum. The old cuttings made by former seekers were explored, and 
several new ones made, with but little reward in the way of relics ex- 
cepting human bones and teeth on the shell stratum, but not in it. 

The top stratum of this mound is composed of sand to a depth of 5 
feet ; beneath this is a layer of shell from 2 to 3 feet in thickness. On 
the latter, but not in it, human bones were found, thus indicating that 
the bodies were deposited on the shells and covered with sand. A criti- 
cal examination of the shell stratum was made, and from the evidence 
it afforded the conclusion was reached that the mound was originally 
much lower, and that the shell deposit was an accumulation of kitchen 
refuse ; that it was for a time a place of residence and used as a place 
of burial, and afterwards that the stratum of sand was added and the 
place once more fitted for residence. 

The facts which favor this view are, first, that the shell stratum con- 
tains the bones of bears, deer, birds, turtles, and fishes, the usual accom- 
paniments of Indian feasting, while the upper and lower stratums are 
composed of clean sand ; second, that the depth of these human remains 
in the earth is unusual and not at all in keeping with what we already 
have observed in Indian burials ; and lastly, the pits or excavations 
from which the earth used in forming the mound was taken show in a 
very marked manner that the material was not all removed at the same 
time, some being mere depressions in the soil, while others are sharply 
defined and comparatively recent. 

The formation of this mound being by a series of additions to the 
original work may prove a key to the construction of many of the larger 
mounds heretofore described as being composed of " alternate layers of 
sand and shell" (see Smithsonian Keport for 1879, pp. 296 and 405), and 
will remove the greatest difficulty in the way of our admitting them to 



MOUNDS IN WEST FLORIDA. 



S. T. Walker. Florida, 



863 

Plate I. 



Fig. 1. Duck's Head 




Fig-. 4.. Fragment of Duck's Head. 



Smithsonian Report; 1883. 



864 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



S. T. Walker. Florida. 



Plate II. 



Pig 1 . 1. Human Head. 





Fig. 3. Owl's Head. 



Pig. 2. Human Head. 





Fig". 4 



Smithsonian Report; 1883. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 865 

have been constructed by the modern Indians, viz, their inadaptibility 
to concerted and continued effort. For if the large mounds were the 
gradual growth of ages and varied by successive additions, by many 
generations, we can readily understand and accept the theory of their 
being the work of the modern Indian. 

West of the great mound are many small circles of shells covered with 
soil, from 40 to 60 feet in diameter, and the earth is covered with frag- 
ments of broken pottery. Over a space reaching from the great mound 
to the beach, one-fourth of a mile in width, and extending along the beach 
for nearly a mile, are shell heaps of all shapes and sizes, from a mere 
bed a foot in thickness to large heaps 12 and 15 feet high. In the fields, 
the crops are growing in beds of shell, and the furrows are full of broken 
pottery and fragments of clay figures. The latter are generally repre- 
sentations of the heads of birds and animals, though human heads and 
busts are not uncommon. Many are extremely rude, rendering it diffi- 
cult to catch the particular form intended to be figured, while others are 
pretty fair imitations of the objects copied, and are quite creditable speci- 
mens of aboriginal art. They are composed of the same material of 
which the pottery was made, viz, black, red, or blue clay with a mixture 
of some white material resembling pounded shell. Some are composed 
of a reddish clay and afterward covered with a finer material, nearly 
black, which give the object the appearance of being glazed. In other 
specimens the body is formed of black clay and covered with red. As 
before remarked, the majority of the images represent the heads of 
animals and birds. Of the former the wolf or fox, the squirrel, and the 
beaver seem to have been the favorites, while the duck or goose is often 
copied among the birds, though the serpent and the owl were not for- 
gotten. 

In Plates I, II, and III, may be seen rough copies of several of these 
images, which will give an idea of the most common forms, from the 
rudest up to the best hitherto obtained. These images are not found 
in the mouuds or graves, but scattered about the fields, on the surface, 
or in the piles of shell, along with broken pottery. It is somewhat 
strange that these images are only found on the shores of Choctawhat- 
chee Bay and Santa Rosa Sound. In all the explorations along the 
west coast of Florida they have not been found, nor have any been 
heard of in any other portion of the State. Westward, however, they 
exist. Dr. George Taylor, of Mobile, has several which he obtained from 
the shell heaps on Bon Secour Bay, near Sand Island light, and they 
are said to have been found in the shell heaps, along the Mississippi 
coast. 

Many hundreds of these images have been recovered on Choctaw- 
hatchee Bay, and while a few have found their way into the National 
Museum, many have been destroyed or are in the hands of private par- 
tics. Others will doubtless be found as the lauds are brought into cul- 
tivation. 

H/Mis. 69 55 



866 MOUNDS IN WEST FLORIDA. 

S. T. Walker. Florida. 



Plate III. 




Fig-. 2. 
Side view of Fig. 1. 



Fig-. 3. 

Human Head of red clay, 
with black enamel. 



.Smithsonian Report; 1883. 



MOUNDS IN WfST FLORIDA. 867 

Passing over for the present the mounds, &c, intervening, a second 
great area of ancient population was about the ceuter of the bay and 
on its southern side, where a point 3 miles in length extends north be- 
tween Horseshoe and Hogtown Bayous, while on the south and between 
the point and the Gulf lies a large fresh-water lake, 7 miles in length 
and with an average width of a half-mile. The peculiar advantages of 
this point for an Indian town may be seen at a glance, viz : Fishing 
and hunting facilities unequaled and capable of easy defense in case 
of an attack. Evidences of a dense population once occupying this 
vantage ground begin one mile south of the extreme point and extend 
on both shores and down the center to the lake. These evidences con- 
sist of shell banks and heaps along the shores, and of low mounds along 
the center of the point. Some of the shell heaps are of immense size, 
while others are mere piles containing a few bushels. The mounds 
a short distance from the beach, and extending the whole length of the 
point, are slight elevations, and often five or six are placed in a straight 
line. Those measured were from 1 to 2 feet high and from 30 to 60 feet 
in diameter. The general surface of the country is low and flat, render- 
ing it necessary to have elevations for houses. 

The most important and interesting of all the aboriginal remains in 
this vicinity, however, is a canal leading from the head of Horseshoe 
Bayou into a large fresh- water lake, about 1J miles southeast of the 
bayou. This canal is about 14 feet in width at the top and 6 feet at the 
bottom. Its original depth was probably from 6 to 18 feet. At present 
it is not much over half that depth. At ordinary times the canal is dry, 
but during wet seasons the waters of the lake find an outlet through it 
to the bay. Excepting a slight angle at one place its course is straight, 
and the natural advantages of. the ground were disregarded in order to 
reach the desired point by the shortest route. It enters the lake through 
a marsh, which at a time previous to the cutting of the canal, was prob- 
ably a part of the lake, and this being drained by the canal, the an- 
cient engineers were forced to continue their work through the marsh 
until deep water was reached. The lake, which is nearly 7 miles in 
length, contains immense numbers of fish, and the canal was cut for the 
purpose of reaching it in canoes, as these must otherwise have been 
transported overland at great expense of time and labor. 

No burial places have been discovered in this region. Many clay 
images, however, of large size have been picked up at Mr. Henry Rad- 
dick's place on Four-Mile Point. These were all lost or destroyed by 
the children, as their value to science was not known. 

Besides these two main centers of population, numerous smaller set- 
tlements existed at various points along the shores of Choctawhatchee 
Bay. Indeed, there is not a habitable spot that was not occupied, and 
there is not a point or cove without the characteristic shell heap. The 
most important of them are all correctly marked on the accompanying 
map, and a detailed description of each of these would involve a repe- 



868 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

tition that would be both tiresome and unnecessary. They present no 
peculiarities of structure or shape, and much labor expended in explor- 
ing them brought no new facts to light. The earth mounds were all 
probably domiciliary, and the shell heaps are the usual debris of feasts. 

Nearly all the shell heaps are composed of oyster shells, which are 
very large, aud it is a fact worthy of note that the oyster is at present 
extinct in Choctawhatchee Bay. Most of the heaps, are covered with 
soil from 1 to 2 feet in thickness. From data obtained from the shell 
heaps of South Florida I have calculated that it requires at least fifty 
years to produce a stratum of soil 6 inches in thickness. From this it 
will appear that some of these heaps were completed from 100 to 200 
years ago. 

From this series of explorations the following facts seem to be pretty 
well established : 

1. That promiscuous mound burial was practiced only to a limited 
extent in this locality. 

2. That the races formerly inhabiting this district were further ad- 
vanced in civilization than those of South Florida. 

3. That it is probable all the large domiciliary mounds were built by 
small additions through many successive generations, and hence may 
have been partly the work of the modern Indians. 



STONE MOUNDS OF HAMPSHIRE COUNTY, W. VA. 

By L. A. Kengla, of Washington, D. C. 

The mounds or graves described in this paper are situated on the east- 
ern side of the South Branch Mountain, Hampshire County, West Vir- 
ginia, about li miles from the mouth of the South BraDch River, on the 
property of Mr. Charles French. According to early accounts, the en- 
tire region between the Blue Ridge Mountains and the Ohio Biver was 
held by the Massawomee Indians.* The immediate locality (Fairfax 
Grant) was, however, the hunting ground of the Tauxenents, a band, 
perhaps, of the above-mentioned powerful tribe.t 

The settlement of this district by the whites drove this tribe across 
the Alleghanies; and, after their departure, the country seems to have 
been a border liue of warfare between the Delawares of Pennsylvania 
and the Catawbas of Virginia. This narrow and rough valley, from the 
mouth of the river to Moorefield, Hardy County, West Virginia, and 
probably far beyond, is replete with traditions and evidences of many 
a stubborn struggle — not only between contending tribes, but also be- 
tween the Indians and the intrepid pioneers of West Virginia. 

The locality of these mounds, known as '"Shin Bottom," was also the 

* History of West Virginia, page 34. De Hass. 
t "Jefferson's Notes" on Virginia, page 152. 



STONE MOUNDS IN WEST VIRGINIA. 800 

theater of contending, bloodthirsty savages. In close proximity to the 
graves there is a great bowlder standing on the side of the wood, to 
which a very interesting tradition is attached. It is called "Indian" 
or " Painted Bock." On its eastern lace there is a figure, supposed to 
represent a man in the act of throwing a tomahawk. Ooe can easily 
distinguish the rude outlines of a human figure, but the hand and toma- 
hawk have been rendered obscure by the frequent violence of curiosity 
seekers. The lines are clear, strong, and of a dim red color. The tra- 
dition, as given by the inhabitants, is in substance as follows: 

" At this point two hostile tribes, probably the Catawbas and Dela- 
wares, met and fought a terrible battle, in which all, with one exception, 
were killed, on the conquered side, and he succeeded in making his es- 
cape. Exasperated at this the victors, to complete their direful work, 
followed, brought back, and killed the unfortunate wretch, and with 
his own blood traced this figure on the rock." 

The same account is given by Mr. Samuel Kercheval in his "History 
of the Valley," but with the variation that this warrior made a safe 
escape by jumping into the river and swimming with his head under 
water till he reached the Cohongornton, North Branch of the Potomac. 
(Page 48.) 

The upper portion of this rock protects the side upon which the figure 
is sketched, from destruction by the elements. The South Branch ot 
the Potomac was called Wappatomaka by the Indians. Throughout 
this entire range of mountains Indian mounds are numerous, and a com- 
paratively unexplored field of archaeological treasures awaits develop- 
ment. 

The frequency of stone graves may in some degree be accounted for 
by the abundance of material suitable for their construction, by their 
proximity to fields of contest, to village sites, and to a most abundant 
hunting ground. They are found in much greater proportion in this 
than in any of the neighboring ranges. Their position cannot be re- 
stricted to any particular locality, for they are found on either side, on 
top, at the foot of the mofmtain, and in various places throughout the 
valley ; sometimes on the river bank or on some small stream, or even 
in the central portions of the bottom lands. They are, however, less 
numerous on top of the ridges than in lower situations. 

These stone graves are quite numerous in the vicinity of the " Indian 
Bock." In shape, both external and internal, they resemble modern 
graves ; and since they contain an inclosure like a coffin, the term grave 
is very applicable to distinguish them from the earth mounds. They 
vary much in size, the smaller being mainly confined to the low lands 
while the largest are more frequently found on the tops and sides of the 
mountains. Those of any considerable dimensions are generally flat on 
top and the smaller convex. The stone of which they are made depends 
upon the locality ; those opened were constructed of gray sandstone. 
The upper layers consisted of pieces as large as our street granite pav- 



870 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ing blocks, which gradually increase in size as the interior or "coffin" 
of the mound is reached. The "coffin" is made of large bowlders of 
the same stone. These stones are rarely spherical, but range from a 
few inches square to a weight of several hundred pounds. 

No. 1. The first grave examined was situated midway on the side of 
the mountain. It was built in a small hollow or ravine, down which in 
wet seasons water flowed. Within 40 or 50 yards there were three 
others, two of which were opened and examined. 

It (1) was very large, about 50 feet in length, 25 in width, and from 4 
to 5 in height. It was flat on top and extended lengthwise north and 
south. The excavation was commenced on top at the southern ex- 
tremity. After working downwards and northwards through the mass 
of rock for the distance of 3 feet, we came to some very large bowlders. 
Taking these as a guide we continued to work along the western side 
towards the north end of the mound. All the rock that remained at the 
north end and over the body of the "coffin" or cavity was next removed, 
and the earthy d6bris cleaned away. From the south end of the 
" coffin " was then removed the large rocks with which it was filled. 

Then began the examination of the dark earth with which the floor 
was covered. The mass of the material was decayed wood-earth to- 
gether with a small quantity of light colored clay. At the lower end 
were found one long bone and more fragments, presumably leg or thigh 
ibones, and at the north end a fragment of a skull. No pottery or stone 
implement of any description was exhumed. The sides of the case- 
ment for the remains were constructed of large bowlders 1£ foot high, 
placed closely together throughout the entire circuit. Beneath there 
was a floor of flat stones, and at the upper end one was raised about 
2 inches above the rest, near which the fragments of skull were found. 
No. 1 B. As yet only half of the first mound had been torn away, 
and encouraged by the find, though we mainly directed our attention 
to the discovery of stone implements, the destruction of the remaining 
mass was begun. 

Commencing on the east side of the grftve just opened we soon 
reached another wall of large bowlders, running in a direction parallel 
to and placed directly alongside of the wall of the former. Upon re- 
moving the stones from the sides and central portions as before, the 
e xcavation of the coffin was commenced. But a most careful search 
w . is ineffective in bringing to light any relics. The absence of all 
jjm nan remains may be possibly attributed to the position of the mound, 
w jjj t tfi was such that a very large quantity of water annually passed 
throL ^ ^' rendering the decomposition of the bones more rapid. 

^j 2. About 20 yards to the right, when looking down the mountain 
and fat ™& the easti 5 a second grave was opened, which was situated a 
little to * ne s *°- e °f tne follow. 

This n *° una \ though not so large, extended in length in the same 
direction north and south, as the former. In appearance, (save that it 
was not fla *>) ^ otn externally and internally, it was similar to that of the 



STONE MOUNDS IN WEST VIRGINIA. 871 

One previously explored. It contained a single inclosure or coffin. No 
remains except a fragment of a long bone were found. 

No. 3. A third of this group, situated about 30 yards down the 
mountain and on the lower side of an old road, was examined. Its con- 
struction and general outlines were the same as those already described. 
No remains were discovered, and from its position in the deepest part 
of the hollow it is .supposed that all traces had long since been de- 
stroyed. 

No. 4. The fourth mound was situated about 200 yards from the " In- 
dian Rock," near the base of the mountain. Though much smaller, it 
resembled the above in all particulars. A large number of fragments 
of bones belonging to various parts of the body were collected. The 
exterior shape of the mound had been very much disfigured by hunters. 

Mr. French, the owner of the property, needing stone for building 
purposes, had previously opened several graves and removed from them 
a quantity of bones and some pieces of pottery. 

There were no means by which we could judge the age of these 
mounds, even approximately. The first graves or stone heaps exam- 
ined were encircled by a grove of oak and locust trees of an inferior 
size. Near the fourth there grew several large oaks, but all were at too 
great a distance to be of any avail in such a determination. The amount 
of earthy matter on or within could not be relied upon as affording any 
definite clew, since very little could penetrate the grave, and what was 
there could easily have been deposited in the lapse of time by nature. 
The stones were not placed immediately upon the corpse, perhaps ; but 
they rested upon logs and brush, which were supported by the walls of 
the inclosure. If this supposition be correct, the amount of debris could 
have been greatly increased. 

It is generally supposed that these mounds were quite small at first, 
and were increased in size by new interments and by the addition of 
stone from time to time. It is said that whenever a friendly Indian or 
tribe passed a grave, each individual, out of respect, added a stone or 
more to the heap. Though this may be plausible, it is just as likely 
that it was the final interment of the body, and that the size of the 
mound depended upon the rank and tribal standing of the person. If, 
on the other hand, these interments were only temporary, it is probable 
that the large mounds were the final resting places of a large number of 
bodies by secondary interment. 

This hypothesis is in accordance with the customs of many tribes, 
east and west, and was practiced by the natives of the lower districts of 
Virginia long after its settlement by the whites.* 

The total absence of all stone implements is accounted for by the 
residents, the supposition being that these were women's graves or of 
those members of the tribes who were of minor importance. The find 
of pottery in one or two would strengthen this supposition. 

This theory is again to some extent sustained by the opening of sev- 

* "Jefferson's Notes" on Virginia. 



872 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

• 
eral mounds on the top of this mountain yielding- bones, pyrites (cubo- 
octohedral, crystal), arrow-heads, and fragments of pottery. In contra- 
diction, however, to the above, one grave, opened by Mr. Joseph Pan- 
cake on his farm in the river bottom, about 2 miles above Romney, in 
this county, contained a celt, a pipe, and some arrow-heads. 

On the front of this pipe, at the upper rim of the bowl, there was 
carved an eagle in a neat and tasteful manner. Some years ago the 
party from whom were procured the above specimens opened a large 
mound in Mineral County, West Virginia, near the town of Eidgeville. 
In external appearances, according to report, it was similar to those 
described, but, instead of in a coffin-shaped repository, the body was 
buried in a sitting posture. The skeleton was nearly whole at the time 
of exhumation ; the feet rested upon the floor ; the legs against a wall, 
above which in the seat were the thigh bones ; and against a second 
wall leaned the bones of the back and chest. The arms seemed to have 
been placed in a careless position at the side, with the hands open and 
lying upon the shelf with the thigh* bones. The head rested in a re- 
cumbent position on a third shelf. A fragment of pyrites was found 
near by, which is supposed to have been placed in one hand. Among 
the bones and debris there was discovered a brass button of continental 
style. 

For the authenticity of his description the narrator referred to sev- 
eral gentlemen residing near the locality, who were present and assisted 
in the work, and in whose possession the bones were when last heard of. 

Other mounds and remains were found in abundance as the coun- 
try was cleared and the land cultivated. The specimens of pyrites 
and pottery found on the South Branch Mountain have been added to 
the collection of archaeological remains from the district, deposited at 
Georgetown University. 



REMAINS IN BUCKS COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA. 

By John A. Ruth, IUegelsville, Pa. 

Durham, the most northeastern township of Bucks County, Pennsyl- 
vania, is situated on the banks of the Delaware Biver, 9 miles south of 
Easton, and by railroa/1 76 miles north of Philadelphia. The township 
covers an area of about 9 square miles, and the greater part of it is 
drained by the Durham Creek and its tributaries. The surface is hilly, 
the soil fertile and in a high state of cultivation. To its original occu- 
pants it presented many natural advantages, and the remains of their 
workmanship found buried in the soil show that they saw these advan- 
tages and made use of them. The southeastern part of the township 
was their favorite re sort. This part of the Delaware Valley is about 
1£ miles long, and about one-half mile in width at the widest part. It 
is bounded on the east by the Delaware River, and on the west and 
south by a range of bluffs extending from the village of Monroe to the 



REMAINS IN BUCKS COUNTY, PA. 



873 



Narrows, which rise perpendicularly to the height of nearly 400 feet. It 
is strongly defended by nature, and the scenery is not surpassed by any 
in the county. There are other localities in the township where relics 
are found, but nowhere in such abundance as in the locality just men- 
tioned. I shall now describe these and other remains in the order in 
which they are numbered on the map. 




Hill. 



( )21 



4fc 



^ 







iet- 







Rernaius in Durham Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania. 

No. 1 is the site of what once was an extensive village, situated on 
the banks of the Delaware, near the mouth of Gallows Run, and about 



874 PAPERS RELATING TO 4NTHROPOLOGY. 

one-quarter mile from Kintnerville. It extends along the Delaware 
several hundred yards, and back from the river about 50 yards. Its ex- 
tent may easily be traced by the broken cobblestones and chips of 
flint and jasper which are thickly strewn over the surface. Many of 
the cobblestones bear marks of fire. Among this refuse a large num- 
ber of relics have been found. They exhibit all degrees of workman- 
ship from the rudest to the most skillfully wrought. The most abun- 
dant relic is the arrow-point, of which have been here collected more than 
400 specimens. Many show by their workmanship that they were made 
by a people who had advanced in the stone art to a high degree of 
skill. In this locality have also been found many hammers, spear- 
heads, scrapers, and plummets. The spear-heads found are generally 
broken. Among the rarer implements are drills, polishing-stones, axes, 
celts, knives, paint-cups, pestles, ceremonial hatchets, and amulets. 
The hatchets and amulets are all broken, but are highly polished and 
well proportioned. They show great skill and patience on the part of 
those who shaped them. Fragments of pottery are plentiful. Some of 
it is ornamented. Many of the fragments are well preserved, but others 
are crumbling and have the appearance of great age. The material used 
in the manufacture of the stone implements of this and the other vil- 
lage sites in the township is that found iu the locality. Probably one- 
half of the arrow-points are made of trap, the remainder of jasper, 
quartz, red shale, &c. But few specimens are made of the last-named 
mineral, which is not a very durable material for stone implements. 

No. 2 is also the site of an ancient village, on the farm of Mr. Clark ; 
one mile north of Holland Station, Huuterdon County, New Jersey. 
The extent of this village was not as great as that at No. 1, but it has 
added to our collection many fine specimens. Among these is half of 
the bowl of a stone pipe, the only fragment of a stone pipe yet found. 
Its shape is similar to Fig. 179 in Dr. Abbott's Stone Age in New Jer- 
sey. Two stone axes of very rude workmanship were picked up at this 
place. The rudest is an ordinary cobblestone notched at the sides, near 
one end, and slightly grooved half way across one side. The other is 
an oval cobblestone, 11 inches in length, with a narrow groove around 
one end. No attempt seems to have been made to sharpen either of 
these axes. 

No. 3 is a locality on the farm of Mr. Snyder, near Holland Church, 
where have been found a number of spear and arrow points, most of 
them broken. Tradition tells us that this was an ancient battle-ground. 
Two tribes lived in the vicinity, and the children, in their wanderings, 
met each other and quarreled about a large grasshopper which one of 
them had found. This resulted in a war, and this locality is said to be 
the place where the decisive battle was fought. The conflict was wit- 
nessed by a white man from the opposite side of the river. Such is the 
tradition as it exists in the neighborhood. 



Remains in bucks county, pa. 875 

No. 4 is on the farm of Mr. Overpeck, near Monroe. This locality 
is peculiar in its relics, which consist of triangular arrow-points and 
fragments of finely ornamented pottery. Besides these, no other relics 
were discovered, except several pieces of clay pipe-stems, an amulet, 
several celts, and fragments of pestles. Since the writer has collected 
at this place, he has found but one arrow-point with a stem, while of 
triangular arrow- points more than 100 specimens have been gathered, 
most of them broken. A large number of fragments of pottery were 
found scattered over the surface. They were in a good state of preser- 
vation, and many of them are finely ornamented, especially those pieces 
which formed the rim of the vessels, some of which are perforated. 
Chips of jasper occur in the soil, but very few broken cobble-stones. It 
is difficult to explain why all the arrow-points are triangles, and why 
the pottery is of better workmanship than that of any other locality in 
the township. 

No. 5 is the site of a small village on the farm of Mr. Tranger, of 
Monroe. It is situated about 100 yards north of No. 4, but is quite differ- 
ent from it in the character of its relics. Here chips of flint and broken 
cobble-stones are found again. The relics are principally spear and 
arrow points, knives, scrapers, plummets, &c. 

No. 6 is a locality on the farm of Mr. Overpeck, where we find spear 
and arrow points, some rude pottery, hammers, and occasionally a few 
other implements. 

No. 7 is on the edge of the bluff, on the farm of Mr. Aaron Tranger. 
-In the character of its relics it is similar to No. 6. Some of the arrow 
points are made of a material not found in the locality. This place was 
probably occupied by parties guarding the villages in the valley against 
invasion. The position commands a good view of the Delaware Valley 
toward the north. 

No. 8 is a locality on the farm of Cooper and Hewitt, one-half 
mile south of Eiegelsville, where have been found arrow-points and a 
few other relics. The refuse scattered over the surface indicates that 
it was the site of a small village. 

No. 9 is on the farm of Mr. Riegel,near the mouth of the Musconet- 
cong Creek, Hunterdon County, New Jersey. Spear and arrow points 
are found here. 

No. 10 is on the farm of George Shick, between two springs, where 
have been found spear and arrow points, hammers, knives, scrapers, 
plummets, a fine drill, &c. 

No. 11 is also around a spring, on the farm of Jacob Richards. The 
relics are the same kind as those found at No. 10. 

No. 12 is an ancient jasper mine on the farm of Cooper and Hewitt. 
The excavation made in mining the jasper is still to be seen. Around 
it is a ridge of earth and stones, thrown out by the miners. The ground 
is overgrown with brush and small oak, and is not cultivated for a short 
distance around -the mine. The excavation is partly filled with stone 



876 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

hauled from the adjoining fields. Very few arrow points are found 
arouud the mine. Chips of red and yellow jasper are found in large 
quantities, scattered over more than 20 acres around the mine. With 
them are found numerous river pebbles and cobblestones with hammer 
marks on them. Some are worn off around the entire edge ; others were 
originally nearly round, and through use became still more so. Nearly 
all the hammers found on village sites have finger pits, but these have 
none, and are found only around this mine. These facts seem to indicate 
that they were used as hammers for blocking out the jasper into pieces 
of a suitable size for implements, and that these blocks were then car- 
ried to the villages, where they were finished. 

No. 13 is on the farm of Henry Adams, situated on the top of the 
hill. It commands a fine view of the Delaware and Muscanetcong Val- 
leys. Here have been found but two kinds of relics — a few arrow- 
points and several dozen plummets. Most of the plummets found on 
village sites are similar to Figs. 204 and 205 in Dr. Abbott's Stone Age 
in New Jersey, but those found in this locality are nearly all like Fig. 
203. 

No. 14. Durham Cave is the name given to a cavern in the lime- 
stone formation on the north side of the Durham Creek, near its mouth. 
The cave extends into the hill toward the west, parallel with the creek. 
A large part of it has been destroyed by quarrying the limestone, which 
is of excellent quality and was used in the furnace near by. The main 
passage was about 350 feet long, from 4 to 40 feet wide, and averaged 
about 12 feet in height. The floor descends as you enter, and at the 
farther end is a fine spring. A few stalactites formerly hung from the 
roof. About forty years ago, when the cave was opened, petrified bones 
were found in one of the rooms. They were removed by several scien- 
tists who had come from New York for that purpose, and were sent to 
some scientific association in that city. A number of interesting relics 
were also found, among them spear and arrow points, beads, and a 
skull. The latter is said to have been sent to some museum in Phila- 
delphia. A small room on the right of the main passage was, years ago, 
named Queen Esther's Drawing-room, after an Indian woman. 



EELICS IN POUGHKEEPSIE, NEW YORK. 

By Henry Booth, of Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 

In the southern part of Poughkeepsie, Dutchess County, New York, 
and extending beyond the city limits, there used to be a large deposit of 
molding sand. This has been dug out during the last seven or eight 
years and carted away. The accompanying map shows a part of this 
sand bed, which has proved to be of great interest. In October, 1882, 
some fragments of human skeletons were turned up by the laborers on 



RELICS IN POUGHKEEPSIE, NEW YORK. 



877 



Fox's Point. This was reported to the writer by Mr. E. W. Frazer, the 
foreman, who very kindly afforded every assistance in his power to make 
an examination of this part of the sand bed. The deposit of sand is over- 
laid by earth, which is generally about 1 foot deep. The stratum of sand 
varies from a feAv inches to 4 or 5 feet in depth. On top of this sand, 
directly below the soil, the larger part of the stone implements were 
found. At the place on Fox's Point, marked on the map with three 




ODS 



T 
T 



Graves and relic sites in Poughkeepsie, New York. 

Greek crosses, the skeletons were dug up. The ground here is a few 
feet above the level of the Hudson River Railroad. Enough skulls and 
fragments of skulls were dug up to permit the supposition that six 
bodies had been buried here. These bones were found at depths vary- 
ing from 1 foot to 3 feet below the surface. Of four bodies there re- 
mained nothing but parts of the skulls, a few teeth, and fragments of 
ribs. Of another body there were leg bones, fragments of ribs, finger 
bones, vertebrae, and a nearly complete skull, including the lower jaw. 
This skeleton lay on its right side, with the knees drawn up to the chin. 
Of another body there were a few vertebrae and finger bones, and a 
nearly complete skull, including the lower jaw. This skull rested on 



878 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

its chin, facing westward, or toward Hudson River. Underneath it was 
found a piece of burnt sandstone, rudely chipped into the form of an 
arrow-head. With the exception of this stone and a bit of chipped horn- 
stone, nothing- was discovered with the bodies. In the hollow on Fox's 
Point, below and west of this little hillock, the sand, when dug up, 
showed traces of fire, being red instead of yellow. Intermixed with it 
were a great nuin ber of broken stones, which also seemed to have been 
burned. Here were found many implements, both fragmentary and 
entire. They were pounders (oval or round cobble-stones with worked 
depressions on either side for the fingers), spear-heads, arrowheads, 
pestles, &c. On top of the rising ground east of Fox's Point and the 
railroad many stone implements were found. In 1876 Mr. E. W.Frazer 
picked up near this place half of a steatite dish, which is now in the 
American Museum of Natural History in New York City. No iron im- 
plements of any kind have been recovered here, and no bodies except 
those mentioned above. The total number of perfect implements from 
this locality, now in the writer's possession, is as follows: Pounding- 
stones, 32 ; pestles, 5 j arrow and spear points, 103 ; hoes, 6 ; axes, or 
hammers, 2; drill, 1; rubbing-stone, 1. The fragments and flakes 
amount to several hundreds. 



NOTES ON THE WAMPANOAG INDIANS. 

By Henry E. Chase, A. B., of Brookline, Mass. 

Every year the signs of Indian settlements along our coast are becom- 
ing fewer. The experience of the last two years has taught the writer 
that great ignorance prevails among those persons whom we might most 
reasonably expect to direct us to the sites of Indian towns. He has 
thought it worth while, therefore, to put on record, for the convenience 
of others, the exact sites of all the Indian shell heaps and other indica- 
tions of Indian settlement seen during the summers of 1882 and 1883. 
Besides the mere description of the towns in their present condition, 
and the implements, weapons, &c, found at or near them, a general 
history will be given of what has been recorded or is known on the sub- 
ject from other sources, together with a detailed account of the origin, 
language, customs, manners, traditions, and religion of these Indians, 
so far as it was possible to gather them. Further study shows that 
much of this information is already in such available form in the works 
of Gookin, Williams, and a few other early writers, who had the best 
opportunities to study the Indians, that all subsequent scholars will 
prefer to consult them in the original. References will be made to these 
and other works which are useful in the study of the Indians referred 
to in these notes, and only so much of them will be quoted as is abso- 
lutely necessary to give one unacquainted with the Indian tribes of 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 879 

New England a fair knowledge of the Wampanoag tribe, to which the 
Indians of Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard, and Nantucket belonged. 
The practice of the writer has been, after finding alone the site of 
some Indian town, and obtaining all the information available from 
the farmers and others living in the vicinity, to turn to the volumes of 
the Massachusetts Historical Society's works and Barber's Historical 
Collections, " a general collection of interesting facts, traditions, bio- 
graphical sketches, anecdotes, &c, relating to the history and antiqui- 
ties of every town in Massachusetts," aud learn what is there said 
of the Indians once living there. This information was sometimes 
very satisfactory, but until recently went ahead of the explorations, 
and there are still a few important additions to be made to the map of 
Indian settlements on Cape Cod. In the rambles in search of arrow- 
heads, stone hatchets, &c, little of the history of their former owners 
could be learned from persons now living near by, the usual information 
being to the effect that "when the oldest inhabitant was a boy," an old 
Indian or squaw lived near the spot where the arrows or shell heaps 
exist. In a few other places, as at Mashpee and Gay Head, the mixed 
descendants of the Indians may still be seen; but, with the exception 
of a few names, like Pocknet and Attaquin, their names are English, 
aud their hair inclined to curl, owing to their frequent intermarriage 
with the negroes. A friend who has given the matter some attention 
writes that there are now probably none of unmixed blood among the 
Indians of Mashpee, though many of the people have a strongly marked 
Indian appearance. Neither these Indians nor some of the same sort 
at Gay Head could give any exact information in regard to the sites of 
old Indian towns, and the conclusion is inevitable that they know less 
About such things than some small white boys living near by, who are 
<n the habit of collecting arrow-heads. At several places on Cape Cod, 
Martha's Vineyard, and Nantucket people are becoming interested in 
Indian relics, and it is frequently impossible to buy a stone hatchet 
(which the owner may have thought worthless), because he heard 
that another man had sold such a grooved stone for a great price. 
Several boys have collections of arrow-heads amounting to two 
or three hundred; and middle-aged men have said that in certain 
places they could once find all the arrow-heads they wished, and have 
been surprised when there were found only one or two, perhaps not 
one. Old men say that it was the habit of the farmers to plow up most 
regularly all those fields which had been already cleared by the natives, 
for these always gave the best crops, owing to the rich black soil that 
was usually found there. On the east side of Bass River, aud on In- 
dian Neck, near Wellfleet Harbor, may be seen the wisdom of this 
practice; for at these places the most thrifty vegetables in the fields 
were those growing in the dark earth and scattered shell-heaps. But 
by this practice the most lasting monuments of the Indians have been 
erased, their graves levelled, their shell heaps scattered, and their weap- 



880 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ons and implements of stone plowed under or picked up and removed. 
On Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard it was easier to get information 
on our subject, probably partly -from the fact that Indian names have 
been more easily preserved on islands, where may still be found many 
descendants of the first white settlers, and partly, in the case of Nan- 
tucket, through the publication by the Old Colony Line of a historical 
map of that island, surveyed and drawn a few years ago by the Rev. 
E. C. Ewer, D. D. To give the reader a general idea of the tribes in- 
habiting New England, and the relative strength and country possessed 
by the tribe to which the Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard, and Nantucket 
Indians belonged, a few quotations will be made from the writings of 
Mr. Daniel Gookin, one of the magistrates of Massachusetts colony, 
and for many years, commencing with 1056, "betrusted and employed 
for the civil government and conduct of the Indians in Massachusetts 
colony by order of the general court there." 

"OF THE PRINCIPAL INDIANS THAT INHABIT NEW ENGLAND. 

" 1. The principal nations of the Indians that did or do inhabit within 
the confines of New England, are five: 1, Pequots; 2, Narragansitts ; 
3, Pawkunuawkuts ; 4, Massachusetts, and 5, Pawtucketts. 

k '2. The Pequots or Pequods were a people seated in the most south- 
erly bounds of New England, whose country the English of Connecticut 
jurisdiction doth now, for the most part, possess. This nation were a 
very warlike and potent people about forty years since ; at which time 
they were in their meridian. Their chief sachem held dominion over 
divers petty sagamores, as over part of Long Island, over the Mohe- 
gans, and over the sagamores of Quinapeake, yea, over all the people 
that dwelt upon Connecticut River, and over some of the most southerly 
inhabitants of the Nipmuck country, about Quinabaag. The principal 
sachem lived at or about Pequot, now called New London, These Pe- 
quots, as old Indians relate, could in former times raise four thousand 
men fit for war, and held hostility with their neighbors that lived bor- 
dering upon them to the east and north, called the Narragansitts, or 
Nechegansitts 5 but now they are few, not above tbreo hundred men, 
being made subject unto the English, who conquered and destroyed 
most of them upon their insolent deportment and just provocation, 
anno 1G38, of which we shall have occasion to speak more particularly 
in the sequel of our history. 

" 3. The Narragansitts were a great people heretofore, and the terri- 
tory of their sachem extended about thirty or forty miles from Sekunk 
River and Narragansitt Bay, including Rhode Island and other islands 
in that bay, being their east and north bounds or border, and so run- 
ning westerly and southerly unto a place called Wekapage, four or five 
miles to the eastward of Pawcutuk River, which was reckoned for their 
south and west border, and the easternmost limits of the Pequots. This 
sachem held dominion over divers petty governors, as part of Long 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 881 

island, Block Island, Cawesitt, Niantick, and others, and Lad tribute 
from some of the Nip muck Indians that lived remote from the sea. The 
chief seat of this sachem was about Narragansitt Bay and Caunonicut 
Island. The Narragausitts were reckoned in former times able to arm 
for war more than five thousand men, as ancient Indians say. All do 
agree they were a great people, and oftentimes waged war with thePaw- 
knnnakutts and Massachusetts, as well as with the Pequots. The juris 
diction of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations and part of Cou 
necticut people, possess their country. These Indians are now but few, 
comparatively ; all that people cannot make above one thousand able 
men. 

" 4. The Pawkunnawkutts were a great people heretofore. They lived 
to the east and northeast of the Narragausitts; and their chief sachem 
held dominion over divers other petty sagamores; as the sagamores 
upon the island of Nantucket and Nope, or Martha's Vineyard, sev- 
eral others, and some of the Nipmncks. The country, for the most 
part, falls within the jurisdiction of New Plymouth Colony. This peo- 
ple were a potent nation in former times ; and could raise, as the most 
credible and ancient Indians affirm, about three thousand men. They 
held war with the Narragausitts, and often joined with the Massachu- 
setts, as friends and confederates agaiust the Narragausitts. This na- 
tion, a very great number of them, were swept away by an epidemical 
and unwonted sickness, An. 1G12 and 1613, about seven or eight years 
before the English first arrived in those parts to settle the colony of 
New Plymouth. Thereby Divine Providence made way for the quiet 
and peaceful settlement of the English iu those nations. What this 
disease was, that so generally and mortally swept away, not only these 
but other Indians, their neighbors, I cannot well learn. Doubtless it 
was some pestilential disease. I have discoursed with some old In- 
dians that were then youths, who say that the bodies all over were ex- 
ceedingly yellow, describing it by a yellow garment they showed me, 
both before they died and afterwards. 

"5. The Massachusetts, being the next great people northward, inhab- 
ited principally about that place in Massachusetts Bay where the body 
of the English now dwell. These were a numerous and great people. 
Their chief sachem held dominion over many other petty governors, as 
those of the Weechagaskas, Neponsitt, Punkapaog, Nonantum, Nasha- 
way, some of the Nipmuck people, as far as Pokomtakuke, as the old 
ineu of the Massachusetts affirmed. This people could, iu former times, 
arm for war about three thousand men, as the old Indians declare. 
They were in hostility very often with the Pawkunnawkutts, who lived 
on the south border, and with the Pawtucketts, who inhabited on their 
north and northeast limits. In An. 1012 and 1613, these people were 
also sorely smitten by the hand of God with the same disease, before 
mentioned in the last section, which destroyed the most of them, and 
made room for the English people of Massachusetts colouy, which peo- 
H. Mis. 09 56 



882 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

pie this country, and the rest called Pawtuckett. There are not of this 
people left at this day above three hundred men, besides women and 
children. 

"6. Pawtuckett is the fifth and last great sackemship of Indians. 
Their country lieth north and northeast from the Massachusetts, whose 
dominion reacheth so far as the English jurisdiction, or colony of the 
Massachusetts, doth now extend, and had under them several other 
smaller sagamores, as the Pennakooks, Agawomes, Naainkeeks, Pas- 
catawayes, Accomintas, and others. They were also a considerable 
people heretofore, about three thousand men, and held amity with the 
people of Massachusetts. But these also were almost totally destroyed 
by the great sickness before mentioned, so that at this day they are not 
above two hundred and fifty men, besides women and children. This 
country is now inhabited by the English uuder the government of 
Massachusetts." 

Pawkunnawkutt was the Indian name for the country around the 
present city of Bristol, R. I. King Philip, Pometacom, or Metacomet, 
lived here, and it was from this place the nation of which he was 
sachem derived its name. These Indians were, however, sometimes 
called the Wampanoags, or Wamponoags. Another writer says : " The 
east side of Narragansett Bay was inhabited by the Wampanoags (who 
are next in power to the Narragan setts), on the broad regions of country 
extending to Massachusetts Bay, Cape Cod, and Nantucket. The most 
powerful sachem of the Wampanoags, at the time of the arrival of the 
Plymouth settlers, was Massasoit, also called Osemequiu. His two 
sons and successors were Wamsutta, called by the English name of 
Alexander, and Metacomet, known as King Philip." The five tribes 
of Indians mentioned used the same language, with, however, some 
slight difference in the expression, not unlike the ditferences found in 
several counties in England. They could readily understand each 
other, but could not understand some of the inland Indians, particu- 
larly the Mawhawks, or Maquas. " Their government is generally 
monarchical, their chief sachem or sagamore's will being their law; but 
yet the sachem had some chief men that he consults with as his special 
counselors. Among some of the Indians their government is mixed, 
partly monarchical and partly aristocratical, their sagamore doing not 
any weighty matter without the consent of his great men, or petty 
sagamores. Their sachems have not their men in such subjection but 
that very frequently their men will leave them, upon distaste or harsh 
dealing, and go and live under other sachems that can protect them; so 
that their principal endeavor is to carry it obligingly and lovingly unto 
their people, lest they should desert them, and thereby their strength, 
power, and tribute would be diminished." This description of their 
government, given in Mr. Gookin's history of the Indians in New Eng- 
land, shows the peculiar, uncertain hold which their rulers had upon 
them, and throws a good deal of light on the relation which soon came 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 883 

to exist between the rulers of the Wampanoags, Wainsutta and Phillip, 
and their praying Indians upon Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard, and 
Nantucket. Very early Massasoit saw that the English were acquiring 
a dangerous ascendancy over the minds of his Indians, and begged the 
English to stop trying to change the religion of his Wampanoags, for 
they were apt to become poor subjects to him. It is a suggestive fact 
that in two noted cases in which King Philip sought to administer 
justice in accordance with Indian law, that of John Gibbs, at Nantucket, 
for speaking evil of Philip's father, Massasoit, and that of John Sassa- 
mon, at Assawamsett Pond, for revealing Phillip's plans to the English, 
the offenders were preachers of the Gospel to the praying Indians. 
The English tried to alienate still further the praying Indians from 
their allegiance to Philip by adding to their list of jurors at the trial 
of Sessamon's executioners " six of the indifferentest, granest, and sage 
Indians," that, by their concurrence with the white jurors, the Indians 
of the praying towns might be committed to the cause of the whites. 
To make the conviction of the culprits sure, however, they had the full 
number of twelve white men before adding the six Indians to the jury. 
The execution of these three Indians by the English was the immediate 
cause of the Indian war, threatened for some time, but purposely de- 
layed by Philip until he could get the aid of the Narragansetts. The 
names of Elliot and Williams will ever be associated with the conver- 
sion of the Indians under their charge near the Massachusetts and 
Providence Plantations ; but to the less celebrated efforts of the May- 
hews, on Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket, and of Mr. Treat, Mr. 
Bourne, and Mr. Cotton, on Cape Cod, are chiefly due the conversion 
of the Indians in those places, and the friendly attitude taken by these 
Indians during the war that devastated the region lying just west of 
them. The following quotation in reference to the labors of the May- 
hews states very well the effect of their labors, and sets forth the tract- 
able nature of the Indians of Martha's Vineyard, which, it may be 
added, were shared by those on Nantucket and Cape Cod : 

"Atthetimeof the settlement (Martha's Vineyard, in 1042) the Indians 
were very numerous in this town (Edgartowu), perhaps more so than in 
other parts of the island. The Indians of Martha's Viueyard were hos- 
pitable, and more tractable than those on the main. Governor Mayhew 
and his son, as soon as they became settled, attempted to civilize them 
and introduce the Gospel among them, and their success surprised and 
delighted the pious of that age. The younger Mayhew labored in this 
benevolent work with diligence and fervor till his death, in 1057, when 
it was assumed by his father, and in a few years by his son, and it was 
carried on by some member of the family till the beginning of the pres- 
ent century. Nearly all the Indians on the island became professed 
Christians. At first they were called 'catechumens,' but were formed 
into a church in 1G50, and from this another church arose in 1G70. The 
English found most essential advantages from the ascendancy which 



884 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

was pained over their minds; they were disarmed of their rage; they 
were made friends and fellow-subjects, lu King Philip's war all the 
Indian nations on the main were confederated against the English. 
Alarm and tenor were diffused on every side ; but Governor Mayhew 
was so well satisfied with the fidelity of these Indians that be employed 
them as a guard, iuruished them with the necessary ammunition, and 
gave them instructions how to conduct themselves for the common safety 
in this time of imminent danger. So faithful were they that they not 
only rejected the strong and repeated solicitations of the natives on the 
main to engage in hostilities, but when any landed from it, in obedience 
to their orders which had been given them, they carried them, though 
sometimes their near relations, to the governor, to attend his pleasure. 
The English, convinced by these proofs of the sincerity of their friendship, 
took no care of their own defense, but left it entirely to the Indians, and 
the storm of war which raged on the continent was not suffered to ap- 
proach, but these islands enjoyed the calm of peace. This was the genuine 
and happy effects of Mr. Mayhew's wisdom and of the introduction of 
the Christian religion among the Indians." 

The Indians of Cape Cod had been very generally christianized be- 
fore King Philip's war broke out, and most of them remained faithful to 
their white neighbors, and aided in protecting the cape against hostile 
invasion. It is very probable that some of 1 hem left the praying towns 
to join Phillip, as did many from the praying towns near Boston. In 
the records of drafts of men levied in Massachusetts and Plymouth 
colonies to tight Philip are found the names of southern or friendly 
Indians. About twenty of these Indians, under the leadership of an 
Indian of the Wampanoag tribe, named Captain Amos, living at or near 
Cape Cod, took part in the disastrous fight near Kehoboth. Rev. Noah 
Newman, in writing of this encounter, states that Capt. Michael Peirse, 
with fifty-one of his soldiers and eleven of these friendly Indians, were 
killed. Because of the friendly attitude of the Cape Cod, Martha's 
Vineyard, and Nantucket Indians toward the whites, the Indian his- 
tory of these places is not so eventful as that of the rest of the Wampa- 
noag country lying between Buzzard's Bay and Narragansett Bay. The 
farmers in the latter region have pointed out to me the past summer 
the swamp, at the foot of Mount Hope, where Philip was shot, and the 
place where Benjamin Church encountered Tuspaquiu and his warriors 
on Assawam sett Neck, in Lakeville, Mass., and many other places made 
memorable during this bloody Indian war. On Cape Cod and adjacent 
islands there were no hostilities during King Phillip's war, and all 
encounters between these Indians and the whites took place at a very 
early date, when white explorers thought it expedient to plunder 
and kidnap the natives, and they in turn thought best to kill the 
crew of any shipwrecked vessel, and so secure the plunder. On 
Nantucket, Gookin writes that some bad Indians committed this of- 
fense even later than the year 1G49, and were punished for it. In the 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 885 

year 1619, Capt. Thomas Dernier landed at Martha's ViDeyard and was 
attacked By the natives. He and his companions gallantly defended 
themselves with their swords and escaped. Several Indians were killed 
in the fray. When Bartholomew Gosnold visited that island, in 1G02, 
it is written that he trafficked amicably with the natives of the 
vicinity, and it is very probable that Captain Dermer, or Martin Pring, 
who had spent the summer at Edgartown a few years before (in 
1G03), did something to provoke the Indians, or Captain Dermer 
would have been differently treated. Captain Weymouth had kid- 
napped five Indians in Maine, and one of Captain Smith's commanders, 
named Hunt, carried off forcibly twenty-seven natives from Massachu- 
setts Bay — Squanto, afterwards the interpreter of the settlers at Ply- 
mouth, being one of the number. Such treatment of the Indians would 
not be likely to win their confidence, and it is no wonder that when the 
Pilgrims landed the natives should try to take revenge upon them, 
especially after they had been robbed of corn, themselves pursued, and 
the graves of their people disturbed by this very company of men. 
Three days before the landing of the Pilgrims at Patuxet, or Plymouth, 
while exploring in what afterward became the town of Eastham, they 
were attacked at night or early in the morning by the Nauset Indians, 
probably led by Aspinet, a subchief, who owed allegiance to Massasoit. 
This spot, called Namskeket by the Indians, was named by the English 
u The First Encounter." Some years before this, the explorer Cham 
plain had an encounter with the Indians of Cape Cod, or Cap Blanc, 
and immediately started back to Europe. At a time of great want in 
Plymouth colony, through the assistance of Squanto and Massasoit, 
the colonists obtained supplies of corn from the Indians of Barnstable 
County. Very soon the land itself, which was so easily cultivated, 
attracted emigration from Plymouth, and from this time forward there 
was little to be recorded but the deeding of land to whites, the pov- 
erty, drunkenness, and plagues of the natives, and the labors of good 
men like Mr. Treat to instruct them and improve their condition. We 
have few particulars in regard to Indian wars of the Wampanoags, 
either among themselves or with other tribes, those given by Gookin 
and in the history of Nantucket being almost the only ones. On Nan- 
tucket, according to their traditions, there were two tribes*>f Indians, 
one that crossed from the Vineyard and landed on the west end of the 
island, the other that came across from Monomoy, or Chatham, and 
landed upon the east end. These two tribes, or portions of the Warn- 
panoag tribe, engaged in a war about the year 1030, the last Indian 
war on the island, and the only one of which we have any knowledge. 
In studying the history of Indian tribes in almost any part of the conn- 
try one cannot fail to be struck by the terrible ravages that disease 
makes when once it enters their midst. Longfellow, in his tale of Hia- 
watha, did not overlook this sad feature in Indian life, and the descrip- 
tion of the pestilence is hardly too strong to represent the mortality 



886 PAPER8 RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

and distress produced among the Indians by many diseases not usually 
fatal to whites. On the sixteenth page of Barber's Historical Collec- 
tions is given a very interesting account, first published in "Good News 
from New England," of a visit made by Edward Winslow to Massasoit, 
whom the Plymouth colonists had heard was lying very ill at Matta- 
puyst. The sachem's condition is graphically described, and the primi- 
tive means employed by the Indians to cure him. Cue passage of the 
description is as follows: "When we came thither (Puckanokick) we 
found the house so full of men, as we could scarcely get in, though they 
used their best diligence to make way for us. There were they in the 
midst of their charms for him making such a hellish noise as it distem- 
pered us that were well, and therefore unlike to ease him that was sick, 
etc." The simple but sensible methods used by Mr. Winslow for his 
recovery, and their success, show what might often have been accom- 
plished for others in a similar condition. According to early writers, 
the most general and fatal diseases among these Indians before the 
whites came were yellow fever, and a hectic fever ending in quick con- 
sumption. The traditional method for "laying" the yellow fever upon 
Martha's Vineyard would be most likely to spread the disease. Small- 
pox and even measles were very fatal in the Indian towns after the com- 
ing of the whites, if not before. Intemperance soon increased the nat- 
ural improvidence of the Indians, undermined their constitutions, and 
provoked quarrels among them which often ended in a fatal drunken 
fray. The following description of a portion of the Wampanoag tribe 
living at Middleborough, preserved in one of the earlier volumes of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society's collections, gives a fair description 
of their methods of living, and of the prevalence of hectic complaints 
among all this tribe of Indians: 

"Before the town (Middleborough) was incorporated this place went 
by the name of Namaskett, which was an ancient Indian name, and was 
formerly plentifully inhabited by the Indian natives, who were gov- 
erned by the noted sachem Tispacan. But when the town was incor- 
porated and began to be settled by the English, the natives began to 
scatter and decrease ; but there is now a settlement of them which de- 
scended from the ancients of Namaskett, which inhabit a part of said 
town known by the name of Betty's Neck (which place took its name 
from an ancient Indian woman by the name of Betty Sesemore, Avho 
owned that neck), where there are now eight Indian houses and eight 
families. (About the year 1794.) The general number of Indians, old 
and young, that live there is between thirty and forty. Their houses 
are poor; they own some land ; they live imprudent ; are very fond of 
liquor. They till their land, which produces good crops of corn and 
rye, which they trade off for spirituous liquors with any retailer that is 
so destitute of principles as to trade with them, so that by the middle 
of the winter their corn and grain is generally gone. Thou, by their 
baskets and brooms (which they make) they purchase it to supply 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 887 

immediate necessity. They are very subject to licet ic complaints, for 
more than half that are born are carried off young: with consumptions." 

Within the past summer I found living on Betty's Neck only three 
Indians, all women, descendants of Massasoit, and relatives of Philip's 
faithful follower, Tuspaquin, the Black Sachem, chief of all the Ne- 
maskett and Assawamsett Indians. Full particulars of this interesting 
family, whose home is in North Abingtou, Mass., may be learned in a 
book published by the mother, Mrs. Zerviah Gould Mitchell, now aged 
76 years. She claims to be a lineal descendant, in the seventh genera- 
tion, from the " great and good Massasoit." Both she and her daughters 
have received good education, and the mother became eloquent in de- 
scribing the treatment of Tuspaquin, Annawon, and some other Indians 
engaged in King Philip's war. The mother and the daughter Melinda, 
or Teweeleema, have aquiline noses and long black bair, and are as 
good types of this tribe of Indians as I have ever seen. It is only while 
their house in North Abington is let that they expect to remain on this 
spot, for which they appear to have a strong attachment. We were 
informed by the mother that the " men folks " of their family were dead 
or gone, and it is very probable that after this generation passes away 
no more Indians will ever live on Betty's Neck, unless this family is 
quickly re enforced by Indians of Mashpee or Gay Head. The native 
population on Cape Cod at the time the whites landed cannot be exactly 
known, but, through the labors of those men interested in the conver- 
sion of the Indians upon Cape Cod, not many years after its settlement, 
we know that there was once a large native population which dwin- 
dled rapidly away, and of which time has now left us hardly a trace. 
A letter dated Sandwich, July 1, 1674, from Eichard Bourne to Daniel 
Gookin, on the " Progress of the Gospel among the Indians in the colony 
of New Plymouth," gives a list of the praying Indians in the towns of 
Cape Cod at that date. He states explicitly that he has been " conver- 
sant with and employed amongst them these many years," and it is 
very probable that the list includes all the places of any consequence at 
the time of his writing, for special mention is made of all places which 
still need religious aid. In the year 1792, when the first volume of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society was published, containing this letter 
from Mr. Bourne, the sites of some of the Indian towns mentioned by 
him were already forgotten, and so explanatory notes, written largely 
by the Hon. Nat. Freeman, of Sandwich, were inserted, now seen in- 
closed in brackets. The proportion of these converted Indians to the 
unconverted ones may have have been small at this early date, but in 
regard to the former Mr. Bourne appears to have gained exact infor- 
mation, even mentioning the number of those converted who could read 
and write. The number that could read and write will be omitted in 
the quotation, as it is for the names and sites of towns that the letter 
is valuable to us rather than their degree of culture. 

" First there is at Meeshawn, or near the head of the cape [Cape Cod. 
Par* of tliese Indians probably lived in Proviucetowa, but the greatest 



888 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

number in Truro] and at Punonakanit, or Billingsgate [New Wellfleet], 
that are praying Indians, that do frequently meet together upou the 
Lord's Day to worship God ; and likewise the rest as followeth, 72. 
"Potonumaquut [the southeast part of Eastham], or Nawsett [the north 
part of Eastham], or Eastham, there are praying Indians 44. Mano- 
moyik [Chatham] there are praying Indians 71. Sawkattukett [the 
west part of Harwich], Nobsquassit [the northeast part of Yarmouth], 
Matakees [the land between Barnstable and Yarmouth Harbors, lying 
principally in the northwest part of Yarmouth and] Weequakut [pro- 
nounced at present Cheekwacket, the southwest part of the east precinct 
in Barnstable], praying Indians 122. Satuit, Pawpoesit, Coatuit 
[Coatuit is in the southwest part of Barnstable], Mashpee, Wakoquet 
[Satuit, or Sanctuit, Hawpoesit, and Wakoquet or Waquoit, are all 
within or near the limits of Mashpee] there is praying Indians 95. Cod- 
tannut [probably Canaumut Neck in Mashpee], Ashimut [or Skimuit. 
On the west line of Mashpee], Weesquobs [between Pokesset meeting- 
house and Wenaumut Neck in Sandwich], there is praying Indians 22. 
Pispogutt [concerning this see Mr. Freeman's letter], Wawayontat 
[Waywayantic or Wewewantett, Wareham], Sokones [commonly pro- 
nounced Succonussett. Part of Falmouth], there is praying Indians 3C. 
Cotuhtikut [or Titticut, part of Middleborough], Assoowamsoo [or Assoo- 
wamsett, part of Middleborough], there are praying Indians, one with 
another, 35." Besides these places, Mr. Bourne mentions Mannamit 
[in Sandwich, near the bottom of Buzzard's Bay], also Mananiet, which 
is supposed to be the same place. 

"As for lands set out to the Indians, distinct from the English lands, 
there are divers places already bounded, viz : Where I am most con- 
versant there is a tract of land preserved for them and theirs forever, 
under hand and seal, the which is near ten miles in length and five miles 
in breadth. There is the like done at Comassakumkanit [probably Her- 
ring Pond, in Plymouth], near Sandwich, and at Cotuhtikut." 

Mr. John Cotton, pastor of the English church at Plymouth in 1G74, 
writes to Mr. Gookin that he sometimes preached to a company of 40 
praying Indians at a place called Kitteaumut [or Katamet, now spelled 
Cataumut; part of Sandwich, on Buzzard's Bay]. Mr. Cotton spells 
Mashpee, Marshpang. The following letter of the Hon. Nat. Freeman, 
dated September 23, 1792, published in the same volume of the Massa- 
chusetts Historical Society's Collections, in reference to the sites of 
Indian towns on the cape, gives a fuller accouut of some of the places 
and Indians mentioned in the letter of Mr. Bourne: "From the best of 
my own recollection, and the little additional information I have ob- 
tained, I believe there are not more than two or three Indians, and those 
females, remaining in Sandwich. In Barnstable I know of not one, ex- 
cept it be in a part of Mashpee included in Barnstable limits for taxing. 
These, as they are not within the boundaries of the township, are in- 
cluded in the number for Mashpee. In Falmouth proper there may be, 
at a place called Cataumet [the same which is noted in Holland's map], 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 88D 

seven or eight, some of whom are mixed. An Indian territory, called 
Herring Pond, in the neighborhood of Sandwich, about 5 miles north- 
west from this village, and so extending thence along shore to Monu- 
ment Ponds, all included within the township of Plymouth, I am told 
by Joseph Nye, esq., one of their guardians, contains about a hundred 
and twenty souls, one-half of whom are mixed. The Indian name of 
this territory I never could learn. They appear to have been considered 
as a distinct tribe, now known by the name of the Herring Pond In- 
dians. Might not this place be Comassakunikanit?" (See Gookin's 
Hist. Collection, p. 108.) 

The same Mr. Nye, who is guardian also to the Mashpee tribe, says 
that there are about two hundred and eighty souls iu that place, of whom 
at least two thirds are mixed. I suppose the Indians have diminished 
siuce 1785, but the mixed race may be increased, as many negroes and 
mulattoes from abroad have, since that period, settled there. I know 
of none below Barnstable upou the Cape, except at Potanumaquut, a 
part of Harwich, and there, I believe, there may be six or seven souls 
only. The Rev. Mr. Damon thinks there is one in Truro. Wakoquet, 
Weequakut, or Coquit (see Gookin's Mist. Collect., pp. 197-200), prob- 
ably may be Wawquoit. The latter seems as like the sound as either, 
but as the first is associated with Satuit, Pawpossit, Coatuit, and Mash- 
pee, it is most likely to be that. Then the second may be what is now 
called Chequocket, or by some Shequocket, which is in the southwest 
part of the east parish in Barnstable, where there is an inlet called 
Lewis's Harbor, not the same as Lewis's Bay, which is more easterly. 
Or if it comport better with the history, it may be a place and pond 
near Howland's Ferry, Tiverton, E. I., called Quaket, or Quaket Poud. 
There is a place in Mashpee called Popponessit. This may be Pawpoe- 
sit. Weesquobs cannot be located. Great neck in Mashpee is a place 
famous for eels. The Indians, when they go in a canoe, with a torch, 
to catch eels in the night, call it Weequash, or, anglicized, weequash- 
ing. There was a great number of Indians formerly on this ueck, and 
it seems now the metropolis of Mashpee. Whether any supposed affin- 
ity between Weesquobs and Weequash will justify a conjecture is hard 
to say. Codtaumut may be Canaumut Neck, in Mashpee. Kitteaumut 
is probably Cataumut in Holland's chart. Shumuit, which I suppose 
to be Ashimuit, is about equidistant from Cataumut, ou Buzzard's Bay, 
and Canaumut Neck; rather nearest the latter. It might be associated 
with either in Gookin's Historical Collections. But if we suppose Wees- 
quobs to be Whakapee, a pond in Mashpee, then, most likely, Codtau- 
mut and Canaumut must be the same. If we associate Cataumut, Shu- 
muit, and Great Neck (for Weesquobs) together, there would then be 
other places not contiguous. Wawayontat is said to be Wareham. 
There are two rivers which pass through Wareham into the bay. That 
through the town is called Agawam, and the Indians generally call 
Wareham by that name. The other, which is near the west end of 



890 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

the township, toward .Rochester, is called Weantick. This may be 
Wawayontat. Falmouth still goes by the name of Sokonesset, and is 
undoubtedly the Sokones mentioned by Gookiu. There is a place on 
Buzzard's Bay, on Sandwich side, called Pokesset ; but I have been told 
Indians used to call it Poughkeeste. It is the second parish in Sand- 
wich, about 8 miles southwest from my house [near the meeting-house 
of the first parish], but not more than two leagues across the bay to the 
mouth of Weantick River, and lies on a line between Wareham and 
Falmouth, adjoining northerly on Cataumut, which is rather in the edge 
of Falmouth than Sandwich, as you supposed. Can Pokesset be the 
same as Pispogutt? There is a neck of laud within Pokesset, called 
Pachawesit. This seems as dissimilar as the other. The place where 
Doctor Bourne's house stands, viz, about two miles up Manumit River, 
and near the Herring Pond, is called Pumpisset ; and a neck of land in 
Wareham, next to Monument, or Manumit, and parted from it by a 
small gut, is called Cowesit. The syllable pis is in one of them ; but 
Pokesset was the most noted Indian place. Besides these places, the 
writer has heard of the following places, which are spelled phonetically : 
Scusset, the next village westerly from this; Unset, or Onset, and Quan- 
sit, two little bays, or shores at the bottom of Buzzard's Bay, within 
Wareham ; Cohasset, the gut between Manumit and Cowesit ; Wenau- 
mut, a neck within Pokesset; Mashne, an island in Buzzard's Bay; 
Quisset, an inlet in Falmouth, north shore Buzzard's Bay ; Nobska, near 
Wood's Holl, a bluff shore or head; Naashawn, JSTashawinna, Cutta- 
hunka, Pesk, Elizabeth's Islands; Menemsha, a bight on the Vineyard 
shore; Quashne, or Quashnet, a river in Mashpee; Shanton, or Scorton, 
the lower end of Sandwich ; Muset, a creek in Sandwich off Spring Hill ; 
Skunkamug, south side of the parish of Great Marshes; Hockanum, 
between Yarmouth and Nobscusset ; the east parish of Yarmouth ; Suet, 
or Sesuet, a neck in Yarmouth ; Naamskeket, the south side of Harwich ; 
Skeket, or Skaket, the lower part of Harwich next to Eastham. The 
following summary of the Indian population at different times on Cape 
Cod is found as a foot note to a part of Gookin's Historical Collections, 
page 201, printed in 1792 : u Christianity met with much better success 
in Plymouth than in Massachusetts. In the year 1G85, the praying In- 
dians in this colony amounted to fourteen hundred and thirty-nine, be- 
sides boys and girls under twelve years of age, who were supposed to be 
more than three times that number." (Hutch., vol. i, p. 349.) 

In the year 1693 there were within the limits of Eastham (which then 
included Wellfleet and Orleans) 505 adult Indians, to whom Mr. Treat 
preached; 214 adults, besides stragglers, at Mashpee and places adja- 
cent, under the care of Mr. Rowland Cotton, minister of Sandwich; 180 
Indians, to whom Mr. Thomas Tupper preached; and 500 more, under 
the care of Mr. John Cotton, minister of Plymouth. (Matthew May- 
hew's Narrative, pp. 46-53. See also Mather's Magnolia, book vi, p. 60, 
and Neal's Hist., chap, vi, p. 256.) Iu the year 1764 there still remained 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 891 

in the colony 905 Indiana of every age, 223 of whom were in the county 
of Plymouth, 515 in the county of Barnstable, and 167 in the county of 
Bristol. Since that period their numbers are much lessened. There is 
at present [1792] no Indian church in the counties of Plymouth or 
Bristol, and Mashpee only, in the county of Barnstable. Of 134 Indians 
in Dartmouth and Freetown in 1764 there are now [1792] about 33 left. 
(Information of Rev. Mr. Backus.) 

In the other towns of Bristol they are probably extinct. There are 
four or five families of Indians in Middleborough, two or three in Pem- 
broke, five or six persons in Bridgewater, and probably a few scattered 
about in other parts of the county of Plymouth. (Inf. of Rev. Mr. B.) 
In the county of Barnstable a few Indians remain at Potanumaquut, a 
few in the town of Barnstable, and a few at Herring Pond, between 
Sandwich and Plymouth. But the great budy of them reside at Mash- 
pee, where there are about 80 families, consisting principally of a mixed 
race, not more than 40 or 50 persons being pure Indians. (MS. Let. of 
Eev. Mr. Mellen.) 

In September 14, 1674, Mr. Cotton writes as follows of the Indian 
towns upon Martha's Vineyard: "When I lived at the Vineyard the 
praying towns were Chappaquidgick [an island east of Martha's Vine- 
yard, separated from it by a strait about a quarter of a mile wide. It 
is within the limits of Edgartown], Kashamoiess [the south part of 
Edgartowu], Seugekoutakit [also spelled Sanckecantacket, the north 
part of Edgartown], Toikiming [Taacame or Takame,Tisbury], ]Nask- 
uakemmink [Xashonohkamack, Chilmark], Talhamo [probably part of 
Chilmark], one church there gathered long before, but no officers. Since 
I lived here [Sandwich] I went over with Mr. Eliot thither [in the year 
1670], and Hiacoomes was ordained pastor; John Tokinosh, teacher; 
John Nonoso and Joshua Mummeecheeg, ruling elders." 

In the year 1692 the number of Indians on Martha's Vineyard was 
much lessened. The church, however, at that time consisted of more 
than 100 persons. (Mat. Mayhew's 2far., p. 28.) 

In the year 1720 there were on the Vineyard six small villages, con- 
taining about 155 families and about 800 souls. Each of these villages 
was supplied with an Indian preacher. There was also a small assembly 
at Wintkrop's Island; another, consisting of twelve or fourteen families, 
at Tucker's Island and ^Nashaun, which lie near together. There were 
a few Indians left at No Man's Land. Beside these Indian assemblies 
there was a small congregation of Baptists at Gay Head. [Exp. May- 
hew's Nar. of Ind. on Mar. Vin., p. 2.] For the state of the Indian Bap- 
tists on Martha's Vineyard in the year 1774, see Backus's Hist., vol I, 
p. 439. In the year 1764 there were remaining in Duke's County 313 
Indians, 86 of whom were in Edgartown, 39 in Tisbury, and 188 in Chil- 
mark. About that period they begau to intermarry with negroes, in 
consequence of which the mixed race has increased in numbers and im- 
proved in temperance and industry. At present [about 1792] there arc 



892 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

of pure Indians and of the mixed race about 440 persons, 75 of whom 
live on Chappaquiddiek [not more than one-third pure]; about 25 at 
Sanchecantacket [not more than one-fifth pure]; about 40 at Christian- 
town, in the north part of Tisbury, toward the Sound [about one half 
pure]; about 24 at Nashonohkamuek |about three-quarters pure]; and 
about 270 at Gay Head [of which about one-quarter are pure]. In this 
account unmixed negroes are not reckoned. [Information of Captain 
Jerningham and Benjamin Bassett, esq.] 

Barber states in his Historical Collections that at the time of the 
settlement by the English of Nantucket, in 1000, there were nearly 
3,000 Indians on the Island. Upon what authority he makes this 
statement I cannot discover; but another authority, probably much 
better than that on which he made the statement, places the number 
of Indians on the island, in the year 1G59, at about 700. In the year 
1694 the Indians on Nantucket were about 500 adults. There were five 
assemblies of praying - Indians, and three churches ; two Congregational, 
and one of Baptist. [Gardner's Let. in Mather's Magn., book vi, p. 5G.] 

Three hundred and fifty eight Indians were remaining the IGth of the 
eighth month, 1703, when a fever began among them, and lasted till the 
16th of the second month, 1764. Of this distemper 222 died. [See 
Hutch. Hist., vol. i, p. 35.] The Indians on the island are now [1792] 
reduced to 4 males and 16 females. [MS. of Friend Zaccheus Macy.] 

On Cape Cod, at present [1883], there is not a pure-blooded Indian, so 
far as I can learn. The notes accompanying the Kev. E. C. Ewer's His- 
torical Map of Nantucket state that the last Indian on that island died 
in 1822, and the last man with Indian blood in him, Abram Quary, died 
in 1855. While near Shimmo, on Nantucket, last summer, this man, 
Abram Quary, was described to me by a white man who once knew 
him and evidently regarded him as a curiosity. While walking with 
my brother through the graveyard at Vineyard Haven, on Martha's 
Vineyard, in the summer of 1882, studying the inscriptions on the 
stones, we came suddenly on an old grave digger, busily at work pre- 
paring a grave. We asked him a few questions about the most common 
Vineyard names, and also about the Indians on the island. He told us, 
beside a few other interesting facts, that he knew that the last pure- 
blooded Indian, a woman, had been buried on the island only a very 
few years before. In about 260 years, then, from the landing of the 
Pilgrims at Plymouth, a race of men, then occupying eastern Massa- 
chusetts, has practically become extinct. 

Alas, for them, their clay is o'er, 
Their fires are not from shore to shore ; 
No more for them the wild deer bounds, 
The plongh is on their hunting-grounds ; 
The pale man's axe rings through their woods, 
The pale man's sail skims o'er their floods, 
Their pleasant springs are dry. 

(Charles Sprayue , 8 Centennial Ode, 1830.) 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 893 

Unlike the aids to the study of Egyptology, the monuments of the 

Indians arc of the simplest kind, very apt to be wholly overlooked by 
the modern observer, or regarded by him as an interesting curiosity 
for his children to play with. In truth, this tribe of Indians appear to 
be almost wholly lacking in the spirit which prompted the Egyptians 
to raise lasting memorials of their lives and deeds. These Indians 
were poor, and not very far advanced in the arts, and could not, there- 
fore, be expected to erect such monuments; but nevertheless, one 
would hardly expect, after having carefully passed over so large a 
region as that of Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard, and Nantucket, where 
we know that many Indians once lived, and where abundant evidence 
may still be seen of their skill and perseverance in fashioning articles 
of ornament, weapons, or utensils, to find not a trace of any attempt 
on the part of the natives, before their contact with the whites, to con- 
vey to later generations an idea, either historical or otherwise, in a 
form likely to last. It is possible that records of wars or other remark- 
able events in the history of this tribe may have been kept by them, 
as in the case of other tribes, preserved as pictographs embroidered on 
wampum; but these, of course, cannot now be found if they ever were in 
the possession of this part of the Wampanoag tribe. Inscribed tablets 
of stone, or bowlders with picture writings upon them, have, I believe, 
never been found in this region, if we except, of course, such instances 
as the gravestones at Gay Head, inscribed after the Indian language, 
had been reduced to writing by the whites. In an Indian burying- 
ground on Assawamset-neck, in Lakeville, near Middleboro', on the 
land of Mr. Charles Jewett, containing twenty -five or more graves, was 
one bearing a peculiar inscription of two letters or characters. 

This graveyard is the resting place of the relatives, and some of the 
ancestors of the three Indians before mentioned residing on Betty's- 
Neck, descendants of Massasoit and Tuspaquin. The latter name, con- 
tracted into Squiun or Squeen, appears on one of the stones, lately 
broken into fragments by some vandal Two or three of the graves have 
well engraved slate head-stones, much like those in any old grave-yard 
of New England. Most of them have no stones whatever, and a few 
have a short, thick, plain slab of stone or bowlder at one or both ends. 
It is very probable that all these graves were made after the Indians 
had ceased to bury interesting relics with their dead. I mention this 
fact because I heard that the three surviving Indian women living near 
by were greatly distressed a short time ago to find that some relic hunters 
had tried to dig up some of their ancestors. Considering the circum- 
stances of these burials, and the prominent part- taken by the ancestors 
of these persons in the early Indian history of this vicinity, it seems a 
pity that the'graves cannot remain undisturbed as a reminder to future 
generations of the Indians of New England, now that so few monuments 
of them remain. Not to overlook entirely a very interesting rock about 
which there has been endless speculation, it may be well to mention 



804 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

here the "Dighton Rock," or "Writing Rock," which was found by the 
first white colonists beside the Taunton River, on the Berkley side, op- 
posite the landing-place for sloops at Dighton. This spot does not lie 
within the country of the Cape Cod Indians, but it is a part of the terri- 
tory of the Wampanoag tribe, to which they belong. 

Prof. F. W. Putnam, of Harvard College, assures me that it is now 
the belief of the best scholars that the inscription on this rock is noth- 
ing but an Indian pictograph, and that the attempt, by the aid of sub- 
jective drawings of it, to make it serve as testimony of a visit to this 
country by the Northmen, or Phoenicians, is pure folly in the light of 
later discoveries of pictographs, closely resembling it, in other parts of 
the United States. A picture of this rock, with a very good description 
of it, copied from the second volume of Kendall's Travels, may be found 
on pages 117, 118, and 1 19 of Barber's Historical Collections. Mr. Ken- 
dall traveled through the northern parts of the United States in 1807 
and 1808. He made a careful examination of the Dighton Rock, visit- 
ing it several times for the purpose. Mr. Kendall writes of another in- 
scribed rock as follows: "The only sculptures on any rock not on the 
Writing Rock consist in two or three figures or characters having some 
similitude to the letters XOO, and which are seen on the corner of a 
slab of stone lying within a few yards of the Writing Rock." Mr. Ken- 
dall presents a series of wild conjectures and Indian traditions in re- 
gard to the origin of the Writing Rock, prevalent among the learned 
and unlearned of his time, to which list may be added that of Mr. R. 
B. Anderson in his work entitled "America not discovered by Colum- 
bus." The latter writer attempts to prove the truth of the old Scandi- 
navian or Icelandic tales relating to the discovery of America by the 
Norsemen, 500 years before Columbus set sail, by appealing to the cir- 
cumstantial evidence of the skeleton in armor discovered at Pall River, 
the tower at Newport, and the Dighton Writing Rock. In the inter- 
pretation of the writing on the Dighton Rock, Mr. Anderson discovers 
some marks which he considers are Roman characters, copied by him 
as follows: CXXXI. This, he says, rex>resents 151, for the Icelanders 
reckon 12 decades to the 100. Then he finds a small row-boat between 
the letters N and M. He makes N stand for Norse, the boat for sea- 
faring, and the M for men, and proceeding in this way confirms, to his 
own satisfaction, the truth of the old legends. He closes his fourteenth 
chapter as follows: "Upon the whole, the Dighton Writing Rock re- 
moves all doubt concerning the presence of Thorfiun Karlsefue and the 
Norsemen at Taunton River, in the beginning of the eleventh century." 
The "skeleton in armor" discovered at Pali River will be described at 
length in speaking of certain relics once found upon Cape Cod which 
appear to throw some light upon the probable history of these far-famed 
remains. So far as I have been able to discover in my researches upon 
Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard, and Nantucket, for evidence of a former 
Indian population there, all the testimony or evidence to be fouud is of 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 895 

an unintentional sort on the part of the natives. The Indians appear 
to have expended unstinted labor, with considerable skill, in fashioning 
their implements, weapons, and ornaments of stone, but none whatever 
in preserving their history. Therefore the methods employed in tracing 
out the settlements of Indians in these places must be, or were for me, 
like those of a person discovering the camps of a very early prehistoric 
race. It is really surprising how little beside the remains usually found 
at prehistoric settlements can now bo found on the sites of several of 
the largest Indian towns on Cape Cod, such as those at Wellfleet, prob- 
ably the seat of Mr. Treat's labors among the praying Indians. 

After a careful examination of the site of one of these settlements 
near Drummer Pond, in South Wellfleet, which was evidently once of 
considerable importance, I was able to find only a few bricks, which 
had formed fire-places; a few bits of iron nearly rusted away; frag- 
ments of coal, and glass bottles, and a goodly number of broken clay 
pipes and pipe-stems of the ordinary Irishman's style. Besides these, 
and to my eyes much more conspicuous, were the common indications 
of an Indian town, the shell heaps, bones of animals and fishes, with 
numberless chippings of quartz, porphyry, jasper, &c, made by the In- 
dians in fashioning their arrow-heads. Perfect arrow-heads were not 
common, but the desert expanse of coarse sand and gravel surround- 
ing the town was one of the best of places to find arrow-heads unless 
they had already been picked up. Along the coast, shell heaps are the 
most striking evidence that we have of prehistoric tribes. Shell heaps 
are found in almost all parts of the world upon the sea coast, and their 
size and contents indicate a more or less prolonged halt or settlement 
there of a family or tribe. Some only mark stopping places on a jour- 
ney; others were the sites of villages long inhabited by the natives, but 
most of them, in the opinion of Professor Putnam, were places to which 
the Indians were in the habit of resorting from the interior to get sup- 
plies of mollusks, which they opened, smoked or dried, and laid up for 
winter use. Shell heaps are refuse heaps, the name given those on the 
Danish islands being Kjoekkenmoeddings, and the most common things 
found in them are of course like the most common indestructible refuse 
thrown from modern kitchens. Shells, and bones broken to extract the 
marrow, make up the great mass of the heaps, but there can usually be 
found with them, or near by, a few implements, weapons, ornaments, 
broken pottery, and even human bones, which may have fallen here by 
chance. Implements of stone and bone, for crushing open the edges 
of the shells and extracting the meat, are the relics properly belouging 
here, and it is very unusual in examining a large shell heap not to find 
at least several of these stones. Near or upon these shell heaps may 
usually be found black spots frequently surrounded by blackened 
stones, where the natives were in the habit of making tbeir fires and 
cooking their food. Pieces of charcoal, even, may sometimes be found 
in the midst of these black heaps of ashes, and I have several times 



89G PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

had good success in hunting for fragments of broken pottery near these 
old fire-places. 

The shells composing' the shell heaps of Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard, 
and Nantucket are mostly quahoags, oysters, clams, both the small kind 
and the large sea clam, fragments of razor shells, conches, periwinkles, 
a few scallops, and the large salt-water snail shell so commonly found 
clinging on rocks. At Edgartown, Martha's Vineyard, near the " Swim- 
ming Place," and at one other place on Cape Cod, are found large numbers 
of land snail shells in little piles in the midst of theshell heap, which leaves 
little doubt that the Indians did not hesitate to eat even these when 
they could collect them in large enough numbers. It is possible that 
they were collected with a view to pierce and string them, for they would 
make better ornaments when strung than ordinary periwinkles. On 
Indian Neck, in South Wellfleet, Mr. Theophilus Rich, a few years siuce, 
while digging, found the skeleton of an Indian which was apparently, 
when first uncovered, well preserved, but soon crumbled all away ex- 
cepting the jaw-bone and teeth and a double row of common periwinkles 
which had hung about the neck and rested on the chest. The teeth were 
worn down close to the base, or were, as the discoverer affirmed, "double 
all the way around." Among the quahoag and periwinkle shells near 
the oldest shell heaps lying to the north of Welltleet Harbor were found 
some which had been perforated from within outward, ostensibly for the 
purpose of stringing. It was possible to tell roughly which shell heaps 
were the older, because some of them had the quahoag shells in them 
dented on the edges or broken in pieces by hammer stones, while in 
other piles which in other respects appeared equally old it could be seen 
that the quahoag shells had been opened by a knife, which could be in- 
serted to cut the strong adductor muscle and thus avoid breaking the 
shell. One shell heap, a very short distance from the most western 
large wharf, on the north side of Welltleet Bay, was especially interest- 
ing from the fact that here occurred the shells of the long narrow native 
oysters, now extinct on the New England coast, but whose shells make 
up by far the larger part of the great shell heaps of Maine. It is a rare 
thing to find these oyster shells so far toward the south, and a few of 
them discovered some years ago in the mud about Back Bay, Boston, 
are said to have created considerable comment at the Boston Natural 
History Booms. The shells in the heap were very old, and the larger 
ones crumbled so easily that only one was preserved. Soon after the 
examination of this shell heap, Mr. Graham, living near by, showed a 
very fine large specimen of this oyster's shell which he said he dredged 
up in the bay. Both valves were perfect, and looked as if the occupaut 
had just removed. The owner of it saw that it was very rare, and he 
refused an offer for it of $5. If it is true that this variety of oysters was 
once common along the coast of Cape Cod, and yet a thorough search 
should prove that the shell heaps of Cape Cod contain very few of them, 
will it not help to establish the fact that the Indians have not pleuti 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 897 

fully inhabited Cape Cod till a comparatively recent time? On Cape 
Cod scattered shells and a thin layer of rich black earth, often contain- 
ing- a few stone chips, are found in the vicinity of nearly all Indian 
towns where the ground may have been fertilized by the natives for 
their crops, or where the soil was already best for their cultivation. 
This layer is usually from G inches to 1 foot below the surface, but in 
one or two places it occurred fully 2 feet down. This depth does not 
necessarily make the time of accumulation great, for the sand of Cape 
Cod is noted for its habit of shifting about under the action of the 
wind, and in some places, where arrow-heads occur most plentifully, the 
wind has removed all the sand which may once have covered them, and 
has left them on a smooth gravelly surface, where they may be easily 
seen. The writer was drawn to an examination of the "drift gravel" 
of the cape by the success which Dr. C. C. Abbott had in finding stone 
implements, &c, in the gravel near Trenton, N. J., but none have been 
found except where a bank had washed away, and the implements 
which belonged in the layer of soil above had sunk down into the 
gravel, and been covered up there by later slides. The laws which 
govern the distribution of Indian camps on Cape Cod, Martha's Vine- 
yard, and Xantucket are much easier to apply than those which govern 
the distribution of our villages in the same regions. It is possible to 
predict with considerable certainty where will be found remains of 
Indian settlements. Indians did not dig wells, and they were largely 
dependent for food upon the fish and shell-fish which they caught at the 
mouths of streams and sheltered bays. Therefore they almost invari- 
ably chose a sheltered spot, near the shore of some indentation of the 
coast, or on some stream leading from such indentation. This they did 
for convenience in bringing their fish aud shell-fish to their camps, 
which were placed as near as possible to a fresh -water stream or pond 
to obtain a ready supply of drinking water. It was an easier thing for 
them to adjust the position of their homes conveniently to these sup- 
plies than to bring them auy distance to their homes ; and so these 
matters were considerations of prime importance to them in selecting a 
camping- ground. Accordingly the ponds or brooks in the vicinity of 
bays that supply shell fish and quiet fishing-grounds, help us to find 
vestiges of Indian settelment, provided they have not since been de- 
stroyed by cultivation of the ground. This method has proved very 
successful on the parts of Cape Cod visited, and if followed up further 
in the vicinity of Chatham Harbor, Barnstable Harbor, and the numer- 
ous inlets on the Falmouth shore, would probably bring to light many 
more shell heaps. 

The largest shell heaps found were about Wellfleet Bay, Bass Kiver, 
Ceutreville Kiver, and Buttermilk Bay, the exact spots being marked 
upon the, map. In the vicinity of Wellfleet Bay, especially where the 
wind has taken all the soil from the rounded tops of the hills, the vis 
itor cannot fail to notice the scattered shells and numberless chips of 
H. Mis. CO 57 



898 TAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

quartz and porphyry marking the spots where the "ancient arrow 
maker" sat. Mr. Graham speaks of one man who went carefully over 
these hills, a few years ago, and collected in three days arrow-heads 
and other Indian relies which he sold for $15. There are still many 
imperfect arrow heads, broken or unfinished, with numberless cores, 
chips, and hammer stones; but the best specimens have evidently been 
picked up in most of the places visited in the vicinity. It is fortunate 
for the collector of to-day in these regions that the soil of Cape Cod, 
.Martha's Vineyard, and Nantucket is very sterile in many places, and 
there is no accumulation of rich vegetable mold to attract cultivation 
or cover Indian relics such as exist at Mount Hope, K. I., and a few 
other celebrated Indian regions. The following list gives a summary of 
objects found during the days of the past two summers collecting on 
Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard, and Nantucket. 

It must be first understood that with the exception of a visit of three 
days to Chilmark, Martha's Vineyard, all were obtained in a few hours' 
search, while on an excursion of a day each to these islands. At Well- 
fleet the writer camped three days with his brother, who assisted him in 
the search. The list cannot be specially interesting except to give an 
idea of what may still be accomplished in a very short time in collecting 
Indian relics in a State where such things are now generally supposed 
to be very rare. 

In the vicinity of Bass Eiver, between Yarmouth and Dennis, were 
found a stone ax-head, with a deep groove for receiving the withe or 
thong by which it was fastened to the handle; two stone drills for 
boring; a piece of stone G inches by 4 inches, chipped roughly to an 
edge all around, and probably used as an ax or hoe; a large fragment 
of a soap-stone pot, with handle or ear attached; thirty arrow-heads. 

Harwich. — Forty arrow-heads and 4 spear-heads; a polished celt of 
jasper; an unpolished hatchet, or tomahawk, of gneiss; pieces of soap- 
stone pottery, akso pottery of clay baked with pounded shells or coarse 
sand; bones broken in lengths, and charcoal in fire-places; a piece of 
graphite worn by use in marking. 

Buttermilk Bay (at the head of Buzzard's). — Twenty-five arrow-heads 
of quartz and porphyry, and 1 of brass; 1 broken stone knife. 

Chatham (near Taylor's Pond, in South Chatham). — A water-worn 
pebble, of good quality graphite, 2 inches long and 1| inches wide, 
given by a friend, who found it beside a shell heap. 

Brewster.— Among some chips of stone made by the Indians in arrow- 
making, and collected by a friend, was one of siliceous chert, evidently 
from a limestone region. In the center of the siliceous portion was a 
minute spiral-shaped fossil shell. 

Centreville. — Twelve stone arrow-heads, 2 spear-heads, and 1 arrow 
head of brass. 

North Truro. — Two arrow-heads, 3 srjear-heads. 

West Yarmouth. — Three arrow-heads, 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 8 ( J ( J 

Cotult. — Two arrow-heads. On Oyster Island, in the harbor, 2 arrow- 
heads and part of the skeleton of an Indian. 

Gataumet. — One arrow-head. 

Wellfleet and South Wclljleet. — Five hammer stones, a number of cores, 
over 200 arrow-heads, 3 spear heads, good pieces of clay pottery, a pipe- 
stem, and a club-head of syenite with a deep groove all around to fasten 
it to a handle, as seen in the club of the Massachusetts Historical So- 
ciety's collection. 

At Assawamsett Pond, Middleborough. — One arrow-head and two fine 
pestles. 

Nantucket. — Thirty-three arrow-heads, 10 cores, 3 spear-heads, 1 celt 
of sandstone, and one gun-flint. 

Martha's Vineyard, GMlmark. — Ten spear heads, 48 arrow-heads, and 
3 hammer-stones. 

Edgartown. — Fifteen arrow-heads, 2 hammer-stones, and 1 flake of 
stone with edges trimmed up as a minute celt, or scraper. 

Some of the spearheads were of the type called leaf-shaped imple 
meuts, but a few of them were much larger, and would have made for- 
midable weapons in a fight. Many of the arrow-heads and some of the 
spear heads would not be preserved by some collectors; but they are 
saved, because they illustrate different stages of completion, from the 
core, out of which only one or two chips have been broken, down to the 
finished specimen off which not another chip could be taken without 
injuring the symmetry. Other specimens have been cast aside when 
nearly finished, owing to some imperfection in the stone itself, and, in 
one case, occurred several arrow-heads roughly blocked out and left in a 
pile, evidently with an intention, ou the part of the maker, to finish them 
up at his leisure. The vessels found on Cape Cod are of three sorts: First, 
those made of soap stone; second, and most abundant, pottery made of 
clay mixed with pounded shells and baked after the proper shape had 
been given by molding the clay in a basket. The basket was burned 
away, leaving the outer surface much better baked and, in consequence, 
far redder than the dark clay within. The outer surface bore the im- 
print of the wickerwork of the basket, and the inner surface the marks 
of some tool used in applying and shaping the clay with which the bas- 
ket was lined. The clay must have been applied in three layers, for 
the broken shells in the center never appeared on the surface to weaken 
the pottery or mar the beauty. 

The third kind of pottery was made of clay and coarse sand uniformly 
mixed, and did not appear as tough and well baked as the preceding 
variety. Among the articles of Indian manufacture found on Cape Cod 
care was exercised to discover any indications of an ancient aboriginal 
trade by which the Indians may have been supplied witli articles which 
they could not obtain in their vicinity. With the exception of the sin- 
gle flake of stone from Brewster containing a fossil shell, all the material 
from which arrow-heads were made upon Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard, 



000 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

and Nantucket, might have been collected on the spot; although one 
variety of jasper of which are made a good number of arrow-heads seems 
to be very rare in this region. 

Several pestles found on Cape Cod, and one from Middleborough, were 
made of a slate, belonging in the Carboniferous group, occurring abun- 
dantly in Rhode Island, and from which several pestles in the collection 
of Brown University are made. 

Besides these pestles the most interesting objects, which point to some 
sort of trade or an exchange by force between these Indians and the 
Narragansetts or some other tribe, are the broken pots of steatite, or 
soap-stone, found at Bass River, Winslow's Narrows, and Harwich Port, 
and the pieces of graphite found at Taylor's Pond and Harwich Port. 

The Narragansetts are mentioned first, because they were noted for 
their industry in manufacturing and exchanging articles with other 
tribes, and a comparison of the specimens from Cape Cod with some 
obtained this summer in Rhode Island lead to the belief that both the 
graphite and the soap-stone came from that region also. 

This summer the famous ledge of soap-stone at Johnston, R. I., just 
outside of Providence, Avas visited. To this the Indians must have re- 
sorted for years to obtain material for their stone»pots and pipes. 

Rev. Fred. Denison, of the Rhode Island Historical Society, and one 
of the committee chosen to preserve this interesting relic, has published 
a circular which describes the condition of the quarry when first dis- 
covered. Extracts from this circular, prepared by Mr. Denison, will be 
given to show the importance of this quarry to the aborigines. 

"This largest excavation measures about 10 feet in length, feet in 
width, and now 5 feet in depth. From the top to the ledge, as left by 
the glaciers, the excavation must have been carried down about 15 feet 
or more, inasmuch as, when it was opened, there lay across its top a 
fallen slab of slate-stone that once stood full 10 feet high above it, form- 
ing its eastern wall. 

"The excavation was found partly filled up with dirt, debris of Indian 
art, some whole stone pots, some partly finished pots, some only blocked 
out, numerous stone hammers, and a few shells. Many of these valu- 
able relics have passed into private hands and are highly prized. The 
sides and bottom of this excavation contain about sixty distinct pits and 
knobs of places where pots and dishes were cut from the rock, while all 
parts bear marks and scars made by the stone implements of the swarthy 
quarryinen. From the excavations and their surroundings have been 
removed about three hundred horse-cart loads of the stone chips left by 
the Indian workmen, yet some have been preserved by Prof. J. W. P. 
Jenks, in the museum of Brown University." In the possession of a 
friend on Cape Cod, is a broken soap-stone pipe which he found at Har- 
wich Port. In Rhode Island a perfect stone pipe of this same pattern 
was seen. The handles or ears on some of the pots fouud at the quarry 
above described, were exactly like the handle on a piece of a stoiw 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OP MASSACHUSETTS. 901 

pot found at Bass Eiver. With the additional evidence that the stone 
itself is similar in the two places there can be little doubt that the John- 
ston, R. I., quarry supplied the Cape Cod Indians with their stone pots 
and pipes. 

The only other interesting implements or weapons which were once 
in the possession of the Cape Cod Indians and found along with their 
other weapons of stone were two arrow-heads of brass, one of which the 
writer's brother found at Buttermilk Bay, and the other was discovered 
by the writer at Ceutreville, while hunting for Indian relics. They are of 
very thin evenly wrought brass sheathing, and a notch in the edge of the 
one, from Buttermilk Bay suggests that they were cut out by a metallic 
knife or shears with a good cutting edge. The one from Centreville and 
another which Professor Putnam found at Revere, Mass., were both 
made ou the same pattern as the arrow-heads found with the celebrated 
"skeleton in armor' 1 discovered at Fall River, with the exception that 
the latter were pierced with holes for better securing them to the shaft. 

It was the custom of the, Indians of Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard, 
and Nantucket, to bury their dead in a sitting posture, wrapped in bark 
and, if a warrior, supplied with his usual weapons. On the east side 
of Bass River, just above the lower bridge, while digging for a well, 
a man found two Indians buried in this way. One of them had buried 
with him a stone knife, spear, and arrows. The arrows were in a quiver 
which, with the wooden shafts, soon crumbled on exposure to the air. 
Other Indians have been found buried in this way on other parts of 
Cape Cod, at Martha's Vineyard and at Nantucket. At Cedar Pond, 
near Betty's Neck, in Lakeville, another one, "curled up" and carefully 
wrapped in bark, was exhumed. Soon after their contact with the 
whites the Indians gave up this method of burial. The writer has the 
skull of an Indian buried at Chilmark, Martha's Vineyard, soon after 
the whites settled on the island, the skeleton of which was lying hori- 
zontally amidst faint vestiges of a coffiu. Ou the west shore of Oyster 
Island, iu Cotuit Harbor, was found part of the skeleton of a large 
Indian buried in a sitting posture, but much disarranged by the sliding 
away of the bank which had uncovered it. 

During the period in which the Indians were gradually changing 
from their old method of interment to that of civilized nations, it was 
their habit to bury with their dead, ornaments and weapons obtained 
from the whites, while, in other respects, the burial may have been 
exactly similar to that of their ancestors. There is an account of such 
a grave in Florida, where was found an ornament of gold, made from 
metal of about the standard weight of the coiu taken to that coast by 
the first settlers. In another southern grave was found an old sword 
of the early settlers. Coats of mail were, sent to the colonists in Vir- 
ginia and Plymouth colonies, to defend them from their enemies, the 
Indians. Armor was used as late as the time of King Philip's war iu 
1675. The disasters connected with Indian warfare among the colonies, 



902 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

and the chance of lost or cast away armor falling into the hands of the 
Indians is enough, in my opinion, to explain the presence of some few 
pieces of armor in their graves without going back to the early times of 
the Northmen's explorations. The "skeleton in armor," discovered at 
Fall River, is minutely described in an article written by Mr. John 
Stark, and published in the third volume of the American Magazine, at 
Boston, in the year 1837. This account may also be found on page 124 
of Barber's Historical Collections, with a drawing of the skeleton and 
armor in the position in which it was discovered. " The body was in a 
sitting posture and enveloped in a covering'of coarse bark of a dark 
color. Within this envelope were found the remains of another of 
coarse cloth, made of fine bark and about the texture of a manila coffee 
bag. .On the breast was a plate of brass 13 inches long, 6 broad at the 
upper end, and 5 at the lower. It was oval in form, the edges made 
irregular, apparently by corrosion. Below the breast plate and en- 
tirely encircling the body, was a belt composed of brass tubes, each 
four and a half inches in length, and three-sixteenths of an inch in 
diameter, arranged longitudinally and close together; the length of a 
tube being the width of the belt. The tubes are of thin brass, cast upon 
hollow reeds, and were fastened together by pieces of sinew. This belt 
was so placed as to protect the lower parts of the body below the 
breast-plate. The arrows are of brass, thin, flat, and triangular in 
shape, with a round hole cut through near the base. The shaft was 
fastened to the head by inserting the latter in an opening at the end of 
the wood, and then tying it with a sinew through the round hole — a 
mode of constructing the weapon never practiced by the Indians, not 
even with their arrows of thin shell. Parts of the shaft still remain on 
some of them. When first discovered the arrows were in a quiver of 
bark, which fell to pieces when exposed to the air." 

The skull and a few other bones of the skeleton were much decayed, 
but the upper viscera were entire, and the flesh and skin on the hands, 
arms, one knee, and a part of the back were in a good state of preserva- 
tion, though the skin looked black as if it had been tanned. In connec- 
tion with the discovery of this skeleton in armor, this writer mentions 
the fact that the famous Dighton Rock, bearing an inscription "of which 
no sufficient explanation has yet been given," lies on the edge of a river 
but a short distance away, and that near this rock brazen vessels have 
been found. All these signs seem to him to indicate that some mari- 
ners — the unwilling and unfortunate discoverers of a new world — lived 
some time after they landed, and, having written their names, perhaps 
their epitaphs, upon the rock at Dighton, died and were buried by the 
natives. 

In the summer of 1882 the writer learned that some few years before, 
the skeleton of an Indian had been discovered in Oentreville by some 
workmen while making the cellar of Captain Crawford's house. Buried 
with this skeleton was found a breast-plate of brass. Last summer it 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 903 

Was learned from Mrs. Crawford that such a breast-plate had been found, 
but that it bad disappeared, she knew not where. She remembered few 
particulars in regard to the position of the skeleton and any coverings 
that might have been on it, but remembered well holes near the edges 
of the breast-plate that had probably once been occupied by rivets or 
strap buckles to fasten it to the body. She felt sure it was an Indian. 
because all around the house on the sides of the little hill upon which 
the house was built there was an abundance of stone drippings and 
arrow-heads, and once a queer Indian pipe-bowl had been found. On 
the rear side of the little hill a good number of quartz and porphyry 
chips were then picked up, and at the house next door a fine leaf-shaped 
implement, which had been picked up on this hill, was exchanged for 
an old jack-knife. The first white explorers that visited New England 
found considerable copper in the possession of the natives which was 
used chiefly in the form of ornaments, but sometimes to head their ar- 
rows. Very soon, even before Gosnold or the Pilgrims arrived, the In- 
dians had in some way obtained brass of the traders and fishermen who 
visited their shores. 

In " Mourt's Relation or Journal of a Plantation settled at Plymouth 
in New England" we hear of arrows curiously " headed with brasse, 
some with Hart's borne and others with Eagle's claws." Anotherwriter, 
sending home to England an account of the settlement at New Ply- 
mouth, says of the Indians: "For their weapons they have bowes and 
arrowes, some of them headed with bone, and some with brasse : I have 
sent you some of them for an example." 

The following account of some copper articles in the possession of the 
Indians is taken from John Brereton's " Brief and True Relation of the 
Discovery of the North Part of Virginia, being a most pleasant fruit- 
ful and commodius soil." Brereton was with Gosnold when he dis- 
covered Martha's Vineyard in 1002. Even then they found an European 
rigged boat, the work of some Frenchmen, in the possession of the In- 
dians of New England. From these Frenchmen, or other traders and 
explorers, the articles of " paler colored metal " described by Brereton 
as in the possession of the Indians that visited them while staying at 
Cuttyhunk may have come. The Indian probably told Brereton the 
truth in regard to the copper, which might have been dug up in some 
places in Connecticut or New Jersey, for afterward in these places the 
first white settlers sometimes found pieces of native copper, and even 
mined it, at the junction of the trap and red sandstone. Brereton's 
account of the metal found in the possession of the Indians is as fol- 
lows : 

"They have also great store of copper, some very red and some of a 
paler color, none of them but have chains, ear-rings, or collars of this 
metal. They head some of their arrows herewith much like our broad 
arrow-heads, very workmanly made. Their chains are many hollow 
pieces cemented together, each piece of the bigness of one of our reeds, a 



904 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

finger in length, ten or twelve together on a string, which they wear about 
their necks. Their collars they wear about their bodies like bandoleers, 
a handful broad, all hollow pieces like the other, but somewhat shorter, 
four hundred pieces in a collar, very fine and evenly set together. Be- 
sides these they have large drinking-cups made like skulls, and other 
thin plates of copper much like our boar spear blades, all which they 
so little esteem, as they offered their fairest collars or chains for a knife 
or such like trifle, but we seemed little to regard it. Yet I was desirous 
to understand where they had such store of this metal, and made signs 
to one of them with whom I was very familiar, who, taking a piece of 
copper in his hand, made a hole with his finger in the ground and withal 
pointed to the main from whence they came." 

With a knowledge of this custom of the Indians, that is, of stringing 
tubes of copper or brass in the form of wide belts and wearing them 
about the waist, the discovery of such a belt on the skeleton at Fall 
River buried in other respects like any Indian (with the exception of the 
breast plate) need not seem so strange, especially when we find that, 
brass and copper were quite abundant among them at an early date, and 
one other Indian at least had come into possession of a brass breast- 
plate. 

Before the Pilgrims landed on Cape Cod it is certain that the Indians 
there had killed three Englishmen, and killed or retained as slaves the 
whole ship's crew of a French vessel which landed there in distress. 
This they did for the sake of plunder, and very probably some copper 
or brass came into their possession at these times. Granting, then, that 
the Indian whose skeleton was found at Centreville did not engage in 
successful war with the colonists, or get the brass breast-plate from them 
by trade, it is still possible for him to have obtained it, or the material 
for it, at a still earlier date from these unlucky explorers. 

An account of the burial customs of the Indians on Cape Cod would 
be imperfect without reference at least being made to the description of 
an Indian burying ground discovered by the Pilgrims while exploring 
on Cape Cod before the settlement at Plymouth. This account may be 
found under the history of Gov. John Carver, in a book compiled by J. 
B. Moore, entitled " Governors of Kew Plymouth and Massachusetts 
Bay." 

The place where Governor Carver and " nine of his principal men, 
well armed," landed after leaving the Mayflower and rounding the point 
off Wellfleet Harbor, was probably on Indian Keck, where, it will be 
seen by consulting the map, many Indian shell heaps may now be found. 
On the shore Carver and his men saw ten or twelve Indians engaged 
in cutting up a large fish, but found it difficult to go directly to the 
shore where the fish lay, on account of the shoal water. The Indians 
ran off, taking with them all the fish they could carry. The shores of 
the shallow bay or cove in which they landed were almost lined with 
the remains of large fishes like that which the Indians had cut up. The 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 



905 



fish proved to be a grampus, and so the explorers called the bay Gram- 
pus Bay. This bay is now called Bkickiish Bay or Creek, and it is only 
a few yards to the uorth of this shallow bay that the shell heaps and 
other signs of Indian settlement, before described, around Drummer 
Pond may be found. With this explanation and a reference to the map, 




ShellHeaps rrua-Tcinq the sites of Indian Settlements . 

v i v ' &i. 



Sketch-map of Cape Cod, Massachusetts. 

the history of the discoveries made by the Pilgrims at this time may be 
more interesting, and should be read among the very first books by 
those who wish to become better acquainted with the history of the 
Indians in (his vicinity. 

The traditions of the Indians of Cape Cod, Martha's Viueyard, and 
Xantucket have been wholly omitted in these notes, but may be found 
in full, together with many interesting facts in regard to the Indians' 
dress, wigwams, canoes, &c, in a few books the titles of which will 
soon be given. 

The fable in regard to the lignite and fossil bones of cetaceans or 
whales found abundantly in the Tertiary clay of Gay Head, Martha's 
Vineyard, is very interesting. These Indians supposed that the black- 
ened wood or lignite marked the spot where the giant Manshope broiled 
the whale on a fire made of the largest trees, which he pulled up by the 
roots. The rest of the tradition is very interesting, but if repeated 



906 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

would necessitate entering on the almost equally interesting traditions 
of the Indians of Nantucket and Cape Cod. 

Mr. Treat wrote that there were in 1G93 under his care in Eastham, 
which then included Wellileet and Orleans, four Indian villages where 
he was in tbe habit of visiting the natives in their wigwams. At this 
time there were five hundred adult persons in the villages; but notwith- 
standing every exertion made for the benefit of the Indians, they wasted 
away by fatal diseases and other causes, so that in 1764 they were re- 
duced to four individuals only. 

One reason why so few traces of settlement can now be found on the 
sites of these old Indian villages is undoubtedly owing to the fact that 
the civilized Indians persistently kept up the custom of living in wig- 
wams until they had become wholly extinct or had mixed with other 
races. As late as the year 1779 there was a cluster of wigwams about 
a mile from the mouth of Bass River, probably at the spot where the 
shell heaps and arrow-heads are so abundant. About this time the small- 
pox was prevalent and most of them died. 

In 1745 thirteen Indians from this company on Bass River and the 
immediate vicinity accompanied the Cape Breton expedition. The con- 
dition of their embarking was that Mr. Thacher, of Yarmouth, should 
be their captain. Of these thirteen only three lived to return, two 
being killed by the enemj 7 , and eight dying of disease. One of Thach- 
er's Indians, hired by Colonel Vaughan for a bottleof brandy, was the first 
of the provincials who entered the grand battery at Louisburg. He 
crawled in at an embrasure and opened the gate, which Vaughan imme- 
diately entered, the enemy having withdrawn from this battery, though 
at the time this circumstance was not known. This information is from 
an extract made from "Alden's Collection," on page 60 of Barber's His- 
torical Collections, and it adds several other interesting stories of the 
Indians of this vicinity. 

Very little interesting information exists about the Indians of Cen- 
treville and Buttermilk Bay, where the shell heaps would indicate a 
population nearly as great as that at Bass River and Wellfleet Bay. 

Until the breast-plate of the Skeleton in Armor is found, and a 
thorough investigation can be made, the history of this warrior must 
remain a mystery, and we may regard him as a very ordinary and vain 
Indian, buried in his finery, or we may think of him as a successful 
warrior safely returned from a secret participation in King Philip's 
war, and afterwards buried in the spoils which he had stripped from a 
fallen foe. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE SUBJECT. 

Collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society. — Vol. I. — 1792. His- 
torical Collections of Indians. By Daniel Gookin. [Contains much 
valuable information on the subject; Indian inscription on a grave-stone 
at Gay Head.] 

Vol. ii. — 1793. P. 40 [Letter from King Phillip to Governor Prince]. 

Vol. hi.— 1794. P. 1 : Description of Middleborough. P. 15 : A Top- 



WAMPANOAG INDIANS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 907 

ographical Description of Barnstable. Pp. 118 and 1LJ0. A Topograph- 
ical Description of Wellfleet. P. 148. A Historical Account of Middle- 
borongh. P. 158. Macy's Account of Nantucket. Pp. 170-172. A 
Topograpbical Description of Raynhain. Pp. 188-193. Anecdotes re- 
specting Sandwich and Masbpee. P. 203. A Key into tbe Language of 
America; Or, an Help to tbe Language of tbe Natives in tbat part of 
America called New England. Togetber with brief Observations of tbe 
Customs, Manners, and Worship, etc., of the aforesaid Natives, in Peace 
and War, in Life and Death. By Roger Williams, of Providence, in 
New England. 

1795. P. 50 : Account of the Western Indians and some account of 
the Indians of Martha's Vineyard, Nantucket, and in the counties of 
Barnstable and Plymouth. 

1798. P. 6 : General Lincoln's Observations on the Indians. P. 32 : 
Historical and characteristic traits of the American Indians in general, 
and those of Natick in particular. P. 54: Memorabilia of Yarmouth. 
[Tbis account contains a tradition of tbe Indians of Nantucket.] 

Vol. vi. — 1799. [Some letters in reference to King Pbillip's War, 
and some more on tbe 197tb page and beyond between tbe Governor, 
Daniel Gookin, and the praying Indians at Natick and others, the last 
letter ending on tbe 211th page.] 

Vol. viii. — Description of Chatham, p. 151. History of Eastbam, 
pp. 159-170. Pp. 203-239 : A Relation or Journal of a Plantation settled 
at Plymouth, in New England, and Proceedings thereof: First printed 
in 1622 and abbreviated in Purchas's Pilgrims, book x, chapter iv. Lon- 
don, 1625. [This is sometimes called Mourt's Relation.] P. 239 : Good 
News from New England; Or, A Relation of things remarkable in that 
Plantation. Written by E. Winslow. 

Hutchinson's History. 

Prince's Annals. 

Mather's Relations of Troubles in New England. 

Belknap's Biography. 

Alden's Collections. 

"Brief and True Relation of the Discovery of tbe North Part of Vir- 
ginia, being a most pleasant, fruitful, and commodious soil." [The above 
is found in tbe 3d series, Vol. viii, of tbe Mass. Hist. Society's Collec- 
tions.] 

"Chronicles of the Pilgrim Fathers of the Colony of Plymouth, from 
1602 to 1625, now first collected from original records and contempora- 
neous printed documents," by Alexander Young. 

" Governors of New Plymouth and Massachusetts Bay." J. B. Moore. 

"Drake's Book of the Indians." 

"Defense of the Rhode Island system of treatment of the Indians." 
By Zacb. Allen. 

W. Hubbard.— "Indian Wars in New England." 

Barber's Historical Collections, pp. 14, 16, 33, 38, 43, 46, 54, 56, 59, 117, 
124, 131, 135, 147, 150, 154, 447. 



908 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ANTIQUITIES FROM OMETEPE, NICARAGUA. 

By Charles C. Nutting. 

Although the name of this island has been spelled "Ometepec" by 
previous explorers, I have decided to adopt the spelling of the inhab- 
itants of the country, which is also that used in official papers. 

This latter fact I discovered through reading official reports of the 
eruption of the volcano published in U E1 Ceutro Americano," a Nicara- 
guan newspaper. This island is situated about 9 miles from the town of 
San Jorge on the west shore of Lake Nicaragua. It is about 20 miles 
long by 10 wide, and the greater part of its surface is covered by two 
volcanoes, which are prominent features of the scenery from all parts of 
the lake. 

The Volcano Madera is of greater bulk than its companion and much 
more irregular in form. So far as I could learn it has never been known 
to give signs of activity within historic times. 

The Volcano Ometepe, situated on the northern end of the island, is 
said to be one of the most regular in form in the world, being a perfect 
cone from all points of view. It is about 5,000 feet high. 

This has also been considered an extinct volcano, but, during my visit, 
it began showing signs of activity. On March G, 1883, a thin column 
of smoke was seen to issue from the exact summit, and about six weeks 
afterward there was a slight flow of lava on the southeastern side. 

Ometepe has the reputation of having been an object of worship by 
the peoples of past ages, and the large number of stone images found on 
the island would seem to indicate that it was sacred ground. It was 
evidently a chosen spot for burial, as the immense number of graves 
and burial urns still testify. 

The present inhabitants of the island are mostly Indians of a rather 
purer type than is found on the adjacent mainland, although many of 
them show a mixture of Spanish blood and a few are partly negro. 

For a description of the appearance of the pure-blooded native, I can 
not improve upon that given by Dr. J. F. Bransford, in his " Archa3o- 
logical Researches in Nicaragua," page 6 : 

" In physique the Indians are usually rather short, low-browed, with 
dark copper skin and coarse hair. On and near Madera are a few of 
commanding stature, many of the men being over feet high and the 
women proportionately large. The head is short, the features strongly 
marked, with heavy lower jaw and large teeth." 

I was unable to discover any remnant of reverence among the natives 
for the old idols found on the island, nor did they offer the slightest 
objection to the removal of one of them, although they were convinced 
that said removal was simply a freak of insanity on my part. 

One prominent characteristic of these Indians is the deference and 



ANTIQUITIES FROM NICARAGUA. [)()9 

obedience which they pay to the opinion and Avill of their wives, whom 
they consult on all matters of importance. 

This fact is well illustrated by an instance which is, perhaps, worth 
recounting. 

While digging for antiquities the writer found a spot peculiarly rich in 
the objects of his search, but it was on land owned, or at least worked, 
by an Indiau who proved unusually avaricious and demanded payment 
for every yard of earth disturbed. 

He also put in a bill for damages done to his crop of young plantains 
by my men passing over them on their way to and from work. I con- 
sidered the bill a just one and offered to pay it while settling up my 
other accounts, when, to my great surprise, he refused to accept the 
money. Upon being pressed for a reason he said that his " mujer," or 
"woman," had forbidden his taking the money. 

In order to test the extent of his obedience I urged him to take the 
money, telling him that his "mujer" need know nothing of the matter. 
He steadily refused, however, and gravely stated that "women knew 
everything." 

The Catholic Church is here, as elsewhere in Central America, the con- 
trolling power among the Indians. But they still retain some curious 
remnants of their own ancient superstitions, among which may be men- 
tioned an almost universal belief in the personality of the great forces 
and features of nature. 

They attribute life and passion to Lake Nicaragua, for instance, not 
only in a figurative but also in a literal sense. 

This power of ancient superstition was well illustrated by an instance 
which occurred during my ascent of the Volcano Ometepe. 

This ascent was made at the request of the " alcalde " of the town of 
Moyogalpa, who furnished me with six men to carry water and provis- 
ions. 

After entering the dense forest which clothes the summit of the peak, 
I became convinced that the men knew nothing about the trail, and ac- 
cordingly determined to make a way for myself and, selecting the most 
intelligent of the men for my companion, I pushed on ahead leaving the 
others to shift for themselves. 

After toiling upward for an hour or so, wishing to ascertain the where- 
abouts of the rest of the party, I asked my companion to shout, and see 
if they were within hearing. He seemed extremely reluctant to do so, 
and I gave the call myself, much to his evident alarm. 

After shouting several times without any response, I was informed by 
the Indian that my efforts were useless as the others wouldn't answer 
even if they heard me. 

Upon inquiring the cause of this, I was told that they were "afraid 
to make a noise so near old "Ometepe" as it might make him "muy 
bravio" (very angry)! 

I found, upon rejoining the others shortly afterward, that it was even 



910 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

so, and that my calls were plainly heard, but not answered for the rea- 
son given. 

The Indians are good-natured and indolent, as a rule, and rarely 
quarrelsome or dangerous, except when under the influence of liquor. 

I found it much easier to lead than to drive them. Their good-will is 
readily gained, and more can be accomplished through that than through 
either fear or money. 

The antiquities secured by me may be divided into two general 
classes: (1) Sculptures in stone; (2) Vessels of clay and their contents, 
including all objects found in the burial places. 

Among the stone sculptures I saw a number of human figures about 
life size, besides smaller articles comprising images of men and animals, 
and also utensils such as grinding stones and vessels for various pur- 
poses. I saw and examined seven human figures carved in stone and 
of nearly life size. 

No. 1. A large human figure, sitting, about 5 feet high. The head, 
upper arm, and knee are wanting. Found lying, half embedded in the 
gravel on the lake shore, about 3 miles north of Moyogalpa. This is 
probably the figure referred to by Dr. Bransford as "an image without 
a head lying in the edge of the lake." 

No. 2. Companion to the last, about the same length, but of slighter 
build, from which I judge that it was intended for a female. This fig- 
ure also differs from No. 1 in having the arms bent at the elbows with 
the hands resting on the knees, while in No. 1 the hands hung down 
straight at the sides. Both Nos. 1 aud 2 are headless, and the latter 
is probably the one referred to by Dr. Bransford as follows: "Another 
was said to be uncovered at low water during the dry season." At the 
time of my visit the figure was lying in the water, by which it was 
nearly covered. 

Nos. 3 and 4 are Dr. Brausford's Nos. 1 and 2. They have been taken 
from their original position in the forest and set up as gate posts at 
the Catholic church at Los Angeles. They are now the property of 
Dr. Earl Flint, of Eivas, who bought them from the church and intends 
shipping them to this country. 

No. 5 is a very much worn figure of " a man in a standing position." 
The basalt rock is worn almost smooth, but it bears evidence of work- 
manship. I must confess that I could not make out the figure of the 
man, and give it as such on the authority of the native who guided me 
to it. 

No. 6 was a seated female figure fouud in the dense forest south of 
Los Angeles. This figure also was headless, and I failed to find the 
missing part. 

No. 7 was the companion to the last, and in better condition than any 
of the others I examined. The head was off, but I found it lying near, 
and found that it fitted well, having been broken off at a comparatively 
recent date. This figure I determined to secure for the National Mu- 



ANTIQUITIES FROM NICARAGUA. 



Oil 



Benin, and succeeded in transporting - it down to the lake shore, across 
the lake and over the mountains to the Pacific coast, where I placed 
it in charge of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company. 

The idol is now in the National Museum at Washington, and forms 
the subject of the following illustration : 




Front and .side view of stone figure from Onietepe. (Sizc= ,',,.) 

The figure is that of a man seated. It is about life size, but the legs 
are small in proportion to the body. The head is large and is sur- 
mounted by the head of some animal. The arms are separated from 
the body at the elbows and hang straight down. 

The following are some of the measurements: Height of figure with- 
out base, 1 feet 3 inches ; height of figure and base, 5 feet 9 inches ; 



912 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

width of seat, 2 feet 1 inch ; height of seat, 1 foot 7 inches ; sole of foot 
to knee, 1 foot 2 inches ; arm and hand, 2 feet 1 inch ; greatest girth 
of body, 3 feet 11 inches; greatest girth of base, 5 feet 11 inches ; girth 
of neck under chin, 3 feet 6 inches; girth of arm, 1 foot 4^ inches; 
height of head from shoulder, 1 foot 2i inches ; across knees, 1 foot 2i 
inches ; knee to back of figure, 1 foot 10J inches. 

I also shipped to the museum a figure, supposed to be that of a mon- 
key. The head only is distinct. It was found in a cacao plantation, 
about one-half mile northwest of Moyogalpa. This figure is said by the 
natives to have been worshipped by their ancestors. 

The burial urns and their contents and accompanying objects of clay, 
bone, shells, and human remains were all found in two localities, which 
are called, for convenience in reference, graves Nos. 1 and 2, although 
it must be understood that each was a burial ground of some extent, and 
not a simple grave. 

Grave No. 1 was located some 400 or 500 yards from the spot where 
the idol last mentioned was found, being more to the southwest and 
nearer the shore of the lake. It was situated in a plantain patch owned 
by an Indian. 

The fact that the spot was exposed to the direct rays of the tropical 
sun rendered it a trying place to work, and I have nothing but praise 
for the three men (Indians) who toiled faithfully day after day in the 
excavations at this place. 

The surface ground here is of rich loamy soil about 8 inches in depth, 
under which is a bed of sand nearly 2 feet in depth. Underlying this sand 
is a hard bed of ashes and grit, through which the excavations did not 
penetrate. 

The burial urns were of two general classes, round and shoe-shaped. 

The natives call the former " Olkis," and the latter " Burrugm." 

Although carefully packed in soft grass, all the large vessels that I 
secured were badly broken, and at the time of writing only two of them 
have been mended so that measurements can be taken. 

No. 01,713 was the first vessel encountered, and was found covering 
the mouth of a large shoe-shaped urn, being inverted over the same. It 
is a large basiu-shaped dish, round at the bottom, being 7 inches deep 
and 18£ broad. 

No. 01,712 was also used as a cover to an urn of similar shape. It 
has a flaring rim at the top, and foot at the bottom, and is 14£ inches 
high by 18 broad at the top. 

No. 01,714 was a rather small round urn. 

No. 01,708. A shoe shaped urn which is being restored. 

No. 01,710 is a round deep urn. 

No. 01,711 is a round medium-sized urn. 

No. 01,709 is a shoe-shaped vessel. 

No. 01,750 is a shoe-shaped vessel. 

No. 01,707 is a small urn, made of the same material as the preced- 



ANTIQUITIES FROM NICARAGUA. 913 

iug. It resembles No. 61,712 in shape and measures as follows: Depth, 
SA inches ; greatest breadth, lOi inches. 

These large urns were generally found at a depth of about 2 feet. 
The round ones generally had covers of material similar to the urns 
themselves, while the shoe-shaped vessels were more often covered 
with more delicate, painted bowls. Fragments of human bones were 
found in nearly every urn, but they crumbled at a touch upon being 
exposed to the air. 

Many articles of more delicate construction and finer workmanship 
were found. They were often used as covers to the shoe-shaped urns, 
or buried near the latter, or placed within the urns, where bowls were 
sometimes found inverted over the scull of the occupant, apparently 
serving as a cap or protection to the head. 

I was much surprised to find, in several instances, that bowls had 
been broken, and afterwards placed within the urns. This is proved 
by the fact that many of the bowls which were found in pieces inside of 
the urns were too large to pass through the mouth of the urn when 
entire. 

Xo. 01,691. Bowl, painted on outside. Found inside of round urn, 
Depth, 3$ inches ; width, Sf inches. 

No. Gl,692. Bowl, painted on outside. Found as cover for shoe-urn, 
Depth, 4£ inches; width, 9£ inches. 

Xo. 61,093. Bowl, painted on outside. Found at a depth of 5 feet, in- 
inside of round urn containing skull. Depth, 4^ inches; width, 9 inches. 

Xo. 61,691. Bowl, painted on outside. Found outside of urn. Depth, 
4 inche*s ; width, £i inches. 

Xo. 61,695. Small bowl painted on outside. Two red lines around 
inside close to the top. Found inside of round urn. Depth, 3 inches; 
width, 5£ inches. 

Xo. 61,696. Small bowl painted on outside. One indistinct red line 
around inside of urn. .Found inside of round urn. Depth, 2J inches ; 
width, 5 inches. 

Xo. 61,697. Bowl with raised figure of human face on each side. 
Painted on the outside. A brown line around inside of rim with a red 
line immediately under it. Found covering a shoe-shaped urn. Paint 
very fresh. Depth, 4J inches; width, 9£ inches. 

Xo. 61,69S. Bowl with raised figure similar to preceding. Painted 
on outside with a delicate pattern in fine lines and dots. Painted on in- 
side with rather coarser pattern covering entire inner surface. Found 
covering a burial urn. Paint very fresh and distinct. Depth, 3^ inches; 
width, 10 inches. 

Xo. 61,699. Bowl with raised figure somewhat distorted. Painted 
inside and out with rather a ruder pattern than the last, and not so 
carefully executed. Colors remarkably fresh and distinct. Found out- 
side of burial urn. Depth, 3 .J inches ; width, 8£ inches. 
H. Mis. 69 36 



HI 4 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

No 61,700. Shallow bowl painted inside and out with similar patterns. 
On the outside there is a series of twelve hieroglyph like figures of two 
kinds in alternation. On the iuside are ten similar figures also alterna- 
ting. This bowl is thicker and more solid in construction than any of 
the others. 1 have been unable to find another like it in the collection 
of the National Museum. It was found inside of a round urn where 
it served as a cover for a human skull. Depth, 2£ inches ; width, 7 
in ches. 

No. 01,701. Shallow dish with flat bottom and flaring sides. Painted 
on outside simply in black and red lines broken by short vertical lines 
extending around its circumference. On the inside the design is much 
more elaborate, being more like that found on some of the larger bowls. 
This also was found inside of a round urn and had been used as a skull 
cover. Depth, 2^ inches ; width, 7£ inches. 

No. 61,702. Shallow dish with bottom more rounded and sides more 
flaring than the last. Painted inside and out with very elaborate de- 
signs. Paint scaled off in many places. Found near a shoe-shaped urn. 
Depth, If inch ; width, 6^ inches. 

No. 61,703. Deep dish with rounded bottom and flaring sides. This 
dish is ornamented both inside and out with designs more intricate and 
elaborate than any other that I have seen from Ometepe. The colors 
are quite fresh and distinct. Found inside of round burial urn. Depth, 
2 inches ; width, 5| inches. 

No. 61,704. Deep, narrow-mouthed, bowl-shaped vessel ornamented 
on the outside with a series of red and black lines, and oblong longi- 
tudinal panels inclosing circular and square figures. Lower half of out- 
side and entire inside not ornamented. Found inside of a shoe-shaped 
burial urn. Depth, 4 inches ; width, 5| inches. 

No. 61,705. Deep, flat -bottomed, straight-sided vessel, painted red, 
and ornamented with incised lines on the outside near the rim. Found 
outside of burial urn. Contained human bones. Depth, 3f inches; 
width, 6^ inches. 

No. 61,706. Two miniature shoe-shaped vessels joined together, facing 
in opposite directions with a handle on top (broken off). The two ves- 
sels are joined together inside by a round hole. This specimen is unique 
in the collections of the National Museum. Depth, 2^ inches; width, 
4§ inches. 

No. 61,744. Under this number come the numerous legs or feet of 
tripod vessels of clay encountered in all parts of the excavations. They 
almost always are made to represent the head of man or some ani- 
mal, are hollow inside, and often have a little ball of hard clay within 
which makes a rattling noise when shaken. They are always painted 
in designs corresponding to those found on the vessels to which they 
belong. Although dozens of these legs were found I did not encounter 
a single entire tripod. 

No. 61,745. Two vase ornaments representing heads of animals well 



ANTIQUITIES FROM NICARAGUA. 915 

executed and much more elaborate in form than the preceding. TJn- 
painted. 

No. 61,743. Clay "Sinkers." An intelligent native told me that he 
considered that these objects commonly called "sinkers" were, in reality, 
tools used for molding the various clay vessels with which they are 
associated. 

No. 61,746. A small round fragment of painted ware, perforated so as 
to form a ring. Probably an ornament of some sort. 

No. 61,747. Shell implement found in burial urn. 

No. 61,748. Fish vertebra found in burial urn. 

No. 61,749. Flint flakes found in burial urns. Said by the natives 
to have been used in fashioning the incised ornaments on pottery. 

No. 61,715. Clay disc; I can think of no probable use whatever for 
this article. It is simply a round hard burnt disk 4£ inches wide by 
about § inches thick with rounded edges. 

No. 61,716. Arrow-head found beside a skeleton which had been 
buried outside of burial urns, and stretched at full length with face 
up. 

No. 61,717. Small portion of a semi-fossilized human bone, probably 
the ulna. Found inside of burial urn, at a depth of 5 feet below surface 
of ground. No. 61,693, was found in the same urn. 

A great number of skulls and other portions of human skeletons 
were encountered both inside and without the urns. Those inside the 
urns were extremely fragmentary and crumbled at the slightest touch. 
I brought the fragments of a skull found at a depth of five feet along 
with Nos. 61,717 and 61,693. 

I also collected a large number of bones from skeletons found outside 
of urns. 

These seemed to be in a much better state of preservation, but were 
all jolted to pieces on the homeward voyage. 

Some of these skulls are remarkably thick with a good facial angle. 

It seems hard to account for these two modes of burial iu the same 
spot. 

Skeletons were often found stretched out right by the side of the 
urns. 

The fact that those found outside of urns were iu a much better state 
of preservation than those inside would seem to preclude the idea of 
the two modes being contemporaneous; the urns being an excellent 
protection for the latter. The indications are that a considerable lapse 
of time must have intervened between the two modes of burial, and 
that the urn burial is the older method, and that the full-length inter- 
ment was practiced by a subsequent race. This subsequent race must 
have exposed the urns in digging their graves, and the question arises. 
Why were the urns left undisturbed ? 

Dr. Bransford has suggested to me the most plausible answer to this 
question which is substantially as follows: "All mankind, both savage 



916 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

and civilized, have a peculiar reverence for the graves of the dead, and, 
among many uncivilized races, this reverence has taken the form of a 
deep-rooted superstition which forbids the molestation of any grave. 
This was probably the feeling which induced the 'subsequent race, 
spoken of above, to leave unmolested the urns containing tbe remains 
of human beings." 

Grave No. 2. — This place of burial was found at a spot only 200 or 
300 yards northwest of Grave No. 1. 

The character of tbe ground is much the same here as at No. 1, but 
the urns were found much nearer the surface, the tops of the vessels 
generally coming within a foot of the surface of the ground. 

Most of the large urns were broken by roots of trees which had pene- 
trated them in all directions, but they seem to be of the same style as 
those found in No. 1, with perhaps a little more attempt at ornamentation. 

No. 61,737. A large, ornamented, shoe-shaped urn, much like No. 
22,343 of Dr. Bransford's collection in size, shape, and ornamentation. 

No. 61,738. A very large round urn which I succeeded in getting out 
of the ground intact, but it was badly smashed on the voyage. 

No. 61,739. Medium-sized shoe urn, also badly broken. There was 
one vessel, badly broken by roots of trees, that had an ornamentation 
which I have not seen elsewhere among specimens brought from Ome- 
tepe. The vessel was about size and shape of Dr. Bransford's No. 22,320, 
but was rather more regularly formed. The ornamentation consisted 
in a regular, five-pointed star formed of raised lines. One of the points 
was missing. 

The smaller articles of pottery from Grave No. 2 differ from those 
found at No. 1 in several important particulars. They have, in general, 
an appearance of greater age, and are more often ornamented with 
raised figures or designs. The painting is less elaborate and the paint 
much less fresh and distinct. 

No. 61,718. Deep bowl, painted on the outside in a rather elaborate 
pattern. The design in color differs from that of similarly shaped ves- 
sels from Grave No. 1 in having the color laid on in bolder and more 
massive bands and patches. Shows slight traces of having been over 
the fire. Perhaps it was a vessel used in cooking. Depth, 3£ inches j 
width, (i£ inches. 

No. 61,719. Shallow bowl painted outside in a crude pattern, and in- 
side in an elaborate one. Found in burial urn. Depth, 1£ inches j 
width, 4 inches. 

No. 61,720. Large bowl with raised figures of human face on each side, 
the nose and mouth being much more prominent than in similar vessels 
from Grave No. 1. This bowl shows decided evidence of being subjected 
to action of heat, being scorched and blackened, and having a large 
proportion of the paint worn or scaled off. Painted in elaborate de- 
signs both inside and out. Found outside of burial urn. Depth, 4 
inches ; width, 9£ inches. 



ANTIQUITIES FROM NICARAGUA. 917 

No. 61,721. Narrow-mouthed pot or vessel, of peculiar shape. This 
peculiarity consists in a deep, broad groove extending from rim to bot- 
tom on one side. This may be a suggestion of the double shoe-shaped 
vessel, No. 61,706. Depth, 3i inches; width, 4£ inches. 

No. 61,722. Wide-mouthed bowl with an ornament consisting of a 
projecting turtle's head, well executed, on each side. It is ornamented 
also by broad raised bands, a flaring rim, a ring or pedestal for a stand, 
and three rings of incised dots, two of which rings extend entirely around 
the vessel, while the third is interrupted only by the turtle's heads. Col- 
ors red and perhaps originally black. Found outside of burial urns. 
Depth, 2£ inches ; width, 5^ inches. 

No. 61,723. Bowl with flat bottom and slightly concave sides, and in- 
cised pattern running entirely around on the outside near the rim. Col- 
ored like preceding. Found outside of urns. Depth, 2£ inches ; width, 
5^ inches. 

No. 61,724. Hemispherical bowl with circular standard. Unorna- 
mented. Found outside of urns. Depth, 4^ inches; width, 8 inches. 

No. 61,725. Small, shoe-shaped vessel with raised ornament repre- 
senting the face of some animal (tiger?). Black, polished. Found in 
urn. Depth, 4£ inches; width, 4£ inches; length, 5 inches; width of 
mouth, 2-J inches. 

No. 61,726. Small, wide-mouthed shoe-shaped vessel. Unornamented 
and unglazed. Found outside of urn. Depth, 5 inches; width, 4f 
inches; length, 7| inches; width of moutb, 4 inches. 

No. 61,727. Small, shoe-shaped urn, similar to last with the exception 
of a raised handle at small end. Front part missing. Found outside 
of urn. Depth, 5 inches; width, 4f inches; length, (?) inches; width 
of mouth, 3^ inches. 

No. 61,728. In form this vessel seems to be intermediate between the 
shoe-shaped and round styles. There is a slight vertical depression on 
the smaller end, and also two crescent-shaped ridges in imitation of the 
rope or chain ornaments found on the large, shoe-shaped urns. The 
material is either very old or poorly burnt, it being very " rotten." 
Depth, 5 inches ; width, 6 inches ; length, 7 inches ; width of mouth, (?) 
inches. 

No. 61,733. Diminutive, shoe-shaped urn, with raised ornaments at 
each end. Found in urn. Depth, 2J inches; width, If inch; length, 
2^ inches ; width of mouth, £ inch. 

No.» 61,730. Similar to last. Unornamented. Found in urn. Depth, 
2£ inches; width, 2 inches; length 2§ inches; width of mouth, l^inch. 

No. 61,729. Narrow-mouthed round vessel, with a series of vertical 
depressions and corresponding elevations running around the upper 
part. There is also a raised ornament, probably a head, on each side 
near the top. These ornaments are connected by a "rope ornament'' 
extending entirely around the vessel. The combination of form and 



918 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ornamentation is different from that seen in any other specimen from 
Nicaragua. Depth, 6f inches ; width, 8 inches. 

No. 61,731. Miniature of round urn, unornamented and unpainted. 
Found inside of round urn. Depth, 1£ inches ; width, If inches. 

No. 61 ,732. Same as last. 

No. 61,734, 61,735. Ornaments from a large, curiously shaped dish 
which served as a cover for No. 61,738, but had been broken to pieces 
by roots. These ornaments were intended to represent the head of some 
animal, and show considerable care in design and execution. 

No. 61,736. Beak of parrot in clay. 

Many legs of tripod dishes were found, bearing a general resemblance 
to those of Grave No. 1. Yery few bones were found, and those were 
even more fragmentary than in Grave No. 1. 

No. 61,740 is a rude carving of a face in stone, found inside of burial 
urn. 



ON THE COMPARATIVE PHONOLOGY OF FOUR SIOUAN 

LANGUAGES.* 



By Eev. J. Owen Dorset, 
of the Bureau of Ethnology. 



The term "Siouan" lias been applied to that family of Indians which 
has been known heretofore as the "Dakotan Family." 

It is unfortunate that we are obliged to use this adjective, which is 
derived from "Sioux," as the latter is not a genuine Indian word. Ac- 
cording to Dr. J. H. Trumbull, "Sioux is the termination of the French 
plural of the Ottawa Kadowessi. by which a Dakota was designated. 
The Ottawa plural is Nadowessiicag (or -aJc); the French made it Nado- 
wessioux, and the couriers de bois reduced it to Sioux." "Dakotan" 
should have been the appellative, as the Sioux call themselves " Da- 
kota" and "Lakota." But, in honor of Albert Gallatin, who was the 
first to classify the Indians of this family as the " Sioux," the Bureau 
of Ethnology of the Smithsonian Institution has adopted the new term, 
"Siouan," as the name of this family. 

The writer is responsible for "(pe-gi-ha^ as the name of the second 
group appearing in the following list, and for "j^oi-we^re," the name of 
the third group. $egiha means, " Belonging to the people of this land," 
or, "Those dwelling here," i. e., the aborigines or home people. When 
an Omaha was challenged in the dark, if on his own territory, he usually 
replied, "I am a (pegiha." So might a Ponka replyY under similar cir- 
cumstances, when at home. A Kansas would say, "I am a Ye-ga-ha," 
of which the Osage equivalent is, "I am a (pe-jpi-ha." These answer to 
the Oto " L r J oi-w6'-re" and the Iowa " j v o£-:>u-w6-re." " To speak the home 
dialect" is called "(pegiha ie" by the Ponkas and Omahas, " Yegaha ie" 
by the Kansas, "^oiwere itc'e" by the Otos, and " j^oesp were itc'e" by 
the Iowas. "When an Indian was challenged in the dark, if away from 
home, he must give his tribal name, saying, "I am an Omaha," "I am 
a Ponka," etc. 

LANGUAGES OF THE SIOUAN FAMILY. 

1. Dakota, in four dialects: Santee, Yankton, Teton, and AssiniboTn. 

2. (pegiha, in four dialects: Ponka (spoken by Ponkas and Omahas), 
Kansas, Osage, and Kwapa. 

•Read before Am. Assoc. A. 8., Section "H," at Montreal, August, 1882. 

919 



920 COMPARATIVE PHONOLOGY OF FOUR SIOUAN LANGUAGES. 



3. £01 were, in two (?) dialects: spoken by the Iowas, Otos, and Mis- 
souris. 

4. Hotcaugara or Winnebago. 

5. Mandan, in two dialects. 

6. Hidatsa, in two dialects: Hidatsa and Absaroka. 

7. Ye-sa n , or Tutelo. 

The three surviving Tntelos are with the Six Nations, in Canada, and 
the Hon. Horatio Hale has been making special investigations concern- 
ing their history and language. 

The writer has obtained about 20,000 words of the Ponka dialect, 
4,900 Kansas words, 3,500 Osage words, about 9,000 of the j,oiwere, and 
over 1,100 of the Hotcangara. He gained over 1,000 Kwapa words, but 
lie is unwilling to publish any of this material at present. 

Table I. — The Siouan Alphabet. 

This alphabet includes all the sounds which the writer has found 
among the tribes speaking the four languages, Dakota, $egiha, j^oiwere, 
and Hotcangara. It is substantially that adopted by the Bureau of 
Ethnology in 1880, and used by the writer in his monograph, "The $e- 
giha Language," to be published as "Contributions to North American 
Ethnology, Vol. VI." 



a 


as in father. 


u 


a sound between u and o. 


a 


nearly as in what, or as o in not. 


c u 


an initially exploded u. 


a n 


a nasalized a. 


u 


as the Germ, umlaut, in kiissen. 


S» 


a nasalized a. 




N. B. — It has a short sound in 


'a 


an initially exploded a. 




some Osage words. 


'a 


its short sound. 


ti n 


a nasalized ii. 


'a n 


a nasalized 'a. 






a 


as in hat. 


ai 


as in aisle. 


e 


as in they. 


ei 


as i in ice, nice.* 


e 


as in get. 


au 


as oic in cow; Germ. Ham. 


<e 


an initially exploded e. 


yu 


as u in tune; ew in new. 


<S 


its short sound. 


ui 


as in Germ., pfui !* 


£ 


as in machine. 






i 


as in it. 


Prolonged vowels: a+, a n +, et, i+, i n +, o+, 


fn 


a nasalized i. 




o n +, u+, u n +. 


J" 


a nasalized l. 


h 


as in he. 


i j 


an initially exploded i. 


c 


as sh in she. 


<i» 


a nasalized 'i. 





a medial sh, between s/i and zh. 


o 


as in no. 


c 


as th in thin. 


o n 


a nasalized o. 


5 


a medial th, between th and dh. 


l o 


an initially exploded o. 


d 


as in do. 


f o n 


a nasalized 'o. 


4 


as th in the. 


u 


as in rule. 


g 


as in go. 


fi 


as 90 in foot. 


h 


as in he. 


n n 


a nasalized u. 


j 


as z in azure. 


ii n 


a nasalized fi. 


k 


as in kick. 


<u 


an initially exploded n. 


^l 


a medial k, between k and g. 


< n n 


a nasalized 'a. 


k' 


an explosive k. 




♦Karel 


y nsed 





COMPARATIVE PHONOLOGY OF FOUR SIOUAN LANGUAGES 921 



a medial t, between t and d. 

an explosive t. 

as in we. 

a sound between b and w. 

as gh, tbe sonant of o (kh). 

as in you. 

as z and s in zones. 

asj in judge. 

as ch in church. 

a medial tc, between tc and dj. 

an explosive tc. 

as in its. 

a medial ts, between ts and dz. 

as n in canon. 

as wh in when, what. 

Almost any consonant can be prolonged by adding tbe plus sign (-{-)• 

Tbe consonants may be arranged as in tbe following table : 

Table II. — Classification of Consonants. 
A. — Mutes. 



m 


as in me. 


% 


ra 


a medial m (m, w, b), sometimes 


t' 




synthetic (?). 


w 


n 


as in no. 


Ai. 


hn 


a pure nasal,' tbe b being expelled 


X 




through the nostrils. 


y 


fi 


as ng in sing, singer. 


z 


P 


ae in pipe. 


dj 


(I 


a medial p, between p and b. 


tc 


P' 


an explosive p. 


!P 


q 


a kh, as in Germ. ach. 


tc' 


r 


as in row. 


ts 


8 


as in see. 


*9 


e 


a medial s, between s and z. 


ny 


t 


as in two. 


hw 





Sonants. 


Sonant- 
surds. 


Surds. 


Explo- 
sives. 


Nasals. 










b 
d 
g 


d 

% 
3 


P 
t 
k 


P' 
t 

k' 


m 
n 
fi 


ra 


w 
1, r 

y 










ny 








B.— Spirants. 








h 




















hn 










X 


5 


9 

q 










Palatals 


























C— Sibilants. 




z 


s 



»8 


s 
c 
tc 
ts 
























Compounds 

1)0 


tc' 

ts' 































In tbe Dakota books whicb bave been published up to date, no dis- 
tinctions bave been made between long and sbort vowels. The writer 
cannot say that such distinctions do exist in Dakota, but be knows that 
they are essential in (pegiba, j/riwere, and Hotcangara. 

InPonka "o" and its compounds are always wanting, but that dialect 
has the diphthongs, which have not been found in Dakota. The Dakota 
never use the following: <£, r, 9, and the sonant-surds (according to Mr. 
Riggs). The xoiwere does not use b, g, j, 1, s, and z. In tbe Osage, the 
only sonants are £ and x, the sonant-surds taking the places of their 
corresponding sonants. The vowels, u, u, and ii n , are peculiar to the 
Kansas, Osage, and Kwapa. Inverted m and w are used by the Kansas. 

*No "dz" has been found, so far, by the writer in any of these languages. 



922 COMPARATIVE PHONOLOGY OF FOUR SIOUAN LANGUAGES. 

The initially modified or exploded (?) vowels are indispensable. Im- 
portant distinctions are made by means of them. Thus, in Ponka, we 
find e, that (aforesaid); but 'e, to dig; i, to be coming hither for the first 
time; but 'i, to give; i n , to wear, as a robe; but *i n , to carry on the bach; 
gaaxe, to uncover an object by blowing off a robe, etc. (said of the wind); 
but ga'axe, to strike and glance off, to make the sound heard ichen metal 
or a bone is hit. Rev. A. L. Riggs admits that these explosive vowels 
are found in Dakota; but his father, the late Dr. S. R. Riggs, gave them 
as simple vowels in his dictionary and grammar, describing the initial 
modification of the vowel as "a hiatus." A few of the words contain- 
ing these modified vowels may be seen by turning to Table III, Nos. 
170 to 180. 

Sonant- stir ds. — These sounds have been found by the writer in (pegiha, 
j^oiwere, and Hotcangara, as well as in some of the languages of the 
Indians now on the Siletz reservation, Oregon. Dr. S. R. Riggs was 
inclined to the view that such sounds are possible, but his son, Rev. A. 
L. Riggs, holds the contrary opinion. The writer uses the term, "so- 
nant-surd" tentatively. He is ready to accept any other term which 
may be suggested by scholars, if it be sufficiently descriptive of the- 
nature of this class of sounds. By "sonant surd" is meant a sound 
between a sonant and its corresponding surd. A few Ponka examples 
are given, showing the difference between three sonant-surds and the 
corresponding sonants, surds, and explosives. 

P-mutes. — ba (sonant), a verbal modal prefix; da (sonant-surd), head, 
nose; p'a (surd), bitter ; bi, verbal prefix; di, liver; pi, good; p'i u xe, 
puckered, corrugated. K-mutes. — ga, verbal modal prefix; ^axa, a crow ; 
kage, third son, male friend; k'axe, verbal root. T-mutes. — de, while, 
during ; %o>, buffalo ; te, a future sign; t'e, dead; di, adverbial terminal 
particle; %\, lodge; ti, to have come hither for the first time; t'i n xe, verbal 
root, drawn up, as the mouth of a bag. 

The Dakota "hn" is heard in such words as hnaka and hi-hnaku. It 
differs from the (fegiha "hn." The "h" in the former is expelled from 
the mouth, but in the latter it comes through the nostrils, with a very 
slight effort, often escaping the notice of a white man. It is generally 
used in the 2d. sing, of verbs in fa (ya) and fi (yii). 

EXAMPLES. 



English. 


Ponka. 


Kansas. 


You go 


hne or one (of <fe) 
hnawa, onawa (of $awa) 
hnicta", onicta" (of <p icta n ) 


hne (of ye) 
hnawa (of yawa) 
hniicta" (of yiicta") 







Except in contractions, all syllables end in a vowel, pure or nasalized. 
In Dakota there are a few words that seem exceptions to this rule, of 



COMPARATIVE PHONOLOGY OF FOUR SIOUAX LANGUAGES. 923 

which Dr. Kiggs said, "These may possibly be forms of contraction, 
but we have not now the means of showing the fact." 

Almost any sound can be prolonged in (pegiha and ^oiwere, if it be 
alone, or stand at the end of a syllable. Propagation occurs in many 
interjections, and is often used for emphasis. E. g. ha n ega n tce, the 
morning ; ha n ega n tc8qtci, very early in the morning; ha n +ega n tceqtci, 
ve — ry early in the morning! Weahide,/ar; we+ahide,/a — r! 

Sound shifting. — As far back as 1872, the writer began to notice many 
examples of sound-shifting, while comparing the Dakota with the Ponka. 
After a study of the jr>iwere and Hotcangara, begun at the Omaha and 
Winnebago reservations, Nebraska, in 1878, he began the formulation 
of the principles discovered. One of the most important ones is that 
of triliteral syllables. A triliteral monosyllable in .xoiwere (and often 
the corresponding ones in Dakota and (pegiha) is changed into a quad- 
rilateral dissyllable in Hotcaiigara, when the first letter of the mono- 
syllable is a mute, a palatal spirant, or a spirant sibilant; and the sec- 
ond consonant is a labial or dental mute, or a dental spirant. The first 
consonant of the Hotcangara dissyllable is always a surd, the second is, 
as in the corresponding j^oiwere word, a labial or dental mute, or else a 
dental spirant; and each consonant (in Hotcangara) must be followed 
by the same vowel sound. In no case, as far as examples have been 
gained, can any mule stand next to one of the same order; e. g., a labial 
cannot precede a labial. 

It is probable that the Dakota biliteral monosyllables "da" and "du" 
were originally triliteral syllables, an initial "c" having been dropped. 
That is, Nos. 32, 33, 34, 36, and 37 of the Dakota column in Table HE 
were originally cda, cda-tka n , cda, cdu, and cduxo, respectively. This 
seems very probable when we find clo (Teton for cdo), in No. 35, equiv- 
alent to the (pegiha onu, and cda (No. 31) equivalent to the (fegiha ona. 
In No. 58 there seems to have been a transposition of syllables, final -ha 
being equivalent to (pegiha initial a, and initial du to (fegiha final oni n . 
So, Dakota mdu, equivalent to (pegiha b^i, and mdu-ha to (pegiha a-b$i n ; 
Dakota yu to (pegiha <£i, and yu-ha to $egiha a-<£i n . 

In comparing the Ponka with itself, or with the Dakota, we find in- 
stances of permutations of sound, as follows: c and q, x and z, <£ and n. 
The words in which these occur are not always synonyms, but when we- 
find a word in which " c," for example, is used, we may infer that the 
language contains another word, differing from it only in the substitu- 
tion of "q" for "c." Or, one language uses "c" where the other em- 
ploys "q." 

The meanings of the words and syllables in the following table will 
be found at the end of this article. 



924 COMPARATIVE PHONOLOGY OF FOUR SIOUAN LANGUAGES. 
Table HI.— Sound Shifting. 



Dakota. 



roda, bla 
mda-, bla- 



radaya, Maya 
mdaska, blaska 
redaza 
mdaja 



mda, bla 



po-mm 
mdexa 



o-mdo-to 11 



mdu 
mdu- 



kpukpa 

mna 



wiktce-nma 

mni 

pe-mni (see No 

ya.-mni 

yn-mni 

cda 

da- 

da-tka" 

da 

icloya 

du- 



daxo 

hda- 

hdatka" 

bda 

hde 

hdepa 



ahde 

bdecka 

bdu- 

wamdn-ckada B 

wamdu-da" 

ihdi 

hdi 

bna 

abnaka 

octehda 



kpa- 
ca-kpe 
yapa- 
-iiii. -nana 
du-ba 



qpa 

boqpa 

qdo-ka 

qte, cte 

qtca 

ade-tca 

ba B ska 



nakpa 



(fegiha. 



Ponka. 



b<fa 

b<ja- 

b^acka 

b<fa<fa 

blaska 

b<faz8 

bifaje 

bcfaxe 

b$e 

b$e 

b«f eda", bebeda 1 

bcpesja 

be-b6i n , bifie- 

b$i° 
b<fexe 



b$u 

b<fn-ga 

b<fab<fuga 

b(fi 

b^i- 

b<|sije 

b<fip'8 

b$a" 

b<fa n -xe 

b<fa"-ze 

g<fe-ba 

-b<fi° 

13). 

<fa-b<ti n 

<fi-b<fi n 

ona 

ona-, hna- 

ona-ta" 

one, bne 

ionnga 

oni-, hni- 



omxn 

g$a- 
gifata" 



g<K 



ag$6 
gfeje 
g*i- 

■wagificka 

wag$i 

•weg<fi 

g<fi 

g(fa» 

ag<fa B 

g$a» 

g«fa"<f8 

gi-da- 

ca-de 

cpa- 

ona», hna B 

a-oni" 

q$a" 

qpa 

bnqpe 

q$u 

qta 

qti, qtci 

-sne 

enede 



nna 



Kansas. 



bla 

bla- 

blacka 

blaya 

blaska, blak'a 

blazS 



blaxe 

ble 

ble 

bleda" 

blek'a 

bye-bli" 



bin 
blu-ga 



blii 

blii- 
bliije 



bla", bW° 

blu°-xe 

blu"-ze 

le-bla" 

-bli" 

y"a-bli" 

yli-bli n 

eta 

hna- 

hna-ta n 

bne 

ictflnga 

hnii- 



hnfixu 

la- 

lata» 

le 

le 

lebe 



al6 
leje 
lfi- 

waliicka 

walS 

tnveli 

li 

lafige 

ala» 

lfi", la" 

la n ye 

gi-pa- 

ca-p6 

cpa- 



a-hni" 

qla" 

qpa 

bnqpe 

qln-ge 



qtci 

stye-ge 

stye-dje 



na n ta 



d(f-a 
d • 

«I<;-:n"k;i 
d<:-ac*a 

p^aska, defak'a 
difase 



d<faxe 

d<fe 

Me 



d«fek'a 
d(fe-p<fi n 



d$a 
d<ju-j[a 



difii 

difii-, d<fn-, d$i- 



difa" 



j[<fe-d<fa n 
-d<fi n 

•fa-defi" 

(pii-d^i" 

eta 

cta- 

cia-ta n 

ctse 

ictunsja 

ctu-, C9i, ctii-, 

ctyn, ctsii-. 

etc. 
ctiixn 
3l<fa- 
^(fata" 
3l«fe 
3[<£e 
H<fede 



a^(fe 

3I$eoe 

si<jsa-, i[<fi-. 

j[(fu-, etc. 
waq<fucka 
waj[^i 

W65[$i 

3i<fi 

i[(fa55ie 

asi<fa° 

j^a^e 



ca-pg 

cpa- 

hna n , hnil" 

a-hni° 

q<fa n 

qpa 

huqpe 

q(fn-i[e 



qtsi 

-stse-J[e 

stse-^se 



naPta 



Xoiwere. 



pra 

ba-ta- 

piacke 

prara 

pra9ke 

pra&e 



ba-tce 
pre 



preke 
pre-pri" 



prece 

pro 

pro-^e 

propro^e 

pru 

ha-tci-, ba-tn- 



prup'8 
pra" 



j[repra" 
-pri n 

ta-nyi 

ru-pri" 

ora 

ora- 

ora-ta° 

ore 

o-oro 

oru-, ori-, oro- 



onxo 

3[ra- 

3[rata B 

jrre 

jrre 

j[rewe 



a^rre 

Jireoe 

j[ru-, 5{ri-, 3[ro- 

■wa^ri 



sjri 

Jirafie 

aj[rane 



5[wa- 

ca-ijwe 

owa- 

-ona 

a-oni 

qra" 

qwa 

hoqwe 

qro-i[e 

qta 

qtci 

-ore-i[e 

5re-?oe 

n-tw4-ke 

na-twa 



Hotcafigara. 



pa-ra 

ia- 

paracke 

parara 

paras 



?6-na 
p6re 
p6re- 
p6ro-ninke 



p6rese 
poro 



p6rop6ro 
piira 



pa-na 



k6repana 
-pini 

ta-ni 



cara- 

cara-tcka^na 

c6re 

o-c6do-da 

curu- 



(See No. 191.) 

ka-ra- 

karatcka n '-na 

ke-re 

kere 

weresere, wa- 
rasere, (Alex- 
ander). 

etca-ker6-na 

kirikiricke 

kd-ru- 



wakidi 



hikini 
ki-ri 



etca-kanaSk- 



ka-wa- 

a-k6-we 

ca-wa- 

-cA-na 

a-ci-ni 

-qa-na 



ho-qi-wi 
qa-ta, qe-te 



86-re-tce 

i-tca-wa-ga-ra 

na-tca-wa 



COMPARATIVE PHONOLOGY OF FOUR SIOUAN LANGUAGES. 025 

The following are some of the vowel changes which have been ob- 
served. The references are to the examples which precede or follow. 









$egiha. 








No. 


Dakota. 








xoiwere. 


Hotcangara. 












Punka. 


Kansas. 


Osage. 






69 


a 
(See Nos. 1-8.) 


a 


a 


a 


a 


a 


70 


a 

(See No. 64.) 


i 


i 


i 


i 








VI 


a 
(See Nos. 9, 61.) 


e 


e 


• 


e 


e,l 


72 


e 
(See Nos. 13, 26, 41.) 


e 


a 


• 


• 


e 


73 


l 
(See Nos. 49,120— a variation.) 


i 


i 


i 


i 


1 


74 


i 
(See No. 48.) 


e 


e 


e 


i 


1 


75 




(See Nos. 16, 17.) 


u 


0,n 


'0,0, u 








76 


u 

(See No. 58.) 


l 


i 


l 


1 


i 


77 


u 

(See Nos. 19, 20, 22.) 


i 


a 


u 


a 


a 



Other consonant changes follow, but the list is not exhaustive. The 
references are to the examples which precede and follow. 



No. 



87 



90 
91 
92 

93 
94 
95 

96 
97 
98 
99 
100 
101 
102 
103 
104 
105 



106 
107 
108 
109 
110 



Dakota. 



ba- 

bo- (1) 
bo- (2) 

wa 

wa n -hi"qpe 
wa°-ju 
wa B ji 

tuwe 
wi-tca 

wi 

wi-, i-, 

maka, muiika 

maku 

mani 

iua-qpi-ya 

mi-ye 
pa- 
pa (see nasu, 

etc. ) 
bo-pa" 



(pegiha. 



Ponka. 



epa t 

tcopa 

tcap'a 

ao"pa 

oo"pa 

sdipa 

hde-pa (see No. 

capa 



depa 

sapa 

tcapa 

pe- (see No. 13.) 

-pi 



ma- 
ma- 
bi- 

ma 

ma" 

nia°-ji 

wi" or wi°aqtci 

S-be 

mi-j[a 

mi" 

we- 

mafiga 

mange 

nia u $i° 

ma-qpi 

wi 
ba- 
da (see nacki) 

he (see No. 145) 
ahe 
ehe 
juhe 
jabe 
a'a D he 
u'a"he 
snibe 
42). 

cabe, dark; 
onabe, soiied 



eaho 
.jabe 
be-, b$e- 



111 poxa" 

112 ! poxe 



bixa" 
da 



"FCanaaa. 



ba- 

bii- 
,bii- 
ba 
ma" 
rua u -.jii 
mi" or mi"qtci 

bye 

mi-k'a 

mi", nii"u n ba 

mye- 

mafiga 

mange 

ina"yi" 

ma-qpii 

mi 
ba- 

rayeqli D , bye- 
qli" 

pye 

apye 

epye, epce 

jupye 

japye 

ak'nhe 

uk'uhe 

styii-be 

cabe, dark 



k'abe 
sab8 
jabe 
b ve- 
to 



bixa» 
pa 



Osage. 



da- 
du- 
dii- 
da 

ma" 

ma"-oii 

mi" or mi»qtsi 

de 

mi-k'a or mi"- 

ka 
mi", mi B -u°-da 
we- 
maii^a 
niafi^e 

ma»$i n , nia°yi" 
ma-qpii 

■wi-e 
da- 

we<fiiq<fi 

pee 

apce 

epce 

oupce 

oapce 

ak u°he 

uk'u"he 



cade, dark 



k'ade, Jiede 

sad8 

oade 

ft 



pa 



Xoiwere. 



da- 
do- 

wi- 
da 

ma" 

ma"-yu 

iya" or iyaiike 

wayere 

mi"-ke or mi- 
ke 
di 

wi- 



maiie 
ma-nyi 
ma-xii (I.), 
maxue (Ot.) 
mi-re, mi"'-re 
wa- 
na°9u 



ihe 

ni yuwe 

yawe 

at 'a" we 

ot'a°we 

6ri-we 

cewe, dark; 

i^ewara, 

soiled 
q'awe 
5 ewe 
rawe 
pre- 
-wi, of 2d and 

1st pi. 
wixa" 
P» 



Hotcangara. 



ma»- 

do- 



wa-ra 
ma°-na 
ma"-wojn-ra 
hi ,ja° or hijafi- 
kida 



wa-ke 

-wi-da 

hi- (see No. 48) 

ku°-cke-da 

niaiige-ra 

mani-na 

maxi-da 

ne 

wa- 

nasu-ra 



iho-na 



e?oa-t'u"p- 



cep, etc, dark 



s8p, etc. 
daba-ra 



-wi, of 2d and 
1st pi. 



pa-ra 



926 COMPARATIVE PHONOLOGY OF FOUR SIOUAN LANGUAGES. 
Table III.— Sound Shifting — Continued. 



No. 


Dakota. 


(j!egiha. 




Hotcangara. 








X^iwere. 






Ponka. 


Kansas. 


Osage. 






113 


it'e 


de 


pye 

da 

ga-dadje 


pe, p8 


pe 


p6-ra 


114 


da 
ka-dopa 


na 
ga-nade 






wa-ta- 


115 


jjajaise, mire 






116 


kata 


nakade 


dakadje 


(laka^e 


!}aqra n 


!iakatc- 


117 


ska n 
cnija 


naska" 
nat'ega 


daska" 
dats'ega 


?aska n 

■lats'esia 

!juk'a 


fiacka" 

iiatc'esre 

?oke 




118 




119 


do, etc. 


nuiia 


duk'a 


%o^e (sic) 


120 


doksi 


nusi 


dusu 


iusii 


I., roqei; Ot., 


ahuka-da 


121 


dote 


nude 


dndje 


fiuiso 


roci 
iiojoe 


winahi-da 
"swallower" 


122 ( 


<fe 


ye 


$e 


?oe 


?i 


123 den 


(fe(fn 
((!egiha 


yega 
Ye^aka 


^esja 
Qesfaha 






124 


Xoiw6re (I.), 
Xo6J[iwere 
(Ot.) 












125 


deja 


neje 
ine 

ine48 
ne<f© 


djeje 


JKl'.IO 




126 


ide 

ideya 

tceti 


idje 

idjeyS 

djeyg 








127 








128 


}S6(fS 


pejoe u» 
lioesia 




129 


dekcitku 


inegi 


idjegi (m.) or 


ih-^ee^i 


hi-tek- 








idjeye (f.) 








130 


mde, bde 
mdo 


ne 

IiU 


die 
du 




tceta 
}o 


ije-ra 
d6-ra 


131 


%u 


132 


mdoka 


nuga 


dnga 


?uj[a 


10J[a 


toga (doga?) 


133 


mdokaska 
mdoketu 


uuski 
nuge 


duski 
duge 


iuski 
juste 


ho-cka 

110316 




134 


doke 


135 


rudoza 


nuzS 


dui n ze 


fiuee 


»oci 


!iose-ra 


136 


na- 


na- 


da- 


wanaxe 


ja- 


?a- 


137 


uaxi and wa- 
naxi 


wa-nax6 


wanaxe 




wanaxi-da 








138 


nape 


na°be 


nu D be or na°be 


na°de 


nawe 


naba-ra 


139 


■wanap'i" 


wana n p'i n 


wana°p'i n 


wanu^'i 11 


wana n p'i n 


wana°p'i D 


140 


nacka and hna- 
cka 


^ebi'a 


tcebiik'a (gen- 
eric.) 


tsediik'a, tse- 
dyuk'a (ge- 
neric). 


wasrracke, H. 


wakanacke-da 


141 


ni 


<fi 


yi 


<fi 


ri 


ni 


142 


ya- 


<fa 

(See No. 


ya- 
33.) 


ifa- 


ra- 


ra- 


143 


ya- 


<fa- 
(See No. 29.) 


ya- 


<fa- 


ta- 


?a- 


144 


yn- 


(See No. 30.) 


yti- 


<fii-, i{u-, or <fi- 


ru-, ri-, or to- 


ra- 


145 


tca-pon-ka (see 


(fa-hafl-ge or 


ya-pan-ge pu- 


j[<fa-pafi-5[e 


ra-wan-e or <f a- 


na-wafi-ga-ra 




Nos. 96-100.) 


na-haii-ge 


zeee styedje 




wafi-e 




146 


tcexa 


<fexe, nexe 


djexe 


jsexe 


rexe 


rexe (or reqe) 


147 


tce-liu-pa 
tceji 


$e-ba 
$ez8 


ye-ba 
yezS 


$e-da 
ifese 






148 


re5e 


dezi-de 


149 


tcap'a (see No. 


100) 










150 


tcapa 


.jabe (see No. 


108.) 








151 


tce-tca 


je-ga 
qe-ga 


je-ga 
qe-ga 


oe-J[a 
qe-^a 


re-J[e 




152 
15^ 


ce-tca 


ce-ga-ra 


he-tea 


he-ga 


he-ga 


he-3[a 


he-i[e 


he-ga-da 


154 


to 


%u, (lu-qude 


tn. (uhu, tij- 
hu-qiidje 


t'nhu, t'uhn- 
qu^se 


to 


tco-ra, tcoqo- 
tce-da 


155 


t'a 


t'e 


ts'e 


ts'e 


tc'o 


te'e-na 


156 


ca 


jide 


jiidje 


oiirse 


cu^oe 


cujoe-ra 


157 


cota 


cude 


cudje 


cu)8e 


co^ae 


qi-da 


158 


ka n ta 


J[ande 


kandje 
kiidje 


kan^se 




kandje-ra 


159 


knte 


kide 


kii;se 


jjuioe 


160 


ka- 


ga- 


ga- 


qa- 


• 


Hi- 


161 


ki- 


gi- 


gi-, gu'- 


Jii-, 5[yn- 


3ji- 


j[i. 


162 


kitcaxa 


gtaxe 


kixe 


kcixe 


J[iu° 


5li'u n -na 


163 


ki- 


gi- 


gi-- gii- 


i[i-, 5iyu- 


i[ra- 


ka-ra- 


104 


ku 


gi 


gu 


qyu 


qu 


3[u-na 


165 


qo-ka 


qu-ga 


qufiga 


qu^ta 


qoi[e 


qoga-ra 


166 


coka 


cuga 


cuga 


cujfa 


cosre 


coga-ra 


167 


cake 


cage 


cageyaha 


caijeha 


cai[e 


cage-ra 


168 


cuEka - waka", 
etc. 


cafige 


ciifige, kawa 


kawa, kawa 


cflfi-e 


cunk qata-ra, 
cuiik qete-ra 


169 


suiikaku 


i-sa5ga 


isunga, isu n ya n 


isufi^a 


icftfl-e 


hi-sufika-ra 


170 


k'a, k'e 


'e 


we 


we 


k'e 


(See No. 177.) 


171 


k'exa 


k'axe, k'exe, 


k'axe 


k'axe 


q'axe, q'exe, 








'axe 






'exe 




172 


depa (see No. 


106.) 










173 


cuta 


ifi-'a, $ic'a 


yiitsage 


(futs'a^e 


ruy'ai[e (I.), 
ruc'ajje(Ot.) 










174 




bi'a, bio'a 


biits'age 


diits'ajre 






















wio'aj[e(Ot.) 





COMPARATIVE PHONOLOGY OF FOUR SIOUAN LANGUAGES. 927 
Table III.— Sound Shifting— Continued. 



No. 


Dakota. 


(fegiha. 


xoiwere. 


Ilotcangara. 


Ponka. 


Kansas. 


Osage. 


175 


duzaha* 

ao n pa 
o°cida 
k'i" 
k'u 


'a B sage 

a'a n he 

$a-'e-$8 

'i° 

'i 

-'u 

ha" 

ata n 

e-ja-ta", 8-di- 

ta" 
deta" 
ubeta" 

ukit'8 
nkit'8 

ti 

xabe 
gaxe 
$ixu 

maze 

bize 
6.) 
135.) 
07.) 

sa n 

si 

slnde 

ska 

skiijS 

c 
105, 157, 166, 167 

q 

qixe 


k'a D 3ag6 

ak'uhe 

\ a-k'e-y8 

k'i n 

k'ii 

-k'u 

ha B i D 

haka" 
8-dji-ka» 

peka", pye-ka" 
ubeka", ubye- 

ka" 
ukiitce 
ukiitce 

tci 
xaAie 
gaxe 
yiixu 

baze 
biize 

sa»ha° 
si 

sindje 
ska, waska, 
skiiAie 
c 
, 168.) 

q 

qiixe 


k'a^sane 

(See No. 101.) 

ja-k'e^8 

k'i» 

k'ii 

-k'u 

ha D i n 

hatqa", hakqa" 
e-^si-tqa" 

pe-tqa" 

udetqa", ude- 
kqa" 


q'a n (;a^e, ka»- 
caj^e 

naotnta" 

k'i" 

ok'u" 




176 
177 
178 

179 
180 


(See No. 170.) 

k'i D -na 

bo-k'u n -na 


1M 

182 
IK! 


ha D hepi, ha n ye- 

tu 
toha" and tohan 

eta°ha° 

peha" 
opeba" 

toka, foe 

o-ki-he, joint 

hi 

xapa 
kaxa 
yuxo 

aze 

pnza 

mdaza (see No. 

mdoza (see No. 

sapa (see No. 1 

sa" 

siha 

si°te 

ska 

skuya 

c 

(See Nos. 55, 
c 
quxa 


ha"he 

tata* 
-^a-w& 

peta» 


ha n he-na 
tca-tca» 


184 
185 


petca^-na 


186 






187 

188 
18!) 


ukiitse 
tsi 


o-cu ,1 -cu■ 

tci 
xawe 
u" 
rixo 

da5e 
duio 

§a n ta B 

ctope 
cka 
$ku 
c 

q 

qoxe, qo3[e 


wai-dakikede- 

da 
tci-na 


190 
191 

192 
193 
194 
195 
196 
197 


iiaxe 
<fiixu 

daee 
diise 

sa n ha a 
si, siihii 
slnjse 
sk&, waska 


'u"-na 

(See Nos. 37 

and 204.) 
waza-ra 
!)akasi-de 


198 
199 

200 
?01 


si-ra 

slnq.o8-ra 

ska 


202 

203 

204 




c 

q 

quxe 


c 

c (see No. 152.) 
qoxa 



Notes on Table III. 

In the xJ>i'"' ere column, "I." stands for "Iowa dialect," "Ot."for "Oto dialect," 
and "H." for Rev. Win. Hamilton, formerly missionary to the Iowas. In the Ho- 
tcangara column, "Alexander" stands for Jas. Alexander, a full-hlood Winnebago, the 
writer's principal authority. 

No. 1. The Santee "md" is now written "bd" by some of the missionaries. Its 
Tetou equivalent is "bl." Mda (bda, bla), verbal root, separated, as layers or slices. — 
2. mda, bla, fragment-pronoun, first singular of verbs in ya. — 3. b<£acka, applied to a 
dish, &c, that is low and spreads out, with a rim not on a level with the bottom. — 
4. mdaya, level, spread out. — 5. mdaska, flat, as hoards; in Kansas and Osage, a dis- 
tinction is made between blaska (d( f k aska), flat, as the edge of a hoard, and blak'a 
(d^ak'a), flat, as the wide surface or side of a board. — 6. mdaza, ripped or torn open. — 7. 
mdaja, straddling. — S. b^axe, wider at one end than at the other. — 9. mda, / go. — 10. 
The first syllable iu Nos. 11-15. — 11. b{;eda n , thin.— 12. Ditto.— 13. pemni, twisted. — 14. 
A pelican. — 15. Intelligent. — 16. The first syllable in Nos. 17 and 18. — 17. omdoto 11 , cor- 
nered, having corners; but W-uga, circular, all around, the whole. — 18. Having the cor- 
ners rounded oft'. — 19. Pulverized. — 20. Fragment-pronoun, first singular of verbs in yu 
(£i, yii, eii, ru, ru). — 21. Spinning around; pushed aside. — 22. Mixed together, as water 
and grease, or manure and earth; fine, as flour. — 23. To smell, emit an odor. — 24. A 
crunching sound, as on ice or snow. — 25. Fine, as thread, etc. — 26. Ten. — 27. Turned 
around, as a gimlet. — 29. Three. — 30. To turn around, as an auger. — 31. Bare, smooth. — 
32. Fragment-pronoun, second singular of verbs in ya (Va, ya, < l a, ra, ra). — 33. You 
drink. — 34. You go. — 35. The right (hand, foot, etc.).— 36. Fragment-pronoun, second 
singular of verbs iu yu (see 20 above). — 37. You draw a mark (such as is on an arrow). — 



928 COMPARATIVE PHONOLOGY OF FOUR SIOUAN LANGUAGES. 

38. Fragment-pronoun, third singular of the possessive of *erbs in ya and ka. — 39. 
To drink his own milk, etc. — 40. To go back or homeward. — 41. The first syllable iuNos. 
42-44. — 42. To vomit. — 43. To set xtp an upright inanimate object. — 44 Spotted. — 45. Frag- 
inent-pronoun, third singular, possessive of verbs in yu. — 46. Insects. — 47. Maggots. — 
48. Grease. — 49. To have come back or home. — 50. See Dakota, hi-hna-ku, her husband; 
g$a n , to take a wife (Ponka, esi^aiige, her husband). — 51. To place a curvilinear object, 
a plaster, etc., on something else. — 52. To revile, curse. — 53. Broad. — 54. FragineDt- 
pronoun, third singular possessive of verbs in pa (ba, ba, da, wa, wa). — 55. Six. — 56. 
Fragment-pronoun, second singular of verbs in pa. — 57. Aione, only. — 58. You have. — 
59. Second syllable of gaq^-a" (gaqla n , etc.), to go hunting with a large party or the ivhole 
tribe. — 60. A syllable in Dakota waqpanitca, poor; iqpaya, hi u qpaya, etc., to fall from 
a height, etc. — 61. To cough. — 62. Verbal root, make a hole through. — 63. Good (or bad), 
in Hotcangara it also means large. Used in forming the verb to love, honor, etc., in 
some of the languages. — 64. Very. — 65. Split. — 66. Long, tall. — 67. Muskrat. — 68. Ear. — 
78. Fragment-pronoun, third singular, denoting action by cutting with a kuife or 
saw. — 79. Fragment-pronoun, third singular, action by shooting, etc. — 80. Fragment- 
pronoun, third singular, action by weight or pressure, blowing with the mouth, 
etc. (N. B. These are not exactly synonymous in all the dialects). — 81. Snow. — 82. 
Arrow. — 83. Quiver. — 84. One. — 85. Who. — 86. Raccoon. — 87. Sun, moon. Mi n sometimes 
means both, in Kansas and Osage, but mi n u. n ba (mi n u n da) always means the moon. In 
Hotcangara, ha n p-wida, the sun, and ha n he-wida, the moon. — 88. Prefix showing the 
means or instrument, ordinal numerals, etc. — 89. Skunk. — 90. Chest. — 91. To walk. — 
92. Cloud. — 93. I, me. — 94. Fragment-pronoun, third singular, action by pushing with 
the hands, etc. — 95. Head. — 9o. To pound, as corn, in a mortar.— -97 '. To go along over 
(land, etc.). — 98. I say. — 99. To wade or ford. — 100. To stab. — 101. To lay a horizontal 
inanimate object on something else. — 102. To lay such an object in something else. — 
103. To lick. — 105. Blackened, defiled. (|)egiha, cabe, black, in the distance (as distinct 
from sabe), dark, as a color. — 106. Notched (once); but demdepa, 'a'abe, k'ak'abe, 
etc., notched many times. — 107. Black, near at hand. See Nos. 197 and 200. — 108. Bea- 
ver. — 110. Plural ending of verbs. — 111. To blow with the mouth. — 112. Nose. — 113. 
Forehead. — 114. To beg. — 115. To get mired, as cattle. — 116. Hot. — 117. Melted, thawed, 
to melt or thaw. — 118. Withered, dead, as vegetation. — 119. Moist, wet. — 120. Arm-pits. — 
121. Throat. — 122. This. — 123. Here. — 124. Belonging here, the home people, etc. — 125. 
To urinate. — 126. Ablaze. — 127. To cause to blaze, to kindle a fire. — 128. To make a fire. 
The jpiwere is, literally, "Fire to-make." — 129. His or her mother's brother. The Kan- 
sas distinguishes between idjegi, his mother's brother, and idjeye, her mother's brother. 
In ihjseip, and other Osage kinship terms, the "h" is slightly audible, and approxi- 
mates "q" (kh). — 130. Lake. — 131. Potato, potatoes. — 132. Amale animal. — 133. To belch 
or hiccough. — 134. Summer. — 135. A loon. — 136. Verbal modal prefix, showing action of 
heat, cold, etc. — 137. Ghost, spirit. — 138. Hand, paw, etc. — 139. Necklace. — 140. The com- 
mon frog. Note the resemblance between the Dakota, x oiwere » and Hotcangara, on 
the one hand, and the three (£egiha words on the other. Bull-frog is to D to n tanka in 
Dakota, ^ebi'a iianga in Ponka, tcebiik'a-tauga in Kansas, tseduk'ata 11 in Osage, and 
tcu n tcu n -na in Hotcangara. — 141. Thee, you. — 142. Verbal modal prefix, third singular, 
of action with the mouth, lips, teeth, or tongue, also fragment-pronoun, second singular, 
of first conjugation in Dakota, Ponka, j^iwere, and Hotcangara. — 144. Verbal modal 
prefix, third singular, of action by pulling xoith the hands, etc. — 145. Mosquito. — 146. Ket- 
tle. — 147. Jaw. — 148. Tongue. — 151. Thigh. — 152. Dry, as grass. — 153. A buzzard. — 154. 
Blue, green; ^uqude, etc., blue-gray (?). — 155. To die, dead. — 156. Bed. — 157. Smoke. — 158. 
Plums. — 159. To shoot at. — 160. Verbal modal prefix, third singular, action by hitting, 
falling, bloiving of the wind. — 161. Verbal prefix, third singular, first dative, of most 
conjugations. — 162. To make for or to (dative of action without request, etc.). — 163. 
Verbal prefix, third singular, possessive, of certain verbs beginning with conso- 
nants. — 164. Tobe returning, coming back. — 165. Badger. — 166. Thick. — 167. Nails, claws. 
In Kansas and Osage, cage (ca^e) means fingers. — 168. Horse. Dakota, cuiika waka n , 



COMPARATIVE PHONOLOGY OF FOUR StOUAN LANGUAGES. 929 

mysterious dog; or cufik-tafika, big dog. — 169. His younger brother. — 170. To dig. — 171 
Verbal root, scraping sound. — 173. cuta, to fail. The writer has been unable to find 
synonyms of this in Dakota. But in the other languages they abound : thus, <J:i'a, ^ic'a, 
to fail in pulling with the hands, or in working, for want of time; <f;ig</:a n (J<a, to make a 
mistake inputting, etc., to miss in trying to grasp an object, which is too large; #iona D , to 
fail to hold an object; <£iona n ^a, ditto ; #ii n ajT, to fail to produce the desired effect in pulling, 
working, rowing, writing, etc. — 174. To fail in bearing or pressing on (also, in Ponka, in 
blowing with the mouth; in Kansas, in pushing with the hands). So there are bigf a n ^a, bi- 
ona n , bii n ajl, <f;ag^a n ^a, <£a'a, 0ac'a, £aona n , <|:ai n ajT, ba'a, bac'a, bag^a n ^a, etc., in Ponka, 
with their equivalents in Kansas, Osage, and x°iwere. — 175. Swift, as a horse. — 177. 
To be merciful, to pity. — 178. To carry on the back. — 179. To give. — 180. Verbal root, to 
scrape, as with the finger-nails. — 181. Night. The Santees say, ha"yetu ; the Yank- 
tons and Tetons, ha n hepi. — 182. When* how longf how far? In Dakota the time word 
is tohau, and the space-word, toha n . — 183. From. — 184. A crane. — 185. To fold or ivrap 
up in, to make a bundle of. — 183. To have come hither for the first time. — 189. Verbal root, 
to flay (animals, not persons). — 190. To make, do. — 191. To draw a mark, such as is ou 
an arrow. — 192. The female breasts. — 193. Dry, not wet. — 197. White, in the distance. 
See Nos. 105 and 107.— 198. Foot, feet. SUhii, in Osage, a bird's legs.— 199. A tail.— 200. 
White, near by. See No. 107. — 201. Sweet, sour. — 204. Verbal root, staved in, broken in, 
as a holloxo object. 

H.Mis.69 59 



INDEX. 



A. 

Page. 

Abbe, C, report on meteorology 483 

Abert collection of minerals 50 

Aboriginal fishery implements 19 

Aboriginal pottery, report on 179 

Section of 52 

Accessions to collections during London Fisheries Exbibit 85 

Accessions to the collections of the National Museum ISO, 182, 200, 208, 216, 220, 225, 

228, 241, 246, 250, 260, 261, 263, 267, 268, 272, 322 

Account department National Museum 163, 169 

Ackennan, Ensign A. A., collection made by 14, 41, 252 

Appointment of 40, 41 

Duty on steamer "Albatross" 14, 41 

Services of 14, 269 

Acknowledgments of favors 165 

Acting Secretary of the Institution, provision for 3 

Resolution of Board of Regents relative to xn 

Adams, J. B., collection presented by 226 

Adams, W. H., mounds in Spoon River Valley, Illinois 835 

Addresses at unveiling of Henry statue xvii, xx, XXIII 

Administration of National Museum 165 

Of the Institution 11 

Alaska Commercial Company, co-operation of 17 

Services of 16, 17, 18 

Alaska, explorations in 16 

. Charles L. McKay 16 

W. J. Fisher 16 

Lieut. Commander H. E. Nichols 17 

Signal Service stations 16, 17 

Dr. L. Stejneger 17, 18 

"Albatross," collections made by 22 

Completion of 82 

Expedition of 14 

Alpena, Mich., hatching station at v 2 

American Colonization Society, co-operation of 36 

American Institute (if Mining Engineers, collections of, presented 8 

American Pharmaceutical Association, meeting of 9 

Analysis of food productions 52 

Anchor Steamship Company, co-operation of 36 

Ancient relics at Dayton, Obio 838 

Ancient remains in Bucks County, Pennsylvania 872 

Andrews, E. F., portrait of Darwin 49 

Anguilla Island, contents of bone-cave in, memoir on 27 

931 



d'6'2 INDEX. 

l>age. 
Auoplopoma fimbria i. tan. ...... , 19 

Anthropological Society, lectures 9 

Anthropology, bibliography of 7(54 

Anthropology Division, United States National Museum 163,105 

Antiquities 104,183,198 

Art and industry 164 ; 175 

Costumes 179 

Sec t ion of fisheries 176 

Poods and textiles 182, 196 

Historical relics 177 

Keramics 178 

Materia medica 177 } 190 

Naval architecture 17s 

Races of men 164, 183 

A n t ! 1 ropology, papers relating to 797 

Report on, by Otis T. Mason 753 

Antique Roman mosaic, presented 182 

Antiquities collected by R. E. C. Stearns 20 

Antiquities, Department of, United States National Museum 53, 164, 183, 198 

Accessions 183, 200 

Bureau of Ethnology, collections 183 

Character of routine work 199 

Lor i Hard collection 183 

Kau, Dr. Charles, curator 183, 198,275 

Report of the curator 198 

Researches 199 

State of collection 200 

Antiquities from Ometepe, Nicaragua 908 

Appendix to the Secretary's report 87 

Appropriations by Congress xii.xvii 

Bureau of Ethnology 56 

Exchange service 35, 36 

Fire proofing of eastern portion of Smithsonian building 4 

Archives, Department of, United States National Museum 163,165 

Architect are, section of 53 

Arctic coast, explorations 14 

Middleton Smith 14 

J. E. Murdoch 14 

Lieutenant Ray 14 

Signal Service expedition 14, 15 

Arizona, explorations in 59,60, 61 

Armory building, use of 6 

Art and Industry Department, United States National Museum 51 , 175 

Accessions 1H0 

Bureau of Ethnology, collections, transfer 179 

Catliu collection of paintings 181 

Costumes 179 

Historical relics 177 

Keramics 178 

Naval architecture 178 

L. Praug, contributions , 182 

Section of fisheries , 170 

Seel ion of foods and textiles 182 

Arthur, l'resident Chester A., member ex officio xxxvm 



INDEX. 933 



Assistant Director, report of 161, 162 

Association of Wholesale Druggists, deposits iu Museum by 9 

Astronomer f r Guatemala 25, 26 

Astronomical announcements by telegraph 33, 87,88,89' 

Astronomy, bibliography of 432 

Report on, by Prof. E. S. Holden 365 

Aetroscopua anoplus 23 

T-grsBcum 24 

Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe" Railroad, specimen presented by 22 

Atlantic seaboard, explorations along the 22 

' ' Al batross " Steamer 22 

Babcock, General O. E 24 

Burnham, Mr 24 

Corbel, Malachi 23 

Edwards, Joshua B 22 

Howland, Henry S 22 

Hubbard, Daniel S 23 

Knowles, Herbert M 24 

Life-Saving Service 22 

Ridgway, J. H 23 

Atwater, Prof. W. O., honorary curator United States National Museum 52, 182 

Atlas Steamship Company, co-operation of 36 

Australian Group Relations, paper on 797 

B. 

Bailey, H. B , & Co., co-operation of 36 

Bailie, W. L., gold medal for 254 

Baird, Spencer F., annual report, 1883 1 

Asked to serve on Commission for Protection of American Forests 45 

Asked to serve on jury of International Horticultural Exposition in St. 

Petersburg 45 

Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries 81 

Director of the National Museum 275, xxxviii 

Introduction to record of scientific progress 363 

Letter transmitting report ill 

Paper by 277 

Selected af honorary pall-bearer at obsequies of John Howard Payne 51 

Bahenoptera rostrata 24 

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, co-operation of 37 

Barker, George F., report on physics 571 

Batrachians, department of 54 

Beadle, E. R., co-operation of 36,98 

Bean, B. A., assisted Dr. Bean 54 

Collection presented by 226 

Services of 1 85, 2:ii» 

Bean, Dr. Tarletou H., catalogue of collection of fishes 84 

Curator United States National Museum 54, 185, 228, 275 

Detailed to Loudon Fisheries Exhibit - i :5,237 

Mission to Europe 237 

Papers by 277,278,279 

Researches of 237 

Report on department of fishes 228 

Bean, Tarleton II., and G. Brown Goode, paper by 288 



934 index. 

Page. 

BeT>ian, L. do, cooperation of 30 

Belding, L., collection made by 226 

Explorations by 20,21 

Papers by 313 

Bell, James, collection presented by 226 

Bendire, Capt. Charles, co-operation of 19 

Honorary curator United States National Museum 275 

Benedict, James E. , diploma for 254 

Services of 250 

Bernadou, Ensign J. B., detail of 40 

Explorations by 26,41 

Berrien County, Georgia, mound in 853 

Beshowe, or black cod, discovered 19 

Bibliography of anthropology 764 

Astronomy 432 

Meteorology 556 

Mineralogy 676 

Physics 623, 652 

Zoology 738 

Billings, Dr. John S., lecture by 9 

Biuuey, W. G., donations from 245 

Biological Society, forest inquiry 44 

Lectures 9 

Meetings of 10, 174 

Birbeck, Edward, aid rendered by 84 

Birds, aquatic and iish- eating, catalogue of 84 

Department of, United States National Museum 53, 164, 185, 220 

Accessions 220 

Arrangement of collections 222, 223 

Bibliography of publications ' 224 

Desiderata 225 

Distribution of specimens 223 

Number of specimens in collection 224 

Present state of collections 224 

Report of curator 220 

Robert Ridgway, curator 185, 220, 275 

Routi ue work 1 222 

Bixby, Thomas, & Co., co-operation of 36 

Black codfish discovered by J. G. Swan 19 

Bland, Thomas, co-operation of 36 

Blish,J.B.,detailof 40 

Board of Regents, Annual Report of I 

Journal of proceedings xi 

Meeting of xi 

Resolutions of xii 

Boehmer, George H., report on Smithsonian exchanges 91 

Bolton, Dr. H. Carrington, general catalogue of scientific periodicals 30 

Report on chemistry 629 

Bone-cave in the island of Anguilla, memoir on contents of 27 

Booth, Henry, relics in Poughkeepsie, N. Y 876 

Borland, B. R., co-operation of 36 

Boston Foreign Exhibition 44 

Botanists, necrology of ,«„.„.., 697 



INDEX. 935 

"Page. 

Botany Division, United States National Museum 164, 187 

Department of fossil plants 164,188,263 

Recent plants , 164,187 

Botany, report on, by Prof. William G. Farlow 681 

Bransford, Dr. J. F., researches of 199 

Brewster, Hon. Benjamin H., member ex officio xxxvm 

Brewster, William, papers by 313, 314 

British America, concessions of 43 

British Columbia, explorations in 19 

Capt. Charles Bendire 19 

Hudson's Bay Company 19 

James G. Swan 19 

Brown, A. G., donation from 210 

Brown, James Temple, papers by 279 

The whale fishery and its appliances 84 

Brown, Stephen C, registrar United States National Museum 165, 276 

Brown, Vernon & Co., co-operation of 36 

Brush-Swan electric light company 10, 44, 170, 174 

Brussels conference of exchanges, report on 120 

Bucks County, Pennsylvania, remains in 872 

Buildings: Armory building 6 

National Museum building 5 

Natural-history workshop 6 

Smithsonian building 4 

Buildings and labor department, United States National Museum 163, 169 

Building for Museum and Geological Survey needed 7, 8 

Bulletin of the Fish Commission 83 

United States National Museum 31, 84, 166, 276, 277 

Bureau of Ethnology, appropriation for 56 

Explorations at Zufii 61 

Explorations in Arizona 59 

Explorations in New Mexico 59 

Explorations in the Southwest 57 

Linguistic field work 63 

Mound exploration 56 

Office work 64 

Report on, by Major Powell 56 

Specimens collected for 56, 57 

Transfer of collection to Museum 179, 183 

Burgoyne, Burb ridges & Co., donation by 196 

Burnham.Mr., co-operation of 24 

Bush, Katherine J., paper by 314 

Butler County, Ohio, mounds in 844 

Butterworth. Hon. B., member ex officio xxxvm 

C. 

Cadbury, Brothers, donation by 196 

California, explorations in 19 

Charles H. Townsend 20 

Livingston Stone 20 

J. J. McLean 20 

R. E. C. Stearns 20 

California salmon, hatching of 82 

California trout, hatching of 82 



936 INDEX. 

Pftg? 
Cambridge, Mass., Museum of Comparative Zoology, collection received from. 250, 251 

Cameron, R. W. & Co., co-operation of 36 

Cape Meudocino signal station 20 

Card catalogue of fish collection 54 

Of marine invertebrates 55 

Carlisle, Hon. John G., letter to in 

Carp, success with 83 

Carpenter, Dr. William B., collection received from 251 

( lasts presented by Pierre Lorillard 25 

Catalogue of scientific periodicals 30 

Catalogues for London Fisheries Exhibition 84 

Catlin collection of Indian paintings 53, 181 

Cave research, instructions for 50 

Cazaux, H., co-operation of 36 

Census, fishery branch of 86 

Central America, explorations in 25 

Mr. Charnay 25 

Capt. John M. Dow 25 

Charles H.Gilbert 25 

Lorillard expedition 25 

James McNeill 25 

C.C. Nutting 25 

J.C. Zeledon 25 

Ceremonies at unveiling of Henry statue 1, 2, xvm 

Circulars, United States National Museum 277 

Chambers, W. Oldham, acknowledgment due 84 

Chandler, Hon. William E., member ex offuio xxxvm 

Chase, Henry E., notes on the Wampanoag Indians 878 

Chase, H. S., detail of 40 

Chemical laboratory suggested for department of metallurgy 271 

Chemistry, bibliography of 652 

Report on, by H. Carriugton Bolton 621) 

Chester, H. C, detailed to London Fisheries Exhibit 83 

Chicago Railway Exposition 44 

China, explorations in . 26 

P.L.Jouy 26 

Steamer " Palos " 26 

Clark, A. Howard, acting librarian United States Nalional Museum 275 

Assistant United States National Museum 275 

Detailed to London Fisheries Exhibit 83 

Papers by 279 

Services of 167 

Clark, A. H., G. Brown Goode, J. W. Collins, R. E. Earll, papers by 28P 

Clarke, Frank W., honorary curator United States National Museum 188,266,275 

Clarke, Prof. F. W. , honorary curator 55 

Report on department of minerals 266 

Classification of Coleoptera of North America, by Drs. J. L. Le Coute and 

George H. Horn 29 

Cluss & Schultze, architects of fire-proof portion of building 4 

Codfish discovered 19 

Coffin, Mr., analyses furnished by 270 

Coleoptera of North America, paper on 29 

Collecting outfits furnished by United States National Mnsonin 259 

Collection of American Institute of Mining Engineers, presented...... ...... 8 



INDEX. 937 

Page. 

Collections made by Dr. Stejneger 18 

Mr. Goode's report on 12 

Increase of 7,8 

Collins, Joseph W., acting curator United States National Museum 178, 275 

Detailed to London Fisheries Exhibit 83 

Papers by 280 

Collins, Joseph W., G. Brown Goode, R. E. Earll, and A. Howard Clark, 

papers by 289 

Collins, Joseph W., Goode, G. Brown, paper by 289 

Commander Islands 17 

Explorations in 13 

Compagnie G6nerale Transatlantique, co-operation of 36 

Comparative phonology of four Siouan languages 919 

Committee to supervise the publications of the scientific writings of Joseph 

Henry xn 

Congressional appropriation for Henry statue xvn 

Resolution accepting invitation to attend the inauguration of the Joseph 

Henry statue xvm 

Resolution to print Smithsonian Report for 1883 n 

Contents of report for 1883 iv, v 

Contractors on Smithsonian building 4 

Contributions to Knowledge 27 

Co-operation of Departments of the Government 11 

Interior Department 42 

Life-Saving Service 22,42 

Light-House Board 42 

Navy Department 39, 40, 41 

Transportation companies 36,37 

Treasury Department 42 

United States Signal Service 41 

War Department 41 

Cope, Edward D., on the contents of a bone-cave in the island of Anguilla, 

West Indies 27 

Copp6^, Henry, Regent x, xi, xxxviii 

Motion by xii 

Corbel, Malachi, co-operation of 23 

Corcoran, W. W., transfer of remains of John Howard Payne 50 

Corea , exploration in 26 

Ensign Bernadou . 26, 41 

P. L. Jouy 26 

Correspondence of the Institution 11 

Astronomical announcements 87,88,89 

Relative to Government exchange Ill et.stq. 

Costumes, section of, United States National Museum 53, 179 

Coues, Elliott, papers by 314 

Cox, Hon. S. S. , expiration of term as Regent xi,3 

Cox, W. V., detailed to London Fisheries Exhibit 83 

Crawford, Dr., assistance by 41 

Cresse, Uriah, co-operation of 23 

Crooks, Mr., collections made by 22 

Crustaceans, catalogue of 84 

Cuuard steamship line, co-operation of 36 

Cushing, P. H., collections made by 62 

Cystophora cristata 13 

Dall, Rev. C. H. A., contributions by 182 



938 INDEX. 

Page. 
D. 

Dull, William EL, honorary curator, United States National Museum.. 54, 186, 244,275 

Lecture by 9 

Tapers by 280-284 

Report on department of mollusks 244 

Dallett, Boulton & Co., co-operation of 36 

Dana, Prof. Edward S., report on mineralogy 661 

Darwin, portrait of 49 

Davis, Hon. David, Regent x 

Day, Surgeon- General Francis, acknowledgment due 84 

Dayton, Ohio, ancient relics at 838 

Deaths of collaborators and officers 45 

Deering, Hon. N. C, expiration of term as Regent xi,3 

Dennison, Thomas, co-operation of 36 

Derby, Dr. Orville A., collection presented by 260 

Dewey, Frederick P., curator United States National Museum 55, 188, 268, 275 

Papers by 284 

Report on department of metallurgy and economic geology 268 

Diebitsch, Hermann, necrology 46 

Distribution of exchanges 37, 38 

Dobson, Dr. G. E., paper prepared by 213 

Dodge, Ensign O. G., services of 266 

Detail of 40 

Domestic exchanges 37,91, 102 

Donaldson, Thomas, collections obtained by 55 

Low freight rates obtained by , 83 

Services of 166 

Dorsey, Rev. J. Owen, on the comparative phonology of four Siouan lan- 
guages 919 

Dow, Capt. Johu M., co-operation of 25 

Dresel, Ensign H. G., collections made by 14, 41, 252 

Detail of 40,41 

Services of 14,54,185,239 

Drugs to be deposited in Museum by Association of Wholesale Druggists 9 

Duly, A. A., duty of 44 

Duplicate and exchange department, United States National Museum 163, 167 

Dutton, Capt. Clarence E., lecture by 9 

E. 

Earll, R. Edward, acting curator United States National Museum 275 

Collection presented by 226 

Detailed to London Fisheries Exhibit 83 

Papers by 285 

Earll, R. E., G. Brown Goode, Joseph W. Collins, and A. Howard Clark, 

papers by 289 

Earthwork in Highland County, Ohio 851 

Echinoderms, catalogue of 84 

Economic crustaceans, catalogue of 84 

Geology, department of 55 

Edmunds, Hon. G. F. , appointed Regent xi, 3 

Letter to „ . in 

Member ex officio xxxvur 

Motion by XII 

Regent x, xi, xxxviii 



INDEX. 939 

Tage. 

Edwards, Joshua B. , co-operation of 22 

Edwards, Vinal N., collections received from 250 

Electric light 10 

Accommodations 44 

Use of 44 

Electric service of the United States National Museum 164, 170 

Emerich, H. F., collections made by 21,226 

Engelmann, Dr. George S., exchange with 182 

Ensigns on duty in Museum 39,40 

Services of 14 

Erignathus barbatus 13 

Eskimo collections 16 

Explorations among 15 

Vocabularies 15 

Ethnological Bureau, co-operation by 11 

Evans, Commander R. D., collections made by 252 

Evans, W. W., collections made by 26 

Donation by 179 

Exchange conference at Brussels, report on 120 

Department of the United States National Museum 103, 167 

Of collections 85 

Of reptiles 227 

Of specimens, department of marine invertebrates 257 

Exchanges 35 et seq. 

Appropriation for 35,36 

Domestic 37 

Expenses of the service 36 

Foreign 37 

Government documents 37,38 

Liberality of transportation companies 36 

Privileges granted 36 

Receipt and distribution of 37, 38 

Statistics of 35 

Executive Committee, report of xn, xin-xvi 

Report accepted by Board of Regents xn 

Report on the Henry statue xvn 

Exhibit for London Fisheries Exhibition 10 

Brush-Swan electric light 174 

Pharmaceutical Association 174 

Preliminary, of fishery collection 173 

Southern Exposition of Louisville 174 

Exhibitions, international and State 43, 173,174 

Exploration Division, United States National Museum 164,189 

Department of chemistry 164, 190 

Department of exploration, &c 164, 189 

Experimental physiology 104, 190 

Vivaria 164,190 

Explorations 11 

Alaska 16 

Arctic coast - 14 

Arizona 20 

Atlantic seaboard 22 

British Columbia - 19 

Bureau of Ethnology 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61 

California 20 



940 INDEX. 

Explorations — Continued. 

Central America 25 

China 26 

Corea 26 

Greenland 14 

Japan 26 

Labrador 12, 42, 4:? 

Lower California 20 

Mexico 24 

New Mexico 20 

Newfoundland 12 

Oregon 19 

Other countries 26 

South America 26 

Washington 1 19 

Yucatan 24 

Zuni (il 

Expositions. {See Exhibitions.) 

F. 

Fish Commission, United States, gold medal for 254 

Professor Baird's report on 81 

Fishery branch of the census 86 

Armory building, used by 6 

Bulletins 83 

International fisheries exhibits 83, 84, 85 

Silver medal for 254 

Work done by 81, 82, 83 

Farlow, Prof. William G., report on botany 681 

Silver medal for 254 

Faxon, Prof. Walter, identification of specimens 257 

Feddersen, Arthur, donation by 85 

Fillmore, J. H., detail of 40 

Finances, condition of 4 

Fire-proofing of Smithsonian building 4 

Fish, discovery of a new, by J. G. Swan 19 

Fisher, W. J., co-operation of 16, 17 

Fisheries exhibitions 83 

Fisheries, section of, United States National Museum 176 

Fishery branch of United States census 86 

Exhibit for London 10, 173 

Implements, aboriginal 19 

Industries of the United States, paper on 85 

Fishes, catalogue of collections 84 

Department of, United States National Museum 54, 164, 185, 228 

Accessions to department 228 

Card catalogue 185,236 

Entries in the catalogues 238 

Exchanges effected by curator 237 

Present state of collection 238 

Recommendations by the curator 239 

.Researches by curator 236, 237 

Report of curator 228 

Tarleton H. Bean, curator 185,228,275 

Work done upon the fishes , 236 

Work upon the collection « 238 



INDEX. 941 



Page. 
FistuLaria serrata 24 

Fletcher, Dr. Robert, lecture by 10 

Flint, Dr. James M., honorary curator United States National Museum.. 178, 190, 275 

Duties of 40,41 

In charge of materia medica section 52 

Paper by 285 

Report on materia medica collection 190 

Florida, West, mounds and shell-heaps in 854 

Foerste, Aug. A. , ancient relics at Dayton, Ohio 838 

Folger, Hon. Charles J., member ex officio xxxviii 

Food-fishes, propagation of 82 

Food production, analysis of 52 

Foods and textiles, section of, United States National Museum 52, 182, 196 

Foote, J. Howard, donation by 182 

Foreign exchanges 37,91,95 

Foreign Governments, relations to 42 

Forestry inquiries 44 

Fossil invertebrates, department of,U. S. National Museum 55, 1(31, 187,260, 201 

Mesozoic section 260 

Accessions 260 

Present state of collections 261 

Recommendations 261 

Report of honorary curator 260 

Routine work 261 

C. A. White, honorary curator 187,260,276 

Paleozoic section 261 

Accessions 261 

Report of honorary curator 261 

Charles D. Walcott, honorary curator 261,276 

Fossil plants, department of, United States National Museum 55, 164, 188, 263 

Accessions 263 

Lester F. Ward, honorary curator 188, 263, 276 

Report of honorary curator . 263 

Free entry of collections in British America 43 

Freight arrangements 43 

Frelinghuysen, Hon. Frederick T., member ex officio xxxviii 

French Government, gift to United States National Museum 178 

Funch, Edye & Co. , co-operation of 37 

G. 

Gale, Dr. Leonard Dunnell, necrology 47 

Garlington, Lieutenant, expedition of • 14 

Gamier, Dr. , collection presented by 226 

Garrett, L. M., detail of 40 

Gaumer, George F. , collection made by 24 

Geare, R. I. , detailed to London Fisheries Exhibit 83 

General catalogue of scientific periodicals 30 

General appendix to report of Secretary 361 

Geography, report ou, by Commander F. M. Green 465 

Geological map of the United States 67 

Geological Survey, United States 66 

New building asked for 8 

Located in Museum building 8 

Major Powell, Director 66 

Report on operations 66 



942 INDEX. 



Geology Division. United .States National Museum 1C>4, 188 

Department of lithology, &c 164,188,263 

Mineralogy 164,188,266 

Metallurgy, &c 164, 189, 268 

Geology, economic, department of 55 

Physical, department of 55 

Geology, report on, by T. Sterry Hunt 443 

George, Mr., cooperation of 19 

Georgia, Berrien County, mounds in 85:5 

Gilbert, Prof. Charles H., explorations by 25 

Collection presented by 226 

Gilbert, Charles H., and David S. Jordan, papers by 315, 316,317 

Gill, Prof. Tbeodore, lecture by 9 

Tapers by 314,315 

Report on zoology C99 

Gill, Tbeodore, and John A. Ryder, papers by 315 

Gold medals awarded at London Fisheries Exhibition 254 

" Golden Fleece," expedition in 15 

Goode, G. Brown, appointed commissiouer to London Fisheries Exhibition 165 

Assistant Director of the Museum 275 

On the fishery industries of the United States 85 

Papers by 286.287,288 

Preliminary catalogue of collections exhibited by the United States Fish 

Commission 84 

Report of 161 

Report on the collections 12 

Special commissioner to London Fisheries Exhibition 83 

Study of museums 85 

Goode, G. Brown, and Tarletou H. Bean, paper by 288 

Goode, G. Brown, ami Joseph H. Collins, paper by 289 

Goode, G. Brown, Joseph W. Collins, R. E. Earll, and A. Howard Clark, papers 

by , ^9 

Goode, G. Brown, and Newton P. Scudder, paper by 289 

Goodrich, J. King, papers by 2*9 

Services of 179 

Government exchanges . 38, 92, 1 05 

Pier at Wood's Holl 82 

Publications, list of 150 

Gray, Dr. Asa, Regent x, xi, xxxvm 

Motion by xn 

Grebnitzky, N., aid by 18 

Greely, Lieutenant, exploration 14,41 

Green , Commander F. M. , report on geography 465 

Green, William J., duties of 44 

In charge of electric service 170 

Greenland, explorations in 14 

Lieutenant Greely 14 

Signal Service expedition 14 

"Proteus," voyage of 14 

" Yautic," voyage of 14 

Gresham, Hon. W. Q., member ex officio xxxvm 

Guatemala, astronomer for 25,26 

Guatemala and Mexico boundary survey 26 

Guyot, Prof. A., physical and meteorological tables 31 



INDEX. 943 

Page. 
H. 

Habel bequest xiii 

Hamburg-American Packet Company, co-operation of 36 

Hamilton bequest xiii 

Hamlin, Senator, bill introduced in Congress by 3 

Hampshire County, West Virginia, stone mounds in 868 

Hansman, Max, detailed to London Fisheries Exhibit 83 

Harger, Oscar, paper by 315 

Harlow, G. H. , detail of 40 

Harrington, Mr., explorations by 25 

Harvard College Museum of Comparative Zoology, collections received from 250,251 

Observatory relative to astronomical announcements 90 

Transfer of telegraphic astronomical announcements 34 

" Hassler," steamer, surveys by 17 

Hatching stations of Fish Commission 82 

Haw ley , E. H. , mounting of specimens 172 

Services of 256 

Harden, E.E., detail of 40 

Hayes, A. A. , exhibition of electric light 10 

Exhibition by 44 

Hazen, General, co-operation by 16 

Heap.G. H., thanks due 182 

Henderson & Brother, co-operation of 36 

Hendley, Mr. , prepared lay figures 172 

Henry, Joseph, scientific writings of XII, 2 

Statue of 1,2 

Congressional appropriation for xvn 

Report on xii.xvii 

Report of Executive Committee xvn 

Addresses at xvn 

Unveiliug ceremonies xvm-xxx vn 

Address by Chief Justice Waite xx,xxm 

Congressional action xix 

Oration by Rev. Dr. Noah Porter xx, XXV 

Prayer by Rev. A. A. Hodge xx, xxn 

Highland County, Ohio, earthwork in 851 

Hilgard, Prof. J. E., gold medal for 254 

Hill. Hon. Nathaniel P., Regent x,xi,xxxvm 

Historical relics, section of, United States National Museum 5:5, 177 

Hitchcock, Romyn, acting curator United States National Museum 52,182, 196,275 

Paper by 289 

Report on section of foods and textiles 190 

Hoar, Hon George F., Regent x 

Resignation of XI, 3 

Hodge, Rev. A. A., prayer by xx, xxn 

Holden, Prof. Edward S., report on astronomy 365 

Holmes, W. H., report on American aboriginal pottery 179 

Report on pottery 52 

Researches of 199 

Horan, Henry, Superintendent United States National Museum 270 

Horn, George H., Drs. J. L. Le Conte and, classification of Coleoptera of North 

America 29 

Hornaday, W. T., chief taxidermist United States National Museum 275 

Papers by 289 

Services of 171 



944 INDEX. 



Horticultural Exhibition, St. Petersburg 45 

Howitt, A. W., on Australian Group Relations 797 

How land, Henry S., '-o-operation of 22 

Hubbard, Daniel S., co-operation of 23 

Hubrecht, A. A . W. , papers by 315 

Hudson Bay Company, co-operation of 12, 19 

Hunt, T. Sterry , report on geology 443 

Hutchinson, Kohl, Phillipens & Co., aid rendered by 18 

Huxley, Professor, acknowledgment due 84 

Hygiene, Naval Museum of 49 

I. 

Illinois, Sangamon County, mounds of 825 

Spoon River Valley, mounds in 835 

Illustrations, list of ix 

Indian paintings, Catlin collection ef 181 

Indians of Puget Sound 19 

Industry, department of art and 51 

Inland and Seaboard Coasting Company, concessions made by 43 

Ininan Steamship Company, co-operation of 36 

Insect6 department of, United States National Museum 54, 184, 186, 239 

Accessions 241 

Co : »ns added 240 

Rt t ■ « f honorary curator 239 

Rilcj, i'rof. C. V., honorary curator 186,239,275 

Instructions for cave research 50 

Interior Department, co-operation of 42 

International exchanges 35 

Exhibitions 43 

Fisheries exhibitions 83 

Horticultural exhibition, St. Petersburg 45 

Invertebrate fossils, department of 55 

Irish coracle, donation of 85 

J. 

James, U. P., specimens presented by 262 

Japan, birds of 26 

Explorations in 26 

Jeffreys, J. Gwyn, collection of 54,246 

Johnson, Lawrence C, collection sent by 261 

Jordan, David S., and Charles H. Gilbert, papers by 315,316,317 

Jordan, David S., and Joseph Swain, paper by 317 

Jouy, Pierre Louis, collections from 210 

Explorations by 26 

Papers by 317 

K. 

Kalb, George B., Joseph B. Swain and, paper by 320 

Kamtsehatka, signal station at 17 

Keith, Minor C, donation from 25 

Kengla. L. A., btonw mounds of Hampshire County, West Virginia 868 

Kennan, George, lecture by 9 

Keramies, section of, United States National Museum 178 

Kerr, Professor, collections made by 22 



INDEX. 945 

Page, 

Kimball, S. I., co-operatiou of 22 

Knapp, Ensign H. S. , detail of 40 

Services of 266 

Knight, Ed ward H. , necrology of 45 

Knowles, Herbert M., co-operation of 24 

Koehler, S. R , arranged collection 182 

Kogia Goodei 22 

Kunhardt & Co., co-operation of 36 

Kurracbee library and museum presented collection 226 

L. 

Laboratory for department of metallurgy ^71 

Labrador and Newfoundland, explorations in 12, 4'J, 43 

Lucien M. Turner 12, 16, 42, 43 

Dr. C. Hart Merriam 13 

Seal-fishing in 13, 14 

Lady Fraulkin Bay expedition 14 

Lawrence, George N., paper by 317 

Lea, Isaac, douatious from 245 

Le Conte. Dr. John Lawrence, necrology 48 

Le Conte, Drs. J. L., and George H. Horn, the classification of Coleoptera of 

North America 29 

Lectures in National Museum 9, 174 

Leech, Daniel, corresponding clerk xxxvm 

Letter transmitting Smithsoniau report to Congress in 

Lewis collection of Washington relics 53 

In United States National Museum 177 

Library of Smithsonian Institution 38,39 

Business arrangement 38, :i'.i 

Receipts during the year 39 

Library of United States National Museum 163, 166, 27 1 

Accessions 272 

Administrative work 273 

Assistance 275 

Catalogues J74 

Condition of library 275 

F.W.True, librariau 166,271 

Loan and return of books 272 

Number of books 275 

Report of the librarian 271 

Sectional libraries "J74 

Lilt -Saving Service, co-operation of 22,42 

Light-House Board, co-operation of 42 

Lincoln, Hon. Robert T., member ex officio xxxvm 

Liudenkohl, C, paper by 317 

List of illustrations ix 

United States official publications 150 

Lithology and physical geology, department of, United States National 

Museum 55, 164, 188, 263 

Accessions 263 

George P. Merrill, curator 188,263,275 

Report of curator 263 

Lorillard, Pierre, easts presented by 25 

Lorillard collection of Central American antiquities 183 

H. Mis. 60 60 



946 INDEX. 

Page. 

Louisville International Exhibition .. - 43 

Southern Exposition at „ 174 

Lowell, James Russell, paper by 317 

Lower California, explorations in 20 

L. Belding 20,21 

Mr. Emerich 21 

H.H.Rusby 21 

Dr. TenCate 21 

JohnXantus .• 20 

Lucas, Frederic A., assistant, United States National Museum 275 

Paper by 289,290 

Service of 172 

Luce, Thomas R., paper by 317 

Lyman, Hon. Theodore, assistance rendered by 257 

M. 

McClain, Ensign C. S., assisted Mr. Rathbun 5? 

Detail of 40 

Services of 256 

McKay, C. S., collections made by 1 252 

Death of , 16 

Charles L. , explorations by 16 

Signal Service observer 16 

McKesson and Robbins, collection received from 252 

McLean, J. J., collections made by 20 

Maelean, Rev. Dr. John, member of the Executive Committee xxxviii 

Regent x, xxxviii 

MacLean. J. P., mounds in Butler County, Ohio 844 

Earthworks in Highland County, Ohio 851 

McLellan, Lieut. C. H., detailed to London Fisheries Exhibit 83 

McNeil, James, collections made by 25, 253 

Maitland, Sir James G., acknowledgment due 84 

Mallory, C. W., & Co., co-operation of 37 

Mammals, department of United States National Museum 53, 164, 184, 208 

Accessions to 208, 216 

Administrative work 210 

Card catalogues 211 

Plaus and recommendations 215 

Present state of collection 214 

Report of curator 208 

Frederick W. True, curator 184,208,275 

Work in research 213 

Work upon collections 211 

Manual of Herpetology 227 

Marcou, John B., services of 261 

Marine invertebrates, department of, United States National Museum . 54, 164, 186, 250 

Accessions to 250 

Assistants in department 256 

Awards at London Fisheries Exhibit „. 253 

Collecting outfits supplied 259 

Distribution of duplicates and exchanges 257 

General remarks 259 

Records • 259 

Richard Rathbun, curator 250 



INDEX. 947 

Page. 
Marine invertebrates, department of— Continued. 

Report of curator 250 

Work accomplished during the year 253 

Work upon collections 256 

Marnock, G. H., collection presented by 226 

Marquis of Hamilton, donation by 85 

Marsh, C. C, detail of 40 

Mason, Prof. Otis T., lecture by 9 

Report on anthropology 75:? 

Mason, Dr., researches of 227 

Massachusetts, Wampanoag Indians of, notes on 878 

Materia medica, lectures on 10, 174 

Materia medica section, United States National Museum 52, 178, 190 

Classification and arrangement of collection 191 

J. M. Flint, curator 17d, 190, 275 

Report of curator 190 

Maxey, Samuel B. , Regent x, xi, xxxvm 

Motion by - xn 

Medals awarded at London Fisheries Exhibition 254 

Meetings and lectures 174 

Of Board of Regents 3 

Of scieutific bodies 9 

Members of Honse of Representatives appointed to attend the unveiling of 

the Henry statue xix 

Memorial objects in Pension building 50 

Mercer bequest 49 

Merchants' line of steamers, co-operation ot 36 

Merriam, Dr. C. Hart, collection of seals 184,209 

Exploration by 13 

Merrill, George Perkins, acting curator United States National Museum. 55, 188,263, 275 

Collection presented by 226 

Papers by 290,291 

Report on department of lithology and physical geology 263 

Mesozoic section of department of fossil invertebrates 260 

Metallurgy and economic geology, department of, United States National 

Museum 55,164,189,268 

Fred. P. Dewey, curator 188,26^,275 

Report of curator 268 

Accessions 268 

Chemical laboratory suggested 271 

Recommendations 271 

Researches 269 

State of collections 269 

Work performed 269 

Meteorology, bibliography of 556 

Report on, by C. Abbe 483 

Mexico and Guatemala boundary 26 

Mexico, explorations in 24 

C.G.Priugle 24 

H. H.Rusby 21 

Miller, Benjamin, collection presented by 226 

Mindeleff, Victor, models prepared by 172 

Miner, R. H.. assisted Dr. Beau 54 

Appointment of 40 

Mineralogy, bibliography of 676 

Report on, by Prof. Edward S. Dana 661 



948 INDEX. 



Minerals, Abert collection of 50 

Department of, United States National Museum 55,164, 188,266 

Assistants 266 

F. W. Clarke, honorary curator 188,266,275 

Report of acting curator 266 

Accessions 267 

Administration 268 

Report of honorary curator 266 

W. S.Yeates, acting curator 188,266,276 

Mining Engineers, American Institute of, collections of, presented 8 

Miscellaneous collections 27-32 

Vol. xxiv 28 

Vol. xxv 28 

Vol. xxvi 28 

Vol. xxvii 28 

Mitchell, Dr. S. Weir, researches of 227 

Mitchell, James, detailed to London Fisheries Exhibit 83 

Mollusks, department of, United States National Museum 54, 164, 186, 244 

Accessions 246 

William H. Dall, honorary curator 186,244,275 

Dr. R. E. C. Stearns, assistant curator 186 

Work performed in department 244, 245 

Monarch line of steamers, aid rendered by 12 

Concessions made by 43 

Co-operation of 36 

Montreal, Redpath Museum, collections promised to 13 

Morrill, Hon. Justin S., appointed Regent 3, XI 

Regent X, XI, xxxviu 

Mosaic, antique Roman, presented to Museum 182 

Moser, Lieut. J. F., collection presented by 226 

Mound explorations 56 

Mounds in Berrien County, Georgia 853 

In Butler, County, Ohio 844 

In Hampshire County, West Virginia 868 

In Spoon River Valley, Illinois 835 

In West Florida 854 

Of Sangamon County, Illinois 825 

Mufioz y Espriella, co-operation of 36 

Murdoch, J. E., collections made by 14 

Murray, Ferris & Co., co-operation of 36 

Museum building, necessity of additional 7,8 

Of Hygiene (see National Museum) 49 

Music at unveiling of Henry statue XX 

Musical instruments, collection of 182 

N. 

Natioual Academy of Sciences, meeting of 9, 174 

National Museum 161 et seq. 

Aboriginal pottery section 52 

Antiquities, department of 53 

Appropriation asked for a new building 8 

Art and industry, department of 51 

Bibliography , 276 



INDEX. 949 

Page- 
National Museum— Continued. 

Publications of the Museum 276 

Papers by officers 277 ei seq. 

Birds, department of ,">:'» 

Bulletins 31,84 

Classification of depart men ts f,l, 163 

Antiquities It; I. 183, 198 

Art and industry 104, 1?.") 

Birds 164,185,220 

Electric service 164, 170 

Mammals 164,184,208 

Preparation KJ4, 171 

Races of men 104. 183 

Reptiles and batrachian 164,185, 225 

Costumes, architecture section, &c 53 

Departments of 51, 163 et seq. 

Accounts 163, 169 

Archives 10.!, 105 

Buildings and labor 163, 169 

Chemistry 164, 190 

Crustaceans 164, 186, 250 

Direction lo:>>, 165 

Duplicates and exchanges 163, 167 

Experimental physiology 164, 190 

Exploration and field work 164, 1 89 

Fishes 164,185,228 

Fossil plants 164,188,263 

Insects 164,186,239 

Invertebrate fossils 164, 187, '260, 261 

Library .' 10:!, 166. 27 1 

Lithology and physical geology 164, 188, 263 

Metallurgy and economic geology 164, l w l>, 268 

Mineralogy 164, 186,266 

Mollnsks 104,186,244 

Publications T - 10:5, 166 

Property and supplies 163, 107 

Radiates and protozoans 164, 186,250 

Recent plants 104,187 

Registry and storage 103, 165 

Vivaria 164,190 

Worms ! 164,186,250 

Details of administration 51 

Division of Administration 163,165 

Anthropology 164, 175 

Botany 101,1-7 

Exploration and experiment 164,189 

Geology 164,188 

Zoology 164,184 

Exhibition of the Pharmaceutical Association 174 

Fishes, department of 51 

Foods and textiles section 52 

Fossil plants, department of ; >-' 

Historical relics section 53 

Increased space needed for 7, 8 

Insects, department of 54 



950 INDEX. 

Page. 
National Museum — Continued. 

Insufficient accommodations for display •. 7,8 

Invertebrate fossils, department of 55 

Lithology and physical geology, department of 55 

Mammals, department of 53 

Marine invertebrates, department of 54 

Materia medica section 52 

Meetings and lectures 174 

Metallurgy and economic geology, department of 55 

Methods of transportation, section of 52 

Minerals, department of 55 

Mollusks, department of 54 

Officers 275 

Organization of departments 163 

Preliminary exhibition of fishery collection 173 

Proceedings 31 

Recent plants, department of 55 

Report of Assistant Director 51, 161, et seg. 

Professor Baird 51 

Reptiles and batrachians, department of 54 

Section of fisheries 176 

Costumes .... 179 

Foods and textiles 182,196 

Historical relics 177 

Ceramics 178 

Materia medica 177, 190 

Naval architecture 178 

Southern Exposition at Louisville 174 

Visitors to 175 

Work of the preparators 51 

National Museum building 5 

Imperfect drainage 5 

Meetings of scientific bodies in 9 

Natural-history workshop 6 

Naval architecture, section of, in United States National Museum 178 

Naval museum of hygiene 49 

Navy Department, co-operation of 39,40,41 

Newberry, John S., paper by 317 

Necrology 45 

Of botanists 697 

Of zoologists * 750 

Nelson, Mr. , collections made by 16 

Nelson, Dr. H. , collection presented by 226 

Netherlands-American Steam Navigation Company, co-operation of 36 

Newfoundland, explorations in 12 

New Mexico, explorations in 20, 59, 60, 61 

Mr. Crooks 22 

United States Geological Survey 21 

Professor Kerr 22 

N. X. Robinsou 22 

Dr. Shufeldt 21 

James Stevenson 21 

George llolley 21 

Now York and Brazil Steamship Company, co-operation of 36 

New York aud Mexico Steamship Company, co-operation of 36 



INDEX. 95 L 

Page. 

New York, Poughkeepsie, relics in 876 

Niblack, Ensign A. P., detail of 40 

Services of 179 

Report of 180 

Nicaragua, Ometepe, antiquities from 908 

Nichols, Lieut. Commander H. E., collections made by 17, 252 

Nicholson, Miss Agues, services of 245 

Northville, Mich., hatching station at 82 

North German Lloyd, co-operation of 36 

" North Star," steam whaler, crushed in ice 15 

Norton, Col. C.B., thanks to 182 

Nushagak, Alaska, signal station 16 

Nutting, Charles C, antiquities from Omotepe, Nicaragua •. 908 

Explorations by 25 

Paper prepared by 213 

Paper by 3L7 

Nye, Willard, jr., collection made by 253 

Paper by 317 

O. 

Ocean physics 42 

Ocean temperatures 42 

Oelrichs & Co., co-operation of 36 

Officers of the Institution xxxvm 

Offutt, F. I., services of 269 

Ohio, Butler County, mounds in 844 

Dayton, ancient relics at 838 

Highland County, earthwork in 851 

Ometepe, Nicaragua, antiquities from 908 

"Ooglaamie 7 ' signal station , 15 

Oration by Dr. Noah Porter at unveiling of Henry statue xx, xxv 

Orcutt, C. R. , collection presented by 226 

Oregou, explorations in 19 

Osteological collection in National Museum 211 

Owen, Sir Philip Cunliffe, acknowledgment due 84 

Owston, Snow & Co., aid rendered by 26 

Oyster investigation 83 

P. 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, co-operation of 36 

Paintings (see Catlin collection) 53 

Paleozoic section of department of fossil invertebsatea 261 

Palmer, Dr. Edward, collections received from 251 

Palmer, Joseph, chief modeler. United States National Museum 171 

Palmer, William, modeler, United States National Museum 171 

Panama Railroad Company, co-operation of 36 

Papers by investigators not officers of the Museum 276, 313 

Papers by officers of t he Museum 276, "277 

Parker, Hon. Peter, member of Executive Committee xii, xvi, xxi, xxxvm 

Motion by XI1 

Regent X, XI, xxxvm 

Parker, Peter, jr., services of 185,239 

Assisted Dr. Bean - r ,l 

Patagonia, collections from.... »<> 



952 INDEX. 

Page. 

Patents, Commissioner of, transfer of Washington relics by 42 

Pat ton, Victors & Co., co-opera1 ion of 36 

Reduction in freight 83 

Payne, John Howard, obsequies of 50 

Peary, R. E., presented coral 253 

Pension building, memorial relics in 50 

Pennsylvania, Bucks County, remains in 872 

Pennsylvania Railroad Company, concessions made by 4* 

Co-operation of 37 

Reduction in freight 83 

Periodicals ( scientific ), general catalogue of 30 

Peruvian pottery, collections in 26 

Pharmaceutical Association exhibition 174 

Meeting 174 

Phelps, Hon. William Walter, appointed Regent 3, xi 

Regent X, XI, XXXVIII 

Philosophical Society, meeting of. 10, 174 

Phoca groenlandica 13 

Phonology of four Siouan languages : 919 

Photographs made by r electric light 44 

Physical and meteorological tables, by Guyot, notice of 31 

1 'In sical geology, 'department of 55 

Physics, bibliography of 623 

Ocean 42 

Report on, by George F. Barker 571 

Pier at WocVi's Holl 82 

Pickering Edward C, astronomical announcement 35. 87, 89 

1 'igmy sperm whale 22 

Pike, Col. N., collection presented by 253 

Tike, Nicholas, collection presented by 226 

Pirn, Forwood & Co., co-operation of 36 

" Pinta," expedition of 41 

Plants, fossil, department of 55 

Recent, department of 55 

1 '( icy , Dr. Filipe, thanks due 209 

Point Barrow expedition 14, 15, l(j 

Pomacanthus aureus 24 

Porter, Rev. Dr. Noah, address of, at unveiling of Henry statue xx, xxv 

Regent x,xi,xxxvm 

Portrait of Darwin 49 

Pottery, aboriginal, section of 52 

Report on 179 

Potts, Edward, bronze medal for : 254 

Collection received from 251 

Poughkeepsie, N. Y., relics in 876 

Powell, Maj. J. W., address by 10 

Director United States Geological Survey 67 

In charge of Bureau of Ethnology 56 

Lecture by 9,44 

Prang, L., contribution by 182 

Prayer by Rev. A. A. Hodge xx,xxn 

Prentiss, Dr. D. Webster, lectures by 9, 10, 174 

Thanks to, for lectures 10 

Preparation department, United States National Museum 171 

Priestley relics ....,,,....,, ,,,,,...,...,.,,.,.. , ,,. 49 



INDEX. 953 

Page. 

Pringlej C. G., explorations by 24 

Printing of Smithsonian Report for 1883 ordered n 

Prizes at London Fisheries Exhibition 177 

Awarded to preparators of United States National Museum 171 

Received at London Fisheries Exhibit 86 

Proceedings of the United States National Museum 31,32, 166, '270 

Propaga t ion of food-fishes 8*2 

Property and supply department, United States National Mus'.uim 163, 107 

"Proteus," steamer, expedition of 14,41 

Voyage of 13,41 

Pseudotriacis microdon 22 

Publications of the United States Geological Survey 81 

United States Government, list of 150 

United States National Museum 163, 166, 27(1 

Dr. T. H. Bean, editor 166 

Smithsonian Institution 27 «t scq. 

Annual reports 28,29, '.'<■'> 

Bulletins of the National Museum 31,32 

Classification of Coleoptera 29 

Contributions to Knowledge 27 

General catalogue of scientific periodicals 30 

Miscellaneous Collections 27 

Physical and meteorological tables 31 

Proceedings of the National Museum 32 

Puget Sound Indians 19 

Q. 

Qneen Charlotte Islands, explorations in 19 

R. 

Races of men, department of, United States National Museum 164,18.! 

Railroad entering Armory building reservation 6 

Rajah of Lahore, collection from 44 

Rajah Sourindro Molum Tagore, donation by 182 

Ratlibun, Richard, curator United States National Museum 54, 166,250,275 

Catalogue of collections illustrating scientific investigations of the sea and 

fresh waters 84 

Catalogue of collection of economic crustaceans, &c 84 

Papers by 291,292 

Report of, on department of marine i n vertebrates 250 

Rau, Charles, curator United States National Museum 183, 198, 275 

Iu charge of department of antiquities 53 

Paper by 292 

Report on department of antiquities 198 

Ray, Lieutenant, expedition 14, 15, 16 

Receipt of exchanges 37,38 

Receipts for the Smithsonian fund iu 1883 xni 

Armory building xv 

Furniture and fixtures xv 

International exchanges xv 

National Museum xiv 

North American ethnology xv 

Polaris report xvi 

Preservation of collections xiv 

Reconstructing portion of Smithsonian building XVI 



954 INDEX. 

Pag«. 

Record of scientific progress 363 

Anthropology, O. T. Masou 753 

Astronomy, E. T. Holden 365 

Botany, W. G. Farlow 681 

Chemistry, H. C. Bolton 629 

Geography, F. M. Green 465 

Geology, T. Sterry Hunt 443 

Introduction, by S. F. Baird 363 

Meteorology, C. Abbe '. 483 

Mineralogy, E. S. Dana 661 

Physics, G. F . Barker 571 

Zoology, Theodore Gill 699 

Records in department of reptiles 227 

Kept in department of marine invertebrates 259 

Red Star Line, co-operation of 36 

Regents of the Institution x 

Appointed xi 

Changes of 3 

Expiration of terms as xi 

Journal of proceedings xi 

Meetings of 3, xi 

Report of 1 

Resolutions by XII 

Registry and storage department, United States National Museum 163, 165 

Relations to foreign Governments 42 

Relics, ancient, at Dayton, Ohio 838 

Historical, section of, United States National Museum 53, 177 

In Poughkeepsie, N. Y 876 

Of Washington 42 

Report of Board of Regents • 1 

Of Executive Committee xn, xiii-xvi 

On the Henry statue xvn 

Report of Professor Baird 1 

Bureau of Ethnology 56 

International Conference on Exchanges at Brussels 120 

On aboriginal pottery 52 

Smithsonian exchanges 91 

United States Fish Commission 81 

United States Geological Survey 66 

Reptiles, department of, United States National Museum 54,164,185,225 

Collections received 185, 225, 226, 227 

Number of specimens on band 227 

Report of curator 225 

Suggestions made by curator 228 

H. C. Yarrow, honorary curator 185, 225, 276 

Research. (See Cave research.) 

Researches in department of mammals 211, 213 

In department of metallurgy 269 

Resolution of Cougi-ess relative to Henry statue xviii 

To print Smithsonian Report for 1883 11 

Resolutions by Board of Regents xil 

Accepting report of Executive Committee xn 

Accepting report on Henry statue xn 

Referring report of the Secretary to the Executive Committee xn 

Relative to publication of the scientific writings of Joseph Henry xu 

Relative to appointment of an Acting Secretary xn 



index. 955 

Tage. 

Rhees, William J., appointed Acting Secretary 3 

Chief clerk xxxvnr 

Ehy tina gigas 17, 18 

Rice, Allen Thorndike, thanks due 183 

Ridgway, J. II., cooperation of 23 

Ridgway, Robert, curator United States National Museum 5.1,185,220,2?;") 

Catalogue of aquatic, &c. birds 84 

Collections made by 225 

Papers by 292, 293, 294 

Report on department of birds 220 

Riley, Charles V., honorary curator United States National Museum. .54, 186,239, 275 

Lecture by 9 

Papers by 294-304 

Report of, on department of insects 239 

Ritchie, jr., John, circulars issued by 33 

Robbins, Mr., United States consul, assistance by 42 

Robinson, A. A., collections made by 22 

Rock, Prof. Miles, aid rendered by 2(5 

Appointed astronomer to Guatemala ". . 26 

Rockwell, Colonel, drainage undertaken by - (> 

Roman mosaic presented to Museum 182 

Roosevelt, Theodore, collections made by 226 

Routine work of the Institution 11 

Administration .' H 

Correspondence 11 

Rusby, H. H., collections made by 24 

Exploration by 21, 24 

Ruth, John A., remains in Bucks County, Pennsylvania 872 

Ryder, John A., biologist of Fish Commission 83 

Papers by 317,318 

Ryder, John A., and Theodore Gill, papers by 315 

S. 

Satford, Ensign W. E., assisted Mr. Rathbun 55 

Detail of 40 

Service of 245,256 

Salmon, hatching of 82 

Sangamon County, Illinois, mounds of 825 

Saturday lectures 9, 10 

Schenck, Dr. J. , collection presented by 226 

Schuermaun, C. W., services of 169 

Schumacher, Paul, necrology 45 

Schumacher & Co., co-operation of 3G 

Science Observer in regard to astronomical announcements 33, 87, 89 

Scientific bodies, meeting of 9 

Periodicals, general catalogue of 30 

Progress, record of 363 

Writings of Joseph Henry xn 

Sclater, P. L., papers by 318 

Scudder, Newton P., and G. Brown Goode, papers by 289 

Sea-cow 17,18 

Seal, American, natural history of 13 

Seals, collection of 184, 209 

Breeding habits of 14 



956 INDEX. 

rage. 

Schetmeier, W. I!., donation l>y 85 

Senators appointed to represent Congress at nnveilingof Eenry statue xix 

Shell-heaps in West Florida 854 

Sherman, General William T., Regent x, xi, xxxvm 

Member of Executive Committee xvi, xxi, xxxvm 

Motion by xn 

Shindler, A. Z., artist 172 

Shoemaker, George, collections made by 225,240 

Necrology 47 

Shufeldt, Dr. Robert W., collections made by 225,240,252 

Exploration by 21 

Papers by 304,30!'., 306 

Researches of 227 

Siamese collections presented by Rajah of Lahore 44 

Signal Office, co-operation by 11 

Signal Service, co-operation of 41 

Expedition 14, 41 

Sigsbee, Commander C. D., gold medal for 254 

Silver medals awarded at Loudon Fisheries Exhibition 254 

Singleton, Hon. 0. R., appointed Regent XI, 3 

Regent x, xi, xxxvm 

Siouan languages, comparative phonology of 919 

Skins, collections of, in National Museum 211 

Smillie, T. W., photographer United States National Museum 275 

Photographic work of 172 

Smith, John Lawrence, necrology 40 

Smith, Middleton, collections made by * 14 

Smith, Rosa, papers by 318 

Smith, Sanderson, researches of 256 

Smith, Sidney I., papers by 319 

Smithsonian building, iire-prootiug of 4 

Smithsonian exchanges, centers of distribution 101 

Correspondence relative to Government exchange Ill 

Domestic exchange division 91, 102 

Foreign exchange division 91,95 

Government exchange division 92, 105 

List of United States official publications 150 

Receipts 93 

Record division 91 

Report by George H. Boehmer 3r>, 91 

Report on Brussels conference 120 

Shipping list 99 

Transmissions 95 

Transportation companies 98 

Spinney, Joseph S., co-operation of 36 

Sponges, catalogue of 84 

Spoon River Valley, Illinois, mounds in 835 

Sociological system of the Zunis 63 

South America, explorations in 26 

W. W. Evans 26 

Lieutenant Very 26 

Southern Exposition at Louisville 174 

St. Petersburg Horticultural Exhibition 45 

Standard time at Uni t ed States National Museum 170 



INDEX. 957 

Page. 
State exhibitions 43 

Statistics of international exchanges 35 

Stearns, Robert E. C, adjunct curator United States National Museum 275 

Acting curator 54 

Coll. ct ions made by 20 

( 'oil • - ions received from 245 253 

Paper by 306 

Stejneger,Dr. Leonhard, collections made by 18,53,184,185,208,252 

Exploration by 17, 18 

Papers prepared by ... . 20,300,307 

Stevenson, James, exploration by 21 

Stewart, T. E., paper by 320 

Stolley, George, collections made by 21 

Collections presented by 22G, 200 

Stone, Mr. Livingston, contributions made by 20 

Stone mounds of Hampshire County, West Virginia 868 

Story, W. H., approval of site for Henry statue by 2 

Strauss & Son, donation from 179 

Supply department, United States National Museum 103, 167 

Survey of boundary between Guatemala and Mexico 26 

Swan, James G., explorations by 19 

Paper by 320 

Swaiu, Joseph 320 

Swain, Joseph, and David S. Jordan, paper by 317 

Swain, Joseph B., and George B. Kalb, paper by 320 

Sweeney, T. M., mounting of specimens 172 



Tables, physical and meteorological 31 

Tanner, Lieut. Commander Z. L., silver medal for 254 

Tarr, R. S., assisted Dr. Rathbun 55 

Paper by 320 

Services of 256 

Taylor, Hon. E. B., expiration of term as Regent xi, 3 

Taylor, W. J. , collections presented by 226 

Mounds in Berrien County, Georgia 853 

Telegraphic astronomical announcements 33, 87 

Telephone connections with United States National Museum 170 

Teller, Hon. Henry M., member ex officio xxxvm 

Temperatures, ocean 42 

Ten ( 'ate, Dr., explorations by 21 

Texas, collections from George Stolley 21 

Thomas, Prof. Cyrus, collection made under direction of 183 

Paper by 320 

Todd, H. L., drawings of fishes 237 

Services of 185,214,239 

Tor icy , Dr. John, collections 55 

Townscnd, Charles H., collections made by 20 

Transfer of Bureau of Ethnology collections 179, 1S3 

Transportation companies 95 

Facilities 43 

Free, granted • - 30 

Liberality of 36 

Sectiou of, methods of 52 



958 INDEX. 



Treasury Department, co-operation of 42 

Trendell, A. J. R., acknowledgment due 84 

Trout, hatching of 82 

True, Frederick W., curator United States National Museum 184, 208, 275 

Librarian United States National Museum 16G, 271 

Papers prepared by 213, 307, 308, 309 

Report of department of mammals 208 

Report on library United States National Museum 271 

Turner, Lucien M. , collections from 12, 16 

Explorations by 12, 16, 42, 43 

Tursiops truncatus 23 

U. 
Unveiling of Henry statue xx 

V. 

Vasey, Dr. , curator 55 

Verrill, Prof. A. E., identification of specimens 257 

Papers by 320,321 

Very, Lieutenant, collections made by 26 

Visitors to Museum 175 

W. 

Waite, Hon. Morrison R., Chancellor of the Institution x, xi 

Member ex officio xxxviii 

Regent x, xxxviii 

Address of, at unveiling of Henry statue xx, xxin 

Walker, S. T., mounds and shell- heaps on the west coast of Florida 854 

Paper by 321 

Walcott, Charles D., honorary curator United States National Museum 261,276 

Papers by 310 

Report on department of fossil invertebrates 261 

Wampanoag Indians, notes on the 878 

War Department, co-operation of 41 

Ward, Lester F., honorary curator United States National Museum .. 55, 188,263,276 

Lecture by 9 

Papers by 310,311,312 

Report on department of fossil plants 263 

Washington relics 42, 53, 177 

Washington Territory, explorations in 19 

Webster, Prof. H. E., collections received from 251 

Weld, George, services of 256 

West Florida, mounds and shell-heaps in 854 

West Virginia, Hampshire County, stone mounds in 868 

Whale fishery, the, and its appliances 84 

Whale, Pigmy sperm 22 

White Cross Line, co-operation of 37 

White, Charles A., honorary curator United States National Museum.. 55, 187,260,276 

Lecture by 9 

Papers by 312 

Report on department of fossil invertebrates 260 

Wiokersham, James, on mounds of Sangamon County, Illinois .... 825 



INDEX. 959 

Page. 

Wilkinson, Ensign E., detail of 40 

Services of 266 

Willsou, D., assistance offered by 41 

Wilson. Hon. W. L., appointed Regent xi, 3 

Regent x,xi,xxxvin 

Wilson & Asiuns, co-operation of 37 

Winn., Lieut. Commander J. K., collections made by 252 

Winslow, Lieut. Francis, detail of 40 

Catalogue of tbe economic molluscoids, &c 84 

Paper by 313 

Services of 186, 244 

Witzel, Ensign H. M., detail of.... 40 

Services of _ 269 

Wood, Reuben, detailed to London Fisheries Exhibit 83 

Wood, Sir Richard, present to Museum 182 

Woods, Fell-, acknowledgment due 84 

Wood's Holl , Mass. , Fish Commission headquarters 82 

Worms, catalogue of 84 

Wright, Peter, & Sons, co-operation of 36 

Y. 

" Yantic," steamer, expedition of 14 

Yarrow, Henry C, honorary curator United States National Museum. .54, 185, 225, 276 

Papers by 313 

Report on department of reptiles 225 

Yeates, William S., acting curator United States National Museum 266 

Aid United States National Museum 188, 276 

In charge of mineral department 55 

Paper by 313 

Report on department of minerals 266 

Yucatan, explorations in 24 

George F. Gaumer 24 

Z. 

Zeledou, Jos6, collection presented by 226 

Explorations by 25 

Ziphius cavirostris 23 

Zoologists, necrology of 750 

Zoology, bibliography of 738 

Division of, United States National Museum 164, 184 

Department of birds 164, 185, 220 

Fishes 164,185,228 

Insects 164,186,231) 

Invertebrate fossils 164, 187, 260, 261 

Mammals 164,183,198 

Marine Invertebrates 164, 186, 250 

Mollusks 164,186,244 

Reptiles, &c 164,185,225 

Report on, by Prof. Theodore Gill 699 

Zufii, explorations at 61 

Zuflis, sociological system o f the 63 

o 



r 



$ 



