^LMlJ.l. 



^^ 51 ', >, \^^ 


















imm 









^m 



cl>>^>i 



I):?) jTMS^'^pC)'^ 



ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THK 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIA^T mSTITUTION, 



SHOWING 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



FOR 



THE YE^R 1884. 



PART II 



WASHIXGTOis^: 

GOVERNMENT FEINTING OFFICE. 

1885. 



The Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution for the year 1884 consists of two parts, viz : 

Part I. — Report of the Smithsonian Institution proper, showing its 
operations, expenditures, and condition. 

Part II. — Report of the United States National Museum, showing 
its progress and condition. 



REPORT 



UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 



I UNDER THK DIRECTION OF 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE YE^R 1884. 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 
FOR THE YEAR 1884. 



SUBJECTS. 

Part I. — Report of the Assistant Director, upon the condition and 
progress of the Museum in 1884.' 
II. — Reports of the Curators and Acting Curators of the several 

departments of the Museum. 
III. — Papers based upon the collections in the National Museum. 
IV. — Bibliography of the National Museum for 1884. 
y. — List of accessions to the collections. 



United States National Museum, 

Washington, January, 1885. 
Sir : I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present 
condition of the U. S. National Museum and upon the work accomplished 
in its various departments during the year 1884. 
Yery respectfully. 

G. BEOWN GOODE, 

Assistant Director. 
Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and 

Director of the U. S. National Museum. 

V 



CONTENTS 



Page. 

Subjects IV 

Iktroductory letter V 

Table of contents MI 

Part I. — Report of the Assistant Director. 

A. — General consideratious 3 

1. Introductory remarks '^ 

2. The foundation and scope of the National Museum ;"> 

3. The functions and aims of the Museum 7 

4. The development of the Museum idea d 

5. Principles of arrangement of collections for public exhibition 11 

6. Systems of classification 14 

B. — The Museum Staff 1.') 

7. The scientitic staff 10 

8. The administrative staff Id 

C. — The condition of the collections 20 

9. A provisional census of the collections 20 

10. Assignment of space 20 

D. — Review of the administrative work of the year 22 

11. Accessions to the Museum 22 

12. Progress in classification and arrangement 23 

(a) Laboratory work and catalogue entries 23 

(6) Development of the exhibition and study series 24 

(c) Construction of cases 25 

(d) Preparation of labels 28 

13. Progress of general and incidental work 21) 

(o) Library 29 

(&) Distribution of duplicates and exchanges 30 

(c) Publications 31 

(d) Visitors 32 

(e) Students and lectures 33 

(/) Meetings of societies 34 

14. Current administrative work 35 

(a) Buildings and labor, police and public comfort 35 

(6) Electric service 3(j 

(c) Property and supplies 37 

(rf) Accounts 37 

(e) Chemical analysis of the air in the lecture hall of the Na- 
tional Museum :id 

1."). The work of the Museum preparators 41 

(o) Taxidermists 41 

(6) Osteologlcal preparator 4.j 

( c) Modelers 4.'> 

(d) Photographer 4<i 

(e) Artist 47 

(/) Preparators in the Division of Anthropology 47 

vu 



VIU CONTENTS. 

Page. 
D. — A review of the administrative work of the year — Coutinued. 

16. Work in connection with the expositions 47 

(a) The Cincinnati, Louisville, and New Orleans Expositions. . 47 

(&) Closing the work of the London Fisheries Exhibition 52 

E. — Review of the year's work in the Scientiiic Departments 53 

17. Division of Anthropology 53 

(a) Arts and industries 53 

(6) Ethnology 56 

(c) American prehistoric pottery 58 

(d) Antiquities 58 

18. Division of Zoology 59 

(a) Mammals 59 

(6) Birds 59 

(c) Eeptiles and batrachians 60 

{d) Fishes 61 

(e) Comparative anatomy 62 

(/) Mollusks 62 

(g) Insects 63 

(A) Marine invertebrates 63 

(i) Invertebrate fossils (Paleozoic) 64 

(Jc) Invertebrate fossils (Meso-Cenozoic) 64 

19. Division of Botany 65 

(a) Plants — fossil and recent 65 

20. Division of Geology — 65 

(a) Mineralogy 65 

( &) Lithology and physical geology 66 

(c) Metallurgy and economic geology 67 

21. Miscellaneous Departments 67 

(a) Exploration and field work 67 

(b) Chemistry 72 

(c) Experimental physiology 72 

(d) Vivaria 72 

Part II. — Eeports of the Curators and Acting Curators. 

Section of Materia Medica. By Dr. H. G. Beyer, U. S. N 75 

Section of Textile Industries. By Romyn Hitchcock 79 

Section of Naval Architecture. By J. W. Collins 85 

Section of Foods. By Romyn Hitchcock 107 

Department of Ethnology. By Dr. O. T. Mason 109 

Section of American Aboriginal Pottery. By William H. Holmes 121 

Department of Antiquities. By Dr. Charles Rau 123 

Department of Mammals. By Frederick W. True 129 

Department of Birds. By Robert Ridgway 143 

Department of Reptiles and Batrachians. By Dr. H. C. Yarrow 157 

Department of Fishes. By Dr. Tarleton H. Bean (including also report upon 

Ichthyological Explorations made in behalf of the Museum by Dr. D. S. 

Jordan) 161 

Department of Mollusks. By William H. Dall 179 

Department of Insects. By Dr. C. V. Riley 185 

Department of Marine Invertebrates. By Richard Rathbun 189 

Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Paleozoic). By C. D. Walcott 203 

Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Meso-Cenozoic). By Dr. C. A. White 215 

Department of Fossil Plants. By Lester F. Ward 219 

Department of Mineralogy. By Prof. F. W. Clarke 221 



CONTENTS. IX 

Page. 

Department of Lithology and Physical Geology. By George P. Merrill 227 

Dt-p.irriiiont of Metallurgy and Economic Greology. By Fred. P. Dewey 239 

PaUT hi. — PaPK1!8 HAt^KU «)X t Ol.l.lXl 10X6 l.N UIK NaIIUNAL MUSEUM. 

1. — Throwing- sticks in the National Museum. By Otis T. Mason 279 

II.— Basket-work of the North American Aborigines. By Otis T. Mason 291 

III. — A study of the Eskimo Bows in the U. S. National Museum. By John 

Murrloeh 307 

IV. — On a Spotted Dolphin, apparently identical with the Prodelphinua doria 

of Gray. By Frederick W. True 317 

v.— The Florida Muskrat, Niofiber Alleni, True. By Frederick W. True 325 

VI. — On the West Indian Seal, Monuchus tropicalis, Gray. By Frederick W. 

True and F. A. Lucas 33) 

Pakt IV.— Bibliography of the U. S. National Museum for 1884. 

Part I. Publications of the Museum 339 

Part II. Pai>ers by officers of the Museum 34.5 

Part III. Papers by investigators not officers of the Museum, based on Museum 

material 371 

Part V. 

List of .\ccessioxs to the Museum in 18S4 385 



P^RT I. 



REPORT UPON THE CONDITION AND PROCRESS OF THE UNiTED 
STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM IN 1884. 



Q. BROWN GOODE, Assistant Dtrectok. 



S. Mis. 3.'., pt. 2 1 



REPORT DFON THE CONDITION AND PROCRESS OF THE UNITED 
STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM IN 18S4. 



A.— GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 
1. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 

During the year tlic ollicors of Iho iNIusoum have ooiitiiiiKMl tlie work 
of arraiifjinp: tlio material under their charge in the cxliibition lialls, 
laboratories, and store rooms at their disposal. 

It should be remembered that the reorganization of the Museum was 
begun late in 18S1, at the time when the new Museum building was first 
made ready for oeeupation, and that 1884 is but the third year of sys- 
tematic effort. ^luch progress has been made in removing from the 
exhibition halls the great nmss of unclassified material which had been 
gathering for many years in the various store-rooms of the Smithsonian 
building and elsewhere, and which, on account of lack of space, had for 
the most part been allowed to remain in the original packing eases. 

The tloors of the Museum have at last been almost cleared, and at 
present only three of the seventeen exhibition rooms are occupied for 
storage purposes, viz: The southwest court, which is still full of speci- 
mens belonging to the departments of metallurgy, mineralogy, and 
lithology ; and the southeast court, which is used as a gtMieral recei)ta- 
cle for empty cases and unmounted material belonging to the depart- 
ments of zoology and anthropology. Before the (Mid of February this 
work will be completed. 

The additions to the Museum have been far more numerous and val- 
uable than in any previous year. The activity of every department 
has been greater, both in respect to ))rogress made in the administration 
of the collections and in respect to the number of scientilic ])apers ])ub- 
lished by the officers in connection with their professional studies upon 
the specimens under their charge. 

By direction of Congress the Smithsonian Institution, in connection 
with tlie Executive Departments of the Government and the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, has participated during the year in the in<lustrial 
ex])Ositions at Cincinnati, Louisville, and New Orleans. 

Having been designated by yourself, and ap]>ointed by the President, 
re])resen1ativ<' of the Smith.*^oiiian Institution (including I he. National 
Musiium and Fish Comini.ssion) on the Government I'jxecutive Hoard, 

3 



4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MTTSEITM, 188'J. 

charged with the representation of tlic interests of the General Govern- 
ment at these expositions, I have devoted the greater portion of ray 
time during the latter half of the year to the work of preparation, an 
account of which will be given in fuller detail hereafter. Nearly every 
department of the Museum has necessarily been called U]ion to assist in 
this work, and a large proportion of the activity of the force has con- 
sequently' been diverted to this channel. Although the progress of 
regular work has thereby suffered much interruption and delay, it is 
lioped that the service will eventually be benetited and final organiza- 
tion accelerated rather than impeded. At the present time the exposi- 
tion at New Orleans is in progress, and the collections sent thither by 
the Museum cover a sj^ace fully equal to one-third of the entire exhibi- 
tion space in the Museum building in Washington. 

In accordance with established custom, the exhibition work has been 
carried on entirely under the direction of the regular Museum oflicers, 
assisted by such additional workers as it was found j^racticable to en- 
gage temporarily. Many of our officers accompanied the collections to 
su])erintend their installation in the exposition building. Several of the 
curators are at present absent in New Orleans and will be obliged 
to return to that city at the close of the exhibition, in May, to attend to 
the packing and return of the collections. 

Following established usage, I have reviewed the work of the several 
scientific departments of the Museum, as well as that of the division of 
administration. The reports of the curators of the several departments 
are presented in full, their extent and importance being so great as to 
render this necessary. In my own report I have included an account of 
the operations of the department of arts and industry, for the present 
assigned to my care, in preference to preparing a special curator's report 
upon this department : the reports of certain of the curators of " sec- 
tions" of this department are, however, furnished with the others. 

In the present report, as in those which have preceded it, certain 
suggestions relating to the administration of the Museum are made for 
which I desire to be held individually responsible, and which the reader 
should not assume to be definitely determined elements of the policy 
of the Museum, since they may, any or all of them, at some future ti»)e, 
either in their present forms or with modifications, be recommended for 
adoption, or pronounced undesirable. 

This being the first of the separately printed series of Museum reports, 
some statements which have already been printed in previous reports are 
roi.>e;ited, in an abridged form, for the purpose of presenting a general 
exhibit of the policy of the Museum. 

It had been the desire of myself and my associates to present in this the 
first report of the new series a somewhat exhaustive statement of the 
])reseiit condition of the Museum, together with a review of its past 
history as a whole ajid of its sevoml departuieiits: the exigencies of 
Exposition work having nmde this ini])ossible, w«^. hoj^e to pre|>are such 
a report for Wio coming ye:ir. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 5 

2. THE FOUNDATION AND SCOPE OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Foundation and legal atatns. — The National Museum was organized in 
184G by tlie act of Couj^ress transferrinj;- to the Smithsonian Institution 
the custody of the "National Cabinet of Curiosities," at that time de- 
l)osited in the Patent Office building:.* These collections were, in 1857, 
l>laced in the -Smithsonian building, the Regents of the Institution hav- 
ing accepted the trust on condition that the necessary appropriations 
for their maintenance should be continued by Congress. 

The act above referred to provides that "all objects of art and of 
foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, i)lants, 
and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging or hereafter to 
belong to the United States, which may be in the city of Washington," 
shall be delivered to the Eegents of the Smithsoniuu Institution, and 
together with new specimens obtained by exchange, donation, or other- 
wise, shall be so arranged and classified as best to facilitate their 
examination and study.! 

The National Museum is the authorized place of deposit for all objects 
of natural history, mineralogy, geology, archaeology, ethnology, &c., 
belonging to the United States or collected by the Coast and Interior 
Survey, the Geological Survey, or by any other parties for the Govern- 
ment of the United States, when no longer needed for investigations in 
progress.:!: 

Organization and government. — The establishment of the Smithsonian 
Institution, to which, in addition to the carrying out of the other re- 
quirements of the bequest of Smithson, is intrusted the control of the 
National Museum, is composed of the President of the United States 
and his Cabinet, the Commissioner of Patents, and a Board of Regents, 
which has for its members the Vice-President and Chief Justice of the 
Dnited States, three members of the Senate, three members of the 
House of Representatives, and six other persons, not members of Con- 
gress, two of whom are residents of the city of Washington.§ 

The management of the National Museum is intrusted to the Secre- 
tary of the Smithsonian Institution, who is, ex officio, its director. He 
is aided by a staff of assistants, who are chosen by him, and for whose 
action he is responsible to the Eegents. The constitution of the staff is 
constantly changing with the varying needs of the IMuseum. 

This staff is at the present time composed of an assistant director, 
six curators' and five assistant curators, twelve honorary curators, serv- 
ing without pay, a number of aids, acting in various capacities, a reg- 

• An AcTto establish the "Sraithsouian Institution" for the increase and difl'usiou 
of nsofal knowledge among men. (Approved Angnst 10, 184fi; Revised Statutes, 
title Ixxiii, sections r)r>~0-ur>d-\.) 

t Revised Statutes, section rir)6(). 

t Statutes Forty-tifth Congress, tliird session, chap. IH'2, p. ;W4. 

$ Revised Statutes, 5580, 



6 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, ISbl. 

istrar, chief tiixidern list and cliief modeler, besidew a considerable force 
of ])rei)arator8, ineclianic«, watcbiuan, clerks, laborers, «&c. 

Tbe collections are stored and exbibited in tlie building erected lor 
the use of tlie Sniitlisoniau Institution between 1847 and 1857, an<l in 
the new buildiug, just finished, known as the " National Museum." 

Composition of the collections. — The Museum is made up, iu large part, 
of the following materials: 

1. The uatural -history and anthropological collections accumulated 
since 1850 by the eflbrts of the officers and correspondents of the Smith- 
sonian' Institution. 

2. The collections of the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, the Perry 
Ex^iedition to Japau, aud other naval expeditious. 

3. The collections of the scientific officers of the Pacific Itailroad 
Survey, the Mexicau Boundary Survey, aud of the surveys canied on 
by the Engineer Corjxs of the Army. 

4. The collections of the United States Geological Surveys under the 
direction of the United States Geologists Hayden, King, and Powell. 

5. The collections of the United States Fish Commission. 

G. The gifts by foreign Gov^ernmeuts to the Museum or to the Presi- 
dent and other public officers of the United States, who are forbidden 
by law to receive them personally. 

7. The collections made by the United States to illustrate the animal 
and mineral resources, the fisheries, aud the ethnology of the native 
races of the country, on the occasion of the International Exhibition at 
Philadelphia in 187G, and the fishery collections displayed by the United 
States iu the International Fisheries Exhibition at Berlin in 1880 aud 
at Loudon in 1883. 

8. The collections given by the Governments of the several foreign 
nations, thirty in number, which participated in the exhibition at Phil- 
adelphia. 

9. The industrial collections given hy numerous manufacturing aud 
commercial houses of Europe and America, at the time of the Philadel- 
phia Exhibition and subsequently. 

10. The material received, in exchange for duplicate sijeoimens, from 
the museums of Europe, Asia, and Australasia, and from numerous in- 
stitutions and collectors in North and South America. 

Adjuncts to administration. — All necessary adjuncts to the work of 
the Museum, a working library, a chemical laboratory, a photographic 
establishment, a workshop for taxidermy, modeling, and the prepara- 
tion of skeletons, aud several smaller workshops are carried on as a part 
of the general work of administration. 

Publications of the Museum. — The scientific results of the labors of the 
officers of the Museum, and of investigations upon the collections be- 
longing to it, are to be fouiul for the most part in the following works; 

liulletin of the United States National Museum ; 

Proceedings of the United States National Museum ; 



KEFOKT Ol'" ASSISTANT DIKECTOK. 7 

Kepuitsi*!' (he Siiiitlisoiiiau Institution; 

8niitlis(»iiiaii Miscellanouus CoUeclions; 

ISiiiilhsi>uian Coiitiiliutiuiis to Kuowletlj^e; 

lvei)orts of the Uiiieuu of Ethnology of the !Sniith«onian Institution ; 

liepurts of the United States Coumiissioner of I'^isheiies; 

Bulletin of the United States Fish Coniniis.sion; 
also occasionally in other sci(?ntilic iei)Oits of other scientilic depart- 
ments of the Government, especially those of the United States Geo- 
logical Surve.;\-, mau;s of whose oflicers are also honorary ollicials of the 
Museum. 

A catalogue of the scientilic i)apers emanating each year from the 
jNluseum or based ui)on Museum interests has been published each year 

siuce 1881 in the Smithsonian Keport. 

« 

3. THE FUNCTION AND AIMS OF THE MUSEUM. 

Objccta and methods of work. — The collections in the National Museum 
are intended to exhibit the mitural and industrial resources, primarily 
of the United States, and secondarily of those of the remainder of the 
.world, for i)urposes of comparison. 

The activity of the Museum is exerted in three directions: 

(a) The pernninent preservation of objects already in its i^ossessiou. 

(b) The acquisition of new material. 

(c) The utilization of material already in its possession, by its exhibi- 
tion in the most instructive manner, and by the prosecution of and pub- 
lication of scientilic researches for which it forms the basis; by the dis- 
tribution of properly-labeled duplicates of materials to colleges and 
other educational institutions. 

Theprcservatiou of material is accomplished by means of the vigilance 
of the curators and the skill of the prcjjarators. 

New material is acquired (a), from the various Government surveys 
and cxijcditions, in accordance with law; {b) by gift from individuals, 
Irom other institutions, and from loreign governments ; (c) by exchange 
for its duplicate specimens or publications; (d) by the ettbrts of officers 
of the Museum, who make collections in connection with their regular 
duties, or are detailed lor si)ecial service of this nature ; (e) by purchase 
when appropriations are made by Congress for that purpose. 

The treasures in the custody of the Museum are utilized to the world 
by exhibiting them to tlie public, and by encouraging investigations on 
the part of the oUicers of the Museum and other suitabhi persons, and 
lacilitatiug the publication of the results; also by tlie distribution to 
oilier musenms and educational institutions of dni)licate specimens, 
\vlii(;]i have formed the basis of scientilic investigation, these being 
identilied and labeled by the best authorities. 

The Museum by these means fullills a threefold function : 

1. It is a mus<'um of lecoid, in wiiich arc preservetl the material foun- 
dations of a very great number of scientilic memoirs — the tyi>es of 



8 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

numerous past iuvestigations. This is especially the case with those 
materials whidi have served as a fouudation lor the numerous govern- 
mental reports u])ou the resources of the United States. Types of in- 
vestigations made outside of the Museum are also incorporated. 

2. It is a nmseum of research, by reason of the policy which aims to 
make its contents serve as fully as possible as a stimulus to and a foun- 
dation for the studies of scientific investigators. Eesearch is a neces- 
sary part of the work, in order that the collections may be properly 
identified and arranged. Its officers are selected for their capacity as 
investigators, as well as for their ability as custodians, and its treasures 
are open to the use of any trustworthy student. 

3. It is an educational museum of the broadest type, by reason of its 
policy of illustrating by specimens every group of natural objects and, 
so far as it may prove practicable, such other colltfctions as may be 
found useful for the instruction of the public which are explained by 
displaying descriptive labels adapted to the popular miiid, and by its 
policy of distributing its publications and its named series of duplicates. 

4. THE DEVELOPMENT OF TH'E MUSEUM IDEA. 

Periods in the history of the Museum.— The history of the National Mu- 
seum may be divided into three periods : First, that from the foundation 
of the Smithsonian Institution to 1857, during which time specimens 
were collected purely and solely to serve as materials for research, no 
special efforts being made to exhibit them to the public or to utilize 
them except as a foundation for scientific description and theory. Sec- 
ond, the period from 1857, when the Institution assumed the custody of 
the "National Cabinet of Curiosities," to 1876. During this period the 
INIuseum became a place of deposit for scientific material which had 
already been studied, this material, so far as convenient, being exhib- 
ited to the public, and, so far as practicable, made to serve an educa- 
tional purpose. Third, the present period, beginning in the year 1876, 
iu which interval the Museum has entered more fully into the addi- 
tional task of gathering collections and exhibiting them on account of 
their value from an educational standpoint. 

In the first period, the main object of the Museum was scientific re- 
search; iu the second, the establishment became a museum of record 
as well as of research; while in the third i)eriod is growing up the 
idea of public education. As soon as a judiciously selected series of 
objects from the material already within the walls of the Museum can 
be displayed proi)erly to the Museum visitors, the National Museum of 
the United States will have commenced to fulfill all the demands which 
are likely ever to be made ujion it. 

The three ideas of scientific research, record, and education, co-opera- 
tive and mutually heli)ful as they are, are essential to the development 
of any comprehensi^■e and philosophically organized museum. Materials 
are gathered together that they may serve as a basis for scientific 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 9 

(houjiiit.. Objects which have served us a fomulation tV»r scientific 
study, or which, from their historical sigiiilicance, are treasured up aud 
l)reserved from destruction that they may serve purposes of record — 
|)eruianeut hiud-marks of the progress of the worUl in tliought, in cul- 
ture, or iu industrial achievemeut — they are not only records of what 
has been done iu the past, but they constitute the most valuable of all 
matei'ials tor future >study. The museum of record, then, is not only an 
accessory to the museum of research, but au adjunct which accom- 
l>Iishes similar and fully equal results in the same direction. 

The contents of the nmseum of research and the nuiseum of rec(W(l, 
if no other objects be sought save those abeady mentioned, might with- 
out impropriety be stored away in vaults aud cabinets, inaccessible to 
any except the specialist. To give them their highest value, however, 
they should l>e arranged iu such a manner tiiat hundreds of thousands 
of people shouhl i)rotit by their examiuatiou instead of a very lin)ited 
number, aud that they should altbrd a means of culture and instruction 
to every i)erson, young or old, who may have oi)portunity to visit the 
place in which they are preserved. 

It is much to be regretted that mauy specialists, intent chietly uj)on 
the study of certain scientific problems in which they individually arc 
absorbed, are disposed to neglect the claims of the educated public 
to the enjoymeut aud instruction which museums affonl. They do not 
hesitate to say that scientific museums should be administered for the 
benefit solely of persons engaged in research. At a recent meeting of 
professional naturalists, an eminent investigator in Jiatural science pub- 
licly expressed his opposition to exhibiting certain scientific collections 
to "the gaping clowns who form the njajorit.y of the visitors to our 
museums.'' JSuch a spirit defeats its own purposes, and such a renuirk 
deserves no answer. The experience of Europe with its magnificent 
educational museums and the history of the several expositions in the 
Uniteil States shouhl be quite suflicient to satisfy any one wlio has 
studied the matter that the museum is au educational power even more 
influential than the public library. 

The venerable director of the South Kensington Museum, speaking 
from an experk'uce of tiiirty-tive years, not only iu his own establish- 
ment, but iu the work of building up the score of sister uiuseums, now 
under its wing, located in the various provincial towns of Great liritain, 
remarked to the writer: "We educate our working j»eople in the jaib- 
lic schools, give them a hjve for redned and beautiful objects, ami 
stimulate in them a desire for information. They leave school, go into 
the pursuits of town life, and have no means provided for the gratifica- 
tion of the tastes which they have been forced to ac-tpiire. It is as 
much the duty of the governuu'nt to provide them willi museums and 
libraries for their higher education as it is to establish schools ftu- their 
primary instruction." 



10 KEi'OKT OF MATIOJS'AL MU8EUM, 18t>-l. 

The educational musciuu is 01' comx)arati\ ely recent origin, and may 
be «aid to be one of the outgrowtlis of the modern indiiistrial ex])©- 
«ition. Tlie World's Fair of London in 1851, the first of a long series 
of international exhibitions, was utilized by the Government of Great 
Britain as a startiiigpoint for a number of national educational mu- 
seums, the most perfect wliicli have as yet been organized, and many 
subsequent World's Fairs have been taken advantage of in a similar 
manner, so that nearly every civilized country now lias a system of 
public museums. 

One of the results of the Philadelphia Exhibition of 1870 was that 
it made jjlain to the people of the United States the educational 
importance of great museums. It suggested the thought that if so 
much that is inspiring and instructive can be imparted by the exhibi- 
tion of natural and manufactured objects gathered together, chiefly 
with commercial ends in view on the part of the exhibitors, neces- 
sarily somewhat unsystematically arranged and with little eftbrt to- 
ward labeling in an instructive manner, an immense iield is open for 
educating the public by gathering together a selected series of sim- 
ilar objects, wliich may be so classified and explained by means of 
labels and guide-Looks that they shall imjjart a consistent and sys- 
tematic idea of the resources of the world and of human achieve- 
ment. 

The United States has as yet no system of educational museums, al- 
tliough there are several museums of limited scope, which have success- 
fully carried out the educational idea in the arrangement of their ma- 
terials; for instance, the American Museum of Natural llistory in New 
York, the Museum of Comparative Zoology in Cambridge, the Museum 
of the Peabody Academy of Sciences in Salem, the Philadelphia 
Academy of Natural Sciences, the Boston Museum of Art, the Metro- 
politan Museum of Art in New York, the Pennsylvania Museum of In- 
dustrial Art, the Peabody Museum of Archaeology in Cambridge, the 
Peabody Museum of Yale College, and the Boston Society of Natural 
llistory. 

The same remark applies with equal force to the nmseums of Eu- 
rope. There are, however, institutions, like the Museum of Practical 
Geology, the museum of the Iloyal College of Surgeons, the museums 
at Bcthual Green and South Kensington, in London, the Museum of 
Industrial Art at Berlin, the Ethnological Museum at Leipsic, the 
National Miiseum of Germany at Nuremburg, the Bavarian National 
Museuni at Munich, and others, which have admirably carried out a 
single idea, or a limited number of ideas, and which are marvelously 
rich in material and arranged in a manner full of suggest iveness. 

The museum now under the charge of tlio Smith.sonian Institution 
has, through the action of influences beyond the control of its manage- 
ment, in fact by the terms of the act of Congress which authorizes its 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIKECTOR. 11 

c'xi.slciKX', bccii iiuuie the (lcpoi>itory of collect iou.s in c\cry ilcpurt- 
iiu'iit — j;cok)j;ical, botanical, zoolojj^ical, and antlu(>i)o[o;;ical — and its 
work lias of noccssit-y been oiganizeil ujion a very coniiuohensivc plan. 

0. PKINCirLES OF ARRANGEMENT OF COLLECTIONS DESIGNED FOR 

PUBLIC EXHIBITION. 

The majority of visitors to any museum go thither for amusement, or 
actuated by praiseworthy curiosity. Many hav(i no desire to gain in- 
struction, and even if actuated by such a purpose, would fail to accom- 
plish their object by a visit to an ordinary museum. This is due in 
part to the fact that where so much duplicate material is exldbited the 
really instructive objects are lost to view; that the objects in but lew 
museums are labeled in a really instructive manner ; but is principally 
because the objects exhibited are not of the kind best adapted to the 
needs of the museum-visitiuj;- i)ublic. The visitors carry away only gen- 
ei'al im])ressions of roo4ns full of glass cases containing animals, min- 
erals, and " curiosities," gathered by travelers among nncivilized races. 
Professor Huxley has defined a museum as " a consultative library of 
objects," and this definition, true enough in itself as a description of 
the best ideal museums, is unfortunately too true a descriiJtion of all. 
Most collections are as useless and little instructive to great masses of 
our people, who know not how to use them, as are our libraries of 
consultation. The museum of research, since it is intended chiefly for 
investigators, should be the consultative library'. The educational mu- 
seum should resemble a great encyclopedia rather than a library full of 
learned volumes. Every library of importance, however, contains the 
cyclopedias for the general reader and the monographs for the scholar. 
The larger public nniseums may in like manner be adapted to the needs 
of both student and general visitor. 

To overcome the difficulties in the way of this adaptation many stepis 
must be taken which are not usual in museums. By far the most im 
l)ortant of these is in the direction of thorough labeling. 

An efficient educational museum, from one point of view, may be 
described as a collection of instructive labels, each illustrated by a well- 
selected si)ecimen. 

Tliere are many obstacles to the ellort to build up a museum upon 
this basis. Museums which exhibit only such objects as arc in them- 
selves beautiful or marvelous cannot fail to be attracti\c, no matter 
how ])oorly the objects are ananged and labeled. 

When, however, the objects depend lor their interest u])un the expla 
luitions on the labels, and upon the manner in which they are placed, 
relatively to each other, a responsibility a hundredfold greater is en- 
tailed upon the curators. The materials of su(;Ii a museum may be com- 
pared to piles of brick, stone, lumbcT, and architectural ornaments, 
Mhich by themselves possess little apparent interest, but which may by 
thought and labor be combined into an imposing and useful edifice. 



12 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Principles of administration. — Certain cardinal principles may be 
announced wliicli sLould be considered in the arrangement of every 
public museum: (1) every article exhibited should illustrate an idea, 
and no two objects should be shown which illustrate the same idea in a 
similar manner ; (II) the idea which any object is intended to illustratii 
should be exx^lained ui)on its label in such a manner that any intelli 
gent visitor, without previous special knowledge of the subject, may 
be able to learn {a) why the object is shown, and {h) what lesson it is 
intended to teach; (III) the objects should be so carefully classified 
that their relations to each other may be recognized by the visitor, so 
that taken together, they shall suggest general conclusions; in the 
formation of these conclusions he should be aided by certain general 
or collective labels which relate to and describe groups of objects 
in a manner similar to that in which the individual labels describe 
separate articles ; (IV) the labels, individual and collective, should be 
supplemented by guide-books and manuals for special departments, 
which shall contain, arranged systematicallj^, all the information given 
upon the labels, and which shall be illustrated by engravings of the 
more important objects.* 

Industrial museums, as a rule, exhibit only those articles which are 
designed and constructed in the most sumptuous manner — the armor of 

* The following general rules have heen formulated : 

1. No object will be placed on exhibition which is not of evident educational value, 
and likely to interest and instruct a considerable percentage of the persons visiting 
the Museum. 

2. The exhibition of duplicate material is to be avoided, except in instances where 
siuular objects can be shown to advantage in diflferent divisions of the Museum. 

3. Each object will be placed in a case of the form best suited for its effective dis- 
play, and the light, color of the background, &c., will be so adjusted as to show 
it to best possible advantage, and with the least possible fatigue to the eyes of the 
visitor. 

4. Each object, or group of objects, will be accompanied by a large plainly printed 
label, which will give a concise description of what is shown, an account of its origin 
and uses, a synopsis of its history, and the name of the person or organization con- 
tributing it to the Museum. The character of the Museum is such that any labels 
which might suggest advertising for business purposes must be excluded. It will 
be the policy of the Museum, however, to give prominence on each label to the name 
of the person or business house from whom it has been received, provided that the 
object is a gift to the Museum. 

.5. The objects will bo grouped together in systematic order, and each case will be 
provided with a general descriptive label. In the case of collective exhibits, the gen- 
eral label may also give the name of the coutributor. 

G. The specimens will be illustrated and supplemented by pictures, diagrams, books, 
and maps, in such manner that the Museum may form an encyclopedia, the illustra- 
tions for which are in the exhibition cases, the text in the labels. 

7. Guide-book manuals of the different de])artment8 will bo published, which will 
embody in concise and systematic form the information given by the specimen labels, 
together with such illustrative material as may seem necessary to present in addi- 
tion. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 13 

kinjis and kiii^bts, tlio furniture of palaces, the most artistic of metal 
work, sfone work, antl wood work. The ethnolojii<'al nmsennis, on the 
other liand, admit only the imi)lements and coytnmes of savage and 
partially civilized races. Between the two there is a great chasm to 
lie filled. It is as important to preserve in museums the more humble 
iiiid simple objects which illustrate the domestic economy and customs 
of the masses of the people of civilized nations, as to search for similar 
objects in distant lands, or to treasure up only the objects which, on 
account of their cost, are seen and used only by the most wealthy and 
luxurious classes in the civilized community. 

Collections of this character are, perhaps, as well entitled to be called 
" anthroi)ological collections" as those usually included under this 
name, which are intentionally more limited in their scoi)e. 

To sujiply the place of objects too large to be placed in a museum, too 
evanescent to have been preserved, or which, on account of their rarity 
or neglect in preserving them at the time when they could have been 
obtained, are necessaril}" lacking in the collections, it is essential that 
museums should assume the administration of great quantities of mate- 
rial such as is usually consigned to the library or to the picture-gallery. 
Otherwise, deficiencies in groups of objects, which should illustrate by 
their collective meaning a general idea, will much impair their value. 
Pictures and diagrams should be freely used as temporary or permanent 
substitutes for specimens which may be lacking, and also to supi^le- 
ment and explain the descriptive labels. In many sections it ma.V be 
ira])ossible to exhibit anything but pictures. It is needless to point out 
the ditfereuce in the influence of a series of plates, like those, for in- 
stance, in Audsley and Bowes "Keramic Art in Japan," the i)ublica- 
tions of the Arundel Society, the autotypes of Brauu, or the illustrations 
of many ethnographic works, if displayed in a public museum, where 
they are seen daily by thousands of visitors, or hidden except from the 
initiated few in a library, where they are only i^ractically accessil)le to 
students with abundance of time and training in the use of books. 

Much of the material usually shown in art galleries and art museums, 
such as is ordinarily used to illustrate the history of art, or is preserved 
on account of its artistic suggestions, may be displayed in a much more 
instructive manner in a museum without in the least lessening its value 
to the artist or designer. Portraits, pictures of buildings, of costumes, 
of geological features in scenery, of ceremonies, and of social customs 
may be arranged and administered as anthropological s])ecimens. In 
addition, much may be accom])lished by having standard works, re- 
lating to the special de])artments of the museum, i)lared in convenient 
places in the exhibition halls, and, if necessary, fastcmed to desks in 
such a manner that they c(tuld not be removed, whih^ easily accessible 
to any person who might wish to become informed upon sjiecial topics 
ri'lating to objects Ix-ing exainiiu'd. 



14 REPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

G. SYSTEMS OF CLASSIFICATION. 

The chief requisite to success in the development of any ranseuni is 
a thoroughly available plan of organization and a philosophical system 
of classification. 

The arrangement of the natural -history collections — zook)gical, botan- 
ical, and geological — which will doubtless always constitute a very 
large proportion of the treasures of the National Museum, and which 
will undoubtedly in the future, as at the present, occupy the atten- 
tion of at least three-fourths, if not more, of the Museum staff, is a 
simple matter, since naturalists are pretty generally in accord as to the 
affinities of different groups to one another, and since the grouping of 
the objecits in the Museum cases may be made to accord very closely 
with the schemes laid down by systematists. When, however, it is 
necessary to take up the arrangement of collections which illustrate the 
history of human culture, the lack of a convenient and instructive sys- 
tem becomes very apiiarent. 

Much thought has been devoted to these subjects by the officers of 
the Museum, especially during the past four years. Many of the prin- 
cipal museums of Europe-have been studied, their catalogues and pub- 
lications minutely compared, and correspondence carried on with their 
officers. It is hoped that the plans which have been developed as the 
result of these labors may include the best features of similar plans 
hitherto proposed, but it is undoubtedly true that no plans can be laid 
down, except in a tentative way, since the experience of each year re- 
veals possibilities and impossibilities not previously thought of by the 
student of museum methods. 

In my iirst report, published in 1881, I printed a scheme of classifi- 
cation for the anthropological collections which, in certain quarters, did 
not meet with favor. It was a purely tentative effort, published for the 
purpose of inviting criticism, and not in any way supported by official 
sanction. Some of the criticisms which it called forth were evidently 
just and will have due weight in planning for future work. The scheme 
referred to has been objected to by museum administrators because 
it breaks up their favorite and time-honored method of geograph- 
ical arrangement. It is the result of the experience of the offi<;ers of 
this Museum that it is absolutely impossible to handle our immense 
collections if we adhere to the methods of older and smaller establish- 
ments. It is well known that some ethnological collections should be 
arranged geogTaphically, some teleologically, some with reference to 
materials of which the objects are made. 

In this Museum in different departments of the work we shall doubt- 
less find it convenient to employ all these systems. 

Our collections are at present being arranged in accordance with a 
teleological rather than geographical ])liin of classification, objects of a 
similar nature being placed shle by side, musical instruments tog(!ther, 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DTRKCTOR. 15 

weapons togctlier, &c., and arranged in such a manner as to show (lio 
l>rofiros8 of each idea from the most ]>riniitive typo. In disenidinj;- tlie 
ethnographic- method of arrangement, however, special care has been 
taken not to sacrifice the possibility of bringing together the objects 
lielonging to any particular locality or race, if this shall at any time 
be required for purposes of study. 

In our method of installation, objects are mounted in glass-covered 
trays or deep frames, 24 by 30 inches in dimension, which are arranged 
lor study or exhibition In cases of various forma. The articles belong- 
ing to two different tribes are never mounted together in the same tray; 
and if at any time it should be found desirable to bring together the 
collections from any given race, for instance, from the Eskimos, the 
Siamese, or the Japanese, this might be accomplished in a few hours ; 
in fact, when once the present system of mounting has been completed, 
the rearrangement of the Museum upon the ordinary ethnographic plan 
would be the work of only a few hours, and may be effected by a small 
force of mechanics and laborers under the direction of a single curator. 

It is no part of the plan, nor has it ever been, to separate articles 
which belong together. The parts of any collection or group of objects 
which may justly be considered a unit of administration are always kept 
together ; for instance, if a costume is complete it is not intended to 
dissect it and distribute its parts. The separate elements of a costume 
arc only placed by themselves when they have no related objects asso- 
ciated with them. In the same way a costume of a family, whether com- 
posed of two or ten individual suits, might with propriety be regarded 
as a unit. Collections illustrating the history of a special tribe in a 
monographic way may also with propriety be kept together. Such a 
collection would, however, not be assigned to the department of art and 
industry, where the preferred method of arrangement is evolutionary 
or progressive, but would rather be made over to the department of 
ethnology. 

The studies of the collections already made by Professor Mason, the 
new curator of Ethnology, reveal the fact that there is really no con- 
llict between a systematic scheme classification and a geographical one, 
because, in those series of objects which have already been arranged, 
the one scheme has always proved to l)e explanatory of the other. 
They are mutually beneficial; indeed, it is imj)Ossible to understand the 
one without studying the other. 

B.— THE MUSEUM STAFF. 

The staff of the Museum as now organized consists of two classes of 
workers — the scientific oflicers, and the administrative officers ; the 
former reporting to the Director of the Museum, the latter to tlie As 
sistant Director, who also has general supervision of the administra- 
tive work of the curators. 



16 - REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

7. THE SCIENTIFIC STAFF. 

In the scientific staff of the Museum there are at present nineteen 
cnratorships, some of which are subdivided below, so that the number 
of heads of departments and snb-departments is twenty-fn^e, and the 
total number of men in the scientiOc staff thirty-six, of whom twenty- 
four are in tbe pay of the Museum, and the others honorary, five being 
detailed for this duty by the Director of the United States Geological 
Survey, one by the Director of the Bureau of Ethnology, others by the 
riiiited States Commissioner of Fisheries, and by the Secretary of the 
Navy, while two are volunteers. It may be stated here that the de- 
tails just referred to are in every instance made in the interests of 
co-operation with those Government bureaus engaged in work closely 
connected with that of the Museum. The paleontologists of the Geo- 
logical Survey find it so much to their advantage to have access to 
the paleontological collections of the Museum aud the use of the 
laboratories, storage cases, and general administrative machinery, that ■ 
they are permitted by their chief to assume the responsibilities of cnra- 
torships and perform a general work of supervision ; and the mineralo- 
gists and the curator of aboriginal pottery are similarly situated. In 
nearly every instance, however, the Museuia supplies the honorary 
cur;itors with assistants, who relieve them of much of the routine work. 

Tiie cnratorships are now organized as follows: 

DIVISION OF ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Department I. — Arts and industries, the Assistant Director acting as 
curator (A. Howard Clark, assistant, two preparators), with subcurator- 
ships as follows: 

(«) Materia Medica. Dr. H. G. Beyer, U. S. N., honorary curator, 
with one clerk. 

{})) Textile Industries. Eomyn Hitchcock, acting curator. 

(c) Fisheries. E. Edward Earll, curator. 

{(l) Animal Products. E. Edward Earll, acting curator. 

(e) Naval Architecture. Capt. J. W. Collins, United States Fish Com- 
mission, honorary curator. 

{/) Foods. W. O. Atwater, acting curator. 

{(j) Historical Eelics. 

In this dei)artment, it may be stated, is administered very much of 
the material, such as is usually arranged by museimis in their ethno- 
logical seri(!s, aud the Curator of Ethnology is consequently acting as 
adjunct curator in the Department of Arts and Industries. 

Department IT. — Ethnology. Dr. Otis T, Mason, curator, with one 
])r('])aiintor and two clerks. 

Jiejyarlment HI (A). — Antiquities. Dr. Charles Eau, curator, E. P. 
Uphnm, assistant. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRl^CTOR. 17 

Deimrtment III {Ji). — Auuuican Pivhistoric I'ottcry. ^V. n. Holmes, 
Ijuiean of Etliuoloj^y, lionoiary curator, ])r. Edward Foreman, assistant, 
one i)rei>arator. 

DIVISION OK ZOOLOGY. 

Deimrtment IV. — Mammals. Frederick ^^'. Tiiie, curator, one clerk, 
two preparators. 

Department V (A). — Birds. Robert liidgway, curator, Leouliard 
StejnejJCPr, assistant, one clerk and one preparator. 

Department V (B). — Birds' Eg'^s. Capt. Cliarles Bendire, U. S. A., 
honorary curator (volunteer), and one clerk. 

Department VI. — lleptiles and Batracliians. Dr. U. (J. Yarrow, lion- 
orary curator (volunteer). 

Department VII. Fishes. Dr. T. H. Beau, curator, two assistants 
detailed from the United States Fish Commission. 

Department VIII. — Comi>arative Anatomy. Frederick W. True, cura- 
. tor, F. A. Lucas, assistant, and one preparator. 

JJepartment IX. — IMollusks. W. II. Dall, curator, II. E. C. Stearns, 
adjunct curator, both of U. S. Geoloj^ical Survey, one clerk. 

Department X. — Insects. Prof. C. V. lilley, honorary curator (vol- 
unteer). 

Department XI. — Marine Invertebrates. Eichard Kathbuu, U. S. 
I'ish Commission, curator, one assistant, and one clerk detailed from 
the United States Fish Commission. 

Department XII (A). — Invertebrate Fossils, Paleozoic. C. D. Walcott, 
United States Geological Survey, honorary curator. 

Department XII (B). — Invertebrate Fossils, Mesozoic and Ceuozoic. 
1 )r. C. A. White, United States Geological Survey, honorary curator, 
J. B. Marcou, United States Geological Survey, honorary assistant, t)ne 
clerk. 

DIVISION OF BOT^VNY. 

Department XIII. — Fossil and Recent Plants. — Lester F. Ward, 
United States Geological Survey, honorary curator, one clerk, one pre- 
parator. 

DIVISION OF GEOLOGY. 

Department XIV. — Mineralogy. Dr. F. W. Clarke, United States 
Geological Survey, honorary curator, W. S. Yeates, assistant. 

Department XV. — Lithology and Physical Geology. George P.Mer- 
rill, acting curator, one i)reparator. 

Department XVI. — Metallurgy and Economic Geology. Fred. P. 
Dewey, curator. 

A comparison of the above classification with tliat presented in the re- 
l)orts for 1883 will show changes in the following particulars, namely, that 
the scope of the Department of Arts and Industiies has been augmented 
during the year by the addition of two sections : (1 ) Naval Architcctuie, 
of which Capt. J. W. Collins is the honorary curator, and (2) Animal 
S. :\lis. 3.3, pt. 2 2 



18 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Products, iu cliarge of E. Edward Earll, as acting i curator. Mr. Earll 
has also been acting- as curator of the section of Fisheries. For greater 
convenience the section of Foods and Textiles has been reorganized in 
two divisions: (1) Textile Industries, Mr. Roniyn Hitchcock as acting 
curator, and (2) Foods, under the direction of Prof. W. O. Atwater. 

To the Division of Anthropology has been added the Department of 
American Aboriginal Pottery, under the honorary supervision of Mr. 
W. H. Holmes, of the Bureau of Ethnology. The Department of 
Ethnology has been organizod under the curatorship of Prof. Otis T. 
Mason, taking the place of the Department of Races of Men in the 
classification as given in the report for last year. 

The Division of Zoology has been increased by the addition of (1) 
the Department' of Birds' Eggs, Capt. Charles Bendire, U. S. A., 
serving, as honorary curator; and (2) the Department of Comi)ara- 
tive Anatomy under Mr. F. W. True, assisted by Mr. F. A. Lucas. 
The three Departments of Crustaceans, Worms, and Radiates and Pro 
tozoaus, as classified iu 1883, have been merged in one, the Department 
of Marine luvertebrateSj under Mr. Richard Rathbun, Department 
XVI, Physical Geology, under the old chissification, is now an adjmwt 
of the Departu^eiit (XV) of Lithology under the direction of Mr. George 
P. ]\Ierrill ; and the Department of Mineralogy, which was in 1883 con- 
nected with that of Lithology, is now classified separately. 

8. THE ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF. 

The classification of the departments in the Division of Administra- 
tion remains essentially the same as detailed in the rei)ortfor last year, 
and is as follows: 

Department A. — Direction. This department is under the immediate 
charge of the Assistant Director, who, as executive officer to the Di- 
rector, has general supervi>sion of the routine work in all the depart- 
ments, the care of the installation of specimens, the construction of 
cases, &c., the purchase of supplies, &c., the assignment of work and of 
apartments, leaves of absence, curators' reports, and routine correspond- 
ence. The organization of the offices of the Director and Assistant 
Director has not been materially changed during the year, except that, 
on account of the increase in efficiency of the other departments of the 
Division of Administration, a considerable amount of routine work, with 
its accompanying responsibilities, has been transferred fror^ the Assist- 
ant Director to the heads of these departments. During the absence of 
the Assistant Director for five weeks during the summer, on business 
connected with the ]jreparation of the Smitlisonian exhibit at the World's 
Exposition in New Orleans, Mr. F. W. True was designated to act in his 
place. Mr. it. I. Geare, executive clerk, has rendered most efficient 
service in the Assistant Director's office. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 19 

Department B. — Registry and storage. Tliis departuieut is in charge 
of Mr. S. 0. Brown, whose duties pertain to the reception, unpacking, 
and a^isignuient of accessions and other packages, the packing and ship- 
ment of boxes, &c., the storage of accessions sul)jectto the call of cura- 
tors, and the custody of department catalogue books. 

Ik^artment C. — Archives. Mr. S. C. Brown also has charge of all 
papers relating to accessions and the distribution of Museum material. 

Jk'jKtrtinent D. — Library. Mr. F. W. True, librarian. 

Department E. — Publication. Dr. Tarletou II. Bean performs the 
duties of editor of "Proceedings" and "Bulletins." 

Department F. — Labels. jVJa*. A. Howard Clark in charge. His duties 
consist in the arrangement of material for labels, in receiving the printed 
labels from the printer, and in arranging a duplicate set of labels for 
reference. 

Department G. — Duplicates and exchanges. Mr. S. C. Brown in 
charge. The work of this department includes the distribution of du- 
plicate collections for exchange and the custody of the files relating to 
applications and proposals for exchange. 

Department H. — Property and supplies. Mr. C. W. Sc;huermanu in 
charge. All cases, furniture, and sup])lies of all kinds are under his 
care, and are distributed by order of the Assistant Director. 

Department I. — Accounts. All disbursements are made by the Dis 
bursing Clerk of the DeiJartment of the Interior. Estimates for sup 
l)lies aud the general care of contracts and orders are included in the 
work of this department. 

Department K. — Buildings and labor. Mr. Henry Horau, superin- 
tendent, in charge. In this department are included the care of ijolice 
and inspection, mechanics and labor, construction and repairs, clean- 
ing and i)ublic comfort, heating and lighting. 

Department L.—E\eQ,tT\c service. In this department are embraced 
the telephone service, time service, burglar-alarm service, and watch- 
clock service. 

Department M. — Preparation. This department is divided into sev 
eral sections, each of which is in charge of a preparator, and is th(n- 
ouglily discussed in another portion of this rei)ort. 

Exposition staff. — In addition to the regular administrative staif of the 
Museum, an administrative staff for exhibition work has been maintained 
since July, 18S2, under the general charge of the Assistant Director. 
Mr. K. Edward Earll is the executive otticer, and Mr. W. V. Cox linan- 
cial clerk of the staff, which is increased from time to time as occasion 
requires by the employment of extra clerks and i)reparators, and to 
which also, when necessary, are detailed various ollicers of the Museum 
scientific staff. In addition to the exhibition work of the year else- 
w here referred to, this staff is still engaged in the preparation of a re- 
port u[)on the International Fisheries Exliibition at London, in 1883. 



20 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 



C— THE CONDITION OF THE COLLECTIONS. 

The custodiausliii) of the specimens of the several departriieilts has 
been coiiscieutiously fiiliilled by the curators with the assistance of the 
various preparators. I am couiident that the material in the i)ossessiou 
of the Museum has never been in better condition than it is at the 
present time. 

i). A PROVISIONAL CENSUS OF THE COLLECTIONS. 

Estimated namljvr of fipi'timcns now in the several departments of the National Museum.* 

Ko. of specimeus. 
Department of Arts and Industries : 

(a) Materia mcdica 4, 442 

(6) Textile industries .: 2,000 

(c) Fisheries 5, 000 

(d) Animal products 1,000 

(e) Na%'al architecture 600 

(/) Foods 1,580 

Department of Ethnology 200,000 

Department of Antiquities 45,252 

Department of Prehistoric Pottery 12,000 

Department of Mammals j ^^^"^ ^^'^ alcoholic specnnens 5, 694 ? ^ g^g 

^ < Skulls and skeletons 4,214 i 

Department of Birds 50, 350 

Department of Birds' Eggs 40,072 

Department of Reptiles and Batrachians ...... 23, 495 

Department of Fishes 68, 000 

Dei)artnient of Comparative Anatomy (department not organized) 3,000 

Department of Mollusks 400,000 

Department of Insects 150, 000 

Department of Marine Invertebrates 200,000 

Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Paleozoic). -^ 73,000 

Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Mesozoic and Cenozoic) 100, 000 

Department of Plants, fossil and recent 7, 291 

Department of Mineralogy 16, 610 

Department of Lithology and Physical Geology 18, 000 

Department of Metallurgy and Econonuc Geology 40, 000 

Total 1,471,000 

10. ASSIGNMENT OF SPACE. 

There hfls been made no material change in the assignment of exhi- 
bition space, as described on page 2 of my report for 1883. The north- 
west court will probably be opened during 1885 with the collections of 
North American pottery. The exhibition space for the collections of 
the metallurgical department will shortly be increased by the opening 
of the southwest court. 

In the Smithsonian building the four main halls are occupied as they 
were in 1883, and as follows: Main ball, Ornithology; upper main 

"These estimates do not take into account the actual number of specimens, but 
refer to "lots" of specimens, which nniy include <me or several hundred, but which 
fire incln(hMl in a single entry of the Museum register. 



RKPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 21 

liiill, Pro-historic Arcb.Tology ; west rauge, Ichthyology ; west hall, In 
vertebrates. 

The south galleries of the Smithsonian main hall have been cleared, 
the exhibition cases, which were old and unserviceable, having been 
taken down and us(m1 for other i^nrposes, and the gallery spaces assigned 
lor laboratory usi'. The soutliwest gallery is now occupied by the 
ornithological department for a work-room, and for storage of the great 
collection of unmounted bird-skins; the southeast gallery is similarly 
occupied by the conchological dei)artment. 

The large room adjoining the northeast pavilion in the Museum 
building is now nsed as a depository for the oological collection, and as 
a laboratory for the section of birds' eggs. 

The ofiice of the Director of the Geological Survey having beeji re 
moved elsewhere, the northeast pavilion is now occupied by the chemi- 
cal and physical laboratory of the Survey. The southwest pavilion is 
beingtitted up for the accommodation of the mammal, metallurgical, and 
mineralogical laboratories; the west balconj' is used as a laboratory for 
ethnology; the north balcony for the department of textiles, and the 
south balcony for plants, recent and fossil. 

The photographer of the Geological Survey having vacated the rooms 
for several years occupied by hini in the brick annex, second story, the 
w(nkshop of the taxidermist attached to the department of birds has 
been transferred thither. 

The Armory building, with its wooden annex, occupied jointly by the 
Museum and the Fish Commission, is still crowded with unassorted 
material belonging to the Museum collections. 

In order to provide suitable accommodations for the preparators, in 
connection with the preparation of the exhibit for the three exi)ositions 
of Cincinnati, Louisville, and Xew Orleans, aiul also to give much-needed 
space for packing the collections to be sent, it was deemed advisalde 
to construct a wooden building east of the Mnsenm building. On July 
15 the work of breaking and leveling the ground was connnenced. The 
annex is 150 feet long, 50 feet wide, and 50 feet high. The eastern 
end was assigned to the modeling department of the United States 
Geological Survey. The southwestern portion was occupied by the tax- 
idermic force of the National IMuseum, and in the northwest part the 
packing and general exposition work was carried on. The cost of this 
annex was about $3,500, expended as follows : 

Survey of location for building ,§10 OK 

ConHtrnut ion •. 3,0r>ri 4 1 

Pluiuhing 257 7(i 

Stoam-fitting l.'il 11 

Drainage GO 00 

Total 3,514 28 

Two wooden sheds, one to be nsed as a poisoning-house for skins, «S:c., 
and the other, for the preparation of the collection of building-stones 



22 REPORT OF NATlONAli MUSEUM, 1884. 

for the New Orleans Exposition, were erected in July between the Mu- 
seum and the Annex building. 

The need of an additional Museum building is each year more se- 
riously appreciated. Very many objects of great interest and requir- 
ing a large space for their accommodation have been promised by ex- 
hibitors at jSTew Orleans, and it is a serious problem to know where 
these can even be stored, aside from the possibility of properly display- 
ing them. 

Extensive collections of alcoholic specimens are known to greatly 
endanger the safetj'^ of museum buildings and their contents, and most 
of the establishments in Europe have lately taken the precaution to 
construct separate buildings i^eculiarly adapted for the purpose. It is 
sincerely hoped that the application whicli was made at the last session 
of Congress tor an appropriation to put up a similar building in the 
grounds of the Institution will be acted upon favorably. 

D.— EEVIEW OF THE ADMINISTEATIVE WORK OF THE 

YEAR. 

11. ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 

The total number of packages recorded by the registrar during the 
year was 5,507. In addition to this number, 209 wagon-loads of boxes, 
packages, &c., were received and distributed to the several depart- 
ments. Of the entire number, 3,509 packages, boxes, &c., were ad- 
dressed to the National Museum and its officers, the remainder being 
intended for the Smithsonian Institution and the United States Fish 
Commission. 

The registrar of the Museum acts also in the capacity of transi)orta- 
tion clerk for the Smithsonian Institution, and much material passes 
through his hands with which this report has no concern. The total 
number of individuals and institutions sending collections to the Mu- 
seum, as shown in the list i)ublished in the appendix to this report, is 
1,084. 

It should be stated that very many of the objects sent in by the 
correspondents of the Museum are of very little value, and are trans- 
mitted simply for the purpose of obtaining a report upon their names 
and character. It has been the policy of the Smithsonian Institution 
to receive all objects offered which have any relation to its work, since 
the majority of such contributions, after they have been identified and 
studied, are valuable for exchange or distribution to museums and in- 
stitutions of learning, and often prove to be of unexi^ected importance. 
Many of the specimens sent in for examination and report are entirely 
useless. It is hardly proper, therefore, to consider each one of the 3,500 
packages received as constituting an important contribution to the col- 
lections. Many of th<mi, however, contain specimens of great value. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIREC lOJi. 23 

The iVIiiseum has, diuin.u- tlic past year ns in previous yonrs, received 
accessions from the folh)\\ iu<;- sources : 

(a) l>y gift froii! correspondents. 

(b) By exchan}>e with institutions at liome and abroad. 

(c) By the depositor the collections of Ihc various surveys and (lov- 
ernnieut departments which liere find their k^yal repository. 

(d) From the work in connection with the several expeditions. 

(c) As a result of the explorations carried on under the ])atronage or 
with the co-oi)eration of the Smithsonian institution and Museum. 

Mr. John Durand has rendered eflScient service in negotiating ex- 
changes with European museums. 

Every important accession is fully described in the reports of the sev- 
eral scientific departments. 

12. PROGRESS IN CLASSIFICATION AND ARRANGEMENT, 
(a) Laboratory worJc and catalogue entries. 

By "laboratory work" is meant the work of the curators upon the col- 
lections in their special apartments, whicli are not open to the public. 
Here the collections are received, unpacked, classified, identified, and 
catalogued ; here also it is determined whether specimens should be 
l)laced in the exhibition series; or, if not thus assigned, whether or not 
t \\{'\ are sufficiently important as material for investigation in the study 
series, or should be called "duplicates" and distributed to other insti- 
tutions. 

The efficiency of the Museum work depends, in a large degree, upon 
the facilities which axe afforded to curators for careful and thorough work 
in the laboratories. It is here that the specimens are indelibly marked 
with the catalogue number, upon which all future authentications de- 
]iend. Here also must be prepared the labels, upon which the value 
of the exhibition series to a great extent depends; and here are prose- 
cuted the scientific investigations, which, through the publications of 
the Museum, establish the reputation of its scientific staff for thorough 
and accurate work. The laboratory accommodations are being im- 
l)roved, but still there is much to be desired in respect to space, number 
of clerical assistants, and faeilities for the use of books and instru- 
ments and other appliances. 

In a museum, as in a temporary exposition, the efficiency of eacli 
department depends also upon the energy and constant i)resence of a 
thoroughly competent head, and consequently upon the opportunities 
afforded him for good work in his laboratory. 

The present organization of the Museum is of such recent date that 
nearly all the curators are still embarrassed by the accumulations of 
past years, and the greater portion of their time is necessarily devoted 
to unpacking and overhauling the unclassified material which they 
found already on hand when they assumed the duties of their present 
offices. These heritages from the past will soon be under control, and 



24 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1881. 



it may be expected that our uext year's report will show a great increase 
iu the amount of work directly ccmcerued with the preparation of the 
exhibition series, of final labels, of catalogues and hand books, and the 
prosecution and ])ubIic'ition of original researches. 

The activity of 1884 may best be gauged by the following table, whicli 
shows the totfil number of entries made iu the Museum registers of the 
several curatorships: 



No. of 
dept. 



n 

llla 
nib 

IV 

Ya 

Yb 

VI 
VII 
VIII 

IX 

X 



Name of dopartmeut. 



No. of 

1 entrie.s 

tliiriiig 

1884. 



Arts and Industries (general) . 

Materia Medica 

Textile. Industries 

Foods 

Historical Kclics 

Etbnoloft-y 

Antiquities 

Americnn PreliiKtoric Pottery 

Mammals 

Birds 

Birds' Eggs 

Reptiles 

Fishes 

Comparative Anatomy 

Mollusks 

Insects 



4,429 
:!il8 

1, (;8:j 

420 

200 

1,184 

4,367 

603 

711 

8,142 

3,222 

584 

3, 01.5 

547 

5,231 

53 



No. of 
dept. 



XI 



Xlld 

xn6 

XIII 
XIV 
XV 
XVI 



Name of dcpaitment. 



Marine InverteLrates : 

Crustacea 

Worms 

Tunicates and Bryozoa 

Radiates ' 

Protozoa and Sponges 

Invertebrate Fossils (Paleozoic) 
Invertebiato Fossils (Mesozoic 

Cenozoic) 

Fossil Plants 

Mineralogy 

Litliology 

Metallurgy 

Total 



No. of 

entries 

during 

1884. 



,924 
151 
80 

, 858 
045 
5G4 

, 1.^.9 
97 
,307 
,541 
,021 



(b) Development of the exhibition and study series. 

The " reserve series " in the Museum includes all the specimens which 
are retained for purposes of study, the exhibition series consisting of 
objects which are suitable to be exposed to public view in glass cases, 
selected from the reserve series of which it forms a iiart. The study 
series is formed by the residue, which are kept compactly stored cither in 
cases in the laboratories or iu the closed tables which serve as pedestals 
for the smaller show-cases in the exhibition halls. 

The study series for any special group may generally be largely re- 
duced in extent after an exhaustive monograph has been j^ublished 
upon that grouj), it being the long-established policy of the Museum to 
reserve only a sufficient number of specimens to permit the author of 
such monograph to entirely rewrite it, should the manuscript of his 
essay be destroyed. 

Much progress has been made during the year in many departments 
in the work of separating the duplicate from the reserve series, and 
in many of the others in the work of preliminary clnssification, which 
is the necessary preparation for this task. The development of the 
exhibition series is necessarily slow, since it is not considered desir- 
able to place on exhibition specimens which are not fully explained by 
printed labels. It is, to be sure, often necessary to expose to view 
large objects which have not been labeled. The extent and nature of the 
work of the Museum is not appreciated by persons who are not familiar 
with the character of the laboratory work and who have not access to 
the reserve stores. In the various departments of ethnology and indus- 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 25 

trial art, for iustanco, the wealth of the Museum is exceedingly great, 
but until cases have been built aud labels printed it is impossible prop- 
erly to display it. 

Although very much has been done for the develo])ment of the exhi- 
l)ition aud study series, it is certain that during the years 1885 and 188G 
the jNluseum will improve in attractiveness to the visitor and general 
student, and in convenience to the investigator and special student, to 
a degree which has not in past years been in any way ap[)roximated. 

The exhibition series has been greatly extended during the year by 
the work which h.as been done for the several expositions, numerous 
specimens having been mounted and labeled, whfch after their return 
may be placed at once on exhibition. Many objects have been acquired 
especially for use in this exposition work, which are equally desirable 
for the regular exhibition work of the IMuseura. 

During this year, special improvements have been noted in the exhi- 
bition halls devoted to mineralogy, lithology and physical geology, 
nu'tallurgy and economic geology, textile industries, fisheries, and na- 
val architecture. 

(c) Construction of cases. 

It is hardly necessary to remark that no part of the work of the Mu- 
seum at present occupies so much of my attention as the construction of 
cases, since the supply at present on hand is far from adequate to our 
needs. The " furniture and fixtures appropriation " which Congress has 
made annually since 1880 permits each year the building of a large 
number of cases. At the same time the capacity of the Museum build- 
ing, with its laboratories and work-rooms, is exceedingly great, and up 
to the present time certainly not more than one -half of the requisite 
amount of case room has been obtained. In my previous rei)ort was 
given a statement of the number of cases in the Museum at the begin- 
ning of the year 1883. Appended is a list of the cases added during 
the year 1884:* 

• Case C : ~ 

(1.3) Door-screen cases, 8.6 by 1.3 by 7 10 

(2.2) Door-screeu cases, 8.6 by 2.2 by 7 10 

(9 in.) Door-screen cases, 8.6 by 9 in. by 7 1 

Case D : 

(1.3) Slifling-screen oases, 8.6 by 1.3 by 7 10 

(2.2) Sliding-screen cases, 8.6 by 1.3 by 7 10 

(2.6) Sliding-screen cases, 8.6 by 1.3 by 7 4 

Ca«o F : 

Fold-screou cases (balf pillar) 10 

Fold-screen frames 300 

Slope-top cases r>o 

Slope-top cases 6 

Case H : 

Table upright cases 10 

Table upright cases 6 

Case I : 

Unit-table cases 40 

Unit-table cases 12 



26 ■ REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

The names by which these cases are designated will of course be im- 
iutelligible to those who are not familiar with the nomeuclaturc adopted 
in the Museum. Our system of case construction, which 1ms been briefly 
discussed in i)revious reports, is entirely diffeieut from that in use in 
any similar establishment, and is admitted to be unusually economical 
and effective. We are constantly called upon by the oflBcers of other 
museums for descriptions and working drawings. I have in prepara- 
tion, and hope to present in the report for 1885, a full descri])tion, with 
illustrations, of the various methods of installation which have been 
adopted. . 

The main features of the plan are as follows : The cases are, as a rule, 
of mahogany, finished in the natural color, and have been constructed 
in accordance with artistic plans furnished by Mr. William Bruce Gray. 
Their chief recommendations are the following: (1) the building con- 
sisting j)ractically of a single large hall ; the cases are so constructed 
that they may placed between any two adjacent pilasters, and thus 
form partitions dividing this hall into seventeen halls of lesser ex- 
tent; (2) the cases are all of one length, 8 feet 8 inches,* which is the 
architectural unit of the Museum building, or are of such lengths that, 
combined together, they always conform to this unit, so that they are 
interchangeable ; (3) the construction is such that, with very slight ex- 
penditure of labor, any one of them full of specimens can be transported 
from one part of the building to another, thus allowing great freedom 
in the matter of rearranging the Museum ; (4) all the smaller specimens 
are mounted in groups upon small tablets or in glass- covered boxes of 
uniform size, which can be handled with great facility, and which aftord 
great security to the specimens, and diminish immensely the labor of 
properly caring for them ; (5) the objects are displayed against back- 
grounds which at the same time afford the greatest ease to the eye of 
the visitor and the greatest relief and effectiveness to the object dis- 

Unit-table cases (terracecl section) 14 

Table-top cases (movable) 20 

Case J. Unit drawers l,38(j 

CaseK. Unit boxes 210 

Case L. Wall upright cases, 10 by 10 by 9 1 

Case M. Salvin bird cases . . .' 4 

Case O. Basement drawer storage cases 21 

Case P. Sectional library cases 6 

Case S : 

Quarter unit-table cases 20 

Kensington cases 20 

Costume cases 1 

Card catalogue casos 7 

Manuscript cases 2 

Manuscript drawers 421 

Anatomical cases ^ 1 

Franklin ]iress case 1 

"As a matter of fact, the cases are made a little scant in length, to provide for con- 
venient handling ; they actually measure about 8 I'eet G inches. 



^REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 27 

played; (fi) tlie objects being shown singly against a suitable back- 
ground, and at the same time brought as close as possible to the glass 
front of the case, the sense of confusion, so often experienced in mu- 
seums, is entirely avoided; (7) the labels are printed in large, heavy- 
tace type and upon paper of soft tints, which are much less wearisome 
to the eye than the ordinary labels in black and white. 

Important additions of storage cases and furniture have been made to 
tlie laboratories of several of the curators, and all the laboratories are 
now better supplied than ever before. The storage cases in some of 
these departments are built in four sections in height, occu]»ying only 
the same floor space as the one-section cases and accommodating four 
times the quantity of specimens. Each curator is supplied with a light 
bidder, affording easy access to the upper sections. 

The laboratories in which the greatest improvements have been made 
during the year are those of birds, fishes, mollusks, insects, invertebrate 
fossils, fossil plants, lithology and physical geology, minerals, and met- 
allurgy and economic geology. The following statement shows the 
number and kind of storage cases and other furniture at present in use 
in the various laboratories 

Ethnology : 

Unit tables 14 

Sectional library cases 1 

Standard pigeon-hole stack 1 1 

Quarter tables 12 

Card catalogue cases 2 

Mammals: 

Sectional library cases 1 

Standard shelf-stacks 3 

Standard i)igeou-hole stacks 4 

Quarter tables 6 

Birds : 

Salvin bird cases 16 

Sectional library cases 4 

Standard pigeon-hole stacks 1 

Quarter tables 29 

Fishes : 

Sectional library cases S 

Card catalogue cases I 

Mollusks : 

Basement-drawer storages (1 contaiuiii'^ 'J tiers; '1 conf.iiiiing ;{ tiers) 5 

Insects : 

Sectional library cases 11 

Quarter tables 2 

Marine invertebrates : 

• Sectional library cases 3 

Standard pigeon-hole stacks 2 

Quarter tables 4 

Curd catalogne cases 1 

Fossil invertebrates (Paleozoic section) : 

Basement drawer storages (1 containing '.i tiers ; I containing 4 tiers) 2 

Sectional library cases 2 

Quarter tables 13 



28 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Fossil invertebrates (Mesozoic and Cenozoic section) : 

Basement drawer storages (1 containing 1 tier ; 2 containing 3 tiers ; 1 con- 
taining 5 tiers) 4 

Sectional library cases 4 

Standard sbelf-stacks 2 

Quarter tables 1 

Fossil plants : 

Unit tables 4 

Basement drawer storages (1 containing 2 tiers ; 1 containing 4 tiers ; 2 con- 
taining 3 tiers) 4 

Sectional library cases 1 

Quarter tables 11 

Litbology and physical geology : 

Unit tables ' 1 

Basement drawer storages (containing 4 tiers) 1 

Sectional library cases 1 

Standard sbelf-stacks 4 

Standard pigeon-hole stacks 6 

Quarter tables 4 

Minerals : 

Basement drawer storages (1 containing 4 tiers; 2 containing 8 tiers ; 1 con- 
taining 9 tiers) 4 

Standard jiigeon-hole stacks 1 

Metallurgy and economic geology : 

Basement drawer storages (containing 4 tiers) 1 

Sectional library cases _ 1 

Standard pigeon-hole stacks 5 

Quarter tables 1 

Card catalogue cases ^, . 1 

Materia medica : 

Basement drawer storage (containing 2 tiers) __ 2 

Sectional library cases ^ 1 

Standard shelf-stacks ^ 14 

Card catalogue cases 1 

The number of unit drawers in use now exceeds ,10,000. 

(d) Preparation of labels. 

During tlie year 1884 about 4,500 descriptive labels for the exhibition 
series were printed, besides several thousand forms of labels for the 
reserve and duplicate collections in the various deportments. This has 
been accomplished through the courtesy and co-operation of the Secre- 
tary of the Interior. Much progress has been made toward labeling 
the exhibition series, particularly in the departments of Building Stones 
and Materia Medica, the labeling of collections in those departments 
being now practically completed. Many of the labels printed were for 
the objects sent to the expositions. 

No changes were made in the general form of the labels. Slight mod- 
ifications were in some cases necessary, in order to adapt the labels to 
special collections. 

Large general lalxils, ns also labels for some special collections, arc 
l>rinle<l upon a small press kept for the purpose, in my office, while the 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 29 

balk of the descriptive labels are, as a rule, printed by the Interior De- 
jjartinent. Dnriuj:: the year 18S4, however, the Museum onice printed 
about L'jOUU labels, or uearly one-half of all that were printed. These 
were chiefly labels for the collections sent to the expositions. 

Of each descriptive label there are twenty copies priuted, ten on 
cardboard (gray or herbarium) and ten on white paper; the former to be 
shown with the objects aud for the reserve tile, and the latter for mak- 
injr catalogues of the collections and for general distribution to donors 
and to other museums. The labels i)riuted for the Fisheries collections 
which were sent to the London Exhibition in 1883 have been reprinted 
in IJulletin 27 of the Museum, and i'orm a complete index to the numer- 
ous objects of fishing implements aud vessel models composing the col- 
lections. 

The care of the labels requires the entire time of one man. As soon 
as received from the printer, a sample of each label is put in the scrap- 
book series, as juany as are needed for immediate use are sent to the cu- 
rator in charge of the collections, and the remainder of the labehs are 
filed in unit drawers, where they are arranged numerically by depart- 
ments. An index is kept, by means of which a label, designated by its 
number, can be referred to at once in the scrui)-book aud files. 

13. PROGRESS OF GENERAL AND INCIDENTAL WORK. 
(a) Library. 

During the past year the usefulness of the library has been gradu- 
ally increasing, although no very important additions have been re- 
ceived. The additions for the year numbered about TOO books and 
l)amphlets, including many works of permanent value and practical 
uti lity. Few purchases have been made, the principal sources of growth 
being through exchange, gift, and deposit. The various departments 
of the Government, especially those engaged in scientific research, have 
made many valuable contributions. The trustees of the British Mu- 
seum have presented a large series of the catalogues and regular pub- 
lications of that institution. Progress has been nuule during the year 
in the efibrt to classify systematically the books in the library, but the 
work has been greatly retarded owing to the insutticient force. The 
classilication referred to is absolutely necessary for the i)roper admin- 
istration of the library, and it is hoped that it may soon be practicable 
to jirovide adeciuatc means for this purpose. 

The library system may be briefly described, as follows : In the cen- 
tral library are retained all books treating of more than one subject, 
such as periodicals, proceedings of societies, serial reports, dictionaries, 
and cy<;lopedias, together with such monographs as are not desired in the 
sectional libraries, which are in the several ]\Iuseum laboratories under 
the charge of their respective curators. To the sectional libraries are 
assigned only those works which relate directly to the work of the sec- 



30 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

tion. Books in the sectioual libraries are considered to be personally 
loaned to the curators in charge. 

All books and other matters are first entered at the central library, 
and the necessary a(;knowledgment made, after which monographic 
works, upon application, are sent to the sectional libraries, their assign- 
ment being designated upon the card catalogue. 

It is very evident that the efficiency of the curators, not only in the 
I)roper handling of the collections, but also in the preparation of the 
scientific reports, which constitute so prominent a feature in the work 
of the Museum, depends upon the completeness of the Museum Library. 
A certain sum should be set aside for the purchase of books, since many 
of those which are most needful cannot be obtained by exchange. The 
entire appropriation has hitherto been needed for the payment of sala- 
ries and the construction of cases, and for all books which have been 
bought the Museum is indebted to the Smithsonian endowment fund. 

(&) Distribution of dnplicates and exchanges. 

The following table represents the number of boxes and ])ackages of 
specimens distributed to museums and colleges, and in exchange with 
correspondents during the year, viz : 

Boxes and packages. 

Mammal skins and skcletous 13 

Bii'ds' skins, nests, and eggs 86 

Minerals 21 

Reptiles 10 

Marine invertebrates (in sets) ., 48 

Marine invertebrates (miscellaneous packages) 34 

Fossils 11 

Pottery 7 

Indian relics 17 

Fishes 10 

Crania 1 

Plants 16 

Casts (plaster) 9 

Rocks 2 

SheUs 4 

Foods, etc 1 

Materia medica 3 

Total 293 

The number of specimens contained in these boxes and packages 
amounts to 21 ,084. This table shows an increase in the work of this 
department, there having been distributed this year nearly 5^000 speci- 
mens more than in 1883. 

During the year, 103 applications from museums, schools, and indi- 
viduals in the United States for general natural history specimens have 
been filed, and a large number of these have been filled. 

The number of packages of all kinds shipped to the ISTew Orleans, 
Louisville, and Cincinnati Expositions amounted to 819. 



REPOR'I OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 



31 



III tilt* roi>oit of the Department of Marine luvertebratos will bo 
Ibiuul u detailed list of the institutions to which the Fish Commission 
sets of duplicates of marine invertebrates were distributed during the 
yeai". Iteferences to the various exchanges made are also reported on 
by the several curators. A tabulated exhibit of what the Museum has 
done in the way of distributing its duplicates from the commencement 
of its history is very desirable, and will probably be prepared in time 
for the next report. 

(c) Publications, 

A complete list of the publications of the National Museum for 1884 
is given in Appendix B, Part lY. During the year the last live signa- 
tures of Vol. VI and the first thirty-one signatures of Vol. VII aj)- 
peared. Proceedings United States National Museum for 1883, Vol. 
VI, consisting of 558 pages and 14 plates, were published. 

Bulletin No. 25, including seven parts, and terming Vol. 1 of Contribu- 
tions to the Natural History of the Bermudas, and Bulletin No. 27, con- 
sisting of twelve parts and constituting a report upon the exhibit of the 
United States at the London Fisheries Exhibition, 1883, were printed. 

Eight Museum circulars were printed as separates. These, including 
Nos. 21-31, will appear in Vol. VII T, Proceedings United States National 
JMuseum. 

In Appendix B, Part IV, will be found a bibliographical list of the 
papers published during 1884 by ofti(;ers of the Museum. These pai)ers 
number 229 and are distributed among the several departments as fol- 
lows : 





Papers by offi- 
rers of the 
National 
Museum. 


Papers b y 
otlier iuves- 
tigators. 


"3 
"S 
H 


Arte and industries (includinj; 20 papers on fi-sheries and fish cuUuro) 


30 
20 
8 
7 
42 
1 
2 

29 
9 

25 

9 
3 

■^ 
11 

19 
7 
6 
4 
1 

15 
1 


1 
3 
1 
4 
17 


31 

23 




9 




n 


Birds 


59 


Birds' e;i US 


1 


Kc]>tile8 and Batracbinns 


2 
32 

1 
2 

5 

1 


4 




61 




10 




"7 




10 




10 


Plants : 

Fossils 


3 


Recent 


a 


5 


M.iutTaU>::v 




Litliiilog V aud physical geoloj^y 


1 
3 


12 




22 


Chetr.istrv 


7 


I'hy siolo;; V and histolojry 


1 


7 


Taxidi-ruiv 


4 


I>il>lioi;iaphj' 




1 


Administration 




15 


Geuei-al 




1 








Total 


259 


7U 









In Part IV is a list of 70 i>apers based upon Museum material, writ- 
ten by iuvestigators other than officers of the Museum. 



32 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 



{(l) Visitors. 

During the year the number of visitors to tlie Museum building has 
been 195,322, and to the Smithsonian buihling 91,130. The total num- 
ber of visitors may, therefore, conlidently be placed at considerably 
more than 200,000. 

It may be noted that the interest of visitors in the collections appears 
to be increasing in full proportion to the progress which has been made 
in affixing descriptive labels. 

The doorkeepers still continue the use of the automatic registers, 
which are proving much more satisfactory than the turnstile system 
usually employed in museums and exhibitions. The result of their 
record is given below in tabulated form. 

Numher of visitors to the Museum building for 1884. 



Month. 



January — 
February . . 

March 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August 

September . 
October . . . 
November . 
December . 

Total 



Number of 
visitors, 



15, 114 
21, 215 

20, 832 

21, 527 
25, 484 

11, 947 
13, 671 
17, 698 
13, 263 

12, 456 

10, 515 

11, 600 



195, 322 



Number 
resistered. 



2,207 
3,321 

2, 938 

3, 092 
3,716 
1,486 
1,516 
1,838 
1,645 
1, 520 
1, 223 
1,380 



25, 882 



Nmnber of visitors to Sviithsonian huilding, 1884. 



Month. 


Number of 
visitors. 


Number 
rogistert-d. 






7,007 
8,781 
7,743 
8,012 

10, 319 
6,379 
6,392 

10, 883 
6,945 
7,116 
5,310 
6,243 


1,029 




1,353 




1,193 




1,243 


Tl/T n 


2,098 




1,024 


July 


997 




1,442 


t. Ji _,1,„,, 


1, 072 




796 




702 




930 








Total 


91, 130 


13, 879 







Number of visitors 1o United States National Museum and Smithsonian Institution for 

1882, 1883, and 1884. 



Tear. 



1881. 
1882. 
1883. 
1884. 



Museum 
building. 



*150, 000 
tl67, 455 
202, 188 
195, 322 



Smithsonian 
building. 



* Estimated on basis of register. 

t Estimated on basis of atteudauco from February 8 to December 31. 



152, 744 
104, 823 
.91,130 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 33 

e) Students and lectures. 

Reference has been made in previous reports to the arrangement by 
which, at the request of the Kavy Department, the Institution received 
for three successive years six ensigns, and assigned them to duty in 
various sections of the National Museum for the purpose of enabling 
them to become acquainted with certain branches of science, such as 
chemistry, mineralogy, geology, ethnology, general natural history, &c., 
in order that in their subsequent cruises they might be more useful. 
Three details of the kind have been made, none, however, in 1884, the 
Department having founrl it inexpedient to continue the arrangement. 
Most of the gentlemen already detailed have also been reclaimed and 
assigned to duty. Two of these ensigns, Messrs. Miner and Garrett, 
are now on the Fish Commission steamer "Albatross." Ensign Ilayden 
was detached in October and ordered to duty, first at the Cambridge 
Observatory, and subsequently to the United States Geological Survey. 

The experiment in connection with these junior officers of the Navy 
has been very satisfactory as far as it has gone, and there can be no 
doubt that the increased range of information thus acquired by the 
eighteen gentlemen so detailed will be utilized to a considerable extent 
in the future. 

The Museum is frequently favored by visits of men of science from 
other countries for the purpose of special inquiry into its methods, and 
an unusual number of such callers was welcomed during the past year 
in connection with a meeting of the British Association in Montreal. 
Several distinguished naturalists took the occasion to study the col- 
lections of the National Museum, which they found to contain many im- 
portant types otherwise inaccessible to them. 

Permission has been granted during the year to a considerable num- 
ber of students of art to make copies of specimens in the Museum, and 
an increase in the number of schools visiting the Museum in company 
with their teachers has been noticeable. 

As in previous years, the use of the lecture room in the Museum on 
Saturday afternoon during the winter and spring has been granted to 
a joint committee of the Biological and Anthropological Societies of 
Washington for the purpose of conducting a course of scientific lectures. 
These lectures are usually in some way connected with the work of the 
Museum, and are illustrated by specimens from the collections. They 
correspond in character closely to the afternoon lectures given at the 
gardens of the Zoological Society of London. 

The programme of the year is here appended : 

FIRST COURSE. 

Januarys, Mr. Grove K. Gilbert: Cliffs and terraces. 
January 12, Prof Otis T. INlasou ; Child-life among savage and un- 
civilized peoples. 

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 3 



34 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

January 19, Prof. Edward S. Morse : Social life among the Japanese. 
January 26, Maj. J. W. Powell: Win-tun Mythology. 

SECOND COURSE. 

February 2, Prof. F. W. Clarke: Lightning and lightning-rods. 

February 9, Capt. C. E. Dutton, United States Army: The Hawaiian 
Islands and people. 

February 18, Prof. John Murdoch : Eskimo life at Point Barrow. • 

February 23, Prol". Harvey W. Wiley : The sugar industry of the 
North. 

THIRD COURSE. 

March 1, Prof. Harvey W. Willey : The sugar industry of the North. 

March 8, Prof. Simon Newcomb : Psychic force. 

March 16, Mr. John A. Eyder: Protoplasm in the light of recent in- 
vestigations. 

March 22, Dr. Frank Baker: The new phrenology. 

March 29, Dr. D. Webster Prentiss : The bird-life of the District of 
Columbia. 

FOURTH COURSE. 

April 5, Prof. T. C. Chamberlin: The great ice invasion of North 
America. 

April 12, Dr. W. W. Godding : What shall we do with the inebriates 1 

April 19, Prof. J. S. Newberry : The industrial arts as factors in mod- 
ern history. 

April 26, Maj. J. W. Powell: The canons of the Colorado. 

The lecture room was occupied on March 19 for the delivery of the 
ninth lecture of the Toner series by Dr. Charles K. Mills, of Philadel- 
phia. 

(/) Meetings of societies. 

The lecture hall of the National Museum has been used during the 
year for sixty-eight meetings of different kinds, as is shown below. 

National Academy of Sciences, April 15-17 : Ten meetings were held. 
On the evening of the 17th a public meeting was held, at which the 
eulogies of deceased members were i)ronounced, 176 persons being in 
attendance. 

American Surgical Association, April 30-May 3 : Eight meetings were 
held. 

American Fish Cultural Association, May 13-15: Seven meetings 
were hold. Invitations were extended by the Commissioner of Fisheries 
to the fish commissioners of nineteen States, and a large attendance was 
the result. Many papers were presented, but the chief point of attrac- 
tion was the opening to the public of the fisheries section of the Museum, 
as arranged after the return of a part of the collection from the Inter- 
national Fisheries Exhibition in London. The Brush-Swan Company 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 35 

kiudly furnished tlie lights to illuminate the entire building, especially 
the fisheries section, and a large number of visitors were present on the 
occasion. On the evening of May 13 a public meeting took place, Hon. 
Elbridge G. Lapbam in the chair. The formal address was delivered by 
Hon. Theodore Lyman, of Massachusetts, who was followed by Hon. 
S. S. Cox, of New York, in a second address. 

American Dental Association, July 22-23: Four meetings were held. 

Society of American Taxidermists, July 80: One meeting was held. 

Society of Naturalists of the Eastern United States, December 29- 
30 : Four meetings were held. 

The Biological Society' of Washington : Fortnightly meetings were 
held between June 25 and May 31, and between November 1 and De- 
cember 27. In all there were fifteen meetings. 

The Entomological Society of Washington held three meetings in 
the office of the assistant director, on May 8, June 3, and November 3, 
respectively. 

On Jan«ary 11, permission was granted to members of the Argent 
Club, an association of amateur photographers, to hold their monthly 
meetings in the photographic laboratory of the Museum. 

14. CURRENT ADMINISTRATIVE WORK, 
(a) Buildings and labor, police and public comfort. 

At the commencement of the year the administrative staff for police 
and inspection consisted of Henry Horan, superintendent of buildings, 
2 assistant superintendents, 12 watchmen, and 5 doorkeepers; for con- 
struction, care of buildings, and repairs, 8 carpenters, 3 painters, and 
1 mason ; for labor and cleaning, 20 laborers, 2 attendants, and 4 clean- 
ers. For heating and lighting there were employed 1 engineer and 4 
firemen. The same system of Museum messenger-service as was adopted 
in 1883 is still in practice, and greatly facilitates the despatch of busi- 
ness between the offices of the divisions of administration and the offi- 
cers and employes of the Museum. Two Museum messengers are now 
employed, it having been found impracticable for one to complete the 
round of the buildings within the necessary limit of time — one hour. 

The following abstract of the report of Mr. Horan, the superintend- 
ent of buildings, is here presented, to give an idea of the maniier in 
which the mechanics and laborers have been employed. The main 
features of the work mentioned by him and discussed elsewhere in this 
report form the standpoint of the general administration : 

la the early part of January the exhibits of metals, ores, &c., transferred to the 
Smithsonian Institution at the end of the Centennial Exhibition in 1876 were brought 
into the Museum and assigned to their respective departments. 

A great many heavy specimens were brought into the New Museum from the Smith- 
Konian building during the early part of the year, including the Egyptian statuary, 
a pair of Haviland vases vrhich were exhibited at the Centennial Exhil)iti()u, &c. 
Much time was also occupied during the first part of the year in shipping to their 
owners exhibits which had been sent to Loudon in conjunction with the exhibit of 



36 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

the National Museum. For instance, seventeen boxes were returned to the Signal 
Office, fifteen boxes to the Light-House Board, «&c. 

Toward the end of January it was found necessary to add to the force two carpen- 
ters, two painters, four laborers, and oue fireman. In February and April further 
additions were rendered necessary. 

During the latter month two additional carpenters, one painter, one stone-cutter, 
and ten laborers were employed. On account of lack of convenient quarters, it was 
found uecessary in April to clear out a portion of the southeast court for the use of 
painters. The extra force was discharged on May 21. 

On the 14th of May the entire force of laborers was very busily engaged in making 
proparatious for the opening of the fisheries section, which took place in the evening 
of that date. It had been necessary for several days previous to keep the men at 
work until midnight, and it was only by most strenuous efforts that the fisheries hall 
was ready for the visitors a minute or two before the appointed time. 

On the 10th of July the work of preparation for the Louisville and Cincinnati Ex- 
positions was commenced. Three extra carpenters were employed. On this day the 
construction of a workshop was begun in the grounds east of the Museum building 
for the use of the stone-cutters, and a few days later the ground was broken for the 
erection of an annex building, it having been found that the preparations for these 
expositions demanded more space than could possibly be found in the Museum build- 
ing. This annex was finished on August 4, and the taxidermist's laboratory was im- 
mediately removed to it from the Museum building. A portion of the annex was 
alloted to the Bureau of Ethnology. On the 5th of August all the ethnological speci- 
mens in the northeast court were taken to the new building. 

On August 6 the work of packing the Louisville exhibits was commenced in the 
northeast court, and on August 12 two car-loads, containing 112 packages, were shipped 
to the exposition. On the following day the superintendent left Washington for 
Louisville for the purpose of assisting in the reception and arrangement of the ex- 
hibits. 

On August 26 two car-loads of exhibits, numbering 76 packages, were shipped to 
the Cincinnati Exposition, and the superintendent was also requested to go there 
and render similar assistance. During this month the force of laborers and mechanics 
was kept unusually busy, and at the end of the month the extra hands were all dis- 
charged. 

On the first of September a small frame building was erected east of the stone-cut- 
ters' house for the purpose of poisoning skins, &c. 

In the middle of October the National Museum received from the Botanical Gar- 
dens some very fine tropical plants, which have been placed around the fountain in 
the rotunda. Smaller plants were also arranged on the four balconies overlooking 
the rotunda. These plants have added very much to the appearance of the Museum. 

On November 24 the work of shipping the exhibits intended for the New Orleans 
Exposition was commenced. On the 30th the superintendent left for New Orleans, 
in order to help in the arrangement of specimens. 

The preparation of the exhibit for New Orleans necessitated a large addition to 
the force of mechanics and laborers, and during July 31 names were added to this 
roll, distributed as follows: 4 carpenters, 1 painter, 4 masons, 10 laborers, and 12 
aids, assigned to various departments for special duty. In August this force was in- 
creased by 4 painters, 1 brasa finisher, 1 laborer, and several aids. 

During the absence of the superintendent at Cincinnati, Louisville, and New 
Orleans, Mr. C. P. Crandell acted in his place. On account of sickness Mr. Crandell 
was forced to temporarily resign his duties, and Mr. C. A. Steuart was then placed 
in charge. 

(&) Electric service. 

There have been no important additions to this service during the 
year, and a statement of the electrical apparatus now in use in the 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 37 

National Museum will be found under this heading in the report for 
1883. 

The Superintendent of the United States Naval Observatory has in- 
cluded the Sniitlisonian building and that of the National Museum in 
the series of i)ublic establishments which receive telegraphic time at 
noon on each successive day, and a clock, fitted up under the direction 
of the Observatory, with an arrangement by which the Observatory 
itself corrects any aberration in time, has been sui)plied. The money 
expense has been borne by the Institution, but no charge has been 
made for the time service. 

Through the courtesy of Colonel Kockwell, Superintendent of Public 
Buildings and Grounds, connection has been made with the underground 
telephone laid by his authority through the i)ublic grounds by the War- 
ing Company. A special advantage in this was the opportunity of 
making a more satisfactory connection between the National Museum 
building and the United States carp ponds, a service that previously 
had been much interrupted. Connection was also made through the 
same trench with the Fire Alarm Telegraph Company, and the neces- 
sary permission to open North B street was promptly granted by the 
District Commissioners. 

(c) Property and supplies. 

The property clerk has, as hitherto, be«n in charge of and held re- 
sponsible for all articles of furniture, and, in general, all Museum sup- 
plies, and has been required to inspect the same and report upon them 
to the Assistant Director. It is also his duty to keep in hand a stock 
of such articles as are in most general use, issuing the same to any per- 
son who presents a requisition duly endorsed. He is also required, when 
necessary, to bay special articles, whose purchase has been duly ap- 
proved. 

It is the duty of the property clerk to see that in the purchase of 
goods two points are especially attended to, viz : quality and price. If 
the cost of an article will probably exceed $10, the property clerk is 
required to obtain estimates from several reliable dealers. 

(d) Accounts. 

Owing to the continued ill-health of Mr. George S. Hobbs, who had 
been in charge of this department, it was found necessary to relieve 
him of otficial duties, and on July 13 Mr. H. W. Spoflord was engaged 
to fill his place temporarily, and also to assist ]Mr. William V. Cox, who 
was acting as financial clerk on the special exposition staff. 

The administration of the Museum accounts has been carried on, as 
heretofore, under the direction of the chief clerk of the Smithsonian 
Institution, and all payments have been made through his office. A 
statement of the receipts and expenditures of the Museum will be found, 
as usual, in the report of the executive committee of the Board of Ke- 
gentB of the Smithsonian Institution. 



38 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

(e) Chemical analysis of the air in the lecture room. 

On several occasions it has been remarked that the air in the lecture 
room became exceedingly oppressive during the progress of meetings, 
lectures, &c. In order to verify these statements. Dr. J. H. Kidder, of 
the United States Fish Commission, was requested by Professor Baird 
to analyze the air during the progr«ss of some of the Saturday afternoon 
lectures. Dr. Kidder's notes are here given in full : 

estimation of carbon dioxide in the lecture hall of the 

national museum. 

March 1, 1884. 
The hall is at the northwest angle of the building and measures 91^ 
by 49§ feet by 28f feet mean height. 

, Cubic feet 

Total cubical contents 1*30,279.7 

Less space occupied by .500 persons (in cubic feet) 1, 500 

Less space occupied by screens and seats (in cubic feet) 1, 000 

2, 500. 

127.779.7 

The lecture began at 3.30 and continued for three-quarters of an hour; 
most of the audience were present for a full hour. Its number, as es- 
timated by the superintendent, was about 500. The hall had been 
scrubbed and ventilated as well as possible (but very imperfectly) dur- 
ing the day, and the screens freshly painted. 

Out-door air was damp and cold, slightly below the freezing point. 
Air of lecture hall, at 9 feet from the floor, about the middle of the hall, 
was as follows : 





Dry bulb. 


Wet bulb. 


Eelative humidity 
(100=8aturation). 




61° 
65 


56° 
58 


72° 




83 







Floor scarcely dry at beginning of lecture. 

Carbon dioxide. — Eighty-six feet of rubber hose, one-quarter inch in- 
side diameter, were washed for two hours by a continuous stream of tap 
water and strung upon the gas fixtures from a point 8 feet from the 
floor, near the center of the hall, to the uppermost room of the north- 
west tower. Air was i^umped by aspiration through this tube from the 
hall, and after the residual air in the tube had been displaced, was col- 
lected in close bottles and examined, with the following results : 

Parts CO2 per 10,000 

March 1, half an hour before lecture 8. 67 

March 1, half an hour after beginning of lecture 12. 22 

March l,air of experiment room 13.04 

February 29, out-door air (4 p.m.) 3. 97 

March 3, out-door air through tube 5.54 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 3d 

The last estimation was intended to eliminate errors arising from im- 
piiriries possibly derived from the long and narrow tube through which 
the air was collected. Since the out-door air in the afternoon has been 
found by numerous estimations not to vary materially from the normal 
average of 4 parts per 10,000, the correction due to the tube becomes 
1.14, and the corrected results are as follows: 

COs per 10,000 

Lecture hall half au hour before beginning of lecture 7.53 

Lecture hall half an hour after beginning of lecture ILOr? 

Experiment room during lecture : 13. 04 

Meau of outside air 4. 00 

If the hall had been an absolutely closed box, the increase in carbon 
dioxide due to the presence of 500 persons would have been about 300 
cubic feet. The quantity observed (supposing the specimen to have 
been a fair sample of all the air in the hall) was 45 cubic feet, or about 
one-sixth of the possible increase. 

Specimens were also taken for estimation of organic matter and other 
contents of the air, but are not to be depended upon as tests because of 
the leugth and narrow caliber of the collecting tube; since both solids 
suspended in the air and ammonia tend to adhere to surfaces, and par- 
ticularly to moist surfaces. 

So far as carbon dioxide can be accepted as an indication of contam- 
ination in air, these observations do not show an unwholesome condi- 
tion of the air of the lecture room, but do indicate insufficient ventila- 
tion. For exact conclusions, specimens should betaken near the floor, 
near the ceiling, and about ten feet from the floor, at the beginning and 
end of the lecture, and compared with one another and with the outside 
air. Larger pipes, of metal, should be used for collection, unless speci- 
mens can be taken in the hall itself; and estimations of ammonia, both 
free and " albuminoid," should be made in addition to those of carbon 
dioxide. 

further examinations of air of lecture room. 

March 6. 
An average of ten persons present. Outside air damp — melting of 
a heavy snowfall. 



Time. 


Dry tnlb. 


"Wet balb. 


Kelativo humidity 
(100 = saturation). 


12.20 p. m 


58° 
65 
69 
52 


55° 
59 
64 
48 


81 in laboratory. 
68 in lecture hall. 
75 in lecture hall. 
74 out of doors. 


12.40p.m 




4. lOp. m 





Carbon dioxide : 
1 p. m., outside air, 4.6 COi. per 10,000 parts. 
12.40 p. m., lecture hall, 10.04 CO2. per 10,000 parta. 



40 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 



March 8. 
Out doors rainy. Lecture began at 3.30 p. m. ; 700 persons present. 



Time. 


Dry bulb. 


"Wet bulb. 


Relative humidity. 


1.00 p. m 


62° 

45 

09 

74 


58° 

44 

64 

70 


77 in laboratory. 


1.20 p. m 


2.30 p. m 




5.00 p. m 


lecture. 
81 lecture hall, after 




lecture. 



Carbon dioxide : 
Mean of out-door air, 4. per 10,000/ 

3 p. m., lecture hall, 9.086 per 10,000, one-half hour before lecture. 
4.15 p. m., lecture hall, 12.505 per 10,000, three-quarters of an hour after beginning lecture. 

Persons present declared the air to be more oppressive than on March 
1, but the figures show no material difference.* The highest essential 
impurity (as measured by carbon dioxide) appeared on March 6, when 
there was no lecture, and it is probable that if there had been a lecture 
on that day the highest figures for contamination by respiration would 
then have appeared. 

Summarizing the several observations, they result as follows : 

March 1. Temperature increased 4P F. during the lecture. 

March 1. Relative humidity increased 11 percent, during the lecture. 
(Floors had been wet before lecture.) 

March 6. Temperature increased 4° during four hours in lecture hall. 

March 6. Eelative humidity increased 7 per cent, during four hours. 
(No lecture.) 

March 8. Temperature increased 5° during lecture. 

March 8. Relative humidity increased 6 per cent, during lecture. 

March 1, CO2 exceeded outside air 3.53 per 10,000 before lecture. 

March 1, CO2 exceeded outside air 7.08 per 10,000 middle of lecture. 

March C, CO2 exceeded outside air 5.44 per 10,000 at 1 j). m. (No lect- 
ure.) 

March 8, CO2 exceeded outside air 5.086 per 10,000 before lecture. 

March 8, CO2 exceeded outside air 8.505 per 10,000 near end of lecture. 

If this excess be all attributed to respiratory impurity, it has exceeded 
" the maximum amount of respiratory impurity permissible in a prop- 
erly ventilated sjiace" (Dr. Ohaumont), viz, 2 parts per 10,000, by — 

Parts per 10,000 before lecture March 1 1.53 

Parts per 10,000 half throuojh lecture March 1 5. 08 

Parts per 10,000 no lecture March 6 3. 44 

Parts per 10,000 before lecture March 8 3.086 

Parts per 10,000 three-fourths through lecture March 8 6. 505 

The increase due to respiratory impurity on the two lecture days of 
experiment, while the lecture continued, was : 
March 1 . In half an hour, 3.55 parts per 10,000. 
March 8. In three-fourths of an hour, 3.419 parts per 10,000. 

* In the increase of COi during the lecture. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 



41 



The iudicatioii is that tbe ventilation is imperfect, not only during 
the lecture, but in the Museum generally, the permanent air showing 
at all times of examination too great an excess of CO^ over that out of 
doors. 

March 10, 1884. 



15. THE WORK OF THE MUSEUM PREPARATORS. , 

A number of additional preparators have been employed during the 
year, for special work upon the collections for the New Orleans Exposi- 
tion, and an unusual quantity of objects for the exhibition series have 
been completed during the year in the workshops, as is shown in the 
review of the operations of the scientific departments. 

{a) Taxidermists. 

The main workshop, which is devoted chiefly to work upon the mam- 
mals, is under the direction of Mr. William T. Horuadaj', chief taxider- 
mist, and the general excellence of its work testifies to the eflSciency of 
its stall'. The preparation of the exhibit for the JSTew Orleans Exposi- 
tion added considerably to its work, and during the summer-83 speci- 
mens, representing 78 si)ecies, were mounted specially for the exposition. 

During the year Mr. Hornaday and his assistants mounted 114 speci- 
mens, representing 91 species, and classified as follows : 



Orders. 


Specimens. 


Species. 




7 

17 

1 

33 

1 

5 

38 

6 

6 


7 




16 




1 




28 




1 




5 




27 




4 




2 








Total 


114 


91 







In addition to the work already specified, the skins of 57 mammals 
were removed and preserved. A collection of Australian fishes, con- 
sisting of GO si)eciraens, was repaired and repainted. Twelve fur-seals 
were repaired, and 24 large mammals were mounted on new pedestals. 
The large seal group, which had been sent to the Fisheries Exhibition 
in London in 1883, was reconstructed, and the collection of Ungulates 
renovated. Twenty-one 8i)ecimeus of birds, fishes, &c., were mounted, 
and two groups of small mammals made and set up. 

ny an omission in the records of last year the Museum failed to make 
acknowledgment to ^Ir. Hornaday for his gift of a mounted setter, 
valued at $250, and to certain members of the Society of American 
Taxidermists for some 25 objects presented to the National Museum. 



42 



Report of national museum, i884. 



LIST OF THE MAMMALS MOUNTED IN THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL 
MUSEUM DURING THE YEAR 1884. 



PRIMATES. 



14261. Cynopithecus niger. 
14247. Cercopithecns niber. 
14290. Stenops tardigradns. 
14309. Ateles ater. 



12129. Sapajou melanochir. 
14230. Cebus capucinus ?. 
14338. Chlorocebus engythithea. 



CHEIROPTERA. 



fi997. Atalapha ciuerea. 

7839. Natalus stramineus. 
13376. Antlirozons pallidas. 

7779. Noctilio leporinus var. luastivue. 
14202. Molossup rufus. 
5201. Vampyrua spectrum. 



14411. Artibeus perspicillatus. 

6980. Artibeus cinerea. 
11206. Artibeus planirostris. 

5418. Sturnia lilium. 
13952. Vesperugo noctivagans 

7011. Artibeus, sp. 



INSECTIVORA. 



2211. Scapanus Townsendi. 



CARNIVORA. 



14312. Felis concolor. 

7812. Felis onza. 

3573. Canis lupus griseo-albus. 
14570. Canis latrans. 
14423. Vulpes fnlvus argentatus. 
14634. Uroi-yon virginianus. 
14393. Urocyon virginianus littoralis. 
13838. Vulpes japonicus. 
13824. Nyctereutes procyonides. 
14155. Gulo luscus. 

7202. Putorius brasiliensis frenatus. 

8008. Putorius erminea. 
12671. Putorius erminea. 
14545. Putorius vison. 

Putorius vison. (With trap.) 
13946. Mephitis mephitica. 
14427. Mephitis putorius. 



12545. 
13836. 
14155. 
13842. 
13822. 
13616. 
13832. 
13966. 

9068. 

8622. 

7033. 
14424. 
11902. 
14513. 
14366. 



Taxidea americana. 
Meles anakuma. 
Lntra canadensis. 
Lutronectes Whitleyi. 
Ursus japonicus. 
Ursus araericanus ? juv. 
Mustela melanopus, 
Procyon lotor. 
Procyon lotor. 
Nasua narica. 
Nasua narica. 
Cercoleptes caudivolvulus. 
Bassaris astuta. 
Bassaris Sumichrasti. 
Viverra zibetha. 
Galidia olivacea. 



PINNIPKDIA. 



14021. Phoca foBtida. 



14684. Bison americanus. 

13991. Ovis, sp. 

14116. Cervus colurabianua. 



UNGULATA. 



14004. Cervus raacrotis. (Head.) 
13776. Elasmognathas Bairdii. juv. 



RODENTIA. 



Sciuropterus volucella."| 
I 



14328 

14329. Sciuropterus volucoUa. 

14330. Sciuropterus volucella. ip 
14341. Sciuropterus volucella. [ 

14270. Sciuropterus volucella. j 

14271. Sciuropterus volucella. ' 



13839. Pteromys leucogenys. 

2349. Sciurus niger var. niger. 
14429. Sciurus fossor. 
12892. Sciurus hypopyrrhus. 
12055. Sciurus aestuans. 

9488. Sciurus ciuereus. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 



43 



RODENTIA — Continued. 



9432. 


Sciurus aureogaster. 


14148. 


95. 


Sciuru8, sp. 


14413. 


248->. 


Tamias striatus. 


14460. 


2477. 


Tamias asiaticus Townseudi. 


14348. 


94.<9. 


Tauiias Harrisii. 


14348. 


7371. 


Tamias, sp. 


14348. 


2375. 


Sciurus caroliuensis. (Albino.) 




1445. 


Spermophilus Douglasii. 


14461. 


1323. 


Cynomys ludovicianua. 


13847. 


1913. 


Cynomys columbianus. 


14288. 


13957. 


Arctomys monax. 


14289. 


12654. 


Eritbizon dorsatus epixantbus. 


14341. 


13621. 


Eritbizon dorsatus epixantbus. 


7017. 




EDENTATA. 



13874. Cbolcepus HoflFmanii. 
8807. Cbolcepns Hoffmanii, 
12101. Bradjqius casteneiceps. 

14;J49. Didelpbys virginiana. 
14349. Didelpbys virginiana. 
14349. Didelpbys virginiana. 



Lepus timidus. 

Lepus californicus. 

Lepus amcricauus Wasbingtoni. 

Lepus sylvaticus sylvaticus. 

Lepus sylvaticus sylvaticus. 

Lepus sylvaticus sylvaticus. 

Lagostomus trichodactylus. 

Dipodoniys Pbilippsi. 

Fiber zibetbicus. 

Fiber zibetbicus. 

Fiber zibetbicus. 

Castor fiber. 

Spermopbilus Franklini. 



12856. Cbolcepus Hoffmanii. 
11282. Mymedou dorsalis. 

Solenodon cubanus. (Head.) 

MARSUPIALIA, 

I 14349. Didelpbys virginiana. 

14349. Didelpbys virginiana. 

I 11851. Didelpbys californica. 

SUMMARY. 



Orders. 


Specimens. 


Species. 




7 

17 

1 

33 

1 

5 

38 

6 

6 


7 




16 




1 




28 




1 




5 


Rodentia 


27 




4 












Total 


lU 


91 







Mounted expressly for the New Orleans Exposition, 83 specimens, 78 
species. 



LIST OF MAMMALS, IN THE 
NATIONAL MUSEUM BY 
THE YEAH 1884. 

14229. .Cyuocepbalus porcariiis. 

14230. Cebns, sp. 

14235. Cercocebus fuliginosua. 
14247. Cercopitbecus ruber. 
14256. Cebns bypoleucus. 

14260. Cercopitbecus mona. 

14261. Cynopitbecus niger. 
14263. Cercopitbecus mona. 
14290. Stenops tardigradus. 
14309. Ateles ater. 

14324. Cyuocepbalus anubis. 
1433d. Cblorocebus eugythitLea. 
14339. Prosiniia mongoz. 



FLESH, SEC USED FOB THE UNITED STATES 
THE TAXIDEEMIC DEPARTMENT DURING 



PRIMATES. 
14350. 
14604. 
14605. 
14664. 
14672. 
14673. 
14676. 
14688. 
14686. 
14687. 
14704, 
14705 
14234. 



Cblorocebus engytbitbea. 
Papio raaimon. 
Cynocepbahis, sp. 
Semnopitbecus, f sp. 
Cyuocepbalus spbinx. 
Cyuocepbalus spbiux. 
Macacus cynoniolgus. 
Macacus nemestrinus. 
Cblorocebus cynosurns. 
Mormon maimon. 
Cercopitbecus, sp. 
Cyuocepbalus anubis. 
Cebns, sp. 



44 



EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 



14700. Pteropus Edwardsii. 



14634. Urocyou virginianus. 
13966. Procyon lotor. 
14699. Viverra malaccensis. 
14312. Felis coitcolor. 



CHEIROPTERA. 



CARNIVORA. 



14337. Felia leopardus. 

14397. Felis jiibata. 

14398. Felis jubata. 



14302. Zalophus Gilliespei. 



Oreas canna. 
14326. Tiagelaplius scripta. 
44667. Dicotyles torquatus. 



14288. Fiber zibethicus. 

14289. Fiber zibethicus. 
14270. Sciuropterus volucella. 

mens.) 
14606. Dipus birtipes. 



14841. Macropus gigas. 
(Total. 56.) 

2 Grus leucogeranus. 
1 Cassowary. 

1 Condor. 

3 Cockatoos. 



PINNIPEDIA. 



DNGULATA. 



14706. Pbacochcerus ethiopicua. 
14702. Cervus porcinus. 



RODENTIA. 



(6 speci-" 



14346-8. Lepus sylvaticus. 

14710. Lepus americanus. 

14711. Lepus americanus. 

14712. Lepus americanus. 

14713. Lepus americanus. 



MARSUPIALIA. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



2 Parrots. 

1 Jaiianese fowUdomestlc). 

1 Alligator 9 feet long. 



MISCELLANEOUS TAXIDERMIC WORK. 



Eemoved and preserved the skins of 57 mammals. 

Eepaired, repainted, and rearranged a collection of Australian fishes j 
60 specimens. 

Repaired 12 fur seals, and also pedestal. 

Mounted 24 large mammals on new pedestals. 

Reconstructed large seal group. 

Renovated and repaired the collection of Ungulates, Felidae, Ursida), 
&c. 

Renovated rug for President Arthur. 

Mounted 1 large halibut. 

Mounted 1 shark. 

Mounted 8 birds. 

Mounted 4 California salmon. 

Moi^nted 4 smaller fishes. 

Mounted 2 pairs elk antlers. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 45 

Mounted 1 elk-leg trophy. 

Made 5 traps. 

Made 2 groups of small mammals. 

Packed New Orleans exhibit of mammals, and installed the same, 
the taxidermic exhibit and skeleton exhibit in the New Orleans Ex- 
position. 

Mr. Henry Marshall has been engaged upon his regular work — that 
of mounting birds — during the whole year. A large number were pre- 
pared for the New Orleans, Louisville, and Cincinnati Expositions. In 
liis work he has had the valuable assistance of his son, Mr. (leorge 
Marshall. 

(b) Osteological preparator. 

Mr. Lucas has devoted his time, under the direction of the curator 
of mammals, to the removal of the collection of mounted skeletons from 
the Smithsonian building and its arrangement in the east south range 
of the New Museum building. The two large whale skeletons have 
been suspended from the ceiling, and nearly one hundred skeletons, 
skulls, and other osteological specimens mounted and placed on exhibi- 
tion. A large number of specimens have been cleaned and rendered 
available for study. The necessary work of caring for the numerous 
fresh specimens received has precluded the possibility of devoting very 
much time to the exhibition series. 

During the summer, while i)reparations for the New Orleans Exposi- 
tion were being most busily carried on, an additional assistant, J. W. 
Scollick, was assigned to this section. 

In November, on account of the low condition of the New Orleans 
appropriations, it was found necessary to dispense with Mr. McCormick's 
services. Mr. Scollick was transferred to the Museum roll. 

(c) Modelers. 

Mr. Joseph Palmer has been engaged in liis usual work of making 
casts. He has prepared for exhibition and set up in the Museum the 
plaster casts of George Washington, Benjamin Silliman, and also the 
bronzed plaster cast representing an Indian group. Several casts of 
fishes, Indian pipes, reptiles, «S:c., were prepared by liim for tiie New 
Orleans, Louisville, and Cincinnati ^Expositions. Two large casts, one 
of the spiny shark and one of the sperm whale porpoise, have been 
made with the assistance of Mr. William Palnu^r, wl)o also rendered 
valuable service in unpacking, setting up, and rei)acking the colUn'-tions 
sent to the Louisville and Cincinnati Expositions. 

Mr. J. W. Hendley has made progress in the preparation of casts of 
animal and vegetable foods. It is intended that these casts sball be 
exhibited in the Department of Foods, accompanied by a statement of 
the chemicS'l pomposition of the objects which they represent. 



46 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

(d) Photographer. 

Mr. T. W. Smillie reports the addition to liis files of 529 negatives 
during the year. The following instruments have been purchased : One 
large vertical copying camera ; one small camera ; one solar microscope, 
including one heliostat; one camera with various illuminators, dia- 
phragms, &c. ; and a series of objectives from ^ inch to 4 inches. An 
electric light has also been added to the apparatus of this section, ob- 
viating tne necessity of delays by reason of cloudy weather. 

The apparatus in this section is extremely complete, and the photo- 
graphic laboratory is now thoroughly equipped for all kinds of work. 
Several of the Government bureaus have recognized this fact, and have 
occasionally requested the i)ermission of the Director to have certain 
scientific work performed here, some of which i^robably could not have 
been accomplished elsewhere. During 1884 Mr. Smillie has instructed 
a class of ten ensigns of the United States Navy. One of these accom- 
panied the Greely Relief Expedition, and produced some very satisfac- 
tory results with a camera. Instruction has also been given without 
reserve to several scientific gentlemen who desired to acquire some 
knowledge of this art preparatory to their departure on various scien- 
tific expeditions. 

As a special application of this art to Museum purposes may be 
mentioned certain work which has been performed for the Department 
of Building Stones. Negatives have been made of typical buildings, 
constructed of various kinds of stone. These have been enlarged on 
paper 30 by 40 inches, and colored according to the natural colors of 
the different kinds of stone. By means of polarized light photomi- 
crographs were made from thin sections of stone. These were enlarged 
on glass and colored with transparent tints, thus presenting a picture 
of the section as seen with the microscoj^e under polarized light. Spe- 
cially noteworthy also were a number of photographic enlargements 
representing thirteen of the Government buildings in Washington. 
These are the largest single prints ever made, and have been found par- 
ticularly effective at the New Orleans and Cincinnati Expositions, it 
being thought that in an exhibition of the work of the Government De- 
partments, such as has been attempted this year by the United States 
Executive Board, it is particularly appropriate that the public buildings 
of Washington should be shown in an impressive manner. 

The work accomi^lished in this section during 1884 is as follows : 

Negatives taken *463 

Prints made 4, 847 

Medium size enlargements GG 

Extra size enlargements (4 by 7 feet) 26 

Enlargements on glass, colored 12 

Enlargements on paper, colored 12 

Cyanotypes 315 

* In addition to this number 66 negatives were taken in the field. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 47 

In addition to this 2,200 plates have been numbered, and filed for 
future use. 

(e) Artist. 

Mr. A. Zeno Shindler has been engaged in painting casts of fishes, 
reptiles, &c., for the Museum aixl for tbe Louisville, Cincinnati, and 
Xew Orleans Expositions. He has also made numerous sketches in oil 
and water-color of certain specimens on exhibition in the .Museum. 
Four full-sized Indian busts were also painted by him for exhii)ition at 
ifew Orleans in connection with the ethnological department of the 
Museum. 

(/) Preparators in the Division of Anthropology. 

Mr. E. H. Hawley has been for the greater part of the year engaged 
in mounting collections for the New Orleans, Louisville, and Cincinnati 
Expositions. During the early part of the year he also arranged for 
exhibition the collections received from the foreign exhibition, held in 
Boston during the latter part of 1SS3. In November and December 
eight valuable India cashmere shawls were mounted and placed on ex- 
liibition in the IMuseum. An interesting collection from the Dennison 
Manufacturing Company, consisting of the ingredients used in the i)rep- 
aration of sealing wax, together with the uumufactured products, is be- 
ing installed by Mr. Hawley; also, a magnificent collection of ostrich 
leathers presented byMr. R. T. Bdn^, and imported by Joseph Andrade 
and Company, and some fine specimens of walrus leathers received from 
F. "W. Gesswein. 

Mr. T, M. Sweeny devoted his time during the first half of the year 
to the mounting of ethnological objects for display in the National Mu- 
seum. As soon as the Department of Ethnology was organized, in July, 
he was assigned as assistant to the curator. Prof. O. T. Mason. 

16. WORK IN CONNECTION WITH THE EXPOSITIONS. 
{a) The Cincinnati, Louisville, and Nerc Orleans Expositions. 

The participation of the Smithsonian Institution, as directed by Con- 
gress, in three exhibitions, has — although in many respects detrimental 
to the growth of the Museiun — contributed largely to the prosperity of 
several of its departments. In the first i)lace, in order that material 
might properly be selected for exhibition, it was found necessary in 
many departments of the Museum to employ additional assistants in 
making a thorough overhauling of the material and getting it system- 
atically arranged. In the second place, it was found necessary to pur- 
chase a considerable amount ot material to fill vacancies in the various 
series of specimens which were shown at the exhibitions. 

It has been our policy to expend the ai>propriation for the New Or- 
leans Exposition in such a manner that there also might result a per- 



48 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEMM, 1884, 

manent benefit to the Museum. This we have found to be entirely con- 
sistent with the interests of the exhibitions, since the material which is 
useful for these temporary disjjlays is even more useful for the perma- 
nent exhibition series of the Museum. At the same time, in many of 
the departments an ofitbrt has been made, in selecting specimens for the 
expositions, to make use of duplicate material from the Museum, in 
order that, should we be called upon in future to participate in other 
expositions, the preparation of a collection can be effected with less 
expense of time and money than has been heretofore i^racticable. 

In the report for 1885 J hope to include an extended account of the 
New Orleans Exposition, with special reference to the specimens ac- 
quired for the National Museum by gifts and exchanges. 

The following statement will, however, serve to indicate the extent 
of the preparations made by the Smithsonian Institution for participa- 
tion in the expositions at Louisville, Cincinnati, and New Orleans : 

The following preliminary report upon the exposition work of the 
year has been prejjared by Mr. R. Edward Earll, the head of the special 
exposition staii': 

On July 7 Congress passed a bill authorizing the representation of 
the various executive departments of the Government, including the 
Smithsonian Institution and Department of Agriculture, at the World's 
Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition to be opened in New 
Orleans December 1, and to continue for six months. The bill further 
provided for an exhibit by each of the departments at the Southern 
Exposition to be held at Louisville, Ky., and at the Industrial Ex- 
position at Cincinnati, Ohio. The bill authorized the appointment by 
the President of representatives for each of the departments, these to 
constitute a United States Executive Board, to whom all questions re- 
lating to the Government participation in the various expositions were 
to be referred. Each representative was to be charged with the prep- 
aration of an exhibit for his department, and the funds placed to its 
credit by Congress were to be disbursed under his direction. Mr. G. 
Brown Goode, Assistant Director of the U. S. National Museum, who 
had represented the U. S. Fish Commission at Berlin in 1880, and at 
London in 1883, was appointed to represent the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, including the U. S. National Museum and U. S. Fish Commission. 
Seventy-five thousand dollars were placed to the credit of the Institu- 
tion for the preparation of exhibits for New Orleans, with twenty-four 
hundred dollars additional for Louisville and twenty-three hundred 
dollars for Cincinnati. 

THE EXHIBIT AT LOUISVILLE. 

In 1883 the people of Louisville obtained control of a large plat of 
ground within easy access of the city and erected a building 920 feet by 
630, with extensive galleries, where they held a large and successful 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 49 

exposition, continuing for three months. The exposition of 1884 was 
held inuleitho same iinspices and In the same building, opening August 
10 and closing October L'5. 

Immediately upon the passage of the bill by Congress correspondence 
was o])oncd with the management of the exposition and space obtained 
in ditiercnt portions of the building for the several executive depart- 
ments, 4,5(K) feet being assigned to the Smithsonian Institution, in one 
of the most prominent portions of the building. The time being short, 
the work of preparing the exhibit was vigorously prosecuted, and on 
August V2 three car-loads, containing 95 cases, with a weight of 
23,553 pounds, were shipped. These arrived ut Louisville on the morn- 
ing of the 16th, and by the evening of the 19th were fully installed. 

The iiidnstrial interests of Kentucky were taken into consideration 
in deciding upon the character of the exhibit, which it was thought de- 
sirable to make as instructive as possible. It was largely an educa- 
tional exhibit, showing the i)rocesses of manufacture of raw materials 
which were abundant in the State, and a graphic representation of such 
subjects as were supposed to be least familiar to the people of Kentucky. 
One of the prominent features of the exhibit was a large collection 
showing the i)rocesses of manufacturing textiles from raw materials, 
including flax, hemp, jute, grasses, and silk. A collection illustrative 
of articles derived from the animal kingdom was also shown. This in- 
cluded a series of furs, another of crude and manufactured leathers, a 
third of natural and ornamental shells and shell-works, another illus- 
trating the uses of feathers in the arts, and a tifth showing the manu- 
facture and uses of glues derived from the sounds, bones, and skins of 
various species of lish. An extensive collection illustrative of the great 
ocean fisheries of the New England coast was also shown. The whale 
fishery was illustrated by means of a full-sized whale-boat, fully equipped 
with sails, oars, harpoons, lines, and guns; a model of a whale-ship 
with a whale alongside, showing the method of stripping the blubber, 
and trying it out on the vessel's deck, and by i)aintings of whaling 
scenes. The other lisheries, in(;lnding those for cod, mackerel, men- 
haden, and herring, and the apparatus aiul methods of lish culture, were 
fully shown by models of the most important vessels and boats, and a 
series of photographs 30 by 40 inches, neatly framed, classified, and 
mounted on screens. The natural histoiy collections included a repre- 
sentation of nearly all of the snakes and reptdes found in the United 
States, and a fine series of many of the water-birds of the country. 

An attendant was left in charge of the exhibits during the continu- 
ance of the exposition, and at its close the exhibits wore carefully 
l)acked and a- majority of them forwanled directly to New Orleans, a 
few being returned to Washington to be remounted, with larger and 
more complete collections, before shipping to the New Orleans Exposi- 
tion. 

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 4 



50 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

THE EXHIBIT AT CINCINNATI. 

The CiDcinnati Industrial Exposition is an institution of some years 
standing, and receives the cordial support of the most prominent busi- 
ness men of the city. Expositions have been held annually since 1873, 
a suitable and substantial brick building having been erected by the 
management. It is located in the heart of the city, and has annually a 
large attendance. For the season of 1884 the exposition opened on 
September 3, closing on the fourth of the following month. 

As the space was mostly allotted before the bill authorizing Govern- 
ment participation in the exposition had become a law, a second build- 
ing to accommodate the Government exhibits was found necessary, and 
the management erected a temporary structure near the main entrance, 
having dimensions of 50 by 200 feet. This was divided between the 
several departments, 3,322 square feet, or nearly one-third of the entire 
building, being allotted to the Smithsonian Institution. This space 
was situated at one end of the structure, thus admitting of a satisfactory 
and very pleasing installation. 

As soon as the Louisville exhibits were in place the work of pre- 
paring those for Cincinnati was vigorously pushed, and the entire col- 
lection consisting of 80 cases of exhibits with a weight of 24,321 pounds 
was shipped on August 26, reaching the exposition at Cincinnati on 
September 1. A large force of men was at once set to work to unpack 
and arrange them, and by the opening of the exposition the arrange- 
ment was practically completed. 

As at Louisville, the exhibits were largely educational, and included 
such objects as it was thought would be appreciated by those who saw 
them. One of the striking features of the exhibit was an alcove con- 
taining a collection illustrative of the social life and industries of the 
Eskimo and the Indians of the northwest coast; the dwellings, house- 
hold utensils, and implements of war, hunting and fishing, as well as 
the art of the two races being shown in such a manner as to afford 
accurate means of comparison. A life-size bust in plaster of one of 
the prominent Indian chiefs with portraits in oil of thirteen others were 
also exhibited. Another important feature was a large and valuable 
collection of minerals yielding gems and ornamental stones. The 
natural history department contained a small but choice collection of 
taxidermy, including game and water birds, sparrows, and a few mam- 
mals, while a full series of Audubon colored plates of ISTorth American 
birds were framed and used for decoration. Two cases were devoted 
to a large collection of plaster casts of the more common snakes and 
turtles of the United States. The methods and apparatus employed in 
the great ocean fisheries and in fish culture were graphically repre- 
sented by means of two extensive series of photographs, the largest 
series being solar enlargement having dimensions of 30 by 40 inches. 
In the fishery section was also shown a large and valuable collection of 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 51 

plaster casts of the important food-fishes of the country, including both 
fresh and salt water species. The collection of textile fabrics was very- 
complete, inchulinj;: samples of many of both American and foreign 
fabrics, from the cheapest to the most expensive. Two alcoves, which 
attracted considerable attention, were devoted to photolithographs of 
Japanese pottery, and a large collection of photographs showing the 
arts of the early Saxons. 

As at Louisville, the collections were placed in charge of an attendant 
who looked after the interests of tbe department during the continuan(;e 
of the exi)ositi()n, and at its close the exhibits were packed and the 
bulk of them shipped to Kew Orleans, to be installed with other exhibits 
at the exposition in that city. 

THE EXHIBIT AT NEW ORLEANS. 

The preparations for the exhibit at New Orleans have been very exten- 
sive. Curators from the various dei)artments of the Museum have been 
charged with the collection of material to illustrate their several depart- 
ments at the exposition, and assistants have been employed in arrang- 
ing and mounting the collections, which, as a rule, have been provided 
with printed or written descriptive labels. 

The building for the display of the Government and State exhibits 
at New Orleans is 885 feet long and 5G5 feet wide. A strip 185 feet 
wide, extending entirely across the center of the building has been 
assigned to the Government departments, the Smithsonian Institution 
occupying an area of over twenty thousand square feet at the left of 
the i)rincipal entrance of the building. 

The exhibit includes an archaeological collection of considerable size 5 
a large and valuable ethnological collection, confined chiefly to the 
Indians and Eskimo of North America; a collection of models showing 
the development of American shipbuilding; a collection of American 
and foreign textiles, and a large and valuable collection of autotypes 
representing the principal artists of the world. Adjoining the last is 
a collection of all of the important food-fishes of the country in plaster, 
a collection illustrative of the recent methods of fish culture and the 
more important forms of fish-ladders, together with tabulated state- 
ments of the nutritive values of fish and other aquatic animals. Next 
comes an extensive collection of animal products, showing the various 
methods of utilizing the hair, fur, feathers, scales, leather, flesh, bones, 
intestines, and excrements of various animals. Adjoining this, and serv- 
ing as a connection between it and the natural history specimens, is a 
collection illustrating the various devices used in the capture of animals. 
The natural history collection includes specimens of the principal mam- 
mals, birds, and shells, the lafter being arranged according to their 
geographical location, the molluscan life of the Atlantic coast, the Miss- 



52 REPORT OF NATIONAL MEUSEUM, 1884. 

issippi basin, aiitl the Pacific being shown separately. Seven cases are 
devoted to an extensive collection of minerals, while a large space is 
assigned to metallurgy and economic geology, including a collection 
illustrating the apparatus and methods of coal mining, and samples of 
the various grades of commercial coal. 

The entire collection, occupying seventeen cars, was sent to New Or- 
leans, where it is now being installed in as systematic a manner as 
possible, the educational idea being prominent in the arrangement. 

During the progress of the several expositions many of the curators 
were in attendance for a short time, in order to give their personal at- 
tention to the installment of their exhibits. The Assistant Director left 
here on December 6, to be present at the opening of the New Orleans 
Exposition, and was thus enabled to superintend in person the installa- 
tion of the Smithsonian exhibit so far as it was possible to complete 
this by the opening day. Mr. Henry Horan, superintendent of the 
National Museum, was detailed to attend to the three expositions at 
various times between August 13 and November 30, in order to assist 
in the arrangement of the cases. He also attended to the shipment 
from Cincinnati to New Orleans of the cases intended for display at the 
latter place. 

INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES EXHIBITION OF LONDON. 

The International Fisheries Exhibition of 1883 closed on October 31, 
and Mr. Earll, with his assistants, who were left in charge after my re- 
turn, reached Washington soon after the beginning of the year, the 
last shipment of collections from London having already been received. 
The reception, unpacking, and installation of the collections which 
were prepared to be sent to London, together with the new material 
obtained from the collections of other countries at this exhibition, oc- 
cupied a great deal of time in the early part of the year. As has already 
been mentioned, this work was completed in a preliminary manner in 
May, during which month the fisheries gallery was opened to the pub- 
lic. At the same time the gallery devoted to naval architecture — a 
department which also received great impetus in connection with the 
London Exhibition — was also thrown open. The fisheries collection 
will undoubtedly for some years stand as the first completed and most 
thoroughly arranged collection in the department of arts and indus- 
tries. During the year a full catalogue of the collection, as shown in 
London, has been printed, which, although far from corresponding to 
the standard proi)Osed for the Museum hand-books, will serve as a 
starting point for this series. This catalogue may be considered as a 
report upon the participation by the United States in the London Fish- 
eries Exhibition. The report upon the general exhibition is now, as the 
law requires, in course of preparation, and will be presented to the Sec- 
retary of State during the coming year. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 53 

E.— REVIEW OF'THE YEAR'S WORK IN THE SCIENTIFIC 

DEPARTMENTS. 

As in uiy last report, I here present a brief review of wbat has been 
accomplished in each department of the several scientific divisions. 
The curators' rei)orts are -:iven in full in Part II of this report. These 
are es[)ecially intended to embrace (1) a review of the important addi- 
tions during: the year; (2) a statement of the character of routine work 
emi)l(>yed in arranginjj^ and classifying the collections, and in preparing 
the exhibition and study series. 

17. DIVISION OF ANTHROPOLOGY. 

(«) Department of Arts and Industries. 

The curator of this department is the custodian of all materials pos- 
sessing anthropological significance, which are not elsewhere assigned. 
Its belongings are consequently somewhat heterogeneous and difficult 
to report upon, and its relations with the Department of Ethnology are 
so intimate that it is impossible to make a definite division between 
them. Certain collections belonging to this department are under the 
charge of other curators, the collection of building-stones being as- 
signed to the department of lithology and physical geology, while all 
that relates to mining and metal-working is cared for by the curator of 
metallurgy and economic geology. Several sub-curatorships have 
grown up in this department, and certain other collections, especially 
those of architecture, musical instruments, and modern ceramics, to- 
gether with the somewhat anomalous collection of historical objects, 
are at present assigned to this curatorshi]). 

When, in 1857, the Smithsonian Institution assumed the custody of 
the collection of the United States Exploring Expedition, together with 
the miscellaneous material which had gatliered around this nucleus, a 
great quantity of material was transferred to the Smithsonian building 
which has not to this day been classified and placed upon exhibition. 
TIk; rapid growth, especially during the past decade, of the collections 
illustrating the ethnology of North American Indians, and especially 
of prehistoric objects from this continent, has absorbed the attention of 
all who were interested in this d«'i)artment of the Museum. The major- 
ity of the foreign ethnological objects are still, on account of lack of 
room, i)acked up or crowded together in a too limited amount of case- 
room. At the close of the Centennial Exhibition the Museum received 
from foreign Governments great (juantities of material exhibited af 
Philadelphia, which, while possessing an undoubted ethnological inter- 
est, could not in many instances be displayed in the manner usually 
adopted in ethnological museums. 

The material I'eceived from Philad('Ii>hia in 1870 was for several years 
stored in the Armory building. On completion of the i)resent Museum 



54 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

building, and before the collections could be transferred to it, it became 
necessary to decide by what method the stored material (other than 
zoological, botanical, geological, or mineralogical) could be most effect- 
ively classified for purposes of study and exhibition. 

After a careful consideration of the methods of the large museums of 
Europe, the officers of the Museum agreed that the ordinary classifi- 
cation by races or tribes would in this case be less satisfactory than a 
classification based upon function. 

The Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1881, pages 117-122, 
and also Circular No. 13, of the National Museum, presented a pro- 
visional outline of the plan of classification for the Museum. This 
classification, while its purpose was to embrace every kind of object 
which could possibly be exhibited in the Museum, was especially full 
in those jiarts which related to the arts and industries, forty-nine out 
of the sixty-four primary classes relating to this group of museum 
material. The general idea of the classification, as there exijlained, is 
that the collections should constitute a museum of anthropology, the 
word ''anthropology" being applied in its most comprehensive sense. 
It should exhibit the physical characteristics, the history, the manners 
past and present of all races civilized and savage, and should also illus- 
trate human culture and industry in all their j)hases; the earth, its 
physical structure, and its products are to be exhibited with special 
reference to their adaptation for use by man. 

Some experiments have already been made with reference to the fea- 
sibility of this plan of arranging the exhibition series, but I am not yet 
prepared to recommend its final acceptance; indeed the experience of 
three years has brought about many changes in the plan, and a revision 
is now being made by Professor Mason and myself. 

The adoption of any plan of this general character would necessitate 
the grouping together, in continuous series, of objects which had never 
before been placed side by side in any museum. If the evolution of 
any given industry or class of objects is to be shown, the series should 
begin with the simplest types and close with the most perfect and 
elaborate objects of the same class which human effort has produced. 

In the textile industry, for instance, at one extreme is shown the 
simple whorl of stone or terra cotta, used by savage or semi-civilized 
man, together with the archaic representative of the same, surviving 
among rural members of the most highly civilized races; these being 
supplemented by the threads and the simple woven fabrics produced 
by them ; on the other hand, the steam spinning apparatus and the 
power and Jacquard looms. 

Much attention has been devoted during the year to experiments for 
determining the manner in which the idea of this classification can best 
be carried into effect. It is not possible within the limits of this report 
to describe what has been done. In fact a full account of them at pres- 
ent would be premature. The practicability of the scheme can best be 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 55 

judged Upon by au examiuation of the one or two groups, such as the 
materia medica collectiou, the collection of musical instruments, and the 
portion of the costume collection, which are already partly installed. 

The Department of Arts and Industries is not yet established upon 
the same footing as the others in the Museum, nor is it yet quite cer- 
tain what form it will assume in the futur^. 1 shall therefore not un- 
dertake to i)resent a formal report upon its operations, but shall sub- 
mit in the api)endix the reports of the curators of materia medica, tex- 
tile industries, foods and naval architecture, and refer back to my re- 
port of 188;i for a statement of the character of the work which was in 
progress at the end of that year, and which has been continued during 
the present year, so far as the interruptions connected with exposition 
work have i)ermitted. 

The installation of the section of fisheries,* under the immediate 
direction of Mr. R. E. Earll, was actively carried on from January to 
May, and on the evening of May 14, at 7.30 p, m., the fisheries section 
of the National Museum was formally o])ened to the public. This occa- 
sion was one of special interest, from the fact that the collections in 
this section were the same that had been exhibited at the International 
Fisheries Exhibition at London in 1883, together with certain collec- 
tions which had been acquired in London by gift and exchange. The 
building was illuminated by electric lights, fitted up for the occasion by 
the Brush- Swan Electric Light Company. The Director of the Museum 
held an informal reception in the north main hall. The number of 
visitors on this occasion was 2,033. 

This section presents no special report, except in the form of the cat- 
alogue of the American section at the London Fisheries Exhibition, 
which is in fact an elaborate report upon everything in the section, and 
which is referred to elsewhere. At the New Orleans Exposition the 
Department of Fisheries was represented by about sixty of the large 
pictures prepared for the Loudon Exhibition, and by about 200 casts of 
American food-fishes, which also had direct relation to the animal prod- 
ucts collection just referred to. It was not deemed expedient to dis- 
mantle the general fishery collections so recently' installed, for such a 
temporary interest as that of these exhibitions. The United States Fish 
Commission made preparations for a considerable display of fish-culture, 
and a representative collection of fish-cultural apparatus was sent from 
the Museum. 

Mr. Hitchcock, the curator of the textile collection, has been prin- 
cipally occupied in exposition work, in connection with which he un- 
dertook the preparation of a collection of textile fibers and fabrics. 
Portions of this collection were exhibited both at Louisville and Cin- 
cinnati. 

Captain Collins, on behalf of the D('i)artment of Naval Architecture, 
prepared a series of working models illustrating the development of 



Report U. S. N. M., 1883, pp. 16, 17. 



56 EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

the ship-building industry in the United States, and especially the evo- 
lution of the American schooner, the American pilot-boat, and the 
American cotton-ship. A number of full-rigged models were also sent 
in this connection, being exhibited on the way at Louisville and Cin- 
cinnati. The model of a Avhale-boat, fully equipped with all appliances 
for the capture of whales, w.as also sent. This model attracted much 
attention at the London and Berlin Fisheries Exhibitions. 

The animal products collection, which was so prominent a feature in 
the exhibition of this Institution at Philadelphia, has been reorganized 
and greatly extended, so that it now represents very thoroughly the 
applications of animals to the uses of mankind in all parts of the world. 
This collection alone, if arranged in table-cases, would occupy a floor- 
space equivalent to that in one of the large halls of the new Museum 
building. The Museum has received many important gifts for this col- 
lection on condition that they be exhibited in New Orleans before being 
linally placed in the Museum. 

A selection of about 250 of the celebrated autotypes published by 
Adolph Braun & Co., of Dornach, have been acquired for use at the ex- 
hibitions. This collection illustrates the history of ])ainting from the 
time of Cimabue and Giotto, including copies of from one to six of the 
best representative works of each celebrated master so far as it was 
practicable to obtain them. This collection can be packed in a very 
small space, and is particularly well suited for sending away to exhibi- 
tions. It may in future be somewhat extended to good advantage. 

{b) Department of Uthnology. 

Prof. Otis T. Mason, for many years connected with the Columbian 
University, of this city, was appointed curator of this department upon 
the 1st of July. The Museum may well be congratulated upon the ad- 
dition of this skillful ethnologist to its staff. Professor Mason, as is 
well known, was one of the first in America to embrace in his studies 
the entire subject of the natural history of man, or what is known now 
as the science of anthropology. His publications upon this subject, 
beginning with his paper upon the Leipsic Museum, published in the 
Smithsonian Annual Eeport for 1873 ; his articles upon ethnology in 
Harper's Eecord of Science and Industry from 1873 to 1877 ; the Smith- 
sonian Eecord of Progress from 1878 to 1884 ; the directions for col- 
lectors for the Centennial Exposition, issued by the Indian Bureau in 
1875 ; his lectures in the Saturday course, delivered in the Museum ; 
also his papers presented to the American Association, and his contri- 
butions to the American Naturalist, extending over a period of twenty 
years, are all devoted to the comprehensive study of man. 

He was the associate of the late Mr. Louis II. Morgan in organizing 
the anthropological section of the American Association in 187G, and 
was one of the founders of the Anthropological Society of Washington 
in 1879, writing its constitution. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 57 

A prominent characteristic of bis work lias been the introduction of 
regular .seieiitifu' nu'tliods into anthropolojiical inquiries, treating each 
savage art as the anatomist or enibiyologist treats his subject. 

The energy of Professor Mason has ah'eady produced important re- 
sults in that the ethnological collections, never before under control, 
have already been jirovisionaliy classitied. In the present report are 
presented three i>apers emanating from this dei)artment — on the bas- 
ketry, throwingsticks, and bows in the jS^ational ^luseuni — and it is 
much to be hoped that the method of investigation and publication 
foreshadowed in these ])apers will be i)rosecuted until the discussion of 
the whole round of savage art as exemplified in our collections shall 
have been completed. 

During the year 3,(558 sixH-imens belonging to primitive races have 
been received. In addition to tliese this department has been intrusted 
with many objects registered in other catalogues and deposited here 
for the sake of completing evolutionary series of implements, processes, 
and art products. The most noteworthy accessions in 1884 were as 
follows : 

Illustrations of Eskimo and Indian life, from Ungava Bay and vi- 
cinity, by Lucien Turner, who will prepare a monograph upon the 
specimens. 

Illustrations of Eskimo life at Point Barrow, collected by Lieutenant 
Ray, U. 8. A. Mr. John Murdoch will describe these. 

Rich collections fiom the Eskimo of Western and Southern Alaska, 
by E. W. Kelson, W. J. Fisher, Charles L. McKay, and Baron Norden- 
skjiild. 

Specimens of the arts of the tribes of Xorthwest America, collected 
by James G. Swan and Lieut. T. Dix Bolles. 

Many objects illustrative of the modern Indians of Yucatan, by Louis 
H. Ayme. 

A very large and instructive collection of objects from the Peruvian 
huacas, by George W. Keffer, and Dr. William H. Jones, U. S. N. 

A collection of weapons &c., from New Guinea, purchased from A. P. 
Goodwin. 

An exchange series of weapons from Polynesia, contributed by 
Charles Ileape. 

During the year illustrative series of ethnological objects have been 
exhibited at Cincinnati, Louisville, and New Orleans, care being taken 
in eacl) case to impress some ethnological truth, such as distribution of 
tyjies, the eftect of environment, the treatment of the same art by dif- 
ferent tribes, or the progress of an art fronj its infancy to its highest 
manifestation. This special collection was displayed in lliO unit boxes, 
11 doul)le unit boxes, 'M costume boxes, and 2 slope tables. In addi- 
tion, 1 model of an Eskimo house, 1 model of a Baida house, and 2 
Indian busts were sent. 



58 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

(c.) Department of American Prehistoric Pottery. 

Mr. William H.* Holmes, having been assigned by the director of the 
Bureau of Ethuolog}' of the Smithsonian Institution to the work of 
preparing a report upon American aboriginal pottery, has been ap- 
pointed honorary curator of this section of the Museum. He has been 
engaged during the year in classifying the entire collection and in pre- 
paring the exhibition series. The northwest court, which has been as- 
signed to this section, will be opened to the public as soon as cases can 
be provided and the specimens installed. More than 10,000 specimens 
have beeji added to this department during the year. By far the most 
prominent among the contributors is the Bureau of Ethnology, which 
has added G,000 pieces of pottery to this department. A magnificent 
accession of 3,000 vases from the tombs of Chiriqui was bought from 
Mr. J. 0. McNeil, and a very valuable collection from Peru has been re- 
ceived through the agency of Dr. William H. Jones, U. S. N. 

{d) Department of Antiquities. 

The Department of Prehistoric Antiquities, under the charge of Dr. 
Charles Eau, has kept pace with all the others in growth and general 
progress. The present somewhat unsettled condition of the upper main 
hall of the Smithsonian building, in which these collections are exhib- 
ited, is due to the fact that the arts and industries collections, formerly 
placed here, have not been entirely removed, owing to the lack of ex- 
hibition cases in the new building. The arrangement of the gallery of 
antiquities is, however, as far advanced as any in the Museum. To as 
great an extent as opportunity and case-room have permitted, Dr. Eau 
has carried out his double system of arrangement, placing in one ex- 
tensive series, which is for the most part exhibited in flat cases, col- 
lections grouped according to material and form, enabling visitors to 
take in at a glance " the whole culture of prehistoric North America, in 
so far as can be represented by tangible tokens." In another series are 
placed special collections, including the articles found in given single 
localities, whether mounds, graves, or shell-deposit districts. It is in 
the arrangement of these special collections that the most noticeable 
changes have been made. 

Here, as elsewhere, the preparations for the New Orleans Exposition 
have seriously interfered with the general work. An extensive educa- 
tional series of stone implements, illustrating American arch gBology, has, 
however, been prepared, and casts have been made of every character- 
istic form of stone implement. The collection, when complete, will con- 
stitute,^ in fact, a set of illustrations in actuality of the text of Dr. Eau's 
paper entitled " The Archaeological Collection of the United States Na- 
tional Museum,"* and the work, which has been done well, will be of 

* Published by the Smithsonian Institution, 1876, as No. 287, Smithsonian Contri- 
butions to Knowledge. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 59 

service not only for future exhibitions, but in the preparation of typical 
collections to be distributed to educational institutions. 

The number of accessions during- the year amounted to 5,441, and the 
total number of specimens in the collection is 45,252, of which 8,522 are 
duplicates. The princii)al literary product of the department has been 
a work upon prehistoric rishin<»' in Europe and North America, pre- 
pared by the curator. 

18. DIVISION OF ZOOLOGY, 
(a) Department of Mammals. 

Notwithstanding the absence of the curator, Mr. Frederick "W, True, 
in Europe during the first quarter of the year, and other diversions of 
his attention and time to routine work not connected with his regular 
duties, the progress of this department has been exceedingly satisfac- 
tory. The work upon the exhibition series has been hampered by the 
fact that money has not been available for the construction of the de- 
sired cases in the manimal hall. The collection is now, for the first 
time iu many years, thoroughly classified and under control, and the 
total number of skins and alcoholic specimens is reported to be 5,604, 
of skulls and skeletons 4,212, making a total of 0,908. 

The accessions of the year have, in number, variety, and importance, 
been fully equal to those of earlier periods. No less than 38 specimens, 
including such rare and peculiar forms as the eland, harnessed antelope, 
cheetah, two species of lemur, wart-hog, and baboons, have been re- 
ceived from the proprietors of zoological gardens and menageries, for 
which due acknowledgments are given in the Museum report. An un- 
usual number of cetaceans and seals, many of great novelty and inter- 
est, have been received from various sources. The amount of taxider- 
mic work accomplished has been unusually great, owing to a special 
allotment for the employment of extra help, made from the appropria- 
tion for the New Orleans Exhibition, 149 specimens in all having been 
added to the mounted series, including several large forms such as the 
buffalo, puma, jaguar, and beaver. 

{h) Department of Birds. 

This year is shown by the report of Mr. Ridgway to have been one 
of unusual activity in the Departu)ent of Birds. The collections have 
been entirely rearranged, and the exhibition series is receiving a com- 
plete overhauling. Over 1,200 skins have been mounted, and several 
hundred of them fastened on walnut stands. Copy for 1,000 labels has 
been iHei)ared. The total number of specimens in the reserve series is 
50,550, 6,800 of which are in the exhibition series. In this, as in several 
other departments, the main direction of (^fi'ort during the year was to- 
wards the preparation of the special exhibit of North Anjerican game- 
birds for the New Orleans Exposition, comi)rising 171 specimens, repre- 



60 EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

senting 123 species. Considerable time was also spent in unpacking 
and installing the exhibits which had been sent to the International 
Fisheries Exhibition, London, in 1883. 

Mr. Eidgway reports that the year has been unprecedented in the 
extent of the accessions. The number of birds added during the year 
is 8,142, 2,658 skins having been distributed. Of this number 94 speci- 
mens were collected during the cruise of the United States Fish Com- 
mission steamer Albatross among the West India Islands; 675 speci- 
mens, mainly from Japan, and presented by Capt. T. W. Blackiston; 
473 si)ecimeus from the British Museum; 768 si:)ecimens from Alaska 
and 21 specimens from Arizona, collected by E. W. Nelson; 256 speci- 
mens, chiefly from India, received from Mr. E. Bowdler Sharpe, of the 
British Museum; 84 specimens presented by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger; 
478 specimens from Northern California, and 55 specimens from the Far- 
allone Islands, collected by Mr. Charles n. Townsend; and 1,705 speci- 
mens from Ungava, Labrador, collected by Mr. Lucien M. Turner. 
Many other large and valuable accessions were also made, as will be 
seen by referring to the list of accessions, in the report of the curator. 
Nearly 3,000 .specimens were sent out in exchange or loaned for exami- 
nation. 

Birds' eggs. 

The collection of birds' eggs has been overhauled and rearranged 
by Capt. Charles E. Bendire, U. S. A., the honorary curator of this de- 
partment, who has also presented to the Museum his magnificent col- 
leetion of about 8,000 eggs. The grand total of specimens in this sec- 
tion is 40,072, of which 35,800 are North American. This collection now 
rej)resents nearly all that is known of American oology, and contains 
40,072 specimens, of which 4,272 are foreign. 

• A large collection of 468 specimens was received from Dr. James C. 
Merrill, U. S. A. Other important accessions were made by Mr. E. 
W. Nelson, Lieut. P. H. Eay, U. S. A., Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, Mr. 
Charles H. Townsend, Governor Fencher, of Godthaab, Greenland, and 
others. 

Forty-five specimens were exchanged or loaned for examination. 

(c) Department of Reptiles and Batrachians. 

Extensive and valuable additions have been made to the collections 
of this department during the year. Dr. H. C. Yarrow has continued 
to serve as curator in the capacity of volunteer. It has not yet been 
found practicable to assign any space in the Museum for the exhibition 
of these collections, and owing to the already crowded condition of the 
new Museum building it is feared that no exhibition space can be as- 
signed to this department until the Museum shall have been enabled to 
extend its walls. During the summer the curator visited Utah for the 
purpose of scientific study, and while there collected many interesting 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 61 

specimens of reptiles, wliieh were added to the Museum collections. 
The principal accessions to this department in 1884 \Yorc made by Capt. 
Charles liendire, U. S. A., Mr. Charles H. Townseud, Mr. C.J. Herin},', 
and by the scientific staft' which accompanied the United States Fish 
Commission steamer Albatross on her cruise to the West Indies. 

(r?) Department of Fishes. 

The work ui>on this extensive and unwieldl.v collection has made fine 
progress during the year. The curator, Dr. Bean, has nearly coni])li'ted 
his card catalogue of the reserve series, and during the summer Prof. 
D. S. Jordan was employed, in the interest of the New Orleans Exhibi- 
tion, in selecting out a special exhibition series to include all the fresh- 
water fishes of the United States, and to make a special collecting trip 
through the Missi!>si])i)i Valley, with the view to supply such species as 
were lacking in the collection. This trip has been of great importance 
to the science of ichthyology, bringing to light very many important 
facts concerning the fishes of a region not previously exi)lored ichthyo- 
logically, and throwing much light upon the whole subject of distri- 
bution. Out of the 5(50 fresh-water species known to inhabit North 
America, the Museum now has all but 49. 30 having been added by this 
trip, and some 25 new species having been brought to light. 

Of the 03 accessions to this department during the year 34 are re- 
garded as of great value. A large collection was received from Mr. L. 
M. Turner. The U. S. Fish Commission contributed fifteen bottles of 
deep-sea forms, including at least 20 new fishes from the deep-sea fauna. 
These were of great vahie. Prof. D. S. Jordan sent a collection of Vene- 
tian fishes containing 23 species; a large collection of fishes from Cuba 
and Florida, containing many new species; a collection of freshwater 
fishes from Southern ^Missouri, Kansas, Arkansas, Indian Territory, In- 
diana, &c. The curator added to the collection of this department 63 
species of marine and freshwater fishes from Great South Bay, Long 
Island, and vicinity. 

The total number of entries in the catalogue during the year was 
3,015. 

During the year 127 drawings of fishes were added to the portfolio, 
117 of which were made by Mr. II. L. Todd, and 10 by Miss. M. M. Smith, 
whose ability for this work is very decided. 

Forty-one papers based ui)on material belonging to the department 
were ])ublished by signatures in the Proceedings of the National Mu- 
seum for 1884. 

The number of specimens in the collections is estimated at about 
08,000, of which 30,000 are in tlie reserve series, 21,000 on exhibition, 
an<l some l'_',()00 du]>licates. 

A laborious and slow operation has been the transfer of the specimens 
from the old tanks into new ones and into glass jars. 



62 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

(e) Department of Comparative Anatomy. 

A Department of Comparative Auatoray is being organized, under the 
charge of Mr. Frederick W. True, and the east-south range has been 
fitted up with a set of cases especially constructed after new designs for 
the reception of the preparations. Mr. Lucas, with his two assistants, 
has been engaged during the latter part of the year in mounting skele- 
tons, and fully 150 fine preparations have been put on exhibition. The 
report of Mr. True upon the plan of organization will not be presented 
until next year, since much preparatory work remains to be done. A 
case illustrating the work in this department was sent to the New Or- 
leans Exposition. 

(/) Department of Mollusks. 

Mr. W. H. Dall, who has for many years had charge of the collection 
of mollusks, having been appointed one of the paleontologists of the 
Geological Survey, and assigned to the Department of Quaternary Mol- 
lusks, has, by the request of the Director of the Survey, been assigned 
working-rooms in the Smithsonian building, and will continue to care 
for the department as heretofore, access to the collections of recent 
shells being necessary for comparison with the shells of the Quaternary 
beds, which are, for the most part, specifically identical. Prof. E. E. 0. 
Stearns, late of the University of California, has been assigned to this 
department as adjunct curator, and since the 1st of July there has 
been great activity in rearranging the collections. It was decided to 
make an extensive display of the mollusks of the United States at the 
New Orleans Exposition, and the well-known Stearns collection of mol- 
lusks, for which negotiations had been in progress for some years, was 
purchased from the exhibition appropriation. Professor Stearns had 
in charge the preparation of the series for New Orleans, which occupied 
his time from July until the end of the year. This occupied twenty 
large cases, and exhibits the economic mollusks of both coasts and the 
adjacent seas, and the fresh-water mussels which form so remarkable a 
part of the fauna of the great Mississippi basin. Mr. E. Ellsworth Call 
has been employed for six months in connection with the New Orleans 
work, and by the eftbrts of these three conchologists, with the help of 
two clerks, much progress has been made toward getting under final 
control the immense mass of material in this department. 

The identification of the specimens representing the American land 
shells has occupied the attention of the curator. He has also devoted 
himself to the study of the deep-sea forms obtained from the Gulf of 
Mexico and the Caribbean Sea by Prof. Alexander Agassiz. 

It is Mr. Dall's opinion that, when the mass of material which yet re- 
mains to be examined has been classified, the national collections, as 
far as the fauna of North America and its adjacent seas is concerned, 
will not be surpassed by any other collection in the world. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 63 

The most important accessions to this department in 1884 were pre- 
sented by Tlonry Uemphill, the United States Signal Office, Dr. Leon- 
liard Stejnejier, Uvv. 10. Lchnert, Dr. William H. Jones, U. S. N., and 

K. Ellsworth Call. 

{(/) Department of Insects. 

Trol". C V. Kiley has, as in i)revions years, voluntarily assumed the 
care of the entomological material which has come in, and his own 
valuable and constantly-increasing collection remains a deposit in the 
I\liiseuin. A collection of insects injurious to forest trees, mounted in 
Museum cases, in the style which it is proposed by Professor Riley to 
adoi)t in the arrangement of our exhibition series when the opportunity 
conies, was sent to the International Forestry Exhibition in Edinburgh 
and received a gold medal. Fifty-five accession lots were received 
during the year, the nfost valuable being the collection made by L. M. 
Turner, at Ungava Bay, H. B. T. 

There were o5 accessions to this department during the year, of which 
the collections made by Mr. Lucien M. Turner is perhaps the most val- 
uable. 

The curator was cnlled n])on by the Department of Agriculture to pre- 
pare an exhibit for the New Orleans Exposition, and it was agreed that 
upon the return of this exhibit to Washington it should be incorporated 
with the Museum collections. It is hoped that the financial condition 
of the Museum will soon warrant the placing of this very important and 
long-neglected department upon a footing of equality with the others. 

(//) Department of Marine Invertebrates.* 

In the Department of Marine Invertebrates, exclusive of the moUusca, 
under the charge of Mr. Kathbun, 240 cases or specimens, enumerated 
in 72 accessions, have been added during the year. Of these, the most 
important have been received from the United States Fish Commission, 
from Dr. Edward Palmer, a colle<5tor emploj^ed in the interest of the 
New Orleans Exhibition, and from various naval sources. The Fish 
Commission collections are mainly illustrative of the recent deep-sea 
explorations of the steamer Albatross, off the eastern coast of the United 
States, and in the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean Sea, and contain many 
new additions to science, which have been worked up only in i)art. They 
fill several thousand jars aiul vials. The collection of Dr. Palmer was 
made for the purpose of rei)resenting, at the World's Fair in New 
Orleans, the varied animal resources of the coral reef and sponge re- 
gions of southern and western Florida. It consists for the most part 
of finely prepared specimens of commercial and other sponges, orna- 
mental corals, and the larger sjjccies of crustaceans and niollnsks used 
as food, and lequired 05 large shipping cases to transjjort it to Wash- 
ington. Supplemental to this is an extensive collection made by Mr. 
Henry Hemphill on the western coast of Florida. 

* Exclusive of the mollusca. 



64 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Among the more interesting of the naval contributions are several col- 
lections of crustaceans and echinoclernis obtained by Dr. W. H. Jones, 
U. S. N., in different parts of the Pacific Ocean. A number of valuable 
collections, carefully identi tied, liavealso been received from competent 
European authorities, and will be of great service in the elaboration of 
new materials contained in the Museum. 

The increase of accessions to this department has been so great dur- 
ing the year, especially by reason of the material furnished by the Fish 
Commission, that, even with the aid of three or four assistants, little 
more could be done than to take care of the new material. 

(i) Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Paleozoic Section). 

The collections of this department are arranged in 13 unit table cases, 
and in office trays equivalent in capacity to as many more. Mr. Walcott 
estimates the total number of specimens at 25,000, including the old 
Smithsonian collections, and the accessions from the recent Govern- 
ment surveys and other sources up to the present time. The most im- 
portant accession of the year is that of Devonian and Carboniferous 
fossils from the United States Geological Survey, many of them types 
of new si)ecies, and forming the basis of Mr. Walcott's recent report 
upon " The Paleontology of the Eureka District, I^evada." 

Mr. Walcott has devoted his time chiefly to the identification and 
labeling of the accessions, and has, as far as possible, advanced the 
work of arranging the old collections of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Inasmuch as the curator holds the position of paleozoic paleontologist 
of the United States Geological Survey, it is impossible that progress 
in the work upon the Museum collections can be as rapid as would be 
the case were it practicable for Mr. Walcott to devote his entire time 
to these. It must, however, be remembered that these result, from his 
work in connection with the Geological Survey, in many important addi- 
tions to the Museum collections. 

A comparison between the unassorted condition of the collections 
under Mr. Walcott's care in the winter of 188P> with their present state 
of classification and arrangement makes evident the fact that this de- 
partment is among the most highly developed in the Museum. 

(k) Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Meso-Cenozoic Section). 

The accessions of the year in this department consist of 85 boxes 
from the Geological Survey, embracing collections made in California, 
Oregon, New Jersey, Florida, Alabama, and Mississippi, and 15 miscel- 
laneous lots sent from private sources to the Museum. The catalogue 
numbers 1,158 entries. From Dr. White, the curator of this depart- 
ment, as from many others, there comes a request for more room ; these 
requests we are striving to grant as rapidly as the appropriation for 
the construction of cases will allow, but it is doubtful if the necessi- 
ties of the case can be fully met until a new building can be put up. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 65 

Dr. White is preparing a complete index of all the mesozoic and ceno- 
zoic invertebrate fossils of North America. A catalogue of all the 
type-specimens of the mesozoic and cenozoic species belonging to the 
Museum, is neariy completed. 

19. DIVISION OF BOTANY. 

(a) Department of Plants, Fossil and Recent. 

The collection of fossil plants now contains 923 distinct species iden- 
tified and installed. The report of Prof. Lester F. Ward contains 
elaborate statistics of the collection, from which it appears that 7,201 
specimens have already been catalogued. The accessions of the year 
have been of but slight importance. The Joad collection of recent 
plants has not yet been unpacked, owing to lack of room, but will soon 
be arranged and in proper condition for study. During the year Mr. 
William R. Smith, superintendent of the Government botanic gardens, 
has ])laced in the rotunda of the new building a number of very beau- 
tiful palms, which add very much to the attractiveness of the apart- 
ment, and which, having been selected with reference to their economic 
importance to man, will, when labeled, furnish instruction as well as 
pleasure to the visitors. 

Through the assistance of Mr. Frank H. Knowlton, the curator has 
been enabled to classify and catalogue a large mass of unassorted ma- 
terial which has accumulated in this department. 

20. DIVISION OF GEOLOGY, 
(a) Department of Mineralogy. 

Considerable progress has been achieved in the development of this 
department. The curator has performed valuable work in instituting 
scientific investigation upon specimens, the results of which have been 
valuable to the Museum. 

During the year the growth of the collections has been steady and 
encouraging, the work of installing the collections has been definitely 
begun, and a system of exchanges has been fairly inaugurated. The 
reserve series contains 5,881 specimens, and the duplicate series, 5,883. 

The accessions have been large and numerous. The most important 
is that of Mr. Joseph Willcox, Media, Pa. This collection consists of 
about 1,400 specimens, and is in some respects one of the finest in 
America. The collection of Col. J. J. Abert, presented by his son, J. 
T. Abert, and consisting of 1,245 specimens, is also of great value an<l 
interest. 

An allotment of $2,500 from the New Orleans appropriation was do- 
voted to building up the collection of gems and ornamental stones. The 
schedule adopted included all the gems proper, rock crystal, agates and 
jaspers, malacliite, lapis-lazuli, &c., and every important gem or orna- 
mental sjH'cies was secured both in the rough and cut conditions. 
S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 5 



66 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

About 1,000 specinieus are ou exhibition at New Orleans, of which 
nearly one-third are cut and polished stones. A part of this collection 
was exhibited at Cincinnati, whe»e it was awarded a silver medal. 
In connection with the New Orleans work, two important collecting 
trips were made by Mr. Teates to northern New York, and the Hot 
Springs of Arkansas. The total number of specimens in the collection 
is estimated at 15,2J58. The curator, while in the field in connection 
with the United States Geological Survey,' did excellent work for the 
Museum. Many good things were also obtained through exchange. 

(b) Department of Liihology and Physical Geology. 

The accessions to this department, which is under the curatorship of 
Mr. George P. Merrill, have been very numerous. The total number of 
entries amounts to 2,541, including not less than 300 specimens adminis- 
stered upon during the year. Important contributions have been re- 
ceived from 107 sources, besides jnany others of minor value. The most 
prominent donations to the department were a series of rocks and 
tufas from Utah, Nevada, and California, collected by Mr. I. C. Russell 
and transferred by the Geological Survey, and a large collection of 
building-stones from Mr. John S. F. Batchen; Messrs. Wharton, Hough- 
ton, Bartlett, and Marshall, Messrs. Abbott and Stearns, Lieut. G. N. 
Stoney, Mr. J. S. Diller, Dr. T. M. Chatard, the Esperanza Marble Com- 
pany, Mr. L. J. Griffin, Mr. A. C. Proctor, Bowker, Torrey & Company, 
Messrs. Dimond & Hall, imd Prof. Thomas Kobinson, also made valu- 
able contributions. Mr. Merrill prepared a large and important series 
of specimens of the building and ornamental stones of the United 
States for the New Orleans Exposition, comprising 358 specimens, an 
educational series of rocks, containing 500 specimens, and a collection 
of rock -forming minerals. In this work he had the efficient assistance 
of Mr. L. H. Merrill, and the services of a number of stone-cutters for 
some months. In addition to this work, 1,557 descriptive labels were 
])rinted and 200 thin sections of rocks prepared. 

The exhibition series of the lithological collections comprises about 
800 specimens, and this number can easily be doubled as soon as cases 
are provided. Some of the beautiful colored i)hotographic enlarge- 
ments on glass, illustrating the structure of twelve selected types of 
rocks, were among the most striking i)roducts of the year's work in 
Mr. Merrill's laboratory and are of very great educational value. As a 
supplement to the building-stone collection, a set of photographic nega- 
tives of some of the more important stone buildings in the country has 
been made, and from them enlarged prints (30 by 40 inches) have been 
prepared and colored, showing the appearance of various kinds of 
building stones used in architectural Avork. 

The most important collections in the Department of Physical Geology 
are : the collection of lavas from Ice Springs Butte, Utah ; two speci- 
mens of glacial polished mica from Prof. F, W. Clarke, and one large 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 67 

block of jihicial polished juarhle, a gilt of the GouveiUiMir Maihlo Com- 
pany. 

The total number of specimens in the n'serve series is estimated at 
15,000, of which some 3,000 are ou exhibition. Of these 4,1*40 are 
buildinj; or ornamental stones, l,Go8 of which are on exhibition. The 
number of specimens in the duplicate series is about 3,000. 

((') Depart miiif of MCtdUunnj und Kciuunnic (rcolotj!/. 

An immense amount of work has been performed in this dei>arrment 
durinjn" the year. Tiie curator, Mr. Fred. V. Dewey, divides the mate- 
rial administered upon and collected during' the year into four classes: 
(1) those received as accessions in the usual way; (2) those received 
from the j)ermanent exhibition in l*hila<lelphia; (3) those received from 
the Boston Exhibition, and (4) the material specially collected for dis- 
])lay at the New Orleans Exposition. The collections embraced under 
the last head were very numerous and valuable. A series of 87 speci- 
mens, representing the occurrence of i)lacer gold at most of the promi- 
nent regions, was purchased, and is the most full and comi)lete collec- 
tion of its kind in the country. The early part of the year was devoted 
t() administration upon great quautities of nuiterial which had been 
accumulating for many years, and was stored away in the southwest 
court. From this source alone 7,540 new specimens were added to the 
collections of the department. Not less than 0,500 si)ecimens have 
been i)laced on exhibition, and the total number of specimens in the 
dei)artment is estimated at 40,000. 

Since July, Mr. Dewey and his staff have been preparing the New 
Orleans collection, having an allotment of $5,000 wherewith to illus- 
trate the metallic resources of the country, and by the aid of a number 
of volunteer assistants in the field the collection has received accessions 
of very great value, which make it one of the most valuable metallur- 
gical collections in ttte world. 

The organization of the collections in economic geology has con- 
sumed a great deal of time. The curator reports that in the develop- 
ment of this branch of the dei)artment a serious obstacle is presented 
by the unwillingness on the part of mine owners to impart such inibr- 
niation as is necessary in order that the specimens shall attain their 
highest value in an (Mluciitional series. 

Mr. Thomas Donaldson has continued the work of cataloguing and 
packing the collection of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, 
which, having been presented to the Museum, are still in Philadel]»hia 
under his charge. 

21. MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENTS. 

(a) Exploration and field toorJc. 

As in ])revious years the work of ex])loration and investigations in 
the tield has been under the immediate auspices of tlie Smithsonian In- 
stitution, and under the si)ecial care and direction of the Secretary, who 



68 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

has j)ublished a full account in his report to the Regents of the Insti- 
tution, pages 13-28. 

An abstract of this report, giving special references to the additions 
made to the collections through the efiorts of explorers, is here pre- 
sented. 

Greenland. -rCousidering that the whole energy of the Greely Belief 
Expedition had to be devoted to the rescue of the Lady Franklin Bay 
l)arty, the natural history collections are richer than might have been 
expected; the numerous photographs of the country, of the natives, 
and the ice, in its various shapes and formations, will be of lasting value. 

The physical observations during the course of the expedition were 
made part of the regular routine of the vessels. The natural history 
work was prosecuted by naval ensigns who had been sent by the Navy 
Department to the Smithsonian Institution specially for the purpose of 
being trained for such duty. Among these were Messrs. C. A. Harlow, 
A. A. Ackerman, and C. S. McClain. These gentlemen had all been 
trained at the Institution in the methods of instantaneous photography, 
in taxidermy, and in the collecting of minerals and fossils ; and although 
the time occupied by the expedition was very much less than had been 
anticipated, very interesting and desirable collections of rock specimens, 
minerals, fossils, numerous birds, and of fishes and marine invertebrates 
in alcohol, were made by the gentlemen mentioned. 

The Greely Eelief Expedition fully and entirely carried out its mis- 
sion of restoring the survivors of the Greely party to their friends in 
the United States. By far the greater part, however, of the apparatus 
and collections made in the several years of absence was left behind at 
Fort Conger, and may never be recovered. A few specimens were 
brought home by Lieutenant Greely, but have not been received at the 
National Museum. 

Labrador. — The reports of 1882 and 1883 give full details of the work 
prosecuted by Mr. L. M. Turner at Fort Chimo, U'hgava Bay, in North- 
ern Labrador. Mr. Turner's two years of detail expiring in 1884, he 
returned to Washington and is now engaged in preparing his report. 
His collections are described by him as consisting : 

" Of birds, 1,800 specimens ; eggs, 1,800 specimens ; fishes, 1,000 speci- 
mens ; mammals, 200 specimens ; ethnological, 600 articles ; plants, a 
great number; insects, over 200,000; geological specimens, a great 
variety; Eskimo linguistics, over 500 pages of manuscript, embracing 
thousands of words and over 800 sentences, which were obtained dur- 
ing the winter nights and at other times when outdoor work could not 
be done." 

Eeference was made in a preceding report to the work accomplished 
by Dr. 0. Hart Merriam in the investigation of the natural history of 
the seals of the coast of Labrador ; the arrangements made by him in 
Newfoundland and Labrador have furnished additional material in the 
way of skins and skeletons of several species of seals, the results of 
which he has shared with the National Museum, 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 69 

Arctic coast. — Captain EToaly and oflBcers of the revenue steamer ('or- 
win Lave supi»lied collections of minerals, birds, fish, invertebrates, &c., 
from Hotham Inlet and other points along the coast. 

Lieut. George M. Stoney, U. S. N., of the schooner Ounalaska, who 
liad visited Arctic America and explored Hotham Inlet and the rivers 
entering into it, obtained an interesting series of rocks from the volcano 
in Behring's Sea. The collections made by him have not, however, yet 
come to hand. 

Both Captain Hcaly and Lieutenant Stoney have furnished specimens 
of some minerals which were sujjposed to be jade, but which proved to 
be serpentine and gieen quartzite. 

The I'acitic Steam Whaling Company established during the year a 
tlepot at Cape Lisburne, with Mr. D. Woolfe in command, for the i)ur- 
pose of mining coal for the use of the whalers, and si^ecimens of this 
coal and of the associated fossils have been furnished. 

The North Facijic. — Keference was made in a previous report to the 
very important work accomplished by Dr. L. Stejneger in Kamtschatka 
and the adjacent group of the Commander Islands. Through the cour- 
tesy of Governor Grebnitski, in command of these islands, a number of 
additional collections were received. 

Dr. Stejneger also received from Captain Hunter some skins and 
skeletons of the mountain sheep of Kamtschatka. 

Alasl-o. — The Signal Service station at IN^ushagak, on Bristol Bay, has 
been re-established by Mr. J. W. Johnson, from whom a collection of 
birds was lately received, which was specially noteworthy as containing 
sjiecimens of the Alaska willow wren and of the yellow wagtail, repre- 
senting a locality many hundreds of miles further south than Saint 
Michael's, the place of previous record. 

Mr. John J. ]\IcLean, of the Signal Service, stationed at Sitka, has 
secured many ethnological objects of great rarity. 

Mr. W. J. Fischer, who is stationed by the Coast Survey at Kodiak, 
has used many opportunities both there and in the adjacent regions to 
continue his important work; this including much information in re- 
gard to the manners and characteristics of the native tribes. 

From the Rev. J. Loomis Gould a collection of Indian carvings and 
other articles of ethnology was obtained, representing some quite new 
forms of aboriginal construction. 

Oregon and California. — From Oregon the most noteworthy collec- 
tions are those furnished by Capt. Charles Bendire, at Fort Klamath. 

The returns from California consist of numerous collections of shells, 
minerals, fossils, and archaeological objects from Mr. R. E. C. Stearns. 

Other specimens are birds from Mr, L. Beltling, and fossils from Mr. 
C. R. Orcutt. 

Mr. Charles H. Townsend, of the United States Fish Commission, 
has supplied the most extensive collection of mammals ever received 
from California. The collection also embraces numerous skins, skele- 



70 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

tons, and skulls of sea lions and seals from the Farralone Islands, and 
of sea olepliauts from South California. 

Arizona and New Mexico. — These Territories have been well repre- 
sented ; the ibrinor by the mammals, birds, and other objects of interest 
furnished by Mr. E. W. Nelson ; the latter by an enormous collection 
of modern Indian ])ottery and other articles, made under the auspices 
of the Bureau of Ethnology, and others obtained by Mr. James Steven- 
son under similar direction. 

Some contributions to the fauna of New Mexico were supplied by Dr. 
11. W. Shufeldt, of the Army, from his station at Fort Wiugate. 

Eastern portion of the United States. — The exploration of the fresh- 
water fish fauna of the Mississippi Valley made by Professors Jordan 
and Gilbert in behalf of the New Orleans International Exposition is 
si)ecially worthy of mention. Several months were occupied in this 
service, and many hundreds of species obtained and prepared for exhibi- 
tion. Ur. Palmer was detailed to collect the corals of the Florida Keys 
and the Tortugas. Henry Hemphill also made collections of the inver- 
tebrates of Florida. 

The collections of the United States Fish Commissioai along the east- 
ern coast of the United States have been noteworthy, especially those 
from the labors of the Fish Commission steamer Albatross in the 
deep waters off the coast. 

General collections were made by the Albatross of the land fauna of 
the coast of the Gulf of Mexico as well as of the marine, resulting in 
the addition of a very great number of species to the National Museum, 
of which a noted proportion are of scientific interest. Among these 
may be mentioned eight new species of birds found on the islands of 
CuraQoa and Old Providence. 

Professor Poey has continued his contributions of fishes from Cuba. 

Dr. Nichols, of Dominica, has continued his donations of birds, mol- 
lusks, &c., while from Mr. Morris, director of the public gardens and 
plantations in Jamaica, many samples of valuable fibers have been 
secured. 

Mexico and Central America. — Professor Alfred Dug<5s, of Guanajuato, 
Mexico, has continued his transmissions of objects of natural history, 
among them being some rare species of birds, &c. Mr. McLeod, of 
Jesus Maria, in Mexico, has also furnished some rare birds. 

Mr. Romero, the Mexican minister, supj^lied a series of the j)laying 
cards and other gambling implements of the Mexican Indians. 

The services of Louis Aym6, late consul at Merida, were secured to 
])rosecute some investigations into the ethnology of Yucatan and West- 
ern Mexico, especially with a view of showing the relationships between 
the habits and manufactures of the Indians of those regions and those 
of the southern portion of the United States. Several large collections 
have already been received from him, and others of still greater moment 
are on the way. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 71 

Other coHcctioiis, ospocially of birds, irom YiK'at;iii liavc been I'lir- 
iiislicd bv Mr. Ciamncr. 

\'aliiabl(' ilhisiiatioiis of the aiiinial and M'^ctabU' Uiii^doiii.s ol' (Jiia- 
ttMiiala and Sal\ aihn wore sccurod froni the Govcrninont coinmissiouers 
of those count lies to the foici^iu exhibition lield in IJoston in the autumn 
of IS.S.i These, with siuiihir eoHections unch'r siniihir auspiees obtained 
from Veuezuehi and Iba/il, were transferred to the National ]Mnseum 
early in 1884. 

Costa Bica. — ]\ir. .1. C. Zeledon has transmitted specimens of medici- 
nal plants, of birds, of vertebrated animals, and of etlmolo<;y. 

Mr. Ik. Iglesias, of (^hiriqui, has contributed antiquities and mixlorn 
1 lottery. 

SoutJi Americd. — Interesting; collections re])resentin^" the natural ])rod- 
ucts of the animal and vejjetable kingdoms of Venezuela and Jirazil were 
secured from the Governments of Venezuela and Brazil. Dr. William 
II. Jones, U. S. X., has contributed some extremely imi)ortant collec- 
tions of the antiquities and natural history of the coast of Peru and 
(.'hili, and to some extent of the Galapagos Islands. 

Mr. Kiefer, of Lima, has also made similar contributions. 

Professor Nation has sent types of rare and undescribed species of 
birds of Peru. 

Dr. "William Crawford, U. S. N., has contributed some fine shells 
from tlie west coast of Terra <lel Fuegoand the Straits of Magellan. 

The magnificent collection of recent and fossil shells of Europe, be- 
longing to Mr. J. Gwyn Jeffries, of London, has been acquired by 
the National iMuseum and in large part received. This is by far the 
most valuable private collection of European shells in existence, and 
es])ecially important in possessing so many types of the (leei)-sea spe- 
cies dredged in the North Atlantic. 

Among eontributors to the European collections may be m<Mitioned 
the Koyal College of Surgeons, the Sonth Kensington Museum, the Brit- 
ish Museum, the Koyal Botanical Gardens at Kew, in England ; the Muse- 
ums of Berlin and Dres<len, in Germany ; of Copenhagen, in Denmark ; 
of Bergen, \u Nor\yay, &r. 

Asia. — The collections from Asia have been of unusnal significance 
and importance. Keferenee has been m;|de. to the accessions from 
Kamtschatka and the Commander Islands obtained through the eftbrts 
of Dr. Stejneger. 

^Ir. P. L. Jouy has continued his researches in Japan, and has sup- 
idied a large number of species of mammals and birds of that region, 
together with other species of animals. The collection of birds l)eing 
taken in connection with a series presented by Mr. Thomas BlacUiston, 
who spent many years in Japan, gives to the National ^luseum one of 
the most comjilete collections of Jaiianese birds in existence, and one 
great in value in view of t>heir relationships to the birds of Western 
North America. 



72 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Rev. C. H, A. Dall has furnished samples of fibers and other native 
products of the Indies, and the greater part of the exhibit of the For- 
eign Exhibition in Boston made by Ceylon has been received; while a 
very valuable collection of musical instruments of East India were con- 
tributed by the Eajah of Tagore. 

Africa.-^-^This country is represented by a few objects of art and in- 
dustry, while from New Guinea the collection of weapons, implements, 
&c., obtained from Mr. A. P. Goodwin, has added very greatly to our 
representation of that little known island. 

The Sandwich Islands. — The greater part of the exhibit made by the 
Hawaiian Government at the Boston Foreign Exhibition was secured 
and transferred to the National Museum. 

{b) Chemistry. 

The chemical laboratory of the Smithsonian Institution, which was 
for a time transferred to the custody of the Museum, has now been as 
such abandoned. The chemical analyses which it is found necessary 
to have made in connection with the work of the Museum and the cor- 
respondence of the Smithsonian Institution are made under the di- 
rection of the chemist of the Geological Survey, Prof. F. W. Clarke, 
who occupies laboratories in the northeast jjavilion of the Museum 
building, and who is authorized by the Director of the Geological Sur- 
vey to carry on investigations of this character as a partial return for 
the accommodations afforded to the Survey in the Museum building. 

(c) Experimental physiology. 

Mr. John A. Kyder, embryologist of the United States Fish Commis- 
sion, occupies a laboratory in the east wing of the Smithsonian building 
and is constantly engaged in physiological and embryological researches 
upon material supplied by the Museum and Fish Commission. He may, 
therefore, for the present be regarded as the honorary head of this de- 
partment, and his numerous contributions to zoological literature are 
included in the bibliography of the work of the officers of the Museum. 

(d) Vivaria. 

A small collection of living animals is always kept up under the 
charge of the chief taxidermist. The collection of aquatic animals at 
the Government carp ponds, is still in a flourishing condition. 



I^^HT II 



KEPORTS OF THE CURATORS AND ACTING CURATORS OF THE 

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM UPON THE PROGRESS 

OF THEIR WORK DURING THE YEAR 1884. 



73 



I (A) -REPORT ON THE SECTION OF MATERIA MEDICA IN THE 
U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, FOR THE YEAR 1884. 



By II. {'•. Hkykk. M. D., Assislaiit Surgeon, U. S. X., Hoiioranj Curator. 



Accessions of the year. — During the past year specimens of drugs have 
been contributed to this department, prineii)ally by I). Morris, esq., 
director of Public Gardens and Phmtations, Jamaica; Messrs. F. W. 
Stearns & Co., Detroit, Mich.j Mr. G. W. Jewett, inspector of drugs, 
New York; aiul Messrs. Fritzsche Bros., New York; numberiui; in all 
4(M;. 

Method of arrangement. — When specimens are received they are, after 
being carefully examined, entered upon the register, and according to 
their condition are dried, bottled, and labeled, after which they are "added 
to the exhibit, which is arranged as follows : First, animal products ; 
second, vegetable products ; third, products of fermentation and dis- 
tilhition; fourth, inorganic products; the entire collection being pre- 
faced by an array of all the "medicinal forms" in which medicines are 
administered. In addition to the above there is a separate collection 
of Chinese materia medica. 

Succeeding the general collection is an exhibit of some of the most 
popular mineral waters." Each of these is shown in the quantity of 10 
liters, and with it each of its saline constituents, in the exact weight 
which analysis has shown to be present in that volume of the water; 
thus rei)resentiug to the eye the quantity of each constituent salt in- 
gested with a given quantity of water, and furnishing a quantitative 
table, without the use of figures, for comparison of the different mineral 
waters. 

A catalogue of the collection has been printed, and a classification of 
the forms in which drugs are administered, by Dr. James IVF. Flint, U. S, 
N.: also will be found a "Report on the Pharmacopojais of all Nations," 
by Dr. Flint. No original researches have been carried on in this De- 
])artment, owing to the want of necessary apparatus. 

Illustrative of drug-yielding phints, there are now properly placed on 
exhibition 13G photographs and 350 colored plates. 

During the year 1,500 labels have been sent to the i)rinter; at present 
893 are permanently attached to specimens. 

75 



76 . REPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Condition of the collection. — The following is an accurate statements 

Nnmber of specimens now on exhibition 3, 201 

Number of specimens awaiting case room 289 

Number of specimens, duplicates 300 

Total number entered on register 4,442 

The origin of this collection dates to 1882, when the Agricultural De- 
partment transferred to this institution the several collections of drugs 
which were exhibited at the International Exhibition, Philadelphia, 
187G. It has, through the kindness of the wholesale drug firms of 
W. H. Schieffelin & Co., N. Y. ; Parke, Davis & Co., Detroit, Mich.; Mc- 
Kesson & Robbins, N. Y.; Wallace Bros., Statesville, N. C, and others, 
together with exchanges with foreign museums, grown to be one of the 
largest of its kind. 

The object of such a collection is to exhibit drugs in their crude state, 
and the dififerent preparations of them, and thus serve to illustrate to 
what stage of perfection man has arrived in the use of medicines. 

The collection at present as a whole already represents the principal 
drugs in most of their commercial varieties now in use by the civilized 
people of the world, including nearly all of the new remedies that have 
lately been brought to the notice of the profession. Therefore the prog- 
ress of the future development of this collection of the Museum can per- 
haps hardly be expected to be as rapid as it has been in the past, for 
the majority of acquisitions will be found to consist of duplicates. 

The labelling of the collection, which heretofore has been the most 
important routine work, has offered many serious difficulties. The prin- 
cipal ones may be plainly traced to two sources, viz: First, the difficulty 
of judiciously and carefully condensing information when such is found 
in abundance, so that it will only occupy the limited space allowed for 
each label by the Museum regulations, keeping in constant view the 
double end of the exhibit, which is that of a poi.)ular exhibition for the 
information of the general visitor as well as a scientific collection and 
arrangement of facts for the pharmaceutical and medical student. Sec- 
ondly, the obscure drugs of which either very little is known or, at any 
rate, information is very imperfect. The labelling of the entire collec- 
tion, which has been zealously pursued, will probably be finished during 
the first part of 1885. 

Eecomrnendations for future worl\ — It now remains to extend the use- 
fulness and importance of this section of the Museum in a direction 
which, from the natural course of events, it must go to bring it up to 
the prestige of that scientific institution of which, in time to come, it 
will, it is to be hoped, form a most important part. 

Plant analysis and pharmacological experiments, or the investigation 
of the chemical constituents of x>ltiuts and their action on the animal 
organism, call loudly for a recognition denied them. For the last twenty 
years but little has been accomplished in this line of research. Instead of 
taking, as it ought, a foremost place, on account of the immediate practi- 



SECTION OF MATERIA MEDICA 77 

cal importaDce attached to its beueficial results applicable to mankind, 
it has lagged far behind its sister sciences, physiology and pathology. 
However, within the last few years it has received a new inii)etus. 
Some of our transatlantic colleagues are devoting themselves assidu- 
ously to the study of drugs and their actions. The discovery of the 
anaesthetic proi)erties of cocainum chloridum is a more recent example 
of their success. In connection with this department it is of the highest 
importance that such researches should be carried on. The medical 
profession of this country would watch our operations with great ap- 
proval and profound interest, and the raison d^etre of this section of the 
United States National Museum would be proportionally increased. I 
would therefore respectfully and earnestly urge the necessity of provid- 
ing the means for investigating this valuable stock of material now 
contained in the collection. 



I (B) -REPORT ON SECTION OF TEXTILE INDUSTRIES IN THE 
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

By RoMYN Hitchcock, Acting Curator. 



The collection of textile fibers and fabrics was placed under my charge 
in November, 1.S83, at which time there was a large accumulation of ma- 
terial in the Museum pertaining to this department, which was stowed 
away in drawers and boxes. Much of this material was of value, some 
of it worthless, and it required no little labor to classify and arrange it 
for display. When this work was. begun there was scarcely a single 
case of textiles on exhibition ])roperly arrranged and labelled. There 
are now not less than thirty sliding-screen cases completely filled Mith 
specimens, each one of which is labelled either with a permanent printed, 
or a temporary written, label. By far the greater number of these have 
been mounted during the year 1884. In the beginning of work in this 
department many difficulties were encountered. It was necessary, first 
of all, to devise a system of classification for fibers and fabrics which 
would be comprehensive. As regards vegetable fibers, various systems 
were considered, in the hope that a scientific classification might be 
found which would serve well for industrial purposes ; but a brief study 
of the subject clearly showed the impracticability of such a scheme. 
Turning then to purely artificial systems, it is not necessary to refer to 
the merits and demerits of those which have been ])ropo8ed from time 
to time, but merely to say that the system which has seemed best for 
museum purposes is based upon the position of the fibers in the plants. 
The plan of classification adopted for textile fibers is as follows : 

Type. 

Mineral fibers Asbestos. 

Ve}?etable fibers : 

Gras-ses, stems, barks, &c., used in the natural condition Esparto. 

Stem, leaf, and root fibers: 

Bast fibers Flax. 

Foliaceous fibers ^ New Zoaland flax. 

Seed fibers Cotton. 

Animal fibers.: 

Wool Sheep's wool. 

Hair Cow's hair. 

Silk ,..,,. Silk. 

79 



80 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Far greater diflBculty has been found in classifying textile fabrics, 
owing to the technical knowledge of the methods of manufacture re- 
quired to do this work in a satisfactory manner. No system has yet 
been perfected, although a general plan has been under consideration 
for some time, and it will doubtless be possible to outline a satisfactory 
scheme in the course of another year. Meanwhile specimens are being 
mounted, described, and arranged in the cases according to a provisional 
classification, based primarily upon theirComposition(whether of cotton, 
flax, wool, silk, &c.), and secondly upon the method of weaving. 

Accessions of the year. — The following are the most important among 
the additions to the collections for the year 1884 : 

Twenty-t?wo specimens of jute, grown in Mississippi from seed ob- 
tained in India, showing various qualities of the fiber in different stages 
of preparation. From Hon. W. W. Stone, Stoueville, Miss., president 
Delta Jute and Fiber Company. 

Six specimens, showing the process of manufacturing gunny cloth 
from Calcutta jute butts. From Mr. Appleton Sturgis, New York. 

A large collection of cordage made of jute, and a fine specimen of 
jute fiber, from the Schlichter Jute Cordage Company, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Forty specimens of textile fibers and fabrics of various kinds from 
different countries, all well named and identified. From the Royal 
Botanical Gardens, Kew, England. 

A collection of machine-made laces of various kinds, fece mits, nubias, 
&c. From A. G. Jennings & Sons, New York. 

A large number of textile fibers and fabrics, from Guatemala and San 
Salvador, received from the Boston Foreign Exposition, of 1883. 

Thirteen specimens of textile fibers from Jamaica, collected by Mr. V. 
P. Parkhiirst, who was engaged as collector on the occasion of a visit to 
the West Indies. 

Twenty-nine specimens of English laces, made in Nottingham and 
Devonshire, England, a list of which will be found in No. 24 of the 
" Proceedings" of the Museum. From Mr. A. Robertson, with Messrs. 
Hitchcock, Williams & Co., London. 

Twenty-two small samples of English silk fabrics, manufactured in 
Manehester and Bradford, and one hundred similar samples of cotton 
and worsted fabrics, etc. Also from Mr. A. Robertson. 

A fine specimen of Jacquard weaving in silk. From Prof. T. 0. 
Archer, director of the Edinburgh Museum. 

Nine specimens illustrating the manufacture of handmade ingrain 
and rag carpets. From Mr. O. Herring, Maryland Mills, Baltimore, 
Md. 

Thirty-seven specimens of rope and twine made of American, Russian, 
and Italian hemp and sisal. From J. T. Bailey & Co., Philadelphia. 

A series of fifteen specimens of flax and flax twines manufactured at 
Schagticoke, N. Y., from flax grown in New York State, From Mr. E, 
W. Hartshorn, presideut Cable Flax Mills. 



SECTION OF TEXTILE INDUSTRIES. 81 

Twelve sjjecimeiis of rough and liackled flax, French, Irish, Diitcb, 
and Canadian. From the Barbour Fhix Spinning Company, Patersou, 
N. J. 

A series of thirty-seven specimens illustrating the manufacture of raw- 
silk fabrics in the United States. This collectiou begins with the raw silk 
as imported from Italy, Japan, and China, and shows the various stages 
in the preparation of the silk for the loom. The series is an interesting 
one because the successive steps in the manufacture are so well shown. 
Then follow specimens of the finished goods, plain or brocaded, in cou- 
siderable variety. Received from John N. Stearns & Co., of New York. 

Fifteen specimens of raw silks, as imported from Lombardy, Ce- 
veunes, Piedmont, Japan, and China, carefully selected as typical 
samples, and presented by C. Adolphe Low & Co., of ISTew York. 

Seven specimens of tapestry Brussels carpets. From the Roxbury 
Carpet Company, Boston, Mass. 

Specimens of ''Napier matting" and " hemp carpetings'' made of Jute. 
From the Dolphin Manufacturing Company, New York. 

Specimens of Yucca brevi/olia and various kinds of paper made there- 
from. From R. E. C. Stearns, Washington, D. C. 

Fifteen specimens of fibers, mostly of animal origin. From the cus- 
tom-house, Boston, Mass. 

A set of specimens of knit worsted fabrics, astrachan, Jersey cloth, 
stockinette cloth, &c., manufactured in Philadelphia. From Joljn E. 
Hanifen & Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 

A ver}- valuable collection of 117 specimens, illustrating the manu- 
facture of worsted yarns used in the goods made by the Arlington Mills, 
and specimens of fine cotton yarns made at the same mills. This is a 
collection worthy of more than a passing notice. It was prepared with 
great care and judgment by the superintendent of the mills, Mr. W. D, 
Hartshorne, for the purpose of showing the successive stages in the 
manufacture of yarns from wools nf different grades. Beginning with 
a certain grade of wool the process is followed from the greasy wool 
through the preparers, combs, gill-boxes, etc., and made into tops. The 
manufacture of colored top from the same grade of wool is likewise 
fully illustrated by samples of fine Australian wool in successive stages 
from greasy wool through the scourer, carder, back-washing, gill-boxes, 
comb, and finishing gill boxes. Then specimens of tops of various 
grades are shown, and the i)rocesses of reducing top to yarn are ilhis- 
trated by three distinct series of specimens representing three dittcient 
grades of wool. Then follow numerous samples of yarns. 

An equally (complete and more com])rehensive series of specimens 
illustrating the manufacture of worsted and cotton yarns, and also of 
the finished fabrics and the ])rocess of <;alico printing has been received 
from the Pacific Mills, and will soon be mounted for exhibition ii. the 
Museum. This collectiou likewise begins with the wool in the grease. 
Six varieties and mixtures of wool are represented by large samples, 
S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 U 



82 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

and these arc eacli carried through the successive stages of manufact- 
ure, washing, carding, combing, etc., to the finished yarn. 

Tbe manutacture of cotton yarn is likewise illustrated, two grades 
being carried through the various operations in parallel series, the 
specimens being carefully chosen to represent the processes as com- 
pletely as possible. 

Calico ijrinting is illustrated by specimens of cloth before and after 
bleaching, after printing, with color set, and finished. There is also a 
copper print-roller, taken from the machine, and the process is still 
more fully illustrated by photographs taken at the mills by the acting 
curator on the occasion of his visit during the summer. 

There is also a fine set of samples of cotton goods, worsteds, and de- 
laines, representing the large variety of fabrics manufactured by the 
Pacific Mills. 

The manufacture of woolen goods, fancy cassimeres, etc., is repre- 
sented by two collections, the first from the Harris Woolen Company, 
of Woonsocket, E. I., which begins with the raw wool, and a few sam- 
l)les showing the material in the course of preparation and spinning 
into yarn. Then follow specimens of worsted fabrics and wool mixed 
dress goods. Another collection from the Lippitt Woolen Company, 
also of Woonsocket, embraces a variety of fancy cassimeres. Both 
these collections will soon be on exhibition in the Museum. 

A series of sixteen specimens of fabrics of English manufacture, in- 
cluding such as seal cloth and astrachan, was presented by Mr. H. 
Herrman, of the firm of Herrman, Sternbach & Company, of New 
York. These specimens, valuable in themselves, are worthy of especial 
mention because of the information concerning the methods of manu- 
facture which accompanied them. 

The manufacture of ginghams is represented by a good collection 
from the Whitteuton Manufacturing Company, Taunton, Mass., em- 
bracing a considerable variety of cotton fabrics, x>laids, cotton cassi- 
meres and tweeds, fancy shirtings, tickings, etc. 

An interesting collection, illustrating the manufacture of hair cloth 
from horse-hair has been received from the Pawtucket Hair-cloth Com- 
pany. This shows the rough hair as it is received in bales from South 
America, and Siberia, the hackled hair, curled hair, hair prepared for 
the loom, and samples of the woven cloth. 

A valuable set of specimens has been received from the Bigelow Car- 
pet Company, illustrating the manufacture of Brussels and Wilton car- 
pets. Beginning with the c.arpet- wools employed, the manufacture of 
yarns is first illustrated by specimens of washed wool, slivers, noils, 
roping, and dyed yarns. Then follow specimens of carpets and borders, 
in Brussels and velvet carpets. 

The foregoing collection is sui)plemented by some specimens of car- 
pets of the same kind from the Lowell Manufacturing Company, which 
includes also ingrain carpets of the same manufacture. 



SECTION OF TEXTILE INDUSTRIES. 83 

The Eoxbiiry Carpet Company has presented some fine specimens of 
tapestry Brussels oar])ets, thus makinji' the collection to illustrate car- 
])('t manufacture (piite comprehensive. 

A perfect workin*;- model of the original cotton-gin invented by Eli 
Whitney has been received from his son, Eli Whitney, of Xew Haven, 
and is on exhibition in the jMuseum. 

The routine icorJc of the year. — The work of the acting curator con- 
sists in obtaining and selecting material for exhibition, classifying and 
arranging it for the cases, collecting information about textile industries 
generally, and ai)plying such information to the prei^aratiou of labels 
for the si>ecimeus. During the year work of this kind hasboen greatly 
facilitated by the means afforded for visiting mills in the East as col- 
lector for the jSTew Orleans Exposition. Through the courtesy of treas- 
urers and superintendents of several of the largest mills the writer 
was enabled to spend much time in studying the processes of spinning 
and weaving, with great advantage to the work in the Museum. At 
the same time photographs were taken of machinery in use, which are 
of great value in illustrating the processes as they are described on the 
labels in the Museum. 

For special courtesies of this nature the Museum is indebted to Mr. 
H. Saltonstall, treasurer of the Pacific Mills, Mr. W. Whitman, treas- 
urer of the Arlington Mills, Mr. C. Fairbanks, treasurer of the Bigelow 
Carpet Company, and to various other firms and individuals whose 
mills were visited with interest and benefit. 

An important part of the curator's duty is to make microscopical 
investigations of fibers of all kinds, with reference to their value for 
various purposes, and particularly as to their adaptability to textile 
purposes. It has been impossible to conduct any systematic work of 
this kind during the past year, owing to the want of time, and the 
microsco])(^ has only been used occasionally for the i)urpose of identify- 
ing specimens. It will be necessary, however, to employ the micro- 
scope more frequently in future, for the work will require it. 

But little attention has been given to any but the exhibition series 
of specimens during this year. It is doubtful if a comi)rehensive study 
series would be of value in the Museum. A set of fibers of all kinds 
and from different localities, that can be always accessible for examina- 
tion, is, however, very desirable, if not absolutely necessary, and it is 
intended to ])repare such a series without delay. 

The microscopical apj)earan(;e of the more iuiportant textile fil>ers 
will be shown by means of photograi)hs from the microscope in con- 
nection with the fibers themselves as soon as time pernnts. To this 
end, some preparations were mounted for microscopical examination 
by Mr. Harry English, during his connection with the Museum, and it 
is expected they will yield fine photograj)hs. 

Reaearclies. — No original investigations have been conducted in this 
department, the routine work demanding all the time to the exclusion 



84 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

of other interests. A list of the vegetable fibers in the collection was 
published in No. 24 of the "Proceedings" of the Museum, but since this 
was prepared the collection has largely increased. 

A complete list of vegetable textile fibers, with common, local, and 
botanical names, alphabetically arranged, is in course of preparation, 
but it will not be published for a year or more. This list will give also 
the classification of the fibers according to the system adopted in the 
Museum. 

Present state of collection. — During the year 1883 our Smithsonian 
collection specimens have been catalogued. All of these are not, how- 
ever, desirable for exhibition purposes. There are now on exhibition, 
approximately, 2,000 specimens. 

The number of duplicates and of specimens in the study series cannot 
be satisfactorily estimated at this time. 

Recommendations and remarlcs. — To increase the interest of the collec- 
tions, to make them more instructive and intelligible, it seems desirable 
to make use of photography to illustrate the textile industries, even to 
as great an extent as has been done already in illustrating the fisheries. 
What little has been done has enabled the curator to judge as to the 
value and practicability of such a scheme, and since it does not involve 
the employment of a photographer, but only some additional work on 
his own part, it is recommended that every facility should be given to 
carry out the scheme in a satisfactory manner. The plan advised, tak- 
ing the subject of cotton for example, is to begin with the cotton in the 
field and follow it through its entire commercial history by photographic 
representations of the picking, ginning, baling, shipping, and handling 
until it reaches the mills. There it is also followed through the various 
machines, until it is finally photographed in the piles of woven fabrics 
in the warehouse ready for market. 

One great want which is severely felt in this department is that of 
books of reference regarding textiles. 



I 6k) -REPORT ON THE SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE OF 
THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884. 



By Joseph W. Collins, Hoiiorary Curator. 



REVIEW OF IMPORTANT ADDITIONS DURING THE YEAR. 

The niimber of accessions diirin«>- the year, botli of models, full-sized 
boats, and boat and vessel equipments, has been larj^^e, and generally 
of an important and interesting character. A considerable portion of 
these accessions was collected for exhibition at the International 
Fisheries Exhibition held in London in 1883, where also many very in- 
teresting and valuable objects were obtained, some by exchange with 
other countries, while others were i)resented to the Museum. Although 
these collections of American craft and their equipment were made in 
1882 and 1883, and the exchanges and donations received from the Lon- 
don Exhibition were made prior to the close of the past year, the various 
objects did not reach this country until after the close of the exposition, 
and become available to the Museum until after the beginning of 1884. 
We therefore feel justified, while preparing this, the first annual report 
of this department', in considering all the material gathered in 1882, 
1883, and 1884 as coming under the head of the accessions for the pres- 
ent year. Elsewhere the general character of the material gathered, 
and its relation to the present condition of the collection, will be more 
fully discussed. Here it is proposed to give only a review of the more 
important additions to the collection, with such notes as may be deemed 
desirable to show from what sources they were obtained, as well as to 
give an idea of their value and importance. 

There have been-collected in the period above named, 1882 to 1884, 
inclusive, 123 models and full-sizeil specimens of vessels and boats of 
North America, chiefly, however, such as are used in the United States; 
30 models and full-sized specimens of foreign fishing boats; 12 large 
India-ink and crayon sketches (30 by 40 inches) of American fishing 
boats; 92 photographs of fishing craft of the United States: 4 water- 
color sketches of vessels of the fifteenth, sixteenth, and seventeenth 
centuries; 8 photographic negatives of merchant vessels of the United 
States in the period between 1805 and 1845; 1 water-color sketch of a 
merchant bark of 1844; 1 photographic negative of a naval battle, war 

65 



86 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

of 1812-'15; 5 oil paintinf?s of modern vessels; 1 sketch and 2 prints of 
vessels; 1 model of a life-car; and 1G5 accessions of boat-building mate- 
rial and boat fittings. Many of these last accessions, though mentioned 
under a single number, contain a dozen or more objects which make up 
a complete set. 

The following objects may be alluded to as being of the greatest im- 
portance among the accessions to this department : 

(1) A collection of 4 rigged models, a fishing ketch, chebacco boat, 
])inkie, and square stern Marblehead banker, showing the early forms 
of vessels used in the fisheries of this country from its settlement up to, 
and including, the first quarter Of the present century. These are espe- 
cially interesting, not only as an illustration of certain degrees of evolu- 
tion in the form of fishing vessels, but also to show the peculiarities of 
the schooner, rigged in its more primitive form, after it was first invented 
at Gloucester, Mass. 

(2) A series of builders' models, illustrating the changes in the form 
of fishing vessels, from 1835 down to the extreme clipper of the present 
day. This collection is divided into three groups : one illustrating the 
development of the cod-fishing schooner, or Grand Banker, which is 
generally somewhat fuller than other fishing vessels ; a second group 
showing the changes made in the " medium-sharp " type, and the other 
group is composed of models which were the extreme sharp vessels of 
the several periods when they were built. 

(3) A sectional model of the schooner " Gertie Evelyn," of Gloucester, 
Mass., which illustrates very fully the interior arrangements of a modern 
fishing schooner. In my opinion no object in the collection under my 
charge is more Instructive than this.* 

(4) A rigged model of a three-masted cod-fishing schooner, such as 
are now used from some of the New England ports, and which are the 
largest vessels employed in the food fisheries on the Atlantic coast. 

(5) A builder's model, mounted in medallion, of an ideal fishing schooner, 
made deeper and somewhat narrower than the average New England 
schooner, and designed to secure greater safety in rough weather, par- 
ticularly when employed in the winter fisheries. This model is of especial 
interest at the present time, since it is believed by competent authority 
that a very considerable percentage of the losses of life and property 
which so frequently occur in the fishing fleets of New England, might 
be obviated by the employment of vessels of greater depth than those 
now in use. A fruitful source of disaster is doubtless the liability of the 
present type of schooner to capsize or to be tripped by a heavy sea, and 
its inability to right again, owing to the lack of a low center of gravity, 
which only depth can give, and an unusual length and weight of spars.t 

" Reference' is made to the descriptive label of this model, appended to this report, 
which will give a better idea of its value, 
t See descriptive label which is appended, for detail of this model. 



SECTION OF NAVAL ARCTTITECTtlRK. 87 

(G) A series of 22 models of tisliinji; bouts, ciiuoes, duyonls, &c., used 
ill the United States, botli by ab()ii<;iiial and white fishermen. This 
collection has been drawn from varions sources, but moii^ jxirticularly 
from Alaska, and from the Atlanti(; coast, between Eastern jNlaine and 
Washington, 1). C. It is of especial interest, as, combined w ith other 
material of a similar nature previously acquired by the Museum, it 
makes up a collection representing nearly all of the more important 
tyjx's of the smaller iishing craft used in the United States and its Ter- 
ritories. The greater part of this collection has been purchased, though 
in this as with other material, the Museum has been the recipient of 
numerous donations. 

(7) A collection of I full sized fishing boats and 10 models of fishing 
craft of the East Indies has been presented to the Museum by Sur- 
geon-General Francis Day, F. L. S., late inspector of Her Majesty's 
fisheries in India, and commissioner from India to the International 
Fisheries Exhibition at London, 1883. This is an exceedingly interest- 
ing collection, and without question it may be safely asserted that it 
forms one of the most valuable accessions received by this department 
of the ]\luseum during the current year. Almost every siiecimeii of 
either full sized boats or models shows some interesting peculiarity, 
which, if space and time permitted, would merit a longer notice than wo 
are able to give it here. A brief mention of them must suttice. Perhaps 
the most interesting of the various forms is that of a full-sized dugout 
used at Patna, in Bengal, where it is locally known as the "etka." This 
boat is made from the stem of the semul tree {Bomhax malabaricnm), and 
is very primitive, in its construction, being, in fact, simply a large, elon- 
gated, trough-shaped canoe, unlike any other in the large collection of 
<lu gouts in the Museum. 

Another very uni(}ue ty])e of fishing boat, and perhaps one of the most 
peculiar dugout canoes used by man, comes from Jessor, in Bengal, 
where it is locally known as a "donga." This is constructed from the 
stem of the tar iialm tree {Boransns flahelliformis)^ the hard outer layer 
of which, after the soft portion is s<!Ooped out, is very serviceable for 
this purpose. It has much the appearance of an exaggerated sjioon, 
with a deep bowl and a large handle, the latter concaved on one side 
an<l couvexed on the other, its end stopped or rendered water-tight by 
a partition placed crosswise. The shape of the boat is due to the pecu- 
liar growth of the stem of the tar palm, which swells out into a rounded 
bulb like form at one end. When it is said that the length of this cu- 
rious boat is less than 13 feet, and that it is only 30 inch(\s wide in its 
broadest part and <loes not average more than a foot in width for about 
two-thirds of its length, one will be fully able not only to ap])reciate the 
manner in whi(^l' man adai)ts means to ends to ])r()vi(le himself with 
some sort of craft for carrying on his operations, but will also be able 
to understand that a considerable degree of skill is required to navigate 
a boat of this kind. 



88 REPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

A full-sized catamaran (13 feet long and 3 feet wide), such as is used 
for fisbing in the Presidency of Madras, is another very interesting ad- 
dition to the collection of primitive types of water craft. Eudely con- 
structed of logs, and apparently as illy adapted as anything well oan be 
for encountering rough water, craft of this kind are nevertheless said to 
be very serviceable for crossing a heavy surf, and it is stated that they 
will make a landing in breakers which would prove the destruction of 
any ordinary boat that should dare to make a similar attempt. It is 
said that these rafts rise lightly over an ordinary siirf, but if caught by 
a great breaker are overwhelmed and knocked about. At such times 
the natives, who are semi-amphibious iii their habits, will leap over- 
board, and after their vessel has passed the surf they will clamber on 
to her again, and go on as if nothing had happened. 

Among the models of East Indian boats there is a verj-^ remarkable 
one of a fishing craft used at Chittagong, in the Presidency of Bengal. 
This is a long and narrow dugout canoe with scoop-shaped, narrow, 
square ends. Its special peculiarity consists in an arrangement for 
catching fish automatically. On one side of the boat is a broad bamboo 
platform, fixed to the gunwale in such a manner that it projects out 
into the water, and to this is attached a string of palm leaves something 
in the form of a broom. This strange device, when slightly agitated 
by the motion of the boat, has the effect of frightening any fish that 
may be near and which immediately jump upon the half submerged 
bamboo platform, and thence into the boat, where they fall among the 
branches of trees with which the canoe's bottom is strewn. The fish- 
erman sits on the gunwale with one foot in the water and heels the 
craft to the i^roper angle, or gives it the requisite motion for frightening 
the fish. To prevent the fish from leaping over the other side of the 
boat, and thus regaining their liberty, a net is fixed obliquely or ver- 
tically along the opposite gunwale, and serves as an effectual barrier to 
their escape. 

The most interesting model, perhaps, which has been received in this 
collection of Indian water craft, is that of the Bombay fishing boat 
known as the "machva" in the region where it is used. No boat in 
the world is more distinctive in type than this, and there are, perhaps, 
few others which would sooner attract the attention of those who are 
familiar with vessels. In the shape of its bottom the "machva" differs 
from all other boats, and the peculiar form of its keel is seemingly at 
variance with all of the recognized rules of naval architecture. The keel 
curves upwards in the center in an arch-like shape, and is deepest at 
the bow, where it forms nearly a right angle with the straight raking 
stem; it also drops down aft considerably. This boat, which is carvel 
built, of teak, has a l^ng, sharp, scoop-shaped bow, resembling in its 
form the forward section of an Arab dhow. The deep projecting keel 
serves the same purpose as a double center-board for providing the 
requisite lateral resistance when the boat is sailing close hauled. The 



SECTION Ol*' NAVAL AftCttlTECTURE. 89 

rig consists of a single short, stout mast, stepped almost amidships, 
and having a strong rake lorward. Upon this is spread a large settee 
sail, which tacks down to the bow. 

The "machva" is credited with being the swiftest of Indian sailing 
craft, and a claim has been made that boats of this type could beat 
English .yachts. Dr. McDonald, secretary and curator of the Victoria 
and Albert Museum, Bombay, says, "The fishing boats of the Koukan 
are considered to be amongst the swiftest sailing vessels known." It is 
believed by the native fishermen that the sailing qualities of their boats 
are materially improved by the shape of the keel. It would appear, 
too, that they are correct, strange as it may seem, for Biddle, in his 
*' Model Yacht Building and Sailing," tells us that " some experiments 
were tried with this type of vessel a few years back. The arch was 
filled up and the sailing qualities of the craft immediately destroyed." 
He also sajs " They do not go to windward so well as an English yacht, 
but in running and reaching they cannot be surpassed, especially in 
smooth water." Dixon Kemp, however, in " Yacht and Boat Sailing" 
(4th edition, p. 350), expresses the opinion that the stories about such 
craft beating boats of English design must be taken with considerable 
allowance. 

The following interesting account of the ceremonies attending the 
launching of a new boat of this class is given by Dr. McDonald : 
" When a Koli builds a new boat, or ' machva,' he gives a dinner to 
his friends and relatives on the occasion of its being first launched. 
The fermented juice of the palm tree is freely drunk by the guests in- 
vited on such occasions. The women, too, honor new boats with rev- 
erence and break cocoanuts upon the boat's bows, pretty much as cham- 
pagne bottles are broke at home on like occasions." 

Other models in this collection of East Indian boats, particularly the 
Madras " masulah " boat, and two of those used at the Maldives and 
Aden, are interesting as showing the peculiar method of sewing the 
l)lanks together with coir twine, which is a characteristic feature of 
many of the fishing craft used by the natives of the East. 

(8) We have obtained from the Government of Greece a collection 
of the fishing boats of that country, consisting of one full-sized speci- 
men and two models. It is interesting to note that two of these boats, 
a fishing skill", and a sloop from the island of Sciathos, resemble craft 
used in the United States. For instance, the skill' might be easily taken 
for one used by gunners in the Chesapeake and its tributaries, while on 
the New England coast sloop boats could perhaps be found which 
would not be very much unlike that employed by the Grecian fisher- 
men. The most interesting model in this collection is that of a Grecian 
boat employed in the net and seine fisheries. It is sharp aft, and finely 
proportioned. Its striking peculiarity, however, is a projecting cut- 
water or "ram", which se^ms to be the last surviving relic in the 
Grecian boats of the " ram's head," or cutwater, which adorned the 



90 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

bows of tbe ancient triremes, and which on the latter was used for offen- 
sive purposes (like the projecting rams on modern men-of-war), for crush- 
ing the sides of their antagonists. This boat is propelled wholly with 
oars, having eight rowers on a side. 

(9) A collection of seven fine models of Chinese cargo boats and fish- 
ing craft has been obtained from the Museum of Fish Culture at South 
Kensington, Loudon. These models are a valuable acquisition to the 
Museum, and combined with others previously acquired make up an 
interesting collection representing the craft of the Celestial Empire. It 
is possible in this place to make special mention of onlj^ two of the 
models as being of ijeculiar interest. One of these, a so-called "out- 
rigged " fishing junk, from South Formosa, is a remarkably clumsy 
craft, even for a Chinese junk, and judging by descriptions that have 
been given, it is probably a fact that this style of vessel has not changed 
much in its form or in the method of its construction since the days of 
Marco Polo. The other is a bamboo raft, or catamaran, a style of boat 
employed in China as elsewhere (in South America and India) not only 
for fishing purposes, but to go on and off the coast when the surf is so 
heavy as to preclude the possibility of using the ordinary' form of boat. 

(10) A full sized dugout canoe, such as is used on the Gold Coast of 
Africa, has been presented to the Museum by Mr. Maloney, governor 
of the Gold Coast colonj-. As being the oul^ full-sized representative 
we have of water craft used by the natives of Africa, this canoe is of 
especial interest and value to the collection. It also has an additional 
importance from being another interesting acces'Siou to the collection 
of primitive boats used by man, particularly of those which come under 
the head of dugout canoes. 

(11) An Irish " curragh," exhibited at the London Fisheries Exhibi- 
tion, has been presented by the Marquis of Hamilton. This boat, made 
of tarred canvas stretched over a light fra;ue-work of willow withes, is 
probably tlie most primitive form of water craft used by civilized man, 
and it constitutes an interesting "connecting link," if we may so call it, 
between the boats of a remote age and the higher types of vessels in 
use at the i^resent day. Remarkable as it may seem, craft of this kind 
are still in common use for fishing purposes on the west coast of Ire- 
land, and are perhaps as fine an illustration of the adai^tation of means 
to ends as can be found even among the varying forms of boats used 
by savage tribes ; for here the poor fisherman, not able to afford the 
expense of building a more durable craft, with the limited means at his 
command, makes himself such an one as may answer his purpose. 
Though extremely frail in appearance, these craft, from their lightness, 
are very buoyant, and it is said of them that they will rise like. a feather 
upon waves which would prove troublesome, if not dangerous, to the 
ordinary fishing boat. 

(12) Two full-sized British " corracles," one from the river Boyne in 
Ireland, and the other from the river Dee in Scotland, which have been 



SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 91 

obtained by exchange, may be reckoned among the valuable addi- 
tions to our collection in this department. These are oval-shaped boats 
about 5^ feet long and two-thirds as wide, the depth being about 18 
incrhes. The Boyne corracle is made of leather, fastened to a basket- 
like frame of willow withes, while the Scotch corracle is constructed of 
breadths of tarred canvas drawn over a light framework of thin, flat, 
wooden strips. Each of these corraclea has a single thwart, placed 
nearly amidships, upon which the occupant sits to paddle the boat. 

(13) Among the interesting novelties received by the Museum during 
the current year might properly be included a model of a Belgian fish- 
ing sloo]), which was purchased at the International Fisheries Exhibi- 
tion at London, and which represents the peculiar style of boats used 
for beam-trawling, &c., from certain ports on the coast of Belgium, but 
particularly from Heyst and Blankenberghe. This boat, which is de- 
signed for landing on a beach, and is, therefore, flat-bottomed, and like 
the Dutch bomschuited, very broad and full, diflers, in the form of its 
hull and its rig, from any other fishing boat used by man at the present 
time. This model is rendered doubly interesting by having attached 
to it the peculiar forms of fishing apparatus used by the Belgian boats, 
and also because there are a number of figures of fishermen in it. 

(14) The collection has been enriched by an accession of four water- 
color sketches of ships of the fifteenth, sixteenth, and seventeenth 
ceaturies, which are of especial interest as being connected with the 
early history of America. One of the sketches represents the ships of 
Columbus, according to the highest French authoritj', which by the 
clo.sest students of naval architecture of that period are believed to 
be the most accurate and reliable. Another very interesting sketch 
is that of the Mayflower under sail, on her passage from England to 
America in 1620. This is probably the most accurate sketch of the 
Mayflower that has ever been made, since it is derived from a study 
of many years of the various peculiarities of the English and Dutch 
vessels of that period. A third sketch represents a "carrack" of the 
sixteenth century. Hippus, the Tyrian, is credited with having first 
devised carracks, which are described as vessels of great size, de- 
signed for both trade and war. The same name was given also by the 
Portufjuesc and Spanish to a class of vessels which they sent in the 
sixteenth century to the East Indies and Brazil, and which doubtless 
visited other parts of America. These vessels were large and full, of 
great depth, and were designed for fighting as well as trade. The 
fourth .sketch is that of a Spanish " galleon " of the sixteenth century 
(1520). In their traflBc with America, galleons were much used by the 
Spanish as treasure ships during the sixteenth century. They were 
always heavily armed, but it is said that owing to their unwieldiness 
they generally fell an easy ])rey to their assailants. 

(15) D. J. Lawlor, naval architect, Chelsea, Mass., has presented the 
Museum with a fine collection of 17 models of various styles of vessels. 



92 REPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Among these may be mentioned, as of especial interest, 8 models which 
show the evolution of the American pilot-boat from 1845 down to 
October, 1884. In no department of naval architecture have our ship- 
builders shown more originality than in the construction of pilot-boats, 
and perhaps nowhere else, either in this or other countries, has there 
been a higher combination of speed and general sea- going qualities than 
has been characteristic of the vessels of this class employed on our 
Atlantic coast. In this collection, perhaps, more than in any other that 
might be gathered, are illustrated the ideas wliich have influenced the 
minds of designers of small, swift, seagoing sailing vessels during the 
past forty years. Passing through various changes of greater or less 
importance, the writer is of the opinion that, in the model of the pilot- 
boat Hesper, of Boston, very high results have beep attained, so far 
as a combination of speed, sj-mmetry, and sea-worthiness is concerned. 

Another model in the collection obtained from Mr. Lawlor is that of 
the steamship Meteor, which has a very interesting history. She was 
built by subscription from merchants of Boston, New York, and elsewhere 
" for the purpose of offering her to our Government for the pursuit of the 
Alabama and other blockade runners, then preying upon our commerce 
and carrying stores to the enemy, in defiance of our more heavily armed 
ships of war."* The design for this ship was offered in competition, the 
competitors being Henry and William H. Webb, of New York, and D. J. 
Lawlor, of Chelsea, Mass. One hundred dollars bonus was offered as a 
prize to him whose design was accepted. The model made by Mr. Lawlor, 
and which he has presented to theMuseiMD, is the one which was accepted, 
and from this the ship was built at Portsmouth, N. H., and launched on 
May 21, 1864. " She was designed to carry one heavy pivot amidships on 
gun deck, or two 10 inch or other guns at the same point, namely, just 
before the mainmast; forward of this are four ports (two on each side) 
where 8 or 9-inch Dahlgrens would have been mounted had she been 
taken by the United States Navy Department, and abreast of the engine 
hatch aft there are two ports on each side where she could have mounted 
short 32's or 24-pound howitzers, and on the upper deck are beds for 
two 30-pound Parrotts, making one pivot 11 inch, or two 10 inch ; four 
broadside, 8 or 9 inch ; four 32 or 24- pound howitzers, on gun deck ; 
two light chase guns on upper deck. She has two 62J by 36-inch cylin- 
ders; four tubular boilers ; propeller of brass, 13^ feet diameter and 23 
feet pitch. The motive power, boilers, &c., were imported from Scot- 
land at a very large cost." t 

"The Meteor was a steamer of 1,440 tons register, old measurement, 
being about 400 tons larger than the Alabama; and when tested by the 
■ ■ ■ • 

* Report of the case of the steamship Meteor, Vol. 1. Edited by F. V. Batch, Boston, 

I8r)9. 

t Extract from letter of R. B. Forbes to Frederick C. Schmidt, esq., New York, 
dated Boston, S^eptember 13, 1865. 



SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 93 

Kavy Department made the best time between the trial buoys off Sandy 
Hook which had then ever been made by any screw shi[), being one or 
two miles an hour faster than any of the rebel cruisers ; but just when 
the Government was about taking ber, the fall of Fort Fisher rendered 
her no longer necessary for her original i)urpose, and, after two or three 
voyages in the transport and merchant service, she was laid up and 
offered for sale in New York in the summer of 1S65. 

"In the autumn of 1865 Spain made war upon her former colonies, 
the states of Chili and Peru, whose independence she had never formally 
acknowledged, and it soon became known that the South American 
Republic wauted ships. 

" There was every reason why the owners of the Meteor should be 
ready to sell her to our South American neighbors whenever they could 
properly and lawfully do so."* 

Negotiations were carried on with this purpose in view, but when all 
ready to sail with her stores and crew on board, " the Meteor was 
seized on the 23d of January, 1866, by the United States marshal, at 
the instance of Spain," and for about two years was held in litigation 
by the Government of the United States for alleged infringement of 
neutrality laws, the final result of the suit, however, being in favor of 
the owners of the ship. 

Outside of the purpose for which she was originally built the model 
of the Meteor is interesting as being a ship of unusual speed for the 
period when she was designed. It is related of her that she has made 
an average speed of 15^ knots an hour, with a disconnected screw, for 
a period of 72 consecutive hours. 

In the collection received from Mr. Lawlor are two fine models of 
steam yachts, which illustrate the advance which has been made in 
designing these ty})es of pleasure craft. 

(16) In a collection of 5 models of various kinds of sailing and steam 
craft, ])resented to the INIuseum by Sumner, Swaysey, and Currier, of 
]S'ewburyi)ort, Mass., is an interesting model of the screw steam packet 
Decatur, built about 1844, and which may be considered as a fair rej)- 
resentative type of the earliest f^rms of screw steamers employed in the 
United States. 

(17) We have received from John N. Gushing, of Ncwburyport, Mass., 
a collection of 8 models of merchant vessels (brigs, barks, and ships). 
Of these two are of csi)ecial interest. One of them is the nuxlel of the 
brig Palos, of Xewburyport, l)uilt in 1832. From this model, which 
is one of the best examples extant of the old-style " kettle bottom," a 
fleet of 12 or 14 l)rigs were built, these being emi)loyed (;hiefly in the 
European tra<le. '1 hey were extremely full, deep, and narrow, with a 
great deal of "tumble home" to their top sides. This peculiar shape 
■was due chiefly to the tonnag«! laws then in vogue, by which one half 
of the length of the main beam was taken from the depth of the vessel. 

* Report of the case of the steamship Meteoc, 



94 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

It will consequently be seen that a vessel which was of extraordinary- 
depth and very narrow on deck would have an exceedingly great car- 
rying capacity in proportion to her tonnage. It was, therefore, the 
custom of some merchants to build their vessels of this type for the 
foreign trade in order to escape as much as possible the payment of 
onerous tonnage dues in the various ports which they visited. As an 
instance of the great carrying capacity of the brigs built from this 
model, the story is told that one of them, the Keying, of a little less 
than 300 tons burden, landed 700 tons of coal in Jamaica, which she 
had brought from Cardiff. A second model of special interest in the 
collection received from Mr. Gushing is that of a Baltimore clipper 
brig of 1845. This model, which was designed for a vessel of about 255 
tons, is in an excellent state of preservation, and gives us a very good 
idea of the extreme clipper vessels of the period when it was con- 
structed. One other model, that of the brig Dove, built in 1817, is also 
worthy of mention. This is the earliest form of a square-rigged vessel 
of which we have a builder's model. 

(18) A beautiful builder's model of the ship Oregon, of Bath, Me., 
has been presented to the Museum by Mr. William Rogers, of Batli. 
This model is an excellent representative of the type of "half clipper" 
ships of the present day, which for the general purpose of trade now 
existing have been found the most useful. As the result of many 
years' experience, the ship-builders of to-day have succeeded in com- 
bining in a very high degree excellent sailing qualities with great 
capacity. Therefore a vessel is obtained which may make rapid pas- 
sages and carry a cargo sufficiently large to pay her owners a good 
freight. This ship may be taken as a fair illustration of the highest 
type of the cotton carriers of the present day, in which trade, we are 
informed, she has been employed to a greater or less extent. 

(19) Mr. William P. Pattee has presented to the Museum four rather 
interesting models of old style merchant vessels, and, together with 
Mr. F. W. Weeks, has given us a fine builder's model of the ship Glas- 
gow, built at Bath, Me., in 183G, and employed in the cotton trade 
between New Orleans and Liverpool This model is mounted on a 
board, with head, keel, rudder, &c., attached, and is painted in the 
same manner as the ship which was built from it. It is especially val- 
uable as representing the finest type of cotton carrier of the period 
between 1830 and 1840. 

(20) Five models of modern merchant vessels, four of which are three- 
masted schooners, have been given to the Museum by C P. Carter & 
Co., Belfast, Me. This collection is chiefly interesting from showing 
different forms of three-masted schooners emi>loyed in various trades. 
Two of these, the Meyer and Muller, and the Nellie S. Picking, represent 
the wide, light-draught ty])e of vessel employed in the coasting trade 
of the Soutli Atlantic and Gulf ports, where the harbors are generally 



SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 95 

shallow, while other models illusntrate the characteristics of the deeper 
sea-goiugr schooners eu^ajicd in the general ocean traffic. 

(21) No more interesting addition has been made to this collection 
than that of eight photograjiliic negatives of ]Kuntings of merchant ves- 
sels of the early part of this century, from 1805 to 1845. Through the 
courtesy of several public-spirited citizens of Newburyport, Mass., who 
are the owners of the i)aintings, I was ]>ermitted to copy them. In a 
succeeding paragraj)!! these will be mentioned in greater detail. 

(22) Among the acquisitions of boat and vessel equipments the fol- 
lowing seem deserving of special mention: (1) two nickel-plated models 
of steam windlasses, which have been iiresented by the American 
Ship Windlass Company, of Providence, E. I. These models repre- 
sent the highest results that have been attained in mechanical contriv- 
ances for weighing ships' anchors, warping, &c. ; (2) a coil (100 fathoms) 
of 8i-inch manila cable, such as is used by the New England fishing 
vessels for riding at anchor upon the outer banks. It is an interesting 
fact that manila has of late years entirely superseded hemi> for this 
purpose, having been found more pliable, and in many respects prefer- 
able to hemp for cables; (3) a full gang of standing rigging for a fish- 
ing schooner, one-half full size, fitted in all its details, has been given 
to the Museum by Mr. James M. Simms, of Gloucester, Mass. Proba- 
bly no fishing vessels in the world have so much care expended on the 
fitting of the rigging as do those of New England, and in this respect 
they will bear favorable comparison with yachts; (4) Nathan Richard- 
son, of Gloucester, Mass., has given a full-sized sample of "Kichard- 
son's Challenge Steerer." This steerer, which is one of the many forms 
of patent steering wheels now in use on American fishing vessels, is 
one of the latest devices, and is an interesting rei)resentative type of 
the wheels used on the schooners of the Atlantic coast; (5) a full sized 
sample of ''Collins' Patent Fog Alarm" has been added to the collec- 
tion. This fog alarm was originally devised for use on fishing vessels, 
and is believed to be more powerful than any mechaiucal contrivance 
worked by hand now in general use. It derives its chief importance 
from the fact that there is i)robably nothing more needed by American 
fishermen than a powerful and efficient fog-horn. Obliged to lie at 
anchor on the fishing banks in the direct track of commerce, es])ecially 
swift steamers, and where dense fogs prevail nearly all the time in 
si)ring and summer, they are in (^mstant danger of being run down 
and sunk — a danger that can only be averted by having a powerful 
horn that may be operated by hand. The trawl-line fisheries, too, in- 
volve the fishermen in much ])ersonal risk that (-an be obviated only by 
the use of a horn of more than ordinary i)ower. Duiing the ])revalence 
of the thickest fogs the fishermen must i)ut oil" from their vessels to 
set and haul their trawl-lines, generally going <listances varying from 
one and one-half to three miles. The style of horns commonly in use 
cannot, of course, be heard more than a small portion of that distance 



96 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

except when there is little or uo wind. Therefore, in localities where 
the currents are uncertain as to their course and variable in strength, 
where the winds are liable to change suddenly, and where fogs are so 
dense and so long continued, it is not surprising that many fishermen 
go astray in their boats and are exposed to untold suffering, perhaps 
death, owing to the fact that they are unable to hear the fog-signals 
made on board of the schooner they have left, and which they vainly 
strive to find. The local papers in the fishing towns frequently record 
the loss of men in this manner, and the escape of others from death, 
simi)ly by a hair's breadth, after enduring the most unheard-of sufiVring 
from exposure, hunger, and thirst. Various devices have been resorted 
to to remedy this evil, such as, for instance, carrying cannon to fire in 
foggy weather; but heretofore these means have failed to prevent the 
frequent recurrence of disaster. The chief objection to cannon is, that 
their discharge involves a certain amount of danger as well as expense; 
therefore, they are not usually fired until it is deemed absolutely neces- 
sary — that is, often not unless it is thought a dory has gone astray, and 
then it is frequently ineffective, because the lost men have got too fur 
from the vessel to hear the sound. The sound of the cannon, moreover, 
is so short that its direction, even if the report is heard, is very difli- 
cult to determine. What, therefore, is needed is an implement that 
can give out a^uearly continuous heavy blast, or a succession of short, 
heavy blasts, powerful enough to be heard at a considerable distance, 
and repeated at such intervals that no difflculty may be experienced in 
determining its location ; (6) a very large collection of boat and vessel 
fittings, sail-maker's tools and apparatus, has been given to the Mu- 
seum by Messrs. Wilcox, Crittenden & Co., Middletown, Conn. This, 
combined with donations previously received from the same house, 
makes up an extremely interesting and comprehensive collection of 
boat fittings, sail-maker's gear, material for building boats, &c., proba- 
bly the most complete and valuable collection of its kird that is pos- 
sessed by any museum in the world. 

WORK IN ARRANGING AND CLASSIFYING THE COLLECTION. 

There has not been, as yet, any proper arrangement or systematic 
classification of the material in this department. The large case and 
screen, which were essential for the proper display of the models, were 
not completed until the spring of 1883 was well advance*!, and, in can- 
sequence of my time being employed very much with other matters, all 
that it has been possible to do was to make a tentative installment of 
the various objects in the collection which it was the most imperative 
should be placed where they might be protected from injury. It has, 
however, been found necessary to put into temporary storage nearly all 
of the collection of vessel and boat fittings. 

A large portion of the full-size specimens and models of vessels 
and boats in the collection was either exhibited by the Museum ?it tbtJ 



SECTION OP^ NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 97 

luteriiatioual Fisberies Exhibition at London, 1883, or obtained at 
that exhibition, as has already been mentioned, by exchange. Much 
of this material, being of a very fragile nature — particularly the rigged 
models — notwithstanding the great care that was exercised in packing 
it, was, when unpacked in the spring, found to be more or less out of 
rei>air. Lacking competent assistance, I was compelled to make the 
repairs with my own hands, in almost every instance, and it was only 
by a special etibrt — working late at nights for upwards of three weeks — 
that it was possible to make even a preliminary installment of the vari- 
ous objects now exhibited. To get the material into the cases, and else- 
elsewhere, so that it might be protected from injury, demanded, of 
course, my first attention, while the matter of classification, cataloguing, 
and the i)reparation of descriptive labels, could be attended to at a 
later date, whenever an opportunity might be afibrded. 

I will state here that nearly all of the material sent to London was 
properly catalogued and descriptive labels of most of the objects were 
])repared and printed. After the installation of these models in the 
Museum, allusion to which has already been made, I attempted to com- 
plete the entering of the various objects in my department, and also made 
an effort to prepare a lull set of descriptive labels. Could I have had any 
assistance in this work, very commendable progress might have been 
made, and many highly valuable objects would have been so fully re- 
corded and described as to preserve their identification, which alone can 
render them of any worth or importance to the Museum. But being al- 
most wholly without assistance of any kind ; obliged to continue making 
repairs on the models even after the first installation, and having many 
other matters on hand which engrossed the greater part of my time, I 
succeeded in doing only a very small part of the work of cataloguing 
and writing labels before I was called away to attend to duties that, at 
the time, imperatively' demanded my attention ; one of which was the 
collection of material to represent the development of naval architecture 
in the American merchant marine. A part of this collection has been 
sent to the World's Exposition at New Orleans, but will ultimately be 
installed in the National Museum. 

RESEARCHES PROSECUTED UPON MATERIAL BELONGING TO THE DE- 
PARTMENT. 

For the reasons mentioned in the preceding j)aragraph, it has been 
impossible to prosecute any research of importance on the material 
in this department. In the introduction of Section I, " Catalogue 
of the Collection Illustrating the Fishing Vessels and Boats," &c., ex- 
hibited by the United States at the International Fisheries Exhibition, 
London, 1883, I have discussed in a general way the history and de- 
veloj)ment of the American fishing vessels, and have spoken at length 
of the introduction and use of steamers in certain fisheries of this c(»nii- 
try. Brief mention has been made of certain tyjtes of fishing boats 
and the general collection of api)aratus accessory to rigging fishing 
S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 7 



98 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

vessels, &c. This catalogue contains, in addition to the notes already 
alluded to, concise descriptions of much of the material in this depart- 
ment which more particularly relates to the fisheries of the United 
States. 

Under the title of "American commerce" the Newburyport Herald, 
of November 7, 1884, published an article upon the collection of models, 
&c., in the Museum, and made special mention of builders' models, pict- 
ures, &c., which had been obtained at Newburyport, Mass 

PRESENT STATE OF COLLECTION. 

The collection in this department probably contains the largest 
amount of material illustrative of the fishing craft of this and other 
countries, and the various accessories for rigging such vessels, to be 
found in any museum in the world. In this direction, as well as in that 
of the more primitive types of water craft in use in various parts of 
the globe, the National Museum may fairly claim to be in an excellent 
condition. There is not, however, so great an amount of material repre- 
senting the merchant marine and naval vessels, of even our own coun- 
try, as might be desired. 

So far as the models of boats and shii^s are concerned, nearly all of 
them have been placed on exhibition, but with the materials for the 
equipment of vessels, &c., the case is far different, as has already been 
indicated. With few exceptions, owing to lack of time and other causes, 
it has been found necessary to put these, temporarily, in storage. As 
soon, however, as it is practicable, this collection will be properly clas- 
sified, arranged, and displayed in the Museum. 

STATISTICS. 

Owing to causes which have already been alluded to, I find it impos- 
sible to give anything more than an approximation of the statistics of 
this department, with the exception of the material now exhibited. 
There are now on exhibition (including a whale-boat at the New Orleans 
Exposition) 28 full-sized boats, canoes, corracles, &c.; 54 builders' mod- 
els, which, with 32 now at New Orleans, make up a total of 86; 305 
other models of vessels, boats, canoes, &c., are displayed in the Mu- 
seum, and 8 models of this description are now at New Orleans, making 
313 in all; 4 water-color sketches of ships of the fifteenth, sixteenth, 
and seventeenth centuries ; 5 oil j^aintings of modern types of fishing 
vessels; 1 photograph of an English North Sea beam trawler; sketch 
of a full-rigged brig; 2 prints of naval vessels; 19 sketches and photo- 
graphs of fishing vessels, &c. ; and 88 specimens of vessel fittings and 
apparatus. 

There are held in storage, or what might be, perhaps, called the re- 
serve series, about 25 models and some 350 specimens of boat and vessel 
fittings. 

As to the future development of this department there is much to 
be hoped for. With the space now at command it would not perhaps 



SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE 99 

be possible, eveu if it were desirable, to display so comprebensive a 
collection of rigged models of mercbaut craft and men-of-war as we 
now liave of tlie tisbing vessels of tbis and otber conntries, bnt it is 
seemingly in tbe bigbest degree desirable tbat tbere sbonld be procured, 
wben tbe opportunity is afforded, a number of models rejtresenting tbe 
more important types, at bast of mercbaut vessels. One tbiug sbould 
be done, or 1 migbt say sbould be tbe aim of tbis department, and tbat 
is to get togetber material wbicli, added to tbe collection already gatb- 
ered, may fully and fairly represent tbe development of naval archi- 
tecture in tbis country, from tbe discovery of America up to tbe pres- 
ent time. Tbe fisbing and commercial marine, as well as tbe Navy, 
bave jdayed a most imi)ortant part in the bistory of tbe United States. 
It seems eminently fitting, tberefore, that in a National Museum, estab- 
lished in tbe capital of tbe country, a collection sbould be gathered 
wbieli may form a comi)rebensive illustration of tbe i)rogress of ideas 
and enterprise in the various branches of maritime affairs in which 
our people have engaged. While it may not be practicable or even 
desirable to do tbis by gathering together a large collection of rigged 
models, it is undoubtedly a fact that tbe plan I have so briefly alluded 
to migbt be carried out to a great extent by the use of jnctures dis- 
])layed on flat screens, and from a study of which one could obtain a 
very fair idea of tbe many types of craft, as well almost as from seeing 
tbe models, and tbere would be tbis additional advantage, that exhibits 
of this kind could be so displayed as to occupy the smallest possible 
sj)ace. It is my opinion tbat there can be very much done by the use 
of builders' models to show the development of naval architecture. 
These can be mounted at small expense and painted in the style of the 
vessel they represent, while by attaching a small illustration of the ship 
to tbe descriptive label, showing the rig and general appearance of the 
vessel under sail or steam, one could gain not only an idea of the shape 
of tbe vessel, her lines, «S:c,, but would bave impressed upon bis mind 
her general appearance under sail. A great deal, i)erhaps, may be done, 
with tbe aid of tbe Navy Department, by getting togetber and proi)erl5- 
monnting some of the many builders' models of war ships, which are now 
little better than old lumber in tbe cock-lofts of the navy-yard buildings. 
It is tberefore desirable, whenever it can be done, that pictures of vari- 
ous rigs and styles of water craft should be obtained to add to those 
which we now have. The im})ortance of getting together such a collec- 
tion bus already been referred to, so far as it relates to its being a record 
of tbe past bistory of commerce in tbis country. 

By bringing together a mass of material of this character we are able 
to compare one ty])e with another, and it may serve as an important 
scliool for tbe historian as well as for tlie naval architect. The latter 
may derive useful and valuable knowledge and suggestions from a 
study of foreign vessels, and by an intelligent combination of tbe best 
qualities of the craft of other countries with those of our own he 



100 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1881. 

may lui able to devise the very highest types that it is possible to cou- 
strnct. Already something of this kind has been accomplished, the 
result being' a modification of the form of the fishing vessels. Withiu 
the present year fishing schooners have been built in New England 
much deeper than any that have previously been in common use, and 
judging from the results already attained, they will be much safer, and 
otherwise more serviceable, than the ordinary type we have been accus- 
tomed to during the past. 

While the foregoing shows what is desirable, so far as adding to the 
collection is concerned, I cannot refrain from stating in this place the fact 
that it seems of the utmost importance that the material we now have 
should receive more attention than it has been possible for me to give it. 
Since my time is so largely occupied with other duties, in connection with 
the Fish Commission, &c., I hope it will not be out of i)lace if I humbly 
suggest the importance of my having more assistance when at Wash- 
ington to aid me in arranging and classifying the material in this de- 
partment, as well as in doing other necessary work. Unfortunately, as 
the case now stands, in spite of the utmost eflbrts I have been able to 
put forth, a considerable portion of the material of this department 
has not been entered on the catalogue, neither have there been prepai ed 
proper descriptive labels for many of the objects. The identification of 
many of the models depends solely upon my memory and the knowledge 
of the various craft, &c., which I have obtained by study and experi- 
ence. It has been my wish to place the collection in such shape that it 
would be perfectly pi-acticable for some one else to take control of it and 
go on with the work without any trouble or hindrance. This seems emi- 
nently desirable, since, as all men are mortal, the value of any portion 
of such a collection ought not to depend so much on any single indi- 
vidual. 

It seems j)roper in this place that mention should be made of the im- 
portance of having descriptive and historical labels for each object. In 
no other way, in my opinion, can a collection be rendered so instructive 
and valuable as it can be by having attached to each article a somewhat 
comprehensive label. This having been done, a visitor to the Museum, 
even a child, may acquire all the more important facts respecting 
anything he may be specially interested in, while to the student these 
labels will prove invaluable. Generally a label should not only give an 
idea of the form of the object described and its dimensions, but it should 
also contain what it is used for, and the locality irom which it comes, 
etc.; in a word, all the knowledge that one ordinarily cares to obtain. 
More fully to illustrate the point which we are trying to make, we insert 
the following samples of labels prepared for objects in this collection: 

FISHING SCHOONKR GKRTIE EVELYN, OF GLOUCESTER, MASS. 

Sectional model, port side, scale 1 iuch to 1 foot. This model shows the exterior and 
interior of the port side of a clipper tishin{>; schooner, such as are now employed lu the 
general deep-sea fisheries of New England. It is specially designed to show the ar- 



SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 101 

ranjjeiiHMit of the interior, siuli as the forecastle, cook's ])antry and store-rooui, ice- 
houses for the refrigemtion of fisJi, bait, «tc., the stowaf^o of liallast, cabin, gear-room, 
&c. The ice-lumse is built in the style whieli has been most comnionly adopted on 
vessels employed in the frosh-halibut fishery or the winter haddock fishery, and with 
the exception that on some of the vessels the ice-house is divided into two sections — 
the "forward" and "after" ice-houses — bj' a bulkliead just abaft the mainmast, few, 
if any, differ from this. Comparatively few American schooners carry any other than 
stone ballast, and such is shown, though a few, especially those of smaller size, have 
some — that which is stowed each side of the keelson — iron ballast, and in excep- 
tional cases a vessel may be wholly ballasted with iron. The forecastle, which is the 
sleeping apartment for a i)ortion of the crew and for the cook, and the place where 
the cooking is done, and where the entire crew, including the captain, oat their meals, 
is finished in pine, painted and grained. Lockers run around both sides, and serve 
the double purpose of seats for the men and stowage for vegetables, &c. The cooking- 
stove sits on a platform, raised about 4 to G inches above the floor, at the after end of 
the forecastle on the starboard side. There are three lengths of sleeping berths (five 
berths only of which are usually occupied) on the port side, and two lengths on the 
starboard side, though it rarely happens that they arc all filled. Besides these there 
are two more berths on the starboard side, aft of the "dish-closet" (which is at the 
side about abreast of the forem.ast), that are used by the cook for the storage of small 
stores and other material which he uses. At the after end of the forecastle, on the 
port side, is a small upright closet with shelves where the cook keeps a supply of eat- 
ables, which the fishermen have access to at all hours of the day and night; this is 
called the "grub-locker." Near this is the door leading into the forehold, where are 
the cook's pantry on the ]iort side, and the coal-pen on the starboard side, and where 
also is stowed a supply of wood, flour, beef, pork, &c. Beneath the floor of the pantry, 
at least in part, are the water-casks, each holding about 250 to 400 gallons, these being 
supplemented by a greater or less number of barrels filled wnth water, which are also 
stowed in the forehold. In the pantry the cook prepares the food for cooking, and 
this apartment is often ])aiBted in a neat and tasty manner. The ice-honse is sep- 
arated from the pantry by a double bulkhead of matched boards with tarred paper 
between. The platform of the ice-house is usually made of spruce or pine planks 2 
inches in thickness, these being laid on sleepers of 3 by 4 scantling, which are fitted 
in their proper places, well secured, and also supported in the middle before the ballast 
is put on board. The platform is held securely in place by the stanchions which form 
the framework of the pens or sections into which the ice-house is divided. Each pen 
is separated from the next by a single partition of one-inch boards. A portion of the 
front of each side pen is tightly closed up from the floor to the deck, while the re- 
maiuder is adjustable, a number of " pen-boards" being cut of suitable lengths so that 
by sliding in grooves in the upright stanchions they may be put in or removed as oc- 
casion demands. The pens on the sides are called "wing-pens," while those in the 
center aisle are known as "slaughter-house pens," the one, however, which is directly 
under either the main or after hatch having the name of "slaughter-house." The 
cabin is finished with hard wood, usually black walnut and ash; it has four berths, 
the forw!»rd one of which on the starboard side is occupied by the captain, while the 
others are taken by such members of the crew as may secure them by lot, since there 
are no under officers to claim them by right. Beneath the cabin floor, in which there 
is a small trap-door, a supply of coal for the cabin stove is carried. Aft of the cabin, 
in the extreme stern, is a rough, unfinished apartment, where such materials as spare 
fishing-gear, light sails, cordage, blocks, &c., are stowed. The larger mass of fishing- 
gear, which is very bulky, is stowed in the ice-honse when the vessel is making pas- 
sages. The particular schooner which this model represents was built by Messrs. 
Bishop & Murphy, of Gloucester, Mass., and launched in February, 1883. She has been 
employed in the winter haddock fishery, carrying her catch fresh to market, a distance 
varying from 150 to 300 miles. She is about 82 tons register (135 tons builder's meas- 



102 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

are), and has made a good record for si)ecd and sea-worthiness. She is from 4 to 6 
inches deeper than the average American fishing schooner of the same size, has tine 
lines, with long, sharp bow, which is slightly concave beneath the water line; mod- 
erately full bilge; broad beam; long, finely-cnt run; rather full, elliptical stern, 
which has considerable overhang. The relative dimensions of spars, sails, and rig- 
ging for this class of vessel is shown on the full rigged models. Gloucester, Mass., 
188.3. U. S. Fish Commission. 76,011. 

Dimensions of original. — Length over all, 87 feet; total length of model, including 
stub bowsprit, 96 inches; beam (extreme), 22^ feet; depth of hold, 8^ feet; draught — 
aft, 9i feet, forward, 5J feet ; depth of keel, 22 inches ; extreme length of forecastle, 
22 feet; of pantry, or forehold,7^ feet; ice-houso, 28J feet ; cabin (on floor), 10 feet; 
house (outside), llf feet. Height: Forecastle and cabin, about 6 feet under beams; 
forehold, 6 feet ; ice-house, extreme, 6 feet, average, 5 feet. 

Xavies of the several sections of the model. 

1. Upper forepeak berth. 2. Lower forepeak berth , generally used only for the 
stowage of lanterns, oil cans, &c. 3. Table. This is divided into two sections, the 
after one of which turns back, folding around and fastening to the foremast when not 
in use. 4. Forecastle floor. 5. Locker. 6. Foremast. 7. Pawl-bit. 8. Heel of bow- 
sprit. 9. Windlass. 10. Traveler. The lower jib-sheet block is fastened to an iron 
ring which runs on this traveler. 11. Uiiper middle berth, port side. The berth cor- 
responding to this on the starboard side is always occupied by the cook. 12 Lower 
middle berth, port side. 13. Upper after berth. The berth corresponding to this on 
starboard side is not so wide, and is used only for storage of small stores, &c., as is the 
one next below it. 14. Lower after berth, sometimes called "slaughter-house" berth, 
becaiTse of its exposure to cold drafts of air in the winter from the forehold and com- 
panion-way. 15. " Grub closet." 16. Entrance to forehold. 17. Steps. 18. Water 
cask. 19. Pantry floor. 20. Flour barrel. 21. Beef barrel. 22. Cook's bread-board. 
23. Shelves for boxes, firkins, &c. 24. Ice-hou.'-e bulkhead. 25. Ice-house floor. 
26. Shifting planks. These are rough planks, running fore and aft between the 
stanchions, to prevent the ballast from shifting to either side in case the vessel should 
be knocked on her beam ends. 27. Ballast. The kind of ballast usually carried and 
the method of storage is seen beneath the glass. The ballast extends the entire 
length of the ice-house. 28. Forward slaughter-house. 29. After slaughter-house. 
30. Forward wing-pen, port side. 31. Wing-pen, port side, next to forward one. 
32. Third wing-pen, port side. 33. Fourth wing-pen, port side. 34. Wing-pen, port 
side, next to after one. 35. After wing-pen, port side. This is often filled with salt, 
which is carried for the double purpose of curing any codfish which may be taken, 
aud also for salting the fishing gear when not in use. 36. After-midship pen. 37. 
" Hospital " pen. This is the pen amidship which incloses the mainmast and pumps, 
and is so called because it is diflScult to ice halibut properly in it : sometimes called 
the mainmast pen. 38. Slaughter-house pen. 39. Mainmast. 40. Pumps. 41. Fore- 
castle companion-way. 42. Fore hatch. 43. Main hatch. 44. Quarter-deck break. 
45. After hatch. 46. House. 47. Skylight. 48. Funnel- cap. 49. Cabin companion- 
way. 50. Steps. 51. Locker-seats. 52. Binnacle. 53. Stove. 54. After berth, port 
side. 55. Forward berth, port side. As a rule, two men sleep in this berth. This is 
in all respects like the captain's berth, which is directly opposite. 56. Coal-locker. 
57. Room for spare gear, &c. 58. Rudder. 59. Rudder-head. 60. Taffrail. 61. 
Knight-heads. 62. Keel. 63. Keelson. 64. Cutwater. 65. Stem. 66. Stern-post. 

IDEAL FISHING SCHOONER NEW ERA. 

[Model, scale i inch to 1 foot, i 

Builder's model, showing starboard side of schooner ; mounted in medallion, and 
rigged with spars, sails, «fec., complete. Clipper; long, sharp bow ; deep body; more 
than average "dead rise ;" long, clean run ; full, elliptical, overhanging stern, slant- 
ing upward from the lower center to the corner ; fine sheer ; long quarter-deck. 



SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 103 

Dimensions of full-size vessel. 

Hull.— Length over all, 65 feet ; keel. 69 leet ; beam, 21^ feet; depth of hold, 10 
feet ; draught, aft, 10^ feet, forward, 8 feet. 

.S/jar».— Bowsprit, outside, 20 feet; foremast, full leugth, 69 feet; mainmast, 70^ 
feet ; main topmast, 36 feet; main-boom, 58 feet (23 feet outside slings) ; fore-boom, 
2.H feet. 

A'rtiV.— Mainsail, luff, A:<i feet ; foot, .'"«6 feet ; leech, r.8^feet ; head, 28 feet. Foresail, 
lulf. 4Mf feet ; foot. 24^ feet; leech, 5:? feet ; head. 24| feet. Jib. lutf, 67 feet ; leech, 
-14 feet; foot, 27 feet. Fore .staysail, luff, 49 feet; leech, 42 feet ; foot, 20i feet. 
Main staytail, luff, or forward end. If) feet : head, 3.i feet ; leech, 4i feet ; foot, 2Fi feet. 
Main gatt-topsail, lutl', on topmast, 27 feet ; lower hoop to tack, 16 feet; leech, 36f 
feet ; foot, 28^ feet. 

Gloucester, Mass., 1883. 57,0.'.l. Designed by Capt. J. W. Collins, U. S. Fish 

Commission. 

This model represents a schooner of about 90 to 100 tons register, designed espe- 
cially for the winter fisheries. A vessel built from it would be about 2 feet deeper than 
the typical American fishing schooner of thesamo length, and about I foot le.ssbeam. 
It would have less difference in draught between the bow and stem, or less "drag- 
line."' The rig differs from that of the ordinary schooner in having a stem staysail 
and Jib. instead of the large jib now commonly used, and also in having shorter 
h)wer masts. In summer tbe rig might 1)0 changed by the addition of a foretop- 
ma.st and jib-l>ooni, with sails to correspond. It is believed that a vessel con- 
structed on such a model would be safer in heavy gales, and much swifter, taking the 
chances as they come, than schoonei-s of the ordinary type, which have much less 
body under water. The ballast can, of course, be placed lower, and thereby the lev- 
erage increased and the chances of capsizing decreased. 

FISHING SCHOONER. 

Builder's model, scale | inch to foot. Full, rounding, and flaring bow on top, sharp- 
ening rapidly toward the water's edge ; long, straight sides; comparatively narrow 
beam; square stern; low bilge; short floor ; long, but rather full run. Dimensions 
of vessel : Length, 66 feet over all; extreme beam, 18 feet ; draught of water aft, 9 
feet, 6 inches. 

Essex, Mass. Type, 1845 to 1860. U. S. Fish Commissioii . 54.405. 

This is the model of the schooner Elisha Holmes, of Cape Cod, built at Essex in 
1849, to engage in the cod and mackerel fisheries. It is the form of a class of vessels 
very much in use in the jieriod from 1845 to 1860, and represents one type of the so- 
called sharp-shooters of that day. During the transition stage from full- bowed to 
sharp vessels it was the opinion of many experts that it would be unsafe to build a 
vessel very sharp on tlie rail. It was thought that with a full rounding bow on top 
and much flare, a vessel would be prevented from plunging as deep in the water as 
she otherwise might do. Later developments have shown that this theory is a wrong 
one, and that a vessel with a flaring bow is not as good as one with straighter top 
timbers. 

SWEDISH COD-FISHING VESSEL, BANKSKUTA. 
[Model.] 

Wood (outside plank, oak; deck, pine), unpainte<l ; carvel built; flush decked; 
wide and deep ; strong sheer ; full, flaring, scoop-shaped bow; great rake to stem ; hol- 
low water-lines and floor ; stern shaped like bow, full above, much concaved below ; 
straight stern-post ; narrow, square -heeled rudder; moderate depth of keel ; heavy 
bow chocks ; windlass works with hand-spikes ; cabin forward ; 4 hatches; 1 pump ; 
1 large anchor ; cable runs over roller in stem; steers with tiller; low, heavy bul- 
warks. Ketch-rigged, with running bowsprit ; sails — ^jil>, stay-foresail, mainsail, 
sprit uiizzen, and 2 square-headed gaff-topsails. 

Z>imeHX)«H8.— Length ^hull) over all, 42 inches; keel. 28 inches; beam, l/J inches; 
depth, amidships (bottom of keel to top of rail), 8| inches; bow (to top of stem), 13^ 
inches; to top of knight-heads, 12 inches; stern (to top of rail), 12 inches ; (post ^ 
inch higher); keel, 1 inch ; dead-wood, above ket 1, If inches; bulwark, amidships, 
J inch; at stem and stern, 2^ inches. Spar-s, bowsprit, 21 inches; 14^ inches outside 
of stem ; mainmast (deck to eyes of rigging), 31 inches; eyes of rigging to topmast 



104 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

truck, 16|^ inches; iiiaingaflf, 16^ inches; mizzen mast (deck to eyes of rigging), 29 
inches; rigging to topmast head, 8^ inches; sprit, 22 inches; outrigger, outside, 10^ 
inches. 

Bohuslan, Sweden, 1883. 7G,008. 

Obtiiined by exchange with Swedish Comiuissiou to Inteinational Fishery Exhibition, London, 1883.] 

A'^essels of the class represented by this model fish for cod chiefly on the Storregen 
Bank. They make one voyage yearly, starting in April and returning in September. 
They hail from the island of Tjorn, on the Bohuslan coast. The peculiar flaring bow 
is thought to be necessary, by Swedish fishermen, to enable the vessel to ride safely 
at anchor. 

GOTTLAND (SWEDEN) HERRING-FISHING BOAT. 
[Model.] * 

Wood; unpainted; clinker built, 7 strakes a side; 15 sets of timber ; open; sharp 
ends; deep keel; curved stem and stern-post; round bilge; 5 thwarts, 2 with mast- 
holes; schooner rigged; 2 small, boomless, sprit sails, 2 square-headed sprit top-sails, 
and 2 jibs; stone killick in wood frame; peculiar wide-loomed oars, with cleats to 
ship over single round wooden tholes. 

Dimensions. — Length over all, 5 feet 5^ inches; keel, 3 feet 0^ inches; beam, 1 foot 
.5 inches; depth, inside, ti^ inches; keel, 1^ inches; height, amidships, BJ inches; stem, 
12 inches; stern, llf inches; mainmast, 27f inches; sprit, 27 inches; topsail pole, 22J 
inches (1 foot of this below masthead) ; topsail sprit, 12^ inches; foremast, SOJ inches; 
sprit, 28^ inches; topsail pole, 25 inches (13^ inches below masthead) ; topsail sprit, 
15 inches; bowsprit, 28^ inches; oars, 29 inches. 

Island of Gotiland, Siocden, 187G. 28,149. 

[Gift of Swedish Centennial Commission.] 

Boats of this class are used in the herring fisheries from the island of Gottland in 
the Baltic Sea, off the east coast of Sweden. In 1869, the number of boats so employed 
from that island was officially given at 606, manned by 1,911 persons. The Gottland 
boats have an excellent reputation for seaworthiness. It is said they are often canght 
out in heavy gales. The largest of these craft are 25 feet long. 

NETHERLANDS LIFE-BOAT. 

[Model.] 

Oak, with cork bead or half-round baud along sides; open iron railing; unpainted. 
Model divided into two sections, from stem to stern, to show the interior arrangement. 
This boat has a round bilge; low, flat floor; a wide, very shallow keel; both ends 
alike, full and round; curved stem and stern-post, both of which are high. Running 
around both sides, from stem to stern-post, is an open iron railing, four standards of 
which have row-locks at their upper ends. These rails are about 3 feet high on a 
full-sized boat, and are for the jiurpose of preventing the occupants of the boat from 
being washed overboard. Boat has two decks, between which are snugly packed a 
large number of air-tight galvanized iron boxes that fill the space between decks. 
Along the sides of the boat are a number of holes provided with valves through which 
water enters to fill the section below the lower deck. The boat, when afloat, is sup- 
ported entirely by the air-tight boxes. Two strong cleats across the upper deck hold 
the oars. 

Dimensions. — Length over all, 19 inches ; beam, 6^ inches ; height of hull, amidships, 
2 inches; ends, 3 inches; stem and 8tem-])08t, above gunwales, 1^ inches: iron railing, 
If inches; boxes, f inch square; oars, llf inches long. 

Holland, 1880. 76,001. 

[Gift of A. E. Maas, Scheveningen.] 

This form of life-boat was designed by Mr. Maas, who says it has been used with 
great success in saving shipwrecked crews in the shallow waters off the Netherlands 
coast. It is claimed that the boat is not capsizable, though this may be questioned. 
The men stand on the upper deck to row. 



SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 105 

Ainonji' the desiderata, which it occurs to me as tlie most needed at 
the i>reseiit titne, I wouUl mention the iollowiiig rigged models: (1) A 
snow of the seventeenth century; (2) the Ma.vflovver; (3) a topsail sloop 
(a craft much used in fishing and whaling in the early history of the 
country); (4) Fulton's steamer, the Clermont; (5) old style toi)sail and 
topgallant sail schooner; (0) Hermaphrodite brig; (7) brigantine; (8) 
square-rigged brig; (9) bark; (10) ship, medium clipper; (11) a Con- 
necticut sloop smack; (12) two-masted coasting schooner, Atlantic 
<*oast; (13) three-masted schooner of the Atlantic coast; (14) four- 
masted schooner of the lakes; (15) a Rockport, Mass., stone sloop; 
(16) American pilot boat; (17) sUx)}) yacht; (18) schooner yacht; (19) 
cutter yacht ; (20) Louisiana fishing lugger; (21) Cedar Key net-boat; 
(22) New Jersey surf- boat; (23) transatlantic steamship; (24) Missis- 
sippi River steamer; (25) Hudson River steamer; (26) stern-wheel 
steamer, style used on Western rivers; (27) auxiliary steam whaler; 
(28) steam yacht; (29) the model of the Viking shij) exhumed in Nor- 
way; (30) an English North Sea beam-trawler; (31) a Brixham fishing 
cutter; (32) Scotch herring lugger; (33) an English Mount's Bay lug- 
ger; (34) an English well-smack; (35) a French fishing lugger of Bou- 
logne; (36) a British steam-trawler. 

The historical models might be supplemented by pictures of (1) 
l)olacca rigged vessel; (2) barkentine; (3) steamer Savannah, which 
was the first to cross the Atlantic; and (4) a series of illustrations of 
the earliest attempts to construct steamboats. 

HISTORY OF THE COLLECTION. 

Previous to the establishment of the National Museum by an act of 
Congress in 1846, the earliest accessions which now constitute this col- 
lection had been gathered by the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, 1838-'42. 
These consisted chiefly of a few models of the canoes and other water 
craft used by the natives of the Pacific islands.* From 1842 to 1876 a 
few models of canoes, &c., were obtained from various sources, but none 
of them were of especial importance as comi)areii with the more exten- 
sive accessions in recent years, and it may be safelj' asserted that before 
the Centennial Exhibition the amount of material gathered appertain- 
ing to this department was relatively small in amount. The fine collec- 
tions that were brought together at Philadeli)hia on the occasion of the 
Centennial Exhibition in 1876 were almost without excei)tion presented 
to the Museum. By these generous gifts of foreign Governments and 
individuals the Museum became the possessor of a rich collection both 
of domestic and foreign water craft. Among other things derived from 



* It is to be regretted that most, iu fact nearly all, of these models, owing to lack 
of care and perhaps to the fact that they were moved about cousiderably before 
becoming the property of the National Museum, are very much out of repair, and in 
some instances have been injured to such an extent as to practically render them 
worthless. 



106 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

this source and which are deserving of special mention, is that of a 
large dugout war canoe, 59 feet in length, from British Columbia, which 
now forms a prominent feature of this department. Large collections 
of boats were also obtained from Norway, Sweden, China, and Siam, 
which are of great value and especially interesting to the student of 
naval architecture. 

On the occasion of the participation of the U. S. Fish Commission 
in the International Fisheries Exhibition held at Berlin in 1880, the 
collection was much enlarged by the addition of numerous forms of 
American fishing craft, sporting and hunting boats, &(jj. ; while by ex- 
change and purchase at the close of the exhibition several very desir- 
able acquisitions were obtained, principally of German and Dutch fish- 
ing craft. The act of Congress authorizing the participation of the 
U. S. Fish Commission in the International Fisheries Exhibition at 
London, in 1888, enabled us to make other additions to our collection 
representing the fishing flotilla of the United States, which, as has 
elsewhere been stated, now comprises representatives of nearly all the 
more important types of water craft engaged in this special industry. 
In the mean time Mr. James G. Swan, assistant U. S. Fish Commis- 
sion, who has been stationed at Port Townsend, Washington Territory, 
has been indefatigable in getting together a vast deal of interesting 
and valuable material which represents the different forms of canoes, 
dugouts, and other boats used by the Indians of the northwest coast. 

We have already stated that the collection has been much enriched 
by donations from foreign nations and individuals who participated in 
the London Fisheries Exhibition, as well as by citizens of our own 
country. 



I (F) -REPORT UPON THE SECTION OF FOODS OF THE U. S. 
NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 



By EoMYX Hitchcock, Jcting Curator. 



The collection of foods, driuks, narcotics, etc., which has been placed 
temporarily under my charge, has received during the year some valu- 
able additions, bnt it has been impossible to devote much time to ar- 
ranging or labeling the si)ecimens ; the labor required to prei)are the 
collection of textiles for the New Orleans Exposition having greatly in- 
terfered with the regular work in this department. Such specimens 
as have been received, however, have been proi)erly cared for, and in 
most instances placed in the cases with temporary labels attached. 

UIPOKTANT ADDITIONS. 

Thirty-three specimens of foods, spices, and fruits of various countries 
from the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew, England. 

Thirteen specimens, including starches, jellies, grains, and fruits, 
from the Goverment of Hawaii, received through the Boston Foreign 
Exposition. 

A series of seventeen specimens of Cheshire salt, from Cheshire, Eng- 
land, presented by Mr. J. J. Higgin, of Liverpool, England. 

Seventy-six specimens of food from Guatemala, including coftees in 
great variety, cacao beans, starches, tlours, annato, tamarinds, and vari- 
ous other articles, received through the Boston Foreign Exposition. 

Xine specimens of foods from Brazil, including coftees, mat6, sugar, 
banana paste, araca paste, etc., received through the Boston Foreign 
Exposition. 

Fifty-two specimens from San Salvador, including seven specimens 
of cigars, ten of leaf tobacco, ten of coffee, with varieties of honey, corn, 
rice, beans, and various other products, received through the Boston 
Foreign Exposition. 

Seventy-nine specimens of canned goods, pickles, sauces, and manu- 
factured articles of various kinds, from Messrs. Crosse «& Blackwell, 
London. 

Thirty-one specimens of foods of various kinds, collected for the Mu- 
seum by Mr. V. P. Parkhurst, in Jamaica. 

107 



108 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1384. 

Thirteen specimens of the "dalls" of various qualities used in India, 
from Rev. 0. H. A. Dal I. 

ROUTINE WORK. 

The collection of foods of the North American Indians, which is large 
and of great interest, has been arranged in order, but many duplicate 
specimens are in the cases, which must be removed when there is op- 
portunity for studying the collection. These foods being principally 
vegetable products, which are for the most part used without prei)ara- 
tion other than roasting or boiling, it has seemed advisable to arrange 
them according to their botanical relations. 

The other specimens of food are partly arranged in the cases accord- 
ing to the system proposed by the Assistant Director, and published in 
Volume IV of the " Proceedings," appendix. 

PRESENT STATE OF COLLECTION. 

There are now on exhibition — 

ludiau foods 349 

Other foods, narcotics, di'inks, &c 1, 231 

Total 1,580 

A large number of duplicate specimens is reserved for exchanges, 
but the number is not known. 

RECOMMENDATIONS AND REMARKS. 

The collection of foods can be made of far greater interest than one 
who has given no consideration to the subject would suppose. It is 
not intended to be merely one set of specimens in bottles to show what 
people eat, but it should be made to indicate the dietetic value of foods 
of various kinds, to represent the best knowledge concerning the nutri- 
tive value and digestibility of various foods, resulting from physiolog- 
ical and chemical investigations. Not only should it indicate the value 
of a food, but it should also explain to what peculiar qualities or con- 
stituents its value is due, and what combinations of foods are necessary 
to the maintenance of health and strength. At present the collection 
possesses very little scientific value; but it is hoped that in the course 
of another year there may be a great change in this respect. Already 
Prof. W. O. Atwater, whose analyses of various articles of food are well 
known to chemists, has contributed some valuable results of his labors, 
in the form of specimens for exhibition, to illustrate the composition of 
the human body. These will soon be displayed, and thus a beginning 
made toward making a collection which shall be of great educational 
interest and value. The progress that can be u)ade in this work must, 
however, depend very much upon the assistance which the acting cura- 
tor receives to carry on the regular museum work. 



II.-REPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ETHiNOLOGY OF THE U. 
S. iNATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884. 



By Otis T. Mason, Curator. 



The duties of curator of the Department of Ethnology in the I^ational 
Museum were assumed on the tirst day of July, 1884. My first work 
was to gather from the various rooms of the Smithsonian Institution, 
from the Armory, and from the National Museum, every specimen of 
anthropological material not already cared for by the curator of An- 
tiquities, the curator of Civilized Arts and Industries, and the honor- 
ary curator of Keramics. These objects I have arranged in drawers 
according to certain classific concepts, not necessarily the same as those 
used in the Museum, the intention being to facilitate ready reference 
and comparative study. The advantage of this method is readily seen 
in the fact that every ethnologic specimen can be found at once by my 
assistants, that those things which are suggestive of the progress of 
each art lie side by side, and that specimens badly defined or without 
labels have easy explanation by means of their nearest neighbors. One 
fact is revealed by this plan of temporary storage. It is that the former 
methods of collecting material should now be replaced by a still more 
exhaustive and scientific method. Every specimen now in the collection 
is valuable and will find a place in future installation; many also have the 
great merit of being old and well authenticated ; but, owing to the youth of 
ethnologic science, hardly any efforts have been made to exhaust a single 
art to represent its life history in its entirety. The comparative anatomist 
hopes by means of well-dissected specimens of present animal life to 
reconstruct from a bone or two some extinct form. What would be the 
chances of success for him, however, if he had but a few fragments of 
the modern animal? Is not the attempt to reconstruct the society of 
primeval man by means of desultory collections from the modern sav- 
ages quite as futile ? Now with the permission of the Director and As- 
sistant Director of the Museum, I should like to introduce a still more 
rigorous policy in this regard, recommending, first, that all collectors 
shall be instructed to observe faithfully all of the elements of each art, 
and to omit nothing, however cheap or trivial, that illuminates it; sec- 
ondly, that the friends of the Museum who have gratuitously contrib- 
uted to its success, and who will continue to do so, be advised of our 

109 



110 REPORT OF NATIOx\AL MUSEUM, 1884 

wishes in this matter. Doubtless material of questionable reference 
will continue to flow in, but under the secure guidance of things wisely 
selected even rubbish, well authenticated, will become useful. In car- 
rying out this view I would recommend the preparation of a short and 
exi)licit guide-book on this subject. I would also most earnestlj* request 
that contributors to our collections be impressed with the necessity of 
sending their specimens which are subject to destruction by moths, 
breakage, or weather promptly to the Museum, and to give as much 
attention to preservation as to collection. It is a lamentable fact that 
a very large number of the objects received during ray short term have 
been rendered comparatively worthless by a neglect of this precaution. 
I cannot think of a greater disaster in museum work than that in which 
the gatherings of a lifetime frequently are sacrificed in a few short weeks. 
If contributors cannot comply with this request at once, they should 
soak the specimens in benzine to kill any vermin already concealed, and 
with a fine brush go over the parts in danger with a solution of arsenic 
and alcohol, or corrosive sublimate in alcohol, drying in the shade. 

Among the ends which the curator of the Department of Ethnology is 
very anxious to accomplish, and toward which he begs the co-operation of 
his scientific brethren, no one seems to be more important than a correct 
nomenclature of the difierent classes of objects with which he has to 
deal. On the one hand an utter disregard of nomenclature is so vicious 
that no argument need be urged against it. On the other hand there is 
a danger of overloading the subject with too many difiBcult names, tend- 
ing rather to confusion than to perspicuity. The following rules, found 
to be of the greatest service to anthropo-biologists, will certainly meet 
with favor from all comparative technologists: 

First. Every class or species of objects, and every distinct part of each 
object, should have a name. 

Second. Each class or part should have but one distinctive name, 
although synonyms well understood may be allowed. 

Third. Distinctive names should ai)ply to only one class of objects or 
parts. 

Fourth. Names in good use, if distinctive, should always have prefer- 
ence. 

Fifth. If a class of objects is confined to a definite locality, then the 
name used for that class in that region should be adopted, e. <;., kyak, 
babbiche, tepee, &c. If necessarj', Latin and Greek compounds may 
be used when no other modern appellation can be found. 

ACCESSIONS OF THE YEAR. 

It is contemplated to i)repare, with copious illustrations, a classified 
report of all the ethnological materials in the Museum, according to 
those concepts or categories that aie in use among ethnologists, such as 
function, tribe, geographical distribution, degree of elaboration, mate- 
rial, classes of investigators, &c. For the present, in order to show in 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. Ill 

as profitable manuer as possible the true value of the year's collection, 
and also to bring before the mind of the Director the great gaps that 
have been left, a beginning is here made of the kind of report hinted at 
above. 

The geographical concept is here made prominent, because it brings 
us into immediate relations with the collectors. Following this, classes 
of objects, with their functions, receive attention, especial care being 
taken to distinguish the relation of form, «&c., to tribe, environment, and 
material. 

ESKIMO OF GREENLAND. 

Disco Island. — Plate of whale's vertebra and bone implement found on 
Disco Island by the Greely Kelief Expedition. 5 pieces. 

Holsteinberg. — A kyak with accouterments complete, consisting of 
the typical Greenland skin kyak, line-rack, harpoon, harpoon-line, and 
throwing stick (the latter having two perforations to fit in ivory hooks 
in the shafts of the harpoon), seal-skin float, double paddle strengthened 
with plates of ivory, short lance, halibut lance, fair-weather jacket — 
which is simply a broad cincture of dressed seal-skin fastened around 
the hole at the top of the kyak and under the arm-x)its of the navi- 
gator, to keep the spray from entering the boat, and water-proof jacket 
of sealskin worn during rough weather. 

ESKIMO OF POINT BARROW. 

One of the most valuable collections in the National Museum is that 
which was deposited during the last year by Lieut. P. H. Ray. Inas- 
much as an exhaustive report of this collection is now being prepared 
by Mr. John Murdock, only a brief mention of the various classes of 
objects will be made here. 

Adzes with stone and iron blades 21 

Boat models and parts of boats 9 

Wooden boxes and skin bags with carved ivory handles, for tackle and implements. 17 

Ivorj- box handles 25 

Stone and ivory carvinj^s 60 

Charms nsed to give success in hunting 18 

Combs for straightening the hair on deer-skin 7 

Toilet combs 3 

Food trays, cooking pots, &c 28 

Bone daggers 2 

Dolls, and other amusements for children 12 

Articles of dress 38 

Implements and weapons connected with hunting and fishing 168 

Harpoons — one of which Mr. Murdock calls a "retrieving harpoon," consisting 

of an icepick, shaft, fore-shaft, loose shaft, and point, all fastened together. 

The line is held in the hand when the whole weapon is launched. 
Mr. Murdock distinguishes three types of the lance — the slender deer lance, the 

medium bear lance, and the broad, clumsy whale lance — none of them barbed. 

Musical instruments, drums and whistles 11 

Stone lamps $ 



112 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Masks 10 

Knives (including chipped flints, slate knives, ivory-carver's knives, &c.) and 

knife sharpeners 117 

Tools for working in ice and snow, mattocks, picks, &c 10 

Pipes 9 

Snow shoes pairs.. 3 

Snow goggles 4 

Needle cases, and sewing and netting needles 40 

Sled models 2 

Perforators and fire drills 45 

Mechanical tools (hammers, flint chlppers, scrapera, &c.) 29 

COLLECTIONS FROM OTHER SOURCES. 

Chukchis or Eskimo of Northeastern Siberia: Vega Expedition. 

Leather bag containing flint and tinder ; bag made of braided fiber; portion of a 
qniver; skewer for stopping the flow of blood from a wounded animal; two 
images — bear and seal — worn as pendants; these flat-bottomed carvings, ac- 
cording to Dr. Franz Boas, are also used in playing a game. A number of them 
are held in the hand and dropped oti a flat surface. Those that fall upright, 
count. These two objects are carved in ivory. Hoe made of a scapula, lashed 
to the flat end of a pine handle, with deer-skin babbiche. For this purpose six 
perforations are made in the scapula, and three in the handle. 

Diomede Island : E. W. Nelson. 

Bird spear 1 

Norton Sound: E. W. Nelson. 

Boat paddles 2 

Bows 3 

Fish-gig, like Neptune's trident, central point short and not barbed, outer 

prongs elastic, barbs introrse and triangular 1 

Labret 1 

Seal spears 2 

Bristol Bay : C. L. McKay. 

Spear points 2 

Ivory flukes of boat-hooks 2 

Fish-hook 1 

Seal-bladder buoy 1 

Ivory powder charges 2 

Dolls 4 

Bone and ivory lab rets 10 

Wooden vessel 1 

Hooks used, in the house for suspending food, Ac 1 

Ivory leather-creaser 1 

Wooden finger- rings 2 

Bead ornaments 2 

Carved bodkins 3 

Thimbles 2 

Mittens pair.. 1 

Belt toggle 1 

Carvings 15 

Pouches for tackle and fishing implements 6 

Knife blades and sharpeners 12 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OP ETHNOLOGY. 113 

BriaioJ Bay: William J. FJsbor. 

WoodtMi handle of tool-bag 1 

Stoue lamp 1 

Si)ears and spear boa^ls 7 

Throwiug-stick 1 

Spoons (bom, bone, and wood) 5 

Belnga line for grvat barpoon I 

Skin parka 1 

Caps r> 

Jiodiak: William J. Fisbejr. 

Native almanarcs 2 

Circnlar pieces of pine wood witb twelve lines radiating from the center to 
represent tbe montbs. On the two sides of eacb line very small boles are 
placed, opposite eacb other, representing tbe days. Small circles iu reil 
l>aiut stand opposite some of tbese boles for pnrposea not mentioned by 
tbe collector. 

Woman's work-bags 2 

Games 2 

Stone implements, knives, picks, &c 11 

Stone mortars 2 

Fenders for kyak 2 

Stone lamps 11 

Labret 1 

Ancient masks 2 

Grass mittens pairs.. 2 

Fisb-skin moccasins pair.. 1 

Dance rattles 2 

Wbale spears 5 

Stone spear-beads 5 

Horn spoons 4 

Kenais, CooWa Inlet: William J. Fisber. 

Copper ax 

Ammunition belt 

Model of bidarka 

Cap 

Stone lamp 

Grass mat 

Shaman's rattle 

Snow shoes pair.. 

Eatmaia, Kodiak: William J. Fisber. 

Wooden basket 

Bow 

Cap 

Celts 

Kelp line and hook 

Hunting hat 

Wooden ladle 

Whalebone mortar 

Parka 

Snow shoes pair.. 

Indians, Upper Yukon Eiver : J. G. Swan. 
Parts of a trap. 

S. Mis. 33, pt. J 8 



114 REPORT OF NATIONAL MCSEUM, 1884. 

Thlinkets, Sitka, Alaska: T. Dix Bolles. 

The specimens in this collection were fonnd in very ancient graves. 

Pipe ._ 1 

Wooden masks 21 

Carved wooden rattles 9 

War clubs 2 

Bone charms 10 

Ivory fluke of boat-hook 1 

Wood carvings 7 

Dance wands ^ 2 

Parts of head-dress 2 

Head-dresses ,, 6 

Necklaces 3 

Shaman's basket of charms pieces . . 6 

Grass hat 1 

Fringed leather sash 1 

Articles of dress, leather 6 

Breast armor 1 

Wooden clappers 3 

(Two disks of wood with handles; one of the handles is rigid, the other flexi- 
ble ; the two are lashed together. When the clappers are shaken, the piece 
with the flexible handle moves up and down and strikes against the other, 
making a rattling noise like a caetanet.) 
Takooe: J. G. Swan. 

Carved wooden dishes 4 

Graham Island: J. G. Swan. 

Peccary tusk, obtained by barter 1 

Ma»sett8 and Skidegates : J. G. Swan. 

Stone adzes 2 

Basket 1 

Car\'ed boxes, of wood 7 

Slate boxes, carved 5 

Yew work-box 1 

Models of canoe 2 

Canoe bailer , 1 

Carved canes 29 

Dancing figures, copper 5 

Wood and stone carvings o 

Slate for carving piece.. 1 

Copper bow and arrow, ceremonial pieces . . 2 

Emblems of rank, chief's staves - 4 

Chief's bow and arrow pieces.. 2 

Doctor's staves 4 

Doctor's charms ~3 

Copper dagger 1 

Embroidered lielts 2 

Cloth leggings ijair.. 1 

Ear ornaments pairs.. 52 

Dance dress pieces.. 13 

Nose ornament 1 

Beaver's teeth string.. 1 

Necklaces r ^ 

Drum 1 

Copper ornament 1 

Food dishes '^6 

Seal club 1 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 115 

ifassitis tiud Slidcgatf^ : J. O. Swau — Continued. 

Halibut books 4 

Fish hooks 4 

Hunting pouch 1 

Fish ny t 1 

Kelp line 1 

Fish lina. 1 

Gambling sticks < sets.. 'J 

Pipe, black slate 1 

Hats 2o 

Head-dresses - (> 

Model of house 1 

Embroidered knife sheath 1 

Knives "> 

Masks t 1"> 

Mortars (stone; 7 

Mauls ;{ 

Pestle 1 

Pipes A 

Paint pouches '> 

Tattooing needles and paint, &c 12 

Pouch 1 

Stone plates 4 

Dance rattles 15 

Seal-spear points (i 

Horn spoons 2") 

Totems 22 

Deer ribs for Lejither-working 24 

Stone tool 1 

Dance whistles 30 

Roll of birch bark 1 

Buckets 2 

Bella Coulas: J. G. Swan. 

Wooden masks S 

Carved images 2 

Totem posts 2 

Makas : J. G. Swau. 

Baskets for trickle, <fec. (cedar bark) 4 

Bottles covere<l with basket-work 2 

3 bows and (i arrows (yew ) 1) 

Quiver, 4 yew bows, 14 cedar arrows l'.» 

Blubber trough 1 

Boat paddles t 

Dug-out canoe (complete) 1 

Canoe bailer I 

Model of whaling canoe (complet<>) I 

Fish club 1 

Wooden carvings :', 

Kelp lines H 

Fish hooks 20 

Whale harpoons 4 

Small hary)oous 2 

Harpoon points 4 

Spear shaft 1 

Seal spear-heatls 2 

Rag mat, or rug, woven like basket '1 



116 REPORT OF' NATIO^TAL MUSEUM, l«84. 

Taos: ¥. H. Cwsliing. 

Fetixjli 1 

Zunis. Neiv Mexico: Col. Janios Steveneou. 

Fetiches 108 

Weaving stick : 1 

N^avajo Indians, New Mexico : F. H. Cusbiug. 

Fetiches 2 

Xarajoes, Neu^ Mexico : V. MendBlift". 

Silver jewelry (native work) pieces.. ?2 

Mohis, Arizona: Col. James Stevenson. 

Fetiches "> 

Apaches, Arizona: B. A. Clemmer. 

Necklace of tinger-tips 

Apaches : Dr. W. T. Parker. 

Bed 

Arapakaes, Idalio Territory : F. E. Wilcox. 

Saddle bags » pair.. 

Assinaivin/>,s, Dal'oia : F. H. Cn.shiug. 

Moccasins pair . . 

Kiowas, Dak(yta: D. B. Wilson, U. S. A. 

Shield 

Sioux, Dakota : F. Kiggs. 

Head-dress 

Sioux, Dakota : A. Geeks. 

Medicine man's pipe 

Bees, Dakota: F. G. Walters, U. S. A. 

Hoe, made of shonlder-blade 

Blackfeeis, Montana: P. E. Brown. 

Reed mat 

Wooden bowl 

Chippewas, St. Ste. Marie: J. H. T. King. 

Grave deposits pieces.. 12 

Foncas, Nebraska : G. N. Hopkins. 

Ax from a grave 

Winnehagoes : J. D. Middleton. 

Medicine man's club 



Mohatvks, Nnv York: W. H. Holmes. 

Wam|5nm belt 

Florida frontier : Dr. E. Palmen. 

Mosqnito brush 

Pipe 

Sticks used .is toothbrushes bundle.. 

Nicker seed, used as marbles by the boys bag.. 

Florida: J. Bell. 

Slippers made of rattlesnake skin pair . . 

Antiquities from Ancon, Fern : Col]e<jted by Geofge W. Kiefer, and Dr. W. H. 
Jones, U. S. N. 

Reed work-basket 

Wooden needles 6 

Spindle whorls 5 

Silver pins 6 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF E.THNOLOGY. 117 

Antiquities from Anoon, Pent: C'olltvtfd hy Gooigc W. Kiefer, and Dr. W. II. 
Jones, U. S. N. — Continue*!. 

WocKlen combs •> 

Copper breastpin 2 

Stone gorget, creseeiit 1 

Poncho 1 

Gourd, plates 2 

JEars of com 7 

Gourd containing beans 1 

Gourd containing cotton 1 

Gourd contaiuing i>e^nut8 1 

Gourd vessel 1 

Small lime pouch 1 

Corn-cob liead-drees 1 

Fish net 1 

False heads •» 

Silver gourds 2 

Mummied sheep legs i> 

Work-baskets 2 

Mummied man 1 

Mummitvl woman 1 

Mummie<i child ." 1 

Mummied head and arm 2 

Bone tablet 1 

Stone pendant 1 

Small ball of brown yarn 1 

Gold ear ornaments 

Bead necklace 1 

CopjHir bracelet s 2 

Shell ornament.s 2 

Lime box 1 

Balls of paint .. 2 

Gourd jar 1 

Weaving reeds _ 3 

Wood carving 1 

Weft sticks l.^ 

Emblems (tlags) 2 

Reed bobbins 55 

Gourd containing feathers and skull of a parrot, and mummied Guinea pig.. 1 

Mummied dog, and parts of another 2 

Stone ball 

Work-basket, reeds 

Saddle-bags jtair.. 

Drinking goiirds 

Corn-hneker 

Specimens of Inoa cloth 

Rope 

Gold necklace 

Silver gorget 

Silver vases 

Cloth bag 

Head-dress 

Side bags 

Sling 

Reed llute 

Musical fra<lle8 



118 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Anitqnities from Ancon, Peru : Collected by George W. Kiefer, and Dr. W. H. 
Jones, U. S. N. — Continued. 

Eeeds, or bobbins 25 

Lance 1 

Spindle 1 

Silver bracelets '2 

Nicaragua : Dr. E. Flint. 

Bark shirt 1 

Jiritish Guiana: C. Heape. 

War club ] 

Popajian, U. S. Colombia : D. J. Benner. 

Palm leaf coat 1 

Gvayamas, U, S. Colombia : J. H. McNiel. 

Bows 8 

Spears 15 

Brazil: Museum f iir Volkerkunde. 

Bow and five arrows 6 

Throwing-spears 7 

Tale Tama, Japan: P. L. Jouy. 

Snow-creepers pair.. 1 

Powder-flask 1 

Straw sboea pair.. 1 

Hunters' knives 2 

Leggings pair.. 1 

Shoe and glove made of antelope skin 2 

Yokohama: P. L. Jouy. 

Baskets 2 

Omalchi: P. L. Jouy. 

Shrine ofterings 4 

mkko: P. L. Jouy. 

Shoes ^airs . . 2 

Antelope skin coat 1 

Shrine offerings '. c> 

Shoes and stockings pair of each . . 

Pieces of pottery 

Kurile Islands : A. J. M. Smith. 

Pufidn skin coat 

Bjengal, India : International Fisheries Exhibition. 

Pipe 

Kiveveh: 0. T. Mason. 

Deluge tablet 

Nitigpo, China : P. L. Jouy. 

Joss-stick xiowder . 
Formosa, China : Gift of Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew. 

Rain-coat of coir fiber ; 7 

Mangata: Charles Heape. 

Stone-headed adze ».. 1 

Asia Minor : Carnaduas. 

Ancient lamps 9 

Oi-a Eerero, Africa : Gift of Museum f iir Volkerkunde. 

Bow 1 

Arrows 4 

Ebony club 1 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 119 

('.alias: Museum fur Volkerkunde. 

Iron-pointetl arrow 1 

Nuhia: Museum lur Volkerkunde. 

Club 1 

Mandinijo: Museum fur Volkerkunde. 

Iron-pointed arrows 2 

Ova Mbo : Museum fiir Volkerkunde. 

Wooden collars 2 

Iron-pointed arrows 2 

Kaffirs : Museum fiir Volkerkunde. 

Gourd snnlf-box 1 

Africa: C. Heape. 

Arrows 8 

Africa: Gift of Royal Museum of Sweden. 

Whips of rhinoceros bide 2 

Weei Africa: Dr. Chatard. 

Quiver, bow, 12 arrows 14 

Spear 1 

Belt, dagger, and sheath 3 

Polynesia : Museum fur Volkerkunde. 

White tapa cloth specimen.. 1 

Maoris, Xenc Zealand: Mrs. M. A. Piper. 

Belt made of seed I 

Miniature Bible made of gum 1 

Fiji : C. Heape. 

War clubs ^ 

Arrows .5 

Solomon Islands: Museum fiir Volkerkunde. 

Clubs 3 

Seiv Caledonia: C. Heape. 

Club 1 

I'apuans, New Guinea: A. P. Goodwin. 

Wooden shields 2 

Arrows 53 

Bamboo bows 2 

Sword-club 1 

Paddles 4 

Spears 3(.l 

Feather necklace I 

Seed necklace 1 

Carved stall' 1 

Carved image 1 

Feather plume 1 

Seed bracelets 2 

Nose-pegs ;"> 

Fiber and cord specimens . . 2 

Money — 79 very small rings on a stick 1 

Jew's harp 1 

Finger ring 1 

Shell gorget 1 

Shell necklaces {Oliva carniola) 2 

Seed ear-rings 4 

Canoe model 1 



120 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884 

Papuans, New Guinea : A. P. Goodwin — Continued. 

Bird-beak head-dress 1 

Baskets ^ 

Cinctures — palm-leaf fil>er 4 

Wood carvings 4 

Net bag - 1 

Lime boxes for betel-nut chewers 7 

Lime spoons, wood and bone - 12 

Wooden hat 1 

Cnttlefish-shell spoons 8 

Bamboo tube of native glue 1 

Cnttlefish-shell gorgets 1 

Shell armlets and bracelets 8 

Bamboo flute 1 

Fish net 1 

In some of the entries given above, the numbers include several spec- 
imens. Omitting pottery, antiquities, examples of textiles, fishing, and 
navigation, the number of purely ethnological specimens received dur- 
ing the vear will amount to not far from four thousand. 



II (A\-REPORT UPON THE SECTION OF AMERICAN ABORIGI- 
NAL POTTERY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884. 



By William H. Holmes, Honorari/ Curator. 



The greater part of the collection of aboriginal American i)ottery 
bas been placed in the northwest coui't of the Museum. A preliminary 
classification has been made, and as soon as the necessary cases are 
completed a representative series will be placed on exhibition. 

The wall cases have been finished and are now occupied, chiefly, 
by the very extensive collection of modern pueblo ware. The arrange- 
ment is only temi)orary, however, as the final placing will not be at- 
tempted until the more recent additions are catalogued. During the 
year a large case ha^ been constructed for the center of the hall, and 
I^laus have been made for a number of smaller cases for the floor. 

The year is remarkable fur the great number of additions to the col- 
lection, upwards of ten thousand earthen vessels haWng been acquired 
and entered upon the books. These have been obtained through pur- 
chase, exchange, and donation, as well as through the various agents 
of the Museum. 

The Bureau of Ethnology has oontributed upwards of six thousand 
pieces. These comi)rise the collections of James Stevenson from the 
modern pueblos ; of Victor Mindelefl", E. H. Nelson, and H. C. Yarrow, 
from the ancient ruins of New Mexico, Arizona, and Utah, and of Dr. 
Cyrus Tliomas, from the valley of the Mississippi. 

A small collection of interesting fragments from the shell moumls of 
Maryland was donated by Mr. J. D. McGuire, and a number of fugitive 
pieces have come from various Southern States. An addition to the 
Mexican collection, consisting of about one hundred pieces, mostly in 
a fragmentary state, has been acquired, by donation, from the writer. 

Perhaps the most unique and important acquisition of the year is 
that of some three thousand vases from the ancient tombs of Cliiriqui, 
State of Colombia. Tiiis collection was secured from J. C. McNeil, the 
collector. An extremely valuable collection from Ancon, Peru, has 
been secured through the agency of Dr. Wlliam II. Jones. 

In cataloguing and arranging the collection the curator has l)een as- 
sisted by Mr. Henry Walt her and Mr. William II. Barbour. The ordinary 

121 



122 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

entry in the records is generally supplemented by a drawing of the 
specimen. As many of the vases reach the Museum in a fragmentary 
state, it is found desirable to have them carefully restored. In this 
work Mr. Walther is extremely skillful. Care is taken that such res- 
torations do not, in any way, falsify the original characters of the ves- 
sel 

The curator has been engaged during the year in the study of por- 
tions of the collection, first, for the purpose of securing the best pos- 
sible classification of the material for Museum purposes, and second, 
with the view of publishing a monograph upon the aboriginal pottery of 
America. One paper has been prepared on the '* Pottery of the An- 
cient Pueblos," and another upon the " Ancient Ware of the Middle 
Missisippi Valley." They are supplemented by a third paper upon the 
♦'Origin of form and ornament in the Ceramic Art." These papers will 
appear in the Fourth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology. In 
addition, a short study of the ceramic products of a section exposed in 
the city of Mexico has been made. This will appear in the proceedings 
of the Anthropological Society of Washington. 

It will be seen that the collection, already an extremely valuable one, 
promises in the near future to be worthy of a national museum, but 
there are many gaps that must be filled up before it can be considered 
satisfactory to students of American archaeology. The collections 
from all parts of Mexico and the northern Central American states 
need especial attention. In South American material we are still far 
behind the museums of Europe. 



III.-REPORT UPON THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTIQUITIES IN THE 
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 18S4. 



By CiiAKLES Rau, Curator. 



IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS. 

John J. McLeaiiy Cape Mendocitio, Ilumboldt County, California. — Col- 
lection from shell-heaps near Cape Meudociuo : Stone chips and flakes, 
rude and leaf-shaped implements, scrapers, rude arrow-heads, shells of 
different species (all determined), plates of Cryptochiton Stelleri and of 
Chiton (species undetermined), echinus-shell, and teeth of canine ani- 
mals. 

R. E. C. Stearns, United States National Museum. — Collections received 
at difterent times during the year : Mortars and pestles from Placer 
County, California ; 9 species of shells from shell-heaps at Rocky Point 
and Fort Brooke, Tampa Bay, and from Way Keys (one of the Cedar 
Keys group of islands), Florida ; 8 casts of a stone pestle (metamorjihic 
sandstone), found on Santa Cruz Island, California; 8 casts of a stone 
pestle found at an elevation of 1,500 feet, near Point Sal, Santa Barbara 
County, California, and 7 ca^ts of a serpentine sinker, found on the 
university grounds at Berkeley, Alameda County, California ; flakes, 
rude and leaf-shaped implements, scrapers, cutters, and arrow-heads, 
all of obsidian, also pestles, mortars, and fruit-crushers, from Howell 
Mountain, "Napa County, California ; cast of a (Virved ceremonial weapon, 
original found at Saint Helen, Columbia County, Oregon; cast of a 
stone dish with handle, found deeply imbedded in auriferous gravel 
near Oregon Bar, North Fork of American River, Placer County, Cali- 
fornia, and casts of 2 clay images found in Aztec graves, while con- 
structing water-works at Medellin, Vera Cruz, Mexico. 

TT'. W. Evans, Keic RocJielle, Westchester County, New York. — Small 
collection of stone arrow-heads, bone, copper, and shell fish-hooks, a 
worked belemnito (?), and a stone be^d from Chili, South America. 

J.E. Gere,Riceville, Washington County, Wisconsin. — Collection ofst^ne 
sci-ai)er.s, cutting-tools, arrow and spear heads, celts, &c., from the vicin- 
ity of Riceville. 

lAent. 0. M. Wheeler, United States Geogi'aphical Surveys. — Specimens 
collected by Dr. H. C. Yarrow, Dr. J. T. Rothrock, and .Air. H. W. Hen- 
shaw in .June and July, 1875, from graves at Dos Pueblos and La Patera, 

f 



124 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM^ 1884. 

Santa Barbara Connty, California: Chips and flakes, rude chipped im- 
plements, arrow and spear heads (the latter very fine), scrapers, pestles, 
grindinjj-stoues, mortars, vessels, baking-stones, tubes, pipes (plain and 
ornamented), beads and other ornaments of stone, Saliotis-sheWs show- 
ing use as utensils (one very large), shell beads, discs (pierced), fish- 
hooks and ornaments, a copper bead and glass and enamel beads ef 
European manufacture, remains of matting and bags, soaj^-root brushes 
with handles of asphaltum, handles made of asphaltum and ornamented 
with shells, red paint cut in various shapes, an iron axe, and several 
knife-blades, brass bell-tongues, china cups and a saucer. 

Army Medical Museum^ Washington, D. C. — Collection embracing 
grooved stone mauls and axes, a celt, rubbing-stones, a metate (Navajo), 
an arrow-shaft grinder, a small stone mortar, shell beads, and several 
bone implements from Arizona and Dakota Territories ; also a fine bird- 
shaped object of stone from Sackett's Harbor, New York. 

P. L. Jouy, Yolwliama, Japan. — Collection of rude chipped imple- 
ments and fragments of polished celts from Yokohama, rude chipped 
implements found 20 miles from Tokio, and fragments of bones and 
shells from the shell-heaps at Omori. 

Dr. G. B. Lartigue, BlacJcville, Barmcell County, South Carolina. — A 
pierced ceremonial object (very fine), found near BlackviUe. 

Dr.C. A. White, United States National Museum, and Br. J. A. White, 
Oregon City, Oregon. — A collection of 601 small arrow-heads of chalcedony, 
jasper, obsidian, »&c., from two points on the east bank of the Willa- 
mette River ; one a mile above and the other a mile below Oregon 
City. They were exposed by the washing and caving of the river-bank. 

Dr. W. W. Ogleshy, Fossil, Wasco County, Oregon. — A very fine sword- 
shaped stone club, found imbedded in the roots of a fir-tree (supposed 
to be 300 years old), near Mary's Park, Wasco County. 

A. Fairhurst, Lexington, Kentucl-y. — Collection from the vicinity of 
Lexington : Rude and leaf-shaped implements, cutting-tools, perforators, 
arrow and spear-heads, a very fine celt of greenish jasper (chipped and 
polished), polished celts, a celt-gouge of syenite (the best object of this 
class thus far acquired), a hematite muller, a discoidal stone, a ceremo- 
nial object (partly drilled), and a pipe. 

Fro/. S. F. Baird. — Collection from shell-heaps on the Bay of Fundy : 
Chips and flakes of flint, quartzite, lydite, &c., rude arrow-heads, frag- 
ments of pottery, vertebrae and spines of fishes, bones of birds, bones 
and teeth of the seal, beaver, deer, caribou, moose, mink, otter, black 
bear, and dog ; bones sjilit for the extraction of the marrow, and shells 
(3 species, determined), of which the heaps are composed. This collec- 
tion is referred to in "Proceedings of the United States National Mu- 
seum," vol. 4, p. 292. 

B. F. Koons, Mansfield, Tolland County, Connecticut. — Square slab of 
granite with mortar-cavity, cut from rock in situ, near Mansfield. A 
very interesting piece. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF ANTIQUITIES. 125 

W. M. Clark, I^^ashville, Tennessee. — Collection from differeut locali- 
ties in Tennessee : Rude cliii>ped implements, leaf-shaped implements 
(one of obsidian, very tine), scrapers, arrow and spear-heads, chipped 
celt-gouge with polished cutting edge, large chipped digging tools, pit- 
ted stones, a grindiug-stone (a good specimen), polished celts, grooved 
axes, pestles, a cylindrical crushiug-implement, a hematite sinker, pierced 
tablets, carved stone pipes (some very good), a clay pipe, frngments of 
large shells {Biuscycon pcrversum), shell beads, encriuites, claj' vessels 
(3 of them entire), fragments of pottery, and 3 human skulls, with frag- 
ments of jaws. 

R. R. ^mith, Tulij), Dallas County, Arkansas. — Twelve arrow-heads of 
exquisite workmanship, from Dallas County, and a collection of leaf- 
shaped implements, cutting-tools, scrapers, perforators, arrow and spear- 
heads, and celts from the vicinity of Tulip Creek, 3 miles west of Tulip. 
The specimens are surface-finds, and the place where they were found 
was once a large camping-ground. 

C M. S7nith, Neic Madison, Darke County, Ohio. — Collection from 
Flint Ridge, Licking County, Ohio : Ilammer-etoues of flint, granite, 
quartzite, «S:c, flint cores, flakes, rude and leaf-shaped implements, 
scrapers, cutting-tools, and arrow-heads. The cores and flakes are ex- 
ceptionally fine. 

Dr. E. B. Davis, Neio York, iV.r. — Collection of plaster molds for re- 
producing the mound-pipes collected by Messrs. Squier and Davis during 
their Ohio survey, and various other archaeological objects belonging to 
the Davis collection now in the Blackmore Museum at Salisbury, Eng- 
land. The molds are a valuable acquisition, as complete sets of casts 
of the pipes, &c., can now be made. 

Robert Ridgicay, United States National Museum. — Two arrow-heads 
from Monteur's Pond, 10 miles east of Vincennes, Indiana. In these 
arrow-heads the edges are beveled on opposite sides. They are per- 
haps the best specimens of the kind in the collection. 

Statement of character of routine work in arranging and classifying the 
collections, and preparing the exhibition and study series. 

The arranging, classifying, and preparing for exhibition of the collec- 
tions received has been continued in accordance with the plan indicated 
in my annual report for 1883. Practically there are but three classes 
or series of specimens entered in this department : 1. Exhibition and 
study series, which embraces all good specimens. 2. Duplicates, util- 
ized for exchange. 3. Storage, broken stone specimens, and other frag- 
ments of no value whatever. 

List of special collections which have been placed on exhibition during 

the year. 

Collection from Alaska : C. L. McKay. 

Collection from shell heaps, Cape Mendocino, Humboldt County, Cali- 
fornia : John J; McLean, 



126 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1834. 

Collection from Eiceville, Washington County, Wisconsin : J. E. 
Gere. 

Collection from ]J)os Pneblos and La Patera, Santa Barbara County, 
California : Lieut. G. M. Wheeler. 

Collection from Tennessee : W. M. Clark. 

Collection from Flint Ridge, Licking County, Ohio : C. M. Smith. 

The work of arranging collections for exhibition has been unavoida- 
bly delayed for the past few months by reason of the time required for 
preparing specimens for the ^ew Orleans Exhibition. The chipped 
series of North American stone implements designed for the Exhibi- 
tion was finally arranged in sixteen trays, and the same delivered to 
Mr. C. A. Stewart for shipment. The ground or polished series will 
soon be ready. 

Collections and single specimens sent as exchanges during the year. 

A cast of a lydite chisel (original from Saint Lawrence County, New 
York), sent to M. Felix Gaillard, Plouharnel, Morbihan, France. 

A collection of 23 North American stone implements, sent to Mr. 
Ernest Schernikow, No. IG Saint Mark's Place, New York. 

A cast of a stone (jadeite f ) celt and handle in one piece, sent to Dr. 
E. T. Hamy, No. 40 Kue de Lubeck, Paris, France. 

A collection of 355 North American stone relics, sent to Mr. Thomas 
Wilson, United States consul, Nice, France. 

A large collection of stone implements, &c., and the relics obtaineil 
in the course of several mound-explorations made under the direction of 
the Bureau of Ethnology have been placed in charge of this department. 
For want of time, no systematic arrangement has thus far been made. 
The specimens from ea<}h mound have been kept together, and the work 
of classifying the rest of the collection (surface-linds, &c.) will be com- 
menced immediately. A large number of duplicate specimens can be 
used for exchange. 

Review of researches prosecuted upon material belonging to the department. 

The hall containing the antiquities of the United States National Mu- 
seum has been visited by many persons, who manifested their interest in 
archoBology by questions addressed to myself and to my assistant. Some 
of the visitors took notes and made sketches of specimens ; but I am un- 
able to state in what manner the information acquired by them was 
utilized. Self-instruction may have been tbe chief motive in most cases. 
I had myself constant recourse to the collection in the jireparatiou of 
my work on prehistoric fishing in Europe and North America, whicb 
contains designs and descriptions of a large number of specimens on 
exhibition in the hall. This work has taken up all my time not devoted 
to routine business. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF ANTIQUITIES. 127 

Present state of the coUeetion. 

Nl'MlSKlt OF SPECIMENS. 

Exhibit iou and study series 36,730 

Duplicates, 8,902-380 (see excbaiifjes) 8, 522 

Totul 45,252 

ACCESSIONS DURING THE YKAK 1884. 

Exhibition and study series 3, 956 

Duplicates 1, 185 

Total 5,141 

Recovimendations and general remarks. 

In this year, as in preceding cnie«, I have endeavored to cari\v on the 
dualistic system adopted in arranging the antiquities of this connry. 

(1) There is a large collection (mostly exhibited in flat cases) which 
consists of relics of chipi>ed and ground stone, of copper, bone, horn, 
shell, clay, and, to a small extent, of wood. These objects hr.vc been 
grouped according to material, and then classed under such denomina- 
tions as their forms suggested. Similarity of shape afforded the prin- 
cipal guidance in arranging these si)ecimens. This ariangement offers 
to the intelligent visitor an opportunity to take in at oce glance, as it 
wei'e, the whole culture of the prehistoric North American, as far as it 
can be represented bj- tangible tokens. To this general collection many 
valuable specimens have been added this year. 

(2) There are special collections composed of oSTorth American articles 
found in one locality — a mound, grave, artificial shell-deposit, or district. 
It will be my endeavor to increase the number of these special collec- 
tions, in order to show the difference in the mechanical acquirements of 
the people formerly inhabiting the various parts of this country. Six 
of such collections have been put up in the course of this year — as stated 
in section 2 of this rei>ort — juost con.'ipicuous among them being the 
large and fine series of antiquities collected during Lieut. George M. 
Wheeler's geographical survey west of the 100th meridian. 

The collections thus far mentioned are from portions of this continent 
north of ilexico. There are, however, separately exhibited, valuable 
archaeological collections from Mexico, Central America, South America, 
Japan, &c., and a very good representative series of prehistoric antiqui- 
ties from Europe. 



IV -REPORT UPON THE DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS OF THE 
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884. 



By Frederick \V. True, Cimitor. 



IMPORTANT ADDITIONS DURING THE YEAR 1^84. 

In number, variety, and importance, the accessions of the past year 
have been fully equal to those of earlier periods. A few specimens of 
species previously unknown to science were received, but the chief gain 
has been in species new to the collections, specimens representing new 
variations of species acquired in the past years, or serving to extend 
our knowledge of their geographi(!al range, and specimens suitable to 
replace those which have become faded and otherwise unsightly through 
long service in the exhibition lialLs. 

In enlarging the exhibition series, much aid has been received from 
the proprietors of zoological gardens and menageries and from dealers 
in live animals. The number of species received from these sources 
during the year was 38, including several rare and peculiar forms. I^ot 
less assistance has been received from the Signal Bureau, the U. S. 
Life-Saving and Light-House Services, the U. S. Fish Commission, and 
other bureaus of the Government, the attaches of which are more or less 
engaged in field-work. The negotiations of the American commissioner 
to the London Fisheries Exhibition and of the curator of the dejiart- 
raent with the authorities of certain European museums have led to 
the revival of the system of exchanges, which has always proved bene- 
ficial. 

In addition, collections of greater or less magnitude have been re- 
ceived from about fifty private individuals and corporations. The 
specimens purchased for the New Orleans Exhibition may properly be 
mentioned in this connection, as they will eventually be incorporated 
in the collections of the department. (For complete list of accessions 
see page 138.) 

TERRESTRIAL MAMMALS. 

rnited States. — Two new species, each representing a new genus, have 
been added to the mammalian fauna of the United States iluring the 
year. The first of these, a muskrat-like form, was described by the cu- 

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 "J ^^^ 



130 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

rator under the name of Neojiher Alleni,* from a single specimen col- 
lected by William Wittfeld, Esq., at Georgiana, Fla. The second new 
species, a shrew, was described by Dr. Merriam under the name Ato- 
phyrax Bendirei t. The type of this species is not in the Museum. An- 
other apparent addition to the fauna is the Brazlian bat, known as Ves- 
pertilio arsinoii, a specimen of which was sent to the Museum from Ban- 
ner, Kans., by Mr. A. B. Baker. 

The Museum purchased from the same gentleman a pair of extraor- 
dinarily large specimens of Ord's pocket-mouse, Dipodomys Fhillipsii 
Ordii, for exhibition at New Orleans. Mr. Lewis Sells presented an 
exceedingly fine puma, Felis concolor, which was mounted in the best 
manner by the chief taxidermist, and was also sent to the New Orleans 
Exhibition. Skins of a red lynx, peccary, mountain sheep, and beaver, 
and one or two smaller forms were purchased from Mr. H. A. Ward 
for exhibition at the same place, the collection being found wanting in 
mountable specimens of these animals. 

The most important faunal collections have been those of Mr. C. H. 
Townsend, from California, and Mr. E. W. Nelson, from Arizona. The 
former collection includes fresh specimens of nearly all the important 
terrestrial mammals of California and aquatic species as well. Worthy 
of special mention is an extensive series of antlers of the Columbian 
deer, Cariacus columbianus, showing numerous curious variations. Mr. 
Nelson's collection consists mostly of rodents and other small forms, 
but he has recently been in quest of the large species. 

British America and Alaska. — The officers of the Signal Bureau sta- 
tioned at Point Barrow sent, in connection with other specimens, a large 
series of skins of the lemmings, Cuniculus torquatus and Myodes obensis. 
From British America the most important accession is the collection of 
skins and skeletons made by Mr. Lucien M. Turner in the vicinity of Hud- 
son's Bay. The series included two very fine skins of the Polar hare, 
Lepus timidus, one of which was sent to the New Orleans Exhibition. 

Central America and the West Indies. — Mr. Benedict, naturalist of the 
U. S. Fish Commission steamship Albatross, while in the West Indies, 
secured after much labor a number of specimens of the so-called 
fishing bat, Noctilio leporinus, var. mastivuSj and of the common arti- 
beus, A. perspicillatus. The authorities of the British Museum pre- 
sented a series of specimens of West Indian and Central American bats, 
representing species previously wanting in our collections. 

The department has also received from Mr. Zeledon a number of 
Costa Eican mammals, including a specimen uf Felis yaguarundi, from 
which a skeleton will be prepared. 

Other parts of the world. — As already stated, the number of exotic 
mammals received during the year has been quite large, owing princi- 
pally to the great number of donations from dealers in live animals and 

'Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., VII, July 29, 1884, pp. 170, 171. 
+ Traus. Liun. Soc. New York, II, 1884. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 13! 

proprietors of menageries and zoological gardeus. Messrs. Bariiuu), 
Bailey & Xlutchinson, Messrs. C. and E. Reiche, Mr. W. A. ConUliii 
(snj)erintendent of the Central Park Menagerie, New York), and ilie 
antborities of the Dime Musenm, Washington, liave together presented 
no less than 27 monkeys. The lirst-named gentlemen have also sent 
several other important animnls, snch as an eland, a harnessed anteloi)e, 
a leopard, a peceary, and two hunting-leoi)ar(ls. ]\Ir. Conklin sent, in 
addition to the monkeys, a specimen of the curious lemur, iStcnojhs tardi- 
gradtis, a second lemur, a kangaroo, an Egyptian jumping-mouse, a 
mongoose, a fruit-eating bat, and a young hogdeer. Mr. Lewis Sells, 
of Cincinnati, presented, in addition to the puma mentioned on page loO, 
a tine wart-hog and a baboon. 

Surgeon-Major Dobson, of Xetley, England, in eonsideration for sonje 
American insectivores sent him for disseetion, has i)resented a collec- 
tion of Asiatic and European bats and iusectivoies. In the collection 
made by Mr. P. L. Jouy in Japan were found a number of the char- 
acteristic mammals of those islands. Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, during 
his visit to Eastern Siberia, procured a very line series of skulls of the 
brown bear, U. arctos, and two skins of the Siberian sheep, 0. nivicolea. 
His collections of aquatic mammals will be mentioned in another idace 
(see below). While in London the curator purchased a small collection 
of exotic mammals, including a skin of Galidia olivacea, and a skull of 
the rare lemur, Propithecus holomelas. Other similar specimens were 
purchased from Mr. H. A. Ward, of liochester, among them a specimen 
of Riippell's monkey {Guereza RiippelU), a civet cat, and a llama. 

AQUATIC MAMMALS. 

Seals. — A number of important pinnipeds were received during the 
year. The last boxes of specimens collected by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger 
in Bering Island contained a very large series of skulls of Steller's 
sea-lion, Eumetopias iStelleri, the harbor seal, P. vitulina, &c., and, in 
addition, a skull of the Pacific walrus. 

Mr. C. H. Townsend has sent specimens of the pinnipeds of the Cali- 
fornian coast, notably skeletons and skins of the California sea-lion, 
Zalophus californianus. Four skeletons of the harp seal were purchased 
from a Newfoundland whaler, through Dr. C. H. Merriam ; and from 
Captain Longstreet, of the life-saving station at Manisquan, N. J., was 
received a fresh specimen of Phoca vitulina. 

Cetaceans. — The year has been a notable one so far as cetaceans are 
concerned. Specimens have been received from about ten different 
sources. Of the greatest value are the skulls of zi])hioid whales col- 
lected by Dr. Stejneger in Bering Island, and representing three genera, 
Berardius, Ziphius., and Mcsoplodon. A skull of Bcrardius fj-om New 
Zealand was purchased from Mr. Ward, of Rochester, in order that the 
proper comparisons might be made. The Zoological Museum of Oxford 
University, through Professor Moseley, presented a cast of the beak 



132 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

and teeth of the remarkable ziphioid known as Mesoplodon Layardii. 
Not less interesting are the casts of the head type-skins of Prodel- 
phinus obscurus said Ceplialorhynclius Heavisidei presented by the British 
Museum through Dr. Giinther. Two other Euroi)ean institutions, the 
Eoyal College of Surgeons (Prof. W. H. Flower) and the Cambridge Uni- 
versity Zoological Museum (Mr. John W. Clarke) presented specimens of 
cetacea, namely, skeletons of the blackfish and common bottle-nosed 
dolphin. The TJ. S. Fish Commission captured several porpoises, and 
presented in addition the skull of the large fln-back whale {Balwnop- 
tera). The curator was also instructed to investigate the porpoise 
fisheries of Hatteras and Cape May, and from each locality brought 
skeletons of the bottle-nosed dolphin, Tursiops tursio. He also pur- 
chased in Europe and presented to the Museum the skulls of three im- 
portant species of the Belphinidcc. 

Sirenians. — The chief addition to the specimens representing this 
order was a skeleton of a very large Florida manatee. 

DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 

The curator has long had in view the assembling of a series of mounted 
skins and skeletons of the different races of the dog and other domestic 
animals. Considerable material has already accumulated, and during 
the year four dogs were added to the series. These were a St. Ber- 
nard dog from Messrs. Jacobs (of Washington), a Laverack setter from 
Mr. Schneider (of Washington), a Chinese hairless dog from Mr. Buchs- 
baum (of Washington), and an Eskimo dog from the Greely Relief 
Expedition. 

ROUTINE WORK. 

Work ui)on the general collection of the department (both the ex- 
hibition and study series) suffered almost complete cessation, from 
two very important causes. The curator was giA^en permission to pur- 
sue certain studies in Europe during the winter of 1883-'84, and <lid not 
return to Washington until May. Very soon after his return the ap- 
propriations for the New Orleans Exhibition were made by Congress, 
and this department, together with others in the Museum, entered upon 
the work of preparing a series of sijecimeus worthy of exhibition at 
that exposition. This work practically occupied the attention of the 
entire staff of the department until the close of the year. Time was 
found, however, for the performance of a few details of regular work, 
and these I will enumerate before entering upon a discussion of the 
work performed in connection with the New Orleans Exposition. 

WORK IN THE EXHIBITION HALLS. 

During the absence of the curator, the question of hanging whale- 
skeletons and other similar specimens was settled favorably, and in 
consequence the specimens of the hump-back and tin-back whales, 
which had encumbered the tioor in the east-south range, were suspended 



IIEPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 135 

from the ceiliii}?. The large wall-case of the north side of the same 
range was completed earl^- in the year and filled with such specimens 
as were ready. A considerable number of skeletons of the larger 
ruminants i)roved too large to be accommodated in this case, and were 
therefore j)laced temporarily upon the tops of certain of the table-cases. 
At the same time a large terraced base w^as planned for the south side 
of the range which .should ultimately receive them. This stand has 
been very recently comi)leted, and will be occui)ied early in 1885. 

Almost no changes have taken place iu the hall devoted to mounted 
mammals, except the return of certain seals exhibited at the London 
Fisheries Exhibition in 1883, and the removal of others intended for the 
Xew Orleans Exhibition. The cast of the ziphioid whale captured ou 
the coast of Xew Jersey in 1883 has been conipleted, and is suspended 
from the ceiling ou the east side of the hall. The exhibition series has 
been several times carefully examined to preserve it against destruction 
by insect*. 

WORK UPON THE STUDY SERIES. 

The study series both of skins and bones have also been carefully 
examined to the same end. The collection of alcoholic bats was iden- 
tified throughout. 

This small amount of progress is not at all commensurate with the 
desires of the curator, but it was impracticable to do more under the 
circumstances. 

The curator has received no extra assistance in the oflSce during the 
year. Mr. W. G. Stimpson has acted at once in the capacity of general 
assistant, copyist, and messenger, performing these multiform duties 
very faithfully and satisfactorily. The force of taxidermists and osteo- 
logical preparators was decidedly increased, the former in connection 
with the New Orleans Exhibition, as will be presently noted. 3Tr. 
Hornaday and Mr. Lucas remain in charge of this work as heretofore, 
under the direction of the curator. More or less work has been done 
for the department, as in former years, by Messrs. Joseph and William 
Palmer. 

During the absence of the Assistant Director in the summer, the cura- 
tor was called upon to act in his stead. He has not been relieved of 
the care of the library, which occupies much time. 

THE NEW ORLEANS EXPOSITION. 

Even before money had been approi)riated for this exposition, plans 
lor a display of the mammalia were under discussion. These were at 
first of a very comprehensive character. It was intended that the en- 
tire existing mammalian fauna of North America from the Isthmus of 
Tanama northward should be exhibited species by species, and both by 
skins or casts and skeletons, and that some of the more important ex- 
tinct fauna should be restored. This plan necessarily suffered much 



134 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

modificatiou after a short time, when it was found that neither money, 
time, nor materials sufl&cient to assemble such a collection before the 
opening of the exposition were at command. 

With the intention, however, of having every important species rep- 
resented, the curator visited the establishments of all the principal deal- 
ers in natural-history material, and the collection of duplicates in the 
Museum was also drawn upon very largely. It was found that only a 
very small number of species were anywhere on sale, and that the Mu- 
seum must rely upon its own resources. This it was able to do to a very 
considerable extent, although it was found necessary to withdraw some 
mounted specimens from the regular exhibition series, a proceeding 
which the curator carried out with great reluctance. 

The force of taxidermists was raised to five, and, in addition, many 
small species were sent to Mr. F. S. Webster. The specimens were di- 
vided by the chief taxidermist among his assistants, and the work was 
done carefully, thoroughly, and in time. Toward the end of fall lack of 
funds caused a reduction of the force to three, which somewhat embar- 
rassed the work. 

During the summer the taxidermists together mounted 68 specimens, 
including several large forms, such as a bison, puma, jaguar, beaver, 
coyote, &c., which occupied necessarily a great amount of time. In 
addition to these, 81 specimens were mounted by Mr. Webster and his 
assistants, making in all 149 specimens. A few in each lot were not 
sent, while on the other hand 02 specimens were taken from the regular 
series of the Museum. The total number of specimens exhibited was 
160, representing 150 species and varieties. The series includes all the 
!North American ruminants except the musk-ox; all the important car- 
nivores, both aquatic and terrestrial (especially the fur-bearing family, 
Mustelidce)) all the native beneficial or noxious rodents ; representative 
species of porpoises; the manatees; and the more characteristic monkeys, 
sloths, bats, and insectivores. In addition a series intended to repre- 
sent all the orders of the class mammalia was prepared. 

The collection was exhibited in four large cases, except the ruminants, 
for which a separate, large, terraced stand was provided. The first case 
contained the cats, dogs, bears, &c. ; the second the seals and whales ; 
the third the monkeys, weasels, bats, and insectivores and the first 
group of rodents ; the fourth, the remainder of the rodents, the eden- 
tates, and opossums, and the series representing the orders of mam- 
malia. The large terraced stand, as already stated, supported only the 
ruminants. 

It will be observed that this collection, although considerably smaller 
in point of number of specimens than that exhibited at the Centennial 
Exposition, still contained representatives of almost the same number of 
species. 

In addition to the specimens already mentioned, another small series 
was sent to New Orleans, representing the character of work done in 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OV MAMMALS. 135 

comiection with the section of osteology. It Avas at tiist intended that 
the (lifterent species of nuiminals should be as well represented by skel- 
etons as by mounted skins, but this plan was in the end found imi)rac- 
ticable and was finally abandoned. 

Although the performance of so considerable amount of work for a 
special purpose has kept the regular work of the de])artment in abey- 
ancis it is hoi)ed that the Museum may benefit by it ultimately, both by 
the addition of the mounted specimens to its exhibition series and on 
account of the experience gained by the taxidermists in. rapid work. 

INVESTIGATIONS PROSECUTED DURING THE YEAR 1884. 

During the winter of 1883 and the spring of 1884 the curator was 
engaged in studies upon the cotacea in the European museums. Find- 
ing it very difficult to identify the material which has accumulated in 
the department of mammals, he conceived the idea of examining for 
himself the types of Gray and other writers, which are still extant in 
the museums of Europe. With this intent, and also for the j^urpose of 
studying certain details of museum installation, he visited the following 
establishments : Eoyal College of Surgeons, London ; British Museum 
of Natural History, London ; University Zoological Museum, Cambridge; 
University Zoological Museum, Oxford; Norwich Museum; Public 
Museum of Science and Art, Liverpool ; Museum of Art and Industry, 
Edinburgh ; Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris ; Zoological Museum, 
Leyden, and a number of less important institutions. The types of 
toothed cetaceans of Gray, Flower, Cuvier, Gervais, Schlegel, and 
others were examined and measured. The report upon this investiga- 
tion is unfortunately still unpublished, owing to the pressure of other 
work, but it is the intention of the curator that it shall be finished and 
sent to the printer at an early date. 

These studies are intended as a basis for a monograph of the toothed 
whales of North America, preparations for which are already well 
advanced. The collection of cetacea in the National ^Museum is unques- 
tionably the finest in America, and includes a large number of type- 
specimens. The work can therefore be partially conii)leted without ref- 
erence to other collections, although the latter must in the end be con- 
sulted. 

The necessary work upon the cetacea is so great that the curator 
scarcely hopes to be able to extend his researches upon the mammalia in 
other directions for the i)resent. 

In addition to the insectivores sent to Dr. G. E. Dobson, of Netley, 
England, in 1883, a large number of shrews have been confided to his 
care for comparison with the great series already in his hands. The 
family Soricidce will be treated of in the third and concluding part of 
his work upon the insectivores, the first two sections of which have 
already appeared. 



136 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Dr. Harrison Allen, of Philadelphia, still continues in possession of 
a portion of the Smithsonian collection of Chiroptera, for use in his 
studies upon the organs of locomotion in this group. Certain other 
specimens of bats were temporarily loaned to Mr. F. W. Cragiri, of 
Manhattan, Kansas, who is engaged in work upon the species native to 
that State. 

With the completion of the work upon the cetacea and insectivores 
of North America now in progress, the time will be ripe for the publi- 
cation of an encyclopaedic systematic work upon the entire mammalian 
fauna of North America, similar to that published by Professor Baird. 
in 1859. After such a work shall have been published attention will 
doubtless be turned toward the anatomy, physiology, and embryology 
of the different species, concerning which very little has thus far been 
written. 

Papers published in 1884 by the curator and by others connected, 
with the department, or upon the basis of material belonging to the de- 
partment, amount to twelve, and are referred to in the bibliography 
under True, Elliott, and Nelson. 

PRESENT CONDITION OF THE COLLECTION. 

The collection of mammals can at present be divided into but two 
series, namely, (1) the exhibition series, and (2) the stored or duplicate 
series. 

The exhihition series. — The number of mounted skins on exhibition 
at the close of 1883 and 1884, respectively, was as follows : On exhibi- 
tion at the close of 1883, 715 -, on exhibition at the close of 1884, 646. 

It will appear somewhat surprising at first that at the end of a new 
year's work by the taxidermists the number of specimens on exhibi- 
tion should be less than previously. The reason of this becomes very 
obvious, however, when it is remembered that not only the specimens 
mounted during the year were sent to New Orleans, but, in addition, 
some that had previously been on exhibition in the hall. If we add to 
the number given above, the specimens sent to New Orleans and those 
now in the taxidermists' shops in a nearly completed state the total 
reaches 864, which represents a somewhat less number than will be on 
exhibition in July, 1885, but many more than were displayed at the 
close of 1883. 

Duplicate series.— To gain an idea of the present size of this series 
it is only necessary to add to the figures given in last year's report the 
number of accessions for 1884, since no distributions have been made. 
The totals are as follows : 

Skins and alcoholic specimens, 1884 4, 870 

Skeletons and skulls, 1884 4, 087 

Total 8, 9)7 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 137 

The total number of specimens in the collection is, therefore, as fol- 
lows : 

Skins auil alcoholic specimens 5, 694 

Skulls and skeletons . 4, 214 

Total T. 0, 008 

Although no distributions have been made during the year, a consid- 
erable number of specimens have been temi)oraril,v loaned for study. 
These are as follows : 

To Dr. G. E. Dobson, Netley, England 35 specimens = 35 species 

To F. W. Cragin, Manhattan, Kans 17 specimens = 17 species 

To Godman & Salvin, London, England .... 16 specimens = 16 species 

Total 68 specimens = 68 species 

RECOMMENDATIONS AND GENERAL REMARKS. 

In the exhibition series the original idea of having the North Ameri- 
can fauna exhaustively represented is still adhered to; but, in addition, 
every effort is being made to procure as many representative exotic 
forms as possible. 

During the coming year the taxidermists will be engaged in mount- 
ing the skins now in bath, beginning with the primates and following 
through each lower order. By this plan the curator is saved a great 
amount of labor in identifying and labeling the specimens, since it 
enables him to deal with one branch of the literature at a time. It also 
facilitates the work of estimating the number of new cases of each style 
needed, and makes the growth of the collection apparent. 

Some i^rovision must shortly be made for the protection of the larger 
species, of which the Museum possesses some very line and also unique 
specimens. It is perhaps not too much to say that no museum in the 
world has yet successfidly solved the i)roblem of proper casing for the 
large mammalia, and it is evident, therefore, that a great amount of 
thought must be bestowed upon the subject if this Museum is to succeed 
where others have failed. 

During the coming year the organization of the Department of Com- 
parative Anatomy will probably be effected. A large number of speci- 
mens of the viscera of mammals have been accumulated, in the hope 
that they may be of service in the formation of a comparative organo- 
logical collection. 

By a change in the location of the othces of the department, the 
curator hopes to be able to place a reference series, especially of the North 
American mammalia, where it will he more readily accessible than hith- 
erto. In the present cramped condition neither books nor specimens 
can be consulted without great inconvenience and loss of time. 



138 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

LIST OF ACCESSIONS FOR 1884. 

Mr. S. G, Ahbie, Brownsville, Me. Skeleton of a fisher [Mustela Pen- 
nantii), four skeletons of the red fox {Vnlpes fulvus), and two skele- 
tons of the Canadian porcupine {Erethrizon dorsatns dorsatus). 

Mr. S. F. Adams, Beadle County, Dakota. A shrew in alcohol [Sorex sp.). 

General 0. E. Babcoclc, U. S. A. Skin of a bat. 

Mr. A. B. Baker, Banner, Kans. A collection of skins from Kansas and 
Xew Mexico, embracing five prairie dogs {Cynomys ludovicianus), two 
kangaroo rats (Dipodomys Phillipsi PhilUpsl), one line-tailed spermo- 
phile {Spermophilns 13-lineatus), one harvest mouse {Hesperomys leu- 
copus), and one bat in alcohol {fVespertUio arsinoe). (Purchased.) 

Messrs. Barnum, Bailey (fc Hutchinson, Bridgeport, Conn. Eleven mon- 
keys, one eland [Oreas canna), one harnessed antelope {Tragelaphus 
scripta), one peccary (Dicotyles tajacii), one leoi^ard {Felis tardus), and 
one hunting-leopard {Cyncelurus jubata). 

2Ir. Joseph H. Batby, Upper Amazon, Brazil. A monkey {Pithecia sp.) 
skin. 

Ckqjt. Charles Bendire, U. S. A. A kangaroo rat {Dipodomys Phillipsi), 
from Fort Walla Walla, Wash. 

British Museum Natural History, London, England. A collection of ten 
bats in alcohol ; casts of the heads of the type specimens of Prodel- 
phinus obscurus and Cephalorhynchus Heavisidei. 

Mr. H. Buclisbaum, Washington, D. C. Skeleton of a young Chinese 
hairless dog. 

Mr. B. Ellsworth Call, Washington, D. C. A bat in alcohol. 

Cambridge University Zoological Museum, Cambridge, England. Skele- 
ton of a bottle-nosed dolphin {Tursiops tursio). 

Cape May Porpoise Fishing Company, Cape May, N. J. Skeleton of a 
bottle-nosed dolphin [Tursiops tursio). 

Mr. J. C. Catlin, Eavemia, Ohio. A nest of the red squirrel {Sciurus 
hiidsonius hudsonius). 

Prof. J. W. Chickering, Deaf and Dumb Asylum, Washington, D. C. Ex- 
ample of a monstrous hog. 

Prof. F. W. Clarke, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C. A hair- 
ball from the stomach of an ox. 

Capt. J. W. Collins, U. 8. Fish Commission. Skull of a reindeer [Ran- 
gifer tarandus) from Holsteinberg, Greenland. (Purchased.) 

Mr. W. A. Conklin, superintendent, Cetitral Park Menagerie, New York, 
N. Y. Seven monkeys, two lemurs, one jumpingmouse {Dipus sp.), 
one fruit-eating bat {Pteropus sp.), one civet cat ( Viverra civetta), one 
Indian fawn [Cervus porcinus), one great kangaroo {Macropus gigas). 

Mr. F. W. Cragin, Manhattan, Kans. Skin of a bat (Atalapha cinerea). 

Mr. John Cross, Manatee County, Florida. Portion of a rib of a manatee 
( Trichechus latirostris). 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 139 

Dr. Elliott Coues, SmitJisouian Imtitution, ^yashington, D. C. Skin of 

the rare squirrel {Scinnis nrizoneiisis). 
Surg. Major O. E. Bobson, Royal Victoria Hospital, Netley, England. A 

collection of thirteen bats and five insectivores in alcohol. 
Mr. John R. Edlin, Washington., Ark. Fiagments of the sknlKs of a 

man and a horse. 
Mr. Yinal X. Edirards, Wood''s Holl, Mass. Skeleton of a harbor seal 

[Phoca vituUna). 
Dr. J. M. Flint, U. S. N. Dry anatomical preparation of a hnman 

foBtus. 
.][r. William Fuller, East Penfield, ]S\ Y. Two skeletons of raccoons 

(Froci/on lotor); three skeh^tons of nuiskrats {Fiber zibethicus)', three 

skeletons of n)inks {Putorius vison); and one skeleton of an erniiue 

{Putorius erminea). 
Mr. Daniel Grinnan, Port Gibson, Miss. Tooth of a horse. 
C. G. Gunther d- Sons, JN'e?r Yorl; iV. Y. Mounted gronp of Virginia deer 

[Cariactts I'irginianns), and melanistic wolf {Ganis lupus). 
Mr. Manly Hardy, Brewer, Me. Skeleton of a fox {Vulpes fulvus). 
Ensign Gharles H. Harlow, U. S. N. Greely Eelief Expedition. Skin. 

of an Eskimo dog. 
Mr. George G. Hazleton, Washington, D. C. Skeleton of a red bat {Ata- 

lapha noveboracensis). 
Mr. H. W. Henshaic, Washington, D. C. A fresh specimen of a flying 

squirrel (Sciuroptervs volucella htidsonivs). 
Mr. C. J. Hering, Surinam. A bat in alcohol {Molossus rufus). 
Mr. B. Holtzlander, Washington, D. G. Skin of a domestic cat {Felis 

domestica). 
Mr. William T. Hornaday, U. S. National Mtiseum, Washington, D. G. 

A rabbit in the flesh [Lepus sylvaticus). 
Mr. T. S. UoTty, Puyallup Valley, Washington Territory. Tootli of a 

horse. 
Gapt. T. B. Hunt, U. S. A. Skull and skin of the head of a mountain 

sheep [Ovis montana). 
Ipswich Museum, England. Two ear-bones of a fossil whale from the 

Crag formations. 
Jacobs Bros., Washington, D. C. Skin of a St. Bernard dog. 
Dr. William H.Jones, U. S.N. Four human skulls irom the plains of 

Wnimanolo, Oahu, Hawaii Islands; and fifty-two human skulls from 

Ancon, Peru. 
Mr. P. L. Jouy, Japan. A collection of seven mammals from Japan, 

embracing a pair of horns of the Japanese goat {Nemorhedus crispus) ; 

one skin of a marten {Mustela sp.) ; two skins of the flying squirrel 

{Pteromys ii\^.) : one skin of the common mouse (i"l/«s sp.); one skin 

of a bat; and a skin of a Japanese otter {Lutroncctes Whitelyei). 
Dr. J. W. Kales, Union Springs, N. Y. Fragments of human skulls. 



140 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188-1. 

Mr. George Eiefer, Ancon, Peru. Nine human skulls ; skull of a sea- 
lion {Otaria jtibata), and the horns of the domesticated sheep. 

Mr. George E. Kleeherger, Northern Calif ornia. Vertebral column of a 
rabbit {Lepus sp). 

Mr. R. Longstreet, Keeper U. S. Life- Saving Station, Manisquan, N J. 
A harbor seal in the flesh {Phoca vltulina). 

Dr. R. McCallum, Westville, Miss. A bat in alcohol {Plecotus sp.). 

Ensign C. S. McClain {Greely Relief Expedition). Skull of a bear and 
skeleton of an arctic fox ( Vulpes lagopus) from Greenland, 

Mr. L. M. McCormiclc, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C. A 
red squirrel [Sciurus hudsonius hudsonius), and three young rabbits 
[Lepus sylvaticus). 

Mr. R. McFarlane, Chipewyan, Hudson Bay Territory. Skin of an al- 
bino marten {Mustela americana), and a muskrat {Fiber zihethicus). 

Mr. John J. Mcfjean, U. S. Signal Bureau. Two skins of Steller's sea 
lion [Eumetopias Stelleri) from Cajie Mendocino, California, and three 
human skulls from Alaska. 

Dr. J. A. McNiel, Chiriqui, Central America. A human skull. 

Mr. James P. McTeer, Wytheville, Va. A monstrous hog. 

Dr. W. V. Marquis, Bennett, Pa. Sacrum of an elk [Cervus canadensis), 
and tooth of a domestic sheep. 

Mr. Charles H. Marsh, Silver City, N. Mex. A rabbit skin [Lepus syl- 
vaticus). 

Mr. EredericJc Mather, Forest and Stream Publishing Company, New York. 
A mouse [Resperomys leucopus) in alcohol, from Suflblk County, New 
York. 

Dr. C. Hart Merriam, Locust Grove, N. Y. Four skeletons of the harp 
seal [Phoca grcenlandica) from the coast of Labrador. 

Mr. Minus Miller, Knoxville, Iowa. Skin of the silver fox ( Vulpes ful- 
vus argentatus). 

Mr. E. W. Nelson, Tucson, Ariz. A collection of eleven small mam- 
mals from Arizona. 

Norwich Museum, Norioich, England. Two ear-bones of a fossil whale 
from the Crag formations. 

Mr. Charles R. Orcutt, San Diego, Cal. Specimen of a gopher in alco- 
hol [Thomomys talpoides). 

Mr. William H. Palmer, V. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C. A 
bat [Scotophilus georgianus) and a harvest mouse [Hesperomys leucopus) 
in the flesh. 

Mr. George Poole, Dime Museum, Washington, D. C. Three monkeys 
and an opossum in the flesh. 

Lieut. P. L. Ray, U. S. N., and John Murdoch, U. S. Signal Bureau. A 
collection of sixty-four mammal skins and thirty-seven skeletons, from 
Point Barrow, Alaska. 

Mr. John Richardson, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C. A 
collection of twelve mammal skins. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 141 

Mr. Robert Kidgwdij, U. ^^ NatioiKxl Museum, WasliuKjton, I). C. Alco- 
holic si>eciinen of the red bat {Atalapha noveboraeensis), caught in the 
National Museum. 

Mr. Jamex W. Uoynn. Roger,sville, Tenn. A tiehl mouse {Arvicola sp.) 
in alcohol. 

Mr. J. H. Rotcland, Hagerstown, Md. A monstrous lamb. 

Mr. Fred. Sauter, Xew YorJ:, N. Y. Skin of a Tayra {Galictis barbata). 

Capt. C. M. Scanimon, California. Two teeth of Stearns's <;i''H'il>"s 
[Grampus Stearnsii) from the Califoniian coast. 

Mr. Henry Sehneider, Washington, 1>. C. Skin of a Laverack setter. 

Mr. Lewis Sells, Cincinnati, Ohio. Skin of puma {Fclis concolor) ; a wart- 
hog in the 1^esh {Phacochoerus cethiopicns), dud a h-Ahoou {Gynocephalus 
anubis). 

Dr. R. W. Shitfeldt, U. »S'. A. A collection of four rodents and seven 
bats from Louisiana. 

Mr. A. L. JSiler, Utah. A human skull. 

Mr. Alexander Skinner, U. S. National Museum, Washington, I). C. Three 
muskrats {Fiber zibethicus) and three flying squirrels {Sciuropterus 
columella) in the flesh. 

Mr. George Smith, Prince George's County, Maryland. A red squirrel 
{Sc-iurus hudsonius hudsonius) in the flesh. 

Mr. W. F. Smith, Webster City, Iowa. Broken skull of a wolf {Cams 
lupus griseoalbus). 

Mr. R. F. C. Stearns, U. S. National Museum, Washington, 1). C. Skull 
of a rabbit {Lepus calif or nicus); three teeth of an elk {Cervus cana- 
densis); a tusk of a fossil elephant {Elephas sp.) from California. 

Dr. Leonhard Stejneger. A collection of mammals from Bering Island 
and Kamtschatka, one hundred and twenty-seven in number, includ- 
ing skulls of Rhytina and three species of ziphioid whales. 

Col. James Stevenson, U. S. Geological Survey. Two skins of wood rat 
{Neotoma sp.) and one skin of kangaroo mouse [Dipodomys Phillipsi 
Ordi) from Lee's Ferry, Ariz. 

Royal College of Surgeons, London, England {through Mr. W. L. Crow- 
ther). Skeleton of ablacktisli {Globiocephalus melas) from Tasmania. 

Mr. R. S. Tarr, C. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C. A bat 
( Vespertilio lucifugus) in alcohol from Wood's Holl, ^lass. 

Mr. Charles E. Townsend, U. S. Fish Hatching Station, Baird, Shasta 
County, California. A collection of one hundred and eighty-three 
skins and tifty-two skeletons of Californian mammals. 

Mr. F. W. True, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C. A small 
collection of skins and skulls of exotic mammals. 

Mr. H. W. Turner, U. S. Geological Survey. A pale bat {Plecotus macro- 
tus), a field mouse {Arvicola riparius), and a gopher {Thomomys tal- 
poides) in the flesh ; from California. 

Mr. Lueien M. Turner, U. S. Signal Bureau. A collection of eighty-one 
skins from Dngava Bay, and Labrador, British America. 



142 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

TJ. S. Fish Commission, Wood's Roll, Mass. Alcoholic bat and three 
young rabbits from Saint Mary's, Fla. ; twenty -one bats from the 
"West Indies ; two skeletons of common dolphin {Delphinus delphis) 
and one skeleton of bottle-nosed dolphin (Twmops tursio) from Wood's 
Holl, Mass.; skull of a whale {Balccnoptera Sibbaldii), and two epiph- 
yses of a whale. 
John and Charles Walker, Olney, III. Three bats in alcohol. 
World^s Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exhibition, New Orleans, La, 
{'purchased of Prof . H. A. Ward, Rochester, N. Y.): 
Skins of the following animals : Wolverine {Gulo luscus) ; lynx {Lynx 
rufus) ; civet cat ( Viverra zibethica) ; iieccary {Dicotyles tajaeu) ; porcu- 
pine {Synetheres prehensilis) ; guanico {Auchenia gnanico) ; mountain 
sheep {Ovis montana) ; Trowbridge's hare {Lepus Troivbridgei) ; beaver 
{Castor fiber). 

Skeletons of the following animals: Wolverine (Gm/o luscus); lynx 
{Lynx rufus) ; coati {Nasua narica); coyote {Canis la.trans) ; mule deer 
{Cariacus macrotis); antelope {Antilocapra americana); whale {Sotalia 
si>.), skull; kangaroo {3Iacropus gigas) ; wombat {Phascolarctos cinereus); 
whale {Berardius Arnuxi), skull; manatee {Trichechus manatus). 
Mr. William Wittfeld Georgiana, Fla. A collection of nine mammals 

from Georgiana, including the typical specimen of Neofiber Alleni. 
Mr. A. F. Wooster, Norfolk, Conn. Skin of a red squirrel {Sciurus hud- 

sonius hudsonius). 
Mr. W. S. Yaste, TJ. 8. Geological Survey, Washington, D. C. A bat 

( Vespertilio lucifugus). 
Mr. Jose C. Zeledon, San Jose, Costa Rica. Two opossum skins {Didelphys 
sp.) ; a squirrel {Sciurus sp.) ; a field mouse {Hesperomys sp.) ; a gopher 
{Geomys hispidus), and a skeleton of the Yaguarundi cat {Felis yaguar- 
undi). 



V -REPORT UPON THE DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS IN THE U. S. 

MUSEUM, 1884. 



By Robert Ridgway, Curator. 



The year 1884 was wholly uuj^recedented in the extent, if not in the 
number, of accessions to the collections of the Department of Birds, and 
the amount of work accomplished by the curator and his assistants. 
To the latter are due especial mention, as follows : 

Capt. Charles E. Bendire, TJ. S. A., who gratuitously rendered most 
valuable service in the entire rearrangement and labeling of the oolog- 
ical collection, a labor requiring his personal supervision during seven 
months. Mr. C. W. Beckham, who until July 1 assisted Captain Ben- 
dire in the arrangement and cataloguing of the oological collection, and 
after that date rendered efficient aid in the preparation of the Xew 
Orleans exhibit. Mr. Henry Marshall, taxidermist of the department, 
whose skilled work added many attractive specimens to the exhibition 
series. Mr. George Marshall, engaged after July 1 as assistant taxider- 
mist. Miss Harriet S. Perkins, assigned specially to the oological sec- 
tion, and who has therein rendered very efficient service. Mr. C. W. 
Shoemaker, who performed various clerical duties until December 1, 
when lack of funds necessitated his being dropped from the rolls. Mr. 
Hugh M. Smith, who performed with great satisfaction the various du- 
ties assigned him during his term of service, which extended from July 
1 to December 1. Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, who, appointed as assistant 
on the New Orleans exhibit from July 1 until December 1, and after the 
latter date as assistant curator, rendered most valuable service to the 
department. 

ACCESSIONS TO THE BIRD COLLECTION. 

{a) Skins and alcoholic specimens. 

The number of birds, chiefly skins, which were added to the collec- 
tion during 1884 is 8,142 (Museum register Kos. 93092-1 01 233), by far 
the largest number received in one year in the history of the Museum. 
The more important accessions were the following : — 

Aiken, G. E., Colorado Springs, Colo.: 14 specimens, 3 species, from 
Colorado. (Purchased.) 

Batty, J. H., Parkville, Long Island, N. Y. : 50 specimens, 34 species, 
from Europe, Peru, and various parts of the United States. (Exchange.) 

143 



144 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Beldmg, L., Stockton, Col. : 13 specimeus, 5 species, from San Diego, 
Cal. (Gift.) 

. 4 species from Lower California and an interesting series of 

Passerculus beldmgi (sp. nov.) from San Diego. (Gift.) 

Bendire, Capt. Charles E., U. S. A. : 304 specimens, 92 species, from 
Fort Klamath, Oreg. (Gift.) 

Benedict, J. E., and Nye, W., Jr., U. 8. Fish Commission : 1)4 speci- 
mens, 44 species, collected during the cruise of the Fish Commission 
steamer Albatross, at St. Thomas, W. I., on the islands of Trinidad, 
Mona, Cura9oa, and Old Providence, and at Sabanilla, New Granada. 
Of the 10 species collected at Curayoa and Old Providence, 8 were new 
to science. A pair of the interesting oil bird or guacharo {Steatornis 
caripensis) were collected at Mona Island. (See notice of special paper 
on this collection, in list of papers based on material in the National 
Museum collection.) 

Be r yen Museum, Bergen, Noricay {through Br. L. Stejneger) : 78 speci- 
mens, 45 species, chiefly from Norway. (Exchange.) 

Berlepsch, Coimt von, Muenden, Germany : 81 specimens, G6 species, of 
neotropical birds, many of them new to the collection ; also, 20 speci- 
mens, 18 species, from Malacca — nearly all previously unrepresented. 
(Exchange.) 

Biclcnell, Eugene P., Riverdale. N. Y. : Pair of Hylocichla alicice biclc- 
nelli; new to the collection. (Gift.) 

Blahiston, Capt. T. W. : 675 specimens, chiefly from Japan, as follows: 
149 species from Japan, 76 from China, 63 from England, 3 from Kamt- 
schatka, 2 from India; total 293 species. (Gift.) (This collection is 
specially important, having been made during a 20 years' residence in 
Japan, and forming the basis of Captain Blakiston's various papers — 
also those of other writers — on the birds of that country. Its acqui- 
sition, together with the collection made by Mr. P. L. Jouy, renders the 
National Museum collection of Japanese birds perhaps the most com- 
plete extant.) 

Boardman, George A., Calais, Me.: 1 burrowing owl and 1 specimen 
of Grotophaga ani, from Florida. (Gift.) 

British Museum, London, England {through Mr. B. E. Earll, U. IS. Fish 
Commission) : 126 specimens, 100 species, from various localities in Asia, 
Africa, and Australia. (Gift.) 

. {through Dr. T. H. Bean, Curator, Department of Fishes, U. 

8. National Miiseum) : 247 specimens, 204 species, chiefly from India. 
(Gift.) 

Bryant, D. 8., Oakland, Cal. {through L. Belding, Stockton, Cal.) : An 
interesting series of Passerculus sandwichensis hryanti (subsp. nov.), from 
Oakland, Cal. (Gift.) 

Coale, H. K., Chicago, III.: J 4 species, chiefly from India, 5 of them 
new to the collection. (Exchange.) 

. 29 specimens, 27 species (several new to the collection), from 

various localities. (Exchange.) 



i 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF RiRDS. 145 

Coale, H. K., Chicapo. TIL: 10 spe<.'inieu8, 24 species, of water birds, 
rhiefly from Nortbern Illinois. (Excbauge.) 

. 70 specimens, 54 species, mostly from Wadale, India; with 

some from the Unite<l States, Kurope, and Australia. (Exchange.) 

. 7 specimens, same tiumber oi" s]>ecies, 4 from South America, 

1 from Costa Eica, and 1 from Moluccas. (Exchange.) 

. 42 specimens, 24 sjiecies, from various localities in the United 

States and a few from Europe and India. (Exchange.) 

. 1 specimen of Miinia malabarica from Wadale, India. (Gift.) 

. Specimen of Bufeo hnreolis Irideri from Illinois; new to the 

collection. (Gift.) 

Conkliv, W. A., xuperintendent Meufu/eric, Central Pork, Ke^c York 
City {throuqh W. T. Hornaday, chief taxiflermist, U. S. National Mvseum) : 
1 specimen of long-tailed Chinese rooster, from Central Park Menagerie, 
New York. 

. 1 specimen of Gru^ leucogrranus, from Central Park Menagerie, 

New York. (Exchange.) 

Cory, Charles B., Boston, Mass. : 3 skins of Picoides americanuSy from 
Maine. (Exchange.) 

. 1 skin of Ligea palustris, a new species, from St. Domingo. 

(Exchange.) 

Crumb, Capt. C. R., keeper life-saving station, GoWs Island, Virginia : 
6 specimens of Ammodromus maritimus from Cobb's Island, Va. (Gift.) 

Doirell, John., Washington, D. C. : Mounted specimen of Porzana 
jnmaicensis, from Piscataway, Md. (Gift.) 

D\itcher, William, Xeic York City : 12 specimens of Pa^serculus prin- 
ceps in flesh, from Long Island. (Gift.) 

Edicards, Vinal iV., Wood^s Roll, Mass: 1 specimen of Fratercula 
arctica, from Wood's Holl, Mass. (Gift.) 

FisJier, William J., United States tidal observer, Kodiak, Alaska: 23 
specimens, 17 species, from Kodiak. (Gift.) 

Forrer, A., Sicitzerland : 2 skins ( ^ and 9) of Rkynchopsifta pachy- 
rhyncha, from Durango, Mexico; new to the collection. (Purchased.) 

Fox, Dr. W. R., Washington, D. G. : 4fi specimens, 35 species, chiefly 
from Lookout Mountain, Tennessee; the first specimens, with possibly 
one or two exceptions, which the Museum has ever received from that 
State. (Exchange.) 

. 75 specimens, 44 species, from Tennessee ; including Picrm 

horealis and Quiscalus purpureus, the first specimens of these species 
obtained west of the AUeghanies ; also, two examples of Peuccea cesti- 
valis illinoensis. (Exchange.) 

Gaumer, G. F., Yucatan: 23 specimens, 12 species, from Yucatan 
(Purchased.) 

Grebnitzki, Governor, Bering Island, Kamtschatka: 22 specimens, 13 
species, from Bering Island. (Gift.) 
S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 10 



146 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Grinnell, George Bird, New YorTc City : 2 specimens of Orh/x graysoni, 
from Tucson, Ariz. (Gift.) 

Harting, J. E., British Museum, London, England: 14 specimens, 11 
species, chiefly wading birds, several of them new to the collection. 
(Exchange.) 

Healy, Capt. M. A., TJ. 8. Revenue Cutter Coricin: 46 specimens, 30 
species, from Alaska. (Mostly in alcohol.) (Gift.) 

Hensharv, H. W., U. 8. Geological Survey: 33 specimens, 10 species of 
birds, from District of Columbia, ]Srevada, New Mexico, &c. (Exchange.) 

. 110 specimens, 48 species, chiefly from Colorado and New 

Mexico ; also, 17 specimens, 10 species, chiefly from Carson City, Nev. 
(Exchange.) 

Hinckley, Isaac, Currituck Sound, North Carolina : Hybrid duck {Ana^^ 
hoschas -j- ohscura) in flesh. (Gift.) 

Hornaday, W. T., chief taxidermist, TJ. 8. National Museum : 37 speci- 
mens, 34 species, from Coimbatore, India. (Purchased.) 

Jencks, Fred. T., Providence, R. I.: 1 specimen of Lophophorus 
impeyanus, from the Himalayas, India. (Exchange.) 

Johnson, J. W., TJ. 8. Signal Service : 19 specimens, 13 species, from 
Nushagak, Alaska. 

Knowlton, F. H., TJ. 8. National Museum: 3 skins of Quiscalus ceneus, 
from Vermont. (Gift.) 

Kodbele, Albert: 16 specimens, 13 species, from Brazil. (Gift.) 

Macgregor, Miss Inez, Concord, Va. : 1 hybrid fowl (common fowl and 
Guinea-keet), from Concord, Va. (Gift.) 

Marshall, George, Laurel, Md. : 3 specimens of Loxia americana, shot 
at Laurel, Md., May 23 and 25, 1884. (Gift.) 

Marshall, E. : 1 specimen of Nyctala acadica, from Washington, D. C. 
(Gift.) 

Maynard, C. J. : 22 specimens, 8 species, from Bahama Islands and 
South America. (Purchased.) 

McCormick, L. M., TJ. 8. National Museum : 1 specimen of Mgialites 
melodus circumcinctus, from Alexandria County, Virginia. (Gift.) 

McDonald, Col. M., TJ. 8. Fish Commission : 1 bald eagle in flesh, from 
Virginia. (Gift.) 

McKay, C. L. {deceased), TJ. 8. Signal Service, Nushagak, Alaska: 22 
specimens, 12 species, including none of particular interest. 

McLain, C. 8., TJ. 8. N. ; 6 specimens, same number of species, from 
Greenland. (Gift.) 

McLeod, Rev. R. R., Jesus Maria, Chihuahua, Mexico: 12 specimens, 
same number of species, from Chihuahua, Mexico. (Gift.) 

Merrill, Dr. J. C, TJ. 8. A.: 62 specimens, 39 species, from Fort 
Brown, Texas. (Gift.) 

Moore, Julian A., Alexandria, Va. : 1 albino coot {Fulica americana) 
in flesh. (Gift.) 

Nation, Prof. W., FAma, Peru; Peruvian birds, mostly new to the 
collection. (Gift.) 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF BIRDR. 147 

Nation, Prof. W., Lima, Peru : 6 specimens, same number of species^ 
from Lima, Peni, ^ of them {i. «., Neorhynehu.t nojteus, Polynomyia caroli., 
and MetaUura opaca) important additiohs to the collection. (Gift.) 

Nelson, E. W., Tuvfion, Ariz. : 7fiS s])ecimens, 1 14 species, from Alaska,, 
being a portion of ^Ir. Nelson's collection which had not been catalogued. 
From this lot and another which had been catalogued, but from which 
the Museum series had not been taken, a fair ]>roportion was selected 
for the reserve collection of the JVlusenm. 

. 21 specimens, IL* si)ecies,from Arizona, including the following 

l»articularly rare species: Harporhynchus bendirei (2), H. crissalis (3), Py- 
ranga cooperi (2), Hehninthophila Ivci(E (2), Scops trichopsis (1), and Mi<;ra- 
fhene whitneyi (1). (Purchased.) 

. 787 specimens, \3i6 species, from Arizona. (Purchased.) 

. 16 specimens, 7 species, from Arizona. (Purchased.) 

. 115 specimens, 35 species, from Arizona. (Purchased.) 

Nye, W.. Jr., U. S. Fish Commission. (See Benedict, J. E.) 

Palmer, W., U. 8. National Museum: 2 specimens of Scops asio fiori- 
danns, Xrom South Carolina; 1 adult $ JLcctpifcr cooper?", from Virginia 
(mounted for exhibition series). (Gift.) 

. 15 specimens, 11 species, from Alexandria County, Virginia. 

(Gift.) 

Ragsdale, G. H., Gainesville, Tex.: 31 specimens, 12 species, from 
Cook County, Texas. (Purchased.) 

. 1 mounted specimen of Buteo harlani from Gainesville, Tex. 

(Purchased.) 

Kay, Lieut. P. H., U. S. A.: 288 skins, including 46 species, from 
Point Barrow, Alaska ; also 33 specimens ((J species) of birds in alcohol, 
from the same locality. (U. S. Signal Office.) 

Rey, Br. E. : 25 specimens, same number of species, from various 
localities in South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa. (Purchased.) 

Ridgway, E., Curator, Department of Birds, U. S. National Museum : 
1 adult male golden pheasant (Chrysolophus pictus), purchased in flesh 
for the Museum ; also 4 birds in alcohol, and 3 mounted for the exhi- 
bition series, from Virginia. 

Saunders, Howard, London, England: 5 specimens, 3 species, from 
South America, India, and Greece. (Exchange.) 

Sauter, Fred., NewYorJc Ctiy : 22 specimens, same number of species, 
from difterent parts of Europe, Asia, Africa, and South America. 
(Exchange.) 

Schliiter, Wilhelm, Halle, Germany : 7 specimens, same number of 
species, from Siberia. (Purchased.) 

Sharpe, R. Boiclder, British Museum, London, England : 66 specimens, 
nearly as many spe(;ies, chiefly from Southern India (Lower Pegu, &c.). 
(Exchange.) 

. 256 specimens, 180 species, from India. Many species new to 

1 h e pol 1 e<;ti on . ( Exch an ge. ) 



148 REPORT OF NATIONAIi MUSEUM, 1«84 

Shiifeldt, Dr. R. W., TJ. S. A.: 17 specimens, 11 species, birds in 
alcohol, from Louisiana. (Gift.) 

Slade, JElisha, Somerset, Matts.: liiving pair of hybrid ducks {Anas 
ohscura-^boschas). (Gift.) 

Stearns, Frederick, d; Co., Detroit, Mich. : 24 specimens, 16 species, 
from Costa Eica and Jamaica. (Purchased.) 

Stejneger, Dr. L., Assistant Curator, Department of Birds, TJ. 8. 
National Museum : 4 specimens of swan {Olor cygnus and Cygnus gibbus) 
from Europe. (Gift.) 

. 1 specimen of Tetrao tetrix, sterile $ , from Lund, Southern 

Norway. (Gift.) 

. 1 specimen of Hypherpes corallirostris, from Savary, Mada- 
gascar. (Gift.) 

. 74 specimens, 48 species, from various parts of Europe and 

Asia. (Gift.) 

. 3 specimens of Lagopus albvs alleni, a new form, from !St. 

John's, Newfoundland, including the type specimen. (Gift.) 

. 1 specimen of Motacilla boarula, 1 of Pyrrhula vulgaris, and 

1 of Sterna nigra, from Norway. (Gift.) 

. 19 specimens, same number of species, from Brazil and Nor- 
way. Including an adult $ of Falcogyrfalco, new to the collection. (Gift.) 

. ^lunoi Motacilla alba, }\i\.. Troglodytes borealis smd T.bergen- 

sis sp. nov. (type), all new to the collection. (Gift.) 

Townsend, Charles H. : 478 specimens from Northern California. 
(Smithsoniau exploration.) 

. .55 specimens, from Farallone Islands, California. (Smith- 
sonian exploration.) 

Turner, Lucien M., U. S. Signal Service : 1,705 specimens, from Ft. 
Chimo, Ungava. (U. S. Signal Of&ce.) 

Ward, Prof. Henry A., Rochester, N. Y. : 7 specimens, same number 
of species, from Yokohama, Japan. (Exchange.) 

. 13 specimens, ]() species, from Australia and Tasmania. 

(Purchased.) 

Wheeler, Gapt. George M., TJ. S. A.: 30 specimens, 28 species, from 
Sonthwesteni TTnited States, (Kesidne of collection made by the 
U. S. Geological Survey west of 100th meridian.) (War Department.) 

Wolford, W. L., Mijineapolis, Minn. : 4 specimens of Hesperiphono, ves- 
pertina, from Minneapolis, Minn. (Exchange.) 

Worthen, Charles K., Warsaw, III. : 45 specimens, 26 species, from 
Western United States and Mexico. (Exchange.) 

. 30 spiH'imens, 25 species, chiefly from Oregon and New Mex- 
ico. (Exchange.) 

. 12 specimens, 6 species, from New Mexico. (Exchange.) 

. 13 specimens, 7 species, chiefly from Western Oregon. (Ex- 



change.) 
. 5 specimens, 2 species, from Warsaw, 111. (Exchange. 



REPORT OK DEPARTMENT OK BIRDS. 149 

Worthen, Charles K., Warsaiv, Til. : 1 si)ecimen of Ghordeiles henryi, 
liom Warsaw, 111. (Excliauge.) 

. 3 specimens, same number of species, from Silver City, N-. 

Jklex., iucludiug 1 specimen of Peuccea ruficeps eremceca (the second 
;-;pecimen acquired), and the type of a new species, Spizella wortheni. 
(Exchange.) 

Zeledon, Jose C, iSan rhu^, (Joata Rita : Hi specimens, 15 species, from 
(Josta Rica. (Several species new to the collection and others new to 
Costa Rica.) (Gift.) 

. 1 specimen of C'hrioinacliivriii aurantiaca, from Costa Rica. 

A species new to the fauna of that country. (Gift.) 

(b) Nests and eggs. 

The number of entries made in the oological register during 1884 
was 3,222 (Museum Nos. 18,922-22,143), much the hirgest part of w^iich 
consisted of Captain Bendire's magnificent collection of ISorth American 
birds' eggs, numbering nearly 8,000 specimens, generously presented 
by Captain Beudire to the National Museum, and catalogued and 
arranged under his direct supervision. The more important of other 
accessions are the following : 

Fencker, Oovernor, Gothaah, Greenland : 25 entries, same number of 
species, from Greenland. 

Merrill, Dr. James C, U. 8. A.: 468 entries, 243 species, from various 
localities. 

Nelson, E. W., Tucson, Ariz. : 156 entries, 75 species, from Arizona. 

Bay, Lieut. P. H., TJ. 8. A. : 123 entries, 14 species, from Point Barrow, 
Alaska. 

Smith, Hugh M., Washington, D. C. : Nest and eggs of American Gold- 
finch {Chrysomitris tristis), from Virginia. 

Stejneger, Dr. Leonhard, U. S. Signal Service : 58 entries, 34 species, 
from Bering Island, Kamtschatka. 

Toicnsend, Charles H. : 27 entries, 11 species, from Red Bluft", Cali 
tornia. 

Turner, Lueien M., JJ. S. Signal Service : LJ entries, same number of 
of species, from Alaska. 

DISTRIBUTION OF SPECIMENS. 

The total number of specimens distributed during 1884 was 2,658 
birds and 45 eggs, as follows : 

(u) Skinit. 

Wptjciuieua aeut out in exchauge ii, 244 

ypttciuieua loaned lor exaiuinatiou 414 

Total 2,658 

r"Ji)eciea aeut out iii excliauge 1,025 

Jpeciea loaaiod tor oxaiiiiuatiou llli 

1,13» 



160 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

(&) Eggs. 

Specimens sent out in exchange .- , 34 

(Specimens loaned for examination 11 

Total. 45 

Species sent out in exchange 11 

.Species loaned for examination 11 

Total 22 

SPECIAL WORK ACCOMPLISHED. 

UripacMng and redistributing the collection of birds sent to the London 
International Fisheries Exhibition. — The return of several large boxes 
of specimeos of aquatic and fish-eating birds, sent to the London Inter- 
national Fisheries Exhibition, necessitated a large amount of labor in 
unpacking and redistributing the same to their respective drawers. 
This collection embraced 380 specimens, representing 220 species. 

Selection of birds for the museum of the Indiana State University. — The 
natural history collections of the Indiana State University having been 
totally destroyed by fire in July, 1883, the National Museum undertook 
to replace, in a measure, the ornithological collection of that establish- 
ment. For this purpose a considerable number of duplicate mounted 
specimens were available, and in order to get at these it was necessary 
to unpack some dozen or more large boxes which had been kept in the 
storage rooms, and then repack and invoice the residue. The total 
number of specimens, chiefly mounted, which were thus disposed of 
amounted to 564, representing 395 species. 

Researches connected with a neiv list of North American birds. — The 
curator of the department having been charged by the Committee on 
Classification and Nomenclature of the American Ornithologists' Union 
to determine certain, doubtful questions of synonymy among North 
American birds, for the proposed new list to be published by the 
Union, he has spent much time in investigating the various complicated 
questions pertaining to this work. In this labor he has been materially 
assisted by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger. 

Rearrangement of the collection of larger water birds, &c. — Four new 
large " Salvin" cabinets having been provided for the accommodation 
of a portion of the collection of larger birds, the latter, which had been 
packed in various inconvenient and unsafe receptacles, chiefly large 
packing boxes, were unpacked and rearranged in the drawers of the 
new cabinets. 

Installation of mounted specimens. — A large number of specimens 
which had accumulated during the occupancy of the alcoves between 
the exhibition cases in the main hall by the Smithsonian offices, while 
the east end of the building was undergoing repairs, was distributed 
through the cases after the alcoves were cleared, it having until then 
been impossible to gain access to the cases. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 



151 



Moving the office of thr curato)*t — Tlic forun'r quarters of the curator 
in the top ol tiu' south tower proving;', uuder the hir^e increase of busi- 
uess iu the (lei)artment, no longer suitabh; for the j»ari)08e, the south- 
west gallery' of the main hall was, at the curator's suggestion, cleared 
and litted up for temporary oc(!upaucy. The labor of moving the fur- 
niture, &c., of the curator's office to the new quarters was very consid- 
erable, iuvolviug, among other things, the transfer of 27 quarter-unit 
cases and 11 walnut cabinets, with their contents (embracing some 
;S0,()00 specimens). 

Selection of specimens for mounting. — About 2,500 skins were selected 
for mounting, to add to the exhibition series of the Museum. Of this 
number somewhat over 1,200, chiefly small birds, were mounted; but 
the reniainder are put aside to be mounted as opportunity permits. 

Preparation of copy for labels for the exhibition collection. — Copy for 
considerably over 1,000 species-labels for the mounted birds was pre- 
pared during the year, said labels to give the English name (in large, 
heavy type) of each species, the various local or popular names, the 
scientific name, the range, a reference to where a full account of the 
habits, etc., can be found, and other information specially desired by 
the general i)ublic. All the North American and a considerable number 
of the foreign species have been thus covered. A sample copy of this 
label is herewith submitted : 





RING-BILLED GULL. 






Larus delawareusis, ORD. 






Water B. X. J??i. , I. p. 244. 




Whole of North America, breeding northward; 
south, in winter, to Mexico and Cuba. 






669. 



Transfer of mounted specimens to new walnut stands. — Several hundred 
of the mounted speciujens were during the year transferred to new 
black-walnut stands, and the beauty of the collection thus materially 
increased. 

' N^eic Orleans exhibit. — By far the larger part of the work done from 
Jbly to November, inclusive, consisted in the preparation of an exhibit 
of birds for the World's international Cotton Exposition at New Orleans. 
It was at first iutended to send a selected series of birds from all parts* 
of the world, in order to show the more characteristic types of each ot 
the primary zoogeogra[)hical divisions of the earth. This plan was, 
however, found not feasible, owing partly to the large expense involved 
in the purchase of specimens not already iu the collection, but chiefly 
to the lack of sutUcieut space iu the exhibition building. It was tinally 



152 UEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

determined, therefore, to restri75t the exhibit to a coUectiou of North 
Ainericau game-birds, of which 171 specimeiKs (a large number of tbem 
mounted specially for the occasion), representing 123 si)ecies, were 
sent. These were installed bj' Dr. L. Stejueger, assistant curator. 
This collection embraces, with a few unimportant exceptions, all the 
North American species of the turkey, grouse, and partridge families, 
besides all the species of swans, geese, and ducks, shore-birds, &c., of 
Eastern North America, all accurately labeled with both their P'nglish 
and scientific names. 

Fuhlications. — The total number of papers published during 1884 which 
were based exclusively or in jjart on the bird collection of the National 
Museum is GO, embracing about 450 octavo pages, and of books, 3 vol- 
umes, two royal 8vo, with a total of 1,096 pages, and one imperial octavo 
of 893 pages. 

PRESENT STATE OF THE COLLECTION. 

(a) Mounted and alcoholic specimens and sTcins. 

Condition. — In all respects except the manner of installation of the 
exhibition series, and some inconveniences of arrangement resulting 
from insufficient storage facilities, the present condition of the collec- 
tion is excellent. No injury has been done by insects, owing in part to 
the tight-fitting cases in which the principal part of the skin collection 
is kept and to the close surveillance kept .over those specimens to which 
insects could gain access. Bisulphide of carbon has been freely used in 
all the drawers, close-fitting and otherwise, and any infected specimens 
discovered were at once quarantined and fumigated. The collection is 
in very urgent need of better accommodations, however, as is more 
fully explained under the head of " Eecommendations." 

Extent. — It was found impracticable to make an actual inventory of 
the collections at the end of 1884, on account of the pressure of numer- 
ous other duties. But the following estimate, based on the inventory 
for 1883 and the number of specimens received and distributed during 
the past year, may be considered as approximately correct : 

SpeciaueDB. 

Kesei' ve skin series 35i, 550 

Exhibition series 6i 800 

Duplicate series 9, 350 

Alcoholic series 1, 650 

Total 50,350 

The reserve series, exclusive of alcoholics, consisted therefore of 
about 39,350 specimens at the end of 1884. 

{h) Oological collection. 

The collection of birds' eggs has been completely overhauled and 
rearranjied during the year by Oapt. ('harles E. Beudire, U. S. A., 
assisted by Mr. C. W. Beckham and Miss Harriet JS. Perkins, Captain 



REPORT OP DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS lf)3 

Bendire presented to the Natioual Museum his unique colleitiou of 
North American birds' efjgs, numbering nearly 8,(KK> beautifully pre- 
pared specimens, representing unrivaled series of many very rare 
species, besides a number not previously represented in the Musouni. 
This valuable collection was incorporated with that of the .Museum, lh<^ 
two thus combined being entirely rearranged after the sequence of 
species given in the latest edition of the '■'Smithsonian" catalogue of 
North American birds (liulietiu U. !S. National Museum, No. lil),, and 
neatly packed in glass-topped drawers, between strips of cotton batting. 
The colle(;tion is arranged in 5 unit cases and 154 drawers, besides va- 
1 ions other temporary receptacles. 

A complete census of the egg collection has been made by Miss Per- 
kins, assisted by Mr. Hugh M. Smith. The total number of eggs, ex- 
clusive of those in nests, which were not counted, is 40,07L', distributed 
as follows : 

North American reserve series ^4, 483 

North American duplicate series II , 317 

Total North American 35 fiOO 

Paliearctic reserve series 2, 53(; 

Neotropical reserve series 1,211 

Miscellaueous foreign series ItK) 

Kerguelen Island series 104 

Foreign duplicate series 2'6l 

Total foreign collection 4, 272 

35,600 

Grand total •. 40, 072 

RECOMMENDATIONS. 

Cases Jor the exhibition aeries. — By far the most urgent need of the 
department of birds is the want of suitable cases for the arrangement of 
I he exhibition collection. The main purpose of this collection being the 
entertainment and instruction of the general public, it is due the latter 
that this, to them most important, i>oi'tion of the (;ollections should be 
exhibited in a manner which will aliord them the nutans of deriving both 
l)leasure and instruction from its inspection. In its ])resent condition the 
exhibition series of birds is not only not in keeping with the dignity of 
tile National Aluseunj, but it is actually ami deservedly the subject of 
imuih unfavorable comment. With the cases at present provided it is 
not possible to arrange the collection in any attractive manner, even 
were the number of cases sufficient for its aceoiumcxlation. The Ameri 
can Museum of Natural History in New York City is able, on account 
of its large, well-lighted, and admirably constructed cases, to make a 
display of the most diversitied forms of the feathered creation, with 
which the bird exhibit of the National Museum cannot be compared, 
except to its discredit, i would most earnestly recommend that the 



lf)4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSFAJM, 1884. 

evil be remedied at as early a date as practicable by tbe construe- ij 
tion of new cases or the repair and modification of tliose now in U8e.tj 
The National Museum possesses material, in the form of beautifullylj 
mounted specimens and unmounted skins, from which in a short time 
could be built a collection for popular instruction far superior to any iu 
America, and tor beauty and utility, if not in extent, unsurpassed byij 
any in Europe. 

Labels for the exhibition collection. — Next to the evil discussed above 
is the absence of suitable labels for the specimens in the exhibition' 
series. All are provided with the usual Museum label, upon which isii 
recorded in full the data pertaining to each. But these labels, even; 
when not fastened beneath the stands, are of no use to the public^ <i 
The latter require a label upon which they may find in conspicuous i 
typography the name of the bird before them (particularly its English 
name, if the species have one) and other similar facts. To meet this i 
requirement a form of label has been invented by the curator upon which 
is printed, first, in large, heavy-face type, the English name of thei 
species; second, in smaller type, the various popular or local names 
by which it is known ; third, in medium heavy-face type, the scientifici 
name ; and, fourth, a condensed statement of the range or habitat. 
In the case of species having notable characteristics or of special eco-i 
nomic importance, the facts are briefly but concisely mentioned. Thei 
copy for labels for all the species of North American birds is completed,cj 
ready for the printer, as is also that for a large number of exotic species, 
and I would earnestly recommend that these be printed as soon as 
practicable. (See sample label exhibited on page 151 of this report.) 

Transfer of mounted specimens to new stands. — Most of the larger birds 
in the mounted collection have been transferred to new walnut stands 
of the adopted model; but there still remains a considerable number, 
and much the greater part of the smaller specimens, which are yet on 
the old stands or on rough ones improvised for temporary use by the 
taxidermist. A sufficient number of new stands is on hand for tha 
specimens which are yet to be transferred, and I would respectfuUyl! 
recommend that the completion of the work be assigned to some com-ii 
petent person, under the direction and supervision of the curator. 

Taxidermisfs laboratory. — The laboratory of the taxidermist is at 
present in need of many repairs and fixtures for facilitating the workti 
of mounting birds for the exhibition series. Wall-cases with sash-dooW(i 
and shelves are needed, as are also other improvements which it is un-i 
necessary to specify here. 

Additional storage room for specimens. — The bulk of the collection oi , 
birds has increased to such an extent that the cabinets thus far pro'jj 
vided are crowded to the utmost limit of their capacity, and 8pecimen8| 
accumulate so fast that the question of their accommodation is a seriousj| 
one. At least three more of the large " Salviu" cabinets are urgently 



Keport of department of birds. 1.^)5 

rwedtMl tor the larger birds, and an oqnal Dumber of quarter-unit cases 
for sirtallor sjjecimens. 

Additions to the exhibition series. — The exhibitiou series being iuteuded 
tor the i)urpose of i)opidar instruction, it is therefore obvious that ajudi- 
cious sch'ction ol" the objects to l)e exhibited is highly desirable. No entl 
is served by- the presentation of many species of oue family of birds, 
or a large number which apjieai in no way to the interest of the general 
public. Aj)art from the Korth American eollection, whi(!h, in the in- 
terest of students, should be nuide complete as ])ossible, the exhibition 
collection should consist of birds remarkable for beauty of plumage or 
l^eculiarities of structure, or interesting from their association with 
literatureor history, or from their economic value. During a recent in- 
spection of the American Museum of Natural History in New York 
City, the curator made a list of more than 100 species of foreign birds 
which constitute the chief attraction of that superb museum, all of 
which are wanting to the national collection. There are also required 
foi- the purposes of scientific research many forms which can be ob- 
tained only by purchase, the want of which has greatly impeded the 
scientitic work of those who have made the collections of the National 
Museum the basis of their scientific investigations. It is earnestly 
recommended, therefore, that these species (a list which the curator 
hopes shortly to present) be purchased as soon as the finances of the 
Museum will allow. 

Ornithological library. — Not less pressing than the acquisition of 
special desiderata in the way of specimens is the need of a better 
working library for the Department of Birds. There are many books, 
some of which are in almost every i)ublic library of importance in the 
country, and even in not a few private libraries — but not in that of 
the National Museum or of Congress — which are indispensable to the 
working ornithologist. These should be su])plied at as early a date as 
possible. 

Additional a.ssistantj<. — The work of the department has increased 
so rapidly within the last few years, that witli his present force the 
(!urator cannot keep abreast of his duties as they accumulate and at 
the same time carry on the improxements in the condition of the col- 
lection which are necessary to its ))reservation and utility. Two addi- 
tional aids are needed, both of whom shouhl be persons who would 
have a lively interest in their work, one to act as messenger and general 
assistant, the other to perform necessary clerical duties. 



VI.-REPORT UPON THE OEPARTMENT OF HEPPETOLOGY IN 
THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR 1884. 



By H. C Yarrow, M. P., Honnr<iry Ciiriitor. 



Dnring the past year, us in previous years, tlie Deparfnieiil of Kep- 
"tiles has beeu abundantly favored by many contributors whose interest 
III lierpetology has led them to make valuable and extensive collections, 
and both the reserve and general series have been consequently much 
enlarged and made more valuable for i)urposes of comparison and study. 

Among the most noteworthy of the donations received may be men- 
tioned the following : From Capt. Charles Beudire, I". S. A., who for 
many years has been a most devoted friend to the establishment, lias been 
jreceived a large and valuable collection from Fort Klamath and vicinity, 
Washington Territory. Mr. Charles H. Townsend, of Baird, Shasta. 
Coui/ty, California, has sent in an extremely interesting collection of 
the characteristic reptiles of that vicinity. Mr. C. J. Bering, of Suri- 
nam, a large contributor in previous years, has also presented a valu- 
able collection of exotic reptiles, and from the scientific gentlemen of the 
Fish Commission steamer. Albatross, a large collection made during the 
cruise in the West Indies in 1884, comprising over one hundred speci- 
mens, has been received. This collection has been loaned, by direction 
of Professor Baird, to Prof. E. D. Cope, of Philadelphia, for study and 
identification; the results will be i)robably embodied in a forthcoming 
paper by this distinguished naturalist on tropical herpetology. From 
Lieut. George F. Chase, U. S. A., Fort Thomas, Arizona, have been re- 
ceived two living examples of the "Gila monster,'' Heloderma siispecfum, 
Cope, these having been sent by special request to furnish additional 
material for Dr. S. Weir Mitchell's researches uj>on the venom of this 
interesting lizard. Collections have also been received from R, Klls- 
worth Call, Des Moines, Iowa, and a particularly valuable one from K. 
W. Nelson, Tucson, Arizona. 

During the months of August and September, 1884, the curator, be- 
ing in charge of a small party for scientific research sent out by direction 
of the Secretary of War, had an opportunity of collecting many valu- 
able a*d interesting specimens of reptiles in the Territory of Utah, 
sui)plementing in this manner th<^. collections made by him in 187.! while 
naturalist of Lieutenant Wheeler's expedition. By jiermission of the 

157 



158 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Director of the Museum one of his assistants in the Department of Rep- 
tiles accompanied him, and by permission of General McCook, U. S. A., 
Lieut. B. W. Atkinson, Sixth United States Infantry, also joined the 
party; both gentlemen rendered valuable assistance. A small appro- 
priation was made to furtlier the objects of the expedition. 

Other collections have been received from Jos^ C. Zelodon, of Costa 
Eica; B. V. Archer, Key West, Fla.; Prof. D, S. Jordan, Bloomington, 
Ind. ; Dr. B. G. Lartigue, of South Carolina ; Miss Rosa Smith, San 
Diego, Cal. ; James Bell, Gainesville, Fla. ; John and Charles Walker, 
Olney, Richland County, Illinois; H. C. Orcutt, San Diego, Cal. ; R. E. 
C. Stearns, Auburn, Cal. ; F. W. Hayden, Canada ; Gustave Kohn, New 
Orleans, La. ; W. A. Conklin, superintendent Central Park Museum, New 
York ; J. Richardson, Rutland, Vt. ; D. S. Sheldon, Griswold College, 
Davenport, Iowa; Charles R. Orcutt, San Diego, Cal.; Charles H. Town- 
send, Red Bluff, Cal. ; H. W. Turner, San Francisco, Cal. ; Maj. G. B. 
Dobsou, Surgeon Royal Victoria Hospital, Netley, England; H. W. Hen- 
shaw, Massachusetts; and R. Ridgway, Wheatland, Ind. From this ex- 
tended list it will be seen that the public interest in thefieptile Depart- 
ment is constantly increasing. We are also under great obligations to" 
Professor Snow, of the Kansas University, who loaned us a unique and 
beautiful specimen of Crotalus lepidus, which has been drawn as one of 
the illustrations for the Manual of Herpetology in course of preparation 
by the curator. 

A.s was mentioned by the curator in his last annual report, the routine* 
work of the department has been transacted by himself and two assist- 
ants, both of whom are already possessed of considerable knowledge 
regarding reptiles. The ordinary routine is as follows : All collections 
received are at once numbered with a metallic tag and entered in the 
accession book, having been previously identified if possible. They are 
then, after a careful examination, jjlaced in either the reserve or the 
general series, an additional record being made, in order that in case a 
specimen is needed it may be at once found according to its classifica- 
tion. In explanation of the terms "reserve series" and " general series" 
it may be said that the entire collection of American reptiles is divided 
into two great parts, one called the " Reserve Series," intended for pur- 
poses of study and com])arison, and from which is selected the exhibi- 
tion set, the other entitled the -'General Series," from which selections 
are made for donations to other museums or to amplify the "Reserve 
Series." It is to be greatly regretted that proper space is not available 
to admit of a proper display of series of both domestic and foreign 
reptiles. 

It has long been the intention of the curator to arrange in the same 
manner the collection of foreign reptiles, but in the present crowded 
condition of the curator's room it has been found impossible to do this 
properly. 

The following records, in addition to the current record, are kept with 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF HERPETOLOGY. 159 

reat care and cxa<'titud»', aud areuccessitated by the business of the 

epartment, which has greatly increased in magnitude during the last 

ve years. These records are as follows : 

Record of reserve series. 

Record of general series. 

Record of letters received. 

Record of letters sent. 

Record of requisitions. 

Jn these may be found every matter of business transacted in the 
!)epartment of Reptiles. 

No little labor is involved in attending promply to the official cor- 
jesponlence, which is quite voluminous at times, for letters of inquiry 
l.re received from all parts of the world, to answer w hich, require much 
i.tudy, thought, aud labor. During the year 1884 over two hundred 
etters were received and answered, and many were written in addi- 
,iou. 

I The long-cherished desire of the curator to have prepared a card-cat- 
dogue of the (collection of reptiles is now in a fair way toward realiza- 
ion, as a commencement has been made and over a thousand speci- 
inens have been examined, verified, and recorded. This, in view of the 
•egular work, which was arduous in 1884, is considered a good begin- 
;iiug. 

I The manuscript of a Manual of Herpetology (mentioned in last year's 
report) by the curator, could be put into the hands of the printer within 
\i short period if the illustrations were all completed. Owing to a want 
jf funds, further work upon these has been stopped. 

No special work has been attempted this year apart from the routine 
iluties and field researches. 

At the present tim(5 the collection is in excellent condition, which 
eould be much improved were more space available. Although since 
iDecember 1, 1884, the business of the Reptile Department has been 
closed \)\ the furloughing of both assistants, still constant attention is 
given in order that the specimens may not perish for want of suitable 
care. 

Number of specimens on hand : 

In Tfcservf series 8, 926 

In general soies „ 8,819 

Exhibition set (selected for) : 

Domestic «jOO 

Foreign 150 

Not classi fieri and exotic specimens, probably .S, 000 



Total 23,495 



Total iiumher of entries in record book, 1884 584 

Total nnniher of specimens received to January 1, 1885 1,494 

Total nnmher of entries in record up to January 1, 1885 , 14, 329 



lf)0 REPORT OF NATIONAL MTTSEDM, I8R4 

Since his connection with the National Museum, in an honorary 
capacity, the curator has repeatedly called attention to the fact that 
without additional accommodation for his department it would be im- 
possible to so arrange the collection as to make it of much practical 
value, and it is now with a desponding spirit that he again urges that 
something may be done for relief. All the available shelf-space is 
overcrowded, specimens have to be placed on the floor or in an adjoining 
hall, and much material that is valuable is hidden awaj' in clumsy tanks, 
deposited in almost inaccessible corners. 

Owing to other and important oflBcial duties, it is impossible for 
the curator to give his entire time to reptilian work, and without 
assistance the department will gradually merge into the condition it 
was when he first took charge of it. With becoming deference he 
thinks this should not be permitted ; an enormous amount of work has 
been expended in the department, and, with pardonable pride, he thinks 
that under the circumstances it compares most favorably with any of 
the other departments in the National Museum. 

It must be conceded by all who have looked into this subject that the 
Reptile Department is of quite as much importance to the Museum and 
to tke scientific public as any of the other departments, and for this 
reason the curator again respectfully calls the attention of the Director 
to his recommendation of last year, that the person in charge should be 
a salaried officer, and be required to give his entire time to the duties 
of his office. This the present curator cannot do, and it will therefore 
be understood that no motive of self-interest prompts him in this sug- 
gestion. 



REPORT UPON THE DEPARTMENT OF FISHES IN THE U. S. 
NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884. 



Bv Tari.eton H. Bean, Curator. 



EVrPORTANT AOCKSSIONS DURING 1884. 

There were 93 accessions durinj; tlie year, of whicli 51 were gifts, 32 
from Museum collectors, and 10 from U. S. Fish Commission collectors. 

SYNOPSIS Ol- THE ACCESSIONS. 



Alabama 2 

Arkansas 1 

California :> 

Delaware 2 

District of Colnrabia 9 

Florida (i 

Oeorgia 2 

Illinois I 

Indiana 1 

Iowa 1 

Kansas 1 

Maryland 2 

Massachusetts 7 

Michigan 2 

Mississippi 2 



Missouri 3 

New Hampshire 2 

New .Jersey 3 

New Mexico 1 

New York fi 

North Carolina 2 

Orefjon 8 

PenUiSylvania I 

Rhode Island 2 

Texas i 

Virginia 4 

Washington Territory 2 

Wisconsin 1 

Deep sea 2 



EXTRALIMITAL. 



Alaska 1 

Chili 1 

Curasao 1 

England 1 

Greenland 2 

Japan 1 

Labrador 1 



Manitoba 

Newfoundland . 

Ontario 

Peru 

Quebec 

Venice 



1 

1 

I 

I 

2 

1 

West Indies 4 



By addition we would have a larjjer number of accessions than 93; 
but, in some cases, the accession was partly from one locality and partly 
from anothei-, and each is credited as one in the synopsis. 

Followinj; is a summary of the most interest inj]^ accessions catalogued 
ibiring tin; year, 34 in niimlx'r: 
Ca.pt. Charles Bendirc, Fort KUnnalli, Waxliiiu/ton Territorji. Accession 

1391C; catalogue, 339o(>-33957. This collection contained two very 
S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 11 161 



162 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

large skins of Gatostomus lahiatus, a little known sucker, and one 
which we have not had in the Museum before. 

L. M. Turner, TJngava Bay, Labrador. Accessions 13724 and 13922; 
catalogue 34114-34261. This large and valuable collection of fishes 
was made in 1882 and 1883, by Mr. Turner. It contains twenty-seven 
species, represented in most cases by a sufficient number of excellent 
specimens. As might have been expected, his collection is rich in 
Salmonoids, including six species. One of the most interesting of the 
species is a char, which 1 suppose to be Salvelinus stagnalis; this is 
remarkable for its enormous size, almost rivaling that of the Maine 
salmon. Among the rarer species obtained by Mr. Turner are the fol- 
lowing : Coitus sGorpioides, Gyclopterus spinosusy SticJiwus punctatus, and 
Somniosus microceplmlus. 

Prof. D. 8. Jordan, Bloomington, Ind. Accession 13981 ; catalogue 
34351-34373. This is a collection of Venetian fishes, containing 
twenty -three species. 

Daniel Kelleher, New Bedford^ Mass. Accession 14058; catalogue 
34380. A stuffed skin of Conger, 65 inches long. 

South Side Club, Odkdale, L. I. Accession 14060; catalogue 34382. 
A fresh specimen of the rainbow trout, Salmo irideus, which was 
reared in the ponds of the club, and shows remarkable growth of the 
species since its introduction there by the TJ. S. Fish Commission. 

Miss Rosa Smith, San Diego, Cal. Accession 14099 ; catalogue 34745- 
34792. A fine collection of about thirty-seven species of Pacific fishes. 

E. 0. Blackford, 80 Fulton Market, New York, N. T. Accession 14151 ; 
catalogue 34427. A male steel-head trout, Salmo gairdneri, weigh- 
ing 26 pounds, from Portland, Oreg. 

Dr. William H. Jones, XJ. S. N., TJ. 8. 8. Wachusett. Accession 14202. 
Mne jars of fishes in alcohol, collected during the cruise of the U. 
S. S. Wachusett. Coast of Peru. 

George A. Hudsori, Savannah, Ga. Accession 14280 ; catalogue 34715. 
A leather carp, Cyprinus carpio, from the Ogechee Eiver, Georgia. 
Weight, 2^ pounds. 

A. Booth, Chicago^ III. Accession 14296; catalogue 34743. A shad, 
Clupea sapidissima, from the Columbia River. 

Walter Haydon, Weston, Ontario. Accession 14306; catalogue 34821- 
34831. Ten species of fishes from Hudson's Bay, as follows : Ferca 
americana, Cottus labradoricus, Ur'anidea spilota, Esox lucius, Percopsis 
guttatus, Gatostomus longirostris, Salvelinus fontinalis, Stizostedium. vit- 
reum, Goregonus labradoricus, Goregonus artedi var. 

E. G. Blackford, 80 Fulton Market, New York, N. Y. Accession 14311. 
A halibut weighing 430 pounds, from Newfoundland. This specimen 
was cast and skinned. 

8. J. Martin, Gloucester, Mass. Accession 14417; catalogue 34883. 
A specimen of the black grouper, Epinephelus nigritus, weighing 300 
pounds. Captured off Block Island. This is a species belonging to 
our southern coast ; it strayed out of its native waters. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 163 

E. G. Blackford, 80 FuUon Market, New Fork, N. Y. Accession 14480; 
catalogue. .S4884. A pompano, Trachynotv^ {forcfitisis^ weighing .36 
pounds. 

Prof. D. S. rfordnii, Bloomington, Ind. Accession 14480; ••atalogue, 

. A large collection of Hshcs from (^uba and Florid;), contniniiig 

many new si)ecies. 

U.S. Fish Commission tSteamer Albatross. Accession 14280; (catalogue 
;548.-);i_.34881,:>l887-;M903, 34905-34903. A tank of tislies from S;iiiit. 
Thomas, Trinidad, Curasao, and Key West, Fla. 

Prof. C. H. Gilbert, Rockford, 111. Accession 14.525; catalogue 34979- 
.34983. A small collection of Illinois fishes, containing types of the 
following new species : Nocomis hi/ostomns, Xotropis hoops, iind Pffcil- 
ich thys pa I ustris. 

Vapt. T. W. Sumptcr, Big Spring, Va. Accession 14523; ciit:ilogne 
34978. A rainbow trout, Salmo irideus, taken in Roanoke River, 
June 13, 1884. 

E. C. Smith, Newport, R. J. Accession 14543; catalogue 34988. A 
specimen of Ghcetodipterns faher, caught at Newport. An unusual 
species in that locality. 

Capt. George A. Johnson, Gloucester, Mass. Accession 14.589; catalogue 
35110. A specimen of Chiasmodus niger, from Brown's Bank. Captain 
Johnson says it was taken alive, and was very ferocious. 

,J. Dock Earrell, Osyka, Miss. Accession 14000 ; catalogue 35144. A 
specimen of striped bass, Roccus septentrionalis, which species is now 
reported in large schools of varying sized fish in that part of the Lower 
Mississippi Yalley. 

Prof. S. F. Baird, Wood's Holl, Ma^s. Accession 14014; catalogue 
35136. A specimen of the frigate mackerel, Auxis rochei. 

Frank G. Galbraith, Wrigktsville, York County, Pennsylvania. Acces- 
sion 14024 ; catalogue 35137. A mirror carp, Cyprinu4s carpio, 19 inches 
long, taken in the Susquehanna River. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Wood's Roll, Mass. Accession 14759; catalogue 

. Fifteen bottles of the rarer deep-sea fishes obtained by the 

Albatross. 

Prof. D. 8. Jordan, Bloomington, Ind. Accession 14828. A large col- 
lection of fresh-water fishes from Iowa and Missouri, containing 
many new and rare species. 

Prof. J). S.Jordan, Bloomington, Ind. Accession 14881. Fresh wtitcr 
fishes from Southern Missouri, Kansas, Arkansas, Indian Tenitory, 
Indiana, and elsewhere. In this and the preceding lot there are 
about twenty-five new species and a hundred desiderata. 

J. A. Duguo f, Gloucester, Mass. Accession 14965; catalogue 30001. 
A specimen of Trachypterus arcticits from Iceland. 

Prof. D. S. Jordan, Bloomington, Ind. Accessions 15002 and 15011; 

catalogue , Numerous species of fishes from Indiana and 

Texas. 



164 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1R84. 



Dr. T. H. Bean, U. *S'. National Museum. Washington, I). C. Accession 
15031. Sixty three species of marine and fresh- water, tishes from 
Great South Bay, Ivoug Island, and vicinity. 

Prof. C. H. Gilbert, Bloomington, Ind. Accession 15056. A box of 
fishes from Alabama, including new species of darters, minnows, cat- 
fishes, &c. 

E. IS. kStover, Albuquerque, N. Mex. Accession 15114; catalogue 36891. 
Six specimens of carp, Gyprinus carpio, raised in alkali water. 

James G. Siran, Port 7'ownsend, Wash. Accession 15152; catalogue 

. This collection includes, among other things, a beautiful 

example of Chirolophus polyactocephalus, PaUas, which has not been 
known south of Alaska before. 

Peter Smith, Chaptico, Saint Mary^s County, Maryland. Accession 15412 ; 
catalogue 36919. A mirror carp, Gyprinus carpio, weighing 11 pounds, 
which was caught in Wicomico Bay, in brackish water. 

Dr. W. H. Jones, U. S. S. Wachusett, Gallao, Peru. Accession 15224; 
catalogue 36928-36934. A small collection of marine fishes contain- 
ing a Trachurus, a Scomber, a Scicena, an Ophichihys, and several re- 
markably large Gobiesox, measuring about a foot in length. 

ENTRIES IN THE CATALOGUE OF FISHES DURING 1884. 

The total number of entries in the catalogue was 3,015, the first entry 
being 33920 and the last 36934. 

This number was distributed through the different months as shown 
in a table further on. 

Table showing some of ths work upon the collection of fishes during 1884. 



Months. 



January . . 
February . 

March 

April 



June 

July 

August 

•September . 

October 

November . 
December . 

Total 



Lots of 

fish 
received. 



Lots of 
flsh cata- 
logued. 



454 
23 
313 
35 
139 
226 
216 
200 



1,357 
27 
25 



3,015 



Packages 
sent out. 



Fish draw- 
injis ex- 
amined.* 



)17 



* Ten drawings, made by Miss Smith, not included here. 
WORK DONE UPON THE FISHES DURING 1884. 



The notes on tishes, made by me while in Europe, in 1883, were ar- 
ranged for the printer. 

A large and valuable collecttion of fishes, received from J. C!. Bre- 
voort through E. CI. Blackiord, were identified and catalogued. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 165 

A collection of Jumaiciiu tislies, iucludiiig nearly oue liimdied spe- 
cies, sent here in duplicate lor identification, by the Kingston Public 
Museum of Jamaica, was attended to. This is an important accession 
to the collection of lishes. 

The fresh-water lishes were all removed to the west basement, where 
Prof. D. S. Jordan, durinj,' the months of July and August, worked 
over the entire collection, verifying? the old identitications and re-ar- 
ranging the collections generally. Many of these lishes were found to 
be absolutely worthless, and consequently were thrown away. 

A Journal relating to the lishes of Wood's Holl, Mass., and vicinity, 
kept by Mr. V. N. Edwards, from 1872 to 1880, is being revised for pub- 
lication. 

The large accessions required considerable attention, especially tho.se 
froui the tleep sea. On account of the large number of gifts numerous 
lists weie made tor the donors and other information coueerniug the 
lishes was furnished. 

During the months ol July and August my time was mostly taken up 
with editorial work. 

1 left Washington for Palchogue, Great South Bay, N. Y., with two 
of my assistants, Messrs. Bean and Dresel, on the 2d of September. 
We spent about six weeks collecting lishes, jmncipally marine species, 
in Great South Bay and the ponds in the vicinity of Patchogue. 

The work upon the bottled collection of marine fishes was commenced, 
and the dillerent series will be made up as rapidly as possible. 

FISH DRAWINGS COMPLETED BY MISS M. M. SMITH, 1884. 

Urimyzon yoodei. Lateral view. 
838. [chthcelurus furcatus. Lateral, head from above, and ventral 
views. 
35G.'il. (Jhimcerid. Lateral, head fi'om above, and veutraJ views. 
35-115. Paenes. Lateral view. 
35034. .4 lepoccplialid ". Lateral view. 
3555U. Alepacephalid ' Lateral view. 
35540. Astnniesthtx lichardsoniL Lateral view. 
35G35. Bathypterois. Lateral view. 
35625. lirotulid. Lateral view. 
33958. Cortyonus artedi. Lateral view. 

LIST OF THE FISHES DRAWN BY MR. H. L. TODD DURING 1884. 

January : 
32888. Catofitomus lojiyirostrum. Lateral and ventral views. 
1GG33. )Salmo plcnriticus. Lateral view. 
301 70. Trachynotus ylaucus. Lateral view. 
29882. PhysiculuH. Lateral view. 
31917. Epinephelus drummondhayi. Lateral view. 



166 REPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

February : 

Pristis pectinatus. Lateral view. 
27667. Ophiodon elongatus. Lateral view. 

Mola rotunda. Lateral view. From cast. 
17113. Bothus maculatus. Lateral view. 
17800. Minytrcma melanops. Lateral view. 
31482. Pomacanthus zonipectus. Lateral view. 
33197. Pomacanthus arcuatas {Ad.). Lateral view. 
26564. Calamus pennatula. Lateral view. 

March : 
33189. Anisotremus virginious. Lateral view. 
34397. Alutera scripta. Lateral view. 
13087. Blepharis crinitus. Lateral view. 
16252. Vomer setipinnis. Lateral view. 
33341. AlepocepJialus productus. Lateral view. 
Hemistoma guacamaia. Lateral view. 
5815. Xyrichthys vermiculatus. Lateral view. 
21500. Githarichthys microstomus. Lateral view. 
26575. Etropus crossotus. Lateral view. 
30862. Paralichthys squamilentus. Lateral view. 
Scopelid. Lateral view. 

April : 
22832. Menticirrus alhurnus. Lateral view. 
26585. Trachynotus ovatus. Lateral view. 
33220. Lutjanus caxis. Lateral view. 
26583. Ocyurus ehrysiirus. Lateral view. 
8247. Hwmulon chromis. Lateral view. 
34742. Oncorhynehus uerlca. Lateral view. 

May: 
34744. Percina, caprodes. Lateral view. 
30057. SwmuloH fremebundum. 

23458. Percina manitou. Lateral view. 
17869. Diplesium blennioides. Lateral view. 

1813. Pcecilichthys cceruleus. Lateral view. 

30243. Boleosoma olmstedi. Lateral view. 

23459. Alvordius crassus (type). Lateral view. 
26294. Alvordius phoxocephalus. Lateral view. 

23460. Boleichthys eos (type). Lateral view. 
27897. Etheostoma Jldbellare. Lateral view. 
17852. Imostoma shumardi. Lateral view. 

1281. Etheostoma lineolatum. Lateral view. 
27212. Torpedo californica. Lateral, dorsal, and ventral views. 

June : 
23445. Vaillantia camura. Lateral view. 
21994. Pleurolepis asprellus. Lateral view. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF PISHES. 16? 

23454. Nanosfoma vincticeps. Lateral view. 
(OLXXIV.) Benthosaunis graUator. Lateral view. 
3488G. i'mhra piitjmaa. Lateral view. 
34401. AphredoderuH say anus. Lateral view. 
With 211)94. Alcordius f Lateral view. 
Malacosteus niger. Lateral view. 
234(51. Rheocrypta copelandi (tyi)e). Lateral view. 

1104. Alvordins macrocephalus. Lateral view. 
20354. Mesogonistius chcetodon. Lateral view. 
34957. Hwmulon nmator. Lateral view. 
32095. Eqiies Uinceolatus. Lateral view. 
2345G. P(£cilichthys virgatus. Lateral view. 
234G3. loa vitrea. Lateral view. 
33915. Emblemaria nivipes. Lateral view. 
(Statiou 2140.) Diodon. Lateral view. 

July: 

35035. Hcemulon album. Lateral view. 

7987. Ostracion trigonum. Lateral view. 
35135. Tetrodon Icevigatus. Lateral view. 
35130. Auxis rochei. Lateral view. 
30824. Chasmodes saburrce (types). Lateral view. 
30850. Isesthes ionthas (types). Lateral view. 
35173. Sparisoma cyanolene. Lateral view. 

August: 

35081. Biplodus unimamilatus. Lateral view.. 
35080. Myrojjhis. Lateral view. 
22821. Polynemus octonemus. Lateral view. 
34890. Aulostoma maculatum. Lateral view. 
30177. Garanx amblyrhynchus. Lateral view. 
10907. Centropomus undecimalis. Lateral view. 
22831. Uarengula pcnsacolce. Lateral view. 
30071. Clupea pseudohispanica. Lateral view. 
35042. Calamus bajonado. Lateral view. 
35030. Lutjanus analis. Lateral view. 

September: 

35150. Hwmulon tceniatum. Lateral view. 

Cryptotomus beryllinus. Lateral view. 
35155. Gobionellus oceanicus. Lateral view. 

3423. Hypoplectrus nigricans. Lateral view. 
35021. Epinephelus microlepis. Lateral view. 

30000. Tetrodon testudineus. Lateral and upper views, 
35799. Paralichthys ocellaris. Lateral view. 

3424. Acanthurus chirurgu^. Lateral view. 



168 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

October : 
33181. JEcheneis naucrates. 
35168. Platyglossus radiatus. 
36212. Pcecilichthys punctulatua. 
36215. Hadropterus cymatogrammus, 
35828. Ammocrypta clara. 
36444. Ammocryvta vivax. 
36523. Microperca fonticola (type). 

1314. Cottogaster putnami. 
35853. Pceciliehthys gilberti. 
35946. Anguilla. 
34004. Nanostoma thalassinum. 
36442. Utheostoma whipplel. 
36214. Hadropterus nianguw. 
36496. Hadropterus evides. 
36446. Hadropterus scierus. 
36139. Etheostoma Luteooinctum. 
35101. Scorpcena gravidicornis. 

November : 
36448. Etheostoma histrio. 
36413. Cottogaster uranidea. 
34972, Platophrys nebularis. 
36889. Ghirolophus polyactocephaluM. 
35103. Trisotropis venenosus. 
34447. Antennarius annulatus, 
21903. Limanda rostrata 'I 
30143. Ghmlodou capistratus. 
31975. Anoplopoma fimbria. 
36911. Cyprinus carpio. 

December : 
36053. Fundulus diaphanus. 
36052. Fujidulus heterocUtus. 
36020. Gohiosonia alepidotum. 
35001. Boiostonia inscriptus. 
36922. Lutjanus synagris. 

During the year forty-one papers, based upon material belonging to 
the department, were published in the Proceedings for 1884. 

PRESENT STATE OF THE COLLECTION. 

The number of specimens now in the Museum is not definitely known, 
but it is estimated to be about 68,000, divided as follows: (1) In the 
reserve series, 36,000; (2) On exhibition, 20,000; (3) Duplicates about 
12,000. 

The condition of the collection has been gTcatly imj^roved by trans- 
ferring the fishes from old tanks into new ones and into glass jars. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF FTSHES. 1 G9 

There is, of course, some material wbicli must be called distinctly bad, 
but the amount is beeomiDg less and less every day. 

RECOMMENDATIONS AND GENERAL REMAJIKS. 

The duplicate fishes should be disposed of as soon as the sets can be 
ijiude up. 

There should also be sonu' instructions to collectors, cautioning* them 
a«;ainst sliipi)iiij4 lary,e iiumbors of fishes belonging to well-known sjjecies. 

Souie pro\ isions should be made for a proper storage of the skele- 
tons of lishes, which are now lying in boxes, where they are inacces- 
sible. 

1 take pleasure in referring again to the assistance which I have de- 
rived from the following-named gentlemen in my work upon the tishes: 
Mr. Barton A. Bean, Ensign H. ii. Dresel, U. S. N., and Mr. Peter 
l^arker, jr. \\'i(liont the vahiable help of these gentlemen much of the 
woik which has been accomplished wonld have remained undone. 

The Museum is to be congratulated al.so upon the addition to its 
corps of artists of Miss Mary M. Smith, of Bainbridge, Pa. Through 
the help of Mr. H. L. Todd and Miss Smith we are now able to produce 
very satisfactory illustiations of tishes. 

I herewith append a statement, prepared by Prof. D. S. Jordan, re- 
garding the collections of fishes made by himself under the auspices of 
the Smithsonian Institution, the Museum, and the Fish Commission. 
The collecting expedition of 1884 is of special value, being probably 
the most extensive yet undertaken in the fresh waters of the United 
States. The object of this exploration was the gathering together of a 
collection of fresh water tishes to be exhibited by the National Museum 
at New Orleans. 



A KECOKD OF COLLECTIONS OF FISHES MADE UNDER THE 
AUSPICES OF THE U. S. FISH COMMISSION AND THE U. 
S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, FKOM 1875 TO 1885. 

by Davii> H. Jordan. 

For the past ten years the writer has been engaged in a special study 
of the distribution of fishes in the waters of North America. In this 
studj' he has had occasion to do a good deal of field work in the collec- 
tion of and preservation of fishes. In this he has been aided by sev- 
eral students and associates, especially by Mr. Charles H. Gilbert, now 
professor of biology in the University of Cincinnati. 

All this work has been carried on under the auspices of the U. S. 
National Museum and the U. S. Fish Commission. It has been per- 
formed, in a greater or less degree, under the direction of Professor 
Baird, and in all cases most of the material obtained, including the 
types of all new species, has been sent to the U. S. National Museum. 



1 70 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

The amount of financial assistance received from Government sources 
has varied very much. At times (1880-'84) it has amounted to consid- 
erably more than the actual expenses of exploration and collection. 
At other times it has simply met the cost of the alcohol used. Aid of 
varying amount has also been given by Butler University and, since 
1879, by the University of Indiana. These details are, however, foreign 
to the present purpose. I here give a brief account of the different 
excursions for field work in ichthyology, made by my associates and 
myself, with a list of the localities explored. 

1875. 

In the spring and fall of 1875, extensive collections were made in 
White River and its tributaries about Indianapolis, by the late Prof. 
Herbert E. Copeland and myself. A list of the species obtained is 
published in the Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History, of New York, 
1877, pp. 375-377. Some collections were also made by Professor Cope- 
land in Wisconsin and by myself at the Falls of the Ohio and about 
Cumberland Gap. 

1876. 

In the summer of 1876 I made an extended collecting tour in the 
Southern States, accompanied by Mr. Charles H. Gilbert, who wastheu 
a botanical student under Professor Copeland, A small collection was 
obtained in the Eock Castle River, at Livingston, Ky. About three 
weeks were spent by us at Rome, Ga. Here the streams tributary to 
the Etowah, Oostanaula, and Coosa Rivers were very thoroughly ex 
plored. A few days were also spent at Flat Shoals, on South River, a 
tributary of the Ocmulgee, southeast of Atlanta. Small collections 
were also made in Peach Tree Creek and in Nancy's Creek, tributaries 
of tlie Chattahoochee, near Atlanta. 

This expedition represents the first attempt to study the fresh-water 
fishes of Georgia, and the collection then made is much larger than 
any since obtained in that State. The results of this summer's work 
have been published by me, under the title of "A Partial Synoi)sis of 
the Fishes of Upper Georgia," in the Annals of the Lyceum of Natural 
History of New York, XT, 1877, p. 307 et seq. 

1877. 

In 1877 a more extended tour in the Alleghany region of the Southern 
States was undertaken by the writer, with the assistance of Dr. Alem- 
bert W. Braytou and Mr. Gilbert. Numerous streams were examined, 
representing the following hydro^'graphic basins: Santee, Savannah, 
Altamaha, Chattahoochee, Alabama, Tennessee, Cumberland. A de- 
tailed report of these explorations was published by Jordan and Bray- 
tou in Bulletin XII of the U. S. National Museum, 1878, under the title, 
"On the Distribution of the Fishes of the Alleghany Region of South 



fiEPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. I7l 

Carol iua. Georgia, and Tennessee, with Descriptions of New or Little 
Known Species." An extended discussion of the distribution of fresh- 
water fishes is given in this paper, pp. 91-95. 

1878. 

Ill 1878 I spent some time at Beaufort, N. C, in the study of the 
marine tishes of that port. In my work here 1 was assisted by Dr. 
Hiayton, Mr. Gilbert, and Mr. B. W. Evermann. A catalogue of the 
species obtained was published in the Proceedings of the U. S. National 
Museum, 1878, pp. 365-388, "by Jordan and Gilbert, under the title of 
" Notes on the Fishes of Beaufort Harbor, North Carolina." 

1879. 

The summer of 1879 was spent in Europe. Considerable collections 
were made by Mr, Gilbert and myself at Venice. 

1880. 

In November, 1879, 1 was appointed special agent of the U. S. Census 
Bureau, in charge of the enumeration of the fisheries and other marine 
interests of the Pacific coast of the United States. I was also in- 
structed by the U. S. Commissioner of Fisheries to undertake a thorough 
study of the fish-fauna of that region, and to make extensive collections 
of the fishes for distribution by the U. S. National Museum to the chief 
museums of the world. 

Mr. Charles H. Gilbert was appointed assistant in this work. Special 
assistance in Puget Sound was rendered by Mr. James G. Swan, of Neah 
Bay, and about San Francisco by Mr. William N. Lockington, then of 
San V'rancisco. Important volunteer aid was also given by Miss Kosa 
SiJiith. of San Diego, by Mr. Charles J. Smith, then of Astoria, and l)y 
("apt. Andrea Larco, of Santa Barbara. 

Mr. Gilbert and the writer reached San Diego about .January 1, 1885. 
The time between that date and November 1 was devoted to an ex- 
ploration of the coast from the Mexican boundary as far north as Saanich 
on Vancouver's Island, most of the important points being visited at 
least twice, at diflerent seasons. 

The chief points at which collections were made are San Diego, San 
Pedro (Wilmington), Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo (Port Harford), 
Monterey, Soquel, San Francisco, Humboldt Bay, Astoria, Neah Bay, 
Seattle, Tacoma, Victoria, Saanich Arm, and New Westminster. 

Few coasts have yet been so thoroughly explored, so far as the shore 
tishes are concerned. We had, however, no means of collecting lishes 
from any great depth. The results of these explorations have been given 
in numerous short papers in the Proceedings of the U. S. National Mu- 
seum for 1880 and 1881, in the Synopsis of the Fishes of North America, 
and in other papers. Our reports to the IT. S Census Bureau still re- 



172 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

main unpublished. Some 55 spefties uew to science were obtained by 
this expedition, and the number of species of shore fishes known from 
the Pacfic coast of California, Oregon, and Washington was raised from 
about 200 to nearly 275. Series of specimens containing each from 50 
to 250 of these species have been distributed to some 75 different mu- 
seums, in various parts of the world. 

The most important result of our work on the Pacific coast is prob- 
ably the solution of the problem as to the number of species of salmon 
(Oncorhynchus) inhabiting the North Pacific. Similar results were 
reached at the same time by Dr. T. H. Bean, who was then carrying on 
explorations in Alaska. 

On my return to the East I visited Utah Lake. Here, with the assist- 
ance of Peter Madsen, a fisherman at Provo, I made a considerable col- 
lection of fishes, some of them new to science. These have been described 
by Jordan and Gilbert in the Proceedings of the U. S. JSatioual Mu 
senm, 1880, 459. 

After finishing his work in California in November, 1880, Mr. Gilbert 
continued his explorations southward, spending the winter at Mazatlau 
and Panama, returning from Colon to Washington in the spring of 1881. 
A remarkably rich and carefully preserved collection was obtained from 
the Pacific coast of Mexico and Central America. This included some 
60 species new to science. These have been described in several papers 
by Jordan and Gilbert in the Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum 
and Bulletin of the U. S. Fish Commisson in 1881 and 1882. An elabo- 
rate paper containing synonymy and detailed descriptions of all the 
species of fishes known from the Pacific coast of tropical America was 
prepared by us for publication. This was destroyed by fire in 1883 when 
nearly ready foi- the press. 

1881. 

The summer of 1881 was spent in Europe. Collections were made in 
Genoa and Venice. 

1882. 

In the spring of 1882 1 visited Galveston, New Orleans, and Pensacola, 
making a considerable collection at each point. The most important 
part of this collection was that obtained at Pensacola, with the assist- 
ance of Mr. Silas Stearns. The collections of fishes made by Mr. Stearns 
at Pensacola are among the most important which the National Museum 
has received from any source. The results of this expedition were pub- 
lished by Jordan and Gilbert in the Proceedings of the U. S. National 
Museum lor 1882, pp. 241-307. 

Part of the summer of the same year was spent by Professor Gilbert 
at Charleston, S. C. In his work here Professor Gilbert received im- 
portant aid from Mr. Charles C. Leslie. The results of his explorations 
were published by Jordan and Gilbert in Proceedings of the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum, 1882, pp. 580-620. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMKNT OV FISHES. 173 

1883. 

The winter of 1882-83 was spent by Professor Gilbert in making col 
I«M'tions of fishes at Panama and at neighboring^ points on botli sulo^s of 
tlie Isthmus as well as in the fresh waters of the Isthmus and of Costa 
l\ica. A large collection obtained was extremely rich in fresh-water 
forms ;ind contained some 40 species new to science. It was unfortu- 
nately totally destroyed by the burning of the rauseuTu building of the 
Indiana University, July 12, 1883. 

At this time about one-third of the collection i)reviously made l)y 
Tiofessor (Gilbert at Mazatlan and Panama was also destroycMl, as well 
as the private collections of Professor Gilbert and myself, which were 
very rich in the department of fishes. Nothing was published concern- 
ing these collections of 1883. 

In the si)ring of 1883 a small collection of fishes was made in the 
t'lear Fork of the Cumberland River by Mr. Joseph Swain and the 
writer. After the fire a third collection was made at Venice by Mr. 
Swain and myself. Small collections were also obtained at Wood's 
Holl, Mass., and in difierent streams of Indiana. 

in November and December, 1883, I undertook a reconnaissance of 
the tish fauna of the Florida Keys. A day was spent at Jacksonville, 
Fla., a lew days at Cedar Keys, Fla., about three weeks at Key West, 
Fla., and nearly two weeks in Havana. In this work I was assisted by 
Mr. William H. Dye, a student of Indiana University. Large collec- 
tions were obtained, especially at Key West and at Havana — upwards 
of 25 species being new to science. The collections made in Florida 
have been described in different papers in the Proceedings of the 
V. S. National Museum for 1884. Those from Havana have not yet 
been placed on record. 

1884. 

In July 1884 I was asked by Prof. G. Brown Goode, curator of the 
r. S. National Museum, to take charge of a series of exj)lorations of the 
streams of the Southern States, to be undertaken in connection with 
ttie New Orleans Exposition. In this work I was assisted by Professor 
(iilbert, Prof. Joseph Swain, and Mr. Seth E. Meek. 

Field work was begun early in July by Professors GillMirt and 
Swain in different streams in Indiana. Later the^' extended their e.\- 
j>lorations southward, niaking collections in the Rolling Fork, the Kock 
Castle, Cnnd)erland, Clinch, French Broad, and Stone's Rivers; later 
in the tributaries of the Tennessee, about Florence, Tuscuml>ia, and 
Huntsville, in Alabauja, and in those of the Black Warrior, about 
Cnlbiian, lllonnl Spiings, Wairio!', and Tuscaloosa. This exploration 
of iIh- 'rcnnt'ssce i»asin luought to liglit a number of new fnnns. vs\h' 
• ■iall\ in the group oi' I'Jtheostomincc. 

Meanwhile the writer, assisted by Mr. Seth l). Mt-ek, i)egan lield 
work in the Des Moines River, in Southern Iowa. The Des Moines, 



174 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Chariton, and Hundred and Two Elvers, in Iowa, were investig:ated, 
and the Missouri, La Mine, and Osage, in Missouri. After a time I 
-was obliged to return to Indiana for a few days, and Professor Gilbert, 
with Mr. Meek's assistance, continued the work in tributaries of the 
Neosho, Osage, White, Niangua, and Gasconade, in Southern Missouri. 
T rejoined them at Eureka Springs, in Arkansas, where we made large 
collections in White River. Here Mr. Meek left us, and Mr. Gilbert 
and I proceeded to Fort Smith, where we made collections in Lee's 
Creek, the Poteau River, and the Arkansas. Proceeding southwest- 
ward from Little Rock, we explored in succession the Saline River at 
Benton, the Washita River at Arkadelphia, the Red River at Fulton, 
the Sabine River at Longview, the Trinity River at Dallas, the Lam- 
pasas and Leon Rivers at Belton, the Colorado River at Austin, the Rio 
Blanco and San Marcos Rivers at San Marcos, and the Rio Comal at 
New Braunfels. From New Braunfels we returned to Washington. 

The explorations in 1884 are in several respects the most extensive 
yet undertaken in the fresh waters of the United States. As results 
of the summer's work a considerable number of new species have been 
added to our lists. The range of many species hitherto supposed to be 
rare and local has been greatly extended, and numerous species sup- 
posed to be well distinguished have been shown to be geographical 
varieties of others. We have been enabled in many cases to recognize 
subspecies among our fresh-water fishes and to properly distinguish 
these from individual and accidental variations. This work cannot be 
fully done until all our interior waters have been explored. There still 
remain many hydrographic basins in which no collections have yet 
been made. 

R]tSUM>l 

I give here a classified table of the principal localities at which col 
lections have been made : 

Marine. 

Atlantic shores : 

Wood's Holl, Mass. 

Charleston, S. C. (Gilbert.) 

Beaufort, N. C. (Jordan, Gilbert, and Brayton.) 

Galveston, Tex. 

Pensacola, Fla, (Jordan and Stearns.) 

Cedar Key, Fla. 

Key West, Fla. 

Havana, Cuba. 

Colon (Aspinwall), United States of Colombia. (Gilbert.) 

Pacific : 

Panama, United States of Colombia. (Gilbert.) 
Mazatlan, Mexico. (Gilbert.) 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 175 

Pacific — CoDtiuued. 

Sau Diego, Cal. (Jordan and Gilbert.) 

San Pedro, Cal. (el. & G.) 

Santa Barbara, Cal. (J. & G.)' 

Sau Luis Obisi>o, Cal. (J. «& G.) 

Monterey, Cal. (J. & G.) 

Soquel, Cal. (J. & G.) 

Sau Francisco, Cal. (J. & G.) 

Tomales Bay, California. (J. & G.) 

Humboldt Bay, California. (Gilbert.) 

Astoria, Oreg. (Columbia River). (J. & G.) 

Keah Bay, Wash. (J. & G.) 

Seattle, Wash. (J. & G.) 

Tacoma, Wash. (J. & G.) 

Victoria, British Columbia. (J. & G.) 

Saanich Arm, British Columbia. (J. & G.) 

New Westminster, British Columbia (Eraser's River). (Gilbert.) 

Fresh waters. 

Great Lake Basin : 

Cayuga Lake, Ithaca, N. Y. 

East (3()y Creek (Genesee River), Gainesville, N. T. 

Lake Erie. 

Lake Michigan. 

Kantakee River, Riverside, Ind. (Gilbert.) 

Kox River, Appleton, Wis. 

liittle Suamico River, Wisconsin. 
Santee Basin : 

Ennoree River, Chick's Springs, S. 0. (Jordan, Brayton, and Gil- 
bert.) 

Reedy River, Greenville, S. C. (J., B. & G.) 

Saluda River, Tarr's Mills, S. C. (J., B. & G.) 
Savannah Basin : 

Tugaloo River, Georgia. (J., B. & G.) 

Panther Creek, Georgia. (J., B. & G.) 

Toccoa Creek, Toccoa Falls, Ga. (J., B. & G.) 
Altamaha Basin : 

Oconee River, Sulphur Springs, Ga. (B. & G.) 

South River (Ocmulgee), Flat Shoals, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Chattahoochee Basin : 

Chattahoochee River, Shallow Ford, Gainesville, Ga. 
Suwanee River, Suwanee, Ga. (J., B. & G.), 
Peach Tree Creek, Atlanta, Ga. (J. & G.) 
Nancy's Creek, Atlanta, Ga. (J. & G.) 



176 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Alabama Basin : 

Etowah River, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Silver Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Dyke's Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Oostanaula River, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Rocky Creek, Floyd Springs, Ga. (J. & G.) 

John's Creek, Floyd Springs, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Lovejoy's Creek, Floyd Springs, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Big Armuchee Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Big Dry Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Little Dry Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Waters' Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Lavender Creek, Texas Valley, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Coosa River, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Beech Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Horse-Leg Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.) 

Little Cedar Creek, Cave Spring<>, Ga. (J., B. & G.) 

Black Warrior Basin : 

Black Warrior River, Warrior and Morris, Ala. (G. & S.) 
Black Warrior River, Tuscaloosa, Ala. (G. & S.) 
North River, Tuscaloosa, Ala. (G. & S.) 
Eight-Mile Creek, Cullman, Ala. (G. & S.) 
Cold Creek, Blount Springs, Ala. (G. & S.) 

Tennessee Basin : 

Powell's River, Cumberland Gap, Tenn. 
Indian Creek, Cumberland Gap, Tenn. 
Clinch River, Clinton, Tenn. (G. & S.) 
Bull Run, Bull Run, Tenn. (G. & S.) 
Big Creek, Big Creek, Tenn. (G. & S.) 
Big Pigeon River, Clifton, Tenn. (J. & G.) 
French Broad River, Wolf Creek, Tenn. (G. & S.) 
Wolf Creek, Wolf Creek, Tenn. (G. & S.) 
Chickamauga River, Ringgold, Ga. (J., B. & G.) 
Tennesee River, Florence, Ala. (G. & S.) 
Big Cypress Creek, Florence, Ala. (G. & S.) 
Little Cypress Creek, Florence, Ala. (G. & S.) 
Big Shoal Creek, Florence, Ala. (G. & S.) 
Sweetwater Creek, Florence, Ala. (G. & S.) 
Spring Creek, Tuscumbia, Ala. (G. & S.) 
Spring Branch, Huntsville, Ala. ((i. & S.) 
Elk River, Estill Springs, Tenn. (J., B. & G.) 
Duck River, Columbia, Tenn, (G. & S.) 

Cumberland Basin : 

Rock Castle River, Livingston, Ky. (J. & G., G. & S.) 
Cumberland River, Williamsburg, Ky. (J. & S., G. & S.) 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF FIStlES. It? 

Oninberlaiul Basin — Contiuued. 

VAear Fork of Cunihorlaiid, Ploasaiit View, Ky. (.T, & S., G. & S.) 
Wolf Creek, Tleasaiit View, Ky. (.J. & S. & G. S.) 
Stone's River, Murfreesboro', Teuu. (J., B. & G.) 
Stone's River, Nashville, Tenii. (G. & S.) 
Harpeth River, Franklin, Tenn. (G. & S.) 

Mi8sissipi)i Basin: 

Ohio River, New Albany, Ind. (G. & S.) 
Rolling Fork, New Haven and New Market, Ky. (G. & S.) 
White River (West Fork), Indianapolis, Ind. (J. & C, &c.) 
Fall Creek, Indianapolis, Ind. 
White River, Gosport, Ind. 
Bean Blossom Creek, Bloomington, Ind. 
White River (East Fork), Bedford, Ind. 
Salt Creek, Nashville, Ind. 
Clear Creek, Bloouiington, Ind. 
White River Swami)s, Switz City, Ind. (Gilbert.) 
Raccoon Creek, Mecca, Ind. (Gilbert.) 
Wisconsin River, Dalles, Wis. (Copeland.) 
Mississippi River, Burlington, Iowa. (Jordan & Meek.) 
Des Moines River, Ottumwa, Iowa. (J. & M.) 
Village Creek, Ottumwa, Iowa. (J. & M.) 
Chariton River, Chariton, Iowa. (J. & M.) 
Hundred and Two River, Bedford, Iowa. (J. «&M.) 
Hundred and Two River, Maryville, Mo. (J. & M.) 
Missouri River, Saint Joseph, Mo. (J. & M.) 
Tabo Creek, Lexington, Mo. (J. & M.) 
Blackwater Creek, Brownsville, Mo. (J. & M.) 
Flat Creek, Sedalia, Mo. (J. & M.) 
Brown Springs (Creek), Sedalia, Mo. (J. & M.) 
Tebo Creek, Calhoun, Mo. (J. & M.) 
Grand River (Osage), Clinton, Mo. (J. & M.) 
Sac River, Greenfield, Mo. (G. & M.) 
Turnback Creek, Greenfield, Mo. (G. &. M.) 
Osage Fork of Gasconade River, Marshfield, Mo. (G. & M.) 
Niangua River, Marshfield, Mo. (G. & M.) 
Spring River (Neosho), Carthage, Mo. (G. & M.) 
White River (Narrows, Eureka Springs, Ark.). (J., G. & M.) 
King's River, Eureka Springs, Ark. (J., G. & M.) 
James Fork of White River, Marshfield, Mo. (G. & M.) 
Arkansas River, Fort Smith, Ark. (J. & G.) 
Poteau River, Slate Ford, Ind. T. (J. & G.) 
Lee's Creek, Van Buren, Ark. (J. & G.) 
Saline River, Benton, Ark. (J. & G.) 
Washita River, Arkadelphia, Ark. (J. & G.) 
S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 12 



178 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Mississippi Basin — Continued. 

Eed River, Fulton, Ark. (J. & G.) 

Mississippi River, New Orleans, La. 
Sabine Basin: 

Sabine River, Longview, Tex. (J. & G.) 
Trinity Basin : 

Trinity River, Dallas, Tex. (J. & G.) 
Brazos Basin : 

Rio Lampasas, Belton, Tex. (J. & G.) 

Leon River, Belton, Tex. (J. & (i.) 
Colorado Basin : 

Rio Colorado, Austin, Tex. (J. & G.) 

Barton Spring and Creek, Austin, Tex. (J. & G.) 
Guadalui)e Basin: 

Rio Blanco, San Marcos, Tex. (J. & G.) 

Rio San Marcos, San Marcos, Tex. (J. & G.) 

Rio Comal, New Braunfels, Tex. (J. & G.) 
Utah Basin : 

Utah Lake. (Jordan and Madsen.) 

Provo River, Provo, CTtah. (Jordan aud Madsen.) 
Sacramento Basin: 

Sacramento River. (J. & G.) 
Columbia Basin : 

Columbia River, Astoria, &c. (J. & G.) 
Fraser's Basin : 

Fraser's River, New Westminster, B. C. (Gilbert.) 
Indiana University, January 15, 1885. 



IX.-REPORT UPON THE DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS IN THE 
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1885. 



By William H. Dall, Uonorarii Curator. 



The personnel of the department at present is as follows: 

William H. Dall, paleontologist to the U. S. Geological Survey, hon- 
orary' curator. 

Kobert E. 0. Stearns, U. S. Geological Survey, assistant curator. 

Miss Agnes Nicholson, clerical assistant. 

Mr. R. E. Call, temporary assistant. 

At the beginning of the year the writer was still occupied by duties 
at the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, which engaged him during 
the working hours of the day. In June the health of Mr. R. E. C. 
Stearns having improved he came on to Washington and accepted a 
post in the U. S. Geological Survey which incidentally included work 
on the Quaternary fossils and recent allies in the National collection. 
He was therefore assigned to duty as assistant curator of the Depart- 
ment of Conchology and at once entered upon the work. Owing to the 
decision of the Director, in accordance with the requirements of Con- 
gress in regard to the New Orleans Exposition, to exhibit a series of 
moUusks and shells from the Museum, Mr. Stearns was requested by 
me to take entire charge of the preparation and organization of the 
exhibit. He was very busily engaged until the middle of December in 
perfecting and packing the series which was finally dispatched to its 
destination. It comprised twenty large table cases exhibiting the 
(jconomical mollusks of both coasts and of adjacent seas, the fresh- 
water mussels which form so remarkable a part of the fauna of the 
great Mississippi Basin, &c., a complete review of which will more ap- 
propriately come in, in the report of the year now oi)ening, after the 
close of the exhibition. 

To assist in this work Mr. R. Ellsworth Call, who has especial knowl- 
edge of the land and fresh-water mollusks of North America, was en- 
gaged for a period of six months. 

In September the curator, desiring to devote his time more especially 
to biological investigation, resigned his position in the U. S. Coast 
Survey and accepted the post of paleontologist for the Quaternary 
invertebrates, offered by the Director of the [J. S. Geological Survey. 

179 



180 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

The national collection of Quaternary shells and their recent allies being 
necessarily the source of identification of such fossils when newly col- 
lected and their ultimate repository, with the permission of the Director 
the curator retained his honorary connection with the Museum, which 
has lasted nearly twenty years. Work was immediately undertaken to 
put the general collection in such order that the geologist desiring to 
identify his fossils might do so with the least expenditure of time and 
labor. 

In view of the arrears of work to be made up this was no small under- 
taking and the conclusion of it by no means near at hand. 

As the most immediate needs of the paleontologist are at this time 
connected with the identification of the American land shells, that part 
of the collection was first attacked, with the co-operation of Messrs. 
Stearns and Call. It was placed in complete order, except so far as 
depositing in cases is concerned, and as soon as the latter, now con- 
structing, are in readiness the collection will be arranged in them ready 
for examination and for use. The arrangement of the forms belonging 
on our southern and southeastern const, so long neglected and so im- 
portant in connection with the later fossiliferous beds of our Southern 
States, was undertaken by the curator himself, and a preliminary paper 
by him on some recently acquired material from that region appeared 
in the Proceedings of the Museum during the year. Incidentally it be- 
came necessary to determine some of the well-known group of Cones, 
and the entire collection belonging to that genus was carefully revised 
and is now in condition for satisfactory reference. 

The intimate connection between our deep-sea fauna and that of the Ter- 
tiary beds of Southern Europe and the southern and western borders of 
the United States is well known to geologists and naturalists. A good 
deal of the leisure of the curator has been devoted to a study of the Gulf 
and Caribbean deep-sea forms obtained by Prof. Alexander Agassiz 
on the steamer Blake, a large number of which are already drawn for 
the engraver, and a considerable amount of text has accumulated. This 
fauna is intimately related to that of the formations of the isthmuses of 
Panama and Nicaragua, which separate the two oceans. Were it pos- 
sible to obtain fuller series of the rocks and fossils from that region, a 
study of them would without doubt have an important bearing on the 
projects for piercing the rocky barrier which now stands in the way of 
commerce. The curator would recommend that, if it be possible, some 
steps be taken to obtain such a collection, which from the excavations 
now in progress at Panama would seem to be a work of no great diffi- 
culty if a collector were once placed on the spot. 

It is with great satisfaction that the curator is able to report that 
heavy inroads have been made on the mass of material which has ac- 
cumulated in the store-rooms of the Institution during the past ten years. 
Much still remains, but a great deal has been examined, catalogued, 
and assorted, partly for the reserve series and partly as duplicates for 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS. 181 

ultimate distributiou to other museums or for exchange. Case room is 
the great ueed of the department at present, and it will continue for 
some time to bo the most urgent want which presents itself. 

Looking forward to the time when the collection shall be in working 
order and various suites now promised or in course of transmission shall 
have arrived, we may anticipate that in all that relates to North America 
and its adjacent seas the national collection as a whole will not be sur- 
l)assed, or even equaled, in the world. 

For the North Atlantic and British seas the collection of Dr. Gwyn 
Jeffreys is now in process of transmission. 

For the northeastern coast of the United States the collections of the 
U. S. Fish Commission will eventually be deposited in the Museum. 
For the North Pacific, Bering and Arctic Seas the collections of Messrs. 
Dall, Turner, Fisher, Murdoch, the United States Eeveuue Marine, and 
others are already in the Museum and partly administered upon. 

For the western coast of North America, from Puget Sound to Panama, 
the original Carpenter collection has long been a part of the Museum, 
and the Stearns collection has been recently acquired. 

The preceding series are without doubt the finest and most valuable 
in existence relating to their respective regions, both in extent and 
scientific value. 

For the Oulf coast, Antilles, and southeastern shores of the United 
States much material is on hand and more will doubtless be acquired 
very soon. It is the weakest section of our American collection at pres- 
ent, but may, with the assistance of the Fish Commission corps, not 
long remain so. 

The laud and fresh-water shells of the great interior region of the 
United States are well represented, though much more remains to be 
done before the collection in this regard can claim completeness. The 
series of types contributed by Mr. W. G. Binney, Dr. Isaac Lea, Henry 
Hemphill, and others, when administered upon and taken in connection 
with the Centennial collection arranged by Dr. James Lewis, will form 
a very satisfactory series, and the gaps which nevertheless exist may 
probably be filled by proper effort as the deficiencies become evident in 
arranging the material in hand. 

In exotic material the collection consists chiefly of the contributions 
of the various United States exploring expeditions, Hon. Nicholas Pike 
and other friends of the Museum, and, while including many valuable 
types, bears no comparison in fullness and value to the strictly Ameri- 
can sections, as, indeed, might naturally be expected. 

A list of the chief accessions to the Department of Mollusks during 
the year is appended to this report. Though work of an administrative 
nature has occupied nearly all the time of the curator and his assistants, 
yet some contributions to original research have been made during the 
year. The most important of these are the determination of the syste- 
matic relations of Turbinella pyrum Linn6, long a desideratum, and the 



182 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

investigation of Ghlamydoconcha, a remarkable form of bivalve moUusk, 
with an internal shell, from California, which proves to be the type of a 
new family. 

A list of the chief publications by the curator during 1884 is appended. 

The number of entries made in the mollusk register during the past 
year is 5,231, but this is far from indicating the total number of acces- 
sions, the majority of which have been laid aside to be catalogued later, 
as occasion serves. 

The total number of molluscan specimens in the possession of the 
Museum cannot be stated, as fully half of them are not catalogued; but 
it is safe to estimate them at not less than four hundred thousand, in- 
cluding duplicates and specimens in spirits. The number of species 
may approximate twenty thousand, but this is much more uncertain. 
Several years must elapse before a definite enumeration can be made. 
The number of entries in the mollusk register is about forty-one thou- 
sand, but this necessarily includes numerous duplications of the same 
species from different localities. 

The following accessions have been made to the collection in this de- 
partment during the year : 
Adams, S. F., Lakeside, Beadle County, Dakota. Specimens of Planorbis 

trivolvis, from Dakota. 
Baird, Prof. 8. F., Secretary Smithsonian histitution and, Director of 

the National Museum. Pearl from Vemis mercenaria L., obtained at 

Wood's Holl, Mass., by T. S. Ellis. A remarkably large and fine ex- 
ample. 
Beauchamp, Rev. W. 71/., Baldivinsville, N. Y. Shells of Unio, Dimncea, 

and Bithinia, from the State of New York. 
Blochma/n, Lucien A., San Diego, Gal. Marine shells {Litorina, Ostrea, 

Cerithidea, «&c.), from San Diego, (Jal. 
Call, B. Ellsworth, David City, Nebr. Land and fresh- water shells from 

Utah and Nevada, including types of new species, &c. A valuable 

series. 

. Specimens of ITnio Wardii Lea, from Des Moines, Iowa. 

. Specimens of Sphwrium Jayanum and if?, transversum, from Des 

Moines. 

Alcoholic specimens of Limax maximus L., from the District of 



Columbia. 

Twelve species, 127 specimens Unionidce, from Des Moines 



Eiver, Iowa. 
Coleman, W. W., 927 Ninth street, Washington, D. G. Specimen of Lo- 

ligo, from Norfolk, Va. 
Crawford, Dr. M. H.^ U. 8. N., of U. 8. 8. Shenandoah, Lima, Peru. 

Specimens of mollusks and shells, dry and in alcohol, from latitude 

52° 39' south, and longitude 68° 34' west, from the west coast of Tierra 

del Fuego, near the entrance of Magellan Strait. 
Dale, Dr. F. C. {See Hungerford.) 



REPORT OF DF.FARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS. 183 

Pall, Rev. C. H. A., Calcutta, India. One j)ackage niariiu> slidls iVom 
Madras, India. 

Dore, Harry E., Portland, Orc/f. Sliclls fnuii Oregon, iiiclnding tlie re- 
cently intiodiiecd I'^nropean Zonlfi.s ctillariit.s MuU. 

Puijes, Prvf. A., (itianajuttto, Me.r. Anodonta :in<l ]'cnnrliis (rom Mexico. 

Edward,s, Vinal A'.. Wood\s Hall. M((s.s. Litnatia luros and Meandeama 
Jaure.si, in al('«)liol, iVoni Wood's lloll, Mass. 

Ellis, T. S. [St'f i;ainl, I'nd. S. 1'.) 

Gi'eif,J. W., Hartford, Conn., Iliroiu/li lUniieli ridllips, csij. Specimeus of 
Cionella suhcijlindrtca, a small land snail, said to liav«' fallen in a 
shower at Hartford, Conn.. NoMMnber 11, ISSo. 

Hayden, T. Walton, Weston {(>nt.), ('ana<l<(. Spccinicn oi Anodonta from 
Hudson Bay Territory, in spirits 

Hemphill, Henry, Oaldand, Cat. Three packages small niollusks and 
sliells from Florida. These are among- 1 he most valuable contributions 
of the year, including chietly small and lare species, some of which 
are new, and all valuable lor their excellent comlition, and accurate 
determination of habitat, locality, &v,. 

Hering C. J., Paramaribo, ISurinam. Specimens ol Bulimus and Am- 
puUaria from Surinam. 

Hungerford, Dr. {through Dr. l<\ V. Dale, China). Laml, ft'esh-water, and 
marine shells from China and Philippine Islands. 

Hydrographic Ojffiee, U. S. Navy Department {through Commander J. R. 
Bartlett, hydrographer). Nudibranchs, cephalopods, and olher pelagic 
mollusks picked up at sea by Capt. J. K. Lyon of the bark Cashmere on 
a voyage from Liverpool to Calcutta and San Francisco. 

India Museum, Calcutta, by Prof. J. Wood Mason {through W. H. Doll). 
Turbinella pyrum L., in alcohol. This shell, though extremely com- 
mon in the Indian seas, has been hitherto unknown as to its soft 
parts. Its classification, hitherto doubtful, has been determined by 
means of the specimen above mentioned, obtained at the Andamans. 

Jeffreys, Dr. J. Gicyn, F. R. S., Kensington, England. Two cases of gas- 
tropod mollusks, being an installment of the Jeffreys collection now 
being forwarded to the National Museum, 

Jones, Dr. William H., V. S. N., of the U. 8. 8. Wachusett, Callao, Pern. A 
valuable collection of marine shells, dry and in alcohol, from the west 
coast of South America (chiefly Peru and Ecuador), and from the Gal- 
apagos (Chatham) Islands. 

Kiefer, George, Lima, Peru. Shells, &c., in alcohol, from Peru. 

Lehnert, Rev. E., Washington, D. G. {through R. E. C. Steams). One hun- 
dred and thirty-three species and varieties of land and fresh-water 
shells from the District of Columbia, being a valuable contribution 
toward a local collection. 

Moscly, Prof. H. X.. Oxford, England. Mi(;roscopic slides, showing eyes 
of Schizochiton incisus nud Ornithochiton a\). 

Murdoch, John. {Sec Signal Office, U, S. A.) 



184 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Nichols, Lieut. Commander E. E., U. S. N. Ten species Hiarine shells 
from British Columbia. 

Orcutt, Charles B., San Biego, Gal. Specimens of mollmsks, in alcohol, 
including the remarkable new type Chlamydoconcha Oreutti Dall, from 
San Diego, Cal. 

Palmer, Br. Edward. Specimens of Pinna seminuda and byssus, and 
Strombus gigas L., from Florida. 

Phillijys, Barnett, esq. {See Grey, J. W.) 

Pilsbry, H. A., Bavenport, lotva. Specimen of the rare Gundlachia meek- 
iana Stm., from Davenport, Iowa. 

Shufeldt, Br. R. W., U. S. A., Fort Wingate, N. Mex. Specimens of 
Physa gyrina Lea, from New Mexico, in spirits. 

Signal Office, U. S. A. {See also Stejneger.) Specimens of shells from 
Point Barrow, Arctic Ocean, collected by Prof. John Murdoch and 
others of the Arctic meteorological station at Point Barrow, com- 
manded by Lieut. P. H. Ray, U. S. A. A valuable collection from 
an almost inaccessible locality. 

Stearns, B. E. C, Assistant Curator, U. S. National Museum. Specimens 
of shells from San Diego and Monterey, Cal. ; also land and fresh- 
water shells from Iowa and elsewhere, collected by R. E. Call. 

Stejneger, Br. Leonhard, Washington, B. G. Specimens of shells collected 
at the Commander Islands, Bering Sea, while acting as observer for 
the United States Signal Service. (This is a small but valuable col- 
lection and the only one known from the locality. It has been de- 
scribed in the Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum for 1884.) 

Swan, J. G., Port Toumsend, Wash. Specimens of large shellfish used 
for food, from Port Townsend and vicinity, for the economical series 
of food mollusks. 

Townsend, Charles H., Baird, Shasta County, California. Shells from the 
Farallones Islands, off San Francisco, Cal. 

Whiting, Frank H., Norfolk, Conn. Specimen of Helix albolabris Say, 
from Norfolk, Conn. 

Wood-Mason, Prof . James. (*Sfee India Museum.) 

Yarroiv, Br. H. C, U. S. A., Washington, B. G. Anodonta and Physa, 
from Utah. 

Total for the year, about fifty lots, contributed by thirty-six persons. 
There have been no publications based on the collections of the con- 

chological department of the National Museuui by parties unconnected 

with the Museum corps during the past year, though several investiga- 
tions are in progress and will be announced later, especially by Messrs. 

Binney, Stearns, and Call, 



X.-REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IN- 
SECTS IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884. 



By C. V. TJiLKY. Honorary Curator. 



The following list of accessions, arranged according to accession 
numbers, will indicate in a ])recise manner tlie cliaracter of the addi- 
tions to the collection : 
No. 137L'4. Large collection of insects of various orders collected iu 

Labrador, sent by Mr. L. M. Turner, Washington, D. C. 
No. 1384C. Collection of various insects from Norfolk Lsland, sent by 

Mr. P. Herbert Metcalfe, Norfolk Island. 
No. 13D16. Various species of insects from Washington Territory, sent 

by Capt. Charles Bendire, Fort Klamath, Wash. 
No. 13917. Various species from California, sent by Mr. Charles H. 

Townseud, Baird, Shasta County, California. 
No. 13972. Achorutes sp. (Snow Podura) from New Jersey, sent by Mr. 

John J. Willis, Westfield, N. J. 
No. 14004. White-grub fungus {Cordyceps raveneli) from Arkansas, sent 

by Mr. G. H. Horn, Liberty Springs, Van Buren County, Arkansas. 
No. 14053. Tarentula hentzii and tScolopendra heros from Kansas, sent 

by the Army Medical Museum, Washington, D. C. 
No. 14058. Periplanefa americana found on board of a whale ship, sent 

by Mr. Daniel Kelleher, New Bedford, Mass. 
No. 140G5. Ephemerid larva from Texas, sent by Mr. C. C. Bearden, 

Bedford, Tex. 
No. 14150. Various insects and insect larvae from Paramaribo, Surinam, 

sent by Mr. C. J. Hering, Paramaribo, Surinam. 
No. 14166. Clover-hay Worm [Asirpia costalis) from Virginia, sent by 

Mr. R. H. Downman, Warrenlon, Va. 
No. 14204. Bag-worm {Thyridopteryx ^\).) from Arkansas, sent by Mr. 

Michael T. Omally, Hot Springs, Ark. 
No. 14269. Periplanc'ta americana from Saint Mary's River, Florida, sent 

by U. S. Fish Commission steamer Fish Hawk. 
No. 14298. Achomtea sp. (Snow Podura) from Colorado, sent by Mr. H. 

C. Lay, jr., Telluride, Colo. 
No. 14325. Box of Coleoptera for determination, sent by Mr. F. Wilkin- 
son, jr., Mansfield, Ohio. (Returned to sender at his request). 

185 



186 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

No. 14333. Belostoma americanum from New York, sent by Mr. J= P. 

Wood, AuburD, Cayuga County, New York. 
No. 14059. Rhynchopliorus crtientatus (imago) from Florida, sent by Mr. 

W. J. de Poincy, Manatee, Fla. 
No. 14.518. Corydalus eornutvs from Nortli Carolina, sent by Mr. E. O. 

Tate, Warm Springs, N. C. 
No. 14530. Small collection of various insects from San Diego, Cal., sent 

by Mr. Charles R. Orcutt, San Diego, Cal. 
No. 14557. Attacus cecropia from Missouri, sent by Capt. A. E. Milti- 

more, U. S. A., Jefferson Barracks, Mo. 
No. 14565. Anthrenns scrophularice (larvoe) from Connecticut, sent by 

Mr. J. N. Bishop, Plainville, Conn. 
No. 14574. Coptocycla clavataf (pupa) from Delaware, sent by Mr. 

Frank Stayton, Greenwood, Del. 
No. 14584. Buthus sp. from California, sent by Mr. H. W. Turner, U. 

S. Geological Survey, San Francisco, Cal. 
No. 14585. Bhynchophorus cruentatus (cocoon) from Florida, sent by Mr. 

W. J. de Poincy, Manatee, Fla. 
No. 14.588. Various insects from New Idria, Cal., sent by Mr. H. W. 

Turner, U. S. Geological Survey, San Francisco, Cal. 
No. 14600. Hemerobiid larva from Florida, sent by Dr. A. B. Brookins, 

Bartow, Fla. 
No. 14620. Larva of Eristalis from Pennsylvania, sent by Mr. B. W. 

Stennett, Corry, Erie County, Pennsylvania. 
No. 14625. Cordyceps on Lucanid larva, sent by Messrs. R. T. Baily and 

W. J. Etzel, Union, S. C. 
No, 14630. Ascalaphvs hyalinus from Long Island, N. Y., sent by Dr. 

Walter Mendelsou, Southampton, Long Island. 
No. 14667. Various insects from California, sent by Mr. R. E. C. Stearns, 

LT. S. National Museum. 
No. 14671. Rhyssa lunator from Massachusetts, sent by Mr. C. E. Abbe, 

Sara Sota, Fla. 
No. 14693. PJiotinus ardens from Maine, sent by Mr. Amos Wilder, Au- 
gusta, Me. 
No. 14695. Stenopoda cinerea from Florida, sent by Mr. J. Edwards 

Allen, Orlando, Fla. 
No. 14724. OtiorhyncJms ligneus from Massachusetts, sent by Miss L. 

Ferry, East Hampton, Mass. 
No. 14748. Madognatha (Theraphosoidae) sp. from New Mexico, sent by 

Mr. Theodore W. Taylor, Lake Valley, N. Mex. 
No. 14753. Mygale sp. from Arizona, sent by Mr. E. W. Nelson, Hua- 

chuca, Cochise County, Arizona. 
No. 14779. Beilephila lineata from Nevada, sent by Mr. Charles Keenan, 

hospital steward, U. S. A., Fort Halleck, Nev. 
No. 147S0. Four species of insects from Colorado, sent by Mr. M. B. 

Cromley, Dolores, La Plata County, Colorado. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS. 187 

No. 14794. Bulb of Erigeiiia [}w{ onfomological) from Texas, sent by 

Dr. G. I^. Ilackenberg, Austin, Tex. 
I?o. 14820. IHapheromera femorata Iroin Massachusetts, sent by Mr. E. 

P. Uphain, Smithsouiau Institution. 
No. 14821. Acanthoeinus spectohili.s from California, sent by Mr. John J. 

Snyder, Murphy's, Cahiveras County, California. 
No. 14913. Lagoa 02)erculata (larva) from North Carolina, sent by Mr. 

N. A. Ramsey, Durham, N. C. 
No. 11952. JA/f/teus /((sciatti.s from Illinois, sent by Mr. Ely C. Fisk, 

Havana, Mason County, Illinois. 
No. ir)()12. Plectrodei'd scalafor from Illinois, sent by Mr. Ely C. Fisk, 

Havana, Mason County, Illinois. 
No, 15027. Epeira msularis from Illinois, sent by Mrs. K. E. Call, Wil- 

lersburg, HI. 
No. 15034. Three species of insects from Iowa, sent by Dr. J. M. Shaffer, 

Keokuk, Iowa. 
No. 15043. Mijgale sp. from Mount Diablo, Cal., sent by Mr. H. W. Tur- 
ner, San Francisco, Cal. 
No. 15062. Epeira insularis from Illinois, sent by Mr. Charles M. Stnrges, 

Chicago, 111. 
No. 15069. Bhyssa lunator from South Carolina, sent by Mr. George T. 

Brown, Beltou, S. C. 
No. 15142. Various insects, mostly aquatic larvte, from Utah, sent by 

Dr. H. C. Yarrow, Army Medical Museum, Washington, D. 0. 
No. 15251. Blatta orientalis ? (larva) from California, sent by Mr, T. S. 

Price, Borden, Cal. 
No. 15458. Egg-mass of Glinocampa sp. from Utah, sent by Mr. J. B. 

Rosborough, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
No. 15523. Achorutefi sp. (Snow Podura) from Maine, sent by Mr. Amos 

Wilder, Augusta, Me. 

Altogether the most valuable collection received during the year is 
that made by Mr. Turner in Labrador. The material is quite exten- 
sive, especially in individuals, and has Ixmmi collected and preserved 
with great care and judgment. 1 have, therefore, taken great pains 
to mount such of the alcoholic material and such of the dry material 
as would most quickly «leteriorate if left as collected, in order that it 
may be permanently preserved for future study, and I have been par- 
ticular to attach to every specimen, not only the accession number, but 
the number used by the collector, so as to facilitate his own work upon 
the collection. 

The work of the department has consisted, in addition to the ordi- 
nary correspondence and determination of material, in the proper care, 
so far as time would permit, of the material received. But taking ad- 
vantage of the Government's participation in the New Orleans Exposi- 
tion, 1 have prepared, as a part of the exhibit from the Department of 
Agriculture, a collection illustrative of economic entomology, employ- 



188 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

ing therefor drawers and cases made after the unit plan of the Museum. 
Many of the specimens for this exhibit were furnished from my pri- 
vate collection, and it has been prepared upon the understanding with 
the proper authorities that it is, when returned to Washington, to form 
part of the Museum collection. 

In closing this brief report I cannot refrain from repeating the rec- 
ommendations of previous years both as to the utilization of the 
plates purchased of the late Prof. Townend Glover and as to the ne- 
cessity of placing the department upon a secure financial basis. 

Mr. Glover's plates and notes on the Diptera, Orthoptera, Hemiptera, 
and cotton insects have already been published, in very limited edition, 
as "Manuscript Notes from my Journal." Those of the remaining or- 
ders comprise about 200 plates, which can be printed from by Mr. A. G. 
Gedney, of this city (who formerly printed for Glover and has made 
me his estimates), for $13.50 per 1,000 copies, quarto impressions. The 
printing of an edition of 1,000 would, therefore, cost about $270, while 
the printing of such text as would be necessary could probably be done 
for about $500 additional. 

Several valuable collections have, as during previous years, been 
offered for sale at remarkably low rates, some of which I have pur- 
chased individually and deposited with the »est of my collections. The 
need of a salaried assistant is each year more obvious, not only for the 
reasons stated in previous reports, but as a guarantee of the proper 
future care, in case of my death or removal from the city, of the ento- 
mological material already in the Museum, and as a further guarantee 
to specialists that type collections, if donated, will have proper appre- 
ciation and preservation. 



XI -REPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTE- 
BRATES* IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884. 



By Richard Rathbun, Curator. 



ACCESSIONS. 



The record of accessions to this departmeut of the Museum during 
the year just passed is unusually satisfactory. Several identilied col- 
lections of great value have been obtained from well-known European 
and American authorities, and a large amount of material for future 
elaboration has been received. The most important additions were 
made, as usual, by the U. S. Fish Commission, and represent the recent 
deep-sea explorations of the steamer Albatross over a wide area. Large 
collections were likewise obtained from other sources. The total num- 
ber of accessions was 72, and the number of shipping packages of all 
sizes received, 240. This enumeration does not, however, convey an 
adequate conception of the extent of the additions to the department, 
as several of the accessions amounted to more than 3,200 packages each, 
if all the jars, bottles, vials, and small boxes are counted. The princi- 
l)al additions were as follows : 

The U. S. Fish Commission : Very large and valuable collections were 
transferred to this department by the Fish Commission in 1884. Cer- 
tain portions of these collections having been worked up, and reports 
upon them jjresented to the Commissioner, they now come into the per- 
manent possession of the Museum, but other portions are to be regarded 
as simi)ly in its custody for safe-keeping. 

Over 1,200 packages were received from the cruise of the steamer 
Albatross in the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico and among the 
West Indian Islands, from January to May, 1884 ; but this number does 
not include many samples of bottom materials obtained at the sound- 
ing stations in connection with the work of the Hydrographic Bureau, 
and elsewhere credited to the Navy Department. This collection will 
largely supplement the verj' valuable results recently obtained by the 
Coast Survey steamer Blake in the same region. It contains many rep- 
resentatives of all the principal groups of marine invertebrates common 

" Exclusivo of the MoUusca. 

189 



190 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

to that area, from the littoral zone to a depth of 1,700 fathoms, an 
especial feature being a large and fine series of Crinoids (Pentacrinus) 
from off Havana and elsewhere. Considering that during this cruise 
the Albatross was mainly occupied with hydrographic work, the col- 
lection does much credit to the energy and zeal of the officers and nat- 
uralists attached to the vessel. The Crustacea have been sent to Prof. 
S. I. Smith, at New Haven, Connnecticut, for study; the Anthozoa are to 
be examined by Prof. A. E. Verrill ; and the Echicri have already been 
worked up by the curator of the department. The Annelids, which are 
not included in the above enumeration, were retained on board the 
steamer, where they are being studied by Mr. James E. Benedict. 

Fifty-six oases, including 1,400 packages, of specimens resulting from 
the explorations of the steamers Albatross and Fish Hawk, during last 
summer, off the eastern coast of the United States, between George's 
Bank and the latitude of Cape Hatteras, were sent direct from the 
Wood's Holl station to the Museum. The greater part of this material 
had been examined and identified by the naturalists at Wood's Holl, 
but much of it is still undetermined. An additional collection made 
by the steamer Albatross on her return tcip from Wood's Holl to Wash- 
ington was received in November. 

Eleven cases, containing nearly 800 packages, of alcoholic specimens, 
and 171 species, have been received from Prof. A. E. Verrill. These 
represent a portion of the results of Professor Verrill's studies On the 
Echinoderms and Anthozoa, and of those of Prof. S. I. Smith on the 
Crustacea, made at New Haven during the year. The collection of 
deep-sea barnacles stored at New Haven has also been turned over to 
the Museum by Professor Smith, for transmission to Dr. P. P. C. Hoek, 
of Leyden, a competent authority, who has offered to examine and 
report upon this group. 

Several smaller collections were sent in by or through the Fish Com- 
mission, as follows : Specimens of various kinds obtained at the mouth 
of Saint Mary's River, Florida, in March, by the steamer Fish Hawk ; 
Crustaceans and Radiates collected by Dr. T. H. Bean at Fire Island 
Beach and Patchogue, Long Island, during the summer; numerous 
Crustaceans from Mr. E. G. Blackford, of New York; specimen of 
Crustacean fish parasites from Vineyard Sound, Massachusetts, and 
of rare Crustaceans obtained by the steam -dredger working about the 
new pier of the Fish Commission at Wood's Holl, from Mr. Vinal N. 
Edwards. 

The following donations from Gloucester fishermen were also re- 
ceived through the Fish Commission : Specimens of sponges and corals 
from the fishing grounds off the provincial coast ; specimen of cup 
sponge and several Bryozoan corals from the fishing grounds north of 
Iceland, collected and donated by Capt. J. A. Dago, of the schooner 
Concord ; a lobster from near Gloucester, Mass., of which one side is of 
the normal color and the other red, or similar to the color produced by 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 191 

boilingc. On this inteiestiujj^ specimen the two colors are equally dis- 
tributed and meet along the median line of both tlie dorsal and ventral 
surfaces. In no place does either color encroach upon the other, but 
their line of demarkation is as distinctly marked as though the speci- 
men had been colored by hand, although it is undoubtedly a genuine 
freak of nature. 

Dr. Edward Palmer : Sixty-five cases of Corals. Sponges, Crustaceans, 
and Echinoderms from Southern Florida and the Dry Tortugas. This 
is the largest collection, next to that of the Fish Commission, received 
by this department during the year, and was made in the interest of 
the New Orleans International Exposition, through the funds appro- 
priated for that purpose by Congress. In detailing Dr. Palmer for this 
undertaking, it was with the intention of bringing together as exhaust- 
ive a collection as possible of the more important and conspicuous ani- 
mal products of the coral-reef region of Southern Florida, which, con- 
sidering its many interesting economic and biological features, has 
never been properly represented hitherto, either in the National Museum 
collections or in connection with any of our great expositions. The re- 
sults obtained by Dr. Palmer were eminently satisfactory, although it 
is impossible at so early a date to make anything like a complete rejiort 
upon his collection. Its value is greatly enhanced by the very full 
notes which accompany it. It has been entirely unpacked, and all of 
the specimens have been separately labeled, to insure their future iden- 
tity beyond a possibility of error or confusion. The dried specimens of 
small to medium size have been stored in unit trays (of w^hich they till 
about 100), temporarily arranged in the west hall of the Smithsoniiin 
Institution. The larger corals have been retained in their original 
cases, from which the packing materials have been removed. The Ac- 
tinian or stony corals comprise the bulk of the collection, although there 
is a large representation of Gorgonian corals, and the number of finely 
j>repared sponges is very great. The Crustaceans and Echinoderms, of 
which there are many specimens and species, are mainly preservcMl in 
alcohol. 

Henry Hemphill : A very extensive collection of alcoholic and dried 
specimens of marine invertebrates from the west coast of Florida, be 
tween Cedar Keys and Charlotte Harbor, obtained from the shore and 
from shallow water by dredging. This collection was made with great 
care during the winter and early spring, and consists largely of the 
smaller forms of animal life, such as collectors seldom look for. The 
groups mainly represented are the Crustaceans, Annelids, Echinoderms, 
Alcyonian and Actinian corals, and sponges. Although coming from a 
region closely bordering that visited by Dr. Palmer, this collection does 
not in any way duplicate his, being of an entirely difterent character. 

The additions made to the Museum collections from the Antillean re- 
gion during 1884, by the steamer Albatross, Dr. Palmer, and Mr. Hemp- 



192 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

hill, form together the most complete and important contribution which 
this department has lately received from any one faunal area. 

Navy Department and naval officers: From the Bureau of Navigation, 
168 bottom samples from the sounding stations of the steamer Alba- 
tross, Lieut. Commander Z. L. Tanner, U. S. N., commanding, in the 
Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico, from January to May, 1884. Dur- 
ing Ijhis period the Fish Commission steamer Albatross was temporarily 
in the service of the Navy Department for surveying purposes, and the 
specimen results obtained in soundings were afterwards transferred to 
the Museum. From the same Bureau, many samples of ocean bottom 
obtained by the U. S. S. Enterprise during a cruise from the United 
States to the Asiatic station via the Cape of Good Hope. 

From the Hydrographic Bureau, two jars of surface specimens col- 
lected by the British bark Cashmere, during a voyage from Liverpool to 
Calcutta and from Calcutta to San Francisco. 

Frcm Dr. W. H. Jones, U. S. K, U. S. S. Wachusett, three valuable 
collections of Echinoderms and Crustaceans from various parts of the 
Pacific Ocean, principally the Sandwich, Samoan, Society, Marquesas, 
and Galapagos Islands, and the coasts of Chib, Peru, and Ecuador. 
These contributions from Dr. Jones have been among the most inter- 
esting received by this department during the past year. They con- 
tain an exceedingly large number of specimens and species, carefully 
preserved and labeled, and will supply many deficiencies in the collec- 
tion, as \\ell as replace numerous old and damaged specimens brought 
in by the earlier expeditions to the same region. 

From the Greely relief party, Commander W. S. Schley, U. S. N., 
commanding, and Ensign C. S. McClain, U. S. N., naturalist of the 
Alert: A collection of Crustaceans and other marine invertebrates from 
the west coast of Greenland. 

From Lieut. H. H. Barroll, U. S. N,, a finely preserved specimen of 
Eanina, from Lamock Island, China. 

From Dr. M. H. Crawford, TJ. S. N., specimens of sea-urchins and 
Hydroids from the west coast of Terra del Fuego. 

Capt. M. A. Healy, U. 8. R. M., commanding the revenue cutter Corwin, 
on the Pacific coast: An interesting collection of marine invertebrates 
from the northwestern coast of Alaska, preserved in alcohol. The major- 
ity of tbe specimens were obtained by dredging in depths of IC to 32 
fathoms, between 05° 49' 15" and 71° 02' north latitude, and 157° 46' 
and 169° 04' 30" west longiude. A few also were from the shore. 

President D. 8. Jordan, of India^ia University : Collection of Crusta- 
ceans and Echinoderms from Key West, Florida. 

McKesson d: Bobbins, New York: A collection of sponges, including 
all the Mediterranean commercial varieties and many from Florida. 
This collection contains several interesting specimens illustrating the 
mode of growth and attachment of si)onges, and, together with the 
series already furnished by the same dealers and others, furnishes the 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 193 

Museum with a most complete representation of all the known commercial 
sponges of the Avorld. 

Collections received in exchange : From the Rev. A. M. Norman, of En- 
gland, 229 species of marine invertebrates from the British Islands and 
Norway, distributed among theditlerent groups as follows : Crustacea, 
119 species; Mollusca, 57 species ; Tunicata, 14 species; EcliiiuKlcrmata, 
32 species ; Actinozoa, 2 species ; Sponges, 5 species. As regards the 
British Decapod Crustaceans, this collo(;tion is said to be one of the 
finest ever sent out from England. IMost of the specimens are preserved 
in alcohol, but some of the larger ones are dried and in suitable condi- 
tion f(U' the exhibition series. Further exchanges with Mr. Norman are 
now in i)rogress. 

From Prof. G. Stewardson Brady, of England, 88 species of Cope- 
pod Crustaceans, of which four species are 4rue parasites, and the 
remainder free-swimming or semi-parasitic forms, from Great Britain 
and from the Challenger collections made in different parts of the world. 

From Mr. Edward Lovett, of England, carefully made alcoholic prep- 
arations of 53 species of stalk-ej'ed Crustaceans from the British Chan- 
nel. This is an exceedingly instructive collection, and is accompanied 
by notes giving the range and abundance of each species, and indicat- 
ing those that are used as food. 

From Prof. H. N. Moseley, of Oxford Uuiversity, England, finely pre- 
pared specimens of the liver-fluke, Fasciola hepatica, some preserved 
in glycerine and others mounted in Canada balsam, with dried speci- 
7nens of Limnceus truneatulus, the host of its Cercaria stage; also alco- 
holic preparations of the fresh-water Polyzoan, Cristatella repens, and 
the fresh-water Hydro-Medusa, Lymnocodium Sowerbii, from the Vic- 
toria Gardens, Begeut's Park, London. 

From Bergen's Museum, Bergen, Norway, 55 species of Echinoderms 
from the coast of Norway and from the explorations of the Norske Nord- 
havs expedition (Norwegian North Atlantic expedition). The several 
groups are represented as follows : Holothurians, IG species; Sea-urchins, 
!> species ; Star fishes, 17 species; Ophiurans, 12 species; Comatula, 1 
species. This is a valuable collection for comparison with North Amer- 
ican forms. 

ROUTINE WORK. 

The care and preservation of the numerous large collections received 
by this department during the past year have demanded the almost con- 
stant attention of the curator and his assistants, and but little time 
has been available for original researches and the preparation of speci- 
mens for exhibition. Every case of specimens turned over lo the de- 
partment has been at once uni)acked and its contents assorted, clas- 
sified and catalogued ; but the lack of ample storage s])ace has i)re vented 
the systematic arrangement of these materials, and has greatly inter- 
fered with the i)rogress of all work upon the collections. The work of 
administering upon the marine invertebrates obtained by the Fish Com- 
S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 13 



194 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. •- 

mission has also falleu to tbis department and has occupied much time. 
Portions of the general collection have been overhauled from time to 
time for the purpose of i^laciug specimens in better condition for study 
iiud reference, and in June the entire series of alcoholics was examined 
and the alcohol renewed where necessary. The collection of Echini 
lias received most attention from the curator, as elsewhere noted, and 
at the time of writing is in better condition than any other collection 
of the department. 

The exhibition series of specimens has been entirely rearranged so as 
to present a more systematic sequence, and it now fills all of the wall 
cases which nearly surround the west hall of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. The large amount of material stored in the hall, however, pre- 
vents its being opened to the public. A few large si:)ecimeus of Crus- 
tacea and corals have been mounted during the year and added to this 
series. 

The preparation of the fourth series of duplicates, comprising 200 
sets, each containing 108 species, selected from the collections turned 
in by the Fish Commission, was completed in the spring, and many of 
the sets have already been sent out. 

The cataloguing of specimens has kept pace with the work upon col- 
lections, and 5,667 entries have been made in the record books during 
the year. This number includes the entries of specimens of marine 
invertebrates collected by the Fish Commission, all of which are entered 
ill the catalogue books of the department as the most convenient method 
of recording them. 

Three collecting outfits were supplied during the year, as follows : 
To Ensign C. S. McClain, U. S. N., who acted as naturalist on the steamer 
Alert of the Greely relief party to Lady Franklin Bay ; to Lieut. George 
M. Stoney, U.S.N., who has been engaged in explorations in Alaska; 
and to Dr. Edward Palmer, whose large collection from the Florida 
reefs has already been described. 

From the middle of July to the middle of October the curator and 
Mr. Baldwin took part in the summer explorations of the Fish Commis- 
sion at Wood's Holl, Mass, The character of the work accomplished 
in this connection, so far as it relates to this department of the Museum, 
is described further on. 

Mr. A. H. Baldwin has been employed as general assistant since 
April 10. Ensign C. S. McClain, U. S. K, assigned to duty at the 
Smithsonian Institution in 1883 by the Secretary of the Navy, rendered 
efficient services upon the collections during the first half of the year, 
or until he joined the Greely relief party in June. Mr. Thomas Lee, 
of Boston, acted as a volunteer assistant during November and Decem- 
ber, and Miss M. J. Rathbun was assigned to this department on the 1st 
of December. 

Cataloguing, — The total number of entries of specimens made in the 
record books for 1884 was 5,GG7, distributed- among the several groups 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OP MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 195 

as indicated in the table .yiven below. Each entry indicates a separate 
package (jar, bottle, homeopathic vial, box, or tank), containinjj;' a sin- 
gle species, altiioiigh the same species may be dni)licated several times 
by beinjj represented by specimens from different localities. The en- 
tries are not limited to identified specimens, bnt all collections are cat- 
alo<;iied as soon as sorted, in order that an accurate account may be 
kept of the vast accumulation of materials which now more than fill 
the storage space allotted to them. A card catalogue is also ke])t, and 
is intended to cover all the entries in the record books. In so far as 
they refer to identified materials, the cards are arranged in systematic 
order, permitting of easy reference to the species, while the remainder 
are arranged serially as to the catalogue numbers, and constitute the 
working catalogue, being more convenient for handling than the large 
record books. 

Table shoioing entries in record books for 1834. 



Gronpa. 


Entries 

to Jan. 1, 

1884. 


Entries 
to Jan. 1, 

1885. 


Entries 
made dur- 
ing 1884. 




5,719 

7,500 

T29 

209 

G,840 

1,115 


7,230 
8,913 

880 

298 

8,008 

1,700 


1,511 




1,413 
151 


Tunicatcs and Bryozoa 


89 
1 858 




645 






Total 


14, 612 


20, 279 


5,667 





DISTRIBUTION OF DUPLICATES AND EXCHANGES. 



A large number of duplicate specimens have been distributed during 
the year, mainly to Institutions in the United States. In this manner 
the ^Museum has been relieved of the care of much material of no 
further use to its workers, and students elsewhere have been given the 
benefit of its resources. Nearly all the collections sent out belonged to 
the regular series of duplicates described in former reports and referred 
to elsewhere in this report. These have been made up from dui)li- 
cates resulting from the explorations of the U. S. Fish Commission, 
and are collections of great value, a large share of the species they 
contain being recent additions to science from deep water. As has 
been the custom hitherto, no returns have been demanded from Ameri- 
can institutions supplied with these sets, but collections have been sent 
to foreign countries only in exchange. Forty-eight sets belonging to 
the regular series were sent out in 1884 to the following institutions : 

London series, containing 225 species (sent in exchange) : University 
of Edinburgh, l-'dinlxirgh, Scotland. 

Series II, containing about 1!)0 species each : State University, Bloom- 
ington, Ind. ; liochester University, liochester, N. Y. ; Johns Hopkins 



196 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

University, Baltimore, Md.; Brown Uuiversity, Providence, E. I. ; Cin- 
cinnati University, Cincinnati, Ohio; University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wis. ; University of Peunsjivania, Philadelphia, Pa. ; Albion College, 
Albion, Mich. ; Skaneateles Library Association, Skaneateles, N. Y. ; 
Syracuse University, Syracuse, N. Y. ; Trinity College, Hartford, Conn. ; 
Swarthmore College, SwarLhmore, Pa. 

Series IV, containing 108 species each: Foster School, Clifton Springs, 
N. Y. ; Penn College, Oskaloosa, Iowa ; Jacksonville Female Academy, 
Jacksonville, 111. ; High School, Piqua, Ohio; West Virginia Univer- 
sity, Morgantown, W. Va. ; Northwestern Ohio Normal School, Ada, 
Ohio ; Leicester Academy, Leicester, Mass. ; Drury College, Spring- 
field, Mo. ; Miller Manual Labor School, Crozet, Va. ; Perkins Institute 
and Massachusetts School for the Blind, South Boston, Mass.; Agassiz 
Association, chapter 887, Baltimore, Md. ; Lasell Seminary, Auburn- 
dale, Mass. ; Williams School, Auburndale, Mass. ; Saint Lawrence 
University, Canton, N. Y.; Normal School, Potsdam, N. Y.; Saint 
Mary's Institute, Dayton, Ohio ; State Normal School, Providence, K. 
I. ; Central University, Eichmond, Va. ; Parsons College, Fairfield, 
Iowa; Brethren's Normal College, Huntingdon, Pa. ; Saint Joseph's 
Commercial College, Saint Joseph, Mo. ; Park College, Parkville, Mo. ; 
Female Orphan School, Camden Point, Mo. ; State Insane Asylum, 
Saint Joseph, Mo.; Southwestern Presbyterian University, Clarksville, 
Tenn.; Chaddock College, Quincy, 111.; Denison University, Granville, 
Ohio; Otterbein University, Westerville, Ohio; F. G. Galbraith, Bain- 
bridge, Pa. ; the University, Lewisburg, Pa. ; Wagner Free Institute 
of Science, Philadelphia, Pa. ; Westtown Boarding School, Westtown, 
Pa. ; State Normal School, West Chester, Pa. ; Beechcroft School, 
Spring Hill, Tenn. ; Godda.rd Seminary, Barre, Vt. 

A collection of 34 species of Crustacea, from the recent deep-sea 
dredgings of the Fish Commission steamers Fisk Hawk and Albatross, 
were sent in June to the Eev. A. M. Norman, of England, who is now 
preparing a series of British species in return. Several other small 
collections of only one or a few species each, have been supplied, by re- 
quest, to American students, to be used in special investigations. 

In the annual report for 1883 reference was made to five sets of du- 
plicates sent to Europe under the system of exchanges mentioned 
above. Eeturns have been received for three of these sets, as follows: 
From the Eev. A. M. Norman, from Prof. G. Stewardson Brady, and 
from Prof. H. N. Moseley, of Oxford University, the acknowledgments 
for which have already been made under the accessions. For the col- 
lection of Echinoderms received from Bergen's Museum this Museum 
is still indebted, and a suitable return will soon be made. From the 
Eoyal Academy of Stockholm, Sweden, a suite of specimens from the 
collection of the Vega Arctic expedition is promised, and from the 
University of Edinburgh, Scotland, a collection of British species. 



BErORT OF DKPAKTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 197 
THE U. S. FISH COMMISSION. 

A brief account of those explorations of the Fish Commission for 
1884 which have been i)ro(luctive t)f valuable zoological results, now 
or soon to be shared in by the National Museum, will not be out of 
l)lace in this connection, although reference has already been made to 
them under the accessions. 

The steamer Albatross, under command of Lieut. Commander Z. L. 
Tanner, U. S. N., continued in active service during nearly the entire 
year. From January to Mtiy she was detailed for sounding operations 
in the Gulf of ^Mexico and Caribbean Sea, under the direction of the 
Ilydrographic Bureau of the Navy Department, but was also able to 
make many drcdgings, and visited several interesting ports, where the 
naturalists occupied their time to good advantage. Mr. James E. Ben- 
edict was the naturalist in charge, and was assisted by Mr. Willard 
Nye, jr., of New Bedford, Mass., who volunteered his services. Sev- 
eral of the officers also did eifective work in the collecting of specimens. 
One of the most interesting localities visited was that directly off Ha- 
vana, on the north side of Cuba, where Fentacrimis is known to occur 
abundantly, and where numerous specimens of that curious animal 
were obtained by means of the tangles, the bottom being too rough to 
permit of the use of any other ai)pliance. Nearly all the other dredg- 
iugs were made in the Caribbean Sea, and were distributed over many 
parts of that important zoological region. Fifty-three dredgings were 
made, in depths of 5 to 1,701 fathoms, 20 being in depths greater than 
L'OO fathoms. The ports and islands visited, at Tvhich shore-collections 
and shallow- water dredgings from a small boat were made, are as fol- 
lows: Key West, Fla.; the island of St. Thomas; Jamaica; the island 
of Old Providence, off the coast of Nicaragua; the island of Cura§ao, 
otf the coast of Venezuela; the town of Sabanilla, United States of 
Colombia, and San Antonio, Cuba. 

The zoological specimens obtained during this cruise were brought 
directly to the National Museun), where they were sorted and cata- 
logued. The Crustacea have been sent to Prof. S. I. Smith, of New 
Haven, Conn,, who writes that they include many exceedingly interest- 
ing forms. The Echini have been worked up by the curator, who will 
soon report upon them in the Proceedings of the Museum. Of this 
group 25 species were obtained, 9 being littoral forms and 16 from depths 
of 25 to 1,030 fathoms. Mr. Benedict is studying the Annelids, but the 
other portions of the collection have not yet been referred for examina- 
tion, although Professor Verrill offers to report upon the Anthozoa, and 
Prof. L. A. Lee upon the Foraminifera. 

In July the Albatross resumed her ex])lorations of the eastern coast, 
which were C(mtinued until the latter part of Ootober. During this 
time the headquarters of the Fish Commission were at Wood's HoU, 
Mass., where a permanent summer station has been established. Suit- 
able wharves and buildings to accommodate the investigating work of 



198 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

the Commission, Lave beeu iu course of preparation at tbis point for 
some time, and the more important ones are now nearly completed; 
but during last summer it was still necessary to make use of the small 
frame laboratory building put up some years ago, and which, though 
amply commodious for the small party then iu the field, does not afford 
sufficient facilities for the work as it is now carried on. The new im- 
provements comprehend a large, square stone pier and wharves for the 
use of steamers, and in(;losing several basins for fish culture, and a 
laboratory building three stories iu height. The lower story of the 
laboratory will be devoted to fish culture, to the larger experimental 
aquaria, and to the coaiser kinds of work ; the second and third stories, 
to the laboratory work-rooms proper, which will be fully equipped for 
all the investigations to be carried on in connection with the study of 
the ocean fisheries. It is also intended to reserve sufficient space for 
the use of special workers in biology who may desire to study any of 
the materials brought in by the steamers of the Commission, and which 
it would be difficult for them to obtain by other means. 

Many of those who have participated in the summer explorations of 
the Commission have given their services gratuitously, and it has, there- 
fore, been possible to organize a much larger corps of assistants during 
that season than the funds of the Commission would otherwise have 
permitted. The zoological investigations this year were carried on 
under the immediate supervision of Prof. A. E. Verrill, who has been 
connected with the Commission since the first year of its establishment. 
His associates and assistants in the laboratory work, in addition to the 
curator, Mr. Peter Parker, jr., and Mr. A. H. Baldwin, Avho belong to 
the j)ermauent staff of the Commission, were Prof. S. I. Smith, of Yale 
College ; Mr. Sanderson Smith, of New York ; Prof. L. A. Lee, of Bow- 
doin College; Prof. Edwin Linton, of Washington and Jefferson College; 
Mr. H. L. Bruuer, of Illinois; Mr. B. F. Koons, of the Storrs Agricult- 
ural School, Connecticut; Mr. J. H. Blake, of Cambridge, Mass. (as art- 
ist); Ensign W. E. Saffbrd, U. S. N.; and Mr. Willard Nye, jr., of New 
Bedford, Mass. Mr. James E. Benedict continued iu charge of the 
natural history work on the steamer Albatross, and during the several 
trips made from Wood's Holl was assisted by two or more of the per- 
sons mentioned above, Mr. Sanderson Smith and Mr. Peter Parker 
being constant members of the steamer party. Ensign E. H. Miner, U. 
S. N., of the Albatross, was associated with Mr. Parker in the care of 
the fishes. 

The active work of exploration was begun by the Albatross imme- 
diately after leaving Washington, and many important results were 
obtained before she reached Wood's Holl, in the latter part of July. 
Scarcely any time was lost during the entire summer from unfavorable 
weather or other causes, and her cruising continued until the very last 
of October, thus covering a continuous period of fully three mouths. 
The area explored extended from the southern edge of George's Bank 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 199 

to the latitude of Cape Hatteras, North Caroliua, and into a depth of 
water of 2,574 fathoms, at a point more than half way between our coast 
and the island of JJei inuda. A large number of tenii)erature and otker 
physical observations, bwirinu upon the n)igrations of mackerel and men- 
haden, were made, and large quantities of the small surface organisms 
on which those fish feed, were carefully collected. The abruptly slop- 
ing bottom at the inner edge of the Gulf Stream was thoroughly investi- 
gated at numerous places, and large collections of marine life obtained, 
but no traces were found of the once abundant tile-tish {Lopholatilus 
vhamahonticeps), which lirst attracted the attention of the Commissiou 
to this exceedingly rich region. Several lines of dredgings and of bot- 
tom and serial temperature were carried outward from the inner edge 
of this slope into dei)ths of 1,000 to 2,500 fathoms, and other similar 
lines were made to connect it with the shore soundings. The data thus 
far obtained regarding this region are in many ways very complete, 
and when properly worked up will have an important bearing upon 
several interesting lishery problems. 

Very important discoveries from a geological i)oiut of view were 
made in regard to the nature of the materials com])osing the sea bot- 
tom at great depths under the Gulf Stream, and a brief report upon 
this subject has already been published by Professor Verrill. In depths 
of 500 to 1,200 fathoms the bottom was often "found to consist of 
tough and compact clay so thoroughly hardened that many large and 
angular fragments, sometimes weighing more than fifty pounds, have 
been brought up in the trawl. * * * 'Xiiis material is genuine clay, 
mixed with more or less sand" and with a small percentage of the shells 
of Globigerina and other Foraminifera." 

The amount of zoological material obtained was very great, and some 
of it was of much interest. Even from the deeper hauls a great variety 
of life was obtained, and many very large and showy s])ecies, including a 
number of new forms. A large part of this material has already been 
turned over to the Museum, and the entire results will soon be repre- 
sented in our collection. 

The number of dredgings made by the Albatross, in the summer 
of 1884, was 341, of which 49 were in depths between 100 and 1,000 
fathoms, 20 between 1,000 and 2,000 fathoms, and 5 above 2,000 fathoms. 
The last cruise was mainly devoted to the region lying ofl" Cai)e Hat- 
teras, and 45 dredgings were there made, in depths of 7 to 671 fathoms, 
with good results. The specimens collected on this trij) were brought 
directly to Washington and sorted and catalogued in the Museum. 

At the close of 1884 the Albatross is making prejiarations for an- 
other cruise to the Gulf of Mexico to investigate the important fishing 
grounds bordering the coasts of the Southern States. It is expected 
tliat she will also make valuable additions to her collections of the pre- 
vious winter. 



200 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

RESEARCHES. 

This departmeDt bas been greatly benefited during the year past by 
the researches of Prof. A. E. Yerrill and Prof. S. I. Smith, of New Haven, 
Conn., on the deep-sea invertebrates obtained by the Fish Commission 
in its recent explorations. An account of the materials identified by 
them and received from New Haven and froQi the Wood's Holl station, 
has been given above. Professor Verrill hjis devoted most attention 
during the year to the Mollusca, but he has also studied large numbers 
of Echinoderms and Anthozoa, and several new species in those groups 
have been described by him in the reports cited under bis name in the 
bibliography. The Museum collection now contains nearly all the spe- 
cies of Echinoderms and Anthozoa discovered in the deep water ofl"the 
eastern coast, so far as they have been worked up. The studies of Pro- 
fessor Smith have been mainly upon the higher Crustacea, of which he 
has turned over to the Museum a large number of si)ecies. 

Mr. Sanderson Smith, of New York, a member of the Fish Commis- 
sion party during each summer, spent about two months at the Museum 
after the close of last season's explorations, sorting and identifying the 
Mollusca collected on the last cruise of the Albatross. The Hon. Theo- 
dore Lyman has also, in the leisure time at his disposal, continued his 
studies of the Ophiurans obtained by the Albatross in the Gulf of 
Mexico ai)d Caribbean Sea from January to May, 1884. 

Mr. James E. Benedict, the naturalist of the Albatross, has carried 
on his investigations of the Annelids on board that steamer or at his 
house, and will soon have material ready for transfer to the Museum. 
Mention may here be made of the fact that the Foraminifera of the Fish 
Commission collection are in the hands of Prof. L. A. Lee, of Bowdoin 
College, for study, and that the Entozoan parasites of fishes have been 
referred to Prof. Edwin Linton, of Washington and Jefferson College; 
but it is yet too early to expect reports from these gentlemen. 

The curator, while at Wood's Holl during the summer, identified the 
described species of parasitic Copepods contained in the Museum col- 
lection, and which were mainly obtained by the Fish Commission. An 
annotated list of the same has been iiublished in the Proceedings of the 
Museum for 1884. Drawings and preparations of several new species 
not yet jiublished were also made. He has also worked up the species 
of Echini belonging to the collection made by the Fish Commission 
steamer Albatross from January to May, 1884, in the Gulf of Mexico 
and Caribbean Sea. Although no new species were discovered, the col- 
lection is a valuable addition to this department. The work of identi- 
fying and revising the Museum collection of Echini, one of the largest 
and most imi)ortant of its kind in the world, has been continued through 
the year, and it will probably be possible during 1885 to prepare and 
publish a complete catalogue of the species it contains. 

The preparation of reports upon the marine invertebrate fishery in- 
dustries and the fishing grounds of North America, including the cor- 



KEPOKT OF DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 201 

rcctiou of proofs of the sauie, has occupieil much of the curator's time, 
but unavoidable delays prevented the issuing of any of those reports 
during 1SS4. 

The collection of Afitacida' (cray-hshcs) lent to Prof. Waller ]<\ixon,of 
Harvard College, for study, in the winter of 1882-'83, was returued to 
the Museum in .Tune last, fully identitied. This collection is now one of 
the nu)st conii)le(e in the world, es])C('i:illy as regiirds North American 
forms, containing 40 species (-14 being North American), of which !) are 
new to science, having been described by Professor Faxon during the 
year in the Proceedings of the American Academy (<f Arts iind Sciences, 
Vol. XX. The total number of jars in the collection is 210, and of speci- 
mens 1,084, many of the species being represented from several localities. 

Mr. John Murdoch, one of the naturalists of the U. S. Signal Service 
expedition to Point Barrow, Alaska, from 1881 to 1883, was engaged 
at the Smithsonian Institution during the winter and spring in working 
u[) the collection of marine invertebrates obtained by that expedition. 
This collection was found to contain 119 s[)ecies, as follows: Pycnogo- 
uida, 2; Crustacea, 44, of which 7 are new; Vermes, 20, of which 1 is 
new; Echinotlermata, 17; Anthozoa, 4; Hydrozoa, 17; Tunicata, 6; 
Brachiopoda, 1 ; Polyzoa, 5; and Porifera, 3. It is now in the i)osscs- 
jeion of tlie iMuseum. A preliminary account of the new species has been 
presented for publication in the Proceedings of the Museum, and a com- 
plete report upon the collection is in the hands of the Public Printer, as 
part of the "Eeport of the International Polar Exixidition to J*oint 
Barrow, Alaska, by First Lieut. P. H.Kay, Eighth Infantry, acting sig- 
nal officer, commander of the expedition." 

PRESENT STATE OF THE COLLECTIONS. 

The collections belonging to this department are now in exceptionally 
good condition, although, from the want of sufficient storage space, they 
are not, for the most part, suitably arranged for convenience of refer- 
ence. As above noted, materials have lately been received in such 
large quantities as to necessitate the constant attention of the small 
force assigned to this work in order to provide for their safety; and the 
careful preservation of specimens, rather than their scientific classifica- 
tion, has been the chief endeavor. IMuch has been accom])lish'3d, how- 
ever, in the working up of certain portions of the collections, and as a 
large proportion of the materials turned in by the Fish Commission has 
passed through the hands of specialists, the scientific value of the col- 
lections now in the department is very great. Nearly all the specimens 
received have been catalogued in the record books, and of all i)roperly 
identified collections card catalogues have been made and are arranged 
in sj'stematic order. 

Most of the alcoholic si)ecimens are stored in the basement of the 
Smithsonian Institution. The small room in the west basement, origi- 
nally assigned to this department, is now completely filled with jars and 



202 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

bottles, wliich uot only occupy all the shelves and tables, but a large 
part of the floor space as well. Two series of cases in the hall adjoin- 
ing this room are similarly filled with jars, while the floor of the hall is 
used for the storage of the large copper tanks. Another large series of 
cases in the main basement hall is occupied with jars belonging to this 
department, and also the wall cases in the southwest part of the bird 
hall, on the main floor. The west Smithsonian hall, formerly used for 
the exhibition of minirals and pottery, is now almost entirely taken up by 
this department, only a few of the larger pieces of pottery yet remain- 
ing. The old wall cases in this hall are now filled with the exhibition 
series of marine invertebrates, so far as it has been prepared; but it 
has been necessary to use the floor space and the tops of the cases for 
the storage of the dried specimens and some of the alcoholics, and for 
the working over of collections as they are received. This hall has, 
thereibre, been closed to the public for over a year. The general 
colleclit ii of dri; d specimens is arranged in trays and boxes, partly 
stored in suitable cases, but for the most part piled up on the floor. 
This collecti(m includes nearly all the groups of marine invertebrates, 
outside of the Mollusca, which permit of drying, and contains many 
valuable speciujcns. The dry sea-urchins, which have been completely 
worked up, are arranged in the trays fitting under the wall cases on the 
east side of the hall, and the collection of star-fishes occupies the simi- 
lar trays on the west side. 

The exhibition series has been temporarily arranged in natural se- 
quence as regard:, the several groups displayed, beginning in the north- 
east corner of the room. The sponges come first, and are followed by 
the llydroid corals, Actiniau corals, Alcyonian corals, Ophiurans, Star- 
fishes, Sea-urchins, and Crustaceans. By far the greater space is occu- 
pied by the corals, which include nearly all the specimens saved from 
the collections of the United States Exploring Expedition and the 
North Pacific Exploring Expedition. As a whole the exhibition series 
presents a creditable appearance, and it should be opened to the public 
at as early a date as possible. 

The total number of j)ackages of specimens so far registered in this 
department is 20,279, but as to the number of species or specimens it is 
impossible at present to give any figures. A large number of the pack- 
ages contain many, often several hundred, or, in the case of exceedingly 
small animals, even thousands of specimens, rendering it quite useless 
to attempt an enumeration. 

The exhibition series contains the following number of specimens: 
Sponges, 283; Corals, 73G; Ophiurans, 120; Star-fishes, 173; Sea-urchins, 
207; Crustaceans, 74; Miscellaneous, 20; total, 1,613. 



XII (^) -DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE lOSSILS, PALEOZOIC. 



IJy C D. Wai.cott, Honorary Curator. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

The most important addition is that, of Devonian and Carboniferous 
fossils from the U. S. Geological Survey collections. Many of the speci- 
mens are types of new species, and the collection is the original one 
u])on which the Paleontology of the Eureka District, Nevada, is based. 
(Monog. VIII, U. S. Geol. Surv.) 

Another collection transferred from the Survey contains a valuable 
and extensive series from the Hamilton group at Moravia, N. Y. 

Lists of the species in the above collections will be Ibund in the ap- 
pendix. 

The smaller accessions are: 

One block of Lower Carboniferous limestone with two beautiful sped' 
mens of Scaphiocrinus sp. ? from Capt. George M. Wheeler, U. S. A. 

From the Hamilton group at Widder, Ontario : Actinozoa, IG species; 
Brachiopoda, 4 species; Gasteropoda, 1 s[)ecics; Pteropoda, 1 species; 
Annelida, 1 species; received from Mr. C. D. Walcott. 

By exchange with the Sayre Female Institute, of Lexington, Ky., the 
following species of fossils from the Hudson River group of Ohio and 
Kentucky were received : 



Trematospira quadriplicata. 
Zygospira modesta. 
Khynchonella capax. 
Cyclora minuta. 
Murchisonia Bowdeni. 



Buthotrephis gracilis. 
Climacograptus bicornis. 
Crania scabiosa. 
Orthis insculpta. 
Strophomena alternata. 
Strophodonta planumboua. 

A return exchange was prepare<l of 14 species of Devonian and 15 
species of Carboniferous fossils. 

From Mr. L. A. Cox, of Keokuk, Iowa, a beautiful specimen of Bori/- 
crinus Mississippicnsis was received, and also casts of the following 
species of Criiioids from the Keokuk limestone: 



Agaricocrinus Americanus. 
Agaricocrinus Wortheni. 
Barycrinus Hercules. 
Barycrinus spurius. 
Barj^crinus tumidus. 
Batocrinus ])iturbiuatus. 



Dorycrinus Mississippicnsis. 
Onychocrinus exculptus. 
Synbathocrinus Swallovi. 
Taxocrinus Wortheni. 
Zeacrinus Coxanus. 

yos 



204 KEPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1881. 

A collectiouof Carboniferous fossils from Charles H. Townsend, Baird, 
Shasta County, California. This embraces 56 specimens, and is a desir- 
able addition to the collection already in the Museum from that place, 
as no other locality of Paleozoic fossils is known on the Pacific coast. 

A specimen of Orthoceras sp.? from the Coal Measures near Burling- 
ton, Kans., received from Mr. James B. Quil, of Burlington, Kans. 

A fine specimen of Productus semireficulatus, from J. J. Watts, Peach 
Springs, West Tennessee. 

One worn specimen of Syringopora sp.? (Carboniferous), a pebble in 
Paria River, Southern Utah, received from Mr. A. L. Siler, Hillsdale, 
Utah. 

Eeceived (accession No. 14347) from Mr. E. B. Knapp, of Skaneateles, 
N. Y., a collection comprising 14 genera, 17 species, of Devonian fossils, 
as per the following lists : 

No. of specimens. 
Hamilton formation : 

Strophodonia concava, Hall 1 

Slrophodonta varistriataf ConraA 1 

Rhynckonella ( />. ) limitaris, Vanuxem 3 

Rhynchouella {L. ) quadricosiattts, Vanuxem 2 

Athyris Cora, Hall 1 

Airypa reticularis, Liunajus 2 

Microdon bellistriatiis, Conrad 1 

Modiomorpha coiicentriva, Conrad 2 

Modiomorplm alia, Conrad 1 

Grammysia sitbarcuaia, Hall 1 

Nyassa arguta, Hall I 

Paracyclas liraia. Conrad 1 

NuculUes triqueter, Conrad 2 

Nucula Eandalli, Hall 1 

Fleurotomaria suUomarfiinata, Conrad 1 

Pleurotomaria anicomaryinata (Morrisville, N. Y.) 1 

Corniferons limestone : 

Slrophomena rhoviboidalis, Wahlenberg 1 

Oriskany sandstone : 

Spiri/era arenosa, Conrad 1 

Miscellaneous U. S. National Museum accessions : 

Stromatoporaf sp.? Upper Coal Measures, Pleasant Hill, Mo. From Mr. G. C. 

Broadhead, Pleasant Hill, Mo 3 

14564. Fusulina cylindrica. A quantity of free specimens. From L. O. Perley, 

Emporia, Kans. 
14019. Astylospongia prwviorsa. Niagara formation, Tennessee. From Mr. 

W. M. Clark, Nashville, Tenn 1 

14309. Illcenu8 crassicauda, var. Trenton limestone, Lexington, Va. From 

Mr. M. B. Harding, Lexington, Va 2 

13966. Scaphiocrinua. Two beautiftil specimens on one block. Crawfordsville, 

Ind. From Capt. George M. Wheeler, U. S. A. 
Microdiscus speciosus. Middle Cambrian, Troy, N. Y. From Mr. S. W. Ford, 

Schodack Landing, N. Y 2 

Halysitea catenulaia, Linn. Drift of Park County, Indiana. From G. D. Lind, 

M. D., Danville, Ind I 

Oholella polita, Hall. 
Hyolithea primordialia, HaU. 



I 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 205 

Ftyvhopariaf calymenoides, Whitfield. 

Pljchoparia sji. f 

Jf/raulos }Voofi(e)i, Wliittield. Potsdam siindstone, Eau Claire beds, Dunn County, 

WiMconniu. From Public Museum of Milwaukee, Wis., by Mr. Carl Doerfliuger, 

secretary. 
Eiirypterus remipes, De Kay. A very tine specimeu. Waterlime group, Williams- 

ville, N. Y. From Mr. James Temple Brown, U. S. National Museum. 
Small miscellaneous collection: 

Carboniferous. From Mr. William Kancher, Oregon, Holt County, Missouri. 

WORK ON COLLECTIONS. 

Tbe direct work on the collections of the Museum has been the re- 
cording, identifying, and labeling of the material mentioned under ac- 
cessions, and a continuation as opportunity offered of the arrangement 
of the old collections of the Smithsonian Institution. The latter work 
has been very limited, owing to the writer's position as i)aleontologist 
in charge of the Paleozoic paleontology of the TJ. S. Geological Survey, 
requiring him and his assistants to devote the most of their time 
to original work in connection with the Survey. This work will, in a 
large degree, inure to the benefit of the Museum collections, as the 
material studied contains many new types and large numbers of spe- 
cies illustrating the stratigraphic and geograi)hic distribution of life 
during Paleozoic time. 

RESULTS OP THE WORK ON THE COLLECTIONS FROM NEVADA, AS 
GIVEN IN MONOGRAPH VIII OF THE U. S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY. 

"As an assistant geologist in the field work, the writer collected most 
of the fossils in situ, and studied their mode of occurrence and strati- 
graphic relations, thus disposing of an element of uncertainty which 
frequently arises in the mind of the paleontologist when examining col- 
lections from a region unfamiliar to him, and which presents, in the 
strata of the lesser divisions of its great geologic series of rock, asso- 
ciations of species unknown elsewhere, or an unusual vertical range of 
individual species. 

" The succession in the faunal series from the Olenellus (or Middle 
Cambrian) fauna, through a large, well-defined fauna of the character 
of that of the Potsdam group of New York and the Mississippi Valley, 
to one that in its assemblage of species combines both Cambrian and 
Silurian types, and passes upward into a fauna comparable to that of 
the Quebec group or the Calciferous and Chazy groups, is of special in- 
terest. The transition from the Cambrian to the Silurian fauna is very 
gradual, and such as would occur where there was no marktMl physical 
disturbance to influence the faunal change resulting from the natural 
dying out and development of species or the influx of new species from 
other areas. 

"The fauna between that of the Silurian aiul the Devonian horizons is 
so meager that the only refj'rence made to it is in the systematic list and 
in the lists of the geologic report. (Geology of the Eureka District.) 



206 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 



" The fauna of the Devouian is large aud represeut;itive, uotwith- 
standiug some species have reversed their relative position in the groop 
as they have been known heretofore, and others have a greater vertical 
range. 

" The fauna of the White Pine shale, in the White Pine district, is in 
many respects a peculiar one, combining as it does species ranging from 
the Middle Devonian into the Lower Carboniferous. The stratigraphic 
position of the shale is at the summit of the Devonian system and at the 
base of the Carboniferous ; it is overlain in the Eureka district, where 
the section is unbroken, by a massive belt of conglomerate before the 
limestones carrying the Lower Carboniferous fauna appear in the sec- 
tion. The most strongly marked Carboniferous species are Sjnriferina 
cristata, Eetzia radialis, Athyris suhlam ell osus, and Cardiomorpha Missoii- 
riensis. These are associated at the same horizon with such Devonian 
species as Discina Lodensis, Productus suhaculeatus, Amboccelia unibona, 
Bliynchonella (LeiorJiyncJiv.s) qvadricostata, Aviculopecten catactus, and 
Lunulicardium fragosmn. 

"The White Pine shales occupy the same position with relation to 
the Devouian and the Carboniferous systems as does the lower portion of 
the Pogonip limestone to the Cambrian and Silurian systems. In each 
case there are beds of passage carrying a fauna that unites the faunas 
of the two systems. 

"A summary of the Devouian fauna is given in the following table : 



Groups. 



Porifera 

Actinozoa 

Polyzoa 

Brachiopoda 

Jiamellibranchiata 
Gasteropoda . .. . 

Pteropoda 

Ccplialopoda 

Crustacea 

Poecilopoda 

Total 



Nevada. 



225 



P. 



S '= 

p. 
P 



1 


1 


13 


1 


51 


18 


17 


2 


17 


1 


? 


1 


4 




3 





Common to Kevada and 



New York. 



79 



Falls of 
Ohio. 



23 



Iowa. 



17 



*■ And five vaiieties. 

"The Devonian corals, as well as those of the Silurian and Carbon- 
iferous, are not illustrated, and only short notes are given of a portion 
of the twenty-seven species occurring- in the Devonian. From what is 
already known of this portion of the fauna there is little doubt but 
that future collections from the area of the Great Basin will give a 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 207 

very c()mi)leto series of species, and still further increase tlie miinber 
of species coiumou to the eastern and central (or Atlantic and Missis- 
sippi) areas and the western orEocky Mountain area. 

"The fauna of the Upper Carboniferous- limestone is composed of 
old and well-known species usually occurring at that horizon, and gives 
but three species new to the region of the Rocky Mountains, viz, 
Ftiloilictya Carbonaria, F. serrata, and Macrodon tcmiisfriafa. 

"There is a certain coniniingling of Ui^per Devonian species with 
the Lower Carboniferous fauna. We find Discina Neicherryl, Macrodon 
Hamiltonw, Grammysia Hannibalensis, 0. areuata, t^anguinoJitefi JEohis, 
and Pkuroiomaria nndomaryinata, associated with common Carbonifer- 
ous species. 

"The discovery of Pulmoniferous mollusks of the genera Physa and 
Zaptychius in association with the fresh-water shell AmjjiiUaria roiceUi 
and fragments of a flora conil'erous in character, supports the strati- 
graphic evidence of the presence of a near or not distant land area at 
the time of the deposition of the Lower Carboniferous rocks of Central 
Nevada. It also gives the first notice of the occurrence of the Pulmon- 
ifera iu rocks of this age; the land shells of Nova Scotia and Illinois 
occur in the Coal Measures, and Strophites grandceva, Dawson, is from 
the Devonian plant beds of New Brunswick. The bearing of this 
discovery on the i)resence of land areas from the time of the Middle 
Paleozoic to the present is important. No other explanation offers than 
that there was a continuous fresh-water habitat, ponds or streams, 
which permitted the species to descend in a direct line from Paleozoic 
time to the present. 

"The grouping of the genera and species in the strata is shown in 
a general manner in the systematic list at the end of this volume, and 
in greater detail in the abstract of a report on the geology of the 
Eureka district, Nevada, by Arnold Hague, contained in the Third 
Annual Report of the Director of the U. S. Geological Survey." 

In the accompanying table the number of species known at present 
in the Paleozoic formations of Central Nevada is given : 









•o 




























x> 










































u 














» a 










2 


i 


a> 

o 


'3 


ft 


a 


1 




8 


1 


1 


13 

a 


a 
o 


i 


O 


ta 


Ph 


(Zi 


P 


« 


Camlirian .. 


24 


fi» 


32 


31 


G 




Sllnrian: 
















47 


09 


34 


31 


34 


15 


Treiiton, &.c 


14 
102 
65 


15 

225 
132 


4 
119 
53 


"hi 

50 


11 
45 
29 




Devoniau 




Carboniferous 


3 






Total 


252 
8 


540 
18 


242 
18 


173 


125 


18 


Recurrent species 








- 


Total 


244 


522 


224 


173 


» 









208 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 



PRESENT STATE OF MUSEUM COLLECTIONS. 

Wlieu the writer took charge of the collection of the Paleozoic inver- 
tebrate fossils, in the winter of 1883.-'84:, it was in seven table cases, and 
entirely withont classification or arrangement. . The first work was to 
remove the dust and dirt from a considerable portion of the collection 
that had not been cleaned, and then make a rough separation so as to 
group the specimens in their proper geological horizons — Cambrian, 
Silurian, Devonian, and Carboniferous, and into their zoologic groups 
within those horizons. This was done, and also all the accessions re- 
corded and numbered that had been accumulating for a number of 
years. The old collections were then left for future study as each geo- 
logic fauna was taken up by the writer in connection with his work as 
paleontologist in charge of the Paleozoic paleontology of the U. S. Geo- 
logical Survey. 

As will be noticed under the head of accessions, large additions have 
been made to the collection, principally from the Geological Survey. 
This material is recorded, labeled, and can readily be placed on ex- 
hibition or referred to at once by students or other persons wishing to 
see it. 

The collection is arranged in thirteen standard cases and in the lab- 
oratory storage cases, and is considered as a working collection not yet 
prepared for exhibition. When exhibition space is assigned and an 
assistant detailed to aid in the work an exhibition series of typical forms 
can soon be arranged. The total number of specimens is estimated to 
be about 73,000. This includes the Smithsonian collections, those of 
the various Government surveys up to the date of the organization of 
the present Survey, and the accessions recorded up to the present date, 
December 31, 1884. 

In the following table is given the number of specimens in the Mu- 
seum obtained from the great geologic groups. The figures represent 
the number of specimens of rock, not the number of fossils, as many 
blocks contain from two to fifty specimens of fossils each. 

Statement ahotcing the number of invertebrate Paleozoic fossils in the National Museum col- 
lections Decevtber 31, 1884. 



Formation. 


Office. 


Court. 


Total. 




10,848 
2, 499 
4,504 
5,657 
1,892 




10,848 




9,919 

9,044 

28, 031 

255' 


12 418 




13, 548 


Carboniferous 


33, 688 


Permian 


1,892 


Green's casts (plaster) 


255 








Total 


25, 400 


47, 249 


72, 649 







Owing to the writer being engaged in field work during several months 
of the year, and the demands made by duties connected with the Geo- 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 209 

logical Survey, it is iinposj^ible to give any cousitlerable amount of time 
to labeling the old collection and preparing it for exhibition. 

The administrative duties of the department are attended to, an<l all 
the office work of the writer and two assistants adds to the value of 
the collections, as the material worked over and studied is transferred 
when fully prepared to the Museum collections. 

RECOMMENDATIONS. 

It is respectfully suggested that i)rovision be made by the Museum for 
the employment of an assistant, who shall be engaged in work connected 
with the Paleozoic collections of fossils. It is required, in order to put 
the old collections on exhibition and to record and take care of the ac- 
cessions. 

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 14 



Appendix I. 



Liata of the species transferred from the U. S. Geological Survey. 



Devonian. 
Brachiopoda. 



lAngvla AU>a-pinensis, Walcott 

Loena, Hall 

Ligea, Hall 

lAgea, Hall, var. Nevadensia, Wal- 
cott 

Lonensia, Walcott 

Melie, Hall 

Yhitei, Walcott 

Sp.? 

Jhseina Lodensis, Hall 

minuta, Hall ? 

Sp.? 

Pholidopg bellula. Walcott 

quadrangularis, Walcott 

Chonetes dejlecta. Hall 

filistriata, Walcott 

hemispherica, Hall 

macrostriata, Walcott 

mueronata. Hall 

setigera, Hall 

Sp.? 

L^tcena ep. ? 

Produitui (P.) EallanuB, Walcott 

/iir»wti/orme, Walcott 

lachrymosa, var. lima (Con- 
rad) Hall 

navicellus, Hall 

lachrymosa, var. stigmata, 

Hall 

Shumardianvs, Hall 

Skumardianut, var. pyxi- 

datxts, Hall 

speciosus, Hall 

subaculeatus, MurcL 

tru7icatus. Hall 

Sp. ? 

OrOiis impressa. Hall 

McFarlanei, Meek 

Ttdliensia, llall . . , 

Yanuxemi, Hall 

Skenidium Devonicum, Walcott 

Streptorhynchun CLemungensis (Conradj, 

Hall 

htreptorhqnchus Chemungemis, var. Pan- 
dora, Bill 

Strcptorhynchus Che7nu7igengis,xax. perveta, 

Hall 

Strophomena rhomboidalis, Wilckena 

Strophodonta arcuata, Hall 

Calvini, M illei' 

canace, H. &. W 

demissa (Conrad) ? Hall • 

hem,igpherica, Rail 

inequiradiata. Hall 

Patersoni, Hall . . 

f)erpto?ta, Conrad (Hall) 

pu7ictulifera (Conrad) Hall . . 
(luiscelluneous) 




Devonian — Continued. 

Brachiopoda — Continued. 

Spiri/era Alba-pineniiis, H. & W 

disjuncta, Sowerby 

Englemani, Meek 

glabra, var. Nevadensis, Walcott . - 

Parryana. Hall ? 

Pinonensis. Meek 

rariccsta (Conrad) '? Hall 

atrigouvs, Meek, S. disjuncta De 

Verucuil 

subumbuna, Hall 

(If.) Maia, Billings 

varicosa. Hall 

undifera, Koemer 

undifera, var. setigera. Hall 

Sp.? 

Spiriferina cristata, Schlotheim 

Am,buc<Blia wnbonata, Conrnd 

Cyrtina Davidsoni, Walcott 

Mainiltonee, Hall 

Nitcleospira concinna, Hal 1 - 

Irematospira in/requens, Walcott 

Retzia radialis, Pbillips 

Athyris angelica, Hall 

Sp? 

Meristella natula. Conrad 

A trypa desquamala. Sowerby 

reticularis (Linn.) Dalman . - 

Phynchonella castanea. Meek 

duplicata, Hall 

Emmonsi, H. & W 

Horsfordi. Hall 

pugnus, Martin 

occidens, Walcott 

quadricostata, Vanuxem 

ix/ij/s, Billings 

/yawra, Billings 

{L. ) Nevadensis, Walcott 

\L.j sinuatus, Hall 

Leptocoelia sp. ? 

Pentameras cotnis, Owen 

io<(«, Walcott 

Tropidoleptus carlnatus. Hall 

Cryptonella 1 circula, Walcott 

Pinonensis, AValcott 

Sp.? .- 

Terebratula sp. ? - . 

Number of species, 80; number of 
specimens, 1,549. 

Lamellibranchiata. 

Aviculopecten ? catactus. Meek 

Pterinopecten sp, 1 

Glyptodesma S}>. ? 

Plerinea Newarkensis, Walcott 

fiabella, Conrad 

Actinoptera Boydii, Conrad 

Leiopteria Rafinesqui, Hall 



210 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 211 



No. of 
speci- 
mens. 



Devonian — Continued. 

LamMibranchiata — Continued. 

Lfj'todesma tratigrerga, Walcott 

Liiitiiptera sanneiiticia, Walcott 

Mi/tilarca dubia, Walcott 

Gliemungcnsi^, Conrad 

Sp.? 

FleUiuiiiyt'dus ovi/ormis, Conrad 

Mudiomorpha altifurme, Walcott 

oblonga. Walcott 

obtuxa, Walcott 

Guniophora perangulata. Hall 

PaUeimeilo sp. L 

yuciila liencuensis, Walcott 

Sp.? 

iwticia. Hall 

Xuculites triangularis, II. &.W 

Dyntactella ingularis, Walcott 

ilegaiiibonia occidualis, Walcott 

,Vi/fi,v,vn jHirva, Walcott 

6'/ a m rnyxia minor, Walcott 

Edmondia Pinomnsis, Meek 

Ciirdiomurpha Missourieiisui, Shutusitd . 
Jiangiiinolttes rigidus. White & Whitfield 

Sandujih/ensis, Meek 

ren«ncos"u.v. White & Whitfield 

Combensis, WaU'ott 

gracilis, Walcott 

Conocardium Xevadensig, Walcott 

Sp.? 

lAinulicardium fragusum. Meek 

Faracyclas occidentalis. Hall 

perocciden.i, H. & W 

Pog'tdvnomya Devonioa, Walcott 

Icevis, Walcott 

ilicrodun macrogtriata, Walcott 

Anadontopgis amygdalaformig, Walcott . . . 

Cypricardinia indenta, Conrad (sp.) 

^chizi'dug (Cythcrodon) orbicularis, Walcott. 
Number of species, 38; number of 
specimens, 240. 

Gasteropoda. 



Flatyeeras carinatum. Hall 

conicum. Hall 

Conradi, Walcott 

dentalium. Hall 

nodosum, Conrad 

thetiforme. Walcott 

Thetis, llaW 

vndulatuiii, Walcott 

Sp. undt . 

Platycstoma lineata, Conrad 

Sp.? 

Ecculio inphalus Devonicug, Walcott 
Euoinphalus Eurekensis, Walcott . . , 

(P.) ioxu*. Hall 

(/'.) luxus. White 

Sp.? 

StraparoUus Aewarkensig. Walcott .. 
Cyclonema (like C. muUilira. Hall) . 

Pleurotomaria sp. ? 

Platyscliisma f ambiffiium, Walcott 

MeCoyi, Walcott 

Sp.f 

Callonema occidentalis, Walcott 

Sp.f 

Callonema ? 



Kaof 
speci- 
mena. 



Dkvoxiax— Continued. 
Oasterujwda— Cont inued 



Loxonema approximata, WiJcott 

Eurekensis, Walcott 

nobilis. Walcott 

Sp? 

BeUerophon Combtd. Walcott 

icda.Uall 

Lyra, Hall 

Mcera, Hall 

Neleus, U. tW 

Pelops, Hall 

perplexa. Walcott 

Scoliogtoma Americana, Walcott 

Naticopsis (like X. a-quistriata) 

Sp? 

Metoptoma ? Devonica, Walcott 

Number of species, 40 ; number of 
specimens, 275. 



Pteropoda. 



Tentaculites attenuatus. Hall 

bellulus. Hall 

gracilistriatug, Hall 

scalari/ormis, HaU 

(Sp. undt.) 

Styliola fissuretla. Hall 

Conularia sp. ? 

OoUulus IcEvis, Walcott 

Sp.f 

Byolithe* (like H. Aclis, Hall) 

Sp.? 

Number of species, 11 ; number of 
specimens, 107. 



Cephalopoda. 



Orthoceras sp. ? (5 species) 

Oomphocerag suboriforme. Walcott . 

Sp..' . .'. 

Oyrtocerag cessator, H.&W 

Kevadense, Walcott 

Sp.? 

Oyroceras sp. ? 

Goniatites desideratus, Walcott 

Kingi, H.&W 

(like O. discoideus. Hall) 

Number of species, 14 ; number of 
specimens, 81. 

Crustacea. 

Beyrichia occidentalis, Walcott 

Leperditia rotundata, Walcott 

Sp.? 

Number of species, 3 ; number of 
specimens, 23. 

Poecilopoda. 



Phacvps rana (Green) HaU 

Dalmanites Meeki, Walcott 

Sp.? 

Proetus Haldemanni, Hall 

m.arginalis (Conrad) Hall 

Sp.? 

Phillipsia omata, Hall ? 

Number of species, 7 ; number of 
specimens, 121. 



212 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 



From the Carboniferous the record shows 103 species and 1,627 speci- 
mens. 



Carbonifeuous. 

Brachiopoda. 

Discina eonnata, Walcott 

Newberryi, ITall 

Newherryi, Hall ? 

nitida, Phillips 

Sp.? 

Lingula mytiloides, Sowerby ? 

Ohoneteg granvlifera, Ov/en 

Verneuiliana, N. ife P 

Prodvctus Cora, D'Orb 

costatus, Sowerby 

costatus, var. ? Sowerby 

elegans, McCoy 

lorigispinus, Sowerby 

punctatus (Martin) 

semireticulatus (Martin) De Ko- 

nlnck 

subaculeattis, Murch 

several sp. ? . . 

Streptorhynchug crenigtria (Phillips) Da- 
vidson 

Orthig Pecosi, Maroou 

resupinata (Martin) Ue Koninck. . . 

Spirifwa annectang, Walcott 

carnerata, Martin 

degiderata, Walcott 

trigonalig (Martin) Sowerby 

Leidyi, N. & P 

neglecta, Hall 

Roekymontana, Marcoa 

gtriata, Martin 

yoiino; shells , 

(Martiiiia) getigera, Hall 

Syringothyrig cuspidatus (Martin) King 

Spiriferina cristata, Schlotheim 

Retzia radialig, Phillips 

Yerneuiliana. Hall 

Athyrig Roygsii (L. EveiUe) McCoy 

gvblamellosa. Hall 

gubtilita ^Hall) Newberry 

Sp.? . .; 

Rhynchonella Eurekengis, Walcott 

Thera, Walcott 

Utah, Marcou . . 

Sp. ? 

Camaraphoria Coopen-ngig. Shumard 

Terrehratula bovideng, Martin 

• hagtata, Sowerby 

2 sp. ? 

Number of species, 38; number of 
specimens, 941. 

Lamellibranchiata. 

Avieulnpecten affinis, Walcott 

Kurekengig, Walcott 

Haguei, Walcott 

peroccideng. Wnlcott 

Pintoengis, Walcott 

2 sp. ? 

Streblopteria giynilis, Walcott 

Crenipecten Hallanug, Walcott 

Pterinopecten Hoogacengig, Walcott 

Spio. Walcott 

Pterinea Pintoengig, Walcott 

Leptodegina 2 sp. ? 

Ptychopteria protoforme, Walcott 

Pinna consiinilig, Walcott 

inexpectang, Walrott 

Myalina cnngenerU, Walcott 

Neinegig. Walcott 

N'esgus, Walcott 

Modiola Nevadensis. Walcott 

Modiomorpha ambigua, Walcott 

degiderata, Walcott . . '. . . 

Pin toengig, Walcott 

Nxusula ingularig, Walcott 

levatiforme, Walcott 

2 sp. ? 



No. of 
speci- 



102 

5 

4 

13 

2 

10 

24 

7 

2 

5 

2 

."> 

1 



Carboniferous— Continued. 

Lamellibranchiata — Continued. 

Solenomya curta, Walcott 

Macrodon HamiUonce, Hall 

truneata, Walcott 

tenuigtriata. Meek & Worthen . . 

Orammygia Hannibalengig, Shumard 

arcuata. Conrad 

Edmondia Medon, Walcott 

? circularig, Walcott 

Plexirophorng Meeki, Walcott 

Sanguinoliteg ^olug, M. & W 

? Ncenia, ^\'alcott 

retusitg, Walcott 

Salteri. Walcott 

simplex, Walcott 

gtriata, Walcott 

fSsp.i 

Microdon (Cypricardella) covnatus, Walcott. 

Cardiola f filicostata, Walcott 

Schizodug cuneatug. Meek 

curtifiirme, Walcott 

depareus, Walcott 

Pini'oensis, Walcott 

Number of species, 42 ; number of 
specimens, 445. 

Gagteropoda. 



Platycerag occidens, Walcott 2 

Piso, Walcott 1 

Platyogtoma inornata, Walcott 1 

Euomphalug giihriigrigus, M. & W 1 

Loxonema bella, Walcott ". . 1 

sp.? 1 

Machrocheihtg, sp. '! 1 

Ple^irotomaria Eurekensig, Walcott ; 10 

nodomarginata, McChesnev-' 4 

3sp.? "^..I 15 

Naticopgis2 s-pA 1 4 

Bellerophon majxiscida. Walcott | U 

textilig, Hall ! 10 

2sp. ? -■ I 8 

Metoptoma peroccideng, Walcott i 2 

Ampullariaf Powelli, Walcott Many 

Number of species, 1 1 ; number of 
specimens, 72. 

Pulmoni/era. 

Zaptychivs Carbonaria, Walcott Many 

Physa prigca, Walcott Many 

Number of species, 2. I 

Ptcropoda. 

Gonularia Miggouriengig, Shumard I 1 

Hyolitheg Carbonaria, Walcott ' 2 

Dentalium (like D. Primarium), Hall 8 

Number of .species, 3 ; number of I 
specimens, 11. 

Cephalopoda. 

Orthocerag Eurekengis, Walcott 3 

avnidatocogtata, M. & W 6 

2sp.? 3 

Gomphoceras sp. ? 2 

Nautilus (like iV. Digonug. M. & W.) 2 

Goniatites sp. ? 1 

Number of species, 5; number of ' 
specimens, 17 ' 

Crustacea. I 



No. of 

speci- 
mens. 



Leperditia sp. ? 11 

Number of species, 1 ; number of 
specimens, 11. | 

raecilopoda. 

Grijithides Portloeki, M. & W 140 

Number of species, 1 ; number of 
specimens, 140. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 213 

Devouian fossils from the Huiniltou groiii* at ^loiavia, N. Y., trans- 
ferred from the U. S. Geological Survey : 





No. Of 
speci- 
mens. 


INo. of 
1 speci- 
mena. 


Devonian. 
Actinozoa. 


53 
3 
37 

4 
16 

39 

3 
2 

8 

S 
25 

6 

6 
16 
50 

3 

7 
55 

9 

2 
17 

7 
11 

2 
18 
46 
52 
76 

3 
50 
48 
56 

5 

1 

8 
83 

4 
25 
15 

1 
1 
1 
5 
17 
4 

1 1 
2 
1 
2 


! 

1 Devo.max— Continued. 
' Lamellibranchiata — Continued. 

Ghjptodesina erectuni, Conrad 

I'terinea jlahella, Conrad 

Leiopturia sp. ? 

Mytilarca (I'.) oviform is. Hall 

Modiomorjiha alta, Conrad 

cumplanata, KaW 

! conceutrica, Conrad 

1 Sp. ? 

Goniopbora Ilamiltoncnsis, Hall 

riigosa. Conrad 






2 


frulicotus, Hall 

Xmuber of species, 3; nuiubur of 
spccimeus, 93. 

Eehinodermata. 


5 

2 

1 

21 

33 

1 

5 




3 


Number of species, 2; uuinber of 
specimens, 20. 


98 




3 




4 


Polyzoa. 








30 




Sp. ? 


1 


Number of species, 1; number of 
specimens, 3U. 




9 




11 




24 


Brachiopoda. 


liandalli Hall 


2 


Nuculiles Aiiassa, Hall 

oblongata. Hall 


10 

28 


sp. ? 


20 




Leda diversa. Hall 

ro-stellata. Hall 


20 


sp.f 

I'hoUdops HamiltoncB, Hall 


5 




2 






1 






1 






1 


sp ? 




1 




LunuHcar dill III fragile Hall 

Paracyclas tenuis, Uall 


5 


OrthU Vanuxemi, Hall 

^trofhodiriita concova. Hall 


8 
2 




28 


incquivtriata, Conrad 

perplana. Courad 

texlilis iJall 


tenuiUriata, Hall 


1 
4 




1 


Sjiiri/cra acuminata, Conrad (Cooperstown, 

N y.) 




46 




Z 
5 
5 


fimbriata, Conrad 


Fhthonia sectifrons, Conrad 


medians. Hall 

mticronata. Conrad 

Tullia. Hall 


Schizodus appressus, Conrad 

Number of species, 53; number of 
specimens, 482. 

Gasteropoda. 

Platyceraa carinatuin. Hall 

erectum. Hall 

Platyostoma lineatuin, Conrad 

Pkurotomaria capillaria, Conrad 

ifi/«. Hall 

trilix, Hall 

Loxoncma delphicola. IJall 

Haruilloneiisis, Hall 

BellerophoH Leda. Hall 


3 














var. spinona. Hall 

Hhiinchoaella llnrsfordi. Hall 


1 
4 




•) 


JUiiinchoneUa sub cubo ides. Hull 

Sii. 1 


16 
11 






Cnjptonella Eudora. Hall (Ithaca, N.T.) ... 
Number of si)ceie8, 32; number of 
specimens, 747. 


3 

7 

n 






14 


Aviculopectei Ida, KM 


Cyrtolites niitella, IhiW 

Number of species, 11; number of 
specimens, 75. 

Pteropoda. 

Tentaculites scalarifnrmis. Hall 




Phorcus, Hall 












Sp.? 

Actlnopteria subdccussata. Hall 


1 


Myolithe.s aclis,\l,i\\ 


5 






2 




gtriatus. Hall '. 

Sp. ? 


1 


I'terinupecten i 


2 



214 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 



No. of 
mens.' 



Dbvonian— Continned. 
Pteropoda — Continned. 



Coleoltit tenuicinctum, Hall 

Gonularia nndulata, Conrad 

Number of species, 6 j number of 
specimens, 16. 

Cephalopoda. 



Orthoeeras crotalum. Hall . . 

nuntium, Hall . . 

guhulatum. Hall . 

Telamon, Hall . . . 

Sp.? 

GoniaMtes discoidetis, Hall . . 



Devonian— Continued. 

Cephalopoda — Continued. 

Ooniatites Sp. 1 

A^autilus liratus, var. juvenis, Hall 

Number of species, 8 ; number of 
specimens, 66. 

Pcedlopoda. 

Phdcops rana. Green 

Dalmanites Boothii, Green 

Homalonotus DeKayi, Green 

Slickensides 

Number of species, 4; number of 
specimens, 61. 



No. of 
speci- 
mens'. 



Genera, 65; species, 120; specimens, 1,599. 

The above collection will be of value iu tlie comparative study of 
faunas from the Devonian, as it is from one locality and shows varia- 
tions in the species not observed elsewhere. 

"The general character of the fauna of the Cambrian, Silurian, 
Devonian, and Carboniferous strata of the Eureka and White Pine 
mining districts of Central j^evada is given in this work more to illus- 
trate the stratigraphic succession and equivalency of the geologic hori- 
zons with those described elsewhere than as a detailed monograph of 
the invertebrate fossils, since for the latter purpose much more exten- 
sive collections are necessary to represent the large fauna of the Paleo- 
zoic system of Central Nevada than we have at present." 



XII (B).-DEPARTMENT OF LNVERTEBRATE FOSSILS, MESOZOIC 

AND CENOZOIC. 



By C. A. White, Honorary Curator. 



This report necessarily embraces an account of a large part of the 
work which has been done by my division of the U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey, because myself and all of my assistants except one are regularly 
employed as members of that organization ; also much the greater part 
of the material which is now being received for this division of the 
Museum comes from parties connected with the Survey. 

Besides myself, the following persons connected with the Survey have 
been employed in my division of the Museum work during the year : J. 
B. Marcou, Lawrence C. Johnson, Frank Burns, P. C. George, J. P. 
Hendley, and C. B. Boyle. In addition to these, Dr. E. IT. Singleton 
has been detailed from the Museum for work in connection with the 
registers and catalogues. It will of course be understood that for a 
part of the year the persons mentioned above who are connected with 
the Survey are not engaged upon Museum work. All of them spend 
more or less of the year in the field work of the Survey, and some of 
them are engaged mainly in the collection of fossils, which are sent to 
the Museum. 

ACCESSIONS. 

There have been received at the Museum during the past year about 
85 boxes of fossils which pertain to my division, the number being 
somewhat indefinite because many of the boxes which are sent contain 
material which pertains to other divisions. These accessions embrace 
collections made in California, Oregon, 2^ew Jersey, Florida, Alabama, 
and Mississippi. 

As is usually the case with such collectinns, a part of the material is 
not available for Museum purposes; but still these accessions are mak- 
ing large additions to the Museum material of a very important char- 
acter. These new collections also embrace species which have not before 
been in the possession of the Museum. This is especially the case with 
the collections from California and tlie Gulf States. 

Fifteen accessions sent by private parties to the Museum have been 
received by my division during the year. Most of these are of little value 

21.'i 



216 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

as accessions, but a part of tbem are desirable. Tbey have, however, 
all received proper atteutiou, as required by the rules of the Museum. 

ROUTINE WORK. 

Besides the work of classifying and arranging the collections, the 
routine work of my division has consisted largely in duplicating the 
registers and the preparation of catalogues. (Jopies of the three large 
volumes of the registers have been made, consisting of 3,500, 8,899, and 
12,900 entries, respectively. These copies have been delivered to Mr. 
C. D. Walcott, who has charge of the Paleozoic fossils. 

A comi)lete index of all the Mesozoic and Cenozoic invertebrate fossils 
of North America, wherever published, is in an advanced state of prep 
aration, and it is exi)ected that it will be ready for publication during 
the year. 

A catalogue of all the type specimens of the Mesozoic and Cenozoic 
species belonging to the Museum is nearly completed, and will soon be 
offered for publication in the Proceedings of the Museum. It is based 
upon a careful selection and verification of the specimens, and will show 
the Museum registry number of each, as well as the date and place of 
description and illustration. 

Tbe reviewing and labeling of all the fossils belonging to this divis- 
ion, exclusive of the later collections of the Geological Survey and the 
49 boxes sent last year from Texas by Mr. George Stolley, have been 
completed. The Stolley collection has been unpacked, a few trays full 
selected for the Museum, and the remainder stored in the Armory 
building. 

The entries in the Museum register for the year range from 12,231 to 
13,389, inclusive. 

A collection of Mesozoic and Cenozoic fossils, consisting of 100 species 
has been sent to Prof. Samuel Calvin, of the Iowa State University, in 
exchange for fossils recei\'ed from him by the Museum a year or two 
previously. A collection of 18 specimens of fossiliferous rocks have 
been delivered to Mr, George P. Merrill, in charge of the Department 
of Lithology in the Museum. 

PRESENT STATE OF THE COLLECTIONS. 

It is not at present practicable to make any satisfactory statement as 
to the present state of the collections, because, for want of sufficient 
help and suitable room in which to work, they have not been fully 
classified, and none of them are yet installed. Upon the completion 
of the study of any collection or group of si)ecies the specimens have 
been put away in trays, where they await an opportunity for their clas- 
sification and installation. 

Speaking in a general way, 1 may say that the collections contain a 
large part of the types of the species of fossil invertebrates which 
have been published in the official reports of the United States sur- 



RLPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS 217 

veys aii<l explorations. A few of these have perhaps been lost, and 
.some have never reached the Museum. They also contain so large a 
number of authentic specimens of other species, that resort to the other 
^neat collections of the country is seldom necessary, so far as North 
American forms are concerned. 

The collections that are now being added to the Museum, together 
with those which it already possesses, are to be the standards of refer 
ence for the national geological work, and it is therefore essential that 
]>rovision be made for their safety and accessibility'. The Museum work 
of my division is very much retarded for want of suitable room in which 
to work and suitable cases in which to arrange the specimens. So great 
is the want in this resi)ect that we often find it impracticable to get 
access to the material which it is necessary to study; and the collec- 
tions are also inaccessible to other naturalists who may desire to study 
them. Convenient access at all times to the collections is necessary, 
because questions are constantly arising in the progress of the Govern- 
ment geological work which can be solved only by their aid. It may be 
mentioned, however, as an encouraging fact, that the more important 
I>art of the collections is comparatively safe, so far as danger of their 
destruction is concerned. 



XIII -DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL PLANTS. 



By Lester F. Ward, Honorarii Curator. 



Only a few scattering accessions have been made to the department 
during the year, and no work strictly appertaining to the cnratorship 
was undertaken until tifter the beginning of November, owing to my not 
having anj' assistants and to being constantly employed in the prepara- 
tion of reports for the Geological Survey. The material which I am 
elaborating for these reports will, however, be ultimately turned over to 
the Museum, and will largely increase its collections. 

On November 5, Mr. Frank H. Knowlton was assignetl to duty in the 
Department of Fossil Plants, and since that date he has been employed 
in devising and perfecting a system of cataloguing and installing the ac- 
cessions. A large amount of miscellaneous and undetermined material 
had accumulated which it had been impossible for me to attend to, and 
this he has carefully and intelligently examined, classified, and cata- 
logued. This material, therefore, I am now able, for the first time, to em- 
brace in my enumeration of stock in hand. Mr. Knowlton has also 
performed a large number of minor duties incident to the routine work 
of the department which had been deferred for want of time, and is in- 
trusted with the care of specimens as they ariive, and with all clerical 
work, which I hope may hereafter be attended to without delay. 

^Ir. A. L. Schott, formerly of the Botanic Garden, who has been em- 
ployed in the Museum to attend to the palms and other ornamental 
l)lants in the rotunda and on the adjacent balconies, was also assigned 
to mj' department early in November, and the permit-^sion given me to 
command his services during such portion of the time as they were not 
required in the care of the plants intrusted to his charge. The great 
need I was laboring under of specimens of living plants for comparison 
with fossil impressions, coupled with Mr. Sehott's peculiar fitness for 
collecting the exotic plants of the parks, streets, and greenhouses of 
the city, determined me to intrust him with the duty of making such a 
collection. It gives me pleasure to testify to the intelligent and satis- 
factory manner in which he has performed this duty. The specimens 
he daily brings, and which are carefullj' dried and preserved, represent 
species from all parts of the world, and especially from the tropics and 

219 



220 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

the Southeru Hemisphere, and they therefore constitute a most valu- 
able basis for the study of Mioceue fossil plauts, which usually possess 
so little analogy with the floras of north temperate latitudes. It is to 
be regretted that Mr. Schott's work was begun so late that few of the 
hardy exotics of the parks and streets could be obtained before the 
advent of frosts; but it is hoped that this work may be resumed and 
completed next season. 

The following was the state of the collections at the close of the year: 

1. Total number of specimens of catalogued material (exclusive of my recent 

collections still iu hand for study and not yet formally turned over to the 
National Museum) 7, 291 

2. Specimens in the Museum, but which have not been specifically determined, 

and consisting to a great extent of silici fied wood, petrified stems, trunks, &c . 2, 270 

3. Determined material , 5, 021 

4. Iu the reserve series, many of which,»however, are duplicates and can ulti- 

mately be used for purposes of exchange 3, 930 

5. Duplicates specially selected as such and now stored at the Armory Building. 1, 091 

6. Number of distinct species identified, catalogued, and installed 923 

7. Of which Paleozoic, chiefly Carboniferous 272 

6. Cretaceous, chiefly Dakota group 142 

9. Tertiary and Ljaramie group, largely the latter, which were classed as Eocene 

in the catalogue prepared by Mr. Lesquereux 509 

It is, perhaps, too early to speak of the proposed new department of 
botany which I learn is about to be established in the Museum and 
placed under my immediate charge, but I cannot repress my great 
satisfaction at such a step, and I desire to assure you of my hearty co- 
operation in making it a complete success. 



XIV -DEPARTMENT OF MINERALOGY. 



By F. W. Clakke, Honorary Curator. 



During the year the growth of the iiiiueral collection has been steady 
and encouraging. Material of great value has been received from many 
sources, the work of installing the collection has been definitely begun, 
and a system of exchanges has been fairly inaugurated. In connection 
with my duties as chief chemist of the U. S. Geological Survey, I have 
been able to institute some scientific investigations upon minerals col- 
lected in the field, and similar work has also been carried forward by 
certain of my assistants. 

A list of all the accessions to the mineral collection during 1884 would 
be too bulky for publication, but a brief resume of the more notable 
rmes may be interesting. The first place must be given, both by merit 
and in courtesy, to the admirable suite of American minerals loaned to 
the Museum by Mr. Joseph Willcox, of Media, Pa. This collection num- 
bers some 1,400 specimens, and fills the equivalent of six large sloping- 
top cases of three shelves each. It is remarkably rich in quartzes, 
rutiles, corundums, feldspars, amphiboles, pyroxenes, micas, tourma- 
lines, pyrophyllites, apatites and danburites, and in some of its series 
it could hardly be paralleled. Next in importance is the Abert collec- 
tion, which, made by Col. J. J. Abert, was presented to the Museum by 
his son, J. T. Abert, and contains 1,245 specimens. It was particularly 
rich in foreign material, and filled many serious gaps in the Museum 
series. 

To Prof. S. F. Peckham of Minneapolis, Minn., we are indebted lor 
a handsome group of cut specimens of pebbles of thomsonite from Min- 
nesota. From Mr. J. D. Schreiber of Shimersville, Pa., we received a 
large, fine crystal of corundum, together with several smaller ones, all 
of them from Shimersville. From Mr. Richard Pearce of Argo, C<ilu., 
we received a number of rare arsenates and phosphates of coi>per from 
the American Eagle Mine, Utah. Another lot of this material was col- 
lected for this department, last summer, by Mr. F. P. Dewey, Curator of 
the Department of Metallurgj-. 

Another large group of accessions is attributable to the appropiia- 
tion made for the Museum exhibit at the New Orleans Exposition. A 
part of this appropriation was allotted to the mineral department for 

221 



222 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

the purchase and collectiou of specimens, with very favorable results. 
Instead of attempting a general display of minerals it was thought best 
to take up one special class, and the class chosen for exhibition was 
that of "gems and ornamental stones." The schedule which was 
adopted included all the gems proi)er, rock crystal, agates and jaspers, 
malachite, lajiis lazuli, jet, meerschaum, amber &c.; and every impor- 
tant gem or ornamental species was secured both in the rough and cut 
conditions. About one thousand specimens of this class are now on 
exhibition in New Orleans, of which nearly or quite one-third are cut 
and polished stones. Educationally, the gem collection is practically 
complete, and needs only to be improved by the addition of minor va- 
rieties or the replacement of small specimens by better ones. A part 
of this collection was shown at the Cincinnati Exposition in September. 

In connection with the New Orleans work, two important field expe- 
ditious were made by Mr. W. S. Yeates. In his first trip, he visited the 
mineral region of Northern New York, and secured valuable material at 
Antwerp and Gouverneur. The suite of minerals from the Sterling iron 
mine at Antwerp is exceptionally fine and complete. To the liberality 
of Mr. E. B. Bulkley, president of the Jefferson Iron Company at Ant- 
werp, the Museum is indebted for nearly all of these specimens, a few 
having been secured from other parties by exchange. The millerites, 
siderites and chalcodites of this series are especially good, several 
handsome specimens of white siderite being included. Interest in the 
growth of the Museum was exhibited, in a practical way, by Mr. W. H. 
Andrews of Gouverneur, who generously contributed quite a number 
of specimens from his private collection, including not only the min- 
erals from St. Lawrence County, but also some from various other 
localities. Exceptionally good crystals of selenite from Grand Eapids, 
Mich., a specimen of whitneyite from Lake Superior, a specimen of 
crystallized white tourmaline from I)e Kalb, N. Y., a number of good 
crystals of black tourmaline from Pierrepont, N. Y. and a very large 
crystal of brown tourmaline, with perfect faces, from Gouverneur, were 
among the most important contributions made by Mr. Andrews. The 
Museum is also under obligations to Messrs. John D. Swan and E. S. 
Hodge, of Antwerp, and Messrs. John Webb, F. Lavack and O. P. 
Fuller, of Gouverneur. 

In his second trip, Mr. Yeates visited the Hot Springs of Arkansas, 
where he obtained good series of quartz crystals, wavellites, variscites, 
brookites, rutiles &c. During this trip, he also went to Mine La Motte, 
in Missouri, securing a quantity of linnseite, some exceptionally fine 
marcasite, and other good material. Thanks are due to Messrs. J. W. 
Neill, J. D. Sanders and B. Colman, and to Mrs. A. J. Beardsley, for 
most of the specimens collected at Mine La Motte. Both expeditions 
were so successful as to justify me in urging that the practice of field 
collection should be systematically encouraged, and that each year col- 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MINERALOGY. 223 

lectors should be Sent out to visit miueral localities. The expense of 
such work is tritiinji in comparison with the results to be attained. 

In connection with uiy work in the Geological Survey I myself made 
two expeditions into the field — tirst, to the tourmaline region of Western 
Maine, and, second, to the feldspar quarries near Middletown, Conn.; 
and both trips yielded good material for the Museum. Assistant Chem 
ist T. M. Chatard also went twice to the corundum tields of North Caro- 
lina and biought back good collections. Part of the latter have already 
been turned over to the Museum aud part have been reserved for lab- 
oratory investigations. Minerals have also been received from other 
Geological Survey parties, and notably from Messrs. J. B. Marcou, C. 
D. Walcott, and J. S. Curtis. Mr. Marcou, in particular, obtained for 
the Museum a large number of specimens of the vivianite from Mullica 
Hill. N. J. ; and Mr. Whitman Cross sent in a collection of the zeolites 
frt»m Table Mountain, Colorado, and the cryolite minerals found near 
Pike's Peak. 

Early in the year our exchange system began to bear fruit, and the 
following are among the more noteworthy accessions derived from this 
source: From N. H. Perry, of South Paris, Me., we received a collection 
of the lepidolites, tourmalines, «&c., of Auburn, Me., the topaz and as- 
sociated minerals of Stoneham, Me., the cancrinite and sodalite from 
Litchtield, Me., and other material from the same region; from E. M. 
Bailey. Andover, Me., a collection of the lei)idolite, &c., from the new 
locality on Black Mountain, in Rumford, Me.; from Prof. W^. N. Kice, of 
Wesleyan University, a fine series of the minerals found in the feldspar 
quarries near Middletown, Conn. ; from G. F. Kuuz, a very full set of 
the rarer titanium minerals of Magnet Cove, Ark.; from J. Siemachko, 
St. Petersburg, a inimber of rare Russian minerals ; and from W^ard & 
Howell, of Rochester, N. Y., a number of valuable specimens, repre- 
senting various localities, among them a good specimen of Japanese 
>tibuite. Still other exchanges have been arranged for, but the collec 
tious have not yet been actually received. 

Our meteorite collection is small as yet, but has shown some growth 
during the year. From Ur. J. Berrien Lindsley, of Nashville, we have 
received a fine slice of the meteoric iron from Robertson County, Ten- 
nessee. We have also obtained, by exchange, cuttings of the Dalton, 
Ouachita and Tazewell irons, and meteoric stones from the Iowa County, 
Mocs and Pultusk falls. The large meteoric iron, weighing 53 kilo- 
grams, recently discovered at Grand Rapids, Mich., has been, through 
the kindness of Prof. J. R. Eastman, deposited in the Museum for ex- 
hibition aud descrii)tiou. 

In April the work of installing the mineial collection was begun in 
the west-south range, but was soon interrupted by the labors involved 
in ))re])aration for the New Orleans Exjjositiou. The Willcox collection, 
however, has been arranged and labeled, and 1,055 specimens of the 
Museum collection proper are now on view. The plan of arrangement 



224 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884, 

may be briefly stated as follows: A specimen, wlieu received and ciita- 
logued, is assigned to either the exhibition or study series or placed 
among the duplicates. The latter are kept in drawers in the work-i oom 
on the third floor of the southwest pavilion, and need no further men- 
tion here. The exhibition series is displayed in sloping-top cases of 
three shelves each, and these are placed upon cases of drawers contain- 
ing the study series. Tlie classification is essentially according to 
Dana's system, slightly modified ; and the pur])Ose is to have the same 
case, above and below, contain the same group of minerals. For ex- 
ample, our finest micas or calcites would be shown in the exhibition 
series, while immediately below them, in unit case drawers, would 
be as wide a range of the same species as possible for exhaustive 
monographic study. Under this policy the bulk of our collection, hav- 
ing scientific interest mainly, will not be exposed to public view ; while 
every effort will be made to have every mineral represented by all known 
varieties and from many localities, in order that whoever visits the 
Museum for mineralogical research may find the broadest opportunities. 
Full educational series will, however, be publicly displayed, together 
with all such specimens as are poj^ularly attractive by consequence of 
their size or beauty. Very large specimens, of course, are shown on 
pedestals or in independent cases. At the date of writing, as nearly as 
may be estimated, the collection numbers 15,288 specimens, distributed 
as follows: — 

On exhibition in the Museum 1,655 

On exhibition in New Orleans '500 

Total *2, 155 

In reserve series i 5, Sbl 

Duplicates 5, :*>':3 

The exact numbers cannot be absolutely given, for many of the 
specimens now on exhibition at New Orleans were received too late for 
full cataloguing and entry. As the work of installing the collection 
goes on, the distribution of specimens in the several series may be ma- 
terially changed. In addition to cataloguing many minerals belonging 
to the old collection, accessions amounting to 3,145 specicnens were en- 
tered upon the register during the year. 

When I assumed the care of this department in December, 1883. the 
chemical laboratory of the Museum was also placed in my charge. In 
that laboratory I have conducted, with the aid of Messrs. T. M, Cha- 
tard, F. A. Gooch and Edward Whitfield, the chemical work of the 
U. S. Geological Survey, and whatever reserrches have been prose- 
cuted upon the mineral material have been carried forward in that 
connection. Jointly with Dr. Chafard, I published a paper in the 
American Journal of Science for July, entitled "Mineralogical Notes 
from the Laboratory of the U. S. Geological Survey," Mhich notes, to- 
gether with many water, rock and ore analj'ses, have also appeared 

"Approximate. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MINERALOGY. 225 

ill Survey Bulletiu Xo. 9. lu these uotes I have described a number 
of interesting minerals from A'arious new localities, partly representing 
Museum material and partly the iield collections of the Survey. The 
most notable item in the series, i)orhaps, is the account of pectolite from 
Alaska, which so closely simulates jade as to have been mistaken for 
the latter mineral. The laboratory is now reorganized in the northeast 
pavilion, where, with eight associates and laborers, I supervise the 
chemical and physical work of the Survey. 

In conclusion I must express my indebtedness to my colleague, Mr. 
W. S. Yeates, ui)on whom has fallen most of the severer labor of 
arranging and classifying the mineral collection. Ensigns O. G. Dodge, 
Ernest Wilkinson and H. S. Knapp, of the U. S. Navj', have also ren- 
dered valuable assistance, and so, too, has Mr. J. H. Brown. Each of 
these gentlemen deserves much greater credit than can be fairly given 
in these necessarily brief lines. 

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 15 



XV.-DEPARTMENT OF LITHOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 



By George P. Merrill, Acting Curator. 



The total nnmber of entries upon the department catalogue during 

the year has been 2,541, comprising not less than 3,000 specimens of 

various kinds. The more important of these accessions are given in 

the following list : 

Abbott, E. L. 10 specimens fulgurites from Union Grove, 111. 

Abert Collection. 24 specimens rocks from various sources. 

Aclermann, A. A., U. S. X. 117 specimens rocks from Greenland. 

Alexander, W. D. Sample of " barking sand " from Hawaiian Islands. 

American Institute of Mining Engineers. 1 large geological maj) of 
Sweden and S4 specimens rocks. 

Army Medical Museum. 8 specimens rocks. 

Batchen, J. S. F. 103 specimens building stone from various States, 
and 5 specimens rocks. 

Bartlett, Commander J. R. Specimens pumice and volcanic ash from 
Krakatoa. 

Berendtj Dr. G. Samples of "barking sand" from seashore near Col- 
berg, Germany. 

Beanchamp, W. M. 1 concretion. 

Bissel, John G. Supposed meteoric dust from near Rome, N. Y. 

Botc'ker, Torrey ct' Co., Boston. 6 specimens Egyptian onyx ; 1 speci- 
men Griotte marble. 

Boston Foreign Exposition. 1-foot cube of building stone (limestone) 
from the Hawaiian Islands, and 1 specimen building stone and 12 
specimens rocks from Guatemala. 

Brady, Gilbert. 1 dressed cube building stone (sandstone) from Al- 
bion, N. Y. 

Bran ford, J. C. 3 sun-baked bricks from the Great AVall of Chinn. 

Burlington Manufacturing Company. 1 specimen oj)hite marble. 

Calera Lime Works. 1 specimen building stone (limestone). 

Centennial Commissioners 1S70. 8 specimens building stone from the 
Azores Islands, and 15 specimens rocks from the Argetitine Re- 
public. 

Centennial Commissioners 187G [Carl Petterson). 14 specimens rocks 
from Norway. 

227 



228 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Chandler, T. P., jr. 4 photographs and heliotypes of stone buildings. 

Vhataid, T. M. 100 pounds dunite from Corundum Hill, Macon County, 
North Carolina; also 3 specimens garnet rock from Macon County, 
I^orth Carolina. 

■ilarle, Prof. F. W. Concretions, and 2 specimens glaciated musco- 
vite and lepidolite. 

Sollard, E. 1 specimen rock grooved by glacial action, France. 

Corson, B. R. 34 stalactites and stalagmites from Luray Caves, Virginia. 

Crosby, Prof. W. 0. 13 specimens rocks, in exchange for other mate- 
rial. 

Piller, J. S. 150 specimens, andesites from Mount Shasta, California. 

Dimond, John. 1 specimen California onyx. 

Esperanza Marble Company {through George F. Breed, agent). 5 cubes 
and 1 large slab colored marbles from Vermont. 

Evans, R. 2 specimens rock from Virginia. 

Fontaine, Prof. William 31. 3 specimens unakite and 2 specimens dia- 
base from Madison County, Virginia. 

Foster, J. E. & N. A. 1 specimen of rock. 

Sroode, G. Brown. 14 stalactites from Bermuda. 

Uouldsburg & Son, New York. 1 specimen Tennessee marble. 

Qouverneur Marble Company {through W. 8. Yeates). 1 large block of 
marble with glacial markings. 

9ri^n, Miss M. E. Specimens of mica from Amelia County, Virginia. 

Qrijffin, L. J. 1 specimen stalagmite marble from near Berryvale. 
Cal. 

Grampner, R. F. 1 specimen of slate from Kansas. 

Hall, G. J. 1 specimen building stone (red hornblende granite) from 
Mount Desert, Me. 

Mall, Charles E., & Co. 3 specimens California onyx. 

Match, J. C. 3 specimens albite from Auburn, Me. 

Mawaiian Government. 13 specimens rocks. 

Eawes^ Dr. George W. {estate of). 693 specimens foreign and native 
rocks. 

Molden, George H. 1 specimen zinc ore and 11 specimens serpentine 
from Deer Isle, Maine. 

Rooster Stone Company. 1 specimen building stone (oolitic limestone) 
from Bedford, Ind. 

Mopkinson, J. Hemlock board driven by a hurricane through a white- 
oak tree 5 inches in diameter from Wesson, Miss. 

Morn, Br. G. H. 3 stalactites. 

Moughton, F. W. Specimens pumice and volcanic ash from Krakatoa. 

Jackson, Charles. 1 specimen of kaolin from Eockingham County Vir- 
ginia. 

Jansen, D. C. Fossil-bearing limestones from China. 

Jones, Conner & Co. 1 small specimen of lithographic limestone. 

Kempton, C. W. 1 specimen serpentine from Xewbury, Mass. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 229 

Knapp^ E. B. 10 specimens rocks from Skaneateles, N. Y., in exchange. 

Lartdyraffj Eerr. Pumice sand from Norway. 

Leslie <£• Corse. 1 specimen of building stone. 

Marshall, Lieut. W. A., U. S. K. Volcanic ashes from the Indian Oceaa 
(Krakatoa). 

McBride, Prof. T. H. 3 specimens fossil coral from Iowa. 

McDonald, Col. M. M. 2 specimens marble from Virginia. 

McKinley, C. M. 2 specimens rocks. 

McLearij John J. 1 specimen pumice and of rock showing work of bor- 
ing mollusks, from Cape ^Mendocino, California. 

McrrHl, W. J. G specimens limonite from Katahdiu Iron Works, Maine. 

Merrill, George. P. 1,000 pounds rocks of various kinds fron Xe\F 
Jersey, Massachusetts, and Maine. 

Mitchell, J. E. 13 specimens grindstones in the form of a column. 

Mooney, B. 1 cube of dolomite 4 by 4 by 4 inches ; a portion of the cap- 
stone of the Washington Monument. 

Muzzey, A. P. 1 specimen diabase from Star Prairie, Mich. 

Xorris, VT. P. 1 large geyser cone from the Yellowstone ^National 
Park. 

Xorth Carolina^ State of {through TV. S, Ycates). Collection of building 
stones and rocks. 

Purchased. 707 specimens rocks and minerals from various sources. 

Parker, H. W. 1 large slab of Triassic sandstone, with fossil foot- prints, 
from Saint Vrain Creek, Colorado. 

Perry, X. H. 1 specimen small trap dike in granite. 

Pendleton, P. 1 specimen building stone (sandstone) from West Vir- 
ginia. 

Pirz, Arnold. 2 large stalagmites, Caruiola, Austria. 

Powell, R. J. 1 specimen building stone and one diamond-drill core. 

Pratt, W, S. 20 specimens flint from England. 

Proctor, J. R. 70 specimens building stones from Kentucky. 

Robinson, J. B. 1 specimen building stone. 

Robinson, Prof. T. 30 bags soil and rocks from East shaft, water- works 
extension, Washington, D. C. 

Royal University of Norway. 7 specimens rocks from Sweden. 

Rusby, R. II. Calcareous incrustations. 

Seeva, George. 10 specimens rocks showing the work of boring mol- 
lusks, Santa Barbara, Cal. 

Shepard, James. Photograph of a bowlder at East Lyme, Conn. 

iShriver, Howard. Collection of rocks. 

Silver, A. L. 2 stalactites; 1 specimen of rock. 

Smith, I. C, }Vashington, I). C. I i>hosphatic concretion (calculus) froa. 
the District of Columbia. 

Smith, Frank S. 1 specimen of building stone. 

Stonaker, C. L. 1 specimen rock from California. 



230 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1384. 

Stoneii, Lieut. George. M., U. S. N. Collection of rocks and volcanic 

ashes from the new volcano on Bogosloff Island. 
i^fearns, Silas. 2 fulgurites from Santa Eosa Island, Florida. 
Tilghman, Messrs. B. G. & R. A., Philadelphia, Pa. 400 pounds assorted 

sizes chilled iron globules for stone sawing and grinding. 
True, F. W. 1 specimen jade from IsTew Zealand. 
Turner, E. Y. Specimens beryl from Edgecomb, Me. 
Toii-nsend, G. H. 1 specimen stalagmite marble from Baird, Cal. 
Tweedale, W. 2 specimens building stone. 
TJ. 8. Geological Survey {Messrs. Gilbert and Russell). 400 specimens 

rocks and tufas from Western States and Territories. 
U. S. Geological Survey (Prof. Lester F. Ward). 26 specimens rocks 

and fossil woods from Montana. 
U. S. Geological Survey {Cooper Curtice). 1 specimen rock. 
U. S. Geological Survey {L. C. Johnson). 12 specimens rocks and build- 
ing stones. 
U. S. Signal Service. 11 specimens rock from Alaska. 
U. S. Light-House Board. Plate of window- glass abraded by sand. 
JJ. 8. Geological Survey {S. F. Emmons). 16 specimens rocks from Col- 
orado. 
U. S. Geological Survey {W J McGee). 4 specimens silicified wood from 

the District of Columbia. 
U. S. Fish Commission. 1 specimen of building stone from Wood's 

noil, Mass. 
Watts, J. J. Calcareous incrustations from Arizona. 
Wharton, J. 1 specimen of pumice from Krakatoa. 
Wheeler, Lieut. George M. 1 specimen rock. 
Williams, Dr. George H. 10 specimens foreign rocks, in exchange for 

other material. 
Williams, Dr. George H. 6 specimens rocks from near Baltimore. 
Woesffel, C. F. 1 paper-weight composed of varieties of ornamental 
stones from Eussia. 

Of the list above given there are several worthy of a special notice. 
Prominent among these is the series of rocks and tufas from Utah, 
Nevada, and California received from Mr. I. C. llussell, of the U. S. 
Geological Survey. The tufas and lavas are particularly interesting 
and unique for exhibition material, and form a most valuable addition 
to our exhibition series. The numerous specimens of volcanic ashes 
and pumice received from Messrs. Wharton, Houghton, Bartlett, and 
Marshall are also of great value, not merely from a lithologic stand- 
point, but as conveying some idea of the character of the material 
ejected from the volcano of Krakatoa and the immense distances to 
which it was carried by wind and ocean currents. 

The fulgurites received from Messrs. Abbott and Stearns are of in- 
terest as showing the great heat imparted to the sand by the passage 
through it of an electric discharge. Both these gentlemen added very 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 231 

mateiiiilly to the value of their collections by accompanying them with 
full and explicit notes regarding the locality and occnrrence of the 
specimens fonnd. The collection of rocks and volcanic sand from the 
new volcano of Bogosloff Island, received from Lieut, (r. M. Stoncy, is 
also of very great interest, as showing the character of the ejected ma- 
terial from this recent volcano. This collection will probably furnish 
matei'ial for a special report. 

Two collections of lithological interest, and of importance from their 
furnishing material not only for the Museum collections but also for 
exchanges, have been received. The tirst is a tine collection of one hun- 
dred and fifty specimens of andesite and pumice from Mount Shasta, Cali- 
fornia, collected and donated by Mr. J. S. Diller, of the U. S. Geological 
Survey. The fact that Mr. Diller is himself at present engaged in the 
study of these rocks and their mode of occurrence, renders the collection 
especially valuable. The second collection is one of some hundred 
pounds of (lunite from Macon County, Xorth Carolina, the gift of T. M. 
Chatard, also of the Survey. 

Of the collections of more strictly economic importance should be men- 
tioned one of u[)wards of one hundred specimens of building stones from 
various sources, received from Mr. J. S. F. Batchen, of Chicago, 111. 
Mr. Batchen, from his intimate knowledge of the subject, is enabled to 
obtain auich material of this nature that would otherwise be inaccessible 
to the department, and particularly is this the case in regard to the West- 
ern States and Territories. A recent donation of Mr. Batchen's from 
Mexico is of peculiar interest, the rocks being rhyolites or rhyolitic 
tuffs, a class of material entirely unknown in the Eastern United States, 
and, with the exception of a very few instances, but little used at pres- 
ent for building purposes. The Esperauza Marble Company, through 
its agent, ?.Ir. George F. Breed, has presented a fine series of dark mar- 
bles from the company's quarries in Vermont, and ]\Ir. L. J. Grifiin has 
l)resented, through Mr. J. S. Diller, a specimen of the beautiful green 
stalagmite marble from his quarries near Berryvale, California. To 
Mr. J. It. Procter, the director of the State survey, the Museum is in- 
debted for a complete series, comprising seventy-seven specimens, of 
the building stones of Kentncky, a State which heretofore was but poorly 
represented in our collections. The beautiful specimen of Egyptian onyx 
marble received from Bowker, Torrey & Co., of Boston, as well as the 
Californian marbles of like character from Messrs. J. Dimoud, ]Srew 
York, and Charles E. Hall & Co., of Boston, make an important addition 
to our exhibition series, and ought to be noticed here also. Prof. Thomas 
Pobinson, of Howard University, has rendered the department great 
service by collecting a full series of samples of the various strata passed 
through in the digging of the East shaft of the water-works extension 
in this city. In addition to the collecting of the samples. Professor 
Robinson also made full notes on the position and character of the 



232 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

strata, which will be of great use in preparing the collection for exhi- 
bition. 

The collections of the department, as at present arranged, are broadly 
generalized under the heads of lithology — including the building and 
ornamental stones — and physical geology. 

Lithological collection. — The lithological collection proper comprises 
all varieties of rocks of scientific or educational value, without regard 
to their economic importance. Rocks belonging to this series are, for 
convenience sake both in handling and storing, broken into blocks 
about 4 by 3 by 1 inches, with the edges carefully trimmed and the 
faces showing fresh fractures, with no abrasion marks from the ham- 
mer. The catalogue number is then painted on each, and they are 
stored in the drawers of the table-cases for purpose of reference and 
study, or placed upon exhibition, as the case may be. Each speci- 
men thus prepared is accompanied with a written or printed label giv- 
ing what information is known in regard to the same or referring to 
sources from which other information can be obtained. In arranging 
the rocks of this series, either for exhibition or for reference and study, 
collections illustrating the formations of any definite area, or investiga- 
tions tending toward the solution of any particular problem, are pre- 
served intact, while miscellaneous collections are broken up, classified 
by kind, and distributed throughout the general collections of the de- 
partment. 

The exhibition series of this collection comprises now some SOO speci- 
mens, but this number can easily be doubled as soon as proper cases 
are prepared. As a supplement to this collection, to explain their 
structure and mineral composition, a series of enlarged photomicrographs 
of twelve thin sections of typical rocks have been prepared. These en- 
largements are in the form of transparencies, 12 inches in diameter, and 
are colored by hand, the artist taking his tints from an examination of 
the sections themselves under the microscope and in polarized light. 
The illustrations thus prepared are very accurate as well as attractive, 
and cannot fail to add greatly to the value of the educational series of 
this department. 

With particular reference to educational purposes, two special col- 
lections have been prepared during the past season ; one a structural 
series of rocks, and the other a series of rock forming minerals. The 
structural sciies is designed to show all the more typical forms of rock 
structure ar.d texture; in other words, to illustrate by means of sjieci- 
mens the meanings of certain words and phrases in constant use in 
lithologic<tl nomenclature, but whose exact significanceor force is poorly 
comprehended by the i)ublic in general. In this collection the rocks are 
divided primarily into three groups: {a) crystalline, (Z>), vitreous, or 
glassy, and (c) clastic, or fragmental, under which are arranged all those 
forms of structure common to each. The collection thus includes three 
nearly parallel series, and comprises, as at present arranged, forty-one 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 233 

specimens, each of which is accompanied by a printed label stating: ta 
which of the three principal groups it belongs, what type of structure 
it represents, and also the name of the rock specimen itself, the localitj- 
from whence it came, and the name of the donor or collector. 

In preparing the collection of rock-forming minerals, rocks have been 
regarded as sim]»ly mineral aggregates of more or less complexity of 
structure and composition. The collection, therefore, includes repre- 
sentative specimens of all those minerals which commonly form an ap- 
preciable part of large rock masses, the rarer minerals and the gems 
being excluded. Each mineral species is shown in its several varieties, 
and is accompanied by a printed label giving its crystalline system, 
chemical composition, and the sjiecies of rock or rocks in which it com- 
monly occurs. If the mineral itself possesses any economic value, this 
is also stated. This collection at present comprises 150 specimens, rep- 
resenting in their different varieties 46 mineral species. 

The building-stone collection comprises only such material as is used 
in the rough or finished state for some form of building or ornamental 
work. All the stones of this collection are designed for exhibition, and 
for this purpose are cut into -l-inch cubes and finished in the following 
manner: Polished or fine-sanded in front; drafted and pointed on the 
left side ; drafted rock face upon the right side ; rock face behind, and 
smooth sanded or chiseled upon the top and bottom. Each block, when 
finished, has its catalogue number painted upon it, and is put on exhibi- 
tion, accompanied by a printed label giving the scientific name of the 
stone, its geological age, color, texture, &c., together with the location 
from which it was taken, the names of the quarry-owners or lessees, 
and that of the donor or collector; the purpose being to so arrange and 
label the entire collection that all interested can, within the space of a 
few hours, see and examine for themselves all the varieties of building^ 
stone quarried in the United States, together with very many from for- 
eign localities. 

As a supplement to the building-stone collection, to illustrate the 
adaptability of certain kinds of stone to architectural purposes, a series 
of photographic negatives of some of the more important stone build- 
ings of the country has been obtained, from which enlarged prints (30 
by 40 inches) have been prepared. These prints have been painted in 
a manner to represent the natural color of the stone of which the build- 
ings are constructed. The series comprises ten photographs of buildings 
constructed of the following materials: One each of granite, gneiss, 
limestone, marble, and serpentine, and five of sandstone, or sandstone 
in connection with brick. 

Physical geology. — The collections of the department that may be ap- 
propriately grouped under the head of i)hysical geology, that is, as of 
greater interest from bearing the marks of physical agencies than from 
their lithological characters, are at present comparatively limited. The 
more important of these are the collection of lavas from Ice Springs 



234 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Butte, Utah, to which reference has already been made; two specimens 
of glacial polished mica, received from Prof. F. W. Clarke; one large 
.block glacial polished marble, gift of the Gouveruenr Marble Company; 
a plate of sand-eroded glass, of especial interest as showing the remark- 
able eroding power of sand when blown by the wind, and sundry slabs 
of sandstone with ripple-marks and sun-cracks upon their surfaces. 
There is also an interesting series of models, which may be referred to 
here, including the Grand Canon of the Colorado; the Yellowstone 
National Park; the Elk Mountains, Colorado; the Gulf of Mexico; the 
Grand Banks of Newfoundland, and Mount Vesuvius, Italy. Owing to 
the large size of the material that would be requisite for a display, 
phenomena of this class must necessarily be shown to a great extent by 
photographs, or illustrations of some sort, and models. 

Routine ivorl- of the year. — Since the middle of Julj' my entire time has 
been devoted to the preparation of exhibits for the New Orleans Expo- 
sition. To aid in this work a force of three stone-cutters, one stone- 
polisher, one laborer, and two clerks was employed for periods varying 
from six weeks to six mouths. During this time there were prepared 
and shipped to New Orleans the following collections: A tj'pe collection 
of the building and ornamental stones of the United States, comprising 
-358 specimens; an educational series of rocks in the form of hand speci- 
mens, 3 by 4 by 1 inches, comprising 500 specimens; and the structural 
series of rocks and collection of rock-forming minerals already referred 
to. There was also obtained for this purpose, from the U. S. Geological 
Survey, a series of 198 specimens of rocks illustrating the geology of 
the Comstock Lode and Washoe district, Nevada. 

Other work of the year which may be mentioned here was the prep- 
aration of 1,557 labels for the exhibition series and 1,174 cards for the 
card catalogue. There have also been prepared some 200 thin sections 
of rocks, making the entire number of these now in the collection some 
3,200. Prior to May 31 I was assisted in this and other clerical work 
by Mr. John H. Fillmore, U. S. N., and since July 11 by Mr. L. H. Mer- 
rill. 

Owing to the pressure of the routine work of the Museum and the 
preparation for the New Orleans Exposition but little time could be 
given to original work or investigations with a view to publication. 
But two, and these very brief, papers have been prepared by myself. 
These are " On Prochlorite from the District of Columbia" (Proc. TJ. 
S. N. M., 1884, p. 67), and "On Hornblende Andesites from the new 
Bogosloff Volcano" (Science, December 12, 1884, p. 524). No papers 
have been published on material belonging to the department bj' parties 
not connected with the Museum, 

Present condition of the collections. — The present condition of the col- 
lection may be briefly stated as follows : The total number of specimens 
in the reserve series is not less than 15,000, of which some 3,000 are 
now on exhibition (this includes the collections sent to New Orleans) j 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 



235 



4,L'4G of tbese Lj,000 arc building or ornaniental stones, of wliicli 1,G58 
are now on exliibition; 000 more are dressed and can be placed on exhi- 
bition as soon as si)ac'e and oases are jtrovidi-d. The nniiibcr of speci- 
mens in the duplicate series cannot be accurately estimated, but will 
l)robably not vary far from 3,000, making a total of 18,000 specimens for 
the whole collection. 

The following- list gives the collection of building and ornamental 
stones in detail, the majority of the specimens being of sufficient size 
to dress into 4-inch cubes, or at least to give u finished surface 4 inches 
s(piare : 

UNITED STATES. | Oregon 6 

Peun.sylvaiiia 331 



Alabama l- 

Arkansas 9 

Arizona 6 

c alifornia 46 

Colorado 65 

Connecticnt 109 

Dakota 5 

Delaware o 

District of Colnmbia 3 

Florida 15 

Georgia 7 

Maho 2 

Illinois Ill 

Indiana 99 

Iowa 195 

Kausiis 192 

Kentncky 93 

Maine 127 

Massarbnsetts 226 

Maryland 109 

Michigan 30 

Minnesota 108 

Missonri 158 

Montana 9 

Nebraska 

New Hampshire 106 

New J ersey 133 

New Mexico 17 

New York 274 

Nfvada 8 

North Carolina 125 

Ohio 314 



Khode Island 

Tennessee , 

Texas 

Utah 

Vermont 

Virginia 

West Virginia 

Washington Territory 

Wisconsin 

Wyoming 



FOREIGN COUNTRIES. 



Bermuda 

Canada 

China 

Egypt 

France 

Germany 

Greece 

Ireland 

Italy 

Japan 

Mexico 

8 I New Brnnswick .. 
New South Wales 

Portugal 

Russia 

Scotland 

Turkey 



42 
127 

48 
13 
220 
72 
17 

4 
89 

6 



15 

17 

1 

10 
4 
4 
2 

1 

89 
50 
16 
5 
20 
154 
21 
24 



Total 4, 246 



Of the collections now on exhibition the following may be noted as 
of especial interest: 

Fourteen hundred specimens of building and ornamental stones of 
the United States. These are nearly all in the form of 4-inch cubes, 
prepared as already described. A part are, however, in foot cubes, and 
a lew others of still larger size. 



236 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

One hundred and twenty six specimens building and ornamental 
stones of Portugal and the Azores Islands, mostly in the form of 4 and 
Sinch cubes. 

Thirty-three large cubes of Italian marbles, a beautiful and very com- 
plete collection, made under the direction of Hon. William T. Rice, U. 
S. consul at Leghorn, Italj'. Also a similar collection of 45 speciuieus in 
the form of slabs 4 inches square by one half inch thick, the gift of W\ 
W. Story. 

A collection of 30 specimens of marbles and serpentines of Japan. 
Gift of the Japanese Centennial commissioners. 

A series of 19 bloclis of marble, each 1 foot square, illustrating the 
different styles of finish usually applied to these stones. Gift of the 
Vermont Marble Comi)any. 

A similar collection of 8 blocks of sandstone. Gift of the McDermot 
and Berea Sandstone Company, 

A similar collection of 8 blocks of Quincy granite, the gift of H. Bar- 
ker & Sons. 

One large slab (20 by 34 inches) of Potomac breccia marble. Gift of 
Col. Edward Clark. 

One large slab (40 by 56 inches) of quartzite from Luserna, Italy. Gift 
of the Italian Centennial commissioners. 

A series of upwards of 100 specimens of siliceous and calcareous sin- 
ters from the Yellowstone National Park. Collected by Dr. A. C. Peale. 

A series of 90 specimens lava from Ice Springs Butte, Utah. Received 
from I. C. Russell, U. S. Geological Survey. 

A series of 25 specimens tufas from Lake Lahontan and Pyramid 
Lake, Nevada. Received from I. C. Russell, U. S. Geological Survey. 

A series of 7 large specimens obsidian and obsidian pumice from the 
Mono Craters, California. Received from I. C. Russell, U. S. Geolog- 
ical Survey. 

A series of 152 hand specimens rocks of Yellowstone National Park. 
Gift of W. H. Holmes. 

A series of 92 specimens rock of Saxony. Received from the Royal 
Mining School of Freiburg, Saxony. 

A series of 12 specimens "onyx" marbles from various localities, in- 
cluding Californa, Mexico, and Egypt. 

A collection of 70 specimens of stalactites and stalagmites from the 
Luray Caves, Virginia, Carniola, Austria, and other localities. This 
collection is particularly interesting on account of the size and beauty of 
the specimens. The department is indebted to Mr. Robert Corson for 
the magnificent series of specimens from Luray. 

A series of 150 concretions of various kinds and from many sources. Of 
especial interest in this collection are four large specimens, the largest 
2 feet in diameter, from Cannon Ball River, Dakota, the gift of Gen- 
eral M. C. Meigs. 

A series of 84 hand specimens of rocks and a geological map of Swe- 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 237 

den. Gift of Swedish Ceuteimial commissiouers and American Insti- 
tute of Mining Engineers. 

One large slab (7 feet 5 inches by 3 feet 8 inches) of granite. Gift of 
>«'e\v England Granite Company, Westerly, 11. I. 

One large slab (4 by 8 feet) of sandstone. Gift of Forest City Stone 
Company, Euclid, Ohio. 

One large block (5 by 5 by 1 feet) of syenite from Hot Springs, Ark. 
Gift of J. S. F. Batchen. 

Among the collections of the reserve series, but which are not now 
on exhibition, should be mentioned a series of 854 hand specimens of 
locks from the various geological horizons of Canada, New Brunswick, 
and Nova Scotia, received from the Centennial Exhibition at Philadel- 
phia, 1S7G; a series of 355 hand specimens illustrating the geology 
and lithology of Victoria, Australia ; a series of 150 specimens illus- 
trating the geology and lithology of New Hampshire, as described by 
Dr. George W. Hawes in the third volume of Geology of New Hamp- 
shire; and lastly the Eosenbusch collection, already noted. This collec- 
tion comi)rises 587 specimens representing all the more important rocks 
which have been studied and described by Professor liosenbusch, oi 
Heidelberg. It is, therefore, of great value for reference purposes, and 
may be regarded as the most important accession of the year. 

The history of the geological department of the Museum may be said 
to date from the appointment of Dr. George W. Hawes as curator, in 
1880. Prior to this time the collections were small and very miscella- 
neous in their characte)*, the only material of real value, from a geologic 
or lithologic standpoint which they were found to contain, being a col- 
lection of 300 specimens of rocks from France, received from Louis Sae- 
mann in 18G9, and a similar collection of 148 specimens of rocks of Sax- 
ony, received from the Koyal Mining School of Freiberg in 1803. There 
was, it is true, much material that might have been of value had there 
been any accurate data concerning it, but so poorly had the records 
been kei»t that in many cases absolutely nothing could be learned in re- 
gard to the collections, or if anything, the information was so meagre as 
to be useless. 

At the time Dr. Hawes entered upon his duties as curator, he also 
took charge of that branch of the Tenth Census relating to the quar- 
rying industry of the United States. To this work he gave almost his 
entire attention, and the present building-stone collection is the result 
of his exertions in this direction. Dr. Hawes's connection with the 
Museum was, however, too short to allow the department to become 
fully organized, and at the time of his death matters were, if jmssible, 
in a state of greater confusion than before, owing to the large amount 
of material that had accumulated, and the extent of the work under- 
taken but necessarily uncompleted. The great amount of material re- 
ceived from the Centennial Exhibition at Pliiladcli)liia in 1870 was still 
unassorted, as was also that received from the various United States 



238 REPORT OF NATIONAL MaSEUM, 1884. 

Geological Surveys that existed prior to the present organization. The 
records of a great deal of the latter material were iu a deplorable con- 
dition, and the specimens themselves had in many cases been so abused 
as to be completely worthless. 

To the Centennial Exhibition, the Tenth Census, and the various Geo- 
logical Surveys the department is largeTy indebted for whatever ma- 
terial it possessed prior to 1882. The time since the reorganization 
of the department and its assignment to myself has been too short for 
anything more than a beginning to be made. What work has actu- 
ally been accomplished has already been noted. 

The imjierative need of the department is a larger permanent work- 
ing force. The confusion which was found to exist among the old col- 
lections is due entirely to the fact that sufficient time and care were not 
given to the preservation of the identity of the material. It is not 
enough that the curator knows, however thoroughly, the collection 
under his care, but the facts in regard to each and every specimen 
should be so placed on record that its identity can never again be lost, 
however often the administrative force of the department may be 
changed. There is probably no department of the Museum in which 
the value of material depends more upon its correct identification and 
localization. The most valuable material of the collection to day may 
to-morrow become totally worthless from no other cause than an uncer- 
tainty arising as to the exact source from which it was obtained. 

The very considerable amount of petrographical work being at the 
present time carried on in this country renders it extremely important 
that somewhere should be preserved a representative series of the more 
important rocks described, either the types themselves or exact du- 
plicates of the same. The value of such a collection, both for present 
and future reference, cannot be overestimated, especially when we con- 
sider the prevailing unsatisfactory system of rock classification and no- 
menclature. While each worker, it is true, now makes collections for 
his own use, these are necessarily limited and so widely scattered as 
to be practically inaccessible to the majority of workers. A very 
small outlay yearly will allow the gathering together of representative 
specimens of the greater projjortion of this material in the National Mu- 
seum, where it will be accessible for reference and stud}^ to all responsi- 
ble parties, and also be secure from destruction by fire or other agencies. 
The recent destruction of the entire collection of Professor Irving by 
the burning of the buildings of the university at Madison, Wis., is in 
itself sufficient argument in favor of such an undertaking. 



XVI -DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY AND ECONOMIC GEOLOGY. 



*Bv Frederic P. Dewey, Curator. 



REPORT OF THE CURATOR. 



During the first part of the year the still unorganized material re- 
ceived from Centennial sources occupied a great deal of attention. Be- 
sides this, there have been a great many accessions received that are 
worthy of special mention, and these may be divided into four classes: 
Those received in the ordinary way ; those received from the Perma- 
nent Exhibition at Philadelphia ; those received from the Boston Exhi- 
bition ; and the material collected in connection with the Few Orleans 
Exposition. The material received in the ordinary way embraces a 
very fine collection from the w^orks of the Colorado Coal and Iron Com- 
pany, at South Pueblo, Colo., representing very fully the process of 
manufacture of steel rails, nails, &c., at these works. This collection 
was made and presented by C. L. Stonaker, of South Pueblo, Colo. 

A collection of the iron ores of California, and also a very valuable 
collection of copper and other ores from the Lake Superior region, pre- 
sented by R. E. C. Stearns, U. S. National Museum. The latter collec- 
tion is very valuable from a historical standpoint. 

A collection representing the extraction of copper from Canadian 
pyrite after the sulphur has been utilized for the manufacture of sul- 
phuric acid. Presented by the Orford Copper and Sulphur Company. 

A small but valuable collection representing the work of the hy- 
draulic i)rocess for the extraction of gold from gravel deposits from the 
Brewer mine, South Carolina. Presented by E. Motz. 

A collection of about 600 specimens representing the process of 
manufacture of bolts, nuts, and washers by machinery, together with 
the various commercial sizes of these articles; also a very interesting 
collection representing the manufacture of bnsheled or refined iron from 
scrap material. Presented by J. H. Sternbergh, Reading. Pa. 

By far the most interesting and valuable single collection received 
during the year is the extensive collection of iron ores collected by the 
Tenth Census, under the direction of Prof. R. Pumpelly. This col- 
lection represents the occurrence of iron ore at every mine of any im- 
portance that was worked during the census year. Carefully selected 

2;}9 



240 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

samples were also takeu for analysis, and the powdered material for 
this i)urpose accomi^auies the hand specimens. The whole collection 
<;omprises over 3,600 specimens. 

From the Permanent Exhibition at Philadelphia were received a very 
extensive and valuable series of tests of the mechanical properties of 
the Fagersta steel made by Kirkaldy, of London. This is by far the 
most complete series of tests of steel ever made, and the records in 
regard to the tests are full and complete, so that it is still a standard 
of reference. 

A collection of the various ores of Colorado. 

A collection representing the mineral resources along the line of the 
Little Rock and Fort Smith Eailroad. 

Two interesting collections representing the manufacture of horse- 
shoes by machinery, giving the various styles and sizes adapted for 
4iflferent uses. One presented by the Burden Iron Company, Troy, 
N. Y., the other by the Ehode Island Horseshoe Company, Providence, 
E. L 

A large collection of the different sizes and kinds of tacks. This col- 
lection, while being very large, is not as systematic as we would like, 
but the works have agreed to supply the deficiences and also to illus- 
trate the process of manufacture, and when the collection is completed 
it will form an interesting and attractive exhibit. Presented by the 
Pennsylvania Tack Works, Norristown, Pa. 

A large collection of the various naturally occurring salts of Stass- 
furt, Germany. 

From the Boston Exhibition were received collections representing 
the mineral resources of San Salvador, Guatemala, and Venezuela. Pre- 
sented by the respective commissioners. 

A collection of Ceylon graphite. Presented by Delmege, Eeid & Co. 

A very large and complete series of graphite crucibles. Presented 
by Gerbriider Bessel, of Dresden. 

In connection with the preparation for the New Orleans Exposition, 
the curator has collected in person from the following localities : 

A series representing the refining of Arizona pig-copper as carried 
on at the works of the Ausonia Brass and Coi)per Works, Ansonia, 
Conn. 

A series representing the smelting of argentiferous lead ores at the 
Horn Silver Works, Francklyn, Utah. 

A series representing the chloridizing roasting of base silver ores at 
the Ontario Mill, Park City, Utah. 

A very large collection representing the copper and silver industry 
at Butte, Mont. This collection embraces the copper and silver ores 
of the region ; two collections representing the chloridizing roasting of 
the ores from the Lexington and Moulton mines ; three collections rep- 
resenting the smelting of the argentiferous copper ores from the Mon- 
tana, Bell, and Parrot Works ; and a collection representing the smelt- 



KEFOKT or UKfAKTMENT OF METALLURGY. 241 

iug- of auriferous autl argentiferous copper ores from the Colorado 
Smelter. 

The followiug collections were obtained, upon solicitation of the cu- 
rator, for the is"ew Orleans Exposition : 

A collection representing the extraction of gold from the auriferous 
gravel of California by the hydraulic process. Collected by Mr. W. H. 
IJadford. 

A collection representing the extraction of gold from auriferous pyrite 
from the Bobtail Mill, Black Hawk, Colo. Collected by E. M. Eogers. 

A collection representing the delicate manipulation required in the 
manufacture of gold leaf. Presented by Uastings »S: Co.. of Philadelphia, 
Pa. 

A very large and extensive collection of the ores of Utah. Presented 
in exchange by Prof. J. E. Clayton, Salt Lake City, Utah. This col- 
lection is especially- valuable :is tilling in many gaps of our permanent 
collections, and also supi)lying some ores which are only found in Utah. 

Collections representing some of the recently discovered tin ores of 
the country. From Virginia, i)resented by the Cash iVIining Company; 
from Alabama, presented by Dr. George W. Gessner ; and from Dakota, 
presented by Prof. George W. Maynard. 

A collection representing the process of manufacture of white lead 
and other lead paints. Presented by Harrison Brothers & Co., of Phil- 
adelphia, Pa. 

A very large and interesting collection representing the manufacture 
of copper into various commercial forms, the manufacture and utiliza- 
tion of brass, and the process of wiredrawing. Presented by the Au- 
sonia Brass and Copi)er ^Yorks, Ansouia, Conn. 

A collection representing the smelting and refining of copper from 
various sulphureted ores. Presented by Pope, Cole & Co., Baltimore, 
Md. 

A collection representing the refining of native copper separated from 
the ores of the Mass Mine, Lake Superior. Presented by C. G. Hussey 
cV Co., Pittsburgh, Pa. 

A collection representing the smelting of pig-iron from fossiliferous 
ores at Itockwood, Tenn. Presented by the Roane Iron Company, Chat- 
tanooga, Teun. 

A collection representing the smelting of pig-iron from brown ores 
in Virginia. Presented by the Longdale Iron Company, Longdale, Va. 

A collection representing the very interesting and intricate process of 
the manufacture of crucible steel. Presented by Miller, Metcalf & 
Parkin, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

A very interesting collection representing various processes of iron 
:iMd steel manufacture in Sweden, together with descriptions of the proc- 
Ls.ses. Presented by X. Lilienberg, New York. 

A large collection of the zinc ores from the Bertha mine. Presented 
by Thomas Jones, Pulaski, Va. 
S. Mis. 33, i)t. 2 10 



242 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

A collection of the Mossy Creek, Tennessee, zinc ores. Presented by 
T. H. Healcl, Kuoxville, Tenn. 

A series of collections representing the mining of iron pyrite and the 
manufacture of sulphuric acid therefrom. The Virginia pyrite, pre- 
sented by W. H. Adams; the Massachusetts pyrite, presented by the 
Davis Company, of Boston ; and the manufacture of sulphuric acid, 
presented by the Merrimac Chemical Company, Boston, Mass. 

A very large and interesting collection of Babbitts, solders, and other 
alloys, and also a series of the various grades of Welsh tin i)lates, together 
with descriptions of the manufacture. Presented by Merchant & Co., 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

A very interesting collection representing the growth and present 
condition of the process for the manufacture of type metal. Presented 
by Mackellar, Smiths & Jordan, Philadelphia, Pa. 

A full collection of Babbitt and similar alloys. Presented by Paul 
S. Eeeves, Philadelphia, Pa. 

A series of Ajax metal specimens for bearings, &g. Presented by the 
Ajax Company, Philadelphia, Pa. 

A very interesting collection representing the manufacture of sand 
and emery paper. Presented by Baeder, Adamson & Co., Philadelphia, 
Pa. 

A very large and complete collection representing the occurrence of 
asbestos from various countries and its manufacture into marketable 
forms. Presented by the H. W. Johns Company, New York. 

A collection of various polishing materials. Presented by E. J. Wad- 
dell & Co., New York. 

A collection of corundum, emery, and quartz of various sizes. Pre- 
sented by the Union Stone Company, Boston, Mass. 

A valuable collection of drawings representing the application of the 
Siemens regenerative principle to various kinds of furnaces. Presented 
by Eichmond & Potts, Philadelphia, Pa. 

A collection representing the application of the diamond drill in 
boring, especially for prospecting purposes. Presented by the Penn- 
sylvania Diamond Drill Company, Pottsville, Pa. 

A small but interesting collection of tin ores from Maine and North 
Carolina. Collected by Prof. F. W. Clarke, U. S. Geological Survey. 

A complete series representing the Connellsville coking coal and its 
associates, together with coke of various grades. Presented by the H. 
C. Frick Coke Company, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

Mr. James Temple Brown, of the Museum staff, made the following 
collections : 

A complete series representing the manufacture of miners' boots. 
Presented by Humphrey Brothers & Tracy, Towanda, Pa. 

A complete series of the domestic sizes of anthracite coal, together 
with its associates j also an extensive series of mining tools, &c. Pre- 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 243 

scDted by the Philadelphiii aiul Reading Coal and Iron Company, 
Pottsville, Pa. 

A series represent in j;- the coal and its associates from the Long Val- 
ley mines. Presented by the Barclay Coal Company, Barclay, Pa. 

A series of coal and its associates, together with mining tools, from 
the Loyal Sock mine. Presented by the State Line and Sullivan Rail- 
road Company. 

Four photographs of anthracite breakers. Presented by George M. 
Bretz, Pottsville, Pa. 

Three photographs of mine engines. Presented by Richard Sharpe, 
jr., & Co., Wilkes Barre, Pa. 

A series of gas coal and its associates from the Crescent mines, West 
Virginia. Presented by W. R. Johnson, Crescent, W. Va. 

A series of coal and its associates from the Antrim mines. Presented 
by the Fall Brook Coal Companj', Corning, N. Y. 

A series of coal and its associates, together with mining tools, from 
the Arnot mine. Presentfed by the Blossburgh Coal Company, Elmira, 
N. Y. 

A series of safety lamps, &c. Presented by J. W. Queen & Co., Phila- 
deli)hia. Pa. 

Quite a number of the recent graduates of some of the technical 
schools w^ere very glad to visit some of the centers of metallurgical 
operations to make collections for the department upon the payment 
of their expenses while so engaged. The collections acquired in this 
way are among the most interesting and valuable that we have obtained, 
since they were made with the definite purpose of exhibition in the 
Museum, and therefore are better suited for permanent purposes. Mr. 
E. B. Kirby, E. M., of Saint Louis, Mo., made collections representing 
the mining of the free copper ore of the amygdaloid class at the Osceola 
Mine, Lake Superior, and also the mining and milling of the conglom- 
erate ore at the Delaware Mine, Lake' Superior; a collection of showy 
zinc ore specimens from Missouri; a collection representing the manu- 
facture of pig-lead and white paint direct from the ore, from the Lone 
Elm Works, Joplin, Mo. ; and a collection representing the mining of 
coal at Belleville, 111. At Mr. Kirby'a solicitation, Captain Daniels, of 
the Osceola mine, presented some interesting specimens representing the 
association of the free silver and free copper in the Lake Superior dis- 
trict, and Mr. J. A. Reeves, of Joplin, i\Io., i)resented some very hand- 
some crystallized specimens of blende, galena, and marcasite. iMr. E. 
L. Zukoski, E. M., of Saint Louis, Mo., collected at the Osceola Mill and 
Central Mine, Lake Superior; at the Kansas City Smelting and Refining 
Company's Works, Argentine, Kans. ; at the Rich Hill Zinc Furnaces, 
Rich Hill, Mo. ; at the Cherokee Zinc Works, Weir City, Kans. ; at the 
Kova Scotia Furnace, Salem, Mo. ; and at the Mount Olive and Collins- 
ville coal regions, in Illinois. Messrs. Kirby and Zukoski together made 
a very large collection representing the manufacture of Bessemer steel 



244 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

and the rolliug of steel rails at the South Chicago Eolling-Mill; also a 
<;olleetiou represeuting the smelting of copper slags at the Native Cop- 
3)er Smelting AVorks, Lake Superior. 

Mr. J. P. Gazzam, E. M., collected at the Cheltenham Smelting and 
:aRefiuing Works, near Saint Louis, Mo.; at the Glendale Zinc Works, 
also near Saint Louis; at the Joplin Zinc Works, Joplin, Mo.; at the 
Saint Genevieve Copper Works, Saint Genevieve, Mo.; at the Missouri 
.Furnace and the furnaces of the Saint Louis Ore and Steel Company, 
near Saint Louis; at the mines and works of the Granby Mining and 
Smelting Company; at the South Side Mining and Manufacturing 
'Works, Galena, Kans. ; at the zinc works of Robert Lanyon, Pittsburgh, 
Xans. ; at Mine La Motte, Missouri ; at the zinc mines of Cowan & Bliss, 
:Frye & De Graffe, and Moore, De Graffe & Co., Lehigh, Mo. 

At Mr. Gazzam's solicitation. Page & Krause, of Saint Louis, Mo., 
presented a collection representing the manufacture of zinc paint, and 
also the manufacture of barytes. The Saint Louis Tripoli Company pre- 
-sented a collection representing the utilization of tripoli. 

Messrs. Kirby and Gazzam made a very handsome collection of zinc 
*ore from the mines of Spencer & McConey, Carterville, Mo., and Cowan 
^ Bliss, Lehigh, Mo. 

The department is under great obligation to Prof. W. B. Potter, of 
^Washington University, Saint Louis, Mo., for advice and assistance in 
<lirecting the work of these three young men. 

Mr. J. B. Mcintosh, E. M., of New York, collected at the Passaic Zinc 
Works, Jersey City, N. J.; at the Bellemont Forge and Crown Point 
Furnace, in Northern New York; and at the smelting works of E. Bal- 
bach & Son, Newark, N. J. 

Mr. J. F. Kemp, E. M., of Brooklyn, collected at the Desloge and 
Saint Jo Lead Works, Joplin, Mo. 

Mr. H. S. Fleming, of Philadelphia, collected at the Warwick and 
North Cornwall Iron Furnaces, in Pennsylvania. 

Mr. D. W. Eeckhart, of Salt Lake City, made some systematic collec- 
tions from various mines in Utah. 

Messrs. D. W. Eeckhart and C. F. Pearis, E. M., collected at the 
'Germania Smelling and Eefining Works, near Salt Lake City, Utah. 

There was acquired by purchase a series of 87 si>ecimens represent- 
ring the occurrence of placer gold at nearly all the prominent regions of 
.the countrj\ This collection is especially valuable from the fact that 
many of the specimens were collected in the early days, and the date of 
collection of nearly every one is known. It is the most full and com- 
plete collection of its kind in the country. 

There was also purchased a series of drawings of furnaces, to be used 
for wall decorations. 

Early in the year it was decided to administer upon the pile of boxes 
and the material which had been stored away in the pigeon-holes of 
^he work room of the department in the southwest court, with a view 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 245 

to clearing out the sjnice and niakinji- it available for exhibition ]>nr- 
poses. The force of workmen in the department being considerably 
increased, this work was undertaken with as much vigor as i)ossil)ler 
and continued until the middle of June. It was found that nuuh of 
this material had never been entered in the catalogue, and it was nec> 
essary, therefore, to make 4,182 new entries, embracing 7,540 new si)eci- 
mens. Of these the most important collections were the steel exhibits 
of Park Brothers & Co., Ilussey, Wells & Co., and Carnegie Brothers^ 
Pittsburgh, Pa.; a collection of rolled iron shaiies from the Phoenix Iron- 
Company ; a very large collection of firebrick from many localities ; a. 
collection of ores from Colorado; and two collections representing the 
smelting of copper, one from Ducktown, Tenn., and the other fromi 
Phceuixville, Pa. 

The entire collection of foreign ores was overhauled and put into* 
shape for exhibition. This collection embraces a very valuable series 
from the Krnpp Works, Essen, Germany ; collections representing the 
ores of Sweden, Russia, Spain (very large and complete), Portugal, Italy^ 
Turkey, Japan, Mexico, and the Australasian colonies. This latter col- 
lection is especially valuable on account of its richness in si^ecimens of 
tin ores and their associates. 

The entire collection of coals belonging to the department was er- 
amined, and it was found that many specimens had seriously decom- 
posed, and were therefore of little value. Such as were yet in good 
condition, and from localities difficult of access, were saved and put 
upon exhibition. By the middle of April a section of this work-rooni 
had been so far cleared that it was thrown open for exhibition puri)oseSy 
and the work was continued until the material for the Kew Orleans Ex- 
position began to arrive, when it was necessarily suspended. 

At the opening of the year very little progress had been made in the? 
regular installation of the collection, although many specimens were 
available. In connection with the work of clearing out the work-room, 
the installing of the specimens was taken up, and an attempt made at 
temporary arrangement. This has so far proceeded that the very val- 
uable collection of native ores is now installed in the large black-walnut 
cases. A portion of the Census iron ores has also been installed, and 
the steel exhibit of Park Brothers & Co., the rolled shapes from the 
Phoenix Works, portions of the Kirkaldy test specimens, and a por- 
tion of the tack exhibit have been placed on exhibition. 

A large amount of the foreign material has been displayed, but it has 
not yet been systematically arranged and installed. 

Nineteen letters of information and report upon specimens submitted) 
have been made, together with nine other reports. In the preparatioa 
of the catalogue of the collection 10,900 entries have been made, cover- 
ing 15,271 si)ecimens ; and in the i)reparation of the card catalogue 
9,337 cards, covering 12,303 specimens, upon which 389 determinations, 
of mineral species have been made, have been written. 



246 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Work in the line of research has been confined to such examinations 
of the material to be exhibited at New Orleans as were necessary for 
the preparation of suitable descriptions and labels of the exhibits in 
this department, and has necessarily been very much broken. The 
plan followed was to do only the necessary work of preparing the ma- 
terial for the temporary exhibit at New Orleans, and to confine such 
work to that which would be suitable for use in the final examination 
of the material, which must be delayed until its return from New 
Orleans. 

In this connection Mr. J. A. Allen has made, in the laboratory of this 
department, seventeen quantitative analyses since the 1st of July, be- 
sides a great many qualitative examinations. 

The material collected for the New Orleans Exposition offers many 
promising topics for research, and this work will be taken up and car- 
ried forward as rapidly as possible upon the return of the material to 
Washington. 

The only i^apers published by the curator were, chapter III in the 
Tenth Census Eeport of the Building Stone Industry, entitled "The 
Chemical Examination of Building Stones," and a biographical memoir 
of the late Dr. George W. Hawes. These are noticed in the bibliograph- 
ical appendix to this rei)ort. 

The large amount of work that has been put upon the material of this 
department during the past year has brought it under very much bet- 
ter control. It has now been so far examined and administered upon 
that it is much easier to tell what we have and what we have not than 
it has been at any former time. In the reserve series have been placed 
1,345 specimens, besides which there is yet included in this series a con- 
siderable amount of material not yet administered upon. Nine thousand 
five hundred specimens have been placed on exhibition and 1,353 speci- 
mens assigned to the duplicate series. Fifty-nine boxes have been placed 
on general storage, containing dui)licate materal the records of which 
are imperfect. The total number of specimens in the department is 
not far from 40,000. 

The collections in economic geology in the department have now been 
thoroughly organized, and while we have known for a long time that 
the representations of the mineral resources of the countrj' were very 
full and complete, yet much material, until this year, has been stored 
away, and more or less inaccessible. Of the localities which had been 
developed previous to the Centennial Exhibition the illustrations are 
exceedingly full and complete; in fact, no single collection of the kind 
can be found to compare with it anywhere else. There are, however, 
many localities which have come into prominence since the close of the 
Centennial, and these were only partially or not at all represented in the 
Centennial material. From time to time some of these deticiences have 
been supplied, but there are yet quite a number of localities not rep- 
resented, the most important of these being the Menominee iron re- 



KEPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 247 

'^ion, in iNFieliigan, and the Territories of Arizona and Xew Mexico. 
Steps bave been taken, in connection with the New Orleans work, to 
gather material from some of these localities, but so far nothing has 
been received, althoujili T am very hopeful that something may be ac- 
complished by the requests we have already made. 

As pointed out in my former annual reports, the representations of 
metallurgical processes have been the weakest portion of the collections. 
This is a matter requiring the collection of systematic series, in which 
the various specimens are interdependent. The collections would not 
necessarily be at all showy, and it is therefore not so surprising that 
the Centennial material should haVe been deficient in this respect. 
Fortunately, however, the necessity of collecting new material for the 
Kew Orleans Exposition has furnished the much -desired opportunity of 
strengthening the collections in this direction. It is not easy to get col- 
lections of the kind required. In the first place, only a very few owners 
of mines or works will take the necessary trouble to get full and com- 
plete series, and when they do so they frequently do not wish to give 
the necessary information in order that the specimens shall i)ossess the 
highest value in an educational series. This reluctance to give infor- 
mation has been the most serious obstacle the department has met with 
in its collecting. The design of the collecting has been to commence 
first with the ore and take series of specimens in the mine taken at 
various points, which shall be referred to some central starting point, 
so that the position may be known and traced up afterwards if desira- 
ble. These specimens are taken to show the various characters of ore 
jjrodnced by a given mine. Again, series of specimens are taken to 
represent the changes that the ore undergoes in going up and down 
the mine, and also in going through it both lengthwise and crosswise. 
The inclosing wall rocks are also thoroughly represented. 

In connection with this collection as much information as possible 
has been obtained as to the methods of mining and the habits of the 
miners. 

After the ore is extracted from the mine it is followed through any 
process of concentration that it may be subjected to, such as the crush- 
ing and jigging of the sulphide of copper ores in Montana, the washing: 
of iron ores, or any other operation in preparation for smelting. Each 
step in these operations is represented, when possible, by specimens of 
the material that forms the basis of the operation, and by the products, 
whether they be the valuable ones or the waste products. To the mate- 
rial as prepared for smelting are added illustrations of all other mate- 
rials entering into the smelting operation, such as fuels and flaxes. Each 
step in the smelting operation is illustrated by the diflerent materials 
entering into the operation and by their products. This is followed 
through as far as a given mine or works go, and if possible the material 
is followed on through other works until it reaches its merchantable 
form. These collections are accompanied and supplemented by all the 



248 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

information it is possible to get in the way of statistics, plans, draw- 
ings, and views of the mines and works. Aside from the value of such 
systematic collections in metallurgy, they open up a wide field for re- 
search in the laboratory, and will therefore form the basis for future 
work in that direction. The complete examination of the material 
already received will add largely to the stock of information in regard 
to the science of metallurgy. Metallurgy being essentially an economic 
science, most of the writings on the subject have been confined to the 
one question of carrying on the operations at a profit, leaving the con- 
sideration of the whys and wherefores and the scientific principles in- 
volved almost entirely out of the question. This lack of information in 
regard to the science of metallurgy is very unfortunate, and it is the 
desire of the curator to so arrange the proper work of the department, 
in preparing material for exhibition, as to add as much as possible to the 
stock of scientific information. 

The collections sent to the Few Orleans Exposition could not pos- 
sibly be made to cover the whole ground. In fact, the work is mainly 
preliminary, but it is hoped that the results obtaihed will be of suffi- 
cient value to warrant an extension of the number of such illustrations, 
so that some system of collecting material of this kind will be inaugu- 
rated which will add largely to the material on hand, and in time build 
up the collections in metallurgy so that they will compare favorably with 
those at present in the Museum in the line of economic geology. 

The principal drawbacks to the collecting for Kew Orleans were the 
shortness of time and the small amount of money available for the 
work. Most of the systematic collections were made either by the 
curator in person or else by the young men already referred to — recent 
graduates of technical schools — who were verj' willing to give their time 
to the work in consideration of the benefit it would be to them to visit 
mines and metallurgical works under the auspices of the Smithsonian 
Institution, in order to increase their stock of information, the only cost 
to the Museum being their actnal expenses while making the collec- 
tions. 

In order to illustrate more fully the scope and design of these col- 
lections it seems desirable to describe briefly the collections as made, 
with special reference to the material already in the Museum and also 
to what it would be desirable to collect in the future. 

Oold. — Gold being a metal of so much intrinsic value, the collections 
already in the Museum were not at all complete, and it is the only in- 
stance in which it was thought desirable to make any separate attempt 
to collect the ores. In this connection a series of 87 specimens was pur- 
chased, representing the occurrence of placer gold in Virginia, North 
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Colorado, New Mexico, Idaho, iMou- 
tana, Utah, Oregon, California, and Alaska. Some of these specimens 
were collected as long ago as 1848, and in some cases are the first dis- 
covered in the region. In the case of California there is a specimen con- 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 249 

taining some of the first gold-dust taken out by Captain Marshall on the 
lOtli of January, 1848. The fact that these specimens were collected so 
long ago, and that the date of collection is known in almost every case, 
adds very greatly to their value. Indeed, it would be absolutely impos- 
sible to duplicate many of the specimens. 

A very interesting series of si)ecimens was obtained from the Brewer 
Mine, South Carolina, in which the principles of hydraulic mining as 
carried on in California are api>lied. 

In the extraction of gold only a few processes have been illustrated. 

A very fine collection was obtained from the North Bloomfield Mine, 
Nevada County, California, representing the average of the rock as it 
is washed down by the little giant, the mercury used to catch the gold 
in the riffles, the amalgam as it is collected in the riffle-boxes, the puri- 
fied amalgam, the gold produced from retorting the amalgam, fine 
gold, and coarse nuggets of gold that are picked up off the floor of 
the mine at the clean-up. To this series is added a collection showing 
the heavy minerals associated with the gold which are taken out from 
the riflfle-boxes with the amalgam. This is an exceedingly interesting 
and valuable collection, illustrating as it does not only the extraction of 
gold, but also as illustrating a process which is without doubt the most 
economical of any mining process carried on anywhere, the actual 
cost of moving a ton of material from the mine, collecting and saving 
the gold, and discharging the waste material being but a few cents. 

The next collection illustrates the extraction of free gold from aurif- 
erous pyrite by stamping the material and collecting the gold, as an 
amalgam on copper plates, as carried on at the Bobtail Mill, Black 
Hawk, Gilpin County, Colorado. This collection shows the ore as re- 
ceived at the mill, which consists of a iftixture of iron and copper pyrite 
disseminated through quartz and clay (the gold occurs in the pyrite); 
the crushed material as it is passed through the sieves of the stamps; 
the battery pulp; the gold amalgam as scraped from the copper plates; 
the gold resulting from the retorting of the amalgam ; the concentrations 
obtained by allowing the heavy portion of the material to settle out in 
running water, consisting of pyrite and calcopyrite and containing a 
very considerable amount of gold ; and the sand or waste material. It 
is the only illustration of extracting gold by stamping and amalgamat- 
ing that we have, and in the future development of the plan it wouM 
be desirable to add two or more series, illustrating the treatment of 
different characters of ore. 

In the smelting of auriferous material a collection was made at the 
Colorado Smelter, at Butte, Mont., by the curator. This represents the 
various ores available to this smelter, the fuel and fluxes used, the 
matte ])roduced, and the slag. The work at this smelter is only the first 
step in the process. The matte, which contains about 50 percent, of 
copper, together with the gold and silver of the ores, is shipped to the 
Argo Works, near Denver, for further treatment. 



250 EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

A small but interesting collection was obtained from the works of 
E. Balbacb & Son, Newark, N. J., representing a combination of the 
smelting process with the electrolytic process for the separation of 
gold from copper. It contains various ores, together with the fuels and 
fluxes, several mattes, the residue containing the gold from the electro- 
lytic deposition of the copper, a very handsome sheet of the electrolytic 
copper, and a small bar of the gold separated from the residues. 

To these collections representing the extraction of gold is added a 
single illustration of its utilization. 

A collection showing the exceedingly minute and deUcate manii)ula- 
tion required in the manufacture of gold leaf. This collection starts 
with a sheet of gold as thin as it is convenient to produce by passing it 
through rolls ; then the various steps in the process of reducing its 
thickness by beating it with hammers between skins until the exceed- 
ingly thin gold leaf of commerce is produced- This collection is pre- 
sented by Hastings & Co., Philadelphia. 

It is very desirable to illustrate other processes of the utilization of 
gold, and one of the first collections that we ought to have, and one that 
it would not be very difficult to obtain, is an illustration of the manufact- 
ture of gold coins. 

Iridium. — A small amount of the iridosmine, found on the northern 
shores of California, shows the different sizes of grains of the material 
as obtained. To this is added a small amount of the material as sepa- 
rated from placer gold at the mint in purifying it for the manufacture 
of gold coins. 

Silver. — A very large collection of the silver ores of Utah was ob- 
tained. Part of the material was donated in exchange by Prof. J. E. 
Clayton, of Salt Lake City, TJt^h, and was material that he had col- 
lected from time to time, much of it such as could only be occasionally 
obtained by a collector on the ground. The rest of the collection con- 
sists of new^ material obtained at various mines near Salt Lake City 
by Mr. Reckhart. 

Some very handsome specimens showing the association of native 
silver with native copper from the Lake Superior region mines were 
presented by Capt. John Daniels, of the Osceola Mine. 

A good set of specimens showing the native silver with sulphide of 
copper was obtained by the curator at Butte, Mont. 

There are a few localities producing beautiful specimens of native 
silver that are not at present well represented in the Museum, and it 
would be very desirable to strengthen the collections in this direction 
by some further collecting, especially in the southwestern portion of 
the country, which is not as thoroughly represented in the ore collec- 
tion generally as it ought to be. 

The extraction of silver from its ores is represented by a large series 
of collections, but more difficulty was encountered in getting full col- 
lections, with the necessary information, in the case of silver than with 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF JIETALLURGY. 251 

that of any other metal. No illustrations of the process of extracting 
silver directly from its ores by stamping and amalgamating were ob- 
tained. This is a ])rocess that is of somewhat limited application and 
jet one of considerable importance, so that a collection illustrating it 
would be very desirable. 

The treatment of base ores, that is, ores carrying lead and silver, by 
roasting with salt (chloridizing) and stamping and amalgamating, is 
illustrated by three collections made by the curator. The first collection 
is from the Ontario Mill, Park City, Summit County, Utah, which works 
the ore from the Ontario Mine and uses the Stetefeldt furnace for roast- 
ing. This is a souiewhat remarkable mine on account of the persist- 
ency of the vein and its richness, but more especially on account of the 
large amount of water which has to be contended with. As much as» 
6,000 gallons are discharged from the mine per minute. This collection 
includes a very full series of the ores taken from different parts of the 
mine, selected by Captain Keith ; several average samples of the ore as 
delivered to the mill ; the dried ore; the stamped ore; the salt in himps, 
dried and crushed; the mixture of the ore and salt ready for the roast- 
ing furnace; the roasted ore taken from the bottom of the stack ; the 
roasted ore taken from the return flue, and samples taken from each one 
of the twelve dust chambers; the amalgam produced by treating the 
roasted ore in pans with mercury; the base bullion produced from re- 
torting the amalgam, which is from COO to 800 fine ; and the tailings as 
discharged from the mill. In making this collection the curator was 
assisted very materially by Mr. Joseph Gallagher, the superintendent of 
the mill, and the Museum is much indebted to Mr. R. C. Chambers, the 
general manager of the company, for the facilities cheerfully afforded 
in making this collection. Two collections were also made by the cura- 
tor at Butte, Mont., representing the same process. The series of 
specimens are essentially the same as that from Park City, but the 
course of operation is somewhat diftereut, owing to the different char- 
acter of the ores. At the Moulton Mill, where every attention was 
shown the curator by Mr. J. K. Clark, the manager, the ores are dried 
on plates and roasted in a Howells revolving cylinder. Besides the 
hard unaltered ores of the Moulton Mine this mill works a considerable 
amount of custom ore from many different outlying mines, especially 
the soft surface ores which have undergone a great deal of alteration. 
At the Lexington Mill, which works only the ores of the Lexington 
Mine, the ores are dried in a Stetefeldt shelf-drier and roasted in a 
Stetefeldt furnace. 

In the extraction of silver by smelting it has been quite difficult 
to get a thoroughly satisfactory collection, on account of the reticence 
of the manufacturers as to details of the process, and also their unwill- 
ingness to allow specimens to be taken. A fairly complete collec- 
tion representing the smelting of the argentiferous lead ore and the 
refining of the base bullion (silver and lead), at a works having at com- 
mand a large variety of ores, was obtained from the Cheltenham Works, 



252 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Saint Louis, Mo., by Mr. Gazzam. Tliis collection represents the various 
ores available to these works; the fuels and fluxes used ; the pig-lead pro 
duced iu the blast-furnace, together with the matte, flue dust, and slag; the 
first skimmings taken from the softening furnace ; the second skimmings 
from the same ; the softened bullion ready for desilverizing; the zinc used 
in desilverizing; the zinc scum, containing the silver, taken from the de- 
silverizing kettle ; the zinc resulting from the smelting of the zinc skim- 
mings; the litharge obtained in refining the silver; the fine silver; and 
the market lead. The same process, but on different characters of ores, 
is illustrated from the Argentine Works, Kansas City, Mo., collected by 
Mr. Zukoski, and from the Germania Works, Salt Lake City, collected 
by Messrs. Eeckhart and Pearis. Refining of base bullion is illustrated 
^rom the works of E. Balbach & Son, jSTewark, N. J., collected by Mr. 
Mcintosh. The smelting of argentiferous lead (base bullion) is illus- 
trated from the Horn Silver Smelter, Francklyn, Utah, collected by Mr. 
Eeckhart. This base bullion is refined at Chicago, but the process is 
not represented. 

"No collections were made representing the application of silver, but 
it is very desirable to do so as soon as possible. 

Tin. — It has been generally supposed that tin was a rare metal iu 
this country. This, however, is only partially true, the occurrence of 
cassiterite, thebinoxide of tin, in small quantities, being known to min- 
eralogists from a large extent of territory for many years; but it is only 
in very rare instances that this occurrence gave even the slightest evi- 
dence of there being a deposit which would prove of any commercial 
value. The first discovery that was at all favorable was made by Pro- 
fessor Jackson in New Hampshire in 1840. Specimens of this ore, to- 
gether with a bar of tin produced, have been in the Museum many 
years. 

A small amount of cassiterite from two localities, together with a bar of 
the tin produced, from Montana, was exhibited at the Centennial. An 
ore of a different character, being a stanniferous wolfram, has been 
known in California for many years, and at one time quite extensive 
operations were commenced upon the deposit. The ore, however, is 
somewhat difficult of treatment, and this, with litigation, soon closed up 
the mine and the works. There are in the Museum several specimens 
of this ore, together with two full-sized pigs of tin produced and several 
sheets of tin-plate. Isolated specimens of cassiterite have been found at 
various times from several localities in Maine, and the next discovery of 
any importance was at Winslow, in that State, where a more definite vein 
carrying cassiterite was discovered in 1807. The vein here, however, was 
exceedingly small, and nothing has been accomplished. Following close 
upon each other, in 1882-'83, there were discoveries of tin in three widely 
separated localities, which have given promise of ultimately producing 
more or less tin. These localities are at the Broad Arrow mines, in Ala- 
bama, a collection from which was sent to the Museum soon after its dis- 
covery; the Cash mines, in Rockbridge County, Virginia, and the depos- 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 253 

its at Haruey Peak, iii the Black Hills of Dakota. In 1884 a further dis- 
covery was made at King's Mountain, North Carolina. All the latter lo- 
calities were not i)reviously represented in the Museum, and in order to 
make the series as full andcomi)leteasi)ossible a special effort was made 
to complete the representations. With one exception this has been en- 
tirely successful. The new collections were received from Maine, Vir- 
ginia, North Carolina, and the Black Hills. In the latter case, however, 
the representations are not at all complete, but a full series has been 
promised the Museum by the owner of the Etta, which is the principal 
mine of the region. 

A complete series of tin plate of Welsh manufacture was presented 
to the Museum by Merchant & Co., of Philadelphia. This shows plates 
of charcoal iron, coke iron, and Bessemer steel coated with various 
thicknesses of tin, giving the different grades and varieties for different 
uses. 

Antimony. — The occurrence of antimony in this country in workable 
deposits is somewhat limited. The ores of Kern County, California, 
were partially represented in the Centennial material, but some addi- 
tions are desirable. New material from the Utah locality was obtained 
from Professor Clayton. This represents the ore in several varieties, 
including the very pure and unaltered stibnite and its oxydation pro- 
ducts, together with the metal smelted from it. The very interesting 
and promising deposits of Southwestern Arkansas are not represented 
in the Museum, but it is hoped that a suitable series of specimens from 
that region can be obtained at the close of the New Orleans exposition. 

Lead. — The extraction of lead alone is somewhat limited, owing to the 
fact that so much lead is produced from the refining of the argentiferous 
leads of the Western countries; the adv^antage gained by the presence of 
a small amount of silver in the ore being so great that non-argentiferous 
ores for the most part cannot bo smelted except under the most favor- 
able conditions. The Missouri lead region is still able to compete with 
this argentiferous material, however, and the processes followed have 
been very fully illustrated. The collections include two series from the 
Saint Joe and Desloge Works, at Bonne Terre, Mo., collected by Mr. J.F. 
Kemp. These collections are especially interesting from the large num- 
ber of specimens they contain illustrating the process of the mechanical 
dressing or concentration of the ore. The galena occurs disseminated 
through a magnesian limestone or dolomite, and the process of concen- 
trating this galena mechanically has been brought to a high state of 
perfection. Besides these dressed specimens the collections include the 
fuels and fluxes, the pig-lead produced, together with the matte and 
slag, the skimmings from the refiner and the refined pig. An entirely 
similar collection from Mine La Motte, Mo., was made by Mr. Gazzam. 
This collection, however, has farther value and interest from the occur- 
rence of nickel and cobult in the Mine La Motte ores. 

One of the most interesting of metallurgical operations is carried on 



254 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

at tlie Loue Elm Works. Joplin, Mo. It is the production of a pig lead 
and a white lead direct from the ore in two operations. It is a process 
that is only applied here and is not very well known. This collection in- 
cludes the ore, the fuels, and fluxes, with a largo series of the flue dusts, 
the pig-lead and slag obtained in the first operation; the flue dust 
after it has been ignited ; a large series of white flue dusts obtained 
in the second operation ; and a material known as white lead, which is 
used extensively as a paint, but which diflers completely from the white 
lead obtained by corroding pig-lead. This material is mainly a sulphate 
of lead, containing, however, a considerable amount of zinc, which comes 
from zinc minerals found associated with the galena in the ore, while 
the white lead obtained by corroding pig-lead is a basic carbonate of 
lead. 

Illustrations of the application of lead are somewhat numerous in the 
Centennial collections, but there is an opportunity to make several im- 
portant additions. The only one, however, that was secured last sum- 
mer was an interesting collection showing the manufacture of white 
lead by the corrosion process. This collection includes the metallic lead 
arranged in crucible for corrosion, acetic acid used, the bark with which 
the pile of crucibles is covered and upon fermentation furnishes the 
necessary carbonic acid, the white lead obtained in the crucibles, the fin- 
ished white lead, and the white lead ground in oil. To these are added 
specimens of litharge, red lead, and orange mineral. 

Copper. — Illustrations of the free copper ores from Lake Superior 
contained in the Centennial material, although quite full and extensive, 
were not at all systematic, and Messrs. Kirby and Zukoski being in the 
Lake Superior region when they commenced collecting, it was thought 
best to have them commence by making some systematic collections 
there. The copper occurs at Lake Superior in three distinct forms : 

First, the so-called mass mines, which are characterized by the occur- 
rence of large masses of free copper, amounting in some cases to many 
tons of metal in a single mass. Besides these large masses these mines 
also carry considerable disseminated free copper. 

Second, the amygdaloid mines, which are characterized by the occur- 
rence of the free copper in amygdules, bunches, strings, and sheets, from 
the size of a pin-j)oint up to a few hundred pounds in weight (with rarely 
a large mass) disseminated in a soft amygdaloid trap-rock. The aver- 
age percentage of copper in tlie ores from these mines varies from three- 
quarters of 1 per cent, to 2 per cent. 

Third, the conglomerate mines, which are characterized by the occur- 
rence of the free copper mostly in strings in a hard conglomerate of fer- 
ruginous quartz pebbles. The average percentage of copper in the ores 
from these mines varies from 4 per cent, to 6 per cent. 

To illustrate the occurrence of mass copper Mr. Zukoski made a col- 
lection at the Central Mine. This collection includes sections of the 
formations beginning with the hanging wall and following through 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 255 

the vein to the foot-wall, taken from several levels, isolated specimens 
showing the associates of the ore, several pieces of the copper, the chii)s 
obtained in cutting- up the masses, and a largo and a small mass. This 
collection includes 34 specimens. 

To represent the amygdaloid mines Mr. Kirby made a collection at the 
Osceola Mine. On account of the more varied character of the amygda- 
loid material this collection is much larger than the one from the Cen- 
tral .'\line, but it is taken on the same general principle of representing 
the vein by sections from the hanging wall across the vein to the foot 
wall, and also in illustrating the changes of the material as one proceeds 
down the mine. The collection includes about 80 specimens and is a 
very complete illustration of the subject. 

To illustrate the extraction of the copper from the amygdaloid ore 
Mr. Zukoski made a collection at the Osceola Mill. This includes the 
average of the material sent to the mill, specimens of crushed material 
as it passes the sieve, the headings from the mortars, and follows through 
the process of concentration, showing the concentrated copper and the 
waste products of each operation. 

To represent the conglomerate mines Mr. Kirby made a collection at 
the Delaware Mine. This collection is taken on the same general plan 
as the others, and also includes a section of 631 feet along the vein^ 
showing the various changes that take place in the material. He also 
collected a full series representing the concentration of the copper. 
This collection includes 100 specimens. 

These three collections together represent in a very full manner the 
interesting occurrence of free copper in the Lake Superior region, and 
will be an exceedingly valuable addition to that subject. 

It was very unfortunate that the process of refining this material 
could not have been followed out on the spot, but the proprietors of the 
refining works at Hancock would not permit any systematic collections 
to be taken. The only collections taken there were a short series col- 
lected by Messrs. Kirby and Zukoski illustrating the smelting of the 
slags obtained in refining the native copper in a McKenzie cupola at 
the Lake Superior Native Copper Works. 

The process of refining the material from the Mass Mine is fully illus- 
trated by a collection from the C. G. Hussey Works at Pittsburgh, Pa. 
This collection includes the various grades of material received from the 
concentrating works, a sample of the metal taken from the bath just 
after the first skimming of slag, a sample taken just before beginning- 
to rabble, a sample after rabbling, a sample just before poling, and a 
sample of the refined metal, together with four skimmings of slag. To 
these are added samples of the coal and charcoal used, of the sand for 
making the bottom of the furnace, a piece of the pole used in refining, 
and a test ingot showing the tests applied to the metal just before be- 
ginning to cast. This collection was made by Mr. W. H. Johns. 



256 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

The illustratious of the extensive deposits of copper at Butte, IMont., 
formerly obtained, were confined to one mine, but the curator collected 
an extensive series last summer, representing the sulphides of copper 
and iron and the association of free silver with these sulphureted ores. 
Illustrations of the process of smelting as far as carried on at Butte, 
Mont., were also collected by the curator. These include series of 
specimens from the reverberatory furnaces of the Montana and the 
Parrot Companies and the shaft furnaces of the Bell Company. They 
include samples of the ore of various grades, with the products and 
waste products of the concentrating operations, the fuels and fluxes, 
and the matte and slag produced. As most of the matte is shipped to 
England for further treatment, it was not possible to follow the process 
beyond this single operation. 

The very interesting process of smelting and refining copper from the 
calcopyrite ore of Saint Genevieve, Mo., is fully illustrated by a collec- 
tion made by Mr. Gazzam. This collection includes a full series of the 
ore and a full series of the slag produced in the roasting process, to- 
gether with the matte and a series of slags from the refining furnace, 
an ingot of the refined metal, and the copper mold in which the ingot 
was cast. To these are added the fuel and fluxes used and other 
uecessar^^ material. 

The smelting and refining of copper, as carried on at works having at 
command a varied supply of crude materials, is illustrated by a collection 
from the Baltimore Works of Pope, Cole & Co., Baltimore, Md. This 
includes a series of mattes, together with the slags produced at the same 
time, and an ingot of the refined metal. 

Steps werQ taken to obtain illustrations of the smelting of the cop- 
per of the Arizona and New Mexico region, but on account of the ina- 
bility of the Museum to send a collector there and the difficulty of 
making arrangements by correspondence in time no series was obtained, 
although one is promised and will probably arrive soon. 

The process carried on in Arizona produces pig copper at a single 
operation. The refining of this pig copper, however, is illustrated by a 
very full and complete series of specimens taken by the curator at the 
works of the Ansonia Brass and Copper Company, Ansonia, Conn. 
This collection includes two series of specimens taken from two difler- 
ent classes of furnaces working the copper from two regions. Begin- 
ning with the metal as soon as it was melted in the furnace samples 
were taken to represent the various stages in the process until casting 
was commenced. Each series contains nine specimens. Samples of 
the slags produced were also taken. To these were added the fuels 
and other necessary material used. 

A very complete illustration of some of the uses of copper was pre- 
sented by the Ansonia Brass and Copper Company. This series in- 
cludes si^ecimens representing the rolling of copper into various com- 
mercial shapes, the manufacture of various styles of sheet metal with 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 257 

copper for a basis, the manufacture and utilizatiou of brass iu various 
forms, and the manufacture of coi)i)er and brass wire. The collections 
illustrating copper and brass are the most full and complete that we 
have. There are, however, still a few methods that it would be very 
desirable to fill as soon as convenient. 

Bismuth. — The occurrence of bismuth in this country is somewhat 
limited, having been found in only a few localities, and there only iu 
small amounts. Z^^oue of the ore is treated in this country, but occa- 
sionally small amounts are shipped abroad that have been obtained in 
mining for other metals. A small collection of the ores of Utah was 
obtained from Prof. J. E. Clayton. 

XicJiel and cobalt. — No new collections were made to represent nickel 
and cobalt as there is already a i)retty fair illustration of these two 
metiils in the IMuseum. It would, however, be very desirable to ob- 
tain a few specimens representing the great progress that has recently 
been made iu the manipulation of wrought nickel. 

Iron. — The very extensive collection of iron ores turned over to the 
^Museum by the Census furnishes a very complete illustration of the iron 
resources of the country, and there was no necessity for making any 
further collections of iron ores save to go with the collections represent- 
ing the processes. 

To represent the smelting of pig-iron, representative furnaces were se- 
lected in different parts of the country, using different varieties of fuel. 
It was not, however, possible to obtain all the collections in this line 
that were planned. As representing the apidication of coke as a fuel, 
collections were received from the Eockwood Furnaces of the Roane Iron 
Company, Chattanooga, Tennessee; from the Longdale Furnaces in Vir- 
ginia; from the Missouri, Nova Scotia and Saint Louis Ore and Steel Com- 
pany, in Missouri. As representing the use of a mixture of coke and 
anthracite coal, collections were received from the Warwick and North 
Cornwall Furnaces in Pennsylvania, and from the Crown Point Furnace 
in New York. These collections include hand specimens of the ores, lime- 
stone and the fuels, and a series of pig-iron representing as far as possi- 
ble the different grades produced at each furnace. With these are 
specimens of the slag corresponding with each gTade of iron, the slag 
specimens when possible being taken from the same cast that the pig- 
irons were. To these are added specimens of by-products such as cadmia, 
flue dust, salamanders, &c. 

The manufacture of wrought iron direct from the ore is represented 
by a collection from the Belmont Forge, Rogersfield, N. Y. 

A very interesting collection of Swedish irons was presented by Mr. 
N. Lilienberg, of New York. This contains samples of various kinds of 
pig-iron, wrought iron, and steel, together with descriptions of the va- 
rious processes used in their manufacture. 

The manufacture of steel was perhaps better illustrated in the Cen- 
tennial material than any other metal. But these collections were ex- 
S. Mis. 33, |»t. 1' 17 



258 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

ceedingly fragmentary and consisted for the most part of highly wrought 
specimens, showing more particularly what can be done by suitable 
treatment of the material rather than what is accomplished in the every- 
day run of the works, and contained but few illustrations of the regular 
course of operations. This material therefore requires to be supple- 
mented very extensively in order to form anything like a complete illus- 
tration. In the new collections the manufacture of Bessemer steel is most 
fully illustrated by a series of nearly 100 specimens collected by Messrs. 
Kirby and Zukoski at the South Chicago Rolling Mill. This collectiou 
begins with the smelting of the pig-iron, shows various ores, fuels, and 
fluxes used, and the pig-irons and slag produced. Then, beginning 
with the blow No. 13,391 in the converting department, specimens of 
all the material entering into the blow were taken and also samples of 
the metal taken at various times during the conversion and a sample 
of the finished steel rail. To these are added samples of the various 
refractory materials used, together with a large number of by-products 
produced, some of which, however, find application. This collectiou is 
an exceedingly valuable one and will add very greatly to our previous 
collections in this line. 

The process of the manufacture of crucible steel is one but little 
known to those not directly interested in it, and it is not very easy to 
gather any specimens of the operation of the process, to say nothing of 
getting a complete series. Most manufacturers have what they con- 
sider exceedingly valuable secrets in this process and are very reluctant 
to give any information whatever in regard to their works. A very 
complete and interesting collection, however, was presented by Messrs. 
Miller, Metcalf & Parkin, of the Crescent Steel Works, Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 

Iron being the most important metal that we have, its metallurgy is 
the most full and complete, and it is a subject that the Museum should 
illustrate fully. At the same time the industry is scattered over such 
a wide area that it will require a considerable time to work it up fully 
and completely. But it is hoped that several collections which were prom- 
ised for the New Orleans Exposition will yet be received and that we 
shall soon have a tolerably fair illustration of the subject. 

Zinc. — A very large collection of blende, much of it crystallized, from 
Missouri, was made by Messrs. Kirby and Gazzam. The particular mines 
to be mentioned are Cowen & Bliss, at Lehigh, Mo., and Spencer & Mc- 
Coney, Carterville, Mo. Two collections of silicate and carbonate ores 
from Virginia and Tennessee were obtained : one, representing the very 
remarkable deposit of the Bertha Zinc Company, in Pulaski County, 
Virginia, was presented by Mr. Thomas Jones ; the other, representing 
the deposit at Mossy Creek, Tennessee, was presented by Mr. T. H. 
Heald, Knoxville, Tenn. 

The collections representing the smelting of zinc or spelter from the 
sulphide ores of Missouri and Kansas are very complete, having been 



L 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 259 

obtained from tlieGlendale "NYorks, uear Saint Louis ; tbcJopliu Works, 
Joplin, Mo. ; the Gran by Works, Granby, Mo. ; the Lauyou Works, Weir 
City, Kans., and from the South Side Mining and Manufacturing Com- 
pany, Galena, Kans., by Mr. Gazzam. Collections from the Rich Hill 
Works, liich Hill, Mo., and the Cherokee Works, Weir City, Kans., were 
obtained by Mr. Zukoski. Although these works employ similar material 
yet they vary greatly in detail, some of them being even totally dif- 
ferent. The collections represent the ore in its various stages of prep- 
aration for the smelting, the fuels and fluxes used, the charge as made 
up for the retorts, the spelter produced, the slag and blue powder. To 
these are added, in many instances, illustrations of the refractory mate- 
rials used and the process of the manufacture of retorts. There are 
several other works that it would be very desirable to represent, as they 
employ an entirely ditt'erent character of material, and it is very desir- 
able also to obtain collections from some of these as soon as possible. 

The utilization of the complicated material occurring at Franklin, 
N. J., is a very interesting process, as it illustrates the extraction of 
three common metals from a single ore in two operations. The ores 
of this region consist of Franklinite — a zinc, iron, and manganese min- 
eral — zincite, the red oxide of zinc, willemite or silicate of zinc, calli- 
mine or hydrosilicate of zinc, and rhodonite or silicate of manganese, 
occurring for the most part in a gangue of carbonate of lime. For 
smelting, these ores are first roughly divided intS two classes, one con- 
taining zinc only, and the other zinc, iron, and manganese. The first 
class is treated for the production of spelter in the regular way. The 
zinc, iron, and manganese portion is treated first in a special furnace for 
the production of oxide of zinc, which is used largely for paint. The 
residue remaining in the oxide furnaces, which is known as residuum, is 
then treated in a shaft-furnace, for the extraction of its iron and man- 
ganese in the form of spiegeleisen for use in the manufacture of steel. 

The collection irom the zinc furnaces shows — 

The Franklinite ore, consisting of a mixture of Franklinite or proto- 
sesquioxide of iron withzinc and manganese replacing the iron, zinciteor 
oxide of zinc, willemite or silicate of zinc, calcite or carbonate of lime; 
in lumps as mined, from the Buckwheatfield Mine, Franklin, Sussex 
County, New Jersey. 

The same ore crushed ready for the furnace. 

The Franklinite ore, consisting of a mixture of Franklinite or proto- 
sesquioxide of iron with zinc and manganese replacing the iron, zincite 
or oxide of zinc, willemite or silicate of zinc, rhodonite or silicate of 
manganese, and calcite or carbonate of lime; in lumps as mined, from 
the Sterling Hill Mine, Ogdensburg, Sussex County, New Jersey. 

Thfe same ore crushed ready for the furnace. 

Tlie silicate and carbonate ore, consisting principally of calimine or 
hydrated silicate of zinc with a little carbonate of zinc resulting from 



260 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

decomposition, in lumps as rained, from the Sterling Hill Mine, Ogdens- 
burg, Sussex County, New Jersey. 

Tiie same ore after roasting to expel water and carbonic acid. 

The roasted ore crushed ready for the furnace. 

Anthracite coal used for heating purposes. 

Anthracite coal (fine) to be mixed with the ore in making up the 
charge to reduce the zinc to the metallic state. 

The mixed charge of Franklinite ore and coal ready for the oxide fur- 
nace. 

The mixed charge of silicate and carbonate ore with coal for the spel- 
ter furnaces. 

The residuum remaining in the oxide furnace after the extraction of 
the zinc. 

The oxide of zinc produced. 

The residue remaining in the retorts after the distillation of the zinc 
in the spelter furnaces. 

Blue-powder, a by-product, consisting of a mixture of metallic zinc 
and oxide resulting from imperfect condensation of the zinc. 

The spelter or metallic zinc produced. 

To these are added — The fire-clay from Woodbridge, K. J., used for 
making retorts. 

A piece of new retort. 

A piece of old retort. 

Old retort ground, to be mixed with the clay in making new retorts. 

The collection from the sinegel furnaces shows — 

The residuum from the oxide furnaces, containing the iron and man- 
ganese originally present in the ore. 
• Limestone used for flux, from Sing Sing, N. Y. 

Anthracite coal used for fuel. 

The slag produced. 

Oxide of zinc deposited in the gas-flues. 

The spiegeleisen produced. 

Sulphur. — The manufacture of sulphuric acid from iron pyrite is a 
process that has recently been very largely adopted in this country. 
Various strong j)rejudices existed formerly against the use of pyrite for 
this purpose on account of the liability of a small amount of arsenic 
occurring with the pyrite — this arsenic injuring the acid produced for 
many purposes. Eecently, however, two very important deposits of 
pyrite which are totally free from arsenic have been developed, and the 
material is being used quite freely for the manufacture of sulphuric acid. 
The deposit at Charlemont, Mass., is represented by a collection of the 
lump and fine ore presented by the Davis Company of Boston. The de- 
posit at Tolersville, Ya., is represented by an extensive series of samples 
of the lump and fine ore in several varieties, together with many of the 
associates of the deposit. Presented by Mr. W. H. Adams. 

The pyrite is first roasted to expel its sulphur, which is then con- 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OP METALLURGY. 261 

verted iuto sulphuric acid in the regular way. The residue, which gen 
erally contains a valuable amount of coi)[)er, is thrn treated for that 
metal. The manufacture of sulphuric acid is represented by a collec- 
tion presented by the Merrimac Chemical Company of Boston, Mass. 
It shows the lump and fine ore, the residue remaining after the extrac- 
tion of the sulphur, the chamber acid, and the concentrated acid pro- 
duced. 

Coal. — Mr. James Temple Brown, of the Museum stafl", was engaged 
during the summer in making a collection to represent the coal mining 
industry of the country. This collection contains many specimens 
illustrative of the life of the coal miner as influenced by his occupation 
and surroundings. And though the work was based mainly upon the 
ethnological aspect of coal mining, the collection possesses many other 
features which are of interest. 

It embraces the carbouite or natural coke and the bituminous coals 
of the Jura-Triassic period from the Mesozoic formation of Virginia; the 
cannel, gas, splint, bituminous, and semi-bituminous coals of West Vir- 
ginia; the semi-bituminous and anthracite coals of Pennsylvania: an- 
thracite from the Carboniferous formation of Rhode Island ; anthracite 
from the Lower Carboniferous or Vesi>ertine of Virginia, and examples 
of industrial coke from several localities. Whenever possible refuse or 
extraneous matter, as slate, bone or bony, and bisulphide of iron (pyrite), 
or " sulphur," was added to the suites of sami^Ies from many mines rep- 
resented. As an illustration of the collections made, that from the 
Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron Company of Pottsville will be 
mentioned. It consists of coal, " run of mine," from the mammoth bed 
in Kohinoor colliery, including a large piece weighing about three tons; 
slate from both the roof and floor of the breast whence the coal was 
taken ; the marketable sizes of coal as prepared in the breaker, includ- 
ing buckwheat, pea, chestnut, small stove, large stove, egg, broken, 
steamboat, and lump or furnace ; and three kinds of refuse, denomi- 
nated " breaker waste " (embracing pieces of slate that form the layers 
between the benches of coal), bony coal, and dust. The last named is too 
fine to have auy commercial importance, and the first two were unavoid- 
ably mixed with the coal when blasting it out in the mine. To this col- 
lection of coal is added a very large and complete exhibit of the various 
tools used by the coal miner, together with many specimens illustrating 
his social condition. 

The names of the collieries which contributed to the collection, and 
their locations, are as follows : Commencing east and i)roceeding south 
we can trace the coal fields in their geological order. The old anthra- 
cite mine at Newport, R. I., through the kindness of Prof. R. D. Lacoe, 
of West Pittston, Pa., is represented by several pieces of very hard coal, 
graphitic in its nature, and of steel-blue color. Exami)les of the hard 
anthracite ot Pennsylvania were obtained from the Mammoth bed in 
Kohinoor colliery, in the Shenandoah basin of the Middle Coal Field. 



262 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1834. 

This colliery is operated by the Philadelphia and Beading Goal and 
Iron Comi)any. The soft or free- burning anthracites were obtained from 
the Brookside colliery, a very pure variety, from the Lykens Valley dis- 
trict, and the Loyalsock mine in Sullivan County. For convenience of 
ref(Meuce, the Geological Survey of Pennsylvania has designated the 
Bernice basin, in which the Loyalsock mine is located, as the Western 
Northern Anthracite Field. The Pennsylvania semi-bituminous coals 
were obtained from the basins north of Bernice, the Long Valley mine 
in the Barclay basin, the Arnot and Antrim mines in the Blossburg 
basin. The bituminous coals of Virginia were obtained from the Eich- 
niond basin, lying within the limits of Henrico, Chesterfield, Goochland, 
and Powhatan Counties. A si^ecimen of anthracite from the vespertine 
of Virginia was presented by Col. Philip G. Pendleton, of West Virginia, 
and came from Berkeley County, near the line of Morgan County, West 
Virginia. 

In West Virginia the Eagle, Crescent, Coal Valley, Paint Creek, 
Wiuifrede and Peerless mines, in the Kanawha district, contributed 
specimens of coal, including cannel, gas, splint, and bituminous, with 
their associates, to the collection ; and from the New Kiver district ex- 
amples of coal and slate were forwarded to the Museum from Stone 
Clifl", Nuttallburg, Fire Creek, and Caperton. Coke was also received 
from some of them. 

Coal and sand rock were obtained from the crest of the arch of an anti- 
clinal axis on the east end of Mine Hill, in Schuylkill County, Pa., where 
the Coal Measures cross over from the Schuylkill basin, and a piece of 
coal that was evidently the crest of a miniature axis from the Palmer 
Vein colliery. 

Forty-eight hour coke and seventy-two hour coke, of especial impor- 
tance for metallurgical purposes, and the different sizes of crushed coke 
for domestic use, are fully represented; examples of the former were 
receive! from both Pennsj-lvania and West Virginia, and of the latter 
from Councils ville, Pa. The preparation and shipment of domestic 
sizes of coke is a new departure in the coking industry. This suite of 
samples was solicited by the curator, and consists of pea, nut, small 
stove, and egg, together with the lump coke and the coal from which, 
the coke is made, and was contributed by the H. C. Frick Coke Com- 
pany of Pittsburgh, Pa. 

Samples of pyrites were obtained in well-defined cubes, and in crys- 
talline aggregates, from the washings of coal in a jigger, finely dissemi- 
nated in slate, and in ovoid and globular masses of greater or less di- 
ameter in the coal itself. The latter are called "sulphur balls" by the 
miners, and their i)resence is strongly objected to, as they are imper- 
vious to the pick and a source of considerable annoyance and delay 
in cutting coal. They are also a source of danger in "fiery" mines on 
account of their hardness, which causes them to throw off sparks of fire 
(strike fire) when struck with sufficient force with a pick or other tool. 



I 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 263 

Among the curiosities of the collection may be mentioned pieces of 
iridescent or "peacock" coal, so called on account of its brilliant me- 
tallic colors. Anthracite, semi-anthracite and semi-bituminous coals of 
this character are represented; the handsomest specimens being from 
the lioss vein of the Ked Ash Coal Company of Wilkes Barre. 

As an evidence that the miner is warmly receptive to art, and as an 
illustration of the adaptability of anthracite coal to such purposes, sev- 
eral coal ornaments were obtained : (1) a lady's slipper, (2) a miner's 
brogan, (3) a table caster with bottles, and other articles made by the 
artistic miner in his leisure moments. The Urst is a very beautiful speci- 
men, and is not only artistic but also highly realistic. These were pre- 
sented by Mr. P. W. Sheafer and Maj. Heber S. Thompson, of Pottsville. 
The tirst is matle of coal from Kohinoor colliery, the second from one of the 
mines on the (xirard estate, and the third from the Ellangowan colliery. 
Major Thompson also donated two cubes of anthracite coal. One is a 
4incli cube, and the coal was mined from the top split of the mammoth 
bed in the Hammond colliery. It contains 64 cubic inches and weighs 
'6^1 pounds, equivalent to 25743^3 pounds, or 1.149 tons, per cubic yard. 
The second is a 10-inch cube, and is from the mammoth bed (white ash), 
Kehley's Kun colliery. 

The number of fossil plants in the collection is small and restricted 
to well-known varieties, such as stigmaria, sigdlaria, lepidodendra, 
ulodendra, and calaraites. Impressions of fern-leaves in both lire clay 
and slate should also be noted. One of them, with a silvered matrix, 
presented by Mr. P.W. Sheafer, is unusual. An exami)le of uloden- 
drou is very pronounced in its bars, a feature which has given rise to 
the name of " washboaid slate" in use by the miners. 

The corrosive efiect of mine water upon metals is illustrated by 
several bolts from a large tubular iron tank used to hoist water from 
mines. The bolts, originally § of an inch in diameter, have been 
eaten away to a mere shred. A miuiug pick taken from an abandoned 
colliery shows the effect of mine water upon iron and steel combined, 
the iron has been eaten away to a large extent while the steel is only 
slightly attacked. 

The objects of geological interest are supplemented by the various 
kinds of implements used by the miner, consisting of his tools, lamps, 
clothing, and foot-wear, as well as utensils that pertain to his domestic 
economy and are essential to his i)ersonal comfort while at work. This 
list embraces the pick, drill, needle, blasting-barrel, cartridges, and all 
accessories used in the processes of cutting and blasting coal ; lamps 
which burn with a naked flame for the mine officials, miners, drivers, 
and mules ; and safety lamps of various patterns, including the Clanny, 
Davy, and Stephenson. The safety lamps were presented by Messrs. 
J. W. Queen & Co., of Philadelphia, who also contributed samples of 
brattice cloth, an air-tight fabric of coarse texture used in ventilat- 
ing mines. The miner's outfit is further illustrated by an industrial ex- 



264 • REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1684. 

Libit which inchules in their regular order the several parts used in the 
process of manufacturing miner's boots, and also embraces both kinds 
of mining boots used by the miner, in the hard coal and soft coal mines 
respectively. This exhibit was prepared and presented by Messrs. 
Humphrey Bros, and Tracey, Towanda, Pa. An improved form of the 
Grim drill, or coal auger, donated by Mr. I. F. Mansfield, Cannelton^ 
Pa., is shown. The Blossburg Coal Company presented a ratchet-drill 
which may be used alternately in boring rock for tunneling and enlarg- 
ing gangways, and for excavating coal. This is a fair illustration of 
the workmanship of the local artisans employed at our coal mines, and 
was made by the blacksmith at Aruot. 

In addition to the utensils used in excavating coal a set of hand im- 
plements or "breaker tools," used in the breaker while preparing the 
coal for market, may also be noted. It comjjrises a rake and scraper 
for manipulating the coal in the chutes and a wire broom for cleaning 
the meshes of the large rotating cylindrical screens that distribute the 
marketable sizes of coal and to detach slate. 

The pictorial portion of the collection consists of (1) photographs, in- 
cluding negatives and prints ; (2) tracings and sketches on linen cloth ^ 
(3) lithographs, and (4) cyauotypes. This collection illustrates the 
processes of mining by drift, slope, and shaft; the miners in their dif- 
ferent positions when engaged in cutting and drilling coal ; the working- 
costumes of the miners and mine oificials ; the excavation of coal by 
the pick and mining machine or "coal digger"; the inside and outside 
haulage of coal by means of the mule, mine locomotive, and the under- 
ground wire-rope system ; the machinery for hoisting coal to the sur- 
face ; pumping machinery; ventilating fans and fan-houses; exterior 
and interior views of the breaker, where the large lumps of coal are 
broken and the various sizes assorted for market; the chutes and 
pockets for loading coal at the colliery for transshipment; the transfer 
of the coal up and down the precipitous sides of the mountains by in- 
clined planes ; the form of mine wagons used in the anthracite collier- 
ies and the bituminous mines ; the formation of a coal seam, showing 
the partings of slate between the benches and the crest of an anticlinal 
where the measures cross over a mountain from one basin to another,, 
and coal- washing machinery. 

Twenty-one negatives were made in all; five in the soft-coal region 
and sixteen in the anthracite. By means of electric light five negatives 
were made of the interior of a mine showing miners at work, as well as 
of the electric plant used upon the occasion. The views were enlarged 
by Mr. T. W. Smillie, photographer of the Museum. 

These views represent — 

Three miners at work, one with a hand-drill or jumper, making a hole 
for a shot, one with pick breaking down coal, and the third in the act 
of loading small pieces of coal with shovel ; this also shows the different 



I 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 265 

benches, inclndinj]: the 12-foot bench and tlie leg-breaker, and a pile of 
" gob." (59000.) 

The same breast as 59006, with a miner at work, with a hand-drill or 
coal-anger by the light of the safety-lamp, various tools being grouped 
about him. (59008.) 

Robbing the mine. Two men at work with the ordinary miner's lamp, 
one with pick and the other with shovel, a pillar of coal on the right. 
(59007.) 

A view of the entrance to the breast, taken from the face, rei>resent- 
ing the manner of propping the gangway, and showing the mule-track, 
a pile of gob, and discarded props on the right. (59009.) 

A view of the electric plant used in taking the photographs. (59010.) 

Photographs of mine locomotives were obtained from the Wyoming 
Valley Manufacturing Company, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. , and two photogi a])hs 
of a fan and fan-house for mine ventilation from the Vulcan Iron Works 
of the same place. In this series the engines used for both inside and 
outside mine service are fully illustrated. One of the originals is used 
at Arnot, Pa. (inside), and another at the Katon mines. New Mexico 
(inside), and the third at Nanticote, Pa. (outside). A photogra])h of 
the Harrison mining machine, with a miner in position for cutting coal, 
was presented by Mr. George D. Whitcomb, Chicago, 111. A photo- 
graph of an apparatus for the inside haulage of coal by the tail rope or 
endless-rope system, showing double engines of 100 horse power and 
drum, was presented by Mr. Thomas E. Knauss, superintendent of the 
Kelsonville Foundry, Nelsonville, Ohio. This machinery, together with 
the photographs of the mine locomotives, fully illustrates the improved 
mechanical devices for both the excavation and the haulage of coal. 
Mr. George M. Bretz, photographer, of Pottsville, Pa., who made all the 
negatives in the collection illustrative of typical mining scenes both 
above and below ground in the anthracite regions, has sent several 
large photographs of representative breakers in the Shenandoah dis- 
trict and one photograi)h of the Mahanoy plane. This series includes 
the William Penu colliery breaker, the Lost Creek colliery breaker, and 
the Kohinoor breaker. Mahanoy plane is about half a mile long and 
about 16,000 tons have been hoisted over it in one day. Mr. Thomas 
Hodgson, of Buffalo, N. Y., has coutnhuted two large photographs, 
illustrative of the transfer of anthracite coal to the Great Lakes for 
western shipment; one i)ictnre rei)resents the land view, and shows the 
manner of discharging coal from the railroad cars into the pockets, and 
the other the water view, and the manner of loading vessels. 

]\Ir. C. A. Ashburner, in charge of the survey of the anthracite-coal 
fields of Pennsylvania, contributed three enlarged charts, illustrating 
(1) the Panther Creek Coal Basin; (2) cross and columnar sections of 
the same, and (3) the Wyoming Valley in the vicinity of Wilkes liarre. 
Mr. J. Raymond Claghorn, of Philadelphia, i)resident of the State Line 
and Sullivan Railroad Company, contributed a toi)Ograi)hical map of 



266 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

the Loyal Sock Coal Basin in Sullivan County, Pennsylvania. The 
Pennsylvania Coal Company contributed a lithograph of its Barnum 
colliery breaker at Pittston, Pa. Mr. A. B. Cochrane donated a chart 
of the anthracite coal fields of Peunsylvauia and their outlet to mar- 
ket, including a list of the names of the collieries and a statistical 
table showing the annual shipment of coal. 

Mr. P. W. Sheafer, of Potts ville, sent several tracings, one which rep- 
resents the columnar section of the coal measun^s in the vicinity of 
Kohinoor colliery, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania, and another a sec- 
tion of the mammoth bed in the same colliery, showing the top and 
bottom splits, and the partings of slate, charcoal, and bone ; also a 
diagram of the progress of the anthracite coal trade of Pennsylvania, 
with a statistical table showing the output and estimated quantity of 
anthracite coal in the several coal fields and the relative amount of 
waste. Mr. John H. Strauch, resident eng'ineer of the Philadelphia and 
Reading Coal and Iron Company, sent two tracings ; one represents the 
underground operation of the standard 20-iuch bull-pump used in drain- 
ing- the mine, including cross-sections of the main gangway and sump, 
and the pump and wagon ways of the pump-slope ; the other shows the 
manner in which the two shafts of this coUery were sunkj and indicates^ 
with full measurements, the jDositions of the diamond-drill holes used 
in blasting the rock. Mr. John A. Pollard, resident engineer of the 
Shenandoah district of the Philadelphia and Heading Coal and Iron 
Compay, has supplied an excellent sketch of the ground view of Kohi- 
noor colliery, with tidal elevations, illustrative of the photographic 
work conducted in that collery last summer. Mr. E. P. C. Davis, super- 
intendent of the Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron Company's 
Pottsville shops, has sent a tracing and cyanotype of the indicator cards 
from the steam-engine used to drive the dynamo in the Indian Ridge 
colliery September 6, 1884. 

Two cyanotypes of coal- washing machinery, showing the construc- 
tion of the building, and the generah interior arrangement, were donated 
by Mr. S. Stutz, M. E., of Pittsburg, Pa. 

At Beruice were obtained specimens of coal, rock, slate, fire-clay, 
mineral charcoal, and a full set of mining tools. 

At Long Valley were obtained samples of coal from the top and bot- 
tom benches, slate from the roof, and fire-clay from the bottom of the 
mine, together with five negatives of typical scenes about Long Val- 
ley: (1) the Long Valley coal planej (2) a group of miners in working 
dress; (3) a coal trip emerging from the mouth of the drift; (4) exter. 
ior view of one of the Long Valley dwelling-houses (No. 45), occupied 
by Mr. Carroll, the inside superintendent, and (5) an interior view of the 
same dwelling. 

The Pennsylvania anthracite measures attain their greatest depth 
at Pottsville, where they are at least 3,000 feet thick, and include i:>er- 
haps thirty coal beds, of which fifteen are workable. In the Pottsville 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 267 

district were obtained samples of coal, slate, and bastard slate, from the 
Diamond and Primorose beds, and a most excellent pliotogfraph of the 
winding machinery at the deei^ shaft. ]\Ir. Bietz njade views of repre- 
sentative surface scenes at Kohinoor. Shenandoah City, and Ellango- 
wan collieries, and interior views of breast 39 in the first-named col- 
liery. In the latter, excellent views of " lobbbing the mine." the forma- 
tion of the coal, and miners at work, were made. 

The Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron Company undertook to 
make the exhibit of coal and mining implements from the anthracite 
region of the JMiddle Coal Field. 

As Mr. Brown's time was limited, he was unable to visit the IJich- 
moud coal fields, and relied upon the agents and proprietors, whose of- 
fices are in Richmond, for the samples of coal and carboniteinchuhd in 
the collection. The bituminous coal came from the JEtna mines, 13 
miles from Richmond, on the Richmond and Danville Railroad. The 
natural coke, or carbouite, came from the Eureka mines, at the same 
locality. 

Coals from the Belleville mines of Illinois were obtained by Mr. Ed- 
mund B. Kirby, and from Collinsville and Mount Olive by Mr. Edward 
L. Zukoski. Mr. Kirby's collection from the Belleville mines consists 
of slate from the roof, clay from the floor and one of the i)artings from 
the upper bench, coal from the blacksmith bench, "nine-inch" bench, 
drift, block, and bottom coal and iron pyrite. Mr. E. L. Zukoski's col- 
lection came from mine No. 4 of the Abbey Coal and Mining Company, 
Saint Clair County, Illinois, and embraces top and bottom coal, drift 
and block coal, overlying slate and underlying clay. 

Thanks are due INfr. James Macfarlaue, Mr. S. W. Alvord, editor of 
Towauda Review, Mr. George H. Wood, photographer, and I. O. Blight, 
superintendent of the State Line and Sullivan Railroad Company, of 
Towanda, Pa. ; Mr. J. C. Guthrie, vice-i)resident of the Blossburg Coal 
Company, of Elmira, N Y. ; Mr. H. J. Landrus, general manager of the 
mine at Arnot; Mr. William Howell, of the Fall Brook Company, at 
Antrim ; Mr. H. C. Davis, of the Barclay Coal Company, Mr. J. Ray- 
mond Claghorn,of the State Line and Sullivan Railroad Company, and 
Messrs. J. W. Queen & Co., of Philadelpliia. 

In the anthracite regions we are greatlj' indebted to Mr. S. B. Whit- 
ing, general manager of the Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron 
Company, of Pottsville, Pa., for material aid in making up a repre- 
sentative exhibit of economic geology illustrative of the anthracite re- 
gions, and mining tools and accessories used in that district; also for 
his zealous efforts in carrying out the proposition to i)hotograph the in- 
terior of a coal mine. Mr. R. C. Luther, mine engineer of the Philadel- 
I)hia and Reading Coal and Iron Company, and his assistants, Mr. George 
S. Clements, Mr. John A. Pollard, and Mr. John II. Strauch, resident 
and supervising engineers, were unremitting in their endeavors to facil- 
itate the work, as were also Mr. E. F. C. Davis, superintendent of the 



268 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Pottsvflle shops, and Mr. William Waters, superinteudeDt of the Shen- 
andoah district. Si)ecial acknowledgments are due to Mr. E. W. Kear, 
secretary of the Arnoux Electric Light and Heat Company, of Pennsyl- 
vania, who furnished the dynamo, wire, and other material used in Ko- 
hinoor colliery, at his own expense. 

Thanks are also due Maj. Jed. Hotchkiss and Mr. M. Erskine Miller, 
Mr. Albert Blair, Mr. J. R. Werth, superintendent of the Bright 
Hope Kailroad Company, of Virginia; Mr. F. Howald, superintendent 
of the Fire Creek Coal and Coke Company; Capt. W. R. Johnson, 
jjroprietor, and Mr. Thomas A. Bartlam, superintendent of the Coal 
Valley Coal Comjjany ; Mr. G. C. Hewitt, general manager of the Wini- 
frede Coal Company ; Mr. N. M. Jenkin, of Stone Clift'; and Mr. J. C. 
W. Tomkins, president of the Cedar Grove mine, for assistance in the 
Virginia and West Virginia coal fields. 

The collection embraces 300 objects, all of which have been duly cat- 
alogued and numbered. 

Alloys. — One of the most interesting uses to which metals are put is 
the manufacture of alloys for different purposes. This subject had not 
been at all represented in the i)revious collections, but a beginning has 
now been made which is capable of being greatly extended. The manu- 
facture of brass at Ansonia, Conn., has already been mentioned. The 
manufacture of type metal is very fully represented by a collection 
presented by Mackellar, Smiths & Jordan, of Philadelphia, Pa. This 
collection shows the various metals entering into the manufacture of 
type metal and type material and the different grades of type used lor 
different purposes. To these are added illustrations of the steps in the 
progress of casting type, together with illustrations of some of the older 
methods. The manufacture of Babbitt, or anti-friction metal, is illus- 
trated by collections presented by Messrs. Merchant & Co., and Paul 
S. Reeves, of Philadelphia. These both include samples of the metals 
used in the manufacture and samples of the various grades of Babbitt. 
Messrs. Merchant & Co. also presented an interesting series of solders 
of different composition for different purposes. The manufacture of a 
special metal for bearings, &c., is illustrated by a collection from the 
Ajax Metal Company, of Philadelphia, Pa. 

N^on metallic ores. — The manufacture of emery cloth and sandpaper 
is very fully illustrated by a collection presented by Baeder, Adamson 
& Co., Philadelphia. This collection shows the quartz and emery as 
mined, as ground and sorted in various sizes for making the paper, and 
also illustrates the extraction of the glue and the manufacture of the 
paper used. To these are added samples of the various sizes of emery 
cloth and sand-pa^jer as put upon the market. 

The occurrence and application of asbestos are very fully illustrated 
by a collection presented by the H. W. Johns Company, ]Sew York. 
This includes samples of asbestos froom fifty-five different localities, 
and is by far the most thorough and complete illustration of the occur- 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 269 

rence of this material that lias ever been exhibited. To this are added 
illustrations of the api)li('ation of asbestos, inoludinj;' various kinds 
of packings and covers for heated surfaces, threads of various sizes, 
cloth used for various purposes, and in fact very fully illustrates the 
application of the material. This collection is one of the fullest and 
most complete that we have, and special thanks are due to the Johns 
Company for their care and attention in its i)reparation, they having 
gathered all the material and set it u]) in a very creditable manner. 

The materials used for various abrading and polishing purposes are 
illustrated by a collection presented by R. J. Waddell & Co., New 
York, and a collection of tripoli in its crude and prepared shape 
by the Saint Louis Tripoli Company, Saint Louis, Mo. A large col- 
lection of corundum, emery, and quartz in the lump and in various 
sizes was presented by the Union Stone Companj-, Boston, Mass. 
The preparation of barytes for various uses is rejireseuted by a collec- 
tion presented by Messrs. Page and Krause, Saint Louis, Mo. 

Mucellaneous material. — The application of the regenerative system 
of heating devised by Dr. Siemens is very fully illustrated by a large 
series of drawings of furnaces for various uses presented by Messrs. 
Richmond and Potts, Philadelphia. 

The use of the diamond drill in mining operations, esi)ecially for ex- 
ploring purposes, is well illustrated by a collection presented by the 
Pennsylvania Diamond Drill Company. This collection includes photo- 
graphs of machines suited for various characters of work, illustrations 
of the bit of the drill with a large number of cores taken out from dif- 
ferent sections of the country, together with drawings showing the use 
that has been made of the drill and some of the results obtained. 

Owing to the small space allowed the Museum for exhibition purposes 
at New Orleans it was not possible for this department to show any- 
where near all the material collected. At the same time, in order to 
make the subjects as full as possible, selections were made from materials 
already on hand, and the subjects of Economic Geology and Metallurgy 
were represented at New Orleans by the following collections: 

In the first division of this collection — that of Economic Geology, or 
the natural occurrence of materials of economic value — it is designed 
to exhibit collections illustrating the difierent kinds and grades of the 
ores of each metal, and also a few collections of non-metallic minerals 
of economic importance. 

In the second division — that of Metallurgy — it is designed to exhibit 
<-ollections representing the processes for the extraction of the metals 
from their ores by specimens, where practicable, filling the gaps by 
means of illustrations and descriptions and accompanying them by gen- 
eral illustrations and descriptions so as to fully explain these processes. 

In making up the ore collection it has been designed to represent all 
the different varieties of each ore and many of the most ])rominent min- 
ing regions, so as to give a good gcnernl idea of the nature of the oc- 
currences of the metals and also their distribution, but it has not been 



270 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Ijossible to show every occurrence of each variety of au ore, neither lias 
it been possible to represent every mining region. 

The Lake Superior copper region is very thoroughly represented, 
both on account of the value of the mines of this region and as repre- 
senting the kind of collections it is desirable for the Museum to possess 
to illustrate a region or a mine. 

Taking, first, the region, it is represented by three prominent mines 
showing three different and characteristic occurrences of the ore. 

First, the so-called mass mines, which are characterized by the occur- 
rence of large masses of free copper, amounting in some cases to many 
tons of metal in a single mass, are represented by the Central mine. 
Besides these large masses these mines also carry considerable dissem- 
inated free copper. 

Second, the amygdaloid mines, which are characterized by the oc- 
currence of the free copper in amygdules, bunches, strings, and sheets 
from the size of a pin-point up to a few hundred pounds in weight (with 
rarely a large mass), disseminated in a soft amygdaloid trajj-rock, are 
represented by the Osceola mine. The average percentage of copper 
in the ores from these mines varies from three quarters of 1 per cent, to 
2 per cent. 

Third, the conglomerate mines, which are characterized by the oc- 
currence of the free copper mostly in strings in a hard conglomerate of 
ferruginous quartz pebbles, are represented by the Conglomerate Mine. 
The average percentage of copper in the ores from these mines varies 
from 4 per cent, to G per cent. 

Taking the Conglomerate Mine, the collection shows, first, the gen- 
eral character of the ore and the inclosing wall rocks; secondly, it shows 
the occurrence of the ore at various prominent points in the mine which 
are accurately located ; and, thirdly, it shows a section of the rocks over 
a distance of 631 feet, by specimens taken at suitable distances to show 
the different characters and changes of the material. 

In selecting specimens it has not been designed to exhibit those that 
are especially handsome or rich, but rather to take such as represent 
the actual character, occurrence, and value of the ores. In making col- 
lections of ores for the National Museum, it is very desirable that some 
definite and systematic plan of representation of this kind should be 
adopted, as collections made in this way have far more value for 
Museum i^urposes than the haphazard collections of showy specimens 
usually found in such establishments. 

COLLECTIONS IN ECONOMIC GEOLOOY. 

Gold. 

Placer gold, from Virginia, North Carolina, California, Idaho, Mon- 
tana, Utah, and Oregon. 

Gold quartz, from Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, 
California, and Montana. 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 271 

Auriferous gravel, from California and South Carolina. 

Auriferous pyrite, from Virginia and Colorado. 

Telluride ores — compounds of gold with tellurium, from Colorado. 

Iridium. 
Iridosmine, from California. 

Silver. 

Native silver with native copper, from the Lake Superior region. 

Xative silver on sulphide of copper, from Montana. 

Wire silver, from Nevada, Montana, Idaho, and New Mexico. 

Native silver and horn silver, in sandstone, from Utah. 

Horn silver, from Colorado, Utah, Nevada, and New Mexico. 

Ruby silver, from Nevada. 

Base ores carrying silver (milling ores), from Nevada, Utah, and 
Montana. 

Argentiferous lead ores (smelting ores), from Colorado, Utah, and 
Nevada. 

Tin. 

On account of recent discoveries and the general interest attaching 
to tin the list of the localities of the occurrence of cassiterite, or the 
biuoxide of tin, has been made as complete as possible, and includes 
Maine, New Hampshire, Virginia, North Carolina, Alabama, Montana, 
and the Black Hills of Dakota. The tin ore of San Jacinto, Cal., is 
also shown. 

With the tin ores are shown bars of tin reduced from the New Hamp- 
shire (1840), Virginia, Alabama, Montana, and California ores; also a 
collection of Welsh tin plate. 

Antimony. 
The sulphide ores, from Utah (with metal) and California. 

Quicksilver. 
Cinnabar, from California. 

Lead. 

The sulphide ores, from Missouri. (For argentiferous lead ores, see 
under Silver.) 

Copper. 

Native copper, from the Lake Superior region in Michigan, including — 
water-worn or surface specimens; specimens of the mass copper, and 
chips obtained in cutting up the masses in the mine, and specimens 
showing the disseminated free copper in the rock, both amygdaloid and 
conglomerate. To these are added specimens illustrating the dressing 
• •f the ores. 



272 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Sulphide ores, including the sulphides of copper and iron, from Ver 
mont, Maryland, North Carolina, and Missouri, and the sulphide of cop- 
per from Butte, Mont. 

Oxidized ores, from Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Arizona. 

Bismuth. 
The oxidized ores, from Utah. 

Niclel and cobalt. 
The sulphide ores, from Pennsylvania and Missouri. 

Iron. 

A collection of ores of over 500 specimens, selected from the collections 
made by the Tenth Census, under the direction of Prof. R. Pumpelly, 
to illustrate the iron industry of the United States, showing all the dif- 
ferent kinds and varieties of iron ore found in this country. 

This collection is not intended to show the full occurrence in any one 
region, but only the prominent varieties of the different regions. 

Manganese. 

Manganese ore from Virginia and Georgia. 

Zinc. 

The New Jersey ores, including Franklinite, zincite, willemite, and 
calamine. 
' The silicate and carbonate ores of Tennessee and Virginia. 

The sulphide ores of Missouri and Kansas. 

Coal. 

A collection showing the different varieties of coal from Pennsyl- 
vania and Virginia, including anthracite, semi-bituminous, bituminous, 
splint, and cannel coal ; also a large collection illustrating the methods 
of coal mining, including some large photographs (taken by electric 
light) of the interior of a coal mine, showing the formation of the coal- 
seam and its peculiarities, together with the men at work. These are 
the first photographs ever taken of the interior of a coal mine. 

Sulphur. 

Native sulphur, from Nevada. 

Iron pyrites, from Massachusetts and Virginia. 

Besides the above systematic ore collections, some illustrations of ores 
will be found in the metallurgical collections. 

In making up the metallurgical collection it has not been possible to 
exhibit the production of each metal exhaustively, owing to the small 
amount of suitable material previously in the Department and to the 
short space of time available for making new collections. 

A few systematic illustrations of metallurgical operations are shown. 
In making these collections it has been designed to treat a few subjects 
thoroughly rather than a large number superficially. •After suitable 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 273 

consideration a few representative works were selected for illustration, 
and have been worked up as completely as possible. 

Beginning with the ore as mined, each step in its preparation for 
smelting is shown, together with the by or waste products of such 
treatment. To illustrate the smelting o])eration, the ores, the fuels, the 
fluxes, and every other material entering into the operation are shown. 
Following through the process, each product of each operation up to 
the linal product of the works is represented. To these are added, where 
practicable, illustrations of materials of construction, such as fire-clays, 
sands, &C. The furnaces and tools are shown by specimens, views, and 
descrii)tions. The interest and value of these collections does not lie so 
much in the specimens themselves as in their being thoroughly con- 
nected, and in the kind and amount of information that can bo giv'eu 
in regard to them. 

In order to be satisfactory the series must be complete, and the in- 
formation full and accurate. A great deal of time, care, and attention 
is necessary in making such a collection. 

To illustrate the nature and scope of these collections, a single one, 
that from the Passaic Zinc AVorks, will be described in detail. These 
works are located at Jersey City, K. J., and use the zinc, iron, and 
manganese ores from Franklin, Sussex County, New Jersey ; they were 
started in 1851, and have been twice enlarged. 

From 1854 to 1875 only oxide of zinc was manufactured ; in 1875 the 
spelter furnaces were added, and in 1881 the spiegel furnace. The 
works have been in constant oi)eration from the very beginning. 

There arc 48 furnaces, 6 bj^ 4 feet, making oxide of zinc, arranged in 
double rows of 8 and 10. There are 12 spelter furnaces arranged in 
blocks of 4 each. The spiegel plant consists of one 9 feet 8 inches by 
37^ feet blast-furnace. 

The Franklinite ores are treated first in the oxide furnaces for the 
production of oxide of zinc and the residues containing iron and man- 
ganese are smelted in the blast-furnace for the production of spiegel. 

The silicate and carbonate ores are smelted in the spelter furnaces 
for the production of metallic zinc. 

The collection from the zinc furnaces shows — 

The Franklinite ore, consisting of a mixture of Franklinite or proto- 
sesquioxide of iron with zinc and manganese replacing the iron, zincite 
or oxide of zinc, willemite or silicate of zinc, calcite or carbonate of 
lime, in lumps as mined, from the Buckwheatfield mine, Franklin, Sus- 
sex County, New Jersey. 

The sauic ore crushed ready for the furnace. 

The Franklinite ore, consisting of a mixture of Franklinite or proto- 
sesquioxide of iron with zinc and manganese replacing the iron, zincite 
or oxide of zinc, willemite or silicate of zinc, rhodonite or silicate of 
manganese, and calcite or carbonate of lime, in lumps as mined, from 
the Sterling Hill mine, Ogdensburg, Sasses? County, New Jersey. 
S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 18 



274 REPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

The same ore crusliecl ready for the furnace. 

Tke silicate aud carbonate ore, consisting principally of calimine or 
hydrated silicate of zinc with a little carbonate of zinc, resulting from 
decomposition, in lumps as mined, from the Sterling Hill mine, Ogdens- 
burg, Sussex County, New Jersey. 

The same ore after roasting to expel water and carbonic acid. 

The roasted ore crushed ready for the furnace. 

Anthracite coal used for heating purj)oses. 

Anthracite coaK (fine) to bo mixed with the ore in making up the 
charge to reduce the zinc to the metallic state. 

The mixed charge of Franklinite ore and coal ready for the oxide fur- 
nace. 

The mixed charge of silicate and carbonate ore for the spelter fur- 
naces. 

The residuum remaining in the oxide furnace after the extraction of 
the zinc. 

The oxide of zinc produced. 

The residue remaining in the retorts after the distillation of the zinc 
in the spelter furnaces. 

Blue powder, a by-product consisting of a mixture of metallic zinc 
and oxide resulting from imperfect condensation of the zinc. 

The spelter or metallic zinc produced. 

To these are added — 

The fire-clay from Woodbridge, N. J,, used for making retorts. 

A piece of new retort. 

A piece of old retort. 

Old retort ground, to be mixed with the clay in making new retorts. 

The collection from the spiegel furnaces shows — 

The residuum from the oxide furnaces, containing the iron and man- 
ganese originally present in the ore. 

Limestone used for flux, from Sing Sing, N. Y. 

Anthracite coal used for fuel. 

The slag produced. 

Oxide of zinc deposited in the gas-flues. 

The spiegeleisen produced. 

The collection of specimens is supplemented by photographic views 
of the principal points about the works. 

OOLLECTIONS IN METALLURGY. 

Gold. 

The extraction of the free gold from the auriferous gravel of California 
by amalgamation : Collection from the North Bloomfleld mine, Nevada 
County, California. 

The extraction of the free gold from the auriferous pyrite in quartz 
of Colorado, by stamping and amalgamating: Collection from the Bob- 
tail mill, Black Hawk, Giliun County, Colorado. 

The extraction of gold from the auriferous mispickel (arsenical pyrites) 



I 



REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF JIETALLURGY. 275 

• 

by roasting and cblorination : Collection from the Del Oro Works, 
Canada. 

The extraction of gold and copper from auriferous copper ores, by the 
fusion and electrolytic process : Collection from the works of E. Balbach 
& Son, Newark, N. J. 

The manufacture of gold leaf: Collection from Hastings & Co., Phil- 
adelphia, Pa. 

Silver. 

The extraction of silver from base ores by chloridizing roasting, and 
milling (amalgamation): Collection from Ontario Mill, Park City, Sum- 
mit County, Utah. 

The smelting of argentiferous lead ores and the refining of the base 
bullion (silver and lead): Collection from the Cheltenham Works, Saint 
Louis County, Missouri. 

The refining of base bullion (silver and lead) : Collection from the 
works of E. Balbach & Son, Newark, N. J. 

Lead. 

The manufacture of pig lead and white lead direct from the ore : Col- 
lection from the Lone Elm Works, Joplin, Mo. 

GopiJer. 
The smelting and refining of copjier by the fusion process: Collec- 
tions from the Baltimore Copper Works, Baltimore, Md., and Saint 
Genevieve Coi)i)er Works, Saint Genevieve, Mo. 

The refining of pig copper: Collection from the Ansonia Brass and 
Copi)er Works, Ansonia, Conn. 

The rolling of copper : Collection from the Ansonia Brass and Copper 
Works, Ansonia, Conn. 

Iron, 

The smelting of \ng iron : Collections from the Crown Point Fnrnace, 
Crown Point, N. Y., the Pockwood Furnace, Eockwood, Tenn., and the 
Missouri Furnace, Saint Louis, Mo. 

Steel. 

The manufacture of crucible steel : Collection from the Orescent Steel 
Works, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

The manufacture of Bessemer steel : Collection from the South Chi- 
cago Bessemer Works, South Chicago, 111 

Zinc. 
The smelting of spelter or zinc: Collections from the Glendale Zinc 
Works, Saint Louis, Mo., the Joplin Zinc Works, Joplin, Mo., and the 
Kich Dill Zinc Works, Rich Hill, Mo. 

Zinc, iron, and manganese. 

The smelting of spelter or zinc, oxide of zinc, and spiegeleisen from 
Franklin, N. J., ores: Colh^ction from the Passaic Zinc Works, Jersey 
City, N. J. 



276 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Golce. 
The manufacture of coke at Connellsville, Pa. : Collection from tlie 

H. 0. Frick coke ovens. 

Bulpliur. 

The manufacture of sulphuric acid from iron pyrites: Collection from 
the Merrimac Chemical Company, Boston, Mass. 
The manufacture of alloys. 

Brass and its utilization : Collection from the Ansonia Brass and 
Copper Works, Ansonia, Conn. 

Type metal and its utilization : Collection from the type foundry of 
Mackellar, Stniths & Jordan, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Babbitt, or auti- friction, metals : Collections from Merchant «& Co., 
and Paul S. Peeves, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Solders : Collection from Merchant & Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 

COLLECTIONS ILLUSTRATINQ THE PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF NON- 
METALLIC ORES. 

The manufacture of sand-paper : Collection from Baeder, Adamsom 
& Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Asbestos and its api)licatiou : Collection from the H. W. Johns Com- 
pany, New York. 

Abrading and polishing materials : Collections from R. J. Waddell 
& Co., New York, and Saint Louis Tripoli Company, Saint Louis, Mo. 

The utilization of barytes : Collection from Page & Krause, Saint | 
Louis, Mo. i 

The past year has been one of great activity in this department, far 
more having been done than in the first year of its organization. A con- 
siderable amount of the accumulated material on hand since the de- 
partment was organized in December, 1882, has now been administered 
upon and so disposed that far better use can be made of the material on 
hand, and it is much easier to see what portions of the collections most 
need strengthening. At the same time the more thoroughly organized 
the material is, the more ai)parent it becomes that there is yet a large 
amount of work in investigation needed to fit the material to accom- 
plish the most good as an educator. Work of this character will occupy 
the attention of the department to a considerable extent for many years. 

NOTES. 

The department has had the aid during the entire year of Ensign H. 
M. Witzel, U. S. Navy, who rendered valuable assistance in the work 
of the department. 

Mr. James Temple Brown, of the Museum staff, was engaged for sev- 
eral months in making an extensive series of collections representing 
coal mining, and also assisted in the work of the department both at 
Washington and in New Orleans. 

The clerical work of the department was done during eleven months 
of the year by Mr. P. I. Oflfutt, who was assisted by Mr. W. H. Newhall 
for several months. 



PA-RT III. 



SCIENTIFIC PAPERS ILLUSTRATING THE COLLECTIONS IN THE 
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Pago. 

I. Tlirowiug-sticks in the Natioual Museum. By Otis T. Mason 279-289 

II. Basket-work of the North American aborigines. By Otis T. Mason 291-30(5 

III. A ^udy of the Eskimo bows in the U. S. National Mnsouni. By John 

Murdoch :W7-:UG 

IV. On a spotted dolphin apparently identical with the rroilcl2)hin>t.s doris 

of Gray. By Frkdkiucic W. True. 317-324 

V. The Florida Muskrat (Xeojibrr Alleni True). By Frederick W. True.. 325-330 
VI. On the. West Indian Seal {Monachus troincalifi Gray). By Frederick 

W. True and F. A. Lucas 331-335 



277 



I.-THROWliNG-STICKS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



By Otis T. Mason. 



Col. Lane Fox tells us there are three areas of the throwing-gtick : 
Australia, where it is simply au elougated spindle with a hook at the 
end ; the country of the Conibos and the Purus, on the Upper Amazon, 
where the implement resembles that of the Australians, and the hyper- 
borean regions of North America. 

It is of this last group that we shall now speak, since the Xatioual 
Museum possesses only two specimens from the first-named area and 
none whatever from the second. 

The researches and collections of Bessels, Turner, Boas, Ilall, Miutz- 
ner, Kennicott, Eay, Murdoch, Nelson, Herendeen, and Dall, to all of 
whom I acknowledge my obligations, enable me to compare widely sep- 
arated regions of the hyperborean area, and to distinguish these regions 
by the details in the structure of the throwing-stick. 

The method of holding the throwing-stick is indicated in Fig. 1. 
by a drawing of H. W. Elliott. The Eskimo is just in the act of 
launching the light seal harpoon. The barbed point will fasten itself 
into the animal, detach itself from the ivory foreshaft, and unwind the 
rawhide or sinew line, which is securely tied to both ends of the light 
wooden shaft by a martingale device. The heavy ivory foreshalt will 
cause the shaft to assume an upright position in the water, and the 
whole will act as a drag to impede the progress of the game. The same 
idea of impeding progress and of retrieving is carried out by a multi- 
tude of devices not necessary to mention here. 

The Eskimo spend much time in their skin kyaks, from which it 
would be diihcult to launch an arrow from a bow, or a harpoon from the 
unsteady, cold, and greasy hand. This device of the throwing-stick, 
therefore, is the substitute for the bow or the sling, to be used in the 
kyak, by a i)eople who cannot procure the proper materials for a heavier 
lance-shaft, or at least whoso environment is prejudicial to the use of 
such a weapon. Just as soon as we pass Mount St. Elias going south- 
ward, the throwing-stick, plus the spear or dart of the Eskimo and the 
Aleut, gives place to the harpoon with a long, heavy, cedar shaft, weigh- 
ing 15 or 20 pounds, whose momentum from both hands of the Indian, 
without the throw-stick, exceeds that of the Eskimo and Aleut darts 

279 



280 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

and harpoons, with the additional velocity imparted by the throwing- 
stick. It must not be forgotten, also, that the kyak is a very frail, un- 
steady thmg, and therefore not much of the momentum of the body can 
be utilized, as it is by the Northwest Indians in making a lunge with 
a heavy shaft. The th rowing-stick is also said by some arctic voy- 
agers to be useful in giving directness of aim. Perhaps no other savage 
device comes so near in this respect to a gun barrel or the groove of a 
bow-gun. Its greatest advantages, however, are the firm grip which 
it gives in handling a harj)oou or dart, and the longer time which it 
permits the hunter to apply the force of his arm to the propulsion of 
his weapon. Having practiced with a throwing-stick somewhat, I have 
imagined also that there was a certain amount of leverage acquired by 
the particular method of holding the stick and straightening the arm, 
as in a toggle joint. That implement, Avhich seems so simjjle, and which 
is usually mentioned and dismissed in a word, possesses several marks 
or organs, which help to distinguish the locality in which each form 
occurs, as well as to define the associations of the implement as regards 
the weapon thrown from it and the game pursued. These marks are: 

1. Shape, or general outline in face and side view, and size. 

2. Handle, the part grasped in the hand. 

3. Thumb-groove or thumb-lock, provision for the firm and comfort- 
able insertion of the phalanx and ball of the thumb. 

4. Finger-grooves, provision for each finger according to its use in 
the manipulation of the implement. 

5. Finger-pegs, little plugs of wood or ivory to give more certain grip 
for the fingers and to prevent their slipping. The devices for the fin- 
gers are the more necessary where the hands are cold and everything is 
covered with grease. 

G. Finger-tip cavities, excavations on the front face of the implement, 
into which the tips of the three last fingers descend to assist in grasp- 
ing and to alford a rest on the back of these fingers for the weapon 
shaft. 

7. Index-finger cavity or hole, provision for the insertion of the in- 
dex finger, which plays a very important part in the use of the throw- 
ing-stick. 

8. Spear shaft groove, in which the shaft of the weapon lies, as an 
arrow or bolt in the groove of a bow-gun. 

9. Hook or spur, provision for seizing the butt end of the weapon 
while it is being launched. These may be ridges left in the wood by 
excavation, or pieces of wood, bone, ivory, &c., inserted. The size and 
shape of this j)art, and the manner of insertion, are also worthy of 
notice. 

10. Edges : this feature is allied to the form and not to the function 
of the implement. 

11. Faces: upper, on which the weapon rests; lower, into which the 
index finger is inserted. 



THROWING-STICKS. 281 

The figures illustrating tbis article are .drawn to a scale indicated by 
inch marks in the margin, every dot on the line standing for an inch. 

By the presence or absence, by the number or the shape of son)e of 
these marks or structural characteristics, the type and locality can be 
easily detected. The Eskimo have everywhere bows and arrows for 
land hunting, the former made of several pieces of bone lashed together, 
or of a piece of driftwood lashed and re-enforced with sinew. The ar- 
rows are of endless variety. 

It should also be noticed that the kind of game and the season of the 
year, the shape and size of the spear accompanying the stick, and the 
bare or gloved hand, are all indicated by language expressed in various 
parts of tbis wonderful throwing-stick. 

GREENLAND TYPE. 

The Greenland throwing-stick is a long, flat trapezoid, slightly ridged 
along the back (Fig. 2). It has no distinct handle at the wide end, 
although it will be readily seen that the expanding of this part secures 
a tirm grip. A chamfered groove on one side for the thumb, and a 
smaller groove on the other side for the index finger, insure the imple- 
ment against slipping from the hunter's grasp. Marks 5, 0, 7 of the 
series on page 280 are wanting in the Greenland type. The shaft-groove, 
in which lies the shaft of the great harpoon, is wide, deep, and rounded 
at the bottom. There is no hook, as in all the other types, to fit the 
end of the harpoon shaft, but in its stead are two holes, one in the front 
end of the shaft-groove, between the thumb-groove and the finger- 
groove, with an ivory eyelet or gromraet for a lining, the other at the 
distal end of the shaft-groove, in the 'ivory piece which is ingeniously 
inserted there to form that extremity. This last-mentioned hole is not 
cylindrical like the one in front, but is so constructed as to allow the 
shaft-p* g to slide off easily. These holes exactly fit two ivory pegs 
projecting from the harpoon shaft. When the hunter has taken his 
throwing-stick in his luind he lays his harpoon shaft upon it so that 
the pegs will fall in the two little holes of the stick. By a sudden jerk 
of his hand the harpoon is thrown forward and released, the pegs draw- 
ing out of the holes in the stick. At the front end of the throwing-stick 
a luirrow i)iece of ivory is pegged to prevent sidittiug. As before inti- 
mated, this type of throwing-stick is radically different from all others 
in its adjustment to the pegs on the heavy harpoon. In all other exam- 
ples in the world the book or spur is on the stick and not on the weapon. 

UNGAVA TYPE. 

One specimen from Fort Chimo in this region, southeast of Hudson 
Bay, kindly lent by Mr. Lucien Turner, is very interesting, having little 
relation with that from (lreeiilan<l (which is so near geographically), 
and connecting itself with nil the other types as far as Kadiak, in 



282 REPORT Ol^ NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Alaska (Fig. 3). The outliue of the iniplemeut is quite elaborate and 
symmetrical, resembling at the hook end a fiddle-head, and widening 
continuously by lateral and facial curves to the front, where it is thin 
and flat. A slight rounded notch for the thumb, and a longer chamfer 
for three fingers, form the handle. Marks 5 and 6 are wanting. The 
cavity for the index finger extends quite through the implement, as it 
does in all cases where it is on the side of the harpoon-shaft groove, 
and not directly under it. The shaft groove is shallow, and the hook 
at the lower extremity is formed by a piece of ivory inserted in a par- 
allel groove in the fiddle-head and fastened with pegs. It is as though 
a saw-cut one-eighth inch wide had been made longitudinally through 
the fiddle-head and one-half inch beyond, and the space had been filled 
with a plate of ivory pared down flush with the wood all round, except- 
ing at the projection left to form the hook or spur for the harpoon shaft. 
This peg or spur fits in a small hole in the butt of the harpoon or spear 
shaft and serves to keep the weapon in its place until it is launched from 
the hand. The Uugava spear is heavier than that of the western Eskimo, 
hence the stick and its spur are proportionately larger. It is well to 
observe carefully the purport of the spur. A javelin, assegai, or other 
weapon hurled from the hand is seized in the center of gravity. The 
Greenland spears have the pegs for the throwing-stick sometimes at 
the center of gravity, sometimes at the butt end. In all other uses of 
the throwing-stick the point of support is behind the center of gravity, 
and if the weapon is not fastened in its groove in cannot be hurled. 
This fastening is accomplished by the backward leaning of the peg in 
the Greenland example, and by the spur on the distal end of the throw- 
ing-stick in all other cases. • 

CUMBERLAND GULF TYPE. 

The Cumberland Gulf type is the clumsiest throwing stick in the 
Museum, and Dr. Franz Boas recognizes it as a faithful sample of those 
in use throughout Baffin Land (Fig. 4). 

In general style it resembles Mr. Turner's specimens from Ungava ; 
but every part is coarser and heavier. It is made of oak, probably ob- 
tained from a whaling vessel. Instead of the fiddle-head at the distal 
end we have a declined and thickened prolongation of the stick with- 
out ornament. There is no distinct handle, but provision is made for 
the thumb by a deep, sloping groove 5 for the index-finger by a perfo- 
ration, and for the other three fingers by separate grooves. These give 
a splendid grip for the hunter, but the extraordinary width of the 
handle is certainly a disadvantage. There are two longitudinal grooves 
on the npper face ; the principal one is squared to receive the rectangu- 
lar shaft of the bird spear ; the other is chipped out for the tips of the 
fingers, which do not reach across to the harpoon shaft, owing to the 
clumsy width of the throwing-stick. In this example, the hook for the 



THE0WING-STICK8. 283 

end of the bird-spear shaft is the cauiue tooth of some animal driven 
into the wood at the distal end of the long-shaft groove. 

FURY AND UEOLA STEAITS TYPE. 

In Parry's Second Voyage (p. 508) is described a throwing-stick of 
Igloolik, 18 inches long, grooved for the shaft of the bird-spear, and hav- 
ing a spike for the hole of the shaft, and a groove lor the thnmb and 
for the fingers. The index-finger hole is not mentioned, but more than 
probably it existed, since it is nowhere else wanting between Ungava 
and Capo l\omaiizolf in Alaska. This form, if properly described by 
Parry, is between the Uugava and the Cumberland Gulf specimen, 
having no kinship with the throwing-stick of Greenland. The I^ational 
Museum should possess an example of throwing-stick from the Fury and 
Hecla Straits. 

ANDERSON RIVER TYPE. 

The Anderson Eiver throwing-stick (and we should include the Mac- 
kenzie Kiver district) is a very primitive affair in the IsTational Museum, 
being only a tapering flat stick of hard wood (Fig. 6). Marks 2, 3, 
4, 5, and C are wanting. The index-finger cavity is large and eccentric 
and furnishes a firm hold. The shaft-groove is a rambling shallow slit, 
not over half an inch wide. There is no hook or spur of foreign material 
inserted for the spear end ; but simply an excavation of the hard wood 
which furnishes an edge to catch a notch in the end of the dart. Only 
one specimen has been collected from this area for the National Mu- 
seum; therefore it is unsafe to make it typical, but the form is so unique 
that it is well to notice that the throwing-stick in Eskimoland has its 
simplest form in the center and not in the extremities of its whole area* 
It is as yet unsafe to speculate concerning the origin of this implement. 
A rude form is as likely to be a degenerate son as to be the relic of a 
barbaric ancestry. Among the theories of origin respecting the Eskimo, 
that which claims for them a more southern habitat long ago is of 
great force. If, following retreating ice, they first struck the frozen 
ocean at the mouth of Mackenzie's Kiver and then invented the kyak 
and the throwing-stick, thence we may follow both of these in two direc- 
tions as they depart from a single source. 

POINT BARROW TYPE. 

Through the kindness of Mr. John Murdoch, I have examined a number 
from this locality, all alike, collected in the expedition of Lieutenant 
Ray, U. S. A. (Fig. C). They are all of soft wood, and in general out- 
line they resemble a tall amphora, bisected, or with a slice cut out of 
the middle longitudinally. There is a distinct " razor-strop" handle, 
while in those previously described the handle is scarcely distinct from 
the body. Marks 3, 4, 5, and 6 are wanting. The index-finger hole is 
very large and eccentric, forming the handle of the " amphora." The 



284 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

groove for the bari)oon or spear-shaft commences opposite the index- 
finger cavity as a shallow depression, and deepens gradually to its other 
extremity, where the hook for the spear-shaft is formed by an ivory 
peg. This form is structurally almost the same as the Anderson River 
type, only it is much better finished. 

KOTZEBTTE SOUND TYPE. 

The Kotzebue Sound type is an elongated truncated pyramid, or obe- 
lisk, fluted on all sides (Fig. 7). The handle is in the spiral shape so 
frequent in Eskimo skin-scrapers from Norton Sound and vicinity, and 
exactly fits the thumb and the last three fingers. Marks 5 and 6 are 
wanting. The index cavity is a cul de sac, into which the forefinger is to 
be hooked when the imidement is in use. Especial attention is called to 
this characteristic because it occurs here for the first time and will not 
be seen again after we pass Cape Vancouver. From TJngava to Point 
Barrow the index-finger hole is eccentric and the finger passes quite 
through the implement and to llie right of the harpoon or spear-shaft. 
In the Kotzebue type the-index finger cavity is subjacent to the spear- 
shaft groove, consequently the forefinger would be wounded or at least 
in the way by i:)assing through the stick. The spear or harpoon-shaft 
groove is wide and shallow and passes immediately over the index 
cavity. The hook is of ivory and stands up above the wood. It needs 
only to be mentioned that this type, as well as those with eccentric 
forefinger perforations are used with the naked hand. 

In the quarto volume of Beechey's Voyage, page 324, is mentioned a 
throwing-stick from Eschscholtz Bay, with a hole for the forefinger and 
a notch for the thumb, the spear being placed in the groove and em- 
braced by the middle finger and the thumb. This last assertion is very 
important. When I first began to examine a large number of the im- 
plements, I could not explain the cavities for the finger tips until this 
note suggested that the shaft rides outside of and not under the fingers. 
To test the matter I had a throwing-stick made to fit my hand, and 
found that the spear could get no start if clamped close to the throw- 
ing-stick by all the fingers j but if allowed to rest on the back of the 
fingers or a part of them, and it is held fast by the thumb and middle 
finger, it had just that small rise which gave it a start from the pro- 
pelling instrument. 

In the national collection is a specimen marked Eussian America, 
collected by Commodore John Rodgers, resembling in many respects 
the Kotzebue Sound type. The handle is of the same razor-strop shape, 
but on the upper side are three deep depressions for the finger-tips. In 
several of the objects already described provision is made for the tips 
of the last three fingers by means of a gutter or slight indentations. 
But in no other examples is there such pronounced separation of the 
fingers. In very many of the Norton Sound skin-dressers, composed 
of a stone blade and ivory handle, the fingers are sej)arated in exactly 



THEOWING-STICKS. 285 

the same mauner. These skin-dressers are from the area just south of 
Kotzebue Sound. The back of the Rodgers specimeu is ornamented iu 
its lower half by means of grooves. Iu its upper half are represented 
the legs and feet of some animal carved outiu a graceful manner. The 
index-finger cavity is central and is seen on the upper side by a very 
slight rectangular perforation, which, however, does not admit the extru- 
sion of any part of the index-finger. The upper surfiice is formed by 
two incliued planes meeting iu the center. Along this central ridge is 
excavated the groove for the spear-shaft, deep at its lower end aud 
quite running out at its upper extreuiity. The hook for the end of the 
harpoon-shaft iu this specimeu resembles that seen on the tbrowiug- 
sticks of the region south of Cape Vancouver. The whole execution of 
this specimeu is so much superior to that of any other in the Museum 
aud the material so different as to create the suspicion that it was made 
by a white man, with steel tools (Fig 8). 

EASTERN SIBERIAN TYPE. 

The National Museum has no throwing-^tick from this region, but 
Nordenskjijld figures one in the Voyage of Vega (p. 477, Fig. o), which 
is as simple as the one from Anderson Eiver, excepting that the former 
has a hook of ivory, while the latter has a mere excavation to receive 
the cavity on the end of the weapon. Xord en skj old's bird-spear accom- 
panying the stick has a bulb or enlargement of the shaft at the point 
opposite the handle of the throwing-stick, which is new to the collection 
of the National IMuseum. Indeed, a systematic study should now be 
made of the Siberian throwing-sticks to decide concerning the commer- 
cial relationships if not the consanguinities of the people of that region. 

POET CLARENCE AND CAPE NOME TYPE. 

The specimens from this area are more or less spatulato iu form, but 
very irregular, with -the handle varying from that of the razor-strop to 
the spiral, twisted form of the Eskimo skin-scraper (Fig. 9). On the 
whole, these implements are quite similar to the next group. A section 
across the middle of the implement would be trapezoidal with incurved 
sides. In two of the specimens not figured these curved sides are 
brought upward until they join the upper surface, making a graceful 
ornament. The handles are not symmetrical, the sides for the thumb 
being shaved out so as to fit the muscles conveniently. Places for the 
fingers are provided thus : There is an index-finger cavity quite through 
the slick indeed, but the index-finger catches in the interior of the wood 
and does not pass through as in the eastern Arctic types. The middle 
finger rests against an ivory or wooden peg. This is the first appear- 
ance of this feature. It will be noted after this on all the throwing- 
sticks as the most prominent feature until we come to Kadiak, but 
the Unalashkans do not use it on their throwing-sticks. Cavities for 
the .three last finger-tips are not always present, and the hooks at the 



286 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

distal ends for the extremities oftHe weapons are very large plugs of 
wood or ivory and have beveled edges rather than points for the re- 
ception of the butt end of the weapon to be thrown. 

NOETON SOUND TYPES. 

These types extend from Cape Darby around to Cape Byer, includ- 
ing part of Kaviagmut, the Mahlemut, the Unaligmut, and the Ekog- 
mut area of Dall, and extending up the Yukon Eiver as far as the Eskimo, 
who use this weapon. The characteristics are the same as those of the 
last named area, excepting that in many specimens there are two finger- 
pegs instead of one, the first peg inclosing the middle finger, the second 
the ring-finger and the little finger (Figs. 10-13). A single specimen 
collected by Lucien Turner at Saint Michael's has no index cavity, the 
forefinger resting on the first peg and the other three fingers passing 
between this and the outer peg (Fig. 14). Another specimen of Nelson's, 
marked Sabotinsky, has the index-finger cavity and one finger-peg. The 
finger-tip cavity on the upper surface of the handle forms the figure of 
a water-bird, in which the heart is connected with the mouth by a 
curved line, just as ia the pictography of the more southern Indians.' 

The Yukon Eiver Eskimo use a throwing-stick quite similar to the 
Norton Sound type. The characteristics are very pronounced. Thumb- 
groove deep, index-finger cavity so long as to include the first joint. 
The hook for the spear-end formed by the edge of a plug of hard wood. 
The middle finger is separated by a deep groove and peg. The ring and 
little finger are inclosed by the peg and a sharp projection at the upper 
end of the handle. 

-NUNIVAK ISLAND AND CAPE VANCOUVER TYPE. 

In this region a great change comes over the throwing-stick, just as 
though it had been stopped by Cape Eomanzoff, or new game had called 
for modification, or a mixing of new peoples had modified their tools 
(Figs. 15-17). The index-finger cavity and the hole for the index finger 
are here dropped entirely, after extending from Greenland uninter- 
ruptedly to Cape Eomanzoff. The handle is conspicuously wide, while 
the body of the implement is very slender and light. The thumb-groove 
is usually chamfered out very thoroughly so as to fit the flexor muscle 
conveniently. There are frequently finger-grooves and finger-tip cavi- 
ties in addition to the pegs. The cavity for the index finger having 
disappeared, provision is made for that important part of the hand by 
a separate peg and groove. The middle finger is also pegged off, and 
the last two fingers have to shift for themselves. The hook for the 
shaft of the weapon has a fine point like a little bead, the whole imple- 
ment being adapted to the light seal-harpoon darts. Mr. Dall collected 
a large number of two-pegged sticks from Nunivak Island and four 
three-pegged sticks labeled the same. Mr. Nelson also collected four 
three-pegged sticks, but labels them Kuslumuk, Cape Vancouver, on 



THROWING-STICKS. 287 

the mainland opposite Nunivak (Fig. 17). In those three-pegged 
sticks the ring-linger and the little finger are inclosed together. This 
should be compared with Mr. Turner's Saint Michael specimen, in which 
the last three fingers are inclosed together (Fig. 14). It remains to bo 
seen and is worthy of investigation whether crossing a narrow channel 
would add a peg to the throwing-stick. One of these Nunivak speci- 
mens is left-handed. 

BRISTOL BAY TYPE. 

The throwing-stick from Bristol Bay resembles in general character- 
istics those from Nunivak Island and Cape Vancouver. In outline it 
has the shape of the broadsword. Its cross-section is bayonet-shaped. 
It has no distinct handle beyond a slight projection from the end. The 
thumb-groove is shallow and chamfered on the lower side to fit exactly. 
There is a long, continuous notch for the four fingers, in which the index 
finger and the middle finger are set off by pegs. There is a depression, 
more or less i)rofound, to receive the tips of the fingers. The groove 
for the harpoon or spear-shaft is at the lower extremitj' and runs out 
entirely near the index finger. The ivory plug at its lower extremity 
is beveled to receive a notch in the end of the spear or harpoon shaft 
(Figs. 18-19). 

A freshly-made implement, looking as if cut out by machinery, re- 
sembling closely those just described, is labeled Kadiak. The con- 
stant traffic between Bristol Bay and Kadiak, across the Alaskan pen- 
insula, may account for the great similarity of these implements. Fur- 
thermore, since the natives in this region and southward have been 
engaged for more than a century in fur-sealing for the whites, there is 
not the slightest doubt that implements made by whites have been in- 
troduced and slightly modified by the wearer to fit his hand. 

KADIAK OR UNALASHKA TYPE. 

In the National Museum are four throwing-sticks, one of them left- 
handed, exactly alike — two of them marked Kadiak and two Unalashka 
(Figs. 20-22). They return to the more primitive type of the area from 
Kotzebue Sound to Greenland, indicating that the implement culmi- 
nated in Norton Sound. In outline this southern form is thin and 
straight-sided, and those in possession are all of'hard wood. The back 
is carved in ridges to fit the palm of the hand and muscles of the thumb. 
There is no thumb-groove, the eccentric index-finger hole of the North- 
ern and Eastern Eskimo is present in place of the central cavity of the 
area from Kotzebue Sound to Cape Vancouver, and there is a slight 
groove for the middle finger. Marks 5 and 6 are wanting. The shaft- 
groove is very slight, even at its lower extremity, and runs out in a few 
inches toward the handle. The hook for the end of the weai)on resem- 
bles that of Nunivak, but is more rounded at the point. Of the Eskimo 
of Prince William Sound, the extreme southern area of the Eskimo on 
the Pacific, Captain Cook says, in the narrative of his last voyage: 



288 REPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

"Their longer darts are thrown by means of a piece of wood about a 
foot long, with a small groove in the middle which receives the dart. 
At the bottom is a hole for the reception of one finger, which enables 
them to grasp the piece of wood much firmer and to throw with greater 
force." Captain Cook's implement corresponds exactly to the speci- 
mens just described and renders it probable that this thin, parallel- 
sided, shallow-grooved throwiug-stick, with index-finger hole placed 
at one side of the spear-shaft groove, extended all along the southern 
border of Eskimolaud as far as the Aleuts of TJnalashka and Attoo. 
In addition to the information furnished by the specimens in hand. Dr. 
Stejneger describes a similar stick in use in the island of Attoo. On 
the contrary, Mr. Elliott assures me that Aleutian fur sealers of Priby- 
lov Island use throwing-sticks precisely similar to those of jSTorton 
Sound and Nunivak. 

This list might be extended further by reference to authorities, but 
that is from the purpose of this article and the series of ethnological 
papers commenced in this volume. The most perfect throwing-stick of 
all is that of the Mahlemut, in Norton Sound, in which are present the 
handle, thumb-groove, finger-grooves, and pegs, cavities for the finger- 
tips, index finger cavity, shaft groove, and hook for the harpoon. In 
short, all the characteristics present on the rest are combined here. 

Classifications of these implements may be varied according to the 
organ selected. As to the hook for the attachment of the weapon, in 
Greenland this is on the shaft, in all other parts of the world it is on 
the throwing-stick. As to the index finger, there is for its reception, 
from Point Barrow to Greenland, an eccentric hole quite through which 
the finger passes. From Kotzebue Sound to Norton Sound there is a 
central pocket on the back of the weapon, directly under the groove, 
for the shaft of the weapon to receive the index finger. From Cape 
Vancouver to Bristol Bay an ivory or wooden peg serves this purpose. 
At Kadiak and Unalashka the ecceutric index-finger hole returns. 

It is more than probable that further investigation will destroy some 
of the types herein enumerated or merge two more of them into one ; 
but it will not destroy the fiict that in changing from one environment 
to another the hyperboreans were driven to modify their throwiug-stick. 

A still more interesting inquiry is that concerning the origin of the 
implement. It is hardly to bo supposed that the simplest type, that of 
Anderson Eiver, was invented at once in its present form, for the Aus- 
tralian form is ruder still, having neither hole for the index finger nor 
groove for the weapon shaft. When we recall that the chief benefit 
conferred by the throwing-stick is the ability to grasp firmly and launcli 
truly a greasy weapon from a cold hand, we naturally ask, have the 
Eskimo any other device for the same purpose? They have. On the 
shaft of the light-seal harpoon, thrown without the stick, and on the 
heavy, ivory-weighted walrus harpoon -shaft an ivory hand-rest is lashed 
just behind the center of gravity. This little object is often beautifully 



THROWING-STICKS. 



280 



(Mived iiixl prevents ett'eeriiiilly the liaml tVoni .slipping' on tlie sliaft, 
even v.itli tlie .ureatest Inn.ne of the hunter. From this object to the 
tlirowinjf stick tlie way may be long and crooked, or there may be no 
way at all. So lar as the National Museum is concerned there is noth- 
ing to <;iiide ns over this waste of i.unorance. 

THROWING -STICKS IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



No. 



32903 
30013 
3394J 
.33807 
339C0 
24336 
24337 
24338 
4G0.')2 
4C0.">3 
4903G 
38849 
3f(i05 
30U14 
3ti018 
49001 
49002 
73327 

2207 
90-107 
44302 
72.'>19 
1C242 
10238 
74120 
12981 
89901 
38069 
2433J 
33914 

7933 
3G013 
72398 
10244 
11340 
10235 
1.".041 
10237 
102;J9 
Hi070 
15047 
15045 
10230 
15042 
15046 



Locality. 



Collector. 



Norton's Sound, Alaska 

Ciunbei land Gulf , 

Norton'.s Sound, Alaska 

.... do 

do 

Saint Michael's Sound, Alaska 

do 

do 

Port Clarence, Alaska 

do 

Kasbonisk y, L. Yukon 

Yukon Kivor 

do 

Kushunuk, Sabotnisky, Alaska 

Kuskuuuk, Alaska 

Sabotui.'skv, Alaska 

do .: 

I'nalashUa : 

A ndcr.sou JIi vev 

r-a.-*hak 

( 'iipo Noino. Ala.ska 

Cook'slnlit 

Xuuivak Island, Alaska 

- do 

Holsleiulierji, Greenland 

Unalashka 

Point IJaiTow, Alaska 

Chalitniut 

Saiut Michaid's, Norton's Sound, Alaska 
do 

]vadi;ik Island. Alaska 

Sabot niskv. Alaska 

Bri.stol UaV, Alaska 

Niiuivak Island, Alaska 

Hristdl li.ay, .\laska 

Kotufbuc Sound, Alaska 

Kunivak, Alaska 

do 

do 

Unalashka, Aleutian Islands 

Nunivak , Alaska 

do 

do 

do 

do 



E. "W. Nelson. 

W. A. Mintzner, U. S. N. 

E. W. NcKson. 

1)0. 

Do. 
Lucion M. Turner. 

Do. 

Do. 
W. H. Dall. 

Do. 
E. W. Nelson. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 
Catlin. 
K. Kennicott. 
W^illiani.J. Fi.sher. 
E. W. Nelson. 
William .T. Fisher. 
W. H. Dall. 

Do. 
George Merchant, jr. 
AV. H. Dall. 
Lieut. P. n. Ray. 
E. W. Nelson. 
Lucien M. Turner. 
E.W. Nelson. 
Dr. r. T. Minor, U. S. R. M. 
E. W. Nelson. 
Charles L. McKay. 
W. H. Dall. 
Vincent Colyer, 
E. P. Herenden. 
W. n. Dall. 

Do. 

Do. 
Sylvanus Bailey. 
W. H. Dall. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 



S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 19 



PLATE I. 



(Masou. Throwing-sticks.) 

Fig. 1. Eskimo launching a seal harpoon by means of the throwing-stick. Mr. John- 
Murdoch states that the hand is held much lower by the Point Barrovr 
Eskimo, the harpoon resting as low as the shoulder, and that the move- 
ment of throwing the harpoon is quick, as in casting a fly in fishing. 



lleport ^■at. Mus. iS^'^l.— Jlason. Thiow iug-sticks. 



PLATE I. 




H 



PLATE II. 

(Mason. Thro wing-sticks.) 

Fig. 2. Greeuland type of tlirowing-stick. The specific characteristics are the broad 
form; the scanty grooves for thumb aud lingers; the absence of pegs, sepa- 
• rate finger grooves, or index perforation; but tiio most noteworthy are the 
two gromiuets or eyelets io at ivory pegs on the harpoon-shaft. The pecul- 
iar method of strengthening the ends with ivory pieces should also bo noted. 
From Holsteinburg, Greenland, 1884. Catalogue number, 74126. 



Keport Xat. Mils ]><84.— Mason. Tlirowingsticks. 



PLATE II. 



ii;;Hd 



W;h 



II I 



Fig. 2. Greenland throwing-stick, back and front. 



PLATE III. 

(Mason. Throwing-sticks.) 

Fig. 3. Uugava type of throwiug-stick. The specific marks are the general outline, 
especially tlio fitldle-Lead ornament at the bottom ; the bend upward at 
the lower extremity, the eccentric perforation for the index finger, and the 
groove for three fingers. Collected at Ungava, by Lncien M. Turner, 1884. 
Museum number, 76700. 



Eeport Nat. Mus. 1884.— Mason. Tbro-wing-stieks. 



PLATE III. 



P: 



1 1.{ ;\ 



'i I,' !( 



Fio. 3. Ungava tlirowing-stick, front and back. 



PLATE IV. 

(Mason. Throwing-sticks.) 

¥ia. 4. Cnraberland Gnlf type of throw ing-stick. The Bpecific m^arks are the broad 
clumsy form, the separate provision for the thnmb and each linger, the 
bent lower extremity, and the Itroad furrow for the bird-spear. Accidental 
marks are the mending of the handle, the material of the stick, and the 
canine tooth for the spur at the bottom of the square groove. Collected 
in Cumberland Gulf, by W. A. Mintzer, in 1876. Museum number, 30013. 

4 



Report Kat. ■>rii9. 1884. — ^Fason. Tliiowinij-sticks. 



PLATE IV. 







m ;■ 



m 






klf/'l 




¥ 







Fig. 4. CiimlitMlaiKl Gulf llirowinjf-.stick, l);uk and front 



PLATE V. 

(Mason. Throwing-sticljs.) 

Fig. 5. Anderson River type. The specific marks are the extrense plainness of forqi, 
the lack of accommodations for the thumb and fingers, excepting the eccen- 
tric index-finger hole, the poor groove for the harpoon -shaft, and the ab- 
sence of a hook or spur at the bottom of this groove. The accidental marks 
are cuts running diagonally across the back. In another specimen seen from 
the same locality the shaft groove is squared after the manner of the Cum- 
berland Gulf type. Collected at the mouth of Anderson Eiver, by E. Ken- 
nicott, in 1866. Museum number, 2267. 

Fig. 6. Point Barrovk' type. The specific marks are the distinct handle veithout finger 
grooves, the very eccentric index-finger hole, the method of inserting the 
spur for the shaft, and the harpoon- shaft groove very shallow above and 
deep below. Id the specimens shown by Mr. Murdoch there is great uni- 
formity of shape. Collected at Point Barrow, by Lieut. P. H. Ray, in 188:?. 
Museum number, 89902. 



Eeport Nat. Mus. 18S4.— Mason. Tlirowing-sticks. 



PLATE V. 




':'l 




k 



iM 



Fig. 5. Aiulcr.son River tbrowing-Htick, frout and back. 
Fig. G. Poiut Barrow tlirowiiig-stiek, front and back. 



PLATE VI. 



(Mason. Tbrowing-sticks.) 



Fig. 7. Kotzebue Sound type. The specific marks are the twisted handle, the broad 
shallow shaft groove, and, notably, the pocket for the index-finger tip- 
visible on the lower side, but nearly absent from the upper side, and lying 
directly under the .shaft groove. In the exam]>les before noted all the holes 
for the index finger are to one side of this shaft groove. Collected in Kotze- 
bue Sound, by E. P. Herendeen, in 1874. Museum number, 1G235. 

Fig. 8. The Rodgers tyiie, so called becaiise the locality is doubtful. In specific char- 
acters it resembles Fig. 7. The difterences are the Ihree cavities for finger 
tips in the handle, the shaft groove very shallow and running out before 
reaching the index-finger cavity, and the delicate hook for the spear shaft 
resembling those farther south. Since writing this paper two throwing- 
sticks from Sitka have been seen in many respects resembling this form, but 
covered all over their surfaces with characteristic Thlinkit mythological 
figures, and having iron hooks at the lower end of the shaft groove. Col- 
lected by Commodore John Rodgers, in 1807. Museum number, 2533. 



KeportNat. Mus. U-:84.— Mason. Tlirowiugstuks, 



PLATE VI. 





Fig. 7. Kotzehne Sound tlirowing-stick, front and back. 

Fig. 8. The Coimnodore Kodgers tbrowiug-stick, front and back. 



PLATE Vn. 

(Mason. Thro wing-sticks.) 

Fig. 9. The Port Clarence and Cape Nome type. The notable characteristics are the 
occurrence of an ivory -peg in the handle for the middle finger, the very 
small size of the handle, and the central index-finger pocket central in po- 
sition but quite piercing the stick. Collected hy E. W. Nelson, at Cape 
Nome, in 1880. Museum number, 44392. 



Eepoit Nat. Mas. 1884.— Mason. Throwing-8tick.s. 



PLATE VII. 



Fig. 9. P6rt Clarence and Cape Nome tlirowiug-stick, front and back. 



PLATE Vin. 

(Mason. Throwing-sticks.) 

Fig. 10. Norton Sound type, single-pegged variety. Except in the better finish, this 
type resembles the one last described. Collected by L. M. Turner, at Saint 
Michael's Island, in 1876. Museum number, 24338 



Keport Jfat. Mus. IS^^.— ilnson. Tbrowingslirks. 



PLATE Vni. 



Fig. 10. Norton Sound throwing-stick, front and back. 



PLATE IX. 

(Maeon. Throwing-stickB.) 

Fig. 11. Norton Sound type, two-pegged variety. In all respects, excepting the 
number of pegs, this resembles Figs. 9 and 10. In all of them the peg at 
the bottom of the groove is very clumsy. Collected in Norton Sound, by 
E. W. Nelson, in 1878. Museum number, r>2995. 

Fig. 12. Throwiug-stick from Sabotnisky, on the Lower Yukon. It belongs to the 
Norton Sound type. The cavity on the upper side of the handle for the 
finger-tips is remarkable for the carving of a bird resembling iigures seen 
on objects made by the Western Indians of the United States. Collected 
by E. W. Nelson, at Sabotnisky, in 1879. Museum number, 36013. 



I 



Report Jfat. T^Ius. 1S84.— Mnson. Thiowing-aticks. 



PLATE IX. 





12 



Fig. 11. Norton Sound tbrowiiig-stick, front and back. 
Fig. 12. Sabotniskj- throwing-stick, front and back. 



PLATE X. 

(Mason. Thro wing-sticks.) 

Fig. 13. Specimeu from Yukon River, belonging to the Northern Sound one-pegg<»'l. 
variety. Collected by E. W. Nelson, in 1879. Museum number, 38849. 



Eeport Nat. Mus. 1884.— Vinson. Throwing stirks. 



PLATE X. 



^^ 



m 



'! V, 



I , 



Fig. 13. Yukon Kiver thiowing-stick, front and back. 



PLATE XI. 

(Mason. Throwing-sticks.) 

Fig. 14. Throwing-stick from Saint Michael's. This specimen is very noteworthy on 
account of the ahsence of the index-tiugcr ])ocket, a mark characteristic 
of the Vancouver type, Fig. 17. If the nii<ldle peg of the Vancouver ex- 
ample were removed the resemhiauce would he close, but the clumsy spur 
ui. the bottom of the shaft groove is Norton Sound rather thau Nunivak. 
Collected by LucienM. Turner, at Saint Michael's, in 1876. Museum num- 
ber, 24335. 



Report \at. Mus. 1884.— ifasoii. Tlirowingatlcks. 



PLATE XI. 



i'l ,/ i 



I f 



W 



UMir 



! II 



Fig. 14. i>iuui Micbael's tbrowiiig-stiuk, front and back. 



PLATE Xn. 

(Mason. Throwing-sticks.) 

Fig. 15. Nuuivak type. The characteristic marks are the absence of any cavity for 
the index finger, the nicely-fitting handle, the disposition of the finger- 
pegs, and the delicate point on the ivory spur at the bottom of the shaft 
groove. Collected by W. H. Dall, at Nunivak Island, in 1874. Museum 
number, 16239. (This specimen is left-handed.) 



Keport Xat. Mas. 1884.— :Mnson. Tliiowiugsticks. 



PLATE XII. 



m 



yij'n 



Fig. 15. Nuuivak Islaud tbrowiug-stick, front aud back, left-hauded. 



PLATE XIII. 

(Maaon. Throwing- sticks.) 

Fig. 16. Specimen from Nunivak, rigbt-hauded. The cuts ou llio front and back are 
noteworthy. Collected by W. H. Dull, at Nuiiivak Island, iu 1874. Mu- 
seum number, 162.38. 



Report Xat. Mas. 1884— Mnson. Throwiiissti.hs 



PLATE XIi:. 



riG. It;. Nuniv;,k r.slan.l llinnving-stick, Aout an.l back. 



PLATE XIV. 

(Mason. Thro wing-sticks.) 

Fig. 17. Specimen from Cape Vancouver. In all respects it is like those of Nunivak, 
excepting a peg-rest for the little linger. Collected by E. W. Nelson, at 
Cape Vancouver, in 1879. Museum number, 38669, 



Kepoit Xat. ilii8. 16S4.— Mason. Tbiowiug -.^ticlia. 



PLATE XIV 





111 



Fig. 17. Cape Vancouver throwing-stick, front and back. 



PLATE XV. 

(Mason. Throwing-sticks.) 

Figs. 18, 19. Bristol Bay type. lu no essential characters do these sticks differ from 
those of Nunivak. The liandle is smaller, and they appear to have 
been made with steel tools. Fig. 18 collected by C. L. McKay, at Bristol 
Bay, Alaska, in 1883. Museum number, 72398. Fig. 19 collected by 
William J. Fisher, at Kadiak, in 1884. Museum number, 90467. 



Report Xat. Hub. 1884.— Masou. Tlirowing-sticks. 



PLATE XV. 




r 



iir 



M;!l 




Fig. 18. Bristol Bay tbrowing-stick, front and back. 
Fig. 19. Bristol Bay throwing-stick, front and back. 



PLATE XVI. 

(Mason. Thro wing-sticks.) 

Fig. 20. Unalashkan tbrowiug-stick. It would bo better to call tbis form the 
Southern type. The noticeable features iu all our epecimeus are the 
parallel sides, the hard material, thinness, the carving for the fingers, but 
above all the rea])i)earance of the eccentric cavity for the index finger. 
This cavity is not a great perforation, as iu the Point Barrow type, but an 
eccentric pocket, a compromise between the Northern cavity and that of 
the East. Collected by Sylvanus Bailey, at Unalashka^ in 1874. ' Museum 
number, 16076. 



Report Nut. Mus. 1884.— Mason. Throwing-.sticks. 



PLATE XVI. 




a 



«i 




ft 



Fig. 20. Unalaslikun tlirowin<,'-8tick, front and back. 



PLATE XVII. 

(Mason. Throwing-sticka.) 

Figs. 21, 22. Throwing-sticks of the Southern type. Fig. 21 is left-handed, collected 
by Dr. T. T. Minor, at Kadiak, in 1869. Mueeum number, 7933. Fig. 
22 collected by W. H. Dall, at Unalashka, in 1873. Museum number, 
12981. At Sitka two specimens were collected, unfortunately not fig- 
ured, with the following characters laid down in the beginning of this 
paper: 1. Short, very narrow and deep, and carved all over with de- 
vices. 2. No handle distinct from the body. 3, 4, 5, 6. All wanting. 
7. The index-finger cavity is near the center of the back, very like a 
thimble. Indeed this is a very striking feature. 8. The shaft groove 
occupies only the lower half of the upper surface. 9. The spur for the 
end of the weapon shaft is a long piece of iron like a knife-blade driven 
into the wood, with the edge toward the weapon shaft. 



Report Nat. Mus. 1S84.— Mason. ThrowiBg-sticks. 



PLATE XVII. 




m 






21 



Fig. 21. Kudiak throwing-stick, front and buck, left liauded 
P'lG. 22. Unalasbkan tbrowinc-stick. front and hark 



II.-BASKET-WORK OF THE NORTH AMERICAN ABORIGINES. 



By Otis T. Mason. 



" Barbara do pictis veni baacauda Britannis, 
Sed me jam mavult dicere Roma smiiii." 

— Martial, xiv, 99. 

The study ot'tlie minutest technique in the distribution of aboriginal 
arts is very necessary in making; nj) our o])iiiions on questions of An- 
tliropology. The archaeologist is frequently caused to halt in the re- 
construction of ancient society by his ignorance of the arts of the sav- 
ages around him. This is especially true of an art which had its cul- 
mination in savagery or barbarism, and which began to decline at the 
touch of civilization, or at least to give ])lace to higher types of the same 
art. For the discussions of problems that have arisen in the past the 
data then in hand have been sufficient ; but as the investigations of 
social progress become more intricate the demands for greater detail in 
the observation of anthropological phenomena around us is imperative. 

I have lately had occasion to examine all the baskets in the National 
Museum, and the results of this research may not be uninteresting as 
a contribution to exact technology in an art which may be called ^xtr 
excellence a savage art. 

In a basket there are several characteristics to be observed, which 
will enable us to make a classification of the objects themselves and to 
refer them to their several tribal manufacturers. These characteristics 
are the material, the frame-worlc, the methods of weaving, the coiling or 
sewing, the decoration, their use, &c. 

The tool almost universally used in their manufacture is a bone awl 
or pricker and the makers are the women. Of the manipulation of the 
material previously to the weaving little is known. 

In the drawings accompanying this i)aper the actual size of the speci- 
mens is indicated i)y a series of inch marks in the margin. The inches 
on the standard lino are shown by spaces between dots. In order to 
indicate exactly the manner of weaving, a square, usually an inch in 
dimension, is taken from a portion of the surface wherein all the meth- 
ods of manipulation occur. This square inch is enlarged sufficiently to 
make the structure comprehensible. This plan enables iis to show form 
and ornamentation in the whole figure as well as the method of treat- 
ment in the enlarged inch. 

291 



292 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

ALEUTIAN ISLANDS. 

Mr. William H. Dall lias contributed to the National Museum a large 
number of Aleut grass wallets, conoidal in form when filled (Fig. 1). The 
warp is of coarse straws, radiating from the center of the bottom. The 
covering or woof is made by plaiting or twisting two straws in a coil or 
twine, crossing them between each pair of warp straws. It is as if a 
twine of two strands had a straw or osier passed down through every 
half turn (Fig. 2). This plait or twine may be driven close home so as 
to be absolutely water-tight, or the weaver may leave spaces from one 
twine to the next wide enough to make a net. A very pretty effect is 
produced by these Aleutian basket-weavers by splitting the warj) 
straws and twining woof straws around two of the half straws, joining 
1 by 2, 3 by 4, 5 by 6, at one round, and the next twine inclosing by 
1, 2 by 3, 4 by 5, and so on. This produces a series of lozenge open- 
ings (Fig. 2). The split warp strands are often crossed to form X- 
shaped openings, or carried straight so as to produce parallelograms. 
I have observed the same effect in Peruvian mummy cloth, but a greater 
variety of network is there produced by alternating the rectangular and 
lozenge meshes in bands varying in width. 

In the " Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge," No. 318, plate 7, 
Mr. Dall figures and describes the matting of the Aleutian Islanders 
found in the caves in the Catherina Archii)elago. 

The method of manipulation in the matting is the same as that just 
described for the basketry of the Aleuts, and the delicacy of workman- 
ship is most admirable. This method of weaving by means of twining 
two woof strands around a series of warp strands occurs in many places, 
and will hereafter in this paper receive the name of " twined basketry." 

In a covered basket made of split bamboo from the Malabar coast the 
fastening off" at the top of the basket and the weaving of the cover have 
a three-stranded twine. At every third of a turn the splint that is in- 
ward is hooked or passed behind the warp splint at that point. This 
produces a very smooth effect on the inside and a rough surface without. 

The mats of the Aleuts are made of the fiber of the Elymus* treated 
as hemp. The ornamentation on the otitside of the mats and baskets 
is formed by embroidering on the surface with strips of the straw in- 
stead of the macerated fiber which forms the body of the fabric. The 
embroidery stitches in these, as in most savage basketry, does not always 
pass through the fabric, but are more frequently whipped on, the stitches 
passing always between the two woof strands, as in aresene embroidery, 
showing only on the outside. Mr. Dall justly praises the marvelous 
nicety of this Aleutian grass- weaving, both in mats and basketry. 

There is no Chinese or Japanese basket in the National Museum show- 
ing this plaited weft. The grass of these Aleutian wallets is exceed- 



* Eljimus molliii, Sitka, Norton Sound, Kotzebue Sound ; E. arenarius, Norton Sound, 
to Point Barrow ; E. Sibiricas, Sitka. (See Eothrock, Smithsonian Report, 1867.) 



ABORIGINAL BASKET-WORK. 293 

infyly fine, tlie plaiting done with exquisite care, the stitches being often 
as fine as 20 to tlie inch, and rro<]ncMitly bits of colored worsted are em- 
broidered around the upper i)orti()n, j;iviii«;' a pleasiu^i^ effect. The bor- 
ders are braided in open worlc from the ends left in the weaving, as 
follows (Fig. 1): 

At some point on the border, when the solid ])art of the wallet is 
finislied, the weaver bends two warp strands in oi)posite directions and 
gives each a twist with its next neighbor. These two are braided with 
the next warp thread; these three with the next. Now, start at a 
proper distance from the first point of departure and braid both ways, 
as before. These braids will meet and ibrm a set of scallops around 
the edge, fastened at the ends and loose in the middle. Also, at the 
apex of each scallop will be a lot of warp straws, braided indeed at the 
base but loose for any required length. The weaver commences with 
any set of these to make a four-ply braid, catching up the next set and 
braiding them in as she went along, and fastening off a set as each new 
set is taken up. The upper border is thus a continuous braid, con- 
nected at regular intervals with the ai)ices of the braided scallops. 
When the braider reaches her starting point she catches one braid into 
another, in a rather clumsy manner, an<i continues to braid a long four- 
ply string, which, carried in and out the scallops, forms a drawing- 
string. 

Alaskan Eskimo. — Two types of baskets are found in close prox- 
imity in the neighborhood of Norton Sound — the twined and the coiled. 
In the former (Fig. 3) the treatment is precisely the same as in those 
of Aleutian Islands, but the Eskimo wallet is of coarser material and 
the plaiting is a little more rudely done. 

The basketry of this type, however, is very strong, and useful for 
holding food, weapons, impleuients of all kinds, and various other arti- 
cles. When not in use, the wallets can be folded up into a small space 
like a grocer's i)aper bag (Fig. ;'>). In the bottoms of the wallets of this 
class the weft is very open, leaving spaces at least one-half inch wide 
nncovered. The borders are i)roduced by braiding four strands of sea 
grass intV) the extremities of the warp strands. 

Ornamentation is produced by darning or whipping one or more rows 
of colored grass after the body is formed — not necessarily after the 
whole basket is comi)leted, for each row of whipping may be i)ut on 
just after the row of coil on which it is based (Fig. 4). Another plan 
of attaching the ornamentation is very ingenious but not uncommon. 
Two strands of colored straw or grass are twined just as in the botly of 
the basket, and at every half turn one of the strands is hooked under a 
stitch on the body of the basket by a kind of aresene work. This or- 
nament has a bold relief effect on the outside and is not seen at all on 
the inside. 

The coiled variety of the Eskimo basketry, mentioned above (Fig. 5), 
consists of a uniform bunch of grass sewed in a continuous coil by a 
•whip stitch over the bunch of grass and through just a few bits of grass 



294 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

in the coil just beneath, the stitch looping under a stitch of the lower 
coil. When this work is carefully done, as among the Indians of New 
Mexico, Arizona, and California, and in some exquisite examples in 
bamboo from Siam and in palm-leaf from Nubia, the moi^t beautiful re- 
sults are reached; but the Eskimo basket-maker does not prepare her 
coils evenly, sews carelessly, passing the threads sometimes through 
the stitches just below and sometimes between them, and does not work 
her stitches home (Fig. G). Most of these baskets in the collection of 
E. W. Nelson have a round bit of leather in the bottom to start upon 
(Fig. 5, b). The shape is either that of the uncovered band-box or of 
the ginger-jar. Especial attention should be paid to this form of stitch- 
ing, as it occurs again in widely-distant regions in a great variety of 
material and with modifications producing striking etiects. 

The association of this coiled form of basket-making with the marks 
on the most primitive types of pottery-making has been frequently 
noticed by archaeologists. It is also well known that the modern sav- 
ages of our Southwest build up their pottery in this manner, either allow- 
ing the coils to remain or carefully obliterating them by rubbing, first 
with a wet paddle of wood, and afterwards, when the vessel is dry, with 
a very fine-grained stone. 

The Eskimo women employ in basket-making a needle made of a bird 
bone ground to a point on a stone (Fig. 100). Fine tufts of reindeer hair, 
taken from between the hoofs, are extensively used in ornamentation, 
especially in the Aleutian area. 

TINN:6 INDIANS. 

A few specimens of basketry from the vast Athapascan area contig- 
uous to the Eskimo belong to the coiled type (Fig. 7). Instead of a 
bunch of grass, however, a rod of willow or spruce root is carried 
around in a coil and whipped on with a continuous splint of similar 
material (Fig. 8). The stitches of the coil in jjrocess of formation, 
passing regularly between those just below and locking into them, 
alternate with them and give a somewhat twilled effect to the surface* 
(Fig. 8). If now a strip of bast or grass be laid on the top of the osier 
or spruce root coil and carried around with it, and the sewing pass al- 
ways over these two and down between the bast and the osier of the 
coil below, a much closer ribbed effect will be produced. Several 
specimens of this kind of coiled basketry, in which a strip of tough 
material is laid on top of the coiled osier, were collected at the mouth 
of the Mackenzie Eiver by McFarlane and Ross, and Mr. Murdoch has 
shown me a basket similarly wrought, from Point Barrow, which he 
thinks many have been obtained by barter from the Tinn6 Indians in 
the vicinity. The ornamentation on one specimen of this type is very 

*Tbe working of this stitcli is described and figured by Paul Schumacher in XII 
Reuort of Peabody Museuuj, p. 524 : the coils are not, however, interlocked in all cases; 
that is, if the foundation rods were pulled out the stitches would separate and the 
whole structure come apart in some cases. ' 



ABORIGINAL BASKET-WORK. 295 

curious and elaborate (Fig. 9). The basket-maker bad a Dumber of 
little loops of bark and quill ot'ditferent color prepared, and every time 
a stitch was about to be taken the lower end of one of these loops was 
caught over the splint thread and held down. The next stitch fast- 
ened the two ends of the loops home (that is, each stitch caught the lower 
part of a new loop and fastened down both ends of the preceding one 
after it had boen doubled back), giving a series of imbrications (Fig. !(►). 
On this specimen are between 3,000 and 4,000 separate loops sewed. 
This is one of the most striking examples of savage patience and skill, 
and must have occupied in its construction many hours of a renowned 
artist. 

Mr. Jones tells us, in the Smithsonian Report (185G, p. 323), that the 
Hong Kutchin Indians, who live on the headwaters of the Yukon River, 
make basket-kettles of tamarack roots woven very neatly and orna- 
mented with hair and dyed porcupine quills. The water is boiled by 
means of hot stones thrown in. For dyeing the roots and quills they 
use berries and a kind of grass growing in the swamps. 

In looking at these coiled baskets, standing geographically so far re- 
moved fiom the Apache and Navajo country, one is reminded that the 
migration which separated these branohes of a great stock may have 
been northward and not southward, and that the Tinne may have 
carried with them the art of making coiled baskets learned in a region 
W'here its beauty culminates. 

CHILKAHT INDIANS. 

The basket work of these Indians is superb. Every one who sees 
it is struck with its perfection of workmanship, shape, and ornamen- 
tation. All the si)ecimeus of the National Museum collection are of 
the bandbox shape ; but they can be doubled up flat like a grocer's 
bag (Fig. 11). The material is the young and tough root of the spruce, 
sjjlit, and used either in the native color or dyed brown or black. 
The structure belongs to the twine'd or plaited type before mentioned, 
and there is such uniformity and delicacy in the warp and woof that a 
water-tight vessel is produced with very thin walls. In size the wallets 
vary from a diminutive trinket basket to a capacity of more than a 
bushel. All sorts of lovely designs in bands, crosses, rhombs, chev- 
rons, triangles, and grecques are i>roduced thus : First, the bottom is 
woven plain in the color of the material. Then in the building up of 
the basket bands of plain color, red and black, are woven into the 
structure, having the same color on both sides. Afterwards little 
squares or other plain figures are sewed on in aresene, that is, only 
half way through, giving the most varied efiect on the outside, while 
the inside shows only the plain colors and the red and black bands. 
The wild wheat straws are used in this second operation, whipped over 
and over idong the outer threads of the underlying woof, or two straws 
are twined around in the luauuer explained above (page 293, bottom). 



296 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

No more attractive form and oruameutation of basketry are to be 
seen than those produced by the Indians of tbisThlinket stock extend- 
ing from Mount Saint EUasto Queen Charlotte Archipelago, including 
Sitka. 

HAIDA INDIANS. 

These Indians live on Queen Charlotte Archipelago and adjacent 
islands. Their basket work differs in form from that of the Chilkahts, 
or Thliukets, owing probably to the demands of trade ; but the twined 
method is followed (Fig. 12) and the ornamentation is produced in a 
similar manner. The quality of the ware, however, is a little degener- 
ated and more gaudy (Fig, 15). The Haidas are very skillful in imi- 
tating all sorts of chinaware in basketry, such as teapots, sugar bowls, 
toilet articles, table mats, bottles, and hats. They also introduce curved 
lines and spirals with good effect. The basketry hats of spruce roots, 
the most striking of their original designs, are made by the twining 
process (Fig. 14). The crown is twined weaving of the most regular 
workmanship and the fabric is perfectly water-tight when thoroughly 
wet (Fig. 15). An element of ornamentation is introduced into the brims 
by which a series of diamond patterns cover the whole surface (Fig. IG). 
This decoration is produced thus : Beginning at a certain point the 
weaver includes two warp strands in a half twist, instead of one ; then 
makes two regular twists around single-warp strands. The next time 
she comes around she repeats the process, but her double stitch is one in 
advance of or behind its predecessor. A twilled effect of any shape 
may be thus i^roduced, and rhombs, triangulated fillets, and chevrons 
made to appear on either surface. 

The "fastening off" of the work is done either by bending down the 
free ends of the warp and shoving them out of sight under the stitches 
of the twisted web, or a braid of four strands forms the last row (Fig. 
16), set on so that the whole braid shows outside and only one row of 
strands shows inside. The ends of the warp splints are then cropped 
close to the braid. This appearance of the entire four-stranded braid 
on the external surface is i)roduced by passing each of the four strands 
alternately behind one of the warp sticks as the braiding is being done 
(Fig. IG). (Compare this with what was previously said about the bas- 
ket from the Malabar coast, page 292.) 

Special attention should be paid to the painted ornamentation on 
these hats (Figs. 14 and 15) showing head, wings, feet, and tail of the 
duck, laid on in black and red in the conventional manner of ornamenta- 
tion in vogue among the Haidas and used in the reproduction of their 
various totems on all of their houses, wood and slate carvings, and the 
ornamentation of their implements.* 



*A very interesting instance of snrvival is to be seen in the rag carpets of these 
Indians. The missionaries have taught the women to save np their rags and to 
cover their tioors with pretty mats. They are alhnved to weave them in their o\\ti 
■way, however, and the result is a mat constructed on the ancient twined model, pre- 
cisely as the weaving is done on the mats and hats. 



ABOEIGINAL BASKET-WOKK. 297 

Tbe metliod of mamifacture of Haida twined basketry is sliowu by 
Mr. J. G. Swan in a spei-inuMi collected expressly for the ^latioual 
Museum (Fijis. 17-19). ^Iv. Swan says, '' Tbis style of making- bas- 
kets differs from that of Cape Flattery. There the women sit on the 
ground and weave baskets and mats, both of which rest on the pound." 

With the Uaidas the mats are suspended on a frame and the baskets 
supported on a stick as in Fig-. 17. The black color of the spruce root 
used in nmking- ornamental patterns is i)roduced by soaking it in the 
mud. Fig. 18 shows the bottom of the basket made by the twining 
process. The border of the bottom is marked otf by a row of double 
weaving or a twine built outside the body of the basket just as in the 
Eskimo basket before described (page 293). A section of the structure 
is shown in Fig. 19 where the border ends. 

BILHOOLAS, ETC. 

Along the coast of r>ritish Columbia the great cedar ( Thuja f/igontea) 
grows in the greatest abundance, and its bast furnishes a textile ma- 
terial of the greatest value. Here in the use of this pliable material 
the savages seem for the first time to have thought of checker- weaving 
(Fig. 1*0). Numerous mats, wallets, and rectangular baskets are pro- 
duced by the plainest crossing of alternate strands varying in width 
from a millimeter to an inch (Fig. 21). Ornamentation is effected 
both by introducing different-colored strands and by varying the width 
of the warp or the -uoof threads. In several examples the bottom of 
the basket is bordered with one or more lines of the twined or plaited 
style of -vN'eaving, to give greater stability to the form. Cedar mats of 
great size and made with the greatest care enter as extensively into 
the daily life of the Indians of this vicinity as do the buffalo robes into 
that of the Dakota Indians- They may be seen upon the floors, sleep- 
ing berths, before the doors of the houses, and they are also used as 
sails for their boats and wrapped around the dead. 

It is not astonishing that a material so easily worked should have 
found its way so extensively in the industries of this stock of Indians. 
Neither sliould Me wonder that the checker pattern in weaving should 
first appear on the west coast among the only peoples possessing a ma- 
terial eminently adapted to this form of manipulation. It is only an- 
other example of that beautiful harmony between man and nature which 
delights the anthropologist at every step of his journey. 

MAKAHS AND CHIHALIS. 

We are now introduced to still another style of basketry, very primi- 
tive but capable of very delicate treatment. I do not know of its ex- 
istence outside of the Nutka stock living on the southwest side of 
Vancouver Island and on the northwest corner of Washington Terri- 
tory, except in two cases, to be ])resently mentioned. It may be called 
the " lish-trap style," since without doubt the iiner basketry is the 



298 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

lineal descendant of the rude wicker fisli-trap. Imagine a number of 
stakes driven into the ground pretty close together. A horizontal pole 
is laid against them in the rear, aud by the wrappings of a withe 
around the pole and each upright stake diagonally on the outside and 
vertically on the inside, a spiral fastening is produced (Fig. 23). This 
stitch crosses the two fundamentals in front at an angle and the hori- 
zontal frame-piece in the rear at right angles, or vice versa, and the 
lacing may always run in the same direction, or the alternate rows of 
lacing may run in opposite directions, as in Fig. 23. As a matter of 
fact, in soft and pliable material this operation constantly pushes the 
uprights forward a little, giving to the fabric an appearance of the 
back of a watch (Figs. 24-26). 

The Clallam Indians of the Selish stock make a carrying basket in 
this manner (Figs. 22, 23), the frame (warp and woof) sticks being about 
one-eighth inch in diameter, lashed in place with split ozier or root. 
The Japanese also make a fish -trap similarly, with the exception that 
the coiled splint passes alternately backward and forward, so that if the 
horizontal were pulled out the fabric would tumble to pieces. The ob- 
long oval shields of bamboo, made by the Bateke negroes of the Lower 
Congo, imitate this structure exactly. The frame of the shield is an 
oblong hoop on which are stretched splints of rattan, running longitudi- 
nally on one side and transversely on the other, crossing at right angles 
except at the plano-convex space at the ends. Splints of bamboo, about 
one-eighth inch wide, are woven into these cross strands precisely after 
the manner of the Makali basketry, the consequence being a series of 
square stitches on tlie back and diagonal stitches on the front, closely 
fitting, and coving the surface completely. Now, if the frame were cedar- 
bark threads about the size of pack threads, and the lashing of white 
sea-grass, we would have the Makah basket (Figs. 24-26). It takes 
three sets of threads (Fig. 25), the radiated warp, the coiled woof, and 
the spiral-biudiug thread, to finish the compound. No other area is 
known to the writer where this peculiar pattern is wrought icto deli- 
cate fabrics. The Makahs belong to the Nutka stock, most of which are 
on the southwest shore of Vancouver Island, including the great group 
of Aht tribes. No Aht basketry is in the Museum, but it would be ex- 
tremely interesting to trace this unique method of basket-weaving 
among all the tribes of the stock. Bands of serrate patterns are pro- 
duced in color by using different wrapping threads, the principal one 
being grass dyed black in mud. 

There is one specimen of the cedar-bark mat from Vancouver Island 
in which the shreded bark which serves for warp is fastened at inter- 
vals of about an inch by a chain-stitch instead of the twine. This must 
have been a modern innovation; at least there is not another evidence 
in this collection of savage acquaintance with the chain-stitch. 

The Clallams, adjoining the Makahs, but of the Selish or Flathead 
stock, in addition to the fish-trap or bower style, are the first going 



ABORIGINAL BASKET-WORK. 299 

southward to produce a twilled patteru over the entire surface of the 
vessel (Figs. 27, 28). A slight exception to this statement is the orna- 
mentation on the brim of the Haida rain-hat. It occurs again in Mexico 
and among the Cherolcees, Choctaws, Chetimachas, and in South Amer- 
ica. A moment's reflection will show that the administration of the 
three-ply method of the Makahs is a derivation of the plicate or twisted 
sort. If either strand of a twist, the inner or the outer, be drawn 
straight, the plait will become the fish-trap pattern. In most of the 
Makah baskets the straight piece is laid inside the uprights, but there 
are examples in which it is laid outside resembling the regular jilaited 
stitch. The Indians of this coast prior to the advent of the white man 
made heavy and beautiful blankets of the W'Ool of the liocky Mountain 
sheep, and of the hair of animals killed in the chase, dyed in different 
colors. The patterns are all geometric, and are, in fact, woven mosaics, 
each figure being inserted separately by twisting two woof threads back- 
ward and forward around the warp strands. Scarcely ever does the 
twine extend in stripes all the way across the blanket in a direct line. 

Like the Ilaiuas the Makahs prepare a great many forms of basketry 
for trade. A great variety of colors is used in the decoration. The 
hatch surface, produced by the use of three strands in weaving, gives 
to the basketry of this type a very unique and pleasing effect. Fig. 
25 represents a common specimen of Makah basketry. 

Fig. 29 shows a bottle covered with ornamental basketry. In the 
bottom the radiating warp is inclosed in the twined weft. The warp 
threads are carried over the surface of the bottle, crossing each other 
and producing rhomboids, after the manner of the Jai)anese basketry. 
The twined coil (Fig. 31) connects the crossings of the warp threads. 
This is a very interesting specimen, inasmuch as the bower or fish-trap 
style is replaced by the regular twined weaving of the Indians farther 
north. 

Figs. 32, 33 represent a specimen from the Clallams, which seems to be 
an example of commerce. The coil is sewed on conveniently, and the 
ornamentation upon the sides is produced by laying the straw or quill of 
diflerent color ui)on the regular stitching, and sewing it on one stitch 
over two original stitches. This is a very beautiful and strongly made 
specimen. 

OREGON AND CALIFORNIA TRIBES. 

Along the western coast of the United States from Puget Sound to 
Lower California are many separate stocks of Indians, quite easily 
recognized by the material and ornamentation of their basketry, but fol- 
lowing two fundamental structures — the twined and the whipi)ed coil. 
Some of these tribes are called Diggers because they subsist on roots, 
seeds, etc. It would be more reasonable to call them " basket Indians." 
The Klamath and the McLcctd Indians of Northern California use the 
twined method, making water-tight and flexible baskets of great beauty 
(Fig. 34). The ornanicntation is produced by the alternation of black 



300 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

and white threads in stripes and geometric figures of endless variety 
(Fig. oo). A very i)retty coarse wallet is produced by using vertical 
rushes for the foundations and twining bands of two or three rows at 
intervals of a few inches. 

The coiled and whipped structure is employed by many tribes through- 
out California (Figs. 36, 37, from Eel River tribe). In most of them the 
double coil is used; that is, two rods or osiers are carried around, or 
an osier overlaid with a strip of bark or yucca (See Tinne Indian 
baskets, page 294.) The sewing is over both and down under only the 
upper one of the coil just beneath. Some of the baskets of this area are 
of the greatest beauty, both in form, texture, and in ornamentation. 

The principal shapes are the inverted truncated cone, the ginger jar, 
and the shallow dish or tray. From willow twigs and pine roots they 
weave large, round mats for holding acorn tlour; various sized, flatfish, 
squash-shaped baskets, water tight; deep conical ones of about a 
bushel capacity to be carried on their backs; skull caps, which are also 
drinking cups, worn by the squaws. They ornament the baskets by 
weaving in black rootlets or bark in squares, diamonds, and zigzags. 
(Powers: Cont. N. A. Ethnology, III, p. 47.) 

On Tule River long stalks of Sporobolns are used for warps. For 
thread pine root is used for white, willow bark for the brown, and some 
unknown bark for the black. The needle is a "sharpened thigh-bone of 
a hawk. (Id., p. 377.) 

The Modok women formerly made a baby -basket of willow-work, in 
shape resembling a tailor's slipper or an old-fashioned watch- holder, 
and having various devices to shade the face. The warp is of straight 
rods, the woof consists of bands of twined work, just enough to hold the 
warp together, most of the space being left open. Some of the Northern 
California tribes make a baby-basket similar in shape to the Sioux and 
Cheyenne beaded cradle-boards. 

The Californian Indians from TuM Lake to the Gulf of California 
use the greatest care in securing uniformity and fineness to the founda- 
tion and the stitch. Their skill will compare favorably with that 
of the Siamese, who do very similar work. The needle is the long 
bone of a bird or mammal, the joint remaining for a handle and the 
point being forward of the central hard jiortion of the bone. The 
female basket-weaver pierces a hole in the fabric at the proi)er point, 
draws the thn^ad of grass or woody fibre through the aperture, "biting 
the end to sharpen her thread if necessary, and presses the stitches 
home with the bone needle. 

The ornamentation is in color, i)attern, and accessories. The natu- 
ral color of the material is the basis of the basket. A very dark- 
brown and a very light brown colored straw is worked into chevrons 
and zigzag lines in endless variety. A strip of reed or grass is some- 
times carried around on the outside, concealed by two, three, or more 
stitches, then overlapping the same number, forming a checkered 



ABORIGINAL BASKET-WORK. 301 

baud. Beads are also laid on, and bits of worsted, eveu, making animal 
forms. The most beautiful ornament is that i)roduced by feathers, one 
being laid on for each stitch, forming an imbricated covering, conceal- 
.ingthe entire surfa(;e. When parti colored feathers are used the effect 
is very wonderful. 

SAHAPTIN STOCK. 

In the mountains of Idaho live the Xez Perces Indians belonging to 
the Sahaptin stock. The Museum i)Ossesses a few samples of their 
basketry. Figs. 38, 30, represents a Hexible wallet made of the bast of 
Indian hemp {Apocynum cannabinum). There is nothing remarkable 
in the manufacture of this specimen. The weaving belongs to the 
twined type. 

The body color is the natural hue of the material. iSI'early the whole 
surface, however, is covered with ornamentation in patterns of brown, 
green, red, and black. This ornamental i)ortion is produced by the 
sewing of embroidery over the entire surface of the bag, the stitches 
passing only halfway through, so that the fabric is plain on one side 
and ornamented on the other. 

THE GREAT INTERIOR BASIN. 

Leaving now the west coast, we may examine the basketry of the 
Great Interior Basin, including that of the Shoshoues, the Apaches, 
the Pueblos, and the tribes living around the mouth of the Colorado. 

iSlioshonea. — This great stock of Indians employ both structures, the 
twined and the whipped coil. The plaited stitch is used in the conoidal 
basket hats or mush bowls (Figs. 40, 41), the roasting trays (Fig. 42), 
and the fanning or seed gathering trays (Fig. 43), and wands (Fig. 44). 
The coiled and whip[)cd structure is used in the pitched water bottles 
(Fig. 45), and the basket trays (Fig. 47). 

Conoidal basket hats are made of willow splints or Rhus, the warp 
radiating from the ai)ex, the woof splints being carried around and 
twined in pairs, in the manner so fre(iuently described (Fig. 40). 
The woof is so thoroughly driven home as to give the appearance of 
the simi»]e osier of the east. Ornamentation is produced by using one 
or more rows of black splints, dyed with the ^Sucil(( diffusa. 

The roasting trays are shai)e(l like a scoop, rimmed with a large 
twig (Fig. 4-). The warp is made of ])ara]lel twigs laid close together, 
and held in i>la<'e by cross i)laitings about half an inch ai)art. It is 
said that Shoshoues place the seeds of wild plants in these trays 
with hot stones and thus roast them. The specimen Ijgured is nuich 
charred on the upi)er side. Dr. Edward Palmer also describes their 
use in fanning the hulls and e])idermis of the Finus monophylla seed. 
" The Indians remove the hulls by putting a number of nuts on a metate 
and rolling a Hat pestle backward and forward until the hulls are 



302 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

loosened. The mass is then put in a flat basket tray and the hulls 
blown off"." (Am. Nat. 1878, p. 594.) 

In Schoolcraft's History of Indian Tribes, pt. 5, pis. 26, 27, will be seen 
Indian women gathering seeds in conical baskets, beating the plants 
with a spoon-shaped wand towards the basket, held in the left hand, 
with the mouth of the basket just under the plants (Figs. 43, 44). The 
baskets are made in every respect like the conoidal hats and the fiins 
are made of twigs closely woven on the same pattern. 

The water bottles belong to the coiled and whipped structure. As 
before mentioned, this style can be made coarse or fine, according to 
the material and size of the coil and the outer thread. If two twigs of 
uniform thickness are carried around, the stitch will be batchy and 
open ; but if one of the twigs is larger than the other, or if yucca or 
other fiber replace one of them and narrower sewing material be used, 
the texture will be much finer. These bottles differ in shape; one class 
has round bottoms, another long, pointed bottoms; one has wide 
mouths, another small mouths; one class has a little osier handle on 
the side of the mouth like a pitcher, but the majority have one or two 
loops of wood, horse-hair, or osier fastened on one side for a carrying 
strap. All of these are quite heavy, having been dipped in pitch. 
The same form is found among the Apaches, Mohaves, Mokis, and Eio 
Grande Pueblos; but it is not improbable that they were obtained from 
the Utes in barter or by purchase. 

The basket trays of the Utes do not differ essentially in general style 
from those of the Gila River tribes, but thej* are much coarser. Among 
the coiled basket trays in the collection accredited to the Utes are in- 
deed two styles, but one of them resembles so much those of their 
Apache neighbors on the south as to raise the susjjiciou that they were 
obtained by barter. However that may be, we are permitted to call 
them the Ute pattern and the Apache pattern. The Ute basket tray is 
made like fhe Ute water-bottle. A bundle of grass stems, two, three, 
or four, are coiled around and sewed to the upper twig of the coil just 
below. By the way in which the coil turns it is easy to tell whether 
the upper or the under surface was towards the sewer, the work always 
necessarily moving to the left hand. As a matter of fact, most of these 
coarse baskets were built up with the concave towards the workman, 
that side i^resentiug a more finished appearance. On the other hand, 
the finer baskets, here called Apache, are coiled the other way. The 
foundation is a slender bundle of yucca fiber or a twig and yucca leaf 
combination, which enables the workman to produce a compact water- 
tight stitch similar to that in the California baskets just described. 
The Apaches understand thoroughly the use of this stitch, and their 
ornamental patterns in black have the greatest variety. The ornament 
of one specimen in the collection, supposed to be Apache, but possibly 
made by some California tribes, consists of a series of spiral bands 



ABOEIGINAL BASKET-WORK. 303 

widening from tbe bottom towards the rim; in each of the spiral bands 
a row of five men extends from midway in the basket to the npper 
edge, their places below being taken by smaller patterns* (l^ig!:^. iD-03;. 

Moki basl-ets. — Of the seven Moki i)ueblos six speak the Ute lan- 
guage. It will not be surprising also to see them making similar 
baskets. This is ])artly true and partly false. The Moki have both 
coiled and plaited or twined baskets. Their twined baskets are few in 
number. Their coiled baskets, except the water-bottles, are of a per- 
fectly unique pattern. In addition, they use one method of work com- 
mon enough in otlier parts of the world, but tlius lar unknown west of 
the Kocky Mountains. I speak of the common single-coiled osier or 
splint employed by all eastern Indians and by the negro and white 
ba.sket-niaker. The Moki also imitate the checker weaving of the Bella 
Bellas, and the twilled weaving of the Clallams. 

The plaited ware of the Mokis are a few peach-baskets, made in the 
same manner as the Ute hats, but there is enough dissimilarity of form 
to give the Moki the credit of inventing this peculiar style (Figs. <>(i-71>). 

The coiled and sewed ware, aside from the water-bottles and a few 
bread trays, which are evidences rather of barter than manufacture, de 
mand our special attention. Among the Mokis and nowhere else, so far 
as the Museum is concerned, except in Nubia, are to be found thick- 
coiled baskets called sacred meal-trays, having about the concavity of 
old fashioned pie-plates, and varying in diameter from a few inches to 
over twenty. A bundle of grass or the nerves of the yucca leaf, from 
half an inch to an inch in diameter, is coiled around and sewed with 
strips of yucca leaf of uniform width, rarely exceeding the twelfth 
of an inch. The thread is passed regularly around the coil, drawn 
tightly, and passed between threads and through a few fibers of the 
grass in the coil beneath. It is difficult to tell whether any pains is 
taken to lock the threads of the coils or not. At first the coil is very 
small and widens as the dish enlarges. These plates are all made to be 
looked at inside, the coiling being invariably towards the left on the 
upper surface. I have not seen one exception. True to this instinct, 
when a Moki constructs a hat of the same material to please some white 
man, he makes the convex of the hat correspond to the concave of his 
tray, the outside of the hat being thus rough and the inside smooth. 
Tbe ornamentation of these trays is i)roduced as follows: One side of 

[*NoTE. — Saye Dr. E. Palmer: "lu Utah, Arizona, Southern California, and New 
Mexiro the Inrlians dopciul sololy on the Bhus aromadca, var. tribola (squawherry) for 
material out of Avliich to make their baskets. It is far more dnrablo and tougher 
than the willow, which is not nsod by these* Indiauy. The twiga are soaked in water 
to soften them and to loosen tlie bark, which is scraped off by the females. The twigs 
are then split by the use of the mouth and hands. Their baskets are built up by a 
succession of small rolls of grass, over which these twigs are firmly and closely bound. 
A bone awl is used to make the holes under the rim of the grass for the split twigs. 
Baskets made Thus are very durable, will hold water, and are often used to cook in, 
hot stones being dropped in until the food is done." (Am. Nat. 1875, p. 598).] 



304 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

the stripped yucca leaf is dark green, llie other light green aud white 
striped fading into yellow. Now by deftly turning the thread where it 
passes through the coil in sewing a variety of shades is produced, as 
in shaded worsted work. Again, by dyeing the threads black, blue, 
red, yellow, and combining color effects with the natural shades of the 
leaf, the most beautiful ornamentation is produced. There is some 
method in the patterns which usually commences from a blank center 
of a few coils with four brown spots of six stitches each. From these 
fundamental points all sorts of geometric figures are produced by the 
simple process of sewing with different-colored threads. 

The coiled and decorated ozier bread-trays of the Mokis are made, I 
have been informed, at only one pueblo, Oraibi. The frame consists of 
two cross sets of twigs, from 12 to 10 in each bar of the cross. These are 
firmly held together at their intersection by sewing and plaiting. They 
then are spread out radially, the space being from time to time sup- 
plemented by additional twigs. The workman provides himself with 
bunches of white, yellow, orange, purple, black, blue, aud green twigs 
only a few inches in length. Tiiese he proceeds to weave into patterns 
of the greatest beauty, even imitating cloud effects seen on Japanese 
screens, using short or long twigs as the occasion demands, hiding the 
ends between the ribs and the filling of the preceding coils. The process 
is the same as that em[)loyed by the Xavahos in making the clouded 
blankets, and by the northwest coast Indians in their ancient mountain- 
sheep blankets. The greatest variety of ornament is produced, but, as 
in the coiled work, the center is always plain. Under the influence of 
trade, however, the ancient patterns are giving way to those demanded 
by the purchasers. As the patterns are really mosaics and could be 
picked out it will be easily seen that the figures on the back and front 
do not exactly conform, the corresponding square on the back being 
always one space to the right or left of the same in front. 

The Moki common twig basket is as rough as rough can be ; the same 
is true of the flat mats used about their dwellings. They are woven in 
the same manner as the market baskets which we are accustomed to 
see every day. The twilled effect on the flat mats is produced by over- 
lajjping two warp strands by each of the woof strands. 

Yucca baskets and trays of a very coarse character are made by the 
Mokis, woven sometimes in plain checker, at other times in twill. Al- 
though the material is very coarse, quite i)leasing effects are produced 
by the two sides of the leaf and by the different shades of the same 
side. 

Zuni basl<etry. — Although one may see at ZuSi all sorts of baskets, 
the most of them, including coiled or whipped trays, Moki coiled and 
twig basket trays, none of these are made there. The only basket of 
the Zuiiis is their little, very rough twig peach basket, hardly worthy 
of notice except for its ugliness antl simplicity (Figs. 80-82). 



ABORIGINAL BASKET-WORK. 305 

SOUTHERN INDIAN BASKETRY. 

In the States of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, 
Alabama, JNIississippi, and Louisiana are many Indians still living, rem- 
nants of the Cherokees, Choctaws, Creeks, Chickasaws, and Seminoles, 
removed fifty years ago into the Indian Territory, Through the low- 
haul iiortit);] of tht'se States grow the iutenninable cane-brakes, and 
from the split cam' all these tribes make their basketry. They ^Jl fol- 
low the twilled pattern of the common checker weaving. If there is 
any one tribe that excels it is the Choctaws, who even now expose for 
sale in the markets of Mobile, New Orleans, and other southern cities 
little baskets of green, yellow, red, and black cane, woven in twill, 
crossing with the woof two or more warp splints, and managing the 
stitches so as to produce diamonds and various zigzag patterns on the 
outside. They make a basket oval at the top and pointed below for 
presents, averring, as I was informed by a gentleman well acquainted 
with them, that this shape imitated the heart, which should always 
accompany every gift. The handles of their basketry are very clumsily 
put on, marring greatly the appearance of the otherwise attractive 
object (Figs. 85-95). 

ALGONKIN AND IROQUOIS BASKETRY. 

All along our northern frontier and in many parts of Canada the 
descendants of the once powerful Algonkin and Iroquois fabricate bas- 
kets from the birch, linden, and other white woods. The method of man- 
ufacture is universally the same: it is the plainest in-and-out weaving. 
The basketry is very far from monotonous, however, for the greatest 
variety is secured by diftereuce of form, of color, of the relative size of 
the i^arts, and of ornamentation. In form these baskets run the whole 
gamut as among the Haida and the Maka, guided by the maker's fancy 
and the demands of trade. These Indians all live on the border of civil- 
ization and derive a large revenue from the sale of their wares. The col- 
ors are of native manufacture, red, yellow, blue, green, alternating with 
the natural color of the wood. By changing the relative size of the parts 
a great variety of effects is produced. To commence with the rudest, 
let us take a dozen or sixteen strips of paper half an inch wide, and 
cross them so as to have one-half perpendicular to the other, woven in 
checker at the center and extending to form the equal arms of a cross. 
Bend up these arms perpendicular with the woven checker and pass a 
continuous splint similar to the frame-work round and round in a con- 
tinuous coil from the bottom to the top. Bend a hoop of wood so as to 
fit the top, bend down the upright splints over this, and sew the whole 
together with a whipping of splint, and you will have the type basket. 
Now, by varying the width of the splint used to cover the sides you 
secure a great difference of ai)pearance. In the National Museum are 
baskets made of uniformly cut si)liuts not over the one-sixteenth of an 
inch in width. 

S. Mis. ISS. j.t. -J I'O 



306 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Finally the Algonkin and Iroquois as well as the Southern Indian 
know how to decorate in baskets with a great variety of rolls looking 
much like the napkins on tbe table of a hotel. He draws a splint under 
the warp stick, gives it a turn up or down, or two turns in different di- 
rections and draws his loose end tightly under the next warp stick but 
one. This operation he repeats, forming around his basket one or more 
rows of projecting ornaments. 

CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICAN BASKETRY. 

The Museum is not rich in South American baskets. Those from 
British Guiana are precisely like those described by E. im Thurn in his 
work entitled "Among the Indians of British Guiana." The specimens 
in hand are all of the twill pattern, wrought from a brown vegetable 
fiber which shows the same on both sides. This twill is used with good 
effect in the diagonally woven cassava strainers, which may be con- 
tracted in length by a corresponding increase of the width. When the 
grated cassava is packed into this strainer it is suspended and a great 
weight fastened to the bottom. The same device in cloth is used by 
country housewives in making curds. There is an entire lack of gaudy 
dyes in the Guiana baskets, the only colors being the natural hue of 
the wood and a jet-black varnish. The gorgeous plumage of the birds 
replace the dyes in ornamentation. Central American basketry does 
not differ greatly from that of South America except in the finish. 
Nothing can exceed in severe plainness and accuracy of execution the 
finer ware of Guiana. 



PLATE I. 

(Mason. Basket- -woik.) 

Fig. 1. Aleutian twiuecl wallet of sea-grass. The warp consists of a uiimber of 
straws radiating from the bottom. As the basket enlarges new straws are 
inserted, and the whole is held in place bj' twine made of two straws, which 
inclose a warj) straw at each half turn The cylindrical part of the vessel 
is of the diamond pattern shown in Fig. 2. The ornamentation is produced 
by embroidering with bits and strands of red, blue, and black worsted, in no 
case showing on the inside of the wallet. The continuous line between the 
diagonal stripes is formed by whipping with a single thread of worsted on 
the outer stitches of one of the twines of straw. Whipping with single 
thread in this ware is not common. The border is formed of the very com- 
plicated braid described in the text. Collected in Attn, by Wm.H. Dall. 
Museum number, 14978. 

Fig. 2. A square inch of Fig. 1 enlarged, taken from the part of the texture where 
the rectangular meshes pass into the lozenge-shaped meshes. The peculiar 
method of splitting the warp threads and working the halves alternately to 
the right and to the left is well shown. 



Keport Nat. Mus. 1884.— Muson. Basktt-vrork 



PLATE I. 







k^-Kr-l^-^ 





Fig. 1. Ak-iitiau twiuucl wallet. FiG. 2. Oui; isquarc inch of Fig. 1, cDJargcd. 



PLATE II. 

(Maaon. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 3. Twined wallet of the Eskimo. The warp and the twining of the bottom is 
of a very coarse, rush-like, liber. The bottom is in openwork and is 
strengthened on its outer edge by an extra twine set on externally. The 
body is of a dirty rush color, the spotted lines on the cylindrical portion are 
in black and body color. This effect maj' be A'aried by mixing two strand-s 
of different color in the twine. The fastening off" at the top is done by 
working the warp strands into a three-ply braid, turning down on the in- 
side of the vessel and cutting off an end whenever a new warp thread is 
taken up by the braid. Frequently the last three or four warp straws are 
not cut off but braided out to their extremities in order to form a handle. 
Collected at Norton Sound, by E.W. Nelson. Museum number, 38872. 

Fjg. 4. One square inch of Fig. 3, representing (1) four rows of twining on the cyl- 
indrical portion ; (2) the method of adding a new row of twining exter- 
nally for a boundary between the bottom and the cylindrical portion, and 
(3) the method of forming an open-work bottom. 



Report Nat. Mas. 1884.— Masou. Basket-work. 



PLATE II. 





Fig. 3. Eskimo twiued wallet. Fig. 4. One square inch of Fig. 3. 



PLATE m. 

(Mason. Basket work.) 

Fig. 5. Coiled Eskimo basket. The bottom is a bit of old leather, to which is sewed, 
by means of grass thread, a coil of straws varying in thickness from i to J 
inch. This coil is continued to form the cylindrical side, the shoulder at 
the tojj, aud the neck. The disk-like cover is made in the same manner. 
Collected by E. W. Nelson, in Norton Sound. Museum number, 38469. 



liipoif Xat. Atus. 18S4— Mason. Basket-work. 



PLATE III. 













Fig. 5. Eskimo coiled basket. 



PLATE IV. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. fi. One square inch of Fig. 5 enlarged, sbowiny the buiicli of .straws iiecfl as the 
body of the coil, and the niauuer of \vliipi)inj^ the tuni.s of the coil with 
grass threads. Instead of carefully ]ooj)iiig the thread into the cue just be- 
low, as is done in the best coiled work, the ba.sket-niaker passed the sticks 
indiscrimiuately through or between those below. Some of the Eskimo bus- 
kets, however, resemble those of the uext class. 



Report Nat. Mus. 1884 —Mason. Basket-work. 



PLATE IV. 




Fig. 6 One square inch of Fig. 5. 



PLATE V. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 7. Coiled basket of tne Tinn6 or Atbabascau iDdiaus of Alaska and British 
America. The warp or foundatiou is a single osier or spruce root, the sew- 
ing is done with small splints of spruce root. The stitches vary from ^ to | 
inch in length, and the splints from -,V to ^ inch in width. The stitches of 
each coil are locked into the stitches of the coil beneatli in addition to i)ass- 
ing under the fundamental rod. In some cases the Eskimo fashion of split- 
ting the threads in sewing appears, but the evidence shows that the Tinue 
were the teachers of the Eskimo, and the latter follow only the ruder work 
of their preceptors. The general shape of this class of baskets is that of a 
low narrow-mouthed jar. Collected by Lucien M. Turner, Lower Yukon 
River. Museum number,. 24342. 

Fkj. 8. One square inch of Fig. 7, showing the method pursued in coiled basketry 
with a single fundamental and a single splint of osier or spruce root. 



Keport Xat. Mus. ls*'^4. — Mason. Rasket-work. 



PLATE V. 






KllAt-'--' aEf'i'Ut 














Fig. T. Timio coiled basket. 



Fig. 8. One square inch of Fig. 7. 



PLATE VI. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 9. Alaskan Indian coiled basket. The outer portion is so covered with ornament 
as to conceal the texture of the basket, which is built up by whipping a 
coil of rushes or small splints with splint or birch bark. The bottom of 
this basket is not a coil, but a number of straight foundation rods sewed 
into a rectangular mat, around this the sides are built up by coiling. The 
elaborate ornauientatiou is described under Fig. 10. Collected in Alaska, 
by J. J. Maclean, in 1882. Museum number, 60235. 
Fig. 10. One square inch of Fig. 9, showing the elaborate ornamentation. The imbri- 
cated eifect upon the surface is j)roduced by sewing on little loops of bark 
and straw, white and brown, with blind stitches in such a way as to con- 
ceal the manner of attachment. The mat-like bottom is ornamented by 
sewing on straws longitudinally with stitches wide apart, so as to show a 
checker pattern of straw and stitching. This method of ornamenting the 
bottom is often pursued over the whole external surface of the basket. 



Report Nat. Mus. 1884.— Mason. 15asket-work. 



PLATE VI. 





Fig. 9. Alaskan Indian coiled basket. FiG. 10. One srjuare inch ^f Fig. 9. 



PLATE VII. 

(Mason. • Basket-work.) 

Fig. 11. Twined basket-wallet of the Cliilkaht Indians (Thlinkit stock), band-box 
shape when spread out. Tlie bottom is very roughly made of spruce-root 
splints, warp and twine, the former radiating from the center. The bound- 
ary of the bottom is a single row of twine fastened on externally. The 
cylindrical portion for a few inches above the bottom is in natural brown 
colo^', excepting two or three vertical liands of embroidery. The rest of the 
body is in stripes of natural color, black and Indian red. The border is 
formed by turning under the warp threads and cutting them off. The ge- 
ometric patterns (different on everj' wallet) are formed by embroidering 
upon the outer surface, half through the fabric, with yellow, light red 
straws and epruce-root dyed. This style of basketry is followed by the 
Haidas in the baskets made for sale. Collected at Sitka, Alaska, by Dr. J. 
B. White, in 1876. Museum number, 21560. 



Report Xat. Mus. 1884.— Mason. Basket-woik. 



PLATE VII. 



JlBMtflMUJilli^JgflUMpC^^ 




Fig. 11. Chilkabt twined and embroidered basket wallet, 



PLATE Vin. 

(Mason. Basket-'work.) 

Fig. 12. Twined basket of spruce root, made by Haida Indians. This specimen shews 
better than any of the precodinp: the method of administration in the 
twined basketry. The handle is a twine of spruce root fastened on by 
weaving in and out on the side, the low or end knotted. The fastening off 
at the rim is done by bendiug down the wai'p threads externally and sew- 
ing them flat with one row of twining. Collected by James G. Swan, in 
Queen Charlotte Archipelago, in 1883. Museum number, 88964. 

Fig. 13. One square inch of Fig. 12 taken near the top, so as to show the close and 
the open weaving. The method of twine weaving is perfectly shown in 
this figure. 



Keport Xat. Mu9. 1884.— Mason. Basket-work. 



PLATE VIII. 



/•^fU'^y-: '/ 



>;e.i 






'tm 






trTiYtrrhv- !l[i!.- ■ 1 

rri i"^"" - rc-p 

ih^inf^^^ — — — — — ^—""^fn 



j|,y-^'^--c..^^^ — •-- ^^ 




Fig. 12. Haida twined open-work basket. Fig. l:?. One square inch of Fig. 12. 



PLATE IX. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 14. Raiu hat of twined basketry in spruce root from Haida Indians, reduced to 
one-eighth linear. This figure is the upper view and shows the method of 
oruamentatiou in red and hlack paint. Tlie device in this instance is the 
ei)itoniized form of a bird, the first step from pictures toward grax>liic signs. 
Omitting the red cross on the top, the beak, jaws, and nostrils arc shown 
above; the eyes at the sides near the top, and just behind them the sym- 
bol for ears. The wings, feet, and tail, inclosing a human face, are shown 
on the margin. The Haida as well as other coast Indians from Cape Flat- 
tery to Mount Saint Elias cover everything of use with totemic devices in 
painting and carving. Collected in Queen Charlotte Archipelago, by J. 
G. Swan. Museum number, 89033. 

Fig. ITi. Showing the conical shape of Fig. 14. This form should be compared with 
one seen so frequently in Chinese and Japanese hats. On the inside a 
cylindricSl band of spruce root is stitched on so as to make the hat fit the 
wearer's head. A string passed under the chin is frequently added. 



Rpport Nat. Miis. 1884. — Mason. Basket-work. 



PLATE IX. 




14 




Ir 



16 



Fig. 13, Haida twined basketry hat, top view. Fig. \t>. Same hat, side view. 



PLATE X. 

(Mason. Basket-work. 

Fig. 16. A portion IJ by 1 iuch, taken from the rim of tbc last two fignres. It shows the 
rt'f^ular method of twined weaving, Ihc introduction of tlio skip-stitch or 
twilled weaving into the greatest variety of geometric patterns, and the 
ingenious method of fastening off by a fonr-piy braid showing only on the 
outer side. 



Report Nat. Miis, l.'^S4.— ^fasou. Basket- work. 



PLATE X. 



» 




Fig. lit. One ;iiiil a liiiHsiiiiaie iiicIhh (if Fi;'. 14. 



PLATE XI. 



(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Figs. 17-19. Showing the Haida ruothod of twined weaving, ahnost identical with 
that of the Thlinkit stock iu style (Fig 11). Fig. 17 exhibits the 
method of mounting the work. Along the side of tbe upright pole is 
seen two bundles of spruce-root splints ready for use, one black, the 
other in natural color. , 

Fig. 18. The bottom of the basket, with radiating warp, twined weft, and an exter- 
nal twine on its outer boundary. 
Fig. 19. One square inch of Fig. 17, indicating the exceedingly regular method of the 
twining. On the upper margin is seen the external row of twining added 
after the fabric was finished. Collected from the Massett tribe of Haidas, 
Queen Charlotte Islands. Museum number, 889.56. 



Report Nat. Mus. lhH4.— ilasou. Basket-work. 



PLATE XI. 






Fig. 17. Haida basket sot up. 
Fig. 18. Bottom of same. 



17 <x 
Fig. 19. One square inch of the side. 



PLATE XII. 



(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 20. Showing regularly woven cedai-burk wallet of Bilhoolas. The bottom and 
sides are all in checker pattern. By* an endless variety in reoil and pro- 
portional width of warp and weft thread, and by coloring some of the 
threads, an infinite number of ])atterns is produced. The fastening oft" ia 
done as in Fig. 12. In many cedar-bark baskets of this region the two sets 
of threads run diagonally, producing a diamond rather than a chrcker pat- 
tern. Again, much more rarely three elements are involved, an open-work 
of two sets running diagonally, and a horizontal thread running through 
the open rhombs, in and out, as in multitudes of Japanese baskets. Col- 
lected in British Columbia, by James G. Swan. 

Fig. 21. One square inch of Fig. 20, natural size. 



Ki'jiort Nat. Mus. 1884.— Masou. Basket-work. 



PLATE XII. 




20 




21 



Fig. 20. Bilhoola woven cedar bast basket. 
^IG. 21. One .squaro inch of Fig. 20. 



PLATE XIII. 

(Mason. Basket- work.) 

Fig. 22. Openwork carrying basket of the bird-cage or fish-trap style of weaving 
made by the Clallam Indians (Selish stock). The frame-work is a rect- 
angle of large twigs from the corners of which depend fonr twigs, joining 
as shown in the fignre. To this fiame-woik arc lashed smaller rods run- 
ning horizontally and vertically, making a lattice- work with any desirable 
size of meshes. Finally, spruce-root splints are coiled around the crossings 
of these lattice rods. In this particular example the coiling is not contin- 
uously around the basket, but on each side separately in boustrophedon, 
but in the pretty Makah baskets, woven in this style, the coiled thread 
continues around without break from the beginning to the end of the 
■work. The handles for the attachment of the head-strap are loops of 
spruce-root cord set on at the corners. Collected in Washington Territory, 
by J. G. Swan. Museum number, 23430. 

Fig. 23. Showing the exact .method administration in this form of basketry. It 
should be closely studied with reference to Makah basketry and Congo 
shields and baskets. 



itrrfi 



Report Nat. Mas. 1884.— Mnaou. Basket work. 



,fDmiTTnMiilf)'rn'rijM'fvtTri7rM,K!^ii^^^ 











Fig. 22. Carrj-ing baskot of ChiUani Iiulians. 

Fig. 2X Oiu- si\muv huh of Fijr. «>j, cnhir-iic <1 to show l.inl-fage stitcb. 



PLATE XIV. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Figs. 24-26. A wouderfnl specimeu of basketry from tbe Makali Indians (Nutkan 
stock). It includes tbe ihree distinct types, the plain checker weav- 
ing of the Bilhoolas (Fig. 2(i, bottom), the twined pattern frequently 
mentioned in this paper, and, lastly, the bird-cage pattern of the 
Clallanis (Fig. 25). The ornauientation on this class of baskets, as on 
the commercial baskets of the Haidas, consists of gecmietric patterns 
in black, yellow, drab, reds,- blues, &c., coloismany of which are ob- 
tained from traders. The straws are dyed and the pattern is alike on 
both sides. Collected at Cape Flattery, by James G. Swan, in 1876. 
Museum number, 23346. 



Repoit Nat. Mus. 1884.— Mason. Basket-work. 



PLATE XIV. 




24 




'/ M 




Fig. 24. Makali bird-cage pattern in ba.sketry. 
Fig. 25. One square incli of Fig. 24, on the side. 
Fig. 26. One scpiare ineli outer edge of bottom. 



PLATE XV. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 27. Twilled splint basket of tho Clallams (Selish stock), maue of white birch 
wood. The bottom was woveu first aud all of tho bottom splints be- 
came the warp of tho sides, which are built up by weaving weft splints. 
Tho twilled eflect is produced by passing each weft splint always over 
two warp splints, and by carrying two weft splints around at the same 
time, making them overlap alternate warp splints. Tho fastening off is 
done by bending down tho warp straws and whipping them in place with 
splint. The scallop on the edge is formed by looping the middle of 
two splints under tho rim, twisting both pairs of ends into a twine, pass- 
ing one twine through tbe other, and then doubling down to repeat pro- 
cess for the next scallop. Collected in Washington Territory, by James 
G. Swan. Museum number, 23509. 

Fig. 28. One square inch of Fig. 27, showing the method of administering the splints 
in plain twill. Innumerable pleasing effects are produced by varying the 
color, number, width, and direction of the splints overlapping in the weav- 
ing. 



Rrport Xiit. Miis. 11^84.— Mason Basket-work. 



PLATE XV. 




Ct/ 



27 




tr 



28 



Fig. 27. Cliilliim twilled basket. 

Fig. 28. One square iucli on the side of 27. 



PLATE XVI. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 29. Bottle covered with basket-work by Makala Indians. The groundwork is of 
bast and the ornamentation of red, yellow, and black straws sewed on singly 
after the Makah fashion. Great numbers of these covered bottles and 
other fanciful forms are prepared for sale by the Makahs as well as by the 
Haidas, whose work is similar in external appearance, but not in the 
method of weaving. Collected at Neeah Bay, Washington Territory, by 
James G. Swan, in 1884. Museum number, 73755. 

Fig. 30. Bottom of Fig. 29, showiug the radiated warp and the alternation of twined 
weft with the ordinary in-and-out weaving. 

Fig. 31. Portion of the side of the bottle, showing the lattice arrangement of the 
wari), and the twined weft, producing irregular hexagons. This method 
of producing polygonal meshes, exccptiug the twined weft, is pursued in 
great variety and with excellent effect by the Japanese and other Oriental 
peoples. 



Report Nat. Mils. ]^S4. — i^fason. Basket-work. 



PLATE XVI. 




Fig. 29. Makah bottle covered -nith basketry, J. 

Fig. 30. Bottom of bottle, natural size. 

Fic. 31. One square inch from side of Fig. 29. 



PLATE XVII. 



(Maeon. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 32. Coiled basTiet, made of single osier coil, sewed down with spruce root or wil- 
low fiber, ascribed to Clallams by commerce in the text, but found on 
examination to have come from Sitka. The sewing is very regularly 
done, but the stitches split one another, as in Eskimo coiled sewing. Col- 
lected at Sitka, by J. G. Swan, in 1876. Museum number, 23512. 

Fig. 33. One square inch of 32, showing the method of adding ornamental straws, 
caught by every third stitch. The appearance of the yellow dots on the 
dark-brown ground is very pleasing in the original. 



Beport Nat. Mus. 1884.— Mason. Basket-work. 



PLATE XVII. 




32 




Fig. 32, Alaskan coiled basket. Fig. 3.3. One square inch of Fig. 32. 



PLATE XVIII. 

^ (MasoQ. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 34. Twined or plaited flexible basket of the Elamath Indians, made of rushes and 
straw. The management of the material is precisely as in the Eskimo 
wallets (Fig. 3). The three elevated bauds upon the outside are formed by 
rows of twine set on externally. The border in this case is formed by 
binding down the warp straws and sewing them fast with trader's twine. 
By twining a dark and alight colored straw, two dark or two light straws, 
and by varying the number of these monochrome or dichrome twines, very 
pleasing eifects in endless variety are produced. Collected at Klamath 
Agency, in 1876, by L. S. Dyar. Museum number, 24124. 

Fig. 35. One square inch of 34, showing the appearance of the body weaving above 
and of the ornamental twining below. 



Report Nat. ilus. lif(84.— Mason. Basket-work. 



PLATE XVIII. 





Fin. 34. Klamath twined ha.sket. Fuj. '.v:^. One .square inch of Fig. WA. 



PLATE XIX. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 36. Coiled and whipped baskets from Hoochnom tribe, made of some species of 
pliable root. The bottom is started upon a small flat Turk's-head knot of 
splint f of an inch in diameter, and continued in a plane outward 4 inches 
in diameter before any ornament is attempted. The coils are i inch in 
cross-section and there are twenty stitches to the inch. There are three 
pairs of the ornamenb on the exterior all alike. The harmony of geomet- 
ric design ijroduced by inverting the triangles on the alternate sides is 
much more expressive in the specimen where the brown-black ornament is 
in contrast with the dark wood color of the body. This specimen should 
be compared with Fig. 56. The patterns and designs in this ware are of 
great variety and beauty, and the use of beads and feathers much improves 
their appearance. Collected at Eel Eiver, California, by Stephen Powers, 
in 1876. Museum number, 21371. 

Fig. 37. One square inch of Fig. 36, showing method of coiling with various colored 
straws. 



Report Nat. Mus. 1S84.— Mason. Basket-work. 



PLATE XIX. 




I L. 




FlG. 36, Hoocbnom coiled basket. Kiu. 37. One squaie inch of Fig. 30. 



PLATE XX. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 38. Twined wallet of Nez Perc6 Indians (Sahaptin stock) made of the bast of 
Indian hemp (Apoci)num eannabinum). A sufQcient number of warp strands 
were stretched and joined together in their middle by one row of twining. 
The ends of these warp strands were then brought together, and the weaver, 
by continuing the twine around and around, built up her bag. The orna- 
mentation is the same old story of straw colored, brown, blue, and green 
strings of the Indian hemp twined externally. Collected in Idaho, by Kev. 
George Ainslee. Museum textile number, 8025. 

Fig. 39. One square inch of Fig. 38, showing the body twining and the twined orna- 
ment above. 



Report Nat, Mii'j. 1884— Mason. Basket work. 



PLATE XX. 




38 




Fig. 38. Nez Perc6 twiued wallet. Fio. 39. One square inch ot" Fig. 38. 



PLATE XXI. 

(Mason. Basket-woik.) 

Fig. 40. Twiued basket hat of the Utes, used by women either as a hat or as a basket. 
The Califoruia women make hats of a similar pattern, but much finer. 
The warp twigs converge at the bottom and additional ones are added as 
the texture widens. The weft splints are carried around in pairs and 
twined so as to inclose a pair of vertical twigs, producing a twilled effect 
something like that of the softer ware of the Haidas and Clallams. The 
border of this twined basket is very ingeniously made. First, the project- 
ing warp sticks were bent down and whipped with splints to form the body 
of the rim. Then with two splints the weaver sewed along the upper mar- 
gin, catching these splints alternately into the warp straws below, giving 
the work the appearance of a button-hole stitch. The ornamentation is 
produced by means of dyed twigs either alone or combined with those of 
natural color. The texture of this ware is always coarse and rigid owing 
to the lack of good material in this arid region. Collected in Southern 
Utah, by J. W. Powell. Museum number, 11838. 

FiO. 41. One square inch of Fig. 40, showing method of weaving and administering 
the colored splints. 



Report Nat Mus 1884.— Maeou Basket-work. 



PLATE XXI. 





Fi(i. 40. Ute twiueil bat-bowl. Fic. 41. One wiuare iucli of Fig. 4U. 



PLATE XXII. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 42. Twined roasting-tray of the Pai Utes. The warp is a lot of osiers spread out 
like a fan. The weaving commenced at the bottom by short curves and 
progressed by ever-widening curves to the outer margin. The rim is made 
by a double row of th& coiled and whipped work. The whole surface is 
very rough, as in all Ute work, hy reason of not twisting the strands when 
making the twine. There is little ornamentation on this class of objects. 
Collected in Southern Utah, in 1874, by Maj. J. W. Powell. Museum num- 
ber, 11857. 

Fig. 43. Twined gathering and carrying basket of the Pai Utes. Woven precisely .is 
the hats (Fig. 40) and the roasting-trays (Fig. 42). The splints are very tine, 
but their refractory nature makes all this ware coarse, Ornamentation is 
produced by external twining and by geometric patterns in dyed splints. 
Collected in Southern Utah, by J. W. Powell, in 1874. Museum number, 
14667. 



Keport Nat. Miis. Ifi84.— Maaon. Basket-work. 



PLATE XXII. 




42 




Fig. 42. I'te twinefl roasting tray. 



Fig. 43. Ute carrying basket. 



PLATE XXIII. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 44. Harvesting wand of Pai Utes, made of twigs, split or whole, bound with 
yucca fiber. The figure represents the coarsest specimen in the collection. 
In most of this class the longitudinal twigs are held in place by rows of 
twine at long intervals. Collected in Southern Utah, in 1874, by J. W. 
Powell. Museum number, 11823. 



1 



KeportNat. Miis. ISei. — Mason. Basket-work. 



PLATE XXIII. 




Fig. 44. Ute harventing wand. 



PLATE XXIV. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 45. Coiled and pitched bottle of the Pai Utes, made of osier, by coiling the fun- 
damental twigs in pairs and sewing with split osier always over the two 
in hand and between the twigs of the preceding round. As this bottle is 
to be covered with pitch either inside or out or on both sides, the sew- 
ing is left very open. By having one twig large and the other very small 
or by having a bunch of grass for the two twigs, a water tight joint ie 
produced by the swelling of the warp and weft. The bungling manner of 
administering the stitches reminds one of the same type of ware among 
the Eskimo. A great variety of form is given to these pitched bottles. 
Collected in Southern Utah, by J. W. Powell, in 1874. Museum number, 
11262. 

Fig. 46. One square inch of Fig. 46, showing the use of the double-twig coil. 



Report Xat. Mus. 18^.— ilason. r>aaketwoik. 



PLATE XXIV. 




45. 




Fig. 45. Uto coiled and pitched water bottle. 
Fig. 46. One eqnare inch of Fig. 45. 



PLATE XXV. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 47. Small coiled mush bowl of the Pai Utes, made by coiling a splint and thin 
strip of yucca, bast, or osier, and whipping them with split osier. The 
sowing passes over the two elements of the coil in progress and through 
the upper element of the coil below, looping always under the subjacent 
stitches. Ornamentation produced by working into the fabric triangles 
with strips of martynia or dyed splints. The work is very regular and 
the texture water-tight, resembling the work of the Apaches and Califor- 
nia Indians. The fastening off on the margin is very prettily done by 
whipping diagonally with two or three threads crossing one another. 
Collected in Southern Utah, by J. W. Powell, in 1874. Museum number, 
14720. 

Fig. 48. Coiled dish of Pai Utes. The work is founded upon a wooden plug in the 
center and coiled by means of an osier and a strip of fiber. Depth, 2^ 
inches. The work is ne«itly done and the ornamentation resembles that 
of Fig. 47. Collected in Southern Utah, by J. W. Powell, in 1874. Mu- 
seum number, 14719. 



Report Nat. i\[n». 1884.— Mason. Basket-work. 



PLATE XXV. 




47 




-1 1 I 



48 



Fig. 47, lite coiled mush howl. 



Fig. 48. Utc coiled nmsli howl. 



PLATE XXVI. 

(Mason. Baaketrwork.) 

Fig. 49. Water-tight basket bottle of the Apaches. The coiling consists of the rigid 
osier and soft fiber combination, before mentioned, the latter acting as 
chinking or calking of the openings. This ware differs essentially from 
that of the Utes in the glossy even stitches, the care taken in passing them 
uniformly under the elemeuts of the preceding coil, and the more elabo- 
rate shapes and ornamentation. The lines dropped from the bottom of the 
chevron at the bottom meet in a black spot at the center. The upper 
chevron and the rings of the neck are in black, red, and yellow splints, 
alternately. Collected in Arizona, by Dr. J. B. White, U. S. A., in 1875. 
Museum number, 21494. 



Keport Xat. Miis. 1884.— Mnaou. Basket-wcnk. 



PLATE XXVI. 




Fig. 49. Apache coiled basket bottle. 



PLATE XXVII. 

(MaBon. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 50. Coiled basket bowl of the Coabuila Aijaches. The coil is a bundle of yucca 
or other fiber, and the sewiug is doue with splints of different natural 
color, resembling reed cauo, and with others dyed a beautiful chestnut 
and black. The lovely cloudy effects produced by the ingenious use of 
splints of different natural colors resemble those on the Moqui sacred 
bread trays. The fastening off is simple coil sewing. The ornamentation 
is a series of crosses arranged vertically, and four series of rhomboids 
inclosing triangles. Collected in Southern California, by Dr. Edward 
Palmer. Museum number, 21787. 

Fitr. 51. One inch of Fig. 50, showing the multiple coil and the method of stitching. 



Kepoit Nat. Mus. 1884.— Mason. Basket-work. 



PLATE XXVII. 







til 







ls#i! 






ji 







•^?V^ 



t# 




Fig. 50. Apache coiled basket- bowl. 



Fig. 51. One square inch of P^ig. 50. 






PLATE XXVIII. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 52. Inside view of Fig. 50. The black line at the bottom, nearly continuous, 
incloses a circle in uniform unvarnished color. All the body color above 
this line is of a shining yellow, A^arying in shade. The disposition of 
the ornament is better shown in this figure. 

Fig. 53. A similar Coahuila Apache basket, in which the shading of the body mate- 
rial is in places very dark. The zigzag ornament, effected by the admin- 
istration of the triangle, is very attractive. Depth, 5^ inches ; width, 16 
inches. Collected by Dr. Edward Palmer, in Southern California. Mu- 
seum number, 21786. 



Keport Nat. Mna. 18)?4.— Mason. Baaket-work. 



PLATE XXVIII. 





Fi(i, 52. Inside view of Fig 50. FiG. .^)3. Coabuila Apache basket-bowl. 



PLATE XXIX. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 54. Coiled osier basket bowl of the Apaches, inside view, made upon a single 
twig. The apparently unsystematic ornament is indeed very regular. 
Four lines of black sewing of diJfferent lengths proceed from a black ring 
of the center. From the ends of all these lines sewing is carried to the 
left in regular curves. Then the four radiating lines are repeated, and the 
curved lines, until the border is reached. Depth, 4 inches. Collected in 
Arizona, by Dr. J. B. White. Museum number, 21493. 

Fig. 55. Coiled osier basket bowl of the Garotero Apaches, inside view. In every re- 
spect this resembles the foregoing. The inclosed triangles alternating with 
urn patterns constitute the ornamentation. Depth, 3^ inches. Collected 
on Gila Kiver, by Rev. H. W. Read. Museum number, 4428, 



Report Xat. Mus. 18S-1. — Mason. Basket-work. 



PLATE XXIX. 




-1 1 1 I 




50 



Fig. 54. Apache coiled basket-bowl. Fia. 55. Garotero coiled basket-bowl. 



PLATE XXX. 

(Masou. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 56. Coiled basket bowl, made by Yokuts Indiaus, and here introduced for com- 
parison with Apache work. This is by far the most elaborate piece of 
basketry in the National Museum. The bottom is plain and flat, bounded 
by a black line. The body color is that of pine root long exposed; the 
ornaments are in black, straw color, and brown. To understand this 
complex figure we must begin at the bottom, where 5 barred parallelo- 
grams surround the black ring, with center of brown, and generally four 
smaller bars of white and black alternating. By a series of steps or gra- 
dines this rectangular ornament is carried up to the dark line just below 
the rim. The spaces iu the body color, at first plain, are occupied after- 
wards by open crosses, and finally by human figures. These human fig- 
ures are excellent illustrations of the constraining and restraining power 
of material and environment in human achievement. There are 8 coils 
and 18 stitches to the inch. Figure, a truncated cone; width, 16| inches ; 
depth, 7i inches. Collected iu California, by Stephen Powers, iu 1875. 



Ki'poit Nat. Mus. 1^84.— Mason. Basket-work. 



PLATE XXX. 




Fig. 56. Yokut Indian coiled hasket-bowl. 



PLATE XXXI. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

FlO. 57. Coiled basket bowl of the Navajos, with single osier in the coil. Body color 
natural hue of the wood ; ornaments in mahogany-brown, and black. 
The bowl is dirided four quadrants, each separated by a black border 
and having a cross in the center. The border is very interesting, resem- 
bling the braiding on a whip. It is made by sewing with a single splint as 
follows : The splint is passed under the sewing of the last coil and then 
drawn over it and backward. It is then passed under again, upward and 
forward, just in advance of the starting point. Thus, by sewing forward 
and backward, as one coils a kite string, a braided eftect is produced by a 
single splint thread. Width, 16^ inches ; depth, 4| inches. Collected in 
New Mexico, in 1873, by Governor Arny. Museum number, 16510, 



Report Nat. Mus. 1884.-Ma«on. Basket-work. 



PLATE XXXI. 




Fig. r>7. Navajo coiled Imsket-bowl. 



PLATE XXXII. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 58. Coiled basket bowl of the Pimas, made up on a foundation of yucca, the sew- 
ing done with splints of willow or pine. The rude character of the orna- 
ment is worthy of notice. Depth, 4 inches. Collected by Dr. Edward 
Palmer, in Arizoija. Museum number, 5548. 

Fig. 59. Coiled basket bowl of the Pimas, similar in structure to 58. The grecque 
ornament is wrought in with tolerable symmetry. The border has the 
braided appearance before mentioned, given by forward and backward 
sewing along the border with a single splint. In this instance the stitch 
passes backward three stitches of the sewing each time. This is truly 
the most ingenious and effective work of the kind yet seen. Collected by 
Mrs. Georgia Stout, Pima Agency, Arizona. Museum number, 27837. 



Report Kaf. Mus. 1884.— Mason. Basket -work. 



PLATE XXXII. 




I.. I I !_ 

58 




Fig. 58. Pimo colled basket-bowl. 



Fig. 59. Pimo coiled basket^bowl. 



i 



PLATE XXXIII. 

(M:is<m. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 60. Coiled basket bowl of the Pinio.s, built on jnu'ca fiber autl sewed with rbus 
or willow. Tbe oinament.itioii i.s in red paint and splint.s dyed black. 
The border is back and forward sewing to imitate a braid. The method 
of administration is quite apparent in the specimen. The border stitches 
have an excursion varying from 2 to 4 of the regular stitche.s of the last 
coil at the top of the bowl. Depth, 3 inches. Collected in Arizona, by 
Di-, E. Palmer. Museum number, 76038. 



];i-)Milt .V;lt. ]\lll.s. ISM.— -Mil.* 



Uuskflwini 



PLATE XXXIII. 




Fig. 00. Pimo coiled basket-lmwl. 



PLATE XXXIV. 

(Mason. Basket- work.) 

Fig. 01. Coiled basket bowl of Pimos. Made on yucca with splint sewing similar to 
those just described. The ornament is evidently the work of a beginner, 
but the pattern is both regular and unique, all the parts being in threes 
and the two sides of each pattern quite symmetrical. Border of backward 
and forward sewing, quite nnilorm in appearance, but done regardless ol 
the number of body stitches beneath. Width, 8 inches; depth, SJ inches. 
Collected in Arizona, by Dr. Edward Palmer, in 1H84. Museum number, 
76039. 



Kcport Nal. :Mus. lbo4.— Alaeou. IJaskilwuik. 



PLATE XXXIV. 




Fig. 61. Piiuo coiled basket-bowl. 



PLATE XXXV. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. (i2. Coiled basket bowl of Piuios, flat-bottomed. The ornament consists of lour 
similar patterns, based on four elongated right-angled triangles. Each of 
the other lines of the pattern is as liearly parallel to one of the sides of 
this triangle as the texture will permit. It is difficult to conceive how this 
design was studied out beforehand. Width, 12^ inches; height, .^) inches. 
Collected in Arizona, in 1884, by Dr. E. Palmer. Museum number, 7(1040. 



llipoit Xat. Mils. 1;<S4.— M.i.-,oii. llaski-t-uin K. 



PLATE XXXV. 




Fio. fi-J. Piiuo coiled basket-howl. 



PLATE XXXVI. 



(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 63. Large basket bowl of Piiuos. The manufacture is similar to that in those 
just lueutioued, but the use of the continuous fret in ornamentation is 
remarkable, as exhibitinj; the easy manner in which ihe fret may have 
arisen in basketry. Tiic border is a false ])rai<l formed by a single splint 
and resembles an elongated gnillo«he. Width, 18|; depth, 5^. Collected 
in Arizona, by Dr. E. Palmer, in 1874, Museum number, 7()041. 



Efport JJat. Mus. 18S4.— Maaoii. nasktl-work. 



PLATE XXXVI. 




Fn;. 6S. Pimo coiled basket-bowl, 






PLATE XXXVII. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. (i4. Small twined granary of straw, made by Piuios. Made of wheat-straw in 
a coil sewed with bands of willow-bark. The very noticeable feature 
about this specinieu is that only in a few cases do the stitches of the coils 
interlock. Diameter, 20 inches ; height, 12 inches. Collected in Arizona, 
by Dr. E. Palmer, in 1884. 

I'iG. f).". One square inch of 64, showing the coiled straws and the method of sewing. 



Keiioil Xat. -Mii.v 1K84.— MasDU. Buskftwurk 



PLATE 3:XXVII 



■'^^^>*?::^^fcK'^:^W3 





Fig. 64. Pinio coiled gniiiary of Htraw and bark. 
Fig. Go. One n(|uuic inch of Fig. 64. 



PLATE XXXVIII. 



(Masoii. Basket-work.) 



Fig. 66. Twiued jar-shaped basket of the Mokis. Exceptiug in the rigid ruaterial 
and the pottery form, we have here all the details of the west coast bas- 
ketry. At the center of the bottom each twining includes two warp tw igs ; 
the next round the same plan is followed, but the stitches alternate. This 
for 10 rows; on the fifth is an exterior twining for ornament. Then suc- 
ceed 6 rows of twining on each twig, then 4 rows of twining over two 
twigs, then 9 rows of single twiuing overlaid by two double rows of ex- 
ternal twining. The rest of the surface is covered with twining over every 
warp twig, onoverlaid the upper portion and at the bulge by external 
twining. The fasteuiug oft" is inere whipping. Collected in Moki i)ueblo8 
in Arizona, by J. W. Powell, in 1884. 

Fig. 67. Oue inch of 66, showing the twining on single and on double rods. 



jlcpnit Nat. Mu». 1884.— Mason. Basket-work. 



PLATE XXXVIII. 





Tr 

67 



Fig. (If). Moki twined basket-jar. Fio. 07. One 8(iuare inch of Fig. ^(u 



PLATE XXXIX. 

(Mason. Ba.sket-woil;.) 

Fig. 08. Coiled sacrert mca] tray of the Mokis. A l)uiicb of yucca leaf stems, or of 
grass, varying from ^ inch to 1 hich in diaincter, is sewed in a continuous coil 
by means of slender threads of yucca fiber about -jVth inch in width, and 
very nniform throughout. Each stitch of the progressing coil is caught into 
a stitch of the coil beneath with perfect regularity, forming a dish looking 
like a great worm coiled np. The ornamentation is in yellow and brown. 
The first spots interiorly contain from 4 to 6 stitches. On the next turn a 
series is arranged with relation to these. By the simple management of 
this device hundreds of patterns are worked out. ' Collected in Arfzona by 
J. W. Powell. 

Fk;. 09. One s(|uan' inch of Fig. 68, showing the method of administration. 



Kepori Nat. Mii.M. 1884.— Vinson, nnskpt-woik. 



PLATE XXXIX. 





Fio, f)"*. M«ki roiled trav. 



Fig. (19. One sqnarp inrli of Fi^. (]fi. 



PLATE XL. 



(Mason. Haslvot-«oil!.) 

Fig. 70. Coiled sacred meal tray of the Mokia. The coloring of the interior exhibits 
the fine shading produced by the skillful manipulation of the dark and the 
light side of the fiber. Collected in Arizona, by J. W. Powell. 



ttpjMUt N'lit. ^tns. l>,«l..-'M:i!»oti. l^iiskit wnvk 



PLATE XL. 



I 




Fir.. TO. yuAd roiloil tr;iy. 



PLATE XLI. 

(Mason. Basket-woik ) 

Fig. 71. Coiled basket of Tipper Egypt, made of Imudles of pahn-leaf veins, sewed 
with strips of palm leaf. Introduced hero for comparison with the Moki 
work. Ornamentation in red :ind black. A Jong red or black strip of leaf 
is laid on the outside of a coil and caught down by alternate stitches. The 
varying of the number of stitches caught over or covered by these strips 
produces a multitude of effects. 'J'hese baskets are frequently pitched for 
boats or Moses' arks. Collected by Dr. G. W. Samson, in Upper Egj pt, 1H48. 
Museum number, 74871. 

Fig. 7'2. One square inch of Fig. 71, showing the sewing and the strips of ornament. 



I 



lUpoil Nit. Miis. 1884.— Miison. Bafikot-work. 



PLATE XLI. 






Fig. 71. Nul>iaii coiled basket. 



Fig. /•-. One square iucli of Fig. 71. 



PLATE XLII. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. T:5. Woven bread-tray of the Mokis, made upon radiating warp twigs by weaving 
bits of colored twig, stripped of their bark, in and out, and by fastening off 
the ends alongside of the warp twigs in.side the fabric. This type should 
be particularly noticed as the first example yet encountered of the regular 
basket weaving so common in the ware of more civilized peoples. Some 
of the bits of twig used are less than an inch long, and none of them ever 
exceed a foot. The figui-e is the same on both sides, but each stitch and 
design in front is just one space farther to the right on the back. Collected 
in Arizona, by J. W. Powell, in 1874. 

Fig. 74. One square inch of Fig. 73, showing the regularity and disposition of the 
weaving. 



HipoitNat Mu.s. 1884. -M;i8oi). Baskitwork. 



PLATE XLII 





Fig. 73. Moki woven bread-tray. Fig. 74. One square inch of Fig. 73. 



PLATE XLIII. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fk;. 7'->. Woven bread-tray of the Mokis, similar in workmanship to Fig. 73. The 
fastening off is done by whipping one or two twigs around the edge 1>.\ 
means of yucca fiber. The design is a series of concentric rings in pretty 
colors, the figures corresponding exactly on the two sides. Collected in 
Arizona, by J. W. Powell, 1874. 



lit port 2\dl. Alub. Ice4.- ALtdOu. Basketwoik- 



PLATE XLHI. 




Fig. 75. Moki woven bread-tray. 



PLATE XLIV. 

(Mil son. liasket-woik.) 

Fig. 7G. Woven hanket-tiay of theMokis. This iigure shows very clearly what pleus- 
iug designs may bo ^yo^kecl out by the skillful adjustment of simple forms 
and color. In the bright colnrs used for this ware the Mokis produce de- 
cidedly brilliant effects. Collected in Arizona, by J. W. Powell, in 1874. 



IWu.n K.II. Mus. U-c^J.— Alasuu. D.islAl-woili. 



PLATI5 XLIV. 




Fig. 7C>- Moki woven brcad-tiay. 



PLATE XLV. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

FiC 77. Woveu basket- tniy of tbe Moki,s. lu this figure should be noticed the 
method of startiug the weaving. A certain number of twigs are plaited 
at the center into a cross. These twigs are spread out so as to form the 
radii of a circle, and the little twigs are so woven as to increase the 
length of the mcslies going outward. Here and there an additional warp 
twig is introduced at points where they are needed, but not beyond the 
dark circle. The ornamentation in this case is produced simply by the use 
of patches, tvvo or three stitches of the same color alternating with the 
body color. Collected in Arizona, l>y J. W. Powell, lu 1874. 



Keport Xat. ilus. 1.-^^4.— "Maaou. Basket-work. 



PLATE XLV. 




Fig. 77. Mnki woven bread-tray. 



PLATE XLVI. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. T.-*. Woven basket-tray of the Mokis. The especial attraction about this speci- 
men is the genuine cloud effects produced on the surface by the simplest 
means. This represents a stage of art far above the genius of savage cul- 
ture. Collected in Arizona, by J. W. Powell, in 1874. 



I 



Jifpoit X.it. ilii.s. |.->4 _M:i«.iii. j;:i^i^it\...il 



PLATE XL VI. 




Fig. 78. Mnki woven hread-trav. 



PLATE XL VII. 

(Mason. Basket- work.) 

I'iG. 79. Woven basket-tray of the Mokis, made as others just described. The very 
insecure method of fastening off is shown on the left rim. The pattern on 
this specimen introduces no new elements or colors. The elaborate human 
head, with brilliant cape and gorgeous head-dress, reminds one of Aztec 
inscriptions. Collected in Arizona, by J. W. Powell, 1874. 



Kt5i'"'t ^i»i- ■^"«- 1»84.— Mubuii. Jiiiskit-work. 



PLATE XL VII. 



I 




Fig. 79. Moki wovpu brrad-trav. 



PLATE XLVIII. 

(MaaoTi. Bnskot-work.) 

Fi<:. 80. Woveu peacb-basket of tbo Znfiis. More than the Moki trays, this specimen 
recalls the method of mannfacture to be seen in the tbonsauds of baskets 
eniployed in civilized drndgerj'. Kongimess, asyuiinetry, rnde fasttuiing 
off with yvicca liber are its attractions. Collected in New Mexico, by J. W. 
Powell. Mnseuni number, 4U'J'.)i. 



Keport Nat. Mus. 1884.— Masou. Baski'tsvoik. 



PLATE XLVIII. 




Fig. '^0. Zmii wovoii frnit-l»asket. 



PLATE XLIX. 

(Maeon. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 81. Jai-sbaped coiled basket from ZuBi Indians. This is a very beautiful speci- 
men of coiled ware for this region, in shape, regularity of stitch, aud or- 
namentation in black. Upon the authority of explorers the text is made 
to say that the pottery-making Indians ar«not good basket-makers. This 
specimen leoks as though it might have come from California. Collected 
in New Mexico by J. W. Powell, in 1874. 

Fig. 82. One square inch of 81, showing the use of the stiip of liber for chinking, 
and the alternation of white and black stitches. 



I 



EepoitXat. .Mus. J.vM.-ila , ,,-:>, lu,,,;,. 



PLATE XLIX. 



I 





Fig. 81. 



Ziini coiled basket-jar. 



Fig. 82. One square inch of Fig. 81. 



PLATE L. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 83. Coiled Ijasket-tray from Zufii. The texture is exceedingly open, owing to 
the use of the single rod in the coil ■with coarse chiukiug. Collected in 
New Mexico, by J. W. Powell, in 1874. 

Fig. 84. One square inch of Fig. 83, showing the warp rods and the method of sewing. 
This stitch is best employed in the exquisite rattan baskets of Slam. 



Report Nat. Mus. lS84.-Maaon. Bnskot-woi k. 



PLATE L. 







(V 






\ .■>-■. 




Fig. 83. Znni coiled food- trav. Fir- hj n.,^ • , „^ 

•>• *^f'- '^•*- One sr|iiarc inch of Fi 



iff. 83. 



PLATE LI. 

(Mason. Baaket-work.) 

Fig. 85. The first step in ordinary basket-weaving, showing how the bottom is set up 

iu split cane or splints of tough wood. 
Fig. 86. The second step in basket-weaving, showing how the bottom splints are 

turned up to form the sides. 



Keport Nat. Mr.< 1884.— Mason. Basket work. 



PLATE LI. 





Fig. 85. Bottom of pl.aiii, woven Itaskot. 

Fig. 86. Mt!tlu)(l of huildiny; tlio Midt-s of a basket. 



PLATE LII. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Figs. 87, 88. Showing the method of completing the weaving on the sidee of an ordi- 
nary splint basket, and preparing to lay on the rim. 



Kepoit Nat. AIiis. 1884.— Miisou. Basket-work. 



PLATE LII. 




« 




PLATE LIII. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 89. Twilled woven basket, covered with diaper pattern below, made from cane, 
by Cherokea Indians. Similar ware is produced by all our soutbern In- 
dians. The diaper pattern is produced by overlapping two or more warp 
sticks with each stitch. Collected in North Carolina, by Dr. Edward 
Palmer, in 1880. 



Report Xat. Mus. 1884.— Masou. Basket work. 



PLATE LIII. 




Fig. 89 riiorokpo twilltd liaskot of rmie. 



PLATE LIV. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

I-'k;. 1)0. Twilled palm-leaf basket- wallet of Fiji Islanders, woven double, the inside 
of plain checker pattern of broad pieces. The exterior covered with every 
conceivable manipulation of black and white strips of palm-leaf, varying 
in width. Introduced here for comparison with twilled weaving on our 
continent. Collected in Fiji, by Captain Wilkes, in 1840. 



Report Xiit. Mus. 1884.— Masou. Basket-work. 



PLATE LIV. 




PLATE LV. 

{M.a8on. Basket-Tvork.) 

Fig. 91. One square inch of 90 enlarged to show the method of cross-stitching in Fiji 
basketry, combined with varying width of strips. 



Keport >i'at. ilus. 18t'4. — Masuii. Uasket-woik. 



PLATE LV. 




flG. 91. Olio square inch of Fig. 90. 



PLATE LVI. 

(Mason. Basket- work.) 

Fig. 92. Woven fish-basket of Fiji Islanders. This specimen is also woven double, 
the inside bein|^ very coarse. Collected in Fiji Islands, in 1840, by Captain 
Wilkes. 



Report Nat. Mus. 18S4.— Masou. Uasket-work. 



PLATE LVL 




CU. 



Fig. 92. Fijian ash-basket of palm leaf. 



PLATE LVII. 
(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fi«. 93. One inch of the bottom of 92 enlarged to show the simple twilled weaving. 

Fig. 94. Plain weaving on the sides of Fig. 92. 

Fig. 95. Coarse weaving of the inside of Fiji basketry. 



Kcport X:it. AIiis. 1884.— Masou. Baskot-work. 



PLATE LVII. 




93 





Fig. 93. One .sqnuio incli of liottom, Fig. 92. 
Fk;. 94. Ouo sriiiare iiuli (if outside, Fig. 92. 
Fk;. 95. Ouo 8(inare inch of iuside, Fig. 92. 



PLATE LVIII. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fjg. 96. Woven basket of Micmac Indians made of wliite birch. Thousands of these 
pretty baskets wrought into hundreds of shapes are sold in the towns and 
villages of the Northern States by the Indian basket-maker. A. curious 
modification of this method of weaving comes from Tripoli, in which the 
horizontal part is rigid and the weft straws run up and down. It is as if 
we revolved the Micmac iiattern t)0 degrees. Collected by Mr. G. Brown 
Goode, in Nova Scotia. 



r.cporl Nat. Mus. l6S4.-Masou. Uaskelwoik. 



PLATE LVIII. 




Fio. 96. Micmac woven hircli basket. 



PLATE LIX. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) ^ 

Figs. 97, 98. Showint^ tlie method of introducing the curled ornament in Algonqiiin 
and Iroquois basketry. 



lU'port Nat. Mu.s. 1884.— Jlason. Haskot-wdik, 



t'LATE LIX. 





Figs. 97, 9f. Method of onuuiiciiting birch baskets. 



PLATE LX. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 
Fig. 99. OrdinapTy form of pricker used by Eskimo. Collected at Point Clarence 



I 



Kiuoit Xat. Mu3. lti84.-Masou. Baske^wolk. 



PLATE LX. 





Fig. 99. Eskimo ivory pricker from Point Clarence. 



PLATE LXI. 

(Maaon. Basket-work.) 
Figs. 100-102. Bone, ivory, aud metal-pointed prickers from Lower Yukon district. 



Keport Niit. Mu8. 188-1.— iMason. Basket-work. 



PLATE LXI. 



P^ 



Fig. 100. Eskimo pricker of bone. Fig. 102. Eskimo pricker with metal point. 
Fig. 101. Eskimo pricker of antler. 



PLATE LXII. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 103. Eskimo pricker with wooden handle and iron point lashed with rawhide. 
Fig. 104. Eskimo awl, with metal point in ivory handle. 

Fig. 105. Eskimo drill-shaft of wood with metal point and l)aud of rawhide. Drills 
of this class also have heautiful jade points. 



Koiiidi N;ii. lilus. J.--fi-t.— Masou. Basket-work. 



PLATE LXn. 



"«■'.;•■ Tllll 



1 t.l 



^ 



f^ 







Fig. 103. Eskimo iron-pointed pricker. 
Fig. 104. Eskimo irou-pointecl awl. 



Fig. 105. Eskimo iron-pointed drill, 






PLATE LXIII. 

(Mason. B.asket-work.) 
Figs. 106, 107. Bone prickers used by Moquis. Collected in Arizona, by J.W. Powell. 



Keport Isat. Mus. 1884.— ilasoii. Basket-work. 



PLATE LXIII. 



T ' 



j^. 






■>>ii 



KA.'--^^ 



M 



,\'' 









i 



flGS. 106, 107. Mo(]ui bono pricker^, 



PLATE LXIV. 

(Mason. Basket-work.) 

Fig. 108. Bone pricker from Coahuila, Mex. Collected by E. Palmer. 
Fig. 109. Iron-pointed pricker of Cherokees. Collected in North Carolina, by E. 
Palmer. 



Report Nat. Mns. 1884.— Mason. Baskot-woik. 



PLATE LXIV. 










Fig. 108. Coahnita bone pricker. Fig. 109. Cherokee pricker in antler. 



III.-A STUDY OF THE ESKIMO BOWS IN THE U. S. NATIONAL 

MUSEUM. 



By John Murdoch. 



While endeavoring to work out the method of construction of the 
bows collected by our i)arty* among the Eskimos of Point Barrow, 
Arctic Alaska, I was led to make a comparative study of all the Es- 
kimo bows in the Xational Museum with the view of determining the 
types of construction to be found among them, and their geographical 
distribution. 

It is the purpose of this paper to present the general conclusions 
arrived at from this study, which I propose to treat in detail in a mo- 
nograph of the ethnological collection of the expedition, which I am 
engaged in preparing, I am indebted to Professor Otis T. Mason, of the 
National Museum, for much cordial assistance and co-operation in the 
prosecution of this study and in the preparation of the illustrations. 

1 have confined myself to the discussion of the forms of bow in use 
among the Western Eskimos, namely, those inhabiting the shores of 
the Arctic 'Jcean from the Mackenzie River westward to Bering Strait, 
of Bering Sea and theGulf of Alaska, with the outlying Asiatic branches 
on the mainland of Siberia and Saint Lawrence Island. These regions 
are very fully represented in the Museum by the collections of Ross 
and MacFarlane from the Mackenzie River region, Dall, Turner, Xelson, 
and others, from the Alaska coast, Xelson, from Saint Lawrence Island, 
and the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, from the mainland of Si- 
beria, while the material from the eastern tribes is very scanty and 
unsatisfactory. 

Starting from the island of Kadiak in the south, there is abundant 
inaterial from the whole coast as far as the northern shore of Norton 
Sound, from the Diomede Islands, Point Hope, Wainwright's Inlet, 
Point Barrow, and the Mackenzie region, as well as from Saint Lawrence 
Island and the Siberian shore. Unfortunately, the region about Kotze- 
bue Sound, including the great peninsula between this and Norton 
Sound, is not represented in the cciHection. 

Tlie field of investigation is practicallj' untrodden. Although it lias 
long been known that the Eskimos used cords of elastic sinew to coun- 
teract the brittleness and lack of elasticity in the spruce and fir — the 
only wood at their disposal for making bows — authors have confined 

*U. S. InteruatioiiJil Polar Expedition to Point Barrow, 1881 -'83. 

•J07 



308 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

themselves to a general statement of the fact, without going into the 
details of construction.* 

I have found that the bows of the Western Eskimos are constructed 
upon three well-defined types, each quite distinctly limited in its geo- 
graphical distribution. No one of these types can be considered as de- 
rived from either of the others, but all are plainly developed from a 
single original type still to be found only slightly modified in the region 
around Cumberland Gulf, where the mechanical arts seem to have re- 
mained in many respects more primitive than either in Greenland or 
Alaska. (Fig. 1, back and side view of a bow of reindeer antler from 
Cumberland Gulf, JSTo. 34053, collected by L. Kumlien.)t 

The main part of the reinforcement or backing always consists of a 
continuous piece of stout twine made of sinew, generally a three-strand 
braid, but sometimes a twisted cord, and often very long (som-etimes 
forty or fifty yards in length). One end of this is spliced or knotted 
into an eye, which is slipped round one "nock" of the bow, usually the 
upper one. The strands then pass up and down the back and round 
the nocks. A comparatively short bow, having along its back some 
dozen or twenty such plain strands, and finished off by knotting the 
end about the " handle," appears to have been the original pattern. The 
bow from Cumberland Gulf (Fig. 1) is such a one, in which the strands 
have been given two or three turns of twist from the middle. They are 
kept from untwisting by a "stop" round the handle, which passes be- 
tween and around the strands. 

The three Western Eskimo types may be described as follows: 

I. The Southern Type. 

Of this there are two slightly different patterns, found often side by 

side. 

*For example: "They ingeniously remedy the defect [i. e., the want of elasticity 
in the material] by securing to the back of the bow and to the knobs at each cud a 
quantity of small lines, each composed of a plat or 'sinnet' of three sinews. The 
number of lines thus reachiug from end to end is generally about thirty; but besides 
these several others are fastened with hitches round the bow, in pairs, commencing 
eight inches from one end and again united at the same distance from the other, mak- 
ing the whole number of strings in the middle of the bow sometimes amount to sixty. 
These being put on when the bow is somewhat bent in the contrary way, produce a 
siniug so strong as to require considerable force as well as knack in stringing it and 
giving the requisite velocity to the arrow." (Parry's Second "Voyage, p. 511.) 

"These bows [in the Yukon delta] are made of spruce, which has little elasticity 
when dry and is very liable to break. To remedy this defect the bow is bound with 
cords twisted from deer sinew [as shown in a figure, which gives the general appear- 
ance very well]. This gives it great strength and overcomes the brittleness of the 
V ood." [Dall's Alaska and its Resources, p. 228.) 

"Only some old bows had a finer form. They were larger and made with care; for 
instance, they were covered with birch bark and strengthed by an artistic plaiting of 
sinew on the outer side." (Nordenskiold's Voyage of the Vega, ii, p. 108.) 

tWben a scale accompanies a figure each division represents one inch. Figures 
without a scale are natural size, unless otherwise specified. 



ESKIMO BOWS. 309 

1. A broad and flat bow tapering to the nocks, wliicli are formed by 
8imi)le rounded knobs, and narrowed and thickened at the handh' so 
as to be half as wide and twice as thick as the broadest part ot tlje 
bow. The back is flat and the belly often keeled from end to end, and 
this keel is sometimes deeply furrowed for its whole length; the*ed<;:es 
are generally square and sometimes grooved longitudinally. (Figs. 2, 3 
and 4 show the general pattern of this type.) The bow when unstrung 
is either straight, slightly sprung toward the back, or, rarely, arched, 
and is sometimes stitiened along the back with an extra rib of wood or 
ivory. The backing is occasionally tightened -with wedges Its length 
is from 50 inches to 5 feet, averaging about 55 inches, with its greatest 
breath about 2 inches (rarely 2^ to 2i inches). 

2. A bow of essentially the same size and outline as the first form, 
but with about one foot of each end bent up toward the back so as to 
lie parallel to the string when the bow is strung, as in the Tatar bow, 
with the backing generally stretched over bridges at the bends. (Fig. 
5. Ko. 3G028, from the mouth of the Kuskoquim Eiver, collected by E. 
W. Nelson.) 

The backing starts in the ordinary way and consists wholly of straight 
parallel strands passing round the nocks, or secured by pairs of half- 
hitches at various points on the bow. The last strand is wrapped 
spirally round the others to keep them from spreading apart, thougli 
occasionallj' one end of the cable is wrapped with a separate piece, and 
very rarely the whole wrapping is separate from the rest. A separate 
piece of twine, thong, or withe serves to stop the backing down to the 
handle, and there are sometimes other separate stops on the broad part 
of the bow (as in Fig. 2). The whole of the broad part of the bow is 
occasionally seized down with spaced spiral turns of twine (Fig. 4, No. 
7972, from Bristol Bay, collected by Dr. j\Iinor), which, in one case at 
least, are made by the end of the last strand. The strands of the back- 
ing vary in number from 11 to 37 (usually about 25). They are some- 
times all of the same length, in which case the outer strands are hitched 
round the bow a short distance from the nocks instead of passing round 
the latter (Fig. 2, back and side view, and Fig. 2 a, one end of No. 30032, 
from near Cape EomanzoflF, collected by E. W. Nelson). More commonly 
4-22, usually 6 or 7 strands are shorter than the rest and only extend 
from the broadest part of one end to the corresi^onding point at the 
other (Fig. 3, No. 72408, from Bristol Bay, collected by the late C. L. 
McKay. Fig. 3 a, the broadest part of the same bow, to show the attach- 
ment of the short strands), thus giving special strength and elasticity 
to the middle of the bow. 

These shorter strands are sometimes the outer ones of the backing, 
but more commonly about the middle of it. Rarely, as in the case of 
one bow from the island of Nunivak (Fig. 6, No. 15G51, collected by W. 
H. Dall. This is an unusually large and stout bow, with 37 strands in 



310 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

the cable), and one from near Cape Romanzoff (Fig. 7, No. 36034, col- 
lected by E. W. Nelson), tlie strands are twisted from the middle (the 
two ends of the bow in opposite directions) by introducing a toggle 
between the strands, and the twist is secured by passing the "stop" 
through the cable. 

This type extends from the island of Kadiak to Norton Sound. The 
second form of the type appears to be less common than the first, though 
occurring alongside of the latter. It appears not to be used on the 
island of Nunivak or south of the Kuskoquim River. 

II. The Arctic Type. 

This is a much shorter bow than the above (from 43 to 52 inches long), 
narrow in proportion, and of a much more graceful shape (Fig. 8, No. 
1972, from the Mackenzie region, collected by Eoss). In section it is 
nearly elliptical, flatter on the back than on the belly, with the handle 
slightly narrowed and thickened. The greatest breadth is usually 
about 1^ inches, and the thickness at the handle about f inch. The 
ends are often bent up as in the second form of the southern type, and 
when this is done the back is usually reinforced with a short rounded 
strap of wood or antler in the bend. Oue bow (Fig. 9, No. 89245, from 
Point Barrow, collected by our expedition) has these ends made of 
separate pieces mortised on. Only one bow of this type in the collec- 
tion has an extra rib, which is of antler and very small and short, but 
the back is frequently covered with strips of sealskin, put on length- 
wise. 

The backing is always of braided sinew, and of a very complicated 
and perfect pattern, usually very thoroughly incorporated with the bow 
by means of hitches and a very complete seizing of many turns running 
nearly the whole length of the bow and serving to equalize the distri- 
bution of the strain and thus prevent cracking. 

The backing is one continuous piece of cord, except in one case, 
where the seizing is separate, and begins, as usual, with an eye, which 
is slipped round the upper nock. The strands vary in number from 30 
to 45 on a man's bow (22-28 on a boy's) of which 10-26 extend only 
from bend to bend on a bow of the Tatar shape, or between the corre- 
sponding points on a straight bow, and are then made fast by two or 
three half-hitches each, or, as at Point Barrow, Wainwright's Inlet, and 
Point Hope, by complicated lashings made up of series of half-hitches, 
often alternately in opposite directions, the last hitch or two held down 
by extra round turns, and sometimes as many as a dozen hitches in a 
series. Fig. 10 is this section of the same large bow. No. 89245, from 
Point Barrow, figured above, and Fig. 11. the same part of No. 72771, 
from Wainwright's Inlet, also collected by our expedition. 

A detailed description of the lashings of these bows, two of the most 
complicated in the collection, will make these figures plain. The first 



ESKIMO BOWS. 311 

long strand on reaching the bend is liitcbed round the bow seven times 
at intervals of about =J to 1 incb. These "under-bitclies," as they may 
be called, occur always on bows of this type, sometimes made by the 
tirst and sometimes by the last long strand, and serve to mark oti' the 
position of the hitches of the short strands and give them a point 
d^appui. The first two of these are "two half-hitches," or, "clove- 
hitches," as they are called at sea, the other five peculiar hitches (Fig. 
IL*) not used by sailors. The hitch is well known and much used in 
the artillery and ordnance service, and is there called a "clove-hitch." 
As using this name would not distinguish the hitch from the common 
*'ch>ve-hitch " of seamen, I venture to suggest for it the name of " sol- 
dier's hitch." It is made by taking two round turns round the object to 
be fastened to and bringing the end over the standing ]>art and under 
the two turns. If The turns are taken to the left, it makes Fig. lli; 
if to the right, Fig. 13. 

These hitches, especially the left-handed one, are much used by the 
Eskimos not only on bows, but in i)utting on seizings upon spears, «S:c., 
where a white seaman would use a " marling-hitch." The advantage of 
this form of hitch seems to be that the second round turn keeps it from 
slipping if the end gets loose. 

To return to No. 89245 : After making " underhitches" at both bends, 
long strands are laid on till there are ten in all. The eleventh, on reach- 
ing the bend, makes two "soldier's hitches" at 1, and going to the 
other nock is similarly hitched at the other bend, and then passes back- 
wards and forwards between the bends, hitched each time nearer the 
middle of the bow. The hitch at 2 is made thus : Two round turns to 
the left, the end i)assed under both turns, and then two more round 
turns, with the end passed over the second turn, under the tirst and 
third, over tbe standing-part and third turn, making a double " sol- 
dier's hitch." At 3 are two simple half-hitches, and one made with two 
round turns, followed by two round turns with the end passed under 
both. At 4 is a similar lashing with eight simple hitches ; at 5, nine ; 
at G, four ; and at 7, two. 

In No. 72771 there are five "under hitches," all "soldier's hitches," 
made by the first long strand. The lashing at 1 is made hy hitching 
alternately to right and left five times. (Such hitching is called "kack- 
ling" by seamen.) At 2 it is "kackled" nine times, at 3 nine times, 
and at 4 nine times again, ending with a half-hitch at 5. 

It will easily be seen, as was suggested to me by Professor Mason, that 
the strain of bending the bow, while tending to stretch and tighten each 
longitudinal strand, at the same time tightens each individual turn of 
these lashings, so that the greater the strain on the bow the tighter do 
they grip the fibers of the wood and hold them together. 

These hitches usually occupy 4 to G inches of the bow, and as a rule 
are put on as above, so that the shortest strands come at the top of the 



312 EEPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

backing, though they are reversed on one bow from the Mackenzie re- 
gion (Fig. 14 is this section of No. 1970, collected by Eoss), so that the 
longer of the strands are stretched across the bends, which adds some- 
what to the tension of the bow, but makes a less neat and compact 
lashing than the common arrangement. This arrangement of the short 
strands brings the greatest strength across the middle of the bow, where 
it is most needed. 

All the strands between the hitches are divided into two equal par- 
cels and twisted from the middle into two cables, thus greatly increas- 
ing the tension to be overcome in drawing the string. These two cables 
are fastened together by a sort of "figure-of-8" knot, passing through 
and around them, and are stopped firmly to the handle, after which the 
whole is securely seized down with the end of the backing. This seiz- 
ing is less complete in bows from the region of the Mackenzie. In one 
case, after completing the seizing the end goes on to lay on a few strands 
more, for a third cable, outside of and between the other two, which is 
also twisted. (No. 89245, Figs. 9 and 10. End of cable cut off at a.) 

The ends of the long strands, between the nocks and the hitches of 
the short strands, are sometimes wound with separate pieces. 

Bows of this ftattern, differing only in details of the backing, are 
used at the Mackenzie Eiver, at Point Barrow, Wainwright's Inlet, 
Point Hope, and the Diomede Islands in Bering Strait, and probably at 
intermediate points along the shores of the Arctic Ocean. 

As was said above, there are no bows in the collection from Kotzebue 
Sound or the Kaviak Peninsula, but from several points in the region 
in question, namely, from Kotzebue Sound, Hotham Inlet, Sledge Island, 
and Cape Nome, have been obtained many of the ingenious little tools 
for twisting the cables, and always in pairs, indicating that a two-cable 
bow of the Arctic type is the prevailing if not the only weapon of the 
kind used in these localities. 

The line of demarcation between this type and the preceding is not 
sharply drawn, although there are no bows of the pattern which is ex- 
clusively used as far north as Cape Romanzoff, in the collection from 
north of Bering Strait. 

From the Yukon delta we have one bow (Fig. 15, No. 33867, collected 
by B. W. Nelson), which in proportional narrowness and thickness ap- 
proaches the Arctic model, as it does in its complete seizing, though it 
has a strong extra rib, and the general partem of the backing is purely 
southern. From the same region is another (Figs. 10 and 17, No. 8822, 
collected by W. H. Dall), which in outline and size is essentially of the 
straight southern type, though slightly narrower than usual, while 
the backing is put on entirely in the Arctic manner, except that the 
seizing is less complete. A large bow from Norton Sound is of the same 
model, but has the Arctic backing complete in all its details, as does also 
a small boy's bow from the same region. Still another from the same 



ESKIMO BOWS. 313 

place is almost exactly of the Arctic type, except that it has square in- 
stead of rounded edges and the strands are not twisted into cables. 

When we consider that the Malemut of Norton Sound act as middle- 
men between the natives of the Arctic coast and those of the Yukon re- 
gion, it is natural to expect to find traces of Arctic ideas as far south as 
their intercourse extends, namely, as I am informed, to the mouth of 
the Yukon. IMoreover it would be unlikely that the relatively weak 
southern backing should be adopted by the northern natives. 

111. The Western Type. 

This is, in general, broader and flatter than the Arctic model, but less 
contracted at the handle than the southern, and not so much tapered 
at the ends, which are usually thick. It is rather a larger bow than the 
Arctic, but not so large as the southern, being from 43 to 58 inches in 
length and 1.5 to 1.7 inches broad, and like the others is either straight 
or of the Tatar shape. Bows of purely western type are apparently al- 
ways of the latter shape. 

The peculiarity of the type is in the backing, as is well shown in the 
bow figured (Figs. 16 and 19, No. 2505, probably from the mainland of 
Siberia. It was collected by the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, 
and is labeled simply " Tschul'tschis Indians^'' \). The backing, instead 
of being continuous, is in three parts, namely, two short cables stretched 
across the bends, where they do not go round the nocks, but are secured 
by half-hitches close to them as well as inside the bends. The main 
backing consists of 21 strands laid on between the bends with half- 
hitches, and stopped down to the bow with a spiral seizing without be- 
ing twisted or gathered into a wrapped cable.* 

Three large and powerful bows from Saint Lawrence Island are of 
the same i>eculiar type. It is, however, Avorthy of note that a single 
"twister" of the same pattern as those used at Point Barrow was ob- 
tained at Saint Lawrence Island by Mr. Nelson. 

The bows used by the Eskimos of Eastern Siberia (" Tuski," " Seden- 
tary Chukches " of authors, Chuklukmut of Dall) present a mixture of 
types. The bow figured above is purely western in type. Another 
(Figs. 21 and 22, No. 2508, collected by the North Pacific Exploring 
Expedition) is straight, but still has separate cables at the ends, pass- 
ing, however, round the nocks. The main backing has upwards of sev- 
enty strands and is twisted into three cables of the Arctic type. 

A third (Figs. 23 and 24, No. 2500, collected by the North Pacific Ex- 
ploring Expedition) approaches very close to the arctic type, but shows 
traces of the western model in having the ends of the long strands 
stretched across the bends and one single short strand returning to the 

* There is a uiodification of the " soldier'B bitch" in the seizing of this bow (Fig. 
20), made by taking two round turns to the right, and passing the end under the stand- 
ing part and between the two turns. 



314 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884, 

tip from beyond the bend,* while a fourth is precisely of the arctic type 
with a very large number of strands.t 

Several of these bows are made of oak, evidently barrel-staves ob- 
tained from white men, but are, notwithstanding, provided with a pow- 
erful backing, which shows how inseparably this invention, in its origin 
applicable only to inelastic wood, has become connected with the idea 
of a bow in the mind of the maker. 

Comparing what I have said of the geographical distribution of these 
types of bow with the divisions of the Eskimos of the Northwest adopted 
by Mr. Dall,J it will be seen that of the Western Mackenzie Innuit (his 
first great division) the Kopagmut {Kupu'nmeun of the Point Barrow ' 
natives) and probably the Kangnialigmut [Kunmu' (Vim of the same 
people, an almost unknown tribe, concerning whom there appears to be 
no reliable information), with probably all the Western Innuit except 
the Chuklukmut, Kikhto'gamut, and Mahlemut, use the pure arctic 
type. The Chuklukmut and Kikhto'gamut use the western type, with 
some admixture of the arctic. The Mahlemut and Unaligmut (the 
northernmost tribe of Fishing Innuit) use the arctic and the southern 
type and intermediate forms, while the remainder of the Fishing Innuit 
use the pure southern type. 

Assuming, as is highly probable, that all the branches of the Eskimo 
race started with the primitive form of bow above described, the in- 
habitants of the well-wooded shores of Bering Sea and the Gulf of 
Alaska, who have a plentiful supply of fresh living spruce, have im- 
j)roved on this type chiefly by lengthening and strengthening the wood 
of the bow and collecting the loose strands into a compact round cable, 
which is occasionally made somewhat thicker across the middle than 
towards the ends. 

Those who live on the treeless shores of the Arctic Ocean are forced 
to depend on comparatively scarce dead and brittle drift-wood, and have _ 
been obliged to devote their attention to the improvement of the sinew I 
backing in order to increase the efficiency of the weapon. The conse- 
quence has been the development of the exceedingly complicated and 
perfect form above described. This is probably the ultimate step in 
the development of the sinew-backed bow. Not only is it difficult to 
imagine making a more perfect weapon from the materials, but atten- 
tion will no longer be paid to possible improvements in a weapon which 
is rapidly passing into disuse and becoming superseded by fire-arms. i 

The people of Saint Lawrence Island, out of the direct line of com- \ 
munication between the two continents and also dependent on drift- 
wood, have developed the bow in a different way from all the rest. • 

* A peculiar clove-hitch (Fig. 25) occurs at each end of this bow. ' 

tThis bow (No. 2507) has a reversed "soldier's hitch" in the seizing (Fig. 26) in 
which the end passes under the standing part and over the turns. 
\ Contributions to North American Ethnology, vol. i, p. 23 



ESKIMO BOWS. 315 

They have, as it were, lengthened the ends of the bow beyond the origi- 
nal backing, bent them up, and added extra cables across the bends. 

On the mainland of Siberia, where the natives are in direct communi- 
cation both with Saint Lawrence Island and the arctic shores of the 
New World, by way of the Diomedes, the bow is of a pattern inter- 
mediate between the types of these two regions, partaking more of the 
characteristics of one or the other, according to the fancy of the maker, 
perhaps as his dealings have brought him in contact with people of one 
or the other region. 

There is one bow in the Museum, not an Eskimo bow, which is inter- 
esting in the present connection. It comes from Sitka, where the In- 
dians use a plain spruce or cedar bow with a round back and Hat belly. 
The bow in question is of the same shape as the other bows from the 
same locality, but the maker, who has evidently had some acquaint- 
ance with the handiwork of the nearest Eskimos, has tried to improve 
it by putting on a typical " southern " backing of sinew. This, how- 
ever, is of but .little use, as the round back of the bow is not of the 
proper shape to receive it, and, in spite of the lashing round the handle, 
it slips off to one side as soon as the bow is bent. I may remark that 
the bow a[)pears to be new and never to have been used. 

Note. — It should be borne in mind that what I have said about the 
geographical distribution of the different forms of bow refers not to the 
present time, but to the period when this weapon was in general use 
among the Eskimos of the Northwest. Most of the material in the 
Museum collection was either collected many years ago or shows signs 
of having been old aud disused when collected. 

Fire-arms have so completely superseded the older weapon, especially 
at the great trading centers like Saint Michael's, that even in distant lo- 
calities, like Point Barrow, it would be dififlcult to find half a dozen full- 
sized bows fit for service. The boys still adhere to the bow for shoot- 
ing small birds, &c., and for them it is still made as carefully as ever. 

Note on the Sinew-Twisting Tools. — In the above paper, I have 
had occasion to speak of the toggles or levers used in twisting up the 
cords of sinew on the back of the bow, making what I have called 
"cables." These are little flat rods of ivory or hard bone (Fig. 27, No. 
894G(3. front and side view, from Point Barrow, collected by our exi)e- 
dition), about four or five inches long, with the ends slightly bent in op- 
posite directions. These rods serve a double purpose at Point Barrow, 
for the natives use them for playing a game something of the nature 
of " pitch-penny." We purchased a number of them under the impres- 
sion that this was their only use, and it was not until we had been a long 
time at the station that we were told that two of them made a set and 
that they were used, somehow, in twisting the sinews on the back of 
the bow. So few bows are now made that we had no opportunity of 
seeing them in use. 



316 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Id looking over the Museum collections ou my return, I found large 
numbers of these tools, all essentially of the same pattern, and gener- 
ally in pairs, often accompanied by a small ivory marlinespike. Theyl 
came from many localities along the coast from the Mackenzie region! 
to Norton Sound, and were variously labeled " bow tools," " bow-string 
twisters," and "arrow polishers" (!) without further explanation, ex- 
cept in the case of one pair collected by Mr. Nelson, which were cata- 
logued as for " tightening the sinew ou a bow. Alwa.ys used in pairs."* 

I have been unable to find any published explanation of the method 
of using these tools. After wasting much time in conjectures, I dis- 
covered the modus operandi by actual experiment, while making a mod- 
el of one of the Point Barrow bows. It is very ingenious, and is well 
shown in the diagram (Figs. 28 and 29, drawn from a working model). 
The end a is thrust between the strands to be twisted, so that the hook 
catches part of them, and the lever making a half-revolution is brought 
up against the bow, as in Fig. 28. It can continue the twisting no fur- 
ther in this direction, and if withdrawn for a fresh start the strands 
would have to be held or fastened in some way, which would make the 
process a slow one. Accordingly, the rod is thrust through between 
the strands until the end b is where a was (Fig. 29), when the hook at 
h catches the strands and the lever is read^^ for another half-revolution. 
This is continued, the rod slipping back and forth like the handle of 
a vise, until the cable is sufficiently twisted. 

The reason for using them in pairs was not satisfactorily explaiuedj 
until Lieut. P. H. Ray, the commanding oificer of our expedition, sugj 
gested that they could be used simultaneously, one in each cable, so a^ 
to secure the same amount of twist in the two. I tested this and found" 
it perfectly easy to work one with each hand. 

The accompanying map is a tracing, with some modifications, of part 
of Mr. Ball's "Alaska and Adjoining Region." 

* Mr. Nelson Las kindly favored me with all the information he was able to obtain 
about these implements. He never saw them in actual use, but the natives of the 
region about Norton Sound informed him that they were used for " twistiug the 
sinew strands first and then for tightening the plaited or braided sinew backing to 
the bows after the latter was in place." He describes their use for twisting sinew to 
make the "hard-laid sinew cord," as follows: "The ends of the sinew cord are tied to 
the small center holes in the two ivory pieces, one of the latter at each end of the 
cord, and then they are twisted in opposite directions." He tells me that they are 
also used for playing a game as at Point Barrow. 



PLATE I. 
(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.) 

S'iG. 1. Bow of reindeer antler, with simple backing of sinew, from Cumberland Gulf, 
No. 3405S. Collected by L. Kumlieu. Side and back, reduced. 

WiQ. 2. Straight bow, with simplest form of "Southern" backing, from near Cape 
Romanzoif, No. 36032. Collected by E. W. Nelson. Side and back, re- 
duced. « 
-Note. — Every reduced figure is accompanied by a scale, on which each 
division represents one inch. 



Iteport Xat. Mus. 1884.— Murdoch. Eskimo Bows. 



Fig. 1. 



Fig. 2. 



PLATE II. 

(Mnrdoch. Eskimo bows.) 

Fig. 2a. Oae end of No. 36032 (from near Cape RomauzojBf. Collected by E. W. Nel- 
son) to show attachment of the backing to the nock. Natural size. 

Fig. 3. Straight bow, with " Southern " backing, in which some strands are short. 
No. 72408, from Bristol Bay. Collected by the late C. L. McKay. Back, 
reduced. 

Fig. 3a. The broadest part of the same bow, to show the attachment of the short 
strands. Natural size. 



Keport Xiit. Mus. 1884 —Murdoch. Eskimo Bows. 



PLATE II. 




I'll / 



Fig. 3a. 



Fig. 3. 



PLATE III. 

(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.) 

Fig. 4. Straight bow, with "Southern" backing, No. 7972, from Bristol Bay. Col- 
lected by Dr. Minor. One-half of back, reduced, to show spiral seizing. 

Fig. 5. Bow with bent ends, with "Southern" backing, strung, No. 36028, from the 
^outh of the Kuskoquim river. Collected by E. W. Nelson. Side, re- 
duced. 

Fig. 6. Large straight bow, with "Southern" backing, twisted, No. 156.51, from 
Nunivak Island. Collected by W. H. Dall. One-half of back, reduced. 

Fig. 7. Straight bow, with "Southern" backing. No. 36034. Collected by E. W. 
Nelson. One-half of back, reduced. 



Report Xat. Mus. 1884 — Murdocb. Eskimo Bowa. 



PLATE irr. 



Fio. 4. 



Fig. 5. 



Fio. 7.. 



PLATE IV. 

(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.) 

Fig. 8. straight bow of "Arctic" type, strung, No. 1972, from the Mackenzie region. 

Collected by Ross. Side and back, reduced. 
Fig. 9. Bow of Tatar shape, with "Arctic" backing, No. 69245, from Point Barrow. 

Collected by United States International Polar Expedition. Side, reduced. 
Fig. 12. Left-handed "soldier's hitch." 
Fig. 13. Right-handed "soldier's hitch." 



Kejiort Xrtt. Mus. 1S34. — Murdoch. Eskimo Bows. 



PLATE IV. 




Fig. 12. 




Fig. 13. 



Fig. 8. 



Firt. 9. 



PLATE V. 
(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.) 

Fig. 10. Section of "Arctic" bow, No. 89245, to show method of attaching the short 

strands. Natural size. 
Fig. 11. Same section of No. 72771, from Wainwright's Inlet. Collected by United 

States International Polar Expedition, Natural size. 



Ki'port Xat. Mu;^. 1884.— ilimloch. Eskimo Bows. 



PLATE V. 



.j::'. 



r^ 



■^r'"^ ^ 



iJr: 



-3 










^2^ 



•^ 



L_.^ 



iS2Z^'~ 



S-3^.' 



?^^ 



^Z^^ 



-3 



1 E_.«:f.^ 



^i^r''^ 



;Dvv^ 



—.a 



PLATE VL 

(Murdoch. Eskimo bows. ) 

Fig. 14. Section of an "Arctic" bow (No. 1970, from the Mackenzie region. Collected 

by Ross) to show the peculiar (reversed) attachment of the short strands. 

Natural size. 
Fig. 15. Straight "Southern" bow, No. 33867, from the Yukon delta. Collected by 

E. W. Nelson, unusually thick and narrow, with complete spiral seizing. 

Back and side, reduced. 



Report Nat. Mus. 1S84.— Murdoch. Eskimo Bows. 



PLATE VI. 



x\ 



?»lK^ 



ir^^^ 






Fig. 14. 



Fig. 15. 



PLATE VII. 
(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.) 

Fig. 16. Straiglit bow of "Southern" model, with "Arctic" hacking, No. 8822, from 
the Ynkon delta. Collected by W. H. Dall. Back, reduced. 

Fig. 17. Section of the same bow, natural size, to show the attachment of the short 
strands. 

Fig. 18. Bow of " Western " type, No. 2505, from the mainland of Siberia. Collected 
by the North Pacific Exploring Expedition. Back and side, reduced. 



Jieport Xat. Mus. 18S4.— Mimloch. Eskimo Bows. 



PLATE VII. 



I 



r 



Ti 






u? 







Fig. 17. 



'ti 



Fig. 16. 



Fig. 18. 



PLATE VIII. 

(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.) 

Fig. 19. Section of No. 2505, to show the attachment of the end cable, underneath 

the backing. Natural size. 
Fig. 20. Modified "soldier's hitch," used on seizing of No. 2505. 
Fig. 21. Straight bow, with "Western" backing, No. 2508, from Eastern Siberia. 

Collected by the North Pacific Exploring Expedition. Back, reduced. 



Report Nat. Mas. 1884. — Murilocli. Eskimo Bows. 



PLATE VrCL 




Fig. 19. 



: is 



Fig. -'1- 




FlG. 20. 



PLATE IX. 

(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.) 

Fig. 22. Section of No. 2505, to show the attachment of the end cable, underneath 
the backing. Natural size. 

Fig. 23. Bow with "Arctic" backing, modified so as to approach the "Western," No. 
2590, from Eastern Siberia. Collected by the North Pacific Exploring Ex- 
pedition. Back and side, reduced. 



Keport Nat. Mas. 1884.— Murdoch. Eskimo Bows. 



PLATE IX. 



^\ 



Fig. 22. 



Fig. 23. 



PLATE X. 
(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.) 

Fig. 24. Section of No. 2506, to show the attachment of the single short strand, re- 
turning from bend to nock. Natural size. 

Fig. 25. Peculiar clove-hitch used on the same bow. 

Fig. 26. Reversed "soldier's hitch" in the seizing of No. 2507, from Eastern Siberia. 
Collected by the North Pacific Exploring Expedition. 

Fig. 27. Sinew-twisting tool of ivory. No. 894GG, from Point Barrow. Collected by 
United States International Polar Expedition. Front and side, natural 
eize. 



Keport Nat. Mus. 1884.— Munlucli. Eskimo Bows. 



PLATE X. 




Fin. 24. 




/ \ 



/r? 



'}r 



III 



IG. 27, 




Flc. 25. 



Fig. 26. 



PLATE XI. 

(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.) 

The process of twisting the two *' cables" of the "Arctic " backing. From a workiupj 

model, reduced one-half. 

Fig. 28. Position of the tools at the end of a half-turn. 

Fig. 29. Position of the same, with the tools slipped through to begin a new half-turn. 



liepoit Nat. Mu8. 1884.— Murdoch. Eskimo Bows. 



PLATE XI. 




Flii. 28. 




Fii;. 39. 



PLATE XII. 

(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.) 

A map to illustrate the distiibution of Eskimo bows in Alaska and the neighboring 
regions. (A tracing, with some modifications, from Mr. Dall's "Alaska and the 
Adjoining Eegiou.") 



i:rl>oit Nat. ilus. 1^^4. — Murdut'li. Kskiiiio Bows. 



PLATE XII. 




Abctic OcJiA^S^. 



Ji^3 inwr/d/i t'sInJet A 




St Lairre/i ce Iti. 






jDorina' SscL 



^eaJJ^Is, 







4")' iu\.ii-yfj\i/rrit.i//'.^'. ,r\ J y s 



s. 












Av^ 



To SHOUU THE DISTRIBUTION OFTHE 

/ 



ki/n© §)O^J 

A Avnfir Tifpe 
S. So'J ih r.m Ttjp 
^V. M'l'alem Tifpc. 



lY.-ON A SPOTTED DOLPHIN APPARENTLY IDENTICAL WITH 
THE PRODELPHINUS DORIS OF GRAY. 



By Frederick W. True. 



Upon the return of the U. S. Fish Commissiou steamer Albatross 
from an expedition to the island of Cozumel, in the spring of the pres- 
ent year, the naturalists attached to the vessel informed me that 
while in the Gulf of Mexico they fell in with a large school of dolphins 
of very peculiar appearance, the back being covered with white spots. 
The descriptions of the animal aroused my curiosity, and at my sug- 
gestion Professor Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, im- 
mediately offered a reward for the capture of oue or more individuals 
of the species. Messrs. Warren and Stearns, fish dealers of Pensacola, 
Fla., very kindly offered to direct the attention of the fishermen to 
the matter, and so efficient were their services that on the 3d of June, 
only a few weeks after the presence of the species in the Gulf was first 
made known, we received by steamer an adult male in perfect preserva- 
tion. 

Judging from the remarks of the naturalists of the Albatross, and 
the fact that a specimen was so quickly secured by the Pensacola fisher- 
men, it would appear that the species is abundant in the Gulf. Further- 
more, upon the return of the Albatross from a cruise on the Hatteras 
ground, only a few days after the Pensacola specimen was received, I 
was informed that great schools of a spotted dolphin, apparently iden- 
tical with the latter, were seen in that locality. Two individuals, in 
fact, were harpooned, but broke away and sunk before they could be 
hauled up to the deck of the steamer. 

The Pensacola dolphin was certainly the most beautiful cetacean I 
have ever examined. The outlines of the body were very graceful, and 
the gray tints of the sides and the spots on the lower surfaces exqui- 
sitely delicate. Upon the fiist superficial examination I was convinced 
that I had before me a representative of the genus Prodclphinus, but to 
reach a conclusion concerning the species was a far more difiicult mat- 
ter. In the title of this essay I have adopted the name of P. doris 

317 



318 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

(Gray). My reasons for so doing will be presented after the characters 
of the exterior and skeleton have been described. 

EXTERNAL MORPHOLOaY. 

An adult male dolphin 85 inches in length. The general conforma- 
tion of the body is similar to that of Delphinus delphis, but the dorsal 
fin is higher and more arched, the pectoral fins are somewhat broader, 
and the tail is deeper at the insertion of the flukes. The snout (the 
upper and lower jaws taken together) is of moderate length, stout, and 
about a third deeper than broad. The lower jaw does not project be- 
yond the upper. The outlines of the lips are slightly concave. The 
pectoral fins and the flukes present no peculiarity of form, being gently 
and evenly convex anteriorly, and similarly concave j/osteriorly, and ob- 
tusely pointed at the tip. The dorsal is strongly bent backward, a line 
connecting the tip and center of the base, when prolonged making an 
angle of 45° with a line connecting the extremity of the beak and the 
notch of the flukes. The anterior margin is straight in the lower three- 
fourths of its length, then rather strongly curved backward; the con- 
cavity of the posterior margin forms an arc of a circle. 

The distribution of color is peculiar and somewhat difiicult to describe. 
Beginning at the base of the dorsal fin and passing downward the color 
is first dark purplish slate, and becomes gradually lighter until the 
middle of the side is reached. At thij; latter point it grades somewhat 
more rapidly into the pure white of the belly. From the line of the 
anus backward, and from the region of the pectoral fin forward, the 
dark color of the back extends down much lower. There is no pure 
white posterior to the anus. The dark color involves the head and 
beak and the extremity of lower jaw. It also borders the sides of the 
latter to a depth of two or three inches. The entire body is covered 
with spots of dark and light color, the largest of which are about 
13mm jn length. A line connecting the center of the base of the dorsal 
fin with the median line of the belly is twenty-two inches in length. 
Beginning at the top, in the first four inches the body is about free from 
spots ; the next seven inches are occupied by large, light, slate-colored 
spots on a dark ground; and the remaining eleven inches are occupied 
by large, dark, slate-colored spots on a light ground. Speaking gener- 
ally, where the body is dark the spots are light, and vice versa. This 
is true of the dark post-anal region and the head. The flukes, dorsal 
fin, and pectoral fin are dark like the back, and all are covered with 
small light-colored spots. The latter are scarcely perceptible on the 
flukes. Upon examination of the plates, especially that showing the 
under side of the body, it will appear that the dark spots, which are 
roughly elliptical in outline, change direction in diflerent regions of the 
body. Beginning on the inferior surface of the lower jaw, it will be ob- 
served that the axes of the spots converge toward the median line of 
the belly as far as a point slightly anterior to the pectorals ; then they 



SPOTTED DOLPHIN. 319 

diverge abruptly to the line of the hinder edge of the pectorals, posterior 
to which the spots of the sides again converge toward the median line. 
On the sides there is a similar change of direction, which is especially 
noticeable over the pectoral tin. It is to be remarked that there is a 
simihtr cliange in direction in the lines of light color on i). ilelphis and 
other species. 

Measurements of the exterior of Prodelphinua doria, No. 15030, ^ . 

Centimetera. 

Total length 215.7 

Leugth of month S'?. 

Extremity of snout to eye 33. 7 

Extremity of snout to blow-hole 34. 7 

Extremity of snout to anterior base of pectoral tin 50. 7 

Extremity of snout to anterior base of dorsal fin 104. 5 

Extremity of suout to anterior end of genital slit i:i4. 3 

Extremity of snout to anus 153. 5 

Length of pectoral fiu 30. 4 

Greatest breadth of pectoral fin 12. G 

"Width of base of pectoral fin 11.9 

Distance between bases of pectoral fins on under side of body 21. 3 

Length of genital opening 13. 9 

Length of anus 2. 

Breadth of flukes 52. 7 

Depth of flukes 16.0 

Length of anterior margin of dorsal fin (following curve) 44. 3 

Vertical height of dorsal fin 24. 1 

Length of base of dorsal fin 36. 7 

Length of beak 12. 7 

Length of eye 2. 8 

Breadth of blow-hole 2. 5 

OSTEOLOGrY. 

The skull has the form of the type specimen of Prodelphinus doris, with 
which the species is believed to be identical. The length of the beak is 
a little less than three-tifthsthat of the sknll ; its width at the middle is 
one-eighth the total length. The intermaxillaries are high and roun<led. 
The palate is generally flat, but with a deep channel in the median line 
anteriorly, in which the vomer becomes visible. The pterygoids, which 
meet in the median line, are very long, making the distance from their 
extremity to the tip of the beak three-fourths the length of the skull. 
They stand on a raised table 3.3'^'^ broad. The prenarial triangle is 
short (about 7.6"='"), depressed, and rugose in the anterior part. The 
temporal fossae are large and rounded. Teeth |^^; the crown of the 
largest tooth .8^"" long, .5'=™ in diameter at the base. They are slightly 
worn at the tips. 

The vertebral formula is as follows : C. 7 ; D. 14, L. and Ca. 48 = 69. 
The atlas and axis are united, but the remaining cervicals are free. 
Except that the neural spine of the atlas is not bifurcated, the cervical 
vertebnB present no salient characters by which they could be distin- 



320 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

guished from those of D. delphis. The inferior transverse process of 
the sixth cervical is large and hamular.* 

The neural spines of the dorsal vertebrae are somewhat broader than 
in D. delphis, but otherwise the vertebrae resemble those of that species 
verj" closely. The first five pairs of ribs possess heads, which touch the 
centra of the vertebrae. Anterior zygapophyses become obsolete at the 
thirtieth vertebra (counting from the atlas). They begin again at the 
fortieth vertebra. There are nineteen chevrons, the first of which is 
attached to the fortieth vertebra. 

The sternum consisted originally of three pieces, but the first two 
are auchylosed together. The scapula is very similar to that of P. mar- 
ginatus as figured by Messrs. Van Beneden and Gervais (Osteog. des 
C6tac6s, pi. XL, fig. 23), except that the acromion is considerably more 
expanded. 

The formula for the phalanges is as follows: I, 2; II, 9; III, 7; IV, 
3 ; V, 1. The position of the metacarpal of the pollex is somewhat pe- 
culiar. It does not form a part of the radial margin of the hand, but its 
outer border is in a line with the median axis of the first phalanx. On 
the outer surface of the carpus a small bone is visible, situated between 
the metacarpals of the first and second fingers and the bones reckoned 
as scaphoid and trapezoid by Professor Flower. This should be a ru- 
dimentary trapezium if the system of Professor Flower be adopted. 

The pelvic bones are about 8 centimeters in length and are sigmoid in 

outline. 

Measurements of the skeleton . 

Centimeters. 

Greatest breadth of atlas 13. 2 

Greatest height of atlas 9. 8 

Greatest breadth of first dorsal 9. 2 

Greatest height of first dorsal 8. 4 

Greatest breadth of first lumbar 19. 5 

Greatest height of first Inmbar 14. 1 

Greatest length of scapula 19.7 

Greatest height of scapula 14. 1 

Greatest length of pectoral fin 34. 8 

Greatest length of longest rib in straight line 30. 6 

Greatest length of sternum 17.5 

Greatest breadth of sternum 10. 4 

* I find that the possession of a large inferior transverse process is not a safe guide 
to the position of the vertebra in the cervical series. In a large collection of cervical 
vertebrae of T. turaio, in some cases the inferier transverse process of the fifth vertebra 
is greatly expanded and in other cases that of the sixth vertebra. 



SPOTTED- DOLPHIX. 



321 



Measurements of Ihe skull of Ptodelphinitu doris, Xo. ^^^5^?, i ; the fijpe of P. i)Ia<ji<Hh»i, 
No. 3884 ; and the type of P. doris, British Museum, Xo. 352a. 



Measurements. 



I P. doria. Xo. 

i 21915, U. S. 

Kat. Mas. 



Typoof P.pto- 
giodon, Xo. 
3p«4. U. S. 
Xat. Mas. 



Type of P. 
do rig, Xi). 
352a. Brit. 
Mu&. 



cm. ' lOOths. cm. 



lOOths. 



cm. lOOths. 



Total length 46.2 

LeD'.'lli of beak 26.9 

Breatltb of beak at ba.se of notches 10. 1 

Bieaillli of beak at its middle 5.8 

Breadth of intennaxillaries at same point ' 3. 3 

firtate-it bri-iidth between outer margins of inter- 

maxillaries. proxtmally ' 8. 1 

Len-ith of tooth-lino 23.6 

Last toith to base of maxillary notch 5. 3 

Tip of beak to anterior niar<;in superiornasal open 

in>: 32.4 

Tip (if b« ak to end of crest of pteryjroid 34. 7 

Breadth between orbital ))iopesses of frontal 18.5 

Ibeadih betwei a hinder niar^jins of tcuipural fosssB.i 14.4 

I.enLTtb of temporal fossa 8. 1 

Depi h of temporal iVwsa 5. 6 

Total length of inaudible 39. 2 

Depth between anfjle and coronoid process ] 7. 3 

Ileifrlit of crown of lariiest tooth .8 

Greatest diameter .if crown at base ' .5 

Number of teeth i ?I=p 

33-34 



100.0 

58.2 

21.9 

12.6 

7.1 

17.6 
51.1 
11.5 

70.3 
75. 2 
40.1 
31.3 
17.6 
12.1 
85.2 
15.9 



43.1 

24.3 

9.1 

5.6 

2.8 

7.8 

21.0 

4.6 

28.0 



100.0 

56.5 

21.2 

12.9 

6.5 

18.2 
48.2 
10.6 

6.5.9 



18.0 
14.2 
8.1 
6.1 
36.7 
7.1 



35-35 
34-35 



41.8 
32.9 
18.8 
14.1 
85.2 
16.5 



39 2 I 
2.3.4 

9.4 i 

4.9 

2.7 I 

7.3 j 
20.2 

4.0 I 

26.9 ' 
28.7 
16.3 
13.1 ( 

7.1 I 
5.3 I 

33.8 
CO 



38-34 
34-34 



100.0 

:>% 9 
2:i. 9 

11.9 
7.1 

13.8 
51.8 
10.4 

68.6 
73.1 
41.7 
33.3 
18.1 
13.6 
86.4 
15.5 



TAXONOMY, 



The majority of specie.s of Del ph in idee Are founded upon single skulls. 
All dolphins' skulls differ from one another to a greater or less extent, 
and it is impossible, therefore, to find any which will agree exactly with 
the types. Furthermore, the limits of cranial variation have been deter- 
mined only in the case of two or three well-known sjiecies. For these 
reasons there is a strong temptation, when a fresh s])ecimen of which 
the external characters are undescribed is acquired, to erect a new spe- 
cies. The skull presents differences which separate it from the type 
skulls of any ])reviously described species, and there is no criterion by 
which one may judge whether these differences are of si)eciflc value or 
onl}^ represent individual variation. Such is especially the case in the 
genua Prodelphinus, in which the species may be as few as three or four 
or as many as twenty or twenty-five. 

Under these circumstances there is no escape from a very unpleasant 
dilemma. If a new species is erected, there is constantly a suspicion 
that it is identical with some one ))reviously described from the skull ; 
while, on the other hand, if the newly acquired si)ecimen is referred to 
a species already in the literature, there is always the possibility that 
if the external characters of the latter were known they would prove 
the two to be distinct. It is seldom that cetologists have the o])por- 
tiKiity to compare large numbers of individuals of the same species 
in ;i fresh state, except in the case of such forms as GloMocephalus, of 
which large schools are frequently stranded. It is imperative that we 
should make careful .study of such material, and from the results of such 
S. Mis. 36, }n. L' lil 



322 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

investigation draw our opinions regarding the variations of other spe- 
cies. In the present instance it is hoped that a considerable number of 
crania may be secured at no distant day. 

What has been said concerning species described from single skulls 
holds true for species described from external characters only, and of 
which no measurements are recorded or specimens preserved. It is 
doubtful whether such species should be recognized. 

At least three species have been described which, so far as external 
appearance is concerned, bear a more or less close resemblance to the 
specimen under consideration. 

First maybe mentioned the Delphinus maculatus of Lesson and Garnot, 
(Zool. Voyage Coquille, p. 183), seen in the vicinity of the Society Islands. 
This quondam species has the sides and belly impure grey, with rounded 
white spots margined with rose-color. As this is one of the species vus 
en mers et dessines ^ distance, it is scarcely worthy of serious considera- 
tion, but it is evident that even so far as the spots are concerned — the 
only definite character given — it bears no close resemblance to the Pen- 
sacola dolphin, and it may therefore be dismissed. 

Another spotted species is the Delpliinus Boryi of Desmarest (Mam- 
malogie, p. 513), from Madagascar. Its colors are thus described: 
" Dessus du corps d'un gris de souris fort tendre; dessous d'un gris 
tr^s clair, avec des taches, pen tranchees, d'un gris-bleuatre ; c6t6s de 
la t6te d'un blanc d'ivoire, nettement s6par6 par une ligne droite, de la 
couleur du dessus." The color of the head and of the spots is evidently 
quite different from that of the specimen under consideration. 

A third species, with a spotted skin, is the JDelphinus Fernetyi of Des- 
marest (Mam., p. 513). Pernety's figure, though somewhat crude, evi- 
dently rei)resents a species whose coloration is similar to that of our 
Pensacola dolphin. The transition from light to dark color is represented 
as very abrupt, the light color involves the eye and the beak, and the 
back is without spots, in all of which characters Pernety's dolphin differs 
from that represented in the plates accompanying this essay. The last 
character, however, seems to be of little significance. I was informed 
by one of the naturalists of the Albatross that in the schools seen off 
Hatteras the young animals were not spotted on the back. 

If our Pensacola specimen is to be accredited to any species known 
only by the exterior, I believe it should be to this J>. Pernetyi. As no 
portions of the animal were preserved, however, and no diagnosis or 
measurements were given, I think it undesirable to withdraw the 
species in question from the list of especes douteuses. 

There is at least one other species which seems to bear some relation 
to that under consideration. This is the Belphinus punctatus of Gray. 
A skeleton, drawing and measurements of this animal are preserved in 
the Public Museum of Liverpool, where I examined them in the winter 
of 1883-84. Gray's figure (Cat. Seals and Whales, p. 399) is a correct 



SPOTTED DOLPHIN. 323 

reproduction of the somewhat crndo original. Tlie whole lower part 
of the body, includii)g the jiectorals and beak and a band over the tail, 
is represented as beinjr of a very dark stone-color, while the upper half 
is black. The whole body is sparingly covered with irregular white 
spots. In having light-colored pectorals and beak and a Innate band 
of light coloi- over the tail, this aininal ai)pears to differ from the Pen- 
sacola speciuieu. The skulls are quite similar, but the beak is longer 
and narrower in D.imnciatua and the teeth are more numerous ("^p. The 
skeleton, on account of restricted time, I was unable to examine in de- 
tail. 

A comparison with the species known only from the skull is not 
entirely satisfactory. The Peusacola specimen is identical, in the first 
place, with the D. pUujiodon described by Professor Cope in 186G (P. A. 
2s'. S. P., 180 J, ]). 290) from a single skull, without locality, contained iu 
the collections of the National Museum. I have compared the two 
skulls with each other and can find no difierences of importance. (See 
measurements, p. 321.) JD. plagiodon, however, as Professor Cojje him- 
self suspected, would appear to be identical with Prodelphinns doris 
(Gray). (See measurements, p. 321.) 

Tiie type of the latter species is considerably smaller than that of 
F. plagiodon^ but agrees with it closely in detail. So far the identifica- 
tion is reasonably sure, and it is, perhaps, best that we should not 
attempt to seek an earlier name. If we do we fall inevitably into per- 
plexity. There are a number of skulls in the Paris INIuseum labeled 
P. dubius, which, as Professor Flower has already pointed out, show a 
great similarity to the type of P. doris; but we do not know to which 
particular specimen Cuvier first applied the name, and his description 
is too vague to be of any value where closely allied species are con- 
cerned. Furthermore, the skulls labeled P. dubius agree with others 
bearing different names, notably with one called P. brevimanus, of which 
the external form and color were made known by Hombron and Jacquinot 
(in Voyage de I'Astrolabe, Zool., 1840, pi. 21), and of which the skele- 
ton and skin are still preserved. In color and number of vertebrae this 
specimen does not agree with our Pensacola animal, and thus we find 
that our chain of resemblances will not meet at the ends. The case is 
the same upon comparing P. frcenatus, P. frontalis, and other species. 
We are forced, therefore, to fall back on P. doris, the earliest described 
species with which our specimen can be satisfactorily identified. 

Diagnosis of the species. 
Prodelphinus DORIS (Gray) Flower. 

Delphinua Doris, Gray, Zool. Ereb. &. Terr., 184G, p. 39, pi. xx. 

Delphinua {Cephalorliynchua) Doris, Gray, Cat. Mam. Brit. Mne., Cetacea, 1850,' p. 114. 

Tarsio Doris, Gray, Cat. Seals & WhaleB, 1866, p. 255. 



324 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1834. 

Chjmfnia Doris, Gray, Synopsis Whales & Dolphins, 1868, p. 6. 
Prodefjyliinus cloris, Flower, List of Cetacea Brit. Mus., 1885, p. 29. 
Delphinus plagiodoii, Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 18(16, p. 296. 

Female % 

Male — Exterior. — Form of D. delphis, with higher and more arched 
dorsal fin and broader pectoral fins. Back, dorsal fin, flukes, ui)i)er 
part of head, and pectoral fins dark slate-color, growing gradually 
lighter on the sides. Belly and lower half of sides white. The dark- 
colored upper half of the body, tail, and fins spotted with white oi 
light slate color; light-colored lower half spotted with dark slate-color. 

Skull. — Length of beak three-fifths and width at middle one-eighth 
length of skull. Intermaxillaries high and rounded. Prenarial triangle 
short, depressed, rather less than one-third the length of the beak. 
Temporal fossse large, rounded, their length about one-eighth that of 

the skull. Teeth tL. 

Sleleton.—YeTtehral formula: C. 7; D. 14; L. and Ca. 48=69. 

During a superficial examination of the viscera no especial peculiari- 
ties were noticed except so far as the penis was concerned. This organ, 
instead of having the tapering form common among the dolphins, is' 
Ungulate, strongly flattened, and obtusely pointed. The orifice is in- 
ferior. 

The testicles were of immense size, showing that the animal was capt- 
ured in the rutting season. They measured 30''™ in length. 

The intestine measured 60 feet in length, and is, therefore, short 
compared with Tnrsiops tursio, Delphinus delphis, and some other 
species. The stomach, which was of the normal form, was filled with 
the bones of the scuppaug [Stenotomus) and a species of sea-robin 
{Prionotus). 

The animal had met with a severe accident in the course of its career, 
the fifty fourth to the fifty-seventh caudal vertebrae being broken and 
soldered together. The margin of the caudal peduncle above these ver- 
tebrae was broken by deep grooves, and a swelling of considerable size 
was visible on its side. 



Report Xat. Mus. 18r4.— Tine. Spotted Dolphin. 



PLATE I. 





rrodelphinus dorifi, Gray. Lateral view. 



Keport iN'at. Mus. 1884.— True. Spotted Dolphin. 



PLATE II. 




Prodelphitius doris, (Gray). VIl-w iroiii below. 



Kepoit Nat. Mus. Ifi84.— True. Spott.^tl Doliilim. 



PLATE III. 




Skull of Prodelphinus iloris, (Gray). View from above. 



Report Xat. Mus. l?S4.-Tnie. Spotted Dolphin. 



PLATE IV. 




Skull of rrodtlphinns plagiodon, (Cope). Type. View from above. 
(Published by permission of the U. S. Coinniii.sioner of Fish and Fisheries.) 



Report Xnt. Mus. lg?4.— True. Spottid Dolpliiii. 



PLATE V. 




Skull of Prodelphinus doris, (Gray.) View from below. 



Report Nat. ^us. U^84.— True. Spotted Dolphin. 



PLATE VI. 




Skull of Prodclphiniis pJagiodon, (Copp). Type. View from l)olow. 
(Published by permission of the U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fishi-ries.) 



V.-THE FLORIDA MUSKRAT (NEOFIBER ALLENI, TRUE). 



Bv Frederick W. True. 



lu the summer of 1884 I made known for the first time the charac- 
teristics of a peculiar rodent, a single specimen of which was received 
from Florida iu December of the previous year.* No additional speci- 
mens of the animal have been thus far received, nor any new informa- 
tion regarding its habits and distribution. It is mj- purpose in this 
paper simply to describe in detail the superficies and skeleton of the 
original specimen and to discuss its*generic and specific characters. 

The type specimen was procured by William Wittfeld. ]*lsq., a corre- 
spondent of the Smithsonian Institution, in the vicinity of Georgiana^ 
Brevard County, Florida. Georgiana is situated on Merritt's Island^ 
at the northern extremity of Indian River, nearly opposite Cape Cana- 
veral. The islaud is about 35 miles in length from north to south, and 
some 5 or C miles iu breadth at the widest part. It is se])arated froni 
the mainland by a strait about 5 miles iu breadth. 

The collection in which the round-tailed muskrat was found con- 
tained representatives of Mus rattus,Hesperomys hucopus, ScalojJS acpiati- 
CMS, and a species of Sorex. 

Neofiber, True. 

Xeojiber, Science, iv, 75, p. 34, July 11, 18d4 ; Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, p. 170, July 
29, 1884. 

Form, arvicoline. Tail nearly as long as body, terete, nearly naked ► 
Hind toes in a line with the metatarsals, scarcely webbed. Thumb with 
a claw. 

Anterior cusps of molars rounded interiorly, acute externally. Last 
lower molar with 4 cusps, re-entrant angles alternating. 

Parietals widest iu front, but with an angular i)Ostero lateral exten- 
sion. Interparietal wider than long. Surface of mastoid not dee]>ly: 
concave. 

Pelvis and pes not longer than skull. Transverse processes of luin- 

• Science, iv, No. 75, July 11, 1884, p. 34. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, 1884, pp. 170- 

172 (Julv 29). 

325 



326 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

bar vertebrae short ; those of the caudal vertebrae, except the first four, 
rudimentary. Vertebrae : C. 7 ; D. 13 ; L. 6 ; S. 4; Ca. 25 = 55. 

Neofiber A.LLENI, True. 

2\'eofiber Alleni, True, Science, iv. No. 75, 1884, p. 34 ; Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, 1884, 
p. 170. 

A muskrat of less than half the size of Fiber zibethicus^ but of the 
same general form. Eyes small and high up on the head. Ears mod- 
erate, broad and rounded, hirsute within the conch, the longest hairs 
extending 0.8"™ beyond the margin. Border of the conch slightly and 
unevenly notched. Fore feet as in F. zibethicvs. Palm black, except 
the two large posterior tubercles and the base of the thumb. Hind 
feet moderate, not equaling twice the length of the fore-feet. Soles 
naked, smooth, black, and 5-tuberculate. 

The posterior internal tubercle large and oval in outline. The remain- 
ing four, situated respectively at the angle between the 1st and 2d toes, 
between the 2d and 3d, between the 3d and 4th, and between the 4th 
and 5th; all small and of equal, size. Soles narrow. Toes not in- 
clined laterally at an angle with the sole. Fringe of the toes and sole 
not extending i)rominentl3^ below the plane of their lower surface. 

Toes of the fore and hind feet only slightly webbed. Claws horn- 
colored. Tail round, about 0.6'=™ in diameter at the base and tapering 
gradually to the tip. Sparsely clothed with short blackish hairs, be- 
tween which the tail appears covered with rows of scales, as in Mus. 

Color of the hair of the body above as in F. zibethicus; rich rufous at 
the upper two-fifths and lead-color at the base. In a small area just 
behind the shoulders the base of the hairs is white. Color of the head 
the same as of the body, but darker. Hair of the under surface of 
the body light rufous at the upper third, lead-color at the base. Chin, 
throat, and inner side of the fore arms and legs white or but faintly 
tinged with rufous. Fore and hind feet above clothed with short, dull, 
brown hairs, which extend to the tips of the toes. * 

Throughout its entire structure the Florida muskrat displays an 
affinity to Fiber on the one side and to Arvicola on the other. It is 
strictly intermediate between the two genera. 

In general shape the skull deviates in no manner from that of Fiber. 
The lachrymal pit is less inflated in Neofiber and the nicking of the root 
of the zygoma in front less obvious. The interorbital area is less con- 
stricted posteriorly, its sides being nearly parallel. The squamosals are 
much smaller than in Fiber, and do not approach so near the median 
line anteriorly. The parietals, on the contrary, are large, and, taken 
together, heart-shaped, the apex turned backward and truncated. 
There is a small, regularly triangular, j)ostero lateral extension. The 
interparietal is broader than long. The zygomatic arches are similar 

* This description is a repetition of that given in the Museum Proceedings (I. c). 



FLORIDA MUSKRAT. 327 

to those of Fiber. Between the maxillary and squamosal processes ex- 
ternally the malar is reduced to a mere thread, as in that penus.* 

The strai)-sha[)ed process of the squamosal bounding" the squamosal 
fenestra stands nearly, vertically, and the constrictioji of the skull be- 
tween the fenestr?e is less than in Fiber. The anterior margin of the 
mcaiuH auditorius is much less prolonged than in that genus. The bullae 
are more intlateil. The surface of the mastoid is uneven, but not strongly 
concave; the foramen ver^- small. 

The coronoid process of the mandible is not as high as the condyle, 
but the jaw is not otherwise different from that of Fiber. 

The anterior upper molar has five cusps, the first not wider than the 
other, nor compressed. The second molar has four cusps, the anterior 
largest, acute externally, rounded internally. The posterior molar has 
four cusi>s, the anterior like that of the preceding tooth, the second and 
tliird equal in size, the last half-halberdshaped, and almost or quite 
external to the median line of the series. The anterior lower molar has 
seven cusps, the first irregularly halberd-shaped, the last almond- 
shaped, the rounded end internal. The second tooth has five cusps. 
The last has four cusps, of which the first three are very small and the 
last rhomboidal. 

The skeleton presents a numl)er of peculiarities, aside from propor- 
^tions, which distinguish it from that of i^. zibethiciis. The inferior lam- 
ella of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is short and 
broad, and does not extend bac^ under the head of the first rib, as in 
F. zihcthicns. The neural spines of the dorsal vertebrae are much higher 
than those of the lumbar vertebrae, the reverse being true in the case of 
Fiber. Of the six segments of the sternum the fifth is the smallest, being 
one-half as high as broad. Tlie transverse processes of the lumbar 
vertebrae a:e short, and do not extend to the level of the under side of 
the centra. The processes of the caudal vertebrae, after the fourth, are 
ludimentary ; the vertebrae themselves are much elongated. 

The anterior extremity presents no special distinguishing character- 
istics. In the pelvis the acetabulum is situated at the junction of the 
third and fourth fifths of its length. There is less difference in the os- 
seous structure of the ieet of the two muskrats than one would sui)i)Ose 
from an examination of the exterior. The peculiar bending of the toes 
in Fiber appears to be due to muscular and ligamentary antagonism 
rather than to any peculiarities in the arrangement of the bones of the 
foot. In Ncofiber the fifth metatarsal is not more than one-half as long 

as the second, and the first is but little longer. In Fiber the second 

. — * 

"Mr. N. P. Scndder (Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, ii, ld85, p. Ixivj very justly takes 
exception to Dr. Coues's statement that in Fiber tbe squamosal ami maxillary spurs 
are in contact on the outer side of the zygomatic arch (Monogr. N. A. Rodentia, 1677, p. 
253). Such an arrangement of" parts appears to exist only in cxctptional cases, if at 
all. Among eleven skulls in the Museum collection there are none in which the two 
spurs are absolutely in contact, though in one the space between them is exceedingly 
narrow. 



328 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1S84. 

toe is shorter than the third, and the third than the fourth. In Neofiher 
the third is the longest, followed by the second and fourth. 

In external appearance the Florida muskrat somewhat resembles 
Arvicola anipMhius, but it is easily <listinguished by its larger head and 
feet, longer and less hairy tail, and heavier body. The muzzle is en- 
tirely hairy, except the small nasal pads. The eyes are noticeably 
nearer to the ears than to the nose. The ears are not entirely hidden 
by the surrounding fur. The fore ami hind feet are pilous above and 
naked below. The palms bear four tubercles, as in Fiber zibetliicus. 
They are black, except the two large posterior tubercles and the base 
of the thumb. The narrow soles are smooth, black, and quinqui-tuber- 
culate. The posterointernal tubercle is large and oval in outline. The 
remaining four are situated in the intervals between the axils of the five 
toes. They are all equally small. The toes when flexed do not lie 
across the sole, as in Fiber ; the fringe of the toes and sole does not ex- 
tend noticeably below the plane of their lower surface. 

The tail is perfectly terete, and so sparsely clothed with hairs that the 
scales are distinctly visible. 

In general color the Florida muskrat does not differ greatly from 
Arvicola amphibius, but the hair is more like that of Fiber. On the up- 
per surfaces it is plainly of two sorts. The under-fur is soft and crenu- 
late, not glossy, and lead-colored, except at the terminal fifth. Mingled, 
with it are numerous stiff, shining hairs, about a half longer, some being 
dark at the tips and others golden. Xhe dark-tipped hairs prevail on 
the back, but are outnumbered on the sides by the lighter ones. These 
long, glossy hairs are sufficiently numerous to give the back a decided 
sheen, but not such as is seen in winter specimens of Fiber. The fringe 
overhanging the lips is composed of opaque white hairs, but the short 
hairs on the margin of the lip are dark. The whiskers are dark at the 
base and lighter at the extremity. None are long enough to reach the 
ears. The ear-conch is clothed externally and internally with short fur 
like the under fur of the body. In the median line of the back, just 
above the insertion of the tail, both the under fur and hair are very 
long, forming a sort of mane or crest. The hairs of the tail are dark 
and about one-fourth inch in length : the terminal pencil is very small. 

The fur of the under surfaces is short, and at the extremity its color 
is very light fawn. The extremity of the under jaw alone is darker. 
The lower two-thirds of the under-fur is lead colored, the extremity 
fawn-colored. The stiffer hairs are darker and nearly twice as long. (Jn 
the exterior of the fore feet the fur is like that of the sides, internally 
like that of the belly. The long hairs extend down the leg and there 
is a distinct tuft at the heel. The color of the appressed hair of the 
feet is that of the stiff hairs of the sides. On the hind feet and legs the 
color of the hair is the same, but there are fewer long hairs on the legs. 
The color of the claws is light. 



FLORIDA MUSKRAT. 



329 



Meaturementa of Keofiher AUeni, from the typical alcoholic specimen from Oeorgiana, Fla. 

CentimetcrB. 

Length of head and body 20.2 

Length of head 5.2 

Length of tail 12. 6 

Length of hind foot (without claws) 3. & 

Length of fore foot (without claws) 2. 3 

Nose to eye 2.0 

Nose to base of ear 4.5 

Height of ear 1.8 

Length of middle toe of fore foot (without claw) J> 

Length of middle toe of hind foot (without claw) 1.0 

Longest claw of fore foot 5 

Longest claw of hind foot 6 

Measurements of the skull. 

Total length 4.7 

Greatest width 2.9 

Length of nasals 1.2 

Length of tooth- row 1. 1 

Front edge of first molar to posterior margin of incisors 1.6 

Greatest width of muzzle 7 

Width of iuterorbital bridge 5 

Center of occipital crest to line of hinder margin of orbits 1.9 



Measurevients of the skeleton. 



Total length (along curves) 

Anterior margin atlas to extremity of post-zygapophysis of last sacral vertebra. 

Extremity of post-zygapophysis of last sacral vertebra to end of tail 

Length of 7 cervical vertebrae 

Length of 13 dorsal vertebrae 

Length of 6 lumbar vertebrae 

Length of 4 sacral vertebrae 

Length of 25 caudal vertebrse 

Length of scapula (glenoid fossa to superior margin) 

Length of sternum (without ensiform cartilage) 

Length of humerus 

Length of ulna 

Length of mauus 

Length of pelvis , 

Length of femur 

Length of tibia 

Length of pes 



32.8 
12.9 
15.2 
L6 
5 
3 6 
2.7 
15.2 
2.4 
3.2 
2.6 
3.3 
2.1 
4.5 
3.3 
3.8 
4.2 



Tlie characters which have been employed to separate Arvicola and 
Fiber relate to the feet, the tail, and the posterior lower molar. They 
may be contrasted thus : 



Arvicola. 

Tail terete. 

Hind feet not specially modified for 
aquatic progression. 

Posterior lower molar with three cusps; 
the re-entrant angles opposite. 



Fiber. 

Tail compressed. 

Hind feet greatly modified. 

Posterior lower molar with four or five 
cusps; the re-entrant angles alternate. 



330 BEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Upon the discovery of a uew form having a terete tail, simple feet, 
• and four cusjis in the posterior lower molar, the re-entrant angles being 
alternate, the question at once arises as to the validity of these char- 
acters as generic distinctions. In introducing Neofiher into the sys- 
tem several x)laus are open for adoption. The new form might be made 
a subgenus under Arvicola by degrading the characters drawn from 
the last lower molar to subgeueric rank. On the other hand, it could 
be introduced as a subgenus, or even species, under Fiber by degrad- 
ing the characters derived from the tail and feet in the same manner 
to subgeneric or specific rank. Again, the genus Arvicola might be 
enlarged to include Arvicola, Neofiher, and Fiber as subgenera. Finally, 
the round-tailed muskrat might be made the type of a new genus in- 
termediate between Arvicola and Fiber. 

The last-mentioned course is, to my mind, the most satisfactory, and I 
have therefore adopted it. With the present absolute incommensura- 
bility of genera, I see no especial advantages, except in certain extra- 
ordinary cases, in introducing a grade between genus and species. On 
the other hand, no one probably would seriously consider the proposi- 
tion of placing Neofiher as a species under Fiber. One can conceive, 
hovvever, of the existence of species of the latter genus which should 
differ from F. zibethicus in proportions, quality and color of fur, web- 
bing of the toes, and other similar details of structure. 

It is somewhat remarkable that a rodent so large as Neofiher should 
have remained unknown to American naturalists until the present. It 
is true that exploration has not been so active in Florida as in some 
other parts of the country, yet the State has been traversed many times 
by observant naturalists and collectors. One feels convinced that the 
species must be very rare or is confined strictly to a limited area. The 
former opinion would appear to be the correct one, since the locality 
from which the type specimen came is a favorite resort for sportsmen, 
some one of whom must have recorded the species were it very abun- 
dant. 

What the habits of the Florida muskrat are can be learned only 
from future observations. The structure of the animal would lead one 
to believe that it is not so thoroughly aquatic as F. zibethicus. 



Ueport Nat. Mus. li-S4.-Trne. Florida Muskrat. 



PLATE I. 




^ ?. 






■2 O 



PLATE II. 
Neofiher Allciii, True. — Type. 

Fig. 1. Skull. View from above, X 1. 
Fig. 2. Skull. View from below, X 1. 
Fig. 3. Maudible. Right side, X 1. 
Fig. 4. Right superior molars, X 4. 
Fig. 5. Right inferior molars, X 4. 
Fig. 6. Front foot, X 1. 
Fig. 7. Hind foot, x 1. 



Keport. Xat. Mus. 1884.— True. Florida Muskrat 



PLATE II. 







Fir,. 3. 



Fic. 5. 



Tui. 4. 





Fig. 



Keofiber JUcni, True. 



PLATE III. 

Fiber zibethicns, (Liuud). 

Fig. 1. Skull. View from above, X 1. 
Fig. 2. Skull. View from below, x 1. 
Fig. 3. Mandible. Right side, X 1. 
Fig. 4. Left superior molars, X 4. 



Repoit Xat. Mus. i884.-Truo. Florida MusUiat. 



PLATE III. 





Fig. 4. 



FIG. 1. 




Fui. .i. 




Fig. 2. 



Fiber zibtthicK^, (Liund). 



VI -ON THE WEST INDIAN SEAL (MONACHUS TROPICALIS, 

GRAY). 



Bv Fredkrick W. Truk and F, A. LucAS. 



lu October, 1883, the Xatioual Mii«ouiii received, through the kiudly 
offices of Prof. Felipe Poey, of Havana, Cuba, the mounted skin of a 
seal which had been on exhibition in that city during the summer of 
the same year. The seal was reported to liave been captured in the 
vicinity of Havana. Upon arrival at the Museum it proved to be, as 
]*()ey had suspected, a si)ecimen of the seal which Gray had i)rovision- 
iilly referred to the genus 21onachus, under the name of M. tropicalis. 
The skin was imperfectly prepared, and it was deemed advisable, there- 
fore, that it should be remounted. Upon examination it was found that 
tlie skull was mounted in the skin, and that the bones of the fore and 
hind flippers had not been removed. Owing to this Ibrtunate accident 
it is possible to describe for the first time the cranial characters of the 
si)ecies. 

The specimen is a female, and apparently adult, though not aged. Its 
length, measured from the end of the tail to the extremity of the muz- 
zle, in a straight line, is fifty-three inches. 

So far as external characters are concerned, the Havana specimen 
agrees with the description of Gosse, published in his "A Naturalist's 
Sojourn in Jamaica," which appeared in 1851, and with that of Gray, 
founded upon an imperfect specimen now or until roi^ently in the British 
iVIusenm. It presents, however, several minor diti'erences, the more im- 
portant of which we will now proceed to discuss. 

The discrepancy which first meets our attention relates to the color of 
the whiskers. These are stated by Gosse to be of a "black hue, with 
transverse bars of gray." In the specimen before us the whiskers are 
horn-colored, with blackish tips. 

The color of the body is described by Gosse in his earlier pages as 
"intense and uniform black"; but subsequently, when treating of a speci- 
men captured by Wilkie, he gives a different description, and one which, 
with very slight modification, is ai)pli(;al)le to the 8i)ecinien before us. 
The fur of Wilkie's specimen is said to have been " nearly uniCorni 
dirty ash-gray; black at the base and gray at the tips of the hairs. It 

331 



332 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1S84. 

is slightly mottled ou the belly." In oar specimen the hairs of the back 
and hind flippers appear light at the tip, as if faded by age; but are 
dark sei)ia color or nearly black, excei)t at the extremity. On the 
under parts and on the sides of the body, neck, and head the dark hairs 
are interspersed by others which are white except at the tip. The lips 
are bordered with white. On the upper lips the hair above the white 
fringe is darker than that of the surrounding surfaces. The palms are 
not bare, as stated by Gosse, but are equally as well clothed as the upper 
surfaces of the flippers. It is probable that the specimen described by 
Hill had worn the hair from the iinder surfaces of the flippers by con- 
tact with the dry surfaces of the inclosure in which it was confined. 

The skull. — The skull before us presents no characters which would 
warrant a separation of the species generically from M. albiventer, the 
type of the genus Monachus. The specimen agrees perfectly with the 
diagnosis of the genus given by Gray in the Hand-list of Seals, &c. 
(1874, p. 11). 

In general form the skull is depressed and elongated, the breadth 
being exactly three-fifths the length. Compared with Plioca vituUjia, 
the muzzle is much less tapering; viewed from above, its sides are ap- 
proximately parallel. The intermaxillaries meet the nasals and extend 
along their sides for about half an inch. Nasals narrow, somewhat less 
than one-fourth the length of the skull, and emarginate anteriorly. 

The interorbital region is broad, with parallel sides, much as in Erig- 
nathns. The frontals are in contact with the temporals posteriorly, and 
to a greater extent on the left than on the right side. The contour of 
the parietals is rudely square, the posterior margin being emarginate. 
In the specimen under consideration the sagittal and occipitoparietal 
sutures are still open. The sagittal and lambdoidal crests are rudiment- 
ary. 

The malar rests upon the maxillary anteriorly. A line drawn from 
the outer edge of the canine parallel to the median line cuts the an- 
terior end of the malar. The maxillary supports the malar internally 
for more than half the length of the latter. The articulation of the 
malar with the squamosal presents no peculiarities. 

The " palate" is strongly contracted at the juncture of the anterior 
and middle thirds, and acutely emarginate behind. The posterior pala- 
tine foramina lie wholly in the maxillary. 

The posterior nares is small ; its margin forms an equilateral triangle. 
The narial septum is very incomplete. 

The auditory bullae are pyriform in outline and depressed, the upper 
surface traversed by a distinct groove. The lateral extension of the 
bulla forming the wall of the meatus anditorius is incomplete in front. 
The anterior margin of the bulla is deeply concave. The bulloe diverge 
strongly posteriorly. 

The foramen magnum is broader than high. The paroccipitals are 
well developed, short, and thick. 



WEST INDIAN SEAL. 333 

The mandible presents some remarkable peculiarities. The condyle 
is very low, being on a level with the alveolar border of the Jaw. The 
coronoid process is well developed and is strongly reflected. The lower 
border of the horizontal ramus is straight. The length of the symphysis 
is contained three and a half times in that of the jaw ; the symphysis 
itself is very thick. The fnriow below the condyle, in which the ex- 
ternal pterygoid muscle is inserted, and which is so strongly marked 
in most seals, is scarcely apparent in the specimen under consideration. 

Dental formula as follows: J.|; C. i; M. f x2 = 32. The line of 
I he upi)er incisors is straight. The outer incisors are much larger than 
the inner ones. Both pairs are uuicuspidate. The inner pair has a 
slightly marked cingulum internall.^, while the cingulum is strongly 
developed in the outer i)air The superior canines are short, stout, and 
rugose, and bear a rounded ridge posteriorly. The second and third 
molars are set very obliquely, the anterior end being turned inward. 
The first and fourth molars are less oblique, the fifth not at all. The 
second, third, and fourth molars are ai)])roximately equal in size, the 
first somewhat and the fifth decidedly smaller. All the molars are very 
rugose, and, except the fifth, are furnished with an obtuse central cusp, 
supported before and behind by a smaller accessory cus]). The fifth 
molar has no accessory cusps. The cingulum is strongly developed in 
all the molars, and, except in the first, ends anteriorly and posteriorly 
in a small denticle. Only the i)osterior denticle is present in the first 
molar. Except between the first and second molars interspaces are 
wanting. The first molar rests against and is half internal to the 
canine. The molars are two-rooted, except the first. 

The lower incisors are smaller and more obtusethan the upper incisors: 
the inner pair smaller than the outer, internal to the latter, and decum- 
bent. The short canines have a i)Osterior and two internal vertical 
ridges. The description of the superior molars applies equally to the 
interior series, except that the fifth is larger than the first and somewhat 
oblique, and that there is no interspace between the first and second. 
The line of the inferior molars is straighter than that of the superior 
molars. 

Comparison of M. trojpicalis and M. albiventer. 

If the specimen before us is adult (and the condition of the skull 
would seem to indicate that it is), the West Indian seal mustl)e consid- 
erably smaller than M. albiventer. The female of the latter species de- 
scribed by F. Cuvier (Ann. M^m. d'Hist. Nat.,xx, 1813, p. 387) measured 
7 to 8 feet* from the extremity of the muzzle to the end of the hind flip- 
l)er. In the Havana specimen the total length is but 4 feet and 10 
inches. 

The male monk seal described by Hermann in 1770 differed widely 
from the animal before us, in that the under parts were very light and 

•French measure. 



334 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

that there was a large square area of soiled white ou the abdomen aud 
numerous gray spots ou the head. The coloratiou of the female mouk 
seal described by Cuvier {I. c.) approximates more closely to the speci- 
men before us. The under surfaces of the former were yellowish light 
gray, while our specimeu is of a yellowish umber-brown color in the 
same region. 

Much more important differences are found in the skull. In the Osse- 
mensfossiles (vol. viii, 1836, p. 442-443), Cuvier gives a table of measure- 
ments of the head and other parts of the skeleton of a specimeu of j¥". 
albiventer. Although Cuvier's specimen was larger than that under 
consideration, the differences are such as, in our opinion, could not be 
entirely due to disparitj' of age or difference of sex. The width of the 
zygomatic arch in the former is much the greater, being about three- 
fourths the length of the skull ; in M. tropicalis its width is onlj' three- 
fifths the same length. This character is shown also in the close ap- 
proximation of the coronoid processes and condjies in M. tropicalis. 
While the length of the muzzle compared with that of the brain-case 
is practically equal in the two species, its widtn is considerablj^ less 
in M. tropicalis than in M. albiventer. Both the measurements aud 
figures of the latter species show that it has the forehead much more 
elevated, and consequently the anterior nasal opening more nearly 
vertical, than is the case in 31. tropicalis. The foramen magnum 
would appear to be twice as large relatively in M. tropicalis as in Jf. 
albiventer. This character is perhaps of little value, ou account of the 
great variability observable among different individuals. 

A character which is apparently of great importance is the difference 
in the relative length of the molar series. In M. tropicalis the length 
of the molar series of each jaw is very nearly one-third that of the skull, 
while in the Mediterranean seal it is less than a fourth. The condyle 
of the mandible in M. tropicalis is noticeably low, being on a level with 
the alveolar border of the jaw. Ou account of this disposition of parts 
the lower edge of the occipital condyles is in the same plane with the 
lower margin of the mandible when the mouth is closed. There ap- 
pears to be no approach to this arrangement of parts in any other ear- 
less seal. 

It is stated both by F. Cuvier aud by Keyserling aud Blasius (Fauna 
Deutschland, 1857, p. 245) that in M. albiventer the first upper molar 
is the smallest of the series. In 71/. tropicalis this tooth is considerably 
larger than the fifth. 

Cuvier has figured the skull of ii. albiventer with a prominent supra- 
orbital tubercle, a process which is entirely rudimentary in our specimen 
of M. tropicalis. 

In our opinion the differences pointed out are quite suflQcieut to 
warrant the separation specifically of the subtropical seals of the 
Eastern and "^Vestern Atlantic. It is decidedl}^ probable that fresh 
specimens of equal size and age from the two regions would show dif- 



^^^:ST Indian seal. 



335 



fereuces of external proportions which cannot be determined from the 
scanty material now at our command. 

Specific diagnosis. 

MoNACHUS TKOPiCAJLis, Gray. 

I'huva trvpimlis. Gray, Cat. Mam. Brit. Mas., pt. ii, Seals, 1850, p. 26. 

Phoca Wilkianus, Gobse, Naturalist's Sojourn in Jamaica, 1857, p. 308, foot-note. 

MonacliHi IropicaUs, Gray, Cat. Seals and Whales Brit. Mua., 1866, p. 20. 

" Monachus f tropicalia, Gray," Allen, Monogr. N. A. Pinnipeds, 1880, p. 708. 

Color above umber-brown. Below slightly lighter and tinged with 
yellow. Flippers of the color of the back. Lips bordered with white. 
Soles and i)alms clothed with short hair. 

Skull. — Forehead depressed. Condyles of mandible on a level with 
the alveolar border of the jaw. Length of the molar series one-third 
that of the skull. Last upper molar smallest. 

Meusurementa of the skulls of Monachus uliiventer {from Cuvier, Oas. Foss., viii, 1836, 
442) and Monachus tropicalia. 



Measurements. 



M. tropicalia. 



lOOths. 



M. albiventer. 



lOOths. 



Summit of occipital crest to anterior borders of premaxillaries. .. 

Ditto to anterior extremity of nasals 

Greatest breadth between zyRomatic arches 

Lea.st breadth of interorbital ridge 

Breadth of muzzle on a line with the incisors 

Height from lower border of occipital condyles to summit of 
occipital crest 

From the alveolar border of the maxillary to the anterior ex- 
tremity of tlio frontals 

Heipht of foraiueu magnum 

Width of foramen niaguum 

Length of superior molar series 

Distance between outer borders of last molarB 

Ditto of first molars 

Total length of lower jaw 

Angle of mandible to upper surface of condyle , 

Angle of mandible to extremity of coronoid process 

Distance between outer borders of coronoid processes 

Distance between external extremities of condyles , 

Length of the symphysis mandibuli , 

Length of the lower molar series 

Bistance between outer surface of canines , 



193 
152 
122 
25 
45 

70 

45 
27 
33 
60 
63 
35 

134 
27 
45 
89 

112 
37 
60 
27 



100.0 
78.9 
63.1 
13.1 
23.6 

36.8 

23.6 
14.4 

17.0 
31.5 
32.8 
18.4 
69.7 
14.4 
26.3 
46.0 
57.8 
19.7 
31.5 
14.4 



282 
219 
215 
32 
78 

96 

01 
23 
27 
65 
84 
48 
210 
63 
102 
161 
190 
58 
54 
51 



100.0 
77.7 
76.2 
11.3 
27.7 

34.0 

32.3 
8.2 
9.6 
23.1 
29.8 
17.0 
74.5 
22.3 
30.3 
57.1 
67.4 
20.6 
19.2 
18.0 



Report Nat. Mus. lti^4.-True and Lucas. West Indian St-al. 



PLATE I. 




=5 f^ 



t t 
O a 



Eeport Xat. Mus. 1884. — True aud Lucas. "West luJiaii Seal. 



PLATE II. 




Skull of Monachiis tropicaJis, Gray. View from above. Two-tbirds uatural size. 

(Drawn by F. A. Lucas.) 



Keport Xat. Mus. 1884.— True and Lucas. West Indian Seal. 



PLATE III. 




?kull of Monachus iropicalis, Gray. View from below. Two-thirds natural bize. 

a. Teetli, seen from in front. 

(Drawn by F. A. Lucas.) 



FA.RT IV. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884. 



A-NALYSIS. 

Pages. 

Part I.— Publications of the Museum 339-343 

Part II. — Publications by ofiftcera of the Museum 346-370 

Part III. — Publications by investigators not officers of the Museum, based on 

Museum material 371-381 



S. M:s. 33, pt. 2 22 337 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884. 



PART I.— PUBLICATIONS OF THE MUSEUM. 

The publications of the National Museum are includeil iu two series: 1. The Pro- 
ceedings of the U. S. Xational Museum, of which Vol. 1 appeared iu 1878, and which is 
published in dated signatures and ])roniptly distributed to all centers of scientific 
activity. 2. The Bulleiina of the National Museum, of which 27 have been published 
aiuce 1875. 

These publications are printed by the authority and at the expense of the Depart- 
ment of the Interior. 



Departmeut of the Interior: U. S. National Museum. Proceedings of 
the United States National Museum. Vol. vi. 1883. Published 
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. Wasliington : 
Government Printing OflBce. 1884. 8vo. pp. i-vii ; 1-558. Plates 
i-xiv. 

The following is a list of signatures of "Proceedings of the U. S. 
National Museum," published in 1884, and forming i)arts of Vol- 
umes vi and vii : 



Date of publication. 



VOLUME. VI. 

April 9 

April 11 

April 11 

voLU.ME. vn 

June 3 

June 3 

June 3 

June 11 

June 11 

Julv 1 

July 7 

Jul'v 7 

July 8 

July 8 

July 29 

July 29 

Aujnist 5 



Signa- 




ture 


Pages. 


Ko. 




25 


385-400 


26 


401^16 


27 


417-429 


1 


1- 16 


2 


17- 32 1 


3 


33- 48 


4 


4»- 64 


6 


65- 80 


C 


81- 96 


7 


97-112 


8 


113-128 


9 


129-144 


10 


145-160 


11 


161-176 


12 


177-192 


13 


193-208 



Date of publication. 



VOLUME vu— Continued 

August 5 

August 5 

August 20 

August 22 

August 28 

August 28 

August 28 

September 1 

September 4 

September 17 

September 17 

September 17 

September 18 

September 19 

September 26 

September 27 

September 27 

September 27 



Signa- 
ture 
No. 



Pages. 



209-224 
225-240 
241-256 
257-272 
273-2S8 
289-304 
305^320 
321-.138 
337-352 
353-368 
369-384 
385-400 
401-410 
417-432 
433-448 
449-404 
4(5r>-480 
481-490 



Keport of the Assistant Director of the United States National Museum 
for 1882. 

(Smithsonian Report, 1882 (1884), pp. 119-26.3.) 

339 



340 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

BULLETINS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Bulletin of the Uuited States National Museum. No. 25. Contribu- 
tions to the natural history of the Bermudas. Volume 1. Edited 
by J. Matthew Jones and George Brown Goode. Washington: 
Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. i-xxiii; 1-353. 
Plates i-rxii. 
Previous to the i)ublication of the complete bulletin, there were pub- 
lished separately the seven jjarts of the bulletin, as follows: 

Part I. The geology of Bermuda, by William North Rice, Ph. D., 
Orange Judd professor of geology and natural history in Wes- 
ley an University. From Bulletin No. 25, U. S. National Museum. 
Washington: Governmeut Priutiug Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. [1]- 

» [32]. Plates i-vi. (S. I. Series No. 495.) 

Part II. The botany of Bermuda, by General Sir John Henry Lefroy, 
F. R. S., Athenaeum Club, London. From Bulletin No. 25, U. S. 
National Museum. Washington : Government Printing Office. 
1884. 8vo. pp. [33]-[141]. 

Part III. The mammals of Bermuda, by J. Matthew Jones, F. R. S. C, 
Fern Lodge, Waterville, Nova Scotia. From Bulletin No. 25, U. S. 
National Museum. Washington : Government Printing Office. 
1884. 8vo. pp. [143]-[161]. 

Part IV. The birds of Bermuda, by Captain Saville G. Reid, F. Z. S., 
of the Royal Engineers, member of the British Ornithologists- 
Union, &c. From Bulletin No. 25, U. S. National Museum. Wash- 
ington: Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. [163J-[279]. 

Part V. On a bird new to the Bermudas, with notes upon several spe- 
cies of rare or accidental occurrence in these islands, by Clinton 
Hart Merriam, M. D. From Bulletin No. 25, U. S. National 
Museum. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. 
pp. [281]-[284]. 

Part VI. The reptiles of Bermuda, by Samuel Garman, Museum of 
Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. From Bulletin 
No. 25, U. S. National Museum. Washington: Governmeut Print- 
ing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. [285]-[.303]. 

Part VII. The annelida from Bermuda, collected by Mr. G. Brown 
Goode, by Henry E. Webster, i^rofessor of natural history in the 
University of Rochester, Rochester, New York. From Bulletin No. 
25, U. S. National Museum. Washington: Government Printing 
Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. [305J-[327]. Plates vii-xii. 

Bulletin of the Uuited States National Museum, No. 27. Descriptive 
catalogues constituting a report upon the exhibit of the fisheries 
and fish culture of the Uuited States of America, made at tl)e Lon- 
don Fisheries Exhibition, 1883. Prepared under the direction of G. 
Brown Goode, U. S. Commissioner, and a staff of associates. Wash- 



I 



i 



I 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. R. NATIONAL MUSETTM. 341 

ington: Government Printing Office. 1884. Svo. pp. i-liv; 
1-1279. (S. r. Series No. 511.) 

This Bulletin is composed of twelve catalogues, the first seven of which 
were published as separates, in 1883. Catalogue H was juiblished as a sepa- 
rate iu 1884. Catalogues I, J. K, and L were not printed as separates, but 
appeared for the first time in the complete volume. 

The following is a list of these catalogues : 

Crieat International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States 
of America. A.— Preliminary catalogue and synopsis of the collec- 
tions exhibited by the United States Fish Commission and by spe- 
cial exhibitors. With a concordance to the official classification of 
the Pvxhibitiou. Washington: Government Printing Office. 18S3. 
8vo. pp. 1-107. 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States 
of America. B. — Collection of economic crustaceans, worms, echino- 
derms, and sponges. By Richard Rathbun, curator of the Depart- 
ment of Marine Invertebrates in the United States National Mu- 
seum. Washington : Government Printing Office. 1883. 8vo. 
pp. 1-31. 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States 
of America. C. — Catalogue of the aquatic and fish-eating birds 
exhibited by the .United States National Museum. By Robert 
Ridgway, curator, Department of Birds, U. S. National Museum. 
Washington: Government Printing Office. 1883. 8vo. pp. 1-46. 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States 
of America. D. — Catalogue of the economic mollnsca and the ap- 
paratus and appliances used iu their capture, and preparation for 
market, exhibited by the United States National Museum. By 
Lieut. Francis Winslow, U. S. N. Washington : Government Print- 
ing Office. 1883. 8vo. pp. 1-86. 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. Loudon, 1883. United States 
of America. E. — The whale fishery and its appliances. By James 
Temple. Brown, assistant in the Department of Art and Industry, 
U. S. National Museum. Washington : Government Printing Of- 
fice. 1883. Svo. pp. 1-116. 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States 
of America. F. — Catalogue of the collections of fishes exhibited by 
the United States National Museum. By Tarleton H. Bean, cura- 
tor of the Department of Fishes iu the United States National Mu- 
seum. Washington : Government Printing Office. 1883. 8vo. pp. 
1-124. 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States 
of America. G. — Descriptive catalogue of the collection illustrat- 
ing the scientific investigation of the sea and fresh waters. By 
Richard Rathbun, curator of the Department of Marine Inver- 
tebrates in the United States National Musenin. Washington: 
Government Printing Office. 1883. 8vo. pp. 1-109. 



342 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. Uuited States 
of America. H. — Catalogue of the aquatic mammals exhibited by 
the United States National Museum. By Frederick W. True, cu- 
rator of the Dejjartment of Mammals, United States National Mu- 
seum. Washington : Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 
1-22. 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States 
of America. I. — Catalogue of the collection illustrating the fishing 
vessels and boats, and their equipment ; the economic condition of 
fishermen ; anglers' outfits, &c. By Capt. J. W. Collins, assistant, 
U. S. Fish Commission. Washington : Government Printing Of- 
fice. 1884. 8vo. pp. 1-179. [645-823.] 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. Loudon, 1883. Uuited States 
of America. J. — Catalogue of the ai^paratus for the capture of fish, 
exhibited by the United States National Museum. By E. Edward 
Earll, curator of the Fisheries Collections, U. S. National Museum, 
and assistant, U. S. Fish Commission. Washington : Government 
Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 1-200. [825-1030.] 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United 
States of America. K. — Catalogue of fishery products, and of the 
ai)ijaratus used iu their preparation. By A. Howard Clark, assist- 
ant in the Department of Art and Industry, United States National 
Museum. Washington : Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. 
pp. 1-124. [1031-1154.] 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United 
States of America. L. — Catalogue of the fish cultural exhibit of 
the United States Fish Commission. By K. Edward Earll, curator 
of the Fisheries Collections, U. S. National Museum, and assistant, 
U. S. Fish Commission. Washington : Government Printing Of- 
fice. 1884. 8vo. pp. 1-95. [1155-1249.] 

■ The circulars below enumerated were published as separates during 

the year 1884, and will appear in Proceedings U. S. National Museum, 

Vol. vii. 

No. 24. Plan of a collection to illustrate the textile industries of the 
United States, to be exhibited at the World's Industrial and Cotton 
Centennial Exposition of 1884-1885, at New Orleans. By Eomyu 
Hitchcock, acting curator, Section of Textile Industries. 8vo. 16 
pages. 

No. 25. Preliminary jilau for a collection of the building and ornamental 
stones and rocks of the United States, to be exhibited at the World's 
Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-1885, at New 
Orleans. By George P. Merrill, curator : Department of Lithology 
and Physical Geology. 8vo. 2 pages. 

No. 26. Plan for a collection of gems and precious stones, to be exhib- 
ited at the Cincinnati Industrial Exposition and the World's Indus- 
trial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-1885, at New Or- 
leans. By F. W. Clarke, curator, Department of Minerals. 2 pages. 



BlBLIOGRAniY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 343 

No. 27. Direct ioiitj for oolUH.-tiny;, proserviiif;, and transporting tortri- 
oids and other small moths. By C. IT. Fornald. 8vo. 3 j)ages. 

No. 28. Directions for mound exploration. By Cyrus Thomas, Ph. D. 
8vo. 3 pages. 

No. 21). Provisional i)lan for a collection of nuinmuils to be exhibited at 
the World's Industrial and ('otton Centennial Exposition of 1884- 
1885, at New Orleans. By Frederick W. True, curator of the De- 
partment of ]\l animals. 8vo. 27 pages. 

No. 30. A list of birds, the eggs of which are wanted to complete th« 
series in the National Museum, with instructions for collecting eggs. 
By Capt. Charles E. Bendire, U. S. A., honorary curator, Section of 
Oology, (I. IS. National Museum. 8vo. 4 pages. 

No. 31. Plan to illustrate the mineral -resources of the United States 
and their utilization, at the World's Industrial and Cotton Centen- 
nial Exposition of 1884-1885, at New Orleans. By Fred. P. Dewey, 
curator: Department of Economic Geology and Metallurgy. 8vo. 
8 pages. 
[Circulars 10, 20, 21, 22, and 23, which are noticed in the bibliography 

of the Museum report for 1883, as printed in "separate" form during 

that year, are reprinted in Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, 

vi, 1883, (1884), pp. 431-497.J 



ALPHABETICAL LIST OF WRITERS ON NATIONAL MUSEUM COL- 
LECTIONS IN 1884. 

Page. 

* Atwater.W.O -. 346 

* Baird, Speneer F 34G 

*»Bean, Tarleton H 347 

* Beudire, Charles 347 

Brewer, T.M : 346,371 

Chatard,T.M .'=. 348,371 

* Clark, A. Howard , 348 

* Clarke, F.W '. 348 

* Collins, Joseph W 348 

Coues, Elliott 371 

* Dall'J William H 349 

* Dewey, Fred. P 351 

Dresel, Herman George 347, 351 

* Earll, R. Edward 351 

Elliott, H.W 371 

Faxon, Waker 371 

Fernald.C.H 372 

Garman, Samuel 372 

Gilbert, Charles H 372,375 

Gill, Theodore N 372 

* Goode, G. Brown 347,352 

Gurney, J.H 373 

Heap,G.W 373 

Hen8haw,H.W 373 

* Hitchcock, Eomyn 353 

* Hornaday, Wm. T 353 

IngersoU, Ernest 374 

Jones, J. Matthew 353,374 

Jordan, David S 372,374,379 

Lefroy, Sir John Henry 376 

* Lucas, Frederic A 353 

* Marcou, John Belknap 353 

* Mason, Otis Tufton 354 

Meek, Seth E 375,379 

* Merrill, George P 355 

Merriam, Clinton Hart SVQ 

Nelson, E.W 376 

Nutting, Charles C 376 

Prime, Temple 377 

* Rathbnn, Richard 355 

* Ran, Charles 356 

Reid, Savile G 377 

Rice, William North 377 

* Ridgway, Robert -. 346,356 

* Officers of the Maseum. 
344 



I 



I 



BtBLTOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 345 

Page. 

•Riley, C. V 359 

Rothrock, J.T Ml 

• Ryilor.John A S64, :J73 

Sclater, P. L 377 

Sharpe, R. Bowdler 377 

Shufeldt, R. W 377 

Slade.Elisha 378 

Smitb.Siducy 1 378 

• Stearns, R. E. C 3G5 

• Stejneger, Leonhard 366 

Swain, Joseph 375,379 

Tliomas, Cyrus 379 

• True, Frederick W 367 

Verrill, A. E 379 

• Walcott, Charles D 368 

Walker, S.T 380 

Ward, Charles W 380 

• Ward, Lester F 368 

Webster, Henry E ; 381 

• White, Charles A 370 

• Winslow, Francis 381 

• Yarrow, Henry C 370 

• Officers of the Museum. 



I 



346 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 



PART II.— PAPERS BY OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM. 



WILBUR OLIN ATWATER. 

The chemical composition and nutritive value of our American food 
fishes and invertebrates. 

(Transactions American Fish Cnltural Association, 1884, pp. 171-194.) 

Les relations entre les plantes et I'azote de leur nourriture. 

(Annales de cliimie et de physique, [6] ii, pp. 322-331.) 

The chemistry of the feeding of plants. 

(Report of tlie New Jersey Board of Agriculture, 1883-1884, pp. 55-105.) 
This lecture was delivered before the New Jersey Board of Agriculture. 

Tables illustrative of the nutritive value of fish. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 203-205.) 

Keport of analysis of a sample of fish guano made from salmon offal, 
by Mr. Joseph Spratt, of Victoria, British Columbia. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Cora., iv, 1884, p. 238.) 

SPENCER FULLERTON BAIRD, 

On the specimens received by the Smithsonian Institution from the 
United States Life-Saving Service. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 177-178.) 
SPENCER F. BAIRD, T. M. BREWER AND R. RIDGWAY. 

Memoirs of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College. 
Vol. xii. The Water Birds of North America, by S. F. Baird, T. 
M. Brewer, and E. Eidgway. Issued in continuation of the publi- 
cations of the Geological Survey of California. J. D. Whitney, 
State Geologist, Volume I, Boston. Little, Brown, and Company. 
1884. Eoyal 8vo. pll. 3. pp. vii-xi, 1-537, 211 wood-cuts. 

Memoirs of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College. 

Vol. xiii. The Water Birds of North America, by S. F. Baird, T. M. 
Brewer, and E. Eidgway. Issued in continuation of the Publi- 
cations of the Geological Survey of California. J. D. Whitney, 
State Geologist. Volume ii. Boston. Little, Brown, and Com- 
pany. 1884. Eoyal 8vo. pll. 3. pp. 1-552. 288 wood-cuts. 

These two volumes comprise a complete monograph of the Water Birds of 
North America, based almost wholly upon the collections of the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum. The technical portion was prepared by Professor Baird and 
Mr. Ridgway, the biographies or life-histories by Dr. Brewer (the authors 
having no financial interest in its publication). The work is intended as a 
continuation of "A History of North American Birds" (3 vols., embracing 
the land birds) by the same authors and publishers, issued in 1874. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEmi. 347 

TARLETON HOFFMAN BEAN. 

Xotes on a collectiou of fishes made in 1882 and 1883 by Capt. Henry 
E. Nichols, IT. S. X., in Alaska and Britisli Columbia, with a de- 
scription of a new genus and vspecies, Prionintius macellus. 
(Prec. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, 1883, pp. 353-361, Jan. 12, 1884. ) 
Localities and collcctiuji dates of 48 species, one of which is a new cottoid 
related to Tritjlops. 

Brook trout from Monadnock Lake and Cristine Lake, New Hampshire. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, Aug. 12, 1884, pp. 293-294.) 

Notes on some fishes collected by James G. Swan, in Washington Ter- 
ritory, including a new species of Macrurus. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, Jan. 12, 1884, pp. 362-364.) 

Notes on fishes observed at the head of Chesapeake Bay, in the spring 
of 1882 ; and upon other species of the same region. 

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vi, Jan. 12, 1884, pp. 365-3G7.) 

On the occurrence of the striped bass in the Lower Mississippi Valley. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 20, 1884, pp. 242-244.) 

Description of a new species of whitefish {Coregonns nehonii) from 
Alaska. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Juue 3, 1884, p. 48. Plate i.) 

Descriptions of Physicuhts fulviis and Lotella ma.rillaris\ new species of 
fishes collected in 1881 by the United States Fish Commission. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mua., vii, Aug. 5, 1884, pp. 240-242.) 

The white fishes of North America. 

(Report American Fish Cultural Association, 1884, pp. 32-39.) 

Notes on some Florida fishes (with G. Brown Goode). 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 42-47.) 
TARLETON HOFFMAN BEAN and HERMAN GEORGE DRESEL. 

A catalogue of fishes received from the Public Museum of the Institute 
of Jamaica, with des(^riptions of Pns/ipowm approximans and Tylo- 
tturiis curyops, two new species. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, July, 8,1884, pp. 1.^)1-170.) 

CHARLES BENDIRE, 
U. S. Army. 

A list of birds the eggs of which are wanted to complete the series iu 
the National Museum, with instructions for collecting eggs. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, 1884, pp. 613-616.) 
Also published as Museum Circular No. 30. 



348 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

ALONZO HOWARD CLARK. 

Great International Fisheries pjxLibition. London, 1883. United States 
of America. K. — Catalogue of fishery products, and of the appa- 
ratus used in their preparation. By A. Howard Clark, assistant 
in the Department of Art and Industry, United States I^Iational 
Museuni, Washington: Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. 
pp. 1-124. (1031-1154.) 

Notes on the fisheries of Gloucester, Mass. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 401-410.) 

FRANK WIGGLESWORTH CLARKE. 

Plan for a collection of gems and precious stones, to be exhibited at the 
Cincinnati Industrial Exposition and the World's Industrial and 
Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-1885 at New Orleans. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., vii. 1884, pp. 575-57G.) 
Also published as Museum Circular No. 26. 

Appletons' Science Text-Books. The elements of chemistry. By F. 
W. Clarke, chemist of the United States Geological Survey. New 
York : D. Appleton and Company, 1, 3, and 5 Bond Street. 1884. 
8vo. (X.) pp. 1-3G9. 53 figures. 

FRANK WIGGLESWORTH CLARKE AND THOMAS MAREAN CHATARD. 

Department of the Interior. Bulletin of the United States Geological 
Survey, No. 9. A report of work done in the Washington Labo- 
ratory during the fiscal year 1883-'84. Washington: Government 
Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 1-40. 

Mineralogical notes from the laboratory of the U. S. Geological Survey. 

(Amer. Journ. Science and Arts, July, 1884, p. 20.) 
JOSEPH WILLIAM COLLINS. 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States 
of America. I. — Catalogue of the collection illustrating the fishing- 
vessels and boats and their equipment, the economic condition of 
fishermen, anglers' outfits, &c. By Captain J. W. Collins, assistant 
U. S. Fish Commission. Washington: Government Printing Office 
1884. 8vo. pp. 1-179. (045-833.) 

Eeport of a trip of exploration on the Chesapeake Bay, made in the 
spring of 1882 by the steamer '^Fish Hawk," Lieut. Z. L. Tanner, 
commanding. 

(Report U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 1035-1038.) 

Notes on the habits and methods of capture of various species of sea 
birds that occur on the fishing banks off the eastern coast of North 
America, and which are used as bait for catching codfish by New 
England fishermen. 

(Report U. S, Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 311-338. Plate i.) 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 349 

History of tlie tile tisli. 

(Report U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 237-294 a. Plates i-U.) 
Movements of mackerel iu winter. 

(B«ll. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, p. 15.) 

A large squid. 

(BuU. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, p. 15.) 

A search for mackerel off Block Island, Montauk, and Sandy Hook in 

November, 1883. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 49-51.) 
Some observations on the cod gill-net fisheries and on preservatives for 

nets. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 56-59.) 

Inauguration of the frozen herring trade. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com. , iv, 1884, pp. 81-83. ) 

What codfish sometimes swallow. 

(BuU. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, p. 175.) 

Loss of life and property in the Gloucester fisheries. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 180-181.) 

An adventure with a whale in the Kiver Tay, Scotland. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 213-217.) 
On the occurrence of corals on the Grand Banks. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, p. 237.) 

Note on the destruction of mackerel by dogfish. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com. , iv, 1884, p. 248. ) 

Ou the scarcity of mackerel in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 427-430.) 
On the scarcity of mackerel iu the Gulf of St. Lawrence. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 435-438.) 

On the abundance of halibut near Iceland. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 463-464.) 
Notes on certain Laridse and Procellariidse of the New England coast. 

(The Auk, i, July, 1884, pp. 236-238.) 

Our fishing vessels. 

(Cape Ann Bulletin, .January 9, 1884.) 
Greater safety for our fishermen. 

(Cape Ann Bulletin^ January 16, 1884.) 

The new fishing model; practical illustrations of the latest ideas in 
building vessels for the fisheries. 

(Capo Ann Advertiser, November 7, 1884.) 

Halibut on the coast of Norway. 

(Cape Ann Bulletin, Ui-cember 6, 1884.) 

Result of the introduction of gill-nets into the American cod fisheries. 
(Report American Fish Cultural ABsociation, 1884, pp. 212-228. ) 



350 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

WILLIAM HEALEY DALL. 

Notes on fisbinjf products exported from Sau Francisco, Cal., during 
the year 1883. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 125-128.) 

On the constitution of some appendages of the raollusca. 

(American Naturalist, xviii (No. 8, Aug. 1884), pp. 776-778.) 

Report on the molhisca of the Commander Islands, Bering Sea, col- 
lected by Leonhard Stejneger in 1882 and 1883. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 4, 1884, pp. 340-349. Plate ii, figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.) 

A new volcano island in Alaska. 

(Science, iii (No. 51, Jan. 25, 1884), ])p; 89-93.) 

The false prophet of the Sudan. Review. 

(Science, iii (No. 54, Feb. 15, 1884), pp. 199-200.) 

A woman's journey to the Karakorum Valley. Review. 

(Science, iii (No. 55, Feb. 22, 1884), pp. 228-229. ) 
Recent work on brachiopods. Review. 

(Science, iii (No. .58, Mar. 11, 1884), p. 325.) 

The state of exploration in Africa. Review. 

(Science, iii (No. 61, April 4, 1884), pp. 413-415. ) 
Tryon's conchology. Review. 

(Science, iii (No. 67, May 16, 1884), p. 601.) 
Journey of Lessar to Seraks. Review. 

(Science, iii (No. 68, May 23, 1884), pp. 628-629.) 

Invertebrates of the ffalisman expedition. Review. 

(Science, iii (No. 69, May 30, 1884), pp. 657-658.) 

Thouar and Crevaux. Review. 

(Science, iii (No. 69, May 30, 1884), pp. 660-661.) 

A new classification of the mollusca. 

(Science, ill (No. 71, June 13, 1884), pp. 730-732.) 

Review of tbe article on mollusca, by Prof. ]5. Ray Lankester, in Encyclo- 
psedia Britannica, xvi,p. 632, et 8e(j'.,1884. See also Science, No. 81, pp. 143- 
144; No. 87, pp. 334-335 ; and ;No. 88, p. 351. 

Headwaters of the Atua or Copper River. Review. 

(Science, iii (No. 73, June 27, 1884), p.= 779.) 

A remarkable new type of mollusks. 

(Science, iv (No. 76, July 18, 1884), pp. 50-51.) 

Describes Chlamydoconcha Orcntti Dall, a type of new family, genus, and spe- 
cies from California, from specimens in the U. S. National Museum and Acad- 
emy of Sciences, Philadoljjhia. 

The new Bogosloff volcano. Review. 

(Science, iv (No. 80, Aug. 15, 1884), pp. 138-139.) 
The international polar stations. Review. 

(Science, iv (No. 89, Oct. 17, 1*884), pp. 370-372, 1 map.) 



I 



I 



I 



♦ 



i 



BIDLIOGRArilY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 351 

Kafiristau. Review. 

(Scieuce, iv (No. 90, Oct. 24, 1884), pp. 404^05.) 

A Musselmau propaganda. Review. 

(Science, iv (No. 93, Nov. 14, 1884), pp. 457-459.) 

Late news from the northwest. Review. 

(Sci.MU'e, iv (No. 94, Nov. 21, 1884), pp. 474-475.) 

Exploration of the Kowak River. Review. 

(Science, iv (No. 98, Dec. 19, 1884), pp. 551-554.) 

Pre-Historic America, by the Marquis de Nadaillac. Transhited by N. 
DAnvers. Edited by AV. H. Dall. Witli lilO illustrations. New 
York and London, (t. P. Putnam's Sons. The Knickerbocker 
Press. 18S4. Royal 8vo. pp. x ; 560. 

On masks, labrets, and certain aboriginal customs, with an inquiry into 
the bearing of their geographical distribution. 

Printed as a separate, and intended for Aunnal Keport of the Bnrean of 
Ethnology for 1882. 8vo. pp. 07-200. Plates v-xxix. 

United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, J. E. Hilgard, Superin- 
tendent. Pacific Coast Pilot. Alaska. Parti. Price $2. Wash- 
ington : Government Printing Office. 1883. pp. i-x ; 1-333. 
Sm. fol. ; 16 charts ; 13 plates. 

This embraces the coast of Alaska from Dixon entrance to Yakutat Bay 
with the Inland Passage. 
Although this work was published in 1883, it was not issued until 1884. 

FREDERIC PERKINS DEWEY. 

A biographical sketch of the late Dr. George Wesson Hawes. 

(Report, Smithsonian Institution 1882 (1884), pp. 35-38.) 

Chemical examination. 

(Report on the Building Stones of the United States and Statistics of the 
Quarry Industry for 1880 ; Publications of the Tenth Census ; Vol. x ; Chap- 
ter iii, pp. 30-32.) • 

Gives the application of Thoulet's method for the examination of rocks by 
means «f the heavy Iodide of Potassium and Iodide of Mercury solution to 
building stones, also the method used for the examination of the group of 
carbonates. 

Plan to ilUistrate the mineral resources of the United States, and their 
utilization, at the World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Expo- 
sition of 1884-1885, at New Orleans. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat?Mu8., vii, 1884, pp. (517-624.) 
Also published as Museum Circular No. 31. 

HERMAN GEORGE DRESEL. 
Notes on some Greenland fishes. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 20, 1884, pp. 244-258.) 
[See also under Tari.eton Hoffman Bkan.] 



352 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

ROBERT EDWARD EARLL. 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United 
States of America. J. — Catalogue of the apparatus for the capture 
of fish exhibited by the United States National Museum. By R. 
Edward Earll, curator of the Fisheries Collections, U. S. National 
Museum, and assistant, U. S. Fish Commission. Washington : 
Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 1-206 (825-1030). 

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United 
States of America. L. — Catalogue of the Fish-Cultural Exhibit of 
the United States Fish Commission. By R. Edward Earll, curator 
of the Fisheries Collections, U. S. National Museum, and assistant, 
U. S. Fish Commission. Washington: Government Printing Office. 
1884. 8vo. pp. 1-95 (1155-1249). 

Hatching blackfish and Spanish mackerel. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 41&-416.) 

GEORGE BROWN GOODE. 

Eeport of the Assistant Director of the United States National Museum 
for 1882. 

(Suiithsonian Report, 1882 (1884), pp. 119-263.) 

Department of the Interior, U. S. National Museum. Bulletin of the 
United States National Museum. No. 27. Descriptive catalogues 
constituting a report upon the exhibit of the fisheries and fish cul- 
ture of the United States of America, made at the London Fisheries 
Exhibition, 18S3. Prepared under the direction of G. Brown 
Goode, U. S. Commissioner, and a staff of associates. Washing- 
ton : Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 1-1279. )S. L 
series No. 611.) 

Fishery treaties. 

(Cyclopaedia of Political Economy, iii, 1884, pp. 941-944.) 

The aims and limitations of modern fish-culture. 

(Science, iii (No. 54, February 15, 1884), p. 208.) 

The oyster industry. 

(Encyclopaedia Biitauuica, 9tli edition, vol. xviii, pp. 107-110.) 

The discussion by the American Ornithologists Union of the system of 
zoological nomenclature. 

(Science, iii (No. 56, February 29, 1884), pp. 241-242.) 

The exploring voyage of H. M. S. Challenger. 

(Science, iii (No. 66, May 9, 1884), p. 576, iv (No. 79, August 8, 1884), p. 
116, iv (No. 82, August 29, 1884), p. 176.) 

The invention of the vertical camera in photography. 

(Science, iii (No. 70, June 6, 1884), p. 672.) 

Professor Gill on the assumptions of museum keepers. 
(Science, iii (No. 71, June 13, 1884), p. 703.) 



I 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 01' U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 353 

On the oyster industry. 

(Science, ill (No. 71, Jime 13, 1684), p. 720.) Abstract. 

The oyster iudustry of the world. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 46&-469; Report American Fish Cul- 
tural Association, 1884, pp. 146-148.) 

GEORGE BROWN GOODE AND TARLETON H. BEAN. 

Notes on some Florida fishes. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Juno 3, 1884, pp. 42-47.) 

GEORGE BROWN GOODE AND JOHN MATTHEW JONES. 

Department of the Interior, U. S. National Museum. Bulletin of the 
United States National Museum. No. 25. Contributions to the 
natural history of the Bermudas. Volume 1. Edited by J. Matthew 
Jones and George Brown Goode. Washington : GoveKument Print- 
ing Office. 18S4. 8vo. pp. xxiii 5 1-353. 

S. I. Series No. 495. 

ROMYN HITCHCOCK. 

Plan of a collection to illustrate the textile industries of the United 
States to be exhibited at the World's Industrial and Cotton Cen- 
tennial Exposition of 1884—1885 at New Orleans. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, 1884, pp. 557-572.) 
Also published as Museum Circular No. 24. 

WILLIAM TELL HORNADAY. 

Common faults in the mounting of quadrupeds. 

(Third Annual Rejjort Society of American Taxidermists, 1884, pp. 67-71.) 
A critical statemeut of the most universal, glaring, and reprehensible faults 
of mammal taxidermists, as shown by their work. 

Brief directions for removing and preserving the skins of mammals. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi. 1883 (1884), pp. 485-491. Four iUustrations.) 
Also published as Museum Circular No. 22. 

FREDERIC AUGUSTUS LUCAS. 

On the mounting of crustaceans. 

(Third Annual Report Society of American Taxidermists, 1884, pp. 74-77.) 
On the mounting of turtles. 

(Third Annual Report Society of American Taxidermists, 1884, pp. 84-90. 
Two diagrams.) 

JOHN BELKNAP MARCOU. 

A review of the progress of North American invertebrate i)aliBontology 
for 1883. 

(American Naturalist, April, 1884, pp. 385-392.) 

8. Mis. 33, pt. 2 li3 



354 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

JOHN BELKNAP MARCOU yULES MARCOU AND]. 

United States Geological Survey, J. W. Powell, director. Mapoteca 
Geologica Americana. A catalogue of geological tnaps of America 
(North and South), 1752-1881. In geographic and chronologic 
order. By Jules Marcou and John Belknap Marcou. Washington: 
Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 1-184. 

This work is published as Bulletin No. 7 of the U. S. Geological Survey. 

OTIS TUFTON MASON. 

— 583. An account of the progress in anthropology in the year 1883. 
By Prof. Otis T. Mason. From the Smithsonian Keport for 1883. 
— Washington : Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 
J -43. 

Separate : also in Smithsonian Report for 1883. 
Fuegian ethnology. 

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 99.) 

The Atlantis. 

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 99.) 
British anthropology. 

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 216.) 

Weather proverbs. 

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 319.) 

The Anthropological Society of Washington. 

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 321.) 

The folk-lore of Shakespeare. 

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 443.) 

The British Anthropometric Committee. 

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 646.) 

Anthropology at the National Capital. 

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 648.) 

The mound-builders. 

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 745.) 
[Jniform craniometry. 

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 839.) 
Ethnology of British Guiana. 

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 840.) 
Bureau of Ethnology. 

■ (American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 952.) 

Peabody Museum. 

f American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 956.) 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATION.VL MUSEUM. 355 

Authropologry iu France. 

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 1065.) 

Physiological inquiries. 

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 1067.) 

The Health Report of Washington. 

(Americau Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 1171.) 

The Indian Office Report. 

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 1172.) 

GEORGE PERKINS MERRILL. 

On Prochlorite from the District of Columbia. 

(Proc. U. S.Nat. Mus., vii, June 11, 1884, p. 67.) 
Hornblende andesite from the new Bogosloff volcano. 
(Science, iv (No. 97, Dec. 12, 1884.), p. 524.) 

Jfotes on the character of the rock formation in the vicinity of Auburn, 

Maine. 

(Report Maine State College, for 1884.) 

Read before the Scientific Society of the Maine State College, April, 1884. 
The origin of soils. 

(Prairie Farmer, Aug. 2, 1884, p. 489.) 
Microscopic structure. 

(Report on the building stones of the United States, and statistics of the quarry in- 
dustry, for 1680. Publications of Tenth Census, vol. x ; chapter ii, pp. 15-29. 
18 plates.) 

Preliminary plan for a collection of the building and ornamental stones 
and rocks of the United States, to be exhibited at the World's In- 
dustrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-'85, at New Or- 
leans. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, 1884, pp. 573-574.) 
Also published as Museum Circular No. 25. 

RICHARD RATHBUN. 

Annotated list of the described species of Parasitic Copepoda, {Siphono- 
stoma) from American waters, contained in the United States Na- 
tional Museum. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 27,1884, pp. 483-492.) 
Twenty-six species previously described by American and European au- 
thorities are recorded from .specimens now in the Museum. Nine are recent 
additions to the fauna of North America. Most of the species were obtained 
from the New England coast by the U. S. Fish Commission, but several are 
from other regions, including Alaska. The paper is in the form of a record 
of specimens, complete data being given with reference to each entry of 
specimens. But few notes are added. 



356 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Notes OD the decrease of lobsters. 

(Trans. Amer. Fish Cult. Assoc, 18d4, pp. 201-208; Bull. U. S. Fish Com., 
iv, 1884, pp. 4-.il- 12G ; Forest aud Stream, xxiii, No. 5, August 28, 1884, p. 89.) 

A paper read at the thirteenth annual meeting of the American Fish Cul- 
tural Association, held in the U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C, 
May 13-15, 1884, aud based upon the returns of the Fishery Census of 1880, 

The American initiative in methods of deep-sea dredging. 

(Science iv (No. 76, July 18, 1884), pp. 54-57.) 

A brief historical sketch of deep-sea investigations by Americans, with 
special reference to improvements made in appliances for deep-sea dredging. 

American appliances for deep-sea investigation. 

(Science, iv (No. 81, Aug. 22, 1884), pp. 146-151 ; Science, iv (No. 84, Sept. 
12, 1884), pp. 225-229 ; Science, iv (No. 90, Oct. 24, 1884), pp. 400-404.) 

Brief descriptions, with illustrations of the deep-sea appliances for dredg- 
ing now in use by American explorers, and mainly devised or improved by 
members of the U. S. Fish Commission and U. S. Coast Survey. The paper 
is divided into the following subjects : The dredges; trawls and tangles ; wire- 
dredge rope, sieves, &c. 

CHARLES RAU. 

Extrait des Annales du Musee Guimet. Tome x. La St^le de Pa- 
leuqu6 * du Mus^e National des Etats-Unis, ^ Washington, par le 
Dr. Charles Ran. Traduit de 1' Anglais avec Autorisation de I'Au- 
teur. Lyon Imprimerie Pitrat Ain6, 4, rue Gentil, 4, 1884. Small 
quarto, pp. 1-103. 5 plates. 14 figures. 

Les Statuettes contrefaites du Mont Pisgah. Eeview. 
(Revue d'Ethnographie, iii. No. 1, Paris, 1884, p. 89.) 

Circular relative to Contributions of Aboriginal Antiquities to the 
United States National Museum. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. vi, 1883 (1884), pp. 479-483.) 
Printed in 1883 as Circular 21, U. S. National Museum. 

Smithsonian Contributious to Knowledge. 509. Prehistoric Fishing 
in Europe and North America. By Charles Eau. Washington 
City : Published by the Smithsonian Institution. 1884. 4to. 
i-xviii ; pp. 342. 406 illustrations. 

ROBERT RIDGWAY. 
Note on Zenaidura yucatanensis, Lawr. 

(The Auk, i, Jan., 1884, p. 96.) 

Critical remarks on the type specimen in the collection of the U. S. National 
Museum. 

'This work was also published in Spanish in 1880 under the title "Tablero del 
Palcuque en el Museo Nacional de los Estados-Unidos," as No. 3, vol. iii of the "Au- 
ales del Museo Nacional de Mexico." 



BIHLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 357 

Note ou Phnlacrocorax violaceus and P. violaceus resplendcns. 

(The Auk, i, April. 18S4, p. 165.) 
Appeudod to an article by N. S. Goes. 

Ortyx virgiuianiis not in Arizona. 

(Forest aiul Stream, xxii (No. 7, March 13, 1884), p. 124.) 
In reference to the asserted occnrrence of 0. rirtjinianns near Tncsoii, Ari- 
zona. The species eventually proved, as BUggested in tbo article above cited, 
to be O. (jraj/noni, Lawr. 

Southern limit of quail and grouse. 

(Forest and Stream, xxii (No. i:?, April 24, 1884), p. 243.) 
Correcting an error in an article in the preceding number, accrediting the 
Virginian Partridge, Ortyx viryinianus, and Ruffed Grouse, Bonasa vmbiUtiH, 
to Costa Rica; the species meant being Ortyx leylandi and Daidrorfyx macruriin. 

Remarks on two birds usually referred to the genus Parula, but which 
appear to be generically distinct, and for which the generic term 
Orcothlypis is proi)Osed. 

(The Auk, i, April, 1884, p. 169.) 

Incorporated with Dr. Stejneger's "Analecta Ornithologica," No. iii. 

On a collection of Birds from Nicaragua, by Charles C. Nutting, and 
edited by R. Ridgway. 

On some Costa Rican Birds, with descriptions of several supposed new 
species. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, 1883, April 11, 1884, pp. 410-415.) 
Cojyorffctfg anfowio;, Zeledoa (redescribcd); Vireo camiioli, Baird?; Pha'uico- 
thraiipia carmioU, Lawr.; Tachyphonus vitidissimus, Salv. ; T. hictuosus, Lafr. 
and D'Orb. ; Chlorospingiis pileatus, Salv.; Lanio melanopygiiis, Ridgw., sp. 
nov. ; Empidonax alriceps, Salv.; E. viridescens, Ridgw., sp. uov. ; ntlasoma 
michleri zeledoni, Ridgw., snbsp. nov. ; Acanthidops haii-di, Zeledou. A new 
generic name — Chlorothraupis, proposed for " Phcenicothratq.'is" cnrmioli, Lawr. 
In addition to the species mentioned above, a list is given of 18 other species, 
with localities and dates, and of 5 species obtained from Dr. Van Patten, 4 
of which were new to Costa Rica. 

Remarks upon the close relationship between the white and scarlet 
Ibises {End^cimns albus and U. ruber). 

(The Auk, i, .July, 1884, pp. 239-240.) 

Note on Astur atricapillus striatulus. 

(The Ank, i, July, 1884, pp. 252-253.) 

On the possible specific identity of Buteo cooperi, Cass., with B. harlani, 
Aud. 

(The Auk, i, July, 1884, pp. 253-2.54.) 

i*robable breeding of the Red Crossbill, Loxia curvirostra americana^ 
in Central Maryland. 

(The Auk, i, July, 1884, p. 292.) 

The probable breeding-place of Passercnlus princeps. 

(The Auk, i, July, 1884, p. 292.) 



358 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEimi, 1884. 

Another Kirtland's Warbler from Michigan. 

(The Auk, i, July, 1884, p. 389.) 

On a new Carpodectes from Southwestern Costa Eica. 

(The Ibis, fifth series, ii (No. 5, Jan., 1884), p. 27. One plate.) 

Kotes on three Guatemalan birds. 

(The Ibis, fifth series, ii (No. 5, Jan., 1884), pp. 43-45.) 
Chnjaomih'is atriceps, Salv., Ammodromus pel€7iicv8, Salv., and Spizella pineto- 
rum, Salv. 

Note on Selasphorus torridus, Salvin. 

(Pioc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, p. 14.) 

On MeJanettafusca (Linn.) in Alaska. • 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 11,1884, p. 68.) 

Description of a new Snow Bunting from Alaska. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 11,1884, pp. 68-70.) 
Ph'ctrophenax hyperhoreus ; McKay's Snow Bunting. 

On a collection of birds made by Messrs. J. E. Benedict and W. Nye, 
of the United States Fish Commission steamer Albatross. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, July 29,1884, pp. 172-180.) 

New species described are as follows: From the island of Curasao: (1) 
Mimits gilvKH rostratiis, (2) Dendroica rufopileata, (3) Icterus curasoensis, (4) 
Zenaida vinaceo-rufa. From the island of Old Providence, Caribbean Sea : 
(5) Certhiola tricolor, (6) Vireosyhia grandior, (7) Vireo approximans, (8) Elainea 
cinerascens. 

Description of a new species of Field Sparrow from New Mexico. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 22,1884, p. 259.) 
Spizella worthem. 

Description of a new species of Coot from the West Indies. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 17,1884, p. 358.) 

Fulica caribwa; islands of Guadeloupe and Saint Johns, Lesser Antilles. 

Account of exhibit of the Department of Birds in course of prepara- 
tion for the New Orleans Exposition. 

(The Auk, i, Oct., 1884, p. 403.) 

A general statement of the condition, extent, &c., of the bird collections 
of the National Museum. 

(The Auk, i, Oct., 1884, pp. 403-404.) 

Notes on some Japanese birds related to North American species. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, 1884, pp. 368-371.) 

The bird collection of the National Museum. 

(Science, iv (No. 95, Nov. 28,1884), pp. 496-497.) 

A general account of the origin, extent, arrangement, purpose, and condl- 
tion of the collection. 

[See also under Spencer Fullerton Baird.] 



I 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSKUM. 359 

CHARLES VALENTINE RILEY. 

Recent outbreaks of the ArHiy-wonu. 

(Rural New Yorker, 43, Jan. 12, 1884, p. 19.) 

Rare occurrence of Leucaiiia uiiipuncta in 1882 aud 18B3, followiug its last 
abuiiilant occurrence in 1881 ; occurrence of tlie larvaj ut Eaat Windsor, Vt., 
in June, 188:?. 

Recent advances in economic entomology. 

(Proc. Pbilos. Soc.Wasli., vii, 1884, pp. 10-12.) 
Separate, without title-page [Wash., 1884], pp. 10-12. 8vo. 
Abstract of conmiuuication made to Philosopliical Society of Wasliington, 
February 2, 1884; characteristics of economic entomology as a science, and 
difliculties of its prosecution ; n)ention of chief insecticide substances, and 
discHssiou of their ai)plicability ; notice of recent progress in mechanical 
appliances. 

Tribute to the memory of John Lawrence Leconte. 

(Psyche, 4, Nov.— Dec, 1883 [Feb. 11, 1884], pp. 107-110.) 

Separate : without title-page [Cambridge, Mass., Feb., 11, 1884], pp. 107- 
110. 8vo. 

Notice. Psyche, ut cit., ]>. 110. 

Biograi>hical notice of J. L. Leconte, b. May 13, 1825, d. Nov., 15, 1883; 
amount, character, and importance of Lecoute's work and writings ; his per- 
sonal character; his relations with G. H. Horn ; disposition of his entomo- 
logical collection. 

General truths in applied entomology. Essay. 

(Trans. Georgia State Agric. Soc, 1884, pp. 153-159.) 
General truths in applied Entomology; being a paper read before the 
Georgia State Agricultural Society, at Savannah, Ga., February 
12, 1884, by Charles V. Riley, Ph. D., United States Entomologist. 
Extracted from the Transactions of Georgia State Agricultural 
Society, 1884. With title-page and cover: pp. 153-159. 8vo. 

Importance of insects and of the stndy of economic entomology ; causes of 
the destructive prevalence aud amount of the ravages of insects in Nortli 
America : complicated nature of the problem which the economic entomolo- 
gist has to solve; mention of the principal insecticide substances in nse now 
and formerly ; special availability of several of these substances for certain 
purposes; transcendent importance of arsenical sub.stances (arsenic, Paris 
green and London purple), petroleum and pyrethrum for insecticide purposes; 
methods of preparation and u»;e of these latter substances; specific action of 
pyrethrum powder, its etiect on higher animals, and probable use in medicine 
and as a disinfectant ; petroleum emulsions against Phi/loxera vastatrix; 
mechanical devices for spraying liquid insecticides. 

The Army-worm, Leucania unipimcta^ Haw. 

(3d Rep. U.S. Entom. Com., 1883 [March 1884], pp. 89-156, pi. 1-2 ; cxpl, 
of pi. on p. 2 of ex pi. of pi.) 

The Army-worm ; being an account of its history and injuries in the 
United States up to the year 1883, with practical recommendations. 
Author's edition. 

(Extracted from the Third Report of the United States Entomological Com- 
mlBsion, 1883. Washington, March, 1884, pp. 89-150, pi. 1-2. 8 vo.) 



360 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

The army Worm, Lencania unipuncta Haw. Advance reprint. 

(Rep. [U. S.] Commies. Agric. for 1881 and 1882 [Jan., 1883.]) 
(Riley, C. V., Rep. of the Entomologist [Dec], 1882, p. 89-106 [29-46.]) 
Chapter 6 of 3d Report of U. S. Entomological Commission. Various sig- 
nificances of the term "army-Worm;" synonomy, geographical distribntion, 
ravages, seasons, food-plants, enemies and parasites of and means against 
Lencania unipuncta ; past history of this insect in detail; detailed descriptions 
of eggs, larva3 (at all stages), pupa, and imago ; sexual differences in images; 
figures of egg, larva, pupa, and imago, and of several parasites and enemies; 
detailed accounts of habits ; periods, prolificacy, oviposition, hibernation, and 
number of broods yearly ; causes of sudden appearance and disappearance ; 
bibliography of the literature concerning Leucania unipuncia. 

Canker-worms. 

(3d Rep.U. S.Entom. Com., 1883 [March, 1884], pp. 157-197, pi. 3 ; expl. of 
pi. on p. 2 of expl. of pi.) 

Canker worms ; being an account of the two species injurious to fruit 
and shade trees, with practical suggestions. Author's edition. 

(Extracted from the Third Report of the United States Entomological Com- 
mission, 1883." [Washington, 1884], pp. 157-198, pi. 3. 8vo.) 

Chapter 7 of 3d Report of U. S. Entomological Commission. Systematic 
position and general characteristics of Paleacrita vernata and Anisopteryx pome- 
taria ; nomenclature and synonomy, past history, geographical distribution, 
seasons, habits, food-plants, enemies, parasites and ravages of and means 
against these two species, with detailed tabular and comparative descriptions, 
and with figures of eggs, larvae, pupae, imagos, and details for their discrim- 
ination. 

Oviposition of the Eound-headed Apple-tree borer. 

(Rural New Yorker, 43, March 1, 1884, p. 132, ? fig. 73.) 
Notice of C. Gr. Atkins' " Eggs of Round-headed Apple-tree borer" (op. cit., 
January 12, 1884, p. 19), confirming Atkins' account of the method of oviposi- 
tion of Saperda bivittata, and describing this method, referring to and quoting 
from author's " New facts about the round-headed apple-tree borer " (N. Y. 
Weekly Tribune, February 20, 1878), in which the explanation of this method 
was fii'st published, and correcting several statements in Wm. Saunders' " In- 
sects injurious to fruits, " * * 1883," in regard to the oviposition of dif- 
ferent insects; description and figure of egg of S. iivittaia ; figures of the 
burrows and hole of exit of this beetle, and figures of the pupa and of the 
position of the egg when deposited. 

The Chinch-bug. (Another entomologist expresses his views regarding 
the farmers' pest.) 

(Watertown (N. Y.) Daily Times, March 27, 1884.) 

Notice of articles by J. A. Lintner on the occurrence of Blissus leucopterus 
in New York State, in unusual abundance, in 1882 and 1883 ; this occurrence 
not regarded as warrant for great alarm ; recommendations of means against 
this insect. 

A root-infesting insect. 

(Rural New Yorker, 43, April 5, 1884, p. 221.) 

Inquiry from H. P., of Archer, Fla,, with answer ; roots of several plants 
injured by nematodes of the genus Avguillula ; incomplete life-history of and 
suggestion of means against these worms. 



I 



MBLtOGRAPnY or IT. S. NATIO.^AL MtlSlZUjr. 361 

Notes on North American Psyllid.T. 

(Proc. Biol. Soc. Wasb., ii, 1882-1884, pp. G7-79.) 
Printeil as separate, with same title. WaKhington, April 10, 1884. 
Notice of earlier studies of European and North American PsylUda;; list of 
the 18 nominal species of PayllidcB hitherto described from North America; 
ftystomatic and synonymical list of the same ; descriptions of VachypatjUa, n. g. 
(psylUncv) and of its three known species — /*. rennnfa, P. celtidiH-mamma, and 
F. (Blaatojyhj/sa [new subgenus]) celtidi'i-genima,^. s}).; dicliotomic table of 
these three species of Pachypsylla ; descriptions of Ceropsylla, n. g. (Iriozina), 
C. sideroxjjli^ u. sp., Rh\nops\jlla, n. g. {triozinw), and Rh. achwarzii, n. sj). 

The Silk Industry in the United States. 

(Science, iii [No. 57, March 7, 1884], pp. 290-292.) 

Review of Wm. C. Wyckoff's "Silk manufacture in the United States" 
[not seen] ; early history and present status of silk-culture in North America; 
criticism of Wyckofl's estimates of the amount of silk raised in early times; 
respective relations of silk-culture and silk manufacture to questions of free 
trade and protection in the United States. 

Remarks on the Bag- worm : Thryidopferyx epliemerceformis. 

(To be published in Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., 2, 1882-1884 (April, 1884), pp. SO- 
BS, figs. 1-3.) 

Printed as separate. Washington, April 10, 1884. 

Explanation of the more important and less known facts in relation to the 
life-history of Thryidopteryx ephemerw/orviis, especially in reference to the act 
of coition and the occurrence of parthenogenesis; figures of the insect in all 
stages and of the external male genitalia. 

Introduction. (U. S. Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomol- 
ogy.) Reports of observations. [Bulletin, No. 4.] Washington, 
May 3, 1884, pp. 7-8. 

Notices of the several reports of agents of the Division of Entomology of 
the U. S. Department of Agriculture, published in Bulletin No. 4 of that 
division. 

Acronycta betulae, n. sp. 

(Bull. Brooklyn Entom. Soc, 7, May, 1884, pp. 2-3, fig, — .) 

Describes Acronycta letulw, n. sp., reared from Betula nigra; seasons and 

habits of larva; comparison with related species. 

* 

Quelques mots sur les insecticides aux fitats-Unis, et proposition d'un 
nouveau remade contre le Phylloxera. 

(Communication faite 5, la Soci6t6 d'Agriculture cte I'H^rault k la stance 
du 30juin 1884. Montpellier, 1884. pp. 1-8. 8vo.) 

Address made at meeting of Soci<?t6 d'Agriculture de l'H6rault, at-Mont- 
pellier, France, June 30, 1884. Resistant vines better than the best insecti- 
cides as a means against Phylloxera rasfatrix; mention of jirincipal insecticides 
in nse in America, especially arsenical substances, petroleum, and pyrethrum, 
the modern improved nse of which the anthor introduced; method of action 
and mode of application of these insecticides, especially ajjplication by the 
cyclone nozzle, and the subterranean application of kerosene emulsion as a 
means against Ph. vastatrix; believes tobacco vapor, under favorable condi- 
tions, TTonld kill this insect. 



3G2 REPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1834. 

"Riley {\ Montpcllier," 

With editorial iutroductiou, discussion, and an account of a ba-nquet in 
honor of Mr. Riley, which followed. 
(Messager du Midi, tome v, July 10, 1884, pp. 255-265.) 

The PsylUdm of the United States. 

(Proc. Amer. Assoc. Advanc. Sci., xxxii (1883), 1884 Riley, C. V. The psyl- 
lida) of the United States [Salem, Mass.], July, 1884, p. 319.) 

Abstract of communication made to American Associiitiou for the Advance- 
ment of Science at its Minneapolis meeting, August, 1883; characteristic and 
economic importance of Psijllido',; status of the present knowledge of this 
family in United States; list of the new genera and species described in the 
communication, with statement of the food-plants of these siiecies; charac- 
teristics of the eggs and young of rsijUidw. 

Some recent discoveries in reference to Phylloxera. 

(Proc. Amer. Assoc. Advanc. Sci., xxxii, 1883 (1884). (Riley, C. V. The 
PsyllulcB of the United States [Salem, Mass.], July, 1884), p. 320.) 

Abstract of communication made to American Association for the Advance- 
ment of Science, at its Minneapolis meeting, August, 1883 ; interest attaching 
to a knowledge of the life history of insects of the genus rhylloxera ; imper- 
fectness of this knowledge; degree to which it has attained; character of 
gall and location of impregnated egg of 7'/;. spiiiosa. 

Improved method of spraying trees for protection against insects. 

(Proc. Amer. Assoc. Advanc. Sci., xxxii, 1883 (1884), pp. 466-467.) 
Abstract of communication made to American Association for the Advance- 
ment of Science at its Minneapolis meeting, August, 1883 ; brief description 
of apparatus, especially of " cyclone nozzle " and adjustable hose, devised for 
spraying trees with various insecticides; mention of insecticide substances 
used. 

The Psyllidce of the United States. 

(Proc. Amer. Assoc. Advanc. Sci., xxxii, August, 1883 ; Minneapolis meeting 
(July 1884), pp. 319-320, 466-467. 8vo.) 

Separate of papers published by author in Proceedings of American Associ- 
ation for the Advancement of Science, xxxii, 1883(1884),. with following titles: 
The PsylUdai of the United States, p. 319. — Some recent discoveries in refer- 
ence to Phylloxera, p. 320. — Improved method of spraying trees for protection 
against insects, pp. 466-467. 

A new insect injurious to wheat. 

(Bull. Brooklyn Entom. Soc, vii, December, 1884, pp. 111-112.) 
Separate [Brooklyn, N. Y., December, 1884], p. 111. 8vo. 
Describes larva, pupa, and female imago of Isosoma ^rande ["grandis Err."] 
n. sp., reared from wheat stems in Indiana. 

Report by C. V. Riley. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, July 27, 1883 (1884), pp. 104-105.) 
Review of F. Humbert's "Lucilia macellaria infesting man" (op. cit., pp. 
103-104); identification of the insect mentioned in that article, with refer- 
ence to other mentions of it, and remarks on its geographical distribution and 
means against it. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OV V. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 3G3 

lusects in relation to agriculture. 

(Encyclopa'dia Britaimica, Aiuer. od., 1884 [not seen], pp. 13.''>-142, iign. 
1-29.) 

ChapterOof article "Agriculture." Brief «ccount.s, with numerous illustra- 
tions, of tlie insects named below, and of means against them, with cross-refer- 
ences to accounts of other insects in other portions of the work. The headings 
and sulijects of the sub-chapters are as follows: Importaxck ok Economic 
Entomology, p. 13."). — Inskcts In.iuuious to Fruit and Fruit-trkks. — 
Apple ourculio (The), Anthonomus quadriijibbits, Say, p. 1:55, fig. 1. — Apple- 
maggot (The), or "railroad-worm," Tnipcta pomoncUa, Walsh., p. 135. — Wliite- 
marked tussock-moth (The), Orgi/ia lencosiigma, Sm. and Abb., pp. 13.')-l:!r), fig. 
2. — Apple-tree tent-caterpillar (TIio), Clixiocampa americatia, Ilarr., p. 13(), tigs. 
3-4. — Fall webb-worm (The), Hyphtintria tcxtor, HaiT., p. i3G, fig. .'). — Oyster- 
shell bark-louse of the Apple (The), ili/tilasjyiH jjroDticoriinH, Riley, pp. 136- 
137, fig. G. — Round-headed Apple-tree borer (The), Sapcrda hinittaia. Say, p. 
137, fig. 7. — Flat-headed Apple-tree borer (The), Clirysobothrisfemorata,Fahr., 
p. 137. — Spring Canker-worm (The), Paleacrita vernata, Peck, p. 137, figs. 8-9. — 
Fall Canker-worm (The), Anisoptertix pometar'ia, Harris, p. 137, figs. 10-11.-:— 
Peach-tree borer (The), JEgeria exidosa, Say, lip. 137-13-^, fig. 12. — Currant- 
stalk borer (The), ^Egn-ia lipnliformis, Jj., -p.V.^S. — Imi)orted currant-worm 
(The), Xematus reniricoaus, King., p. 138, figs. 13-14. — Native currant-worm 
(The), rristiphora grossiihrio', Walsh, p. 138. — Snowy tree-cricket (The), 
fEcanthus virena, Uarr., T[}.V^S, figs. la-lG.— Inskct.s Injurious to Cerkals 
AND FoKAGK CROPS. — White grub (The), Lachnoatcrna fnsca, Froh., pp. 138- 
139, tig. 17. — Clover-seed midge ^Tlie), CecidomyUi legiiminUola, 'L\\\\uev,\t. 
139. — Joint-worm (The), Jsosoma hordei, Harr., p. 139, fig. 18. — Wheat-midge 
(The), Diplosis tritici, Kiiby, p. 139. — Cut-worms, family Noctiiid(e, genera 
Agroiifi, Mamcstra, Hadena, and I'rodenia, p. 139. — Wire worms, family Elaie- 
ridce, p. 139.— Insects Injurious to Garden Vegetables. — Imported cab- 
bage-worm (The), Pieris rapw, Schrauk, p. 139, figs. 19-20. — Southern cabbage 
buttertly (The), Piet-is protadice, Boisd, p. 140. — Potherb butterfly (The), 
Pieris olevacea, Boisd, p. 140. — Cabbage plusia (The), Phma hrassicce, Riley, 
p. 140, fig. 21. — Harlequin cabbage-bug (The), Mnrgantia Imtnonka, Hahn,, 
p. 140, fig. 22. — Pea-weevil (The), Bruclnts pxsi, Linn., p. 140, fig. 23. — Bean- 
weevil (The), Bruchns fahw, Riley, p. 140, fig. 24.— Blister-bcet4es, meloid 
genera, Macroha&ia, Epicaiita, &c., p. 140, fig. 2.5. — Striped cucumber-beetle 
(The), Diahrotica riHafa, Fabr., pp. 140-141, fig.s. 26-27.— Insects Injuring 
miscellaneous Field-crops. — Cotton-boll worm (The), or corn-ear worm, 
Heliothis armigera, Ilubn., p. 141, fig. 28.— Tobacco- worm (The), Sj)hinx Caro- 
lina, L., p. 141. — Insects Inmurious to the Vine. — Insects Injurious to 
live-stock. — Bot-fly of Cattle (The), Hypodervia boris, Latr., p. 141.— Sheep 
bot-fly (The), (Eatrvs ovia, Linn., p. 141, fig. 29.— Horse bot-fly (The), Gastro- 
philua eqtii, Fabr., pp. 141-142.— [List of principal American writers and 
writings upon insects in relation to Agriculture], p. 142. [The above 
sub-chapters are not separately recorded.] 

The articles to which cross-references are made are the following: Army 
worm, chinch-bug, coddling-moth, Colorado potato-beetle, cotton-worm, Hes- 
sian fly. locust, phylloxera, plum curculio. 

Army-worm, Lencania unipuncta, Harr. 

(Encydop.Tdia Briftanica, Amer. ed., 1884 [not seen], pp. 317-318,2 figs.) 
Geograpliical distribution, seasons, habits, and food-plants of and means 

against I^uoania unipuncta ; references to the more important articles on this 

insect ; figure of larva and imago. 



364 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Orthoptera. 

(Standard Natural History (The), ii, 1884, pp. 167-203, figs. 243-285, 1 pi.) 
Systematic position and limitations, classilicational characters, transforma- 
tions, molts, and geographical and geological distribution of the order Or- 
thoptera; characters, habits, and distribution of the several families; mention 
of the principal North American and of some foreign species, with more par- 
ticular accounts of many species, especially in regard to their stridulation, 
oviposition, and previously unrecorded life-history facts, with figures of a 
few species and of their eggs. The species mentioned most at length are: 
Ectobia germanica, Phasmomaniis Carolina, D'mplieromera femorata, (Ecanthus 
niveus, O. latipennis, Oroeharis salfafor, Comptonotus scudderi, Cyrtophyllue con- 
cavus, Microcentum retinerve, and Caloptenits spretus. 

JOHN ADAM RYDER. 

On apparatus for collecting oyster spat. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, p. 373.) 

On the forces wliich determine the survival of fish embi^os. 

(Transactions of the American Fish Cultural Association, 1884. (Thirteenth 
annual meeting), pp. 195-199. (Forest & Stream, Aug. 14, 1884, pp. 50-.51.) 

Journal of operations on the grounds of the Eastern Shore Oyster Com- 
pany on Chincoteague Bay, near Stockton, Md., during the sum- 
mer of 1883. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 43-47.) 

Carp do eat young fishes. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, p. 152.) 

Eeport respecting the present condition and future prospects at Saint 
Jerome's Creek for the work of oyster-culture. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 235-237.) 

Floats for the so-called fattening of oysters. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 302-303.) 

Note on the regeneration of the scales of the German carp. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 345-346.) 

On the cause of the greening of oysters. 

(Reports.: U. S. Fish Com., 1882 (1884), pp. 793-801.) 

A translation of "Notice sur la cause du verdissement des hultres," par M. 
Puys^gur, in Rev. Maritime et Coloniale.pp. 11, 1 pi. Paris, Berger-Levrault 
et Cie., 1880. 

On accounts of experiments in oyster-culture and observations relating 
thereto. (Second series.) 

(Report : U. S. Fish Com., 1882 (1884), pp. 763-778.) 

On a new form of filter or diaphragm to be used in the culture of oys- 
ters in ponds. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com:, iv, 1«84, pp. 17-31.) 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 365 

A contributiou to tbc cmbryograpliy of osseous lisbes. 

(Report: U. S. Fish Com., 18d2 (1684), pp. 4o5-()05. Plates I-XIL 11 
ligurt'6.) 

Ou tbe preservation of embryoiiic materials aud small organisms, 
togetber witb bints upon embedding aud mouutiug sections serially. 
(Report : U. S. Fish Corn., 1882 (1884), pp. 607-^29.) 

Supplementary note on tbe coloration of tbe blood corpuscles of tbe 
oyster. 

(Report : U. S. Fish Com., 1882 (1884), pp. 801-805.) 

On tbe development of Mola. 

(Science, iv. No. 93, Nov. 14, 1884). 
Also in Bulletin of Science, iv. 

The side organs of Gastrostomus. 

(American Naturalist, xviii (No. 5, May, 1884), p. 547.) 
Abstract. 

On a skin-parasite of tbeQunner, Ctenolabrus adspersm. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 37-42.) 

On tbe literature aud systematic relations of the Saccopharyngoid 
fishes. 

[See under Theodore Gill, p. 373.] 

Morphology and evolution of the tail of osseous fishes. 

(Science, iv (No. 87, Oct. 3, 1884), pp. 341-342.) 

Abstract of paper read before the American Association for the Advance- 
ment of Science in Philadelphia, September, 1884. 

The pedunculated lateral-line organs of Gastrostartms. 

(Amer. Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 547. Science, iii (Mo. 48, Jan. 4, 1884)^ 
p. 5.) 

A sketch of tbe life history of the oyster. 

(Appendix II of "A Review of the Fossil Ostreidss of North America," in 
Fourth Annual Report of the Director U. S. Geological Survey, 1882-1883 
(18S4), pp. 317-333, plates Ixxiii-lxxxii. 

On some points in microtomy. 

(The Amer. Monthly Microscop. Jour., v (No. 10, Oct., 1884), pp. 190-191). 

On the chlorophylloid granules of Vorticella. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 9-12, 1 figure. 
Critique. 

[See under Theodork Nicholas Gill aud John Adam Ryder.] 

ROBERT EDWARDS CARTER STEARNS. 

Transportation of clauiN and oysters. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1^84, pp. 219-220.) 



366 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

LEONHARD STEJNEGER. 

Dendrocopus purus, a new species of woodpecker from Kamtschatka. 

(The Auk, i, Jan., 1884, pp. 35-36.) 
Typo iu National Museum collecWou. 

Ou changes iu oruitliological iiomeuclature. 

A rojjly to critics. 

(The Auk, i, April, 1884, pp. 114-120.) 

Based ou researches prosecuted at the U. S. National Museum. 

Notes on the genus Acanthis. 

(The Auk, i, April, 1884, pp. 145-156.) 

Based on material contained in the collection of the National Museum. 

Contributions to the history of the Commander Islands, No. 2. In- 
vestigations relating to the date of the extermination of Steller's 
sea-cow. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vil, July 29, 1884, pp. 181-189.) 
Aualecta Ornithologica. I. The occurrence of Turdus alicice in the 
Palsearctic region. II. On the earliest available name of the Amer- 
ican Titlark. III. A brief review of the synonjmy of the genus 
CompsotJdypis (= Farula). IV. On the earliest available name of 
the Cardinal Grosbeak. V. More " Ornithophilologicalities." 

(The Auk, i, April, 1884, pp. 166-173.) 

A series of most important articles based wholly upon material in, and 
researches prosecuted at, the National Museum. 

Analecta Ornithologica. (Second series.) VI. On the Ptarmigans of 
Nelson's "Birds of Bering Sea," &c., especially those belonging to 
the group Attagen, Kaup. VII. On some changes necessary iu 
Nortli American and Euroi)ean Ornithological Nomenclature, if 
g< neric appellations previously applied in botany be not rejected. 
VIII. ^Larus scMstisagus, a new species of gull from the North Pa- 
cific. IX. Priocella tenuirostris (Aud.) not a bird of Bering Sea or 
the Arctic Ocean. X. Cn old and new generic names. 

(The Auk, i, July, 1884, pp. 225-236.) 
Aualecta ornithologica. (Third series). XL Notes on Arctic Lari. 
XII. Ghrysomitris or Spinus f XIII. On the systematic name of 
the American Hawk Owl. XIV. Ou Sterna nil»tica of Hasselquist. 
XV. Eabia against Zamclodia. XVI. Ou the oldest available name 
for Wilson's Phalarope. 

(The Auk, i, July, 1884, pp. 358-367.) 
A new subspecies of willow grouse, from Newfoundland. 

(The Auk, i, July, 1884, p. 368.) 
On the use of trinomials iu American Ornithology. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Juno 11, 1884, pp. 70-81.) 

K(>.maiks on the species of the genus Gfpphus. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. iMus., vii, August 5, 1884, pp. 210-229. Six figures.) 
A very important mouographic essay. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 367 

A brief review of tbo Lagopodes belonging to the group Attagen, Kaup. 

(Zoitet'lirift. fiir die <;osamuite Ornitholoyic (Budaiu'st, Hungary) 1, Jalir- 

paiiji, 1H84, pp. H-)-f)',>. Plato V. 
Basod exclusively on six-cinu'U.s in thf National Museum CDlleftiou. 

On the .shodding of the claws in tl)c Ttannigans and allied birds. 
(Americau Naturalist, August, 1884, pp. 774-771).) 

FREDERICK WILLIAM TRUE. 

Great International Fisberies Exhibition. Loudon, 1883. United States 
of America. H. Catalogue of the Aquatic Mammals exhibited by 
the United States I^ational Museum. By Frederick W. True, cur- 
ator of the Department of Mammals, United States National Mu- 
seum. "Washington : Government Printing Ofifice. 1884. 8vo. 
pp. 1-21*. 

A muskrat with a round tail. 

(Scieucp, iv (No. 75, July 11, 1884), p. 34.) 

On a new muskrat, Neojiber alleni, from Florida. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, July 29, 1884, pp. 170-172.) 

Descriptiou of a new species and genus, intermediate between Fiber and 
the Arvicolas. 

Barbirussa tusks from an Indian grave in British Columbia. 

(Science, iv (No.7ri, July 11, 1884), p. 34.) 

Photographs of the interior of a coal mine. 

(Scieuce, iv (No. 84, Sept. 12, 1884), pp. 223-224.) 

Note upon some photographs taken by the Metallurgical Department for 
exhibition at the New Orleans Exposition. 

Suggestions to the keepers of the U. S. life-saving stations, light- 
houses, and liglit-shii)s; and to other observers, relative to the best 
means of collecting and preserving specimens of whales and por- 
poises. 

(Extracted from the Annual Report of the Commissioner of Fish and Fish- 
eries for 1883 (1884), and printed as a si parate). 8vo. pp. 1-26. Plates i-xi. 

Contains, in addition to detailed instructions for collecting cetaceans, a list 
of, an artiticial key to, and figures of, all the genera. 

Provisional j)lan for a collection of mammals to be exhibited at the 
World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-'85, 
at Xew Orleans. 

A provisional list of the mammals of North and Central America, 
and the West Indian Islands. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat, Mus., vii, 1884, pp. 585-611.) 

This paper was also published as Circular 29, U. S. National Museum. 
Contains an euunieratinu of all the species and varieties of mammals found 
north of the Isthmus of Panama, both terrestrial and aquatic. 

Bot-tlies in a turtle. 

(Science, iv (No. 1)6, Dec. 5, 1884), p. 511.) 

Porj)oise-fishing at Cape JMa^', New Jersey. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 431-432.) 



368 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884, 

On the skeleton of Phoca {Histno2)Jioca) fasciata, Zimmerman. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, 1883, pp. 417-426, April 11, 1884. Plates xi-xiv.) 
Gives a description of the entire skeleton of the Ribbon Seal, based upon a 
specimen obtained in Alaska in 1880, by Mr. Wm. ll. Dall. Hisiriophoca is 
regarded as a subgenus in the genus Phoca, between Piisa and Pagophilus. 

The Lorillard Charnay collection. 
(The Century, Feb., 1884.) 

Notes upon the collection of casts of Toltec iascrii)tions and sculpture re- 
cently received by the Museum. 

CHARLES DOOLITTLE WALCOTT. 
Appendages of the Trilobite. 

(Science, iii (No. 57, March 7, 1884), pp. 279-281, 3 figures.) 
Notes on the original specimen described by Prof. Mickleborough (Cin. 
Jour. Nat. Hist., vi, 1883, p. 200). 

Notes on Paleozoic rocks of Central Texas. 

(Amer. Jour. Sci., xxviii, Dec, 1884, pp. 431-433.) 

Notes on the discovery of the Grand Canon of the Colorado, Arizona, in 
Central Texas, and the mode of occurrence of the Potsdam formation and 
fauna, and the granite of Burnet and Llano counties. 

United States Geological Sarvey. J. W. Powell, director. On the Cam- 
brian faunas of North America. Preliminary studies, by Charles 
Doolittle Walcott. Washington: Government Printing Office. 
1884. 8vo. pp. 1-74. Plates i-x. 

This is a review of the fauna of the St. John formation contained in the 
Hartt collection at Cornell University, also of the fauna of the Braintree 
argillities, and a description of a new genus and species of Phyllopoda, from 
the Middle Cambrian of Vermont. A duplicate series of the St. John species 
■will be given to the National Museum. 

United States Geological Survey. J. W. Powell, director. Paleontology 
of the Eureka district. By Charles Doolittle Walcott. Washing- 
ton: Government Printing Office, 1884. 4to. pp. i-xiii, 1-298, 
Plates i-xxiv. 

This vroik forms volume viii of the series of monographs published by the 
U. S. Geological Survey. 

Deer Creek coal field, White Mountain Indian reservation, Arizona. 

(Rei)orfc and Appendix U. S. Senate Ex. Doc, No. 20, 48th Congress, 2d ses- 
sion, pp. 2-7, Nov. 28, 1884.) 

LESTER FRANK WARD. 
On Mesozoic Dicotyledons. 

(Amer. Journ. Sci. , 3d series, vol. xxvii, April, 1884, pp. 292-303 ; Annals and 
Magazine of Nat. Hist. (London), 5th series, vol. xiii. May, 1884, pp. 3'*3-396.) 

An historical review, with numerous bibliographical citations, of the dis- 
covery of dicotyledonous plants in the Cretaceous formation, and an attempt 
to correlate the various horizons and localities where found ; also an enumer- 
ation of the species from each horizon. Concluding reflections upon th^ 
probable Jurassic origin of the subclass Dicotyledon^. 



I 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL, MUSElBf. 369 

List of plants added to the Flora of Washington and vicinity, from April 
1, 1882, to April 1, 1884. 

(To be published in Proc. Biol. Soc. of Wash., vol. ii.) 

Printed as a separate, April 10, 1884. 

This is a eontiuuatiou of the general catalogue as published in Balletin 
No. 22, U. S. National Museum (guide to the Flora of Washington and vicin- 
ity), and conforms in arrangement, type, Ac, as nearly as possible, with that 
publication. 

Oaulinites and Zamiostrobus. 

(Science, iii (No, 65, May 2, 1884), pp. 532^33.) 

Reply to a letter by Mr. Joseph F. James, in a previous number of Science, 
criticising Mr. Lesquereux's figures of these fossil plants in his " Tertiary 
Flora." 

The claims of political science. 

(Science, iii (No. 72, June 20, 18c!4), p. 748.) 

A brief note contrasting the treatment of political phenomena by scientific 
men with that of other departments of natural phenomena, and maintaining 
their essential homogeneity. 

The Upper Missouri River system. (Illustrated.) 

(Popular Science Monthly, xxv(No. 149, Sept., 1884), pp. 594-605.) 
A description of the process by which the Upper Missouri and Yellowstone 
Rivers excavate and transform their valleys, based upon personal olierva- 
tiona chiefly made while descending the Missouri in an open boat, from Fort 
Benton to Bismarck, in August and September, 188.*?. 

Irrigation in the Upper Missouri and Yellowstone Vallefrs. 

(Science, iv (No. 82, Aug. 29, 1884), pp. 166-168.) 

In this article the practicability and importance of irrigating the valleys of 
these rivers is pointed out, and the advantage of making it a national enter- 
prise to be conducted by the Government is considered. 

Sweet Cicely as a bur. 

(Bull, of the Torrey Botanical Club, New York, xi, August, 1884, pp. 92-93.) 
A note pointing out that seeds of Osmorrhiza longittylit are adapted to being 
distributed by animals in the manner of bars. 

Mind as a social factor. 

(Mind (London), ix, October, 1884, pp. 563-573.) 

This paper was read before the Anthropological Society of Washington, 
February 19, 1884, as the vice-presidential address for the Sociological Sec- 
tion. It was also read before the Metaphysical Club of Johns Hopkins Uni- 
versity, April 22, 1884. It is an attempt to show that psychic phenomena, as 
produced by beings with a highly-developed brain, have constituted a class 
so far superior to all other forms of activity, that they must be treated by the 
sociologist as distinct and not regarded as identical with the physical forces 
of inanimate nature, as is practically done in the current laisnez /aire phi- 
losophy. 

The fossil flora of the globe. 

(Botanical Gazette, iv, October and November, 1884, pp. 169-174.) 
An abstract of three papers on this subject read September 8, 1884, before 
the Biological Section of the American Association for the Advancement of 
Science at Philadelphia. The subject is treated from the historical, geo- 
logical, and botanical standpoints, and a tabular exhibit of the numerical 
status of vegetable paleontology is appended. 

p. Mis. 33, pt. 2- — 24 



370 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

CHARLES ABIATHAR WHITE. 

Description of certain aberrant forms of the chamidae from the Cretace- 
ous rocks of Texas. 

(Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 4, 1884, pp. 5 (93)-9 (97). Plates i-v.) 
Based on material in the National Museum. 

On a small collection of Mesozoic fossils obtained in Alaska by Mr. W. 
H. Dall, of the U. S. Coast Survey. 

(Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 4, 1884, pp. 10 (98)-1.5 (103). Plate vi.) 
Based on material in 'National Museum. 

On the nautiloid genus, Enclimatoceras, Hyatt, aud a description of the 
type-species. 

(Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 4, 1884, pp. 16 (104)-17 (105). Plates vii-ix.) 
Based on Museum material. 

Fossils of the Indiana rocks, No. 3. 

(Thirteenth Annual Report of the State Geologist of Indiana, pp. 107-180. 
Plates 23-29.) 

Based i n part on Museum material. 

The enemies and parasites of the oyster, past and i)resent. 

(Science, iii (No. 68, May 23, 1884), p. 618.) 

On the adaptability of the prairies for artificial forestry. 

(Science, iii (No. 62, April 11, 1884), pp. 438-443.) 

Glacial drift in Montana and Dakota. 

(American Journal of Science, 3d series, xxvii (No. 158, Feb., 1884), pp. 
112-113.) 

On the character and function of the epiglottis in the bull-snake 
(Pityophis). 

(American Naturalist, xviii (No. 1, Jan., 1884), pp. 19-21. Two wood-cuts.) 
Based in part on Museum material. 

The permanence of the domestic instinct in the cat. 

(American Naturalist, xviii (No. 2. Feb., 1884), pp. 213-214.) 

Certain phases in the geological history of the North American Conti- 
nent, biologically considered. 

Published in pamphlet form and intended for vol. it, Proceedings of the 
Washington Biological Society. 

HENRY CRI5CY YARROW, 

Case of poisoning from the bite of a copperhead {Ancistrodon contortrix, 
Linn.). 

(Trans. American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Philadelphia, 1884, n. s., 
clxxiv, pp. 423-435.) 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 371 



PART III.— PAPERS BY INVESTIGA TORS NOT OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM, 
BASED ON MUSEUM MATERIAL. 



THOMAS MAYO BREWER, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 

[See under Spexckr Fullertox Baird.] 

THOMAS MAREAN CHATARD, 
Chemist, U. S. Geological Survey. 

[See under Frank Wigglesvvorth Clarke.] 

ELLIOTT COUES, 
Professor of Anatomy, Medical Department, Columbian University, Washington. 

Key to North American birds, coutaming a coucise account of every 
species of living and fossil bird at present known from the conti- 
nent north of the Mexican and United States boundary, inclusive 
of Greenland. Second edition, revised to date, and entirely re- 
written ; with which are incorporated General Ornithology ; an 
outline of the structure and classification of birds ; and Field Or- 
nithology ; a manual of collecting, preparing, and preserving birds. 
By Elliott Coues, M. A., M. D., Ph. D., member of the National 
Academy of Sciences, &c. Profusely illustrated. Boston : Bstes 
and Lauriat. 1884. Imp. 8vo. pp. i-x; 1-863. 

HENRY WOOD ELLIOTT. 

The monk-seal of the West Indies, Monachiis tropicalvi, Gray. 

(Science, iii (June 20, 1884), pp. 752-753.) 

Contains a figure of the specimen obtained for the Museum by Professor 
Poey, in Cuba, and notes upon the history of the species. 

The destruction of carp by the musk-rat {Fiber zibethictis). Methods 
of trapping the rodent. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv (1884), pp. 296-297.) 

WALTER FAXON, 
Assistant Professor of Zoolofjy, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. 

Contributions from the Zoological Laboratory of the Museum of Com- 
parative Zoology at Harvard College. No. VII. Descriptions of 
new species of Camharus ; to which is added a synonymical list of 
the known species of Cambarus and Astacus. 

(Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sciences, xx, 1884, pp. 107-1.'58.) 

Describes the following new species from the collection of U. B. National 
Museum : 

Page. 

Cambarus pubesccns, Faxon 109 

Cambarus simulans, '' 112 

CambaruH argillicola, " , 115 



372 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Cambarus Girardianns, Faxon 117 

CambaruH Palmeri, " 124 

Cambarus alabamensia, " 125 

Cambarus compressus, " 127 

Cambarus forceps, " 133 

Cambarus Sbufeldtii, " 134 

Twelve additional species aie also described from other sources. The 
eynonymical list coutaius the names of 69 species, of which 56 species (51 of 
Oamharus and 5 of Astactis) are found within the limits of the United States. 

CHARLES H. FERNALD, 
Professor of Natural History, State College, Orono, Me. 

Directions for collecting, preserving, and transporting tortricids and 
other small moths. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, 1884, pp. 577-579.) 
Also published as Museum circular, No. 27. 

SAMUEL GARMAN, 
Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. 

The reptiles of Bermuda. By Samuel Garman, Museum of Compara- 
tive Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. From Bulletin No. 25, TJ. S. IsTa- 
tional Museum. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1884. 
8vo. pp. 286-303. 

CHARLES H. GILBERT, 
Instructor in Zoology, Indiana University. 

A list of fishes collected in the east fork of White River, Indiana, with 
descriptions of two new species. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 5, 1884, pp. 199-205.) 

Notes on the fishes of Switz City Swamp, Green County, Indiana, 
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mue., vii, Aug. 5, 1884, pp. 206-210. 
[See under David Starr JoRDAJf and Charles H. GrLBKRT.] 

THEODORE NICHOLAS GILL, 
Professor of Zoology, Columbian University. 

Synopsis of the genera of the super-family Tetithidoidea, (families Tewtht- 
didce and Siganidce). 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 28, 1884, pp. 275-281.) 
[Review of the Progress] of Zoology. 

(Smithsonian Report, pp. 565-632, for 1882 (1884). 

Synopsis of the Plectognath fishes. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 18, 1884, pp. 411-427.) 
Not© on the Sternoptychidse. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 4, 1884, pp. 349->351.) 



HlblJOlJKAPHV or r. S. NAIIONAI, Ml'>iEi:.M. 'M'6 

The osteological characteiistics oi the Lut.janiuai. 
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mu8., vii, Sept. 4, 11^64, pp. 351-355.) 

A contribution to the terminology of ichthyography. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 17, 1884, pp. 356-357.) 

What are the Euryphaiyngidae 1 

(Nature, xxix, p. 2:Hi, .Jan. 10, 1884.) 

THEODORE NICHOLAS GILL AND JOHN ADAM RYDER. 

Note on Eurypharynx and an allied new genuB. 
(Zoologischer Auzei^ter, vii, 1884, pp. 119-123.) 

On the literature and systematic relations of the saccopharyugoid tishes. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Juno 3, 1884, pp. 48-65. ) 

JOHN HENRY GURNEY, 

Xorthrepps, Norwich, England. 

On the species of the genus Pernis inhabiting Japan. 

(The Ibis, 5th series, ii (No. 7. July, 1884), pp. •27.^-277.) 

A list of the diurnal birds of prey, with references and annotations; 
also a record of specimens preserved in the Norfolk and Norwich 
Museum. By John Henry Guruey. London: John Yan Voor.st, 
1 Paternoster Row, E. C. 1884. 8vo. i-xv; pp. 1-187. 

Contains frequent references to specimeus iu the U. S. National Musenm 
collection. 

GWYNNE HARRIS HEAP, 
Consul-General of the United Slates at Constantinople. 

On an antique Roman mosaic from Carthage, now in the United States 
National Museum. 

Il (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. , vi, 1883 ( 1884), pp. 415-417. ) 

■ This is an intere.sting account of the discovery of the " Mosaic Lion," and 

■ the manner in which it was obtained by the British agent from an old Arab 
" sbeik. 

HENRY WETHERBEE HENSHAW, 
Ethnologist, hureau of Ethnology. 

Description of a new song sparrow from the- southern border of the 
United States. 

(The Auk, new series, i (No. 3, July, 1884), pp. 2*23-2'24.) 
Melospiza fasciata montana. This paper is based entirely ou specimens lu 
tbe Natioual Muiseum collection. 

I, 

i On a new gull from Alaska. 

(The Auk, new series, i (No. 3, July, 1884), pp. 250-252.) 
Larus nelsuni ; type in the U. S. National Museum. 

The shore larks of the United States and adjacent territory. 

(The Auk, new series, i (No. 3. July, 1854 ), pp. 254-268.) 



374 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

ERNEST INGERSOLL, 
New Haven, Connecticut. 
Snow-spectacles. 

(Wide Awake, May, 1884. Five wood-cuts.) 

Text and illastrations based upon Museum material. 

JOHN MATTHEW JONES, 
Waierville, Nova Scotia. 

The inanimals of Bermuda. By John Matthew Jones, F. E. S. C, Fern 
Lodge, Waterville, Nova Scotia. From Bulletin No. 25, U. S. Na- 
tional Museum. Washington : Government Printing OflSce. 1884. 
8vo. pp. 143-161. 

[See under George Brown Goode and John Matthew Jones.] 

DAVID STARR JORDAN, 
Premdent Indiana University, Blooviington, Ind. 

Notes on a collection of fishes from Pensacola, Fla., obtained by Silas 
Stearns, with descriptions of two new species {Exocoetus volador and 
Onathypops mystacinus). 

(Proc. IT. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 33-40.) 

Note on ^lurichthys eydouxii and Porichthys porosissimuft. 
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Juno 3,1884, pp. 40-41.) 

An identification of the figures of fishes in Catesby's natural history of 
Carolina, Florida, and the Bahama Islands. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, July 29, 1884, pp. 190-199.) 

List of fishes collected in Lake Jessup and Indian River, Florida, by 
Mr. R. E. Earll, with descriptions of two new species. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 1, 1884, pp. 322-324.) 

List of fishes collected at Key West, Fla., with notes and descriptions. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, July 7, 1884, pp. 103-150.) 

Notes on fishes collected at Guaymas, Mexico, by Mr. H. F. Emeric, 
with a description of Gobiosoma histrio, a new species. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.. vii, Aug. 22,1884, pp. 260-261.) 

List of fishes collected in the vicinity of New Orleans, by Dr. R. W. 
Shufeldt, U. S. A. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,' vii, Aug. 28, 1884, pp. 318-324.) 

Descriptions of four new species of Poecilichthys in the United States 
National Museum. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 27, 1884, pp. 477-480.) 

The fishes of Florida Keys. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1882 (1884), pp. 77-80.) 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IT. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 375 

DAVID STARR JORDAN AND CHARLES H. GILBERT. 

A review of the species of the genus Calamus. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 14-24.) 

A series of specimens representing each of these species is in tlie United 
States National Museum. 

Descriptions of ten new species of fishes from Key West, Fla. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 24-32.) 

Typical specimens are in the United States National Mubeum. 

Note on Caranx ruber and Caranx Bartholomcei. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 32-33.) 

Note on Calamus proridens, a new species of Calamus. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, July 8, 1884, p. 150.) 

Description of Scicena sciera, a new species of 8ci(ma from Mazatlan and 
Panama. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 27, 1884, pp. 480-482.) 

DAVID STARR JORDAN AND SETH E. MEEK. ' 

List of fishes observed in the Saint John's River, at Jacksonville, Fla. 

(Proc. IJ. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 5,1884, pp. 235-237.) 

Description of four new species of Cyprinidoi in the United States Na- 
tional Museum. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., vii, Sept. 27, 1884, pp. 474-477.) 

Description of Zygonectes zonifer, a new species of Zygonectes, from Nash- 
ville, Ga. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mns., vii, Sept. 27,1884, p. 482.) 

DAVID STARR JORDAN AND JOSEPH SWAIN. 

Descriptions of Scaroid fishes from Havana and Key West, including 
five new species. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mns., vii, July 1, 1884, pp. 81-102.) 

Notes on fishes collecteil by David S. Jordan at Cedar Keys, F.la, 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 5, 1884, pp. 230-234.) 

A review of the American species of marine Mugilidce. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mns., vii, Aug. 22, 1884, pp. 261-275.) 

A review of the species of the genus Hcemulon. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Ang. 28, 1884, pp. 281-317.) 

A review of the American species of Epinephelus and related genera. 
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 17, 1884, pp. 358-410.) 

A review of the species of Lutjanince and Hoplopagrince found in Ameri- 
can waters. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 19, 1884, pp. 427-474.) 



376 REPORT OF I^ATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

JOHN HENRY LEFROY, 
Athenceum Club, London. 
The Botany of Bermuda. By General Sir John Henry Lefroy, F. R. S., 
Athenaeum Club, London. From Bulletin No. 25, U. S. National 
Museum. Washington: Government Printing Of&ce. 1884. 8vo, 
pp. 33-141. 

MEEK, SETH E. 

[See under Davld Starr .Jordan aud Srth E. Mkek, and under Josrpu 
Swain and Seth E. Meek. ] 

CLINTON HART MERRIAM, 

Locust Grove, N. T. 

On a bird new to the Bermudas, with notes upon several species of 

rare or accidental occurrence in these islands. By Clinton Hart 

Merriam, M. 1), From Bulletin No. 25, IT. S. National Museum. 

Washington : Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 281- 

284. 

( EDWARD W. NELSON. 

On the source of the jadeite implements of the Alaskan Inuuits. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, 1884, pp. 426-427.) 
Extract from a letter to Professor Spencer F. Baird. 

Brief diagnoses of two new races of North American birds. 

(Tlie Auk, new series, i (No. 2, Ajiril, 1884), pp. 165-166.) 
Ficoides tridacJylus alascensis and Astur atricapillus henahawi; the types of 
which are in the U. S. National Museum collection. 

The breeding habits of the pectoraj sandpiper {Actodromas maoulata). 

(The Auk, new series, i (No. 3, July, 1884), pp. 218-221.) 
A very interesting account of the habits of the species named, based upon 
observations made in Alaska, while in the service of the U. S. National Museum. 

A new geographical race of the mountain sheep {Ovis montana, Dalli, 

var. nov.) from Alaska. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, lr<84, pp. 12-13. ) 

Describes a white rac« of the mountain sheep found in the mouiilaius of 

CHARLES C. NUTTING. * 
On a collection of birds from Nicaragua. [PMited by R. Jtidgway.] 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, 1883 (1884), pp. 372 -410.) 
These signatures run from December 2t>, 1883, to Ajiril 11, 1884. 
I. — San Juan del Sur, 70 species. 
M. — Sucuyii, 88 species. 
III. — The island of Omet6pe. 
IV.— Los Sfibalos, 80 species. 
The new species, with one exception, are all from Loa Sfibalos, and are as 
follows: (1) GeotldyiHi fiairdt, Nntting ; (2) Oryzoborus salvini, Ridgw. ; (3) 
O. nuttingi, Ridgw.; (4) Contopua depressirostris, Ridgw.; (5) Cyvibilamus line- 
atua fasdatua, Ridgw.; (6) Grallaria intermedia, Ridgw. (from Costa Rica); 
(7) Porzana leucogaatra, Ridgw. The technical matter in this paper, includ- 
ing nomenclature, is by the editor. 



BlBLieORAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 377 

TEMPLE PRIME, 
Xetv York, N. Y. 

Description of a new ispecies of Sjphcerium. 

vProc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, July 7, 1884, pp. 102-103.) 

SAVILE G. KEID, 
Royal Engineers, London. 

The birds of Bermuda. By Captaiu Savile G. lleid, F. /. tS., of the 
Royal Engineers, member of the British Ornithologists' Union, &c. 
From Bulletin No. 25, U. S. National Museum. Washington: Gov- 
ernment Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 163-279. 

W1LLLA.M NORTH RICE, 
ProftfiHOf of Natural History, Wesleyan University, Middletonn, Conn. 

Tlie geology of Bermuda. By William North Rice, Ph. D., Orange Judd, 
proiessor of geology and natural history in Wesle.van University. 
From Bulletin No. 25, U. S. National Museum, Waslungton: Gov- 
ernment Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 1-32." 

J. T. ROTHROCK, 
• Professor of Botany, Unhersity of Pennsylvania, Fluladelphia, Fa. 

List of, and notes upon, the lichens collected by Dr. T. H. Beau in 
Alaska and the adjacent region in 1880. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mu8., vii, June 3, 1884, i)p. 1-9.) 

PHILIP LUTLEY SCLATER, 

Secretary of the Zoological Society of London. 

A review of the species of the family Icteridie. (Part iii. Agelaeinae.) 
(The Ibis, 5th series, ii (No. 5, January, 1884), pp. 1-27. PI. i.) 

A review of the species of the family Icteridse. (Part iv. Auiscalina?.) 

(The Ibis, 5th series, ii (No. G, April, 1884), pp. 149-ir.7. PI. v.) 
Kema.rks on two rare American Oscines. 

(The Il»iH,5th series, ii (No.7, July, 1884), pp. 240-241. 1 phite.) 

/diopmr bracliyurus, Oass., Acanthidops hairdi, Ridgw. ; the types ot both 

:iiul only known specimeus belonging to the National Museupi, and sent tu 

Dr. Sclater for examination. 

R. BOWDLER SHARPE, 

Sf,iiior .iHeiatttnl, Zoological Department, British Museum {South h'euningtoii), Loudon. 

A note on the genus Progne. 

(The Auk, i, July, 1884, pp. 367-368. ) 

ROBERT WILSON SHUFELDT, 
Captain, Medical Corps, U. S. Army. 

Concerning 8om« of the forms assumed by the patella in birds. 

(Proc. U, S. Nat. Mus., vii, tiept. 1, 1884, pp. 324-331. tieveu ligures.) 



378 REPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Observations upon a collection of insects made in the vicinity of Kew 
Orleans, La., during the years 1882 and 1883. 

(Proo. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 1, 1884, pp. 3S1-338. One figure.) 

ELISHA SLADE, 
Somerset, Mass. 

On doinesticated hybrid ducks {Anas hoschas-\-ohscura). 
(Prec. U. S. Nat. Mus.. vii, June 11, 1884, p. 66.) 

SIDNEY I. SMITH, 
Professor of Comparative Anatomy, Yale College, New Haven, Conn. 

On some new or little known decapod Crustacea, from recent Fish Com- 
mission dredgings off the east coast of the United States. 
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 27, 1884, pp. 493-511.) 

Crustacea of the Albatross dredgings in 1883. 

(Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts, xxviii (J^lly 1884), pp. .^3-.56 ; Am,. Mag. Nat. Hist., 
xiv (No. 81, Sept. 1884), pp. 179-183.) 

"A brief review of the results of the study (by the author) of the higher 
Crustacea" collected during the deep-sea explorations of the United States 
Fish Commission in 1883, which included some of the most important dredgings 
yet made. The explorations extended from off Cape Hatteras to the region 
of George's Bank. The author euumerates sixteen species of Crustacea with 
well developed eyes in normal position, from depths of 2,030 to 2,949 fathoms. 

Report on the Decapod Crustacea of the Albatross dredgings off the 
east coast of the United States in 1883. 

(Rep. U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries, 1882 (1884), pp. 345-426, (1-82), plates 
1-x.) 

Also printed as author's extra with same paginatiou, and with cover and 
full title-page. 

Sixty-seven species are described or mentioned, of which eighteen are new ; 
three new genera are also described, and one new family defined, Glypho- 
orangonidce, p. 364. The descriptions, especially of new species, are very full, 
giving complete measurements and data as to distribution. The plates are 
photo-engravings from drawings by J. H. Emerton and the author. 

The new genera described are as follows: 

Page. 

Ethusina 349 

Parapasiphoe 383 

Benthcecetes 391 

Following are the new species described : . 

Ethusina dbyssicola (pi. ii, figs. 1, lo) 349 

Galacantha Bairdii 356 

Pentacheles nanus 359 

Pentacheles debilis 360 

Pontophilus'abysai 363 

Aeanthephyra eximea 376 

Notostomus robiistus (pi. vii, fig. 2) 377 

Pasiphoe princeps (pi. v,fig. 2) •. '. 381 

Parapasiphoe sulcatifrons (pi. iv, fig, 4 ; pi. vi, figs. 1-7) 384 

Parapasiphoe cristata (pi. v, fig. 3) 388 

Parapasiphoe compta 389 



t 



I 



I 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 379 

Page. 

BentheMcymua t carinatus (pi. x, figs. 6-7) 396 

Benthe»icymu8 f sp. indet. (pi. x, figs. 3-5) 397 

Amalopenaus valens (pi. x, fig. 2) 402 

Aristeusf iridens (pi. ix, figs. 1-6) 404 

Sepomadus tener (pi. ix, figs. 7-8) 409 

HymenopetKBus micropa (pi. x, fig. 1) 413 

Sergeates vioUis 419 

JOSEPH SWATN. 
[Seo nuder David Staur Jordax and .loSEiMi Swain. | 

JOSEPH. SWAIN AND SETH E. MEEK. 

Notes on the pipe-fishes of Key West, Fhi., with description of Sipho- 
stoma McKayl, a new species. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. , vii, Aug. 5, 1884, pp. 237-239. ) 

CYRUS THOMAS. 
Ethnologist, Bureau of Ethnology. 

Directions for mound exploration. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., vii, 1884, pp. 581-583.) 
Also published as Maseum Circular No. 28. 

ADDISON E. VERRILL. 
Profesnor of Zoology, Yale College, Xerv Haven, Conn. 

Notice of the remarkable marine fauna occupying the outer banks oil" 
the southern coast of New England, Nos. 9 and 10 ; by A. E. Yer- 
rill. Brief contributions to Zoology from the Museum of Yale 
College, Nos. Iv and Ivi. 

(Am. Jonrn. Sci., xxviii(No. 165, Sept., 1884), pp. 213-220; (No. 167. Nov. 
1884), pp. 378-384. ) 

The topics discussed are as follows : Work of the steamer Albatross in 1883 ; 
partial list of stations occupied by the Albatro.ss in 1883 ; work of the steamer 
Albatros.i in 1884 ; character of the deep-sea deposits. These two papers 
give a general di.scnssion of the results of the exploration of the Fish Com- 
mission steamer Albatross ofl' the eastern coa.st of the United States during 
the two years mentioned. The following new species are desci'ibed in foot- 
notes : 

Holothukioidea : 

Page. 

Benthodytea gigantea 216 

Euphromides cornuta 217 

Asteroidra. 

Zoroaster diomedecF 217 

Archaster grandis ; 218 

Archaster rohusiua 383 

Archaater formosua 383 

Benthopecten itpinoaaa (gen . et sp. nov. ) 218 

Briainga eoaiata 382 

Briainga elegana 382 

Ophiochiton grandia 384 



380 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884, 

Ophiuroidea : 

Page. 

Aatronyx tenuiapina - 219 

Anthozoa : 

Umiellula JSairdii Sil9 

Kophoielemnon ienne 219 

Scleroptilum gracile *il9 

Lepidogorgia gracilis (gen. et sp. nov. ) '-i'-iO 

Notice of the remarkable marine fauua occupying the outer banks oti 
the southern coast of New England, and of some additions to tlie 
fauna of Vineyard Souiid. 

(Rep. U. S. Coiniii. Fish and Fisheries, 1882 (1884), pp. 641-669.) 
A general account of the scientific investigations of the U. S. Fish Com- 
mission during the summers of 1881 and 1882, with headquarters at Wood's 
Holl, Mass., abstracted from papers published in the American Journal of 
Science, vols, xxii-xxiv, 1881 and 1882. Tables are given of the deep-watt^r 
dredging stations occupied by the steamer Fish Hawk. The topics more 
especially discussed are as follows : For 1881 : Fishes, Mollusca ; for 188'^ : 
evidence of great destruction of life last winter; abundance of life; list of 
deep-water Echinodermata taken by the Fish Hawk, 1880-1882 ; additions 
to the fauna of Vineyard Sound ; surface dredgings. Numerous species of 
Mollusca and Annelids are redescribed from the American Journal of Science. 
One new species of Ophiuran, Ophioscolex quadrispinus, Verrill, is described 
on page 661, and one new Planarian, Stylochopais zebra, Verrill, on page 6<i(>. 

Physical characters of the portion of the Continental Border, beneath 
the Gulf Stream, explored by the Fish Hawk, 1880 to 1882. 

(Rep. U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries, 1882 (1884), pp. 1045-1057, plates l-o. ) 
After a general introduction, the following topics are discussed : Influence 
of the Gulf Stream ; nature and origin of the sediments ; occurrence of fossil - 
iferous magnesian limestone nodules; evidence of the existence of light at 
great depths. The plates are as follows : 1. Southerncoast of New England to 
the Gulf Stream slope, showing lines of depths and positions of the principal 
dredging stations of the U. S. Fish Commission. 2. To illustrate the rela- 
tive slope or profile of the bottom, from the shore to the Gulf Stream slope, 
and across portions of th© slope in several lines. :?. Temperature curves at 
the bottom and surface, and at 5, 10, and 20 fathoms, and extending from The 
shore to near the 800-fathom line on the Gulf Stream slope. 4. Temperature 
f,urves at the surface and bottom, and at the intermediate depths of 5, 10, 
20, 30, and 50 fathoms, arranged according to the distance in miles from the 
shore. 5. Temperature curves at the bottom and surface, and at intermedi- 
ate depths of 5, 10, 20, 30, 50, and 100 fathoms. 

SAMUEL T. WALK1:R. 

On the origin of the fossil bones discovered in the vicinity of Tise's 
Ford, Florida. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, 1884, pp. 427-429. ) 
Extract from a letter to Prof. Spencer F. Baird. 

CHARLES W. WARD. 

Notes on Ardea icardi^ Kidgw. 

(The Auk, i, April, 1884, pp. 161-163.) 

With special reference to specimens in the National Museum callectiou. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAJ. MUSEUM. 381 

HENRY E. WEBSTER, 
Professor of Natural History, Rochester University, Rochester, N. T. 

I'he Annelida from Bermuda, collected by Mr. G. Brown Goode. By 
Henry E. Webster, professor of natural history in the University of 

Rochester, Rochester, New York. . From Bulletin No. 2o, U. 

S. National Museum. Washington: Government Printing Office. 
1884. 8vo. pp. 305-^27. 

FRANCIS WINSLOW, 
Lieutenant, U. S. Navy. 

Memorandum of the present condidon and future needs of the ovster 
industry. * 

(Ball. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 233-234.) 

Notes upon oyster experiments in 1883. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 354-35«.> 



I 



I 



PA^RT V. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM DURING 

1884. 



383 



A. r> P> E ISr D I X . 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 

Abbe, C. E. 14671. Insect from Massac! iiis<3tts. 

Abbey Coal and Mining Company. 15301. Two ho.xes, speciuiens of 

coal and its associates from Missouri. 
Abbie, S. G. 14339. Skeletons of foxes, mink, and i)oiciipiiie from 

Maine. 
Abbott, E. L. 14583. Package of specimens of fulgurites from Illinois. 
Academy Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa. 14074, 1414G, and 14283. 

Alcoholic specimens of reptiles ; package of alcoholic rejitiles. 

(Loan, returned.) 
Ackerman. Ensign A. A., U. S. K. 14287 and 15042. Bones of whale 

and bone implements, Indian arrowheads and <;hips from Disco 

Island and Greenland. 
Aclierman, F. 15191. Stone ax from Ohio. (Lent.) 
Adams, J. B. 13914. Specimens of birds' skins from New Mexico. 
Adams, S. T. 14086. Specimen of mammal, shells, &c., from Dakota. 
Adams, W. H. 14434 and 14824. Six boxes of specimens of sulphur 

and copper ore from Louisa County, Virginia. 
Agens, Alexander ^f. 14313. Piece of felt which covered the cottin of 

the late Cai)tain DeLong. 
Aiken, Charles E. 14808. Birds' skins from Colorado. 
Ai^trop, Z. T. 14273. Samples of minerals from California. 
Ajnx Metal Company. 15344. Specimens of the Ajax metals from the 

works of the company. 
Alderson, J. P. 14679. Specimen of ore from West Virginia. 
Alexander, ^V. I). 14291. Specimen of barking sand from sandhills 

of Maua Kauai. 
Alford, L. 8. 15424. Specimen of grai>hite from Frani<lin County, 

North Carolina. 
Allen, F. »S'. 14552 and 14569. Photograph and model of an improved 

life boat and car IVom Cuttyliunk, ^lass. 
Allen, J. P. 14695. Specimen of insect from Indian liiver, Florida. 
Allien, Mr. 15173. i.'harm made from skull of marten, mounted 

in silver, from Kussia. 
Allis. E. W. 14688. Wood»'ii nwxlfl ol slono iniitlt.'ijn'nt, Mirliigan. 
S. Mis. 33, i)t. 2 25 :5sr) 



386 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Allison, J. D. {through Judge L. G. Johnson), 14570. Box of alcoholic 
fishes from Ahibama. 

Ahcard, G. L. {Grimsby, England). 14514. Two pictures of fishing 
vessels used by English fishermen. 

American Institute of Mining Engineers. 14081, 14116, 14233, 14243, and 

14407. Fifteen boxes of iron and steel ; 6 boxes of rock specimens, and 
geological maps from Sweden ; 3 boxes, collection of salts, &c, from 
Germany, and IS boxes of models of blast furnaces, &c. 

Amend, B. G. 15079. Two specimens of minerals. 

American Ship Windlass Company. 14636. Two boxes containing models 
of steam windlasses from Rhode Island. 

And7'ews, George 8. 15141. Specimen of garnet in granite from Con- 
necticut. 

Andreics, Joseph D. 14382. Specimens of ore from Arizona. 

Andrews, R. H. 14735. Two specimens of turtle eggs from Maryland. 

Andrews, W. H. 14740 and 14795. Collection of minerals and Indian 
relics from various localities in Kew York. 

Ansonia Brass and Copper Company. 14344, 14863, and 15133. Barrel, 
keg, and two boxes of brass and copper specimens. 

Archer, B. V. 13924. Specimen of large leather-back turtle from Key 
West, Fla. 

Arlington Mills. 15125. Specimens illustrating the manufacture of 
worsted and cotton yarns. 

Army Medical Museum. 14053, 14076, and 14810. Collection of stone 
relics, foods, fossils, gold, silver and copper ores, alcoholic fishes, 
models of Eskimo boats, fragments of pottery, &c., from various 
localities, and four specimens of deformed crania. (Lent.) 

Arnheim, J. 8. 14186. Specimens of reptiles from California. 

Ashhurner, C. A. 15248, 15294, and 15333. Model of the Panther Creek 
Anthracite Coal Basin and maps. (Purchased for K. O. Exposition.) 

Atkins, Charles G. 14011 and 14398. Three cases containing a series 
of embryo salmon in alcohol, glycerine, and'water from Grand Lake 
Stream and Orland, Me., also bundle of poles and net. 

AtTiinson, Edward. • 15179. Specimens of cotton and silk fabrics from 
China and Japan. 

AtTiinson and Filmore. 15292. Boat model. (Lent.) 

Atwater, W. 0. 15454. Collection of foods. 

Ayme, Louis H. 15230. Three boxes, one barrel and bundle ethno- 
graphic specimens from Mexico. 

Bahitt, E. & F. 14050. Samples of water from artesian wells 2,120 feet 
deep for report. 

Bahcock, General 0. E., U. 8. A. 14060, 14067, 14317, and 14380. Speci- 
mens of pottery, bones, charcoal, and shells from shell mound on 
north bank of Halifax River, also birds and bat from Florida, and 
two bottles of water from Maryland. 

Bahcock, Mrs. 0. E. 14617. Box fragments of pott«ry found near 
Mosquito Inlet, Florida. 



I 



LIST OK ACCESSIONS TO TFIK MUSEUM IN 1884. 387 

Babcock, IS. E. 14413. Specimeus of stoiio implciuents from South Car- 
oliua. (Loau.) 

Bailey, E. M. 15107. Specimeus of miuerals from Maine. 

Bailey. tC Co., John T. 14G75. Samj)les of cordage. 

Hailey, Robert T. (through U'. J. Eizell.) 14025. Specimeu of fungi 
from South Carolina. 

Hailey, W. II. 14033. Alcoholic specimeus of lish from otf Cape Fear, 
Xorth Carolina. 

Jiailly, Jules. 15355. Specimens of mounted frogs. 

Baird, Miss Lucy. 14197 and 14335. Alcoholic specinu-us of eartli 
worm, and collection of miuerals. 

Haird, Prof. S. F. 14014 and 15479. Box, si)ecimens of tish from 
Wood's Holl, Mass., and quahog pearl. 

Baird, Mrs. Spencer F. 14447. An old-fashioned English "coffee big- 
gin." 

Baker, A. B. 15035. Two boxes of mammal skins from Kansas. 

Balbach d; Son, E. 15203. Four boxes gold, silver, copper, lead, &c. 

Baldwin Locomotive Works. 14705. Four photographs of mine locomo- 
tives. 

Ballew, W. W. 14001. Specimeus of rocks from Arkansas. 

Barber Flax Spinning Company. 14745. Specimens of Dutch, Cana 
diau, Irish, French, and Flemish flax. 

Barclay Coal Company. 14700. Box specimeus of bituminous coal and 
its associates from Long Valley mine, Penusylvania. (Collected by 
James Temple Brown.) 

Barker, A. S., U. S. iV., commanding U. S. S. Enterprise. 14805 and 
14805. Specimens of oceau bottom obtained during cruise from 
United States to Asiatic station, via Capo of Good Hope ; also, box 
of photograph negatives. 

Barker, Charles D. 14170. Specimeu of pottery from Florida. 

Barnard, Edith S. 14328. Specimen of alligator in flesh. 

Barnum, Bailey rf: Huichinson. 14300, 14303, 14401, 14541, 14594, 14013, 
14709, 14894, 15193, 15221, 15393, 15485, and 15510. Ten specimens 
of monkeys, one baboon, one eland, one harnessed antelope, three 
leopards, and one peccary, all in flesh. 

Barnum, P. T. 15457. Plaster bust of Phineas T. Barnum. 

Barringer, W. IK 14970. Specimen of fossil from Texas. 

liarroll, Henry H., Lieut., TJ. S.N. 14829. Alcoholic specimen of crab 
from Lamock Island, China. 

Barroics, Tf. B. 14939. Specimens of turtles from Connecticut. 

Barton cfc Logan. 14507. Young specimen of monkey in flesh. 

Bartlett, Comd'r John R., U. S. K. 14027, 14554, and 15459. Two bot- 
tles ol' alcoholic s])ecimens of marine invertebrates, «S;c., picked up at 
sea; specimeus of i)umice from Straits of Sunda and volcanic dust 
from Krakatoa. 



38H REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1«S4. 

Batehen, John S. F. i;3952, 14007, U128, 14144, 14104, 14101. 14353, 

14540, 14752, 15023, 15106, 15215, aud 15272. Large coUeetiou of 

building and ornamental stones, ores, rock specimens, German Htlio 

t;raj)bic stone, &c., Illinois, Arizona, Kew Mexico, Missouri, Texus, 

Kiinsas, Floiiwlji, Colorado, Michigan, mv\ line of Mexican Cfntrai 

Railroad. 
Baeckr, Adammn d' Cv. 14858 and 15119. Collection ol' materials illus 

trating the manufacture of sand paper and emery cloth and specimens 

of minerals. 
Bcaiu Dr. T. H. 14075, 14350, 15031, and 15039. Eight boxes alcoholic 

specimens of fishes and invertebrates and pigeon-hawk from Long 

IvSlaud, New York; specimen of barred owl shot in the Smithsonian 

grounds, and eight fresh specimens of fishes from Washington raarkel . 
Bearden, C. C. 14065. Specimens of insect from Texas. 
Beardsley, Mrs. A. J. 15052. Specimens of minerals from Missouri. 
Beattij, Joseph H. 14751, 15020, and 15036. Three packages of birds' 

skins from various localities. 
Beatty, T. W. 14782. Specimen of Indian pottery from South Carolina. 

(Loaned.) 
Beauehanq)^ W. M. 14175. Specimens of crania, shells, concretions, 

.&c., from New York. 
Beck^ Hon. James B. 13909. Four specimens of ducks in flesh from 

Potomac Eiver. 
Beldinij, L. 1 3960, 14176, 14185, 14318, 14488, and 15216. Six packages 

of dried and alcoholic birds' skins from California. 
Bell, James. 14100, 14533, and 14575. Specimens of living snakes, 

frogs, and two skins of Florida screech owl. 
Bell Smelting Company. 15532. Specimens of copper ores and products 

from Butte, Mont. 
Bell, W. M. 14515. Specimen of fresh fish from Delaware. 
Bendire, Copt. Charles, U. 8. A. 13916, 14256, and 14532. Four boxes 

of birds' skins; tank of alcoholic fishes, reptiles, insects, &c., from 

vicinity of Fort Klamath, Oreg. ; also, large collection of birds' 

nests aud eggs from Western North America, New York, and Europe. 
Bene B. T. 15445. Exhibit of ostrich feathers, showing process of 

manufacture. 
Benjamin, Cyrus M. 14177. Two specimens of ores from Connecticut. 
Benner, D. J. 15016. Specimen of grass coat from Popoyan, Unite<l 

States of Colombia. 
Berendf, Dr. G. {Berlin, Germany). 14157. Specimen of sand (T6- 

nendor). 
Bergens Museum [Bergen, Norway). 14499. Box of birds' skins and 

in v(?rtebrate8 from Norway. 
Berlin Mnsenm {throvgh Prof. A. Bastian). 14681. Cast of Buddlia's 

foot ])rint, from Buddhalaya, the most venerated spot of tlie liudd 

hists. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. .S89 

Hernhvisi'l, N. 14070, Specimens of luiiieials from Pcnnsylvauia. 

Berrini, Dr. Josie Carlos. 15491. Specimens of vegetable fibers ex- 
tracted from plants of Brazil. 

Bertha Zinc Compatn/. loL'ia. Specimens of zinc ores from Virginia. 

Bessel, Gebruder. 14356. Two cases and five casks of graphite cruci- 
bles and large piece of graphite from Dresden. 

Bianchi d- Co., F. 15300, Samples of feathers used in the millinery 
business, 

BicJcnell, Eugene P. 14084. Two specimens of birds' skins from River- 
dale, :n". Y. 

Bigelow Carpet Company. 15084. Samples of wools and carpets. 

Bishop, J. X. 14565, Insect from Connecticnt, 

Bissel, John G. 14180, Sample of dust from surface of 5 teet of snow 
which fell February 20, 1884. 

Bissel, 'John H. 15081. Specimen of fresh tish from Detroit, Mi<;h. 

BiacXfonJ, Eugene G. 14050, 14151, 14217, 14288, 14311, 14395, 14406, 
14418, 14455, 14480, 14717, 14762, 14815, 14864, 14918, 14930, 14935, 
15000, 15060, 15001 , 1 5155, 15332, and 15443. Large collection of fresh 
fishes, including salmon, from Atlantic and Pacific coasts, halibut 
weighing 430 ponnds, pompana, weight 36 pounds, black and sea 
bass, green and logger head turtles, crabs, t&c, from New York mar- 
ket, Canada, Newfoundland, England, West indies, and Gulf of 
Mexico. 

Blackman, W. 8. 14626. Specimen of ore from Indiana. 

Blackman, Z. 14556. Package of clay from Louisiana. 

Blackision, Capt. T. W. (London, England). 14165. Collection of 
nearly 500 Japanese birds' skins. 

Blake, \V. P. 14517. Sample of wool from mountain goat. 

Blockman, L. A. 15434, Specimen of shells, &c., from San Diego, Cal. 

Blontnjield, Loyd Af. 14468. Specimen of birds' nests and eggs from 
Ohio. 

Blossburg Coal Company. 15033. Box of tire-clay, slate, bones, fossils, 
mining tools, t&c, from Pennsylvania. 

Boardman, George A. 14248 and 14257. Two specimens of birds' skins, 
from Florida; also 6 eggs of the limpkin. 

Bolles, Lieut. T. Dix, U. 8. -AT, 15153, Two boxes of minerals, and 
ethnology from Alaska. 

Bonaparte, Du Prince Roicland {8t. Cloud, France). 13991 and 14883. 
Two collections of photographs of Kalmouks. 

Bond, Frank U. 15416. Alcoholic specimens of crayfishes from Wy- 
oming. 

Bonelli, George. 14279. Specimen of mineral from Utah. 

Booth, A. 14296. Specimens of fresh fish [Clupea sapidissima and 
Oneorhynchus nerka) from Columbia River, 

Booton, J. K. 14508, Specimens from Luray, V'a. 



390 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Bowlcer, Torrey tfc Co. 15024. Specimens of African onyx and brec- 
cia (red). 

Boicron, William M. 15083. Box of fossils and shells from Tennessee. 

Boyce, Mrs. 14951. Box specimens of shells from California. 

Boyd, James. 14527. Specimens of asbestos from Canada. 

Boyle, John T. {sculptor). 14060. Original model of the statue of In- 
dian chief in Lincoln Park at Chicago, 111. 

Boyton, Paul. 15522, Specimens of old gold and' silver ornaments 
from Ancon. (Purchased.) 

BracMn, A. H. 14340. Specimens of minerals from North Carolina. 

Bradfute, W. R. 15290. Specimens of rocks from Nevada. 

Bradstreet, E. C. 15432. Specimen of ore from Colorado. 

Brady, Prof. G. «S'. 14107 and 14181. Collection of free-swimming 
copepods from England and building stones from New York. 

BraJceley, John E. 14470. Bottle of alcoholic fishes from New Jersey. 

Brandenberger, William. 14572 and 14730. Packageof ores from Cali- 
fornia. 

Brazil, Government of. 14366. Large collection of foods, mats, hats, 
shoes, fans, aprons, pipe-steins, nuts, baskets j also samples of rain 
cloak and cape, made of straw leaves for making hats ; brooms, pipe- 
bowls, tooth-picks, scrubbers, dippers, model of Brazilian boat, »&c. 

Brenner, D. W. 14563. Package of copper ore from Loudoun County, 
Virginia. 

Bretz, George ^A\ 14853 and 14907. Box of negatives of outside and 
inside views of coal mine of Shenandoah district, Pennsylvania. 
(Purchase, New Orleans Exhibition.) Also photograph of coal- 
breakers. 

Brewster, William. 15478. Box of birds' skins. 

Bridges, R. W. 14446 and 14816. Specimens of minerals from Maryland. 

Brighthope Railway Company. 15233. Specimens of coal from Virginia. 

Briscoe, S. B. 14849 and 14875. Miners' tools, pick, and 3 drills. 
(Purchase, New Orleans Exhibition.) Also miner's old outfit, coat, 
boots, &c. 

British Museum {London, England). 14124, 14158, 14610, and 15400. 
Large collections of birds' skins from India, Asia, Africa, and Aus- 
tralia. Alcoholic specimens of bats, and catalogues of the museum. 

Broadhead, G. C. 15256. Three specimens of fossils from Missouri. 

BrocTi, James A. 14391. Specimen of Indian pottery from Florida. 

Brodie, David. 14953. Specimens of Carboniferous fossils from Con- 
necticut. 

Broohins, Dr. A. B. 14600. Specimens of insects from Florida. 

Brooklyn Mine. 15238. Specimens of ores from Utah. 

Brown, Charles F. 15037. Minerals from Arkansas. (Purchase, New 
Orleans Exhibition.) 

Brown, E. L. 14182. Box of stone relics and 6 moss agates from 
Wisconsin. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 391 

Brown, George T. 15069. Specimens of insects from South Carolina. 

Broicn, 0. W. 14498. Specimen of stone relic from West Virj;inia. 
(Purchase.) 

Brown, James Temple. 14845, 14847, 14857, 14949, 14950, 14979, and 
15378. Specimens of coal, iron ores, lepidodendrou, slate, and fossils. 
Three specimens of iron bolts reduced by action of mine water, and 
two photographs of fans for ventilating coal mines from Pennsylva- 
nia, Virginia, and New York. 

Brown, John P. 13901 and 13992. Specimen of calcareous tufa and 
skin of owl from Washington Territory. 

Brown, Walter W. 14069. Photograph copy of the Declaration of 
Independence of the United States. 

Buchshaum, H. 13954. Specimen, in the flesh, of Mexican hairless dog. 

Buck, Stuart M. 14592. Specimens of coal from West Virginia. 

Buffum, AUie J. 14201. Specimens of rocks from Wisconsin. 

Burchard, Horatio C 14937. Box containing two copies in bronze of 
all medals issued by the United States Government. 

Burch and Moore. 14529. Fresh specimen of fish from Potomac Kiver. 

Bureau of Ethnology. 13948, 13987, 14009, and 14255. Large collection 
of pottery, stone relics, human skulls, bones, from mounds of United 
States; also 362 archaeological specimens collected during the fiscal 
year ending June 30, 1883. 

Bureau of Xavigation, U. S. If. 14459. 168 specimens of bottom sound- 
ings from the cruise of the steamer Albatross during winter of 1884, 
in Gulf of Mexico and West Indies. 

Burhans, C. S. 15326. Specimens of minerals from N^ew York. 

Burlington Manufacturing Company. 14768. Specimen of ophiolite 
from Port Henry, N. Y. 

Burns, FranJc. 13920. Specimen of mound pottery from Alabama. 

Bush, Mrs. A. E. 14427 and 14431. Specimen of Crustacea and shells 
from San Pedro, Cal. 

Bush, William R. 14268. Specimen of rock from Florida. 

Butler, Col. A. P. 14503. Specimen of Indian burial urn from South 
Carolina. 

Byrnes, W. B. 15231. Drawing of the bark Saratoga entering and 
leaving the port of Palermo. 

Cable Flax Mills {E. A. Hartshorn, president). 14720. Specimens of 
flax twine, &c. 

Caldwell, John W. 14041. Specimen of silver medal, loaned for copy. 

Call, R. Ellsworth. 13905, 14143, 14561, 14683, 14691, 14870, 14902, and 
15260. Specimens of shells, fresh specimen of bat, alcoholic reptiles, 
crustaceans, and 175 specimens of Limax maximus, from Potomac 
River, California, Iowa, and District of Columbia; also leeches and 
mollusca from Utah and Nevada. 

Call, Mrs. R. E. 15027. Alcoholic specimen of rattlesnake and spider 
&om Illinois. 



392 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

(Jalknder^ Mr. {London^ England). 13990. Sample of bituminous insu- 
lation of wire. 
Cameron^ J. P. 14618. Specimen of ore fron> Texas. 
Camp, Mrs. Norman W. 15076. Wax portraits of antique manufact- 
ure. (Deposited.) 
Ganjield, Br. G. A. 14516. Sample of down of young Gathartes cali- 

formensis. 
Gannon, Br. 0. 15320. Specimens of minerals from Northern New York. 
Gargill, Samuel G. 14980. Three photographic views of the Lowmoor 

Iron Company's works. 
Carlton, Misft Maitie. 15537. Small collection of arrow-points, shells, 

minerals, &c., from Arizona. 
Carlton, J. H. 14384. Two boxes of stone implements from Arizona. 
Carmack, 0. L. M. 15107 and 15475. Specimens of ores and minerals 

from Washington Territory. 
Carnegie Bros. tO Go. 15342. Sample of coke from Pennsylvania. 
Garry, Miss G. 15425. Specimen of pen and utensils, contract dated 

1722, and almanac of 1780. 
Garter, G. P. 14893. Five models of boats from Maine. 
Carter & Tucker. 15305. Specimen of graphite from Heron mine, North 

Carolina. 
Gatlin, J. G. 13937. Specimen of red squirrel's nest from Ohio. 
Cotton, John F. 13925. Specimens of mound relics and bird's nest 

from North Carolina. 
Cave Mine. 15500. Specimens of ores from Utah. 
Cedar Grove Mining Company. 15217. Specimen of coal from West 

Virginia. 
Central Mine Company. 14959. Two boxes and two large pieces of 

copper ore and associates from Michigan. 
Chadioicli & Co. 15172. Specimen of candle made from bees- wax from 

Spain. (Purchased.) 
Chamberlain, C. W. 15428. Specimens of birds' skins. 
GJiapin, W. G. 15406. Specimen of niter from White Plains, Nev. 
Chapman, W. A. 15413. Specimens of fossils from Arkansas. 
Chase, Lieut. George F., TJ. S. A. 14544. Two living specimens of Gila 

monster {Heloderma suspectxim) from Arizona. 
Chatard, Br. F. E. 14031. Specimens of minerals from Maryland. 
Ghatard, T. N. 14785, 15074, 15222, 15268, and 15338. Specimens of 

minerals, gold ore, dunite, and gariietite from North Carolina and 

Georgia. 
Chateaugay Ore and Iron Company. 14775 and 14784. Specimens of 

iron ores and products. 
Chester, Gapt. H. G. 14329 and 15270. Four water-color sketches of 

vessels and sample of folding anchor. 
Ghiclering, Prof. J. W. 14148. Two abnormal feet of pig {8u8 scro/a). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THK MUSEUM IN 1884. '5J>.S 

Christy d- Co., Thomaa. lit 18, 14111>, 14()M, UTil, MT.")!, :iiul 14799. 
Samples of Kbea seed; also speciiiieus of seed of Cannabis sativa 
which yields baufj or hemp, and is largely grown in Persia ; si)ecimen 
of thiolyte and niiner;il substance from l''n<»lan<l ; also living seeds 
and oil of ( lah nuts from West in<lies. 

Citif RocJx Mines. ir)192. Two boxes specimens of ores from Utah. 

Clark, A. Hoicard. l.lOlo, lo040, and 15005. Specimens of stone kil- 
licks; specimen of toggle iron used in cai)tuiing swordQslies; mack- 
erel reamer (old style) ; swordtish iron, fisherman's scrubbingboard, 
and OS penis of seal from Massachusetts and Iceland. 

Clarke, Prof . F. W. 14301, 14704, 14832, and 15017. Specimen of irid 
osmine, minerals, gems, and cassiterite, from Maine, California, France, 
Norway, and Peru; also specimen of hair ball from stomach of Texas 
steer. 

Clarke, M. ('. It.iilO. Two living specimens o\' tish from l{ed Ki\er, 
Tennessee. 

Clark, W. M. 14019. Specimens of stone relics, pottery, and skull 
from mounds in Tennessee. 

Clayton, Prof. J. E. 15130 and 151G1. Specimens of ores and min- 
erals from Utah. 

Clemens, George S. 14842. Box of anthracite coal carvings from Penn- 
sylvania. (Purchase, New Orleans Exhibition). 

Clements, Hon. J. C. 14235. Specimen of rock from Georgia. 

Cleveland, Mrs. M. {Paris, France). 13970 and 14904. ('ase containing 
Sicilian harness. 

Coale, H. K. 13927, 14261, 14701, 1488G, 15029, 15154, and 15357. Larg<> 
collection of birds' skins from United States, Europe, and India. 

Cochran, A. B. 14873. Section of wall used to extinguish tire in 
Kehley's Run colliery, Pennsylvania, and chart of anthracite coal 
-fields. 

Coffin, C. E. 14560 and 15143. Samples of pine and oak wood iliar 
coal and pig-iron borings from Maryland. 

Cole, John. 13955, 14118, and 14537. Specimens of minerals and ores 
from Virginia. 

Collector of Customs, San Francisco, Cal. 14270. Specimen of iguana, 
dried and eviscerated. 

Coleman, Edward C. 14510. Sample of earth from Wisconsin for re- 
port. 

Coleman, W. W. 15146. Bottle alcoholic specimen of squid from Chesa- 
peake Bay. 

Collins, A. J. 14381. Specimen of ore from Tennessee. 

Collins, Joseph W. 14095, 14954, 14961, 15108, and 15132. German- 
silver seine-mending needle, collection of boat models from Massji- 
chusetts; also skull and antlers of deer from Holsteinberg, Greenland. 
(Purchased.) 

Collins, W. H. 15509. Specimen of rabbit in flesh. 



394 REPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Golman, Benjamin. 15054. Specimens of minerals from Missouri. 
Colorado Silver Mining Company. 15497 and 15531. Specimens of gold, 

silver, and copper ores, and products from Colorado. 
Cona7it, Ambrose. 14184. Samples of minerals from Ohio. 
Conglomerate Mining Company. 14027. Four boxes specimens of copper 

ores and associates from Delaware, Mich. 
ConJiiin, W.A. {Superintendent Central Park Menagerie, New York). 14173, 

14100, 14250, 14343, 14372, 14419, 14453, 14793, 14915, 14992, 15139, 

15157, 15197, 15202, 15263, and 15456. Six specimens of monkeys, 

baboon, ])ython, giant kangaroo, domestic Chinese fowl, hair-footed 

jerboa, white crane, condor, civet cat, fruit-eating bat, fawn, and 

2 specimens of lemur, all in flesh. 
Connor, J. C. 14649. Specimens of minerals from Alabama. 
Consolidated Bobtail Mining Company. 15410 and 15411. Specimens 

of retorted gold and gold amalgam (purchased) ; also specimens of 

gold ore (presented). 
Cook, J. W. 1421 1 . Skin of Grus americana from Dakota. 
Cope, Prof. E. D. 14008. Specimen of Cacatua eos, in flesh, from Aus- 
tralia. 
Corcoran Art Gallery. 15455. Fine collection of Japanese musical 

instruments. 
Cory, Charles B. 13907, 14394, and 14421. Collection of birds' skins 

from Pacific Ocean between San Francisco and Sandwich Islands, 

and San Domingo, West Indies. 
Coryton, E. [London, England). 14403. Seven specimens of ancient 

coj)per coins. 
Coues, Br. Elliott, U. S. A. 15521. Specimen of squirrel from Arizona. 
Cowan & Bliss. 15096 and 15097. Five boxes of zinc ores, «&;c., from 

Missouri. 
Cowles, Archie A. 15394. Sijecimen of bird's egg from Minnesota. 
Cowles, J. P. 14093. Three Chinese sandals and square of brick tea. 
Cox, L. A. 14070. Thirteen plaster casts of crinoids of the Keokuk 

beds, Iowa. 
Cragin, F. W. 14942. Mounted specimen of bat, from Manhattan, 

Kans. 
Craven, Dr. John J. 15134. Specimen of fresh fish from Great South 

Bay, Long Island. 
Crawford, Dr. M. H., U. S. N. 15004. Package of shells, i&c, from 

west Terra del Fuego, near Straits of Magellan, Patagonia. 
Crauford, S. M. 14223. Box of fresh specimens of trout from Chris- 
tine Lake, New Hamp!?hire. 
Crescent Coal Mines. 14997. Samples of coal and its associates from 

West Virginia. 
Crockett, M. D. 14846. Slice of the Eobertson County, Tennessee, 

meteorite. 
Cromley, M. E. 14780. Specimens of insects from Colorado. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 895 

Croffh}/, IF. 0. 141)41. Kock specimens from Massaclinsetts. 

Crosse tl; Blackicell {London, Emiland). 14559. Seventy-nine samplfes of 

food from England. 
Cross, John. 14374. Si)eciineus of fossil bone from Florida. 
Cfoicti Point Iron Company. 14885. Specimens of iron ores, pig iron, 

&c., from New York. 
Crumb, Capt. C. II. 14933. Six si)ecimens Ammodromus maritimns 

from Cobb's Island, Virjiinia. 
Cushing, F. H. 15144. Serapi, breech-clout and coat. 
Cnshing, L. B. 15350. Three water-color sketches of boats. 
'Ihxhuey, T>r. C. W. 14833. Specimensof tin ore from King's Mountain, 

North Carolina. 
I>ay(jt'tt, R. M. 13904. Specimen of resonant or barking sands of Maua 

Kauai. 
rhill, Rev. C. H. A. 15370. Samples of vegetable silk from India. 
Unni'iihoicer, W. W. 14487. Suit of furs woru by Lieut, .lolin W . Dan- 

enhower, late navigator of the tJuited States Arctic yacht tleannette, 

during his retreat through Siberia. 
Daniels, Capt. John. 1551*8. Specimens of native silver and coi)per 

from Osceola mine, Michigan. 
Daniels, O. E. 15280. Specimen of marine animal for name. 
Ihiridson County, Korih Carolina. 15302, 15317, and 15421. Specimens 

of gold, silver, copper, and lead ores from North Carolina. 
Ihiris Company, The. 14707. Specimens of py rite from ^lassachusetts. 
J )a vis, Dr. Edwin Hamilton. 15188. One hundred and three moUls of 

stone imi)lements from mounds in Mississippi Valley, and few show- 
ing Mexican, Central, and South American art. (Purchased.) 
Davis, G. H. 14945. Specimen of bird from Iowa. 
Daris, Jacob. 1415(5. Specimens of birds, in flesh, from Massachusetts. 
fkivis, Oliver. 14722. Specimen of soft-shell turtle lAspidonectes 

spinifer) from Ohio. 
Deardorf, Isaac N. 14423. Carved stone head from Ohio. (Loan.) 
J>e Coene, J. {Rouen, France). 14410. Box of charts and maps of the 

river Seine. 
De Johnge. 15174. Sample of glazed paper prepared with bone-black. 
Delmege, Reid & Co. {Ceylon). 14114 and 14415. Collection of fibers, 

cordage, cofiee, vegetable and essential oils, and i>lumbago. 
Dennison Mamtfacturing Company. 15463. Samples illustrating the 

manufacture of sealing wax. 
De Foincy, W. J. 14509 and 14505. Two packages of insects from 

Florida. 
Desloge Lead Company. 15529. Specimens of lead ores from Missouri. 
Devereux, A. 14995. Specimen of rock from Texas. 
Devoe & Co., F. IF. 15265. Collections of paints, brushes, &c., of 

animal origin. 



396 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Dewey^ F. F. 14738, 14940, 15131, and 15194. Specimeus of ores and 
minerals from New Jersey, Colorado, and Utah, and 2 bottles of 
iridosmiue. (Purchased.) 

DicJcie, James. 15437. Three photographs and diagrams, with descrip- 
tion of the new aqua-aerial or wave ship. 

Diller, J. S. 15508. One hundred and fifty specimens of andesites 
from Mount Shasta, California. 

Ditnoncl^ John. 15010. Specimen of California onyx. 

Discover^ Emanuel G. 14265. Specimen of rock from Wyoming. 

Bobson, 0. E. 14619. Alcoholic specimens of mammals, fishes, rep- 
tiles, &c., from England. 

Dodds, Fardon. 14195. Specimen of ozocerite. 

Dodge, E. G. 15323. Specimens of minerals from Saint Lawrence 
County, New York. 

Doerflmger, Carl. 15374. Specimens of Potsdam fossils from Wis- 
consin. 

Dolphin Manufacturing Company. 14975. Samples of Napier matting 
and hemp carpets from New York. 

Donaldson, Thomas. 13985, 15201, 15345, 15384, and 15447. Speci- 
men of turquoise from mine in Gonzales, Mexico ; specimen of free 
gold (purchased) ; box of feathers used in manufactures; 6 boxes of 
gold quartz (Savage collection), and 15 large pieces of ores. 

Donnell & Co., J. T. 14101. Large coil (1,200 pounds), specimen of ship 
cable. 

Dove, Harry F. 15482. Specimens of land shells from Oregon. 

Douglas, jr., J. 14504. Two specimens of coal from Arizona. 

Doivell, B. F. 15135. Specimens fossils, minerals, shells, and fossil 
plants from Oregon. 

Dowell, John. 14354. Mounted specimen of Porzana jamaicensis. 

Downman, E.*H. 14166 and 14295. Specimen of bird in tiesh, and 
worms, from Virginia. 

Dresel, Ensign H. G., U. IS. N. 15040. Specimen of pigeon-hawk from 
Patchogue, L. I. 

Drummond, A. J. 14103. Specimens of materials used for photograph- 
ing on wood. 

Duges, Frof. Alfred. Collection of fossil bones, birds' skins, star- 
fishes, shells, and specimen of peccary, from Mexico. 

Duguo, Capt. John. 14965, 14985, and 15048. Two specimens of cup 
sponges, specimen of corsfl and fish from fishing banks north of Ice- 
land. 

Duly, A. A. 15520. Specimen of fossil oyster from Potomac Creek. 

Dunning, Fhilo. 14711. Alcoholic specimen of fish from Wisconsin. 

Dutcher, William. 13902. Specimens of birds' skins from Long Island. 

Dwight, jr., Jonathan. 14187. Specimens of birds' skins. (Loan.) 

Dyer, TT. M. 14249. Specimen of iron pyrites from West Virginia. 

Dyke, E. B. 14032. Specimen of ore from Iowa. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THK MUSEUM IN Ihh4. H97 

Enkin, John R. 14005. Specimens of skulls, tVaj^nients of same, fossils, 

and stone implements, from near ^Yasllinf>ton, Ark. 
E(ho)i, •!. B. 14G40. Samples of zylonite (in sheet form). 
Edirards, Vhwl X. 14017, 145G8, 15162, and 15446. Specimens of 

birds' skins, duck fossils, eels, parasites from fish, 22 bottles of dredg- 

ings, and specimen of variegated sea bass from Massachusetts. 
Elliott. Hevry W. 15405. Sinull collection of augite crystals from 

Alaska. 
f.V?/, .7. H. 14196. Specimen of lialotrichite from Gila River, New 

Mexico. 
Ejimna Mine Company. 15183. Specimens of silver and lead ores from 

the Emma mine, Utah. 
Emmert, John W. 14292. Sample of ore from North Carolina. 
Emmons., G. F. 15346. Specimens of rocks from Colorado. 
Errico Brothers. 15148. Specimens of cameos, tortoise-shell, &c. 
Esberurd. F. A. M. {through Foreign Exhibition^ Boston, Mass.). 1450S. 

Cask containing 2 pieces of glazed and 101 pieces of unglazed ]>ot 

tery from Brazil. 
Esperanza Marble Company. 15136 and 15247. Specimens of building 

stones and slabs of marble from New York. 
Eicart, Prof. J. Cossar. 15169. Stocking made from bison hair, from 

Canada. 
Eaiche, John li. 14660. Specimen of crab from Chesapeake Bay. 
Eairhurst, A. 14361. Box of Indian stone relics from Kentucky. 
Fall Brook Coal Company. 14846 and 15003. Specimens of minei's 

clotbing, outtit, &c. (purchased), and two boxes of coal, &c. 
Farmer, Louis and Maurice. 14117. Specimens of cottons, fibers, ma 

nila, crude and manufactured, &c., from Port au Prince, Hayti. 
Fayette Coal Company. 15274. Specimens of coal and slate from West 

Virginia. 
Ferguson. MaJ. 2\ B. 13969 and 13906. Specimen of clay, and owl in 

flesh, from South Carolina. 
Ferry, Miss 7>. 14724. Specimens of beetles from Massachusetts. 
Fetzer, G. IV. 14512 and 14734. Specimens of minerals from Tennes- 
see. 
Eire Creel; Coal and Coke Company. 15362. Two boxes of coal and 

<-oke from West Virginia. 
Eirst Japanese Manufacturing and Trading Company. 1 51 90. Collect ion 

of .Japanese fancy goods. 
Eisher, William J. 14024. Two boxes, 1 keg, ornithological, oological, 

and ethnological specimens from Kodiak Island, Alaska. 
/Va/,-, Eli C. 14952 and 15012. Specimens of insects from Illinois. 
Eifzhngh, yirholas. 14848 and 14876. Sj)ecimen of miner's j»i(rk, show- 
ing action of mine water, also specimens of coal, from INMinsylvani;i. 
Eitzhugh, K. K. 15404. Specimen of epidote in quartz Irom \ irginia. 
Elint, Dr. J. M., U. S. N. 14130. Skull and bones. 



398 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Fogg <fc iSon, W. 8. 15234 and 15269. Collection of feather flowers and 
ornaments, also samples for filling for mattresses, pillows, &c. 

Fontaine, Professor. 15064. Specimens of rocks from Virginia. 

Foote, A. E. 14664, 14672, and 14860. Collection of minerals from 
England, Pennsylvania, and Kansas ; 2 specimens of orthoclase and 
7 of microline. (Purchase, New Orleans Exhibition.) 

Ford, J. B. 14967. Specimen of mineral from boiling spring, Arizona. 

Ford, S. W. 15255. Two specimens of fossils from New York. 

Foster, J. H 15005. Specimen of discoidal stone from South Caro- 
lina. 

Foster, N. A. (fi-J.E. 14110. Specimen of minerals from North Caro- 
lina. . 

Fougera & Co., E. 13977. Collection of materia medica from New 
York. 

Fowler, Button. 14437. Specimen of mineral from Nevada. 

Fox, W. G. 13923 and 14341. Specimens of birds' skins from Tennes- 
see and New York. 

FranJc, A. {Stassfurth, Germany). 14405. Six boxes collection of salts 
and dumy flue from Germany. 

FranMin County. 15303 and 15318. Specimens of muscovite and as- 
bestos from North Carolina. 

French, Hon. H. F. 14586 and 14591. Specimen of dried interior of a 
sea cucumber, and istle grass used in making baskets, brushes, &c. 

FricJc Coke Company, E. C. 15187 and 15273. Box and barrel, speci- 
mens of coal, coke, &c., from Pennsylvania. 

Fritzsche Brothers. 13936. Box containing specimens of drugs and 
essential oils. 

Frye and Be Graf. 15472. Specimens of zinc ores from Missouri. 

Fuller, O. P. 15322. Specimens of minerals from Jefferson County,- 
New York. 

Fuller, William. 14214. Skeletons of raccoons, weasel, muskrats, and 
minks, from New York. 

Furlong, John. 14506. Sample of silver ore from Colorado. 

Gaddis, E. M. 14121. Specimen of arrow-head from Ohio. 

Galbraith, FranJc G. 14624. Alcoholic specimens of fish from Penn- 
sylvania. 

Gale, Bennis. 14700. Seventeen specimens of birds' skins from Colo- 
rado. 

Gallaher, Miss L. Bernie. 14320. Photograph of General Paez in uni- 
form, 

Gallagher, W. E. {through B. B. Mercer). 14647. Specimen of stone pipe 
from Virginia. (Loan.) 

Gannaway, W. R. 15164. Specimen of ore from Arkansas. 

Gaumer, George F. 14928. Specimens of birds' skins from Yucatan. 

Gautier, C. P. 14520 and 14602. Specimens of clay and selenite from 
Louisiana. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 399 

Gazzam, J. P. ITjOUO, 15209, 15210, and 15213. Specimens of silver, 

lead, and zinc ores, IVoin Kansas and ^lissouii, 
Gedneyj A. G. 14547. Specimen of Bavarian lithographic limestone. 
Gcnghegan^N.O. 1395G. Small specimens of native lithographic stones 

from Clay and Overton Connties, Tennessee. 
Gerhard^ Frederick. 14307. Cast of the death-mask of General George 

Washington. (Loan.) 
Gert)ii(nia )SmeIti)ig and Frfining (Jompany. 15182. Specimens of silver 
and lead ores, bullion, &c., from Utah. 

Gcsner, G. Tl'. 14245. Specimens of ores from New York. 

Geaswein, F. W. 15o3o. Samples of leather, &c., showing uses. 

Ghernian, Theodore. 14983. Specimens of marcasite from Mine La 
Motte, Mo. 

GihhonH d; Co., James. 14390. Living specimens of snapping turtle 
from Cleveland, Ohio, 

Gilbert, B. F. 15017. S])ecin)en of snake from Erightwood, D. C. 

Gilbert, Charles II. 14525 and 15050. Alcoholic fishes from Indiana 
and Alabama. 

Gill, Dr. T. N. 14400. Fourteen specimens of fresh fish {Boleosoma 
olmstedi) from Potomac Hiver. 

Glendale Zinc Works. 14888. Six boxes of zinc exhibits from mines in 
Missouri. 

Godbg, Thos. K. 14G94. Alcoholic specimen of reptile from Florida. 

Goeiz, George W. J 4048. Si)ecimen of ore from Bear Gulch, Dakota. 

Goff,jr.,'Hon. Xathan. 14205, 14605, and 15103. Specimens of rocks, 
ores, and minerals, from West Virginia. 

Goldsborough, Henry H. 15448. Seventy-four samples of Australian 
wo 1. 

Goodc, Francis Q, 1394G. Indian vase from small mound east side of 
Saint John's Eiver, 7 miles below Jacksonville, Fla. 

Ooode, G. Broicn. 14404, 14443, 15175, 15176, and 15276. Nine pairs of 
wooden shoes, clogs, and gloves, from England and Belgium; speci- 
men of ornamented cup inade from shell; two specimens of shoe- 
horns, and collection of campaign medals, &c. 

Goodrich, J. King. 14178. Si)ecimen of chalcovite and malachite in 
<iuartz from North Carolina. 

Goodwin, A. P. {through J). ^S. i:ipaulding). 14562. Box and package 
containing collection of spears, bows, arrows, stone axes, stone clubs, 
tomahawks, ]>air fine shields, &c., from New Guinea. (Purchased.) 

Goodicin, E. P. 15375. Piece of keel of fishing schooner. 

Gould, J. Loomis. 14757 and 14917. Bale and box, specimens of bows, 
arrows, mats, canoe i)addles, blanket, gambling sticks, seal spear, 
hook, carved duck, canoe hat, club, skull, &c., from Alaska; also 3 
specimens of silver bracelets made by the Hydah Indians. (Pur- 
chased.) 

Goiildsburg d' Son, R. 14964. Specimen of marble from New York. 



400 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Government of Guatemala {through ForcUjn Exhibition, Boston, Mass.). 
14138. Collection of materiii iiiedica, foods, stoues, minerals, «&c. 

Government of Hawaii {through Foreign Exhibition, Boston, Mass.). 14113 
and 14126. Collection of foods, textile fabri<!8, soils, materia medica, 
cube of building- stone, &c., from Hawaii. 

Government of San Salvador {through Foreign Exhibition, Boston, Mass.). 
14112 and 14373. Large collection of foods, tobacco, cigars, cotton, 
wax, soap, candles, rope, palm-leaf mats, hats, &c. ; also collection 
of materia medica, and fifty specimens of gold, silver, and iron ores, 

Government of Venezuela {through Foreign Exhibition, Boston, Mass.). 
14414. Large collection of foods, fibers, tobacco, seeds, drugs, oils, 
minerals, ores, &c. 

Granby Mining and Smelting Company. 152] I), 15253, and 15287. Nine 
boxes specimens of zinc ores and spelter, from Missouri and Kansas. 

Graupner, B. F. 14642. Specimens of slate from Kansas. 

Grebritzohi, Governor {of Bering Island). 15488. Three boxes of birds' 
skins from Bering Island. 

Green, F. C. 15512. Eighteen specimens of arrow-heads from Wis- 
consin. 

Greemcood, Walter J. 14168. Nine specimens of trout from Doublin, 
N. H. 

Griffin, L. J. 15441. Slab of stalagmite marble from California. 

Griffin, Miss M. E. 14895. Specimens of mica from Amelia County, 
Virginia. 

Griffin, JSf. L. 15163. Two specimens of minerals from Texas. 

Grigsby, G. S. 13919. Box of stone relics from Tennessee. (Pur- 
chased.) 

Grinnan, Daniel. 14635. Specimen of tooth of horse from Mississippi. 

Grosjean, Henry. 14056. Sami)les of French pape^- money of the 
period of the revolution. 

Grittinger, Mr. {through H. S. Fleming). 14773. Specimens of iron ores, 
])ig iron, &c., from Pennsylvania. 

Gumbinger, J. 15334. Specimen of pipe made of bone from Florida. 

Gunther, Dr. A. {British Museum). 14798. Two casts of heads of dol- 
phins. 

Guntherh Sons, G. G. 15120. Box of mammal skins, and mounted, 
group of deer and black wolf. 

iSaclienberg, Dr. G. P. 14794. Specimen of bulb from Texas. 

Hains, Peter G., Major of Engineers, U. S. A. 14596. Specimen of rock 
from Potomac River at Georgetown, D. C. 

Hale, Dr. J. P. 15087 and 15102. 3 boxes of "Peerless" coal from 
West Virginia. 

Halifax County, North Carolina. 15316 and 15422. Specimen of marl 
and block of granite form North Carolina. 

Hall arid Co., Charles E. 15009. Two specimens ol" California and one 
of Mexican onyx. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 401 

Hall, C.J. 14651. Specimeu of bnikliiigtstonefiom Mount Desert, Mo. 
Eall, James. 14l'71. Box of fossils and pliuits. (Collected by Fr6- 

mout and Stansbury.) 
Ball, L. F. 1531:9. Specimens of minerals from Jefferson County, 
Xew York. 

Halstead, 3{iss Maij. M352. Specimens of barnacle, and mollusk from 
Mississipi)i. 

Halverson, Alciander. lij4oo. Specimens of ores fiom New JMexiCo. 

Halver.son, G. 15070. Specimen of galena, and lead ore from iS^ew 
Mexico. 

Hamilton, B. A. 15072. Specimen of mineral from ITevada. 

Hamilton, B. H. 15267. Specimen of mineral from California. 

Hammocl- cC Co., A. 15170. Sami)les of sliagreen from shark's skin 
imi)orted from France. (PurcLased.) 

Hammontree, S. 14055. Specimen of fossil wood from Arkansas. 

Hamy, Dr. E. {Trocachro Museum, Paris, France). 14193. Sample of 
mold from Palenque, Mexico. 

Handy, B. R. 14397. Specimen, branch from tree. 

Hani/cn d' Co., John E. 15124. Specimens of knit goods. 

Hardy, Manly. 14077. Skeleton of red fox from Maine. 

Harford, Prof. W. G. W. 15300. Specimens of sea lion's bristles. 

Harlow, Ensign C. H, U. S. iV. 14778 and 14792. Alcoholic specimens 
of cod and sculi)in from Disco Bay, and skin of Eskimo dog from 
the Greely Eelief Expedition. 

Harper, Jefferson. 14189. Specimens of minerals from Kansas. 

Harrell, J. Docl:. 14G0G. Alcoholic specimen of salmon from Mis- 
sissippi. 

Harrison, Benjamin. 13918. Specimen of large mastodon tooth from 
shores of Lake George, Florida. 

Harrison, Brothers & Co. 15205. Five boxes, containing samples illus- 
trating the manufacture of white lead. 

Harris, Gicynn. 14G31. Specimen of fresh fish from Norfolk, Va. 

Harris, \V. C. 14938. Specimen of fresh fish from Gogsbic Lake, Mis- 
sissii)pi. 

Harris Woolen Company. 15414. Samples of woolen goods. 

Hart and von Arx. 15199. Specimens illustrating the process of litho- 
graphing on stone. 

Hartiy, J. E. {British Museum). 14033. Collection of birds' skins from 
various localities. 

Hassler and HopJcins. 14G21. Specimen of ore from West Virginia. 

Hawkins, John. 14442. Specimens of arrow-heads, pottery, shells, &c., 
from South Carolina. 

HauMns, Joshua. 14804. Specimen of fish from South River, Maryland. 

Hawley, E. H. 14440 and 14590. Fresh specimen of Japanese fish 
and G specimens of pottery, from Foreign Exhibition, Boston, Mass, 

Hawley, J. K. 15408. Specimens of mjuerals from North Carolipfi ?incl 
Virginia. 

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2 20 



402 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Hayden, Charles S, 13971. Specimen of clam shell from Maine. 

Haydcn, John C. 154G5. Specimens of serpentine from California. 

Haydon, F. Walton. 11306. Alcoholic specimens of birds, fishes, rep- 
tiles, and shells, from Hudson Bay Territory. 

Hayivard, Nat. 13986. Specimen of bird in flesh from Maryland. 

Hadeicood, F. F. 14232. Specimen of snake from Maine. 

Jlealy, Captain M. A., U. IS. B. M. 15278, 15356 and 15382. Six boxes of 
birds, fishes, dredgings, rocks, skin of owl, and crania; also specimens 
of plants from Alaska. 

Heape, C. 14011. Ethnographic specimens from England. 

RempMll, Henry. 13910, 14005, 14140, 14316, 14457, 14474 and 15519. 
Large collection of alcoholic and dried specimens of invertebrates, 
corals, shells, &c. from Florida. 

Hempstead, Flias. 14303 and 14312. Collection of fossil bones from 
Florida. 

Henshaiv, H. W. 13938, 13961, 14212, 14263, 14409, 14716, 15484. Col- 
lection of birds' skins, nests, two skins of California vulture, and speci- 
men of snake, from Massachusetts, Virginia, Nevada, California, New 
Mexico, and District of Columbia. 

Heppimjutone, Miss Adeline. 14001. Speaimens of Arctic plants, pressed 
and mounted. 

Herbarium of Harvard University. 14392 and 14489. Six large pack- 
ages of botanical specimens. 

Hereford, Hon. FranJc. 13974. Specimen of rock from West Virginia. 

Herinfj, G. J. 14150. Collection of alcoholic birds, reptiles, insects, 
shells, &c., from Surinam. 

Eerndon, W. S. 13935. Specimens of coal from Texas. 

Kerring, Sons & Co., 0. 14674. Samples of carpets, showing process of 
manufacture by hand looms. 

Hides, G. H. 14718. Alcoholic specimen of snake from Michigan. 

Higgins and Gijford. 15358 and 15435. Boat model from Massachu- 
setts, and model of Jamaica fruit boat. 

Hincldey, Isaac. 15352. Specimen of duck in flesh from Virginia. 

Hitchcoelc, Romyn. 13975, 14786, and 14973. Twelve specimens of the 
different furs of commerce; 8 samples of teas, and Germania coflee; 
samples of textiles from Massachusetts, and two Plucker lubes. 

Hitchcoelc, Mrs. B. 14638. Samj^les of laces. 

Hodge, B. S. 14686. Specimens of minerals from New York. 

Hodgson, Thomas. 14854. Two photographs of the Pennsylvania Coal 
Company's docks, «&;c. 

Holabird, Q. M. Gen. 8. B., U. S. A. 14682, 14812, 14984, and 15282. 
Snare drum, complete with sling and sticks, trumpet and cord, fife, 
6 models of tents with equipments, and buffalo and horse hair 
plumes as used and worn by oflticers and men of U. S. Army. (De- 
posited.) 



LIST OF ACCESSlOiNS TO THE MUSIiUM IN 188-t. 403 

Holmes, Franl: 14:lo5. Sample' of roldiuj; canvas boat. 

Holmes, John F. UO.'iS. Spi'c-inu'ii ot water bird IVoiii Massachusetts. 

Uolmes, ^y. 11. lit'l^^S. Specimen of wampum belt from Mohawk la- 

diaiis. 
Holtzlande); B. 14507. Specimen of a (U)met>tic cat from Was]iin<;ton, 

D. C, in llesh. 
lloosier Stone Company. 14807. Specimen of buihlinf;- stone, from In- 
diana. 
llord, J. T. 13978 and 14520. Specimens of minerals from xVrizona. 
Horn, d- Br other. s, Mllliam U. 15371*. l^'onr boxes of shoemakers', tan- 
ners', and curriers' tools. 
Horn, Dr. G. H. 14004. Box of minerals, fossils, and alcoholic insects 

from Arkansas. 
Hornaday, W. T. 14822, Thirty-seven specimens of birds' skins from 

India. 
11 ntr and Hyde. 14399. Two cans of net-preservative fluid. 
Horn Silver Mining and Smelting Company. 15181. Specimens of silver, 

lead ores and products from Utah. 
Hongh, F. B. 14377. Sample of maple syrup from Lowville, N. Y. 
Houghton, F. W. 15440. Seven specimens of lava and ashes from vol- 
canic eruption in the Straits of Sunda. 
Horey, F. S. 14438. Specimen of tooth of horse from Washington 

Territory. 
Howard, Arthur G. 14304. Specimensof minerals from Massachusetts. 
Howard, Ernest. 14001 and 14739. Specimen of malachite with hema- 
tite, and copper ore from Virginia. 
llerrman, H. 15400. Samples of plush as used in trade. 
Hudson, George A. 14280. Specimens of fresh fish from Ogeechee 

Eiver, Georgia. 
Humphrey Brothers & Tracy. 14850. Specimens of miners' boots, bro- 

gans, &c. 
Hunt, Capt. T. B. 14153. Fresh specimen of the mountain sheep, from 

Fort Bridger, Ut<di. 
Hu n ter, Capta in (th rough L. Stejneger). 15487. Two specimens of moun- 
tain sheep and box of birds' skins from Kamtschatka. 
llu.se, Fred. J. 14470. Specimens of birds' skins from California. 
Hu.sle, C. J. 13944. Si)ecimen of salted fish Irom South Carolina. 
Hussey <£• Co., C. G. 15085 and 15100. Spewimens of coal and copper 

from Pennsylvania. 
Igle.sia.s, L'ajael. 14989. Box of Indian antiquities and pottery from 

Costa Kica. 
India Muscu7n (through Prof. J. Wood Mason). 15057. Box alcoholic 

shells of Tarbinella pyrum from Calcutta, India. 
Ingallx, John. 14085. Specimen of coral imbedded in bone, from Geor- 
gia. 



4U4: EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Iowa College. 14579. Package of photographs of the Iowa College 
Museum, Iowa. 

Jacobs Brothers. 14215. Specimen of St. B^^ruard dog in flesh. 

Jacobs, George A. 11809. Box of stoue relics from South Caroliua. 

James, Joseph C. 15093. Carved grauite head, and stoue ball. (Loaned.) 

Janscn, I). C. 14G11. Specimen of brick from ruins of the Porcelain 
Tower at Nanking, China ; fossils from gorges of Upper Yaugtse, and 
slates from China. 

Jejferson Iron Company {Antiverp, N. Y.). 14G85. Two boxes of miner- 
als. 

Jejfreys, J.' Gwyn {London, England). 14241. Large collection of Euro- 
pean and other shells. (Purchased.) ♦ 

JenJiS, Fred. T. 15001. Specimen of Impeyan pheasant. 

Jenlcs, J. W. P. 14705. Specimens of turtles from various localities. 

Jennings <& i:^ons, A. G. 14034. Specimens illustrating the process of 
manufacture of silk lace. 

Jeremiah, William H. 15261. Three specimens of mounted birds. 

Jewett, George W. 14174 and 14252. Specimens of materia medica. 

Johns Manvfacturing Company, H. W. 15339. Specimens of asbestos. 

Johnson, Br. E. B. 14410. Specimen of pipe and two stone relics from 
Alabama. (Loaned.) 

Johnson, Gallup & Hurry. 14823 and 15123. Samples of coal from Hay 
Creek mines, Wyoming. 

Johnson, J. E. 14545. Photograph of the Longdale furnace, Longdale, 
Va. 

Johnson, J. W. 15505. Specimens of birds' skins from Alaska. 

Johnson, Lawrence. 14454. Small fossil from Florida. 

Johnson, Prof. L. C. 14444. Two specimens of fulgurite collected by 
Silas Stearns at Santa Eosa Island. 

Johnson, Br. P. E. 14098. Five specimens of minerals from Jefferson 
County, New York. 

Johnston, Col. Alexander. 15351. Pair of Japanese shoes and stockings. 

Johnston, E. B. 14198, Specimen of coke from Alabama. 

Johnston, G. W. 15113. Specimen of cassowarj^ in fl6sh. 

Jones, James T. 15436. Specimen of meadow lark with straw through 
back (in flesh). 

Jones, 8hn2)son & Co. 14558. Three photographs of glacial pot hole 
from Arclibald, Peuu. ^ 

Jones, Strachan. 14609. Specimen of bone from California. 

Jones, Br. Wiliiam II., U. S. K 14202, 15224, and 15474. Eleven boxes, 
2 kegs, skulls, birds' skins, alcoholic specimens of fishes, invertebrates, 
&c., from Honolulu ; also large collection of pottery, shells, inverte- 
brates, Indian relics, birds, reptiles, «&c., from Ecuador, Peru, and 
Galapagos. 

Joplin Zinc Works. 15110. Specimens of zinc from Missouri. 



LIST OF ACCEPSrOXS TO THE MUSEUM IN Ih^Sl, 40.') 

Jonlan, Prof. 7). .V. 131)81, 1437(), MiSO, 1 182S, M8S1, 1 1<)H, mOOi', and 
1501 1, Lnrjic collection of alcoholic fislu'S and tortoise from Missouri, 
Iowa, Arkansas, Indiana, Texas, Florida, Cuba, and Venice, Italy. 

Jordan^ i\'. J. 14142. S])ecinu^n of crazy- weed, or loco plant, from In- 
dian Territory. 

Kuhknhcrg^ F. J. l.^iins, 15275, 15385, and 15453. Skull and horns of 
Indian stag, pair of Indian stag horns, and articles mainifactured 
from horn; also collection of amber. 

Kales, J. W. (JA. 7).). 14387. Indian skull and bones from Union 
Springs, N. Y. 

JCansas City Silver and Refining Compa)n/. 1508(5. Two boxes lead and 
silver ores, 

Knnifi, S. D. 14237. Sample of mineral from Kansas. 

Karmy, A. B. 14002. Specimen of "Naigha," or Davids pipes, from 
Palestine. 

Karr, W. W. 14330. Specimens of minerals for report. 

Kaucher^ William. 14G78. Specimens ofYossiis from Missouri. 

Keenan, Charles, JTospilal Steward, U. S. A. 14770. Specimen of hum- 
Uiing moth from Nevada. 

KcUeher, Daniel. 14058. Specimen of eel 05 inches in length, stuffed; 
also cockroach -trap made from piece of wood from steamer Colum- 
bus, with box of cockroaches taken on board whale ship. 

Kemp, J. F. 15104 and 15178. Photographs of the Desloges and Saint 
Joe Works from Missouri. 

Kennedy, H. H. 14712. Specimens of minerals from Kansas. 

Ke-sler, C. W. 15254 and 15503. Specimens of Indian relics from North 
(.'arolina. 

Keifer, George. 14878 and 14078. Large collection ol" ethnography-, 
mammals, shells, reptiles, minerals, &c., from Peru. 

King, Mrs. S. E. 14274. Specimen of caived stone head. (Loaned.) 

King, Samuel L. 14123. Specimens of minerals from Tennessee. 

Kitt, A. 15430. Specimens of crystals found in fossils from Ohio. 

Kletberger, George li. 14436. Vertebral column of reptile from the 
Sierras, in California. 

Knapp, E. B. 14302 and 14347. Collection of rocks, concretions, and 
fossil shells from New York. 

Knapp, G. S. 14450. Piece of skin taken from back of Indian Chief 
"Gutnose," leader in "New Ulm massacre" of 18G2. 

Knowles, Hubert M., U. S. Life- Saving Sertice. 13040, Specimens of 
small marine animals and shell-lish from Point Juditii Light, Rhode 
Island. 

Knoiclton, F. H. 15408. Three specimens of the bronzed grackle. 

Knoiclton, W.J. 14715 and 14701, Specimens of minerals from Massa- 
chusetts; also small {!i)lleclion of minerals. (Purchased.) 

Koebelc, Albeit. 14807. Sixteen specimens of birds' skins from South 
America. 



406 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

KohJer, Anion. 14036. Specimen of rock from WiscoDsin. 

Kohn, A. H. 14429. Specimens of ores, minerals, and arrowhead from 
Sou til Carolina. 

Kohn., G. 14327. Living specimen of turtle from Louisiana. 

Koonf!, B. F. 1445S. Specimen of Indian mortar from Connecticut. 

Kranfz, Dr. A. 15025. Specimens of wooden crystals. (Purchased.) 

Eummerfeld, -L F. 13973, 14282, 14G52, and 15444. Specimens of In- 
dian relics from Iowa. 

Kiinkel^ J. 15427. Specimen of ore from Maryland. 

Kwiz., G. F. 14747. Two boxes of minerals from various localities. 

Lacoe, R. D. 14852. Box of Rhode Island anthracite coal. 

Lafin c£- Co. 143G7. Specimens of whitefish from Lake Michigan. 

Lake, Miss Franlde. 14002. Living specimen of white rat. 

Lake Superior Native Copper Company. 14827. Box of copper slag, &c., 
from Michigan. 

Lamson d- Brother, John S. 1401G. Photographs of stone carving and 
package of bones from Chiriqui, Mexico. 

Lanfair, George R. 13912. Specimens of starfish eggs. 

Lange, Fr. W. A. 14379. Specimens of the wood and bark of the 
"Hombre grande," or bitter-wood, from Nicaragua. 

Lanyoti, Robert. 15286. Seven boxes and two pieces of zinc ores and 
spelter from Kansas. 

Larco, A. 14472. Box of alcoholic fishes from California. 

Lartigue, Dr. G. B. 14071 and 15507. Live specimen of glass-snake 
{Ophcosaurus veiifraUs), stone relic, and clay from South Carolina. 

Lavack, Fred. 1,5319. Specimens of minerals from Kew York. 

Laiclor, D. J. 15228 and 15262. Sixteen boxes and crate of boat 
models. 

Jjawrence, B. and P. 15171. Specimens of pen-holders made from por- 
cupine quills. (Purchased.) 

Lawton,II. J. 14637. Specimen of mineral from Washington Territory. 

Lay, jr.. H. C. 14298. Specimens of insects and mould from Colorado. 

Lea, Dr. Isaac. 14466. Life-size crayon portrait of Dr. Isaac Lea. 

Leech, Daniel. 14966. Specimen of vertebrae of whale from Massachu- 
setts. 

Lee, John ^Y. 15397. Specimens of minerals from Maryland. 

Lefih, G. 14154. Stone relic from Belgium. 

Ijchnert, Rev. E. [through R. E. C. Stearns). 14595. One hundred and 
thirty-three species and varieties of land and fresh-water shells from 
the District of Columbia. 

Lemon, John II. 14639. Specimens of stone axes, arrow-heads, &c., 
from Indiana. 

Leon Dr. Nicholas. 141 79. Photograph of image of an idol from Mount 
Tzirate, near Del Cristo, district of Morelia, Michoacan, Mexico. 

Lewis, D. W. 1 5112. Specimen of hornet's nest from Crawford County, 
Pennsylvania. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884, 407 

Lexington Mining Company. 15214. Specimens of silver ores and prod- 
ucts from Montana. 

Lighffoot, M. P. 14957. Specimens of fossils from Kentucky. 

Lilienhcrg, X. 15128. Specimens of pig and bar iron from Sweden. 

Lincoln County, North Carolina. 15418. Specimens of magnetic iron 
and gold ore. 

Lind, G. Dallas. 14972. Specimen of fossil coral from Indiana. 

Linebergevj J. M. 14529. Specimens of minerals from North Carolina. 

Lippincoit d- Co., Charles. 14C73. Specimen of marble, 

Lippitt Woolen Company. 15383. Samples of woolen fabrics. 

Logan, Hon. John A. 14169. Specimens of copper and silver ore from 
Arizona. 

Long J. C. 14305 and 14481 . Three specimens of sulphur in limestone, 
and black jacobin pigeon in flesh, from Pennsylvania, 

Longdale Iron Co^mpany. 14982 and 15204. Collection of mining lamps, 
and 11 boxes of pig iron, iron ores, &c., from West Virginia. 

Longheed, ^^ D. 15018. Specimens of minerals from Washington Ter- 
ritory. 

Long Elm Mining and Smelting Company. 15109. Specimens of lead 
ore, pig and white lead, from Missouri. 

Longstrect, B. F. 1400G. Specimen of hair seal. 

Lovett, Edicard {London, England). 14253. Alcoholic specimens of 
stalk-eyed Crustacea of the English Channel. 

Low (£• Co., C. Adolphe. 14993. Samples of raw silks. 

Lowell Carpet Company. 15099. Eleven samples of carpets. 

lAichs, L. 13962, 14163, and 14203. Sample of sand for examination 
for manufacture of glass from Western Pennsylvania ; sample of 
water and washed sand, also specimens of glassware made from sand 
2 miles from Washington, D. C. 

Lnpton, N. T. 14299. Specimen of stone carving from Alabama, and 
piece of pottery from Chihuahua, Mexico. 

Luther, R. C, Mining Engineer of the Philadelphia and Beading Coal and 
Iron Company. 15390. Large specimen of lump coal from Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Lutlcen, Chr.' 14500. Cast of the cranium of dodo, in the possession of 
the Zoological Museum of the University of Copenhagen, Denmark. 

Maas (k Co., William. 15264. Specimens illustrating the manufiicture 
of combs, &c., from horn. 

McFarlane, B. 14072. Skin of marten and musquasli from Chipewyan, 
Hudson Bay Territory. 

Macgregor, Mi.ss Inez. 15038. Two specimens of hybrid fowls from 
Virginia. 

Mackellar, Smiths & Jordan. 15095. Box of type metal, &c. 

Mackinnon, Louis. 15469. Samples of fibers from Jamaica. 

Mackintosh, J. B. 14903, 15177, and 15387. Photographs and nega- 
tives of the Spiegel furnace and the Passaic Zinc Works. (Pur- 
chased.) 



408 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

MacLcan, J. P. 14293. Specimen of brick from wall of fort at Foster's 
Crossing", Warren County, Ohio. 

Magruder, Br. G. L. 15297. Specimen of parrot, in flesli. 

Mansfield, J. F. 15398. Coal drill (Grim's patent). 

Marcou, J. B. 14098 and 15109. Part of skin of Litholepis spatula 
from Texas, and specimen of vivianite in red sandstone from New 
Jersey. 

Marquis, Dr. W. V. 14807. Specimen of bone and tooth from Penn- 
sylvania. 

Marsh, Charles H. 14755. Specimen of cotton-tail rabbit from New 
Mexico. 

Marshall, George. 14473 and 14477. Two specinaens of birds' skins from 
Maryland. 

Marshall, Henry. 14496. Specimen of mounted bird skin. 

Marshall, Lieut. W. A., U. 8. i\^. 13950 and 14107. Package containing 
ashes \\iiich fell on board the American bark W. H. Bisse at sea 
(Indian Ocean) shortly after the Java earthquake; also specimens of 
barnacles from bottom of British shij) Earl Granville. 

Mather, Fred. 14088, 14155, 15464, and 1551 7. Specimen of mouse with 
fungus and eggs of the tora-cod from Long Island. 

Martin, Capt. S. I. 13945, 14357, 14417, 14550, 15536, and 14589. Speci- 
mens of corals, sponges, fresh fish, mackerel spawn, parasites and 
suckers from sword-fish, and bones taken from mouth of a cod from 
the fishing banks of Newfoundland. 

Mason, John 8. 14239. Specimens of elk and deer heads. 

Mason, L. G. 14599 and 14962. Package specimen of ore and fossilifer- 
ous limestone from West Virginia. 

Mason, Prof. 0. T. 14603, 14622, 14627, and 14958. Alcoholic speci- 
mens of fishes; bound volume specimen book of Bruce's Type Foun- 
dry; cast of the deluge tablet, or Chaldean account of the deluge, in 
Assyrian cuneiform characters; also collection of seeds. 

Massee, Frank A. 14629. Specimen of ore from Virginia. 

Matte, Paid. 15360. Living paradise fishes from Germany. 

Matthen-s, W. 15524. Ethnographic specimens from Navajo Indians, 
New Mexico. 

Mayhery, R. 15071. Specimen of copper ore from New Mexico. 

Maynard & Co., C. J. 14861. Specimens of birds' skins. 

Maynard,G.W. 15295. Specimenof tin ore from Black Hills. (Loaned.) 

McCallum, Br. B. 14787. Head of bat irom Mississippi. 

McCarthy, John T. 14658 and 15480. Specimens of crabs and bones 
taken from the head of drum-fish ; also speciu ens of ear bones of fish. 

McCency, Eenry C. 14064. Fossil shells from Prince George's County, 
Maryland. 

McClain, C. 8., Ensign U. 8. JS\, U. 8. 8. Alert. 14766. Five boxes, 
specimens of alcoholic fishes, birds, skeleton of fox, and skull of polar 
bear, from various localities in Greenland. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 409 

McClelen, S. E. 14337. Three specinietis of minerals from Alabama. 

McCool; Anson 0. 14349. Silk tlaj^- which was presented to the U. S. 
Senate July 12, 1870, by Joseph Neumann, of California, supposed to 
be the first American llaji' made from American silk. 

McCormick, Lewis M. 14484 and 14578. Specimens of ral)bits in tlesh, 
and birds' skins from Virginia. 

Mcr>o)ial(i, An<ji(s. 14582. Specimen of marble from Clarke County, 
Virginia. 

MeDoiKdfl, Marshall. 14238. Specimen of eagle in flesh trom Virginia. 

McJ>on<d(l, William. 14272. Specimen of coal from Texas. 

McDougall^ Alexander. 15494. Package of sediment from snow which 
fell during a snow storm at Poverty Gulch, Colorado, September, 
1884, an elevation of 12,000 feet. 

McDougall, J. cO 0. 14851. Specimens of assorted mining lamps. (Pur- 
chased.) 

j\[cEachem, Capt. Henry. 13994. Specimen of knife taken from stomach 
of codfish on Le Havre Bank. 

McFarland, Prof. E. W. 14000. Si)ecimen of root of cedar cut from 
stump 3 miles southeast of Oxford, Butler County, Ohio, 28 feet below 
surface. 

McGee, W J. 14659. Four specimens of silicitied w^ood. 

McGuire, J. I)., U. S. N. 13941 and 14222. Specimens of pottery, stone 
mortar, Hint and bone implements, and fossils from Pope's Creek, 
Maryland; also skin of bird. 

Mcintosh, John A. 15014. Specimens of Florida rocks. 

McKcan, G. L. 14581. Profde portrait of George Washington. (De- 
posited.) 

McKesson & Rohhins. 15249 and 15347. Collection of sponges, and pic- 
tare illustrating the preparation of sponges for commerce. 

McKinlcy, C. 14408, 14425, and 14587. Specimen of fossil wood, arrow- 
heads, shells, lump coal, rocks, and limestone from Alabama. 

McLean, D. 14078. Specimen of short squid from Lower Potomac River. 

McLean, John J. 1.3904, 1402G, and 15.504. Specimens of fossil shells 
from tunnel under Table Blufi", California; 12 boxes specimens of 
ethnography-, stone relics, bones. &c., from California. 

McLcod, Rev. R. R. 14879. Specnnens of birds' skins from Mexico. 

McManus, F. R. 14500. Two gray squirrels from New York. 

McMenaniin, James. 144(54. Fresh specimen of hake {Phycis regius) 
from ILunpton, Va. 

McNiel, J. A. {through .John H. Lamson cf Pro.). 14790. Three casks, 
specimens of Ciiiriqui pottery, ^vC. (I'urcha.sed.) 

McXulty, Alexis. 14008. Specimen of salted fish from Savannah, Ga. 

McTeer, James P. 14.38(5. Specimen of double headed i)ig in flesh. 

Meigs, General M. C, U. .S'. A. 13943, 14981, 1.5232, and 15470. Twelve 
specimens of ornamental terra cotta used in constructing the new 
United States Pension building; also dressed and ornamental woods 
from Pacific coast. Texas, and Ireland. 



410 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Mindelef] Victor. 15450. Number of silver specimens made by the 
Kavajo Indians of New Mexico. 

Mendelson, Br. Walter. 14C30. Specimen of insect from Long Island, 
New York. 

Mercer, R. W. 13928 and 13957. Specimens of flint, and stone imple- 
ments from West Virginia and Georgia. 

Merchant & Co. 11884, Two boxes, specimens of zinc, tin, &c. 

Merchant, jr., G. 14990. Specimen of kyak with equipments. (Pur- 
chased.) 

Merriam, Dr. C. Hart. 14428, 14593, and 14656. Six entire sets of 
mystacial bristles of hooded seal and one imperfect hood in alcohol, 
skins and skeletons of seals from Gulf of Saint Lawrence, and birds' 
eggs from New York. 

Merrill, George P. 14662, 14703, 14710, 14763, 14788, 14801, 14811, 
14818, 14947, 14994, 15117, and 15301. Photographs, drawings, and 
phototypesof different styles of architecture, by Theophilus Chandler, 
(architect), and collection of rocks, minerals, and prochlorite from 
Maine, Massachusetts, Maryland, and New Jersey. 

Merrill, Dr. J. C, U. S. A. 14259 and 14657. Six boxes of birds' skins 
and eggs from the Western States, Texas, and Montana. 

Merrimac Chemical Conqmny. 15184. Specimens illustrating the man- 
ufacture of sulphuric acid. 

Meyer, A. B. [Zoological Museum, Dresden, Germany). 14141. Case of 
Meissen pottery. 

Miles Co7npany, George W. 14122. Collection of oils, and fertilizers 
exhibited at London, England, 1883. 

Military Institute {Lexington, Va.). 14309. Two specimens of fossils 
from Virginia. 

Miller, Capt. George B. 14368. Specimen of rose-breasted grosbeak 
from District of Columbia. 

Miller, Metcalf & Parian. 14862 and 15101. Specimens of iron and 
steel, with case, from Pennsylvania. 

Miltimore, A. E., Captain and Assistant Quartermaster, JJ. 8. A. 14557. 
Specimen of a moth from Missouri. 

Mine La Motte. 15340. Specimens of nickel and lead ore from Mis- 
souri. 

Missouri Furnace Company. 15417. Specimens of iron ores, &c., from 
Missouri. 

Mitchell, J. E. 14932. Four boxes, samples of grindstones. 

Moloney, Capt. Alfred {England). 14035. Specimen of dugout used by 
the natives of the west coast of Africa. 

Montana Smelting Company. 15533. Specimens of copper ores and 
products from Butte, Mont. 

Moon and Lamphear. 14152. Fresh specimen of salmon from Oregon. 

Moore, Degraffe & Co. 15473. Specimens of zinc ores from Missouri. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 411 

JUoorcs, I. R. 13930. Alcoholic specimens of wbitefish eggs from 

Oregon. 
Moore, Julian A. 14213. Bird in flesb, from Virginia. 

MoorhcaiJ, Warren K. 13070. Specimen of stone relic from Ohio. 

Moran, Peter. 140."»4. Five framed plates illustrating the process of 
American etching. 

Moreno, Theodore. 1421G. Specimen of corundum in margerite from 
Georgia. 

Morgan, Hon. John T. 15538. Four samples of crude petroleum from 
California. 

Morris, J). {Director Public Gardens and Plantations, Jamaiea). 13903, 
14230, and 15401. Collection of materia medica and fungus from Ja- 
maica. 

Morris, Dr. Robert T. 14435. Specimens of Filaria laUen from air blad- 
der of trout from Connecticut River. 

Morrison, Plummer lO Co. 14251. Sami)le of earth from Nevada. 

Morrison, Z. P. 13929. Specimen of stone ])ipe (brok*en) from Alabama. 

Morton, J. Sterling. 14228. Specimen of Moorish stirrup. (Deposited.) 

Moselty, H. X. {Oxford Universiti/, England). 14502 and 15518. Specimen 
of carnivorous plant with a number of newly-batched fish attached ; 
also two microscopic slides. 

Mossy Creelc Zinc Mine. 1527 1 . Specimens of zinc ores from Tennessee. 

MouUon Mining and Smelting Coynpany. 15370 and 15534. Specimens of 
silver ores, and i)roducts from Moulton mine and mill, Butte, Mont. 

Motz, Emanuel. 15180. Three boxes minerals and ores from South 
Carolina. 

Mound City Paint and Color Company. 15105. Specimens of mineral 
paints from Missouri. 

Mnclile, A. M. 14230. Specimen of fresh fish from IVIanitoba. 

Murdoch, John. 15407. Specimen of black amber from Alaska. 

Musson, E. L. 14254. Specimen of mineral from Colorado. 

Muzzey, A. P. 14183. Sample of building stone and rock from Wis- 
consin. 

Nation, William. 14133, 14411, and 15480. Collection of birds' skins 
from Peru. 

Nattalburg Coal and CoJce Company. 15380. Samples of coke from West 
Virginia. 

Natural Coal and Cole Company. 15218. Specimens of coal and coke 
from Virginia. 

Neal, Dr. J. C. 14129 and 14770. Two boxes of fossil bones from 
Florida. 

Neill, J. W. 15051. Collection of minerals from Missouri. 

Nelson, E. W. 14323, 14401, 14531, 14053, 14753, 14890, and 15510. Fif- 
teen boxes, 2 barrels, specimens of birds' vskins, reptiles, manimals, 
pottery, stone implements, ethnographic, &c., from Arizona and Cal- 
ifornia. 



412 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Neiv Hanover County. 15419. Phosphatic rock from I>rew Hanover 
County, i^Tortb Carolina. 

Wew River Coal and Colx Company. 15200. Sample of conl from West 
Virginia. 

Neicton, Frof. II. A. 15250. Specimen of (be Bnrlingtou meteorite. 
(Loaned.) 

JSfeicton, Dr. W. Sr 15129. Tracings of footprints (on muslin) fonnd 
in sand rocks in Indian Territory, 

Neic YorJc Assay Office. 15403. Bottle of iridosmine residne. (Loan.) 

NichoUs. Dr. 11. A. Alfred. 13951. Birds' skins, shells, and native 
sulphnr from Dominica, W. I. 

Niclwls, 0. Laicrence. 14741 and 14770. Twenty-three specimens of 
birds' skins and 3 perches from New Jersey. 

Nichols, Capt. James H. 14315, 14492, and 14012. Collection of Indian 
relics and stone carvings from Georgia; also 2 specimens of Indian 
IJOttery. (Loaned.) 

Nims, C. D. 14713. Collection of minerals. (Purchased.) 

Nippon Mercantile Company. 1524G. Whalebone cigarette case, and 
turtle-shell toilet box. (Purchase, New Orleans Exhibition.) 

Nissley, J. R. 14285 and 15442. Specimen of cupped stone from Ohio ; 
also specimens of stone relics. (Loan.) 

Norman, Dr. A.M. 14039. Alcoholic invertebrates from England and 
Scotland. 

North Chicayo Rolling Mill Company. 14911, 14931, and 153G3. Speci- 
mens of steel ingot, and 8 boxes of iron, steel, slag, &c., and i)hoto- 
graph of mills. 

Northern Chief Mine. 15237. Specimen of ores from Utah. 

Norton, C. B. 14513. Barrel of Brazilian pottery from Boston For- 
eign Exhibition. 

Norton, 0. W. 14106. Specimen of mineral from New York. 

Nortcay Mining and Manufacturing Company. 15111. Specimens of 
ores from Utah. 

Nova Scotia Iron Company. 15252. Specimens of iron ores, pig iron, 
&c., from Missouri. 

Oglesby, Dr. W. W. 14304. Indian stone relic from Oregon. (Depos- 
ited.) 

Omalhj, Michael T. 14204. Specimen of worm from Arkansas. 

Oman and Stewart Stone Company. 14270. Six specimens of building 
stones from Kentucky. 

Ontario Silver Mining Company. 15235 and 15236. Four boxes of ores 
and products from Utah. 

Orcutt, C. R. 14090, 14224, 14530, 14536, 14838, 15030, and 15392. 
Specimens of birds' skins, living and alcoholic reptiles, shrimps, in- 
sects, barnacles, minerals, fossils, shells, and specimen of wood per- 
forated by Limnoria calif ornica, from California. 

Osborn, Dr. T. C. 14806. Specimens of bird's in flesh from Texas. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 413 

Osceola Miniiuj Comijany. 14S00, 14825, and 1482G. Specimeus of cop- 
per ores and its associates from Micliigau. 

Oxford Copper and Sulphur Company. 14445. Specimens of copper ore 
from Berj;enport, N. J. 

Pacific Mills. 15032 and 15221). Specimeus illustratiiiii the mamifact- 
ure of woolen and cotton goods ; also copper roller for printing calico. 

Pa<je, Booth d- Co. 15471. Two boxes of coal tar and ammoniacal prod- 
ucts. 

Page, George Shepard. 14388. Stuffed skin of salmon. 

Page and Krausse. 15088. Metallic and mineral paints from Missonri. 

Paint Creek ]\Iining Company. 14817. Specimens of coal from West 
Virginia. 

Palmer, Dr. Udicard. 14145, 14281), 14462, 141)43, 14970, and 15028. 
Collection of etUnograjjbic specimens, sedge grass, rice, i)estles, mu- 
sical instruments, wood pipes, «S:c,, from Alabama and Georgia; also 
05 boxes si)onges, corals, invertebrates, ores, shells, materia medica, 
&c., from Florida. 

Palmer, William. 13958, 139G3, 14206, 14260, 14262, 14309, and 14577. 
Siiecimens of birds' skins froui Virginia and South Carolina ; also 
mounted specimen of parrot. 

Pari; John M. 14555. Photogr;!])!! of stone carving. 

Purler, Rev. C. W. 15150. Specimen of tooth from Georgia. 

Parker, H. W. 14761. Specimen of triassic sandstone from Iowa. 

Parker, W. Thornton, U. S. A. 15165. Specimen of Apache Indian 
bed from Fort Union, Xew Mexico. 

Parkhurst, V. P. 14509. Samples of food, fruits, i)lauts, «Jcc., from 
Jamaica. 

Parrot Smelting Company. 15530. Specimens of copper ores and prod- 
ucts from Butte, Mont. 

Parsons, William B. 1.5041. Sword of swordtish (curved); chart of 
Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, dated 1798; chart of Labrador coast 
(very old); and an old-style rule. 

Passaic Zinc Company. 14690, 14998, and 15368. Collection of zinc 
ores, Spiegel, &c., from their works. 

Vaitee if; Weelcn. 15059. ]\rodel of the shij) Glasgow. 

Pairtiivkct Hair Cloth Company. 15220. Specimens illuslrating the 
manufacture of hair cloth. 

Pearee, Richard. 11370. Specimeus of minerals from Utah, ^Montana, 
and Colorado. 

Peckham, S. F. 15000. Specimens of minerals from Minnesota. 

Pelletier, Antonio. 15364. SpeciuuMi of stone relic from Mexico. 

Pendleton, P. 15159. Specimen of building stones from West Virginia. 

Pennsylvania Coal Company. 14723. Lithograph of the Barnuni col- 
liery breaker of Pennsylvania Coal Company. 

Pennsylvania Diamond Drill Company. 15147, 15156, and 15207. Fire 
boxes contaitiing diamonddi'iU exhibit. 



414 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1881. 

Pepper Mining Company. 15307. Specimen of Diaguetic iron are from 

North Carolina. • 

Perigo, Elmer. 144C9. Two specimens of red squirrel in flesh from 

Falls Church, Va. 
Perlcins, ,G. II., U. S. N., commanding TJ. S. S. Hartford. 14S59. Box 
containing- photographs taken by Lieutenant Vreelaud and Dr. J. F. 
Brausford. 

Perley, L. 0. 11501: and 14080. Specimens of fossil shells from Kan- 
sas. 

Perry, N. E. 13970, 14021, 14023, 14040, 14134, and 14742. Specimens 
of minerals from Maine. 

Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron Company. 14921. Two boxes 
specimens of coal, and miners' tools, from Pennsjdvania. 

Phillips, Bar net. 15225. Glass balls with feathers. 

Phipps, J. 15401. Si)ecimen of ancient coin from Macedonia. 

Photo- Engraving Company. 15277. Samples illustrating the i)rocess 
of photolithography. 

Picket, T. J. 15149. Eight stone and one piece of pottery from Old 
Mexico. (Deposited.) 

Pike, G. W. 14908. Specimen of eaith from spring in Arizona. 

Pilabry, H. A. 14987. Specimen of shell from Iowa. 

Piper, Mrs. M. A. 14099. Specimen of mora belt and miniature book 
made from gum. 

Poey, Prof. Felippe. 14040. Package alcoholic specimens of lish from 
Cuba. 

Poole, C. Clarence. 14420. Photograph of hail-stones which fell in 
Dubuque, Iowa, June 10, 1882. 

Poole, George. 14012. Specimen of baboon in flesh. 

Pope, Cole & Co. 15257. Specimens of copper metal and slag from 
Maryland. 

Potter, Mrs. Frances McNeil. 14102. Sample of hair of the late Presi- 
dent Franklin Pierce. 

Pou-ell, B. J. 15309 and 15423. Block of breccia, specimens of min- 
erals, and one diamond drill core from North Carolina. 

Pratt and Lambert. 14242. Samples of spar and light hard oil finish. 

Pratt, R. H., Capt., U. 8. A. 14055. Max Spotted -tail, Sioux boy, 18 
years old (son of Spotted tail, chief). (Loaned for cast.) 

Price, T. S. 15251. Specimen of insect from California. 

Proctor, J. M. 14015. Two specimens of ores from Tennessee. 

Proctor, John R. 15288. Fourteen boxes of building stones from Ken- 
tucky. 

Pulcher, C. G. 14750. Specimen of meteorite. 

Pumpelly, Raphael. 14082. Eighteen boxes specimens of iron ore. 

Quail, James B. 14378. Specimens of fossils, rocks, and stone relic 
from Kansas. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 415 

Queen d' Co., James W. 153G9. Samples of Ainericaii and foreign safety 
miuiug lamps. 

Rad/orcl, William II. 151 G8. Specimens of amalgam, line gold, nug- 
gets with gold and gravel from California. 

liagsdalc, G. 11. 14104, U743, and 15077. Birds' skin from Florida. 
Two boxes of birds' skins and mounted specimen of Butco harlani 
from Texas. (Purchased.) 

IiamsdeU, J. F. 14188. Specimen of n)ineral from Minnesota. 

Kamsey, X. A. 14013. Specimen of worm from North Carolina. 

Eandolph Counti/j Xortli Carolina. 15304 and 15420. Specimens of gold 
ore from Bush 11 ill and Leach mines, North C^arolina. 

Ransom, C. II. 14030. Plaster cast of stone relic from Erie County, 
Ohio, 

Rathbun, Latham. 14132. Marine specimenfrom cell in piece of coral 
oti' Tampa Bay, Fla. 

Reading Bolt and Xut Works. 15489 and 1549G. Lithograpluc i)lan of 
their works, drawings of furnaces and tools in connection with roll- 
ing mill works; also 5 boxes of specimens of bolts, rivets, nuts, &c. 

Reckhart, I). W. 15220. Specimens of ore from Utah. 

Red Ash Coal Company. 14707. Specimen of coal from lloss Vein mine, 
Pennsylvania. 

Red Bird Mine. 15121. Box of ores from Utah. 

Reeves, Paul >S'. 15206. Specimens of bronze and other alloys. 

Rciche, Charles. 14079 and 14284. Two fresh specimens of monkeys. 

Reiche, Edward. 14020, 14046, 14111, 14147, and 14490. Four speci- 
mens of monkeys in tlesh, and one alligator about 10 feet long. 

Remicl; John A. 14719. Specimens of gems. 

Restigiiuche Salmon Club. 14692 and 14726. Four large fresh specimens 
of salmon {Sahno salar) from Canada, and alcoholic specimens of 
young salmon. 

Reii, T)r. E. 14899. Box of birds' skins from Germany. 

Reynolds, B. 14934. Skeleton of porpoise from New Jersey. 

Reynolds, Dr. E. R. 15137. Stone implement from District of Colum- 
bia. 

Rheem, E. tS. 15116. Two specimens of horse-hair snake {Gordius 
aquaticus.) 

Richardson and McCormick. 14226. Two specimens each of flying and 
red squirrels from Virginia. 

Richardson, J. 14172, 14402, and 15514. Specimeu of Jiuniiiiig mouse 
{Zapus hudsonins) from Virginia; also specimen of skeleton of python 
and rabbit skin. 

Richmond and rotts. 15293. Drawings of Siemens furnaces. 

Ridenour, C. E. 15259. Specimens of i)arasites taken from Potomac 
Kiver herring. 

Ridgicay, A. W. 14887. Three specimens of small birds from Virginia. 

Ridgway, 1). 15227. Alcoholic specimens of reptiles from Indiami. 



416 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Ridywaij, R. 14319, 14478, 14S8G, 14925, aud 15223. Specimens of 
birds' skins from Virginia and District of Columbia ; also two tlint 
arrowheads from Indiana j specimen of bat caught in Smithsonian 
building. 

Riggs, E. Frank. 14424. Head-dress of Sioux chief. (Deposited.) 

Ringicalt, Joseph G. 145U5. Specimen of timber showing dry rot, from 
District of Columbia, 

Rivett- Carnac, H. 14200. Specimen of the five-headed cobra, supported 
by the tortoise, silvered, from Benares bazaar, India. 

Roane Iron Company. 14880. Box of iron ore from Tennessee. 

Roberts, I. H. 14332. Specimen of ore from New Mexico. 

Robertson, W. B. 14049. Specimens of minerals from Virginia. 

Robeson County, North . Carolina. 15308. Box of marl from North 
Carolina. 

Robinson, F. C. 14910. Specimens of minerals from Maine. 

Robinson, Mrs. J. M. 14551. Package of daisy flowers from Utah. 

Robinson, T. 14702. Twenty-nine samples of sand, t&c., from east 
shaft of Washington water-works extension. 

Rock, Br. Miles. 15050. Twenty-five dry-plate negatives of objects 
along the boundary line between Guatemala and Mexico. 

Rockwell, A. F., Col. U. 8. A. 141G2. Specimen of hair from the head 
of the late President James A. Garfield. 

Rockwood, E. J. 15291. Specimen of stone relic from Massachusetts. 
(Loaned.) 

Rodgers, Mr. {through Capt. J. W. Collins). 15359. Specimen of model 
of the boat Oregon. 

Rogan, James W. 14171, 14300, 14314, and 1.5283. Alcoholic specimens 
of mammals, birds' skins, and two birds in flesh from Tennessee. 

Rogers, William J. 14199. Specimens of minerals from Missouri. 

Romero, M. [Mexican legation). 15118. Ten packs of Mexican playing- 
cards. 

Rose, R. E. 15452. Sample of earth from Florida. 

Roseborough, J. B. 15458. Specimen of coddling- moth nest on twig 
from Utah. 

Rosecrans, Hon. W. S. 14120. Specimens of minerals from New Mexico. 

Ross, Br. W. 8. 14351. Specimen of parasite. 

Rowland, J. H. 14362. Specimen of double-headed lamb {Ovis aries) 
in flesh from jMarylaud. 

Roxbury Carpet Company. 1499C. Seven specimens of tapestry Brus- 
sels carpets. 

Royal Botanical Gardens [Kew, England). 14044. Box of valuable ma- 
teria medica. 

Royal College of Surgeons [London, England). 14096. Skeleton of Globio- 
cephahis melas from Tasmania. 

Ruby, Charles, 15506. Specimens of skeleton of elk complete, skin of 
black-tailed deer, buck head with antlers, aud fossil shells. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IX 1881. 417 

Rndinee, Jj. 15073. SpecimcMi of copixT oiv tVoiii Xfw Mcxiuo. 

Jvust, Horatio X. 1441>4. Three pacUages samples ol' dried cactus, fruit 

of fifj, live-oak acorns, and nioal made from the acorn of California. 
Sdiut (lOU'viefC Copper Vomiuinn. lolL'H. Nine boxes sjjeciinens of 

copper ores, &c., from Missouri. 
Saint Joe Lead Compani/. 14234, 14001), and ir){U»S. Spt'cimens of lead 

ore, associates, and minerals. 
Saint Lawrence Marhle Company. 14S31. Large block of white marble 

from Gouveineur, N. Y. 
Saint Jjouis Ore and Steel Companij. 15138. Specimen pig-iron from 

Missouri. 
Saint Louis Smeltina and Ivcjininij Company. 15243. Specimens (tf sil. 

ver and lead retining products. 
Saint Louis Tripoli C<>ini)<(nj/. 150S0. One half barrel of tri])oli from 

.Missouri. 
Sampson County, North Carolina. 15313. Fourteen siteeimens of phos- 

]»hatic rock from North Carolina. 
Sanders, J. J). 15053. Box of minerals from Missouri. 
Sanford, G. 14689. Specimens of fibers. 
S'l tinders, Howard. 15078. Five specimens of birds' skins from Greece^ 

India, and South America. 
Sauter, Fredericl<. 1.5058. Box of speciniens of birds' and mammal skius 

liom Asia and Africa. 
Sawyer, C. M. 15449. Specimens of stone relics. (Loaned.) 
Sawyer, R.J. 14781. Two specimens of teeth " horse" from Michigan. 
sayles, Ira. 13989. Specimens of chalcedony from Tennessee. 
Sayre Fe nale Institute. 14139. Box of fossils from Kentucky. 
Sehlichter Jute and Cordage Company. 15244 and 1.5335. Samples of 

Jute, twine, rope, &c. ; also samples of foreign jute. 
Schluter, WiUie'm. 15045. Package of birds' skins from Siberia. 
Schneider, Harry. 14227. Fresh si)ecimen of Laverack setter. 
Schreiber, J. J). 15353. Box of corundums from Pennsylvania. 
Scott, Samuel. 14275 and 15482. Two packages of ores from Dakota. 
Seal, William /'. 14281. Living sj>ecinK'ns of fishes from Pennsylvania. 
sdls Brothers. 15490. Specimens of wart-hog and baboon in llesh. 
Sells, Lewis. 14294. Fresh sjjecimen of i»anther [Felis concolor), died 

in captivity at Johnson City, Tenn. 
Semple, J. 0. 14774, 14892, 1.5019, and 15402. Collection of drawings 

and charts. (Purchased.) 
Scion, Ernest E. T. 14912. Si)ccimens of ducks, worms, «S:c., from 

Cranberrj-, Manitoba. 
Sewall (€• Co., Arthur. 15341. Mo<lel of boat Kai)pahannock. 
Sexton, Haniel. 15483. Specimen of mineral from Californiii. 
Shaefer, F. IT. 14901. Photograi)h and tracings of iron mines and. 

columnar section of the coal measures near Kohinoctr colliery, &c. 
S. Mis. '6'6, pi. 2 27 



418 REPORT OF NATIONAL. MUSEUM, 1884. 

chaffer, Dr. J. M. 34528 aud 15034. Specimens of petroleum geodes 
and insects from Illinois and Iowa. 

Sharp, jr., (£• Co., Richard. 14856. Tliree photographs of mine engines 
for outside and inside work. 

Sharpe, R. Boicdler {Britiah Museum). 14045, 14264, and 15439. Speci- 
mens of birds' skins, collected by Capt. C. T. Bingham ; 66 specimens 
of birds' skins, chiefly India ; also specimens of swallows from various 
localities. 

Sharpless, A. 13915. Three specimens of stone relics from Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Sheafer, P. W. 14877. Slipper made from anthracite coal ; also cube 
of artificial coal, stigmaria, algae, and calamite, from Pennsylvania. 

Sheaf er, Walter 8. 14874. Specimen fossil plant from Kohinoor col- 
liery, Pennsylvania. 

Sheldon, ]). S. 14432, 14769, and 14813. Living specimens of land tor- 
toise, turtles, and turtle-shells from Iowa. 

SheJton, Joseph. ] 4412, 15075, and 15185. Samples of ores, rocks, quartz, 
&c., from Virginia. 

Shepard, Prof. Charles U. 14611. Slice of the iron meteorite from Dal- 
ton, Whitfield County, Georgia. 

Shepard, J a me i. 14047 aud 15013. Cast of perforated stone ornament 
and photograph of bowlder. 

Shields, G. 0. 15381. Specimen of stone im]>lement from Wisconsin. 

Shindhelm, M. 15373. Specimens of human hair wigs. 

Shipman, ^[iss Dot. 14790. Specimens of alcoholic fishes from Florida. 

Shoemaker, B. L. 15371. Specimen of squirrel in tiesh. 

Shoemalcer, W. L. 13942. Specimen of stone mortar from Maryland. 

Shrirer, Howard. 14218 and 14441. Collection of fossils and calcareous 
deposits, quartz, arrow-heads, and plants from Virginia. 

Shufeldt, R. W., Assist. Surf/., U. S. A. 14220 and 15451. Skin and 
alcoholic specimens of' birds from Louisiana; also shells from Texas. 

Siemachko, T. 15348. Specimens of minerals from Russia. 

Slier, A. L. 13913 and 14331. Specimens of red-cedar root and rock 
from Utah. 

Silliman, Prof. B. 15195. Specimen of tin ingot from Irish Creek Vir- 
ginia ores. 

Silliman, jr., B. 14456. Plaster model of the bronze statue of Prof B. 
Silliman. 

Simmons, Netfton 14493. Samples of earth from MaryLind. 

Sinls, Julia L. 15046. Specimen of stone from Texas, with imprint of 
printing on face. 

Skillet, William. 15331. Specimens of coal and coke from Missouri. 

Skinner, Alexander. 14207 and 14247. Two fresh specimens of musk- 
rats from Potomac lliver, aud specimen of bird's skin. 

Slade, Elisha. 14221. Pair living hybrid ducks from Massachusetts. 

Slater Cotton Company. 15281. Samples of holly-tree cotton cloth. _ 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 419 

Slater, K. II. IoD.jK. Siu'ciiiioii II yalloiis wMvv iVoiii Utah Hot 

Springs, Utah. 
Smith. Mr. 13098. JSiu'ciiiicii of red s(]iiinrl in tlosli from Moiitjxoinery 

County. Maryland. 
Smith, A. J. 14.i3(>. lSi)ecinit'ns t)l' native copper with aziuite in (piartz 

from Frederick County, Maryhmd. 
S)nith, C. 1). 15310. Specimen of beryl crystal from l\ay mica mine, 

North Carolina. 
Smith, Charles M. 14797, 11S39, and 11891. Five hundred and twenty- 
six specimens of flint implements from Flint Kidge, Ohio. 
Smith. E. C. 14543. Specimen of fresh fish from Newj)ort, 11. I. 
Smith. Eddie y. loli'7. S[)ecinien of red slate from Connecticut. 
Smith. Fraitl- S. 13920. Specimen of building stone from Angelica, 

N. Y. 
Smith. HiKjh M. 14728, 1533(5, and 15337. Speci'uen of nest with G 

eggs of American goldtinch : also dried and alcoholic specimens of 

birds' skins. 
Smith. J. C. 15526. Specimen of phosi)hatic concretion. 
Smith. Peter. 15412. Large fresh specimen of (lerman carp from Wi- 
comico, Md. ; weight, 11 pounds. 
iSttiith. Miss Rosa. 14099. Tank of alcoholic si)ecimens of fish from 

California. 
Smith, E. R. 14553 and 14()4."». Specimens of arrow-heads, &c., from 

Arkansas. (Purchased.) 
Sfi'ith. William F. 14119. Sitecimen of crania found on ])rairieO miles 

from Webster City, Iowa. 
.Siititt. Prof. F. A. 14013. Box of ethnology irom Sweden. 
Sni/'lcr, John J. 14821. Specimen of insect from California. 
Sixiiiihour, J. M. 13949, 14219, and 15314. Specimens of stone relics 

from Xorth Carolina; photographs of hieroglyphics found at head of 

(lila Kiver, near line of Arizona and New Mexico. 
iSlxtiii.sh Mine. 15241. Specimens of ores from Utali. 
S2)arhs t(- Co., George L. 14783. Specimen of ])orpoise from Cape May, 

N. J. 
Spencer ci* McCouey. 15098. Six l)oxes of zinc ores from Missouri. 
Sperry, Edwin A. 14375. Specimens of ser})entine from Colorado. 
Spieer, George W. 14729. Specimen of fish from Delaware. 
Spratt, Joseph. 14 555. Eight cans of sabuon from Frazer Kiver and 

Strait of Fuca ; also sample offish guano made from ottal, &c., from 

Victoria, British Columbia. 
Spray, S. J. 14G87. Two specimens of birds' eggs from Colorado. 
South Kensington Museum {London. England). 14097. Two cases of 

Chinese fisiiing ap|)aratus and boats. 
Southside Club. 14000. Specimen of fresh fish from Oakdale, Long 

Island. 



420 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1881 

South Side Mini tu/ Company. 151311 and 15212. Four boxes six'cinien:;; 
of zinc and lead ores fiom Galena, Kans. 

iSouthwefit Lead and Zinc Company. 15100. Two boxes zinc ore, spelter, 
«S:c., from Missouri. 

Southiciclc & JencliS. 15379. Specimen of bird's skin (roseate si)oon- 
bill). (Purchased.) 

>StadtmiUer, L. 14808, 14991, and 15007. Specimens of minerals from 
Couiiecticut ; 1 box of rocks. (Purchased.) 

Staebner, F. W. 14297. Specimens of minerals from Massachusetts. 

Starkj W. 13939. Specimen of mineral from West Virginia. 

iState Line and i^uUiran Railroad Company. 14926. Samples of Loyal- 
sock coal from Towanda, Pa. 

Staunton & Moses. 14737. Plans of si)iegel furnaces from JeiseyCity, 
N. J. (Purchased.) 

Sfayton, Frank. 14574. Si>eciraen of insect from Delaware. 

Stearns, R. F. C. 14244, 14519, 14538, 14CG5, 14(366, 14667, 14608, and 
14803. Two hundred and twent.y-two specimens of minerals and ores, 
native gold, silver, and copper, sonorous sand, Indian and stone 
relics, 2 boxes of shells, crusracea, invertebrates, ornithology, insects, 
foods, seeds, &c., from Western States, Mexico, Chili, Samoa, &c. ; 19 
specimens of wood, fiber, pulp, and paper made of the Yiicca hrerifoVKt 
from Mojavc Desert, California. 

Stearns d' Co., Frederick. 14697 and 14721. Twenty-four specimens oi 
birds' skins from Jamaica, West Indies, Central America, and Costa 
Rica (purchased) ; also collection of materia medica. (Gift.) 

Stearns c(- Co., John U. 14777. Specimens of silk and silk fabrics. 

Stearns, Silas. 14125. Alcoholic specimens of invertebrates and pom- 
pauo shells from Florida. 

Steedman,L. G. W. 15380. Two specimens of fresh fish from Missouri. 

Steele, Robert Ij. 14077 and 14736. Specimen of broken iron ])0t and 
section of same imbedded in tree 33 feet above ground, done by 
cyclone near Rockingham, N. C, February 19, 1884; also specimen 
of Indian ])Ottery. 

Stejnc(jer,l)r. Lconhard. 13988, 14018, 14032, 14210, 14491, 14495, 14054, 
15021, and 15022. Collection of birds' skins and swans from Norway, 
Faroe Islands, Denmark, Brazil, Madagascar, Newfoundland, and 
Europe. 

Stennitt, B. W. 14020. Specimen of worm from Pennsylvania. 

Stephenson, J. A. J). 14073 and 15492. Specimen of Indian relic and 
minerals, ami specimen of corundum, from North Carolina. (Loaned.) 

Sterling, Dr. E. 14467. Specimens of dip-net and 8i)ears used by fish- 
ermen of Lake Erie, at Cleveland, Ohio. 

Stevenson, James. 14194. Samide of earth. 

Stewart had Grifflth. 14063. Samples of earth from Calvert County, 
Maryland. 

Stilh, F. H. 15198. Specimen of ore from North Carolina. 



LIST OF ACCKSSIONS TO TilK .MCSKUM IN 1881 421 

Stillmaii, Hornet' E. U.'iOS. Fresh spccinu'ri ot sluid (lu'iinaplirodite). 
Stockion, W. M. lA'i^i'}. S|u'c-iiniMi of iniiuMal IVoiii \'irjiiiii;i. 
iStoerzer, Mr.s. L. l.Jlt.M. Four s]»in(lles and two whorls from Germany. 
StoUvy, George. loOlis and 1 IdS.'S. Sampk-s of ci'nient from Texas. 
Sioudkcr, C. L. 1431'!. Specimens of roek and minerals from CoU)rado. 
Stone, M. W. 14<H.'">. Specimens of jute from Mississi]>pi. 
Stoiu'i/, George M., Lieut. V. »S. X, U. S. S. Oiinohi.sho. 14*.)2.i. Speci- 
mens of rocks, sand, &c., collected from new volcano in Dehrin^ Sea. 
Storey, Jerome {through E. W.AUis). 141)08. Specimens of stone relics 

from Michifian. (Loaned.) 
Stout, M. E. 14100. Si)ecimen of ore from New York. 
Stover, E. S. IT)! 14. Box of alcolu<lic fishes and mineral water from 

New Mexico. 
Strauch,John II. 14873. Specimen of alum crystal from Pennsylvania. 
Stubbs, W. P. 15()«J1 and 15122. Paintings of the brig P:ugeue Hale 

and U. S. S. Meteor; also 3 oil paintings of fishing boats. 
Stuffleheam, J. G. d- H. E. 14534 and 14535. Specimens of minerals 

from Arkansas. 
Sturgex, C. M. 15062. Specimen of insect from Illinois. 
Sturgis, Appleton. 14322. Specimens of jute butts as recei\ed from 

Calcutta, and samples of sliver yi'rn, «S:c., made from the butts used 

in the manufacture of guuny cloth. 
sfurtz, B. {through Felix Flilgel). 14924. Five boxes rock si)ecimens 

from Germany. (Purchased.) 
Sumter, J. {through Col. M. McDonald). 14523 and 14043. Specimens 

of young tish from Virginia. 
iSutton, Col. P. D. 14137. Specimen of manganese oxide from Vii-- 

ginia. 
Sican, H. R. 15328. Specimens of minerals from New York. 
Siraii, James G. 15152, 15100, and 15477. Alcoholic fishes ami model 

of whaling canoe; also large collection of ethnology from Washing- 
ton Territory and British Columbia. 
■^ican, John I). 15325. Si)ecimens of minerals i'rom Antweip, N. V. 
Sicann, William M. 15311. Six packages specimens of tire clay from 

North Carolina. 
Sicitzer, Mrs. Mary. 14451. Specimen of e^i. fioin IJockbridge 

County, Virginia. 
I'ligore. Rajah Sourindro Molmn. 14094. Colle«-tion of Indian musical 

instruments, articles used in religious and domestic service, spe<'i 

mens of clay figures, velvet embroidered with gold ; also works on 

music, &C., from India. 
Tate, E. 0. 14518. Specimen of insect from North (Carolina. 
Taussig, A. 13995. Twelve packages of garnets, uncut, cut, and p(»l- 

ished, from Bohemia. 
Taylor, F. W. 14010 and 14748. Specimens of silver ore and tarantula 

from New Mexico. 



422 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1881. 



ThafcJier, L. F. 14542. 
Thayer, A. E. 144S3. 
Thibault, J. K. 14G04. 
Thomas, W. tS. 14460. 
Thompson, Edward H. 



Taylor, W. 144G3. Collection in ethnology from Alabama. 
Telegraph Mine. 15239. Specimens of ore from Utah. 

Specimen of miner.Tl from lowii. 
Two specimenR of birds' skins from ISTew York. 
Specimens of pottery from Arkansas. 
Specimen of talc from North Carolina. 
14511. Bottle of alcoholic specimens of eels 
from Buzzard's Bay, Massachusetts. 
Thompson, Eeber S. 1486G. Three boxes specimens of brogans, and 2 

cubes made from anthracite coal from Pennsylvania. 
Thompson, Mrs. Oscar G. 15312. Collection of silk cocoous from North 

Carolina. 
Thompson, W. W. 14383. Specimens of stone relics from New York. 
Thvrher, Leivis B. 15258. Fresh specimen of green turtle fiom Long 

Island. 
Tibbitts, J. H. 13999, 14597, and 14650. Specimens taken from sand 

rock, and specimens of plants and minerals, from California. 
Tiffany & Go. 14540, 14670, 11909, 15063, 15198, and 15208. Ten alli- 
gator skins, samples of leather, &c., pearl jewelry, minerals, and 
gems. 
TiUjhman, B. G. ^& R. A: 15525. Four hundred pounds of chilled iron 

globules for sawing and grinding. (Purchased.) 
Todd, AnreliKS. 14714. Specimen of mineral from Oregon. 
Todd, R. L. 14571. Shingle from the smoke-house of General George 

Washington at Mount Vernon, Va. 
Torrer, A. 13997. Two skins of thick-billed parrot from Durango, 

Mexico. 
Toume, F. H. 14115. Jar of Chinese " shamshue." 
Townsend, Gharles H. 13917, 14105, 14127, 14290, 14576, 14830, 14836, 
14920, 14922, 14955, and 15055. Twenty-eight packages containing 
large collection of birds' skins, nests, eggs, skins and skeletons ofj 
mammals, fossils, alcoholic skins of mammals, reptiles, fishes/&c., 
from Farallone Islands and California. 
True, F. W. 14834 and 15026. Specimen of jade from New Zealand, 

and skull of j^orpoise from Hatteras, N. C. 
Tuclcer, J. Lee. 14131. Three specimens of ores from Oneonta, N. Y. 
Specimens of lizards from Florida. 
Living specimen of horned toad. 
Specimen of beryl from Edgecomb mica mines, 



14061. 
14524. 
14789. 



Tnpper, H. E. 
Turner, D. G. 
Turner, E. Y. 

Maine. 
Turner, E. W. 14439, 14588, 14708, and 15043. Specimen of bat, fresl 

specimens of gopher, snakes, and insects from California. 
Turner, Lucien M. 13922, 14584, and 15388. Forty-five packages of) 

general natural history and ethnology from Labrador and Ungaval 

Bay, Hudson Bay Territory ; also alcoholic specimens of mammals,] 

reptiles, and insects from California. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO TIIK MUSEUM IN 1884. 425 

Unexcelled Fireirorks Company. lo3SG. Campaign badges and regalia. 

Union iStone Company. 151G7. Samples of emery and (;oiunduTu in 
the rock and in the grain as prepared for commerce. 

University of Cambridge, England. l-4!24(). Skeleton of Delphi n u.s- 
tnrsio. 

University <if Cvford, England {through Prof. 11. X. Moselcy, F.R.S.). 
l.SOOT and 14001. t>peeimens of .Tnra.ssii.' fossils, plants, crnstacea, 
and braeliiopods from stone tields near Oxford, England; also box of 
plaster casts of mammals and birds, 

Upham, Mrs. E. P. 14820. Specimen of insect from Masfc^Mclinsetis. 

Vail, Stephen. 14140. The Morse telegrai)h instrument — the only re- 
maining one of the two made at the Speedwell Iron Works, Morris- 
town, ]S. J., and the one which received the tirst telegraph message, 
" What hath God wrought ! " in 1844. 

X^ance, Mrs. S. P. 14758. Specimen of carved stone pipe from Ken- 
tucky. (Loaned.) 

Vansiee, Mrs. Isaac. 15o'27. Collection of minerals from Xatural 
Bridge, N. Y. 

Van Tuyle, Stnhora Marie Louise. 14485. Twelve specimens of wax 
fruits, 7 cloth figures, and 1 native tea-set made of paper from Brazil. 

Van Winkle, A. >S. 14471. Two small specimens of fishes from Iowa. 

Van Berlepech, Count. 14422. Collection of birds' skins from South 
America and Malacca. 

Von Ringharz, Theodore. 15145. Specimen of mineral from North 
Carolina. 

Waddell <& Co., R. J. 14704 and 14733. Sijecimens of polishing ma- 
terial (ground and bottled pumice and rotten -stone). 

Wake County, North Carolina. 152GG and 15315. Specimen of soap- 
stone and red sandstone. 

Walcotf, C. D. 15140 and 15209. Four specimens of minerals from 
Globe coi)per mines, Arizona; also samples of acorns used as food 
by the Apache Indians. 

Walker, John and Charles. 14200. Alcoholic specimens of birds, bats, 
reptiles and insects from Illinois. 

Waller, Williain. 14G00. Stone imi)lement liom Kentucky. 

Wanlass, John. 14843. Specimen of miner's lamp, with match box and 
picker. 

Ward, Prof. Henry A. 14170, 14G23, 146G0, 14731, 14771, 14837. 1401G, 
14020, 14074, and 15212. Collection of birds' skins, skins and skele- 
tons of mammals, ostrich and emu eggs, shells, corals, buildinjj: 
stones, &c., from various localities. 

Ward and Hoicell. 14310, 14G84, 14750 and 14010. :\Iinerals, gems, 
and cut stones. (Purchased.) 

Warren, Allen. 1530G. Specimen of fossil coral from marl bed near 
Granville, X. C. 



424 KKPOhT OF .NATIONAL MUSKUM, 1S3I. 

Waricick Iron Cornpany. 14700, 14900. Speciiiiciis of liunace products, 

iron ore, pig iron, slag', &C. 
HVashinytou, D. C. : 

U. S. Senate. (Soe under name of McCook, Anson G.) 
Treasury Department. (See under Collector of Customs, San Fran- 
cisco, Cal.) 
U. 8. Coast and Geodetic Survey. 140125. Six boxes of the standard 

weights and measures of the United States. 
Life Saving Service. (See under name of Knowles, H. M.) 
Revenue Marine Serviee. (See under name of Healy, Capt. M. A.) 
War Department : 

Quarfennaster-GeneraPs Office. (See under names of S. B. 
Holabird, Quartermaster-General, and A. E. Miltimore.) 
Medical Department. (See under names of Army Medical Mu- 
seum, Drs. Elliott Cones, and II. C. Yarrow.) 
Enfjineer Department : 

Wri(jht, II. G., Maj. Gen., U. S. A. ]402L>. Specimens of 
borings made in 1874 lor the reclamation of the allu\ial 
basin of the Mississippi Eiver. 
Wheeler, George M., Capt., U. S. A. 13905, 13900, 14042, 
and 14087. Specimen of asphaltum and iron from Black 
Hills, specimens of fossils from Crawfordsville, Ind., and 
garnet bearing- formation from near Fort Defiance, Ari- 
zona ; also 31 specimens of birds' skins, specimen of en- 
crinite, and tojiographical model of the San Juaii mining 
and mountain region of Colorado. (See also under 
names of General O. E. Babcock raid Col. A. F. Rock- 
well.) 
Signal Cotps. (See under names of John J. McLean, John 

Murdock, and L. M. Turner.) 
Retired from active service, General M. C. Meigs. 
U. S. Army. (See under names of Capts. Charles Bendire and 
K. H. Pratt ; Assistant Surgeons E. W. Shufeldt, Tim- 
othy E. Wilcox, J. C. Merrill, and Lieut. George F. 
Chase). 
J^avy Department: 

Bureau of Navigation. (See under name of Commander A. S. 

Barker.) 
Hydrographic Office. (See under name of Commander John R. 

Ba rt let t, h^' d rogra ph er. ) 
U. S. Navy. (See under names of Capt. George H. Perkins ; 
Lieuts. George M. Stoney, W. A. Marshall, and J. D. 
McGuire ; Surgeons J. M. Flint and William H. Jones; 
Passed Assistant Surgeon M. H. Crawford; and Ensigns 
A. A. Ackerman, II. G. Dresel, C. H. Harlow, C. S. 
McClain, and Ernest Wilkinson.) 



LIST OK ACCESSIONS TO THE Ml'SKUM IX HS». 425 

WafihiiH/toiK />. ('. — Contiinud. 

Interior DvporiDtcnt : 

U. *V. (nohxjical Surrti/. I'AU'M and LSltlKI. Ten views of Cap- 
tain Dnttoii's Atlas of the Grand Canon District; also 
11 boxos of litliolojjic and mincralojiic spocinuMis col- 
lected by j;oolog;ists of the division of the (rreat l>asin. 
(See also under names of Prof. F. \\'. Clarke, T. .M. 
Chatard, W.C. Clia])in, AVilliani II. Holmes, .1. B. Marcou, 
James Stevenson, and C. I). W'alcott.) 
Census (Wicf. Kifihteen boxes of iron ore. (Sec under name 

of U. rumpelly.) 
Bnn ((i< of FJlinolofiy {J. W. Poicelh Director). (See under names 
of llureau of Ktlinolojiy, V. IT. Cushini:. IT. W. Ilenshaw, 
Edward Palmer, and \ictor Mindelelf.) 

Department of A(/ricu ittre. l-ASOo. Specimens of ar«'ca nuts from 
Ilindostan. 

U. S. Com mission of Fi.-li and Fisheries {Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 
Commissioner). i;;033, 13980, 14037, 14043, 141.30, 14225, 
14200, 14280, 14324, 14334, 14342. 14389, 14420, 14522, 
14580, 14G07, 14759, 14835, 14900, 15189, 15289, 1.5343, 
15;;G5, 1 5399, 1 542(5, 1 5431 , 15438, 1 .^452, and 1 5402. Spec- 
imens of cotton from Old Providence, West Indies; 1 
barrel of corals; one half barrel geological specimens; 1 
basket-trap ; 2 trays homeopathic vials, 5 tanks, 850 bot- 
tles, and 3 () jars alcoholic si)ecimens of tislies, inverte- 
brates, reptiles, birds, mammals, &c., from West Indies 
and Gulf of ^Mexico; 8 living si)ecimens of cactus from 
Mexico; 27 packages of birds' skins, mammals, rei)tiles, 
antl insects from Florida ; 6 tank-boxes of alcoholic fishes 
aid marine invertebrates from West Pnlies ; a laige 
collection of 1,400 jiackages containing alcoholic tishes. 
marine invertebrates, Crustacea, «S:c., from the coast of 
Massachusetts during summer of 1884 ; also s])ecimeus 
of shark aud two dol])hins in Hesh ; large specimen of 
lobster ; ear bones and vertebric of whale, with sjH'cimen 
of granite from Cai)e Cod, ^Massachusetts ; box of deep- 
water barnacles from east coast of United States; 2 
boxes of samples of mineral water fiom Wood's IJoll, 
and model of steam seine boat ; 1 bariel and 1 keg of 
oysters from Chesapeake Bay ; s] ecimens of California 
trout, two years old, hatched at Wytheville, Va., with 
immerous Iresh specimens of carp, go]<illsli, tench, cray- 
tishes, and watt r snakes from the United States carp 
ponds and Central Station. (See also under names of 
Prof. A. E. Verrill, K. Kathbun, Prof. I)avi<l S. Jordan, 
Charles II. Gilbert, G. Brown Goode, Dr. T. II. Bean, 
M. McDonald, T. B. Ferguson, Joseph W. Collins, H. C. 
Chester, James G. Swan, and X'inal N. Kdwai ds.^ 



426 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. 

Washingtou, J). C. — Coutiiiued. 

Department of State. 13947. Suit of Japanese armor. (Deposited.) 
Waters, Willinm. 14844. !^pecimen of peacoclc coal from Peunsylvania. 
Watkins, O. W. 14819. SpecimcDS of minerals iVoni Xew York, 
Watts, J. J. 14338. Specimens of fossils from cave in Virginia. 
Wea1<s, P. B. 14808. Specimen of natural formation from stump 20 

feet below surface. 
Weaver & Co., G. B. 14385. Specimen of fresh sbad from Xew York 

market. 
Wchb, John. 15324. Twentytive specimens of minerals from Saint 

Lawrence County, New York. 
Webster, Frederick iS. 14208 and 14393. Specimens of birds' skins (Ple- 

(ladis falcinellus) from Florida. 
Weinlvnd, William H. 15082. Package of botanical specimens from 

Alaska. 
Weld, George II. 14971. Specimen of branch of tree from North Caro- 
lina. 
Wells, Bard. 14872. Specimen of quartz crystal and lepidodendrou 

rock from Pennsylvania. 
Wells, Frederick. 14G28. Two skins of voung woodchucks from Amber, 

KY. 
Wells, J. G. 14051. Specimens of birds' skins from West Indies. 
Wesleijan University (Middletoum, Conn.). 13911, 14109, 14948, and 
15400. Two boxes of minerals, birds' skins, and 250 species of land 
shells. 
Wharton, Joseph. 13984 and 14052. Specimen of nickel-plated iron, 10 

per cent, nickel on each side; also pumice from Krakatoa. 
Wheeler, Charles Le Roy. 14246 and 14358. Box of shells and fresh 

fish from Cape ^lay, X. J. 
Wheelock, D. B. 14080. Tibia of fossil saurian. 
Whitcomb, George J). 14869. Photograph of Harrison mining machine 

from Illinois. 
Whitcomb d- Co.. H. C. 15354. Specimens illustrating the manufacture 
of electrotypes. 
Ulectrotyping : { I) Process wood-cut and type form locked up in 
chase ready for mold ; (2) mold in beeswax, surface block 
leaded; (3) deposit of copper by dynamo electric machine; (4) 
copper shells removed from mold; (5) copper shells loaded up 
with electrotype metal, principally lead ; (6) finished book and 
duplicates of wood-cuts to be ready for tlie press. 
Stereotyping: (1) Mohl of music and typefaces in dry and plas- 
ter; (2) coating of same in stereotype metal : (3) finished book 
and inner plate. 
White, George D. 14882. Specimen of ore from Oregon. 
White, George W. 14573. Package of ore from Mississippi. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 427 

White, J. C. 141).S(). Small collection of wax impressions of seals and 
coins. 

White, John C. 14348. Mineral from Texas. 

Whiting, Frank 11. 15285. Specimen of lizard and snail shells from 
Connecticut. 

Whiting, S. B. 14840. Sixteen boxes of coal and its associates from 
Pennsylvania. 

Whitney, Eli. 15491). Original model of the cotton-gin invented by 
Eli WLitney, sr., in 1793. (Deposited.) 

Whitney, T. J. 14749. Collection of minerals from Gouverneur, N. Y. 

Whitienton Mannfacturing Company. 15290. Sami)les of cotton. 

Wilder, Amos. 14093 and 15523. Insects from Maine. 

Wilcox, Dr. T. E., U. 8. A. 14034. Arapalio saddle-bags. 

Wilkinson, Ernest, Ensign, U. 8. N. 14325 and 15080. Package of 
small insects from Ohio and minerals from Colorado. 

Willrox, Joseph. 14930 and 14940. Two boxes of minerals from Penn- 
sylvania. (Deposited.) 

Williams & Everett. 14900, 15391, and 15415. Six boxes of autotypes. 
(Purchase, New Orleans Exhibition.) 

Williams, Ezra. 14200. Specimen of ore from Cascade Mountains. 

Williams, Dr. G. E. 14258 and 14410. Specimens of rocks from Ger- 
many, Italy, Baden, island of Ischia, and France. 

Williams, Goodwin U. 14914. Specimen of root of a i)lant from Vir. 
ginia. 

Williams, Capt. John J. 14159. Specimens of garnet in granite from 
Delaware County, Pennsylvania. 

Williams, J. L. 14841. Specimen of Williams's safety lamp and iron 
pyrites. 

Williams, Capt. Thomas. 14430. Specimens of ores and fossils from 
Potomac Eiver and Massachusetts. 

Williams, Capt. Thomas. 14008. Four specimens of minerals from 
Delaware County, Pennsylvania. 

Willis, John J. 13972. Specimens of insects which fell on January 19, 
1884, at Westfield, N. J., after a snow storm. 

Williman, E. 15115. Package of minerals from New Mexico. 

Wilson, Charles F. 14371. Five specimens of welded copper. 

Wilson, Thomas. 13982. Box of shells from France. 

ir//.s-o«, Hon. William L. 14089. Specimens of mineral from West 
Virginia. 

Winifrede Coal Company. 15092. Specimens of coal and slate from 
West Virginia. 

Wise, Hon. John S. 15300. Bird in flesh from Virginia. 

Witherbee, T. F. 15321. Specimen of tourmaline from Crown Point, 
N. Y. 

Woerfel, C. T. 14029. Paper-weight composed of 38 samples of orna- 
mental stones from Itussia. 



-428 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884, 

Wol/ord, W. L. 14746. Four birds' skins from Maiue. 

Wood^ George H. HHS"). Five ue|jatives of Long Valley Coal Com- 
pany's mines, Pennsylvania. (Purchase, New Orleans Exhibition.) 

Wood, J. P. 14333. iuseet Irom Anbarn, N. Y. 

^Yoolfe, Henry I). 1 5495. Specimens of coal, &c., irom Cajie Lisbnrne, 
Alaska. 

Wooster, A . F. 15044 and 15527. Stone image (loan) and skin of squir- 
rel from Connecticut. 

Worthen, C. K. 14278, 14345, 14433, 14497, 14648, 14889, 15068, and 
15502. Collection of birds' skins from Oregon, Mexico, New Mexico, 
Illinois, and various other localities. 

^y^jani, William. 15330. Two boxes, s])ecimens of coal and coke from 
Eagle, W. Va. 

Yarroiv. Dr. Henry (7., U. S. A. 14057 and 15142. Chinese bait-box, 
alcoholic iishes, reptiles, shells, insects, ores, and fossils from Utah. 

Yaste, W. S. 14727. Specimen of bat, in flesh, 

Yeates, William S. 14950 and 15349. Specimens of minerals from Mine 
La Motte, Missouri, and arrow-heads from North Carolina. 

Yerrington, J. I). 14603. Specimens of Hiddenite, crystals and brill- 
iants. (Purchased.) 

YoaJxtim, F. L. 14231. Alcoholic specimens of fish from Texas. 

Yo^emite Mine. 15240. Two boxes, sjiecimens of ores from Utah. 

Young, G. V. 14475. Scales from the alligator gur from Mississippi. 

Zakn.) Henry. 15476. Specimen of sulphate of iron in crystallized form 
from Phillips County, Kansas. 

Zeledon, Jose C. 13932, 14003, 14229, 14963, 14977, 15151, and 15511. 
Birds' skins, specimens of materia meilica, fossils, stone relics, pot- 
tery, alcoholic mammals, reptiles, fishes, birds' skins, dried plants, 
and specimens of beads from ancient Indian mound, Costa Rica. 

Zeledon, Sefior Juan. 14988. Bird's skin from Costa Rica. 

Zoological Society of Philadelphia. 15377. Specimen of bird in flesh. 

ZulcosM, E. L. 15501. Box of ores from Missouri. 



I :n D ii: X . 



Abbott, Mr., coutribution from, 60. 

Abert, Col. J. J., minerals from, Co, 221. 

Abradins and polishing materials, 2C9, 276. 

Acanlbidops bairdi, 377. 

Acanthis, notes on, 366. 

Acanthoeiuua .^pcctabilis from California, 187. 

Accessions, list of, 381. 

Accounts, 19, 37. 

Achoi-utes from Colorado, 18,">. 

Maine, 187. 
Ackerman, A. A., 68. 
Acronycta lietula;, 361. 
Actinoziia, Devonian, 213. 
Actodionias miuiilata, breeding of. 376. 
Ad;ims, Vr. n., 2G0. 
Ad( n boat models, S9. 
AdiuiuislraUve staff of Museum, 35. 
Administrative work in tlie Museum, 35. 
.^iluiitbthvs t ydouxii, note on. 374. 
Africa, anows fiom. 119. 

collections from, 72. 
dug-dut canoe from, 9). 
wciijions fioiu, 118, 119. 
wliijis from, 119. 
A;:assiz, AUx mder, niollusks obtained by, 02, 180. 
Aj;ela-inffi reviowLd, 377. 
Afiricultural Department, dru^s from, 76. 
Abt basketry wantin,' in the collections, 298. 
Air in Icctuie room, analysis of, 38, 39,40. 
Ajax Company 's metal bcariucs. 242, 268. 
Alabama tislits rL-ceivcd. 104. 176. 
Alaska autifiuities exhibited, 125. 
birds from, 60. 

Eskimo basket ornamentation in, 293. 
basket-work in, 293. 
bows from, 307. 
colli'ctions, 57. 
expl 'ration C9. 
fishes of (Japtaiu Nichols, 347. 
fisbinc-boat models, 87. 
invertebrates. 392. 
mammals obtained, 130. 
rocks from, 230. 
salmon collected. 172. 
Tblinket objects. 114. 
willow wren. 69. 
"Albatross" birds from West Indies, 60. 
bottom samples. 192. 
brou;:ht West lu.iian bats, 130. 
collection of birds, 3.')S. 

deep-sea lish. 163. 
collections assoited, 197. 

in Gulf of Mexico. 197. 
of invertebrates, 63, 189, 190. 
reptiles, 61. 157. 
crinoids from of!" Havana, 190. 
deep-sea collections, 70. 
explorations, 197. 198. 

ofl'e. stern coast, 197. 
land collecting, 70. 
preparing for Gulf cruise, 199. 
reported spotted dolphin, 317. 
shore collictions, 197. 
sounding operations, 197. 
work discussed. 379. 
zoological material, 199. 
Albion. N. Y., building stone, 227. 
Albite from Maine, 228. 
Alcoholic building needed, 22. 



Aleut baskets, 292. 

glass w.illets, 292. 
mat uiaterial, 292. 

ornamentation, 292. 
weaving and embroidery, 293. 
throwing-sticks, 2b8. 
Aleutian Islands basket-work, 292. 
Algonkin and Iroquois basketry, 305. 

basket ornamentation 3u6. 
AUeghanv region of Southern States, tisbcs from, 

170. 
report on 
fishes of 
170. 
Allen, Dr. Ilari ison, studying Museum bats, 136. 
Allen. J. A., made analyses, 246. 
Alligator obtained in 1884,44. 
Alloys collected, 242, 268. 

mauufaeture of, 276. 
Altamaba r>a;iin fishes collected, 175, 
Alvord, S. W., lavors from, 267. 
Amboccelia uiubona, 206. 
America, prehistoric, 351. 
American Dental Association meetings, 35. 

Fish Cultural Association in Museum. 

34. 
Institute of Mining Engineers, Cullec- 

tion from, 67. 
Museumof ^Natural History, 10. 

' birdsin.153. 
Ship AVindlass Company mod* Is, 9.". 
Surgical Association in Museum, 34. 
Ta.xidei mists, gift from, 41, 
Ammonia iu lecture room, 39. 
Ampullaria Powelli associated with Phvsa, &.C., 

207. 
Amygdaloid mines copper, 254. 

series, 255, 270. 
Analecta Omitbologica, 366. 
Anas boschas and obscura, 378. 
Anatomy, comparative, department of, 62. 
Ancistrodon contortrix, poisoning by, 370. 
Ancon, Peru, pottery from, 121. 

Peruvian antiquities, 116, 117, 118. 
Andaman Islands. Turbiuella pyrum from. 183. 
Anderson lliver tlirowingslick," 2*^3, 
Andcsite and i>iimice from Mount Shasta, 231. 
Andesites from Mount Shasta, 228. 
Andrade, Joseph, and Co., 47. 
Andrews, W. II., sent minerals, 222. 
Augaillula, 360. 
Animal fibers, 79. 

products at Louisville, 49. 

New Orleans, 51. 
collection reorganized, 56. 

sizi" of, 56. 
gifts of, 56. 
section, 10, 18. 
Animals from Costa Kica. 71. 
Aniscalina) reviewed. 377. 
Anisoptervx jiomelaria. 300. 
Annelids fnmi Uermuda, 340, 381. 
Floiidiv 191. 
etudiedby Mr. Benedict, 197. 
Annex building. 2l', .36. 
AnseniaBra.ss and Copper Compauj collection, 

256, 275, 270. 
Anthozoa, now 8i)ecieB of, 380. 
of the Albatross, 197. 
returned by Professor Verrill, 190. 
studied by Professor Verrill, 200. 

429 



430 



INDEX. 



Anthracite breakuia, pluitograplis of, 243. 
coal and associates, 242. 

from Pennsylvania, 261. 
in zinc furnaces, 2C0. 
from Colonel Pendleton, 262. 
Anthracites from lirookside colliery, 262. 
Loyalsock mine, 262. 
Ly'ken.s Valley district, 262. 
Anlhrenus scropliiiiariaj from Connecticut, 186. 
AntbropoUigical classification, 14, 
collections, IH. 

arrangement of, 54. 
material classified, 109. 
Society, early history of, 56. 
lectures, 33. 
Anthroiiolosy defined, 54. 

divi.sion of, 16, 53. 
in AVashiiigtou, 354. 
museum of, 54. 
preparatois in, 47. 
progress in, 354. 
Antillean region invertebrates, 191. 
Antimony ores, 271. 

from Utah, 2.i3, 
in Centennial collection. 253. 
Antiquities, 16. 

aboriginal, circular rehitiye to, 356 
accea.sions to, 59, 123, 127. 
arranged by material and form, 58. 
arrangement of, 126, 127. 
catalogued, 125. 
department, 58. 

recommendations for 127. 
duplicate, 59. 
e."ihibited, 125. 
estialimital, 127. 
from L)r Jones, 71. 
number of, 59, 127. 
ol (."liiiiqiii, 71. 
lirehistovic European, 127. 
prepared for New Orleans Exposi- 
tion, 126. 
report on department of, 123. 
I'CS'arches ujion, 126. 
sent as exchanges, 126. 
special collections of, 58. 
vrork upon, 125. 
Antrim mines coal, 243. 
Apache basket oiuanientation 302. 
bed. 116. 
necklace, IIG. 
Apoeynum cannabiuum for basketry, 301. 
Appendix, list (if accessions, 381. 
Applications for sjiccimens, 30. 
Aquatic animals at carj) ponds, 7-2. 

mammals at London fisheries, 342. 
Ara])alioes, saddle-bags from, 110. 
Archa'ological collection at New Otleans, 51. 

objects from California, 69. 
Archer. B. Y., reptiles from, 158. 
Archer. Prof. T. C, 80. 
Arc Lives, 19. 
Arctic exploration, 69. 

Ocean shells obtained, 184. 
type of bow, wheie used, 314. 
Eskimo bow, 310. 
Ardea wardi, notes on, 380. 
Argent Club meetings in Museum, 35. 
Argentiferous lead oi'es, 271. 

smelting of, 240. 
smelting series, 252. 
Argentine Kepublio rocks, 227. 

Works smelting series, 252. 
Aiizoi'a aboriginal pottery, 121. 
antiquities obtained, 124. 
birds from E. W. Kelson, 60. 
calcareous incrustations, 230. 
collections, 7o. 
copper smelting, 2.')6. 
mammals obtained, 130. 
minerals needed, 247. 
Arkansas antimony ores wanted, 253. 
antiquities received, 125. 
fishes obtained, 61. 
white-grub fungus from, 185. 
Arlington Mills, collection of varns from, 81. 

visited, 83. 
Armory building storage, 21, 53. 



Army Medical Museum, antiqiuties from, 124. 

worm, 363. 
Arnot mine coal, 243. 
Art and industry' objects from Africa, 72. 

students in'tbe, Museum, 33. 
Artibeus iiersiiicUhxtus obtained, 130. 
Artists represented by autotypes, 51. 

work, 47. 
Arts and industries collections, 53. 
curators, 53. 
department, 16, 53. 
reported on, 55. 
Arvicola, 326, 329, 330, 367. 
amphibius, 328. 
and Fiber contrasted, 329. 
generic characters of, 329. 
Asbestos collection, 242, 268, 269, 276. 
Ascalaphus hyalinus from Long Island, 186. 
Ashburner, C. A., sent charts of coal-fields, 265. 
Asia, bats, &c., from, 131. 
collections, 71. 
Minor, ancient lamps, 118. 
Asopia costal is from Virginia, 185. 
Assinaboine moccasins, 116. 
Assistant director, duties of, 18. 

director's report, 339, 3.52. 
AstacidsB returned by Professor Faxon, 201. 
Astacus catalogued, 371. 
Asteroidca, new species of, 379. 
Astur atricapillua henshawi, 370, 

striatulus, note on, 357. 
Athyris sublamellosus, 206. 
Atkinson, Lieut. B. W., collected reptiles, 158. 
Atlantic .shore fishes collected, 174. 
Atophyrax Bendirei mentioned, 130. 
Attaciis cecropia from Missouri, 186. 
Attageu grou]) reviewed, 307. 

ptarmigans of the group, 366. 
Attn throwing-stiek, 288. 
At water, Prof. W. O , 16, 18. 

food analyses by, 108. 
p;ipers ot, 346. 
Auri^rous gravel collections, 271. 
Tiyrite collections, 271. 
Australian fishes repaired, 41, 44. 

rocks, 237. 
Austria stalagmites, 229. 
Automatic registers of visitors, 32. 
Autotypes by Biaun & Co., 56. 
A>!xis'rochei from Wood's Holl, 163. 
Aviculopecten cataetus, 206. 
Aym6, Louis, collections of, 70. 

investigations of, 70. 
objicta from Yucatan, 57. 
Azores building and ornamental stones, 236 

building stone, 227. 
Aztec antiquities received, 123. 

B. 

Babbitt and other alloys, 242, 276. 
Baby-basket of Modoks, 300. 

Korth California Indians, 300. 
Backgrounds, 26. 
Baeder, Adamson &Co., sand-paper collection, 276. 

sent collection, 268. 
Bag-worm from Arkansas, 185, 
Bailey, E. M., sent Maine minerals, 223. 
Bailey, Sylvanus, throwing-stick from, 289. 
Bailey &"Co., ropes and twines from, 80. 
Baird, Prof. Spencer F., 38, 136. 

directed the collecting 

of fishes, 109. 
Maine shell-heap re- 
mains fi om, 124. 
otfered reward for dol- 
phin, 317. 
sent frigate mackerel, 

163. 
sent reptiles to Cope, 

157. 
writings of, 346. 
Baird, Brewer & Kidgway on water birds, 34:6. 
Baker, A B., sent bat from Kansas, 130. 
Baker, Dr. Fr.iiik, lecture by, ,34. 
Balbach, E.. & Sons' bullion letining series, 252. 
col'ection of gold and cop- 
per, 2.'i0. 



INDEX. 



431 



Balbacli, E.. & Sous' gold collcctii'U. 275. 

silver refining series, 275. 
Bakh, F. v., 92. 
Baldwin A. H., field work of, 194. 

laboratory work of, 198. 
olKce work of, 194. 
Baltic Sea LeiTing-fisbiiij: bo.it, 104. 
Baltimore clijuier brig model 'M. 

Copper WtirUs lolketiou, 256, 275. 
Bankskuta .Swedi.sh tod-fisiiiu!i vessel) model, 
]0:t. 104. 

BarbiruBsu tusks from Indian grave, 3G7. 
Barbour Flax Spinning (.'ompany, specimens of 

flax from, 81. 
Barbour, William H., 121. 
Bark, roercbaui, lolor-skcteh of, 121. 
Barker. H.. .^ Sous sent Quiucy granite, 236. 
Barking sand from Germany, 227. 

Hawaiian Islands, 227, 
Barnacles deep-sea. sent to Dr. lloek, 190. 
Bamum, Bailey & Hutchinson sent maninials, 131. 
Barroll, Lieut." n. II.. obtained liannia, 192. 
Bartlam. Tbomas A.. ■2C><. 
Bartlett. Mi., contribution from, 06. 
Barytes. collection from Page & Krause, 244. 

utili/iation of 270. 
Basket ibaracteiistics, 291. 

drawinj;..string of Aleuts, 293. 

makin'.: tool, 291. 

material of spuice roots. 295. 

ornament itioii with reindeer liair, 294. 

needle of hawk bone. 30'J. 

thread and needles (Indian), 300. 

of pine root. 3i)0. 
travs of Apache Iudi:ius, 302. 

of the rtcs. 302. 
Weaving indicalrd. 291. 
Basket-work, aboriirinal, 291. 
diawiuiis. 291. 
of Alaskan Eskiu^o. 293. 
Aleutian Islands. 292. 
Algonkin.H and Iioquoi-, 305. 
Bilhool IS. 297. • 

Central and South America, 300. 
Chilkaht Indians, 29."). 
great cedar. 297. 
Uaida Indians. 296, 
Hong Kutcliin Indians, 295, 
Moki Indians, 303. 
Not 111 Atui rica aborigines, 291. 
Snliaptin stock, 301. • • 

Shoshone Indians, 301. 
Southern Indians. 305. 
TinntJ Indians. 29J. 
Zufiis, 301. 
Basketry a savage art, 291. 
bower style, 298. 
cheeker-'woven, 297. 
• liled. assoiiated with i)Otterv marks, 
294. 
of Indians and Siamese. 294. 
<ove;inga bottle, 299. 
fish-trap .st\lp, 297. 

bats oinamenfed with diamond pat- 
terns, 290. 
of Aht tribes needed. 298, 
Great Interior Ba.sin, 301. 
Oregon and California Indians, 299. 
paper on. meniioni'd, ,57. 
scallops of Aleuts. 293, 
twined, 292, 
Ba.-kets, toiled, 293. 

examined by Professor Mason, 291. 
imitating chinaware, 290. 
in relation to migrations, 295. 
..f Alaskan Kskimo, 293. 
birch, linden. &c,, 305. 
ei.iled tyjie, 294. 
Makahs, how composed, 293, 
South America, needed, 306. 
twined, VOS, 290, 

with feather ornamentation, 301. 
Bat, Brazilian, from Kansas, 130, 

fishing, obtained, 130. 
Batcben .1. S, F, sent building stones 6fl 231 
Bate identified, 133 

lent toUr. Alien, 136. 

F. W. Cragin, 136. 



Bats [iresented by British Mu.seum. 1.30. 
Bay of Fundy shell-heap remains. 124. 
Bean, Bartoil A., a.ssisted with llshes, 169. 
sent to Long Island, 165. 
Bean, Dr. T. II., 17,351. 

collected Loug Island fishes, 164. 

curator. 61. 

editor, 19, 165. 

lichens fiom, 377. 

Long Island, in veil ebrates from, 

190. 
on Florida fishes, 353. 

London Fisheries fishes, 341. 
papers of, 347. 

Pacific salmon studied by, 172. 
report of 101.. 
sent to Long Island, 165. 
and Uresel, II. G,, on Jamaica 
fishes, 347, 
Beardsley, Mrs A. J., minerals from. 222. 
Beaufort tishes, notes upon, 171. 

studied, 171. 
Beckham, C. W., 152. 

assisted with birds, 143. 
Bcechey's Eschscholtz Bay thiowing-stick, 284. 
Belding, L., California binlsfrom, 09, 
Belgian fishing apparatus, 91. 

sl<K)p model, 91. 
Bell James, col!ecte«l reptiles, 158. 

rattlesnake skin, slippers from, 116 
Bella Coula objects, 115. 
Bellemont Forgo collections, 244, 
Belleville mines, coals from, 207. 
Belmont Forgo wrought iron, 2.">7. 
Belostoma americaniim fioni New York, 186. 
Bcudire, Capt. Charles E., 17, 18. 

collections from, 69. 
cimtributcd valuable 

collections, 00. 
ti.shes from, 101. 
honorary curator, 60. 
on birds' eggs wanted. 

343, .-(47. 
overhauled eggs, 152, 
presented his birds' 

eggs, 153. 
rearranged birds' 

eggs, 143. 
reptiles from. 01, 157. 
Tidak, R. T., gift by, 47. 

Benedict, James E., Albatross naturalist, 198. 
Collections of, 197. 
seemed West Indian bats, 

130. 
studying Annelids. 190, 197, 

200. 
and W. Nye. collected birds, 
358. 
Bengal fishing dug-out, 88. 

pipe, 118, 
Benner, D. J., palm-leaf coat from, 118. 
Beiardius from Bering Isl.ind, 131. 
Now Zealand, 131. 
Bergen's Museum, collections from, 71. 

Kchinodernis from. 193. 
to receive invertebrates, 196. 
Beiiu'.; Island, seals obtained, 131, 
whales, 131 
Sea and Arctic molliisks obtained, 181, 
volcanic rocks, 09, 
Berlin Fisheries collections, 0. 

Exhibition, water cr.i It Irom, 106. 
Museum, collections from, 71. 
Benuuda Annelida, 340, 381. 
bird new to. 340. 
birds, 340, 377. 

rare and accidental, 340, 
botany, 340, 376. 
geologv , 340, 377. 
mammals, 340, 374, 
reptiles, ,t4(i, 372, 
stalactites, 2.8. 
natural history of, 353, 
new and rare bi'ds of 376, 
Bertha Zinc Company, ores from 258. 
Bervi from Maine, 2.30. 
Bessels. Emil, 279 
Bessemer steel collections, 243,258,276. 



432 



INDEX. 



Beyer, Dr. U. G., IG. 

honorary curator, 75. 
Bibliograi>bv, analysis of, .'{;i7,3:;9. 

of Museum, 31. 337, 339. 
Biddlc on cousuuction of Indian vessels, 89. 
Bijrelow Carpet Company specimens, 82. 

visited. 83. 
Bilhoola Indian basket woik, 297. 
Binno\, Dr. W. G., shells contributed by. 181. 
Biological Society leotiires, 33. 

nieotij^s. 3.3. 
Birch and linden in.basketry, 30,'5. 
Bird coUeetious of National Museum, 358. 
labels for exhibition, 154. 
prepared. 59, 151. 
sample of, 151. 
new to Bermudas, 340. 
Birds. 17. 

added to exhibition series, 155. 
alphabetical list of accessions to, 143-149. 
and Ushes mounted, 41, 44. 
aquatic and lisheating,at Loudon Fisheries, 
341. 
rearranged, 150. 
department of, 59. 
desirable for exhibition, 1.55. 

to purchase, 1 55. 
displayed in American Museum of Katural 

History, 1153. 
distiibutVd, 149. 
duplicate and exchanged, 60. 
Birds' eggs, 17, 18, 60. 

exchanged, 150. 

and loaned, 60. 
foreign, 60. 
installed, 1.53. 
lent. 150. 

number of, 60, 153. 
overhauled, 152. 

presented by ("aptain Bendire, 153. 
wanted, 343," 347. 
extensive accessions of, 60, 143. 
exhibited at Cincinnati, 50. 

Kew Orleans, 151. 
exotic, wanting, 155. 
for New Orleans Exposition, 59, 358. 
from Alaska, 60. 
Arizona, GO. 
California, 69. 
Dominica, 70. 
India, CO. 
Japan, 60, 71. 
Mexico, 70. 
in exhibition series, 59. • 

reserve series, 59, 152. 
installed in cases, 150. 
key to North American, 371. 
mounted, 151. 

nests and eggs obtained, 149. 
new North American races of, 376. 
North American game sent to New Orleans 
152. 
pioposed new list of, 150. 
of Bermuda, :'40, 377. 

National Museum, pripers on, 152. 
prey, diurnal, 373. 
old and new geneiic names of, 366. 
present state of, 152. 
recommendations for department of, 153. 
report upon, 143. 
returned trom London, 60. 
secured in 1884, 44. 
water, of North Ameiica, 346. 
work upon, 59, 150, 151. 
Bird-skins and alcoholic specimens, 143-149. 
condition of, 152. 
exchanged, 149. 
lent, 149. 
mounted, 59. 

protected from insects, 152. 
Bismuth ores, 272. 

from Utah, 257. 
Blackfeet mat and bowl 116. 
Blackfish hatching, 352. 
Blackford, E G., sent Brevoort fishes, 164. 
crustaceans, 190. 
430-pound halibut, 162. 
steel-head trout from, 162. 



Blackford, E. G., 36pound porai)ano from, lt!3. 
Blacki.stou, Capt. T. W.. 60. 

bii ds from, 71. 
Blackmoie Museum, mound-pipes in, 125. 
Black Warrior Basin fishes collected, 176. 
Blair, Albert, 268. 
Blake collections of marine invertebrates, lt9. 

deep-sea mollusks studied, 180. 
Blake, J H,, 198. 

Blankets of Northwestern coast, 299. 
Blatta oiientalis ! from California, 187. 
Blende, galena, and marcasite crystals, 243. 
Blight, I. O., favors from, 207. 
Blissus leucopterus, 300. 

Blossburg Coal Compan\ presented drill, 264. 
Boas, Dr. Franz, 112,279. 

on Cumberland Gulf throwiug- 
stick, 282. 
Boat and vessel models in.stalled, 97. 

repaired by Captain Col- 
lins, 97. 
building material obtained, 86. 
fittings; 86, 96, 98. 

models and equipments collected, 85. 
from Aden, 89. 
China. 90. 
L(mdon Fisheries Exhibition, 

97. 
Madras, 89. 
the Maldives, 89. 
Boats collected. 1882 to 1884, 85. 

vessels, &c., now exhibited, 98. 
Bobtail mill gold collection, 241, 274. 

extraction shown, 249. 
Bogoslolf I.sland rocks and volcanic a.sbes, 69, 230 
Bohuslan cod-fi.sbing ves.sel, 104. 
Bolles, Lieut. T. Dix, collections from, 57. 

Thlinket objects from, 114. 
Bolts, nuts, and washers, 239. 
Bombay fishing-boat model, 88. 
Bombax malabaricum, dug-out from, 87. 
Bones, fossil, in Florida, 380. 
Booth, A., Columbia River shad from, 162. 
Borassus ilabelliformis, fishing dug-out from, S7. 
Boston customhouse fibers, 81. 

foreign exhibition, acces-sions from, 67. 
Brazil foods from, 107. 
Ceylouese collection 

from, 72. 
collections from, 71. 
• • Guatemala foods from, 

107. 
Hawaiian foods, «fec., 

from, 72, 107. 
San Salvador products 

fro:n, 107. 
sent foreign minerals, 

240. 
textiles from, 80. 
Museum of Art, 10. 
Society of Natural History, 10. 
Botany, department of, 17, O.J, 220. 

of Bermuda, 340, 376. 
Bot-flies in a turtle, 307. 
Bottle coveied with basketry, 299. 
Bottle-nosed do]i)hiu obtained, 1.32. 
Bow appliances for twisting sinew, 312. 
lashings described. 310, 311. 
hitches in, 311. 
Bowker, Torrey & Co., contributors, 66. 

sent onyx, 231. 
Bowlder, photograph of, 229. 
Bows, backing of, at various points, 310. 
broad and flat with bent end, 309. 

with straight end, 309. 
Eskimo, a study of, 307. 
of Yukon delta'described, 308. 
paper on, mentioned, 57. 
replaced by fire-arms, 315. 
sinew backing of, 307. 308. 
Bow-string twisters, 316. 
Boxes for small specimens, 26. 
Boyle, C.B., 215. 

Boyne corracle for fishing, 90, 91. _ 
Brachiopods, Carboniferous, received, 212, 
Devonian, obtained, 210, 213. 
recent work on, 350. 
Bradford silks, 80. 



INDEX. 



433 



Brady, Prof. G. S., Copepods from, 193. 
•^xchangea from, 196. 
Brass collection, 276. 

manufactures, 241. 
Braytou. Dr. A. AV., collected fishes, 170, 171. 
Brazil foods obtained. I(i7. 
implements, 118. 
plants and animals, 71. 
Brazos Basin lishes collected, 178. 
Brcad-trayi>, coiled and decor,'ited, 304. 
Breed, Gcorpe K., sent marbles, 231. 
Bretz, George M., made minium photographs, 265, 

207. 
Brevoort fl^Ues idcntitied, 164. 
Bn^wer mine pold collection, 239. 
Brewer, Tlinmas ilayo, 346,371. 
Bristol Bav birds, Gil. 

Kskimo bow, 309. 
etlinologica, 112, 113. 
tlirowinj^-stick, 287. 
British Ameiica rmsmmals collected. KlO. 
Columbia shells obtaimil, 184. 

war canoe, 100. 
Crustacea excbaujio, 190. 
Guiana ba.^kets. 300. 

war club, 118. 
invertebrates obtained, 193. 
mollusks coming. 181. 
Museum, biids from, CO. 

collections from, 71. 
presented bats, 130. 
Broadhcad. G. C.,sent Stromatopora, 204. 
Brookside colliery authrarites, 202. 
Brook trout, paper on, 347. 

Brown, James Temple, assisted Mr. Dewey, 276. 
made coal collections, 

201. 
mininer ci.lK-ctiou of, 242. 
on whale fisherv, 341. 
Brown, J. H, 22.1. 

Brown, P. II , Blackfeet mat and bowl from, 116. 
Biowu, S. C, 19. « 

Brnner, II. L., 198. 

Briish-Swan Compan v lijjhting the Museum, 31, 55. 
Brussels carpets. SI, 82, 83. 

Bnchsbaum, Mr., Cliine.se hairless dog from, 132. 
Buckwheat (ield mine zinc ore, 273. 
Builders' models of fishing vessels, 86,98. 

vessels desired, 99. 
Building and ornamental stones and rocks, 66, 234, 
235, 342. 355. 
stone collection. 67, 233, 235. 
stones, 227, 228, 229, 230. 

and qnarrv industry, 351. 
from Mr. Batcheu, 06, 231 . 
photographed, 40. 
Buildings and labor, 19. 

police and public comfort, 35. 
photoarapned, 40. 
Bulkley, E. B., minerals from, 222. 
Bulletin Xo. 25, U. S. National Museum, 340, 353. 
27, U. S. >'ational Museum, 340, 352. 
Bulletins of National Museum, 340. 

published in 1884, 31. 
Bullion, base, retining series, 252. 
Bull-snake epiglottis, character and fuuctiou of, 

370. 
Burden Iron Company, horseshoes, 240. 
Bureau of Ethnology antiquities, 126. 

contributions from, 58. 
pottery, 70, 121. 
Navigation sent bottom samples, 192. 
Burns, Frank, 215. 
Bates cooperi and harlani, possibly identical, 

357. 
Bathns sp. from California, 186. 
Butler University aided to collect fishes, 170. 



Cable Elax Mills, specimens from, 80. 

mauilla. for fishing vessels, 9.5. • 
Calamus provid<ns, note on, 375. 

review of, 37.">. 
Calcareous incrustations, 229, 230. 
Calcopyrite ore, copper from, 250. 
Calcutta^jute butts in gunny doth, 80 
Calico printing iittlstrations, 81, 82. 

fc>. Mia. ;«, pt. li -\S 



California and Oregon fishes collected, 171. 
antimony ores, 253. 
antiquities received, 123, 124. 
birds received, 60. 
collections, 61). 
Indian baskets, 299. 300. 
insects from Mr, Orcutt, 186. 

Professor Stearns, 186. 
obtained, 185. 
mannuals obtained, 69, 130. 
marbles, 231. 

Meso/oic and Ceuozuic fossils, 215. 
ouyx, 228. 

pinnipeds obtained, 131. 
rocks, 229. 

salmon, mounted, 44. 
seals, sea lions, and sea elephants, 70. 
shcll-heai>, specimens exhibited, 125. 
shells from Professor Stearns, 184. 
Call, IJ. K., 179. 

mollusks from, 03. 
reptiles from, 157. 
work of, 62. 
Calvin Prof. Samuel, fossils from, 210. 
Cambarus and Astacus studied. 371. 

now species in National Museum, 371. 
Cambrian faunas of North America, 308. 
Cambridge University Zoological Museum pre- 
sented cetacea, 132. 
Cane in basketry, 305. 
Canoes for fishing. 87. 
Cape Lisburne coal, 69. 

Komo throwing-stick. 285. 
Konianzofi' Eskimo bow, 309. 
Vancouver throwing-stick, 286. 
C.ipturo of auim;;ls. devices for, 51. 
Caranx ruber and bartholonuei, note on, 375. 
Carbon dioxide in lecture hall, 38, 39, 40. 
Carboniferous brachiopods obtained, 212. 
cephalopods obtained, 211. 
corals, 200. 

cnistaceaus obtained, 212. 
fossil plants, 220. 
fossils exchanged, 203. 

from California, 204. 

U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey, 203. 
received, 64, 205. 
gasteropods obtained, 212. 
lamelliliraiichiates received, 212. 
P<Bcilopoda received, 212. 
pteropods received, 212. 
pulniouifera re«-eived, 212. 
.speciesof the White Pine shale, 206. 
upper, limestone f.iuna, 207. 
Cardinal GiosbeaU, earliest name of, 306. 
Cardiomoipha Missotuieusis, 200. 
Cariacus columbiauus, variations iu antlers of, 

130. 
Caribbean deep-sea mollusks studied, 180. 

sea invertebrates obtained, 63, 189. 
moUusea studied, 62. 
work of the xMbatross, 197. 
Carnadras ancient lamps, 118. 
Caruegie Brothers steel exhibit, 240. 
Carnivora mounted in 18,S4. 42. 
secured in 1884, 44. 
Carj) destroyed by musk-rut, 371. 
eat lisiies. 364. 
iVoiii brackish water, 104. 

Siisqiiehaiiua Itiver, 103. 
I)(md^ telephone service, 37. 

vivarium, 72. 
reared in alkali water, 164. 
rescnerafion of scales of, 364. 
Carpenter mollusks, 181. 
i Carpet nianufaeture illustrations, 80,82. 
Carpets from Bigelow Carpet Company, 82. 

Lowell Manulacfuring Company, 82. 
specimens of, 80. 
tapestry Brussels, 81. 
Cnrpodectes, new, Irom Costa Kica, 358. 
Canuck, lOth ceutiiiy, sketch of, 91. 
Carroll, .Mr., 266. 

Carter. C. P., <fc Co., ve.ssel models from, 94. 
Cash mines tin. 2.52. 

Cashmere, bark, obtained surfnee specimens, 192. 
Cassava strainers, 306. 



434 



INDEX. 



Cassiuieres, .sauiiilcH of, 82. / 

Cassiterite collii lion.s, 'J71. 

from ^r()nt;lIKl., 252. 
in Mrtiiio. 'J.">2. 

New llaiupsbire, 252. 
tbo Museum, 252. 
localities, 252. 
Ca.st8 made for pxiiositious, 45. 
in 18h'4, 45. 
of fish and reptiles, 47. 
Catamaran for lisliiut;-, 88, 90. 
Catesby's lisbcs idcutitied, .S74. 
Catberiua Arcbipeiago, cave matting, 292. 
(Jatlin t browing .stick, 2S!J. 
(^atostomus labiatn.s received, 162. 
Cauliuites anil Zamio.siiubius, 309. 
Cedar for baski^ts, 297. 

Keys lislies of Prol'essor Jordan, 375. 
mats of tlio Bilboolas, 297. 
Cenozoie iuvcrtebrato fossils, catalogue of, 65. 
Census, Tentb, iron ores, 257, 272. 
Centennial collection of lead, 254. 
sboUs, 181. 
collections in metallurgy. Sic, 239. 
Exbibition, foreign material derived 
from, 53. 
rocks, &c., 237, 238. 
^vater craft, 105. 
Central America exploration, 70. 

fl.sbes collected, 172. 
American basketry like Soutb American, 
300. 
bats ])resented, 130. 
pottery needed, 122. 
and Soutli American basketry, 306. 
mine copper, 254. 

Park, New York, Menagerie sent mam- 
mals, 131. 
Cepbalorbyncbiis Hoavisidei, cast of bead, 132. 
Copbalopoda, Carboniferous, obtained, 212. 
Dev(miun, obtained, 211, 214. 
Ceppbiis, remarks on species of, 360. 
Cetaceafrom ('ambridge University Musenra, 132. 
Itoyal (College of Surgeons, 132. 
in National Mu.-ieum, 135. 
studied by F. W. True, 135. 
typical species studied, 135. 
Cetaceans and seals received, 59, 131. 
Ceylon collections received, 72. 

grapbite, 240. 
Cba?todipteri)s faber from Newport, 163. 
Cliain .stitcb in cedar mat, 298 
Cballeuger copcpods received, 193. 

o.'iidiiring voyage, 352. 
Chamberlin. i'rof. T. C, lecture by, 34. 
Cbambers, II. C, assisted to c(dlect ores, 251. 
Cbamidio, aberrant forms of, 370. 
Charleston fl.sbes, paper on, 172. 
Chase, Lieut. George F., Gila monster from, 157. 
Cbattahoochee Basin lislies ctdlected, 175. 
Chatard, Dr., African weapons from, 119. 
Chatard, Thomas Marean, 371. 

assisted with chemi.st's 

report, 348. 
chemical work of, 224. 
collected dunito, 231. 
contribution from, CO. 
field work of, 223. 
Cbaiimont, Dr., quoted, 40. 
Cbebacco bo;it model, SO. 
Checker-weaving in basket-work, 297. 
Cheiroptera mounted in 1884, 42. 

secured in 1884, 44. 
Cheltenham Smelting and Refining "Works col- 
lection, 244. 251, 275. 
Cbomical analyses made by Professor Clarke, 72. 
analysis in lecture room, 38, 39, 40. 
examination, 351. 
laboratoiy abandoned, 72. 
Chemistry, 72. 

elements of, 348. 

work of Wasliiuston Laboratory, 348. 
Cherokee Zinc Works, collection from, 243, 259. 
Chesapeake Bay exploration, 348. 

fishes, 347. 
Cheshire salt obtained, 107. 
Cbiasmodus from Brown's Bank, 163. 
Chibalis Indian basketry, 297. 



Chili, cidlcetions from, 71. 

stone bead, 123. 
Chilkabt Indian basket-work, 295. 
China boat models, 90. 

boats obtained, 106. 
bricks iVom Great Wall, 227. 
fossiliforous limestones from, 228. 
,ioss-stick powder from, 118. 
materia medica of, 75. 
rain-coat, 118. 
shells from, 183. 
Chinch-bug, 363. 
Chippewa grave deposits, 116. 
Chiiiqui pottery, 71. 
vases, 121. 

bought, 58. 
Chiroloi)hus polyactocephalus obtained, 164. 
Chiropteralentto Dr. Allen, 136. 
Chiton plates, 123. 
Chittagong dug-out canoe, 88. 
Chlamydoconcha, investigation of, 182. 

Orcutti, 184, 350. 
Chloridizing base ores, illustrations of, 251. 

roasting of silver ores, 240. 
Choctaw Indian basketry, 305. 
Chry.sdiiiiti is or .spinus ? , 366. 
Chukcliis implements and ornaments, 112. 
Cimabue, paintings of, 56. 
Cincinnati Industrial Exposition, 50 

Congression al 

ac/tion on, 48. 

exhibit, 36, 50, 

51. 
gems at, 66, 222. 
Government 

building, 50, 
work, 47. 
Cinnabar, 271. 
Circulars issued in 1884, 31. 
Claghorn, J. Kaymond, favors from, 267. 

sent map of coal basin, 265. 
Clallam basket of commerce, 299. 

Indian fish -trap stvle of basket, 298. 
twilled basketry, 299. 
Clark, A. Howard, 16, 19. 

on fishery products, 342. 
papers of, 348. 
Clark, Col. Edward, presented marble, 236. 
Clark, W. M., antiquities fnnu, 126. 

sent Astylospongia pr:Bmorsa, 204. 
Tennessee antiquities from, 125. 
Clarke, Dr. F. W., 17. 

aided in procuring cetacea. 132. 
analyses and papers of, 72, 224. 
collected glacial polished mica, 

234. 
field work of, 223. 
lecture by, 34. 
on gems and preciouss tones, 342. 

papers of, 348. 
polished mica from, 66. 
report of, 221. 
work of. C6. 

and T. M. Chatard, Mineralogy 
ical Notes of, 224. 
Classification of illustrationsof human culture, 14. 
natural history collections, 14. 
systematic and geogiai)bieal. 15. 
Clayton, Prot. J. E., collected autiu'iony ores, 253. 
bismuth ores, 257. 
Utah silver oies from, 250. 
Clay from the sea bottom, 199. 
Clements, George S., assisted to collect coal, 267. 
Clemmer, B. A., Apache necklace from, 116. 
Clipper brig model, 94. 
Cli.siocanipa egg-mass received, 187. 
(Move: hay worm from Virginia, 185. 
ClymeniaDoris, 324. 

Coal and associates from West Virsinia, 262. 
Long Valley, 266. 
sand rock from Mine Hill, 202. 
iSrc, from Eichmond coal-fields, 267. 
anthracite, obtained, 263. 
auger obtained, 264. 
breaker pictures obtained, 265, 266. 
collections, 261,272. 

of James Temple Brown, 261, 
exhibited at New Orleans, 52. 



INDEX. 



435 



Coal fiild lollectious, 268. 
lielils, limit tit', 2G0. 
I'roiu Aiitiiiii luiiu-s, 243. 
Aiiiipt iiiiin', '2A'i. 
Lull;; V'alk'.v mines, 213. 
Lovalsoi'k luiuc, '2i'.i. 
haiilajio :i]>]>:irulus photo^raiili, 205. 
luiuo iiitiM lois plioto,m-apb('(l, 'J72, aC7. 

iii^itii ial.s Hiul tiiols, 'JOl, 2l'C. 
luiiiiiii; idlliclioii. 2)3. 
illiLsUatcU, 52. 
iiiiliirttiy stiulicil, D61. 
lULl Hit's, 2G4. 

si'onos at Loii^ Valley, 206. 
oriKiiiuiits iiiailo by uiiuer.-*, 2G3. 
jiIuilOL'iiiiibs, 272. 

iilaii'-, Maliauoy, pliolo^raiibed, 205. 
n'Uiiin I'liarts obtaiiu d, 205. 
.scctioii.s and stal isijcs. 200. 
slial't siukiii^ illiist rat loll, 260. 
Valley liliue cnal, &c., 202. 
wasliius; iiiaeliinei'v i)ieturos, 200. 
Coals, bitnuiiuous, of Virfjinia, 262. 
examined, 245. 
fioni JUiuoi.s, 207. 
.sciui-bituminoiis, 262. 
Coast Survey coUeetioiis at Kodiak, 69. 
Cobalt aud nickel ei)lleetioiis, 253, 257. 
Cocbrano, A. B., sent coal-lields cbart, 26C. 
Coildliii.i; luotli, 303. 
Codtisli stomach contents. 349. 
Cod-lishin^ scliuouei' mnilels, 80. • 

vessel, model of Swcdisb, 103, 104. 
(.'od ^ill-net lisUerics, 349. 
Coir fiber raincoat, 118. 
Coke anil anlbraeitecoal in fuel series, 257. 
aiiplications. 2.57. 
coll.-cl ion, 212,262,270. 
lor iloiiiestic use, 202. 
I'orty-eigbt and seventy-two hour, 202. 
from AVest Virginia, 262. 
Cokins coal aud coke, 242. 
Coleoptera .sent for determination. 185. 
Collins, Capt. J. W., 10, 17. 

designed fisbinj; schooner, 

103. 
fogalarm of, 95. 
models prepared by, 55, 56. 
on fi.shing vessels and boats, 

342. 
papers of, 348. 
repaired models, 97. 
report of. 85. 
Collinsvilleeoal ivgion collection, 243. 
Colman, B., minerals from, 222. 
Colombia Chiritpii vases, 121. 
Color sketches of vessels, 85. 
Colorado Basin fishes collected, 178. 

Coal and Iron Company, steel rails, &c., 

from, 239. 
insects received, 186. 
ores, 240. 

catalogued, 245. 
potato-beetle, 303. 
smelter copper ores, 241. • 
Columbia Basin fishes collected, 178. 

lliver shad, 102. 
Columbus's ships, color sketches of, 91. 
Colyer, Vincent, tbrowing-atick from, 289. 
Commander Islands collections, 09. 

contiibutious to history of, 

366. 
molhisca, 1S4, 350. 
Comparative anatomy, 17, is. 

department of, 62, 137. 
Compsothlvi)i8, synnnxmv of, 366. 
Comstoek lode, illustrations of geology, 234. 
Concretion, ])b<>sphatic. 229. 
Concr.-tions.xbiltited, 236. 
Cones gioiipof sliilU revised, 180. 
Congir from 1). Kell.ber, 162. 
Conglomerate mines copper, 2.')4, 255, 270. 
Congressional grants for expositions, 48. 
Conklin, W. A., sent mainmala, 131. 

reptiles, 158. 
Coutopus depressirosti is, 376. 
Cook. C.iptain. on throwing sticks, 287,288. 
Cook's Inlet clhuologica, 113. 



Coot, new, from West Indies, 358. 
Cope, Prof. K. D., on relations of Delphiuus pla- 
giodon, 323. 
si u<Iving reptiles, 157. 
(^opeland, 11. K,, collected Indiana fishes, 170. 
Copenhagen Museiiin, loUi 1 1 ions from, 71. 
Coiiepodii, fiomdie.il liritain. 193. 

parasitic, list of, 355. 
Copper aud silver collection from Montana, 240. 
collections, 250, "271. 
concentration series, "255. 
extraction from amygdaloid ore, 255. 
forms obtained, 22l! 
free, for New (ji leans, 270. 

ill masses. 254. 
from amygdaloid mines, '270. 
caleuii.N rite ore, 250. 
(,'aiiiidiaii ii\rite, 239. 
coiigiomeraie mines, '254,270. 
Lake Sujierior region for Now Or- 
leans, 270. 
Milpbureted ores, 241. 
in conimcieial forms, 241. 
mass, 254. 

mining collections, 243. 
of amygdaloid mines, 254. 
ores, '271, 272. 

from Centennial Exbibitiou, 254. 
l.)elaware Jline, 255. 
Lake Snjierior region, 239. 
Montana, 256. 
j)ig, refining, 275. 
refining by smelting slags, 255. 
refining native, 241. 
rolling series, 275. 
slags, smelting <'(jllection, 244. 
smelting and refining collections, '245, 256, 
275. 
in Arizona, '250. 
uses illustrated, 250. 
Copperhead bite, poisoning from, 370. 
Coptocycla clavata ; fiom Delaware, 186. 
Coral, fo.ssil, from Iowa, 2L!9. 
Corals and sponges for New Orle.ins Exposition, 
03. 
from fishing grounds, 190. 
Carboniferous, 206. 
Devonian, 200. 
exhibited, 202. 

from Florida ami Dry Tortugas, 191. 
on Grand Banks, 349. 
Silurian, 200. 
Cordage of.juto, 80. 
Cordiceps on Kncanid larva, 180. 
Comifeious limestone fossils obtained, 204. 
Corracles, Irish and Scotch, 90, 91. 
Corson, Bobert, Luray specimens from, '236. 
Corundum crystals receiveil, 221. 
eniery and (jiiartz, 242. 
field.s of Nor! b Carolina visited, 223. 
Corwin, steamer, collected Alaskan invertebrates, 

192. 
Corydalus corniitus from North Carolina, 180. 
Costa Kica birds, 357. 

c(dlections from Mr. Zolcdon, 71. 
(ishes collected, 173. 
maininals obtained, 130. 
re])tiles obtained, lij8. 
Costume collection tyi)ic al, 55. 
Cotton fabrics IVoni Kngland, 80. 
gin model, 83. 

goods from Pacific Mills, 82. 
shiii model.s, 50, 94. 
worm, 363. 

yarn manufaeluro illustrations 81,82. 
(Joues, Klliott, Key to Norlli American Birds, 371. 
(Jones's remarks on fiber criticised, 327. 
Co wen & Bliss, zinc collection, 258. 
Cox, L. A., fossils from, 203. 
Hon. S. S., address by, 35. 
William V., 19, 37. 
Cragin, F. W., bats lent to, 136. 

mammals lent to, 137. 
Crandoll, C. P., 30. 

Crawford, Dr. M. U.. sent Terra del Fuogo inver- 
tebrates, 192. 
AVilliam. shells from, 71. 
Cray-flflhcs in the collection, 201. 



436 



INDEX, 



Cray-fisbc8 roturned, 201. 

Crescent raiue.s k^'s coal, 243. 

Cresieut Storl Woiks collection, 258,270. 

Crotaccons fos.sil ])lnnt.s, 2-0. 

Criuoiils fidni the Kcokiik limestone, 203. 

obtJiincd by tlio Albatross, 190. 
Cristutclla iiptus received, 103. 
Giosi?, Wbitiuan, sent mineral-s, 223. 
Cro-sbill, red. breeding of, 357. 
(h-osso & Ul.iekwell, canned poods, &c., 107. 
Crotalus leiiidn.s, borrowed, l.'jS. 
Crown I'oint Furnace iron collection, 275. 
Crucible steel c'.lk<ti<nis, 241,258,275. 
('nicibles, papbito, 240. 
Crustacea and corals, mounted, 194. 

ccbiiioilerms received, 61. 
niollusca collected, (i3. 
Clarbouifcrous, obtained, 212. 
decapod, from Fisb Commission, 378. 

of the Albatross, 378. 
Devonian, obtained, 211. 
cscbanged, 190. 
exhibited, 202. 

from Floiida and Drv Tortuga.^i, 191, 
192. 
Pacilic Ocean, 192. 
Vineyard Sound, 190. 
mounted, 853. 

new g'^nora and species of, 378, 379. 
of Albatioss, 378. 
returned by Professor .Sniitb, 190. 
sent to Professor Smith, 197. 
stalk-eyed, obtained, 193. 
studied b\ Professor Smith, 20O. 
supplied to Anieiicau students, 196. 
worms, &c., at London fisheries Ex 
hibition, 341. 
Cryptochiton Stelleri, plates of, 123. 
Ctenolabrus adspersus, skin-parasite of, 3G5. 
Cuba, fishes from, 61, 70, 163. 
Cumberland Ba.sin, fishes collectefi, 173, 176, 177. 
Gap, lislies taken, 170. 
Gulf bows typictil, 308 
throwius-stick, 282. 
Cuniculua torquatus obtained, 130. 
Cnnnor, skin-parasite of, 365. 
Curag.oa birds, 70, 

fishes obtained, 163. 
Curator,* embarrassed by past accumulations, 23. 

reports, 53, 73.' 
Curragh (fishing boat) from Ireland, 90. 
Cuitis, J. S.. minerals fiom, 2l'3. 
Gushing, F. H., Assinaboine moccasins from, UG. 
Naviijo fetiches from, 110. 
Taos fetich from, 110. • 
John N., vessel models from, 93, 94. 
Cuvier. F., 333, 334. 
Cavier's Prodelphinus dubius, 323. 
Cymbilanus lineatus fasciatus, 376. 
Cyiirinidai, new species of, 375. 
Cyprinus carpio from alkali water, 164. 

brackish water, 104. 
Georgia, 162. 
Susquehanna Kiver, 103. 

D. 

Dasro, Capt. .J. A., Iceland sponge and corals from, 

100. 
Dakota antiquities received, 124. 

group fossil plants, 220. 
Dall, Eev. C.H. A., India " ilalls" from, 108. 

fibers from, 72. 
Dall, W. H., 17,279. 

collected Aleut baskets, 2fl2. 

Nunivak throwing-sticks. 
286. 
describes Aleut matting from caves 

292. 
edited work on prehistoric America, 

351. 
Eskimo bows from, 307. 
honorary curator, 62. 
Mesozoic. fossils from, 370. 
mollusk collections of, 181. 
Nunivak bow from, 310. 
on Eskimo bows, 308. 

divisions, 314. 



Dall, W. H., paleontologibt for Quaternary inver- 
tebrates, 179. 
paners of, 350. 
report of, 179. 
reseaiches of, 181. 
ribbon seal from, 368. 
throwing-sticks from, 289. 
Yukon delta bow from, 312. 
Dalls from India, 108. 
Daniels, Capt. John, sent silver and co])per, 248, 

250. 
Da.vis Company pyrite, 26(1. 
Davis, Dr. E. H., mound-pipe molds from, 125. 
Davis, E. F. C, assisted to collect coal, 267. 

sent indicator-cards illustrations, 
266. 
Davis, H.C., favors from. 267. 
Day, Surgeon-General Francis, fishing boats from, 

87. 
Decapod Crustacea, 378. 
Decatur (screw steam packet) model, 93. 
Deo corraclo for fishing, 90. 
Deep-sea dredging, Ameruau initiative in, 356. 

investigation, American appliances for, 
356. 
Deer Creek coal-field, 368. 
Deilephila lineal a from Nevada, 186. 
Delaines from Pacific Mills, 82. 
Delaware mine copper ores, 243, 255. 
Del Oro "Works gold collection, 275. 
Delphinida;, skulls of, presented, 132. 

taxonomy of, 321. 
Dclpbiniis Roryi. 322. 

(Cephalorbynchus) Doris, 323. 
delphis, 318, 319, 320, 324. 
Doris, 323. 
maculatns, 322. 
Pernetyi, 322. 
plagiodon, 324. 

of Cope, 323. 
punctatus, 322. 

beak and teeth, 323. 
Delta Jute and Fiber Company, 80. 
Dendrocopus purus from Kamtchatka, 366. 
Denuieon Manufacturing Company exhibit, 47. 
Deslogo "Works lead series, 253. 
De.smarest's spotted dolphins, 322. 
Devonian actinozoa received, 213. 

brachiopods obtained, 210, 213. 
cephalopods obtained, 211, 214. 
corals, 206. 

crustaceans received, 211. 
cchinoderms received, 213. 
fauna of Nevada, 206. 

summary of, 206. 
fossils from E.B. Knapp, 204. 

Hamilton group, 213. 
U. S.Geoloijical Survey, 203. 
received, 64, 210. 
sent in exchange, 203. 
gastoropods received, 211, 213. 
lamellibranchiates received, 210, 213. 
Pa?cilopoda received, 211, 214. 
Polyzoa leceived, 213. 
pteiopods received, 211, 213, 214. 
Upper and Lower Carboniferous com- 
mingling, 207. 
Devonshire laces, 80. 
Dewey, Fred. P., 17. 

collected coke samples, 262. 
copper, 250. 
in Ontario mine, 251. 
minerals, 221, 240, 241. 
ores at Butte, 251 . 
pig-copper series, 256. 
smelting series, 249. 
examined Now Orleans ores, 

&c., 246. 
letters and lepoits of, 245. 
native silver from, 250. 
on mineral resources, 343. 
papers of, 246, 351. 
report of, 239. 
work of, 67. • ' 

Diabase from Michigan, 229. 
Diamond drill core, 229. 

illustrations, 269. 
specimens, 242. 



INDEX. 



437 



Diamoiifl patterns in hat ornatnontation, 296. 
Diaplicroiiu'ia feiiioiftta I'loui Massaclmsotta, 187. 
Diootyli'ilnns, Mcsozoic, 308. 
Oillor, .1. S., andesito ami imuiico fioiii, 231. 

rocks fioiii, Gtt. 
Dimond & Hall, toutiibutors, Cfi. 
Diinond, J., .scntCalifoiiiia marbles, 2H1. 
Dioniedo Islaud speav, 112. 
Dipodouiy.s l'liillii>sii Ordii bought, 130. 
IJiri'ctor's reception, 55. 
Diiteina Lodousis, 20C. 

■ Newbenyi, 207. 
Disco Island Kskinio objects. 111. 
District of (Joluinbia, laml and freaU-water shells 

from. 183. 
DobaoD, Sur-ieouMajor, excbanged bats, &.c., 131. 
inscctivores and shrews 

sent to, 135. 
luaniiuals lent to, 137. 
sent reptiles, 158. 
Dodfje, Ensign O. G.. 225. 
Dolomite cube, 229. 
Dolphin, bottle-nosed, secured. 132. 

described from a distance, 322. 
Maniil'acturinj; Company, 81. 
.spotted, from Florida, 3i7. 

in Public Museum of Liver- 
pool, 322. 
Dolphins' skulls variable, 321. 
Domestic animals mounted, 132. 

economy and customs of the masses, 13. 
Dominica collections, 70. 
Donaldson, Thomas, work of, 07. 
Donga (lishiu'i boat) from Bengal, 87. 
Donor.s, iiuiubei- of, '.'2. 
Dos Pueblos autiiiuities exhibited, 126. 
obtained, 123. 
Uovo (brig) model, 94. 
Dredging appliances for deep sea, 350. 
Drodgings by the Albatross, 199. 
Dresden Museum, colled ions from, 71. 
Dresel, 11. G., assisted on fishes, 1C9. 
on Jamaica fishes, 347. 
papers of, 351. 
sent to Long Island, 165. 
Drills obtained, 204. 
Drug analysis urged, 77. 
Drug yielding plants illustrated, 75. 
Dnigs, duplicate, 70. 

obtained by foreign ex-changes, 76. 
received, 75. 
Drv Tortugas l;ivertebrates from Dr. Palmer, 191. 
Ducks, donustiiated hybrid, 378. 
Dug6s, Prof. Allied, collections from, 70. 
Dug-out cauoi; from Chittagong, 88. 
fishing canoe. African, 90. 
from Bengal, 87. 

tar palm tree, 87. 
war-canoe from British Columbia, 100. 
Dng-outs for fishing, 87. 
l)ui;u<j, (.'apt. Johu, deal fish from, 103. 
Ounile from Noith Carolina, 228, 231. 
Duplicates and exchanges, 19, 30. 

increased distiibution 
of, 30. 
selected, 24. 
Dutch fishing craft from Berlin, 106. 
DuttflD. Cajit. C. E., lecture by, 34. 
l)y<\ William IL, collected fishes. 173. 

IC. 

Eaglo mine coal and associates, 202. 
Karll, R. Edward, 10, 18, 19, 55. 

Florida fishes from, 374. 

on fish-capture apparatus, 342. 

fish-cultural e.Oiibit, 342. 
preliminary report by, 48. 
returns from London, 52. 
writings of, 3.V2. 
Earthen vessels acquired, 121. 
Ea.st Indian boat models. 89. 

fishing boats and models, 87. 
musical instruments, 72. 
Eastman, I'rof. J. 11., lent meteorite, 223. 
Echini elaborated, 200. 

ftipeciallv attended to, 194. 
studied by Mi-. Kathbnn, 197. 



Eohinodermata, Devonian, obtained, 213. 
Echiiioilerms and crustaceans received, 04. 
fioiii Beigen's Museum, 193, 
Florida, 192. 

and Drv Tortugas, 191. 
the Paiilic, 192. 
returned bv Professor Vcrrill, 100. 
studied by' Professor Vorrill, 200. 
Economic geology collection for New Orleans, 269. 
Edentata mounted in 1884, 43. 
Edinburgh gohl niedal for insect collection, C3. 

Museum, Jacquard weaving froiu, 80. 
University promises British inverte- 
brates, 190. 
Educational museum defined, 11. 
oiigin of, 10. 
museums in Eniope, 10. 

United States, 10. 
Edwards, V. N., fish journal of, 105. 

marine invertebrates from, 190. 
Egyptian onyx, 231. 

olitained, 227. 
Electric light for photograjihy, 46. 

service, 19, 36. 
Elk antlers, mounted, 44. 

Mountains, Colorado, model, 234. 
EUaugowan colliery ornaments, 203. 
Elliott, H. W. , drawing by, 279. 

ou Aileut "throwing-aticks, 288. 
papers of, 136, 371. 
Ellis, T. S., Venus mercenaria pearl from, 182. 
Elymus arenariu.s, 292. 

for Aileut mats, 292. 
mollis, 292. 
Sibiricus, 292. 
straw in baskets, 295. 
Embryological research, 72. 
Embryonic materials, preservation of, 365. 
Emeric, II. F., (Juaymas fishes from, 374. 
Emei ton, .T. H.. drew crustaceans, 378. 
Emeiy cloth collection, 268. 
Emmons, S. F., collected Colorado rocks, 230. 
Enclimatoceras, on the genus, 370. 
Engineer Corps collections, 6. 
England, flnit from, 2.'9. 
English cottons and worsteds, 80. 
f.ibric8, specimens of, 82. 
laces, 80. 
Koyal College ©f Surgeons presented co- 

tacea, 132. 
silk fabrics, 80. 
Enaiish, flarrj', fibers mounted by, 83. 
Ensigns instructed in photography, 40. 

trained iu Museum, 33. 
Enterprise, U. S. .S., bottom samples, 192. 
Enlomologieal collections, 03. 

Society meetings, 35. 
Entomology, illustrations of economic, 187. 
Entries in registers, 21. 
Epoira insularis from Illinois, 187. 
Ephemerid larva from Texas, 185. 
Epinephelus and related genera, 375. 

nigritus from Block Island, 162. 
Ei-igenia bulb obtained, 187. 
Eriguiitlius, 332. 

El istalis larva from Pennsylvania, 180. 

Eschscholtz Bay throwing-stick, 284. 

Eskimo basket-needle, 294, 

basketry, coiled, 293. 

baskets, 293. 

bow, Arctic type, 310. 

development of sinew backing foi , 

314. 
evolution of, 314. 
from Point Barrow, 310. 
of MacUen/.ie region, 310. 

reindeer antler, 308. 
structure, 312. 
bows, a study of, 307. 
bickiug of, 310. 
discuascil, 307. 
ill tin' Museum, 307. 
of dlllerenl t vpes, where used, 31 1, 
oak, 314. 

Point Barrow, 307. 
tliree types, 308. 
Moiitliciii type,. 308, 300. 
western tj-pef>, 808, 313. 



438 



INDEX. 



Eskimo collections from Alaska, 57. 

(log from Greely Kelief Expedition, 132. 
hitches on how.s, spears, &c., 311. 
house model, 57. 
illustrations at Cincinnati, 50. 

New Orleans, 51. 
from Ungava, 57. 
implements and ornaments, 112. 

from Bristol Cay, 112, 113. 
Korton Sound, 112. 
objects from Greenland, 111. 

Point Barrow, 111,112. 
specimens from Point Barrow, 57. 
throwing-stiek described, 279. 

simplest in central area, 
283. 
EsperauzaMarhle Company, gifts from, 66, 231. 
Essex modil (if tisliing schooner, 103. 
Estimates from dealers, 37. 
Etheostomiiuv, new forms of. 173. 
Ethnologica from Costa IJica, 71. 
Ethnological accessions, 57, 110. 

geographically arranged, 
111. 
collection at Now Orleans, 51. 
exhibits at expositions, 57. 
guide-book recommended, 110. 
material, classified report of, 110. 
gaps in, HI. 
nomenclature of, 110. 
preservation of, 110. 
Museum exhibits, 13. 
objects, foreign, 53. 
specimens available, 109. 
received, 57, 120. 
transferred, 36. 
Ethnology, 16, 18. 

antiquities from the Bureau of, 126. 
Bureau of, 354. 
department of, 56. 
pottery from Bureau of, 121. 
report' on, 109. 
Etka (li.sbing dug-out) from Bengal, 87. 
Etta mine tin rollection promised, 253. 
Eumetopias Stcllcri olitained, 131. 
European bats and iiisict ivores obtained, 131. 
exchanges clU'cted, 190. 
invert clirati's obtained, 64. 
mu.seuiii iiolicy, 9. 
shells from Ml-. Jeffries, 71. 
Eureka district paleontology, 64. 
Eurypharyngidai an; what .', 373. 
Eurypharynx, note on, 373. 
Evans, W. W., antiquities from, 123. 
Evermann, B. W., collected fishes, 171. 
Evolution of industries studied, 54. 
objects, how shown, 54. 
Exhibition, general rules fox-, 12. 

series of specimens, 24, 25. 
Exhibits for Cincinnati, 36. 
Louisville, 36. 
New Orleans, .16. 
Exocoetus voladoi' described, 374. 
Experimental ]ih\ sinlogy, 72. 
Exploration and iUeld work, 07. 
Exposition packages shipped, 30. 
work, 30,47. 

by the National Museum, 4. 
Expositions, casts painted for, 47. 

influence on museum growth, 47. 

E. 

Eagersta steel tests, 240. 

Fairbanks, C, courtesies of, 83. 

Fairhurst, A., Kentucky stone implements from, 

124. 
Falls of the Ohio, fishes from, 17C. 
Farallone Islands birds, 00. 

seals, &c, 70. 

shells received, 184. 
Fasciola hepatica obtained, 193. 
Faunal succession observed in Nevada fossils, 205, 
Faxon, Walter, paper by, 371. 

returned crav- fishes, 201. 
Feath(>r exhibit at Louisville, 49. 
Feld.sjKn- (|ii:irries of Connecticut visited, 223. 
Felidie rep.iired, 44. 



Felis concolor from Lewis Sells, 130. 

yaguarundi obtained, 130. 
Fencker, Governor, birds' eggs from, 60. 
Feruald, C. II., on collecting moths, 343. 

paper by, 372. 
Fern -leaf impressions received, 263. 
Fiber, 326, 327, 328 329, 330, 307. 
generic characters of, 329. 
zibethicus, 326, 327, 328, 330. 
eats carp, 371. 
Ifibers, accessions to, 80. 
animal, 79. 
exhibited, 79. 

from Boston custom-liouso, 81. 
labelled, 79. 
list of vegetable, 84. 
mineral, 79. 

photographed from microscope, 83. 
position of, used in classification, 79, 
provisionally classified, 80. 
textile, classified, 79. 
vegetable, 79. 
Field sparrow, new, from New Mexico, 358. 
Fiji weapons, 110. 

Fillmore, John H., assisted Mr. Merrill, 234. 
Fin-back whale skull obtained, 132. 
Fire-alarm telegraph company connection, 37. 
Fire-brick, 245. 
Fish accessions, 161. 

attended to, 165. 
summary of, 161. 
synopsis of, 161. 
analyses at New Orleans, 51. 
and reptile casts painted, 47. 
capture apparatus, 342, 352. 
casts at Cincinnati, 51. 

Now Orleans, 55. 
collecting. Government aid foi", 170. 
collections of Jordan and others classified, 

174. 
collectors cautioned, 169. 
Commission collections, 6. 
cultural exhibit of U. S. Fish Commission, 

342, 352. 
culture aims and limitations, 352. 
at New Orleans, 55. 
exhibit at Louisville, 49. 

New Orleans, 51. 
shown by photographs, 50. 
department, recommendations for, 169. 
drawings examined, 164. 
made, 61. 

of H. L. Todd, 165-168. 
Mi.ssSmitli, 165. 
embryos, forces determining survival of, 364. 
guano analysis, 346. 

Hawk collections of Florida invertebrates, 
190. 
marine invertebrates, 
190. 
exploration, 348. 
Gulf Stream exploration, 380. 
ladders shown at New Orleans, 51. 
migrations studied by the Albatross, 199. 
notes, European, arrange*!, 164. 
nutritive value of 346. 
pai'asites from Vineyard Sound, 190. 
series work, 105. 
skeletons, storage of, 169. 
trap stylo of basket, 297, 298. 
Fisher, William J., Alaskan collections from, 69. 
Bristol Bay ethnologica from, 

113. 
collections from, 57. 
Katmai objects from, 113. 
Kenai objects from, 113. 
Eortiak ethnologica from, 113. 
mollnsk collections of, 181. 
throwing-sticks from, 289. 
Fisheries collection, catalogue of, 52. 

completeness of, 52. 
department at New Orleans, 55. 
exliibit at Louisville, 49. 
gallery opened, 52. 
section, 16. 

installed, 55. 
opening, 36. 
report, 55. 



INDEX. 



439 



Fisliprnipn, safety for, 349. 
Fishery iiiuterial tltscribed, OS. 

" pictnics :it New Orleans, 55. 
product.s and .Tppariitiis, :i48. 

at London Exliibitiou, 342. 
representation bj- pUotographs, 50. 
treaties, 3.')2. 
Fi«lie8, 17. 

nddeddiirins 1884,01. 

and iuvertclirate.x.composition, &c., of, 346. 

at London Fi.-ilu'rie.'* Kxhibitiou, .J4L 

card catalo:;uc of, OK 

casts of. at Xew Orleans, 51. 

catalogued in ISS4, 104. 

colleeled by Professor Jordan, 01. 

fur U. S. Fisb Commission and 
National Mii.senni, lO'.t. 
department of. 01. 
distribution of fresh-water, 171. 
dujjlieatc to bo disposed of 109. 
embryosrapliy of osseous, 305. 
estralimital, ioi. 
fresh-water, collected, 175-178. 
in the Museum, 01. 
overhauled, 105. 
from Cuba, 70. 

Florida, 374. 
I'ensacola, 374. 
White Kiver. 372. 
marine, eulleeted, 174, 175. 
morpholojiy and evolution of tail of, 305. 
new, from L^. S. Fish Commission, 01. 
number of. 01, 108. 
of Switz City Swamp, 372. 
papers based on, 01. 
• received, 104. 
remarks on, 109. 
report upon, 101. 
scut out, 104. 
transfer of 01. 
transferred from tanks, 108. 
work upon. 01. 104. 
Fishing ajiparalns, Belgian, 91. 

boat model from Bouiba\', 88. 
models, 67. 

Chinese. 90. 

from Northern Atlantic 
coast, 87. 
b(.ats, American, sketches of, 85. 
East Indian, 87. 
foreign, collected, 85. 
from Greece, 89. 
types of, 97. 
canoe, model.s, 87. 
craft photograi)hs, 85. 
dug-out from Africa, 90. 

from Chittagong, 88. 
dugouts. 87. 
.junk model, Chinese, 90. 
"ketch model, 80. 
prehistoric, 3.56. 

work on, 59, 120. 
products exported from San Francisco, 

350. 
schooner, Essex model, 103. 

Gertie Evelyn described, 100, 

101,102. 
model of ideal, 80. 
Xew Era. 102, 103. 
schooners changed in fomi, 100. 
sloop model. Belgian, 91. 
steamers, 97. 
vessel, new model, 349. 
vessels, 349. 

and boats at London Exhibition, 
342. 
catalogiu' of, 97, 348. 
buiblers' models of, 80. 
evolution of, 80. 

history and development of, 97. 
modilied in form, 100. 
rigL'iiii: for, 97. 
Flax from New York. 80. 

specimens from Barbour Flax Spinning 

Company. 81. 
twines from New Vfirk, 80. 
Fleming, 11. S., made colli ctions. 244. 
Flint, Dr. E., Nicaragua shirt from, 118. 



Flint. Dr. James M., 75. 
Flint fiom England, 229. 
Flora, fossil, of the gl(d)e. 369. 
Florida aotiquities obtained, 123. 
flshes, 103, 374. 

notes on, 347, 353. 
papers on, 173. 
received. 01. 
fossil boiU'S, 380. 
frontier Indian objects, 116. 
in vertebrates, 70, 190. 

collected, 03, 191. 
Keys, corals, itc, 70. 
fishes, 173,374. 
manatee obt.iined, 132. 
midlusks and shells received, 183. 
niuskrat, 325, 328. 
fur. 328. 

general appearance of, 328. 
mnskratlike mammal, 130. 
rattlesnake skin slipjjors, 110. 
shells obtained, 184. 
Flower, I'lofessor, 320. 

aided in ])roeuring cetacea,132. 
on I'rodelphinus dubius, 323. 
Fog alarm, Collius's, 95. 

alarms discussed, 95, 90. 
Foods, analyses of. 108. 

&c., from San Salvador, 107. 
arrangement of, 108. 
casts <if, 45. 
duplicate, 108. 

from Crosse & Blackwell, 107. 
Guatemala, 107. 
Jamaica, 107. 
Kew Gaidens, 107. 
.section, 10. 18. 

additions to, 107. 
arranging and labeling, 107. 
remarks on, 108. 
report on, 107. 
routine work in, 108. 
Foraniinifeia iVoiii tlie sea bottom, 199. 

of the Albatross, 197. 
Forbes, R. B., 92. 

Ford, S. W., sent Microdiscus speciosus, 204. 
Foreign gifts, 6. 

government collections from Philadel- 
phia. 0. 
Foreman, Dr. Edward, 17. 
Fort (>hini() collections, 08. 

Klamath ecdlections. 09. 
Fossil bones in Klorida, 380. 
coral from Iowa, 229. 
invertebrate types in Jfuseum, 216. 
plants, accessions to, 219. 

administered upon, 220. 
catalogued, 219, 220. 
collection of, 0.5. 
comiiared with living, 219. 
department of. 219. 
in reserve series, 220. 
stored. 220. . 
undetermined, 220. 
Fossils, additicuis to Paleozoic invertebrate, 203. 
Cambrian, 207. 
Carboniferous, 207. 

from California, 204. 
Missouri, 205. 
Devonian, 204. 207. 

from Hamilton group, 213. 
exchanged, 203. 
from California, 09. 

Cai>e IJ.sburne coal, 09. 
Mesozoie and ( 'eno/.oii', condition of, 210. 
invertebrate, 64, 

215. 
invertebrate, in 
tlie collection, 
217. 
miscellaneons Paleozoic, received, 204. 
of the Indiana roek.s, 370. 
Paleozoic invi-rtebrate, 04, 203. 
K'current species, 207. 
Silurian, 207. 
stored in annory, 210. 
Fox, Col. Lane, 279. 
France, glaciated rock from, 228. 



440 



INDEX. 



rinukliiiiU' on s, 'J.^O, 273. 
Fiasci'.s Basin lislies collected, 178. 
Flick coke ovcii.s collcrtion, 2fi2, 270. 
Frijciitc luackcicl lioin Wood'.s JIoll, 103. 
Fiitzsciio Brother.^, ding.s from, 7ft. 
Fiuit.s fioni Kew Gardeii.s, 107. 
Fulgurites from Florida, 230. 

received, 227. 
Fuller, O. P., sent minerals, 222. 
Function as a liasis of classification, 53. 
Fur seals repaired, 41, 44. 
Furnaces, dvawin'is ol', 244, 2C9. 
Furs exhibited at Louisville, 49. 
Fnry and Hecla Straits tlirowiug-stick, 283. 

(r. 

Gaillard, M. Felix, excliange with, 120. 
Galapagos Islands coUcctious, 71. 

shells obtained, 183. 
Galbraith, Frank G., carp from, 1G3. 
Galena mechanically concentrated, 233. 
Galidia olivacea bought, 131. 
Galla arrow, 119. 

Gallagher, Joseph, assi.sted to collect ores, 251. 
(lalleon, Spanish, sketch of, 91. 
Galveston fishes collected, 172. 
Garmau, Samuel, ou Bermuda reptiles, 340. 

])aper by, 372. 
Garnet rock from Korth Carolina, 228. 
Garrett, Ensign, 33. 
Gas coal series, 243. 

Gasteropoda, Carboniferous, received, 212. 
Devonian, obtained. 211,213. 
Gastropod mollu.sks i'roni Jefl'rey's collection, 183. 
Gastrostomus lateral lino organs, 305. 

side origan, 305. 
Gaumer, Mr., Yucatan birds from, 71. 
Gazzani, Mr., collected copper series, 256. 
zinc, 258. 
collections of, 244. 
made lead collections, 253. 

smelting collection, 252, 259. 
Geare, E. I., 18. 

Gecka, A., Sioux medicine man's pipe from, 116. 
Gedney, A. G., 188. 

Gems and ornamental stones at Cincinnati, 50. 
bought, 6.5, 222. 
collection, 342, 348. 
shown at New Orleans, 65. 
Genoa fishes obtained, 172. 

Geographical and teleological classification, 14, 15. 
Geological history of North Ameiica, 370. 
u)aps, catalogue of, 354. 
specimens from Professor Claike, 228. 
Survey additions to Museum, 94. 
chemist makes analyses, 72. 
collections, C. 
fossils, 64, 214. 
Jocks and tufas, 66. 
surveys, rocks from, 238. 
Geology, collections in economic, 67, 240, 270. 
division of, 17, 65. 
economic, at Now Orleans, 52, 269. 
metallnigv and economic, 67. 
of Beromda, 340, 377. 
George, P. C, 215. 
Georgia fishes collected, 170. 
published, 170. 
GeothlypisbaLrdi, 370. 

Gere, J. E., Wisconsin, antiquities of, 123, 120. 
German fishing craft fiom Berlin, 100. 
Gemiauia Works, smelting series, 252. 
Germany, barking sand liom, 227. 
Gertie Evelyn (fishing schooner) described, 100. 

model, 86. 
Gesswein, F. W., gift by, 47. 
Geyser cone from National Park, 229. 
Gila monster received, 157. 

Gilbert, ('has. H., assisted in collecting fishes, 169. 

collected (Charleston fishes, 172. 

Mississipf)! Valley 

fishes, 174. 
Pacific fishes, 171. 
Panama fishes, 172, 

173. 
Southern fishes, 170, 
173. 



Gilbert, Chaa. 11., collected Venetian fishes, 171. 
Illinois, fishes from, 163. 
pai>crs by, 372, 375. 
sent Alabama fishes, 164. 
(Gilbert, Grove K., lecture by, 33. 
Gilbert & Kussell, rocks and tufas from, 230. 
Gill, Theodore Nicholas, papers of, 372. 

and Ej-der, John Adam, 
papers by, 373. 
Gill-nets in cod-fi.sheries, 349. 
Gingham manufacture illustrated, 82. 
Giotto, p.aiutings of, 56. 
Girard mines coal ornaments, 263. 
Glacial drift in Montana and Dakota, 370. 
Glasgow (ship) model, 94. 
Glass, sand-eroded, 234. 
Glendale Zinc Works collection, 275. 
(31obigerina from sea bottom, 199. 
Globiocephalus skulls common, 321. 
Gloucester fisheries invertebrate collections, 190. 
loss of life and propertiy in, 

349. 
notes on, 348. 
Glover, Prof. Townrnd, plates published, 188. 

propo.sed use of plates of, 
188. 
(jlue exhibit at Louisville, 49. 
Gnathypops mystacinus described, 374. 
Gobiosoma histrio described, 374. 
Godding, Dr. W. W., lecture by, 34. 
Godmau and Salvin, mammals lent to, 137. 
Gold coin manufacture illustrations wanted, 250. 
dust taken by Captain Mar.shall, 249. 
extraction by amalgamation, 274. 

fusion and electrolytic process, 

275. 
stamping and amalgamating, 
274. 
from mispickel, 274. 

pj'rite shown, 249. 
shown by collection from (Jail- 
fornia, 249. 
from copper by smelting, &c., 250. 

gravel by hydraulic process, 239, 241. 
pyrite, 241. 
leaf collection, 241. 
manufacture, 275. 

collection, 250. 
ores bought, 248. 
])lacer, in Museum, 270. 
specimens of, 67. 
quartz, in Museum. 270. 
specimens from Brewer mine, 249. 
utilization of, 250. 
Gooch, F. A., chemical work of, 224. 
Goode, G.Brown, 16, 173. 

and Bean, T. H., on Florida 

fishes, 347. 
Bermuda annelids from, 381. 
collected Bermuda annelida, 

340. 
Fisheries catalogues, edited bv, 

340. 
J. Matthew Jones and, editors, 

340. 
on Florida fishes, 353. 
representative to expositions, 

3,48. 
writings of, 352. 
Goodwin, A. P., collection from, 72. 

New Guinea weapons from, .57. 
Papuan objects from, 119, 120. 
Gosse on Monachus, 331, 332. 
Gottland (Sweden) herring-fishing boat, 104. 
Gould, Rev. J. L., ethnologica from, 69. 
Gouverneur Marble Co-mpany, 67. 

sent glacial pol- 
ished marble, 
234. 
Government buildings photographed, 46. 
Graham Island jieccary tusk, 114. 
Grallaria intermedia, 370. 
Gramniysia arcuata, 207. 

nannibalensis, 207. 
Grand Banker models, 86. 

Banks of Newfoundland, model, 234. 
Cauou of the Colorado, model, 234. 
(Irauite, red hornblende, for building, 228. 



INDEX. 



441 



Grauift> Rial) fioin Xpw Knglanil Ornnlto Com- 

piiiiy, '-•iT. 
firapliito crucibles. "JIO. 

from (.'cylou, ".MO. 
Gray, M'illiaui Briicc, 20. 
Gray's conns ^^fonachns. ^31, 332. 

spottiil ilol|)liin, 3J'.'. 
Great Interior Basin basketry, 301. 

Lake Bn»in tislics collected. 175. 
South Bay collections, lOu. 

tishes collected, 61, 104. 
GrebnlfsUi, Governor, collections from, ti'J. 
Grecian boat for net and seine lishini;. 89. 
Greece, lishing boats from, P9. 
Greely, Lieutenant, collections retained by, C8. 
Kelief Expedition collecting out6t', 194. 
collectioui^, 68. 
Eskimo dog from, 132. 
objects from, 
111. 
natural history work, 08. 
photographs, '40, 08. 
physical observations, 
08. 
Greenland birds' efips, 60. 

Eskimo objects, 111. 
exploration, 08. 
lislie?, notes on, 351. 
invertebrates obtained, 102. 
rocks obtained, 227. 
throwing-stiek, 281. 

peculiarity, 281. 
Griflin, L. J., gifts from, 66. 

sent st.ilagmite marble, 231. 
Grim drill obtained, 204. 
Grindstones, specimens of, 229. 
Griotte marble received, 227. 
Grouper, black, obtained, 162. 
Grouse, new subspecies of willow, 366. 

southern limit of, 357. 
Gnadiilupo Basin lishes collected, 178. 
Guanajuato collections, 70. 
Guatemala birds, notes on, 358. 
foods obtained, 107. 
minerals, 240. 
plants and animals, 71. 
rocks and building stone, 227. 
textiles, 80. 
Guayamaa bows and spears, 118. 
(iuayiuas, Mexico, fishes, 374. 
Gneiczu Iliippeli bought, 131. 
Guiana basket ornamentation with feathers, 306. 

baskets little dyed, 300. 
(Julf of Mexico dcensea luollusks studied, 190. 

explorations of the Albatross, 197. 
fishes collected, 172. 

papers on, 172. 
invertebrates obtained, 03, 189. 
moclelof, 231. 
mollusca studied, 02. 
spotted dolphins in, 317. 
Gulf States, Mcsozoic and Onozoic fossils from, 

21.5. 
Gulf Stream, continental border beneath, 380. 

exploration, 380. 
Gull, new Alaskan, 373. 
Gundlachia nieekiana obtained, 184. 
Gunny cloth from jute butts, 80. 
Giinther, Dr., casts obtained through, 132. 
Gnmey, John Henry, papers by, 373. 
Guthrie, J. C, favors from, 267. 

H. 

Habia against Zamelodia, 366. 

Hffimnlon, species of, 375. 

Uapu-, Arnold, on Eureka district geology, 207. 

Ilaida basket figured, 297. 

basket ornamentation, 290. 

basket-work, 200. 

hat ornamentation, 290. 

house model, 57. 

imitations of chinaware, 296. 

mat and basket making, 297. 

rag carpets, 'J9G. 

rain hat twilliug, 299. 

trade baskets, 299. 

twined basketry manufacturo, 297. 



naircl<>tli manufacture collection, 82. 
Half clipper model, 94. 
Halibut abundant near Tcolnnd,349. 
mounted, 44. 

of 430 pounds obtained, 102. 
oir Norway, .349. 
Hall, 279. 
Hall, Charles E., &, Co., sent California umrblea, 

131. 
Hamilton formation fo.^sils obtained, 203, 204, 213. 
Hamilton, Mari]uis of, Irish '•(Junajih" fioui, 90. 
Hammond colliery anthracite coal, 20). 
Hamv, Dr. E. T., exchange with, 120. 
Hauifeu, John E., & Co., worsted fabrics from, 81. 
Harbor seal from Bering Island, 131. 
Harding. M. B.. sent llla?uu8 crassicanda, 204. 
Hallow, C. A., 68. 
Harp seal obtained, 131. 
UarroU, J. Dock, sent striped bass, 103. 
Harris Woolen Company collection, 82. 
Harrison mining uiachiiio photographed, 205. 
Hartshorn, E. W., flax from. 80. 
Uartshorne, W. I)., yarns selected by, 81. 
Hastings &. Co., gold loaf collection from, 250, 275. 
Hatteras. spotted dolphins ofl', 317. 
Havana lishes collected, 173. 

Monachiis tidpiealis from, 331. 
Hawaiian Goverumcut exhibit received, 72. 
Islands bai kini; s;iiid, 227. 

buihliiig .stone, 227. 
rocks, 228. 

starches, jellies, grains, and fruits, 107. 
Hawes, Dr. George W., 237. 

biography of, 240, 351. 
ninseura work of, 237. 
studied quarrying indus- 
tries, 237. 
Hawley, E. H.. work of, 47. 
Hayden, Ensign, 33. 

Haydon, Walter, Hudson's Bay fishes from, 162. 
Haydou, F. W., reptiles from, 158. 
H. C. Frick Coke Company collection, 202. • 
Heald, T. H., presented sriiic ores, 258. 
Healy, Capt. M. A., Alaskan invertebrates from, 
192. 
collections from, 69. 
Heap, Gwynne Harris, paper by, 373. 
Heape, C, British Guiana war club from, 118. 
Fiji weapons from, 119. 
Man;;atuadz from, 118. 
New Caledoniii club Irom, 119. 
Polynesian weapons from, 57. 
Helix albolabris from Connecticut, 184. 
Heloderma suspectuiu obtained, 157. 
Hemolobi id larva from Florida, 180. 
Hemlock board th.at pierced a white oak, 228. 
Hemp cai7)etings, 81. 

rope and twine, 80. 
Hemphill, Henry, invertebrates from, 63,70,181,191, 

moUnsks from, 63. 
Hondlf-y, J. T'.,21.5. 
Hendloy, J. W., casta made by, 45. 
Henshaw, H. W., collected antiquities, 123. 
papers by, 373. 
sent reptiles, 158. 
Herendcon, E. P., 279. 

throwing-stick from, 289. 
Hering, C. .!., exotic reptiles from, 01, 157. 
Hermann on monk seal, 333. 
Herpetology, manual of, in preparation, 158, 159. 

report upon, 157. 
Herring -fishing boat, Swedish, 104. 

(I'rozeu) trade, 349. 
Herring, O., caritets from, 80. 
Honinaii, II., English fabrics from, 82. 
Herrniaii, Stornbuch Sc Co., 82. 
Hesper (pilot-boat) model, 92. 
Hesiieromys lencopus, 325. 
Hessian fly, 3f3. 
Hewitt, G.C., 208. 

Higgin, J. J.. Cheshire salt from, 107. 
Hill on Monachus, .3:!2. 
Hippus devised earracks, 91. 
Historical relics section, 10. 
Histriophoeii as a subgenus, 308. 
Hitchcock, Uoniyn, 10, 18. 

actjug nurnior, 70, 107. 
uu textllos. 34'.;. 



442 



INDEX. 



Hitchcock, Eoiuyn, paper of, 353. 

studied fibers microscopi- 
cally, 83. 
vi.'fitc'd mills, 83. 
work of, 55. 
Hitchcock, Williams & Co., 80. 
Hobbs, George S., 37. 
Hodge, 11. S., sent minerals, 222. 
Hodgson, Thomas, sent photographs, 265. 
Hoek, Dr. P. P. C, to examine barnacles, 190. 
Holmes, W. H., 17,18. 

honorary curator, 58. 
Mexican poltery from, 121. 
Mohawk wampum belt from, 116. 
papers by, 122. 
presented rocks, 236. 
reporl of, 121. 
studies of, 122. 
work of, 58. 
Holotlniroidea, new species of, 379. 
Holsteiuberg Eskimo objects. 111. 
Hornbron and Jac(iiiiui)t described a dolpbiu, 323. 
Hong Kutchiu Iiidian buskets, 29.'). 
Hopkins, G. X., Ponca ax from, IIG. 
Hoplopaziina', review of, 375. 
Horan, Henry, at New Orleans Exposition, 52. 
rei)()rt of. :!">. 

Hiiinriiit(ndent of buildings, 19, 35. 
Horn Silvei' Smellei' collrction. 252. 
Hornaday, William T., 41. 43, 133. 
gift by, 41. 
l)apeis of, 353. 
Hornblende andesite from Bozoslofl", 355. 
Horse-hair in niiunifacture, 82. 
Horseshoe collections, 240. 
Hot Springs, Ark., minerals collected, 222. 
Hotchkiss, Maj. Jed., 2G8. 
Hotham Inlet colled ions, 09. 
Houghton, Mr., contribution from, 66. 
Howald, F.,2G8. 

Howejl, William, favors from, 267. 
Huaca objects from Pci u, 57. 
Hudson Bay fishes received, 162. 
region mammals, 130. 
territory, Anodonta from, 183. 
Hudson, George, A.,'caip from, 162. 
Hudson River group fossils received, 203. 
Humidity of air in lecture room, 40. 
Hunter, Captain, Kamtchatkan sheep from, 69. 
Humphrey Bros. & Tracey presented miner's 

boots, 2U4. 
Hussey, C. G., Woiks, copper-refining .series, 255. 
Husscy, Wells & Co. steel exhibit, 245. 
Hydrographic Bureau, bottom samples from, 189. 
sent surface specimens, 

192. 
soundings for, 197. 

I. 

Ibises discussed, 3.57. 

Ice Springs Butte lava, 236. 

lavas from Utah, 234. 
Ichthyography, terminology of, 373. 
Icterida^ reviewed, 377. 
Ideal fishing schooner New Era. 102, 103. 
Idiopsar brachviiras, 377. 
Iglesias, K., Cbirifjui pottery from, 71. 
Illinois coals collected, 267. 

fishes from C. H. Gilbert, 163. 
Impure air in lecture room, 40. 
India birds received, 60. 

cashmere shawls exhibited, 47, 
collections of Rev. C. H. A. Dall, 72. 
" dalls" obtained, 108. 
Indian basketiy. Southern, 305. 

blanket ornameutatiou, 209. 
boats and canoes from .T. G. Swan, 106. 
bust and jiortraits at Cincinnati, 50. 
busts exhibited, 57. 

])iiinted, 47. 
cards from Mexico, 70. 
carvings from Rev. .T. L. Gould, 69. 
collection at Cincinnati, 50. 
ethnologv, growth of collections illustrat- 
ing, M. 
foods. North American, arrangement of, 
108. 



Indian group, cast of, 45. 

hemp for buskets, 301. 
illustrations at New Orleans, 51. 

fiom ITngava, 57. 
pottery from New Mexico, 70. 
Territory fishes obtained, 61. 
trap from Yukon River, 113. 
Indiana ariow-heads obtained, 125. 
fi.shes obtained, 01, 170, 173. 
State Universitv aided to collect fishes, 
170. 
birds .selected for, 150. 
Industrial collections from Philadelphi.a, 6. 

nmseum exhibits, 12. 
IngersoU, Ernest, paper by, 374. 
Ingrain carjn t sjk (inicns, 80. 
Insect collections bought, 188. 
Insectivores exchanged, 131. 

mounted in 1884, 42. 
Insects, 17. 

accessions to, 63, 185. 
care of, 187. 
department of, 63. 
for New Orleans Exposition, 63. 
from New Orleans, 378. 
in relation to agriculture, 3C3. 
injurious to forest trees, 63. 
report upon, 185. 
International Exhibilion. drugs, 76. 

Fisheries Exhibition, Bengal pipe 
from, 118. 
Invertebrate accessions, extent of, 04. 
collection overhauled, 194. 
depai tment routine work, 193. 
duplicates prepared, 194. 
entiles, nature of, 195. 
fishery industries reported upon, 200. 
fossils. Mcsozoic and Cenozoic, 17, 
64. 
Paleozoic, 17, 64. 
pak"Bontology, progress of, 353. 
JPaleozoic fossils, Cambrian, 208. 

Carboniferous, 208. 
- Devonian, 208. 
from U. S. Geologi- 
cal Survey, 210. 
Green's casts (plas- 
ter), 208. 
Permian, 208. 
Silurian, 208. 
Invertebrates, accessions of marine, 189. 

added by U. S. Fish Commission, 

189. 
administered upon, 193. 
alcoholic, stored, 201. 
belonging to the Museum, 189. 
card catalogue of, 195. 
catalogued, 194. 

distribution of duplicate, 195, 190. 
exchanged with Edinburgh Uni- 
versity, 195. 
exchanges of, 195. 
fiom Florida, 70, 190. 
identified collections received, 189. 
in keeping of the Museum, 189. 
marine, 63. 

report upon, 189. 
obtained by exchange, 193. 
outfits for collecting, 194. 
rearranged for exhibition, 194. 
recorded, 194. 

researches upon marine, 200. 
table showing entries of, 195. 
Iowa in.seets obtained, 187. 
Iridium collect iou, 2.')0, 271. 
Iridosmine fiom California, 250, 271. 
Iron and steel manufactuio in Sweden, 241. 
bnsheled or reliued, from scrap, 239. 
fi'.rnaees by-products, 2,57. 
globules, ehilkd, 230. 
metallurgical collections, 2.j8. 
mine. Sterling, collections from, 222. 
ores, 272. 

collected by Tenth Census, 239, 24.5, 257. 
from California, 239. 

Pennsylvania and New York fur- 
naces, 2,57. 
pyrite collections, 242. 



INDEX. 



443 



Iron pyritc. sxilphnric acid from, 242. 

pyrites, 2TU'. 

sbai)es, rollod, 245. 

snii'lliiifr oollootioiis, 275. 

tank coiTodctl li.\ luiue watiT, 203. 
Irous, S\v< dish. 2.>7. 
Ii'oquois basUftiy, 305. 
Irviug, I'lolcssor. lost rocks by Are, 238. 
Isosoiiia ;;raudr, I!G2. 
Italian uiaiblcs oxbibitod, 230. 
<liiart/.itc, 230. 



Jackson, Profes.iov, fonnd cassitcrite, 252. 
Jacol)8, Messrs., St. IJernaid dog fioiu, 1.32. 
Jacijnard weaving iii silk, 80. 
Jade Ironi New Zealand, 230. 

simulated by xMaskan pectolite, 225. 
serpentine, \e., 09. 
Jadeite implements, 3iG. 
Jamaica driij;.s received, 75. 

tisbes, catalogiio of, IG5, 347. 

new, 347. 
libers, 70, 80. 
foods obtained, 107. 
James, Josejili K.. replied to, 309. 
Japan autiiiiiitses obtained, 124. 

birds and mammals Ironi 60, 71, 131. 
marbles and eerpeutiue.s, 230. 
re.'icarcbes in, 71. 
Japanese birds, notes on, 3.')8. 

Centennial Commis-sioners presented 

marbles. 230. 
fish-trap resenibling Indian basketry, 

298. 
implemints and clothing, 118. 
Jeffreys, I)r. (Iwyn, nioUusks from, 71, 181. 
Jenkin, X. M.,208. 
Jenniug.". A. U., & Sons. ¥0. 
Jewetl.' (;. W.. drugs from, 75. 
Johns, U. W., Company asbestos, 208, 209, 276. 
Johns, W. II., made copper collection, 255. 
Johnson, Capl. (Iiorgi^ A., Cbiasmodus from, 103. 
Johnson, Cai)t W. It., 208. 
Johnson, J. W., Alaskan birds from, 09. 
Johnson, Lawrence C, 215. , , ., , 

collected rocks and build- 
ing stones, 230. 
Jones, Dr. W. U., invertebrates from, 04. 
moUusks IVtim, 03. 
Pacitic Ocean invertebrates 

from, 192. 
Peruvian and Chilian collec- 
tions from, .57, 81. 
antiquitiesfrom, 110, 

117,118. 
fishes from, 102, 104. 
pottery from, 121. 
Jones, J. Matthew, editor, 353. 

on I'.ermuda mammals, 340. 
jiaper by, 374. 

and C.oodo, G. Brown, editors, 
310. 
Jones, Mr., on Indian baskets, 295. 
Jones, Thomas, presented zinc- ores, 258. 
Joplin Zinc Works collection, 275. 
Jordan, David Starr, 379. 

collected Cumberland Kiver 
fishes, 173. 
Florida and Ha- 
vana fishes, 01, 
10;t, 173. 
Indiana fishes, 170. 
Iowa fishes, 173. 
Mississippi Valley 

fisliis, 103, 174. 
Pacific fishes, 171. 
Venetian fishes, 01, 
102,171,173. 
examined fresh-water fishes. 

105. 
explorations of, 109. 
Florida invertebrates from. 

192. 
papers by, 374. 
reptiles troin, 158. 
Jordan &, Gilbert collections, "0. 



Jordan & Gilbert fish collections bnrned, 173. 
on Utah Lake fishes, 172. 
papeis by, 375. 
Jordan, David Starr, and Meek, Seth E., papers by, 
375. 
Swain, Joseph, papers by, 
375. 
Joss-stick powder, 118. 
Jouv, 1*. L., collecting in Japan, 71. 

Jaimneseantifiuities from, 124. 

collections from, 118, 131. 
.Toss-stick powder from, 118. 
Junk, Chinest< tislnng. 90. 
Jute butts (or gunny cloth, 80. 
cordage, 80. 
fiber, 80. 

fibers obtained, 80. 
matting and carpets, 81. 
specimens received, 80. 

K. 

Kadiak or Unalashka throwingstick, 287. 

throwing stick, 287. 
Kafiir suull'box, 119. 

Kamtchatkau mountain sheep received, 69. 
Kan.sas fishes secured, 01. 

insects received, 185. 
slate, 228.. 
Kaolin from Virginia, 228. 
Katniai implements, 113. 
Kaviak Peninsula bows wanted, 312. 
Kear, K. \V., furuished electric light, 268. 
Keliley's Run colliery anthracite coal, 263. 
Keilli, Captain, selected ores, 251. 
Kelleher, Daniel, large conger from, 162. 
Kemp, Dixon, on lii(li:iii sailing vessels, 89. 
Kemp, J. F., collected le.id .relies, 253. 

collections of 244. 
Kenai implements, 113." 
Kennicott, Robert, 279. 

throwingstick from, 289. 
Kentucky building stones, 229.231. 
fishes collected, 170. 
slono implements, 124. 
Keokuk limestone iTinoids obtained, 203. 
Ketdi model rig.ged, 80. 
Kettle-bottom vessel model, 93. 
Kew Gardens, Chinese rain-coat from, 118. 
collections from, 71,80, 107. 
Keying (vi'ssel), tonnage of, 94. 
Ki'y selling and Lla.sius on Mouachus, 33*- 
K.'y West lishes, W:!, 374,375, 379. 
Kidder, Dr. .1. 11., 3H. 
Kicfcr George W., Peruvian objects from, 57,71, 

110, 117, 118. 
King, J. H. T., Chippewa grave deposits from, 

110. 
King's Mountain tin. 2.53. 

Kingston Public- Museum sent Jamacia fishes, 105. 
Kiowa shield, 110. 

Kirby, K. 15., collected Bes.semer steel. 258. 
copper ores, 254. 2.55. 
Illinois coals, 207. 
zinc, 2.">8. 
metallurgical collections of, 243. 
Kirtland's warbler obtained, 3.58. 
Klamath basket ornamentation, 299. 

twined baskets. 299. 
Knowlton, Frank II., 05. 

work of, 219. 
Kodiak coll.ctions, 09,113. 
ethnologic:!. 113. 
native iiiii>leinents, 113. 
Kohinoor colliery anthracite, 201. 
ornaments, 203. 
K<dm, Gustav, reptiles from, 158. 
Koons, 1$. F., J98. 

scut granite with mortar cavity, 
124. 
Kotzehiic Sound Eskimo bows wanting, 307. 

thro\ving stick, 284. 
Knipp. E. 15.. sent Devonian fossils, 204. 
Knapp, Ensign II. S., :;2.5. , ,„- 

Kiiaiiss, '1 hoinas E., i)iesented photograjih, 20.>. 
Erakatoa. puinifi- anil v<ih'aiiic ash, 227,228,230. 
Krupp \\'oi ks collection, 245. 
Kunilicu, L., Eskimo box from, 308. 



444 



INDEX. 



Kunz, G. F., sent titanimn minerals, 223. 
Kunle Islauds skin coat, 118. 
Kuskoqiiira, Eskimo bow described, 309. 
Kyak and accouteiments, 111. 

L. 

Labeling; in museums, 11, 12. 
Labels, 19, 27, 28. 29. 
care of, 29. 

for birds exhibited, IM. 
Loudon exhibition, 29. 
naval architocturo material, 100. 
vessels, &c., samples of, 100, 101, 102, 
103,104. 
printed, 28. 
Labrador birds from Lucien Turuer, 60. 
explorations, 68. 
fishes fiom L. M. Turner, 162. 

rare species of, 162. 
insects obtained, 63, 185, 187. 
seals studied by Dr. Meriiam, 68. 
Laboratories of the U. S'.,I''ish Commission, 198. 
Laboratory work of curators, 23. 
Lace mitsi 80. 

nnbias, 80. 
Laces from England, 80. 

Jennings & Sons, 80. 
machine-made, 80. 
Lacoe, Prof. R. 1)., coal from, 261. 
Laemann, Louis, French rocks from, 237. 
Lazoa operculata from North Carolina, 187. 
Lazopodes, review of, 307. 

Lake Superior native copper works collection, 255. 
region copper ores, 254. 

free copper series, 255. 
LamelUbrancbiata, Carboniferous, obtained, 212. 
Devonian, received, 210, 211, 
213. 
Land areas from Middle Paleozoic, 207. 
Land shells, American, identified, 180. 

southern and south oasteni, paper on, 
180. 
snail said to have fallen during rain, 183. 
Landrns, H. J., favors from, 267. 
La Patera antiquities exhibited 126. 
obtained, 123. 
Lapham, Hon. Elbridge G., 35. 
Laramie fossil plants, 220. 
Larco, Capt. Andrea, collected Santa Barbara 

fishes, 171. 
Lari, Arctic, 366. 

Laridai and Procellariidfe, notes,on, 349. 
Larks, shore, 373. 
Lartigue, Dr. G. B., ceremonial object from, 124. 

reptiles from, 158. 
Larns nelsoni, 373. 

schistisagus, a new North Pacific gull, 366. 
Lavack, F, , sent ininerals, 222. 
Lavas, 233. 

from trtah, 66. 
Lawlor, D. J., "meteor" model from, 92. 

steam yacht models from, 93. 
vessel models from, 91. 
Lea, Dr. Isaac, contributed shells, 181. 
Lead, argentiferous, smelting series, 252. 
collections from Centennial, 254. 

Missouri, 253. 
ores, 271. 

argentiferous, 271. 
smelting argentiferous, 240. 
paints, 241. 

preparations received, 2.54. 
products, 275. 

series from Saint -Joe "Works, 253. 
Leathers shown at Louisville, 49. 
Lecture-room, air in, 38, 39. 

ventilation of, 39. 
Lectures in the Museum, 33. 
Lee, Prof. L. A., 198. 

studying foraminifera, 197, 200. 
Lee, Thomas, volunteer work of, 194. 
Lefroy, General Sir John Henry, on Bermuda 

botany, 340, 376. 
Lehnert, Ilev. E., niollusks from, 03. 
Lemmings from Point Barrow, 130. 
Lepus tiraidus from Labradoi-, 130. 
Leslie, Charles (;,, presented Charleston fishes, 
172. 



Lesquereux, Leo, 220. 

Lesson and Gaiiiot named a dolphin, 322. 

Leucania unipuncta, 303. 

papers on, 359, 360. 
Lewis, Dr. .Tames, arranged shells, 181. 
Lexington Mill methods with ores, 251. 
Library, 19. 

improvement, 29. 
system, 29, 30. 
Lichens of Alaska and Siberia, 377. 
Life-boat, Netherlands, model, 104. 
car model, 86. 
Saving Service mammals, 129. 

station-keepers, suggestions to, 367. 
Light-House Board exhibits returned, 30. 

sorvicf; mammals, 129. 
Lilienberg, N., sent Swedish irons, 257. 
Limestone, lithographic, 228. 

Lower Caibonifei'ous, with fossils, 203. 
Chinese fossiliferous, 228. 
Limonite from Maine, 229. 
Lind, G. D., sent Halysites catenulata, 204. 
Lindsley, Dr. J. B., sent meteoric iron, 223. 
Linnaeus truneatnlus received, 193. 
Linton, Prof Edwin, 198. 

studying fish entozoa, 200. 
Lippitt "Woolen Company collection, 82. 
Lithological and geological accessions, 66. 

collection, 232. 
Lithology and physical geology, 17, 66. 

alph.abetical list 
of accession.s 
to, 227. 
collections, local- 
ities of, 238. 
entries in cata- 
logue, 227. 
i-eport on, 227. 
routiue work in, 
234. 
Little, Brown & Co., publications by, 346. 
Little Hook and Fort Smith Kailroad mineral col- 
lections, 240. 
Lobster of curious colors, 190. 
Lobsters, decrease of, 356. 

Lockington, William N., fishes collected by, 171. 
Locust, 363. 

London, disposition of collections from, 52. 
exhibits returned, 35. 
Fisheries collections, 6. 

Exhibition birds returned, 150. 
boats, &c.,from, 85, 

106. 
catalogues, 340. 
fishing craft for, 106. 
report on, 52. 
Lone Elm Works lead collection, 243, 254, 275. 
Lougdalo Furnaces coke series, 257. 
Long Island fishes obtained, 61, 164. 

invertebrates obtained, 190. 
Long Valley coal-mining views, 266. 

mines coal, 243. 
Longstreet, Captain, harbor seal from, 131. 
Loj)liolatilus chamseleonticeps sought for, 199. 
LorJllardCharnay collection, 368. 
Louisville exhibits, 36, 48. 

disposition of, 49. 
Exposition, Conoressional action on, 48. 
work, 47. 
Lovett, Edward, sent stalk-eyed Crustacea, 193. 
Low & Co., raw silks from, 81. 
Lowell Manufacturing Company, carpets, 82. 
Loxia curvirostra americana, breeding of, 357. 
Loyal Sock mine coal, 243. 
Lucas, F. A., 18, 4,5, 133. 

osteological work of, 62. 
papers of, 353. 

(True, F. W.. &), on Monachua, 331. 
Lneilia macellaiia infesting man, 362. 
Lnnulicardium fr.agosum, 206. 
Lur.iy Caves, stalactites and stalagmites from. 

228. 
Luthor, R. C, assisted to collect coal, 267. 
Lutjauiute, osteological characteristics of, 373. 

review of, 375. 
Lygajus fascial us from Illinois, 187. 
Lyman, Hon. Theodore, address by, 35. 

studied ophiurans, 200. 
Lymnocodium Sowerbii obtained, 193. 



INDEX. 



445 



M. 

Maas, A. £.. life-boat model Irom, 104. 
McClain, Ensign C. S., 68 

collected invertebrates, 

192. 
received collecting outfit, 

194. 
woik of, 194. 
McCook, General. 158. 
MiCoMiiick, Mr, 45. 

McDeiniot &■ Berea Coni])any'8 »anilstoneR, 23C. 
Mi'Dnnaltl, l>r.,on Koukau litials, 89. 

lu(mcliiii<: lereniouies, 80. 
McFarlane, James, liaskcls from, 204. 

Eskiuiii bows of, 307. 
favors fioui, 2C7. 
McLitL', \V. J, collected silicitied wood, 230. 
McGuire. J. 1»., rnttcry t'loni, 121. 
Machva (tisliin^ boat) rij; aud liuild, 89. 

model (tisbinp lioat) Irom lJomba\-, 88. 
Mcintosh, J. li., made collpclions, 244. 
ilclntosb, Mr., scut bulijou rctiuiiig series, 252. 
McKay, C. L., Alaskan antiquities of, I'.'S. 

Bristol Bay ctlniologica from, 112. 
collections from, 57. 
scut Eskiiuo bow, 309. 
tbrowing-stick fiotu, 289. 
Maekellar, Smiths Sc Jordan, tvpe metal aeries, 

208, 276. 
Mackenzie lo^ion bow-backing, 312. 

E.skiuio bows, 307, 310. 
Kiver Ibiowiug-stiek, 283. 
Mackerel destroyed by dojjlisb, 349. 

scarcity in Gulf Saint Lawrence. 349. 
search in November, 349. 
winter movemcnis of, 349. 
McKesson &:■ Kobbins, drugs Irem, 76. 

sponge ( ollection, 192. 
McLean. John J., California anticjuitics from, 123, 
125. 
ethnological objects from, 09. 
McLcod Indian basket oinanientatiou, 2i<9. 

twined baskets, 299. 
McLeod, Mr., birds from, 70. 
McNeil, J. C, Cbiriqui va.ses from, 121. 

vaee^ bought fiom, 58. 
McNeil, J. II., Guavmas bows and spears from, 

118. 
Macrodon Ilaniiltouaj, 207. 
teuiiistriala,207. 
Macii><;natha fr<'m New Mexico, 186. 
Mairuius fiiini Washiugton Territory, 347. 
Madr.ts lisbiiig catamaran, 88. 

mariiiu shells obtained, 183. 
" ma,sulah " boat model, 89. 
Madsi n, I'eter, collected fishes, 172. 
Ma;;ellun Strait niollusks ami shells, 182. 
Mahlemut thiowing-stick, 288. 
Maine s rpeu tine, 228. 

shell heap remains, 124. 
Makah basket iirocesses, 299. 
basketry, 297. 

tigiired, 299. 
implements and ornaments, 11.5. 
Malabar coast basket-work, 292. 
Maldives boat models, 89. 
Maloney, Mr., African canoe from, 90. 
Mammal accessions, 59. 

ileparlment, progress of, 59. 

_ recommendations for, 137. 
' report on, 129. 
routine work, 132, 13.'<, 135. 
exhibition balls, woik in, 132. 
series, 130. 

skeletons, representative, 134. 
skins preserved, 41,44. 
skulls and skeletons, 59. 
Tklamnials, 17. 

additions to, 129. 

aljdiabetical list of accessions to, 138- 

142. 
&c , packed fijr New Oi leans, 4.'>. 

shown at Now Or.eaus, 5], 134. 
aquatic, 131. 

at Loudon Fisheiies Exhibi- 
tion, 342. 367. 
bought for Now urleaus Exposition, 
129, 131. 



Mammals bought irom 11 A. Ward, 130. 
by European exchange, 129. 
rondition 01', 136. 
depaiinieni of, 59. 
diii)l:ealo series, 136. 
c xbibiied at New Orleans, 134. 
exhibition series, 130. 
extralimital. obtained. 130. 
for New Orleans Exposition, 133, 343, 

367. 
from Arizona. 130. 

Califomia 69, 130. 
Costa Kica. 130. 
dealers, 129. 
Japau, 71, 131. 
Life Saving IServiee, 129. 
Light House Service, 129. 
luena'ieries. 59. 
Signal Hurt an. 129. 
U. S. Fish Commit-sion, 129. 
zoological gardens and menage- 
ries, ,59, r..9 
groupe<l in cases, 134. 
in collection. 137. 
iu the flesh secured in 1881, 43. 
lent f(u- study. 137. 
mouuted fmexpositipn. 134. 

in 1884.41,42,43,4-1,45. 
new genera of 129. 

species ubtained. 129. 
to the collection, 129. 
number of 59 
of Ikrmuda. 340, 374. 

North America, systematic work 

upon, 136. 
Noilh and Cen'.ral America and 
AVe.«t Indies, 367. 
osteological series, 135. 
papers un, 136. 

protected against insects, 133. 
inotection of large, 137. 
rare, received, 59. 

leinoviijg i^iid ]iiesorviug skins, 353. 
shown at Ciin iuiiati, 50. 
soiiylit fmni dealers, 134. 
terrcstiial, 129. 

withdrawn from exhibition series, 134. 
^lanatee, Florida, obtained, 132. 
Manchester silks, 80. 
Maudingo arrows. 119. 
Manganese oie, 272. 
Mangataadz, 118. 

Mi.nslield, I. F., presented drill, 264. 
Maori belt and bible. 119. 
Marble, glacial polished. 67, 234. 
lYom Ttiiiiessco, 228. 
with glacial ui.Trks, 228. 
Marblehead banker model. 86. 
Marbles from Vermont, 228. 
Marcoii, John Belknap, 17,215. 

minerals from, 223. 
j>ap( IS of 353. 
Marcoii, Jules, and John Belkna]) Marcou, on geo- 
logical maps, 3.')4. 
Marine fauna ofl" New England, 379, 380. 
fishes collected, 174, 175. 
invertebrate fishery reports, 200. 
invertebrates, 17, 18. 

accessions of, 03. 
arranged for exhibition, 202. 
care of, 201. 
catalogues of, 201. 
I ollcctious of, 201. 
department of. 63. 
distributed, 31,195. 
dry, arrangiiiient of, 202. 
fioui dee|> sea, 63. 
i-ast coast. 190. 
naval sources, 63. 
I'. S. Fish Commission, 
03. 
ill west hall, 202. 
mistellaiicous, shown, 202. 
number exhibited, 202. 
icgistered, 2"2. 
report on, 189. 
Maritime pictures desired, 99. 
Marshall, George, 45. 

mounted birds, 143. 



446 



INDEX. 



Marshall, Henry, 45. 

contribution from, 66. 
moiTTited buds, 143. 
Marsupialia niountod m 18!-'4, 4'J. 
sccuii'd in 1F84, 44. 
Martin, S. J.. Epinephehi.s nigritus from, 102. 
Maryland mills caipels, 80. 

shell mounds pottery, 121. 
Masks, labrcts, and aborifjinal customs, 351. 
Masoa, Prof. O. T., 16, 18, 47, 54, 277. 

as an anthropologist, 56. 
became curator of othnolopy, 

109. 
lectures by, 33, 56. 
methods of, 57. 

Nineveh deluge tablet from, 
■ 118. 

on basket-work, 291. 
bow- lashings, 311. 
throwing-sticks, 279. 
publications bj', 56. 
report of, 109. 
results produced by, 57. 
■writing.s of, 354. 
Mass mine copper collection, 241. 

refining series, 255. 
Massett implements and ornaments, 114, 115. 
Masulah boat model, 89. 
Mat embroidery. 292. 

of cedar bark showing chain stitch, 298. 
Materia medica accessions, 75. 

classification, 75. 
collection, arrangement of, 75. 
catalogue, 75. 
condition of, 76. 
extent of, 76. 
ob.ject of, 76. 
origin of, 76. 
illustrations, 75. 
labels, 75. 
section, 16. 

recommendations for, 76, 

77. 
report on, 75. 
Mats of California Indians, 300. 
Matte from copper ores, 256. 
Matting from Aleut caves, 292. 
Mayflower, sketch of, 91. 
Mazatlan and Panama fishes burned, 173. 

papers on, 172. 
fishes collected, 172. 
Meal-tray ornamentation, 303. 
l^leal-trays, sacred, of the Mokis, 303. 
Medicinal forms displayed, 75. 
Meek, Seth E., collected Mississippi Valley fishes, 
174. 
collected Southern fishes, 173. 
on pipe-fishes, 379. 
papers by, 375, 376. 
Meetings of societies, 34. 

!Meigs, General M. C, presented concretion, 23C. 
Molanetta fusca in Alaska, 358. 
Melospiza fasciata raontana, 373. 
Menageries contribute mammals, 50, 129. 
Menominee iron region collections needed, 247. 
Merchant, George, jr., throwiugstick tiom, 289. 
Merchant & Co. Babbitt metals, 268, 276. 
presented tin plate, 253. 
solders fiom, 27(i. 
Merchant bark, color-sketch of, 85. 
-marine vessels needed, 98. 
vessel models, 94. 

wanted, 99. 
vessels photographed from i)aintings, 
95. 
photographs of, 85. 
Merriam, Dr. C. H., described new shrew, 130. 
harp seal oldained by, 131. 
investigations of, 68. 
on Bermuda birds, 340. 
paper by, 376. 
Merrill, George P., 17, 18, 66. 

fossiliferous rocks sent to, 

216. 
on building and ornamental 

stones, 342. 
papers of, 234, 355. 
prepared specimens of build- 
ing stones, 00. 



Merrill, Geoi-geP., report of, 227. 

Meriill, Dr. .lames C, birds' eggs from, 60. 

MerriU, L. H.,66. 

assisted George P. Merrill, 234. 
Merrimac Chemical Company sulphuric acid col- 
lection, 261, 276. 
Mesoplodon from Bering Lsland, 131. 

Layardii, cast of beak, 132. 
Mesozoic Alaskan fossils, 370 

and Cenozoic fossils, accessions to, 215. 
catalogue of. 65, 216. 
condition of. 216. 
liom ])rivate jjar- 

tie.s, 21.0. 
index to, 64, 216. 
persons working 

on, :'15. 
preservation of, 217. 
registered and cata- 
logued, 216. 
report on, 215. 
routine work on, 

216. 
types of, Co. 
Messenger service, 35. 
Metal bearings, &c., 242. 

extraction from ore, 259. 
Metallurgic exhibit at New Orleans, 52. 
Metallurgical and geological accessions, 67, 239. 

specimens arra.iged, 
07. 
collection catalosrue cards, 245. 
collections administered ui>on, 244. 
bj- graduates of techni- 
cal schooLs, 243. 
for Now Orleans, 67. 
operations shown, 272, 273. 
processes, how represented, 247. 

materials showing, 247. 
specimens administered ujion, 245, 
246. 
number of, 246. 
Metallurgy and economic geology, 17, 67. 

report od, 239. 
collections, 274. 

for I\ ew Orleans, 269. 
studied from Museum materials, 248. 
Metals and ores installed, 35. 
Meteor (steamship), history of, 93. 

model,' 92. 
Meteoric dust, 227. 

iron obtained, 223. 
Meteorite collection, 223. 
Metropolitan Museum of Art, 10. 
Mexican Boundary Survey collections, 6. 
Indian cards, 70. 

collections, 70. 
gambling implements, 70. 
investigations, 70. 
pottery fioui W. H. Holmes, 121. 
needed, 122. 
Mexico, Aztec antiquities from, 123. 
fishes obtaieed, 172. 
slielN obtained, 183. 
Mover and Muller (schooner) model, 94. 
Mica, glacial polished, 60, 234. 

obtained, 228. 
Mickleborough, Profes.sor, 368. 
Microscopic structure of stones, 355. 
Middleton, .J. D., Winn(d)ago club from, 116. 
MiL;ratiuusof li.shes studied by Albatross, 199. 
Miller, M. E., 268. 
Miller, Metcalf & Parkin sent crucible steel series, 

258. 
Mills, Dr. Charles K.. lecture by, 34. 
Milwaukee Public Museum sent agiaulos, 205. 
Mindelefl', Victor, aboriginal pottery from, 121. 

Navajo jewelry from, 116. 
Mine-draining illustration, 266. 

engines, photographs of, 243. 
La Motte lead series, 253. 
locomotives, photographs of, 265. 
ventilation devices photograjihed, 265. 
Miner, Ensign 11. II.. 33, 198. 
Mineral accessions, resuine of, 221. 
classification, 224. 
e:Shibit at New Orleans, 52. 
fibers, 79. 
resources collection, 343, 351, 



INDEX. 



447 



^(incral w:itor:$, constituents of, 75. 

exhibited, 75. 
^Iiiii.'ialo>;i<'ul tiotcs of Cluiko &. Cbataiil, 348. 
JJiuiTiilofiy, 17, IS. 

(K'piii'liiU'nt (if, 65. 
I'NChiiii'jPS in, C5. 
growth of collect ioua iu, ()5. 
in8t:illiu;^ collcctioua iu, 65. 
report on, '2'2\. 
work of curator of, 05. 
Minerals, neces.sion.s to, C5, 2L'I. 

Ac, eolleeteil b.v :Mr. Yeatcs, L'22. 
for New Oileau.s KxpoMtion, 221, 224. 
ileselilied, 2.'5. 
ciliualioual series of, 224. 
exchanged, 22:j. 
exhibition si-iie.s, 224. 
from California, 09. 

Centennial Exhibition, 240. 
Jlr. Abert, 221. 
Willcox, 221. 
how arranged. 224. 
installed, 221, 223. 
investigiited, 221. 
number of, 65,60,224. 
obtained by exeliauge, CO. 
of Arizona wanted, 247. 

New Mexico wanted, 247. 
oveihauled, 240. 
study scries. 224. 
Miueis' boots and materials for, 242, 204. 

inipleiuents obtained, 203. 
Mines and works, plans, drawings, and statistics 

of 24)>. 
Mining, coal, pictuies, 264. 

pick coiroded by mine water, 203. 
tools, 242. 243. 
Minor, Ur. T. T., Eskimo bow from, 309. 

throwing-slick from, 289. 
Mintzner, W. A..279. 

throwing-stick from, 289. 
Miocene fossil plants eomp.iied with exotic, 220. 
Miscellaneous departments. 67. 
Mississippi Basin fishes collected, 01, 70, 103, 177 
ill*. 
mussels collected, 179. 
jute s))eeiniens. 8U. 
Valley aboriginal pottery, 12] . 

tishes, results of collecting, 174. 
Missouri coke collections, 2.57. 
lishcs secured, 61. 
Euruaco iron collection, 275. 
lead collections, 253. 
minerals collected, 222. 
Mitchell, Dr. S. Weir, studying venom of lizard, 

157. 
Modelers, 45. 

Models (boat and vessel) described in Xowbury- 
port Herald, 98. 
needed foiNaval Architecture section, 105. 
of boat.N, vessels, itc, exhibited, 98. 
Modok baby-basket, 300. 
Mohawk wampum belt, 110. 
Moki baskets, 3I'3. 

bread-trays. 304. 

checker-weaving iu baskets, 303. 
coiled and sewed basketry, 303. 

baskets uni(iue, 303. 
fetiches, 116. 
Hat mats, 304. 
plaiteil basketry, 303. 
sacred mealtrays, .303. 
single-coiled osier or siilint, 303. 
twig basket, 304. 
twilled basketry. 303. 
Mola, development of, 365. 
MoUuscii and eni-itaeea collected, 03. 

at Loudon Fisheries Exhibition, 341. 
new elassilieation of, 350. 
of Couiiuander Islands, 350. 
some apreudages of, 350. 
studied by Professor Vemll, 200. 
MoUusk accessions, 03, 181. 

alphabetical list of, 182. 
MoUasks, 17. 

administered upon, 180. 

at New ()i leans Exposition, 02. 

catalogued, 182. 



HolluBkB, deep-sea, studied, 62. 
department of 02. 

edible, from Washington Territory, 184. 
from Caribbean deep-sea studieil, 180. 
from deep wiiter of (Julf studied, 180. 
from Dominica, 70. 

gastropod, fiom Jell'rey's collection, 183. 
new typo of 350. 
number of, 182. 

species, 182. 
of Gulf coa.-.t, Antilles and Soiilheaat 

United States mueh needed, Ihl. 
l)elagic, from Capt. J. IJ. Lyon, 183. 
progress made with, 02. 
luiblications upon, 184. 
repoit upon, 179. 
Stearns' collection of bought, G2. 
MonachuH, 332. 

albiveuter, 332. 

and tropicalis compared, 

333. 
measurements, 334. 
akull measurements, 335. 
tropicalia, 277, 331, 334. 
color of 331. 
diagnosed, 335. 
figured. 371. 
mandible, 333. 
skull, 331,. 332, 333. 

measurements, 335. 
teeth, 333. 
whiskers, 331. 
Monkeys obtained, 131. 
Llonk-seal of West Indies, 371. 
Montana rocks and fossil woods, 230. 
Morgan, Louis II., 56. 
Morris, D., dings from, 75. 
Morris, Mr., fibers from, 70. 
Morse, Prof Edward S., lecture by, 34. 
Mosaic, antique Roman, 373. 

Lion 373. 
Moseley, Prof. H. N., cast obtained through, 13]. 
exchange from, 196. 
invertebrates from, 193. 
Mossy Creek zinc ores, 242. 
Moth's, collecting and preserving, 343, 372. 
Moultou Mill methods with ores, 251. 
Mound builders, ;<.-)4. 

exploration, 343, 379. 
Monnt Olive coal region collection, 243. 

Vesuvius, model, 234. 
Mountain sheep, new race of, 370. 
Mugilidie, American mariue, 375. 
Murdoch, John, 57, 277, 279, 283. 

collected Arctic shells. 184. 

Point UaiTow basket, 
294. 
lecture by, 34. 
iiiullu.sk collections of, 181. 
on Eskimo bows, 307. 

sinew-twisters, 316. 
studied Point liarrow inverte- 
brates, 201. 
to report on Eskimo objects, 11). 
Mus, 320. 

rattus, 32.5. 
Museum accessions, 22. 

nature of, 22. 
sources of, 23. 
accounts, 37. 
administration a<Ijunels, 6. 

priiii'iples of, 12. 
administrative statf. 18. 

work, 22, 35. 
annex, 21. 

arrangement, principles of, 11. 
arranging material in. 3. 
benefits from cx])osilious, 48. 
books, 12. 

building needed, 22. 
buildings, 0. 
cases as partitions, 20. 
list of 25, 26. 
plan of 20. 
ciiculais, 342. 

separately printed, 343. 
classification, 12, 14, 54. 
collections, C. 



448 



INDEX. 



Museum collections at New Oilean?, 4. 

by Smithsonian aid, 6. 
couililiou of, 20. 
list of writors on, 344, 345. 
of fisbcs, 1C9. 

iiiveitebrate Paleozoic fos- 
sils, 208. 
placed in Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, 5. 
■work upon, 3. 
coutuuts, public display of, 9. 
curators detailed from other bureaus, ]G. 
curatorships, 10. 
deposits, 5. 
direction, 18. 
exchanjres, 6. 
exhibition space, 20, 21. 
exposition staflf, 19. 
foundation and legal status, 5. 
function ami aims, 7. 
fiir Volkerkunde, African weaTJons from, 
U8. 
Brazilian implements 

from, 118. 
ethnologica from, 119. 
guide-books, 12. 
history, periods of, 8. 
idea, development of, 8. 
illu8tratiou.s, 12, 13. 
increase, 3. 
lectures, 33. 

■visited by foreign men of science, 33. 
■work reviewed,"4. 
management, 5. 
manuals, 12, 13. 
material, how acquired, 7. 
preserved, 7. 
utilized, 7. 
method of classifying, 53. 
objects and modes of work, 7. 
of Comparative Zoology, 10. 

research defined, 11. 
otficers as authors, 34), 31.'). 

papers by, 3, 346. 
organization and government, 5. 
packages recorded, 22. " » 
papers, bibliography of, 31. 
preparators, work of, 41. 
Proceedings, volume vi, 330. 
publications, 6, 7, 31, 339. 
report, 4. 
research, 8. 

scientific papers, catalogue of, 7. 
sheds, 21. 

specimens, number of, 20. 
staff, 5, 15, 16. 
storage courts, 3. 
trays, 15. 
typos, 7. 
Museums as educators. 8, 10. 
Musical instruments, 55. 

East Indian, 72. 
Muskrat destroyed carp, 371. 
Florida, 325, 328, 367. 
round-tailed, 130, 325, 367. 

relation.s of, 330. 
Mussels for New Orleans Exposition, 179. 
Mygalu from Arizona, 186. 

California, 187. 
Myodes obensia obtained, 130. 

N. 
Napier Ujattiug, 81. 

Naiion, Professor, Peruvian birds from, 71. 
National Academy of Sciences in Museum, 34. 
cabinet of curiosities transferred, 5. 
Museum, conii)iehensive organization of, 
11 
Natural history collections .it Cincinnati, 50. 

New Orlenns, 51. 
oxihbit at Louisville, 49. 
Naturalists' Sociotv meeting, 35. 
Navajo fetiches, 116. 
jewelry, 116. 
Naval architecture additions, 85. 

collection, arranging and clas- 
sifying, 06. 
condition of, 98. 



Naval architecture collection, development of, 98. 
history of, 10.5. 
department statistics. 98. 
development illu.stratious, 99. 
gallery opened, 52. 
material described, 98. 
report on, 85. 
section, 16, 17. 

desiderata for, 105. 
researches in, 97. 
specimens exhibited, 98. 
battle photographed, 85. 
ollirers' colleetiohs, 102. 
vessels needed, 98. 
Navv Department, bottom samples from, 192. 
Noeillo of Eskimo basket-makor, 294. 
Negatives added in 1884, 46. 
Neill, J. W., minera's from, 222. 
Nellie S. Picking (schooner) model, 94. 
Nelson, E. W., 279. 

aboriginal pottery from, 121. 
Arizona reptiles i'rom, 157. 
baskets from, 294. 
birds' eggs from, 60. 
Cape Komanzotf bows from, 309, 310. 
collected Arizona rodents, ic, 130. 
Cape Vancouver throw- 
ing-sticks, 286. 
collections from, 57, 70. 
Diomeue sj.ear from, 11". 
explains bow-string twisters, 316. 
Eskimo bows from, 307, 309. 
Norton Sound el hnologica from, 112. 
papers by, ISO, 376. 
S.aiut Lawrence Island bows from, 

313. 
throwingsticks from, 286, 289. 
Yukon delta bow from, 312. 
Neotilier, .326, 327, 328, 330. 
delJned, 325, 330. 
alloni, 277. 

described, 130,325,326. 
from Florida, 367. 
habits unknown, 330. 
measurements, 329. 
skeleton measurements, 329. 
skull raeasuromeutis, 329. 
Netherlands life-boat model, 104. 
Nevada, Central, Paleozoic fossils, 207. 
Devi nian fauna, 206. 

Paleozoic fauna, nature and relations of, 
205. 
fossils, results of work on, 205. 
showing faunal succes- 
sion, 205. 
shells new to science, 182. 
white pine shale fauna, 206. 
New Caledonia club, 119. 
New England, marine fauna off, 380. 
New Era, ideal fishing schooner, 102, 103. 
New Guinea weapons, ornaments, &.C., 57, 72, 119, 

120. 
New Hampshire geology and lithology, illustra- 
tions of, 237. 
New Idria, California, insects obtained, 186. 
New Jersey insect obtained, 185. 
New Mexico aboriginal pottery, 121. 
collections, 70. 
minerals wanted, 247. 
New Orleans collections iu economic geoJogj' and 
metallurgy, 269. 
exhibit, 51. 

labels for, 5'. 
of bird.s, 151. 
preparations for, 45, M. 
size of, 52. 
Exposition, assistant director at,52. 
building and ornamental 

stones, 66. 
collections, 240,^41 

in motaL 
lurtry, 247. 
Congressional bill con- 
cerning, 48. 
curators at, 52. 
economic entomology 

at, 187. 
exhibits, 30. 



INDEX. 



449 



New Orleans Exposition fishes, 61, 70, 169. 

Government building, 

51. 
iuvortobrates, 63, 191, 
mammals, 43, 132, 133. 
matoiial to be stadied, 

246. 
miuernis bought for, 221 
metals, &.(.., collected i'or, 

67. 
moUusVs for, 179. 
naval arcbitocturo in, 97. 
returns from, 48. 
southern lishes collected 

for, 173. 
atones prepared for, 234. 
textiles cullecled for, 83. 
work, 41,45,47. 

by Museum ofli- 
cers, 4. 
fishes, 374. 

collected, 172. 
New York antiquities obtained, 123. 

minerals obtained, 222. 
New Zealand iade, 230. 

Maori belt and bible, 119. 
Newberrj-, Prof. J. S., lecture by, 34. 
Newburyiiorf Herald descriptions of boat and ves- 
sel moiUls, 98. 
Xewcomb, Prof. Simon, lecture by, 34. 
ITewhall, \V. H., performed clerical work, 276. 
Xez Perces basketry, 301. 

ornamentation, 301. 
Nicaragua bark shirt, 118. 

birds of C. C. Nutting, 3.57. 376. 
Nichols, Capt. Henry E., Alaskan fishes of, 347. 
Nichols, Dr.. Dominica collections from, 70. 
Nicholson. Agnes, 179. 
Nickel and cobalt cullections, 253, 2,')7. 272. 

wrouL'ht, collection wanted, 257. 
Nikko clothing, &c., 118. 
Nineveh delude tablet, 118. 
Niugpo joss-stick powiler, 118. 
Nottilio leporinus, .var. mastivus obtained, 130. 
Nomenclaturi' of ctbuological objects. 110. 
Non-met;iliic ores, application ot, 27U. 

collected, 268. 
Nordenskjtild, Baron, collections from, 57. 

figures Siberian throwing-stick, 
285. 
Nordenskjiild's description of Eskimo bows, 308. 
Norfolk Island insects received, 185. 
Norman, Rev. A. M., British invertebrates from, 
193. 
Crustacea exchanged with, 
196. 
North Atlantic deep-sea shells from Mr. Jeffreys, 

71. 
North Bloomfield mine gold collection, 249, 274. 
North Carolina fishes collected, 171. 

tin, 2.")3. 
North Cornwall Iron Furnace collection, 244. 
North Pacific exploration. 69. 

Exploring K.xpi'dition corals, 202. 
Eskimo 
bows, 307, 
313. 
mollusks received, 181. 
Northwest American tribal arts, 57. 
Norton Sound baskets. 293. 

Eskimo bows, 312, 313. 
ethnologica, 112. 
thriiwing-slicks, 286. 
Norway boats obtained, 106. 
echinoderms, 193. 
pumice sand, 229. 
rocks, 227. 
Nottingham laces, 80. 
Nubia club, 119. 

Nunivak Island and Cape Vancouver throwing- 
stick, 280. 
Eskinir> bow, 309. 
Nushagak collections. oiJ. 
Nutting, C. C, Nicaragua birds of, 357. 

paper by, 370. 
Nye, Willard, jr., 198. 

a.sBi»tedin collecting, 197. 

S. Mis. 33, ])t. '2 — 29 



Obsidian and obsidian pumice, 236. 
Offutt. F. I., performe<r clerical work, 276. 
Oglesby, Dr. \V. W., stone club from, 124. 
Ohio antiquities exhibited, 126. 
received, 125. 
mound-pipes of Sqnier and Davis, 125. 
Old Providence birds, 70. 
Omatchi shrine otl'ciingH, 118. 
Omori shell-heap rem.oins, 124. 
OncorliMiclins siu-cie.'* investigated, 172. 
Ontario mill silver collection, 275. 

mine rollcction of ores, 251. 
Onyx from California, 228. 

marbles, 236. 
Oolitic limestone for builduig, 228. 
Ophiuroidea exhibited, 202. 

new species of, 380. 
Oicothlypis. new genus, proposed, 357. 
Orcutt,'C. R., California tossils from, 69. 

sent reptiles, 158. 
Orcutt, H. C, reptiles from, 158. 
Ord's pocket-mouse bought, 130. 
Oio collecting to show processes, 247. 
Oregon .antiquities obtained, 123. 
arrow-heads obtained, 124. 
collections, 69. 
Indian basketry, 290. 
shells received, 183. 
(ship) model, 94. 
stone club from, ^24. 
Ores for Now Orleans, 269. 

foreign, overhauled, 245. 
native, installid, 245. 
of Colorado, 240. 

treatment at Lexington Mill, 251. 
treatment at Moultou Mill, 251. 
Organic matter in air <if kcture room, 39. 
Oriskany sandstone tossils obtained, 2U4. 
Ornamental stones and gems at Cincinnati, 50. 
at New Orleans, 05. 
bought, 05. 
Omithochiton, eyes shown, 183. 
Ornithological nomenclature changes, 366. 
Ornithology, trinomials in American, 366. 
Oruithophilologicalities, 306. 
Orthocoras from Kansas co.ol measures, 204. 
Orthopt.ra, 364. 

Ortyx virginianns not in Arizona, 3.')7. 
Oryzoborus nuttingi, 376. 
salvini, 376. 
i Osceola copper miue collection, 243. 255, 270. 

Mill copper extraction series, 255. 
I Oscines, rare American, 377. 
! Osmorbiza lon^iistylis as a bur, 309. 
, Osteological juvparations sent to New Orleans, 62. 
i preparator, 45. 

j Ostrich feathers collection, 47. 
Otiorbynclius ligneiis from Mass.achusetts, 166. 
Ovambo collars and arrows, 119. 
I Ovis monlana Dalli, 376. 

niviiolea from Siberia, 131. 
Owl. name of American hawk, 366. 
Oxford Uu:v(!rsity Zoological Museum. Mesoplo- 

don cast from, 131. 
Oyster and clam tnuisportation, 365. 

coloration of Mood corpuscles, 365. 
culture at ^^aiIlt Jerome's, 364. 
experiments, 304. 
filter or diaphragm for, 364. 
enemies and parasites, 370. 
expeiiments, notes upon, 381. 
fattening tloats. 364. 
industry, 352, 353. 

condition and needs of, 381. 
life history, 30,".. 

operations on Chincoteague Bay, 364. 
spat collectors, 304. 
Oysters, greening of, 364. 

P. 

P.iciflc coaat fishes collected, 162, 171, 174, 175. 

distributed, 172. 

])aper8 on, 171. 
Pacific exploratdou, northern, 69. 



450 



INDEX. 



Pacific fishes, mannscript on, Lnmcd, 172. 
new to science, 172. 
islands, canoes, &c., from, 10.'). 
Mills samples, 82. 

specimens from, 81. 
visited, 83. 
Ocean iuvertebvata obtained, G4. 
Railroad Survey collections, 6. 
Steam Whaling Company, Arctic coal 
from, 69. 
Page & Kranse, barytes collection, 276. 
sent barytes series, 269. 
Pagophilus, 368. 

Painting, history of. illustrated, 56. 
Paleacrita vernata, ;!G0. 
Palenque, La Stfele de, 356. 
Paleontology of Eureka district, 368. 

types illustrat- 
ing, 203. 
P.aleozoic fauna ot Central Nevada discutssed, 214. 
fossil plants, 220. 
fossils from California, 204. 

grou])ed in the strata, 207. 
miscellaneous, obtained, 204. 
of Central Nevada, 207. 
invertebrate fossils, 64. 

additions to, 20S. 
administered upon, 

208. 
condition of, 64. 
disposition of, 209. 
number of, 64, 208. 
number of rocks 

containing, 208. 
present state of, 

208. 
received from U. S. 
Geoloirical Sur- 
vey, 210-214. 
report on, 203. 
stored, 208, 
work on, 205. 
rocks of Central Texas, 368. 
Palmer, Dr. Edward, collecting corals, 70. 

describes use of roasting 

trays, 301. 
Florida Indian objects from, 

116. 
inveitebrates from, 63, 191. 
on Indian basketry, 303. 
received collecting outfit, 194. 
Palmer, Joseph, 45, 133. 
Palmer, William, 45, 133. 
Palms in Museum, 65. 
Palos (brig) model, 93. 
Panama and Costa Rica fishes bumed, 173. 
fi.sbes collected, 173. 
excavations, rocks and fossils wanted 

from, 180. 
fishes collected, 172. 
Paper from Yucca brevifolia, 81. 
Paper-weight of Knssian atones, 230. 
Papers on Museum material, 31. 

material not by Museum offi- 
cers, 371. 
Papuan weapons, ornaments, &c., 119, 120. 
Park Brothers & Co. steel exhibit, 245. 
Parke, Davis & Co., drugs from, 76. 
Parker, Peter, jr., as.sisted in laboratory, 193. 

on fishes, 169. 
Parker, Dr. W. T., Apache bed from, 116. 
Parkhurst, V. P., Jamaica fibers from, 80. 

Jamaican foods from, 107. 
Parry's account of E.skimo bows, 308. 

description of throwiug-stick, 283. 
Part I begins, 3. 
Part II begins, 73. 

Part III, papers illustrating collections, 277. 
Part IV, bibliography, 337. 
Part V, appendix, 3Ki. 
Parala^=Compsoihlypis, 866. 
Passaic Zinc Works collection, 273, 275. 
Passerculus princeps, breeding-place of, 357. 
Patchogue fish cnllec tions, 16.i. 
Patella in birds, 377. 
Patna (Bengal) dug-out for fishing, 87. 
Pattee, William P.', vessel models from, 94. 
Pawtucket Hair-Cloth Company collection, 82. 



Peabody Academy Museum, 10. 

Museum of Archaeology, 10. 
Tale CoIlege.lO. 
Peacock coal received, 263. 
Peale, Dr. A. C, 230. 
Pearce, Richard, sent minerals, 221. 
Pearis, C. F., made Utah collections, 244. 
Pearl from Venus mi'rcenaria, 182. 
Peccary tusk from Graham Island, 114. 
Peckham, Prof. S. F., sent thomsonite, 221. 
Poctolito from Alaska identified, 225. 
Peerless mine coal, «Scc., 262. 
Pendleton, Col. Philip G., presented anthracite, 

262. 
Pennsylvania Coal Company sent coal-breal?er 
picture, 266. 
Diamond Drill Company collection . 

269. 
Museum of Industrial Art, 10. 
Tack Works coUection, 240. 
Pensacola fishes, 172, 374. 

spotted dolphin, 317. 
Pentacrinus from Havana, 107. 

the Albatross, 190. 
Periplaueta americana found on whale-ship. 18.". 

from Florida, 185. 
Perkins, Harriet S., 143, 152, 153. 
Perley, L. O , sent Fasulina cylindrica, 201. 
Pernety's figure of dolphin, 322. 
Perry Japan Expedition collections, 6 
Perry, N. H., sent Maine minerals. 223. 
Peru, Ancon, antiquities, 116, 117, 118. 
pottery, 121. 
and Ecuador, shells from, 183. 
birds from, 71. 
collections from, 71. 
fishes from Dr. Jones, 164. 
Huaca objects, 57. 
pottery from, 58. 
shells "from, 183. 
Phalacrocorax violaceus and resplendens, note on, 

357. 
Phalarope, oldest name for Wilson's, 366. 
Pliarmacological experiments recommended, 76. 

77. 
Pharmacopoeias, report on, 75. 
Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, 10. 

and Reading Coal and Iron Company 

collections, 261. 
and Reading Coal and Iron Com- 
pany's exhibit, 267. 
Intoi-uational Exhibition collections, 

6. 
Peimanent Exhibition, accessions 
from, C7. 
Philippine Islands, shells from, 183. 
Phoca, 368. 

fasciata skeleton, 368. 
tropicalis, 335. 
vitulina, 131, 332. 
Wilkianus, 335. 
Phcenix Iron Company's rolled iron, 245. 
Photinus ardens from Maine, J 86. 
Photographer, 46. 

Photographic instruction to scientific men, 46. 
instruments purchassed 46. 
work for Government bureaus, 46. 
in 1884,46,47. 
Photographs of coal mines and mining, 264, 205. 

stone buildings, 66. 
Photolithographs of Japanese pottery, 51. 
Photomicrographs of rock sections, 232. 
Phylloxera, 362, 363. 

spinosa, 362. 

vastatrix insecticide, 361. 
Physa gyrina from New Mexico, 184. 

and Zaptychius, bearing of the discovery 
of, 207.' 
Physical geology collections. 233. 

report on lithology and, 227. 
labels and cards, 234. 
Physiology, experimental, 72. 
Picoides tridactylus alascensi.?, 376. 
Pig-copper refining illustrated, 240, 256. 
Pig iron and ores from furnaces, 257. 
from fossiliferous ores. 241. 
Rmeltiug collection, 241,257. 
Pig lead from the ore, 243, '^54. 



INDEX. 



451 



Pike, Hon. Xicbolas. sent exotic sholla, 181. 
IMlot boat raodels, 56, 92. 
I'iakie inotlel. 86. 
I'innipetla from Californiii, 131. 
mounted in 18.S4, 42. 
secured in 1884, 44. 
Pinus monophyllaprepaied. 301. 
I'lpc-fishes of Key Wost, 379. 
PiptT, Mrs. M. A." Maori objects from, 119. 
Phvcer gold specimens, 67. 

bought. 244. 248. 
Plant accessions. 65. 

analysis recommended, 70. 
Plants, accessions of fossil, 219. 

added to Wasbinston flora, 369. 
Carboniferous fossil, 220. 
catalogued, 65. 

chemistry of the feeding of, 340 
classifieif, 65. 
Cretaceous fossil. 220. 
department of fossil. 219. 
determined fossil. 220. 
duplicate fossil. 220. 
fo.'>sil, administered upon, 220. 
and recent, 17, 65. 
catalogued, 220. 
compared with living, 219. 
curator's work on, 219. 
from coal, 263. 
in reserve series, 220. 
from botanical gardens, 36. 

Costa Kic.i, 71. 
Joad collection of, 65. 
Laramie group fossil, 220. 
Paleozoic fossil, 220. 
Tertiary fossil. 220. 
undetermined fossil, 220. 
Plectognath fishes, synopsis of, 372. 
Plectrodera scalator from Illinois, 187. 
Pleurotomaria nodomarginata, 207. 
Plum curculio, 3G3. 
Piecilichthys. new spei-ics of. 374. 
PcBcilopodii, C .Tlioniferou.s. obtained, 212. 
Devonian, obtained, 211, 214. 
Poey, Prof. Felipe, Cuban fishes from, 70. 

sent Monachus tropicalis, 331. 
Pogonip fossils. 207. 
Point Barrow basket, 294. 

Eskimo bows, 307, 310. 

objects, 57, 111,112. 
invertebrates new to science, 201. 

studied, 201. 
mammals obtained, 130. 
shells obtained, 184. 
throwingstick, 263, 284. 
Polar hare-skins obtained, 130. 
Polishing material*, 242. 
Pollard, John A., as.si.sted to collect coal, 267. 

sent view of colliery, 266. 
Polynesia, tapa cloth from, 119. 
Polynesian weapons, 57. 
Polyzoa, Devonian, obtained, 213. 
Pompano of 36 pounds obtained, 163. 
Ponca ax from grave, 116 
Popayan palm-leaf coat, 118. 
Porichthys porosissiraus, note on, 374. 
Porpoiseflsheries investigated by Mr. True, 132. 

fishing, 367. 
Porpoises from U. S. Fish Commission, 1.32. 
1 I'ort Clarence throwing-stick, 285. 

Portugal building and ornamental stones, 236. 
I'orzana li-uco^astra, 376. 
Potomac breccia marble, 236. 
Potsdam .sandstone fossils from "Wisconsin, 205. 
Potter, Prof. W. B., assisted collecting, 244. 
Pottery, aboriginal Ameiican 18, 121. 
received in 1884. 58. 
American prehistoric, 17. 
Cbiriqni, 71. 
collection, gaps in. 122. 
value of, 122. 
department of American prehistoric, 58. 
from Central America needed, 122. 
Maryland shell mounds, 121. 
Mexico needed, 122. 
Soath America needed, 122. 



Pottery, Peruvian, from Dr. W. II. Jones, 58. 

report on aboriginal, ."<8, 121. 
Pottsville district coal mine collections, 287. 
Powell, MnJ. J. W., lectures by, 34. 
Powers on Indian baskets, 300.' 
Prehistoric America. 351. 
fishing, 356. 
Indian objects, .53. 
Prentiss. Dr. I). Webster, le«-tnre by, 34. 
Preparation, 19. 

Preparator's building erected, 36. 
increase of, 41. 
work of, 41. 
Pribylov Islands throwing-stick, 288. 
Primates mounted in 1881, 42. 

secured iu 1884, 43. 
Prime, Temple, on new spha^riuin, 377. 
Prince William Sound throwingstick, 287. 
Print-roller for calico printing, 82. 
Priocella tenuirnstris, haititat, 386. 
Prionotus from dolphin stomach, 324. 
Proceedings of Museum ])ublislied, 339. 

in 1884, 31. 
volume vii, 339. 
signatures pnblishotl in 1884, 339. 
Prochlorite in District of Columbia. 355. 
Procter, J. R., sent Kentucky building stones, 

231. 
Proctor, A. C, contribution from, 66. 
Prodelphinus, 317. 

brevimanus, 323. 
dons, 277,317,323,324. 
colors of, 318. 
described, 318. 
diagnosis of, 323, 324. 
external measurements of, 

319. 
external morphology of, 318. 
osteology, 319. 
pelvis, 320. 
phalanges, 320. 
recorded from Florida, 317. 
skeleton measurements, 320. 
skull described, 319,321. 
storniini and scapula, 320. 
(t\pical) skull measure- 
ments, 321. 
vertebrse described, 319, 320. 
with in.jnred vertebra;, 324. 
dubius in Paris Museum, 323. 
froDnatns, 323. 
frontalis, 323. 
marginatus, .320. 
obscurus, cast of hea<l, 132. 
plaziodon, 323. 

skull measurements, 321. 
sknll variations in, 321. 
species not fully described, 322. 
Prodnctns semiieticnlatua obtained, 204. 

subaculeatus, 206. 
Progne, note on, 377. 
Property and supplies, 10,37. 
Property clerk, duties of, 37, 
Pronithecus liolonielas bnught, 131. 
Psvllida;, North Arutrican, liOl. 
of Unitid States, 302. 
Ptamiignns of Ntlseii, 3i)0. 

shedding claws, 367. 
Pteropoda, Carboniferous, obtained, 212. 

Devonian, obtained, 211,213,214. 
Ptilodyctia carbonaria, 207. 

serratft, 207. 
Publication, 19. 

Publications of the Museum, 31, 339. 
Pueblo ware installed, 121. 
Pulmonifera, Carboniferous, obtained, 212. 

in Lower Carl)ouifer»us rocks, 207. 
Pumice from Krakatoa, 230. 

sand, Norwegian, 229. 
Pumpellv, Prof. K., collected iron ores, 272. 

ores, 239. 
Pusa. 308. 

Pyrite for sulphuric acid manufacture, 280. 
from Virginia, 260. 
products, 261. 
Pyrites obtained, 262. 



452 



INDEX. 



Q 

QnadmpedB, faults in mounting, 353. 

Quail and grouae, southern limit of, 357. 

Qnartzite from Italy, 236. 

Quarternary mollusks compared with recent, 62. 

shells arranged, 180. 
Queen, J. "W., & Co., favors from, 267. 

presented safety lamps, 263. 
Quicksilver, 271. 

Quil, James B., sent Orthoceras, 204. 
Qnincy granite shown, 236. 

R. 

Rag f-arpets, specimens of, 80. 

Rainbow trout from Roanoke River, 163. 

Rajah of Tagore sent musical instruments, 72. 

Rannia from China, 192. 

Ratchet-drill received, 264. 

Rathbun, Miss M. J., assigned to invertebrate 

work, 194. 
Rathbun, Richard, 17, 18, 63. 

field work of, 194. 
identified copepods, 200. 
laboratory assistant, 198. 
on Crustacea, woi-ms, &c., 341. 
sea and fresh water investi- 
gation, 341. 
papers of 355. 
report of, 189. 
studying Echini, 197, 200. 
Ran, Dr. Charles, 16. 

curator, 58. 

de La St61e de Palenqu*^, 356. 

on aboriginal antiquities, 356. 

prehistoric fishing, 356. 
report of, 123. 

studying prehistoric fishing, 126. 
writings of, 356. 
Rau's arrangement of antiquities, 58. 

paper on archaeological collection illns- 
trated, 58. 
Raw silk fabrics, specimens of, 81. 

specimens from Low &. Co., 81. 
Ray, Lieut. P. H., 279. 

birds' eggs from, 60. 
collected Arctic shells, 184. 

throwing-sticks, 283. 
Eskimo objects from, 57, 111. 
explains sinew-twisters, 316. 
leport of, 201. 
throwiug-stiok from, 289. 
Reckhart, D. W., made lead smelling collection, 
252. 
made Utah collections, 244. 
silver ores from, 2j0. 
Reckhart & Pearis smelting collection, 252. 
Red Ash Coal Company's peacock coal, 263. 
Ree hoe, 116. 
Reeves, Paul S., Babbitt collection, 276. 

sent Babbitt serie-s, 268. 
Registers, autom.atic, for visitors, 32. 
Registry and storage, 19. 
Reiche, C. and E., sent mammals, 131. 
Reid, Capt. Savile G.. on Bermuda birds, 340, 377. 
Reptile accessions, 61. . 

department routine, 158. 
records kept, 159. 
series, 158. 
Reptiles and Batrachians, 17. 

department of, 60. 
card catalogue of, 159. 
condition of, 159. 
contributions of, 157. 
correspondence about, 159. 
from the Albatross, 157. 

Utah, 61. 
in the Museum, 159. 
of Bermuda, 340, 372. 
Reserve series, 24. 

Respiratory impurity of air in lecture room, 40. 
Retzia radialis, 206. 

Rbees, William J., directing Museum accounts, 37. 
Rhode Island Ilorseshoe Company horseshoes, 240. 
Rhus aromatica, var. triloba in basketry, 303. 

in basket hats, 301. 
Rhynchonella (Leiorbynchus) quadricostata, 206. 



Rhynchoporus cruentatua from Florida, 1S6. 
Rhyolitos from Mexico, 231. 
Rhyssa lunator from Massachusetts, 186. 
South Carolina, 187. 
Rich Hill Zinc Furnaces, collection from, 243, 259, 

275. 
Richardson, J., sent reptiles, 158. 
Richardson, Nathan, steorer from, 95. 
Richardson's challenge steerer, 95. 
Rice, Hon. "WiUiam T., prepared Italian marbles, 

236. 
Rice, Prof. William North, on Bermuda geology, 
340, 377. 
sent minerals, 223. 
Richmond & Potts, furnace drawings from, 269. 
Richmond coal-fleJds, collections from, 267. 
Ridgway, Robert, 17. 

edited Nicaragua birds list, 376. 
Indiana arrow-heads from, 125. 
on London Fisheries birds, 341. 
on water birds. 346. 
papers of, 356, 357 
publications of, 152. 
report of, 143. 
sent reptiles, 158. 
work of, 59. 
Rigging (standing) for fishing schooner, 95. 
Riggs, P., Sioux head-dress from, 116. 
Riley, C. V., 17. 

honorary curator, 63, 185. 
report by, 362. 
of, 185. 
writings of, 359-364. 
Roane Iron Company coke collection, 257. 
Robertson, A., English laces from, 80. 

fabrics from, 80. 
Robinson, Prof. Thomas, collected rock samples, 
231. 
contribution from, 66. 
Roccus septentrionalis from Mississippi, 163. 
Rock bored by mollusks, 229. 

forming minerals exhibited, 233. 
prepared, 232. 
labels, 233. 
photographs, 66. 
sections and labels prepared, 66. 

shown by enlarged photomicro- 
graphs, 232. 
Rocks and geological .specimens, number of, 07. 
tufas from Geological Survey, 06. 
Western States, 230. 
&c., number in collection, 234. 
present condition of, 234. 
classified, 232. 
clastic, 232. 
crystalline, 232. 

divided by structure and texture, 232. 
educational series, 232. 
exhibited in Museum, 66. 
foreign, 230. 
from Abert collection, 227. 

Dr. Hawes's estate, 228. 
in exhibition seiies, 232. 
of Canad.a, New Brunswick, and Kov^ 

Scotia, 237. 
Tellowstone National Park, 236. 
prepared as .specimens, 232. 
safety of, from fire, 238. 
thin sections prepared, 234. 
types of, for reference. 238. 
vitreous, 232. 
Rockwell, Colonel, 37. 
Rockwood Fuiuace coke series, 257. 

iron collection, 275. 
Rodentia mounted in 1884, 42, 43. 

secured iu 1884, 44. 
Rodgers, Commodore John, collected throwiug- 

stick, 284. 
Rogers, William, Oregon model from, 94. 
Romero, Sefior, Mexican cards from, 70. 
Rope specimens from Bailey & Co., 80. 
Rosenbusch collection of rocks, &c., 237. 
Ross, Bernard, Eskimo bows from, 307, 310, 312. 
Rothrock, Dr. J. T., collected antiquities, 123. 
on Alaskan lichens, 377. 

distribution of Elymus, 
292. 
Roxbury Carpet Company, specimens from, SI. 



INDEX. 



453 



Roxbnry Carpet Company, tapeetry, 83. 
Royal Botanical Gardens, England, collectiona 

from, 71, 
80, 107. 
Koyal College of Surgeons, collections from, 71. 
KuV renovated. 44. 

Kuniinants teuiporarily installed, 133. 
Eirssell, 1. C, collected" rooks and tnfas, 66. 

collected Utah rocks and tofas, 230. 
sent lava, 236. 
Ryder, John A., lecture by, 34. 
papers of. 72. 
work of, 72. 
writings of, 364. 

S. 

Sabine Basin flfshes collected, 178. 
Saccopbaryngoid fishes, 365. 

literature and relations 
of, 373. 
Sackett's Harbor, Xew York, bird-shaped object 

from, 124. 
Sacramento Basiu fishes collected, 178. 
Safety lamps, 243. 20.:. 
Satfufd, Ensign W. E., 198. 
Sail-maker's tools and apparatus, 96. 
Saint Joe Works lead sei ies, 253. 
John's Diver tisbe.s, 375. 
Lawrence I.sland bows, 313, 314, 315. 
Louis Tripoli Company's collection, 269, 276. 
Thomas lishes received, 163. 
Salmo gaiidneri received, 102. 

irideus from Roanoke River, 163. 
Soiitli Side Club, 162. 
Salmon of Pacific coast stmlied, 172. 
Salt, Cheshire, from .Mr. liiggiu, 107. 
Saltonstall, H., coartesics of, 83. 
Salvador j)lants and animals, 71. 
Salveliuns staf;nalis from Labrador, 162. 
Salvin cabiuel.s needed forbiids, 154. 
San Diego moUusks received, 184. 
Salvador minerals, 240. 

products obtained, 107. 
textiles, 80. 
Sand and emery paper, 242. 
Sanders. J. D.,'mineral3 from, 222. 
Sand paper collect inn, 208, 276. 
Sandpiper, breeding of pectoral, 376. 
Sandstone showing ripple marks and sun cracks, 
234. 
slab exhibited, 237. 
Sandwich Islands colliction obtained, 72. 
Sanguinolites .^iolus, i;U7. 
Santee Basin fishe.s collected, 175. 
Saperda bivittata, 360. 
Saturday lectures, 33. 
.Savannah Basiu fishes collected, 175. 
Saxon art, phofo^raphs showing, 51. 
Saxony rock specimens, 230, 237. 

Royal Mining Schodl sent rocks, 236- 
Savre Female Institute sent fossils in exchange, 

203. 
Scalops aqnaticus, 32.'>. 
Sf-aphiocnnus from Captain Wheeler, 203. 
Scaroid fishes, descriptions of, 375. 
Scheinikow, Ernest, exchange with, 126. 
Schietlelin & Co., drugs from, 76. 
Schizochiton eVes shown, 183. 
Schley, W. S.,"l92. 

Schlichter Jute Cordage Company, 80. 
Schmidt, Frederick C, 92. 
Schneider, Mr., laverack setter from, 132. 
Schoolcraft's illustration of preparing pine seeds, 

302. 
Schooner, cod-fisbintr, models, 86. 

tishing, builders' model of ideal, 86. 

standing rigging, 95. 
models, 56, 94. 

showing evolution, 86. 
three-masted, 94. 
Schott, A. L., collected exotic plants, 219. 
Scbreiber, J. D., sent corundum, 221. 
Schuermann, C. W., 19. 
Schumacher, Paul, on basket stitch, 294. 
Sciiena sclera from Mazatlan, 375. 
Sciathos island sloop, 89. 
Scientific departments, review of work in, 53. 



Sclnter, Philip Lntlev, papers of, 377. 
Scollick, J. W., 45. 

Screw steamer model of early type, 98. 
Scudder, N. P., on fiber skull, 327. 
Sea and fresh water investigation, 841. 
birds, habits and capture, 348. 
bottom materials investivratcd, 199. 
cow, Stcller's, externiinnlion of, 366. 
elephants from South Calil'iiniia, 70. 
lion, Califomian. obtuined, 131 
lions and seals from tho Farulloues, 70. 
urchins, dry, arrangement of, 202. 
exhi\)ited, 202. 
Seal group reconstrurted. 41, 44. 

harbor, from Bering Island, 131. 
harp bought, 131. 
monk, 333. 

Ribbon, skeleton of, 368. 
West Indian, 331. 
Seals and cetaceans received. 59. 

and sea lions from tho Farallones, 70. 
from Bering I.sland, 131. 
investigated by Dr. Merriam, 68. 
returned from Lnnilon, 133. 
Selasphorus torridus, note on, 358. 
Sells, Lewis, presented puma, 130. 

sent mammals, 131. 
Semul tree dug-out, 87. 

Serpentine and green quartzite from Alaska, 69. 
from Maine, 228. 

Massachusetts, 228. 
Shad from Columbia River, 16'2. 
Shagticoke flax au<l flax twines, 80. 
Shark mounted, 44. 
Sharpe, R. Bowdler, birds from, 60. 
on Progne, 377. 
Sheafer, P. W., sent coal ornaments. 263. 

fern-leaf impressions, 263. 
secrions of coal beds, 266. 
Sheldon, D, S., sent reptiles. 158. 
Shell-mound pottery from Maryland, 121. 
Shells, cases for land, 180. 

exhibited at Louisville. 49. 

Xew Orleans, 51. 
exotic, in Museum, 181. 
from California, 69. 

Magellan Straits, 71. 
Mr. Jeffreys*, 71. 
Terra del Fuego, 71. 
land, identified, 02, 180. 

and fresh-water, collected by R. B. 
Call, 184. " 
of District of Co- 
lumiiia, 183. 
new land and fiesh-water species, 182. 
Shields of Bateke negroes resemble fish-tra^ 

basket, 208. 
Sbindler, A. Zei.o, 47. 
Ship-building models, 51. 
Ships, early American, color sketches of, 91. 
Ship models (cotton carriers), 94. 
.Shoemaker, C. W., clei ieal woi k of, 143. 
Shore larks of Uniled Slates, 373. 
Shoshone baskets coiled and whipped, 301. 
conoiil basket bats, 301. 
Indian basketry, 301. 
method of pieparing pine seed, 301. 
roasting tiiiys, 301. 
Shufeldt. Dr. R. \V., c^Uectione from, 70. 
papers of, 377. 
sent tishes, 374. 
Siam boats obtained, 100. 
Siberian bow descrilie<l, 313. 
bows fiiiured, 313. 
(Eastern) Uiiowing-stick, 285. 
Eskimo bows, 307, 313, 315. 

objects, 112. 
mammals, 131. 
sheep obtained, 131. 
Siemachko, J., sent Russian minerals, 223. 
Siemens heating .system, 209. 

regenerative principle represented, 242. 
Signal Service collections mi Sitka, 69. 
exhibits returned, 30. 
exploration, 69. 
ni.iinmals, 129. 
mollusks from, 63. 
Siler, A. L., sent Syringopora. 204. 



454 



INDEX. 



Silicate and carbonate zinc ore, 259. 
Siliceous and calcareous sinters, 236. 
Silicified wood from Mr. McGee, 230. 
Silk fabrics from E 0^:1 and, 80. 

manufacture illustrated, 81. 
Silks, raw, obtained, 81. 
Silliman, Beniamin, oust of, 45. 
Silurian corals, 206. 
Silver ard copper, native, 2.50. 
lead refining, 275. 
collections, 250,271. 
extraction from ores, illustrations wanted, 

251. 
from base ores, 271, 275. 
horn, 271. 
native, 271 

wanted, 250. 

with sulphide of copper, 250. 
ores, chloridizins roasting. 240. 

of Utah, 250. 
ruby, 271. 
smelting and refining, 275. 

collections, 251. 
wire, 271. 
Simms, James M., standing rigging from, 95. 
Sinew backing for bows, 308. 

twisters for bows, 313, 316. 
mode of using, 3)6. 
used in a game, 315. 
twisting tools, note on, 315. 
Singleton, Dr. K. H., 215. 
Sioux head-dress, 116. 

medicine man's pipe, 116. 
Siphonostoma from American waters, 355. 
Siphostoma McKayi, 379. 
Sirenians added, 132. 

Sitka bow imitating Eskimo in backing, 315. 
ethnologica, 69. 
Thlinket objects, 114. 
Skaneateles rocks. 229. 
Skeletons prepared, i^. 
Sketches by Mr. Shindler, 47. 
Skide^jate implements and ornaments, 114, 115. 
Skiff for fishing in Greece, 89. 
Slade, Elisha, on hybrid ducks, 378. 
Slag from copper ores, 256. 
Slate from Kansas, 228. 
Smelting of auriferous material shown, 249. 

operation illustrations, 273. 
Smillie, T. W., 46. 

enlarged mining pictures, 264. 
Smith, A. J. M., Puffin sk.ncoat from, 118. 
Smith, C. M., antiquities from, 125, 126. 
Smith, Charles J., collected Oregon fishes, 171. 
Smith, E. C, fish from, 163. 
Smith, Hugh M.. 143, 153. 
Smith, M. M., 164 

fisH drawings of, 61, 165, 169. 
Smith, Peter, sent carp from brackish water, 164. 
Smith, K. R., Arkansas antiquities from, 125. 
Smith, Rosa, Pacific fishes from, 162, 171. 

reptiles from, 158. 
Smith, Sanderson, 198. 

worked npon mollusca, 200. 
Smith, Prof. S. I., 198. 

papers of, 378. 

received Albatross Crustacea, 

197. 
researches of, 200. 
returned Crustacea, 190. 
studying Crustacea, lUO. 
Smith, William R., 65. 
Smithsonian area at New Orleans, ."il. 
exhibit at Louisville, 49. 
Institution at Cincinnati Exposition, 
50. 
exploration for, 67. 
participation in exposi- 
tions, 3, 48. 
unclassified material in, 
53. 
Snakes and turtles, casts of, at Cincinnati, 50. 
Snow, Professor, lent Crotalus lepidns, 158. 
bunting, new, from Alaska, 358. 
podura from Colorado, 185. 
Maine, 187. 
New Jersey, 185. 
spectacles, 374. 



Society of Naturalists E. TT. S. meeting, 35. 

American Taxidermists, gift from, 41. 
Taxidermists' meeting, 35. 
Solders and other alloys, 242. 

from Merchant & Co., 276. 
Solomon Islands clubs, 119. 
Sorex, 325. 

Soricidae to be treated of, 135 
Soundings by the Albatross, 199. 
South America shells from Dr. Jones, 183. 
American collections, 71. 

pottery needed, 122. 
Carolina ceremonial object, 124. 
Chicago Bessemer Works steel collection, 
275. 
Rolling Mill Bessemer steel, 258. 
Kensington Fish Culture Museum, boat 
models fri>m, 90. 
Museum, collections from, 71. 
policy, 9. 
Side Clnb rainbow tiout, 162. 
Southern Indian basketry, 305. 

twilled checker-woven , 
305. 
States, fishes collected in, 173. 
type of bow, where used, 314. 
Spanish "galleon," sketch of, 91. 
mackerel hatching, 352. 
Sparrow, new song, 373. 
Spencer & McConey zinc collection, 258. 
Sphaerium, new species, 377. 
Spices from Kew Gardens, 107. 
Spinning and weaving processes studied, 83. 
Spiriferina cristata, 206. 
Spofford, H.W., 37. 

Sponges and corals from fishing grounds, 190. 
exhibited, 202. 

from Florida and Dry Tortugas, 191. 
McKesson & Eobbins, 192. 
Sporobolus for basket warps, 300. 
Spratt, Joseph, made fish guano, 346. 
Spruce roots for baskets, 295. 
Squawberry in basketry, 303. 
Squid, note on, 349. 

Squier & Davis mound-pipe molds, 125. 
Stalactites and stalagmites shown, 236. 

obtained, 228. 
Stalagmite marble, 228, 230. 
Stalagmites from Austria. 229. 
Standing rigging for fishing schooner, 95. 
Stands tor mounted birds, 154. 
Stanniferous wolfram in California, 252. 
Star-fishes, dry, arrangement of, 202. 

exhibited, 202. 
Stassfurt salts, 240. 
Statuary and vases installed, 35. 
Steamers in the fisheries, 97. 
Stearns & Co., drugs from, 75. 
Steams, John N., &. Co., silk fabrics from, 81. 
Steams, Prof. R. E. C, 17. 

antiquities from, 123. 
assistant curator, 62, 179. 
California collections from , 

69. 
collection of mollusks, 181. 
collection of mollusks, ex- 
tent of, 62. 
duties of, 179. 
obtained District shells, 

183. 
paper by, 365. 
preparing mollusks for 

New Orleans, 62 
presented copper ores, 239. 
reptiles from, 158. 
specimens from, 81, 
Steams, Silas, collected Pensacola fishes, 172. 
Pensacola fishes from, 374. 
contribution from, 66. 
Steel collections, 257, 275. 

exhibits catalogued, 245. 
rail lolling specimens, 244. 
tests of, 240. 
Stejneger, Leonhard, 17. 

as.sistant curator, 143. 
assisting with now list of 

birds, 150. 
birds' eggs from, 60. 



INDEX. 



455 



S^ejneger, Leonbanl, birds from, 00. 

collected Siberian manimaU. 

i:tl. 
explorations of, 69, 71. 
mollusca t'roni. 63, ;!.'>0. 
on Attn throwine-stiok, 28*. 
selected birds for New Or- 
leans, IfrJ. 
sent .sc.tIs, IIU. 
whaIes,fron], HI. 
writiniTS of, HOG. 
Steller'a sea-cow, extermination of, 366. 

lion, obtaineii, 131. 
Stenopoda ciiierea from Florida, 186. 
StcnoDs tardi};radu9 obtained. 131. 
StCDCWomua from dolpbin stomach, 324. 
Sterling Hill mine ore-s, 259. 

zinc ore, 273. 
Sterna uilotica, 366. 
Stemoptvchidie, note on, 372. 
Steuart, C. A., 36. 

implements delivered to, 126. 
Stevenson, Jnme.s, collected pottery. 121. 

Indian objects from, 70. 
Moki fetiches fiom, 116. 
Znfii objects from, U6. 
Stibuite obtained, 223. 
Stimpson, W. G., assistance from, 133. 
Stockholm. Itoyal Academy of, promises Vega 

invertebrates, 196. 
Stolley, George, fossils from, 216. 
Stonaker, C. L., presented steel rails, &c., 239. 
Stone buildings, i)icture8 of, 228. 

shown by colored photographs, 
233. 
implements exhibited in New Orleans, 58. 
Stone, Hon. W. W.. jute from, 80. 
Stoney, Lieut. G. M., 231. 

collections of, 69. 
received collecting outfit, 

194. 
rocks from, 66. 
Storage cases, 27. 

&c., list of 27, 28. 
Stover, E. S., sent carp from alkali water, 164. 
Story. W. W., sent Italian marbles, 236. 
Straits of Magellan shells, 71. 
Struuch, John U., assisted to collect coal, 207. 

sent mining; scenes, 266. 
Striped bass from Missi.ssippi. 103. 

in Mississippi, 347. 
Strophites grandaeva in Devonian plant beds, 207. 
Students and lectuies, 33. 
Study series, 24. 

Sturgis, Appleton. gunnv cloth from, 80. 
Stutz, S., sent coal-washing pictures, 266. 
Sueda ditl'usa for dyeing basketry, 301. 
Sulphur balls (pyrites), 262. 
collections, 272. 
native, 272. 
ores, 272. 
preducts, 260. 
Stdphuric acid from iron pyrite, 242, 260. 
manufacture, 276. 

collection, 261. 
Sumner, Swayaey & Currier vessel models, 93. 
Sumpter, Cant. T. "\Y., rainbow trout fiom, 1G3. 
Surinam, Bulimus and Ani]iullaria, from, 183. 

insects and larva', 185. 
Swain, Joseph, 379. 

collected fishes, 173. 

Venetian fishes, 173. 
papers by, 375. 

and Meek, Setb E., paper by, 379. 
Swan, J. G., Bella Coula objects from. 115. 

colh'Cted Puget Sound fishes, 171. 
collections from, 57. 
Graham Island peccary tusk fiom, 114. 
Indian trap from, 113. 

water craft from, 106. 
, Maka objects from, 115. 

Massett and Skidegate objects from, 

114,115. 
sent fishes, 104. 

naida specimen basket, 297. 
Takoo di.shes fion). 114. 
Washington Territory fishes from, 
347. 



Swan, John l).,8ent iiiineriilB, 222. 
Sweden boats obtained, lo6. 

geological map of, 227. 

iron uud steel manufacture, 241. 

rocks from, 229. 

Itoyul Museum, African whips from, 119. 
Swedish (JentenuialCouuuissiim, boat model from, 
104. 

cod-fishiug vessel model, lu:), 104. 

commission, schooni-r model from, 104. 

herring-lishiug boat, 104. 

rocks and geological map, 230. 
Sweeny, T. W., work of, 47. 
Syenite from Arkansas, 237. 
Syringopora obtained from Utah, 204. 

T. 

Tablets for small sjiecimens, 2C. 
Tack exhibit shown, 245. 
Tacks collection, 240. 
Takoo dishes, 114. 

Tanner, Z. L., in charge of explorations, 197. 
obtained bottom samples, 192. 
Taos fetich, ll(i. 
Tapa cloth from Polynesia, 119. 
Tapestry Brussels carpels, 81. 

from Uoxbury, 83. 
Tar palm-treo dugout for fishiuir. 87. 
Tato Yama implements and clothing, 118. 
Tasidermic work assisted by expositions, 50. 

miscellaneous, 44, 45. 
Taxidermists, 41. 

American, meeting, 35. 
Telegraphic time in Museum, 37. 

Smithsonian, 37. 
Telephone, underground, 37. 
Telluride ores collections. 271. 
Temperature and physical observations of Alba- 
tross, 199. 
of lecture room, 40. 
Tennessee antiquities exhibited, 126. 
obtained, 125. 
basin fishes collected, 173, 176. 
marble obtained, 228. 
Tenth Census rocks, &c.,238. 
Torr.i del Fuego invertebrates obtained, 192. 

shells. 71. 
Tertiary fossil plants, 220. 
TeuthididiB and Siganida-, genera of, 372. 
Teuthidoidea, genera of. 372. 
Texas, ephemerid larva from, 185. 
Textile exhibit at Louisville, 49. 
fabrics, accessions to, 80. 

and fibers from Kew Gardens, 80. 
at Cincinnati. 51. 
fibers and fabrics, 79. 

classified, 79. 
from Jamaica, 80. 
micro-photographed, 83. 
vegetable, to be catalogued, 84. 
industries collection, .342, 3.53. 

condition of, 84. 
specimens in, 84. 
photographed, 83. 
section, 10, in, 70. 

reconimcndationis con- 
cerning, 84. 
researches, 83. 
routine woik, 83. 
industry, evolution of, 54. 
Textiles at New Orleans, 51. 

classified by composition, &c., 80. 
exhibited, 79. 

from Guatemala and San Salvador, 80. 
Thliuket Indian baskets, 295, 296. 

objects, 114. 
Thomas, Dr". Cyrus, jiottery from, 121. 

on mound exploration, 343, 379. 
Thompson, M«y. Ueber S., sent coal ornanients, 

263. 
Thomsonite pebbles received, 221. 
T'hrowing-stick, advantages of, 280. 
areas, 279. 

Cunilurlaiid Gulf tvjie, 282. 
I dist iuuuisliiiig mar'ks of, 281. 

from Kussiaii America, 284. 
Furv and Ilecla Straits type, 283. 



456 



INDEX. 



Throwing-stick, Greenland type, 281. 
illuatrations, 281. 
left-handed, 287. 
locality marks of, 280. 
mode of holding, 279. 
modifications, 288. 

at Nnnivak, 286. 
of Anderson Eiver, 283. 
Attn, 288. 
Bristol Bay, 287. 
East Siberia, 285. 
Kadiak and Unalashka, 287. 
Kotzobne Sound, 284. 
Norton Sound, 286. 
Nunivak and Cape Vancouver, 

286. 
Point Barrow, 283. 
Prince William Sound, 287. 
Port Clarence and Cape Nome, 

285 
Yukon River Eskimo, 286. 
origin of, 283, 288. 
philosophy of, 279. 
relation to hand-rest, 289. 
revelations, 281. 
substituted by hand-rest, 288. 
Ungava type, 281. 
with peculiar index cavity, 284. 
Throwing-sticks, catalogue of, 289. 
classified, 288. 
in National Museum, 279. 
made by whites modified, 287. 
paper on, mentioned, 57. 
Thuja gigantea in basketry, 297. 
Thurn, E. im, on British Guiana baskets, 306. 
Thyridopteryx ephemera; form is, 301. 

from Arkansas, 185. 
Tierra del Fuego moUusks and shells, 182. 
Tile-fish history, 349. 

not rediscovered, 199. 
Tin collections, 252, 271. 

received, 253. 
from Cash mines, 252. 
cassiterite, 252. 
North Carolina, 253. 
stanniferous woLfram, 252. 
Virginia, 252. 
in Alabama, 252. 
ores, 241. 

and plate, 271. 
from Alabama, 241. 

Australasia, 24ii. 
Dakota, 241. 
Maine, 242. 
North Carolina, 242. 
Virginia, 241. 
plate from stanniferous wolfram, 252. 
of Welsh make, 253. 
Tinn6 Indian basket ornamentation, 295. 

basketry, 294. 
Titlark, earliest name of American, 366. 
Title of Pait II, 73. 
Todd, H. L., drawings of, 169. 

fish drawings of, 61, 165. 
Tomkins, J. C, 268. 
Toner lecture, 34. 
Tortugas corals, &c., 70. 
Tourmaline region of Maine visited, 223. 
Townsend, Charles H., birds from, 60. 

birds' egg.s from, 60. 
collected California mam- 
mals, 130,131. 
mammals collected by, 09. 
reptiles from, 61,157,158. 
sent Carboniferous fossils, 
204. 
Trachynotus goreensis weighing 36 pounds, 163. 
Trachypterus arcticus obtained, 163. 
Trap dike in granite, 229. 
Trenton fossils, 207. 
Triassic sandstone, 229. 
Trilobite appendages, 368. 
Trinidad fishes obtained, 163. 
Trinity Basin fishes collected, 178. 
Tripoli collection, 244, 2H9. 
True, Frederick W., 17, 18, 62, 277. 

acting assistant director, 18, 
133. 



True, Frederick W., bought exotic mammals, 131. 
curator, 59. 
librarian, 19. 
mammal repoit of, 129. 
on a spotted dolphin, 317. 
Florida muskrat, 325. 
mammals for New Or- 
leans, 343. 
papers of, 130, 307. 
studied porpoise fisheries, 

132. 
studying cetacea in Europe, 
135. 
mammals in Eu- 
rope, 132. 
and Lucas, F. A., on "Moua- 
chus tropicalis, 331. 
Tufas from Mr. RusseU, 236. 
Turbinella pyrum, classification of, 183. 

relations of, 181. 
Turdus alicise in Palaearctic region, 366. 
Turner, L. M., 279, 282, 287. 

birds from, 60. 

colleeted Labrador mammals, 130. 
collections from, 08. 
Eskimo bows from, 307. 
explorations of, 68. 
fishes from, 61, 162. 
insects from, 03, 187. 
lent Ungava throwing-stick, 281. 
moUusks collected by, 181. 
report of, 68. 

throwing-sticks from, 286, 289. 
Ungava collections from, 57. 
Turner, H. W., sent reptiles, 158. 
Tursio Doris, 323. 
Tursiops tursio, 320, 324. 

obtained, 132. 
Turtles, mounting of, 353. 
Twilling in basketry. 299. 
Twines IVom Bailey & Co., 80. 
Type-metal collecti(m, 242, 268, 276. 

17. 

Unaldte and diabase from Virginia, 228. 
Unalashka throwing-stick, 287. 
Ungava birds received, 60. 
insects received, 63. 
(Labrador) throwiug-stick, 281. 
throwiag-stick related to Alaskan forms, 
281. 
Uugulata mounted in 1884, 42. 
renovated, 41, 44. 
secured in 18^4, 44. 
Union Stone Company sent coruuulrum, emery, 

&c., 269. 
U. S. Census Bureau, fisheries enumerated for, 171. 
Coast Survey di edging appliances, rf56. 
eastern exploiations, 70. 
educational museums, 10. 
Exploring Expedition corals, 202. 
shells, 181. 
Fi.sh Commission, California collections, 69. 
captured porpoises, 132. 
collected West Indian 

bats, 130. 
collections, 70. 
Copepoda, 355. 
dredging appliances, 356. 
experiments in embryol- 
ogy, 72. 
explorations, 197. 
explorations for fishes, 169, 
fish-cultural exhibit, 342 

352. 
invertebrate collections 

189, 190. 
invertebiates cared foi- 

193. 
invertebrates distributed 

195. 
invertebrates from Alba 

tross, 189. • 
London Fisheries collec 

tions, 341. 
mammals, 129. 
raolluslis to arrive, 181. 



INDFA. 



i:.7 



IT. S. J^sh Coinmissitin, new tishes from. :f47. 

I'aiilic tishes I'olliii. (1 inr. 

171. 
ipptiles I'lDii), 61. 
fihooner mortol, ic:!. 
.-sfcuretl fin-biiik whale's 

sknll, 132. 
sent deep-sea flslu's, 163. 
siiuimer exploring jLTrtiis. 

198. 
summer station, 197. 
West Indian tishos from. 
'63. 
GeolopicHl Survey chemical work, 224. 

curator assigned from. 

179. 
fossils. 64, 203. 
insfcts from, 186. 
Monograph VIII quoted. 

20,^. 
parties collected mineiiils. 

223. 
presented Paleozoic fos 

sils. 208. 
relation to ilesozoio fos- 
sils, 215. 
i-ocks obtained from, 234 
transferred Paleozoic fos 

sils, 210. 
tnfas, 2,X6. 
Life-Saving Serviie specimens, 'Mi\ 

stations, suggestions to keeper.-* 
of, 367. 
National Museum Bulletins, 340. 

fish distribution by, 171. 
Kevenue Marir.e, moUnsk collections of 181. 
Signal Bureau. roollu.«ks fmm. 03. 

obtained Alaskau mammals, 
130. 
steamer EnteiTirise. bottom samples, 192. 
Uuity of administration, l.'i. 
Uphara, E. P., 16. 
Drsidip repaired, 44. 
Ursus arctos fiom Siberia, 131. 
rtali aboriginal pottery, 121. 

and Nevada, new shells from, 182. 
Anodonta and Phvsa from, 184. 
antimony ores, 253. 
Basin fishes collected, 178. 
bismuth ores, ^.57. 
insects obtained, 187. 
Lake fishes collected, 72. 
mines collections, 244. 
ores, 241. 

reptiles from Dr. Yarrow, 61, 157. 
rocks and tufas from I. C. Russell, 230. 
silver ores, 250. 
Vte basket tray.-, ?>(^2. 
water bottles, 302. 



Van Benedeu &, Gervais. 320. 
Vases repaired, 122. 
Vega Expedition Eskimo objects, 112. 
Vegetable fibers, 79. 

catalogued, 84. 
Velvet carpet specimens, 82. 
Venezuela minerals, 240. 

plants and animals, 71. 
Venice fishes collected. 61, 162, 171, 172, 173. 
Ventilation of lecture room. 39, 41. 
Venus mercenaria, pearl from, 182. 
Vermont marbles obtained, 228. 

shown, 236. 
Verrill, Prof. A. E., in charge of zoological iii\ i ^ 
tigations, 198. 
papers of, 379. 

reported on sea-bottom ma- 
terials. 199. 
researches of, 200. 
returned marine inverte- 
brates, 190. 
studying anthozoa, 190, 197. 
esptriilioarsinoe from Sansas. 130. 
cssei and boat fittings stored, 96. 

efpiipiiient material stored. 96. 
cfinijimenls Dbtainert. f^i. 



Vi-ssel littiu:-". I'li. 

iiiodi'ls and eiji:i)iincnts coUirted. 8i. 
from John N. Ciishing 93. 

I>ondon Fisheries Kxhiliilioii, 
97. 
Vrs.sels, boats, and models eshibilod, 98. 
color sketches of. 8.">. 
merchant, photographed, 85, 
oil paintiu;:s i(f 86. 
pictures of. iieedi>d, 99. 
sketch and piints nf f6. . 

Virginia marble. 2J9. 
Visitors, increase of, 32. 

record of, by months, 32. 
to ^luseum, 32. 
Smithsonian. 32. 
N'ivaria, 72. 

Vivianite obtained, 223. 
Volcanic ashes, 229, 230. 

sand from llogo.ildll", 231. 
Volcano island in Alaska, 3J0. 
Vorticella, chlorophylloid gianiihs of, 365. 

W. 

Vt'addell, R. J., & Co., polishing iiiaterial-i, 276. 

sent collection, 269. 
Wagtail, yellow, from Nushagak, 69. 
Wainwright's Inlet Eskimo bow, 3l(i. 
Walcott, Charles D., 17, 64. 

administrative duties ol. .'(i9. 
contributed Hamilton group 

fossils, 203. 
engaged in field work, 208. 
Geological Survey, duties oC, 

208. 
geological work of, 205. 
In relation to U. S. Ge(d<)gi. 

cal Survey, 20.5. 
minerals from, 223. 
rejjort of, 64, 203. 
work of, 64. 
writings of .368. 
U'alker, Charles, reptiles from. 1.58. 
Walker, John, reptiles from, 158. 
Walker, Samuel '1'.. nu fossil bones, 380. 
Wallace Brothers, dnius from, 76. 
Wallet of the Klamath and McLeodlndians, 300. 
Walrus leathers, 47. 

Pacific, obtained, 131. 
Walther, Henry. 121. 122. 
Walters, P. G., Ree hoe from, 116. 
War canoe, BritishtColumbia, 106. 

ship models needed, 99. 
\\'ard, (."harles W., on Ardea wardi, 380. 
Ward, H. A., Berardius skull from. 131. 

mammals bought from, 130, 131. 
Ward. Lester. P.. 17. 

eollec ted rocks and fossil wodiis. 

230. 
report of, 6.5, 219. 
writings of 368. 
Ward (fc Howell sent minerals, 223. 
Warren & Stearns secured dolphin, 317. 
\Vashboard slate (Dlodendron) rcceivet^, 263. 
Washington Dime Museum sent monkeys, 131.. 
Washington, George, east of 45. 
Washington Alonument cap-stone, 229. 
Territory Hshes, 347. 

insects obtained, 185. 
water- works extension soil and roi-k>. 
229. 
Washoe district, Nevada, geology of 234. 
Wat<'r birds of Ncu'th Ametica. 346. 
leaiTangeil. l.'iO. 
bottles of roiled and whipprd stru< lure, 
302. 
Shoshoues, 302. 
AVaterlime grou)) fossil from New York, 205. 
Waters, William, assisted to collect (;oiil, 26t<. 
Watts, .1. J. sent Productus semiretieulatiis, 20-1. 
Webb, Henry. 92. 
Webb, .fohn, sent minerals, 222. 
Webb, Wiliiam H., 92. 
Webster, V. S., prepared mammals, 134. 
"Webster, Prof Henry E., on Bermuda anmlida, 

340, .381. 
Weeks, F. W., ship model from, 94. 



458 



INDEX. 



•Welsh tiu plates, 242, 253. 

"Wertb, J. R., 268. 

"West Indian bats presented, 130. 

birds from the Albatross, CO. 
eoUections of Albatross, 197. 
Islands invertebrates received, 189. 
reptiles obtained, 01. 
seal, 331. 
West Virginia coal and associates, 262. 
"Western Eskimo bow, peculiar backing of, 313. 
• type of bow where used, 314."^ 

J-^skimo bows, 31.'!. 
Whale-boat model, 56. 

cast of ziphioid, 133. 

fishery and its appliances, :!41. 

exhibit at Loui.svillo. 49. 
in River Tay, 341). 
Whales and porpoises, how collected and pre- 
served, 367. 
toothed, ijroposed monograph of, 135. 
zipliioid, obtained, 131. 
Wharton, Mr., contribution I'roru. C'i. 
Wheeler, Lieut. G. M., antiquities from, 123, 12G, 
127. 
sent Scaphiocrinu.s 203, 
204. 
Whitcomb, George D., presented photograph, 20'). 
White.Dr. C.A.,17, 64. 

arrow-heads from, 124. 
papers of, 370. 
repoit of, 215. 
White, Dr. J. A., anow-heads from, 124. 
AVhiteflsh, Nelscm'.s, 347. 

new Alaskan, 347. 
AVhite fishes of North America, 347. 
lead by corrosion process, 254. 
from the ore, 254. 
paints, 241. 
paint from ore, 243. 
pine shale fauna of Nevada, 206. 
shales, position of, 206. 
Whitfield, Edward, chemical work oi* 224. 
Whiting, S. B., as.sisted to collect, 267. 
Whitman, W., courtesies of, 83. 
Whitney, Eli, cotton-i;in model from, 83. 
Whitney,.!. D., 340. 
Whittenton Manufacturing Company ginghams, 

S2. 
Wilcox, F. E., Arapahoe saddle-bags from, 116. 
Wilcox. Crittenden & Co., collections from, 96. 
Wild wheat in basket ly, 295. 
Wiley, Prof Harvey W., lecture by, 34. 
Wilkes Exploring Expedition collections, 6. 

models of canoes. 
&c., 105. 
Wilkie's Monachus tropicalis, 331. 
Wilkinson, Ensign Erne.st, 225. 
Willcox, Joseph, lent minerals, 221. 

minerals from, 65, 221. 
minerals installed, 223. 
Willow splints in basketry, 301. 
Wilson, D. B., Kiowa shield from, 116. 
"Wilson, Thomas, exchange with, 126. 
Wilton carpet samples, 82. 
Windlass, steam, models, 95. 
Window glass abraded by sand, 230. 
Winnebago medicine man's club, 116. 
Winslow, Lieut. Francis, on London Fisheries niol- 
lusks, 341. 
the oyster, 381. 
Wire-drawing illustrations, 241. 
"Wisconsin antiquities exhibited, 126. 
obtained, 123. 
fishes collected, 170. 
Wittfeld, William, new mammal from, 130. 

sent Florida mnskrat, 325. 
Witzel, Ensign H. M., assisted Mr. Dewey, 276. 
Wood, George H., favors from, 267. 
Woodpecker, new, from Kamtchatka, 366. 
Vi'^ood's Holl fishes, journal upon, 165. 

obtained, 173. -» 

laboratoiy facilities, 198. 
new laboratory, 198. 
shells received, 183. 
station of Fish Commission, 197. 
Woollen goods, samples, 82. 



Woolfe, D., mining Arctic coal, 69. 

Workshop built, 30. 

Worsted fabrics from England, 80. 

Hanifen &Co., 81. 
yarn manufacture illustrations, 81. 
Worsteds from Pacific Mills, 82. 
Wren, Alaska willow, from Nushagak. 69. 
Wrought iron from oie, 257. 

T. 

Tarn manufacture illustrations, 81, 82. 

samples, 81. 



I 



Yarrow, Dr. H. C, 17. 



Teates.W. S., 17. 



aboriginal pottery I'rom, 121. 
antiquities collected bv, 123. 
collected Utah repiiles. 157. 
honorary curator, 00. 
paper by, 370. 
report of, 157. ■ 
visits Utah, 60. 



collecting trips of, 66. 
field expeditions of, 222. 
mineral work of, 225. 
North Carolina rocks, &c., from, 229. 
Yellowstone National Park, model, 234. 
Yokohama antiquities. 124. 

ba.skets, 118, 
Yucatan birds fiom Mr. Gaumer,*71. 
Indian collections, 57. 
investigations, 70. 
Yucca baskets and trays of the Mokis, 304. 
brevifolia, 81. 
in basketrv, 303. 
Yukon delta bow 'from W. H. Dall, 312. 

resembliuii Arctic type, 312. 
Eskimo bows described, 308. 
Indian trap, 113. 
River Eskimo throwing-stick, 286. 



Zalophus californianus obtained, 131. 
Zeledon, Jose C, Costi Eican collections from, 71. 
reptiles from, 158. 
sent Costa Rican mammals, 130. 
Zenaidura yucatanensis, note on, 356. 
Zinc blende from Missouri, 258. 
furnaces collections, 259, 273. 

methods and materials, 274. 
iron and manganese smelting, 275. 
or spelter smelting collections, 258. 
ore from, Missouri, 244. 
processes, 260. 
products, 260. 
ores, 241, 243, 272. 

and their treatment, 274. 
from Mo'ssy Creek, 242. 
products of, 274. 
paint from Page & Krause, 244. 
silicate and carbonate ores of, 258. 
smelting collection from Glendale Workf, 
259. 
Granby Works 

259. ' 
Joplin Work9,2 >3 
Kansas, 259, 
Langon W o i' k s, 
■2:^<i. 
collections, 275.' 
works described, 273. 

photographs of, 274. 
Zipbioid whales received, 131. 
Ziphius from Bering Island, 131. 
Zonites cellarius from Oregon, 183. 
Zoological gardens contribute mammals, 59, 12D. 

nomenclature, 352. 
Zoology, division of, 17, 59. 

progress in, 372. 
Zukoski, E. L., collected Bessemer steel, 258. 
copper ores, 254, 255. 
Illinois coals, 267. 
collections of, 243, 252. 
Zuni basketry, 304. 

objects, 116. 
Zygonectes zonifer from Georgia, 375. 



mjmjMi^M 



mjS^§Dx^ 



OB)l 



OWBD: 



^Mm 



*p®;BOTi)^i^^ 



)^J>3)E)"333)))r^3' 



V^2a)m^yxrwwjKm> m 



mMaaxMsaswmm^ssmm 









imi^iwssmmssMmBmmwmmK 






0)11>3)J»^^"> >SXDi 



